

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.—N0. 3362
Wednesday, July 19, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
NEWARK-ON-TRENT.
"KEY OF THE NORTH."
the site of the now ruined Newark castle, historians are
certain that once there stood a castle older still, for
here they have dug up urns, coins and other articles that speak of
an ancient Roman occupation. Possibly Egbert deserves credit
for the first Newark castle, but the fortress of which traces now
remain was built about the year 1123 by Alexander of Lincoln.
It was seized subsequently by Stephen, and within its walls King
John breathed his last. In November of 1530 Cardinal Wolsey
lodged here on his way to London, and it was here, too, that the
first Charles established a mint. His troops were paid in coins
minted at Newark; lozenge-shaped tokens stamped on the reverse
side with the legend “Obs Newark, 1646.” In the civil wars,
Newark was an important post, but eventually the Parliament
dismantled the castle and it was left to ruin. Many years ago,
however, the local parish began to care for the remains, and the
site was made a public garden. The river front is still passably
good and its famous bridge, once of wood, has been faithfully
reproduced by a structure more permanent. So Newark’s walls
are standing yet, reminder of the days when England was a battle-
ground and history was being made.


fiiMi
This -Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin.’’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 244 . AGE
The Red Page
HOAXED PENGUINS.
Hoaxes like the one perpetrated by
James McAuley and Harold Stewart on
“Angry Penguins” have been legion.
In pre-war Paris, where there were at
any one time at least 20,000 artists, not
more than three of whom in each genera-
tion became distinguished painters, there
was at least one hoax a year that set all
Europe laughing.
The classic example was that of the
brace of English students who tied a
whitewash brush to the tail of a donkey,
dipped the brush into buckets of various
colors, backed the animal up against a
canvas, labelled the result “And O’er the
Adriatic Sank the Sun” and sent it to a
Salon, having carefully photographed the
whole) proceedings. It was hailed as the
masterpiece of the season.
Then there was the famous drainpipe
statue. A Dutch sculptor of mediocre
talents was asked to do something for the
Beaux Arts Ball. He constructed a
toreador mounted on a horse composed
of drainpipes, with bicycle tyres to repre-
sent the horse’s protruding entrails. Some-
body suggested as a joke that the sculptor
send it to the Salon, and he woke up the
morning after the exhibition to find that
the critics had accepted him as a genius
—“a modern Don Quixote tilting against
shams,” as one commentator put it.
There was the American girl, an ac-
complished musician, who bet the pro-
prietor of the Paris-American artshop
that, although she had never put a brush
to canvas, she could-make a hit with her
first picture. She won the wager easily.
The funny thing about it was that she
was taken in herself, as was the sculptor.
After the critics had found all sorts of
esoteric qualities in her painting she began
to see them in it herself, became a rotten
painter and was lost to music.
The sculptor took the valuation of the
critics and proceeded to specialise in
drainpipe sculpture. Years after the
original work had made its sensation an
Australian painter went to see him in his
studio and found him with a butler pack-
ing a lot of drainpipes for dispatch to a
gallery in Berlin.
“But that toreador of yours was a
joke,” expostulated the Australian artist.
The sculptor drew himself up and looked
at his interlocutor. “That was no joke,”
he said solemnly. “That was my uncon-
scious speaking.”
A similar case was that of the poet
who showed to a literary circle a blank
sheet of paper surrounded with a gold
edge and asked them to admire it. “You
dolts!” he shouted when they said they
could see nothing in it. “Don’t you see
in that sheet of paper a whole world of
unexpressed ideas?”
And in a sense he was right. A blank
sheet of paper can mean anything you
like to think it, just as a word can mean
anything you like to think it. Any word
can conjure up associations and every
word in a dictionary has associations for
us. But, although there is the material
for all the plays of Shakspeare in a dic-
tionary, nobody would say that a dic-
tionary is a work of art. A million
monkeys banging on a million typewriters
for a million years might eventually
thump out all the plays of Shakspeare,
but we would not call them dramatic
geniuses.
The editors of “Angry Penguins” were
hoodwinked by their own belief in th.eir
omniscience as judges, and that is all
there is about it. Their defence or
apologia or whatever you like to call it
is the quaint assertion that, though the
creators of the mythical Ern Malley are
not fine poets, their poetical garage
mechanic is still a great poet; in effect,
the authors of* the hoax deceived them-
selves aqd unconsciously produced great
poetry.
This is tantamount to saying that two
individuals who are not geniuses and who
consciously and deliberately set out to
write nonsense can accidentally write great
poetry. But a book, a picture, a poem
or a piece of sculpture is a description.
What were the joint authors of “The
Darkening Ecliptic” endeavoring to de-
scribe? On their own evidence they
weren’t trying to describe anything. They
were just lumping words and phrases
higgledy-piggledy together. No doubt
these words and phrases conjured up
associations for the editors of “Angry
Penguins” ; associations that they don’t
have for other people, and which they
certainly didn’t have for the two Ingenious
hoaxers.
In the same way, “Singapore” may
have once had scarcely any associations
for most Australians; now it has a lot,
and it will always have a host of asso-
ciations for me, because I happened once
to live there in an impressionable liter-
ary adolescence. In short, the one word
“Singapore” might sing like a lovely poem
to some people and to others have sad
and even dreadful associations. But the
word itself isn’t these associations; it is
only the symbol for them. It is neither
a dirge nor a poem, but a place-name,
like any other place-name.
So it was of their associations the edi-
tors were talking when they said that they
were “immediately impressed that here
was a poet of tremendous power, work-
ing through a disciplined and restrained
kind of statement into the deepest wells
of human experience.”
As a description of what had actually
happened in the manufacture of these
nonsense verses, this must be about the
most unconsciously comic utterance in
the history of literary criticism. The
endeavor of the artist is to divest him-
self of his associations and see his sub-
ject stark. An artist who had pleasant
associations around eyes but unpleasant
ones around noses could hardly expect
to become much of a portrait-painter.
The editors of “Angry Penguins” are so
completely the victims of the fashionable
associations of the moment that they
made complete fools of themselves when
confronted by a piece of deliberately-
confected bunkum. If they would admit
that they would know something about
themselves, and that is a most necessary
first step in the development of artists,
critics or editors.
F.S.
Up from Worcestershire.
Jarge: They blackbirds du be making
a noise through their noses, like.
Reviewer: Jarge, you charm me.
Jarge : Wold Bulletin bain’t the only
one I ’as charmed, neither. When I du
make noises through my ears like, I du
charm Mrs. Ethel Anderson and she puts
me in a book called Adventures in Apple-
shire, and they gert foreigners called
Angus and Robertson du publish me. I
be a famous man in Upton-Snodsbury, I
be.
Reviewer: I don’t know why Mrs.
Anderson, being an Australian, doesn’t
write a book called Adventures at Turra-
murra, Jarge, and I’m hanged if I know
why Australian publishers don’t give pre-
cedence on their publishing lists to books
about Australia. But has Mrs. Anderson
done you proud at Upton-Snodsbury?
Jarge: ’Er’s been to ’Unt Ball, ’er ’as,
and ’obnobbed with Squoire ; and seed
they dukes and earls and duchesses
wearin’ their garters and diamond tiaras ;
and ’er ladyship in ’er ruby velvet, wear-
in’ ’er pigeons’ bloods.
Reviewer: Ah, but has Mrs. Ander-
son ever been to a bob hop at Parra-
matta?
Jarge: Can’t ee speak English like?
Reviewer: ’Tain’t nowise no use my
trying.
Jarge : Ee bain’t one to show disrespect
to they ’igh folk, be ee? *
Reviewer: Jarge, I would not cut a
man simply because he happened to be
born a duke. But is Mrs. Anderson’s book
about only the gentry of Gloucester-
shire?
Jarge: There be a story about King
James the First ’oo sent ’is noblemen a
gift of mulberries and, when they thanked
’im, sent ’em all a bill, like. Turble
thrifty, King James were.
Reviewer : You must have had a bad
time in those days, Jarge.
Jarge: Ah, King John were worse.
And they Romers was worse still.
Reviewer: We have the gentry and
the bad old days, Jarge, but we still
haven’t any of the ordinary people of
today.
Jarge: Surely, Mister, bain’t there our
Hemly ’oo was took strange at the full
of the moon and forced Alice, the cow-
keeper’s darter from Stoulton, to polish
the stairs in her nightgown at midnight,
’er athreatenin’ Alice all the time with
the carvin’ knife? Bain’t there Fayleen
Bickerstithy, our laundrymaid, 'oo was
jilted at the altar by Walt Peck and ’oo
threw into the river ’er wedding-cake
and ’er wedding-breakfast and a table
and a cuckoo clock and a noggin of cider
and the cowslip wine as ’er poor granny
sent ’er, and ’oo would have thrown her-
self in after ’em only by this time ’er
pa and ’er six brothers see what she was
hup to, like, and took a holt to stop ’er.
Reviewer: Jarge, be there any ghosts
in this book?
Jarge: I be afeard.
Reviewer: Come, Jarge, be a man.
Jarge: There were a skeleton of a
cavalier in somebody’s secret cupboard.
Reviewer: Hang it, Jarge, I thought
there’d be a better ghost than that.
Jarge: Mister, never say “ ’ang.” There
were a monk, there were, that ’anged ’im-
self in the kitchen. And eighteen inches
off the floor, at dead of night, you would
see his two bare feet swinging, swinging.
Aye, and ’e wore white, ’e did, and
Where be goin’, Mister?
Reviewer: Jarge, I be afeard.
Jarge : Be ee agoin’ ’ome to read
Adventures in Appleshirel
Reviewer: I be.
The Pamphleteers
Summary of the World Federation
Plan, by Ely Culbertson (Faber). Unlike
Mr. H. G. Wells, who despises bridge and,
indeed, plays no games save those he in-
vents himself and makes the rules for,
Culbertson has made bridge a profession.
Perhaps for that reason he is concise,
definite and logical. He doesn’t explain
how he expects France to fit peacefully
into a Latin bloc with Italy, Spain and
Portugal, and how he proposes to drown
the screams that will arise when the Bel-
gian Congo, Angola and the Southern
Sudan (with Red Sea outlet) are handed
over to the Germanic bloc, but he
promises a bigger book on the subject.
The Framework of the Future, by
L. S. Amery (Oxford University Press).
Speeches and articles in which the Secre-
tary of State for India gives his views
about India, the Empire, education and
Progressive Conservatism. He considers
India nearer akin to Europe than to Asia.
Britain’s future political complexion is
to be “neither Communist nor Fascist,
Capitalist nor Socialist, but British.”
Seven Pillars of Folly, by James
Crockett (Wyatt and Watts, Ltd., Mel-
bourne). The author is acutely dissatis-
fied with the current social system and
his generalised* denunciations are lively,
but, for his purpose, he devotes far too
much space to the discussion of economic
theories. These are the scaffolding of
social propaganda, best kept out of the
pamphlet for the people.
Workers and the War Effort (Progres-
sive Pub. Co., Wellington, M.L.) and
Guilty of Manslaughter (same publisher)
are from the pen of Dr. W. B. Sutch,
whose Quest for Security in N.Z. is one
of the most interesting political treatises
in the Penguin series. In Workers and
the War Effort Dr. Sutch (in war-time a
lieutenant-instructor of gunnery) records
the effect of war regulations on Maori-
land workers —hours increased ; factory
Acts and awards suspended; apprentice-
ship restrictions removed. The other
little volume is a plea for increased in-
dustrial efficiency.
Our Second Chance, by Lord Wake-
hurst (Angus and Robertson). Most literary
of Australian Governors, his Excellency
of N.S.W. is also one of the most pol-
ished speakers to whom the Common-
wealth has given domicile. Among
matters he touches upon in these war-
time speeches are the recent movement
towards church co-operation in Eng-
land, the public school in Australia (he
considers its advantages should be
“shared by all”) and the topic that gives
its name to the collection —a second
chance to reform the conditions that
jnake for war.
The Seven Locks, by Hanbury Pawle
(author; London). Series of sermons
on Lord Wakehurst’s theme of a second
chance. Mr. Pawle, evidently a devout
Anglican, would reconstruct the Book of
Common Prayer and reform the church
services. All problems, in peace-time,
he urges, will be solved if the people
follow “their old officers, their old ser-
geant-majors and the sergeants who
looked after them on the battlefield
guiding them, showing them how they
should act, and, above all, how they
should vote.”
Days After Tomorrow, by Dr. F. R.
Kerr (Robertson and Mullens). Purports
to be a series of broadcast addresses by
the President of the World Federation
in a.d. 2000. Like Mr. Amery’s future
State, this is not, in political color, capi-
talistic, Communist or Fascist. It is a
“Christian Social Order.” Details aren’t
quite clear, but it appears that mines and
farm lands are nationalised.
Australia Thinks, by Ermsted Collins
(Shipping Newspapers, Ltd., Brisbane).
Advocates (though not under that name)
Silvio Gesell’s idea that currency should
daily or weekly depreciate in value to
encourage spending, on which is grafted
a notion from Alberta as to the efficacy
of periodical gifts of : money by the State
to the whole population. But Mr. Collins
on another page is all against “pauper-
ism by Government doles.” Australia,
if it thinks along these lines, has some
clarifying to do.
Dividends of Deceit, by F. S. Greenop
(Currawong Press, Sydney)’. Japanese mis-
doings during the last 90 years. Mr.
Greenop traces a parallel between Pearl
Harbor and the torpedo attack on Port
Arthur in 1904, and recalls that the
present war, involving Australia, was pro-
phesied in the “Lone Hand” in January,
1901. He warns that the Japanese, hav-
ing “lost face,” will never be happy till
they turn the tables oij Britain and
America.
Busheraft, by “Wontolla” (F. H. John-
ston Co., Sydney). A profusely illustrated
little book that shows how five men in
eight days can build a hut 60ft. x 20ft.,
together with directions for finding water,
crossing rivers, making fire without
matches, using the sun as a compass and
cooking damper. No Boy Scout should
be without it.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Sydney’s Contemporary Group (not to
be confused with the much younger Con-
temporary Art Society) presents a very
wide range of outlook in its nineteenth
annual show in Farmer’s Gallery. John D.
Moore, Ronald Steuart, Robert Camp-
bell, Thea Proctor, Muriel Medworth and
J. Connor approach Nature with a calm
eye and a steady pulse. Kenneth Mac-
queen continues to see landscape in terms
of curves that sing pleasantly together.
Roland Wakelin, with great simplicity, de-
cides what he sees and how much of it
is not worth seeing, and often is able to
communicate his impression. Lloyd Rees
now taking the same track, was happiei
when he found everything delectable. N
S. Wales Gallery trustees bought Enid
Cambridge’s “Autumn Day,” in which
a few smudges of brown and blue on
large expanse of white Whatman make
a needlessly slight and needlessly arbi-
trary statement about the landscape.
A prolific painter of official portraits,
Aileen Dent has a representative collec-
tion of eminent citizens at the Athe-
naeum, Melbourne, notably one of the
late JJarold Elvins. In her landscapes
she is best on misty mornings, grey days
and evenings.
Adelaide Repertory played well and did
well with Chetham-Strode’s “The Day Is
Gone” —the title is dragged in from
Keats. Four big audiences watched the
hero (Ronald Peterson) drowning an un-
pleasant wife (Beryl Roberts) to marry
his soulmate (Joy Watson). Noblet had
the unusual part of a police inspector
brother to No. 1 and in love with No. 2,
Richard Croger was the friend of all
parties, and Ralph Binns and Joan Hum-
phries scored heavily as comic relief.
Florence Brown produced.
Mo, working hard through the con-
stant changes, of “Artists and Models,”
the latest confection of the Tivoli in Mel-
bourne, is, of course, the backbone of a
show that is bright with talent, but it is a
pity that the veteran comedian can’t think
of a better one than the joke about the
Yanks who all fall dead when he lights a
magic powder to discover who has been
calling on his wife in his absence. This
jape has grown hoary in the shortest time
of any chestnut in Tiv. history. Other
items are Joy Nichols, who makes a pro-
found if unmusical impression with her
song “A Pair of Silver Wings” ; Henri
Niselle and Vladimir lister, who raise
twin tempests on two pianos ; and Eddie
Gordon, the quaint dumb-show artist who
rides a bike in a mad way.
At the talkies:- —
In “Standing Room Only” (Sydney Prince
Edward) the efforts of a harassed businessman
trying to get an interview with a very tall Wash-
ington departmental poppy will be viewed with
profound respect by all Australians. It’s a
bright satire on bureaucracy, well played by
Fred McMurray, Paulette Goddard and
Edward Arnold.
“Memphis Belle,” at the same address, is the
best example of aerial photography so far
screened. The documentary record of a day
raid by Flying Fortresses on Wilhelmshaven, it
gives shots of air combat and bombing from
every conceivable angle, with a sober and in-
formative commentary.
“Silver Skates” (Civic) offers some very spec-
tacular ice ballets; Bellita, a ballerina of the
steel edge who is grace personified; a couple
of knockabout comedians who do the strangest
things at 40 m.p.h.; and Kenny Baker, who lets
himself go full throttle in some quite melodious
numbers.
Queenslanders are a quaint people. They
wear cloth caps to keep warm when it’s 114
in the shade; also the hoi polloi drink cham-
pagne instead of beer, and they all talk in
accents more Cockneyed than a Lime-streeter’s.
These and other such facts are served up in
“The Man from Down Under” (G.U. Theatres),
with Charles Laughton giving a laughable
caricature (though it isn’t meant to be) of an
old Aussie soldier. The story, if it was written
by a six-year-old, is quite good for one of his
age.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR
/
P 7
i .t >■
>V
w/j
A
/>
£ $
:-dK7ss
£
t/
//
£
r
Os-
V. '•.
-
m tw
y
i^k
rm
a 1 '
6
A
1
’ 7 l
A
A'
CS
'MEAD'S"
LACTIC ACID
MILK
Consists of fresh milk to which Lactic Acid has been
Ided. Used for feeding infants, and in cases of Gastro-
lteritis. 1 lb. tins 2/11
M M 4
Vt
%
f
/
\
r
/t
\
WA
*4
y/,
O
7*
/>4r
m
# Chemistry Department —
Ground Floor, ,
Pitt Street.
"CALCYDIC" CALCIUM
VITAMIN D. GRANULES
This chocolate flavoured food is a pleasant protection against
all forms of calcium deficiency. "Calcydic" is particularly
suitable for children to aid the formation of healthy bones
and teeth. "Calcydic" is a boon to sufferers from Chilblains!
Price, tin 4/6
MEAD'S" PABLUM
A prepared food for children, expectant mothers, conval-
escents, post-operative patients, etc.
PABLUM combines Calcium, Iron, Vitamins B. and G.,
Phosphorus, Copper, etc.
PABLUM can be fed to infants, to children, or adults of
all ages. It has been very successfully 'used for low-
residue diets in Ulcer and Colitis cases among adults.
Available in two sizes. 8 oz. .... 2/11; 16 oz. »... 5/8
VNI
/
#/
*5
"MEAD'S" PECTIN-AGAR IN DEXTRI-MALTOSE
Specially prepared for use in disturbances of normal intestinal
functions. Invaluable as a food for infants and children
suffering from bowel disturbances. 16 oz. tins only .... 4/-
M
8
ss
m
•Si
NASON'S DANDRUFF REMEDY AND
* DESTROYER
A scientifically prepared Hairdressing to remove dandruff
and to safeguard against its recurrence, also it restores
grey hair to its original colour. 4 oz. jar 3/11
Y
'MEAD'S" BREWERS' YEAST TABLETS
Stimulate the appetite—aid digestion—correct constipation
and are used in malnutrition, also contain Phosphorus
and Iron, also Vitamins B 1 and 82. - Available only in bottles
of 100 tablets. Price 7/6
V
EX
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


“BRIDAL COUPLE”
By MARGARET TRIST.
i i r\ BRIDAL couple,” said Mrs.
r“l Wilsbn. Clasping the handle of
/ \ the kettle as if this were going
to make it boil more quickly,
she looked at Alf through her steamy
glasses. “Yes, I’m. sure they’re a bridal
couple.”
“Who?” asked Alf without interest.
“The people who want the room, of
course. An awful nice young fellow.
Air Force —well, something in a blue
uniform. That’s Air Force, isn’t it?”
“It depends,” replied Alf cautiously.
“Maybe it was a policeman.”
“It was not,” retorted Mrs. Wilson.
“He’s on leave from somewhere and
nearly out of his mind, poor fellow,
after searching all day for a room. He
took it without looking at it. ‘Just as
long as it’s got a double bed,’ he said,
and pushed a week in advance into my
hands.”
“Sounds funny to me. What was his
name?”
“I forgot to ask. It all happened
sudden.”
“I could do with my tea,” said Alf
irritably.
“It’s all here —I’m just waiting for the
kettle to boil.”
“It’s boiling all over the place.”
“So it is ; silly of me not to notice.
I’m getting absent-minded of late.” She
poured the water into the teapot and
clamped down the lid, then lifted Alf’s
tea out of the oven and set it in front
of him.
“What about you?” he asked.
“I’ll have something later. I don’t feel
like eating now. I’ve got to have that
room ready by eight.”
“What were you doing this after-
noon?”
“I started on the room but I couldn’t
finish, what with your tea and Mr.
Palmer losing his glasses.”
“Old nuisance,” muttered Alf. “You’re
not supposed to look after his glasses
for him.”
“Mr. Palmer just can’t remember that.
He calls me for every dashed thing he
wants.”
“You tell him”
“I have, but he forgets.”
Alf snorted. “He doesn’t forget but
he makes out he does. Don’t you take
no notice in future.”
Mrs. Wilson sighed. “I think I’ll have
a cup of tea. That won’t take much
time. I can’t get the settee out of the
Perkinses’ room till they go to the pic-
tures.”
“You can’t take that.”
“Why can’t I? It’s my settee, isn’t it?
And she’s always complaining about the
hallway being dirty. Why doesn’t she
clean it up if she’s so fussy. I don’t
trust people who can’t see any difference
in dirt. There’s dirt and dirt, I say.
I’m as clean as the next one, only I
don’t get no time to show it.”
“You can fix up a good feed, Liz,”
said Alf vaguely.
“Three-quarters of a coupon and one
and twopence,” replied his wife promptly.
Bringing her cup of tea she sat beside
him at the table. Her mind returned to
the settee.
“Besides,” she went on, “it’s waste of
a real good settee having it in there.
She’s got it cluttered with all sorts of
muck —books and bits of paper and
cushions. There’s no need for any cover-
ing l’or it; it’s as good as the day I got
it up at the secondhand shop.”
“What about the bed?”
“You’ll have to help me with that.”
“But we haven’t got another double
bed.”
“Oh, yes, we have, down in the cellar,
the one that collapsed with the Murga-
troyds.”
“Will it hold together?”
“Oh, a bit of wire here and there”
It was Mrs. Wilson’s turn to become
vague. Her eyes were dreamy behind
her glasses. “I’ll get a few flowers, too.
Make it kind of festive on account of
them being a bridal couple. A real
home it’s going to be for them. Do
you remember, Alf, the first time we
had a home —well, it wasn’t really a
home”
Alf cut her short. “There’s nowhere
you can get flowers this time of night.”
“Oh, yes, there is. I saw some through
Miss Perry’s window. Lupins. Lovely
big blue lupins. She’s awful shortsighted
and will never miss them.”
K/j RS. WILSON drank her tea in long,
1 * comfortable gulps, relishing each
one as it slipped down her throat and
sank warmly into her interior. “Ah,”
she breathed at last, and set the cup back
in its saucer. “There’s nothing like tea.
My, but 1 ye always been glad I wasn’t
born back in the days when there wasn’t
any.”
“You wouldn’t have missed it none.”
“But what did people do when they
.were thirsty?”
“They used to drink wine,” replied Alf
authoritatively.
“You’re gammoning.”
“No, fair dinkum.”
Mrs. Wilson rose. “No wonder they’re
called the bad old days. Just fancy.
Everyone getting around tipsy. Oh, well,
it’s no use worrying about it now. I’ll
just take a peek around and see what’s
what.”
“Seeing what’s what” consisted of
bustling once or twice up the passageway,
then standing very quietly and listening
carefully outside the Perkinses’ door.
There were muffled sounds and faint stir-
rings from within. She went back to the
kitchen grumbling.
“No conscience, people like the
Perkinses;” she told Alf. “They muck
around for hours getting dressed to go
out. Now me, it don’t take me more
than two seconds. A little wash and a
lick of powder. What more does a
woman want? Soon as you’re ready
we’ll see about the bed.”
“I don’t fed like grubbing round down
there before my meal digests,” replied
Alf.
“There’s no time for nonsense like
that,” retorted his wife sharply. “I’ll take
a candle and go down and you follow on
as soon as you can.”
"T HE bed took some time and a con-
* siderable amount of effort to extri-
cate, partly because the stairs leading
up from the cellar were narrow and
dark and turned suddenly at right angles
in the middle, and partly because the
wire mattress had been placed flat on the
floor and the coalman had inconsider-
ately emptied several sacks of coal on
to it.
By the time numerous pieces and a
few bits of wire were gathered in the
passageway Alf was bad-tempered. “It’s
not going to hang together,” he said.
“It’s your business to see that it does,”
replied his wife, and was going to say
more, only that the Perkinses came out
of their room, cast astonished eyes on
the assembled pieces, skirted the up-
ended and wavering mattress and went
picturewards.
“With never a good night or a how-
do-you-do,” complained Mrs. Wilson.
“Treats you like dirt, that one. Who
does she think she is, I’d like to kno\V.
He’s not so bad if you can get him alone.
And what do you think, Alf?” her voice
rose. “They’ve gone and locked this
door. What do you make of that? I
don’t know that I hold with having
people in the place that lock their doors.
What’s going on in there that has to be
kept dark?” She pointed dramatically at
the door.
“Nothing at present, I guess,” said
Alf. “You can’t get the settee now.”
“Oh, can’t I!” retorted his wife.
“Mr. Palmer’s key fits this lock.”
“We’d better get a move on,” muttered
Alf.
“I’m not stopping you,” snapped Mrs.
Wilson.
Sounds of hammering rose, and Alf’s
curses floated in the air as the bed was
jockeyed into position.
“There, that looks real nice,” cried
Mrs. Wilson, standing back to survey
the effect. She seized a lumpy mattress
and tossed it on the bed. Yellowed
blankets and calico sheets followed, to be
topped off with a cerise cover and a stiff,
tassel-ended bolster.
“It won’t hold,” said Alf gloomily.
“Well, whose funeral is that?” de-
manded Mrs. Wilson. “Now you can
give us a hand with the settee.”
“There,” she said proudly when the
settee was installed and Miss Perry’s
lupins arranged stiffly in a glass vase on
the dressing-table. “It looks nice, don’t
you reckon? And not a spot of dirt
anywhere. Not many people get the
chance to move into a room as clean as
this.” She ran her finger over a small
table, and held it up for Alf’s inspection.
“See, not a mark on it.”
“Can I go now?” demanded Alf.
“It’s going to be nice having a bridal
couple in here,” she said, disregarding
his question. “It’ll give the place tone.
I’m sick of having funny people about
everywhere. Old Palmer, and Miss Perry
sniffing round”
“There’s plenty of tone about the
Perkinses.”
“Too much to be healthy, if you ask
me,” replied Mrs. Wilson. “Nothing
would surprise me about them two, noth-
ing. Do you think we ought to put on
the light in the hallway and open the
front door? It’d make it nice for them
coming in, wouldn’t it? Such a nice
young fellow —he’ll want to carry her
over the doorstep like it was done in the
pictures the other night.”
“It sounds silly to me,” said Alf.
“Everything that’s nice sounds silly
to you,” retorted his wife scornfully.
“Now, you put yourself in the bride’s
place. Wouldn’t you feel better if you
were lifted over the doorstep?”
Alf yawned. “Can’t see it’d make any
difference one way or the other.”
BEFORE she could reply there was
the sound of a car stopping outside,
voices were raised momentarily—even to
Mrs. Wilson’s unwilling ears they
appeared angry—the door of the car
slammed and the car itself went purring
into the night.
“Oh, dear!” exclaimed Mrs. Wilson,
“It’s them. And there’s not time to get
the hall light on. Never mind, it would
have showed up the dust too much.”
“I don’t call that much of a way to
start married life,” said Alf, “quarrelling
like mad.”
“Who was quarrelling?”
“They were. Someone swore.”
“He wasn’t a man like that.”
“It was a woman’s voice swore.”
“Well, it wasn’t a very big swear,”
defended Mrs. Wilson.
There was a loud knocking on the door.
“Open up, open up this instant!” de-
manded a voice. “Aren’t there any lights
round the place? I can’t see an inch in
front of me.”
“Oh, my goodness!” exclaimed Mrs.
Wilson and, darting out of the bed-
room, went towards the front door.
Alf followed. “You’ve let us in for
something,” he groaned. “Aren’t I always
telling you to be careful”
Mrs. Wilson opened the door but not
before it had been struck again sharply
several times. Alf switched on the hall
light but, conscience-stricken by the un-
swept appearance of the floor, switched
it off again.
“Put on that light,” cried the voice.
“How dare you switch it out in my face! ”
In the dimness they saw an elderly
woman, in a voluminous black dress, with
a hat perched high on her head and a
folded umbrella upheld. Beside her
were two wicker carryalls placed one
on top of the other and surmounted by
a paper hatbag out of which objects
seemed to be spilling,
“It’s fused,” muttered Alf.
“Is my room ready? I wish to go to
bed immediately. Here, you, man, pick
up these things. Now show me the
way, and tell me this, how many steps
between the room and the bathroom?
Not, of course, that I mind steps,
but”
“There aren’t any,” murmured Mrs.
Wilson meekly.
“Then that’s a blessing. I’m to drop
dead if I walk up steps. Not that I be-
lieve it. If that’s all doctors can tell you
you might as well be dead. Is this the
room? Oh, well, one’s thankful for
anything these days”——
‘ HE young man” began Mrs.
I Wilson.
“My son, or rather my sister’s son, or
the man my sister’s daughter married —
anyhow it doesn’t matter. When you
get to my age you can’t be bothered as
to whose son it is. No use being senti-
mental over sons. I can’t say I like
the color of the bedspread. Here, you,
put my things down there. Be careful
of that bag, it’s got my tortoise in it; and
don’t tell me I can’t have a tortoise here,
because I’m having it.”
“Of course,” said Mrs. Wilson weakly.
“What do you feed it on?”
“Oh, anything,” replied its owner
vaguely! “It likes strawberries when it
can get them. You don’t, by any chance,
grow strawberries? Ha, I thought
not”
She went round the room tapping the
furniture with the end of her umbrella.
“Borers,” she said. “Well, never mind,
they’re not bad company.”
She advanced upon the bed while the
Wilsons held their breaths. She threw
herself upon it. It groaned, creaked,
but astonishingly stood firm. She sat up.
“It’s passable,” she said. “You’ll be sur-
prised but I have slept in worse. Now
you can both go away”
“Perhaps I could get you some-
thing”—— murmured Mrs. Wilson.
“Perhaps you couldn’t. There’s only
one thing I want, to be left in peace.
That’s why I came here. I’ve been living
round with people for months. It’s been
‘Mother, come here,’ and ‘Aunt, come
here’ till I’m worn to a shadow. They
all think I’m going to die any moment.
Everyone makes such a fuss. That’s the
worst of young people, too sentimental.
People get born and die or fall in love.
What’s there in that to make everyone
else uncomfortable over? What has to
be has to be and the least said about it
the better. One thing—if I die here, it
will be in a double bed. That’s what I
said to Brian: ‘You go out and find me
a double bed’ ”
Mr. and Mrs. Wilson looked at the
bed as if they were hypnotised.
. “It’s a good bed that,” said Mrs.
Wilson. “My grandmother—or was it my
great grandmother? —died in it.”
“You don’t say?” said the guest with
interest. “Well, I’ll be dying in it one
of these days, too. I don’t give myself
more than another twenty years. In the
meantime”
“You could call me if you want any-
thing,” supplied Mrs. Wilson, brighten-
ing.
“I won’t,” retorted the old woman
obstinately. “I’ll get it myself. Now get
out. Get out, I tell you, before I run
you through with my umbrella. A pretty
picture you’d look stuck one behind the
other on the end of my umbrella. Get
out”
The Wilsons went without delay,
closing the door discreetly behind them.
“You going to have your tea?” de-
manded Alf when they reached the
kitchen. .
“I can’t say I feel like it now at all,
groaned Mrs. Wilson.
“Bridal couple, huh!” said Alf.
VARIOUS VERSE.
Wonder.
Turn the page of the book and enter, marvelling
(“Jan van Eyck was here”), a soundless room,
The windows open, a litttle late sunlight, the
mirror,
Two figures, a dog. Remember, five centuries
after
The paint splashed on a sleeve, the flicker of
brushes,
Steps unheard on the stair.
(I, also, wordless, was there.)
Wonder is music heard in the heart, is voiceless:
Lazarus having conversed with angels was dumb.
Brushing the questions aside with a gesture of
dreaming,
Still dazzled with darkness, turning his face to
the wall.
So Cortes returned perhaps to the Old World
after —
So many years and his eyes still brimming with
sea.
Without ovation of guns or trumpets and pen-
nons,
Wonder is lastly in finding the Pole, with only
Amazement flowering in a waste of snow.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBOSN.
A Sky Below, a Sky Above.
The jacaranda-tree leant near,
A sky of bells whose hue
Was like a mirror of the clear
Sky burning with their blue.
And then ft seemed that from a blue
Lake rose a dove; I heard
The wings of Beauty as she flew
Into my heart, an unseen bird.
I ran my thoughts along the bough
Which shook on me the blue
Of skies I had not reached till now;
My heart was bathed in dew
From the blue lake of flowers where
She circled like a dove upon
The blue waves cresting in the air
The waves of silence sparkled on.
And in my heart I heard the dove
Alight upon a thought whose bough
Was lit with blossoms yet above
The hands that sought to pluck them now.
I turned to leave, but found my mind
Had swum in .a blue sea away,
Had sailed upon a fragrant wind
That carried off today
Into a time that I would hold
When memory shoots a dart
On perfume seeming to unfold
Some violet in my heart.
The fist of winter soon will curl
White fingers round your bough,
And sorrow darken on the Girl
Whose face is hidden now.
But though the frost of winter grips
Your tree in a cruel bliss,
An ice melts in my heart, whose lips ,
Are warm with your last kiss —
A taper burning in the mind
Tire still blue flame of spring
Which sears the wings in every wind
Whose wasp flies \vith June’s sting.
It shall not waver in my heart,
Nor leave an ash for any wind,
This purple flame that is a part
Of some old Light within my mind.
R.A.A.F.
JOHNN HENDERSON.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3362.
Wednesday,. July 19, 1944.
BACK-SEAT DRIVER.
“The dictatorship of the proletariat is possible only after the complete smashing of the bourgeois State apparatus. This is necessary because the only way to destroy
one force is with a superior force.”— From “Handbook for Tutorsissued from Marx House, 727 George-street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
ABUSED—AND UNUSED.
The powers on which a people surfeited
with elections will be required to vote
next month, at outrageous cost and with
venomous appeals to class-war feeling*
are already possessed by the Common-
wealth Parliament, being embodied in the
defence power, which, as interpreted by
the High Court, is supreme in war-time.
If a majority of electors voting and a
majority of the States so decide, the
powers will be continued till five years
after the war, whereupon there is to be
another referendum so that the Common-
wealth Parliament may possess them , per-
manently.
Is there any warrant for believing that
the powers, if granted, will be exercised
wisely, which means with due regard
to rights secured for the people by their
ancestors and without a wholesale dele-
gation of authority to Jacks-in-office? No
warrant whatever in the performance of
the Commonwealth Parliament since the
House came under Labor control nor any
in the composition of the Senate, in which
trade-union secretaries and the like now
predominate.
In the Bill of Rights (Feb. 13, 1689) it is
laid down that “For redress of all griev-
ances and the amending, strengthening
and preserving of the laws, Parliament
to be held frequently.” This pre-
scription the Mother of Parliaments has
scrupulously obeyed, with great and mani-
fest advantages to the nation and the
raising of the credit of both among all
nations. At Canberra, though spared the
bombing which compelled the House of
Commons to seek a new home for the
duration, it has been treated with con-
tempt.
When members reassembled on Mon-
day for as short a period as the Govern-
ment could contrive, it was the 31st meet-
ing of the Senate and the 38th meeting
of the House since July 1, 1943. In March
supply for the months of July, August
and September was asked for and granted
so that Mr. Curtin might go abroad
without danger of being made uncom-
fortable by Caucus intrigues of Opposi-
tion criticism. That any request for six
months’ supply on such a score could be
made in the House of Commons is in-
conceivable. When Mr. Churchill goes
abroad —and he has been absent for a
far longer period altogether than the
period of Mr. Curtin’s one trip—the
House carries on. He would not have it
otherwise, for he trusts his lieutenants,
though drawn from four groups, and has
too deep a sense of the value of Parlia-
mentary government to wish that it
should be suspended because great dis-
cussions and negotiations require his
presence in distant countries. Whether
he is in London or off the Newfoundland
coast engaged on the Atlantic Charter, or
in Quebec, Washington, Casablanca,
Tehran, Cairo or Bayeux, Parliament,
in which he is the first man, but not the
master, goes on—the Grand Inquest of
the Nation, in his own fine phrase.
“Above all,” said Mr. Eden, “it can
be said of this House of Commons that
it has sustained the nation and the Gov-
ernment in our most dangerous hour, and
for that I am confident it will have its
place in history.” Can any honest ob-
server say the same of the Commonwealth
Parliament? In a very narrow sense it
has “sustained the Government” ; but has
it sustained the nation, protected it against
internal foes, asserted its liberties against
the instruments of delegated power, stood
for the freedom of the press, retained
control of the public purse and exerted
itself to see that the people receive value
for the prodigious sums taken from them
m taxes and in other ways? It has done
none of these things.
In the time of the present House
there has as all men know or should
know—been a dangerous increase in
government by regulation. Newspapers
circulating among a very large part
of the population have been prevented
from corning out. Communications ad-
dressed to public men as Well as private
citizens have been tampered with, and
on the strength of information thus
extracted people have been prosecuted,
while trade secrets set down in reliance
on the sacredness of the mails have been
passed on to Government officials.
Other Government officials, armed with
authority, and in one case supplied with
Government money, have tricked citizens
into committing offences against one or
other of the pyramid of regulations. At
the same time, there has been a vast and
unchecked increase in that national dis-
grace the black market, and a multitude
of the grievances of plain people against
persons dressed in authority which un-
fortunately is not brief have been neither
redressed by Parliamentary action nor
ventilated in Parliament.
There are worse cases than any of
these, bad as they are, though the worst
cases go back to the last Parliament under
Labor control. There died in a Sydney
military hospital on July 9 a soldier of
the last war who, with another soldier
of the last war and a number of civilians,
some of them elderly men of blameless
antecedents, was gathered in and in-
terned for alleged offences against the
safety of the nation. Charges and trials
in all these cases’were promised by the
Minister of the Army, and the promises
were repeated by the Prime Minister.
They were not kept. Neither tried nor
charged, the men were held for many
months, named and branded as guilty by
Communists (now Labor’s referendum
allies), and finally released without having
been cleared.
It became necessary for the Govern-
ment to commission a Federal Judge to
inquire into their cases. When proceed-
ings opened (they have been adjourned)
counsel representing the Government ad-
mitted that he could find nothing against
the two returned soldiers, the one who
was sick being evidently “a very decent
man whose loyalty, honesty and truthful-
ness there is no reason to doubt.” But
the very decent, loyal, honest and truth-
ful man was too far gone to be present at
his vindication, and now he is beyond the
reach,of recompense, if recompense for
his broken life and the agony and sorrow
of his widow there could be.
Yet in the oldest and grandest charter
of human freedom it is set forth that “no
freeman shall be arrested or detained
in prison or deprived of his* freehold or
outlawed or banished or in any way
molested, and we will not set forth
against him nor send against him, unless
by the lawful judgment of his peers and
by the law of the land.” And again, “To
no one will we sell, to no one will we
refuse or delay, right or justice.” Im-
mortal words, but in the case of this dead
soldier they seem to have had no mean-
ing for those charged with the preser-
vation of the liberties of the common
man, however much they may gas about
them or put eyewash into their referen-
dum.
“After all,” Mr. Eden asked, “what is
it that British genius can bequeath to
future generations? Not armies, navies,
air forces, not victories by land, sea or
air, not even industrial enterprise or com-
mercial skill, but essential justice and the
art of self-government, a free people.”
Tried by this test, our Labor Government
and Labor-controlled Parliament have
failed disgracefully and alarmingly. There
is no question of their power to compel
striking coalminers and slaughtermen to
do the very small amount of work xz-
quired of these fellows by their awards,
but we have seen them abjectly sur-
render to union lawlessness, even when it
has become a confessed danger to the war
effort as well as a threat to the very foun-
dations on which the Commonwealth is
based. We see Labor accepting the
alliance of Commiyiists who have taught
union larrikins to despise our institu-
tions. We see Labor pandering to the
gambling spirit, which no doubt con-
tributes to the making of union larrikin-
ism and in any case has had very sordid
expressions during the war —pandering to
it in the latest instance by asking patriotic
bodies to cut out collections for service
men and prisoners of war when war loans
are on the market, while telling the horde
of State Government lottery promoters to
go ahead.
Just as “he who seeks equity must do
equity,” so a political party that seeks
greater powers should first prove itself
worthy. In the present instance this has
not been done, and until it is done the
powers should be refused. They cannot
run out till after the war, and it will be
time enough then for real constitutional
reform if Labor has in the meantime re-
turned to the ways of democracy and got
rid of its false doctrines and evil com-
panions.
Force for a Pact.
In the United States the Australia-New
Zealand Agreement has come in for a
fair amount of heated criticism since it
was signed at Canberra on January 21.
Its hardest critics have, oddly enough,
been those who formerly wore the label
of isolationists. Turned imperialists
overnight, they hold that America, and
no other country, should and will decide
the future of the Pacific.
Another odd thing about them is that
the sound reason they advance in sup-
port of their attitude—that, with the
great change that has come into war,
distant defence bases will henceforth be
vital to America —they refuse to admit
must logically apply also to countries
situated as are Australia and New Zea-
land. Actually, while the range of the
new U.S. imperialists is almost without
limits over the globe, from coastal islands
off China to Dakar, the regional area
mentioned in the Canberra Agreement
as vital to future Australia-New Zealand
defence is very limited. Clause 13:
The two Governments agree that within
the framework of a general system of
world security a regional zone of defence
comprising the South-west and South
Pacific areas shall be established, and that
this zone should be based on Australia
and New Zealand, stretching through the
arc of islands north and north-east of Aus-
tralia to Western Samoa and Cook Islands.
It would fit into little more than the
present militia-service limits, and that
obviously leaves a very large expanse of
the Pacific areas untouched, including the
Jap mandated islands. These islands
Americans now seem interested in taking
over, and to the whole lot of them, as far
as Australia and New Zealand are con-
cerned and as far as the Canberra Agree-
ment makes any claims to the contrary,
Uncle Sam would be more than welcome.
Nonetheless, the area outlined as being
of vital interest to Australia and New
Zealand as a regional zone within the
framework of a general system of world
security is of quite a tidy size in com-
parison with the protecting capabilities of
these two countries and vastly ambitious
in comparison with anything the Govern-
ment of either has concretely put for-
ward to date in the way of a continuing
defence policy.
There are three references to the pro-
tecting prospects in the Agreement, both
almost as vague as the outline of the pro-
posed regional area. In Clause 34 the two
Governments “agree that as soon as
practicable there should be a frank ex-
change of views on the problems of
security” among the representatives of in-
terested Governments. In the next clause
the two Governments agree that their co-
operation for defence should be developed
by
(1) continuous consultation in all defence
matters of mutual interest; (2) the organi-
sation, equipment, training and exercising
of the armed forces under a common doc-
trine; (3) joint planning; (4) interchange
of staff; (5) the co-ordination of policy
for the production of munitions, aircraft
and supply items and for shipping to en-
sure the greatest possible degree of mutual
aid consistent with the maintenance of the
policy of self-sufficiency on local produc-
tion.
Implementing this policy in all its im-
plications would, man-power permitting,
be comparatively easy for New Zealand,
where the democratic principle of uni-
versal liability to service is now firmly
established. As far as its very limited man-
power resources would stretch, New Zea-
land could thus guarantee the men who
would certainly be continuously required
if Clause 15 of the Agreement—and the
whole Agreement with it—is not to be
taken as just so much wind generated by
so many windbags. Clause 15 represents
the two Governments as “agreed that it
would be proper for Australia and New
Zealand to assume full responsibility for
policing or sharing in policing such areas
of the South-west and South Pacific as
may from time to time be agreed upon”
—that is, by the body controlling the
hoped-for “system of general security.”
Neither Dr. Evatt nor anyone else has
explained the meaning of the phrase
“armed forces under a common doc-
trine.” If the N.Z. interpretation is that,
to carry out the considerable protective
obligations implicit in the Agreement,
Australia must fall in line with New Zea-
land in the matter of universal liability
to service, then, with peace at last arrived,
the doctor will have to break with either
doctrine or party.
Even now there is a considerable sus-
pension of militia call-ups, no doubt
warranted by present Pacific War require-
ments, including the necessity for increas-
ing this country’s food and suchlike con-
tributions. What will happen if the pres-
ent Government continues in office after
peace has arrived can be readily
imagined. It is of the political crowd
which suspended compulsory training in
1929, leaving Australia without the great
body of already-trained men it might
have had available in 1939. The party is,
on the say-so of Mr. Curtin himself,
irrevocably opposed to compulsory ser-
vice—not only for any oversea service
but as a defence principle. Nothing could
be so certain as that, with peace and this
present Government in, compulsory ser-
vice would once more be out. On July
10 Mr. Curtin specifically said so:
1 cannot see any reason why there should
be conscription for service of any descrip-
tion when the war is over.
Where, then, will be found the neces-
sary man-power for the intended “polic-
ing”? Possibly the idea is that all the
“policing” will be done by what Australia
will then have as a permanent navy and
air force. A good deal of it may be, but
there, will always have to be the backing
of strong home forces in case of need,
and there would always have to be a fair
proportion of land forces stationed on
the outer bastions as well.
For both these land forces it would be
like the present Government to be rely-
ing upon enough of the A.I.F. wishing to
continue with soldiering to meet the need.
If so, the Government is in for one of
the greatest shocks of its life. The great
bulk of the fighting Diggers will have had
more than enough of it before it’s all
over. They will want nothing so much
as to get out and back into civilian life.
They will expect to be helped out as
quickly as possible. They are volunteers
not for soldiering but for Australia, and,
having defended and saved their country,
they will expect provision to be made for
continuing with an adequate defence
force in their stead when the fighting
ends. Mr. Curtin has bluntly told them
that there will be no such force; there
“will not be conscription of any sort or
kind when the war ends”; home defence
and “policing” as well will be accom-
plished by volunteers.
Looking on the same sort of post-war
requirements as are implicit in the Can-
berra Agreement —if this is not merely
so mLjch hot air—the New York “Times”
has advocated for America the enact-
ment now of a law providing for a post-
war system of universal compulsory mili-
tary service. Australia has such a law,
though, as has happened before, it can be
suspended at the whim of temporarily
elected politicians. What is required here
is an enactment establishing that law in
permanence, to which could be added
another abolishing future voluntary ser-
vice, except for special units, as unfair,
undemocratic and inadequate for war as
it’s now waged.
Even with such an enactment, imple-
menting the defensive-arc proposals of
the Canberra Agreement would be am-
bitious enough for countries with the
man-power resources of Australia and
New Zealand. It will come particularly
hard on the latter country. Up to last
April New Zealand’s figures of her men
killed in this war and of total casualties
were greater than those of any. other
Dominion or of Britain in proportion to
population. New Zealand had by then
lost proportionately about twice as many
men killed as Australia and about five
times as many as Canada. To equal the
proportionate New Zealand figure for
men killed—as at that time—civilian and
merchant-navy losses had to be added in
Britain’s case. Proportionately the British
losses in the armed forces were, like those
of Australia on the same basis, roughly
about half New Zealand’s. “New Zea-
land’s losses,” said the Manchester
“Guardian,” commenting on these figures,
“must be of terrible moment to*a young
country with a total population of only
just over one and a half millions and
with her young men still fighting both in
Italy and in the Pacific.”
In view of this New Zealand would
very rightly have to insist on Australia
honoring its part under the clause
“organisation, equipment, training and
exercising of the armed forces under a
common doctrine” for the purposes of the
Canberra Agreement. And even at that,
the man-power resources of both coun-
tries being what they are, there would be
hard enough scratching to find the men
if the Canberra Agreement is not to turn
into a source piece for a future comic
opera, possibly in an Asiatic language.
Viewing America’s share in the general
post-war security proposals, the New
York “Times,” in the same article in
which it advocated post-war universal
compulsory military service for Uncle
Sam, declared:
On us will rest the moral responsibility
of maintaining a large enough army and
navy to help give authority and strength
to the new organisation. For this purpose
we shall need many more'young men for
our armed services than were ever re-
cruited in times of peace by voluntary
methods of enlistment. We shall need them
at once, when the fighting ends. For we
know now that we shall have to occupy
many areas abroad, some of them strategic
outposts.... and we shall wish to relieve
from duty with the armed forces, as soon
as possible after the war is over, the men
whose service in the field has made victory
possible.
If there is any glimmer of this sort of
forward-looking policy in the Australian
and New Zealand Government represen-
tatives who made the Canberra Agree-
ment they have not thus far permitted 1
to shine forth. And certainly there is no
such glimmer in the Agreement nselt,
though there is plenty of glitter of on
sort and another.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Unquenchable Optimist.
Mr. Scully went along to the “22nd
meeting of the Australian Agricultural
Council,” and told that useless outfit that
10,000 tractors, costing £6,000,000, were
about to arrive from abroad to help “ex-
pand dairy production.” Also:
In 10i months 2252 separators, 429 irri-
gation plants, 1031 rotary hoes, 4972
stationary engines, 2017 wheel tractors, 844
secondhand tractors, 4500 windmills, 2497
windmill heads, 83 windmill towers have
been made available to the dairy industry;
supplies of milking machines and engines
have been increased, and other machinery,
such as make binders and ensiling plants,
are to come from America.
No A.A. Council member referred to the
position which exists, these measures not-
withstanding Australia’s biggest city
experiencing a milk shortage, and now
expected to rejoice when the ration is
nine-tenths, instead of six-sevenths, of the
last-March-week standard; Australia’s
butter ration cut down (though a pre-
referendum return to Boz. is expected);
Australia’s dairy shipments to Britain far
below estimates and requirements.. You
can’t milk a rotary hoe and cows won’t
eat secondhand tractors.
Mr. Scully and his experts need to be
careful about this craze for machinery.
For the most part this country’s arable
soils are light soils, far too easily pul-
verised to dust by heavy and fast
machines, far too easily blown or washed
away when reduced to powder. Nor will
a plethora of machines, imported at high
cost, nor machinery pools with Govern-
ment-paid managerial and maintenance
staffs, nor subsidies, rescue farming from
the pass farming has reached because of
costs, “controls” and official blindness to
the prime need; farming must be placed
in a position to stand on its own feet.
Pools, plans, subsidies, statements,
boards, adaptations “from the Russian
system,” Ministerial optimism, confer-
ences, controls, “targets” and all the rest
of it are a waste of the nation’s time and
an enormous waste of its money.
The Missing Factor.
In the third winter of the war against
Japan, and at the close of a particularly
bleak day, the Prime Minister said, for
the hundredth time, that “Australia must
get more coal and consume less.”
In the terrible days of 1942 Mr. Curtin
spoke, as he thought, firmly to N.S.W.
coalminers who were indulging their bent
for striking as if nothing was happening.
One of his remarks was that “Men who
are not in the fighting forces, and who at
the same time will not work, are as much
the enemies of this country as the directly
enlisted legions of the enemy.” And,
striking his finest Strong Man John pose,
he uttered these words:
Any Government that allowed essential
production to suffer because men would
not work when provision existed for the
speedy settlement of disputes would be
traitorous to Australia.
Since then, in dealing with coal strikers,
Mr. Curtin, as the lady critic wrote of
the actress, has run through the whole
gamut of emotions from A to B.
Four months ago he pronounced him-
self ready to hurl himself from the Tar-
peian Rock or its Canberra equivalent.
I regard the production <Jf coal as so in-
tegral a part of the war effort that con-
tinued failure to produce coal would make
me reflect very seriously on my personal
capacity to be responsible for the conduct
of the war effort. If the miners want some
other man to be the head of the Govern-
ment, I would stand aside to permit more
coal to be produced.
I have done my best. I will continue to
do it, but 1 shall not consider my position
in this country as a factor of any import-
ance in the resolution of this problem.
In the previous October he had stated
that production of N.S.W. coal to Sep-
tember 18 was “2,500,000 tons short of
what was expected by the Government
when the code was introduced,” and that
“the removal of malcontents and irrespon-
sibles would go a long way towards main-
taining increased production.”
In the main the irresponsibles comprise
youths of military age and men engaged
in other occupations as well as mining—
taxi-drivers, s.-p. bookmakers, billiard-
room proprietors, dog-trainers and the
like. These men have engaged as miners
in order to obtain protection. They readily
agree to strike, sometimes themselves
addressing the men or making a first
move from the mine, thus bringing on a
general exodus. The malcontents and irre-
sponsibles have a record of chronic absen-
teeism, and it is the opinion of the Gov-
ernment that they should be weeded out.
But in Westralia six months later Com-
rade Wells, the Communist president of
the Miners’ Federation, admitted that the
malcontents and irresponsibles were stil
striking and loafing with abandon.
In the Miners’ Federation there are
people who have come in since the war
for the purpose of sheltering 'in the indus-
try while the war is on, and who will leave
it when the war is over. These people don’t
want to work. They make every little
grievance that crops up a major matter and
fan the feeling of the men to get them to
stop work.
The Government’s latest of a hundrec
expedients to take Mr. Frank Collin-
dridge, M.P., from the British Parliamen-
tary delegation, thus wrecking his
itinerary, and send him round the N.S.W
coalmining districts with Mr. Forde. That
gentleman confessed that, although the
number of miners had been increased,
weekly production of coal was 22,000
tons less than consumption and that
“unless we get more coal the country
cannot carry on for more than a
few weeks; fuel and lighting will
have to be rationed and the whole
of the war effort will be hindered.”
These representations had no effect on the
output of strikes, nor did those of Mr.
Collindridge, though he made an obvious
impression on the older miners. “When
the nation is in peril,” he said, “we will
live to regret it if we try to get what we
want by blackmail.” And he pointed but
that, working under immeasurably worse
conditions than those he had seen in
N. S. Wales, and in surroundings which
could not be compared with those of the
N.S.W. North Coast and South Coast,
the British coalminer produced roughly
five tons per head of population per
annum against an N. JS. Wales output of
roughly two tons.
For dealing with “malcontents and
irresponsibles,” loafing parasites and dis-
loyal louts the Government needs no
greater powers. A hundred referendums
could not give it greater powers than it
has possessed in this field since it took
office. And in 30 months it has tried
codes, regulations, concessions, appeals,
remonstrances, threats, everything but the
one thing that could do any good. That,
Guts, it has never tried. When union
bosses and mobs *are in question Guts
isn’t part of its equipment.
The Australian Author.
Those Australian authors who’ve been
lucky enough to get a yard or two of
paper and have books published face a
severe tax slug on their income. Not for
50 years has the Australian writer had
such a market, and it does seem hard on
him that a big slice of the money has to
go to the Government at war-time rates,
with a special impost on 1943-44 earnings.
English writers struck the same sort of
trouble, and G. B. Shaw wrote to the
“Times” about it. In Britain the authori-
ties try to be fair, so the Chancellor of
the Exchequer made this statement to an
appreciative House in his Budget speech :
Regarding the taxation of .lump sum pay-
ments made to authors for copyright
under the existing law these payments are
treated as income for the year of receipt,
even although the author might have spent
years on the work. With the present rates
of taxation this might be very discouraging
to literary effort... .To meet these grievances
the Finance Bill will contain provisions en-
abling an author, if he so desires, to spread
a lump-sum payment back over a period of
three years or the actual period of prepara-
tion of the work, if shorter.
Mr. Chifley and his colleagues are fond
of talking about native culture. Here’s a
precedent they could adopt as a practical
gesture of their sincerity.
A "Yes' 1 Man's Creed.
In a long letter to the press, Dr. Lloyd
Ross, chief apologist or something for the
Department of Post-war Reconstruction,
set out in maddeningly abstract terms a
line of argument which seems to suggest
that all our effort and sacrifice in this
war have been impelled by fear of unem-
ployment. He wound up with his doc-
trinaire’s creed:
I believe that full employment, with its
concomitant of expanding production, will
o Continued on page 8.)
WHEN CONSTABULARY DUTY’S TO BE DONE.
“I cannot understand the inconsistency of the Federal Treasurer in approving the continuance of lotteries while desiring discontinuance of patriotic and charitable appeals
during war-loan campaigns.” —Lord Mayor Nettlefold, Melbourne.
Constable Chifley: “Intherferin’ wid the war loan in flat defoiance of the Roight Honorable Jawn Cur-rtin! Off the shtreets, wimmen, or I’ll run
yez in!”


FOR 65 YEARS
• the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giying service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SfcLWYN KING, Managing Director.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
[For Referendum matter, J. E. Webb and
David Adams, 252 George-street North, Sydney,
are responsible.]
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it .famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S,
enlarge opportunities, and that the removal
of the fear of unemployment' will transform
our industrial morale so that the constant
industrial problem of relating the supply of
labor to the needs of the community will
be settled more democratically and volun-
tarily than in the pre-war days of increas-
ing restriction and monopoly.
So “removal of the fear of unemploy-
ment will transform industrial morale,”
will it? Dr. Lloyd Ross should have
thought over the N.S.W. coalmines, the
N.S.W Government abattoirs, the
wharves and other places where, since
1939, there has been no fear of unem-
ployment. Does he ask us to believe that
“industrial morale” as displayed by
coalies, slaughtermen and wharfies is the
ideal at which Australia should aim?
Australian initiative, dash, enterprise,
given a fair go by politicians, is capable
of not only finding good work for those
whQ want it after the war, but of supply-
ing avenues for the expression of those
three characteristics and for ambition,
without which even man considered as an
economic animal is an ineffectual creature.
POLITICAL POINTS
Remarking that Lord Gowrie was about
to make “his last formal appearance in
Parliament as Governor-General,” J. D.
Corbett, who writes good-hupiored gallery
notes for Melbourne “Argus,” gave the
fine old soldier credit for “the experience,
probably unique, of having delivered the
equivalent of speeches from the throne
in three different Australian Parliaments,
for he was Governor of South Australia
from 1928 to 1934 and Governor of N. S.
Wales from 1935 to 1936.” Unique for
a G.-G., but not for a Governor. Sir
Gerald Strickland brought off the treble
as Governor of Tasmania (1904-9), West-
ralia (1909-13) and N. S. Wales (1913-17).
He was also the last Governor of Nor-
folk Island (1913-14) when it was a
Crown colony.
In quarters hostile to Henry A. Wal-
lace it was supposed that the President
sent him to China so that he would be
out of the way when the Democrats
erased his name from the ticket. But
he was back last week in good time for
the Democratic Convention, and if
Roosevelt chooses him as running mate
again that should be the end of the
matter. Wallace was the President’s own
nominee in 1941 after his predecessor,
Gamer, had had two terms. No Vice-
President has had three terms.
Just when referendum speakers were
preparing a deluge of flapdoodle on the
theme that no service man can be sure
of a job unless the Government gets a
grant of the powers it already possesses
and will have until the war is over —
whenever that may be—Old Digger
Wurth, Director-General of Man-power,
came out with a shattering statement in
“Reveille.” He said “More than 60 p.c.
of 42,000 men discharged or released
during the six months to March 31 exer-
cised reinstatement rights or returned to
their own businesses or pastoral pursuits.”
It is a matter in which Wurth, a good
public servant, takes a personal and active
interest, and it doesn’t depend upon any
referendum vote.
Notified by letter that most of the
delegates to the Democratic Convention
were committed to a fourth-term candi-
dature, the second Roosevelt accepted
nomination before going to the conven-
tion. His words were worthy of him: — 1
1 would prefer to retire. All that is within
me cries out to go back to my home on the
Hudson and to avoid®public responsibilities
and the publicity with which our democracy
follows every step of the nation’s chief ex-
ecutive. But I will accept and serve in this
office if I am so ordered by the Comman-
der-in-Chief of us all, the sovereign people
of the United States. If the people com-
mand me to continue in this office and in
this war, I have as little right to withdraw
as a soldier has to leave his post in the
line.
Only a man with great qualities could
have stood up so long to the “publicity
with which our democracy follows every
step of the nation’s chief executive.”
Weaker men have wilted under it; one in
particular, in our own time.
Under Section 93 of the Victorian
Police Offences Act, fan-tan, two-up and
hazard are declared unlawful. Baccarat,
dinah-minah and skill-ball are to go on
the list unless the Leg. Council tosses out
a bill introduced by Hyland, the Chief
Secretary, which isn’t likely. Baccarat
hells, luxuriously equipped and staffed by
people who have escaped war service
somehow, have shot up in Melbourne and
other cities; and mugs are losing a
mint of money to the scum running them.
But it will not be sufficient to deal with
these ruffians as rogues and vagabonds.
There should be added Commonwealth
regulations providing for post-war de-
portation of such as are foreigners, and
it is common talk that many are.
From a statement prepared for the
Prime Ministers’ Conference:
Australia.—Population 7,000,000. By
December, 1943, 1,181,000 men and 191,000
women were in direct war work, including
the forces. About 870,000 have enlisted in
the fighting forces.
At Washington, Curtin said that dis-
charges and casualties had reduced the
number of men in uniform to “about
630,000,” and it ought to be obvious that
a great part of the 1,181,000 and 191,000
women will not need to be provided for
by any set of politicians or doctrinaires.
Many will have to be kept in the ser-
vices ; many more will return to their
pre-war jobs, as thousands of those dis-
charged are doing now. Yet a Victorian
Yes campaign committee, with Coles and
Wilson, Ms.H.R., on it, has had the face
to assert that “the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, irrespective of the party in power
at the end of the war, is faced with pro-
viding 1,600,000 men and women with
jobs.” It must have a very low opinion
of the intelligence of the electors.
A good old, no-holds-barred union civil
war is going on at Leigh Creek, S.A.’s
new coalfield, now to have a Common-
THE DOCTOR’S DILEMMA.
“Don’t take any notice of the old Tory! He’s just trying to cruel my referendum.”
wealth grant of £600,000’. The field opened
up under the aegis of the A.W.U., but it
wasn’t long before Comrade Wells, the
Communist president of the Miners’ Fed-
eration, was there trying to win the
workers to the M.F. The A.W.U., which
hates Corns., sent reinforcements. Came
the usual meeting and the inevitable no-
confidence motion against the A.W.U.
It was outed, whereupon the M.F. cohort
retired. But it will come again unless
Premier Playford, who sees in Leigh
Creek a chance to keep his State free
from the —er —caprices of N.S.W.,coal-
miners, steps in. Having plenty of intes-
tinal fortitude, Playford is likely to do it.
Dunstan asked a couple of eminent
legal gentlemen for their opinion as to
whether a proposal inserted in the Powers
Bill as a safeguard against government by
regulation would not in fact be a restric-
tion on Parliament. They thought—and
•think —it would be. That started some-
thing with all the earmarks of a High
Court case without actually being in the
court. Legal lights have risen all over
the place to argue for and against, and
the noise was still on when this went to
the printer. Presumably a foretaste of
the kind of litigation the country will find
itself in for if the “yes”-men win.
Breaking in on the dreams of those
who believe in fairies and Moscow corre-
spondents, General Eisenhower issued a
warning after “the tremendously gratify-
ing” capture of Caen:
The Allies must be prepared in all the
operations right round the European
perimeter for long and bitter fighting of a
most strenuous character, with heavy losses.
A fine man is Eisenhower, and he is
entitled to a share of the credit for the
refusal to launch the invasion of France
till the Anglo-Americans were ready,
though non-starter Second-Fronters were
screaming their silly heads off. Few com-
manders have had a more rapid rise. Not
three years ago he was Chief of Staff to
General Kreuger, who has distinguished
himself in the operations north of Aus-
tralia.
Joe Abbott, M.H.R., got in a nasty
one at the expense of Yes-men who assert
that defeat of the referendum would block
“orderly marketing.” “They don’t under-
stand the Constitution,” said Joseph. “Sec-
tion 92 blocks the way, and that section
stands immune from any interference
through the referendum.”
On a motion to continue the Emer-
gency Powers Defence Act, Herbert Mor-
rison told the Commons that the Govern-
ment had already earmarked emergency
powers which could be revoked or modi-
fied when the fighting in Europe ceased.
He thought it might be possible to get rid
of some regulations even before that.
Strange reading in this country, now being
split with “yes-no” propaganda. But then
in this country the national Parliament
sits only once in a while. In Morrison’s
country it is practically always sitting;
hence emergency powers are always sub-
ject to review.
“X.S.”: The weary, dreary Pyjama Girl
case had its finale when the body of Mrs.
Linda Agostini was interred in the C. of
E. section of the Preston Cemetery, Mel-
bourne, five miles from the place where
her husband is serving his sentence. For
lack of nearer relations four newspaper-
men acted as pallbearers, and 53 people,
mainly women and children, were present.
The clergyman, it seems from a statement
made after the service, found it hard to
refrain from turning on the 53 with the
words “You have all come here with
your morbid curiosity—now say the
Lord’s Prayer!” The incident was re-
ported in and photographed by dailies,
which helped to create the morbid curio-
sity by printing hundreds of columns on
the subject.
Colonel Wickham, leader of the British
Parliamentary delegation, made the fare-
well remark that the party had been
“amazed at the diversity of war produc-
tion” in this country. It is believed that
members of the party even caught sight
of a coalminer at work.
Nasty crack from the Canberra repre-
sentative of Melbourne “Herald”:
Although the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has seldom indicated how contribu-
tions to the war loans are divided between
the States, all figures which have been
made available recently indicate that the
per capita contributions from Victoria are
the highest in the Commonwealth, and those
from N.S.W. and other States where lotteries
are conducted are among the lowest.
Victoria and S.A. are the only non-lottery
States. They are also the only non-Labor
States.
After floods of oratory about the dream
city that Melbourne is to become under
post-war planning, the city fathers have
come out with their first little ewe lamb.
The Western Market site in the centre of
the city is to be provided with a large,
modern business building, plus a monster
garage, out of which the council will
doubtless make a lot of money. But what
the congested wen needs is more lungs,
not more reinforced concrete.
For the second time in a month it has
come out of Canberra that Forde is being
groomed for a visit to Washington and
London. What for? Perhaps to advise
the White House and No. 10 Downing-
street on how to run an army—sorry, two
armies.
Falling back on an old grievance, Mel-
bourne “Age” wants to know why Tas-
mania should have as many Senators as
Victoria and N. S. Wales? It is part and
parcel of the Federal system. None of
the 48 United States has ever had more
than two Senators. Yet Nevada has
fewer people than Tasmania ; Wyoming
and Vermont have fewer than Westralia ;
New Hampshire, Montana, Idaho, Utah
and New Mexico have fewer than South
Australia. On the other hand, New York,
Pennsylvania, Illinois, Ohio, California
and Texas have far greater populations
than Victoria or N. S. Wales. There is no
movement in the U.S.A. for alteration,
just as there is no movement for increase
of post-war Federal powers.
“Whatever crushes individuality is
despotism, by whatever name it may be
called,” said John Stuart Mill. In modern
Australia they call it a Powers Bill.


YOUR place in a Tank Crew
: "i
mg
You may not be there in person,
but you can help some tank
crew by taking more than extra
care of your Exide House-light-
ing Batteries. This saves vital
materials and man-power needed
to provide batteries for our
Fighting Forces, who depend
upon Exide for over 100 services.
Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment. Consult
your wall chart regularly and get in touch with your Exide
distributor in your State immediately you suspect the need tor
renewals or repair.
house-lighting BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lord Somers, dead untimely in England,
left a permanent memorial here. When
Governor of Victoria (1926-31) he founded
the Somers Camp on Western port Bay,
which grew into the so-called Power
House Camps. Their aim was to bring
boys of all classes together ; that they
succeeded is shown by the fact that when
Lord Somers fulfilled a promise to return
and attend one in 1937 he found it a
going concern which gave him an aston-
ishing reception. Born in 1887, Lord
Somers went from Charterhouse to
Oxford, and served with distinction in
the first World War, winning the D.S.O.
and M.C. and becoming a Chevalier
of the Legiq>n of Honor. A Guards-
man, as was his father, he left
Britain to gain experience in farming in
Canada and then came on to Australia.
A very young disciple of Baden-Powell,
he succeeded 8.-P. as Chief Scout in 1941,
and a passion for cricket led to his be- -
coming president of the M.C.C. (1936-37).
In the present war he did Red Cross
work in the Middle East.
“Ay, lad, it’s the best thing Ah’ve got,
next to missus,” was the recipient’s
opinion of the handsome gold watch pre-
sented to Frank Collindridge, the British
miner M.P., by N.S.W. coalminers. He
got it for doing some straight talking to
"An’, ba goom, it goes.”
them when he gave up part of his tour
with the British Parliamentary Delegation
to try to help this country get more-
coal. A personality as bright as the watch
—he’s 50 and looks 36 —and honest York-
shire humor made him one of the most
popular visitors we’ve had, and that goes
for opponents as well as supporters of his
politics. Collindridge became Labor M.P.
for Barnsley in 1938. He is on the execu-
tive committee of the British Miners’
Federation, and was Parliamentary
private secretary to the Secretary of
Mines in the Ministry of Fuel and Power.
How could anybody expect a Jim Foley
to stay out of a war? A war correspon-
dent from Melbourne discovered one in
Burma, Lt.-Col. J. G. Foley, M.C., born
in Launceston (Tas.) 58 years ago, and
since 1912 knocking up a fair income at
tinmining in Nigeria. Jim Foley joined
in the fighting in East Africa and the
Cameroons in 1914-18, and got an M.C.
and bar and four “mentions.” When
the present affair broke out he found his
way from West Africa to the Middle East.
One thing led to another, and now Jim
Foley is welfare officer with the West
Africans in Burma. Keen on cricket, he
followed the Australians to England in
staider days, and reckons the West Afri-
cans fight the better for having been told
that service in Burma gives them a chance
to get even with the mob who sold them
crook bicycles in Nigeria before the war.
Pilot-Officer R. W. T. Wade, awarded
the D.F.C., is a great-nephew of Dowell
O’Reilly and a great-grandson of Canon
O’Reilly, of St. Phillip’s, Sydney. P.O.
Wade studied at Hay War Memorial
High, and then went jackerooing. In
England he became a Lancaster pilot,
and his machine has the distinction of
being designated “B for Beer.” After
sundry visits to Berlin and other hot
spots, he is now an instructor on Welling-
tons.
Geoffrey Drake-Brockman has returned
to W.A. Public Works Department after
four years in charge of military engineer-
ing projects in Australia, including the
North-South and East-West roads. He
came out of the 1914-18 war with his
majority, two wounds and the M.C. Re-
joining the W.A. public service, he went
to China on forestry, coming back to be
Commissioner and later Engineer for
North Westralia. When the new war started
he was called up and given charge of
army engineering in W.A. After the East-
West road job, he went to Melbourne as
boss of the Engineer Services, and with
the rank of brigadier assumed control of
a multitude of works, finally becoming
Director of Works and Fortifications.
John Porter, author of Our Fertile
North, 50,000 copies of which are being
issued by National Press, of Melbourne,
is the energetic Melburnian who organ-
ised “Porter’s Mob,” a bevy of dancers
and amateur comedians and actors who
purveyed entertainment for troops in
camp for four years round about the
Yarra. Lately the troupe, with portable
stage and limelight, toured the Far North
for five months, and Porter came to the
conclusion that up there isn’t the desert
city critics had reckoned, and that great
development can be carried out at a frac-
tion of what has been spent on those
parts since the Jap threat loomed up.
Porter helped to organise big war
loans. Recently he raised a crop of 40
acres of spuds near Monbulk (Vic.) —pos-
sibly getting his hand in against the time
when he settles in the new Arcadia his
book envisages in the Far North.
Remarkable —though natural enough,
no doubt —how many of those who get
along in the services were good all-
rounders in sport. Another of them is
Lt.-Col. M. F. Brogan, who had a men-
tion in dispatches in one New Guinea
list and an 0.8. E. in the next. From
Manly (N.S.W.), Brogan graduated from
Duntroon in 1935, having there won
the Sword of Honor on the soldiering side
and in sport captained the football team,
represented in hockey and athletics, and
been swimming and light-heavyweight
boxing champ. Seconded from the Staff
Corps, he gained his Bachelor of Engi-
neering at Sydney Uni. and a Rugby
Union “blue,” and represented the Uni.
in swimming and Wesley College in ath-
letics. He represented Victoria in Rugby
Union in 1938 and 1939.
“H.”: Handed an M.B.E. the other
day, Arthur Ernest Kuring had to fight his
way into the war. Originally a telegraph-
ist, Kuring was first licensee when the old
Adelaide Hotel, overlooking the Sydney
Cricket Ground, was reconstructed into
the Olympic at the time the Games were
played here. He had done well for him-
self, but, when the war came, decided to
get into it, although over 40. Turned
down twice by the R.A.A.F., he went to
Egypt at his own expense and was ac-
cepted by the R.A.F. He’s now back in
Australia as an expert in ’plane communi-
cation work. His brother, who joined
the R.A.A.F. in W.A., is among the
missing.
Captain Hartley Watson, master of the
tug James Patterson, who has been towing
vessels on the Yarra for upwards of 37
years, has been reminiscing to the Histori-
cal Society in Melbourne, and his recol-
lections include one literary figure. In
1889 the barque Otago was unloading a
cargo of sugar near the old steam ferry.
Her skipper was a young Pole named
Jozef Konrad, Korzeniowski who spoke
excellent English. That was his last
voyage, according to the captain: he
left the sea in Melbourne and began his
career as a writer under the name of
Joseph Conrad. No ; he was a deepwater
seaman until 1894 and wrote his first book,
Almayer’s Folly, while he was still roving
the high seas. It was published in 1895,
and that success was what made Conrad
decide to be an author.
When W. J. Short retired as chairman
of Queensland Sugar Board he took with
him a vast knowledge of the industry,
gained during half a century’s experience.
He has been almost everything there is
on the various commissions, committees,
boards and things to do with sugar.
Back to England goes Archdeacon
Harry Thomas, of Brisbane, to be Bishop
Suffragan at Taunton. He had been in
Queensland tiine years ; was Warden of
St. Francis’s Theological College, then
honorary canon of St. John’s Cathedral
and archdeacon. After a fine academic
career at Lampeter (Wales) and Oxford,
he filled two curacies in England, was a
missionary in Zanzibar and for six years
principal of Ely Theological College.
J. B. Bergin, one of the mentors at
Gatton Agricultural College (Q.), and for
years a lecturer on wool at Queensland
University, has retired. He will raise
export lambs on a Downs property near
Brookstead.
Fifty years a member on Monday was
William Morris Hughes, P.C., C.H., K.C.,
Master of Gray’s Inn, Grand Officier de
la Legion d’Honneur, Ordre de la
Couronne de Beige, D.C.L. (Oxford),
LL.D. (Cardiff, Birmingham, Edinburgh,
Glasgow), F.Z.S. (E. and 0.E.). Un-
fortunately, he wasn’t among the mem-
bers who reassembled that day, being
down with bronchitis. The formal
record says that he entered the
N.S.W. Parliament as M.L.A. for Lang
—a name with many associations —on
July 17, 1894, was re-elected on July 24,
1895, and again on July 27, 1898, taking
his seat in the first Commonwealth Parlia-
ment on May 9, 1901, as M.H.R. for
West Sydney. Since then he has known
no other Parliament, though he has had
two other electorates, Bendigo and North
Sydney. In appearance the frailest and
far from the youngest of the 111 mem-
bers who gathered at Melbourne on that
historic May Day, Hughes has outlasted
BILLY.
The Independent U.A.P. member for
North Sydney (so described by A.B.C.),
drawn by Low (1916) in what has been
held to be a characteristic attitude.
them all in Parliamentary service and out-
lived most of them. He will be 80 on
September 25.
Heartiest and most valued greeting to
Billy on the completion of his fiftieth year
as a politician came from James Cornell,
Chairman of Committees in the West-
ralian Leg. Council. Most of the Labor
members, Federal and State, who took
Billy’s side of the conscription contro-
versy are dead, and of the survivors only
Cornell remains in public life. With
32 years’ unbroken service as an M.L.C.,
he was recently re-elected. Along with a
steady attachment to Hughes—always
“Billy” and “Jimmy” to each other—
Cornell has an enduring devotion to the
memory of Haig. They met for the first
time at an overseas conference of British
Legionaries and Dominion veterans--
Cornell is a great R.S.L. man —and the
old field-marshal took an instant liking
to the bush-bred Australian, understand-
able to anyone who knows Cornell.
Here’s a performance for some am-
bitious youngster to start trying now to
better: For the past 35 years Adelaide’s
new Public Librarian, Herbert John Keyes,
H. J. KEYES, new Public Librarian,
Adelaide.
has ridden the same pushbike to and from
work at the Library. Distance covered,
about 50,000 miles. A bachelor of 61
summers, and born within Adelaide’s
square mile, Keyes has been about the
Library for some 45 years altogether, and
has seen its browsing material increase
from 50,000 to 250,000 vols. He had his
early training with former Sydney Public
Librarian Ifould, whose highly decorated
airman son, Squadron-Leader Edward
Lister Ifould, D. 5.0., D.F.C. and bar,
lately returned to Australia after three
and a half years with the R.A.F. Inci-
dentally, Keyes’s hobby isn’t racing, as
was recently reported, unless it’s racing
garden pests to his pet plants. He’s a
confirmed disturber of the soil.
Past his 80th milestone, Arthur Francis
Bassett Hull, the first N.S.W. philatelist
elected to the Roll of Distinguished Phila-
telists, founded in 1920 and limited to 50
living collectors throughout the world,
nominated by the Permanent Philatelic
Congress of Great Britain. Fellow of the
Royal Philatelic Society of London since
1887, he has published (in 1890, 1911 and
1930) comprehensive works dealing with
the very early issues of Tasmania, N.S.W.
and Queensland. He received an M.B.E.
in 1936.
Recently awarded the Russian Medal
for Valor, Squadron-Leader Donald H.
Smith, of Encounter Bay (S.A.), after
outstanding service in Malta now com-
mands an Australian Spitfire fighter-
bomber squadron in Britain. He’s an
old Scotch (S.A.) scholar.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 89, William Bligh Nutting,
whose mother was a granddaughter of Bligh
of the Bounty. He and his brothers, well known
in pastoral circles in the ’nineties, were daring
horsemen. Charlie was killed drafting cattle,
Horace over hurdles and Herbert while hunt-
ing in England.
In Sydney, at 83, John While, a Stafford-
shire native who came to Australia m 1884 and
established the Sydney spring-making firm that
bears his name.
In Melbourne, at 88, Madame Ceschina, one-
time opera singer, who could remember the
Franco-Prussian War. As Kate Herbert she
was a member of Robert Brough’s company
and appeared in the first production in Aus-
tralia of “Carmen,” which Alberto Zelman con-
ducted.
At Mortlake (Vic.), Mrs. Isabel Hennessy,
last survivor of the migrant ship Ticonderoga,
which in 1852 reached Port Phillip after a ter-
rible voyage in which more than 96 of her com-
plement' died of typhus on the way out and 82
died after landing. Mrs. Hennessy was six at
the time and lived another 92 years.
In Melbourne, at 74, Tommy Warne, for 50
years curator of Carlton Oval. Warne was the
backbone of the Carlton eleven in the ’nineties
and early nineteen-hundreds. His 1898-99
record of over 1000 runs in pennant games
(av. 126) still stands. Tommy played for Vic-
toria, and was in the Australian team that
visited Maoriland in 1910.
In Adelaide, at 74, George Lohrman, who
gave all his life to music. Lately he was secre-
tary for the London College of Music exams.
He conducted a band from S.A. which won at
the Ballarat competitions 25 years back.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: The fighter pilot’s engine conked
on him on his way back to his base, and
he had to bale out. The position of his
descent was pin-pointed by his fellow-
fliers and a rescue party set out on foot.
It was tough slogging, with a croc.-lousy
river to be crossed, seemingly endless
swamps to be traversed, a way to be
hacked through miles of thick jungle and
finally a climb of a few thousand feet
up the goat tracks of one of the craggiest
mountains in the tropics. But excellent
navigation combined with uncanny bush-
manship landed the Diggers right on their
target just as darkness was falling on the
second day. One of them looked up at
the figure dangling from his well-tangled
’chute 30ft. up in the branches of a tree.
“G’day, mate,” he drawled; “are y’
jake?” “Sure!” “Not hurt at all?” j
“Nope.” “Could do with some munga an’ f
a drink, I s’pose?” “Aw, not so hungry!
—had plenty of chocolate in my pockets
and caught all the rainwater I wanted in
my helmet.” “Cords been holdin’ y’ all
right, eh?” “Yep—good for a long time,
I guess.” “H’m—comfortable possie y’re
in?” “Waal, it could be worse, buddy.”
The party slung their gear down, and the
spokesman spoke again. “Orright, pal—
we’ll get our bunks fixed. Get y’ down
in the mornin’ —that okay with you?”
* * * *
“Avon” : i Maoriland’s man-power regu-
lations, like Australia’s, set plenty of
problems for magistrates! In a Wellington
case the Director of Man-power called
upon the editor of a small newspaper
to report for service to the “Wellington
woollen mills” on March 28. By May 10
the editor had not only not taken up his
woollen-mill duties but had published
various defiant articles explaining why he
declined to do so. In a hearing before a
magistrate counsel for defendant pro-
duced a many-headed defence—the regu-
lations under which the editor was called
up had been superseded, the direction to
“Wellington woollen mills” was vague
and undefined (there are several mills in
the city) and there was no evidence
before the Court that defendant had not
complied with the order and was not
actually working like a beaver amid the
wool. The magistrate considered the first
two points mere legal quibbles, but dis-
missed the case on the third ground—no
evidence of disobedience of order.
* * * *
“Caballer”: People returning to Syd-
ney and Melbourne after only a few
years’ absence are astounded at Bumble’s
encroachments on public land. Sydney
Hospital is steadily spreading into the
Domain, and Middle Park, Melbourne,
and its adjoining grounds are being
nibbled at all around their edges. Bumble
is always a willing trier at that game.
He was going to fill London’s Hyde Park
with “emergency service” buildings, but
the Cockney wasn’t taking any. He’d
been there before. When George ll’s
Queen Caroline asked Sir Robert Wal-
pole what it would cost to enclose the
600 acres of Hyde Park for her own use
there is a legend that that astute states-
man replied “Not very much, Madam,
only three crowns —those of England,
Scotland and Ireland.”
* * * *
“Pip”: Because of reinforcements,
amalgamations and the rest few A.I.F.
units retain their original State identity.
Representation from every part of Aus-
tralia is fairly even, ami over the last
three years inter-State rivalry and argu-
ments have been a feature of camp life.
Mail day always starts the ball rolling.
Newspapers are compared and ex-
changed. “Not a bad paper for a coun-
try town,” says a Sydneysider glancing
though a Melbourne daily. That starts
it. Victoria and New South Wales are
the main rivals, and both treat the other
States with a maddening contempt. In
the first three minutes the Yarra,
Sydney trams, St. Kilda-road, Sydney’s
streets, Melbourne weather, convicts and
the Harbor have been dragged in. An
Apple Islander, otherwise known as a
“Taswegian,” puts in a comment about
“mainland galahs.”’ A “Croweater” de-
cries the remark, but joins the opposition
against the easterners. Football enters
into the scrap, followed by racehorses,
cricketers and runners. A West Aussie
has even been known to boast of John
Curtin. In all unit competitions, from
marksmanship to swimming, teams are
selected on an inter-State basis. Eveh
a tent game of 500 sees the New Southers
playing the rest. Up forward the rivalry
completely disappears, but in standing
camps and rest areas it breaks out again.
A most ardent New South supporter is
“Bluey.” Only once did he show signs
of weakness. “I’ll admit there are two
good things about Melbourne,” he con-
“ He's not in this one, missus .”
ceded. “And what are they?” asked the
gratified Vic. bloke. “The two trains
daily for Sydney,” said Blue.
* * * *
“Old Corp”: “Hamfat’s” reference (B.
5/ 7 / ’44) to the ventriloquial Val Vous-
den reminds me that there was a chap
of that name in my battalion (the 22nd)
in World War I, of whom the following
was written in With the Twenty-Second:
Crossing the Line [on the way to Egypt
May 15, 1915] the orthodox Neptune cere-
mony was held with Pte. Val Vousden, an
entertaining ventriloquist, in the name part.
Vousden was a man over 60. He had a
keen sense of the dramatic, later strikingly
illustrated on the eve of his evacuation
. from the Peninsula [Gallipoli], when he in-
sisted on being held up by comrades “to
fire my last shot.” They obliged the dying
gladiator, whose premonition, however, was
at fault, as he subsequently rejoined the
battalion and served in France.
My ci-devant comrade-in-arms, if still on
deck, must now be in his nineties.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Most men of today
would be regarded as effeminate by the
men of 40 years ago. Then the self-
respecting male smoked a pipe; he re-
garded cigarette-smoking as a sign of de-
generacy. Moreover, he cut his own
tobacco from the plug—to buy it ready-
cut was sissy. Probably not one man in
ten even carries a pocket-knife today.
The safety razor when it first appeared
was regarded as a tool for softies afraid
of cutting themselves, and first
wearers of wristlet watches had to endure
vulgar guffaws. Nowadays men’s suits
are invariably shoulder-padded, but the
“Yankee shoulders” (they came first from
the U.S.A.) brought derision upon the
early wearers. Yet the young men of
this generation have stood up to and
done things in this war that their grand-
fathers, in their day, would have regarded
as impossible of endurance or accom-
plishment.
“Harap”: “Clooter’s” proposal (B.
5/7/’44) to feed rose hips to the popu-
lace is belated. The C.S.I.R. beat him to
it. Today every tin of jam sent to the
troops is fortified with vitamin C ex-
tracted from Tasmanian hips; and in
England, in 1943, the vitamin equivalent
of 20,000,000 oranges was derived from
the little red berries. One day, perhaps,
we shall hear what our C.S.I.R. has done
during the war. Some of its activities —
notably work on ethylene derivatives —
have attracted attention throughout the
industrial world ; but as its work is not of
political value we are unlikely to hear of
it from Mr. Calwell’s Department of
Propaganda—beg pardon, I should have
said “Information.”
# * * *
“M. Sayler”: This year the Sydney
Mission to Seamen is able to look at the
foundation stone in its chapel and reflect
on 100 years of good work. The Sydney
“Gazette” of 1822 carried a letter urging
public interest in the needs of seamen,
and a month later officers and crew of
the brig Ann subscribed £l3 10s. towards
the purchase of a vessel for a floating
chapel. It was never bought. In 1840
Rev. T. Adam was made first chaplain
for Port Jackson, and in 1844 the first
Mariners’ Church was opened in Erskine-
street. After two changes of venue, the
present building at 100 George-street was
erected in 1856 and ever since has been
a meeting place for seamen. In these
times the Mission is proving a boon to
crews who have served on more than
ordinarily troubled and perilous waters.
A recent innovation is a special section
where Lascars can obtain rest, refresh-
ment and advice.
“Clooter”: A particularly annoying
kind of person is prevalent these days,
He climbs aboard the tram in the morn-
ing, rubs his hands, beams and greets
you with “Well, things are going well,
ain’t they?” Generally I merely grunt,
assuming that the reference is to the war,
which I can never regard cheerfully when
I think of our fellows slogging desper-
ately at the enemy and also of the fact
that every victory has its cost in lives,
The other morning, having spent most of
the nipht wrestling with mv inrnmp tnv
me mgnt wrestling with my income-tax
return tor whclt Mr. Chiney is pleased to
call the “lag year,” I struck another of
’em and sourly demanded “How do you
mean? What thinas are onina well 1 ?”
inean wnat tnings are going well.
taken aback, he was silent, obviously
searching for an example. Then he
grinned and came back at me, “Well, I
put in some dahlia bulbs yesterday, and
look at the ram ! ”
* * * *
“Tiki” : A good word for juries is
seldom heard from the judiciary, but
t a/t: i ** 3 u
Maoriland s C.J., Michael Myers, who
has had over half a century’s experience
of them — 30 years in stuff, seven in silk
and 15 as a Judpe——rehukinp a barrister
ana as a Juage rebuking a Barrister
who said Sonor knew how capricious
juries were,” declared: —
That is not my experience. I have had
very few cases where I thought there had
been a miscarriage of justice, and even
then, on thinking it over, I was not so
sure I was right.
r, . .. v
But it must be remembered that the C.J.
was a wonderful hand with juries (he
seldom lost a jury case) and Still has little
difficulty in steering the 12 (or four) good
men and true to a proper verdict.
* * * *
“5.W.8.” : The Australian hospital ship
Centaur went to the bottom just as a
case for damages concerning her was be-
ginning in the W.A. Supreme Court. In
September, 1942, the Centaur was in Gage
roads, Fremantle. The night was squally,
and just before dawn she and the m.v.
Koolinda collided. The Ocean Steamship
Co., as owners of Centaur, claimed
£12,070 6s. 7d. damages, with interest
from April, 1943, against the Minister for
State Trading Concerns as representative
of the State Shipping Service, owners of
Koolinda. The Minister counter-claimed
for £10,788 19s. 9d. damages. Centaurs
owners aver that she was at anchor, and
that Koolinda bore down on her; Koo-
linda’s owners aver that the reverse was
the case. The case now stands adjourned
for the second time. Meantime a diver
is to search Fremantle harbor floor for
a lost anchor and, if he finds it, is to
report its exact position. I wonder what
will happen if he finds two anchors!
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: A newspaper item to the
effect that 80,000 people had lost identity
cards and paid the public treasury £lO,OOO
for new ones set me reflecting about our
drunk, who has been a reformed charac-
ter these many moons. The other week,
however, there blew in a marine friend
of his and the pair of them spliced their
main braces or whatever it is seamen do
on such occasions. By evening they had
reached the stage of demonstrating their
affection for each other by swapping
everything they had in their pockets. A
couple of hours later some people walk-
ing up our street saw a figure sitting on
a stone balustrade. As they drew level
it collapsed. Inspection revealed the
cause, and it dawned on somebody that,
in order to save the poor devil being ex-
posed to the winter night, his address
should be ascertained. Which is why,
about an hour later, an indignant first
officer, having arrived by taxi and in-
spected the exhibit, was at the local
police station about to lay a charge of
impersonation or something, when two
police arrived bearing exhibit 2. It was
then possible to disentangle their identi-
ties.
.—* * * * *
“Jurumudi”: According to the Minister
for Commerce, mechanisation has en-
abled Australian farmers to produce rice
at a lower cost than is possible to cheap
Oriental labor, and large stocks have
been built up for the feeding of the popu-
lations of the countries now under Japa-
nese domination. The paddy fields of the
Dutch East Indies, Malaya, Siam and
Burma are the most characteristic
feature of those countries, and nine-tenths
of the habits, beliefs, festivals and com-
munal customs of the natives centre in
rice culture. For Java to mechanise its
rice crop to keep up with foreign com-
petition would entail a revolution more
drastic than the industrial revolution in
England. The bomor, or village witch
doctor, would go out of business for one
thing. He it is who goes out at night and
points a finger at the constellations at
the appropriate season. If his bracelet
falls to his elbow it is time to plant out
the young rice shoots. Fortunately the
omen invariably coincides with the find-
ings of tire agricultural department ex-
perts. Although Java appears to the
traveller to be planted with rice from one
end to the other, and every acre of ground
from the lowlands halfway up the moun-
tains has its flooded sawah, each seed-
ling is planted out by hand. The slow-
moving water buffalo and the sharpened
piece of wood for a plough is the extent
of Javanese mechanisation.
* * * *
“Magister” on English usage:
Speaking to the House of Commons about
flying bombs, Churchill asked: “What of the
f uture? Is the attack going to get worse, or is it
going to be beaten like the magnetic mine was
beaten, like the attempted destruction of Britain
by ’plane was beaten, and like the U-boat cam-
paign was beaten?” By so doing he fanned alive
a little war that has smouldered for years in
schools and places where they teach; for he gave
the blessing of the world’s best-known orator to
a use of the word “like” that makes gram-
marians shudder. When the Fowlers wrote
their King’s English, they pilloried “Sins that
are degrading me, like they have many
as a typical vulgarism. In Modern English
Usage, hoWever, H. W. Fowler hedged. After
quoting the O.E.D. —“ ‘Like’ used as a con-
junction equals ‘like as,’ now generally con-
demned as vulgar or slovenly, though examples
may be found in many recent writers of stand-
ing”—he continued: “The reader who has no
instinctive objection to the construction may
now judge for himself whether he shall consent
to use it in talk, in print, in both, or in neither;
he knows that he will be able to defend him-
self if he is condemned for it, but also that,
until he has done so, he will be condemned.
So we in the schools have played safe. Year
after year we have drummed into the ears ot
youngsters: “Never use ‘like’ as a conjunction.
Use ‘as’ to join clauses.” And year after year,
Canute-like, we have watched the tide rising—
especially in American books and films. There,
I think, is the explanation. The Americans
have had no “instinctive objection” to the usagej
nor have they thought it necessary to defend
themselves. In language, as in modern warfare,
infiltration tactics are often successful: the
Australian ear and eye have become so accus-
tomed to “She can’t bake cakes like my mother
used to bake them” that, outside pedagogic
circles probably not one reader in a thousand
registered a query about Churchill’s words.
I don’t know whether I have the soul ot a
pedant or an oversensitive ear; but I must
confess that they gave me three separate Hicks
on a tender spot.
INCLUDING COMS.
“According to Dr. Evatt, the opposition to a Yes
vote at the Referendum comes from those who oppose
every reform advocated by the Labor party.”
He ranks potential Noes as just so many
Sworn enemies of Labor to the death,
Or like those biased Jews who doubted any
Good thing could emanate from Nazareth.
He doesn’t specify of whom the Yes men
Consist, who cheer his dialectic bombs;
But I suppose they’re all who’re found in hearty
Agreement with his politics and party—
Including Corns.
They’re stern, unbending Tories inferentially,
All who’re a bit reluctant to concede
That every Labor nostrum is essentially
A remedy to meet a crying need.
They’re out of step with squadrons of pro-
gressive
And democratic Harrys, Dicks and Toms
Who see in Dr. Evatt an “all right ’un”
Whose only aim is all their lots to lighten—
Including Corns.
Make up your minds then, lads! Let no dissen-
sions
Divide you, now you’ve got the dinkum oil.
What do Big Business’s apprehensions
Weigh ’gainst the welfare of the sons of toil?
And if the Doc.’s high hopes attain fulfilment,
It’s pounds to pence, Alsatians to Poms,
No end of chaps will greet it as a famous
Victory, meriting a glad “Laudamus” —
Including Corns.
252 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
ANDREE HAYWARD.


“Cap. P.”: In our street there dwell
a teacher, a doctor, a clergyman, a writer,
an engineer and a widow whose four
sons are defending their country. Thus,
should any resident need advice on
education, health, religion, literature,
mechanics or patriotic service, it is there
for the asking. The people I have referred
to go about their business with modesty,
not to say humility. Nobody takes any
interest in them. At the end of the street
lives one whose comings and goings are
events, whose lightest word is passed
rapidly from one to another. He owns
two racing greyhounds and is an s.p.
merchant.
* * * *
“8.P.”: One of my chief delights when
I was a court reporter was the dry
humor that sometimes proceeded from
Bar and Bench. I had begun to think such
pleasantries were of another age, until
I came across a report, in a Sydney paper,
of a magistrate who had before him a
man charged with using a private car as
a taxi. He claimed that he was a “philan-
thropist” and was merely giving his pas-
sengers a lift. Dismissing the charge, the
magistrate neatly remarked “I accept
your story as substantially correct, though
it is not overrobust.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah” on some literary associa-
tions of Leghorn:—
War has brought the Allied forces in Italy
within sight of Leghorn, the port whence Shelley
made his last ill-fated voyage. The Shelley
family, Edward Williams, a retired lieutenant
of dragoons, his wife Jane and their children
were living in the Casa Magni, an old house
at Lerici on the Gulf of Spezia. Shelley and
Williams bought a boat, though they were
“Hands up, Nip, or I fire!”
warned it was cranky and might prove their
honfto
the sea was calm and oily but there were all
the symptoms of an approaching mistral, the
sudden storm which comes up in those parts,
imrs hn! )a sk f !f herme u Tf, n i 1 i ained at * eir
mgs but Shelley and Williams started. Their
bodies were found on the beach eight days
later, and they were cremated in the presence
of Byron, Leigh Hunt, Captain Shenley and
T relawney. Many years later an old fisherman
confessed on his deathbed that he and some
companions had run down Shelley’s boat, their
motive being not to sink her but to rob and
piurder the occupants, one of whom they
thought was the wealthy and notorious Byron.
He was probably lying or suffering from hal-
lucinations. Apropos, Reveley, son of Maria
Gisborne, to whom Shelley addressed some
charming verses, was an early Swan River
settler.
* * * *
“Shibli”: It was only a few years after
the Relief of Mafeking that Invercargill
(M.L.) went dry. The reinvasion of the
Maoriland city by Booze took place
on July 1 this year. Led by de Wets, it
was almost a bloodless affair. When the
smoke of bottle cleared away the Inver-
cargill Licensing Trust issued a casualty
list showing that 418 glasses had been
smashed or taken as hostages by the in-
vaders, who left behind them as p.o.w.
1262 pound notes.
* # * ♦
“Ear Punisher”: Tasmanian Health
Minister Howroyd has, to use his own
expression, been shuddering in Melbourne
and not because of the weather. What
has shocked him is the quantity of booze
guzzled in Melbourne between half-past
five and six in the endeavor of citizens to
get a skinful before the pubs again close
their seldom-open doors. In his own
island the licensing law permits people
to drink until 10 p.m., and he asserts he
has never seen a drunken person there.
Premier Dunstan might do worse than
send a deputation to the Apple Island,
including anti-liquor representation, to
observe and report.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The feelings of the editors
of “Angry Penguins,” spoofed by prac-
tical jokers, can be shared by one of
Australia’s most distinguished artists. A
visiting musical celebrity was taken out
to the painter’s home to see his pictures
and professed to be enraptured by them.
“This man,” he said, “is a genius, and
he ought to be better known. I would
like to take some of the pictures back
to my country. They would cause a
nation-wide sensation.” The artist was
delighted, and gave the visitor a*set of
reproductions to take back with him. If
he had known as much about human
nature as he did about tone, form and
color he would have been aware that
the only artists virtuosos are interested
in are themselves. After the ship that
conveyed the virtuoso and his financial
harvest back to his homeland had de-
parted the reproductions were found
floating in the harbor.
* * * *
“Pip”: Chess (B. 28/6/’44) has been
popular in the army during the last
couple of years. Most recreation huts
sport two or three sets, and the Ameni-
ties Section is never able to fill all orders.
Koshnitsky, with the Army Education
Service, has done much to make the pas-
time universal, and has helped hundreds
of players to learn or improve. Chess
tournaments are a regular feature of rest
periods, and during the wet season up
north boards and men ran red-hot. Carv-
ing of chessmen has proved a profitable
trade for many a soldier more interested
in the financial than the intellectual
aspects of the game. Even so, prospec-
tive players outnumber the sets available.
Most ingenious improvisation I’ve come
across is the use of coins for pieces,
Pawns «• thr «penny bits, king a penny,
queen a two-shilling piece, knights six-
pences, bishops shillings and the rooks
halfpennies. Coins with the heads up-
ward are black, and those with the tails
... A „ ~ ——— .
U P j de ’ A little extra concentration is
needed, but the scheme works,
* * * *
“Plum”: The Commonwealth Bank’s
carnet (R IQ/6/’441 is not rim nnlu in
Carpel 44 ' I ; S , n °l tlle ° n| y m ‘
stance W'here the swastika figures pronn-
nently in an Australian public building.
There is a rash of them in the entrance
hall of Sydney’s Customs House at Cir-
cular Quay, indelibly ingrained into the
substance of the floor. So far, they show
no evidence of the wrath of patriotic
citizens. When Adolf adopted the swas-
tika emblem it was whispered in other
countries that he used it in the reversed
form, with the loose end of the upper-
most arm directed to the left, thus revers-
ing the ancient symbol of good luck.
“Urgent or not, I aint workin' meself to a shadow for Theodore or
anyone else.”
When this furphy was exploded by actual
photographs of Hitler’s trade-mark, it was
interpreted that the pointing of the upper
arm to the right symbolised Hitler’s
“Drang nach osten,” and the seers were
happy again. The Customs House collec-
tion has right-hand and left-hand swas-
tikas in about equal quantities.
$ H: $ He
“Iccnoc”: Caen (B. 28/6/’44) ha
a link with Sydney. The armoria
bearings on the oriel window of the
Great Hall of the University are carvec
in Caen stone. The bosses on the mante
over the fireplace in the Hall are of
this material. Barff mentions this in his
Short Historical Account of the Uni
versify of Sydney, published in 1902.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The biggest white ele
phant in Melbourne railway history, or
part thereof, is to be abolished by virtue
of a bill introduced into the State
Assembly. It is the old Outer Circle
line, which has puzzled citizens who
have passed over it for generations. Built
in 1890 in the fond hope that it might
help to solve future traffic problems, it
runs from Oakleigh, through Riversdale
to Fairfield. Years ago the section be-
tween Oakleigh and Ashburton was de-
molished for lack of traffic, and another
went in 1930. I used to cross it twice
daily in motoring to and from the city,
and, having been brought up to be
cautious, I stopped, looked and listened
religiously for years until a friend told
me that no train had passed over that
particular section for at least a genera-
tion.
*** . *
“Benbow”: The Bulletin has been
right all along, despite “Matros” (B.
24/5/’44). No real seaman says “on” a
ship. I have served in 27 merchant ships
and two warships and have never heard
“on” used. Worse still is “on a boat.”
This brands the speaker as an absolute
landsman.
* * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: The jargon of
“modern” art and poetry may sound im-
pressive to the groundlings (B. 5/7/’44),
but it gets its bluff called sometimes.
Several “contemporaries” were arguing
hotly some aesthetic problem in a Mel-
bourne Chinese cafe, and a diner not of
their group, with an amused expression
on his face, was listening intently. Sud-
denly the listener interrupted. “I don’t
agree with what you say,” he said. “What
don’t you agree with?” asked one of the
disputants, astounded. “I believe in the
dynamic fluidity of concrete thought,” re-
marked the layman. The contemporary
pondered for a moment and then said:
“But that is only a meaningless phrase.”
“Of course it is,” said the interjector
calmly. “Isn’t that the game you’re play-
ing?”
* * * *
“Nakh”: In the publicity given to Dr.
Edith Summerskill, no mention has been
made of the fact that she conducted a
birth-control clinic in a London slum at
a time when such activities were thought
reprehensible by almost everybody. The
only Australian reference to the matter
wasn’t reported. One of our politicians
has been asking why such a woman
should be the guest of a pure nation and
at a dinner in the delegation’s honor he
was present. In the course of her speech,
Dr. Summerskill directed her gaze at her
critic, and asked: “How many children
have you had?” “Three,” he answered.
“And how long have you been married?*
“Fifteen years.” “What did you do in
the 12 babyless years?” asked the lady.
No answer.
* * * ♦
“Looby”: I know our chemist too well
to doubt that it was anything but a mis-
take. In bowled a large woman of 50
01 so with a face like granite. Slapping
a small hard package on to the counter
she snarled “I asked for something par-
ticularly suitable for washing my head
with, and when I get home I find you’ve
wrapped up this for me! ” It was plainly
labelled “Dog Soap.”
sft rfc 4=
“Arter”: As an •earnest student of
everything that purports »to be art, includ-
ing those forms which are claimed by
their practitioners to be “modern” or
“contemporary,” I feel I am not getting
a fair deal from those who know ail about
these things and who could, an they
would, throw light upon them. For in-
stance, in a recent essay my favorite news-
paper commentator, the one in the
“5.M.H.,” has this:
Just as cubism sought to reassemble the
fugitive shapes of nature into a concrete
and monumental generalisation, and impose
a cubic concept upon this residue of reality,
pure abstraction, which followed, created
its own equivalents. In F. Hinder’s forms,
the fragmentary state of mechanical pat-
terns, seek an inner rhythm and a law of
structure whose outward manifestation is
very much akin t'o the utilitarian beauty of
modern architecture and machinery.
The “utilitarian beauty” of the machine
must be “unpremeditated art,” though
hardly in the sense Shelley intended, and
the context suggests a hope of achieving
beauty by accident. I always suspected
the modern-arters of shooting in the dark.
• But I must not be critical. lam warned
against that by the art connoisseur of
the “D.T.,” who remarks sourly that he
fears the eccentric pictures in a current
show
will evoke the usual derision of those who
appear to enjoy going out of their way to
be irritated by exhibitions of art labelled
“modern.”
That reminds me of the circus proprietor
who, sued by a citizen bitten by one
of the lions, lodged a counter-claim
alleging that the citizen had flown at the
lion and endeavored to suffocate the poor
creature by thrusting an arm down its
throat.
“Hamer”: That bottle of water labelled
gin kept by Bungs for their own partici-
pation in the shouts, of the festive (B.
28/ 6/ ’44) brought disaster to a hard-
bitten Sydney publicaness. It was due
to a barmaid who had had a clash with
her ladyship ringing in a bottle of the real
stuff. The hard-bitten one’s habit was
to “turn it on” for a small group that
was growing, which would include
“have one for yourself” in each shout
as it grew. The water bottle was worth
a few pounds a week to the Bungess,
and her apparent ability to stand up to
it aroused the admiration of her clients.
The first glassful of the stuff that was
real, swallowed at a gulp before Mrs.
Hardbitten realised that something had
gone wrong with the system, was a shock
to her, but she decided to risk another
before investigating and seeing where her
water had gone. Alas! two made her
reckless. By the afternoon she was on
her pink ear, and the pub, taking its
note from the usually autocratic pro-
prietress was reaching a state of riot. A
savage memory when she was suffering
the next day’s recovery must have been
that she had “turned it on” for all hands
three times.
ROBOT.
“What makes our radio announcers think that,
‘robot’ is a French word?” — “Cauboy,” B. S/V’bb-
I wouldn’t be a spruiker
Upon the radio
For all they lift in lucre
Or realise in dough,
Because of words that euchre
And stump a fellow so.
Round place-names they must throw their
Tongues, never met before —
A chap would need to go there
To mend his repertoire —
And strange new terms that owe their
Existence to the war.
No period for discussion
Is theirs, no time to stop.
Like geysers they must gush on
And risk a frequent flop
For mispronouncing Russian
Or mutilating Wop.
I feel for you, my brothers,
Who hold to tongues no keys
Save to the one our mothers
Have taught us at their knees.
But clearly there are others
More difficult to please.
Robot! Of guides there’s no lack
Its genesis to check,
But' which for sure the goal track
You’ll have to take on spec.,
For some persist it’s Polack
While others swear it’s Czech.
It isn’t Gallic, though, bo,
It looks as it might be.
The fallacy forgo, bo,
.. It started in Paree.
It doesn’t rhyme with hobo,
So please to sound the “t.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: Giuseppe, the co-belligerent,
couldn’t speak a word of English
when he came to old Briscoe as a farm
help. For the first few days Briscoe
was nearly demented trying to evolve a
method of conversational aid, and, swear-
ing that he was in danger of going cock-
eyed at the arm, .waving so close to him
when the Eyetie tried to explain anything,
he ordered Giuseppe to stand back when-
ever he set his arms talking. Gradually
the macaroni-fancier began to pick up
odd words, and within a month could
even conduct a halting conversation ; and,
with no other Eyetie at hand to offset it,
the great Outback Influence began to
exert its inexorable pressure. About
three months after Giuseppe’s arrival
young Ron Briscoe lobbed home on un-
expected leave. After greetings with Mum
and his sisters were over, he asked where
was Dad. Mum went to the kitchen door.
“I heard him talking to Giuseppe outside
just as you came in—there he is now,
just outside the feedshed.” Ron looked
down the yard. There was Dad Briscoe,
his arms flailing like a windmill, his
whiskers bristling at all points, dancing
up and down and excitedly going crook
at about 250 w.p.m., while Giuseppe
idled cross-legged against a post, a cigar-
ette drooping languidly from the corner
of his mouth.
* * * *
“Wongalere”: Cockatoos in the corn
patch (B. 21/6/’44)? A Naracoorte (S.A.)
cocky was having trouble with the white
pests on a newly-sown crop of oats. The
paddock was long and narrow, and the
flock simply flew from end to end as the
increasingly infuriated owner rushed up
and down, having no gun. At lunchtime
he staggered home in a slightly purple
haze, and the first thing he saw as he
entered the garden was his wife’s pet
cocky doing its round of tricks. With a
loud hoot the nearly-demented man broke
evens to the verandah, seized the unfor-
tunate bird and wrung its neck as he mut-
tered “That’s one of the so-and-so’s, any-
way ! ”
# * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Bush meteorologists
might glean weather lore from the brush
turkey, still plentiful in coastal scrubs.
The lady can do something that no other
hen can do: hold her eggs until the
weather’s right for planting ’em. Not
all scrubs remain constantly moist; the
thin ones get bone-dry in early spring
and summer. The mound-builder knows
that dry grass, ferns and leaves won’t
decay fast enough to heat her nest to
90deg. F. (her very accurate thermometer
is her colorful dial). So she doesn’t lay
until rain is certain within a day or two,
even if it means a wait of weeks.
* * * *
“J. D’Emcy”: Some high-scoring crib-
bage hands have appeared in these
columns, but for purity of context and
absence of “make up” I put this forward.
Alf required five holes to win, and Bert
had scored only five in a three-card game.
Alf had been dealt a six, three, nine and
two sevens, while Bert held two threes
and three sixes. Alf correctly discarded
the nine and three to crib and Bert put
out the two threes, also the logical course.
The pack was cut and a three turned up.
Play commenced with Alf leading a seven
(again correct). Bert replied with a six
and Alf promptly paired to score two
holes. Bert came back with a six to peg
six holes. Alf couldn’t go, so Bert put
his third six for a further 14 points peg-
ging. Alf, counting up, could get only
two for his pair of sevens; Bert had 12
in hand and 24 in crib, enabling game to
be scored, having pegged 56 holes to his
opponent’s four.
* * * *
“K.G.C.”: They breed them tough in
eastern Victoria’s hill country. Ten years
ago H. Birch, at 68, decided to hand
over his holding to his son, after 30 years
of pioneering. Recently, owing to man-
power shortage, he resumed his work.
While mustering his horse slipped on an
ice-covered embankment, rolled on him
and broke his leg. It was a case of get
home, six miles away, or freeze to death.
By aid of a post he clambered aboard his
horse and got home. Then followed a
trip of 40 miles to hospital. The patient
is doing well, but is anxious to get home
to work.
* * * #
“Moyhif': Our black and tan kelpie
bitch was too good a sort to waste her
time with a mong litter, Dad used to say,
and for that reason he always kept her
under lock and key at certain recognised
periods until he had selected a consort
worthy of her. On one such occasion
the latch of the barn door, behind which
Topsy was temporarily housed, came -un-
fastened during the night. Next morning
“Wot, carry on, while the prisoners an liberated nations is scoffin’ the
cakes 'n' ginger beer? Nothin doin’!”
when Dad saw the open door he instantly
resigned himself to the inevitable and
was about to close the door when Topsy
came out. Dad found his voice. “I
thought you’d gone,” he exclaimed.
“How’d y’ manage it?” Then, looking
into the barn, he let out a grunt of sur-
prise. “Speed the plough, if she ain’t
made her bed down behind the barb
wire! ”
* * * *
“G.N.K.8.”: Quite agree with “Betcha”
(B. 21/6/’44) that strychnine keeps its
strength for a long time after it has been
used. It will even withstand the effects
of fire. On W.A.’s No. 1 rabbit-proof
fence a heap of poisoned bunnies was
cremated. At least a year afterwards two
fence inspectors made camp at the spot
and lit their fire on the area where the
rabbits had been burned. They turned
out a damper on the coals and later were
both found dead from strychnine poison-
ing.
* * * *
“Boghi”: Here’s another method of
catching fish that may raise “Narrin’s”
disbelieving eyebrows once again (B.
14/6/’44); but I can vouch for the truth
of it. Riding back from rounding up his
team, a Murray farmer noticed a large cod
splashing in a shallow overflow from the
flooded river. Using his stockwhip he
gradually manoeuvred the distracted fish
into water so shallow that the big fellow
was stranded.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: The abos. of south-west
W.A. seldom did a real hunger perish.
When everything else had failed there
was still the zamia. The nut they
thought little of, their first preference
being for the green fleshy rind that
formed a sort of fruit. This was only
lightly toxic ; 24 hours’ soaking in clayey
water rendered the poison harmless, and
also the rind more juicy. Fanciful eaters
toasted the whole rind over the coals,
bringing out yet other flavors. Most
times the nuts were left. Still with the
clayey pool at hand it was often the
custom to crack them, toss them in to
soak until called for. A week’s immer-
sion was sufficient; a fortnight better.
Removed from the pool the nuts were
generally planted in the two-feet-deep
holes left after the season’s yam digging.
Here they would lie, maturing and im-
proving all the time. When stuck for
food the abo. toasted them, black and
often mouldy, eating them like roasted
chestnuts. More than one early W.A.
explorer worked through a tight pinch by
raiding the blacks’ zamia-nut caches.
* * * *
“Cass”: Some 15 miles from Mel-
bourne grows an outsize in holly trees.
That it bears no berries is not unusual;
what is unusual is that above the pro-
tection of the shade afforded by the house
the serrated leaves have given place to
those quite as smooth and much the
shape of a gumleaf. The lower part of
the tree never sees the sun, as it grows on
the southern side of the house and is well
protected by other tall trees. I have
seen hollies growing in open positions,
subject to the sun’s rays during the whole
day, but never with this phenomenon.
$ $ * #
“Mat’s Mate”: We were emu bobbing
on contract and were close to finishing
the 200-odd acres when the boss said
“I got another 60 acres across the river
I want done, but it’s hardly worth
worryin’ about. Still, if y’ like, y’ can
have it on day-work, fourteen bob a
day.” We agreed. When we moved over
the river Mat said “Listen, we start at
eight, an hour for lunch, two 20-minute
smoke-ohs an’ knock off at five. This
bloke thinks we’ll clean up his 60 acres
at the same rate as we did the other. Day-
work! What does he think we are?”
Three days later the boss arrived and
nearly threw a sixer when he realised it
would probably cost him as much for
the 60 acres on day-work as it had for
the 200-odd on contract. “I thought you
blokes were good workers,” he moaned.
“So we are,” Mat came back, “but not
mugs. Now we’re working for you ;
when we’re on contract we’re workin’
for ourselves, see?’-’ Next day we were
on contract.
* * * *
“Wester”: After long months of toil
in the outback I washed the burrs from
my whiskers, greased my boots, strapped
up the swag and headed for the city, there
to stay with an old mate who’d married
and settled down. As the train raced
coastwards I enjoyed anticipatory visions
of seeing the sights—beaches, theatres,
race meetings, pubs, etc. —in good com-
pany. On the morning after my arrival
he had me up betimes for breakfast, then
led me and his terrier to a suburban rub-
bish tip. There we spent the day hunt-
ing rats. It was his idea of a good time,
and to this day he can’t understand why
I departed hurriedly the next morning.
sf: * * *
“Kingdon Ponds”: Revisiting the
Liverpool Ranges country recently I was
astonished to find settled in the area lying
between Scone and Murrurundi (N.S.W.)
a vast number of immigrants from the
other slope of the Divide who had never
before been seen, except in captivity, on
the eastern side of the watershed. Within
the last few years the galah has come to
dwell in those parts, and his shapely
body, in its neat grey-and-pink uniform, is
everywhere to be seen in smalt and large
flocks. The reason for his incursion into
the coastal strip west of the Great Divid-
ing Range is a mystery. The galah’s usual
habitat is the plains country.
“Wongalere”: I agree with “T.V.” (B.
21/6/’44) that furred mutton can do well
with no water and little dew. A 1000-
acre wire-netted paddock of the Bunda-
leer (S.A.) water reserve was leased at
one time to Ballanbreni, where I was sup-
posed to be learning the ways of the
woolly aristocrat. The only dam gave
out in January, and when we had netted
off the mudhole the boss rubbed his
hands and forecast a slow death for
Bunny. We caught about 1000 with
cyanided water, and then decided tp let
Old Man Thirst get the rest. In April
the rabbits were just as numerous, in
prime condition and with their paunches
filled with saffron thistle seeds, the oil
from which had apparently sustained
them so well. Sadly we started again the
orthodox methods of extermination.
sj: * * *
“P.K.”: Scorfield’s drawing (B.
28/6/’44) of the llama recalls that its
habit of spitting was mainly responsible
for the closing-down of Australia’s first
and only llama farm. In 1857 Gilbert
Davidson, of Canning Downs (Q.),
imported nine special llamas from
South America, hoping to breed on
a big scale. The animals thrived, but
trouble arose at shearing time. The first
shearer to approach a llama quitted in
disgust when the brute spat in his face,
and other shearers refused to touch the
animals until fitted with nosebags. David-
son gave up the idea of llama-farming ;
the animals were allowed to run loose,
and, fortunately for Queensland, they
died out.
* * * *
“C.E.”: “Close season?” mused old
Charlie. “Well, maybe it helps them
ducks a bit. The law’s the law,
y’ know. Wunst I was drivin’ a
magistrate to Petty Sessions. It’s
a two-day trip, an’ we got to
camp overnight in the old hall-
way hut. We was both pretty
hungry cornin’ on evenin’, and I
was goin’ crook about bavin’ no
meat or nuthin’ when we rounded
the bend right on a big mob o’
ducks. Pullin’ up quick, I dragged
out the gun an’ was out o’ the
trap before I remembered his nibs
and stopped. He didn’t let on for
a minute; then he says ‘Well —er
—p’raps just one wouldn’t matter
this time, Charles —that is, under
the circumstances.’ Cripes, that
bird was good, too. Next day at
the court there was only one case,
Joe Planker, shootin’ a duck out
o’ season. Guilty. Joe explained
about havin’ no meat but how
he’s got a coupla sick kids, an’
him bein’ hard up an’ all, which
everybody knew was right, too.
But, as I ses, the law’s the law.
His nibs listened to it all; then,
all hot an’ sweatin’ round the
collar, he gives Joe a lecture an’
fines him two quid. Joe goes off sayin’
nuthin’. Then a few days later along
comes a letter for him posted from down
country, but there weren’t no writin’ t’
say who it was from. Just a coupla
quid notes in it, that’s all.”
* * * *
“Sarina”: Its hard armor of indiffer-
ence finally pierced by constant chaffing
from Queensland cattlemen and others
who’re being bled white by swarming
dingoes, the Government has distributed
poison baits for dog destruction. The
bait-preparing coves, however, were so
lenient with the strychnine that most dogs
which took the baits around Nebo and
other C.Q. centres neither died nor came
back for more. In fact, pinched in the
stomach by the undersized strych. nips,
the dogs have developed a deep prejudice
against masticating any beef that can’t
give a satisfactory reason for its presence
in their haunts. Disconsolately refer-
ring to wholesale warrigal wipe-outs else-
where in the State, the Government has
suggested that coastal dogs can survive
more dope than the inland dwellers. Says
them!
“Blime”: There were about a dozen
of us yarning in the bar when the door
opened quietly and a wizened, hairy little
cove slunk in and sidled up for a drink.
A few seconds later those nearest him
left hurriedly, conversations stopped and
blokes began to look round suspiciously,
then drift off. Presently there were only
Billy and I left. “Hey, you,” sniffed
Bill disgustedly, backing to the wall.
“Ever think of having a bath?” The
little cove stopped lapping at his pot,- and
his head turned slyly. “Much me
job’s worth,” he rumbled. “Y see, he
explained proudly as Billy’s jaw dropped,
“I’m the dog bloke. ‘Dingo king, that s
what they call me, gn’ a man don t get
a moniker like that f’r nuthink. Know
how I get ’em?” And dropping his voice,
he edged in confidentially. 111 tell y .
It ain’t only livin’ like a dingo, n lookin
like one on this job; that’s easy. Ihe
secret o’ the whole business is t smell
like one.”
THE EMPTY LAND.
Borne home again from the traffic’s surging tide,
The Land repines in its emptiness with me
On routes where mostly the elder ones abide
And toil, since bullying might beyond the sea
Called forth her boys to the battleground, the
camp
Far spread in a mute immensity of space.
The battler has gone; the pedlar and reckless
scamp;
And seldom even a broken-booted tramp
Now haunts the place.
No concord under the bridge where bushmen
spread
Their napless clobber to lounge or stretch
at ease
Is heard where the beams of warm goodwill
were shed
From winter flickering through the
trees.
And only the ghosts of lost wayfarers quest
Along some ribbon of road where headlights
shone
And engines sang in the night throughout that
West,
Whose children stirred in a day of dread unrest
To journey on.
And far afield from the broad, long ways they
knew
Staunch men, whose clambering files no force
can stem,
Strike on, and only the timely rains endue
Their land in wait for the strength and speed
of them
To forge and furrow again; to hoe and drill
Her billowing slopes and drowsy leagues of
loam
Dappled in lonely light from»hill to hill —
The spacious mother who fondly waits until
Tier sons come home.
N.S.W,
GERARDY.


“Old-timer”: I’m getting on now, but
I’m still the only man who ever saw a
snowstorm in the Victorian Mallee. I
was a youngster that blazing November
day and was awed by the still menace of
the afternoon. Not a bird or a leaf
stirred, the dogs lay listlessly in the shade ;
only the horses, alarmed, trotted in
circles in the paddock. From the north-
west came a low moaning and we saw a
purple cloud there, whirling round and
round and growing larger. Then the
cyclone struck, and we fought our way
inside through flying red dust, leaves,
sticks and other debris. Inside it was
hot and stifling and the house shook in
the blast. I went to a window. White
flakes flew past on the dust-packed wind
and I yelled “Snow!” In silent amaze-
ment the family gathered, but the flakes
had gone. When the storm passed we
went outside to assess the damage, and
there, shocked and sorry, were our 14
White Leghorns, completely featherless.
Yairs, that wuis a blow.
# # * *
“Stanus”: What makes “Narrin” (B.
14/6/’44) think that anyone should doubt
the veracity of a person claiming to shoot
swimming fish with bow and arrow?
When mullet feed at the surface in
northern rivers they present a target
which could hardly be missed. I’ve col-
lected breakfast by simply hurling a stone
into the school and swimming in for the
stunned fish. When the sea mullet enter
these same rivers, apparently to spawn,
they come in a dense mass. N.S.W.
north-coasters catch up to five-pounders
by casting into the mass with a jag
attached ta a strong cord line and haul-
ing in.
“B. 4”: In the days when Tommy
Tanna sweltered in N.Q. canefields he
was-denied firearms. With butcher-knife
and tomahawk he provided himself with
an effective bow built of a resilient scrub
sapling, shaped and toughened by alter-
nate treatment with fat and flame. The
cord was of twisted cotton lines stiffened
with pine-tree resin. The yard-long arrows
were. of ragweed, with a length of hot
wire thrust through the pith. Melted pine-
resin was poured in and the projecting
wire barbed. Pumice stone smoothed the
job. These arrows were for barramundi
and native bears. Other arrows were
pointed with tridents made of umbrella
ribs. With this outfit Charlie Kanaka and
his mates obtained many a good kai-kai
pi mullet and barramundi, getting well
over the swimming fish, which when
struck did not sink but swam weakly on
the surface. Possums and squirrels were
killed with the tridents, and many a snake
pinned. For pigeons a lead-head nail
was inserted in the business end, and a
whack in the plexus with this missile did
the trick. As the range was short the
arrows were not feathered; still, the
marksmanship was excellent. They de-
lighted in sending a mate’s borrowed
arrow on a 300-yard jaunt for its owner.
* % $
“Zake”: The little bush dance was in
full swing. Fred Brady, the M.C., had
been working hard to round ’em up.
“Now then, blokes,” he rumbled, “we
want to give the larncers the works 1 —
grab y’r heifers and no hangin’ back!”
As the dancers gravitated to the centre
of the floor Fred’s eye fell on 17-year-old
Tim Evans, who was sitting nervously
near the doorway. “Hey, Tim, help your-
self to a skirt —you ain’t gettin’ out of
it,” he said. Tim’s eyes swept the forms
along the wall and saw only a few middle-
aged to elderly ladies. Then he went
red, stammered “C-cripes, there ain’t a
flamin’ weaner left!” and bolted out the
door just as the concertinas struck up.
Yes, it was in cow country.
* * * *
“B. 4”: In Queensland we have the
counterpart of the Speck’s venomous
whip-snake (B. 21/6/’44) in two midget
species: the moonlight and the red-
naped snake. Both are equipped with
poison fangs, but owing to the small gape
are unable to inflict a fatal bite. Have
often pinned them by the tail with my
Clementines and watched them strike
viciously; but could not detect a scratch
or punctures. Our own yellow-bellied
whip-snake attains over five feet, and is
accounted venomous by some. Every
one I examined showed merely normal
teeth for seizing and holding prey, nor
“For the last time, sport —NO ARROWS!”
did dissection of the head reveal a lethal
hypodermic outfit. Unlike the Speck’s
lethargic pigmy, our whip-snakes are
active and agile creatures, climbing and
swimming with facility, flashing among
branches and speeding over the terrain
like greased lightning when pursued.
* * * *
“Beam”: A centenary that passed un-
noticed was that of the completion of
“The Great Tower” of Raine Islet (N.Q.).
Built for the Admiralty by Lieut. Ince,
of H.M.S. Fly, with the assistance of 20
convicts from N.S.W., the tower was
commenced on May 27, 1844, and com-
pleted on July 4. Design and working
plans were prepared by Moore, carpenter
of the Fly, the tower consisting of a 40ft.-
high shaft with sft.-thick walls of cut
stone and a 30ft.-high superstructure of
wood. All the stone used was quarried
and cut on the island ; lime for the mortar
was obtained by burning big shells picked
up on near-by reefs; water for mixing
the mortar and for drinking was trans-
ported in small boats from the Sir Charles
Hardy Islands, 20 miles away; and all
the timber used was cut from the partly-
submerged wreck of a sailing vessel, the
Martha Ridgeway, on a reef 30 miles
south of Raine. The convicts each re-
ceived a remission of six months from
their sentences on returning to Sydney.
“The Great Tower” did not have a light;
it was merely a beacon for the guidance
“I’m your pen-friend from New Guinea, miss, on compassionate leave!"
of mariners, and proved invaluable to
the early-day skippers. Although the
woodwork has all rotted and fallen away,
the stone walls, skilfully laid and set in
mortar, are still in sound condition. The
old tower has been adopted as a home
by hundreds of squabbling frigate-birds,
while the rest of the little island teems
with terns, gulls, mutton-birds, landrails
and godwits.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: It was a jest of the gods
that the beer, some shearers and a build-
ing-construction gang arrived at the little
pub simultaneously. Within an hour
the morose were becoming jolly and the
merry truculent; rouseabouts were fast
reaching shearers’ status, and hodcarriers
had discarded the shovel for the trowel.
By noon 300-a-day sheep-barbers were
only pickers-up, while brickies who
couldn’t put away their thousand in eight
and three-quarters were only billy-boys.
One o’clock found the bar atmosphere
thick with flying wool, and the counter
strewn with bricks and mortar and wails
that rose up with incredible rapidity. As
the afternoon advanced infiltration move-
ments crept in. Brick walls were being
bunged up in the sheep pens, while fleeces
rolled off between the mortar boards with
even greater celerity. But the pace gradu-
ally began to tell; one by one the con-
testants fell out of the running, until two
diehards only remained. Heroically
“Compo Bob” wielded his trowel against
the flashing tongs of “Tarry Jack.” When
Bung finally ejected them, Bob was lead-
ing on points, having laid seventeen hun-
dred and fifty-two sheep in four hours,
with Jack pressing him close with fifteen
hundred and forty-seven bricks shorn in
two “runs.”
# * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had been hunt-
ing strays, and returning about dusk
struck a patch of heavy going. Working
his way round a steep side his nag lost
its footing, and, throwing himself off, the
old bloke rolled and slithered to the foot.
Painfully he picked himself up, located
the hack and righted the saddle. Then,
after scrambling over granite boulders,
skirting fallen timber and crossing wash-
outs for about a mile, he began a two-
hour fight with the scrubby undergrowth
on the next ridge, getting off to break a
passage with hands and feet when the
nag could no longer force a way through.
The moon was rising as they limped de-
jectedly into the home yards. The old
bloke had lost several large patches of
skin from his face, his hands were bleed-
ing, his clothes torn, and he breathed with
one fist clutching at his ribs. Slowly he
fed the nag; then, still grumbling about
blasted country that stood on end, he
staggered into the hut and reached eagerly
for the tea billy. “Letter for you today,”
I told him. “Old Dumbedykes wants to
know if you’ll lend a hand on his place
up north. It’ll be easier for you. Good
conditions, short hours, and the country’s
all flat up there.” “Don’t I know it,” he
snorted disgustedly, looking up from
examining a bruised shin. “Cripes, no ;
a man might’s well be dead as have t’
live on them monotonous, God-forsaken
plains.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Charlie hadn’t met the town
gossip till one day, stringing the bailies
for a count, he discovered two were miss-
ing. “Ask oF Gabb over there if he’s
seen ’em,” suggested Bob. “He’s just
come in from down river.” Chas. strode
across. “Two steers?” replied Gabb.
“Out o’ the mob there? Cripes, you're
Charlie Rocker, ain’t y’? Often seen y’
around. Ain’t the boys doin’ well? Out
near Sandy Creek they’ll be. Not that
there’s any water, but what c’d y’ expect
with this weather? Jay brand on the
rump, an’ top off? Well, with no feed
around they won’t stop. Reds should be
halfway across Poland be the week-end,
don’t y’ think? Yair, I remember y’
married ol’ Joe Prankert’s girl, tha’s
right. Cripes, no tellin’ where they’ll be
next. Philippines prob’ly. Well, y’ ought
t’ turn ’em back before they hit the bush
if y’r dog’s any good. Then they’ll strike
in Burma, you see if they don’t. Then
Tokyo. An’ with this terbacca shortage,
’n’ —wait on, there’s Mike; he’ll know.
He’s been sick lately, an’ what with
the” Charlie backed away. “Did
he see ’em?” inquired Bob as the old
bloke rejoined the mob. “See what?”
goggled Chas. vaguely. “Steers? Cripes,
you go ’n’ ask him y’rself. It’ll teach y
t’ be more damn’ careful with the mob
in future.”
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: That family who turned
up their noses at a dish of young turnip
tops (B. 7/6/’44) weren’t very vegetable-
hungry. As kids we used to look forward
to the thinning-out of the young turnip
crop. Tender as lettuce, boiled either
alone or with a lump of corned beef, that
dish of green left nothing to be desired.
As for fat-hen, the name is new to me,
but I guess it to be what we Victorian
kids called sourgrass ; and in W.A. sorrel.
Old-timers used to boil sorrel lightly
with plenty of sugar or treacle, then bake
under a crust. Quite a passable pie, and
one of the finest remedies for scurvy.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Although the aboriginals
were largely communal in their ideas,
they had definite opinions on the owner-
ship of land. Every tribe had its domain,
the flora and fauna of which were not to
be touched or hunted even by neighbor-
ing tribes without invitation or permis-
sion. Even within the tribe certain areas
were held to be the property of individual
families. Normally matters ran smoothly,
natural liberality leading tribes to invite
neighbors to partake of any special
bounty provided by Nature or chance,
such as an abundant blooming of the
banksia or the stranding of a whale ; but
uninvited intrusion was resented. Thus
when the whites formed a settlement and
promptly eliminated most of the native
game, economic pressure forced the tribe
favored by the whites’ presence to move
out into the lands of its neighbors. This
invariably resulted in conflict. When
finally the boundaries of a nation’s lands
were reached and the expropriated ones
pressed into a people of alien tongue the
conflict often became one of extermina-
tion. So when humane whites have
thought to solve the native problem by
forming reserves, on which the various
remnants of tribes might live and hunt
happily, they have found that the factors
stated brought the plan to naught—no
wild lands anywhere are without
aboriginal owners, who are prepared
actively to resent the intrusion of any
other tribal remnants.
* * * *
“Balander”: I wish you could separate
“Lik Lik Liar,” “The 0.D.” and “Sur
Cingle” long enough for me to get a
word in. Horses may have to be taught
to eat bread and sugar; stallions or rams
may or may not blow and whistle, but
what I want to know is, when does a
hound “bell”? I’ve just been reading in
an old English magazine that “in the
distance, beyond the knoll, the hounds
are belling.”
AFTERWARDS.
When we are ghosts in this town we love,
Will we come at the dark of day
When the stars are white in the blue above
And the cool night breezes play?
Will we walk these streets where the cheery
bars
Invite and the voices warm
Chatter of love and of peace or wars —
Portents of calm or storm?
Why has the world more joys than jars,
Less bitterness than sweet,
That our ghosts should go out beyond the stars
Where midnight and morning meet?
Why should the dead men hurry away
Beyond the toss of the sea,
From the bushland’s calm where the sunbeams
play
And the magpie sings on the tree?
When we are ghosts in this land we love
We will walk in the night or day,
Here with’the living, hand and glove,
For why should we hasten away
From the laughter falling from quiet lips
And the handgrips and warm words,
From the shine of sea and the beat of the ships
And the trees and the hills and the birds?
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


WA
*T
SERIES
RONALDSDN'TIPPETT
mm
Forward to Victory and
an enduring Peace.
Buy . . . and keep on
buying ... War Savings
Certificates!
COMEWHERE In Australia, two Special Ronaldson-
Tippett Righting Sets of the type Illustrated above
provide current for warning lights on obstructions in close
proximity to an aerodrome. The sets start automatically
at sunset and run until sunrise, providing powerful lights
which cannot be disregarded by pilots of incoming and
outgoing aircraft.
The prime necessity in such sets is unfailing reliability.
The choice of Ronaldson-Tippett sets brings added lustre
to a reputation already established.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Telegrams - Ronaldson-Tippett, Ballarat
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1883)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE. WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREL,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Education.
“Murrawong”: The reason for the
secrecy surrounding the Table of Limits
is hard to understand. It could not be of
much use to the enemy, but, properly
handled, much of the information would
be of value to wool-classers.
It is said that if it were available to
all classers and graziers there would be
a greater number of lines of wool. This
might happen if the volume tvere issued
without explanation, but more co-opera-
tion between the Central Wool Com-
miltee and the brokers on one side and
classers on the other would have avoided
most of the complaints raised about over-
classing
An inexperienced classer in possession
df the Table of Limits might be expected
to try to make each of his lines con-
form to a particular type, and so have
odds and ends of wool all over the shed,
This, however, only accentuates the need
for a better understanding between those
who buy and sell wool and those who
prepare it for market. Many old-time
classers learnt their game in the shearing
sheds, graduating from shed-hands and
gradually winning a reputation. On the
theory side they were possibly lacking
in many respects. Many old merino
classers were completely lost when they
had to handle crossbred wool.
On the other hand, youths turned
out with diplomas by modern wool-class-
ing courses are often full of theory and
short of practical experience. During the
career of a wool-classer no action is
taken by brokers or buyers to conduct
post-graduate courses.
The Australian Wool Board might con-
sider this. In the courses the Table of
Limits could be placed in every classer’s
hands, where it would be an asset and
could be used intelligently without that
fear of results which is now responsible
for its being withheld.
;
Roots for Pigs.
“L.C.Q.”: Root crops will supply
fodder for pigs throughout the year,
Sweet potatoes, Belgian carrots, man-
golds, swedes and artichokes all have
high fodder value, and pigs turned on to
them in the paddock do their own
digging.
Vines and roots of sweet potatoes are
good. Propagated by cuttings from Aug.
to Dec. they provide fodder three or four
months later. Plant in rows 3ft. apart
and allow 2ft. between shoots. Most
suitable are Yellow Strassburg, Brook’s
Seedling and White Yam. Carrots sown
lr°m Sept, to Oct. in cool districts and
trom Feb to March in warmer supply
fodder within three months Make the
rows lft. apart, 4ft. 6m. between plants
after thinning t 41b. of seed to the acre,
White Belgian is the best.
In a warm coastal area don t sow man-
golds m spring ; they II run to weedy
growth. Wait for a spell of damp
weather between lan. and MarcK Spring
sowings suit coo„ler climates Mangolds
like a good strong soil deeply ploughed
scarified rolled and harrowed Make
Ihe drills 2tt 6in. apart seedlings one
every 12m.; 41b. to 61b. of seed per acre,
Champion Yellow Globe keeps best.
Begin sowing swedes in Jan. and make
further sowings up to May to provide
continuous grazing. Shallow sowing
gives maximum germ,natron Rows
should be 2ft. apart, plants 4ft 6m. after
thinning, 21b. ot seed pet ac e y >
bioadcast 41b. Champion Puip p
has been proved for stock,
Jerus;item artichokes sown m Sept or
March are ready lor transplanting t
following spring or autumn. Give the
crop deep loamy soil and plenty of m
ture 3f t . between rows and 2ft. between
plants. Ready fot grazing wit m
months. ________
.
Sand in Horses,
“Myrrhee”: To test for sand put a
shovelful of the manure in a bucket, fill
with water and stir until the manure is
broken up. Allow to settle, and pour out
the fluid slowly. Refill with water and
repeat until all the manure has been
poured out. Sand will remain in the
bucket. A dessertspoonful of sand to
one motion will show that the horse has
more sand than is good for him.
Test horses running on sandy country
at regular intervals, and if necessary treat
as follows: Prepare the horse by feeding
three small bran mashes, one each at
morning, midday and evening. Early on
the following morning drench with a
mixture of lib. honey stirred into one to
one and a half pint of warmed fresh
milk. Feed lightly on damped bran and
chaff, and then follow with a mixture of
bicarbonate soda 60z., sublimated sulphur
60z., bitartrate of potash 20z., powdered
nux vomica Mix and divide into
12 powders, and give one powder in
damped feed morning and evening for
six days. On the second day a drench of
one pint liquid paraffin may be given,
and towards the end of the week’s treat-
ment another drench of milk and honey.
Need for Lime.
“Pat Ater”: Uses of lime are not
generally understood, and its value is
often wasted because of wrongful appli-
cation. Watch the effects of lack of lime
or the perking-up of some vegetables
when lime is used. Only in coastal areas
and where the annual rainfall exceeds
25in. is lime washed out of the soil. Then
acid conditions (sour soil) is the result.
Crops like onions will not thrive in such
soil without lime.
Whiptail of cauliflowers, a disease
which causes Stringy and knobby leaves,
clubroot or blackleg of the cabbage
family, bitterness in lettuce, poor growth
of broad beans and poverty of peas and
beans are signs that lime is wanted. Even
potatoes, which do well enough on an
acid soil, will improve with liming. The
danger then is scab, a skin disease which
lime is said to foster.
Pastures, too, can be improved with
dressings of lime —up to two or more
tons to the acre —where the ground is
very acid. Most soils along the east coast
and adjacent highlands are extremely
acid. Progressive dairymen at Robertson
and Kangaloon (N.S.W.) have used
30cwt. to 40cwt. of lime per acre in pre-
paring seedbeds for clovers, lucerne and
mixed swards of ryes, Phalaris tuberosa
and sub. clover. Returns have shown its
worth, and growers persist with annual
dressings of at least lOcwt. to the acre
with lcwt. of super. Some crops do quite
well in acid soils and without lime. Swede
turnips, tomatoes, parsley, radish and
strawberries are examples.
Growers have struck trouble in recent
months in getting lime. Shortage of sup-
pliers is likely to be serious for vegetable
growers and home gardeners.
Some agents have rock lime on hand.
This can be converted to hydrated—or
freshly slaked —lime (the best kind) by
pouring water on it till a fluffy powdery
mass is obtained. Use it immediately.
Limited supplies of carbonate of lime
(crushed limestone) are offering. Growers
can use this with confidence. Its action
is slightly slower. But more lime in
greater quantities is required—with dolo-
mite —if healthy vegetable crops are to
be assured in the coming flush season.
The Carob Bean.
“Sarina”: Indigenous to Mediter-
ranean countries and closely related to
the Mexican mesquite bean, it grows to
perfection on arid land, being capable of
drawing nitrogen from the air and
storing it in its roots for future use. Grass
growing near carobs is nearly always
healthy, which suggests soil enriching.
Carobs make good windbreaks.
Carobs are slow growers, though some
in Australia have spread over 40ft. in
30 years. N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture has some at Cowra, and some
Q’land landholders have planted trees.
There have been complaints that the
seeds do not germinate well, but most
hard-shelled seeds are slow unless heat
is applied before sowing, when they
usually germinate quicker than normally.
An evergreen, the carob provides
shade and shelter for' grazing stock.
U.S.A. has thousands of them and hun-
dreds of different uses for the mature
beans, which are an important crop in
Mediterranean countries. Thousands of
tons of beans found a market abroad
before 1939.
Don’t get the notion that planting
large carob groves will solve the feed
problem. The 9in. beans are sugary and
sweet, but their protein content is not
high, though crushing the beans into meal
heightens their food value. The beans
keep well when stored.
Manuring Citrus.
“B.”: Stable manure is the best. A
ton of it supplies about 121 b. to 131 b.
nitrogen, 61b. phosphoric acid and 121 b.
potash. As cartage to the orchard in-
volves a loss of about 21b. of nitrogen to
the ton, 10 tons to the acre gives the
same amount of nitrogen as that sup-
plied by scwt. of sulphate of ammonia,
phosphoric acid equal to that in 3cwt.
of 45 p.c. super., as well as 2cwt. of sul-
phate of potash. Other benefits are right
conditions for the. nitrifying of soil bac-
teria and improvement in the texture and
water-holding capacity of the soil.
Citrus trees in full bearing need 21b.
to 31b. of nitrogen per year supplied on
a 50-50 basis from organic manures and
chemical concentrates. Allowing 100
trees to the acre and 21b. nitrogen to each
tree, total requirements per acre per year
is nine tons of stable manure and 4|cwt.
sulphate of ammonia. For larger trees
13 tons of stable manure and 7cwt. of
sulphate.
Humus content of old plantations can
be maintained by application of live tons
of organic fertilisers per acre a year.
Young trees not in bearing don’t need
heavy doses of fertiliser. Cover crops
of peas or beans, plus dressings of lcwt.
to 2cwt. of sulphate, are sufficient.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”: When grain is fed without sepa-
rated milk pigs need a supplement of
71b. meatmeal, 51b. green chaff (lucerne
or clover if procurable), 21b. ground lime-
stone and i-lb. salt to each bag of grain.
The mixing can be done as the grain is
crushed. The grain should comprise at
least two-thirds of either wheat or
barley, or a mixture of the two. The
balance may be rye or oats. Allow grain-
fed pigs unlimited green food or graz-
ing while it is available.
“Plane Creek”: Horses lose a great
deal of salt in perspiring, and they’re apt
to “knock up” during heavy work in
summer without it. Rock salt in trough
or manger is rushed. Horse-worms hate
salt, and some crib-biting nags lose the
habit if they’re given a block of salt to
play with.
“C.”: Plane trees (Plantanus orientalis )
should be planted from July to August.
They’re quick growers on tablelands and
slopes, often reaching 50ft., suitable for
homestead or paddock ornamentation.
From late spring till autumn they provide
splendid shade for stock and, being de-
ciduous, they supply the right tree for
spots needing winter sunshine. This
species is rarely disease smitten, prunes
well and is easily transplanted in its youth.
It prefers a deep, fairly free and moder-
ately fertile soil, likes plenty of water at
the start but objects to heavy winter rain-
falls.
“B.”: When kurrajong-trees are
attacked by mistletoe best method of con-
trol in wheat country is triennial lop-
ping. In others, the growth should be
lopped off below the point where the
roots of the mistletoe stop on the outside
of the limb and the cut surface treated
with arsenic.
“Portergaff”: Improve the flavor of
the flesh by starving birds 24 hours before
killing, thus allowing crop and intestines
to empty. Hang head down to assist
drainage of the blood. Plucking should
begin immediately after killing. Singe
over a blue flame and leave to cool off
in a draught.
“Herbert”: It is a mistake to use lime
to make putty for filling knot holes in
walls. Lime destroys the color of any
paint applied. Equal parts of whiting and
plaster of Paris make the best putty for
this purpose. It hardens quickly and
may be painted immediately.
“Parmelia”: Apparently “J.S.” (B.
24/5/’44) has not experimented with
almonds or he would not be so positive.
Seedling almonds bear prolific crops at
four years and keep up the good work.
Ask the parrots!


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Blunt Talk to Russians.
[Mention was made in cables of the arrival
in Moscow of Mr. Eric Johnston, president of
the United States Chamber of Commerce, but
after that there was silence. Perhaps it would
have been different if Mr. Johnston had spoken
in a different vein from that of his speech here
given from a report by the N.Y. “Times”
Moscow correspondent. Mr. Johnston went
to Moscow at the Kremlin’s—that is, Stalin’s —
invitation.]
With straight-from-the-shoiilder frank-
ness, Eric Johnston, president of the
United States Chamber of Commerce,
told 100 .Soviet trade leaders in Moscow
on June 3 that a gulf separated the
economies of the United States and Rus-
sia, but that bridges of practical co-opera-
tion could be thrown across that gulf.
At first the Russians appeared non-
plussed by Mr. Johnston’s bluntness, but
later they burst into gales of mirth at his
sallies at American Communists and
Marxians.
“I shall try to show you my admiration
for your heroic deeds and my gratitude
for your hospitable invitation by talking
to you from the bottom of my heart,
non-politically, and even with frankness,”
he said.
“You cannot have solid friendship until
you have solid understanding. We have
a familiar American proverb which says
your only true friend is the man who
knows all of the worst about you and
still likes you. So now I am going to
tell you a direct, harsh, tough business
fact.
“In economic ideology and practice, my
country is different from yours. You
are State-minded and collective-minded.
We are most private-minded and most
individual-minded and, gentlemen, make
no mistake—we are determined to re-
main so and even become more so.
“There is a point that must be totally
clear between us before we can be really
co-operative friends. I employ some 2000
people. They have unions. I have con-
tracts with those unions. I believe in the
right of my employees to have unions.
Some 13,000,000 Americans now belong
to unions. Some 200 of these unions are
large enough to be nationally known.
“Not one of them in our current
national election is asking voters to favor
the primary Socialist principle: ‘Common
ownership and operation of the means
of production and distribution.’
“I ask you please to realise how com-
pletely our American Communists have
been wasting their time. Not long ago
an American research institution ad-
dressed a question to a large number of
people all over the United States: ‘To
what social class do you think you be-
long?’
“Most organised wage-earners who
were interviewed replied that in their
opinion they belong to the middle class.
“So perhaps in a way you cannot blame
our American Communists for their fail-
ure. If I may put it frankly, how can
they make a proletarian revolution among
workers who do not even know that they
are proletarians?
“Our American Communists have not
caught on to this fact; they lack origi-
nality and realism. They still follow and
imitate what they think is your current
policy. If you take pepper, they sneeeze.
If you have indigestion, they belch.
They annoy our trade-unions more than
they annoy our employers.
“I think that each of our two countries
should be allowed to pursue its own
unique economic experiment unimpeded
by the other. Here we stand, we Ameri-
cans. There you stand, you peoples of
the Soviet Union on the other side of the
gulf. Let us admit and tolerate the gulf.
Now-let us see what bridges of practical
co-operation can be thrown across it.
“The first has to do with Fascism. We
American businessmen, since we believe
in capitalistic competition, are against
Fascism. Don’t be misled on this point
by our American Left-wing press. Writers
in that press have a way of calling any
businessman a Fascist if he is stubborn
in his dealings with a union. They have
a way of calling almost anybody a Fascist
if he does not agree with our present
National Administration. Flatly, they
use the word Fascist wildly. American
businessmen are inherently anti-Fascist
because they oppose monolithic cartels,
which are the essence of Fascism.
“The second bridge has to do with in-
dustry. It is our common passion for
production.
“At first we American businessmen
misunderstood your new Soviet Socialism.
We thought it was merely to distribute
whatever wealth was already existing.
Now we know that one of your main
aims is to increase the total wealth and
every year to distribute more.”
Reviewing the Soviet Union’s great in-
vestments in capital goods last year, Mr.
Johnston said: “In your own way you
have become great capitalists. If you
keep on at your present pace you will
soon have a larger capital investment in
industrial plants than any other country
in the Old World.
“Western Europe at one time stood in
fear of you Soviet proletarians. Pres-
ently it will stand in awe of you Soviet
capitalists.
“Don’t call me an exploiter. When I
look at you and your insured profit sys-
tem I feel like a hero.
“The third of the bridges is the bridge
of export and import trade. I am happy
to learn that you gentlemen do not regard
trade with capitalistic countries as being
‘counter-revolutionary.’
“Almost all Americans deeply regret
today the difficulties that arose between
you and us at the end of the last World
War. Few of the old scores, gentlemen,
are worth preserving. Let us do two
things.
“One, let us resign ourselves to the
fact that, certainly for a long time to
come, you and we are going to live in
two different economic ways. Two, let
us visit and trade. Let there be more
Soviet businessmen who know the Mis-
sissippi Valley. Let there be more
American businessmen who know the
valley of the Volga.”
Report on China.
{Condensed from two “Christian Science
Monitor” articles by Randall Gould.)
China and the United States are having
differences. These traditionally close
friends are finding many causes for griev-
ance on both sides.
If the Far East war were going better
and faster, general relations unquestion-
ably would be different. The best ob-
servers agree on this as a major conclu-
sion. But global strategy has dictated
initial main American emphasis on the
struggle with Germany, even, though
many Americans feel greater personal
grievance against Japan. It is hard for
Chinese to grasp all the factors in this,
just as it is hard for Americans to realise
how little most Chinese hear about the
hard knocks Japan has been taking from
the Americans in the Pacific.
Leaders in Chungking and Washington
are worried ftver the adverse drift in Sino-
American relations. They do not feel
that anything very fundamental is in im-
minent jeopardy —but disintegration of
many parts must in the long run affect
the main structure. So, a little belatedly,
they are facing some none-too-cheerful
facts about discontent and occasional
active quarrels.
By one of the oddities in which history
abounds, some Chinese are both buying
from and selling to Japan. Even such
highly strategic materials as tungsten ore,
while being flown out of Free China and
on to the United States, is at the same
time quietly drifting down into Occupied
China and the hands of the Japanese.
This trade is not officially sanctioned, but
it springs from a difficult economic situa-
tion in which partially blockaded Chinese
sell wherever they can.
The Chinese wish there were more
’planes flying the “hump” of the Hima-
layas and fighting within China, though
the freight-transfer record by air compares
favorably with what China was able to
achieve by truck when the Burma road
was still open. Ift fighting ’planes, China’s
needs run up against global strategy and
the needs of the European theatre. The
highest Chinese are not complaining, but
many American observers feel that a few
more battle ’planes could well be spared
for China, particularly for the tremen-
dously efficient Chennault group.
Next comes the argument over foreign
exchange. The official rate is 20 Chinese
dollars to one American dollar. Con-
trast with this a so-called “black-market”
rate which in February, at Kunming,
ranged as high as 330 to 1. Great dis-
pleasure over this situation was in evi-
dence among the American armed forces
in China. Even while the United States
Embassy at Chungking was staunchly
sticking by the official rate (raised first to
an effective 30-1 by addition of a 50 per
cent, “subsidy” to diplomats, journalists
and others, and later to an effective 40-1),
the army was paying off in American bills
for the express purpose of letting its men
in uniform go into the “black market.”
But United States Army purchases—
running into millions monthly for airfield
construction, supplies, etc. —were at the
official rate and it looked like a “squeeze”
rather than anything like an evep sharing
of the war effort. Chinese money, in any
event, was by now merely a printing-press
currency, unbacked by metallic reserve
and flown over the “hump” at consider-
able cost in cargo space.
Linked with this exchange argument,
which still is by no means settled except
as to United States Army purchases, was
a feeling that the Chinese were losing no
opportunity to charge the highest possible
prices to foreigners —and rather particu-
larly to Allied forces. The Chinese, on
their part, complained that many foreign
newcomers lacked tact, courtesy and
understanding.
Another of the causes for complaint is
an increasingly oppressive censorship of
dispatches bf foreign correspondents. It
is felt that the full truth can *o longer
be sent from China. Chinese officials
admit that they feel a rosy picture should
be presented. This is a fundamental dif-
ference in viewpoint and it will take some
threshing out.
China’s military successes have some-
times been magnified and sentimentalised,
with inevitable aftermath of disillusion.
The fact is that the Chinese are pretty well
pulled out —troops worn out, supplies for
army and civilians alike short and sub-
ject to speculators’ machinations, cur-
rency inflated, inequalities of both pro-
duction and distribution, richest terri-
tories in Japanese hands, and constantly
disappointed hope for relief through
Allied military help. The question is
whether the Chinese Government has
been dealing with these adverse factors
in the best possible way by putting the
lid on in a variety of ways —suppressing
the discontented, withholding many facts.
Civil war seems no imminent proba-
bility, although last autumn it was freely
rumored in Chungking that the Kuomin-
tang might strike at the Communists
before the end of the world conflict, lest
Soviet Russia with freed hands might
join in the fray. At that time (September
13) Generalissimo Chiang said: “I am of
the opinion that first of all we should
clearly recognise that the Chinese Com-
munist problem is a purely political prob-
lem and should be solved by political
means.” The question is whether this
will hold good indefinitely.
Recently there was a major overturn
in Chungking leadership which had far-
reaching effects extending as far as Wash-
ington and New York. But virtually
nothing about this event was telegraphed
from Chungking. The relations of Kuo-
mintang and Communists have been
largely covered up, with consequent ten-
dency for rumors (often alarmist in
nature) to spread at home and abroad.
Although Americans returning from
China bring many stories of friction be-
tween Chinese and foreigners, and many
evidences that the war stalemate, extra-
territoriality abolition, currency infla-
tion, goods shortage and similar causes
are giving reason for grievance both
ways, a much better case could be made
out for the Chinese than they them-
selves usually permit. They have been
fighting for close to seven long years.
Their armies are starved, in bad shape
generally, getting an average of three
bullets a man a month. Their population
has lost much of its industries and most
productive areas. The National Gov-
ernment is faced with crushing burdens
and perplexities, including various inter-
national menaces, present or potential,
and the job of seeing the people fed.
These and other factors should not be
used as basis for mere sympathy—cer-
tainly not for blind sympathy—but, intel-
ligently presented, they would offset a
great deal of dissatisfaction all around.
Too much Chinese bluff, where pretence
is the worst possible course, and too
much Chinese suppression of facts which
should be revealed and elucidated are
causing trouble for China and its friends.
In Chungking, Soviet Russia is viewed
as no morfc an ally of China’s than an
enemy of Japan’s, though both things are
potential. But while they remain poten-
tial, anything may happen, and one thing
that could happen (say Kuomintang
spokesmen, off the record) is armed alli-
ance between the U.S.S.R. and the
Chinese Communists.
As to other major powers, it is held
that only the United States has both un-
selfish friendship and the power to help
China greatly, both during the war and
after. Thus the growing American senti-
ment in China that the United States
(especially the army) is being exploited
by the Chinese is a source of alarm.
P.O.W. in Germany.
C From an “Atlantic Monthly” article by Capt.
Robin Campbell, D. 5.0., who, severely wounded,
was captured in the British Commando raid
on Rommel's headquarters in 1941.)
I believe almost every prisoner would
agree that the attitude of the Germans
towards the war and towards us has
altered considerably since 1940. I am told
by those who were captured in that year
that after the fall of France the Germans
were boasting that the war would be de-
cided in their favor in a few months and
that they treated English prisoners atro-
ciouslv. When I was captured in
November, 1941, they were still full of
confidence.
The ebbing of German confidence in
the result of the war was quite obvious
after Stalingrad (for which they had a
day of national mourning) and Tunisia,
and was often reflected in their attitude
towards prisoners. Guards became moie
accommodating and some even frankly
conciliatory. I heard one guard say to
a prisoner: “You won’t forget
I’ve always been to you English?’’ It
they had an unpopular task to perform,
such as making all prisoners get up in
the middle of the night fbr a search, they
would often excuse themselves by saying:
“We are sorry, but we are only doing
our duty by carrying out orders.” Since
obliteration bombing began, the civilians
whom prisoners meet travelling in trains
from one prison camp to another are
perhaps a shade less ready to start con-
versations.
Prisoners of other nationalities (except
Americans) probably have a harder time
than the British. For one thing they get
far less food. The Russians are under-
fed and many are worked to death. They
are generally treated as a commodity
much less valuable than cattle. I saw
many who were doing hard manual labor
up till a fortnight before their death from
tuberculosis of the lungs. Wherever it is
possible, British prisoners give them extra
food and cigarettes. Most of those I saw
seemed bewildered and childlike; at the
first sign of friendliness they broke into
happy smiles. In 1942, most of the
French prisoners I saw seemed depressed,
sloppy and surly, and they displayed
numerous photographs of Petain in their
sleeping quarters. But in the last year
their spirits have risen and now they
usually wave and shout friendly greet-
ings to passing British prisoners.
Small Nations’ View.
t From a report by the N.Y. World-Telegi am
London correspondent.)
Almost without exception the small
nations hold that, so far as the Allies
are concerned, the war should end as it
began, territorially speaking. At the
peace table they could discuss and make
changes.
Few take the position that Europe s
boundaries —which have been in a state
of flux for 2000 years—are sacrosanct.
They do feel, however, that for one
Ally to fix the lines to suit itself by
unilateral decision or for a group of
Allies to take similar action at the expense
of another would be immoral. They
assert it would be tantamount to declar-
ing that the Atlantic Charter and pacts
of Moscow are phony bits of paper.
To start out to rebuild a new League
of Nations on such a foundation, say the
spokesmen for these small nations, is un-
thinkable. America particularly has
always stressed the importance of justice
to the weak and .small, no less than to
the great and powerful. The small
nations, therefore, are now more than
ever looking to her to champion their
cause —not by force, of course, but by
her moral backing.
They hope America, Britain, Russia
and China will not suffer them to be dis-
membered and then invite them to enter
the international palace of peace and jus-
tice in tatters. They want first to be
invited to come in while they are whole
and to arrange such matters as frontiers
afterward.
“Universalist” Fallacies.
{Condensed from an article by U.S. syndicate
writer Walter Lippmann .)
Universalism is rapidly becoming a
greater obstacle to a good peace than the
traditional isolationism. If American
public opinion reverts to isolationism it
will be by reaction from the disappoint-
ments of universalism.
The universalist view of foreign affairs
directs the attention of the Government
and of the people to distant and obscure
issues on which they cannot hope to have
the final say. They become passionately
involved in these insoluble issues. This
causes them to overlook, neglect and
postpone the taking of practical measures
which lie within the real orbit of interests
and influence.
Much has been said about how much
more definite and practically effective is
the Russian foreign policy. Where is it
so effective? It is effective within the
immediate reach of the power and in-


RELEASED
V w , u nM -.RE LAND'
ERE WAD OR __
UNUSED
Y A
i
BARBED WIRE
NO PERMITS REQUIRED
NO FILLING IN FORMS
Because there is no possibility of securing galvanised
barbed wire for Some considerable time, the Department
of Supply and Shipping has arranged for the immediate
release of stocks of black, unused BARBED WIRE from
Military Country Depots. Don’t let your fences go to ruin
—begin your repairs now! This wire is cheap enough to
allow for a double top strand to be used. For prompt
delivery, place your order at once with your local Store-
keeper or Merchant. No permits required—no forms to
fill in—but supplies are limited.
flm
.
PER
TON
PIUS
FREIGHT
28 LB. COILS
(150 yards approximately)—
1 ton equals 7 miles. This wire is
12|-point gauge, four-point barbs,
AND HAS NEVER BEEN USED. Ex-
cept for some weather rusting it is
in good condition.
ORDER HOW FROM YOUR LOCAL STOREKEEPER OR MERCHANT
SSI/26
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
'
fluence of the Soviet Union —that is to
say, in eastern and central Europe and the
Balkans. There was a time when Soviet
Russia also pursued a universalist foreign
policy. That was under the Third Inter-
national. The policy was such a total
failure that it brought about the total
isolation of Russia in the 20 years be-
tween the two wars.
The distinguishing character of Stalin’s
foreign policy is that it is concentrated
where the Russian interest and power are
unmistakable, and that it is not diffused
in all the regions of the earth.
If once Stalin took the universalist
view, and insisted on an equal voice on
every issue in every part of the world,
the fat would indeed be in the fire.
The universalists argue that we cannot
establish an order of peace in the world
if we recognise that the various Powers
have different spheres of influence. But
no amount of argument can alter the
fact that a nation’s interest and influence
are not uniform all over the globe. We
beg the question when we say that to
recognise these 'facts and to tailor our
foreign policy to fit them is to play
“power politics.” A foreign policy which
is not tailored to fit the facts will end in
failure.
There is an impression that the Moscow
and Tehran agreements, the Fulbright
and Connally resolutions meant that
henceforth everybody’s business was to
be everybody’s business, that a world
council of all the nations was to debate
and pass upon the affairs of all the
nations. This is utterly impossible: when
its vital security is at stake no nation,
not one, would entrust its fate to such a
heterogeneous and uninformed assembly.
If it were possible it would be in the
highest degree undesirable: it would
make every local question into a global
question; it would entangle every issue
with every other issue. The world order
which at Moscow we were pledged to
help create cannot fulfil its promise if
it is burdened with issues that can and
should be settled locally.
Evening the Navies.
(N.Y. “Daily News” proposal .)
We [U.S.A.] came out of World War I
with a navy that was stronger than the
British Navy. This worried the British,
who have to have a big navy to protect
their empire trade routes. So, at the
Washington disarmament conference of
1921-22, they informed us politely, even
regretfully, that if we didn’t cut our navy
down to the size of theirs they would be
forced to enter a naval alliance with
Japan. That would have compelled the
U.S. to build a navy as strong as the
British and Japanese navies combined,
and would have created ill-feeling all
around.
The result was a series of treaties under
which U.S. cut its navy to parity with
Britain.
That act has been bitterly derided ; but
at least it produced a strong American-
British friendship, and took away any
temptation for either nation to try out
its naval strength against the other’s equal
naval strength.
U.S. now has the biggest navy in his-
tory—6s aircraft-carriers, 20 battleships
commissioned at last report and appro-
priate auxiliaries. After the Allies win,
Britain no doubt will again want U.S. to
cut its navy down.
For the same reasons as before we’d
better do it —and for the additional
reason that this should make the British
Empire a friend of ours in a world where
Russia evidently intends to play its own
game.
But this time, let’s not sink any ships.
The sensible thing to do, in spite of the
screams that would go up, would be to
give the British enough of our ships and
naval aircraft to bring their navy to equal
strength with ours. Some of the ships
could be decommissioned but in reserve.
The two of us could then police the seas
of the world together as long as we
remained friends. The British in turn
should do something generous about air-
bases for us in the Atlantic and the
Pacific.
Dragnet Digest.
o Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Allied armadas of 6000 to 7500 ’planes now
range Nazi Europe in a single day, systematically
bombing to pieces the vitals of Germany’s
military and economic power. As the number
of Allied ’planes increases, the losses in combat
decline. On some days, more than 99 out of
each 100 Allied ’planes come back from mis-
sions. Meanwhile, Germany’s replacements are
not even keeping pace with her airplane losses.
As the Allied air forces grow more and more
powerful, Germany’s air strength keeps right on
going down. This is one part of Germany s
acute problem on the western front. — “United
States News.”
* * * *
Since January 4 last the United Nations War
Crime Commission, which represents 17 Gov-
ernments, has held a weekly conclave in London
to hear and record evidence of atrocities com-
mitted by individual Nazis whose number now
totals nearly 15,000. The commission keeps
secret the names of most of its members for
fear of Nazi retaliation on their relatives. —
“Collier s. v
* * * *
No one in London believes that the United
States would underwrite a peace settlement
whose every major item it had not helped to
fashion. They argue that no Senate, whether
Democratic or Republican, could get a simple
majority, let alone a two-thirds vote, in favor of
sending American troops to the Balkans or else-
where to bolster up regimes or boundaries im-
posed unilaterally by one or another of the great
Powers. Similarly there is reason to doubt
that Canada or any other Dominion would
guarantee such a peace, and without their back-
ing Britain herself would hesitate to sign on the
dotted line. London correspondent N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”
* * * *
The fall in Britain’s birthrate during the past
20 years is now beginning to have its effect in
reducing the juvenile labor force available to
industry. Today there are only 2,750,000 boys
and girls between the ages of 14 and 18, com-
pared with 3,250,000 in 1937. By 1956 these
numbers will have fallen t'o 2,500,000, about
half of whom will be in school owing to the
rise in school-leaving age to 15 or 16 years.—
London correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
In view of the Swedish attitude on export of
critical war materials to Germany, an investi-
gation is being made to determine whether,
and to what extent, supplies from Russia can
supplant those from Sweden in filling post-war
markets in the United States. The official
view is that it is not wise to permit Sweden
to capitalise on her large-scale aid to Germany,
which is costing American lives, and which the
Swedes justify on the ground that America will
forget about it as soon as the war ends. —
“United States News.”
* * * *
It is to the British interest to have a stable
China; it is to American interest to have a
strong and prosperous China. The British may
well be tempt’ed to see in India, now decades
ahead of China in industrial development, the
provider of cheap consumers’ goods for the
South-eastern Asia and Indonesian bloc. China
would be a natural competitor; and, while it
would not be British policy t'o obstruct, it
would not be a primary British interest to de-
velop Chinese economy. To America, however,
a poor China would be a poor market and an
unstable centre of gravity. Hence, the intense
curiosity of the American public about Chinese
affairs. — “Atlantic Monthly.”
* • * * *
Unwillingness of Turkey to enter the war on
our side is due in part to refusal of U.S.-
Britain to promise that the Dardanelles will not
be internationalised after the war to give
Russia an outlet to the Mediterranean. Pros-
pect is strong that Turkey will be asked to
give up her control over these straits. — “United
States News.”
* * * *
A story has long been current in diplomatic
circles here in London that Prime Minister
Chamberlain’s historic surrender at Munich
was largely decided by South Africa. It seems
that as he was about to catch his ’plane for
Germany he was informed that, in the event
of war, South Africa would remain neutral.
Realising that the Mediterranean would almost
certainly be closed to the British and that
without South African bases the Empire would
be cut in two, he saw no option but to give in
to Hitler and avoid war. It is true that South
Africa did enter the war, but only after a
bitter battle in which Premier Hertzog was
ousted by Gen. Smuts by only 12 votes. But
all that came later. — William Philip Simms,
writing from London for N.Y. “World-Tele-
gram.”
* * * *
History may well show that the chief error
in America’s war-time economic policy was the
huge rise in wages that was permitted to take
place. The task of war-time price control has
been infinitely complicated by the inlktion of
wage payments, while labor costs have been
lifted to a point that will lead to a considerably
higher level of manufactured goods prices after
the war. Should reduced pay rolls and higher
prices cause organised Labor to launch a new
drive for higher wages, the nation will experi-
ence after thS war the inflationary spiral that
has been avoided so far. A basis would thus
be laid for a severe deflation and depression in
subsequent years.— N.Y. “Journal of Com-
merce.”
* * * *
Since 1939, 5,000,000 Jews have disappeared
from Germany and the countries under Nazi
domination. Of these, 3,030,050 have perished;
The absence of even one miner
deprives the country of no less than
12 tons of coal. Absentees inter-
fere with the battle against the
enemy ; in fact, they help the enemy
by their disgraceful behavior. —
“Pravda,” quoted in London “Fort-
nightly.”
1,800,000 have been “resettled”; about 180,000
have emigrated. Starvation, exposure and epi-
tiemic were employed by the Nazis to supple-
ment the firing squad, the noose, the bayonet
anc j poison gas. In Poland alone, 1,600,000
persons perished—l,ooo,ooo of them slain by
uniformed executioners. Today there remain
j n a y Axis-occupied Europe only 3,000,000 to
3,500,000 Jewish people. The programme for
their obliteration has been accelerated by the
Nazis in their fury at recognition of their own
ultimate defeat. — N.Y. “Daily Mirror.’'’
* * * *
Few °f us can ever conjure up any truly
f on d memories of the Italian campaign. The
enemy has been hard, and so have the elements,
Men have had to stay too long in the lines,
f ew men have borne a burden they felt should
j iave been s hared by many more. There is little
so i ace f or those who have suffered and none
at ad f or those who have died in trying to
ra ti o nalise about why things in the past were
ag t b ey were j look a t it this way: If by
having only a small army in Italy we have
been able to build up more powerful forces in
£ n g} andj an ff if by sacrificing a few thousand
jj ves here in winter we can save half a million
jj ves £ uro p e this summer—if these things are
true, then it was best as it was. I’m not
saying they are true. I’m only saying you’ve
got to look at it that way or else you can’t
bear to think of it at all. — N.Y. “World-Tele-
gram” war correspondent Ernie Pyle.
* * * *
u.S. ’planes operating against Germany de-
stroyed 12,407 German ’planes in the air and
1940 0 n the ground from Pearl Harbor to
May 15. They probably destroyed 3235 in the
air and 177 on the ground. They damaged
4485 in the air and 985 on the ground. U.S.
air losses against Germany have been 4477
’planes lost in combat and 28 on the ground,
In operations against the Japanese U.S. ’planes
have, since Pearl Harbor, destroyed 4103
’planes in the air and 1724 on the ground;
probably destroyed 1419 in the air and 170 on
the ground, and damaged 1061 in the air and
447 on the ground. U.S. losses have been
1241 in the air and 209 on the ground.—-
Report by Gen. H. H. Arnold, commander of
the U.S. Army Air Forces.


Personal and Missing Friends.
McGRATH, Andrew, Bricklayer.—-In 1887-1895 re-
sided at or near Liverpool (N.S.W.). Will he or
any of his descendants please communicate with
COLLINS & MULHOLLAND, Solicitors, 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney?
Public Notice.
I, BERNARD ROBINS, formerly BERKO RUBINS-
ZTEIN of Palestinian nationality, born at Nowy-
Dwor, Warsaw District, Poland, and resident five
years in Australia, now residing at 29 Mona Road,
Darling Point, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
fh el i
Os A %
'/?
'o
'(y
<4
Supreme
Diploma
Autoflow
cnumEX
MOTOR & AVIATION SPIRIT
KEROSENE
cmmmx
LUBRICATING OILS
CaIBHEX
The long history of
pioneering, embrac-
ing every major de-
velopment in the
Petroleum Industry
is climaxed by the
high-grade Caltex
products available to
every user of Mech-
anical Transport.
IF you WOULD MAKE SURE
INSIST ON
CALTEX PRODUCTS
CALTEX LIMITED
ADVISORS ON ALL IMPORTANT PROBLEMS
OF PETROLEUM USAGE AND LUBRICATION +
IN ALL ITS PHASES
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
¥
*
l
&
* IBS&
I
utca
\-"tin
A^\m
mi
One of tte greatest
factors contributing to
fatigue, nervousness and absenteeism
among workers is eyestrain, directly due
(in most cases) to inefficient lighting,
or lighting of the wrong type. This
insidious robber saps the operatives’
energy, resulting in inferior work, de-
creased production and
higher accident rate.
m
m
The installation of
efficient, well dif-
fused, glare-free Claude Fluorescent
Lighting will eliminate this factory fifth
columnist.
— —
Consult us now
about your present!
or post-war light*
mg projects ... our wide experience in
the field of illuminating engineering can
help you. No obligation of course.
INSTALLATION ON CASH OR RENTAL BASIS
"COLD” AND "HOT" CATHODE
FLUORESCENT LIGHTING
“Brighter in the long run!"
u
2 ALISON ROAD. RANDWICK, SYDNEY. AND AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH and HOBART.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Nos. 1,4, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22 and 23
of “Wonderful Britain.” —3494.
Information Sought.
Who invented the bulldozer? When was it
first used in Australia and N.S.W. ?
The machine was invented and patented by
an American, S. P. Marsh, in 1908. Thiess
Bros., a Q’land contracting firm, bought the
first trailbuilder (which is much the same as
the bulldozer) to be used in Australia in
October, 1937. J. Fleming, a grazier of Willow
Creek, bought the first unit to be used in
N.S.W. in April, 1938.
Have all Australian War Gratuity Bonds been
redeemed? When did interest cease? Any
statistics available ?
Bonds were redeemed on presentation after
the maturity date (May 31, 1924). Practically
all issued have now been redeemed for cash.
Interest (5| p.c.) ceased to accrue after maturity.
Number of approved claims, 330,000; total
interest paid, £4,800,000; total amount paid,
£27,515,000.
Voting for each elected Senator for each
State in the last Federal elections?
N.S.W., S. K. Amour 765,221, J. I. Arm-
strong 24,880, D. McL. Grant 23,426; Vic.,
D. Cameron 558,706, R. V. Keane 15,094,
J. M. Sheehan 11,574; Q’land, G. Brown
299,815, J. S. Collings 15,202, B. Courtice 7891;
S.A., V. O’Flaherty 189,087, T. M. Nicholls
8969, A. Finlay 11,121; W.A., J. M. Fraser
112,530, R. E. Clothier 8882; R. H. Nash 4243,
D. M. Tangney 13,553 ; Tas., W. E. Aylett
32,491, C. A. Lamp 7028, N. E. McKenna
18,245.
Australian copyright conditions ?
The term of copyright in a literary work
first published in a British country is the life
of the author, plus 50 years after his death,
or, in the case of a posthumous work, 50 years
from date of first publication. The copyright
vests in the author or his transferee. The effect
of copyright of a play is to grant to the owner
the sole right to produce or dramatise and per-
form the work or any substantial part thereof.
(1) Who was St. Gennaro, patron saint of
Naples ? (2) Facts about the liquefaction-of-
blood ceremony ?
Saint Januarius (Gennaro) was Bishop of
BeneventUm, martyred about 305 a.d. ; his body'
is in the cathedral at Naples. There are two
phials of blood, which has annually liquefied
in public for 400 years. The liquid bubbles as
though it were fresh blood and then coagulates
again.
Best way to lure a dingo into a trap? How
to lay poison baits?
Drag a trail of meat or entrails along a line
of set traps, and where a trap has been set
brush lightly over the earth covering the plate,
A freshly-shot bird with strychnine placed in
the still-warm entrails or poison mixed with
liquid fat placed on pieces of paper set and
scattered along the route usually travelled by
dingoes will prove effective.
Discharge in gallons per minute from a pipe-
line drawing off from a tank 20 ft. above dis-
charge point when pipeline is (a) 1000//. long
and (b) 2500//., and size of pipe 1 in. to l jin. ?
(a) lin. pipe, 4.18 gallons; Hin., 7.28;
11.5. ( b ) lin. pipe, 2.6 gallons; l£in., 4.6; ljin.,
7.6.
Process for waterproofing clothes ?
(a) Dissolve lib. good laundry soap in lgal.
water. (Z>) Dissolve lib. alum in lgal. water.
Place article in (a), leave one hour, wipe out
and put into ( b ) for one hour. Squeeze out,
dry in open air and press. There is always a
likelihood of clothes shrinking when water-
proofed after being made up; cloth should be
soaked in preparation first.
Preparation for re-dressing tennis nets?
Mix equal parts of boiled linseed oil and
copal varnish and apply several coats, letting
each coat dry before applying the next.
How to weatherproof a small plaster statue ?
Warm statue, then apply a coat of melted
paraffin wax. When this has been absorbed,
repeat the treatment.
Recipe for waterproofing calico,?
(a) Dissolve £lb. white Castile soap in three
quarts soft hot water and strain through linen.
( b ) Dissolve |lb. alum in two quarts soft hot
water and strain. Apply ( a ) lukewarm with a
brush, leave half an hour, wipe over with rag
and apply ( b ).
* * * *
How to make greenhide?
Stretch cowhide out till almost dry, then
work oil or fat well into it' on both sides.
* * * *
How to clean wool of a sheepskin before
tanning ?
Scour with soap and water, rinse out with
clean water and squeeze skin as dry as possible
without wringing.
Brief Answers.
J.M.S.: Your derivation correct H.P.J.:
No such spray known R.S.S.: Griffo met
Chiddy Ryan eight times in the ring, but all
were “no-decision” exhibition spars D.8.R.:
Out of stock in Sydney... .D.R.P.: (1) Will
soon be available at Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, 15s. 6d. (2) About £50....5J.: He
was pilot of a Blenheim aircraft which crashed,
cause unknown, on Jan. 8 1943, near Duns,
Berkshire H.M.D.: Information supplied
by Australian Museum R.C.: (1) Yes. (2)
Inquire from the publishers. (3) Yes P.J.S.:
Advise you to sell C.A.V.; To measure small
objects and fractions
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liabi.liti / is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
HJ.S.: Laborious J.G.C.: Feeling is
there; but your verse form and rhyme scheme
are eifementary J.J.L.: Ever tried essays or
short stories? E.C.: Platitudes in chopped-
up prose N.T.: Sounds young C.R.:
Conventional AJ.A. and M.J.H.: Try a
woman’s paper S.M.: Notable only for
gallant attempt t'o rhyme “once” with “lunch.”
J.M.: Indistinguishable from a hundred
other verses about Hitler arid the devil
E.E.R.: Next time, find some less hackneyed
images V.M.H.: Another “sentinel” gum-
tree J.W.: Those two prospectors kill each
other three times in every mail M.R.:
Magazinish P.S.C.: Lawson was before you.
C.F.: No tiny tots F.L.: Use a type-
writer if possible F.0.H.: Just a grin
E.J.S.: If she called her mare Maisie why do
you have to say she dubbed her “neddy” by
that name? M.D.: Don’t want work that
has been published in another form. .


fc
LJ flui'i
I
m
m
m
/ V
w an
m
to
S
I
fo
K
m
v./*>
pO*
* T/\
mm
VfSNOM
IDKIMFR
m
wmf/>
m
WITH WHICH
WE SERVE...
Every penny saved is a direct contribution to the
war effort.
We do help the war effort if we place our money in a
Savings Bank account, or if we buy 5/- National Sav-
ings Stamps, thus avoiding unnecessary spending.
One page of a National Savings Stamp book will
contain enough stamps (£2) for use as a deposit or
instalment on a War Bond, while the full book will
purchase a £lO Bond outright. Single pages of
stamps (£2) will be accepted as a deposit to a Sav-
ings Bank account if required.
Get your free book and purchase your 5/- National
Savings Stamps from any Savings Bank or Money
Order Post Office and put your savings on service to
speed the victory.
uiiuuisnuio
xuhb s 9 u in us »
Hiiuamuouiuioa
THMr =
*
lH E
RELIEF FROM 4
MAJOR ANXIIIY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY L I,M I T E D
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B - G ' P -°- Sydney ‘
BP 4 44.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934 $58,384 62,553 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,702,187
1935 160,741 62,553 6 „ „ 144,000 1,656,375
1936 237,467 62,552 7 „ „ 168,000 1,663,292
1937 259,221 62,552 8 „ „ 192,000 1,667,961
1938 243,859 62,516 7 „ „ 168,000 1,681,304
Special tax provision, £38,000 .. 1,643,304
Surplus sale investments, £1636 . . 1,644,940
Goodwill new businesses, £21,657 .. 1,623,283
1939 178,024 62,500 p.c. = 108,000 1,630,807
Added goodwill, £4lOO .. •• 1,626,707
1940 260,096 62,499 6} p.c. = 156,000 1,668,304
Net addition goodwill, £6OO .. 1,667,704
1941 240,007 62,349 7 p.c. = 168,000 1,677,362
Net addition goodwill, £1524 .. 1,675,838
1942 194,224 62,297 5 p.c. = 120,000 1,687,765
Net addition goodwill, £7 ... .. 1,687,758
1943 210,068 62,297 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,691,529
Net addition goodwill, £425 . . 1,691,104
1944 260,899 62,297 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,745,706
Unexplained reduction, £3O .. .. 1,745,676
This big woolbroking, pastoral, pastoral-
finance, merchandising and agency busi-
ness is spread throughout the Common-
wealth. It is strongest in N. S. Wales,
where the co. is also a large run-owner.
Pre-war, chief factors affecting earnings
were seasons, prices and costs, mainly
wages. And buyers came from all over
the world to bid for the staple. Auctions
ceased at the outbreak, and Britain bought
the exportable portion of the clip at a
flat rate of 13.4 d. per pound until mid-
-1942, when the figure was lifted to 14.4 d.
to help offset rising costs. Nature has
been kind, too. The number of sheep in
Australia at the end of March, 1943, was
124,610,000, or over 12 p.c. more than at
the beginning of 1939. Over the same
period the number of cattle in the country
(14,000,000-odd March, 1943, including
dairy herds and calves) increased by
approx. 9 p.c., and the number of pigs
(1,563,000) by over 35 p.c.
What it has all meant to the growing
and selling sides of the industry in par-
ticular and the country in general can
be gathered from the following table,
showing appraised, flat-rate adjustment
and total value of the entire Australian
clip for the last five seasons:
Appraised Flat-rate Total
Value. Adjustment. Value.
1939- ..£59,842,279 £4,880,805 £64,723,084
1940- . . 55,251,151 5,708,698 60,959,849
1941- . . 58,471,905 5,167,667 63,039,573
1942- . . 66,651,256 6,874,024 73,525,280
1943- .. 66,850,270 6,851,487 73,701,759
The lift in price and continued good
seasons are responsible for the record
figures of the last. two years. Among
other things, it has meant substantial im-
provement in the cash position of graziers.
But maintenance and improvement of
properties, deferred owing to shortage of
labor and materials, will call for heavy
outlay when circumstances permit —tanks
have silted up, fencing urgently needs
repair, and so do buildings, and, in many
districts, the rabbit pest has become a
menace. Failure of the Government to
recognise the position that has thus de-
veloped means that much money that
cannot be spent now but will have to be
spent later is being taken in taxation.
It is a shortsighted policy for which the
country might have to pay dearly in the
long run.
Last term the co. received an extra
22,300 bales,' 1 owing to purchase of two
more grazing properties at a cost of
£90,289, to acquisition of the old-estab-
lished business of Doherty and Co.,
Camperdown (Vic.), and to the opening
of a new branch at Edenhope (Vic.):
Bales- —, Australian
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold, etc. Forward, per Bale, t
1934.. 295,416 318,035 8,128 £2O 4 5
1939.. 302,563 351,791 26,166 13 4 0
1940.. 382,132 380,422 27,876 17 16 8t
1941.. 389,541 402,273 15,144 17 7 7t
1942.. 391,000 383,259 22,820 17 12 9t
1943.. 387,200 385,985 24,069 20 17 0t
1944.. 409,500 404,423 29,015 20 10 Ot
t For year to June 30. + Approximate.
An extra 18,438 bales were appraised,
and the carry-forward increased by 4946
bales. Quantity of livestock handled isn’t
mentioned, but service and other require-
ments helped to keep numbers and prices
at satisfactory levels. As for merchandise,
the problem was to get rather than sell
supplies.
After providing for bad debts, etc.,
gross earnings from all sources sprang
£111,267, passing the million-pound mark
for the first time:
Provi-
Year Gross Debenture dent Net
Mar., Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£, £, £/£>£•
1929.. 914,201 527,629 62,925 5,000 318,647
1932.. 499,629 371,782 62,553 2,000 63,294
1938.. 772,660 518,801 62,516 10,000 181,343
1939.. 734,649 548,125 62,500 8,500 115,524
1940.. 912,723 642,858 62,499 10,000 197,597
1941.. 972,055 719,548 62,349 12,500 177,658
1942.. 921,269 717,253 62,297 9,792 131,927
1943.. 994,253 774,027 62,297 10,158 147,771
1944. . 1,105,520 834,091 62,297 10,530 198,602
Of the growth of £60,064 in exes., £47,617
was on account of taxation (£176,644) and
£3443 depreciation (£53,077). After pay-
ing debenture interest and sending an
extra £372 to the provident fund, there
remained 8.2 p.c. on capital as against
6.1, 5.5, 7.4, 8.2, 4.8 and 7.5 p.c. back to
1938. The div. was kept at 6 p.c., mak-
ing the average 5.6 p.c. over the last
14 years. For 20 years before that the
average was 15.8 p.c., but those days have
gone and aren’t likely to return.
The solid financial structure and other
things are seen in this table:
1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
£ £ £ £
Capital . . 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures. 1,412,586 1,412,536 1,412,536 1,410,786
Creditors . . 881,960 694,173 933,517 944,666
Tax reserve 105,413 167,441 174,915 228,490
Liquids . . 790,048 946,370 1,641,657 2,501,423
Advances . . 4,321,102 4,006,841 3,631,342 2,790,656
Stocks .. 247,563 221,484 211,992 226,749
Shares .. 44,121 45,310 45,406 45,406
Prop'ty, etc. 1,132,172 1,120,476 1,095,015 1,185,304
Plant .. 96,825 93,434 83,085 73,803
High prices, good seasons, prompt settle-
ments, restricted expenditure, etc., again
show up in last year’s contraction of
£840,686 in advances and expansion of
£859,766 in liquids. Of the £859,766,
£600,000 went into Commonwealth stock,
making total so invested since war began
£1,520,000. The co. is excellently equipped
to come to the assistance of clients when
the time arrives, as assuredly it will.
What will happen to prices for the
staple when the British contract runs out
one clip after the war remains to be seen.
Accumulated world stocks, held mostly
by Britain and U.S.A., are estimated in
excess of a year’s world clip. If satisfac-
tory figures are to be obtained by growers
for post-war clips, an organisation with
international ramifications will be needed
to regulate the feeding of accumulated
stocks on to the market. Competition
from synthetics also nrdmises to be keen.
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
f Dividends , Nominal
Pref. Ord. Writ- Re-
April. Profit, 7 p.c. 8 p.c. ten off. serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1934 .. 129,351 10,208 63,333 54,865 ] 79 ,
Provident fund, £lOOO .. 3
1935 . . 134,258 10.208 63,333 60,619 821
1936 .. 133,994 10,208 63,333 60.420 854
1937 .. 134,950 10,208 63,333 60,826 1,437
1938 . . 144,038 10,208 63,333 66,642 5,292
1939 . . 147,631 10,208 63,333 67,603 11,779
7 p.c.
1940 .. 137,579 10,208 55,416 68,166 15,568
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1941 .. 128,999 8,750 47,500 68,121 20,196
5.4 p.c. 5.4 p.c.
1942 .. 122,312 7,912 42,948 68,649 22,999
3.8 p.c.
1943 .. 117,354 7,912 31,666 69,039 31,736
1944 .. 125,554 7,912 31,666 73,537 44,175
t Subject to supply rights, £7500.
The power stations have done a lot of
good work for which they have received
little recognition in meeting the demands
of war-time industry, both by amplifica-
tion of their services and provision of
alternative supply routes against break-
downs at a time when cable and trans-
formers have been at a high premium
and difficult to obtain. Delays in delivery
of plant and completion of work com-
plicated management problems, and shifts
in the nature of demand for current un-
balanced sales, owing to differential tariff
Restrictions on the use of electricity
for lighting shop windows and the in-
terior of shops and other buildings re-
sulted in loss of revenue from a relatively
high-priced unit group in the taritf, while
there was considerable development of
demand in the low-priced unit group used
for war industries. Though this co.’s
area is hemmed in by the big Sydney elec-
trical undertaking, it includes five of the
older suburbs in which war-time indus-
trial growth has overloaded mains and
sub-stations that, under peace conditions,
were expected to take care of demand
right through the 1940’5.
Also increased wage and other costs,
including coal, materials and taxation,
bumped up outgoings, and net earnings
fell from £80,028 for the 1939 term to
£48,315 for the year to the end of April,
1943. Over the same period the ord. div.
dropped from 8 p.c. to 3.8 p.c., and pay-
ments to the prefs. were reduced from
the full contract rate of 7 p.c. to £5 Bs. 6d.
p.c. under the outmoded N.S.W. Interest
Reduction Act. Jncreased taxation more
than accounted for the reduction in divi-
dends, the chairman says.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts 765 new customers were
connected to the co.’s mains, making the
total 39,909 when the books closed. Sales
increased by 6 p.c., owing largely to the
lifting of restrictions on street lighting.
The rapid advance of exes, was
arrested by the Government’s price-
ceiling plan. Gross earnings (£238,588)
improved £3922. Including £73,537
(up £4498) for depreciation, exes.
(£194,634) took only £6lB of the
increase. Taking into the reckoning
£8063 dropped from somewhere into the
insurance fund (£38,350), the net result
was £3703 better at £52,018, equal to 5.5
p.c. on capital (pref. and ord. combined).
Divs. remained steady.
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
extension of the undertaking, including
inter-connection with the County Council
transmission system:
1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Capital .. £937,500 £937,500 £937,500 £937,500
Sundry _ „ , „, „
creditors* .. 179,743 244,534 316,793 405,940
Fixed assets.. 807,680 972,831 1,076,473 1,285,791
Stocks, etc. . . 37,268 45,067 55,701 30,735
Book debts . . 18,938 28,486 19,641 20,547
Cash, etc. .. 240,965 184,567 155,822 73,488
* Including provision for taxation.
To meet last term’s net growth of
£209,318 in the book value of plant, etc.,
the co. went outside for an extra £89,147
and drew upon cash, etc., fdr5,£82,334.
As for proposed sale of the under-
taking to the Sydney County Council, the
chairman says:
No further developments in connection
with the proposed acquisition have
taken place, although I might say I have
been reliably informed the Sydney County
Council has obtained a report from Mr.
S. H. Cochran, chairman of the Queens-
land State Electricity Commission, relat-
ing to this matter. We have no informa-
tion in regard to the Government’s inten-
tion of setting up a central electricity
authority.
About five years ago City Electric Light
Co., Brisbane, was brought directly under
State control. A commission was ap-
pointed to supervise co-ordination and
extension of the supply of current, and
to fix prices thereof on a basis designed
to cover costs, plus depreciation, plus
enough profit to enable the co. to pay
contract rates on pref. money and give
the ords. 2 p.c. more than is to be had
from Commonwealth loans issued for
voluntary subscription during the previ-
ous year. When public policy is to keep
interest rates low, and at the same time
the cost of living rises, this dividend for-
mula operates counter-clockwise to the
formula used to calculate wages.


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
duplicator
ONIV
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
Has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
Sytlt nuirtly in Austral)
JACKSON
*b SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
& O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
STOPvoupßupture
Worries/ B
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
'THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Syuney.
Mark ® Location,
of YQUR RUPTURE
For
BARIC©
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
Your Dog
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors : THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
Wmm
Pi
MS
wm
Wherever the wheels of Industry turn
Since 1858 Ludowici Power Trans-
mission Equipment has played an
important part in the industrial de-
velopment of Australia. First with
their famous Pioneer Leather Belting
and, more recently, with a full range
of equipment to meet every need to
ensure maximum efficiency in the
transmission of power. Ludowici
Engineers are available to give you
the benefit of their expert knowledge
and experience on every power
transmission problem.
ss:
6
heather and Rubber
Belting, Pulleys,
Bearings, Gears,
Hangers, Couplings,
Shafting, Short Centre
Pivot Drive.
LUDO WICI
POWER TRANSMISSION
EQUIP M ENT
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY • 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
A:
different
as
TWO
PINS
v\ » l
y
One of these gudgeon pins was
first a solid bar, then turned, bored, ground and
polished to less than half its original weight of metal.
The second was Cold Drawn Seamless Precision Steel
Tube with no machining inside the pin and only a
minimum machining externally. It’s easy to see
why B.T.M.products enjoy a high war-effort priority
—and why they will help the post-
war enterprises of Australia to pro-
duce more at progressively lower
cost to consumers.
TUBE MILLS
h s iii u b;
AD EL AID E
844
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends \To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Fret Ord. Total, serves, series.
1984 14 492 12 p.c. Nil 12,000 2,492 94,325
ms.'! 16 910 15 ~ Nil 15,000 1,910 96,235
1936.. 18,625 6 „ 4 p.c. 14,000 4,620 100,860
1937.. 20,282 6 „ 4 „ 14,000 6,282 107,142
1938.. 20,398 6 ~ 5 ~ 16,000 4,398 111,540
' f.ow and Ariell, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
193 y.. .4,292 6 p.c. 2i p.e. 11,000 3,292 03,704
1940. 22.147 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 6,147 9?,8ul
1941.. 22,137 6 5 „ 16,000 6,137 100,958
1942.. 24,5.8 6 ~ 5 ~ 16,000 8,548 114,536
Net Joss sale of assets, £9415 .. 100,121
1943.. 42,571 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 16,000 26,571 131,692
1944.. 49,238 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 33,238 164,930
To staff fund, £5OOO .. •• 159,930
The sudden leap in net earnings is due
to service demands, greatly expanded by
Allied requirements. Over a long period
keen competition and difficulties asso-
ciated with plant and costs kept both
earnings and distributions to shareholders
moderate. But emergency rations for
forces in the S.-w. Pacific, and canteen and
other requirements sent turnover up with
a rush, and Christmas activities of the
Australian Comforts Fund helped to swell
takings in the plum-pudding section of
the business, too. To cope with increased
requirements the manufacturing and trad-
ing sides of the undertaking were re-
organised during the last half of the 1942
term. Service demands also livened out-
put of the co.’s dehydrated fruit and
vegetable subsidiary, and another off-
shoot, which turns out ice-cream, quick-
ened its step as well.
Thus the co.’s earnings over the last
couple of years have been inflated by ex-
ceptional and temporary factors. These
now appear to have passed their peak.
Last term a large contract for assembly
and supply of special rations for the ser-
vices kept production at a “high level,”
and civilian trade improved a trifle. Still,
turnover didn’t quite reach the previous
year’s record figure, ovtng to easing of
Government demand. The dehydration
co., which also operates a Government
annex, v/as occupied almost entirely with
service orders. Sales of ice-cream were
“well maintained,” though they fell away
toward the close of accounts because of
restrictions on manufacture.
The improvement of £6667 in net earn-
ings was mainly on account of a reduc-
tion of £4625 in the tax item (£91,107).
There was little change in the allowance
for depreciation (£35,050, down £430). The
£49,238 of profit was 16.4 p.c. on capi-
tal (pref. and ord. combined) as against
14.2, 8.1, 7.3, 7.3 and 4.7 p.c. back to
1939. Of the £49,238 the parent earned
£37,738 (up £1223) and the subsidiaries
£11,500 (up £5488). Divs. on both classes
of shares remained steady, and, after
sending £5OOO to staff fund, nearly twice
as much was put by as was distributed.
This and other things suggest the board
has a keen eye on what might happen
when conditions change again and old
trade rivalries crop up post-war. Mean-
time, witness the transformation in
finances: —
Consolidated Figures.
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft . . 35,675 —■
Creditors . . 36,731 63,308 60,475 80,081
Tax reserve .. 7,953 39,432 100,217 148,332
Freeholds .. 206,373 198,236 167,195 160,675
Plant, etc. . . 155,456 139,607 109,382 82,794
Stocks . . 51,532 77,970 91,432 107,818
Debtors . . 60,482 73,342 80,942 96,903
Cash, etc. .. 3,625 20,120 151,434 249,154
The year’s surplus earnings and allow-
ances for depreciation, taxation, etc., are
reflected in a growth of £97,720 in cash,
etc. —the etcetera includes £92,500 of
Commonwealth bonds and £653 shares in
other cos. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£224,462) was
£61,346. The plant item, down £26,588 last
term, has been nearly cut in half over
the last five years. Recognising the im-
portance of operating efficiency on com-
petitive power, the board is providing
with both hands for such maintenance
and renewals as it is unable to make good
under existing conditions.
Bank of New South Wales Nominees
Pty., Ltd., has been formed in Sydney as
an offshoot of the Bank of N. S. Wales.
The idea is to provide a permanent
organisation, as nominee of the bank, to
hold shares, debentures and other securi-
ties lodged against overdrafts. The sub-
sidiary will also act as agent or attorney
in the purchase, sale and holding of
shares, stocks, debentures, etc., for the
bank’s customers and others. The prin-
cipal work to be performed by the new
co. used to be carried out by officers of
the bank nominated for the purpose. It
was primarily to overcome administra-
tive and other difficulties arising from the
death, retirement or illness of a nominee
that the co. was formed.
* sK * *
Service rendered by Mt. Isa (Q.) to
small copper-producers on the Cloncurry
field is shown by purchases from 25 small
mines of 674.78 tons ore, containing
75.17 tons copper, during April last. The
co.’s own mining activity for the month
consisted of raising 23,210 tons sulphides
from the Black Star section. Treatment
figures were 24,401 tons sulphides Black
Star, 118 tons oxides Black Rock, 581
tons purchased ore, 145 tops purchased
flue dust. The lot (25,245 tons) yielded
971.12 tons copper, valued at £101,968.
* * * *
With a referendum in the offing, Dr.
Evatt has been busy assuring the West
that “steps are in hand” to ensure return
or replacement, when war ends, of power
units and other vital goldmining equip-
ment impressed for Commonwealth pur-
poses —producers’ representations have
hitherto been completely disregarded.
Set-up of a mining advisory panel under
the Ministry of Post-war Reconstruction
is also promised (or threatened), and a
reminder was dropped of Canberra’s war-
time beneficence in providing £300,000
for the development of mining generally
within the State. Nothing was said of
Commonwealth action in grabbing £2\
millions from Westralian producers in
gold tax since the outbreak of hostilities
or of the economic loss suffered by many
goldfields centres following denudation of
their populations as the result of Federal
man-power policy.
* * * *
For a “nominal payment” New Milano
(W.A.) has parted with a quarter interest
in a small goldmining venture at Mt.
Monger, a field on which it already has
two idle mines. A trial crushing, to test
the value of ore now being mined, is to
be put through a local battery, and hopes
are that results will liven the paralysed
market. In September and October last
the co. closed down its two mines, New
Milano and Leslie, owing to shortage of
labor and supplies, and proposed, with
consent of the Commonwealth machinery-
grabbing people, to sell various units of
plant to avoid “deterioration and pilfer-
ing.”
$ * * *
Genial Dick Wilson, Westralian State
Mining Engineer for ten years, and a
field geologist and mine manager before
that, is about to retire at the age of 66
years. He represented the Mines Depart-
ment at the third triennial Empire Mining
and Metallurgical Congress in South
Africa in 1930, and from 1931 to 1934
was loaned to the B.H.P. and directed
that co.’s search for suitable gold
shows in the West. He is a native of
Sydney and a graduate of its University
in science and mining engineering. He
is also a member of the London Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy and chair-
man of the Westralian Coal Committee,
which distributes coal supplies in the
State for the Coal Commission^
*** . *
In review of Metropolitan Life (B.
12/7/’44) “The 19-year-old Metropoli-
tan” should read “The 49-year-old Met-
ropolitan.”


u u (UJ jj tfrf
(CX
ax
7 r % ' ft&fi
:''t 4 ml
c^ry
V.
X
1
>J>
Sw
SB
dKL f-
£
-r
7*
&
vr.
A touch of home and happier times
The need of our boys for entertainment records is so
real and vital that we are sending them actually the
greater part of our present output. We are sure that
you would not have it otherwise—especially in view
of the present restricted production.
* YOUR DEALER will give you a leaflet
fully explaining why the particular records
you want are sometimes unavailable.
"HIS MASTER'S VOICE" • COLUMBIA • PARLOPHONE
DECCA • REGAL-ZONOPHONE
«
■■'■iumi mu PARLOPHONE r'IUJPU
cb
The Gramophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. In England) Columbia Graphophone (Aust.) Pty. Ltd
The Parlophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. In England) • HOMEBUSH, N.9.W.
A.4/44
SOUTH AFRICA
YOUR POST-WAR
EXPORT MARKET
KEENE & COMPANY
{Principal: DAVID KAY),
COMMONWEALTH BUILDING, ST. GEORGE’S STREET, CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA,
P.O. BOX 2305,
Are desirous of making contact with Australia and New Zealand Manufacturers as
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES for South Africa and the Rhodesias.
Highest references available and really first-class representation assured.
Proprietary Medicines, Toilet, Household Requisites, Hardware and Plastics particu-
larly invited. Further information from
GOLDBERG ADVERTISING (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.,
BOX No. 3988, G.P.0., SYDNEY —or write direct.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Confidence a Physical Wreck
At the end of this war, Mr. Curtin
says, “it would be dangerous for any
Australian Government to contemplate
handing over the affairs of the country
to uncontrolled private enterprise when
spending power was still high, goods in
short supply, and when there was an
enormous demand for investment pro-
jects. The weak would be driven to the
wall and the financially strong would
become still more firmly entrenched.
Prpfiteering would be rife, and the
people’s savings would be lost in the in-
evitable inflation that would follow.”
It is particularly hard for private enter-
prise to bear the sanctimonious shudders
of the leader of the most inflationary
Government in the Empire when he
strikes this pose. Inflation a thing to be
feared by the Labor party, indeed! Prior
to the last election Honest John went
quite credit-hanpy, proposing to pump
additional credit into the after- the-war
spending fund in order to do all manner
of nationally expansive things. Now he
is shadow-sparring with the bogey of ex-
cessive credit created already by his
Government in the most politically irre-
sponsible period of its conduct of the war.
It is quite clear that the Prime Minister’s
opinions on matters financial are not
worth a damn, and that is so even when
he happens to say something sensible.
There iS a certain amount of sense
in what he has just said, even if not much
sense of proportion. He knows so little
about finance and industry that he is
quite capable of contradicting himself,
as he has done in this matter of the
danger of excessive post-war spending
power.
There is undoubtedly a danger of post-
war inflation. If there is not, then a
hundred columns of The Bulletin have
been nothing but false alarm. But this
paper raised the alarm when the danger
was being created, and it was a danger
time and again denied by the Labor
party. After a clash with knight Claude
Reading, chairman of the central bank
board, as late as August last year the
Prime Minister said: “I do not regard
it as an improper use of bank credit
to provide the means of doubling or
trebling Australia’s population, nor do I
see any better way of increasing the
national income, national wealth and
security, which is the best guarantee of
ensuring the solvency of the national
structure.” If all that meant anything, it
meant that the Prime Minister liked the
idea of bank-credit use.
Some months earlier another Minister,
Lazzarini, had said: “The talk of the
financial system and of inflation is all in-
sidious propaganda; an attempt to
stampede the Labor people against the
Government.” There was no rebuke of
Mr. Lazzarini by his leader. But now,
years after other people hlad become
alarmed about the danger of excessive
war-time spending power going out to
the people and accumulating far beyond
the increase in value of actual national
assets, the Prime Minister takes the view
that private enterprise is more irrespon-
sible than his own Administration.
“Uncontrolled” private enterprise, which
warned the Government time and again
of the dangers it was creating, he regards
with fluttering alarm. Perhaps he is in-
fluenced by his own old story about the
Capitalist wolves and the Labor lambs.
The control of prices in the post-war
period is truly a task that threatens to
land us with many problems. Price-
control alone will not hold back infla-
tion for ever, though it may spread it
less disturbingly. The task ahead will
require the greatest co-operation between
the Government, whatever its powers,
and private enterprise. But what has
been the co-operation between the Gov-
ernment during war-time, wheit it has
had supreme powers, and business?
Whereas in Britain there have been con-
sultative bodies composed of Government
representatives and private enterprise to
deal with all manner of economic prob-
lems —with a successful businessman as
Minister of Reconstruction —in the Com-
monwealth it has been almost entirely
a bureaucrats’ show, utter contempt
being often shown by war-time Gov-
ernment servants and Ministers towards
private industry. One of the bril-
liant ideas of the Government was
that of reducing all industrial earnings
to 4 p.c. on capital employed, regardless
of efficiency or risks. Since it was forced
to abandon the idea because it was
“administratively impossible” there have
been many complaints that the Prices
Branch is endeavoring to enforce profits
control instead of prices control.
It is little wonder that the economic
judgment and political sincerity of the
Government are doubted by those i who
are endeavoring to keep the produc-
tive industries of the country going. It
would often seem that many Labor
members really took it for granted that
the pre-war production and living
standard of Australia were something
achieved almost automatically, and that
any interference with the productive
machine could only be for the better.
Many of them even now do not
seem to realise how damaging a policy
of Government founded on vote-catch-
ing claptrap has really been to the Com-
monwealth. This Government, which has
an excess of inflation and an excess of
black-marketing on its hands, also has
had an excess of regulations imposed on
the liberties of the people. The country
swarms with officials.
The stability of credit and of prices
depends largely upon confidence. It is
true that at the present time the Gov-
ernment is using less Treasury-bill finance
than was the case a year ago. But it has
adopted the sounder course only after
embarrassing experience and vigorous
criticism. In addition, it is now helpec
by a falling expenditure on war and a
tricky arrangement of pay-as-you-go
taxation. The improved finances of 1943-
44 are no result of Government “plan-
ning.” They are principally a result of
the scare the Government got out of the
economic reactions of its financia
methods in the two preceding years and o:
fatherly advice from the Commonwealth
Bank board.
There is too much inclination on the
part 0/ the Government to accept the
view that tomorrow is going to be another
day entirely and the post-war period an
altogether different story, too. The view is
quite wrong. The economics of the war
period will profoundly influence the eco-
nomics of the peace. This is taditly ad-
mitted by the Prime Minister when he
refers to the excess of war-time money
in relation to peace-time goods. So what
are our plans for the peace that will be
tagged on the tail-end of war? Are they
in similar style to those the Government
“prepared” for war—in other words,
trial-and-error experiments of a most
politically-biased kind?
Mr. Curtin used to speak with the
assurance of ignorance about what he
proposed to do by means of bank credit
both during and after the war. He speaks
with similar assurance about what the
Government aims to do in matters of
economic control after the war, even if
he is extremely vague in all matters of
practical detail. But when he talks with
horror of “uncontrolled” enterprise, the
weak being driven to the wall by the
strong, etc., does he instead visualise a
private enterprise as “controlled” and
emasculated of initiative as it is now?
Does he visualise the talent and experi-
ence of the trading banks still side-
tracked? And all other finance and im
dustry subject to present regulation, doc-
trine and delay? Let him be reminded
that what Australia is now subject to is
—apart from the embroidery of bureau-
cratic extravagances—a sort of martial
law in industry, the only virtue
of which is mobilisation of efforts
for war, and which has so many draw-
backs that it could not possibly compare
in economic returns to the nation with
the fruits received from pre-war industry.
Some control over prices for a limited
period after the war would seem ex-
tremely desirable. Some system of priority
in respect of essential users of scarce
materials would seem almost as essential
as price control. And the keeping of
interest rates low —which is necessary to
the maintenance of bond prices—might
entail regulation of new investment,
though this could perhaps be largely
achieved through the banking system on
its own.
But the Curtin Administration, under
the pretext of furthering the war effort,
has done widespread damage to the Aus-
tralian economy already. There has never
been any need to doubt the necessity for
the National Security Act, but there have
been hundreds of reasons for strong ob-
jection to the way in which it has been
administered.
After nearly three grave years of office,
can the Government show to Australia
a pair of capable hands? It cannot. Nor
can it display an impressive record in
the way of clear-thinking or plain-deal-
ing. Rather has it been addicted to un-
necessary propaganda and political hum-
bug, and the national economy has
always suffered when in conflict with
political expediency. Early the Govern-
ment made the mistake of appealing to
the selfishness of its political supporters
rather than to their sense of realism
and patriotism. So, altogether, private
enterprise can have little confidence in
the continued overlordship of the Curtin
Government. When Confidence is so
badly needed in the Federal sphere we
find that confidence has been reduced
almost to a physical wreck.
Australia still awaits the Government’s
decision as to what it proposes to do
with its surplus equipment and super-
fluous munition factories at the end of
the war. There has been talk of the
creation of a “holding company,” and
talk that the powers asked for by the
referendum are necessary for the Gov-
ernment to “enter into industry on a
strictly commercial basis.” There has
also been talk that the Government will
turn munition factories over to the manu-
facture of household fittings to “cheapen’
the cost of its building programme. A
great deal will depend upon how “com-
mercial” and competitive any such pro-
posed operations turn out to be. If the
goods can be delivered more cheaply than
from elsewhere on a truly competitive
basis, taxation concessions and capita
depreciation being taken fully into
account, the position may not be so bad
But if the Government or its “holding
company” is able to sell cut-price wash-
ing-machines, refrigerators, etc., only by
incurring large trading losses that are
passed on to the taxpayer, then not only
will the position be most unfair to private
enterprise: it will represent another sub-
sidy to inefficient enterprise that will
burden and slow down the whole Aus-
tralian economy. And, of course, the
vote-catching talk of cheap washing-
machines for all (irrespective of the all-in
cost, including taxes) would have a fata’
fascination for certain politicians, just
the same as has the National Welfare
Fund that is being paid for out of taxa-
tion without direct contribution from
the proposed beneficiary.
* * * *
Do the champions of a Governmen-
tally-“planned” Australian economy after
the war claim that such planning is really
desirable or only “inevitable” as a result
of past mistakes and failure? It is not
often that economists of any kind are
really in favor of central planning as the
most desirable method of production and
government. They usually take the view
that Democracy has “failed” (in Aus-
tralia the present cry is “inflation”), and
that central planning is the inevitable
remedy. To that view someone has re-
plied : Isn’t it time we really gave Democ-
racy a chance to succeed? And that, of
course, is a very sound reply. We cannot
by any means say that Democracy has
been applied to the world with even rea-
sonable skill in the past. The rational
attitude to take in our present difficulties
is that the mistakes of the past should be
our lessonS for the future, and if we take
that view we shall find that past failures
have been more in administration than
from any fault of “system.” A writer
in Britain (F. A. Hayek —The Road to
Serfdom ) has asked the question why
it is that so large a proportion of tech-
nical experts are in the front ranks of
planners. He finds:
There is little question that almost every
one of the technical ideals of our experts
could be realised within a comparatively
short time if to achieve them were the
sole aim of humanity. It is the frustra-
tion of ambitions in his own field which
makes the specialist revolt against the exist-
ing order. We all find it difficult to bear
to see things left undone which everybody
must admit are both desirable and possible.
That these things cannot all be done at
the same time, that any one of them can
be achieved only at the sacrifice of others,
can only be seen by taking into account
factors which fall outside any specialism.
The question of the precise goal towards
which all activity is to be directed will
arise as soon as the executive power has
to translate the demand for a single plan
into a particular plan. Then it will appear
that the agreement on the desirability of
planning is not supported by agreement on
the ends the plan is to serve. The effect
of people agreeing that there must be central
planning, without agreeing on the ends, will
be rather as if a group of people were to
commit themselves to take a journey with-
out agreeing where they want to go: with
the result that they may have to make a
journey which most of them do not want.
This authority sums up: “It is no exag-
geration to say that if we had to rely on
conscious central planning for the growth
of our industrial system it would never
have reached the degree of differentia-
tion, complexity and flexibility it has
attained.”


COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS.
Returns of land held at midnight on the 30th June, 1944, are required to be lodged by:
(a) Persons who have lodged returns for prior years and whose land holdings have altered in any way
since the 30th June, 1943. Returns showing such alterations should be furnished on Form CB by the
31st July, 1944.
(b) Persons resident in the Commonwealth who held land of an unimproved value of £4OOO or upwards
and absentees when the unimproved value is One Pound or over who have not previously lodged returns.
Such persons should lodge full returns on Form A by the 31st August, 1944.
Persons who have lodged returns for prior years and whose land holdings have not altered in any wav
since 30th June, 1943, ARE NOT REQUIRED TO LODGE RETURNS. Where land is held in more than
one State and returns are necessary, the returns should be forwarded to the Deputy Federal Commissioner
of Taxation, Box 769 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Forms of returns and full information may be obtained at the Principal Post Offices or at the Federal
Taxation Office, 3rd Floor, Savings Bank Building, 21-23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Postal Address Box
4046-W, G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgement 10 p.c. additional tax —minimum £l.
Penalty for failure to lodge returns, £lOO.
W. A. PERT,
Acting Deputy-Commissioner for Land Tax.
/i
-g
PROTECTION
The lines of supply in both the Pacific
and Atlantic theatres of war stretch
for thousands of miles, and on every
mile of their journey to forward areas
supplies need PROTECTION.
In tropical jungles and Arctic Seas,
SISALKRAFT, the water-proof, damp-
proof, dirt-proof, pliable wrapping
material, is playing a vital role in pro-
tecting precious cargoes of food,
medicines and all kinds of military
equipment.
After Victory is attained, SISALKRAFT
will be available to Australian manu-
facturers and merchants to protect
interstate and overseas commerce.
Once again we shall profit by the
lessons of total war.
S \$A LK HA FT
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty.. Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street,
Auckland
BMUSTEB m
Services
The Navy, Army, Air Force, and the American Army are
using AGA Cookers in unit kitchens or military hospitals.
AGA Cookers have also been supplied to the Ministry of
Munitions. So any delays which may occur in the delivery
of AGA Cookers for civilian use are due to the urgent
needs of the fighting forces, and the forbearance of our
customers is therefore requested.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is still pre-eminent for economy in fuel, continuous depend-
able service, conservation of nutritional qualities and finer
flavours in foods, and for simplicity of operation.
You are invited to call for a demonstration, or write for
illustrated catalogue R 7.
AGA
ft E 6 D. TRADE MARK
The Original Heal Storage
COOKEB
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
fit. TBS? (Inc. in N£.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer ft Preiton
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. S. Webster ft
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: MaMocb Bros. Ltd,
Perth.
<?ld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
Although the Deportment of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to in tor full
particulars.
The Stock Exchanges
The Stock Exchanges of Australia, in
which the investments of the people in the
chief manufacturing, trading and finan-
cial activities of the country are custom-
arily bought and sold, have, since early
in the war with Japan, been under strict
Government control. There are fixed-
price levels above or below which deal-
ings may not be carried out, and, when
shares can be bought in this restricted
market, they may not be sold again
within a period of five months.
It is true that much pre-war gambling
on the Stock Exchanges was an unessen-
tial occupation even when there was no
scarcity of man-power. Boisterous specu-
lation on ’Change is some cases had an
inflationary effect on land and other values,
and such speculation at times created a
bubble of activity which was not only
non-productive but caused definite inter-
ference with actual productive industry.
The speculation in the early part of
the war with Germany was followed by
a market collapse when France was over-
run. Afterwards there was a steep re-
covery, to be followed by a further col-
lapse when Japan struck so rapidly
towards the South Pacific. It was during
this period of low prices that Govern-
ment control of the Stock Exchanges
began. There was an absolute closing of
’Changes, with pre-closure prices the
lowest since 1934.
Although the ’Changes were quickly
reopened, since March, 1942, they have
operated only subject to a Sept., 1941,
ceiling on prices and the five-months’
holding restriction. Dealings have been
reduced to a shadow, and, especially in
view of the inflation which has taken place
in many other prices and costs, particu-
larly living requirements, when it comes
to selling good stocks at the fixed ceiling
price the seller is invariably a substantial
loser. The controls over investments
are noticeably, hard on people forced to
sell their stocks in order to pay income
tax or to invest in war loans. Deceased
estates also suffer.
Australia is the only Allied country
in which the Stock Exchanges are so
shackled and fettered. London, New
York, Montreal and New Zealand have
free Exchanges. It may be assumed the
Government, in controlling the Austra-
lian Exchanges, had some purpose in
mind. Perhaps the idea merely arose
as a matter of party policy and dislike
of the Stock Exchanges as an unwanted
appendage of Capitalism. If that was
the idea, only those who had such ideas
can really know whether their objectives
have been achieved. But if any practical
economic purpose was aimed at by the
imposition of the prices ceiling, such as
additional support for war loans or the
prevention of inflation in living costs,
then the whole thing has been a singular
failure. Not only has the support given
to Commonwealth war loans been the
worst in the Empire and far below the
level of support given to United States
loans; currency hoarding, black-market-
ing and inflation in living costs have been
outstandingly high.
It is possibly true that, in view of the
lack of confidence which the Govern-
ment’s erratic economic policy was bound
to bring about, there would have been
an increased desire on the part of the
people to have portion of their money
in industrial shares rather than cur-
rency or war loans, with perhaps an un-
seemly scramble for stocks. If so, then
the severe controls imposed on the trans-
fer of Stock Exchange securities in the
Commonwealth are but an admission of
the weakness of the Government’s own
administration.
In Britain, the U.S.A., Canada and
New Zealand the freedom of the Stock
Exchanges has been no embarrassment
to the war effort. Support to war loans
has been much better, interest rates have
been lower and price inflation has been
no worse. And the investor has had no
cause to feel that he is the utter outcast
of society.
Assuming that eventually the Austra-
lian Stock Exchanges are freed and in-
dustry is carried on under private owner-
ship, it would seem that the course indi-
cated to holders of most industrial stocks
is to hang on in anticipation of the post-
war revival in competitive trade and the
removal of much war-time taxation and
financial restriction which appears to be
indicated when the need for expenditure
on war ceases. Taxation will not be re-
duced to pre-war dimensions immedi-
ately, if ever ; but there is no good reason
for a continuation of full war-time tax
rates when the wastage of war ceases
and if private industry is allowed to
resume its economic initiative. Handled
with a reasonable amount of skill, the
post-war position should be one in which
unemployment should make a very small
charge on the national revenue. Re-estab-
lishing soldiers in peace-time pursuits will
involve expenditure, but much of it will
be capital outlay.
Should it be thought desirable after
the war to pay for a bigger proportion
of national expenditure out of taxes than
out of loans —so as to remedy to some
extent l,he inflationary war-time excess of
loan expenditure—industry should never-
theless be given .tax relief as early as
possible. It has borne exceptionally
heavy war-time taxes.
Return of thousands of soldiers from
overseas and their reabsorption into
essential industry have greatly accen-
tuated public discussion in New Zealand
on what the newspapers no longer term
“housing problem” but “housing plight.”
It has largely resolved itself into a slog-
ging match, Private Enterprise v. State
Control, with the returned man and his
family remaining homeless. When the
Pacific scare was at its height the Govern-
ment, with the wholehearted co-opera-
tion of the building industry, performed
prodigies in the erection of hospitals and
defence buildings all over the country.
What is now urged is similar frenzied ac-
tivity on behalf of the roofless ex-service
man. As elsewhere, the architects and ex-
perts cannot agree on the merits of tem-
porary housing against permanent dwell-
ings, but the position has become so
desperate that already that issue is aca-
demic and some of the local authorities
are taking acton. In the Auckland area
it is now permitted to reveal that many
hospital and defence buildings are revert-
ing to civilian use with the decrease in
American forces. It is being urged that
some of these buildings be equipped as
transit homes for a small proportion of
the thousands awaiting State-built houses.
Key difficulty faced by the Government
is a shortage of vital building supplies
which must be imported, and there is a
widespread feeling that to acquire them
more “hurry-up” is needed.
* * * *
The United Nations Monetary Con-
ference, sitting at Bretton Woods, U.S.A.,
has tentatively agreed to the fund
quotas. In millions of dollars they are
United States 2750, United Kingdom
1300, Russia 1200, China 550, France 450,
India 400, Canada 300, Netherlands 275,
Belgium 225, Australia 200, Brazil 150,
Czechosjovakia 125, Poland 125, South
Africa 100; smaller contributions for re-
maining countries, but total for 44 nations
8800 million dollars. The voting system
provides that each participating nation
receives 250 votes automatically, and one
vote will be added for each 100,000
dollars of quota.
* * * *
Apparently because of the coal shortage,
the once steadily-rising tonnage of freight
carried on Australian railways has fallen
away, according to figures up to early
this year. Passenger traffic has kept
high, but total revenue appears to have
passed its monthly peak—until the coal
position improves, anyway.
* * * *
According to Commonwealth statistics,
in April, 1943, the shares of five listed
insurance cos. reached their ceiling price
and have not moved since. But the ceil-
ing is not as high as the quotes averaged
during the “recovery” years 1935-37. On
the other hand, scrip in 23 manufacturing
and distributing cos. is now higher than
it has ever been. Present prices for re-
tail-store scrip are beaten by the quotes
for 1936-37, and public-utility shares,
such as gas scrip, are well below pre-war
averages. Pastoral and finance co. scrip
has also seen better days, especially in
1936-38. The index of all these classifi-
cations, plus 24 miscellaneous stocks
(making 75 issues in all), is almost on .a
level with 1936-37 prices. In the mean-
time, of course, there has been great in-
flation in costs and prices of other things.


THE SERVICE MAN
After Saipan.
“Ek Dum”: When Saipan (Marianas)
accounts were made up a good balance
on the American side was shown, but the
price was heavy.
The Americans had won a victory very
injurious to Japanese “face” in the North-
west Pacific and China. They had cap-
tured a fine island base with a reasonably
good anchorage centrally situated for
further attack on the Philippines, Bonin
and the seas between. Their occupation
of the island assured them that Guam,
Tinian and Rota and other adjacent
islands would soon be theirs, forming a
group of bases of great capacity.
They had disposed of about 20,000 of
the enemy in one way and another,
mostly killed.
On July 7 remnants of the enemy, 2000
strong, charged down in a mad and hope-
less onslaught on the Americans which
reminded some onlookers of the Der-
vishes’ rushes at Omdurman. Torn to
pieces by artillery, fired point-blank, and
by sheets of small-calibre fire, the defence
expiied in the last stages of this wild
charge.
U.S. Navy Secretary Forrestal, report-
ing on the struggle for Saipan, was able
to claim “a prize of the first magnitude,”
with the killing of 95 per cent, of a garri-
son of over 20,000, including Vice-
Admiral Chuichi Nagumo, the enemy
C.-in-C. in the Central Pacific. Vice-
Admiral Nagumo had fired the first shots
of the war when in command of the
force which attacked Pearl Harbor on
Dec. 7, 1941. He had survived the Battle
of Midway as commander of the carrier
formation. With him died Rear-Admiral
Yano.
Over 16,000 of the enemy had been
buried before the week-end, and more
than 1000 prisoners, the largest bag by
far in the Pacific war, had been captured.
But the price was far from light—23s9
Americans killed among 15,053 total
casualties. As Mr. Forrestal remarked:
Our casualties illustrate that the “higher”
islands are a much more severe test of
military power than the relatively flat atolls.
They indicate fhe growing severity of
opposition that may be expected as the
Allies approach the inner circle of Japanese
defences.
It must be remembered that the Ameri-
cans had overwhelming naval and air
support from the beginning, and that the
enemy fought most of the battle without
air support or effective artillery support.
Established now in Garapan, the
enemy’s erstwhile Mid-Pacific H.Q., the
American command began a series of
operations. which were plaintively de-
scribed by Tokyo Radio on July 14:
A strong, not to say powerful, American
fleet is now wandering round our Pacific
islands, its carrier ’planes every day ravag-
ing our islands in the South Seas.
It was no more than the truth. Assaults
by air and naval bombardment on Guam,
formerly an American base in the heart
of a Japanese world, became a daily
occurrence. The establishments on Guam
were shelled to bits. The Volcano Islands
and Rota had their share of “softening up,”
and generally speaking bombing was nor-
mal from Rabaul to the Marianas. Yap,
Sorop, Kavieng, Truk, Manokwari, Buka
Passage—wherever the eye rested on the
map of the area north-east of Australia,
there the bombs fell if there were reason-
able numbers of enemies for them to
fall on.
General Adachi Moves
In the New Guinea area, long neutral-
ised, movements on the mainland coast
of the Mandated Territory advertised the
peculiar position reported to exist there.
There are still supposed to be six times
as many Japs in the New Guinea-Solo-
mons area as there were in Saipan. About
40,000 to 50,000 of these are believed to
be in the Rabaul area; another 45,000
between Aitape and/or Wewak and
Madang. Still another 10,000 or so be-
lieved to have been in the Hollandia area
have not been found.
The 45,000 in the Aitape-Wewak area
had up to July 12 shown no more sign
of their presence than an odd patrol
attack ; then S.-w. Pacific H.Q. reported:
Our reconnaissance indicates that the
18th Army, commanded by General Adachi,
which is trapped on the north coast of New
Guinea between Wewak and Aitape, is
concentrating for battle in a desperate
attempt to break out of the net to the west.
The strength of this army when cut off
by our Hollandia-Aitape landings was
60,000. Privation, starvation and constant
air bombardment and attrition are believed
to have destroyed approximately 25 p.c.
of this total.
The enemy was reported at the week-
end concentrating 20 miles east of Aitape
on the Driniumor River. There had been
some patrol fighting during the week
from Tuesday onwards, and from the first
two days’ operations 268 of the enemy
had been buried. Screen troops were in
contact; aircraft were active over the
Japanese-held area, and Australian
cruisers, with Australian and U.S.
destroyers, had moved down the coast to
bombard the enemy’s coastal strongposts
between Yanamul and But. Larger land
clashes in which Australians would be
engaged were imminent.
Air activity in the New Guinea area
flared up at the week-end. Troops mov-
ing up in the Dutch New Guinea sector
took the Sarmi airfield without opposi-
tion, and what enemy forces there are
in that area are wading into the swamps
westward in an attempt to escape.
On July 14 Allied Bostons made the
heaviest attack yet on oil installations on
Ceram, the nearest oil centre to the Aus-
tralian mainland, just east of Dutch New
Guinea. About 60 tons of bombs were
dropped and big fires were seen by the
homing pilots. The Flores Islands saw
many bombers active, and off Halmahera
a 3000-ton ship was sunk. In the week-
end, two other enemy vessels were
reported destroyed.
On the Asian Mainland
In Manipur the remnants of the Japa-
nese invading forces, reduced in numbers
to hundreds, are being pushed back in
drenching rain tQward the Chindwin. The
forces in North Burma clasped Myit-
kyina a little closer.
But on the Chinese front along the
Canton-Hangkow railway there was a
further reverse. The Japanese again sur-
rounded Henyang and tightened their
control on the 32 miles of railway to
Leiyang on the south. Their recent with-
drawals in the area apparently were only
to s regroup. Their H.Q. has been moved
from Changsha to Hengshan.
Murder Most Foul
Tokyo Radio issued a barbarous offi-
cial announcement that the precedent set
after General Doolittle’s raid on Japan
(April 18, 1942) had been adopted, and
that all Allied airmen brought down in
raids over Japan would be executed. It
said that those captured after the Yawata
raid on June 15 already had been.
This is, of course, in contravention of
the laws of war as understood by civilised
nations; murder in cold blood. If the
outrages have been committed and not
just alleged in the delusive hope that
Japan will escape further bombing, they
will be avenged.
Inch by Inch in Normandy.
“Ek Dum”: It is an inch-by-inch busi-
ness in Normandy, with the fighting per-
haps. at crescendo at certain points, but
certainly not over a great front.
At the week-end the Allied beachhead
was still confined, and the Germans were
doing their best to keep it confined. The
weather has helped them to some extent,
as also have the natural factors of the
expansion of the forces.
Probably 200,000 men were put ashore
in Normandy in the first day or so of
the invasion. With the Allies’ great
armadas, protection and supply of this
force were reasonably easy. Then the
force grew; artillery power developed,
and as man-power and guns expanded
so did transport needs. Each day brought
nearer a “saturation point” when the de-
mands of the men in the fighting lines
would equal or even strain the resources
of shipping.
Therefore, there had to be a certain
mark-time period. While necessary tasks
in fighting were attended to dumps were
created and reserves of material and am-
munition piled up so that the armies
would not be living hand-to-mouth when
it came to big fighting.
Also it was necessary to interpose ship-
ping between supply bases and new
operating aerodromes, whereas in Eng-
land there was only one main transport
stage without any sea to cross between
factory or main dump and aircraft.
Next, the command had to look ahead
and remember that its armies would not
always be fighting within gun range of
the beaches. So provision for moving
forward had to be gathered in, brought
across the Channel and thrown into re-
serve to await its time of usage—this in
itself a tremendous task.
With increasing fighting and widening
of the front all the great needs of the
hospital and medical organisation had to
be catered for, along with the evacuation
of wounded and of men transferred back
to bases and the transport of damaged
material during the period which must
elapse until full factory workshop organ-
isation could be established in France.
All the time the command had to deal
with fighting which was expanding in its
demands from hour to hour.
The taking of Cherbourg was a great
step forward, giving a deep-water port
out of range of enemy artillery and free
of naval interference. The taking of Caen
was, if anything, greater or would be
when it was out of enemy gun-range.
Caen is quite a port in its way, and
its iron- and steelworks, even if they are
badly knocked about, are a considerable
asset.
But Caen was not out of gun-range
throughout the week. The enemy had
retired from it. The castle and the
ancient monasteries, buildings of William
and Matilda, stand, but old churches,
winding streets, more, suitable to a
museum than a city, have crumbled into
dust. On July 14 the Tricolor was hauled
up in the square above a guard of British
infantry.
After Caen
By that time the consolidation follow-
ing the capture of the city was complete.
The British had followed the occupation
of Caen with a drive to the south-west
from the Odon bridgehead to prevent
the enemy from consolidating on the
positions on the east bank of the Orne to
which he had retired; also to rob him
of footholds from which he might
counter-attack on the western bank of
the Orne.
The movement forward quickly cleared
the enemy off high ground in the fork
between the Orne and the Odon.
This was an intelligent anticipation, no
doubt produced by a view of the roads
to the east in the flat country towards
the Seine.
By July 11 several German counter-
attacks were in progress.
The enemy flung himself against
Colombelles, to the north-east of Caen,
and of its ironworks district. There were,
however, attacks in other parts of the
British sector. At some points British
troops pinched out small salients which
burrowed into acquired positions.
At the week-end all was ready for
another assault on the high land round
the village of Esquay and ground over-
looking the Orne Valley and Evrecy.
With a blast from hundreds of massed
guns this new advance began on the right
flank of the Odon bridgehead. Objec-
tives were achieved. But after all this
fortnight of bloody fighting south of
Caen, after all the flinging about of armor
and heavy guns and of advances with the
support of 15-inch and 16-inch fire from
battleships out at sea, the German posi-
tions across the narrow Orne, south of
Caen, were held.
It goes to show what even a narrow
water barrier can be in the hands of de-
fenders who are prepared to stack its
banks with guns and cover it by artillery
in depth. It proves what utter nonsense
are the stories of large forces in Russia
surging on across heavily defended rivers
half a mile wide.
At the end of the week the Germans’
long-range guns were still firing into
Caen. The British commanded a few
miles of the Orne Valley from the west.
Before St. Lo and Lessay
Meanwhile, along their sector across
the base of the Cherbourg Peninsula the
Americans continued to make a creeping
advance.
They were operating along a front
about 24 miles long and by three main
roads on the east along that from
Carentan via St. Jean de Daye to St. Lo ;
along that from Carentan between the
little rivers Taute and Seves to Periers on
the crossroad between Lessay and St.
Lo. This road from Carentan continues
to Coutances; by the short road it is
about five miles to Lessay, a great horse-
show town, with a broad heath or lande
•outside it —an ideal place for a pitched
battle of the traditional type.
It was hard, slow going. Every kind of
country had to be faced —flooded fields,
timber, folding hill country, streams, the
rougher hill country in .which the heights
rise up to 500 feet; the landscape be-
comes more rugged near St. Lo. There
was variety in the fighting.
By July 14 the Americans were on the
outskirts of St. Lo at one end of the
advance line, and within the confines of
Lessay at the other. But there had been
no serious defeat of the Germans, who
were retiring in orderly fashion, fighting
for every inch, leaving their dead in every
field and under every hedgerow. Be-
fore Lessay the little Ay stream again
proved the value of even small water
barriers.
As the eastern end of the advance
moved into the environs of St. Lo
artillery fire, particularly that of the long-
range weapons, was intensified. St. Lo
itself was already battered to bits: so
the targets were further afield.
The Germans began to use more heavy
guns than they had previously employed.
The position on the American sector,
moreover, was reaching the same stage as
had already been reached at the Caen
end of the beachhead. The Germans
were back in local main positions suit-
able for defence by reason of the nature
of the hilly country and other natural
obstacles. They were preparing now all
along the line, not merely for offensive
retirement but for real tests of strength.
Thunder in the East
The enemy’s main force at the week-
end, however, was still packed at the Caen
end of the sector east of Caumont,
arrayed against the British. He has nine
armored divisions on the little Norman
front —half the number with which he
drove to within a few miles of the longi-
tude of Moscow and took Kiev and other
great cities in 1941.
Of these nine armored divisions at
least five seem to be on the British
sector, the bulk of them temporarily in
limited areas for use as massed artillery.
It looked as if the enemy would need
them in a few days, for British and
Canadians were reported to be regroup-
ing at the week-end for advances into the
fringes of the hills between Caen and
the Cerisy Forest.
The Germans declare that General
Montgomery already has 500,000 men
and 3000 tanks. Both sides agree that the
fighting is gradually working up to a
main battle which will test systems and
provide a substantial victory for one or
the other. *
Little is heard of these preparations,
though space is devoted to atrocity
stories and to protests—they have to
be cautious as yet —that Montgomery is
staying too long in Normandy instead of
taking Paris and Berlin.
General Eisenhower’s Warning
Occasionally a sombre warning from
some general connected with the invasion
is found squeezed near the bottom of a
page, as was that of General Eisenhower.
General Eisenhower said he did not
“write off completely the possibility of a
crack in German morale somewhere along
the line.”
In a country so completely dominated
by Gestapo methods, however, it would be
false to base any real expectation on that
hope. People cannot be blamed for allow-
ing their optimism to soar when they look
at the picture in Europe, at sea, in Russia
and in the Pacific, but that picture must
be sobered by the very definite conclusion
that the Allies will have to fight for every
foot they gain. There will be heavy losses.
This warning one "'aper headed: “Ger-
man Morale Doubtful.”
Enemy Defence Methods
As the battle proceeds German methods
are becoming more clear.
Whether locally or over great areas the
German fighting is always done in depth.
In local battles there is, first, an infantry
screen a kilometre or more deep, with
bristling machine-guns and heavy mortar
and artillery support, with possibly a few
bunches of tanks in suitable positions, as
the riveters of the system.
Then comes a zone a couple of kilor
metres deep with flexible defence, in
which moving units have clear elbow
room to fall on attackers who break
through the frontal scheme.
Next, there will be a mile or so with
every kind of defence —mines, barbed-
wire, booby-traps, mortars, m.-g.
grenade posts, infantry positions and
powerful artillery and armor.
Next again there is another manoeuvre
area of two or three miles with tanks and
command posts, snipers and ambushes
in escape tunnels.
Lastly the hard core of the main posi-
tion, manned by picked troops and backed
by artillery and tanks.
Thus, no fewer than five layers have to
be stripped off before the German rear
of a local position is reached. And
every inch of it is fought over, while
each layer calls for new methods of
approach and the bringing up of new
types of weapons and equipment.
The generalised defence is elastic and
spread over great areas, which makes it
difficult to take the main system by the
throat and destroy it in one act.
Detached, the defence areas neverthe-
less have strong cohesion —they form a
sort of molecular system in which every-
thing is alive and in which the chemical
structure can change by a rearrangement
or re-relation of the chains or rings or
molecules, forming something new but
also something still strong and deadly as the
older structures disintegrate under attack
The fighting is of a kind m which
troops of the sandshoe and pickle-bottle
guerrilla units, so beloved of romantic
correspondents, would stand a P 0 0!:
chance —the raging combat of talone
giants who have the faculty for growing
new claws as they wear out their old
ones or have them torn off. .
“I say to»every Allied soldier in No-
mandy, well done; well done mdee .
That was Montgomery a week ago, an
it is sufficient.


Areszo Falls.
“Ek Dum”: The most important news
from Italy for some time was that of the
storming of Arezzo, 30 miles from
Florence.
The Germans fought for it to the last
gasp, and it fell only after British, N.Z.
and Indian troops of the Eighth Army
secured Mt. Lignano, 3000 ft. high, over-
looking the city and its approaches.
With all the distractions of other more
popular fronts it was not generally
realised that the Eighth Army had fought
a battle almost as great as that of the
Gustav Line at Cassino and had been
forced to capture positions as difficult in
point of terrain as the Cassino positions.
The taking of Arezzo is a great step
forward. It opened not merely the road
to Florence but also to Urbino and the
Rimini coast on the left flank of the
Pisa defence line.
The Americans were approaching the
right flank of the line against the inland
defences of Leghorn, and it was only a
matter of time before the port would fall
into Allied hands.
The French meanwhile were working
up the road from Siena, and were only
seven miles from Poggibonsi, an im-
portant junction connected by road and
rail with the western sector of the Pisa
Line. They were within 20 miles of
Florence.
The main battle for this line will soon
be in progress, since both Allied armies
already are in the fringes of its screen de-
fences.
It will be an engagement second only
to the battle for Rome and of equal
importance. It is not realised that Italy
is as much a major front as Normandy
and just as capable of putting a heavy
strain on German reserves in men, fuel
and transport.
The Bombing.
“Ek Dum”: Western Europe continues
to writhe under the heavy bombing car-
ried out by the Allied strategical and tac-
tical air forces. The Germans have had
cause to be thankful that the aerodrome
areas from which the attacks are made
have been blanketed with- the worst
summer weather known for a century.
Nevertheless, all German rearward areas
in France are battlegrounds, and bomb-
ing continues to hamper concentrations
behind the German lines in Normandy.
Munich, a central pivot on the routes
to the eastern and Italian and Yugoslav
fronts, was blasted five times by heavy
U.S. forces last week. Considerable
damage was done to its industries and
communications.
London had five nights free from
flying bombs, and “the whole of southern
England” had one —the first since June
15. On other days and nights the devil-
ish missiles continued to come over, some-
times intermittently, sometimes more
steadily and latterly from points further
inland and further west than the earlier
sources in France. They were aimed a
little more to the east in central London,
round the Temple Bar area and beyond.
A bomb fell near Australia House,
causing some damage and “minor in-
juries” to some people inside the build-
ing. Others in the neighborhood were
killed; among them were two Australian
airmen: Flying-Officer Smith (Victoria)
and Flight-Sergeant O. Ferguson (Queens-
land). The Royal Free Hospital, in
Gray’s Inn-road, was blasted with pitiful
results. It seemed as if the bombers were
aiming for Euston and King’s Cross sta-
tions. The King and Queen saw one
bomb fall.
Defence generally is becoming more
intensive and efficient, and fighters seem
to have been taking a bigger toll. But
Mr. Herbert Morrison, the Minister for
Home Security, said last week that,
though he was sure the menace would
be mastered, it would be foolish and un-
kind to suggest that this would be an
early achievement. He thought it wise
to “act on the assumption that we may
have to put up with quite a bit of it yet.”
The military view was expressed by a
distinguished Australian officer in London
in an airgraph letter to an Australian
friend dated June 24, 11 days after flying
bombs began to fall:
The “doodle-bug” is causing us some
interest in London. One never wants to
belittle any weapon until it has been finally
disposed of, but I find it difficult to picture
just how low the German High Command
must have got to think that wars can be
won without fighting battles. It is a strik-
ing commentary on the state of affairs
in the German Air Force.
Nevertheless, the flying bombs are
causing serious loss and damage. They
caused 800 more deaths in three weeks
than were lost by the British Army in its
first fortnight of fighting in Normandy.
And there have been large-scale evacua-
tions from London; 152,652 out of
207,000 registered departed between July
2 and July 14.
Main Baffle Front in Poland.
“Ek Dum”: There is danger in the
current view of affairs in eastern Europe,
formed on wildly enthusiastic news-
paper and radio reports, all second-
hand. Danger, because it is apt to
produce just the mood which the Ger-
mans desire to see produced one
of overconfidence, which might give place
to disappointment and recrimination in
the event of failure to win quick victory
in the west.
When the suqrmer campaign opened
the German line in Russia from the Black
Sea to the Baltic consisted of the follow-
ing sections, each of which presented
some opportunities:
(1) There was the 30-mile line between
the Baltic and Lake Peipus. If the Rus-
sians could have blasted their way
through this—it not only presented ad-
vantage in concentration but offered the
rare chance for naval support from the
Baltic Fleet on the enemy flank or rear —
they could have scoured down behind the
Peipus Lake to take the Germans further
south in the rear on the Pskov front or
drive direct towards Riga. This the Rus-
sians did not attempt.
(2) There was the 90-odd miles south
of Peipus and Pskov, linking with the cen-
tral front. In the beginning there was
only a sort of tentative blow against this
which died with its own echo.
Yet by concentrating here the Russians
could have cut off all the Germans in
Estonia and the Narva region by a drive
to the railway junction of Walga (Valk),
the greatest junction north of Kaunas
(Kovno) in the Baltic States. This junc-
tion is only 80 miles from Pskov ; another
50 miles—l3o miles in all from Pskov —
would have brought the advancing Red
Army to the Baltic Sea, completely cut-
ting off Estonia and Finland, giving the
Russians air bases within 70 miles of
Riga and lodging Russian forces right on
the north flank of Kaunas —the German
H.Q. late in Great War I and the key
town in all enemy movements in the north
Baltic area. The advance would have
been a broad one, its southern flank along
the Ostrov line. It was the most econo-
mical advance possible in point of mile-
age, with a railway on each flank of the
sector.
But with forces so devastating that
Germans, dying in heaps and/or surren-
dering with “lamblike” cries (or bleat-
ings), are supposed to have fled westward
at sometimes 40 miles a day in “despe-
rate” fighting on a much wider front
further south, the Russians did not
attempt that short cut.
(3) Below the Pskov-Polotsk sector was
the great central sector. This was a bulge
into the Russian front of which the key-
points were Polotsk-Vitebsk-Orsha-Mogi-
lev-Bobruisk-Jlobin. Draw a line north-
south through Riga and it can be reached
from Ostrov in 130 miles. The same line,
by the most direct route, would take
twice the distance to reach by the nearest
practicable route from the far-eastern
boundaries of the central German bulge
across the Moscow-Warsaw main road.
The Russians chose to attack the bulge
and travel this extra distance.
South of the bulge lay the Pripet
Marshes; south of them again was the
German line covering Lwow (Lemberg)
and joining the Carpathian front along
the Sereth region.
Here again was a splendid military
opportunity if the Russians were in over-
whelming strength. If full masters of the
situation they could have scoured along
the north edge of the marsh in the Bara-
novichi region and round the southern
edge from Kovel. What could then have
been done to the Germans would have
been beyond thought.
The Germans made similar move-
ments in the opposite direction in Sep-
tember-October, 1941. When their
momentum came to a stop they had the
Ukraine west of the Dnieper, Kiev,
Dnepropetrovsk and a dozen more big
cities and ports, and had forced the
blowing up of the Dneiper Dam. They
claimed 900,000 Russian prisoners.
The Battle of Kovel
The Russians were not able to repeat
this operation in reverse. They tried. The
resultant fighting, scarcely mentioned by
correspondents because it did not result
in the Red Army “surging onwards,” but
really more creditable to it than more
advertised operations, has been mentioned
in Russian and German communiques.
Key points were Kovel, in the south-
west of the Pripet Marsh region, andPinsk,
in the north. These places, like Vilna in
Lithuania, were not fortress centres, parts
of any conceivable permanent defence
line. They represented valves in the lines
by which Russians would pipe themselves
to main battle areas further west, nearer
the Vistula and the German border.
The integrity of the German retreat and
the safety of German flanks in move-
ment south of the Lithuanian communi-
cation routes depended on the ability of
the Germans to keep the Pinsk and Kovel
valves throttled until the forward Ger-
man areas along the White Russian
border had been cleared and the retreat-
ing or “disengaging” forces had got
behind the danger points of the screen.
What happened was that the enemy
saved himself by the skin of his teeth-—,
saved himself from real disasters, in
nature outside the imagination of “ex-
perts” and “commentators.” It cost him
and the Russians dearly.
On the Kovel front, where the enemy
fell back to the Bug River from the burn-
ing city, the battle seems to have been as
fierce and concentrated as at Caen.
On -a six-mile front, which seemed
likely at times to give way and allow a
stream of Russians to spurt against the
surge of retreating Germans further
north and southward against Lwow, Rus-
sian artillery and armored formations
were engaged in terrible fighting. The
Germans admitted some penetrations
which seem for a time to have broken
up the front holding line. But they
claimed that along the six miles they
exacted as payment the destruction of a
record number of Russian tanks for so
small a front—l 72 in a day.
Berlin asserted at the week-end that
another Russian offensive against Lwow
was in being. Moscow did not mention it.
Vilna held out long enough for the pur-
poses of the enemy in the north, though
he had to sacrifice parachutists to assure
his objective. Pinsk, serving the purpose
of a stopper on the way to Brest Litovsk,
seemed to have done the same.
•
A Drawing-in of Outposts
Viewed as a whole, operations in White
Russia and Poland so far have not been
a main battle. They actually represent
something very like the earlier stages of
the fight along the Burma front for the
approaches to Imphal-Kohima and Mani-
pur seen under a powerful magnifying
glass, with the Russians in the place of
the Japanese and the Germans in place
of the British. Viewed thus, the thing
becomes a gigantic drawing-in of screen
forces, last season’s main defence lines
in the Minsk-Peipus line having been
thinned in the lull between winter and
summer to outposts—great outposts cer-
tainly—spread over a great stretch of
country.
There were all the features of Burma’s
first phases in March-April—infiltrations,
but on divisional instead of company
scale, separated by tens of miles, by great
forests, lake and river systems instead of
by spurs of the ranges; surroundings of
retiring forces, but forces consisting of
regiments or even depleted divisions in-
stead of companies or platoons. Officers
were captured, but, in keeping with the
grand scale of the outpost war, the subal-
terns of this giants’ game are colonels or
major - generals, the company com-
manders lieutenant-generals. A platoon
meant as much in Burma,, as a regiment
here.
The whole movement is accelerated by
the different nature of the terrain and of
communications. Battered, perhaps even
reeling, with large bits torn out of their
columns, the Germans have drawn in,
their bulging screen salient in the centre.
When this withdrawal was almost com-
plete they began to withdraw under pres-
sure on the front immediately to the north
in the Polotsk-Pskov sector, and immedi-
ately south, in their usual manner and
shape, and along the routes of their 1941
advance.
To the East Prussian Defences
The incidents of the great retreat and
pursuit are worthy of its scale. The mile-
ages per day are breath-taking. From
Orsha beyond Baranovichi Gap down the
main Moscow-Warsaw road, the penetra-
tion was about 250 miles. Vilna, taken
at the mid-week (Moscow claimed the
annihilation of the garrison; Berlin
alleged that the garrison got away), and
Vitebsk are 180 miles apart by airline and
much more by road. The Russians report
having taken over 20,000 inhabited places.
Each day of advance has its features.
On July 10 the bitter fight for pene-
tration west of Kovel* was reported and
the capture of 3000 inhabited places on
the third Russian front alone, with 6350
prisoners and a major-general of the 57th
Infantry brought in.
On July 11 Marshal Stalin in a special
order recorded a break-through on a
32-mile front on the Shara River, west
of Baranovichi, and the capture of the
important communication centre of
Slonim. There was also recorded the
cutting of the Vilna-Dvinsk road and the
Dvinsk-Kaunas road. Russian troops
were said to be fighting for the annihila-
tion of the Germans in the centre of
Vilna, and Major-General Schmidt,
G.O.C. of the Ninth Army’s Engineering
Group, was reported captured. General
Bagramyan’s armies on the first Baltic
front were said to have regrouped for
an advance after the capture of Polotsk.
It was reported that the original 41,000
prisoners taken at Minsk were “increas-
ing by thousands every day.”
Towards the Insterburg Gap
Next day’s news included a far more
important development than the taking
of towns and cutting of so-called
“escape routes” —a swift thrust to Alytus
which covered 45 miles in three days,
bringing the Russians on to the southern
flank of the Kaunas-Insterburg railway.
This can rightly be called the first Rus-
sian move into the main. battle line of
East Prussia. The drive is aimed at the
Insterburg Gap, one of the four main
military approaches to East Prussia.
The gap is 40-odd miles wide along the
core of the Insterburg-Allenstein rail-
way, between Tapiau and Angerburg.
It is flat country, with only slight undula-
tions up to 100 ft., between a couple of
well-kept forests —Wehlau on the north,
Rumentin on the south-east.
Mostly the gap consists of unfenced
farms and little villages, with cornfields
and tree clumps, good tank country with
wide fields of vision. The right flank
of the defence is anchored to the wide
Lake Mauer, and the shallow Angerapp
River across the gap is a pretty tough
tank trench, especially as the banks are
marshy.
The Germans on July 13 admitted that
they had evacuated Pinsk. The Russians
announced next day that they had taken
it by storm, after crossing two rivers.
Almost immediately afterwards, D.N.B.
reported the Russians inside Grodno,
on the Niemen, an old fortress-centre of
one of the two northern Russian assembly
areas at the outset of the, last war —
the other was the Kovno (Kaunas) line
along the Niemen further north. Grodno
is on the main Vilna-Warsaw railway
and the Niemen just south of the great
Augustow forest. There the Russians
are moving towards the 30-mile-long
Masurian defences of the Masurian
Lakes, and towards Bielystok.
After the news that Grodno was clear
of the enemy came that of the
fall of Volkovisk, 130 miles s.-w. of
Grodno, on the Moscow-Bielystok rail-
way, an important junction which was
Russian central H.Q. during the mobili-
sation period in the last war.
The Germans declared that, having dis-
engaged from the enemy, they now had
retired to a new defence line-in Central
Poland running roughly along the Bug.
This is the first obstacle common to
most of the length of Poland, from the
East Prussian defences to the neighbor-
hood of Lwow and the Carpathian area.
On the south, it links with the Sereth de-
fences, 100 miles or so west of Lwow.
It was here suggested last week that the
Germans might try to defend this line
as a main line.
Having arrived at the broad, mostly
shallow Bug, which runs into the Vis-
tula in the Novo-Georgievsk fortress area,
30 miles on the seaward side of Warsaw,
after taking in the wide, marshy-banked
Narew, which flows from the East Prus-
sian lake area to the north-west, the Rus-
sians may be said to have reached the
outer face of the external defences of
Germany all the way along the front
from the Black Sea to Kaunas.
The next few weeks promise to be
some of the most interesting of the whole
war on the Eastern Front.
In brief: —
In the first six months of 1944 U.S. strategic
air forces alone dropped 266,227 tons of bombs
for a loss of 2399 bombers and 1086 fighters—
round 20,000 personnel. However, in the same
period 6109 enemy aircraft were claimed—32l2
destroyed b y bombers and 2897 by fighters—
plus 1546 on the ground.
* * * *
Two enemy vessels were sunk in the Channel
on July 15 when H.M.S. destroyers Tartar
and Haida caught them abroad. A third was
set on fire. The British ships were not damaged
and had no casualties.


Please use less
#-
BRYLCREEM
The Services want it!
As all the Brylcreem at present being made
is going to the Services, you may find diffi-
culty in buying it. So 'use as little as you
can each time and massage every drop well
into your scalp. And here is a useful hint.
When the jar is nearly empty add a teaspoon-
ful of clean, cold water, shake vigorously and
note how clean the cream comes from the
jar. Yes! you can use the last drop.
Lay-by for Victory. Buy 5/- National Savings Stamps.
HEALTH AHD FREEDOM FROM
CRUEL ACHES AHD PAIHS!
NOW A LIVING
ADVERTISEMENT FOR R.U.R.
The body in health is a marvel-
lous piece 6f mechanism, but
torn by the aches and pains of
rheumatism and similar dis-
orders it makes life miserable in
the extreme. The case of Mrs.
Mollie Neimann, via Maldon,
Victoria, is one in point. She
found in R.U.R. the answer to
a life of pain and torture and
now she writes:—
“Having benefited so much by your
treatment for Rheumatism, I am
only too happy to help you to con-
tinue to carry on the good work you
are doing. To bring back health and
freedom from the cruel aches and
pains of Rheumatism, etc., is truly
a divine gift, and I lie cosy in bed
at night now and .thank God that X
was advised to take your R.U.R.
“I am one of your living advertise-
ments. I have got rid of all the
Rheumatism I had and am feeling
years youfiger.”
R.U.R. owes its success to the com-
monsense nature of its eliminative
and toxic-removing properties. It has
achieved many recoveries equally mar-
vellous as that of Mrs. Niemann. It is
■: •
*0? * %
m
m.
u
the only remedy which at the same
time contains a laxative, liver stimu-
lant, kidney cleanser, blood purifier
and acid corrective. R.U.R. is there-
fore truly a. five-fold remedy, praised
by thousands. R.U.R. is bound to do
you good.
Take R.U.R. regularly for a while.
Smaller size, 4/-; the money-back
guaranteed full treatment, 7/6.
Obtainable at chemists and stores
everywhere.
RJCHTfYOV HBE
STRONGER... LIGHTER .*. . LONCER-LASTING
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
TRAVEL
CAS E S
The MERCURY Sim. LATHE
Sole N.Z.Dist. Agents:
A. M. Satterthwaite
- & Go. Ltd.
Hereford St., Christchurch
“THE little GIANT
of the Lathe World”
AVAILABLE FOR CASH or EASY TERMS
Manufactured by •
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co.Pty.Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY. BRISBANE,
For Victoria:
Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 28 Market St., Melbourne.
Sole NS. W. Dist. Agentsr
Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Lt<f*
139 Clarence Street, Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS
Provincial and Browser, winners at
Moonee Valley, are the first horses raced
by their respective owners, “David
Monty” and Miss E. M. Smith. Provin-
cial, a 6-to-4 favorite, won the first
Coburg Handicap in good style from
Blue Horizon and Lynmouth, and
Browser, bought several months ago for
150gns., landed a betting plunge in the
Cumberland Steeple. He was backed
from 8 to 1 down to 9 to 2.
Browser gave his apprentice rider B.
“Robert” his first cross-country success —
it was the lad’s second ride over fences ;
he had had several unsuccessful rides
over hurdles. “Robert” is really Brian
Robert Smith, but so many other Smiths
are licensed that the V.R.C. committee
decided he should be known as “Brian
Robert.” He won several races on the
flat, but increased weight limited his
opportunities. He handled Browser well,
and should go far in the game. Browser
ran in the G.N. Hurdle, but is not en-
gaged in the Australian Hurdle or Steeple.
Sugar Cane (Balkan Prince-Isosceles),
winner of the second Coburg Handicap,
was timed to run the six furlongs 3|
seconds faster than Provincial recorded
in winning the first division. As this
meant a difference of more than 50 yards,
the official clock must have erred in one
race. Sugar Cane was solidly backed at
4 to 1, and finished strongly to beat La
Patrice on the post. He is owned in
Adelaide by E. R. and O. J. Smith, who
won the Adelaide Cup with Chief Watch-
man.
R. Heather limped on to the scales
after landing Cellini winner by a head
from Contact in the Glenbervie Handi-
cap. His foot was twisted when entangled
with another jockey’s leg at the start,
and later was squeezed against the rails.
Cellini’s form was an improvement on
his performance at Flemington a week
earlier. Gold Hazard, backed from
twenties down to eights, defeated Lugano
in another head finish for the Dunalister
Handicap, and the judge declared a dead-
heat betweeh Malaga and Conserve, each
7 to 1, for the Baqyule Handicap.
* * * *
The crowd of 18,000 at Moorefield was
surprising, in view of the wet and bois-
terous conditions. Sydney racegoers
apparently will accept any discomfort.
The totalisator handled £46,110 10s., of
which nearly £20,000 went through the
win machine.
Haripur, winner of the Brighton Han-
dicap, apparently is not a stayer. He
had run only moderately in the Rosehill
July Handicap (1£ mile) the previous
Saturday, but at Moorefield he finished
brilliantly at a mile and beat Arahura by
three-quarters of a length. Haripur now
has won four races worth £2846 this
season, and his trainer, O. Pettit, may set
the horse for the Epsom. Arahura again
raced unluckily, but she is becoming one
of those mares for whom excuses always
are being made, a costly business in the
long run. Gold Salute raced no more
kindly than at Rosehill, and his trainer,
E. Hush, has an unenviable task in plac-
ing him.
Milanja was only second reserve for
the Sans Souci Welter, but scratchings
gave him a start, and he won narrowly
from the unlucky Bruce Wood. Advan-
taged by Johnson’s 71b. allowance, he led
from barrier-rise, followed by Cradle
Song and Bruce Wood. Bruce Wood
headed him in the straight, but Milanja
came again. Johnson secured a lucky
ride on the winner. He was actually in
a horse float, returning home, when his
master, McCarten, recalled him. For some
reason, certainly not on form, Young
Valais was made favorite. He has had
his share of buffetings in the last year,
including a walking trip from Brisbane;
and* apparently tired of racing, he turned
the wrong way at barrier-rise and refused
to gallop.
A year ago Phalaran, Moorefield Han-
dicap winner from the favorite, Lord
Spear, and White Feather, was a speedy
sprinter who could just run six furlongs.
Tried over a distance, he has proved an
immediate success, and Saturday’s win
suggests a chance in better company.
Phalaran, however, may have been a
trifle lucky to beat White Feather, who
nearly fell shortly after the start and
then was checked twice along the back
of the course. White Feather’s apprentice
rider, Doon, has a penchant for sticking
to the rails. Often it pays, but the policy
should be used with discretion. High-
gate, never a good sticker, found 8.11
too heavy at 10 furlongs, although the
Darwon stable thought him sure to win.
Two Queensland Derby winners, Spear-
ace (1939) and Lord Spear (1941), were
beaten in the Moorefield Handicap.
Spearace has shown no form in Sydney
and beat only two home, but Lord Spear’s
second was encouraging. A long strider,
he will be suited by a bigger track than
Moorefield, and he is down to a handy
weight if he regains even part of his
Brisbane form.
A fast horse often can overcome a wide
barrier draw from the six furlongs at
Moorefield. Steadfast started from No.
20 in the Three- and Four-year-old Han-
dicap, but jumped straight into the lead
and was not headed. Big punters were
undeterred by Steadfast’s position;
showing one of those remarkable flashes
of insight, three cash punters won £7950
among them. Boorchief, best backed
against Steadfast, finished second after
being checked on the hill, and Sunfel, a
better track than race galloper, was a
fair third. Sunfel has had only limited
experience and. is likely to improve.
Victrix, winner of the first Juvenile
Division, now has won at three of her
five starts for £l3lB in prize-money. Vic-
trix was standing slightly behind the line,
but she shot through quickly to take the
lead and beat Duke Royal by three
lengths. By Denis Boy from Leila Vale,
Victrix is one of the strongest two-year-
olds in Sydney. She is not bred to stay,
but she should be first-class up to a mile
next season. Union Jack, by Manitoba
from Lambent (not to be confused with
Lambent, the dam of Flight), was a street-
corner tip, but an outside barrier position
beat him. Union Jack began smartly,
but was forced off the course most of
the way and did well to finish fifth.
Accession, the first of Silver Scorn’s
five foals to start in a race, may improve
more than any other beaten two-year-old
in either Juvenile division. He showed
lack of experience by missing the start
slightly, then ran into trouble about the
three furlongs. Accession, nevertheless,
still finished third to Victrix and Duke
Royal, and backers who lost heavily on
him on Saturday will give him another
chance. Whether the colt will fulfil Derby
hopes is a different matter.
Two-year-old form usually is consis-
tent. Philgita followed up her Rosehill
success by winning the second Juvenile
division, but she had only half a head to
spare from Sovereign’s Fate. Close
watchers of the finish expected a protest,
but both horses were equally responsible
for a scrimmage in the straight and no
objection was entered. Philgita (Picca-
dilly-Fairy Mag) cost only 120gns. as a
yearling. Sovereign’s Fate (Golden
Sovereign-Gipsy Fate), bought for
400gns., is a half-sister to the Newcastle
horse Bestow.
Abbeville little more than cantered
home to win the Trial Stakes by six
lengths from Allan Veil and the top-
weight, Castle Frontenac. So far he has
raced only against moderates, and some
keen judges reserve their judgment of him
until he tackles open company. Abbe-
ville, however, appears one of the smart*
est horses seen in Sydney for years,
and if it be decided to take him to
Newcastle for the Cameron Handicap
(July 29) he will be hard to beat with
only 7.5. Castle Frontenac bled slightly,
but his immediate future may not be
affected. He, too, will win in higher class.
* * * *
Third in the Doomben Newmarket a
week earlier, Bahtheon improved to win
the £2OOO Doomben Cup on Saturday
from Brumond and Wiseland. Bahtheon,
in the middle of the field, had a perfect
rails run to the half-mile, where he was
taken to the outside. He raced clear in
the straight, but was hard-ridden in the
last 50 yards to win by a head. Bah-
theon’s owner, R. A. Young, was too
busy feeding starving stock on his Charle-
ville station to visit Brisbane for the Cup.
* , * * »
A few Sydney trainers are experienc-
ing a fair season, but several capable
men are low on the list. Unless
he can turn out winners there is
nothing in the game for a trainer, even
though he gets £3 10s. or more from his
patrons for each horse. A trainer cannot
make a good horse of a bad one, and
if his team does not include the right
material he has little hope of success. Of
course many trainers are superior to
others, and, going upon results, it is sur-
prising' that some ever have horses in
their stables. That some even take out
licenses must be in the hope that luck
will eventually give them something good.
Miscellaneous
Footscray and Carlton, two of the
V.F.L. “four,” met at Footscray on
Saturday and put up a slashing game.
’Scray broke away with a four-goal lead,
specialising in fast play down the centre.
Carlton, flat out, was eight points ahead
entering the last quarter. A great match
saw ’Scray finish stronger and win 13.8-
12.11. Richmond and Fitzroy of the
“four” were untroubled: Richmond
16.17-9.13 v. Collingwood, Fitzroy 25.29-
8.8. v. Geelong, North Melbourne 12.20-
7.11 v. St. Kilda, Essendon 15.16-7.15 v.
“Sowth,” Melbourne 22.25-7.10 v. Haw-
thorn.
* * * *
Rugby Union matches on Saturday
were played in unpleasant, squally
weather. On a heavy ground East held
Randwick to 3-all within two minutes of
the bell, but a superb last-minute try by
winger Slattery clinched it for the ’Wicks,
6-3. Gordon scored three tries to two
against Uni., but Cummins’s boot swung
the scales in the Students’ favor, who ran
out winners 14-9. Randwick leads two
points ahead of West, with Uni. third and
Drummoyne fourth. Other games:
Drummoyne 9, North 8; West 16, St. George
8; Parramatta 6, Manly 5.
* * * +
Having his first fight since Billy
Fletcher knocked him out early in May,
Stan Wilkes was outpointed by Jimmy
Dundee at Leichhardt. He had knocked
out Dundee in four rounds nine months
ago, but this time the veteran was too
good for him. Though a fast Wilkes
finish made many spectators hoot the de-
cision, Wilkes was well behind when hos-
tilities ended.
A sterling exhibition of boxing was
given by Ron Heron, a Young Digger,
in outpointing Jackie Daniels at Sydney
Stadium. Thought to be overmatched,
Heron did some very clever work with
left leads. The more experienced welter
was game and tough, but he was a well-
beaten pug at the end of 12 thrilling
rounds.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
Novice Handicap : Allan Veil, 1;
Skip Bomber, 2 ; Manday Son, 3.
Two-year-old Encourage Handi-
cap : Accession, 1 ; Calgary, 2;
Margate, 3.
Three-year-old Encourage Handi-
cap: Craigie, 1; Castle Frontenac,
2 ; Mar Mong, 3.
Moore Park Handicap: Lord
Neith, 1; Ron Rico, 2; Stream-
ford, 3.
July Handicap : Moondarewa, 1 ;
Chatham’s Choice, 2; Orderly, 3.
Maroubra Handicap: Milanja, 1;
Nobleman, 2 ; Grand Prodige, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
An angel floating over this city any
morning last week would have been
assailed with the unmistakable whiff of
bacon and eggs. Both were plentiful after
many moons of no bacon and hardly any
eggs, and only the dyspeptic could resist
the urge to luxuriate in the new-found
plenty. In spite of advice from official
sources that plain bread and butter are
more healthful few housewives resisted
the temptation to pop a cake in the oven.
Youngest among those present at the
French delegation’s reception was a baby
who was seeing the first Bastille Day of
its life. As the French habit is to let all
the children take part in such celebra-
tions, the youngster was very welcome.
The great moment of the gathering came
when the Lord Mayor gave “France” as
the toast‘following M. Mathis’s toast of
“The King.” The reception-room was
attractively decorated in tricolor, even
the flowers in the bowls being red, white
or blue. Tricolor scarves were sported
by several of the guests.
Whether or not it was chic pervading
the place or just accidental the dancers
at the July 14 Ball were the most attrac-
tively-turned-out crowd to be seen on
this city’s dance floors for many moons.
There wasn’t a “shall we dress or shan’t
we?” look about any of them. Every-
one had fossicked out his or her most
formal glad rags, and some of the women
looked rather chilly for this bitter winter
season. In the throng were the A. E. V.
Richardson pair, with handsome daughter
Yvonne (now Mrs. Cust) and her khaki-
clad husband. Welcomed by many
friends who hadn’t seen her about for
quite a while owing to her recent illness
was pretty Mrs. Bowen Pain, accompanied
by her husband.
Guests of the ball committee included
French service men and Jperibboned
officers who’d seen service in many parts
of the world, but weren’t talkative about
their doings. Tahitian soldiers were
present, too, but they liked looking on
best, and said they weren’t dancing men.
A bit of fun and quite a lift to funds
was the sale of “lucky match” packets
that brought a prize for every eighth one
sold, so everyone had a fair chance of
collecting something. Prizes ranged from
water-color pictures to half-a-dozen eggs.
To say that Ormandy concerts have
been booked out doesn’t adequately indi-
cate the state of Town Hall seating
arrangements on concert nights. The
organisers squeeze the rows of seats so
close together that only the very slim find
it possible to move an eyelash once in
their seats. Should this city’s taste for
classical music continue to develop one
“repeat” concert won’t be enough and
two or three will have to be given.
Of course it’s not entirely love of
music that brings crowds to these con-
certs. The celebrity is the great draw,
and Ormandy is the happiest of cele-
brities, with a pleasant personality, a
great reputation and a very good press.
Navy, Army and Air Force will be the
beneficiaries of a concert which Ormandy
will conduct on July 25 —with other con-
certs planned it will make a very full
week for him. That the coffers of the
various welfare groups have something
substantial to look forward to is indi-
cated by the preferential bookings. Seats
can be reserved in any part of the house,
and people are eagerly paying their
guinea for seats anywhere at all in order
to make sure of them. Stravinsky’s “Fire
bird” is one of the popular items of the
all-Russiari programme. Margaret Scho-
field, pianoforte soloist in the Stravinsky
opus, is having a busy time, as she recently
took over the concert engagements and
pupils of Raymond Lambert, who is going
on tour with Marjorie Lawrence.
Another of those two-brothers-two-
sisters matrimonial setups is that of the
Leary and Finley families. Last week Pat
Leary became Mrs. John Finley. Sister
Mrs. Gavin Finley was bridesmaid, as
also was friend and fellow-Wran Helen
Wood. Bridegroom, Captain John Finley,
A.1.F., has the M.C. ribbon on his breast.
Pat wore a frock as like as didn’t matter
to that Mrs. Neville Palmer wore earlier
in the week, except that Pat’s was bridal
white.
A link between the Norwegian colony
here and their motherland was the mar-
riage on Saturday of Betzy Hartup and
Gunner Sverre Solbakk, of the Royal
Norwegian Navy. The bride, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Hartup, of East St.
Kilda, is of the second generation of her
family to be born here. The bridegroom
has had many adventures since escaping
from invaded Norway and later from
Sweden, and has been decorated for his
exploits.
The “something borrowed” at Mar-
garet De Ravin’s marriage to Colonel
John Gardiner Wilson next Saturday will
be a wedding frock which is being lent
by school friend Kath Dowsley. The
knot-tying will be at Grammar chapel,
and the bride will be attended by her
sister Rosemary. Margaret is the
daughter of the Stanley De Ravins.
Betty Gent, whose engagement to
Ronald Cumming is announced, is a girl
who really can add up figures. She re-
cently wrote a thesis, since published by
the Council of Aeronautics, which helped
to gain her a M.A. degree with honors in
maths. Her engagement will not inter-
fere with her taking up a scholarship at
Cambridge which 4 she won some time
back. Her betrothed is a Bachelor of
Engineering, and they are both in the
same line of war work at the moment.
He is a son of Rationing Director J. B.
Cumming and Mrs. Cumming. Austin
Murcott made this picture of Betty.
Another shop to be jotted down in the'
address book is that run by the Minister-
ing Children’s League, which opened last
week. It is at the back of Glen’s and
opens on to the arcade beyond Howey
Court. There is plenty of variety in the
stock. Prettiest item on opening day was
a party apron of pink organdie which
would keep the hostess acting as butler
and cook as well looking glamorous or
transform the most peppery-tempered
maid into an angel. The league has never
appealed publicly for funds, as it has
many good friends who can be depended
upon to rally round when coffers are low.
But in war-time there are so many claims
and the league’s resources are being
strained by new calls upon its services.
Girls who are not wasting their time
while waiting for their homeland to be
liberated are the Javanese lasses who’ve
been here since their evacuation. They
are taking courses at the Emily Macpher
son Domestic College and liking it. Java-
nese cooks are world-renowned, and these
girls probably have had a good ground-
ing in that line, but can do with sofne
iiistruction into the mysteries of buns,
fruit cakes and such Western articles of
fare.
Nobody who has had experience of
the cold and thankless job of button-sell-
ing begrudges Mrs. B. C. Judd, C.W.O.
member, the wrist watch won by her as
most successful Red Cross button-seller
during the June collecting campaign.
Badge-hawkers have to endure being
shunned and dodged by frugal citizens,
and many of the women who have tried
the weary task say they now drop a coin
in every proffered tin they pass, as they
know what it’s like to be turned down.
From Sydney
Since 1789 the fourteenth of July can
never have been such a clarion call to
Frenchmen as it was this year. On that
far-off summer day in Paris the fall of
the Bastille had a significance for France.
As Carlyle thundered: “Thus shall the
Bastille be abolished from our earth, and
with it Feudalism, Despotism, and, one
hopes, Scoundrelism generally, and all
hard usage of man by his brother man.”
On this fourteenth of July with the hour
of their country’s deliverance from a
ruthless enemy already struck, Frenchmen
in Sydney (as indeed everywhere in the
world) drained the toast of “Long live
France” with hope in their eyes and
courage in their hearts.
In Sydney at the Fighting French Lega-
tion, Frenchmen assembled to drink the
toast of the day. Andre Brenac presided
and made suitable speech.
A large photograph of General de
Gaulle decked with laurels and a small
tricolor was the symbolic point to which
all eyes turned. The French colony re-
joiced, but there was nothing spectacular
in their celebrations on France’s Day. It
was a feast of the heart rather than of
the board.
The little Les Amis de la France Club
was crowded out with French residents of
Sydney and their friends. There were
tricolor ribbons to pin on every lapel.
There were pennants, another speech by
Andre Brenac, this time thanking the
president of the club, Mrs. Ivy Moore,
and a speech by Father Nicolas.
Widespread sympathy is felt for Mrs.
“Don” Symington, whose husband died
last week after a long and painful illness.
Probably no man was better known in
the Islands than James Fewell Syming-
ton. For years he represented Lever Bros,
in Guvula (British Solomon Islands).
He and his wife were caught in the great
eruption at Rabaul, where hq was man-
ager for Carpenters. On his retirement
they made their home at Kokoto (New
Guinea), where, until ill health brought
him to Sydney, he was secretary of the
golf club. In his youth he had a beauti-
ful singing voice, and was a chorister at
St. Andrew’s Cathedral. He was buried
in the family grave at Gore Hill; the
funeral service, which was at St.
Thomas’s, North Sydney, was conducted
by Bishop Wilton, a friend of New
Guinea days. Hugh Symington, of
Toowoomba, and Robert Symington,
of Newcastle, are brothers. A sister, Mrs.
Nell Strang, lives in London.
Lady Gowrie, so soon to leave Aus-
tralia, is paying a round of farewells
which might stagger the strongest man.
But she smiles in friendly fashion as she
revisits scenes which have been familiar
during her long stay in this country. Last
week, as Commandant-in-Chief of Volun-
tary Aid Detachments, she spent a happy
and informal afternoon among the V.As.
The party, which was at the Feminist
Club, was a farewell and an investiture.
Sixteen V.As. received at the vice-regal
hands the King’s bar and brooch for
more than 12 years’ service. Some of the
V.As. who received the decoration have
given war service during and ever since
the last war. Lady Wakehurst, who is
principal commandant of V.As., intro-
duced the guest.
Lady Gowrie told of starting in her
V.A. duties as a washer-up in World War
I, and of being promoted from the kitchen
to the wards during the influenza epi-
demic. If the last service wasn’t sheer
bravery, what is? This is a photograph
of the popular Governor-General’s popu-
lar wife.
The V.As.’ gift to Lady Gowrie was a
gold powder compact.
Rain cannot dampen or wind chill the
excitement that always attends the open-
ing of a ballet season. The first night
of the Borovansky Australian ballet was
no exception. The Royal was packed
with ballet-lovers. Before the curtain
went up the audience was intrigued by
the thought that “Fa?ade,” a ballet
new to Sydney, was to be staged.
“Faqade” proved a mirthmaker, the
milkmaid scoring much laughter 'as
she still went through the action of milk-
ing, even when hoisted on the shoulders
of mountaineers. “The Scotch Rhap-
sody” also was laughter-raising. Rations
ing does not seem tq have affected the
dressing of the company, which was as
crisp and gay as any seen in pre-war days.
One of the most interested of onlookers
was Frances Scully. With her sat Royal
Academy of Dancing examiner Miss
Kathleen Danetree. The H. J. Bradys
had their usual seats in the front row
of the circle.- Near them sat Mrs. Erik
Fischer; and just along were the T. H.
Kellys, the blue of a summer sky in her
velvet coat. Mrs. Ben Edye and daughter
Stephanie were there. Bombardier Lois
Kennedy, A.W.A.S., Grafton, Minerva’s
director Kathleen Robinson and Mrs.
K. S. Winchcombe were’among the ap-
plauders; so were Mrs. Angus McPher-
son (daughter of E. J. Tait), Mrs. Roly
Walker and Penelope Cay. Mrs. A. H.
Scott, sister of E. J. Tait, came up from
Melbourne for the opening.
Dorothy Stevenson, one of the chief
ballerinas, is responsible for the choreo-
graphy of “Sea Legend.” She is the
daughter of the Bishop of Grafton. In
the audience was a very proud mother.
Another of the principals, Laurel Marlyn,
like Dorothy, began her study of dancing
in Brisbane.
How pleased Sydney is to welcome
Marjorie Lawrence! Not only because
she is a great singer, but because she is
a woman of undaunted courage. Mar-
jorie, who is travelling with her husband,
Dr. King, speaks in high terms of
Sister Kenny’s treatment of infantile
paralysis. The singer, whose voice is
unimpaired by her illness, is going north
•to entertain the troops. She will open
her concert season in Melbourne, and her
first Sydney concert will take place on
September 4. She is still the same bright,
smiling Marjorie that Sydney loved when
she was here before her trouble. Paquin
designed her frocks for that season. This
time many of them have been designed
by Katherine Kuhn, and because she
reclines on a settee when singing they are
of the bouffant style.
When it comes to hats every woman is
a Mrs. Miniver. Through the wind and the
rain, by car and train, women came to
the sale of hats in aid of the A.C.F. This
was in Romano’s oyster-bar ; Mrs. Leo
Marks, organiser. By the end of the second
day all were sold, and the A.C.F. was the
richer by £174. The hats, small trifles of
chiffon and flowers and veiling, perish-
able but embellishing, were definitely for
the young, and the young gobbled them
up.
Two young flying men’s wives, one
Mrs. Rollo Kingsford Smith and the other
Mrs. R. H. Thompson, went off happily ;
the first with a trifle of straw and bright
field flowers supposed to represent the
Polish peasant cap worn in that country’s
happier days. The other one was of black
chiffon, with spots like a shower of
colored confetti. It was called “Evening
in Paris.” On this fourteenth of July there
was once more a prospect of pleasant
evenings to come in that once gay-hearted
capital.
Back in Sydney after more than three
years’ service, Flying-Officer Kenn Brod-
ziak tells of the glorious shows he saw
in New York and ’Frisco in the three
weeks’ leave he spent in those cities on
his way home. Kenn, who has already
linked up with a lot of his Australian
friends, was one of the first batch of
flying men to be'sent to Canada under
the Empire Training Scheme. As well
as doing his best to afflict the enemy in
Africa and on other war fronts, he has
also done his best on various leaves to
take in every show, musical and dramatic,
London and New York have offered.
Jeanie Ranken made such a good job
of the launching of the new ballet and
theatre club that at the end of the meet-
ing she was almost drowned under the
applause, called for by one of the audi-
ence. The founders hope by monthly
lectures and demonstrations to build up
and foster a love of ballet, not only in
the student and the professional, but in
the public. The fundamentals of ballet,
music in relation to ballet, decor, costum-
ing and lighting are some of the items
listed on the bill of fare. Plans are being
made for an exhibition of costumes and
photographs relating to the ballet to be
held in December. The club has already
a library of outsize dimensions and super-
quaiity. This is a gift of John Briand,
and was given to the club without any
tafgs. Owing to the value of the books
(many of which are now out of print),
the committee has decided that they shall
be used as a source of reference only.
After the war the Master in Heraldry
should be co-opted to design a decoration
worthy of our Land Army Girls. How
often do we think, as we eat a serving of
young greens, cauliflower or juicy carrot,
of the girls who have done so much to
keep these good things on our diet list?
On the food front they have been terrible
as an army with banners to the insect
and the parasite which would devour the
fruits of the earth before services and
civilians could benefit. Healthy and up-
right, these splendid young Australians in
their workmanlike uniforms revel in work
which is as spectacular as the changing
of the seasons.


Public Notice.
I, LASZLO KEMENY, of Hungarian nationality, bom
at Budapest and resident four years and ten months
in Australia, two months in Canada, two months in
London, now residing at 740 New South Head Road,
Rose Bay, New South Wales, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, KURT ANDREAS AGID, Stateless, of former
Austrian nationality, born at Vienna, Austria, and
resident over five years in Australia, now residing
at Sherwood, Woonona Avenue, Wahroonga, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
c: ■■■ ■ -
Legal Notice.
JOHN MILLER, deceased, son of Alexander Miller
and Bridget Miller (born McMahon). —PURSUANT to
Order of the Supreme Court of New South Wales in
Equity made in a Suit (No. 180 of 1943) intituled
“IN THE MATTER of THE ESTATE OF JOHN
MILLER formerly of Moruya in the State of New
South Wales Independent Means now deceased—
BETWEEN PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED) Plaintiff and NORBERT McMAHON
Defendant” WHEREBY the following inquiry was
directed namely: Who were the persons entitled
according to the Statutes for the distribution of
intestates’ estates to the estate of the said John
Miller deceased living at his death and whether any
of them are since dead and if so who are their legal
representatives.—NOTlCE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
all persons claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry are to send by post pre-paid to Perpetual
Trustee Company (Limited), Hunter Street, Sydney.
N.S.W., Australia, so as to reach it on or before
23rd March, 1945, their full names, addresses, and
descriptions and full particulars of their claims,
otherwise they may be excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. Claimants are to attend personally
or by Solicitor before the Master in Equity, Supreme
Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney, aforesaid on the
4th April, 1945, at 11 a.m. for adjudicating upon
claims. A claimant not residing in New South Wales
must send with particulars of claim the name and
address of a person in New South Wales to whom
notices can be sent. 30th June, 1944. —R. G.
WOODBRIDGE, Moruya, N.S.W., plaintiff’s solicitor.
BUY WA R SAVIN G S CERT »FI CATE S
M .0
9 *v
ar /*.
o' 4 '
3t
/ \
♦ A
P
A
R&MC Pl 4
(SM* tW
«0 »
Wm
so.
CORRUGATED IRON
PREPARES FOR THE FUTURE
LYSRGHT'S
GALVANIZED
IRON
LYSRGHT'S
ZINCANNEAL
At tfie present time Lysoght’s Galvanized Iron is doing 'a
vital wartime job but the time is coming when it will
be called upon to play an even more important part in
the post-war reconstruction of Australia. When that day
dawns the builder, the farmer, and the plumber, will find
the Lysaght organisation ready to meet all demands that
may be mode upon it for supplies of this famous building
sheet that is as strong as steel, easy and quick to erect.
and low in both first cost and upkeep. In fact, even now
... . • . •
plans are being prepared to meet all eventualities so that supplies, which are restricted
present, con quickly be made available to the public as soon as hostilities cease. Thus in
midst of war, another Australian industry prepares for peace..
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD..
SIOIEI HEIIIUiNE HIS 111 E SSEEIISE tit It
SMOKE-OH!
“The noblest study of mankind is man.”
-— Magazine.
Whose favorite study is woman?
. »
“De-whiskering, as often as it’s necessary,
please, is, of course, another solitary occupa-
tion.” — “Woman.”
Even if it only takes half a mo.
Dependent.
So long have we been parted, sweet, I
count the hours until we meet. As tardily
each second ticks itself away, I’m like a
cat obliged to stand on heated bricks.
So, dear, you may be certain that no
circumstance will be detaining your Con
tonight unless it’s raining!
Con Cord.
“Randolph was thinking of the explosive in-
terview he had had with the general.”
—“Australian Journal.”
When the old man had gone off pop
and blown him up?
“There was something in a box but it didn’t
look like a woman’s hat.” — “Sun.”
So probably it was one.
•F *F *F *F
“Ballroom class, Monday, Friday nights. Full
stafl.”— Suburban paper.
Followers of Terps(hic)hore?
•F *F *F *F
“One of t'he minor horrors of war has been
the scarcity of corsets.” — “Women’s Weekly.”
Even the stoutest of women have been
exposed to its effects. *
»F *F *F *F
“You won’t feel you’ve a really new ace until
you have a new make-up.”— “New Idea.”
And probably look like the joker.
•F *F *F *F
“The racecourse atmosphere works harm to
the moral fibre.” — “S. M. Herald
Yet it is because of the morals they
get that most men go to the racecourse.
Post-War Planning.
“The homely girl who can talk sense and
cook will be the best bet after this "war.”
-—“Daily Telegraph” letter.
My features, I confess, incline
Towards the cubist in design;
My size in shoes is number nine;
The wiles of corsetry decline
My middle section to con fine;
In short, the bloke who penned the line
About the “female form divine”
Did not, I think, refer to mine.
But wait! There’s still a chance to hook
A husband, though I can’t dispense
The usual bait, for I can cook
t Tinned beef with modest competence ;
And now I’m looking for a book
About the art of talking sense.
P. M. LUSK.
Sour.
A young wife mailed this memo to
Her milkman’s place of biz:
“I wish your milk was half as fresh
As your new carter is.”
BRIAN BUREAU.
Cold Heat.
Why have I always to be told
I feel so hot when I’ve a cold ?
Because l know when I have got
A cold I do not feel so hot.
F. M.
Sodfdmething Meaty.
When I was a young blood in the
butchering business I had trouble with a
cashier.
I thought Geraldine was a little lamb
until I found her repeatedly going to the
pickle-roori! without apparent cause. As
she invariably came out more pickled
than she went in, I grew suspicious and
decided to investigate. I found the
reason concealed among the pickled pork,
and was unable to restrain myself from
drinking what remained. Unfortunately
Geraldine happened along just at that
moment.
With a yell like a stuck pig, she
immediately charged me, and she was
so beefy I went down like a pole-axed
steer. She immediately seized a chopper
to finish me off, but, swinging it reck-
lessly about her head, she luckily donged
herself. Whereupon I hastily removed
my carcass.
After that I decided that the butcher-
’ ing business was no chop.
T. W. N.
Dog’s Life.
“Though dress conventions are now supposed
to be relaxed my employer still requires me to
wear a collar and tie.”— Clerk, in letter to daily.
Don’t grieve over “Clerk” who complains
on the sly
That his boss makes him toil in a collar
and tie.
My boss {and the wife knows I dare not
complain )
Insists on my wearing a collar and chain.
B. B.
Record Clips.
“The better results include flocks shorn in
the medium to fine woolgrowing tablelands and
slope districts and the plain country.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
May I be suffered to remark
That better districts still
For shearing sheep {if figures speak
The naked truth week after week )
Are Mooreffeld, Canterbury Park
And Randwick and Rose hill ?
P. O. M. C.
Influences.
“At Yenan, in northern China, I inter-
viewed Mr. Shushumu Okamo, the most im-
portant member of the Central Committee of the'
Japanese Communist party and leader of the
non-partisan, anti-Fascist Japanese People’s
Emancipation League. Slogans of the League,
which do not demand the downfall of the
Emperor nor attack the great Mitsui and Mit-
subishi trusts, call for immediate cessation of
the war. The League has a membership of
more than 200.” — Selwyn Speight.
The tremendous effect that the League’s
opinions have had on the rest of the
ninety-odd million Japs in their home-
land, and especially the oratory (in China)
of the most important member of the
200, is evidenced by the fact that the
shouting of “Banzai!” in Tokyo is now
heard only when the people feel like
shouting it or have something to shout
“Banzai!” about. They never have.
Also, the realisation by Japan’s masses
of the stark truth that only fish, rice, soya
beans, flour and a few other foods stand
between them and utter starvation is attri-
buted by shrewd observers of the Orien-
tal scene to the indefatigable work of
Mr. Okama and his gallant 200.
If further proof is needed of the potency
of their efforts in the Chinese hinterland
there is the testimony, believed to be of
unusual reliability, of a Japanese busi-
nessman who has arrived in Long Wei
Awei after escaping from Nagasaki, that
the tales seeping back into Japan of the
intrepid deeds of the non-partisan, anti-
Fascist Japanese. People’s Emanci-
pation League have so impressed the
workers that they have flatly refused to
work more than three eight-hour shifts
in any working day.
According to Router’s correspondent
in Sinkiang, Sigismund Sawnoff, who has
made a perilous journey across the Shamo
desert to Sa-Chow , Hokkiwakko Bashu-
boko was elected Senior Grand Com-
missioner of the Sinkiang
anti-Fascist Japanese People’s Emanci-
pation League after an exhaustive ballot
conducted on the best Japanese demo-
cratic lines, only four contenders for
the position being garrotted. Hokki-
wakko Bashuboko proudly intimated that,
after intensive recruiting from the latest
batch of Jap prisoners who had been
trapped by the 114th Communist Route
Army in a gigantic pincers movement,
the League membership had reached a
new peak figure of 27. He condemns
Japan’s present militarist Government,
and intends when he gets power to
limit the armed forces to seven mil-
lions, with a navy only twic£ the size of
America’s and Britain’s combined.
Already, according to another Sigismund
Sawnolf dispatch, this time from Ting-
Ling, the formation on a giant scale of
the Japanese People’s Rights Anti-1 ojo
Union, which. is working politically in
conjunction with General Hoo Ah Yu’s
1298th Mongolian Political Liberation
Guerrilla Army, has thrown the entire
750,000 Japanese troops manning the
Siberian border defences into hopeless
confusion. The Union’s leader, Hideo
Sakesoka, who, as a tribute to Russia’s
Far East army, pays his 14 followers in
roubles, has undertaken t,o further the
work in Japan itself, and has accepted
from General Hoo Ah Yu 200,000
roubles. He intends working for the
complete destruction of Japan’s military
caste, and intends to work instead, when
he has obtained full power, with the naval
caste.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Soldier Preference
W. R. Allan’s contention (B. 21/6/’44)
that a policy of full employment would
do away with the need for soldier prefer-
ence ignores the point that there are jobs
and jobs, and that good ones would still
be competed for.
In this competition the returned sol-
dier, unless protected by some degree of
preference, is likely to be at a disadvan
tage. He has lost vital years out of tha
period of his life when, normally, h
would have been doing something t
secure his future. Technical training ha
been interrupted, and in many cases pros
pects of a career have had to be laid
aside.
Justice will not be done to men who
have served their country by letting then
take pot luck, heavily handicapped, in
a scramble for jobs, even if it be fairly
certain that they will find something to
do. Any sort of a job is not good enough
Preference is not a reward for valor
still less charity, but simply a just recog
nition of the fact that the soldier, whei
he re-enters civil life, has lost certain
advantages as compared with the man
who did not go, and that as far as pos
sible these should be made up to him.
Preference should not be confined to
volunteers. An ideal and practicable sys
tern would be one of degrees, whereby
man’s preferential rating would depend
upon the length and nature of his service
voluntary enlistment carrying a certain
special priority. Such a plan would re
strict the benefits of preference to men
justly entitled to them and would pre
vent anomalies.
Like all sensible members of the R.S.L
I wish W. R. Allan’s organisation well
but ex-service men will have little to
thank it for should it fail to lend support
to a principle as vital to the future of
many of its own members as those of the
older body.—G. H. Ayliffe (S.A.).
“Not to Reason Why” ?
“C.G.” (B. 28/6/’44) is barking up a
tree that isn’t there. Members of the
A.I.F. and militia are given the privilege
of investing money in war loans, but no
man is compelled. Fortunately a con-
siderable number of soldiers take advan-
tage of the opportunity of investing their
money at a greater rate of interest than
that paid by the Commonwealth Bank.
As regards taxes, the only members of
the forces to face taxation are n.c.os.,
from staff sergeant upwards, and officers.
Privates, corporals and sergeants do not
pay one penny piece. If a soldier com-
mits a breach of discipline he is punished
according to the seriousness of the crime,
In civil life, if a person does wrong, he
is subject to appropriate punishment as
laid down by the laws of the land, so
what’s the difference?
In the canteens any member of the
Army can buy requirements cheaper than
at any of the stores; thus he is not com-
pelled to queue up and have to put up
with “snubs and snarls.” He has numer-
ous canteens, hostels and rest centres
eager to offer service and civility and
to help each and every man towards find-
ing suitable entertainment, pleasure and
relaxation. Consequently no soldier is
compelled to sit on a pavement and
“twiddle his thumbs.”
At present red-tape predominates in
every walk of life, so why pick on the
Army? Whether the Government has
the best brains or not, it is not for us to
criticise at a time like this when we are
fighting for very life. It would be better
if trust were placed in God for guidance
and strength towards the defeating of
Hitler and Tojo. Then we can look for-
ward to our next job—assisting in post-
war rehabilitation. —B. M. (A.1.F.).
Rewards for Veterans
Veterans who came back from the
Middle East and were discharged before
June, 1943, mostly on medical grounds,
did not get a suit, or an allowance in lieu,
if they turned up at the discharge depot
after final leave in civilian clothes. After
June, discharged men could collect £2 10s.
The allowance is now £6 10s. A man
called up six months ago can get this
amount on discharge, but the earlier
veterans, some of them with over two
years’ active service, can get nothing.
Surely this is a case where the R.S.L.
could do something. It was asked to,
months ago, when the first allowance of
£2 10s. came into force. On this com-
The contributor placed first is paid
4jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
plaint and others seeking a fair deal for
the returned man the League could get
substantial public opinion behind it.
Now is the time to do it, if ever, but
the League’s time and money seem to be
frittered away in unimportant internal
administration. Housing, pensions, re-
patriation and other major questions are
crying for attention, but the League’s pub-
licity is devoted to unimportant sub-
branch meetings, socials and the like. A
waste of opportunities and space.—
2nd A.I.F. (S.A.).
Man-power
Here are my suggestions for solving
Australia’s man-power problems:
(1) Let 50 p.c. of the militia,go; they are
not needed. Direct them to rural jobs.
(2) Disband the various women’s armies,
except the A.A.M.W.S. and the Land Army.
It is no fault of the girls but I doubt if one
authentic case of the release of “a man for the
front line” could be quoted. More like a base
area man to the Officers’ Club or pub.
(3) Direct all officers in the officers’ pool
to gainful employment. The A.I.F. doesn’t
want them. Let all future officers be selected
from A.T.F. non-coms, who have seen action.
(4) Direct all members of the C.C.C. to the
production front, mostly to N.S.W. and Vic-
toria. We have seen enough of them in Queens-
land. Never was so little been done by so
many for so much.
Action along these lines would bump
up production, save the taxpayer money
and also make available more supplies
for Britain because all the demobbed
people would go back to civvy rations. —
C. C. Anning (Q ).
“But, sir, another ten minutes and I'll have fifty hours up”
Jobs for the Jobless
Why the continual stressing of “land”
in any discussion on jobs for all after
the war? Why the clamoring for new
works —reproductive (sic) works? Any-
one who wanders through the city and
suburbs must see a thousand thousand
jobs of maintenance, repair, renovation
and improvement crying out for attention.
If and when Governments, State and
Federal, municipalities and shires, prop-
erty owners and landlords are legally
compelled to keep their assets in order,
there will be enough work to keep an
army of men occupied for a generation.
The preservation of assets is a noble
and worthy (also a paying) proposition.
No one should be allowed to charge, say,
£3 rent for a tumbledown property which
brought just that when it was new. De-
preciation which is avoidable should
never be permitted, much less permitted
to be profitable.
Yet another job—that of beautification
*—would absorb a lot of labor, and money
borrowed or lent for beautification would
be as well-employed surely as that de-
voted to war’s purposes of destruction
and obstruction.
Some day the citizen will see to it that
not a paling is missing from a backyard
fence as long as there is a paling to be
procured and a man to nail it on. We’ll
all be the richer and the happier for the
acquired state of mind which calls for
maintenance and order—at all costs. —
S. N. R. (N.S.W.).
Commonwealth Powers
In my reading of the official pamphlet
on the Commonwealth Powers Referen-
dum it struck me as odd that both sides
should take it for granted that Labor
will continue in office for five years after
the war. The present Government has
served nearly a year of its term. Does
its most optimistic supporter see it get-
ting back again? It received an almost
unheard of vote in S.A. but in the recent
municipal elections all but three Labor
supporters (and all Communists) were
defeated.
I, like my father, who voted for Fed-
eration, have always believed in one Par-
liament for Australia, but S.A. seems to
me to stand out as a well-governed, pro-
gressive State, and I now doubt it would
do as well under a supreme Federal
Parliament.
Some words of America’s wisest Presi-
dent, Abraham Lincoln, are appropriate
to our present occasion:
Capital has its rights, which are as
worthy of protection as any other rights.
Nor is it denied that .there is, and prob-
ably always will be, a relation between
Capital and Labor producing mutual bene-
fit Many independent men everywhere
in these States, a few yeans back in their
lives, were hired laborers. The prudent,
penniless beginner in the world labors for
wages awhile, saves a surplus with which
to buy tools or land for himself, then
labors for himself another while, and at
length hires another new beginner t‘o help
him. This is the generous and just and
prosperous system which opens the way to
all —gives hope to all, and consequent
energy and progress and improvement of
condition to all. No men living are more
'worthy to be trusted than those who toil
up from poverty; none less inclined to take
or touch aught which they have not
honestly earned. Let them beware of sur-
rendering a political power which they
already possess, and which, if surrendered,
will surely be used to close the door of
advancement against such as they, and to
fix new disabilities and burdens upon them,
till all hope of liberty shall be lost.
Lincoln always believed that the
people were the best judges after all. If
we do so, too, we need not fear the Ides
of August.—F. H. Willson, Ellimatta,
Private Bag 9, Penneshaw (S.A.).
World for Our Children
The “Old Digger” (B. 28 /6/’44) who
“cannot but regret that the A.I.F. has no
battalions in Normandy to share in the
glory of the coming victory in Europe”
is but one of a rabid many who seek to
throw our children’s world into a similar
mess to that of today.
Apart from the fact that the A.I.F. has
contributed more than its share to these
five years of war, how can these old sol-
diers put from their minds all the hor-
rible realities they endured in the 1914-
18 years? Surely life should be more
than a succession of wars, one each
generation?
I am engaged in this war. To me it is
not a medieval joust suffused with valor,
heroics and “clouds of glory,” but a grim,
distasteful job of work, wherein we must
exterminate a ruthless enemy possessed
of a bestial mind and terrible destructive
energy.
I don’t want my son to be a pilot in a
Mustang squadron 25 years from now. I
don’t want his youth to be decided by
anti-aircraft shells which will rip him
from the trembling heavens and cast him
hurt and bleeding on unfriendly soil or
sea. I don’t want him facing the squads
of guns which his enemy interceptors
command, until his shattered limbs and
life are strewn in pain about the sky.
I want my son to grow up healthily
and honestly. I want him to make friends
with good, clean men. I want him to
marry the loveliest of this earth*’s woman-
hood and live in peace and happiness to
the end of his days.
Our children’s world is in our hands.
Their lives are ours to decide —by our
action and construction during and after
the war. Dare we bring children into a
world in which we have taken no part,
in which we can guarantee no peace?
May our children curse us if we do!
The flags and the speeches and the
glories of victory are colors in history,
but the maimed bodies, the crippled
minds and the broken lives of young men
should be written in our memories and
carven on our pledges to humanity for
all time. — Mortimer (R.A.A.F.).
These Shortages
Those people who complain that dairy
herds, etc., are decreasing, are surely
rather unreasonable. Has anyone ever
heard a Labor Government advocate in-
creasing any commodity?
The Labor aim has always been restric-
tion of hours, of work done, of acreage,
to keep supplies low and prices up. Yet
now that this party, nourished on the
theory that the less we all do the better
off we shall be, is in a position to enforce
its ideas as never before, it is expected
to increase production
Naturally it fails, because increased
production outrages the traditions of the
party—and as . Labor is essentially the
party of tradition new ideas are as alien
to it as work to a coalstriker, N. S.
Wales brand. —E. and O. E. (Tas.).
War-loan Terms
While there is a gap between appeals
for subscriptions to Commonwealth loans,
it should be opportune to draw attention
to the large sums that might be available
by a small change in the terms of issue.
At one time Commonwealth bonds
were acceptable in payment of probate
duties. I cannot recall any setback to
the Commonwealth funds as a result of
this concession, nor were reasons given
for it being withdrawn in later issues.
As it stands elderly people cannot
prudently invest to a large extent in new
issues, as it' is essential that they should
keep a certain proportion of their funds
in liquid form
It is true that up to date it has been
possible to sell the loans on the market,,
but as we know in connection with loans
issued in the last war a period might
arise when loans can be sold only at
considerable sacrifice. As previously,
this period might be only temporary,
but numbers of estates might suffer
serious loss, and in the case of big estates
the market for loans might be adversely
affected. It should be easy to meet this
objection.—B. L. (N.S.W.).
Subsidising Sickness
Free medicine under a' doctor’s- pre-
scription, irrespective of income! It
would be interesting to know how the
Government thinks it will work.
Doctors don’t like nationalisation, and
the bill is obviously a first step to the
nationalisation of chemists. They don’t
like it, either.
Most people believe that what is wrong
with them is some physical condition, and
if they can get themselves dosed on every
trifling occasion for nothing they may
get the medicine-taking habit as they
got the listening-in habit. So all the
Government may be doing with its
national pharmaceutical service may be
subsidising sickness. —Pawang (Vic.).
Queensland’s Mineral Resources
Expansion of the mining industry has
been almost excluded from all post-war
planning programmes.
A glance at the map of the world will
show that where the mining and heavy
industries have been developed other
primary and secondary industries have
automatically flourished; density of
population (which we must have to sur-
vive) and national wealth have followed.
A recent news item mentioned that in
Canada a lake had been drained at great
cost preparatory to the exploitation of
low-grade iron ore on the lake’s bottom,
thus demonstrating that deposits of high-
grade iron ore are rapidly vanishing and
draVving attention to the neglected high-
grade iron-ore deposits of this continent.
In the Cloncurry district (Q.), 500 miles
inland from Townsville, are to be found
huge outcrops of iron ore. Analysis
of samples gave a low content of silica,
phosphorus, sulphur and other bugbears
of smelting, and fluxes and hardeners,
such as limestone and manganese, occur
in the district.
Little attention has been given to coal
discoveries at Cabbage-tree Creek and
White Mountain. The larger seams of
coal of the Clermont district and the
coking coals of the Bowen field are well
known.
The phenomenal success of B.H.P. at
Newcastle, without which an Australian
war industry could not have been estab-
lished, is a striking example of the rapid
expansion of industry following the estab-
lishment of steelworks. B.H.P. is the
mother of the numerous secondary indus-
tries. These industries are, in turn, an
incentive to metalliferous mining by their
utilisation of tin, copper, lead, zinc and
other base metals.
In instancing the Cloncurry district, I
do not preclude the possibilities of other
localities as base-metal producers. A
general survey of mineral possibilities
should be made of Australasia with a
view of developing base-metal mining.
The time to do it is now. —R. E. B. (N.Q.).


•7
"7-
%
ss-
v\\\\
'•OCv*
7/*
«£
m,
rs
7 7S
77
Xi
PL
v
s.o.s.
Afloat on the Atlantic 9 miles from
lanel 9 in a disabled 9 plane
On reconnaissance, a Whitley aircraft of
the British Coastal Command ranged far
over the Atlantic. Suddenly trouble
developed in the port engine. Height was
maintained on the starboard engine for a
time, and repeated messages giving the
’plane’s position radioed to base.
#
Reported the pilot later: "The solder
was now running out of both engines. I
attempted to land into the wind at right
angles to the swell. I touched the swell
amidships; then the nose of the aircraft
struck it, smashing the gun turret, which
suddenly appeared through my wind-
screen.”
But help was on the way. The aircraft
sent to the rescue found the Whitley only a
few miles from the position it had last
indicated.
Another radio rescue story officially told
in the British Air Ministry’s account of the
part played by the Coastal Command in the
Battle of the Seas.
But only when this war is over can the
full story of the part played by radio
be told.
* * *
To-day, Australia is building ships, ’planes, guns
and radio. But it is radio that welds them into one
powerful striking force. As victory succeeds victory
let us think sometimes of the part played by Aus-
tralian Industry. While such equipment comes from
Australia, we need never fear being cut off from our
sources of supply. Amalgamated Wireless (A/asia)
Ltd.
