

df
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin*’ Vol. 65—No. 3381
Wednesday, November 29, 1944
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
SIRIUS
Chestnut Horse by ENFIELD-NORTH STAR, Four Years
WINNER OF MELBOURNE CUP, 1944
MR. R. TURNBULL, OWNER
TRAINER, E. FISHER
WEIGHT, 8st. 5lb.
JOCKEY, D. MUNRO
TIME, 3min. 24½sec.


Hi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND- MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write /or Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address ■
S.B. 144 AGE
AUSTRALIAN WEATHER
FORECASTS.
FOR NEXT 17 YEARS FROM
1944 TO 1960.
By Inigo Jones and G. W. Nowland.
The Long Range Weather Forecasting Trust,
set up by primary producers’ organisations and
others to promote research into long-range
weather forecasting, has issued a most useful
booklet giving provisional forecasts of Aus-
tralian weather, on broad lines, for 17 years to
1960.
Everyone connected, directly or indirectly, with
primary production should have this booklet.
Obtainable from Booksellers and Newsagents at
3/- per copy; or, if unobtainable, apply to
Wholesale Distributors, Gordon and Gotch
(A/sia), Ltd., Barrack Street, Sydney.
The RedPage
CONRAD ON ENGLAND.
From “The Nigger of the Narcissus”:
At night the headlands retreated, the
bays advanced into one unbroken line of
gloom. The lights of earth mingled with
the lights of heaven ; and above the toss-
ing lanterns of a trawling fleet a great
lighthouse shone steadily, such as an
enormous riding light burning above a
vessel of fabulous dimensions.
Below its steady glow, the coast,
stretching away straight and black, re-
sembled the high side of an indestructible
craft riding motionless upon the immortal
and unresting sea. The dark land lay
alone in the midst of waters, like a mighty
ship bestarred with vigilant lights —a ship
freighted with dross and jewels, with gold
and with steel. She towered up, immense
and strong, guarding priceless traditions
and untold suffering, sheltering glorious
memories and base forgetfulness, ignoble
virtues and splendid transgressions.
A great ship ! For ages had the ocean
battered in vain her enduring sides; she
was there when the world was vaster and
darker, when the sea was great and mys-
terious, and ready to surrender the prize
of fame to audacious men. A ship
mother of fleets and nations ! The great
flagship of the race; stronger than the
storms, and anchored in the open sea.
Poefry and Autobiography.
As A. G. Stephens perceived when he
said of Brennan’s work “On the whole
we sit and admire a performance we do
not often join,” there are limits to the
appeal of autobiography in verse.
Or, rather, there are limits to the
appeal of unhappy autobiography. When
Burns cries out in the happiest poem in
the language
Corn rigs an’ barley rigs
An’ corn rigs are bonnie.
I’ll ne’er forget that happy night
Atnang the rigs wi’ Annie;
or when McCrae sings
Then O, awake, Elizabeth,
The dawn is in the aspen-tree,
The air is rich with honey-breath ...
Come out, my love, and dance with me.
it is impossible to imagine a reader fail-
ing to respond.
We can immediately relate the song of
joy to moments of joy in our own lives ;
the poet is speaking for the reader. And
besides, we are delighted to share his hap-
piness.
But when the poetry is essentially un-
happy, when a Brennan declares he is
shut out of the houses of his fellows and
out of his own heart, we begin to defend
ourselves. Why should we be made
miserable?
And yet —
That time of year thou mayst in me behold
When yellow leaves, or none, or few do hang
Upon those boughs which shake against the
cold.
Bare, ruined choirs where late the sweet birds
sang—
Shakspeare’s sonnets are personal poetry,
they are “unhappy” in the sense that they
are full of rage and struggle and agony,
and they are read by everyone, read will-
ingly, read with delight.
Clearly there are cases in which the
reader’s defences can be beaten down. It
is not a sufficient explanation to say that
Shakspeare was a very great man and that
consequently everything he wrote is of
interest. The interest of scholars there
might be; and human curiosity; but the
sonnets are read with delight.
They are read because the technique
is not merely good but strikingly so ;
because, taken as a whole, they hold the
interest as a kind of narrative poem;
because they contain a balance of happi-
ness with unhappiness; because every
man can relate them to his own moods
—they have “universality,” they are not
just a private conversation by the author
with himself or his lady; and they are
read because in their deepest agonies of
rage and despair they go beyond mere
unhappiness into that ultimate intensity
of emotion which Matthew Arnold said
was a kind of black delight, and which
Aristotle the power of “purg-
ing” the reader of his own troubles and
griefs. It is always delightful to humanity
to see someone getting it properly in the
neck, always consoling to know that
Shakspeare had a worse time in love than
the rest of us.
These notes have been made because
Kenneth Mackenzie’s The Moonlit Door-
way (Angus and Robertson) has to be
assessed as personal or autobiographical
poetry.
God will requite you, Captain Spite,
for having steered my ship so far
without the benefit of beacon,
across a thousand years of night
towards the frozen Polar star.
God only knows by what you reckon
landfall so foul, and by what light
you take me where the portals are
of truth and lies, and with what right
you spurn the fury of seas that sicken
blackly behind this harbor bar.
My ship! My ship! A curse upon you —
you who were agent of this dealing....
That is certainly not Hugh McCrae
singing “Come out, my love, and dance
with me,” not a happy personal poetry.
Whether as unhappy personal poetry —
the technique obviously being competent
—it is to be warded off as dispiriting, “a
performance one admires but does not
join,” or accepted in the way that Shak-
speare’s sonnets are accepted depends on
the reader’s personal reaction to it. Be-
cause the writing is sharp and dramatic,
because the emotion does reach an ulti-
mate intensity, because the effect is not of
despair but defiance, and because it is an
emotion everyone has felt at times —
My ship, my lovely ship is here;
my ship, ray fate to this bay came
and on this ghastly beach is laid —
this seems a poem that will be accepted.
Certainly that is the case with “The
Union,” in which the human fear of
death, coming into the poet’s mind when
he is sitting up late and alone, is trans-
muted into awe:
Death at the dreaming candle sips
and death sits down upon my chair
and tastes the breath between my lips,
the ebb and swell of midnight air.
And death is in my very thought:
here in this room we two are one,
into one timeless being wrought,
as though my earthly life were done.
The moonlight and the candlelight
burn in death’s shadow, sink and die
across the loneliness of night;
but we are eternal, death and I.
Some of the poems of despair, as when
the poet pictures himself “sprawled dead
upon the plain of time, churned by the
worms of living memories,” are more dif-
ficult to accept: worms are not exactly
sparkling company. And some of the
love poems—which do not as a whole
amount to an exciting narrative, as do the
Shakspearean sonnets —are too much like
a private conversation. Though always
well written, they do not speak for Every-
man, but only for the poet; they do not
speak to every woman, but only to one.
Mackenzie’s personal poetry attains
the necessary balance by those love
poems which, though they may be drama-
tised by threats of doom, spring from the
joy of love and the beauty of the beloved;
notably, Ihe sixth of the “Eight
Sonnets,” “What the Mirror Said,” “The
Kiss,” “I Saw the Moon Set in Your
Memory” and—the outstanding poem of
the 1943 Australian Poetry —“The Moon-
lit Doorway.” Anyone would gladly share
the emotion of these.
And the book as a whole is balanced
not only by this group of verses—and by
the images of beauty flashing out every-
where among the love poems—but by the
many non-personal, non-autobiographical
poems included. There are two captivat-
ing sonnets about a spider ; “Heat,” the
most Australian of Mackenzie’s verses;
“I Love Little Pussy”—a remarkable dis-
play of technical fireworks; “The Wild
Man,” a fine tribute Jo Hugh McCrae’s
poetry; impressions of Don Juan, Don
Quixote and Villon—too literary, per-
haps, for contemporary taste, but all lively
and skilful works ; and “A Fairy Tale,”
which, arising from the image of a sleep-
ing child under the threat of air-raids,
sums up the whole tragedy of war in
lines of astonishing and unforgettable
beauty.
Considerably larger than the average
“slim volume,” The Moonlit Doorway is
a selection from the much greater number
of short poems Kenneth Mackenzie has
written. The autobiographical impulse
and a certain levelness of tone are his
dangers ; this book, Our Earth and his
novels are his achievement and a fine
one ; his promise lies in his practically
faultless technique and in the fact that
he can escape from the personal into
objective creation. ______
An Elephant at the Bedside.
A paragraph from Gordon _S. Sea-
grave’s Burma Surgeon (Dymock’s, Ltd.):
We all went down to the river to bathe.
Grindley is so shy he won’t bathe any-
where near the girls, even in his shorts.
He went off 50 yards and bathed by him-
self. While we were bathing a Chinese
colonel discovered us, and said there were
a lot of machine-gun casualties ten miles
down the road. The Friends went after
them, on their way passing a truck that
had caught fire when the bullets struck.
The driver’s companion and three soldiers
were sitting in their seats, burned to a
crisp. We operated on the casualties under
the house. The bugs were awful!
A missionary surgeon who joined the
U.S. Army Medical Corps when the war
came to Burma, Dr. Seagrave offers 190
pages all in the style of the quotation, so
that one sees him tossing limbs, lungs,
livers, heads, arms, freak Burmese babies,
wisecracks and exclamation marks all in
one merry madcap whirl.
Among this determined frivolity five
themes can dimly be discerned: Dr. Sea-
grave offers a general picture of life in
Burma; a description of the Burma
Road ; the story of the great retreat; an
examination of the feelings of the Bur-
mese towards the British ; and an account
of how he built a hospital in the wilder-
ness and trained Burmese nurses to serve
in it. The making of the Burma Road:
Even on that short stretch of road there
must have been ten thousand coolies at
work. The hillsides were black with them:
Chinese, Shans, Kachins. Huge goitres
hampered their work. Dozens were lying
by the road, shaking with fever. Hundreds
had sord eyes. A few, totally blind, were
nevertheless dragging bamboo sleds on
which others had dumped earth. In the
rockiest parts coolies were tediously drilling
holes in the hard limestone cliffs in which
crude gunpowder could be packed for blast-
ing. There was no dynamite.
Every few minutes there was an outbreak
of yelling and screaming and the coolies
rushed aside as a muffled explosion shook
the valley. Boulders bounded down the
hillsides, often narrowly missing us. If a
coolie failed to run at the warning it was
just too bad; but the work went on. Where
the limestone was softer hundreds of coolies
picked at it with pickaxes, chipping off an
inch or two at a time. Ants on a hillside!
But ants work together, and what they
can’t accomplish!
Dr. Seagrave believes that not more
than 10 per cent, of the Burmese are
“Fifth Columnists” ; 10 per cent, are loyal
to the British; and “the great majority
are kind and gentle and want only to be
left in peace to make enough motley
from their rice-fields to live in what to
them is comfort. The Shans and Kachins
and other people of the mountains are
at least 90 per cent, loyal to the Eng-
lish, whose justice they recognise fully.”
One sentence will serve to catch the
spirit and atmosphere of the retreat:
“May 16th —up at 4 a.m. and off at 5.30
to the sound of a wild elephant trumpet-
ing in the distance.”
There seem to be large numbers of
wild elephants trumpeting in the distance
in Burma ; though few of them, unfor-
tunately, become authors.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Pictures that catch the eye at the Seven
Paihters’ Show at David Jones’s new
gallery, Sydney, are Howard Ashton’s
“Hermitage Road, Kurrajong,” as sound
a piece of landscape painting as ever was
done in Australia by an Australian, for
Australians ; H. E. Badham’s “Bus Stop,’
a characteristic bit of Sydney life, ad-
mirably limned ; John Eldershaw’s water-
color picture of a Tasmanian convict-
built bridge, tellingly composed; Fred
Leist’s portrait of Cyril Pearl; Maud
Sherwood’s No. 10, “Flowers,” eternally
satisfying, and Noel Woods’s “Young
Sugar Cane,” bright and fresh as the
morning light it was painted in (but he
can’t paint water —see his No. 1). Frank
Medworth, who sometimes appears to he
joking, tackles in “Between the Showers”
one of those problems of lighting con-
trasts that delight him, and achieves a
notable impression.
The most interesting art show of late
in Melbourne has been William Prater’s
at the Athenaeum, exclusively composed
of landscapes in and around Melbourne.
Starting out as an impressionistic painter,
Frater acquired much more skill than is
customarily seen in shows of the “mod-
ernist” denomination, and when he en-
deavors to give an effect of sunshine or
the character of a hillside there is some-
thing substantial behind it.
“Eden End,” by J. B. Priestley, well
done by Melbourne Little Theatre, is the
best of the English playwright’s seen for
a long time. Stating a situation without
passing judgment, it is like a play by
Chekhov, though without the depth of
thht writer. The situation is that of an
English middle-class family which gets
split up, as families do, and attempts to
be re-united. The country g.p. father,
threatened with heart failure, sees the old
domestic wrangle resumed but is impotent
do anything about it, and the play ends
with the household once more in a state
of disintegration, with the old family
nurse who has tyrannised over everybody
all her life left in sole command of the
situation. John McOwan, Jean Campbell,
Nancy Summers, Fred McMahon, Muri-
elle Ahearn and Jack Wiltshire made a
good job of the family, and Brett Ran-
dall painted a convincing portrait of an
old actor.
“Laughter Invasion,” Melbourne Tiv.’s
latest confection, leaves nothing to be
desired in the matter of beautiful young
women, especially the ones who don't
sing. The most elaborate of the ballets
is “A Prayer to the Sun God,” the deity
being represented by the inevitable lightly-
clad young lady driving a chariot of pure
gold, out of which Apollo has apparently
fallen while in a state of intoxication.
The solemnity of the ballets would be
relieved if, for instance, the inimitable
George Wallace were to appear as the
sun god. However, that gentleman works
hard in the terrestrial sphere and is aided
and abetted in the comic business by
Charles Norman and Joe Lawman, who
makes lugubriousness funny. The Harris
Sisters are described as poetry in motion.
Clever acrobats and contortionists, they
correspond, perhaps, to the poetry of
“Angry Penguins.” Cusko’s Animal
Circus and June Holms, Australia’s
Favorite Cowgirl, are other items.
At the talkies:
Indiana is one of the three “horse” States
of the Union, and a fine “Saturday Evening
Post” story, by Buchanan Chamberlain, of the
trotting game there has been made into a film,
“Home in Indiana” (Sydney Regent). The
horses look handsome in technicolor, and
Walter Brennan, sheet anchor of many a film,
turns in a good bit of characterisation as an
old trainer who comes back after being in the
shades for 18 years. Lon McAllister is a young
newcomer with real ability.
Maxwell Anderson, the film version of whose
“Eve of St. Mark” is at Sydney Empire, is
the only living poet-dramatist whose verse plays
have been made into talkies. In fact, having
had two performed, he has equalled Shak-
speare’s total in the talkies —the film world, in
its astounding timidity, having tackled only
“Romeo and Juliet” and “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream.” His verse slick but colorless,
and his outlook too doctrinaire for a complete
understanding of character, Anderson falls a
long way short of the Bard; but it’s no small
achievement that his verse-plays are playable.
Described by The Bulletin’s Melbourne man
when he saw it staged as “about as complex
as a Second Victory Loan poster,” “The Eve
of St. Mark” is war propaganda stuff, set
partly in the Philippines. William Eythe, new
to the screen, and Ann Baxter handle the'
romantic leads with restraint.
A new theatrical group in Sydney is
the Kuringai Theatre Guild, of which
O. D. Bisset is chairman. In seven weeks
the Guild has attracted 600 members, and
has established an acting class of 45 and
a play-reading circle of 150. May Hol-
linworth, with her own Metropolitan
Players—the intention is to bring in the
Guild actors gradually, as they are trained
—has produced “The First Mrs. Fraser”
and “Dangerous Corner”; 1200 people
saw the first and 1500 the second. Ihe
current production, “Uncle Harry,” run-
ning at. Killara on Monday nights, is ex-
ceptionally good, partly because of John
Dease’s performance in the title-role,
partly because, in spite of limitations, the
producer has successfully conveyed the
atmosphere in which Uncle murders his
sister.
“TOPIC”
Short Story Contest
£50
A prize of £5O is offered by
“Topic” for the best original short
story of not more than 3000 words.
Entries close on January
1945, with the Editor, “Topic,” 97
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Stories of all types will be considered:
humorous, romantic, mystery, adventure,
war stories or stories of home life.
Write on the subjects and environments
which most interest you, remembering
that power to arrest and hold tn
reader’s attention will be factors which
will influence the judge.
Copyright in -the winning story shall
become the property of The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd., which companj
shall have the right to purchase for J* e
sum of £3 3s. exclusive Queensland pubh-
cadon rights of any other story sub-
m Copy should be typed if possible, but
clear, legible handwriting will be accepted.
Writing must be on one side of the
naoer only. Contributors are asked to
Forward an addressed envelope with each
entry, which must be accompanied y
signed declaration that the story is the
original, work of the entrant, and has
not previously been published.
The decision of the Editor of Topic
to be final in relation to all matters
affecting or arising from the contest.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
121 Years of Service
"THE SENIOR STORE"
* i
» r
ir
•1,l
///
/'
f~
-
d
u
M
•S
1
m#
m
W
A. —“ kxotic” Eau-de-Cologne of rare quality.
Made from five essential oils.
Prices, 3/9, 7/3, 9/3, 10/3, 13/3, 19/9, 25/-
B. — “ Celebrity” Eau-de-Cologne in an assort-
ment of attractive decanters. As illustrated.
Price 28/3
. — “Cqllona” Eau-de-Cologne, blended from
quality oils and perfectly matured.
As illustrated 18/
Other prices 3/3, 5/6, 7/if., 9/9
D, “ Russian Leather ” Eau-de-Cologne,
matured, perfectly blended. Perfumed with
“Cuir de Russe,” or Russian Leather.
Prices 4/9, 5/9, 9/—, 10/
E, — “Escapade” Eau-de-Cologne, a fine quality
Cologne. Combination of quality oils.
One size only 53/6
F, — “Lola” Eau-de-Cologne, double Cologne,
delightfully blended .. 7/—, 9/4, 11/5, 18/4
*•
• Perfumes —Ground Floor, Pitt Street
fdf
Art Silk Gloves of Navy or Black
silk. Attractively stitched in
White 7/11
3 coupons.
dfd
2. —Fine Lawn Handkerchief
trimmed with dainty lace sur-
rounding the edge 3/6
% coupon.
2.—-Neat and trim Pocket Hand-
kerchief with deep net lace ’
corners 4/3
coupon.
• Gloves and Hankies —
Ground Floor, Pitt St.
mm
%
mm
mu
-H’v«ry
■■■ i
mam:
**«*■
■yj
SCRAP-IRON FLOTILLA, by John F. Moyes, Sub. Lieut.,
R.A.N.V.R. The story of the Scrap-Iron Flotilla, the
five over-aged Australian destroyers which played a
brilliant part in the Mediterranean and far Eastern
waters. New edition, contains a complete list of the
Officers and Men • 9/6
Postage, shd. extra.
KIWI SAGA, by Martyn Uren, a New Zealand Artillery-
man. A story of World War 11, which captures the
spirit of the New Zealanders who fought in the Middle
East. Fully illustrated 10/6
Postage, 3id. extra.
• Books —Second Floor.
■
fill"
m
m
Open end, smart colourful
Ties in a large variety of striped
and checked designs .... 5/6
1 coupon each.
White Irish Lawn Handker-
chiefs, hemstitched 1/4
Coloured border or all over
design 1H
Khaki Lawn Servicemen’s Hand-
kerchiefs 1/&
Airforce Blue Lawn 1/6
\ coupon each.
• Men's Accessories —Ground Floor,
George Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
famous low prices
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


JIM’S ROOM
By E. A. GOLLSCHESKY.
FOR many years I had no idea why
the oblong, windowless room was
called “Jim’s room.” It was
accepted in my consciousness as
naturally as was the “front room,” with
its Beale piano, its worn carpet and re-
pellent chairs, its lovely paintings hung
haphazardly around the stained, ink-
spotted walls; or “Mum’s room,” with
its warmth and sanctity; the “boys’
room,” and the “girls’ room,” and the
“store room,” with its eternal fragrance
of onions and potatoes and drying herbs.
Jim’s room was gloomy. My father
kept harness there. The boys had a tame
’possum’s cage in one corner, and against
the wall was a battered stretcher heaped
with seed corn and the “good sacks”—
those deemed clean and whole enough for
further use,
I used to run through Jim’s room with
a sort of ecstatic fear flying at my heels ;
you never knew what would loom up out
of the semi-darkness to paralyse you with
horror. Sometimes a bat would dash into
your face or a rat would scuttle between
your feet. Mysterious whines would
drift from the darkest corner, and you
knew then that the ginger cat had given
birth to her kittens in the only room
where privacy was to be found.
Then, one Sunday, as we sat at dinner,
a sulky pulled up at the white gate and
a man climbed out of it —a man easily
six feet tall, with a magnificent breadth
of shoulder and a flowing, silky beard of
purest white which reached his belt.
“God bless me,” said Father, “it’s Jim.”
Mum got another plate, and the boys
were sent in to “clean up” Jim’s room.
He put a great gnarled hand on my
head and chuckled.
“So this is the baby! Growed a bit
since I was here last, eh?”
“Nine years, Jim,” my father reminded
him.
“Well, what’s nine years?” boomed the
giant with the leonine head and the
broken nose; and when he said it nine
years became a bagatelle. There was a
line of dark hair in his beard that ran
from his lips to the peak at the end,
polished from the ceaseless drip of his
nicotine-laden spittle.
He had a roll of checked blankets with
him ; a saddle and a little tin box. These
he carried into his old room, and then he
was ready to take his place at the table.
“I saw old Mick Hoolahan last
Friday,” said Jim, chuckling. “Do you
remember?” and they were started.
I SAT between them while they ate and
' while the dishes were cleared away. I
curled at their feet when they drew back
and lit their pipes, and the warm, smoky
air became peopled with men and horses
and dogs who will live for ever.
I mustered cattle with them on the
great far-flung grazing lands that have
since been cut up into dairies and farms.
I camped with them in the Bucca moun-
tains and lay on my back picking off the
biggest of the grey, deep-pelted possums
that crept along the branches of the huge
bloodwoods. I dug-in with them beside
little, seeping waterways and waited till
dawn brought the mobs of kangaroos
into the range of our guns.
I sat with myalls around a dying
fire and ate with relish the meat of a
freshly-killed steer. And I cursed and
hopped with futile rage beside my father
when he dug up the hide with the tell-tale
brand. I was a young dandy with them,
oiling my hair and polishing my riding
boots to go to the Selectors’ Ball. I
danced with Lily and Mavis O’Shea and
I cheered and yelled as my father fought
Danny McGlee in the breaking-in yard.
I was there helping to dust him down
when Danny was eventually carried away,
and I went with Jim and my father to
the dairy where the temporary bar was
set up, and I drank with them the rawest
of spirits, till the wail of the accordeons
was hushed and the last cart had rumbled
away down the rough country road. I
took the bucket of cold water in my face
with them when the farmer’s wife came
out in the morning and found us asleep
under the front steps.
The horse-dealers were migrating to the
coastal belts again, and my father and
Jim and I were going too. We mended
saddles and bridles, greased the leather,
made new halters and looked around for
good pack-horses. We secured the ser-
vices of a young blackfellow called Minty,
and we rode away into the hills. Some-
times we came up with other dealers and
sat around the campfire all night, talking
about drives that had brought in never-
to-be-forgotten horses, and of stallions
that had got away from stations to breed
champion stayers from the brumby mares
that roamed the hills.
I caught my first glimpse of wild
horses, saw the great black stallion they
never caught outlined atop a chalk-white
bluff, with his head lifted against the
breeze. I raced behind them with the
wind in my ears and I set my wits against
the cunning of their leaders. I sat on the
top rail of the sapling fence and surveyed
the captured horses as they milled around
the yards, raising clouds of dust that
caked with the sweat on their hides.
With my father I waited at the camp
while Jim went back for supplies, I
watched the dwindling of the last dregs
of flour and tinned meat, tea and
tobacco, hoping against hope that any
hour would see the dogs barking at Jim’s
approach. Beside him, I realised at last
that Jim wasn’t coming, and I set out
with him at last on the fifty-mile ride
back to civilisation. My belly ached with
hunger, and I could hardly sit on the horse.
Food had been of starvation variety
for days. Ammunition was low and
needed for the dingoes that stalked around
at night trying to entice the dogs away.
The dogs killed goannas and bandicoots
for themselves, sometimes a kangaroo rat,
and I watched with my father while they
devoured food I would have given much
for. Then the deserted cattle camp, with
its sagging posts and broken rails ; the
old corrugated-iron hut into which I
rushed with my father hoping against
hope that there would be a- tin of some-
thing there. But the place was barren.
Only a loaf of damper, hard as cement,
gnawed at the comers by rats, was in the
kerosene-tin. With my father I thanked
Heaven, soaked it in creek water and
devoured it.
“And there was me in hospital!”
laughed Jim uproariously. “You was
bringing me apples a few days later.”
“And we were breaking-in horses for
McLean before the month’s end. Remem-
ber Whipcord?”
I remember Whipcord. I rode him
with Jim to a standstill, while the crowds
that lined the stockyard fence roared and
cheered till the sound was a roll of
thunder. We didn’t have rodeo rules. It
was stick till you bust, and bucking such
as is never seen at two-bob shows.
CTOMEWHERE that day a family
moved and worked and talked and
laughed. Somehow cows were milked
and pigs fed. But I was oblivious to all
that went on around me. I was a bush-
man, born in another age, living for
adventure and danger and good horses.
Always the talk came back to horses,
no matter where it began. Horses and
horsemen —the blackfellow who had
jumped my father’s mare across Spencer’s
gully and who, both Jim and my father
swore, had lifted the animal in his knees ;
Dargan’s Grey and buckjumpers whose
feats are still recounted in the outlying
districts of the Burnett.
I hunted wild pigs ip the country away
behind Bundaberg’s outposts and crept
along the waterways of svyamps after
geese and ducks, wet to the belly and
dragging leeches out of my legs at every
step. I made passionate love to Maggie
Stanton on the banks of the Burnett,
while Jim waited with the horses down
at the bend. I had one boot off and a
fishing line tied to my big toe, and I
waxed poetically romantic as only a
young lover of that time was able to. I
went to the show with Jim and my father,
and I saw a beautiful girl riding side-
saddle on a white horse. Her grace and
perfection dazzled me. She was a fairy
princess and, above’ all, a magnificent
rider. It was my mother.
Jim was riding on, alone. I was stand-
ing watching him as he set off down the
track that was to take him on one of his
longest droving trips. He jogged along
easily, part of his horse’s motion, the
pack-horse ambling along behind with a
roll of blankets on his back.
My father stretched and, yawned. It
was nearly dark.
“How long you gonna stay, Jim?”
“Oh, I dunno. One of these days I’ll
push off.”
And one day he did. But Jim’s room
was never empty or terrifying to me
again. It was peopled forever with his
friends and companions, the legends of
an undying race.
ESCAPE TO TIMOR
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
THIS story of William and Mary
Bryant comes from Knapp and
Baldwin’s the Newgate Calendar.
It is entitled “Nathaniel Lilley,
James Martin, Mary Bryant, William
Allen and John Butcher, who were Con-
victed of Returning from Transportation.”
They had made a boat voyage from
Sydney to Timor which almost deserves
to rank with that of Bligh and his fel-
low-castaways in the same seas, after the
Bounty mutiny a couple of years before.
“Their trial,” says The Newgate
Calendar, “took place at the Old Bailey
on July 8, 1792, when the Court ordered
them to remain on their former sentence
until they should be discharged by course
of law. This lenient treatment was in
consequence of the great suffering they
had endured, the full punishment for
such an offence being death.”
William Bryant, an English west-
countryman, had been transported to
New South Wales under a conviction for
“having interrupted revenue officers in
the execution of their duty”—in other
words he’d been helping smugglers, a
class of offence which accounted for the
presence in Australia of a good many
useful pioneers.
He had been a fisherman, and during
the famine which preceded the arrival of
the Second Fleet in 1790 was employed
by Governor Phillip to superintend the
squadron of fishing boats upon whose
exertions depended to a great extent the
food supply of the little settlement.
In his New South Wales Judge-Advo-
cate David Collins says that “Every en-
couragement was held out to this man
to keep him above temptation but
he was detected in secreting and selling
large quantities of fish.” Although he
was warned of the consequence, he per-
sisted in doing this, and was punished in
1789 with a good deal of severity. But
he was too valuable in the “hungry time”
to be put out of his job, and continued
in control of the fishing fleet for the next
couple of years.
At the beginning of 1791 —when he
hadn’t much longer to serve before his
sentence should expire—Bryant began to
plot an escape from the colony with cer-
tain other prisoners.
Mrs. Bryant, who was to go with the
rest of the party, had originally been
sentenced to death for stealing a cloak,
but had been respited at the last moment
and sent to Botany Bay for seven years,
of which at this time she had already
done five.
Three of the men had been exiled for
“the term of their natural lives” —Cox,
Allen and Lilley. Allen had stolen
handkerchiefs and Lilley had been found
in illegal possession of a fish-net, a watch
and two spoons. Cox’s crime is obscure.
Bird and Martin had served six years
out of the seven for which they had been
transported—the lastnamed for appropri-
ating 201 b. of scrap-iron and lead, Mor-
ton had done two years out of his
sentence of seven, and was probably ad-
mitted to the band because he had some
knowledge of navigation.
The remaining man is something of a
mystery. Collins alludes to him as
“Samuel Broom,*’ but at the trial to
which The Newgate Calendar refers he
is styled “John Butcher.” He was 50
years of age, and was serving a sentence
of seven years for pig-stealing. Bird, too,
had a fashion of changing his name, for
he was known in Timor as “John Simms,”
though he reverted to Bird before
his death on the passage between Batavia
and the Cape of Good Hope,
So it will be seen that, of the nine
adults who escaped from Port Jackson,
the leader was almost entirely free, whilst
three of the others only had a brief por-
tion of their sentences still to undergo.
But —as they explained afterwards —it
wasn’t captivity and exile they were clear-
ing out from so much as the fear of star-
vation. These first years of the settle-
ment of New South Wales were never
free from the grim and haunting spectre
of famine. Any hardships they might
incur by venturing into the unknown
seemed preferable to dying of hunger on
the shores of Sydney Cove.
Mary Bryant had two young children
—it would be better, she may have
thought, to have them drowned or mur-
dered by caflnibals than to face the
wretched existence which seemed to be
then only prospect in New South Wales.
THE Calendar says that their boat was
obtained from the skipper of a Dutch
trading ship, but it isn’t quite certain that
this was the case. However, whether it
was a Government craft, or had really
been presented to them by Captain
Smyth, it was in excellent condition, and
they were able to provision it with flour,
rice, pork and a ten-gallon keg of water.
From the Dutchman they had obtained
a chart, a quadrant and a compass, and
he had also furnished them with much
useful information regarding courses and
currents along the route which they pro-
posed following to Timor.
So, on the night of March 28, 1791,
they passed through Sydney Heads and
steered northward along the coast.
They were unlucky with the weather,
for it rained continually for nearly six
weeks, and fear of the blacks prevented
them from making many landings. One
at least of their infrequent resting places
has been identified as Port Macquarie.
Slowly they passed up the coast of
Queensland, inside the Barrier Reef, until
they succeeded in rounding the extremity
of Cape York and entering the Gulf of
Carpentaria,
The natives they had hitherto encoun-
tered were much the same as those they
had become familiar with in the neigh-
borhood of Sydney, but in these waters
they were pursued by large sailing canoes
—probably Malay proas—and' escaped
from them only by pulling strenuously
to windward. They did not reach Timor
until June 5, well over two months after
leaving Port Jackson, having navigated
at least 2500 miles, and probably a good
deal more.
Here they pretended to be the survivors
of an English vessel which had been
wrecked whilst voyaging from India to
New South Wales.
At first the Dutch treated them with
the utmost kindness, but it was not long
before their behavior began to arouse
suspicions. Some of the men got drunk
and gave themselves and their com-
panions away.
When they had been in Koepang for
about three months Captain Edwards, of
H.M.A.S. Pandora, which had been
wrecked whilst carrying back to England
some of the mutineers from the Bounty,
arrived in Timor, and the Dutch authori-
ties handed over Bryant and his party
to that unpleasant officer.
He took them with him to Batavia,
where Bryant and one of his children died
in hospital.
Captain Edwards chartered a Dutch
vessel and carried the rest of them to
the Cape of Good Hope. Cox fell over-
board and was drowned during this
voyage, and Bird and Morton died. At
the Cape the runaways were given into
the charge of Captain Parker, of H.M.S.
Gorgon, who took them home, Mrs.
Bryant’s remaining child dying during the
voyage. They landed in England at the
beginning of 1792.
Tried for escaping from New South
Wales, they stated unanimously that they
would prefer being hanged to returning
to Sydney. However, Mary Bryant was
finally pardoned, whilst Allen and Lilley,
having life sentences to serve, were re-
turned as prisoners to N.S.W.
Butcher, or Broom, was more fortu-
nate. At the beginning of 1793 he wrote
from Newgate to Viscount Melville, who
was then in charge of the Home Depart-
ment —which controlled colonial affairs
a long and remarkable letter, stating that
he had a “thorough knowledge of all
kinds of land” and was particularly
skilled in “bringing indifferent lands to
perfection.” He professed himself to be
able to reorganise agriculture in New
South Wales, so that it would become “a
great deal more productive.”
The authorities took him at his own
valuation, released him from prison and
allowed him to enlist in the N. S. Wales
Corps. He arrived back in Sydney on
September 5, 1795, and was immediately
granted 25 acres of land where the suburb
of Petersham stands today. And that is
the last we hear of him.
Louis Becke and Walter Jeffrey used
the story ’of these escapees in that fine
historical novel A First Fleet Family.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65 —No. 3381.
Wednesday, November 29, 1944.
THE RELUCTANT DRAGON-CHARMER.
"There are dragons in the path of Australia’s progress which must be defeated if Australia is to emerge the great nation it has in its power to become."
-Admiral of the Fleet Lord Keyes.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J, E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFpICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
GAMBLING FIRST.
There was a characteristic Sydney touch
in a morning paper’s report of the say-
ings and doings of Admiral of the Fleet
Lord Keyes.
The admiral, who did not withdraw
views expressed when he was discussing
the need for a 100 per cent, effort on the
home front, had “addressed 2000 second-
ary schoolboys in the Town Hall,” to
whom he said “there are dragons in the
path of Australia’s progress which must
be defeated if she is to emerge the great
nation she has it in her power to be-
come.” This was set down, and more ;
then came the Sydney touch:
The State Cabinet entertained Lord Keyes
at dinner in Tattersall’s Club last night.
The Premier, Mr. McKell, presided.
Presumably no bookmaker popped in,
at the risk of being mistaken for one of
the dragons, with a blithe account of the
wonderful time bookmakers are having,
nor does it seem likely that what Mr.
Lang calls “the McKell Turf Club” was
a major topic of conversation. This,
however, is mot certain, for the Sydney
Turf Club Act is regarded by the McKell
Government and party as a wonderful
piece of Labor war legislation—leave to
introduce it was given in 1942, when the
country was in peril of invasion, to Mr.
Badly, Minister of Mines and one of
the most abject crawlers to coalfields
workstoppers, who described the thing
as “very important to the community
generally”—and to the extent that the
club has had the use of a race-
course or two for “dates purchased
from Rosebery” it is perhaps entitled to
be considered a club in being. But it
wants to buy out two other racing con-
cerns, and for this Commonwealth author-
ity to raise £300,000 or more is needed.
Willing to oblige, but afraid of the effect
in the money market, particularly the war-
loan part of it, Mr. Chifley found it
necessary to procrastinate.
The McKell Government runs lotteries
also, and there are lotteries in Brisbane,
Hobart and Perth as well. While Mr.
Chifley was trying to float the Second
Victory Loan, results of 22 lotteries
(“100,000 at ss. 3d.”) were advertised in
Sydney and results of 15, claimed
to be “bigger and better,” at Bris-
bane, while Hobart had its “ordi-
naries” and “specials” and F*erth tried
not to lag behind. And there was a greater
volume of racecourse betting than was ever
known in Australia before. In Sydney
and Melbourne on six Saturdays (Mel-
bourne Cup Day excluded) totalisator
receipts reached £1,500,000, and the
bookmakers doubtless handled five or
six times that figure. What was gathered
in by the tribe that operates in clubs,
shops, offices and flats, with the aid of the
P.M.G.’s department and radio stations,
is beyond computation, but it must have
run into several millions.
The effects of this ignoble competition
showed up in Second Victory Loan sub-
scriptions, and the closing period had to
be extended. On what was to have been
the last day but one it came out that cash
subscriptions, in proportion to population,
were not so bad in the two non-lottery
States, one in 21 in South Australia and
one in 21.6 in Victoria, but bad to hor-
rible in the lottery States: one in 29.8
N. S. Wales, one in 34.8 Queensland, one
in 36.6 Westralia and one in 40.4 Tas-
mania.
Eight days after what was to have been
closing day Mr. Chifley announced that
the loan had been “successfully filled
without recourse to the central bank or
the trading banks” (no mention of sav-
ings banks); “we have in hand
£113,000,000.” While acknowledging that
“the number of cash subscribers” was
“somewhat below” previous totals (“for
the First Victory Loan there were
452,000 subscribers, for the Fourth
Liberty Loan 568,000 and for the Second
Victory Loan approximately 410,000”),
he offered thanks to all. A fortnight later,
after a stab at the position in between,
he had to admit a lamentable gap be-
tween actual cash subscriptions, plus con-
versions, and the £160,000,000 asked for,
the “final figures” being
Cash (418,610 subscribers) .. £113,840,000
Conversions (40,544 holders).. 40,196,000
£154,036,000
The National Debt Sinking Fund had
to be dipped into to redeem securities
amounting to £6,039,200, leaving another
£1,283,990 to be redeemed or converted
at the holders’ pleasure.
During part of the same period Maori-
land received £40,672,104 in subscrip-
. tions to a Victory Loan, having asked for
£40,000,000. Considering that the popu-
lation is barely 1,700,000, and that of
Australia 7,200,000, Mr. Nash did much
better than Mr. Chifley. MaOriland has
no lotteries and forbids publication of tote
dividends; and, so far from being public
heroes, as they are in Sydney, bookmakers
are liable to be arrested on sight and
sent to jail.
And Canada has had its Seventh Vic-
tory Loan heavily over-subscribed. The
Government asked for $1,300,000,000,
and in three (not seven) weeks it received
$1,498,000,000, roughly £A361,000,000
and £A416,000,000. Details of subscrip-
tions are not yet available, but to the
Sixth Victory Loan, floated in 19 days of
April-May, 6522 business firms and cor-
porations and 3,070,061 individuals sub-
scribed $1,407,576,650, the objective being
$1,200,000,000. Canada has no counter-
part of the Sydney Turf Club or the Gov-
ernment lottery office. It does very little
horseracing and bans lotteries.
Missionaries from Australia have gone
across the Pacific hoping to start lotteries
there or, if that was out of the ques-
tion, to work up a trade in Australian
lottery tickets. They found the atmo-
sphere so hostile and the law so drastic
that they made tracks for more congenial
regions, one particular merchant adven-
turer being heard of in one of the late
Baltic States. Uncle Sam had such bitter
experiences of lotteries in his early days
that he went to extraordinary lengths to
prohibit them. In the Constitution of Cali-
fornia, quoted in Bryce’s American Com-
monwealth, it is laid down that “the Legis-
lature shall have no power to authorise
lotteries or gift enterprises for any pur-
pose, and shall pass laws to prohibit the
sale in this State of lottery- or gift-enter-
prise tickets or tickets in any scheme in
the nature of a lottery.” John Bull
is so set against lotteries that even
the prodigious success of the Irish sweeps
has never moved him to give a thought
to competition. The conviction of both
(Canada, too) is that by pandering to
the gambling spirit at the expense of
thrift and the investing spirit a country
loses where it seems to gain, the easy
money being, in divers ways, dearly
bought.
Mr. Chifley cannot be ignorant of the
connection between the Labor-encouraged
orgy of gambling and the failure of his
appeals to unionists for loan subscrip-
tions, based on their receiving three-fifths
(really four-fifths) of the national income.
He and other Labor politicians choose to
ignore the connection between the un-
checked and abysmally selfish gambling
spirit and the brutal indifference of work-
stoppers and other slackers to the
struggle for national existence and the
urgent needs and sacred obligations it
imposes, but this is all too evident, par-
ticularly to those conversant with the
customs and larrikin pranks of N.S.W.
coalminers. A ban on Saturday work is
one of the customs. Saturday is a field
day for coalfields gamblers, among them
“the minority malcontents and irrespon-
sibles” whom the Prime Minister, on
October 14, 1943, undertook to “remove”
and, of course, didn’t —those “youths of
military age, taxi-drivers, starting-price
bookmakers, billiard-room proprietors,
dog-trainers and the like, with a record of
chronic absenteeism, who readily agree
to strike, sometimes making the first
move.”
They were all idle on Saturday,
November 18, and the “sports” had their
fancies picked out before they repaired
to the races or the starting-price joints.
Still, they could scarcely have failed to
read Mr. Forde’s dreadful story of the
martyrdom of the Digger prisoners of war
in the Burma and Thailand jungles and
the torpedoed hell-ship and the supreme
courage of the survivors, defiant alike of
fiendish persecution and death. If they
had no eyes for anything but form-at-a-
glance columns and racebooks, there were
other instalments from the most tragic,
and not least glorious, chapter in the his-
tory of the Diggers to be seen in the
Sunday papers. And Monday brought
the news that not only the hell-ship
heroes but wounded officers and ratings
from H.M.A.S. Australia had come back,
praising their mates with the modesty
characteristic of the R.A.N., the A.I.F.
and the R.A.A.F., and one of the younger
seamen telling with a faltering voice how
Lieut.-Commander Gerrett gave orders
for. rescue work while lying in mortal
agony on the deck. Yet that day 12
N.S.W., coalmines, with a normal pro-
duction of 10,000 tons, were idle, in most
cases because of sheer blackhearted
larrikinism, yielded to, as always, by the
majority, decent but supine.
That day also the communist leader of
the Miners’ Federation and members of
his staff travelled to Canberra for another
of their multitude of conferences with the
Government, which had three on the
slate for the day. It could have been no
mystery to the communist and party that
a threatened stoppage of steel production,
with all its dire consequences, was the
latest result of the union-made' coal short-
age, the effects of which have been felt
round Australia, and, along with many
other evils, are adding to the losses caused
by the drought. No mystery either that,
as a Canberra correspondent has written,
“the United Kingdom Government is
urgently in need of large stocks of the
best Maitland coal at grass for use in
operations by the British Fleet in the
Pacific, and has made sustained represen-
tations to Australia to that end.” Yet from
this crowd there came only the familiar
hollow promises and schedule of impu-
dent demands —Commonwealth pensions,
a Commonwealth Ministry of Mines, no
prosecutions for refusal of duty, which in
the services is desertion or mutiny in the
face of the enemy, and 16 days oft at
Christmas, the “working” week being five
days. In token of complete submission
the “Government” had the communist
and party sent back to Sydney in one of
its fleet of cars.
What a homecoming for the returned
wounded and the prisoners of war! A
war-loan failure, a Government surrender
to anarchy and a situation developing
which, if not arrested, will make Aus-
tralian Laborism the scorn of the English-
speaking world.
The A.I.F.'s Role.
Nobody should get hot under the collar
au)out the Chicago “Tribune’s” com-
plaint that “Australian ground forces
are not now in action with General Mac-
Arthur or anywhere else.” For one thing,
the “Tribune” has persuaded itself that
all the fighting against the Japs to date
has been done by Americans. It would
be a waste of breath trying to disillusion
it. Also, at the time it happened to be
stating fact.
Wondering why at least some of the
A.I.F. did not go with General Mac-
Arthur to the Philippines is not some-
thing the Chicago paper has on its
own. Perhaps there is a good
reason, and perhaps history will satisfy
everybody. It may be shown —this, of
course, is purely imaginary—that the
present Commonwealth Government
wanted General MacArthur to take an
A.I.F. division with him. It may be
shown that neither the present Govern-
ment nor General MacArthur but higher
authority controlling the large business of
strategy was responsible for the omission.
For the present the position is that the
A.I.F. was omitted from the invasion
forces of the general —its general—in the
military operation which he had fre-
quently stated to be the one thing dearest
to his heart, and both Australia and
the A.I.F. wondered why. Chicago
“Tribune” sneers don’t matter a straw;
but it is no more than Australia’s and
the A.l.F.’s due that Mr. Forde should
explain. It should be made clear exactly
where the responsibility lies.
Not that it could surprise anybody very
much to find that it lies with the Govern-
ment. When some of those who are
now Ministers were attacking the launch-
ing of the Second A.I.F. in 1939 their
idea of the heroic part for Australia was
that it should produce food and let others
do the fighting; and the attitude of Mr.
Ward, at least, has not materially
changed.
Mr. Forde made a statement from which
it could be, and generally was, inferred
that the A.I.F. would be soon fighting in
the Philippines. That could still happen
while this is being printed ; but it still will
not explain why the Australians placed
under his command did not share in the
heroic and spectacular realisation of
General MacArthur’s fondes| ambition.
That aside, what Mr. Forde said was cer-
tainly open to the interpretation that any
Australian part in the Philippines would
be limited.
Stating that much strenuous and bitter
fighting lies ahead before the battle of the
Philippines is won,” Mr. Forde added
that Australian land and air forces will
play a full part in these operations.” But
in the next breath he declared: “We
must not only look northwards to
our part in the general advance but to
the situation in our own territories still
occupied by the Japanese.” He stated
further that General Blarney has estimated
that ‘some 250,000 Japanese troops” had
been left behind between the Philippines
and Australia by General MacArthur’s
“by-passing strategy.” As well, Mr. Forde
stated that “by June, 1945, about 548,000
men will be in the Australian forces.”
The “Tribune” has quoted Mr. Bailey,
Director of the Australian Office of
Information in New York, and Aus-
tralian. Minister to Washington Eggle-
ston as stating that “the Australian
job is to be the cleaning up of the Jap-
anese garrisons by-passed by the Ameri-
can offensives in the South-west Pacific,
specifically the Rabaul and Wewak
areas.” The Chicago paper appears to
accept that this will be a comparatively
easy part, and no doubt many more share
this view. Actually, it will be hard
pounding, in which men will have to find
their inspiration inside themselves —a
thing, fortunately, that Australian troops
are capable of doing.
The trouble is that these matters are
judged from a distance superficially.
The hard, grim business which is nine-
tenths of the soldier’s lot—and in this
sort of fighting will be the whole of it—
has little effect on the emotions. People
at a distance see only the highly spec-
tacular, and that becomes to them the
pure heroic. Anything else is seen as
minor operations. It is the old ironic gag,
“All quiet on the Western Front.” Only
ignorance would translate the notion into
Sneers, but there is much more ignorance
than knowledge about the fighting part
in war.
There is deeper irony in the apparent
fact of the slogging role assigned to Aus-
tralians, proved not once but hundreds
of times to be’unsurpassed by any troops
in the world as dashing fighters, shock
troops. It is the very tradition of the
A.I.F. Fortunately—though this, no
doubt naturally, is not so well appreci-
ated —they are also second to none in
the ordinary hard slugging, which appears
to be the main job ahead of them.
There is no question whatever that they
will do this every bit as decisively as they
would have managed a landing in the
Philippines ; but they, together with all
Australians who have some of their spirit,
can be excused for regretting that tradi-
tion, the A.I.F. record, was not better
considered in the allotting of roles. Cer-
tainly it« would be interesting to heamthe
Government’s explanation of its own part
in this.
In February, 1943, Mr. Curtin, intro-
ducing the Bill limiting the action of the
Militia outside Australia, stated: “When
General MacArthur is in a position to
assume the offensive I assume that he
will move forward with an Allied Expe-
ditionary Force.” Mr. Curtin, quite
evidently, assumed wrong. As far as
the land operations went. General
MacArthur went forward in his offensive
with an American, not an Allied, Expe-
ditionary Force.
Speaking further on that miserable
measure, Mr. Curtin stated that “within
the limits of the area defined in the Bill,”
the “assumed” Allied Expeditionary
Force “could include the whole of
the Australian naval, land and air
forces.” But the P.M. was careful to
assume, however, that “he [General
MacArthur] will re-assign to the Aus-
tralian Government and its service com-
manders the responsibility for the de-
fence of his main base, which is Aus-
tralia. His line of communication areas,
represented by conquered territories, will
also be required for these purposes.”
Not to leave any doubt on the point,
Mr. Curtin declared that Australia
would “not be secure until the enemy
has been driven from the adjacent
islands,” and added: “Then we must.
provide adequate garrisons for holding
these recaptured territories.”
After which it would probably be mis-
taken to imagine that when the allotment
of roles for the present Pacific fighting
was being arranged Mr. Curtin or his
Government found the omission of the
A.I.F. from the Philippines invasion any-
thing but agreeable to themselves and
to their idea of the men who (apart from
their splendid performances elsewhere) in-
flicted on the Japanese ArfiW its first
defeat in the Pacific War—at Milne Bay;
August-September, 1942 and. in Sep-
tember-December, 1942, initiated and
heroically carried through the first offen-
sive operations against the Japanese Army
in this war, across the Owen Stands ana
down to Gona,


PLAIN ENGLISH
Faithless and Feckless.
From quarters to which it looked for go-
rRUM quducis tu r °
ahead signals, the
berra has been warned against certain of
those proposals or na iona a , lb P
“socialisation which the one-eyed dangle
before the blind.
0a na iona 18 *
would be inefficient, a Federal depart-
mental advised against the
nationalisation of airlines. To the
chagrin of the Government s communist
friends, the Rural Reconstruction Com-
mittee reported that State tarmmg
should not be adopted m settlement
policy’ and that collective farming
should not be promoted by the Sta e.
And the chairman of the Secondary In-
.^, onten f
of a 1000-gallon tank on the ideas of
factory enterprise entertained by Min-
istcrs, particularly Mr. M a k in anc *
Senator Cameron, pointing out that Gov-
eminent employees have no knowledge
of the technique of manufacturing nor
any experience in selluig goo s.
In the preparation of these chdlmg
reports the authors had to be poll e. They
could not say that they had been influ-
enced by the Governments subjection
to the A.C.T.U. and subservience to the
ughest forms of union larnkimsm,
though influenced they must have been.
No doubt if they had combined,to issue
one report and let themselves go they
would have subscribed to a declaration
that the “Government” would make a
hopeless botch of running camel, donkey
or bullock teams, though it had a freight
monopoly, in a district where Abdul,
Donkey Dan or Bullocky Bill would
make a fortune.
In spite of the precise warnings of its
own appointees and of a financial situa-
tion made more serious by the drought,
the “Government” suddenly announced
last week that it was “taking over” the
inter-State airway services into which the
energy of progressive Australians has
gone with most impressive results. Not
only Quantas, Guinea Airways, Ansett
Airways, Australian National Airways,
the Butler Air Transport Co. and the
Macßobertson-Miller concern, but the
Alice Springs-Wyndham service, estab-
lished by young Connellan, at first with a
single-engined ’plane without radio,
weather reports or landing fields —he
cleared and graded them himself. In any
country with a real Government the
initiative, resource and pluck of a man
like Connellan would be treasured and
commended as an example to other young
men. If this “Government” has its way
his work and dreams and probably his
finances will be wrecked.
It is by no means certain that this
“Government” will have its way. The
constitutional position is at least doubt-
ful, not only because the people by a vast
majority refused this “Government” full
powers over aviation —as they did to an-
other Government in 1937. There is a
Queensland Labor precedent for getting
round the verdict of the people as regis-
tered at a referendum,, the predominant
party in that State having abolished the
Legislative Council in spite of a great
popular vote in its favor, and, rotten as it
is, we may expect to hear the precedent
quoted. Or, as was suggested during the
debate on the U.N.R.R.A. bill, which
commits Australia to an expenditure of
£12,000,000 (the “Government” has no
doubt that it can raise the money or any
amount required for any other essay in
philanthropy or paternalism), constitu-
tional obstacles may be surmounted by
entering into arrangements with foreign
countries. And, since political chicanery
and perfidy are in fashion, it may be
possible to conclude an airways agree-
ment, giving this Government the powers
denied it by the people, with some of the
Latin American gentlemen who were Mr.
Beasley’s only supporters at the Inter-
national Labor Office conference.
In a Perth speech broadcast to the
nation during the Commonwealth elec-
tion campaign Mr. Curtin said, “My
Government has not socialised any in-
dustry ; my Government will not during
the war socialise any industry.” His
pledge should count for something,
especially when he is out of action, but
evidently it is no more binding than
the industrial agreements which the
union larrikin breaks with impunity. Still,
they pay some attention to these matters
abroad ; in fact, there are many shrewd
observers among us reporting on Austra-
lian affairs for their countries. And though
Senator Keane may blither in the U.S.A.
till he is black in the face, it will now be
useless to entertain hopes of substantial
American investments in Australia until
the crowd which proposes to lop off a
most worthy branch of Australian indus-
try, regardless of all considerations save
its idiotic European socialism, is placed
in a position where it can do no more
mischief for at least 10 years.
Scully to the Rescue.
There is no more need for worry or fret
about erosion, the matter having been
taken ip hand by Mr. Scully. Mr. Scully
has been moved by reports of the drought
and dust-storms, by news of Australian
top-soil falling on New Zealand and into
the Timor Sea, and by evidence given to
the Rural Reconstruction Commission.
E. S. Clayton, N.S.W. Director of Soil
Conservation: In eastern and central divi-
sions of N.S.W. so far examined....
approximately 60,000,000 acres, for the most
part of high fertility and in moderate to
good rainfall areas, are suffering actively
from erosion.
Victorian Soil Conservation Board: Ero-
sion is a major problem throughout the
greater part of the State; it has caused
serious deterioration of agricultural, graz-
ing and timbered land Forty-five shire
councils reported serious erosion, 119 re-
ported erosion of varying degree.
Queensland Department of Agriculture:
Erosion less apparent here, nevertheless it
is occurring It is important that action
be not long delayed.
R. I. Herriott, S.A. Soil Conservator: All
districts in the State, with the exception,
perhaps, of the south-east, are more or less
adversely affected.
Westralian Soil Conservation Committee:
To a questionnaire 373 farmers replied.
Moderate water erosion was reported by
28, severe water erosion by six; moderate
wind erosion by 66, severe by 15.
Tasmanian Agricultural Department: In
all settlement areas erosion has taken its
toll of soil fertility to a ‘ greater or lesser
degree. Sheet erosion is very general on
developed country... .wind erosion occurs
in many areas.
Enough to frighten almost anybody
but Mr. Scully, who as a self-confident
optimist has no peer. Mr. Scully stated
clearly in Parliament last week that he
had the problem in hand. It would be
brought before the meeting of the
Australian Agricultural Council early
next year, and if necessary the council
would be asked to refer it to the next
Premiers’ Conference! After which, we
may hope, another conference will be
called with the idea of referring it to the
Commonwealth Government so that it
can be discussed by the Australian Agri-
cultural Council before being placed
before the next Premiers’ Conference and
then —but what’s the use?
Housing in S.A.
South Australia has a Housing Trust
which, giving cause for envy to the
houseless in N, S. Wales, has completed
its 2000th dwelling. Speaking about it in
the Assembly, Premier Playford said most
of the houses built in the country were
at Whyalla, and the Trust had told him
its worst difficulty in country towns was
inability to obtain men and materials.
This statement was made more or less
apropos of pertinent questions asked by
a Mr. Smith.
Mr. Smith asserted that the Commer-
cial Finance Co. had been authorised to
buy building allotments while private
persons “experienced difficulty” in get-
ting permits. The company, he pro-
ceeded, proposed to build “back-ender”
houses, and a dwelling of three rooms
would run to £lO4O, The Premier
promised to make a personal investi-
gation.
Next day he told the House that the
company proposed to build four-roomed
houses at £lOOO or so and take not more
than 5 p.c, on gross expenditure. Fit-
tings were good and he believed they
would “make very good half houses, with
a view to being ultimately made into com-
fortable modern homes.” In a report,
the solicitor to the company had said
“application was made to W. 0.1., and
after reference of the matter to Mel-
bourne permits to build these houses were
issued.”
None of which satisfied Mr. Smith,
and the Premier said his efforts to gain
enlightenment had been handicapped by
the fact that “the responsible officer was
absent from the State and another officer
was engaged in a conference.”
Perhaps stricken by the spectacle of
their Premier being reduced to the
humble status of an ordinary taxpayer in
trying to get to a Commonwealth official,
members changed the subject. ' It being
mentioned on another occasion, Mr. Play-
ford said he had been assured that the
company had been treated no differently
from other companies, and there was no
mystery about the concern, the names of
directors and shareholders being procur-
able from the Registrar of Companies.
UNDER NEW MISMANAGEMENT.
“Who gave him the idea it was HIS Government, anyway?”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company,
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SHLWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
Pp
(JNA P.PISinS
Hme
iiii
the
your will?
■
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Pla>ce and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. O. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
Last year the Parliament elected on
August 21 had a most unexacting time,
there being seven sittings of the Senate
and 11 of the House ; periods of “work,”
24 hours 17 minutes and 57 hours 47
minutes. On November 17 Menzies
drily mentioned that “in this calendar
year the House has met on 49 days and
the Senate on 36, the discussions being
mostly on matters of ordinary domestic
policy.” If the squandermaniacs can
bring it off every member is to have the
use of a secretary and “divers other ease-
ments,” as Jeanie Deans put it, conserva-
tion of the public’s money, though the
drought is going to make a terrible hole
in it, being no object.
Charlie Cox, good soldier and prince
of good fellows, never pretended to be
much of a politician, but he had a unique
record among N.S.W. Senators. He stood
three times, in 1919, 1925 and 1931, and
headed the poll on each occasion. With
Cox out, Amour has topped the poll twice
—in 1937 and 1943.
Scully was reported at the week-end to
be about to take over Sydney’s infamous
Homebush abattoirs for the duration.
Homebush is “controlled” by the Sydney
Government, which can’t make slaughter-
men do a fair thing. Canberra can’t
make coalies do a fair thing. Scully is
the prince of optimists.
Cal well and Ward have been chal-
lenged to “repeat those statements out-
side.” In an eruption of general invective
against High Court Justices, newspaper
proprietors, managers and editors, Cal-
well made a specific charge against Syd-
ney “D.T.” which was fiercely denied.
Ward, attacking free enterprise in civil
aviation, was reported in Melbourne
(though not in Sydney) to have said that
aircraft had been “lost through overload-
ing” because “investors wanted to get the
maximum profit.” Still, it is useless to
expect these fellows to come out from
behind their hedge. Larrikinism is privi-
ledged in Parliament and Labor-unionism.
State politicians in Queensland, like
their pards in Victoria and South Aus-
tralia, are raising their salaries. Some
nark mentioning Curtin’s wage-pegging
regulations, Premier Cooper said they
didn’t come into it. He added that the
scheme would add nothing to the produc-
tion cost of anything, though it will cost
the State £14,900 a year, everyone having
been provided for;
Premier, £1450 to £2000; Ministers and
Speaker, £ll5O to £1500; Opposition-
leader, £B5O to £1250; Chairman of Com-
mittees, £B5O t'o £1100; party secretaries,
£650 to £950; party whips, £650 to £950;
members, £650 to £B5O.
All this in the sixth year of the war,
and with drought in three States. And
all for a Parliament whose legislative
duties are lighter than those of any other,
its principal occupation consisting in con-
sidering how to occupy itself,
“Rotten” was Opposition-leader Nick-
lin’s word for the salaries grab in Queens-
land. “Pandering to the basest instincts,”
thundered Lord-Mayor Chandler. Cooper
replied with a bit of snuffle:
I believe that democracy cannot be
secured, it cannot be improved, unless we
have in this Assembly politicians who are
fully alive to the jobs they have to do.
Then we shall be able to build this big
edifice after the war, and it can be built
only by one person—the politician.
Whereupon all the builders in Cooper’s
party raised their hammers, saws, chisels
and spirit-levels and thundered “Aye!”
Canada’s part in the campaigns in
Western Europe has been glorious but
costly. A pressing need for reinforce-
ments prompted Ralston, the Minister
for Defence, to recommend recourse to
conscription, approved of at a referen-
dum. Losing his poise for once, Mac-
kenzie King demurred, and Ralston re-
signed, being succeeded by General Mc-
Naughton, sometime commander of the
Canadians in Britain. But that didn’t
settle the matter, and presently the P.M.
had to agree to the sending of 16,000
called-up men to Europe. Then there
were “demonstrations” and threats that
the Government would lose the French-
Canadian vote. Canada’s war effort and
its splendid generosity to its Allies, all
of them, have raised its stature among
the nations, and all will hope that the
storm will soon blow itself out.
Declaring that H. E. Watson had been
duly appointed secretary of the Com-
monwealth Railways, and that the Execu-
tive’s cancellation of the appointment in
favor of E. Harding could not stand,
Justice Rich granted Watson the neccs-
BEDTIME STORY.
“That one about your coalminers is beautiful, Senator. Let’s have it again
sary order, with costs against the Com-
monwealth and Senator Collings. This
was the case in which Railway Commis-
sioner Gahan, a party to it and a wit-
ness for Watson, was informed by Col-
lings that if he desired his reappointment
to be considered by Cabinet it would be
“unfortunate” if his evidence should not
be “completely in accord with the case
presented by the Commonwealth.” These
words, it transpired, appeared in a letter
from Forde, as Minister for the Army,
to Collings, who passed it on to Gahan,
with sticky results for himself. Said
Justice Rich;
It is against the law for any person who
has any authority or means of influence
over a witness to use it for the purpose
of affecting evidence.
The Court, his Honor proceeded, could
call upon “the party concerned” to show
cause why fie should not be dealt with
for contempt, but the responsibility would
be left to the law officers of the Crown.
Thank God, there are still laws for the
protection of the citizen, and still upright
and fearless Judges!
Senator Keane, to a bunch of Ameri-
can reporters; “Australian labor has
supported the war solidly, causing very
little trouble. The coalminers did a
magnificent j®b.” Now, all those re-
porters have to find out is what the
“magnificent job” was and when it was
done.
A coalminer on his way to work
found that all seats in the bus were occu-
pied. He stood up. When he got to the
mine he found that somebody had put
onion sandwiches in his crib. He is
allergic to onions, but he entered the
cage. Down in the mine he was told
by a mate that a newspaper had con-
demned a strike. He went to the coal-
face. At crib-time word was passed round
that there would be beer in the pubs
that day. The miner resumed work.
When he reached the surface he learned
that a man over 60 had been seen work-
ing in the mine. He replied “So long,
mates ; see you at work tomorrow.” But
quick action was taken ; he was certified
as insane, and is now in a place where
he can do no further harm.
Trevor Smith to Melbourne “Herald”:
Diggers are walking down the Strand
again. Not in great numbers; actually,
there are a mere handful—prisoners of
war from Switzerland or men who came
from Australia to arrange for the prisoners
still to come. But they have provided a
lively talking point. Everyone sees in the
newspapers how the British, Canadians,
South Africans and New Zealanders are
in the ring tightening around Germany.
They know our R.A.A.F. men are there,
but they miss any mention of the Diggers.
What a pity we have not even a token
force participating in the grand finale! This
is regretted by none more than the
Tommies. Surely our Commonwealth Gov-
ernment could have done something
about it.
But surely the gentleman should have
known our Commonwealth “Govern-
ment”!
Not easily shaken, Premier Dunstan,
himself a farmer, was staggered by what
he saw of the Mallee on a recent visit.
He needn’t have bothered to move out of
Melbourne, as portions of the State’s lead-
ing wheatlands were flying over the city.
Moved to make one constructive sugges-
tion, he remarked that he had noticed
sand drift and erosion were absent where
land had been recently ploughed, the fur-
rows apparently offering some wind pro-
tection. This may be, but it is only one
aspect of a complicated problem which
has been sidestepped and ignored by one
Government after another. It takes a
tragic bushfire or a drought of cosmic
proportions to wake up city politicians.
A “Government spokesman in Can-
berra ’ on the proposed expropriation of
airlines:
With one concern there would be savings
in administration, spare aircraft, engines,
equipment, traffic staffs, supervision, build-
ings, workshops, advertising, training of
air crews and ground engineers and many
other expenses, some of which arise only
from rivalry between companies.
Coming from a crowd that wants to tear
down B.H.P. because it’s alleged to be
a monopoly, that’s pretty rich. As for
the part about “rivalry,” who com-
plained?
By all accounts Eisenhower has a great
sense of humor. He must have been de-
lighted when informed by his commander
in Brussels that the communist leaders of
the Resistance movement, ordered to give
up their arms by a Government which is
taking no chances, had solemnly dis-
avowed any intention of fighting the
Allies. The generalissimo could have
found a parallel in Gilbert’s lines to “The
Terrestrial Globe,” by a Miserable
Wretch:
It’s true my prospects all look blue,
But don’t let that unsettle you!
Never you mind!
Roll on!
(It rolls on.)
Lang tabor is running candidates for
four of the five City Council wards, and
Lud Mayor Bartley is terribly concerned
about it. Official Labor and Civic Re-
form are contesting three wards apiece;
hoping for an exchange of votes against
Lang Labor in Flinders, Fitzroy, Gipps
and Phillip, Trying to justify this very
unusual combination, the Lud Mayor
said; “Of two evils we prefer the Official
Labor party to the Lang-Foley reaction-
aries.” His Ludship has, or had,
Macquarie-street ambitions, and it was
thought that he would come out against
Landa in Bondi, which he might have
won. He tried instead to unseat Treatt
in Woollahra, for which Official Labor
accommodatingly scratched, and failed
spectacularly.
An official report on the Government
coalmine at Lithgow (N.S.W.) for the
year to June 30 is that the show was
open for business on 244 days,, but
absenteeism was “again abnormally
high.” A profit of £2409 was claimed,
‘‘reducing the accumulated deficiency to
£15,316.” Losses and profits are calcu-
lated on capital heavily written down
at the expense of taxpayers. Nationalisa-
tion is Ward’s “remedy” and Forde’s.
It is the open season for traps again.
Sydney “Sun” trapped 150,000 Germans
in Alsace. The “D.T.” made it 200,000.
The “Daily Mirror,” while not neglect-
ing any fancies about the blue Alsatian
mountains, announced the impending
"destruction of the 30 German divisions
(450,000 men at full strength) trapped in
Latvia,” a very small part of the eastern
front of which nothing had been heard
for months. These idiotic calculations,
which are never borne out, merely feed
complacency and slacking. Eisenhower
not only never indulges in them, but tries
to counteract the effects in his own
country by earnest and insistent appeals
for greater production.
In a moment of weakness the executive
of the Westralian Primary Producers’
Association decided to seek amalga-
mation with the Wheatgrowers’ Union,
a concern with arrogant Left-Wing
elements. In the course of negotia-
tions, ignoble on one side and pat-
ronising on the other, the P.P.A.
offered to do almost everything to
which W.G.U. might deign to agree,
even to “eliminating the Political Sec-
tion,” a euphemism for ditching the 30-
years-old Country party. Now it reports
sadly that “our concessions have not re-
sulted in any reciprocal proposals,” and
that “the time has arrived for us to appeal
to members to initiate a drive for new
members.” It would feel far better if it
had told the W.G.U. to go and chase
communists.


(Wo m*”*
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
An officers’ training school that con-
cluded in Victoria the other day was
unique in one particular, at least —those
who got through included Lieut. Reg
W. Saunders, the first Australian abori-
ginal to get an army commission. He
started in the school as a sarge, after
A.I.F. service in the Middle East and
New Guinea. The school was also re-
markable for the number of decorated
men commissioned, among them Tom
Derrick, V.C., D.C.M., of Adelaide;
Lindsay A. Bear, D.C.M., M.M., of
Moonee Ponds (Vic.); F. M. Joy, M.M.,
of Mount Pleasant (S.A.); and T. J.
Donoghue, M.M., of Darlinghurst, Syd-
ney,
“Ek Dum”: Major-General George
Wootten is very like Charles Rosenthal
at first glance —“more like Charlie than
Charlie himself,” someone has said.
Wootten has the same sturdy form,
the same walk and the same cour-
age and aptitude for military detail and
discipline. One of the Old Guard of
Duntroon, he served with distinction
in the last war and was ultimately
on the staff of the Third Division, A.I.F.
When Australia discarded or discouraged
out of the forces many of its best soldiers
he set up practice in the law, but he was
one of the first back in uniform when
Poland was attacked. His Libyan career
MAJOR-GENERAL G. F. WOOTTEN.
was distinguished, but he really made his
mark at Buna-Gona, where General Mac-
Arthur singled him out for commenda-
tion, and he was awarded a C.B.E.
Wootten took over the Ninth Division
from General Morshead when it came
home from Alamein, and led it at Finsch-
hafen. It was a unique operation, in the
tenacity with which infiltration was dealt
with, cliffs were made light of and tanks
were used in such country as tanks had
never been used in before. To Wootten
and young Sam Hordern belong the
honor of introducing the tank into real
mountain combat. Australia, now apt
to hide its heroes, would have made an
idol of Wootten in any other war of the
present length. He lost the elder of his
two sons on active service in the Middle
Bast in May, 1943,
“Tenterden”: One of the fastest
speakers Adelaide has heard is R.S.L.
president Gilbert Dyett It’s no trouble
to him to jam four syllables into two, and
a stream of clipped polysyllables pours
out of him like bullets from a machine-
gun. Although he r’it’rates his d’sire t’
cr’ate a pokey f’ th’ re’bil’tash’n ’f r’tum’d
suff’ring dis’bilities sT’sult ’f th’
pres’nt world cat’clysm, his aud’tors ’r’
gen’ly able t’ d’rive fr’m his el’qu’nt dis-
s’tash’ns an ’nterpr’tash’n wh’ch ’par’ntly
s’ports th’ diverse ’pinyuns ’fall parties.
“Cism”: Lieut.-Col. John Raymond
Broadbent, D. 5.0., mentioned by
“S.U.R.” (B, 15/11/’44), has risen from
lieutenant to lieutenant-colonel with the
same unit, of which he was an “Old
Original.” In Palestine, as the first 0.C.,
he organised his unit’s training company
for reinforcements. He was dubbed
“Ming the Merciless,” and no better-
trained “Reos” were ever sent forward.
Broadbent gains the respect of his men
because he’s the “Come on” rather than
the “Go on” type. He captained a com-
pany in the Tobruk campaign and went
through the Alamein show. His D.S.O.
he gained in New Guinea as a major.
Lewis David Edwards, M.A., Queens-
land Director-General of Education, is a
son of an Ipswich miner, and as a youth
worked in a mine. Before he topped the
Department of Public Instruction he was
a lecturer and afterwards Acting Pro-
fessor of Philosophy in the Queensland
University, where he got his M.A.
Sir Raghunath Paranjpye, High Com-
missioner for India in Australia is a fair
sample of the modern Indian intellectual.
An M.A., B.Sc., a one-time prof, of
maths., a former Minister of Education
in the Bombay Presidency, he was a
Senior Wrangler at Cambridge, an out-
standing scholar and a cricketer who be-
lieves that Bradman on a cricket field
in India would do more for Indo-Aus-
tralian understanding than all the treaties
could. His daughter is playwright,
actress, graduate of Cambridge and
speaker of flawless English, who repre-
sented her country at the International
Labor Office. Her daughter at eight
years dances, draws and has had a book
between covers.
James Malone, former Queensland
Deputy Director of Postal Services, is
now doing the like job in N.S.W., vice
J S. Duncan, seconded to be official sec-
retary to the High Commissioner in
London, O.C. wireless operations on a
Somme sector in the 1914-18 war,
Malone came back to help launch the
service within the Commonwealth. A
Lismore (N.S.W.) native, he entered the
postal department as a messenger boy.
Known all over Australia per A.B.C.
and otherwise, Lindley Evans and Frank
Hutchens have been for over 20 years
partners in the double-barrelled piano-
playing business. They share a lot of
double interests. At first pupil and
teacher respectively, they both studied
with Tobias Matthay at London Royal
Academy; both like the seaside, Hut-
chens living at Dee Why and Evans at
Cronulla, outer Sydney surf suburbs;
and both have made names as composers
and teachers. Last year, when A.B.C.
asked them to perform a concerto with
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra under
Dr. Bainton’s baton, they cabled away
for some new works. These failing to
turn up, each himself turned out a new
work, and these went over well at
the concert. When they first got together
their first audience consisted entirely of
the Wollongong (N.S.W.) constable.
Having decided to try their hands as play-
ing partners, they picked on the South
Coast town as a spot where they weren’t
known and where a music shop, which
had two good pianos, was closing for
Christmas holidays. Everything fixed,
they were going great guns when the local
Law knocked, was let in, stayed the after-
noon, and next day brought the sergeant
along to make the audience a duo.
Some time back this page recorded
Flying-Officer G. C. W. O’Neill’s rare
achievement for an airman of winning
the M.M, He’d been shot down in the
desert, and part of his performance was
getting back through the enemy lines,
bringing valuable information. Since
then O’Neill has won the D.F.C. Attack-
ing ground targets in Italy, he kept on
with it despite his ’plane being badly hit.
Then, says the citation, “his skill alone
enabled him to cross 400 miles of sea
before his engine caught fire, forcing him
to abandon the aircraft.”
“Rookie” applauds an appointment:
lan Sabey, repatriated from Germany last
year and now appointed Public Relations Officer
to the Disposals Commission, organised and
led a fierce rearguard action in the campaign in
Greece. It was at T Beach, near the village
of Tolo, and in the opinion of the men who
fought with him Sabey there displayed all the
high qualities of leadership, as well as great
gallantry. Unfortunately, none of the witnesses
escaped—they were all wiped out or taken
prisoner—and as far as I know lan has never
received any official recognition. At the time
he was a staff sergeant commanding a valuable
strategic position. (It should, perhaps, be added
here that Sabey declined to give me any infor-
mation in connection with this incident.) In
Germany lan exerted himself to better the
lot of fellow-prisoners, and by his organising
activities and his own standards generally did
more than any other Australian I met there to
make others think well of his country. He was
bom here 38 years ago, but was educated in
England, and worked for a while on London
“Times.” Before getting into the A.I.F. he was
on the staff of Adelaide “Advertiser.” A
novelist, he recently published a book of verse,
written while a p.o.w.
Sydney-born in 1885, Bill Bowles spent
his boyhood in Queensland, where his
talent for woodcarving attracted the
WILLIAM BOWLES.
notice of L. T. Harvey, of Brisbane Tech.
He won a scholarship taking him to Eng-
land, There he had a job for three years
with Bertram Mackennal. At the 1914-
18 outbreak Bowles enlisted in the
British Army, was the crack shot of
the 25th London Regiment, and later
joined the Royal Tank Corps as
a gunner. The war over, Bowles mar-
ried a Scotch lass, worked with F, E.
Blundstone and other sculptors, did a job
for the British Government on the Wem-
bly Exhibition, was brought back to Aus-
tralia by Colonel J. L. Treloar to work
on the Australian War Memorial at Can-
berra, and won the competitions for the
King George V and Monash memorials.
Bowles, whose statue of Henry Lawson
was exhibited at the last Victorian show
of the Australian Academy, of which he’s
a member, has his studio at Frankston,
and in his spare time enjoys designing
stage settings, meetings of the T Square
Club and local politics.
Anyone not knowing that Hedley
Ralph Marston is Biochemistry and
General Nutrition’s research chief in
S.A. would probably take him for a
Bohemian artist rather than a scientist —
a pretty hefty artist; he tops 6ft. lin. and
weighs over 16st. In point of fact, his
hobby away from the laboratory is col-
RALPH MARSTON.
lecting paintings, and he numbers many
of Australia’s best painters among his
friends. A generous patron of arts, he
makes it pay. Two paintings that he
bought a few years ago for £3O were
afterwards bought from him by the
National Gallery for over £3OO. He’s 43.
The 49th Fighter Group of the Fifth
U.S. Air, Force, the first in the south-
west Pacific, went into the Leyte cam-
paign with its score 492 Jap ’planes
destroyed. In seven days it had been built
up to 530. In the beginning the 49th
was stationed in Darwin. It was the first
group into Moresby and the first to
operate north of the Owen Stanleys. It
claimed its first Jap machine on March
1, 1942. It began flying the old P4O
Kittyhawks; now its three squadrons
have P3B Lightnings. Major Bong, who
leads all American fighter pilots, was
once a member of the group. He’s flying
from Leyte now, though he no longer
belongs to the 49th. His score went up
to 33 during the first week of the cam-
paign.
News leaks out in odd ways. Last
August the King visited the forces fight-
ing in Italy. On the return trip a Hud-
son plane carrying part of the entourage
crashed near Coombe Hill (Eng.) and all
aboard were killed. The navigator was
Flying-Officer Arthur M. Tindale, a
Guildford (W.A.) man, who left the
W.A. Department of Agriculture to serve
with the R.A.A.F. in North Africa, Italy
and Britain, The “West Australian” pub-
lished the story of his death, told in a
letter to his widow from Flight-Lieut. J.
Wheaton, R.A.F., to whose station Tin-
dale was attached.
Elected to fill the Awarua, Southland
(N.Z.), vacancy caused by the death of
Brigadier Hargest, George Richard
Herron is a 56-year-old brother of the
Moderator of the Presbyterian Church of
New Zealand. Born and bred in South-
land, Herron, after five years’ blacksmith-
ing, gravitated to the land, becoming a
breeder of Ayrshires, a judge of horses
and dairy cattle and Dominion president
of the N.Z. Herd-testing Association. He
stood as a Nat. and had an almost two-to-
one majority over Labor’s candidate.
“H.M.”: When the veterans who
shared in H.M.A.S. Sydney’s destruction
of the Emden had their annual reunion
on Armistice Day the roll-up included
Captain S. A. Cave, who was a 15-year-
old bugler on the Australian warship
when it got to holts with the raider. His
present rank is army, not navy. Lieut.-
Commander G. B. Salter, now 74, is the
veterans’ president. Lieut.-Commander
Turnbull is another back to active ser-
vice ; and Padre Little, now in charge of
a Methodist church at Rockdale, never
misses the reunion.
Dr. Thomas Patrick Connolly, of Too-
woomba (Q.), left estate valued at
£126,743, all but £25,284 of it outside
Queensland.
Into the silence:
In Taree (N.S.W.), at 71, journalist John Tor-
quil McLeod. On the “Manning River Times”
at the end, McLeod edited papers at Cobar,
Dungog and Kempsey.
At 84, in Adelaide, R. M. Mcßride, one of
the pioneer pastoralist Mcßrides. He once
owned several stations near Burra (S.A.) and
Devenborough Downs in the north-east. Lat-
terly he was interested in holdings in W.A.,
including the Tarmoola Pastoral Co., at Leon-
ora, and another at North Dandalup, where he
bred prize Suffolk sheep.
In London, at 60, George Stanley Walpole,
engineering scientist. Son of a Hobart medico,
Walpole went to England and established a
business as precision engineer, in which he
helped sundry Australian industries.
In an R.A.F. hospital in the Middle East,
F.-Sgt. Geoffrey John Suter, who joined the
R.A.A.F. from the literary staff of Launceston
“Examiner.” He had served in Britain and
for the last 11 months in the Middle East.
In S.A., Aimee Marie, widow of Jethro
Brown (died 1930), who was Prof, of Law
at, in turn, the Universities of Hobart, Wales
and Adelaide.
In Melbourne, at 82, Mathew W. Neilson,
a Scot who travelled extensively in Central
Australia, making a close study of aborigines.
He was secretary of the Aborigines’ Uplift
Society.
At Colac (Vic.), Mrs. Mary Kelly, a pioneer
in nursing in Victoria. Scots-bom, she came
to Australia early and for many years was the
only Lady with the Lamp in the Otway when
roads were tracks or non-existent.
In Sydney, at 58, Charles William Kinsela,
governing director of the funerals firm. He
was a judge of horses at Royal shows.
In Sydney, at 73, John Body Cramsie, grazier
and meat authority. Born at Balranald
(N.S.W.) and educated at Queen’s College, Mel-
bourne, he became chairman of the Australian
Meat Council in 1922, and a couple of years
later made a two-years’ world tour investigat-
ing meat-industry developments.


Socity
“Zake”: The cables have been sizzling
with the feat of an American soldier-
hypnotist who at Belfast University put
200 students and professors to sleep for
three minutes. It might be pointed out
that the mere fact of the professors’ pres-
ence would imbue the undergrads with an
irrepressible desire for slumber, and that
the profs, would themselves be affected
by all the signs of somnolence around
them. Nevertheless, the news will help
to strengthen the belief that only men
possess the true hypnotic power. Yet I
have heard of a successful woman prac-
titioner. She won a beauty contest from
behind scratch, as it were, in a N.S.W.
town. Some time afterwards someone
ferreted out the fact that she toured the
country shows as a mesmerist.
* * * *
“WX5918”: Add to the Middle East
War cemeteries mentioned by “El
Madjal” (B. 18/10/’44) that one which,
with its neatly-clipped hedges
and flowers, brightens the., desert’s dusty
face just outside of Beersheba. Sur-
viving Light Horsemen of the last war
will think of it kindly, for many of its
crosses are inscribed with the names of
trooper mates who rode to death there-
abouts.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”: That Tommy who found
his girl after 10 year's (B. 22 /11 / ’44) had
his Australian counterpart in a,Gipps-
lander who, spending the last day of his
final leave in Melbourne, struck up an
acquaintanceship with a girl in a tea-
shop, spent two hours with her, then de-
parted with nothing more than an ex-
change of Christian names. He put in
four years chasing Turks and Jerries,
came back, worked at various jobs, accu-
mulated some cash and a couple of motor
“Come in!"
trucks. An advertised cartage contract
looking attractive, he went to a Wimmera
town to interview the principal, and the
door was opened by the girl of the tea-
shop whose father was the advertiser,
Here’ the story diverges from the English
one: she was a widow with two children,
but he married her just the same.
“Glucose G.”: The boys in the hut
were making a racket, singing, shouting,
banging on tables and forms. Came a
thunderous knock on the locked door.
Snowy hastily doused the lights and all
hands dived to bunk and lay still. Again
came the knock and a stentorian voice
roared “Come on, open up, open up!”
Silence ; then an answer was shouted from
the darkness, “Go round the back and
leave a quart. I’ll pay y’ next week.”
* * * » *
“Cism”: When we were camped in
India for a few days prior to re-embark-
ing for the Middle East, a town some
miles away, notorious for its anti-British
sentiments, was placed out of bounds.
Inevitably, some of the boys who previ-
ously didn’t know the town existed went
to see if it was as black as painted. After
an hour’s mooching about narrow, dirty,
smelly streets, a bunch of our fellows
were menaced by a crowd armed with
sticks and stones, and it looked as if
someone would get hurt. Luckily, two
young subalterns of the same unit, also
having an illegal “look-see,” came upon
the spot of bother. One of them did a
bit of quick thinking. He motioned to
his friend to stand a few paces to his
front, facing him, then he yelled “Parade!
On your marker! Fall in! ” The Indians’
clamoring ceased on the instant, and the
sub. took advantage to repeat his order.
In good style the soldiers fell in on left
of the marker. Yelled the sub.: “Atten-
shun! Right turn. By your right—quick
march! ” The - townspeople stood in
silence while the squad marched away to
the safety of the railway station. ■
* * * , *
“Strict Veg.”; There was excitement in
a Melbourne hostelry when a man who
walked in with a live tiger snake in his
hand was rapidly followed by another
man who claimed to be the owner of the
reptile. To make sure of his possession
the first man thrust the writhing creature
inside his shirt and dared anybody to
take it from him. A few minutes later
he had been persuaded to give up the
snake and was being rushed to the public
hospital in a state of intense drowsiness.
The doctors could find no trace of a bite,
but gave him an antidote on spec. When
last heard of he was recovering from
whatever was the matter with him. The
owner of the snake is a tattooist who, as
a sideline, catches crawlers for the Zoo.
* * * *
“Kimber Ley”: What he called a “rare
and refreshing case” so staggered Mr.
Justice Wolff in the W.A. Supreme Court
that he was compelled to adjourn it for
a year. The owner of a house at Ned-
lands, which had been leased furnished
to a refugee from Malaya two years ago,
sought recovery of possession. The de-
fendant pleaded inability to obtain an-
other house and inability by the plaintiff
to obtain one for him, and contended that
eviction would cause great hardship. The
case had come through the usual Lower
Court channels to the Supreme Court,
and evidence was given for both sides
that in the whole matter a “spirit of
amity” had prevailed. “Witnesses for
both sides appear to have told the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the
truth,” remarked his Honor. “Where
such candor has been displayed it is very
difficult to reach an equitable decision.’
Adding that he could find nothing to tip
the scales either way, so nicely was the
case balanced, he adjourned it for a year,
either party to have the right of approach
in Chambers at 48 hours’ notice if some-
thing turned up.
“Avon”: It isn’t often that effective
repartee is employed against a Govern-
ment department—even if the weapon is
to hand it may -be inexpedient to use it.
But it has been done in Maoriland. The
necessity for economy in the use of paper
has been preached there, as everywhere
else in a war-distracted world ; and the
business community, loyally co-operating,
has been saving envelopes by sending out
accounts just folded and sealed with a
strip of gummed paper. This procedure,
for some reason, displeased the Post
Office heads, who requested that
envelopes should be used. Wellington
Chamber of Commerce replied sweetly,
on behalf of the capital city’s traders,
that the no-envelope habit was a leaf out
of the Post and Telegraph Department’s
own book—that’s the way telegrams are
sent out.
“What’s yer gross tonnage , Skipper?”
“P. McM.”: Last public holiday I wan-
dered idly down Sydney’s George-street,
past pubs with “No Beer” signs. There
weren’t many people around, but as I
neared the cinema palaces I discovered
the reason. Most of the drifting crowd
had attached themselves to theatre queues
—some of them nearly 300 yards long. It
was a beautiful sunny day, with a light
breeze blowing; the harbor beckoned
invitingly; there were plenty of beaches
within half an hour’s travel; there were
libraries, museums and the Art Gallery to
be visited ; yet here was the mob glamor-
ing to be admitted to a stuffy theatre for
three hours. Lavishing fivepence on a
fourpenny milkshake, I ppndered on the
kinks in the Big City mind.
* * * *
“M, N. Joe”: A young British' ser-
geant, landed on a Normandy beach-head
on D-day, marched inland with his com-
pany according to plan. He was a polite
young chap. On coming to a quiet farm-
house he knocked on the door and was
answered by the woman of the house.
“Madam,” he said in careful French, “I
have to inform you that the invasion has
started.” “Good,” was her emphatic
reply. “When do the atrocities com-
mence?”
* * * *
“Tiki”: Maoriland’s primary education
system, recently condemned by Univer-
sity professors, perturbed by the large
percentage of failures in matriculation
exams., is also under fire from the Domi-
nions Associated Chamber of Commerce.
This body has issued a statement com-
plaining that the standards in hand-
writing, English and arithmetic are now
so low, even in the case of youngsters who
have had two or three years of high
school, that some big commercial firms
have found it necessary to institute their
own classrooms, where juniors are re-
taught the three Rs. Such a development
was prophesied years ago by one of the
Dominion’s shrewdest and most fore-
sighted educationists, head of a teachers’
training college. He opposed fancy frills
on the syllabus, on the ground that the
proper aim of primary education is not
to purvey all knowledge but to provide
the keys to the doors —ability to read,
ability to write correct English, ability
to apply the simple arithmetical processes
without error. And he was emphatic
that six or seven years was not over-much
time to devote to that grounding.
* * * *
“Bo”: In the friendly Republic on
the other side of the Pacific the infal-
lible standby for the divorce lawyer is
“incompatibility of temperament.” The
laugh is still reverberating through Illi-
nois over the Chicago man who was
granted a divorce because his wife wanted
him to shave the hair off his chest —he
was granted the custody of the razor!
New York’s life was brightened by the
success of a Brooklyn wife who asked
for freedom because her husband blew
bubbles when he ate his breakfast
crunchbix, and by the decree granted the
drummer who claimed that his cornet
meant more to him than his wife. The
Judge compared the noises made by the
two before he decided,
* * * *
“Tasma, Jun.”: A friend borrowed my
V 8 for an urgent run into town. Half-
way along the road he heard something
strike beneath the car with a clang;
arrived at his destination he saw that one
of the wheelcaps was missing. On the
return journey he and a companion kept
lookout, stopped the car at about where
they thought they’d heard the tinkle, and
in the grass a bit off the road discovered
a wheelcap, which was fitted into posi-
tion with expressions of satisfaction,
“Can’t buy the things these days if you
happen to lose ’em,” said the driver.
When I saw the car I couldn’t believe my
eyes. I lost the cap off that wheel a
couple of months before and had been
trying to get another ever since.
* * * *
“E.T.”: There was a sort of Australo-
American entente in the early days of
N. S. Wales. Thirteen vessels flying the
Stars and Stripes entered Sydney Harbor
before 1800, while between 1800 and 1809
as many as 33 visited Sydney. Some were
whaling and sealing ships which came
in to refit; others were merchant ships
looking for profitable trade. The traders
were not disappointed, for the new colony
sadly lacked many essentials, mainly
through restrictions placed on British
commerce by the East India Company’s
Charter.. This gave that co. exclusive
trading rights from the Cape of Good
Hope to the Straits of Magellan, making
it illegal for other British ships to trade
with N. S. Wales.
5jC 5{C
“Spokeshave”: While a Melbourne
woman artist was painting in a public
garden an old man heaved himself up
from the grass and came over to survey
her picture. “Do you like it?” asked the
painter. “No, I don’t,” he said bluntly.
“I can’t make head or tail of it, I sup-
pose you are a follower of that fellow
Goebbels.” The artist was staggered at
this accusation ; then enlightenment burst
upon her. “Oh, you mean Mr. Dobell! ”
MAGNIFICENT.
“Senator Keane told a conference of newspapermen
at Washington that Australian coalminers did a mag-
nificent job.”
How true it is, how infinitely true, ;
That one must often go from home for
raising
Some scrap of news that’s absolutely new —
And liable to be discovered, too,
Wholly amazing.
“Our lads are out for victory, heart and soul”
(One sees them taking down his words
intently):
“There’s nothing left undone to bring the goal
Nearer. Our very miners hew their coal
Magnificently.”
One wonders if his conscience pricked to spin
A tale like this for those who heard to credit.
Alternatively, was his tongue within
The pouch between his temple and his chin
What time he said it?
Who knows? A plant of rarely wholesome
growth
Is modern -propaganda. Notwithstanding,
To judge him over-harshly one is loath,
Bearirig in mind he wasn’t upon oath.
Just propaganding.
But, seeing, Keane, you say with pride you throb
To note how miners have been working lately
And reckon it magnificent, begob!
What would your notion be of doing a job
Inadequately?
N.S.W.
IFORD.
ACCORDING TO MARES.
Two catchwords I kept in my rocker
That would silence the hottest turmoil;
The one was “According to Cocker,”
The other “According to Hoyle.”
Time when the veriest mention "
Of either authority meant
No loophole was left for contention,
No ground for the mildest dissent.
So now, when a barney’s impending
On the subject of weather affairs,
You can sling in your bit of portending
And make it conclusive by ending
“According to Mares.”
There are Gospels with which you’re
acquainted
(Or were in the days .that are gone)
“According to” Matthew the sainted,
To Mark and to Luke and to John.
There are precepts in Scriptural metre
And rhythm you will doubtless recall,
Some listed “according to” Peter
And others “according to” Paul.
In fact, in most fields you could mention
There’s always some figure of awe
Whose fiat, beyond contravention,
Is safe for respectful attention,
Whose say-so is law.
For long we’ve had weather-skilled wizards
In watch-towers and handy redoubts
Alert to anticipate blizzards
And tip the duration of droughts.
There was Wragge, in his time who was second
To none of the seers of the skies,
And for long-range forecasting was reckoned
Equipped with prophetical eyes.
And now spring’s proved already a hummei,
I’ll say that he’s wise who prepares
(Though it leaves him decidedly glummer)
For worse on the way with the summer,
“According to Mares.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Lawnston”: In a pub near Hobart the
licensee, having run out of beer, had the
bright notion of offering his customers
ice-cream. He applied to the district
municipal authority for permission, the
council referred it to the chairman of the
Licensing Court, and that functionary
refused the application on the general
principle that, though there was nothing
in the Act against it, a Bung should stick
to beer and spirits. The old English
notion that an innkeeper should provide
refreshment and entertainment for man
and beast has been dead a long time in
the Speck.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Feeling the need for hero-
worship, the Russians have gone bdck to
Suvorov (whom Byron called Suwarrow),
Peter the Great and Ivan the Terrible.
This is a sore point with Australian corns,
who are apt to grow particularly nasty
when the glorification of Ivan the Ter-
rible is mentioned, but facts are against
them. In a Moscow dispatch to the New
York “Herald Tribune” (September 17)
Maurice Hindus, himself a Russian,
wrote that the Terrible fellow was “about
to receive the highest recognition Soviet
Russia haslet accorded any former Czar
or any other person in Russian history.”
Two of Moscow’s leading theatres, the Art
and the Maly, are soon to have a premiere
of two plays of bis life and times which
Alexei Tolstoy has written. Simultane-
ously, Sergei Eisenstein, one of the most
eminent Russian motion-picture directors,
is getting ready to release the first part of
his" film trilogy on this “Czar of All
Russia,” as Ivan proclaimed himself.
Eisenstein has been working on his trilogy
for five years. He passed three years writing
the scenario. The scenario which Alexei
Tolstoy had submitted he found inadequate.
With a coldblooded contempt for the feel-
ings of English-speaking corns. Hindus
explained that “the Soviet Government
wouldn’t be spending a small fortune on
such ambitious artistic productions, es-
pecially in war-time, if it didn’t seek to
inculcate in the Russian people a fresh
appreciation of the personality of this
famous Czar, his place in Russian his-
tory and his bearing on their own life
and times”;
Whatever his shortcomings, Ivan was the
great planner of his day. He was the uni-,
tier of the Russian State. He made Siberia
part of the Russian domains. He pushed
the Russian front to the Baltic, so that he
could have an easy outlet to foreign lands.
He fought his way down the Volga to
Astrakhan and drove the Tartars out of
that city. It was he who made the Volga a
Russian river. In Soviet textbooks on his-
tory Ivan is presented as “a ruler with, a
sharp subtle mind who, in the external and
internal life of Russia, skilfully and cor-
rectly formulated his problems and pur-
poses and pursued them with persistency.”
Apropos of the “shortcomings,” Ivaru
did in, among others, “Philip, the saintly
metropolitan of Moscow,” his own son
Ivan and—in between, for five weeks —
“batches of the population of Great
Novgorod.”
*** " *
“Adelaide”: A nine-year-old of Bridge-
water (S.A.) is being recommended to
“take a ticket in Tatt.’s.” On his way to
Scotch College in Adelaide he somehow
fell out of the train window, in a tunnel,
lay in a space estimated at 2j£t wide as
the wheels went by, and finally walked
out of the tunnel to meet the rescuers
coming back for his body.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: In view of the man-
power shortage and for more personal
reasons, I regard with alarm the tendency
in Melbourne to double and even treble
the personnel considered requisite to open
art shows. In pre-war days one individual
was regarded as competent to perform
this operation, but nowadays it is not
unusual to find a Lud Mayor followed
by a gallery director or trustee, plus a
politician and the artist, holding the traffic
up a good half-hour before art-lovers can
look at a one-man show of not very
remarkable pictures. After all, pictures
tell their own story and words can’t
explain them. If they could we would
know how the ancient Greeks painted, be-
cause there are plenty of contemporary
descriptions of their pictures.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; I read that the Eiffel
Tower has been lent to the U.S.A. under
reverse lend-lease; but Frenchmen, who
regard the 984 ft. steel erection as an eye-
sore, have no ground for hope that they
are going to lose it. It is to be used, as
formerly, as a radio station. Before the
Ministry of Fine Arts was established
to prevent France being deprived of her
landmarks by exportation more beauti-
ful things than the Eiffel Tower were lost
to the country. An American million-
airess bought two chateaux, one for her-
self and one for her son, who was going
to be married. She had both dismantled,
and one was transported in toto to her
home State and re-erected, and the other
was removed to Paris and re-erected there
for her offspring’s wedding. After the
ceremony it was once more dis-assembled
and sent across the Atlantic. This aesthetic
foible cost the lady half her husband’s
fortune.
“Traymon”: In 1915 Sir Victor Horsley
came out to our unit in Mesopotamia.
-Probably the greatest brain surgeon of his
time, he was a determined opponent of
booze. From the day of his arrival he
carried on a one-man crusade against the
universal custom of a few spots in the
mess after dinner, our only consolation
in those parched and wretched days. Most
of his time was devoted to preaching the
necessity of total abstinence in that
blimate, and he was far from amused
when an irreverent junior M.O. put over
our stock joke—that if whisky had no other
hygeinic properties, it was at least excel-
lent for consumption. Ironically enough,
Horsley collapsed on the job one par-
ticularly scorching day and died almost
immediately from heatstroke —our only
casualty from a malady to which the con-
firmed drinker is peculiarly susceptible
and against which poor Horsley had
never ceased to warn the rest of us.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: When the Japs were ad-
vancing south and there seemed nothing
to stop them roving correspondents came
with reports of fierce encounters with
natives armed with knives, and an abori-
ginal was found who announced that he
was waiting for the Nipponese with
“They got the tank in, so it’s up to us to get it out”
boomerang and spear, which were
superior in guerrilla fighting to noisy fire-
arms. Now that the tide has turned the
other way, these stories are beginning
to make a reappearance. According to
a correspondent, a youthful guerrilla
leader and his band killed 1000 Japs with
bows and arrows during the occupation
of Leyte, without a single casualty on
their side. lam now waiting for the first
Bornean landing and a story about the
Dyak guerrilla chief who has been pick-
ing off the Nipponese High Command
with poisoned darts from his blowpipe.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; Our Australian trick of
under-statement by just denying the oppo-
site amuses outsiders. We say of a fine
thing that “it is not too bad,” of father’s
illness that “he is not too well.” But it
would be hard to beat a phrase heard at
a recent conference. A librarian was
reporting on a book that had been ob-
jected to —and rightly so —as not fit to
be on the shelves. The speaker evidently
thought so, too, yet his own sternest de-
nunciation —he used the phrase twice —
was just “It is not very uplifting,” which
might fairly be said of any light novel.
I suppose our final verdict on Hitler will
be that “he was not too good.”
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Maori troops found
means of lightening the rigors of war in
Italy. A patrol of them nosing around
a small Italian village saw a dead pig
hung up in a shed. Next morning the
Maoris borrowed a stretcher from camp,
and covering over the dead porker—head
and all—formed a moving tableau of
four stalwart brown warriors carrying a
fallen companion. The peasants were
sympathetic. Young girls cried and
sprinkled flowers on the bier, and men
lifted their hats. Arrived at camp the
pig became roast pork. Next day an
Italian soldier, with his best English and
gestures, asked one of the Maoris where
they had buried their poor comrade. The
Maori, assuming that the question re-
ferred to the pig and not knowing that
the pig was unlawfully acquired, replied
truthfully “We didn’t bury him. We
roasted him and ate him.” Giuseppi,
horror-stricken, reported to his captain
that the Maoris had eaten their dead com-
rade. “Say nothing about it,” said the
officer. “In a natural state they were
cannibals. Probably they thought that
to bury their comrade in a foreign coun-
try would be a sacrilege—or a waste of
meat. So they ate him. It does not
signify.”
* * * *
From John Brennan:
First American ’planes ashore on -Leyte, as
everywhere else through the Pacific, were the
Piper Cubs, the four-cylinder gun-spotters.
The Cubs chug along with a noise like a
motor-bike. They weigh about 9001 b., 14001 b.
with a load of gasoline and the pilot and ob-
server. They’ve a top speed of about 80 m.p.h.
In the first few days on Leyte they mixed a
good bit of cargo-carrying with their spotting,
dropping food, ammunition, socks and foot-
powder to the forward companies, which had
plugged a way through the swamps, and whom
it was still impossible to supply overland. But
finding targets for his artillery, correcting ranges
and directing fire is the observer’s chief purpose,
and with the enemy moving back from the
beachhead area he had plenty of scope. Pilots
and observers are artillerymen; fliers only by
chance.
For two days up over the town of Dugami,
about 12 miles in from the beach, the spotters
had a picnic. The town is built about the
junction of the two main roads, one leading
directly west from Dulag, the other coming
down from the north. One of the Cubs found
a column of about a thousand Japs headed west
along the road. The observer radioed for fire
from the one-owe-fives and the one-fifty-fives and
scattered the column with shrapnel from aerial
bursts just above the roadway. After that the
Cubs were able to pick up* small groups all
through the area. One party of about 30
Japanese which took cover in a house was ac-
counted for with a direct hit.
=f= * * *
“Melbn”: Touching that par. about
Melbourne’s public gardens (B. 15/11/ ’44),
Adelaide would never have had its park-
lands had it not been for the city’s
founder’s poor view of the potentialities
of artillery. It wasn’t only aesthetic con-
siderations which made Colonel Light
draw his green circle round the city. He
thought it would be valuable for defence
as its width of a mile or so was more
than the range of the heaviest field ord-
nance of his day. His plan might have
been different if he had foreseen aircraft
and the robomb.
* h * *
“Hamfat”: In Sydney’s palmy theatrical
days a sure accompaniment of any show
that made an outstanding hit was a bur-
lesque of that hit at another theatre. The
success of “The Sign of the Cross” pro-
voked “The Sign of the Double Cross,”
for instance. Usually the burlesque took
the form of the “roaring farce” which
completed every vaudeville programme.
An effort to establish a theatre com-
pletely devoted to that sort of thing was
made by George Crawley when he ran
the Oxford Hall. Tittell Brune in
“Sunday,” had been the means of
introducing “gallery girls,” these young
women pervading the top galleries
and mobbing Tittell at the stage door
as she came and went. Crawley
put on “Bunday,” an extravaganza
which made very little impression until
the third night. Then the gallery girls,
having heard of the show and regarded
it as a nasty effort to make fun of
their darling, rolled up with bags of
flour, over-ripe tomatoes and old eggs.
Also, as was proved when an effort was
made to put some of them out, they
could use their hatpins. After they had
finished with Crawley and his theatre the
manager announced that there would be
no more burlesques.
* * * *
Written from England before the
rocket bomb arrived:
You really are fortunate in Australia to
know nothing of flying-bombs. We live in
what is known as “Doodle-bug Alley,” in the
path of these pests from the coast to London;
871 were brought down in Sussex alone. We
went to Brighton lately: it is hardly damaged at
all, hut Eastbourne is in ruins; out of 380
boarding-houses only nine are working. Hast-
ings and Bexhill are practically wiped out.
One strange story: A bomb passed over a lonely
farmhouse and the occupants watched it. Then
it dropped a wing, from some unknown cause,
and that made it turn round and come back
over open country. It seemed to pick out the
lonely farmhouse, dropped clean on it and
wiped it out with seven of its occupants.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”: Reference to the “long-
stop” position in old cricket (6.
,15/11/’44) recalls the derision of Aus-
tralian crowds when an English wicket-
keeper (Strudwick, I think) first intro-
duced the idea of standing well back from
the stumps to take fast-bowler deliveries.
Australians who copied the Englishman
were also derided, in spite of obvious
reasons for the change. The crowds,
used to ’keepers like Bla’ckham, who stood
right up to cover expresses like Spof-
forth, reckoned it was a sissy business,
due to funk. The old system necessi-
tated a “long stop” since the over-the-
wickets keeper was bound to miss fast
balls that flew high ; the position became
obsolete when the new ’keeping stance
was generally adopted. Australia had a
run of wonderful Aunt Sallys, but prob-
ably the greatest artist of all was Lewis,
a Victorian. He had a curious half-
sideways crouch at the wickets, and his
quickness was magical. But he regarded
keeping as his art, and virtually refused
to bat —he just stood at the wickets and
allowed himself to be bowled. A rumor
that he was snobbish and kept himself
aloof from the rest of the team when
travelling made him unpopular, and,
suffering the fate of all unpopular
cricketers, he was dropped.
“Harold Hardupp”; Having a joyous
occasion to celebrate, a member of a
Sydney district cricket club proclaimed
that it was on him for refreshments. for
all, but as getting the beer might present
difficulties he asked for suggestions
about which pub to approach. The
cricketers decided, by a 70 per cent,
majority, that beer didn’t matter; they
would prefer ice-creams and soft drinks.
The modern trend! In olden, golden
days all cricketers drank. One team tour-
ing England used to go on the bust on
Sunday ; it was a good side, but its Mon-
day performances were dreadful. A
parody of a popular song told of what
the Aussies might do “If it Wasn’t for
the Sundays in Between.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The latest notion of one-
world-state proponents is an international
police force stationed in some convenient
country like Switzerland, armed with a
colossal rocket-bomb outfit which will be
capable of blasting any recalcitrant
country out of existence, even on the
other side of the globe, merely by press-
ing a button. The sponsors for this con-
ception point out, quite rightly, that the
possibility of stratospheric travel has to
all intents and purposes reduced the size
of the planet by nine-tenths, which makes
it about the former dimensions of
Europe. Europe, unfortunately, is a bad
example of stability. It didn’t stay put
long under the Holy Roman Empire; it
suffered Napoleon for less than 12 years,
and is getting rid of Hitler after only 10
years.
* * * *
“Boghi”: As one who has suffered, I
desire to contradict, oppose and utterly
confute “Hamer,” who eulogises the
“basketware carryall” (B. 8/11/ ’44), Of
all clothes receptacles invented for
travellers these bulky dress - baskets
were the most fiendishly awkward and
clumsy. Fastened by a pair of straps,
with a narrow handle of metal or slightly
wider reinforced leather, they were the
worry of womanhood and the terror of
children. The handle cut into the palms,
the straps stretched, and when the victim
was in motion the basket would sway
and twist quite out of control, with cruel
results to the female leg. The suitcase
did a good job for public health and com-
fort when it banished the dress-basket
from the pre-motor travelling world.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Pookie”: Mrs. Brew-Brown was
frightfully exclusive, and the only woman
in the district who bothered about ances-
tors. However, when she made a kind of
country seat of Burrabong station she
decided to unbend a little and be gracious
to the less common people around town.
As she came out of the post office one
morning she spied the bank manager’s
wife on the opposite side of the street
peering into a shop window. She gave
a friendly nod, and when that failed to
attract her attention waved. At that
moment Sandy drove past with a spring
cart full of malodorous sheep- and rabbit-
skins. He reined in his cadaverous steed
and bawled apologetically “Sorry, mum.
I’m on’y goin’ as far as the corner.”
* * * v *
“Mulgabbie”: Worthy to rank with
Buffalo Bill’s Pony Express was the Cycle
Express of early Coolgardie. Organised
by private individuals to meet the needs
of goldfields expanding much too rapidly
for the capacity' of the then Westralian
Government machine, the service was
operated by crack cyclists, many of whom
put up records of speed and endurance
\yhich today seem incredible. The
country had no made roads, but its sun-
baked clay made an ideal cycle pad.
Trees and scrub were there, of course,
water-scoured ruts by the hundred, and
often considerable stretches of sand. Yet
it was common for the Express rider,
starting from Coolgardie in the morn-
ing, to reach Niagara before dark, a
distance of 140 miles. Out in other
directions equally fast riding was done,
the heat of summer, the cold of
winter making little difference. The mail
carried was mostly letters, though tele-
grams often bulked up, the line then
not extending beyond Coolgardie. And
the carrying of medicine was never re-
fused 1 . From some far-out, isolated camp
the cyclist took to the Coolgardie doctor
an outline of the patient’s symptoms!
Treatment would be prescribed, and next
day the cyclist would be off again, carry-
ing the precious bottles 100, 200 miles
if necessary ; so bringing the chance of
life to many a poor fellow who otherwise
would have perished.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Old Tom, who has been
boundary-riding so long at Tyson’s Camp
that he is as much a part of the surround-
ings as the red ochre cliff behind the hut,
was picked up by the boss in the buck-
board for a run across to Calamity, where
a mob of sheep had to be drafted. Spin-
ning along over the white-clay flats, the
old chap asked curiously “What’d she
be doin’ now?” “Bit over thirty,” grunted
the boss. “Well, I’m damned!” said
Thomas. “Here’s me been reckonin’ for
forty year that thirty mile was a good
average workin’ day —an ’you knock that
much off in an hour.” It’s worth think-
ing over in these days when car speeds
are taken for granted.
* * * *
“Wang”; Jimmy Lynch came across to
“Hungry” Murphy’s and said he proposed
making his will. “Not thinkin’ of peggin’
out soon, are you?” said Murphy laugh-
ing. “No fear,” replied Jimmy; “but it’s
just as well for a cove t’ leave things in
order fer the missus, partic’ly as the kids
is growin’ up now, an’ ’specially Pat,
me oldest, who’s beginnin’ t’ get
notions inter his head that he should be
puttin’ in more time at the pubs an’ races
than at work on the farm. But what I
partic’ly come over t’ see yer about,
Murphy, was if yer’d agree t’ act as feller-
trustee with me missus?” Murphy was
rather surprised at the request. Though
he and Lynch had been neighbors for
years, they were not on anything like inti-
mate terms. Rather the reverse, if any-
thing. Only the previous week they had
had a row over the matter of a borrowed
plough. After cogitating a minute or two
and searching for the catch in the request
and not being able to find one, Murphy
agreed to take on the job. “But,” he
remarked, “I dunno why y’ ask me. Why
not Dad Greybox?—yer’re a darned sight
more friendly with him than me. An’
surely yer’ve got relations who cud do
it fer yer as well as me.” “No fear, I
haven’t,” replied Jimmy with conviction,
“not where young Pat is concerned. Y’
see, he might wangle it outer his mother,
and I wanter fix it so’s he ain’t allowed
too much t’ spend, see? An’ where
money’s concerned yer the tightest ole
wad I’ve ever known, or likely to, an’
that’s why I’m pickin’ you. Savvy?”
* * fc *
“Sur Cingle”: A message from my
“office chair” to “Cou” (B. 8/11/ ’44).
The versatile papa of The Swiss Family
Robinson was engaged in handling a wild
ass when he performed his ear-chewing
act. Something tells me, however, that
papa’s usual technique with a donkey
consisted in hauling steadily on its leg.
“But why SHOULD We follow the bell-wether —We ain't humans !”
“Aratta”: Dave was responding to the
toast of the bride and ’groom. He had
got stumblingly through the preliminaries,
and was warming to his work. “I first
met Sarah, me wife here,” he said, “at
the picnic before last up at Possum Gully.
We wus playin’ one of them round games
where y’ hold each other’s hands. Sarah
was next t’ me, an’ she got hold of one
of my fingers, an’ hung on tight. ‘By
cripes,’ I sez t’ meself, ‘this girl’s the one
I’m goin’ t’ marry; she’s got the real
milker’s grip! ’ ”
* * * *
“Cobbler”; In a recent “Information
Sought” reply The Bulletin gave Jack
Howe’s record as 321 sheep in 7 hours
40 minutes. I’d like to know how that
was worked out. When I was following
the sheds in Howe’s day 8 hours 40
minutes was a day’s work, 4 hours 40
minutes on Saturday. That was one run
of 2 hours before breakfast; two of 1.20
before lunch, three of 1.20 after lunch.
Nothing after lunch on Saturday. That
made 48 hours a week. I never before
heard it questioned that Howe did any-
thing but the full day. It was Jimmy
Power, at Barenya, who did 317, with
20 minutes to go when the shed cut out.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: I suspect that if men would
stop fooling with the land for a couple
of generations Nature would solve the
soil-erosion problem. There is a bare
clay patch in this S.A. district from which
the wind has removed the five or six
feet of sandy soil which was once
anchored by mallee and native pine.
Now, on the windward side of the flat,
a thin layer of earth is creeping back
over the sterile red clay. And this new
earth is criss-crossed with dark, raised
lines, one-half to three-quarters of an inch
in width. This network, which extends to
the limit of the creeping soil, is com-
posed of a tiny moss, and each line runs
from an ants’ nest; in thundery weather
each mossy highway is crowded with tiny
black ants. Obviously, these raised ant
tracks act as drift fences, arresting sand
and humus and thus providing enough
nourishment for the moss, which is
vigorous enough to be noticeable to a
casual glance only on the highway lines.
In the first place the trodden soil of the
pads probably arrested drifting spores of
moss. Excrement along the tracks pro-
vided extra plant-food, and already the
ants are reaping their reward; a few
tufts of wiry grass, as yet only an inch
or so in diameter, have sprung up in the
new soil. And grass supplies, directly and
indirectly, the formican commissariat.
* ♦ ♦ »
“Flight”: Recent writers have been
examining and praising the kooka-
burra’s landing gear. But Jacko’s isn’t a
patch on that of the kestrel falcon —
that graceful fellow who hovers on vibrat-
ing wing-tips, slides to earth with the
glancing speed of light and comes to a
sudden stop as he lands ort a mouse,
lizard or beetle. The pace at which he
falls, and the abruptness of his stop,
seem to be enough to drive his hips up
through his backbone. I don’t know how
he does it, and I have 100" high a regard
for the little pirate to shoot one just to
examine it for shock-absorbers.
* * * •
“Billy See”; Although an admirer of
“Old-timer,” I must protest against his
outraging the canons of story-telling by
introducing a significant point and then
'switching on to something quite different,
viz., Anderson stretched under a gum
on the Murray with a cod line tied to
his toe (B. 25/10/’44). Expecting inter-
esting developments along the cod line I
found myself fazed off with his chucking
a kid into the river and then collecting a
ten-bob note. Now, did he take the line
off first or did he rush the kid and then
rescue him with the cod line still tied to
his anatomy? I was interested because
one time a soldier named Shelton lay
supine on a wooded point of Peel Inlet
(Mandurah, W.A.), with a kingfish line
attached to his ankle. He, however, went
to sleep, it also being a hot day. Several
days later he was recovered in a seine
net, the line still attached to his ankle,
the other end of its 70 yards being minus
both hook, sinker and bait. It was sur-
mised that while he slumbered the bait
was taken by a shark, which had Shelton
into deep water before he was fully
awake.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Wanting to get into
town in a hurry I gratefully accepted the
bike Happy offered. “The tyres may
want a blow occasionally,” he conceded ;
“and she’s old enough to vote, but she’s
a rattling good bike.” She was. What
wasn’t rattling wasn’t working. It took
masterly riding to curb the old girl’s
tendency to charge across the road into
the post and rails, but after I’d dis-
covered that the handles had to be held
at about 20 past 11 to ensure a straight
course life became less exciting. The
tyres did “want a blow occasionally”—
about three inflations to the mile was the
average, with front and back tyres work-
ing a diabolical relay system. A canary
whistled from the centre-axle, while a
broken ball c-c-racked continuously in
the back hub and a loose cotter-pin in
the crank imparted a spasmodic stutter
to my left leg. Suddenly the old
grid added an inspired trick to its reper-
toire —with a lightning movement the
saddle point tilted upwards, leaving me
hanging on grimly to prevent my pants
being worn out on the back wheel.
No amount of tightening with a spanner
could fasten the saddle on an even keel,
and from then on, even on a down
grade, I was riding uphill. On the way
home the iron outlaw played its trump
card; in full career the back wheel
“seized.” The chain had pulled the wheel
hard against the forks. Ten minutes’ work
with a spanner, plus a barked knuckle,
saw the wheel trued up again. Half a
mile along the road the interruption —
and repairs—were repeated. The next
stage was less than a quarter of a mile.
But when the mishap occurred for the
fourth time temper was stronger than
reason, and with one savage kick I
booted the wheel into place. To my
amazement the four miles home were
(except for tyre pumping) incident-free.
Happy, receiving his property affec-
tionately, informed me: “You never
want to pamper a bike. Show ’em
you’re boss and they’ll do anything for
you!” Then I understood. When I
booted the veteran it must have con-
cluded Happy was riding it.
* * * *
“Fancar”; Another point in the true
crow’s favor. During grasshopper and
caterpillar plagues it and the ibis attack
the hoppers or crawlers from start to
finish, and never seem to tire of the same-
ness of the diet. Magpies and other
birds do.
* * * *
“Zimple Zimon”; lam pleased to have
“Dahbi’s” word (B. 25/10/’44) that many
double gates, complete with centre stop,
are to> be found in Eastern Australia.
From observations during recent travels
in Westralia I was beginning to think
that the double gate lay quite outside
the range of bush architecture, though
I did come across one pair. Con-
structed of what had been the ends of
an iron double bedstead, these served at
what might be called the Tradesmen’s
Entrance to a rough but hospitable bush
mansion. Being hung with a couple of
loops of fencing wire and pivoted at
each post end on a still-intact castor, this
gate was efficient and warranted non-
saggable by its proud owner. As he leaned
over it he related its history. Lured by
the advert, of an attractive widow who
desired the friendship of an industrious
farmer, he had bought the double bed at
a bush auction when the correspondence
courtship began to develop towards a
“view mat.” However, when the lady
ultimately arrived and viewed the bed
and her prospective partner she re-
marked that she and her former husband
had ever given preference to single twin
beds. So romance had faded. And since
the double couch really did take up too
much room in the two-roomed mansion
it had been expelled, finding out of doors
what was perhaps a more utilitarian pur-
pose.
■ * * * *
“Solitude”; On his way down with
cattle Seventyfiver dropped in at Harri-
gan’s to send a message, and waited in
the kitchen while Harrigan busied him-
self at the ’phone. Presently he began
to fidget from side to side as he
tried to spy out something in the corner ;
then down he went to floor level. “Hey,
Missus,” he called anxiously to Mrs.
Harrigan, “there’s a bloomin’ fire in under
that there cupboard thing. P’raps y’
dropped a coal or somethin’.” The ex-
planation that it was a kero, “fridge”
meant nothing to the old chap, who sat
back vaguely wondering whether he had
done all he could. “You see, it has to
have a light underneath to keep the con-
tents at the right temperature,” explained
Mrs. H. patiently. “Here, I’ll get you a
drink”; and, extracting a bottle, she poured
out a generous mugful. Dry as a drought,
Seventyfiver eyed the almost freezing
draught eagerly, then threw back his head
to pour it down. There was a sddden
bellow as he charged to the door, his
mouth wide and panting, his fists clutching
desperately at his throat. “G-good Gawd,
Missus,” he gasped reproachfully as soon
as he could speak, “it —it’s boilin' ’ot!”
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: The owner of a
couple of milkers, on his return from a
few weeks at a shearing shed, found them
with two young calves, one of which bore
the earmark of the owner of the paddock
in which they were running—a double
earmark, a half-circle out of the tip of
each ear. No, he didn’t do anything
about it, as the owner of the paddock was
his sister-in-law, and also, incidentally,
because the earmarks were not the handi-
work of man. The calf had been born
that way. Its mother was sired by a bull
that frequently got calves with various
earmarks, but this was probably the first
occasion on which he got the marks to
fit in with the run on which the calf was
born.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: “It pays y’ to grow a full
set of whiskers,” said old Googan. “In me
shack one night I’m readin’ in bed with a
candle on me chest an’ I drops off to sleep.
I managed to scramble out the winder
in the nick o’ time with me beaver half-
burned orf an’ join the bucket brigade,
which got quickly started. When the fire
is put out one cove points at me dial an
grins, then the whole crowd busts out
larfin’ at me scorched whiskers till I
sneak orf in the dark. Gripes, me ziff was
in a mess, but I reckon it saved me face.
Not one o’ the mob’d noticed I had no
strides on.”
A LETTER.
“A bounteous fall of rain has blest
The land, and drought is feared no more,”
Thus wrote a woman of the West
To one she loved, three years at war.
“Down, down it poured, and were you here,
All perils over, battles fought,
I feel that you would dance, my dear,
To see the marvels that it wrought.
“How good, how beautiful is all,
I am at loss of words to tell;
I never saw the grass so tall,
The sheep and cattle look so well.
“Back once again from journeys long
Have come thereon to nest and bide
The wild fowl to the billabong
You used so oft to walk beside.
“And from the banks of Tony’s Creek,
Where, as a boy with prying eyes
Amongst the tufts you strayed to seek
For curlews’ eggs, a curlew cries.
“My dear, I think you’d like to know
The wattle-tree you set is now
Three seasons old and all aglow
With burning gold on every bough.”
She finished, and then, weary-eyed,
A window raised, and looking out
Beheld a lifeless countryside
That smouldered under scorching drought.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINNN.


“Bo”: The speed of a man’s mental
processes is not fully tested until he is
suddenly confronted with several hun-
dred pounds of nasty animated beef.
Take the time the big red one-horned
bullock broke out of the saleyards at
Sanddrift. Joe Carla w, on his way down
the street, had stopped to light his pipe.
The beast, maddened from an extra-long
penning, spotted Joe through bloodshot
eyes and charged. Joe looked up at the
sound, turned and bolted. As several
stockmen yelled one of them dived for
his horse, mounted and gave chase. Joe,
still clenching his pipe and hanging grimly
to his hat, looked neither to right nor
left, but tore along parallel with the post-
and-rail fence skirting the road. The
bullock was gaining on Joe, as the horse-
man was gaining on the bullock. As the
thunder of hooves drew nearer Joe looked
fearfully around. By then he was oppo-
site a three-wire fence, the middle wire
of which had a deep sag in it. Joe took
a header through as the bullock thun-
dered past. When the horseman had
pulled up and trotted back, he roared out
stupid blankard —why didn’t y’ dive
through the fence when the bullick first
sighted y’ instead o’ running alongside
it?” Joe slowly picked himself up.
“What!” he gasped, “an’ git full o’
splinters!”
* * * #
“Mat’s Mate”: The little sunburned
bloke was skiting to us about the money
to be made at cane-cutting in Queensland.
“It’d suit blokes like you down t’ the
ground,” he said. “You’re used t’
roughin’ it an’ hard work an’ earnin’ big
money an’ all that. ■ You ought t’ have
it on.” I saw that Mat was thinking
about it and for me it seemed a pretty
attractive prospect. We’d only touched
the southern fringe of Queensland in our
travels, and a trip up north would be
something new. “How about it?” I asked.
“Well,” he said, “I’m a bit keen on it, but
I reckon if we got up there in the sugar
country I wouldn’t be satisfied till I got
right t’ the Gulf an’ over t’ the Territory.
I don’t want t’ do that trip yet—bin savin’
it for the last.” “For the last,” I echoed.
“Yair,” he said. “Y’ see, one o’ these
days a man’ll get up there an’ there’ll
be nowhere else t’ go an’ about all he can
do will be get married, settle down an’
turn up this knockin’ about. Well, I ain’t
ready for that yet an’ I reckon if I did
get up t’ the north it’d only hasten the
evil day.” Whereupon he fell silent, obvi-
ously brooding on the fate that he felt he
couldn’t escape. We didn’t go to the
cane.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Tell “Hakim” (B. 8/11/ ’44)
that I am “down among the cockies” at
present, and that my household has con-
sumed an average of just over two hares
per week since February. Tell him also
that (1) the pussies, being well hunted, are
wild ; (2) there is no cover —because ol
the dry spell even the toughest grasses are
only an inch or two high in ungrazed
paddocks; (3) all hares have been
knocked with the .22.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: It was one of those lazy
Riverina days when even the unhurried
old Murray seemed to slow down and
hang about as though looking for a
shady spot in which to doze. Two
draught horses stood head to tail under
a gum, lazily swishing flies from each
other, a blue dog drowsed under the dray
and the drayman, his pipe resting on his
chest, lay on his back, eyes closed.
A grey crane floated slowly across the
river and came to rest in the tree above
the man ; then, with the timidity of its
kind, let out a startled croak and drifted
away. The small sound disturbed the
drayman, who grunted and turned
slightly on one side, his pipe rolling from
his chest. Peace returned, but n.ot for
long, for presently a coal from that pipe
bit the drayman’s flank and he shot up-
right with a yell. The horses snorted
and lumbered into one another and the
blue dog unjustly attacked the nearest of
them, whereupon it lashed out and
bolted, pursued by the dog. The man
beat out the small char in his shirt, then
picked up a halter and set off after horse
“Heavy cloud, Lusby !”
and dog, roaring profane commands at
the latter. Out of a shack high up on
the bank a grizzled head appeared and
old Louis, hatter, shook his fist at the
shrieking soldier-birds and muttered,
“Blast it, that’s the fourth time this month
I bin done outta me snooze. That settles
it. It’s me for Bendigo and me brother’s
stone-crusher. I oughter be used to noise
be this.”
# % %
“Betcha”; Wonder if anyone can beat
the bulldogging record of Johnny Pierce,
of Tooma (N.S.W.). Watched Johnny
tackle a mountain-bred Hereford the
other day, and when he’d finished with
that bullock its' one aim was to live at
peace with the world. Jumping from his
galloping nag to the neck of the bally,
the bulldogger forced the beast’s head
down and brought it to a standstill; then,
getting a grip on its nose, he began to
twist. Down went the bullock. Unfortu-
nately, it didn’t fall into the position
Johnny wanted it, so, releasing his hold,
he allowed the animal to regain its feet.
Quickly he went to work again with his
unrelenting neck twist, till after a bit the
bally again dropped, this time for the
count. And the whole operation took 66
seconds. Johnny’s a slight-built sort of
youngster, unassuming, game as they
make ’em, and he can certainly sit a buck.
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: The battle with
vegetable pests in the pastoral districts is
a seemingly unending one. Here in
“But if he's a good husband, why not jump in the lake and appease him?”
south-western Queensland pests are not
confined to importations that develop
abnormal fertility and virility ; several
of our old and once innocuous plants
have commenced to turn dog on us.
In these columns I recently mentioned
the currant-bush or burr vine. The clear-
ing of the scrub and consequent pushing
back of the scrub turkey is probably re-
sponsible there. But what has come
over the Queensland wild lime? This
tree was once found only in widely
separated clumps, generally on broken-
plain country. I can remember in my
childhood how we used to ride for miles
with split bags on our saddles to gather
the fruit for jam. But now the little tree
has gone mad, overrunning forests and
open-scrub country and is certain shortly
to be placed on the condemned list. It
is particularly bad on properties that do
not fire the old grass, but the absence of
fire cannot be the only reason, for in
open-scrub country where fires do not
run, and where it didn’t originally grow,
it is very active. What is the cause?
“Pat Ater” might have some solution,
and one would be very welcome to the
pastoralists around here.
* * * *
“Fancar”: No one sings the praises
of horehound that has encroached on
much waste land since its escape from
some pioneer’s herb bed, but it is one
nuisance which is a favorite with bees.
Having a long flowering season extend-
ing well into November, when both
garden and wild flowers are scarce, hore-
hound patches are alive with bees at
harvest time, and I’ve noticed that, though
we have two large trellises of honey-
suckle, there’ll be as many bees on a
square yard of horehound as on the whole
area of blooming honeysuckle. Indeed,
the bees’ procedure seems this: fill up
with nectar in the horehound, fly to the
honeysuckle and fill pollen sacks with
the deep creamy pollen and hurry back
to the hive. Incidentally, the bee doesn’t
seem to bother about the nectar, which
must lie too deep at the base of the flower
tube for the bee’s tongue, and so butter-
flies and tiny insects reap a rich nectar
harvest. Perhaps in its native English
countryside the honeysuckle nectar, like
that of the rich red clover, is the per-
quisite of the bumble bee, whose long
proboscis probes deeper-set nectar wells
than the ordinary bee can reach,
* * * *
“Chuck”; Mick returned home for tea
to find the missus in a bad mood. “It’s
them swallows,” she told Mick. “They’ve
built a nest on the verandah, YTI have
to get rid of them.” “Gripes, y’ can't
kill a swaller,” defended Mick. “TheyTe
lucky.” Whereupon he was promptly in-
formed that neither they nor he would be
lucky if those birds spent one more night
on the verandah. Out went Mick. Climb-
ing up, he carefully prised the nest from
its position ; then, collecting strips of hes-
sian, he bound it to the little wattle near
by. Dusk found the big fellow, warm-
hearted and protective, waiting to direct
the swallows to their new home. Gently
he shooed them from the verandah with
his hat. On his second trip out he flapped
at them with the doormat, and ten
minutes later charged them more
viciously with a broom. Then he remem-
bered the old remedy of dousing them
with water: so, collecting a bucketful, he
crept in close and let fly into the rafters.
Soaked to the hide, and dripping oaths,
Mick looked up to find the swallows
settling comfortably above the window.
He dived off in quest of a fresh weapon.
Mrs. M. doesn’t know what happened
to the birds, but daylight showed the nest
a mess of crushed and trampled mud
beneath the little wattle-tree.
* ■ * * *
“Cowangie”: That yarn about the nest-
ing plover (B. 15/11/’44) reminds me:
The road into town takes a wide sweep
around a sandhill, and for days, as we
drove by in the car, a plover sat on her
eggs not four feet from the car tracks.
We showered her with grit and dust for
a fortnight, but, though she must have
been scared by that swooping road mon-
ster, she stuck fast by her nest until, moved
by the family’s protests, Father struck
out another track so as to miss her. But
what prompted the bird to pick such a
lively spot for her nest in the first place,
seeing that open plains stretched for miles
about?
« « * ' *
“Creel”; Few inhabitants of Barrier
Reef waters are more ferocious-looking
than the devil-ray. Diamond-shaped, jet-
black on top and creamy-white below,
it presents a terrifying appearance with
its big eyes, two inches or so in
diameter, its curling tentacles or “horns,”
18 inches to two feet long, one
at each end of the large oval-shaped
mouth, and its 6ft. tapering tail. The
arrival of one of the bat-like creatures
as a few of the boys from our patrol
boat were swimming near Lizard Island
caused panic, and a couple of the dis-
turbed bathers got busy with their .303’s,
bringing sudden death to the intruder.
He was hauled ashore with difficulty.
The lower jaw had beneath a covering
of thin skin hundreds of rows of tiny,
flat, white teeth, six to ten in each row ;
the upper jaw contained none. As the
creature has no use for teeth (it exists
solely on microscopic food extracted from
sea-water), our M.O.’s decision was that
the teeth in the lower jaw were a, relic
of the ray’s prehistoric ancestors. The
“horns” are very flexible and can be
curled corkscrew-wise; they are not
weapons of offence, but appear to be
used solely for guiding water into the
mouth. The owner is as harmless as an
oyster.
* * * *
“Mrs. Stumpjump”: After his honey-
moon Jim Younghusband went from
hotel to hotel vainly beseeching each pub-
lican for a few bottles for his tin-kettling.
Then his shamefaced pleas to the town’s
two cordial factories for soft stuff were
refused. On his way home he met Dad
and poured out the full story of his woes.
“To think,” he wound up, “how I used
to sling off about blokes like Jack Skin-
flint and Bill Henpeck, who served noth-
ing but tea to the tin-kettlers! And now,
blast that gory so-and-so of a Hitler, I’ve
got to turn on the crimson windmill
myself!”
* * - * *
“Patrol Leader”: “B.4’s” statement (B.
1/11/ ’44) reminded me. We were pushing
our way through bush in the coastal region
north of Cooktown (Q.) when we caught
the unmistakable musky odor of the big
Python amethystinus. A few seconds
later the originator of that scent revealed
himself in dramatic fashion, dropping
swiftly from a tree just in front of us,
his glistening, triangular head striking
with terrific force the neck of a young
rock wallaby, which was immediately
smothered in 12ft. of crushing carpet-
patterned coils. But for the fact that we
had orders not to use our rifles except in
certain circumstances that reptile would
never have lived to enjoy his dinner. While
snakes often choke themselves to death
in attempting to swallow meals far too
bulky to go down their throats, P. amethy-
stinus rarely commits suicide in this
manner, because he takes precautions.
Invariably the victim is crushed into a
long sausage-like shape to prevent the
meal from sticking anywhere in the
throat. The reptile can open its hingeless
jaws to an amazing extent, and its throat
stretches in conformity, so that it can
swallow with ease meals twice the circum-
ference of its own body.
FREE SHOW.
Twelve hares came out in the evening glow
From the ti-tree scrub and the mallee low,
And played in a corner beyond the wheat,
Like actors of old in a village street.
A dozen brown tumblers tumbled there
With ease and grace in the summer air,
To the tune of the warm wind’s gentle pipe
In the ears of the wheat, all golden-ripe.
They leaped and they lolloped a lollop or two.
They tip-toed and bowed and a circle drew,
Curvetted and bounded and side-stepped and
ran,
Or sat on their haunches as only hares can.
Twelve of them, solemn as solemn can be,
With never a sign or a hint of their glee.
A Jew-lizard watched from a post as they
raced;
An ill-mannered soldier-bird shrieked his dis-
taste.
Then, sudden, far off, on the breeze was blown
The sound of a gun; the hares stood as stone,
Like twelve furry statues in fearful array;
Then each of them silently faded away.
The corner is empty of movement and fun,
The Jew-lizard black in the last of the sun.
Like stagehands of Night the shadows engage
To lower the curtain and darken the stage.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


W This Single Burner Stove gives an
J y**“ intense Blue Flame for 6 hours
on one pint of ordinary lighting
kerosene.
Although supplies are limited, you can
still obtain a genuine “Thermit” Stove
through your local storekeeper. Ask
him about other **Thermit ** Appliances.
iMfffS
BLUE
FLAME
COOKING APPLIANCE
H"***
HQ pii«i«..
m
PBHPUg
Jrnimul
/m
v v * ;
jjjf ,4i|
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH,, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGOA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEYILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
fdf
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
OanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
fn'i;”. b k e j£e" BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SEMDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Future of Wool.
“Outback”; The chairman of the Aus-
tralian Wool Board (D. T. Boyd) told a
Brisbane audience that after the war
wool, although supreme as a textile fabric,
would have many serious competitors.
To meet this competition all the aid
which scientific research and publicity
could give it would be needed. This
would mean a permanent addition to pro-
duction costs, part of which should be
borne by the nation.
Boyd, stressing the need for trained
personnel to inform men on the land of
the latest developments and how to apply
them, said that a C.S.I.R. man had in-
forriied him that for every man engaged
on biological research in Australia ten
.were needed to preach the results of that
research to the men on the land. The
A.W.B. was contributing £lO,OOO annu-
ally to the C.S.I.R. to increase research
work into the industry’s most serious
problems, and it had granted the council
£20,000 for the erection of buildings at
the Giiruth Plains research station near
Cunnarnulla (Q.), where long-term trials
were being conducted.
Boyd added that Euston Young, Noon-
doo, Dirranbandi, had always taken ad-
vantage of the benefits resulting from re-
search, and the board regarded him as an
example to all woolgrowers. It was on
Noondoo that the first experiments with
the Mules operation were conducted.
Environment Effects.
“Red Earth”: The conclusions made
from recent research by two officers of
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture con-
cerning the influence of environment on
the spinning quality of wool will come
as a shock to the many New England
graziers who have always held that
strohg-woolled sheep brought up from the
plains invariably tend to “fine down” in
wool growth on the highlands.
The observations, made by Messrs.
Cotsell and Elliott, were ocular and seem
fairly conclusive. Nevertheless, ocular
observation has its limitations—by micro-
scopical examination, Bosman, the South
African scientist, showed that the rela-
tionship between fibre fineness and crimp-
ing was in perfect agreement in only 28
p.c. of 1000 samples tested. Later re-
search by Lang of 100 Australian stud
wools from every State showed corre-
sponding results.
Wools may appear very dissimilar and
yet have much the same fibre thickness.
One test showed that a staple with 14
crimps per inch and having a spinning
count of 60’s was very little different
from another staple having only six
crimps per inch with a spinning count of
66’s. Which raises the question of the
value oC classing a clip, but that is a dif-
ferent story.
Pigs on Free Range.
“Myrrhee”: The paddock system of
pig-raising is worth a trial. With self-
feeders and water laid on in each pad-
dock, labor is reduced to filling the
feeders once or twice a week, as com-
pared with the daily grind of trough-
feeding.
Paddocks sown in autumn will keep the
pigs supplied with green feed until early
summer, when other paddocks sown in
spring could take their place. Risk of
disease and worm infestation is greatly
reduced and growth is accelerated under
these conditions.
Fencing, three or four barbed wires
6in. apart and tightly strained, will con-
trol the average pig. Locate sleeping
quarters, self-feeder and water near the
centre of the paddock. Young pigs put
out immediately after weaning and con-
fined to their sleeping quarters for a
couple of days soon become accustomed
to their new home.
Tomato Planters.
“Hist”: Anyone who has laboriously
transplanted tomato plants by hand (at
“This country’ll grow things orright. Look , there’sa tree!”
a rate of 2000 per day, rising to 4000 in
the case of a ringer) will appreciate the
double-row transplanter imported under
lease-lend to help boost up tomato pro-
duction for the services.
Single-row transplanters of Australian
manufacture have been successfully used
for many years by tobacco-growers; on
these the two operators ride close to the
ground-and place the plants in the soil by
hand. On the big machine four operators
feed the seedlings into two sets of revolv-
ing arms and the machine sets the plant
in the ground, applies water and fer-
tiliser, tamps the soil firmly round the
plant. Instead of plain water, a boost-
ing solution of sulphate of ammonia or
nitrate of soda and superphosphate is
often used. *
On a Cowra (N.S.W.) property 32,000
plants were put out in a day, but with an
expert crew and a cut in the time re-
quired to refill the water and fertiliser
tanks, 40,000 or more are possible. Given
good tilth and sufficient moisture already
in the soil, “misses” will not exceed 10
p.c.,' even under inland summer condi-
tions.
Oats for Feed.
“A.E.W.”: When the season breaks
and the rains come it is essential to get
green feed as quickly as possible, and
there is no quicker or cheaper method
than by sowing oats. When superphos-
phate is available, a light application can
be used, but without it oats can still be
sown. The warm, moist soil after the
opening rains gives the oat pasture a
wonderful start. For bulk of early green
feed, recovery after even heavy grazing
and for palatability oats stand on their
own.
As a pasture they are not a drain on
the soil, rather a soil-improver. The
clovers grow well among them, as does
also Wimmera rye. Sow directly after'
the first rain. Paddocks where crops have
failed or been eaten off can be disced
and seed sown. If there is no straw to
worry about and the soil is loose, the old
slapdash method of “combining” the oats
straight in is suitable. If soil is firm it
can be broken up with a Wimmera scari-
fier.
Last year the writer, after the first rains,
ripped up a paddock that had been out
for ten years, and then sowed a mixture
of oats, barley and Wimmera rye This
gave excellent grazing tor a herd of cows
until beptembei.
Each district has its own varieties. In
northern Victoria and Riverina, Mulga,
Dawn, Sunrise, Gidgee and Fulghum can
be sown, the latter being by far the
heaviest producer of green feed. Ful-
ghum will grow under more or less con-
tinuous grazing until the hot weather
comes.
Mint Weed.
“Plane Creek”: A stock poisoner, it is
fast over-running S.Q. grazing country.
Normally stock won’t touch it, but when
it has smothered out all the edible feed
it attracts them and they die after chew-
ing it. Mint takes nitrogen from the air,
but doesn’t change it into protein. Free
nitrates in mint poison stock in the same
way as nitrate pf soda, cause of heavy
losses in N.Q. cattle herds.
The weed, an annual grower from
spring to early winter, comes up thick on
burned country after rain, grows to 3ft.
and seeds heavily. It’s one of the most
troublesome weeds in the N.Q. canefields,
requiring constant chipping and scarify-
ing of the drills to save plant and ratoon
cane from ruination.
It cannot compete with grass. Over-
stocking helps it to spread. In spring
dead mint growth can usually be burned
off. It suffers from drought, being shallow
rooting. Burn the dry mint after a good
fall of rain so that the new grass will
start with it. Minor patches may be
fenced off and poisoned with a pentoxide
spray.
Kurrajongs.
Apiarists often overlook the
fact that kurrajongs combine good bee
food with shade and decoration, are
drought-resistant and bear the heaviest
flower crops over the driest periods.
Honey produced is dark in color but ex-
cellent in flavor. Blossoming periods
differ according to the district.
Around Lake Cargelligo (N.S.W.)
they’re in full bloom in March when
flowers are scarce. This supplies the
bees with the pollen and nectar necessary
to put them into good condition for the
winter. At Beckom flowers reach
maturity in early summer and stimulate
brood rearing. In the Tamworth area
bees gather their pollen throughout
December. At Barellan they blossom
from November to January.
Kurrajong seed isn’t difficult to grow,
and the tree often thrives better on rocky
hills than on prepared land. Owing to its
deep-rooting habit, crops and grass will
grow up to the base of the trunk.
Hints for the Farm.
“Farmer B.”: Faulty setting of tractor
ploughs can increase the draught 3001 b.
above what it should be. Wastages of up
to 2gals. of fuel per day and a poor
ploughing job result. See that the width
of the furrow is suitable for the required
depth. When the plough’s an all-purpose
one the furrow slice should have Sin.
of width to every 2in. of depth. When
it’s of the digger type the furrow slice
can be as deep as it is wide.
“Nil Desperandum”: The chief sources
of vitamin A for pigs are good-quality
lucerne, green pasture, whole milk and
yellow maize. Deficiency lowers the re-
sistance of pigs and eventually they
“skate” in their pens, show various forms
of paralysis and so on. Such cases are
becoming more frequent as more pigs are
fed on skim milk and wheat, without any
of the sources of vitamin A. Scours in
baby pigs indicates probable diet defi-
ciency in the pregnant sow, although pre-
cise scientific work on this subject has
not yet been possible here (Queensland).
“Will C.”: Early sowings of field
beans (in N.Q.) are more likely to
escape injury from the bean fly
than midsummer sowings. The ideal
soil is a deep, moist loam to facili-
tate deep rooting and assist ’em over dry
spells. Knock up a fine tilth, and sow
in rows 2ft. 6in. apart. The seed f varies
in size, but not more than 301 b. should
be needed to the acre. The bean plants
need lOin. spacing. All inter-row hoeing
should be shallow or the crop will be
ruined. The beans should be got off as
soon as there is a general changing of
color amongst the pods. Delay means
splitting and loss of seed. Small patches
are often hand-picked, but large fields
should be ploughed out like peanuts.
“B.”:. Hold off painting roof iron till
it’s been exposed to the weather for a
few years. Extremes of heat and cold
cause expansion and contraction. There’s
no known grip to hold the paint and it
peels off. High-grade roof paint is most
satisfactory in the long run.
“Sarina”: To prevent scaly leg amongst
your poultry, spray the hen houses regu-
larly with kerosene emulsion or Diesel
oil, paying particular attention to cracks
and crevices in the walls where the lice
find shelter. Cure individual birds by
dipping their feet and legs into warm fat
and kerosene for a few minutes. If the
scales have not gone within a week repeat
treatment, massaging the oil in with the
fingers. A heap of dry sand for dust
bathing is essential in the fowl run.
“Mac F.”: Wheat harvesting on the
southern Darling Downs (Q.) reveals that
hexham, a noxious weed carrying a scent
injurious to milling, is a spreading
menace. Rotation of crops would assist,
but the best remedy is keeping the land
clean.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Tough “Siegfried.”
(From a N.Y. “Daily Mirror” article by Louis
P. Lochner, who, as a U.S. correspondent in
Berlin for 21 years, in 1939 inspected 200 miles
of the Siegfried Line.)
In constructing the Westwall (Siegfried
Line) the Germans tried to solve three
questions: How can air attacks be made
innocuous? Artillery fire neutralised?
Tanks kept out of fortification zone?
Guarding from the air, visible protru-
sions—such as gun turrets, observation
points comparable to periscopes of sub-
marines—were made small as possible,
fitted into the landscape so as to be diffi-
cult to detect.
The whole line was designed on bulk-
head and stagger principles—the fortifica-
tions system is widely diffused, rendering
air attack difficult; units are separated by
armored doors comparable to steel doors
between ocean-liner bulkheads.
Component units are staggered back-
wards 35 miles, so wave after wave of
pillboxes, bunkers, forts and panzer
works must be demolished by air or by
military fire or stormed by infantry.
Behind 500,000 who built the wall in
1938 there marched gardeners, who
planted fast-growing shrubs to make it
all look like natural terrain.
The larger units have concrete walls
six to 12 feet thick, further reinforced by
six-inch steel plating,, and are sunk 50
feet in the ground.
Each unit is an amazing system of
cannon above, directed with aid of peri-
scopes by gunners from a calculating
room in the bowels of the earth. There
are electric ventilators, kitchens and
laundries; primitive but comfortable
mess-rooms and dormitories, even a
library and card-room.
Two words epitomise the defence
against tanks—traps and camouflage.
There are barbed-wire mazes, under
which are thousands of mines.
There are concrete blocks sunk 10 to
15 feet, protruding six feet, stuck irregu-
larly into landscape, like gigantic
dragons’ teeth.
Victory over the Siegfried will be just
cause to celebrate.
“Jane's" Reports the Ships.
(Condensed from an article by N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” London correspondent Richard L.
. Tobin.)
The 1944 edition of Jam’s Fighting
Ships reports that all large United States
warships now mount such an abundance
of. anti-aircraft weapons and can create
such a volume of overhead fire as to
shatter almost any air attack. United
States Navy anti-aircraft weapons include
Sin. guns, 38-calibre, 40-millimeter Bofors
and 20-millimetre Oerlikons, in addition
to lesser arms. They have been proved
in the Pacific.
Two new Japanese battleships are be-
lieved to have been completed, each of
45.000 tons. They are the Musashi and
Yamato, the names of ancient Japanese
provinces.
More than 200 German U-boats were
definitely sunk, and are recorded by
number, during the year 1943 alone.
More than 500 German U-boats have
been sunk or probably sunk since Sep-
tember 1, 1939.
There are no longer any German capi-
tal ships in fighting condition.
More than 40 British aircraft-carriers
and more than 100 American aircraft-
carriers are already admitted to be on the
high seas in action.
While the Germans no longer appear to
be making any serious attempt to replace
their naval losses, even as to U-boats, the
Japanese are doing their best to keep their
fleet up to strength, though with slight
success.
The total personnel in the Japanese
Navy is given as 325,000, against
3.500.000 in the American Navy.
The Japanese, besides two hitherto un-
disclosed 45,000-ton battleships, have
placed four other 40,000-tonners in com-
mission in the last year. Their names are
the Owari, the Tosa, the Aki and the
Satuma. They all carry nine 16in. guns
and. make 30 knots, the same as the
45,000-ton jobs. This gives the Japanese
a total of 17 remaining battleships in
good condition —a big fleet. The Jap-
anese have lost only two battleships since
Pearl Harbor, both of the Kongo class.
[This was prior to the Leyte claims.]
Jane’s has this to say about the disputed
battleship Haruna, which Colin Kelly was
supposed to have sunk on December 10,
1941, in an army ’plane: “The claim
cannot be substantiated.” It is further
known that the United States Navy re-
gards the Haruna as still very much
afloat.
The Japanese have lost eight aircraft-
carriers out of thirteen now afloat, though
more may be building. [Before the Leyte
claims.]
The United States fleet now includes
at least 20 first-line aircraft-carriers of
27.000 tons each, and many of the 10,000-
ton Independence and other classes.
The U.S. Navy now has at least 26
battleships. Construction has been sus-
pended for the time being on the Mon-
tana, Ohio, Maine, Louisiana and New
Hampshire, all 65,000-tonners. Newer
battleships in the fleet include the New
Jersey, lowa, Missouri, Wisconsin, Illi-
nois and Kentucky, all of 52,000 tons ;
the Indiana, Massachusetts, Alabama,
South Dakota, North Carolina and Wash-
ington, of 35,000 tons. The battleships
on which construction has been suspended
are not included in the 26. What will
happen to them depends on the war, but
from other sources it is clear that aircraft-
carriers and 45,000- to 52,000-ton battle-
ships are apparently to be preferred in
this day and age.
The U.S. Navy has abandoned the
1700-ton destroyer for the 2200-ton
flotilla leader destroyer. The U.S. Navy
now has at least 700 destroyer escorts
and 80,000 landing craft. Not counting
landing craft, the U.S. Navy counted
4167 ships in service on January 1, 1944.
The Canadian Navy now has several
hundred destroyers and escorts, and a
formidable naval personnel, totalling
83.000 men and officers on May 1, 1944.
The Russians were to have got from
the British and the United States Navies
a number of units on transfer, but so far
the only vessel named by Jane’s in trans-
fer to the Soviet is the U.S, cruiser Mil-
waukee.
The British section shows no capital
ships sunk during the last year, the first
such period of the war. The British have
lost five battleships, seven aircraft-car-
riers, 27 cruisers and several hundred
smaller craft, as page after page of losses
dramatically strike your eye. In de-
stroyers alone the mere list of the names
and dates of the v vessels take four solid
pages, in a volume more than a foot long.
All effective warships of the French
Navy are now operating with the Allies.
The 342 Italian Navy ships still need final
accounting, and cannot be accurately
catalogued.
Perhaps the most intriguing bit of small
talk in this magnificent Volume by
Francis McMurtrie (who succeeded Fred
Y. Jane) is a note in small type on the
colors of British warships. In home
waters British warships are painted very
dark grey, in the Mediterranean dark
blue, in China waters dark olive green, in
the East Indies, America and West Indies
they are light grey. The color goes with
the indigenous sea, plus unadvertised
camouflage that is one of the greatest
single advances of this seven-sea war.
Japs Still Fanatic.
C From an by N.Y. “Post” columnist
Marquis W. Childs .)
Here is an antidote for over-optimism
or, for that matter, for optimism.
In the course of the battle of Saipan
several high-ranking Jap officers were
captured, thanks to a sudden and unex-
pected development. This has never hap-
pened before during two and a half years
of Pacific warfare.
At least one of these officers talked to
his captors. Throughout one night
American officers, seated in a semi-circle
in a cave, questioned the Japanese via an
American interpreter. Toward dawn he
concluded with a warning that went like
this; —
“You are going to have to kill
80,000,000 Japanese if you take our
homeland. Men, women and children
will be armed. They will not be taken
prisoner, neither the armed civilians nor
the professional soldiers. If they are
trapped they will kill themselves.”
This might have been put down to the
braggadocio of one of the children of the
Emperor if it had not been for something
else that had just happened on Saipan.
This was the suicide of perhaps half the
civilian population of the island.
As vividly described by Robert Sher-
rod, who witnessed it, women, children
and old men waded out into the surf and
drowned themselves. Or they let their
own blood. Mothers destroyed their
children before doing away with them-
selves.
All this occurred with ceremonial
flourishes in full view of Marine detach-
ments. How many civilian suicides
occurred no one knows. There were
approximately 20,000 non-combatants on
the island before the attack.
American officers, even those familiar
with Japanese fanaticism, were astonished
by the phenomenon. They knew of the
Jap warrior code, Bushido, which com-
pels military men, and especially officers,
to kill themselves in defeat. But they
had not known that civilians in the mass
followed the same custom.
• In spite of the string of victories in the
Pacific, military men have held down any
temptation to optimism. They know how
long and difficult the road still is. They
know how serious are the recent Jap
victories in China.
Admiral Nimitz has said that it will be
necessary to occupy Japan to win the
peace. Just what he meant by “occupa-
tion” was not clear, but certainly it will
be a difficult and hazardous operation.
Soviet Gets Social.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article sent
from Moscow by Edgar Snow.)
Only someone comfortably removed
from local facts which might contradict
his conclusions can dogmatise about what
Russia will be five years from now. But
up to a point the signs are clear enough.
Take as an easy starter the Soviet
theatre. Virtually all the plays of the
past season, and those coming, have little
to do with communism as an ideology.
Many are based on literary classics pro-
duced in bourgeois or feudal societies.
The most popular play of the season was
“The Road to New York,” adapted from
the American movie hit “It Happened
One Night.” Among productions an-
nounced none seems to deal with living
controversial political questions—which
may or may not be a reflection of the
noncommittal state of the Soviet mind.
“Hamlet” and “Othello” are to be
featured. Several classics by Ostrovski,
There will probably be criticism
of the U.S. State Department and
the American Government for in-
sisting on justice and for refusing
to permit mob murders even inside
Germany. But the American Gov-
ernment cannot condone such
actions as one reported by Newbold
Noyes in the Washington “Star” —
a description of the execution at
Grenoble, France, of six boys ac-
cused of bearing arms against
France. The youngest, a boy of
seventeen, said at the trial that he
had joined the militia because he
believed what Petain had said. He
was evidently only thirteen years
old when Hitler invaded France.
The Petain Government was the
only Government he knew anything
about. Did he have a fair trial?
Was he under duress during the
four years that the Germans occu-
pied France? Were any of these
questions considered before the boy
was executed? The whole world
has stood aghast at Nazi atrocities.
Must it now read about French
atrocities ? Washington syndicate
writer David Laurence.
who died 60 years ago, and Goncharov,
who was bom the year Kutuzov met
Napoleon at Borodino, are being revived.
Both authors were aristocrats. Where are
the plays of poets and playwrights the
Government has been financing all during
the war? If Soviet industry were no more
productive where would the Red Army
be?
There’s a return to all the classics in
literature, too. So the glorification of
nineteenth-century Russian art and litera-
ture, stimulated for patriotic reasons dur-
ing the war, seems likely to increase in
the years after the war.
For the first time in Soviet history the
theatre is going to offer Oscar Wilde to
the public. “An Ideal Husband” has been
chosen, for reasons not easily discernible
in the newspaper white space between the
lines where some observers here claim
to do their most assiduous reading. I
asked a party of Russian intellectuals
why Wilde should be unearthed at this
particular moment and in such a piece
of irrelevant dilettantism. “Because it is
droll,” one said, “and at the end of a war
in any country people want a certain
amount of distraction. With us Russians
our tragedy is never far away from
comedy and the ridiculous —and vice
versa. You have escapist art, too, don’t
you?”
“Yes, of course; but the point is that
the Communist party doesn’t select it for
us,” I replied.
Another writer suggested that “An
Ideal Husband” is being done because it
portrays the behavior of some well-bred
English people and vindicates the stabil-
ity of the home. Right now young Rus-
sians are taking an extraordinary interest
in good manners and other matters in-
volving what formerly was dismissed as
“petty personal relationships.” When the
same party of intellectuals I questioned
about Wilde broke up to go home, the
males surprised me by lifting their
hostess’s hand and bestowing on it a fare-
well kiss in the approved Continental
manner.
One of my Russian recently
translated an old English book on eti-
quette, which instructs readers not to
make noises when eating, not to cough
and spit on the floor, not to knock ladies
down to get through a door first, and not
to fight in public. It is selling like hot
cakes. Soon you won’t be able to tell a
man’s ideology at all by whether he
drinks tea with his spoon in his cup or
out of it.
British War Aim.
(From an article by the editor of London
“Nineteenth Century .) r
So strong is the sway of fashion, and
so persistent the pressure—even in War-
time—of British and American pacifism,
that some sort of project for establishing
perpetual peace will surely be adopted by
the victorious Powers.
What should England strive for, above
all else, when the war has been won, and
indeed even now, when it is being won?
Two things—the security of these islands
and of the Empire, and a Europe that will
not come under the domination of any
one Power. These things are related, for
if Europe is dominated by one Power the
security of these islands and of the
Empire will be menaced. And if these
islands and the Empire are secure through
armed strength (without which there can
be no security) it will be possible to
maintain the Balance of Power —which is
but a contrivance for preventing any one
Power, or coalition of Powers, from be-
coming master of Europe.
If the two things, for which we must
strive, are achieved, as they can be, more
will have been done to establish a just
and lasting peace, not only in Europe
but throughout the world, than was ever
dotie before.
Any project for perpetual and univer-
sal peace must, therefore, be put to this
test; Will it be prejudicial to the
maintenance of Britain’s insular and im-
perial security and to the Balance of
Power? If the answer is “No, it will
not,” then such a project can at least be
considered as relatively harmless and per-
haps in some ways beneficial (the League
of Nations was beneficent in many inci-
dentals). If the answer is “Yes,” then
the project must life opposed uncompro-
misingly.
The immediate task of the victorious
Powers when the war is won will be to
impose terms of peace upon the Ger-
mans and to ensure lasting respect for
those terms. The peace must be a good
peace, and a just one. When we say just,
we do not mean lenient. It is a common
misapprehension that justice and leniency
are the same. They are not. It is true
that justice cannot be justice if it is never
merciful, but it is equally true that it
cannot be justice if it is never severe.
The peace, to be just, must do justice
to Allies as well as to the foe. Whereas
the enemy must be disarmed and rendered
unable to fight again, while he must make
amends for the wrong he has done and
for the loss he has inflicted, all Allies
and neutrals must be reconfirmed in the
possession of their countries as they were
before the war —or rather before Sep-
tember, 1938, when the first act of terri-
torial spoliation was perpetrated: all must
have their share, each in proportion to
his own losses, of whatever amends the
enemy will be able to make, all must
enjoy the security, both present and
future, which armed strength and the
maintenance of the war-time brother-
hood in arms can give.
But peace with Germany and her asso-
ciates is not the only problem that con-
fronts Allied statesmanship. Germany
belongs to the European order and must,
in time, become an organic part of that
order. The peace to come must be con-
ceived in terms of that order. There are
European problems other than the Ger-
man, and as one problem is solved, or
solves itself, another will take its place.
The disarmament of Germany will not
of itself ensure an era of peace in Europe.
England cannot have a sound German
policy that is not also a sound European
policy. When the Second World War is
over only one purpose—a gigantic pur-
pose, no doubt, but only one —of British
foreign policy will have been accom-
plished: the restoration of the Balance
of Power. But, once restored, the Balance
must be kept restored.
For a long time to come Germany will
be prostrate. Unless the end of the war


THE WORLD FOLLOWSLEAD..
>A
?-35?Sfe5?3»a
asa £ -
i tksT&e&t&j*:
. •;
KiSSIWfe
:; Wc
u -.
saftafca'^yp
JET PROPULSION
FOR AIRCRAFT
MANY inventions and discoveries of enormous benefit
to mankind were originated within the British
Commonwealth. The principle of jet propulsion bids
fair to revolutionise air transport and, perhaps, land
and ocean travel as well.
Amongst other notable achievements to the credit of
Britain is the development of rayon by Courtaulds. This
remarkable textile, with its innumerable uses in war and
peace, has been brought to its present standard of per -
fection in great measure by sustained research and patient
endeavour on the part of this British Company.
Courtaulds rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from
it, have improved standards of Iffe amongst millions of
people and have been the means of founding vast new
industries in England, the United States, Canada and
elsewhere.
The necessities of the war have restricted the available
supply of Courtaulds rayons; but when victory is won*
the results of research and experiment during the war
years will be translated into even more beautiful rayon
fabrics. In the post-war years the British Commonwealth
will demonstrate that in the future, as in the past, British
brains and industry can guide the world towards fresh
achievements for the benefit of the human race.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics: Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd., London, England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre Fibres Ltd., Coventry, England
Group Captain
FRANK WHITTLE,
C.B.E.
an officer of the R.A F.,
is the inventor of the jet
propulsion engine by
means of which aircraft
are flown with greater
speed and efficiency. The
engine is different from
the recognised type and no
propeller is required. The
first successful flight was
made in 1941,
's'mrnmc^-
r:,
v <f^'ki
-:v
ill
SWs
m
ufs
x
ta
■'v ; :
85
tlI
Bombers for War—Airliners for Peace. For 30 years Handley Page aircraft have
been conspicuously successful in the “ heavy ” class. Latest of the line is the Halifax
night bomber —now in quantity production—shown above in its Mark HI version
equipped with four Bristol Hercules engines
BOMBING IS A TECCKING PROBLEM
It would be considered an astonishing feat to deliver by
road, exactly to schedule, thousands of tons of goods to a
point hundreds of miles away.
Complicate the problem by the factors of total darkness,
unknown territory, a speed of hundreds of miles per horn-
plus the effect of intense cold and the destructive endeavours
of a determined, ruthless and powerful enemy—and such a
feat becomes the more astounding
Yet such conditions as these apply to the finest concerted
actions in engineering history—the wholesale “ trucking ”
of bombs night after night from Royal Air Force bases.
Continuously since 1915 the British Industry has built big
aircraft to handle the manifold problems of efficient trucking.
The industry produced the world’s first four-engined air-
liners —many of them in uninterrupted service for ten years.
To-day British four-engined bombers carry a destructive
load far in excess of any other aircraft in service in the
world, with proportionately a’minimum of crew
In good time the British aircraft industry will apply this
wealth of experience in design, manufacture and operation
of big aircraft to the problems of world transport in peace.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
is insufficiently conclusive and unless the
peace is bungled, she will not count, or
will count but little, as a military, poli-
tical and economic Power. Europe has
form and structure, and there can be no
enduring order if stability is confined to
the west, and if in the middle there is
a sort of vacuum, and if in the east there
is instability.
Passing History.
[The negotiations in Moscow in October on
Polish frontiers, as reported by the Chicago
“Sun” London correspondent.]
Premier Stalin was absolutely firm on the
Curzon line as the last word on the Polish-
Soviet frontier. Stalin wants this point settled
now as a prelude to an agreement on all other
questions affecting Poland.
Prime Minister Churchill supported Russia’s
insistence on the Curzon boundaries.
Stalin, with finality, rejected Mikolajczyk’s
attempt to regain Lwow for Poland. Mikola-
jezyk implied that Lwow’s return might make
acceptance of the Curzon boundary easier for
the Poles, but Stalin stood pat.
Stalin reaffirmed that Russia favors an ex-
tension of Poland’s western boundary to reach
from the neighborhood of Stettin along the
Oder and Neisse Rivers. Churchill backed this
proposal, but Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden
is said to have indicated doubt about its advisa-
bility and practicability.
Mikolajczyk declined a suggestion that he
sign a boundary agreement, explaining that his
Government might repudiate such a step.
The talks were not broken off and can be
renewed, but no future meeting was arranged.
Mikolajczyk realised it would be useless to
renew his proposal for a temporary demarcation
line and he refrained again from pressing that
scheme. Stalin made it clear that Russia re-
fuses to bargain on this vital point.
Mikolajczyk is said to have returned with the
impression that if the frontier problem could be
satisfactorily settled Russia would be more
amenable on the remaining questions. Stalin
made it clear that Poland’s future constitution
is for the Poles to decide among themselves,
and this issue played a secondary role in the
Moscow discussions.
[Recognition of De Gaulle, as reported by
the N.Y. “Times'” London correspondent.]
Recognition @f the French Provisional Gov-
ernment was hailed in Britain as a measure long
overdue, and its unanimity was regarded as
partly a triumph for British foreign policy,
which has long pressed for such a consumma-
tion.
It was Britain that first recognised General
Charles de Gaulle as leader of the Free French
movement, which was formed in London in
1940. He received British support until the
North African landing two years later, when
for a time Prime Minister Churchill, influenced,
it is thought, by President Roosevelt as well as
by his own temperamental difference from
General de Gaulle, co-operated in the effort to
commend General Henri-Honore Giraud instead
to the French people.
Long before Washington, however, London
became convinced that this effort was fruitless.
Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden was the first
to reach this conviction. He persuaded his
leader, and for most of this year it has been
known that Britain wanted the Provisional
Government recognised. When General de
Gaulle returned to France, was acclaimed there
and re-formed his Government to make it as
representative as possible in the circumstances,
British public opinion began to grow impatient.
It is believed that Mr. Churchill urged the
case for recognition at the Quebec Conference
and that it was decided there and'confirmed by
Mr. Churchill and Premier Stalin later in Mos-
cow, although the timing of recognition was
left to General Dwight D. Eisenhower. The
criterion was to be the Allied Supreme Com-
mander’s belief that the De Gaulle Government
commanded the necessary authority and sup-
port in liberated France.
• [. Report by the N.Y. “Times” Paris corre-
spondent.]
It was a dramatic scene at the Quai d’Orsay
on October 23 when the diplomatic emissaries
of Britain, the United States, the Soviet Union
and Canada called on Foreign Minister Georges
Bidault to hand him similar notes of all four
Governments finally giving the De Gaulle regime
what if had struggled for vainly in the diplo-
matic field for months.
The Soviet Ambassador, Alexander E. Bogo-
moloff, dean of the Allied diplomatic corps,
spoke first. The Canadian Ambassador, Major-
General George P. Vanier, though next in
seniority, ceded his place to Jefferson Caffery,
United States Ambassador, who followed.
Each of the others expressed his satisfaction,
then M. Bidault responded.
When he met Allied correspondents later M.
Bidault spoke with emotion of the sufferings of
France, whose honor, he said, General de
Gaulle had defended, and of his expectation
that France would now “enter with her head
high, as she ought, the concert of Great
Nations.”
To him that entry obviously symbolised
France’s rise from defeat to victory and from
humiliation to self-respect. By Frenchmen
generally the Allies’ recognition will be re-
garded as a belated acknowledgement that
French heroism in combat and resistance had
washed out the stain of defeat in the 1940
phase of the war.
All the evidence here in Paris indicates that
this Allied decision was reached suddenly
on October 20. Not long ago President Roose-
velt had said that the De Gaulle regime was
already recognised de facto, and this seemed
then to be all the recognition it would get.
Shortly before that Prime Minister Churchill
had spoken in terms that were read here to
mean that the De Gaulle Government would be
recognised only after a national election, that
is, maybe a year hence.
'Meanwhile difficulties inside France had
drawn attention to the risks that might lie
ahead if the De Gaulle Government—no other
was possible —did not receive all the backing
the Allies could give it. Those risks would have
involved not only the French Government but
the Allies’ war effort. In the last analysis the
Allies would be obliged to protect their com-
munications in France if the French Govern-
ment were unable to do so.
M. Bidault emphasised France’s role in the
war and said she would furnish as many men
as could be armed.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
It now is revealed that Premier Stalin objected
to the diversion of land forces from use on a
western front in Europe to Lord Mountbatten’s
campaign in Burma last winter and spring. This
is said to be the real reason why less was
accomplished by Lord Mountbatten than was
anticipated.— “United States News.”
* * * *
The full story of General Eisenhower’s Euro-
pean war planning will be amazing. Eisenhower
timed every operation to the last minute. Most
important manoeuvre was breaking the Atlantic
Wall. The German High Command considered
this impregnable. Eisenhower allotted 45
minutes to get through. He had each move
so timed that, after 45 minutes, ships, supplies,
men would be on the beach, with no place to go
unless the break was on time. A full-scale
replica of fortifications was constructed in Eng-
land from aerial photos. Troops rehearsed for
days. Best time they made in rehearsals was
90 minutes. But on D-Day, thanks to Eisen-
hower’s planning, they made it not in 45, but in
35 minutes.— Drew Pearson; N.Y. “Daily
Mirror.”
* * * *
Bombing trips and fighter-plane sorties can
be made over Germany in a fraction of the time
that was required from bases in Britain. This
time-saving means that the vast fleets of ’planes
that have been operating over Germany will be
dwarfed by the still bigger fleets to come.
Already 5000 ’planes have been engaged in drop-
ping 10,000 tons of missiles on Germany in a
single day. With more ’planes in the air the
front-line targets for bombing and strafing will
include' every German fort, every big gun and
every tank and troop concentration. Farther
back, all lines of supply and reinforcements will
be hunted by bombers. Still farther back, every
supply base, every refinery and every defence
factory will be liable to attack.—“ United States
News.”
* * * *
The Philadelphia “Inquirer” announced the
recall of its Moscow correspondent, Alexander
Kendrick, because of what it termed “the re-
fusal of the Soviet Government to afford ade-
quate, reasonable facilities for war coverage.”
“Time” magazine, in its October 16 issue, quoted
Mr. Kendrick as saying at a meeting of Russian
and American correspondents in Moscow; “The
way we (the Americans) cover the great patriotic
war of Russia is to sit in our rooms at the Hotel
Metropole, read what our Russian colleagues
write in the Russian papers, and cable this to
our papers. Every effort we have made to get
really near the front has been blocked.” — N.Y.
“Times.”
Not only as a result of the close working
arrangement that has been developed between
U.S. and the British delegations to the various
United Nations conferences held thus far, but
also as a result of the close personal relation-
ship that has grown up between President
Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill, an ex-
tremely powerful Anglo-American partnership
has been formed. To this partnership the rest
of the United Nations —including the two other
members of the “Big Four,” Russia and China
—have come to look for virtually all the initia-
tive in international affairs. But Russia, while
sitting back and letting the U.S. and United
Kingdom do most of the preliminary planning
and proposing, nevertheless constitutes another
tremendous influence, largely negative, but no
less tremendous, through her strong individualist
attitude on virtually everything and, inasmuch
as. she shows no reluctance whatever to object
when the plans and proposals drafted by the
Anglo-American team fail to conform with
Moscow’s views, the U.S. and United Kingdom
usually take into deepest consideration the pos-
sible Russian reaction before they make any
major move.— N.Y. “Post.”
* * * *
In looking to the fate of the proposed new
League of Nations: U.S. Senate will debate, will
probably accept League charter in 1945. Oppo-
sition will fail to write reservations on use of
U.S. force into treaty approving U.S. member-
ship in the United Nations, will not muster
enough votes. So a world League, with U.S. in
it, is probable within a year, or sooner. It is
then that the real fight will develop. It is then
that the new League must work out an agree-
ment, or agreements, for assignment of force
to be on hand to back up decisions against
potential disturbers of the world’s peace. Issue
to confront both Houses of U.S. Congress is
to be this: Should U.S. agree to supply air,
naval, land forces for use by the League on
vote of the U.S. delegate without first getting
specific approval by Congress? Or should
Congress be required to approve or disapprove
in each instance of dispute before the U.S.
delegate can vote on an issue involving use of
force? Odds now are on the side of blanket
authority, on approval by Congress of a general
agreement authorising U.S. delegate to vote
without getting specific approval of Congress in
each instance when a portion of U.S. military
might be needed. A majority of both Houses
of Congress will decide that issue.— “ United
States Ne\^s.”
* * * *
China is as close to defeat as she has ever
been. The position of Chiang Kai-shek’s Gov-
ernment is one of sheer courage and desperation.
A less stubborn irtan would have given up long
ago. Chiang holds on to the slender hope that
the American and British troops will defeat the
Japanese before he collapses or before the
Russian-controlled Chinese armies take over the
government of China. To Americans Russia is
an ally; but to Chiang Kai-shek Soviet Russia
can only be a neutral in China’s most desperate
moment, but a neutral that supports an insur-
gent army. In fact, Chiang has two fights on
his hands: he has to defend his country against
the Japanese and against a communist army in
China. — George E. Solkolsky; N.Y. “Sun.”


EYE LOTION
Tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Ply, Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
d
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
ONLY agents their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli*
£l7 /1A / WANTED color will reproduce Typing. Writing.
«. !// lU/- all STATES Plans. Music, etc.
Both entirety in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
I " —nr-'- i. SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
RUPTURE
L NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
RCTS
LIKE THE HflHO
tine in its ■ cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRBRE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lK>, 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
fd
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing l , nagging,- fmfnFul
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don't work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood- These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
Successfully by millions for over 40 years.
JThey give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
Piat will make you well and keep you well.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILLIAM ALLEN or wife, who were working
Bandangan, Cootamundra, please write BEAT,
Hampton Court, Kings Cross, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE AND AGENCY CO.
OF S.A., LTD., 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, South
Australia, desire to establish contact with the sons
or daughters of JOSEPH VICKERY, believed to
have settled in Sydney or New South Wales brother
of the "late Willhygp Vickery, who died in 1909.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROSE EBB of Sydney and JAMES EDWARD
EASON of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that DAVID
CHOUVEL EBB has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2628 of 1944 on the grounds of your adultery If
either of you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 18th day of December
next and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from PERCIVAL GARFIELD TRUMAN
Petitioner’s Solicitor 10 Martin Place Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Cl(/o£c/
CIO BITE
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
i Pi
1
J '
?'
i
*
**Queer Alec 99 and consort
plough through the
irafura Sea
and the oerodrome
was built!
Up at a forward base in New Guinea they needed
a bulldozer and heavy equipment to carve an
aerodrome out of the jungle.
It meant a thousand-mile haul across water, a
third of the distance over the stormy Arafura Sea.
So these two Australian-Ford barges, already well
seasoned in coast and river work were loaded up
—one carried 96 tons instead of its rated 40-ton
capacity. Both arrived safely, after a run that
included stretches of 36 hours non-stop at full
power—a killing test. Their Mercury engines
never faltered for an instant.
This is just another example of stamina built into
Ford products—something to remember when you
buy your next Ford.
Ford
V-8 CARS, TRUCKS. UTILITIES. MERCURY CARS.
PREFECT 10 HP. CARS, UTILITIES. ANGLIA 8 H.P.
—F.4I-20C
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong. Vic.
55638
I I
m
I
m
|WT >
0 " .■ *>V 5\
For Tour Throat’s Sake.
CRAVEN I
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
S|: The will to save is the will to win.
Buy War Savings Certificates.
Our Service Department.
Wants.
To buy volume containing Lawson’s short
stories “Three Men Met at the Corner of the
Street” and “Cats on the Roof.’ —3549.
To buy Conan Doyle’s History of the S.
African War. —3550.
To buy The Lost World, by A. Conan Doyle.
—3551. •
To buy The Clans and Tartans of Scotland,
by Robert Bain.—3552.
Information Sought.
(1) When was the Sydney Harbor Bridge
officially opened to traffic ? (2) Annual finan-
cial surplus or deficit of the bridge ?
(1) On March 19, 1932. (2) For the last five
years expenditure has exceeded revenue received;
deficit for the year ended 30th June was
£131,534, and the total deficit to that date
£400,427.
* * * *
Chief commercial uses of para-dichlorben-
zene ?
It is utilised in the manufacture of insecti-
cide, deodorants and mothproofing composi-
tions.
* * * *
Whom do you consider the greatest batsmen
and bowlers produced by England or Australia
during the last 50 years ?
The question is arguable, but batsmen Don
Bradman and Victor Trumper (Australia) and
bowlers Charlie Turner (Australia) and T.
Richardson (England) would come first in most
lists.
* * * *
How to tell if a shotgun is in good con-
dition ?
Assemble completely ; grasp butt in left hand,
pistol-grip in right, shake from side to side.
This will reveal any looseness in joint. Remove
fore-end and repeat. If no shake or looseness
is felt, joint is probably in good order. Ex-
amine semi-circular cut in lump for signs of
hammer marks or thin shim of tin or other
packing. If neither is visible, gun has had little
wear. The stock should be looked over for
splits, cracks or indications of repair. If gun
is hammerless, press a penny firmly against each
firing-pin hole in turn and snap locks; marks on
coin will indicate depth and strength of firing-
pin blow. Examine the interior of barrel for
pitting and dents. The latter may be detected
visibly as shadows, or felt with fingers on ex-
terior of barrels. Remove barrels from stock
and suspend by a loop of thin string about the
frontsight. Tap breech end of barrels and lump
with handle of a table knife; if barrels ring
with a clear metallic note the lump and ribs
should be right.
Grief Answers.
F.C.D.: You seem to have a good case for
Workers’ Compensation; consult a solicitor
G.L.H.: The Sydney Public Library could help.
R.Z.: Usually applied to places with a
cathedral. Title is sometimes granted by Royal
Charter... .WJ.C.: The Australian Blue Book.
Chastised: A beating can only be an
assault if it is against the will of the person
beaten. As you consented, you have not been
assaulted..G.M.P.: Registrar of Probates
may be able to help G.R.: No records
G.J.R.: Local shire authorities may have in-
formation J.P.C.: No copies for that date
available... .T.W.S.: Apply to (1) Under-
secretary for Lands, G.P.O. Box 39a, Sydney,
and (2) Secretary of Land Administration Board,
Brisbane The Russo-German agree-
ment was signed on August 24, 1939
N.A.M.: (1) Badge is not issued to soldiers
in this war. (2) Inquire at Victoria Barracks,
Brisbane F.H.: Would be worth amount
originally paid... .G.W.T.: The Red Cross is
trying to locate the men... .A.H.T.: No books
on subject available... .T.A.S.: (1) Get in touch
with Commonwealth Public Service Inspector,
Brisbane. (2) Pick’s Elementary Meteorology
and Albright’s Physical Meteorology. (3) E.
Esdaile and Son, Hunter-street, Sydney, might
supply J.E.D.; Chip whole surface and
float a mixture of two parts of sand to one of
concrete over t0p....W.M.: Use same type of
material again; paving paint should not be
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps ' accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
H. 8.: Say what you have to say simply and
clearly instead of groaning obscurely in poly-
syllables G.A.McB.: Singsong J. 5.8.;
Lightweight... .J.W.: A sheltered tree and a
busy tree talking about life; the reader in-
vited to climb them (simultaneously, it appears)
and gaze at “a concrete whole” and “a dis-
tant goal.” First it’s muddled and then it’s
trite C.S.: Why should a stream make
“supplication” to hawthorn boughs, and how
can gold wings “sip their balm”? ... .M. 8.:
Curly-haired babies drive us to drink....
G. : “Softly doth the Dawn’s pale fingers.”
Study thy grammar... .C. 8.: Never emerges
from the utterly conventional... .K.R.: She
seems to have grown old remarkably quickly.
J.D.A.: What’s a “visage cast”? Lilith:'
Theme ancient, treatment unexciting, scene
remote... .1.W.: Might suit a daily... .T.R.;
“Majestic and thin”!.... E.L.: “Has domi-
neered the drugged domain around.” Don’t drag
in so many darned d’s... .8.H.: Not a hope
H. : If a hen really pecked that little John
Brown of yours she’d swallow him. And
nobody would regret it... .G.M.: Straight from
Dickens... .R.D.McF.: Your humor’s good,
but don’t let it degenerate into farce J.P.
and S.D:: Mildly amusing but unconvincing.
E.B.: Try a woman’s paper R.B.McD.:
Unreal.


THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
( Incorporated in Victoria)
Head Office and Registered Office:
271 -279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
H. D. GIDDY, Chairman. The Hon. Sir F. G. CLARKE, K.8.E., M.L.C.,
Vice-Chairman. T. C. ALSTON. General Sir H. G. CHAUVEL,
g.c.m.g., K.C.B. H. G. DARLING. Sir JAMES A. M. ELDER, k.b.b.
D. YORK SYME,
Queensland Board of Advice:
Sir EDWARD H. MACARTNEY, Chairman; BYRNE HART,
DE BURGH B. B. PERSSE.
New South Wales Board of Advice:
Brigadier the Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., V.D., M.L.C.,
Chairman ; RODNEY R. DANGAR; HUNTER WHITE.
Chief Manager : L. J. McCONNAN. Chief Inspector: S. M. WREFORD.
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1944
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
Issued Capital—
-200.000 Ordinary Shares of £lO each fully paid.
600.000 Ordinary Shares of £8 each, £5 paid .. ..
Reserve Fund (used in the business)
Final Dividend Proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account .
including Provisions for Contingencies
Notes in Circulation
Balances Due to Other Banks
Contingent Liabilities (under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, etc.) ..
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers .. ..
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks ... ..
Balances With and Due from Other Banks
Money at Short Call—London
Treasury Bills—Australian Government
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills)
at or under maiket value —
i. Australian Government Securities
ii. Other Government Securities ■
iii. Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities
Special Wartime Deposit Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia • • • •
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
provision for debts considered bad or doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost less
amounts written off)
All Other Assets
Balance Sheet sftid Profit and Loss figures
are stated in Australian Currency.
To the Shareholders _
of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on
the books at the Head Office and with the certified returns from the
branches. We have obtained all the information and explanations we
have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and
Profit and Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and
correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs and of the results
of the business of the Company for the year according to the best of
our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by
the books of the Company.
S. J. WAKNOCK. F.C.A.(Aust.); J. R. BISHOP. F.C.A.(Aust.), Auditors,
Dividend for the year is at the rate of 5%%.
YOUR FAMILY’S FUTURE
NOWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executoi and Trustee
a* under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many.
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be *si re d to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him “ C °;![ U t r Z iLntee
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility, that g
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 59 years
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the Company s
service and what it costs.
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS; T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Dcuchar Gordon.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. ' A - G ‘ Armytagc. anaffcn
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others, Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £6.,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Mar., Profit. 5 p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 275,591 250,000 20,000 5,591 3,457,510
1936.. 294,403 30,000 1,903 3,459,413
5f p.c.
1937.. 325,627 287,500 40,000 3,457,540
6 p.c.
1938.. 347,401 300,000 50,000 3,454,941
1939.. 351,245 300,000 50,000 1,245 3,456,186
1940.. 356,096 300,000 50,000 6,096 3,462,282
1941.. 301,296 300,000 20,000 3,443,578
5 J p.c.
1942.. 289,759 275,000 20,000 3,438,337
Sept., 21 p.c.
1942*. 137,290 125,000 10,000 2,290 3,440,627
5 p.c.
1943.. 282,479 250,000 25,000 7,479 3,448,106
5 } p.c.
1944.. 290,926 262,500 25,000 3,426 3,451,532
There is a certain school of political
thought that considers control of capital
and credit a necessary instrument for
the reorganisation of industry and society
along socialistic lines. Hence the itch to
nationalise banking is afflicting the minds
of intransigent politicians again. This not
because the soundness of the trading
banks or the services they have rendered
are in question indeed, both are
acknowledged “excellent” —but because
in nationalisation the said politicians
think they see a short cut to the goal they
aim at. These and other facts connected
with the banks have not been made plain
to the public. Hence the warning issued
by the National’s chief manager, L. J.
McConnan, on behalf of the directors.
He said, among other things:
Permanent Government control of the
banks simply means permanent politiical
control of the money placed in the banks
by the people. It means that this bank, in
common with other banks, will always have
to invest or manage the moneys deposited
with it in the way dictated by the Govern-
ment or its officials, who have no direct
responsibility to individual depositors.
Under war conditions, such methods may
be necessary for the nation’s war effort, but
in .peace-time the depositors themselves arc
entitled to say whether the money they de-
posit with the banks should be safeguarded
by direction of the Government and its
officials or by experienced banking authon-
ties. . .
Each borrower on overdraft is advised
that permanent rigid control of the banks
may mesn that never again could a bor-
rower obtain a loan from a bank unless the
Government or its nominee investigated each
proposal to borrow and gave its approval.
Borrowers from this and other banks have
readily submitted to rigid Government con-
trol of borrowing facilities in war-time.
Without consideration of the views of those
who wish to borrow, it now appears pos-
sible that the Government may assume the
right for all time to investigate and veto
each borrowing proposal. Clearly, this
would place in the Government’s hands a
powerful control not only over industry
as a whole, but over the economic and
financial ambitions of every individual.
This bank does not advocate the immedi-
ate removal of all controls after the war,
but deems it to be its duty to emphasise
that permanent political regimentation ot
the people’s money in the banks does mean
a permanent regimentation of business and
of the individual.
That is the position today, and it will
continue until relevant controls are re-
laxed. Thanks to loyal co-operation ot
the trading banks, present financial
controls have achieved their purpose,
namely, discouragement of borrowing
and spending for all except war purposes.
Changes in the technique of banking
and currency management there have
been, and there will be. But to perpetu-
ate the present emergency control over
the direction in which money is spent, by
restricting freedom of choice and indi-
vidual judgment of banker and client
alike, would not only mean a stronger
bureaucracy, but would also stifle enter-
prise, discourage investment and seri-
ously impair efficiency of the whole set-
up necessary to meet the needs of peace.
The set-up favored by the majority of
the 1936 banking commission was that of
a Government-owned central bank as
the credit-regulating pivot in an other-
wise independent banking system. This
should be the limit of centralised control.
The danger point in the whole field of
currency and banking lies not in the
privately-owned trading banks, which in
the past have been a pillar of strength,
but in a politically-controlled central
bank. It is the use of central-bank credit
that matters most. Further extension of
the ordinary trading activities of the
Commonwealth Bank offer no advantage
not already enjoyed by. borrowers, with
greater measure of sympathetic service,
from the trading banks.
Under existing conditions banking
figures, which use to mirror the cross-
currents of trade and industry, now reflect
mainly the impact of the Government’s
war-finance policy. Consider the
National’s balance-sheet figures:
.—-March.—v September. —>
1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £5,000,000 £5,000,000 £5,000,000
Notes.. .. 47,531 47,507 47,507
Bills, etc. . . 1,803,049 1 66,531,797 75,391,594
Deposits . . .49,750,915 )
Liquid assets. . 22,712,848 43,207,061 56,218,637
Advances .. 36,045,088 30,199,491 26,212,111
Premises, etc... 1,437,136 1,685,587 1,597,412
Last term a contraction of £3,987,380 in
advances was accompanied by an expan-
sion of £8,859,797 in deposits and a
growth of £12,951,576 in low-interest-
bearing liquids. The last-mentioned in-
clude special war-time deposit with the
Commonwealth Bank (£24,936,000, up
£9,790,000). Since war began the increase
in trading bank deposits have been thus
diverted back to the Government through
the central bank for use in further pro-
duction for war purposes. When the
books closed the National held liquids
equal to 74.5 p.c. of its liabilities to
public, advances were only 34.7 p.c. of
deposits, and it was holding £8 16s. 6d.
of the public’s money for every pound
of its own. It all means strength but low
earning power.
Improvement in the year’s gross earn-
ings (£1,648,420) was £2053. Exes.
(£1,043,600) were pulled back £47,727
But the tax bill (£313,894) was £41,332
heavier —thus the business earned more
for the Government than for share-
holders. That left the net result (up
£8447) at a mere 3.4 p.c. on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined), or
5.8 p.c. on capital alone. The div. was
lifted from 5 p.c. to 5i p.c,
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 13,945 6J p.c. = 12,324 1,621 2,445
1936.. 34,017 10 „ „ 18,317 15,700 18,145
1937.. 55,259 124 „ „ 27,268 27,991 46,136
1938.. 82,346 13i „ „ 42,969 39,377 85,513
1939.. 98,220 144 „ ~ 55,580 42,640 128,153
1940.. 75,152 Hi „ „ 59,305 15,847 144,000
1941.. 63,750 134 „ „ 66,734 142,996
1942.. 93,903 111 „ „ 70,121 23,782 166,778
1943.. 90,284 114 ~ „ 74,948 15,336 182,114
1944.. 88,571 11| „ „ 75,037 13,534 195,648
An achievement of which the manage-
ment has good reason to be proud. Chair-
man and managing director knight
Frank Beaurepaire has been the driving
force which, with the help of a rising
economic tide, sent turnover bounding
along. It is only a decade since he
set the co. on its feet; and very soon the
business spread throughout the Common-
wealth to Maoriland and beyond. Though
rapid, the growth has been a sound one,
both technically and financially.
With war came expanding service
demands, and a widening of the range
of manufactures. New plant to turn out
rubber-insulated electric cable was in-
stalled, and in less than three years the
co. has made and delivered approx.
150,000 miles of field telephone cable
to the Australian and Allied forces. Over
the last five years £260,000 has been
added to paid capital, and turnover has
expanded more than twelvefold since
1935, about three-quarters of the in-
crease belonging to the war period. Yet
net earnings have receded Trom the 1939
level; this because of the narrower mar-
gin on defence orders, the rise in costs
generally, including taxation, and the need
to provide increasing sums against exces-
sive war-time wear and tear on plant.
Service demands and loss of 90 p.c.
of the world’s rubber-producing areas,
following the Jap invasion of Malaya and
the near-by islands, led to Government
control of production, consumption and
distribution of rubber goods. The large
stocks of crude built up by manufac-
turers before the fall of Malaya have been
protected by extensive use of reclaim,
which now amounts to about one-third
of the total rubber content of most rubber
goods produced in Australia.
To further conserve diminishing supplies
of crude, a 50-50 mixture with synthetic
rubber is now to be used. Owing to the
time it will take to get rubber plantations
back to full production again, use of this
mixture is likely to continue for about
three years after the Jap is driven out
of Malaya and the Indies and plantations
are restored to their owners. One of the
co.’s executives, together with other repre-
sentatives of the trade in Australia, is
now in U.S.A. studying technical and
other problem involved. Production of
synthetic calls for special plant, and,
compared with natural rubber, the stuff
is harder to work, slower in processing
and involves the use of more man-hours.
It is superior to crude for some special
purposes, but not as suitable for general
use, including tyres.
Last term turnover receded slightly.
After allowing a liberal £111,184 (up
£9158) for depreciation, and providing
for taxation and other contingencies, net
earnings (down £1713) were 13.5 p.c. on
capital as against 13.8, 15.4, 12.8, 17.6,
18.4 and 25.1 p.c. back to 1938. The div.
was kept at-lli p.c.
Finances are comfortable:
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £392,500 £649,099 £652,500 £652,500
Overdraft . . 953,299 603,096 354,710
Sundry
creditors* . 107,929 304,670 243,576 292,295
Premises . . 78,119 201,160 196,698 202,647
Plant, etc. . . 115,707 343,562 320,983 253,149
Stocks . . 244,359 1,834,669 990,948 811,001
Debtors, etc... 245,448 229,336 211,807 267,506
* Including tax reserve.
Last term stocks were further reduced by
£179,947, and £248,386 was lopped off
the overdraft. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£431,502)
was £75,419. In addition to co. holdings,
the Government has built up a stockpile
of raw rubber, so the supply position is
actually stronger than balance - sheet
figures suggest.
9f
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sent., Profit Dividends. serves. serves,
£ £ £ £
1934.. 46,153 15 p.c. = 27,000. 19,153 146,924
Reserves capitalised £lB,OOO .. .. 128,924
1935.. 49,425 15 p.c. = 30,000 19,425 148,349
1936.. 48,269 15 „ „ 30,000 18,269 166,618
Reserves disappear, £lOOO .. • • 165,618
1937.. 52,980 18J p.c. = 37,968 15,012 180,630
Assets revalued, £75,000 .. .. 255,630
Reserves capitalised, £29,214 .. .. 226,416
1938.. 54,701 15 p.c. = 35,057 19,644 246,060
1939.. 56,136 15 „ „ 35,222 20,914 266,974
1940.. 59,527 15 „ „ 35,387 24,140 291,114
1941.. 63,375 20 „ „ 47,182 16,193 307,307
1942.. 61,194 17J „ „ 41,285 19,909 327,216
Excess tax reserve disclosed, £75,000 .. 402,216
1943.. 63,421 18| p.c. = 44,233 19,188 421,404
1944.. 69,551 18f „ „ 44,233 25,318 446,722
This co., which turns out cardboard
boxes, cartons and corrigated-fibre con-
tainers, etc., has an excellent history.
Success was due mainly to the imagina-
tion and enterprise of James Fielding,
founder and chairman until his death in
February last. His son, L. J. Fielding,
who grew up in the business, has stepped
into the vacant chair at the head of the
board table, thus ensuring continuity of
the policy which proved so successful in
the past.
It was in 1905 that James Fielding
bought the Sydney Cardboard Co.’s busi-
ness for £1650. The struggle was largely
one against prejudice, and, until the public
became interested early in 1911, finance
was a nightmare to the owner. Then
World War I gave the co. the protection
politicians had failed to provide, and the
business has never looked back since.
The policy was, and still is, to keep plant
abreast of every modern development,
and to find new uses for the board and
fibre. At the same time substantial allow-
ances have been made for depreciation
and obsolescence, enabling much equip-
ment to be paid for out of earnings and
then from the same source written down.
Only once in the last 17 years has the
co. paid less than 15 p.c.; that was in


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting]
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Anv*
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collim
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt,
df
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler BlowofF, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Tuberculosis Is striking with swift deadliness at Australia’s national
life! Help stamp it out/ Give all you can to the Anti-T.B.
£50,000 Appeal to help build an up-to-date Clinic and provide
a Mobile Service for Country Districts, Send contributions to
the Honorary Treasurer, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
The I Anti-T.B. £30,000 Appeal
TROJAN SEA HORSE..
mighty engines of war “ dock ” where there are no
docks. They just push up to the shore and unload their
troops and tanks, reminiscent of the Trojan horse of Greek
mythology.
Unfaltering performance from engines is required in such
war service. To get such performance, Caltex Lubricants
are universally used.
Caltex engineers and laboratory chemists have rendered
Caltex lubrication unfailingly reliable. Insist on Caltex ..,
There is the correct grade of oil for every purpose.
; rsllsit_
jar'll
CALTEX LIMITED
Serving the Nation
Importers of Caltex Motor Spirit, Kerosene and Lubricating Oil ,
m
m
m
i , ®
THE WORLD IS YOUR OYSTER
You live to-day in the age of air-travel, where time and
space have new meanings. A modern, exciting age,
which after Victory will bring you undreamed of experi-
ences and opportunities . . . the advantage of personal
contact with distant customers and markets, the pleasure
and stimulation of other lands, other people's. This free-
dom of activity by air-travel opensk entirely new ideas of
the world , . . then to be indeed your oyster.
Australian National Airways is the world's greatest internal
air service—a foundation on which can be established
Australia's most vital link with the rest of the world.
1/0////
m
m
INVEST All YOU CAN IN VICTORY BONOS
USTRALIAN
TIONAL AIRWAYS
MRS! IN PEACE
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IN WAR .
. FIRST IN FUTURE
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
1931 when 10 p.c. was handed out. The
average for this period was 15.8 p.c. ,
and bonus scrip accounts for nearly halt
paid capital, the last gift being in 1937.
And those on the register can now see
more than half their funds (capital and
reserves combined) invested outside the
business in well-selected shareholdings,
including the Melbourne subsidiary,
which set up in 1923, and in a number of
well-let Sydney freeholds, snapped up
when the market for real-estate at
its lowest, or thereabouts, in the
War strengthened demand for the co.’s
products, and sales have expanded
each year since 1939. For the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts the board
figured net earnings £6130 better at
£69,551. That was after making an un-
unspecified provision for taxation and
allowing £lO,BOB (up £7251) for deprecia-
tion. The £69,551 of profit was a juicy
29.4 p.c. on capital as against 26.8, 25.9,
26.8 and 25.2 p.c. back to 1940 On share-
holders’ funds the year’s profit was 10.1
p.c. The div. remained at 18| p.c.
Here is as much of the financial struc-
ture as the published figures disclose:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital £235,913 £235,913 £235,913 £235,913
Creditors .. 53,648* 115,320* 105,795* 169,762*
Freeholds .. 153,639 137,782 131,575 158,496
Plant, etc... 25,532 24,900 22,375 22,375
Stocks . . 33,575 40,028 40,433 34,294
Book debts, cash
and inyestm’ts 352,635 476,473 586,421 654,924
* Including provision for taxation.
The amount coming to trade creditors
(up £63,967) includes an unspecified pro-
vision for taxation No harm woul ! be
done if the items in the omnibus entry
(up £68,503) were shaken out. Despite
addition of £26,921 to freeholds, the
more or less liquid surplus (£521,051) was
£1603 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
Net
June, Income. Exes. Surplus. Ord. IJiv.*
£>£>£, £(
1935.. 347,900 237,467 110,433 40 p.c. = 80,000
1936.. 390,821 285,860 104,961 55 „ „ 127,600
1937.. ' 515,056 372,013 143,043 15 „ „ 40,333
1938.. 628,566 512,502 116,064 30 „ „ 88,049
1939.. 878,220 785,568 92,652 10 „ „ 29,349
1940.. 989,815 770,111 219,704 20 „ „ 58,700
1941.. 819,168 773,311 45,857 Nil
1942.. 964,284 836,970 127,314 26.6p.e.= 78,267
1948.. 894,619 812,542 82,077 Nil
Net Loss.
1944.. 752,459 875,039 122,580 Nil
* Prefs. received a regular 8 p.c. p.a. (£16,000).
The loss last term is the first thing of its
kind since production began in 1933.
Collapse of values in material sent to
No. 2 (overburden) Mill was chief
trouble. These values dropped sharply
in July, 1943, and have failed to improve
since. Material treated at the two mills
and assay values were as follow:
# Assay.
Treated ( ■>
.No 1 Mill. Wet Tons. Gold. Copper.
1943 . . .. 282,338 2.l4dwt. 1.11 p.c.
1944 '.. .. 302,816 2.33 „ 0.98 „
No 2 Mill.
1943 .. .. 579.580 1.93 „ 0.35 „
1944 .. . . 640,076 1.13 „ 0.22 „
Recoveries from No. 2 mill declined by
15,5550 z. gold and 486 tons copper, com-
bined net value £173,330. Actual drop
in the year’s revenue was £142,160, and
exes., including and gold tax,
stepped up £62,497.
Unit operating costs compare:
1943. 1944.
Sulphide ore— £ s. d. £ s. d.
Mining . . . . 8 7.94 7 11.21
Treatment .. .. § 1.66 5 0.28
13 9.60 12 11.49
Tailings, cyaniding . . 1 3.59
Material mined . . . . 3 0.46 3 6.04
Smelting, ton copper . . 21 8 9.26 25 15 6.60
Power per k.w. hour . . 0.54 0.58
Rise in cost of material mined was due
to more stuff coming from lower levels,
and the smaller quantity of overburden
handled —1,148,685 tons (down 378,379
tons), cost £143,586 (down £34,571).
Delay in completing No, 2 furnace, owing
to delivery and labor difficulties, meant
that No. 1 furnace outlived its efficient
life, which explains the jump of £4 6s. 9d.
in smelting costs. Also, No. 2 furnace
had to be shortened by 21ft., because Mt.
Charmers Mine, whose concentrates
Morgan was to treat, closed down in
Nov., 1943, after the Government had
spent some £BO,OOO of the taxpayers’
money on the project. A lift of 2s. per
week in the basic wage (£5 4s. 4d. per 40-
hour week), and the labor problem,
which restricted production, led to over-
time, and brought about almost entire
cessation of development in the ore-
reserve section, had their effect on costs,
too.
Other troubles include impressment of
a 2{- c.y. electric shovel by the Federal
Coal Commissioner. The co. is claiming
damages equivalent to savings in costs,
etc., expected to accrue from increased
ore production. A replacement has been
ordered, but is not expected to arrive for
about 12 months. The second shovel,
long since ordered in England, is expected
to arrive at an early date. The manage-
ment is making an all-round assault upon
costs, but too much need not be expected
until war conditions enable the man-
power and equipment position to ease.
Since the books closed removal of
overburden from west of Nos. 3 and 4
benches has been practically suspended,
with consequent closing down of No. 2
mill. The. labor released has been
directed to the ore-reserve section. This
means more better-grade stuff for No. 1
mill. Benefits are expected to show up
gradually over the next six months. It
is anticipated that during current term
ore will average 2.65dwt. gold and 0.87
p.c. copper.
On the mining side overburden is the
problem. The mine is in two sections
divided by an andesite dyke, with the
higher values to the west, at lower levels
than yet worked, and below the over-
burden, which must be removed. Latest
estimate is that 9,162,000 tons overburden
remain, of which 1,503,000 tons will
probably be milled, leaving 7,659,000
tons to be discarded. Remaining ore
reserves are put at 6,054,000 tons, averag-
ing 4.23dwt. gold and 1.86 p.c. copper,
of which 1,291,000 tons might be mined
by other than open-cut methods. In addi-
tion, it is expected to mill 790,00 tons
filling.
When the books were ruled off the co.
had £125,506 in Government securities ;
ore, metal, stores, etc., on hand totalled
£303,044. There was £111,071 coming to
the bank, and £22,341 to sundry credi-
tors. Since then a new issue of 300,000
£l7 p.c. cum. prefs. has been fully sub-
scribed, and the old issue of 200,000 £1
8 per cents, redeemed. Approx. 87 p.c.
of the old issue converted into new 7
per cents. The cash position has thus
benefited by approx. £126,000, less cost
of new issue. Paid capital is now
£593,500 in 300,000 7 p.c. redeemable
cum. prefs, and 2,318,000 ords. of 2s. 6d.
each.
A “prosperous future” is predicted for
Sunshine Reward Amalgamated (old
Edward’s Reward), on the Yilgarn gold-
field (W.A.). Production in 1943 was'
2725 tons for 13390 z., an average of
9.B6dwt. The ore-body has been proved
to 400 ft., where lOdwt. values are show-
ing over a width of sft. Ore reserves of
9000 tons are mentioned, gold content
not stated. It is proposed to sink a new
shaft to 500 ft. when labor conditions per-
mit. Owing to the reduced operations of
Yellowdine G.M., Edna May Amalg.,
Evanston and others, production from the
Yilgam has been slashed by over 75 per
cent, since the outbreak of war.
* * * *
Lake View and Star will pay a final
div, of Is. stg., halved by U.K. income
tax of 10s. in the pound, on December 30.
This makes a total of Is. 6d. a share (un-
changed) for the year ended June 30 last.
Developments, especially at depth, have
been encouraging, and ore reserves are
expected to remain around the four mil-
lion tons mark.


Distance
fiti'
has
vanished!
London calls Vladivostok with the ease of a housewife ’phoning her grocer:
fighter plane chats with homher: Washington confers with Whitehall: and
Admiralty with ships at sea . . . thanks to the magic of valves.
The perfection of'the radio valve .. . the annihilation of distances ... is largely
n FILIPS achievement . . . the outcome of research and organisation which,
in peace and war, are dedicated to civilisation and the preservation of all that
civilisation means.
P H I LI PS
Lamps . Discharge Lighting . Lighting Equipment . Radio
Receivers . Radio Transmitters . Radio Parts . Valves
and Thermionic Devices . Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equip'ment
Electrical Measuring Instruments . Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
PHIL! PS
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
aolders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts.or approved
purposes. i
The present discount rate is S% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months:
A longer period to repay may be
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instal ments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., \th Floor
RURALBANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
Business. Rollery. Ete.
Clumsy Itching Fingers
Mr. Forde has made the announcement
that the Government intends to legislate
with the object of taking over all Aus-
tralian inter-State airlines —Mr. Forde,
who shakes visibly every time a trade-
unionist’s dog barks. No doubt, if
Government control of airlines ever does
become a matter of fact, and other social-
istic experiments become similar matters
of fact, a grand time will be had by all
until the country will hardly have a
feather left to fly with. We have the evi-
dence of other Government “administra-
tion” to judge by. It is singularly apt
that the announcement should have come
from Mr. Forde, because no Minister,
with the possible exception of Senator
Cameron, could more appropriately be
godfather to a plan that is charged with
politics to the exclusion of all common-
sense or real public interest.
Apparently, Caucus thinks that aerial
transport is now safe enough to become
a Government monopoly—that the hard
road of development, as well as over-
coming public prejudice, has been
smoothed out, and that the losses of
aircraft, passengers and personnel (com-
paratively few though these occurrences
were considering the small co-opera-
tion given by the Government in matters
where co-operation was obviously desir-
able) are now things of the past. Per-
haps they are. But, if so, it is again
typical of Mr, Forde that he proposes to
butt in and put under Government
control an industry which now appears
to be “safe.” He it was who, when a
member of the Opposition, was all for
nationalising B.H.P. after the risk and
spadework had been looked after by men
of brains and enterprise.
The proposed nationalisation of air-
lines, said Opposition Leader Menzies,
“is the first shot in the socialistic war
and represents a major success for the
Left-Wing of the Caucus.” Mr. Forde hav-
ing stated that “what has been done is
quite in accordance with the policy of. the
Government,” Mr. Menzies and all other
Australians are justified in taking the view
that the itching fingers of this Govern-
ment are too thick-skinned to have felt
the rap given at the referendum —very
definite as was the result of that refer-
endum.
It seems that this Labor Government,
which is able to control nothing, wants to
control everything. It has picked on some-
thing which is running smoothly and pay-
ing its way rather than something which
is not running smoothly, such as the coal
industry—“controlled” and badgered by
the Government and its supporters to a
point of breakdown.
The Secondary Industries Commission
has advised the Government to keep out
of ventures where staff needs to be
trained and where salesmanship is in-
volved, so Cabinet, with Mr. 1 Forde as
Acting P.M., has selected something
for which there will be a large supply of
personnel material when the war is over,
and which, being a Government mono-
poly, will not need to sell anything any
more than the State railways have to
push the sale of their services. The whole
set-up no doubt seems to be ready-mhde
in Cabinet eyes—a far better, “safer”
proposition than trying to establish a
rayon factory at Rutherford (N.S.W.),
which, in the opinion of Mr. Jensen, of
the Secondary Industries Commission,
would probably take five years to get into
full production ; and then it might be
found impossible to give the public the
goods they desired.
“Quite in accordance with the policy
of the Government” —let the remark of
Mr. Forde concerning the airlines pro-
posal be stressed again. It gives concrete
form to the generality in Labor mem-
bers’ pledge to support the social-
sation of the means of production, trans-
port, distribution and exchange. And so,
by this one expression of policy, all the
twaddle and humbug about the Govern-
ment’s concern for the future of private
industry appears in its true light in the*
eyes of Australian industrialists, as it also
must appear in the eyes of those overseas
manufacturers who are proposing to bring
new industries, new capital and new
population to the Commonwealth.
As Mr. Menzies said, following the an-
nouncement in Parliament;
No wonder the Left-Wing Ministers
cheered. If Ned Kelly had been present he
would have recognised the whole thing as a
masterstroke quite in his own manner.
I wonder who comes next on the list?
As the Government is clearly going to ex-
ploit its existing powers to the full, it is
unlikely to stop at inter-State airlines. It
will, no doubt, go on to deal with commer- •
cial broadcasting and with banking and in-
surance, all of which are within the scope
of its present powers.
The clumsy itching fingers of the Govern-
ment, only too ready to grasp control of
Australian private enterprise for political
ends, are as lacking in skill and admini-
strative ability as the Government also is
lacking in economic and political stability.
One communications function is con-
sidered a Government matter in most
countries of the world, and that is the
Post Office ; but, during the war, in Aus-
tralia this function has been made a tax-
ing authority. In other parts of the world
airlines are mostly left to private manage-
ment, even though in some cases there
are Government subsidies or Government
capital involved. In particular, internal
airlines are largely independent. In Aus-
tralia they have been- left to private
management until private management
made them successful.
Government control of many war-
time manufacturing enterprises in the
Commonwealth has been accompanied
by excessive cost. There has been waste
of labor, waste of time, waste of money.
The Government has repeatedly given
way to exorbitant trade-union demands,
and anarchy is becoming a feature of the
industrial front. Living standards are
falling in spite of all the “social security”
hocus-pocus.
There is a socialistic mechanism push-
ing Australia’s present Government for-
ward in defiance of the voice of the people
at the referendum. There is an ill-condi-
tioned levity that has the hearty approval
of the communists, and there is an envy of
established institutions that prompts reck-
less political interference. The first
“peace-time” acts of socialisation planned
appear to be in connection with banking
and airlines. It is quite clear that the
Labor party intends to socialise as many
functions as it can, and to perpetuate, as
far as possible, its taxation policy and its
powers over private initiative.
The liberty of the subject is endangered
in proportion to the increase of these
powers and controls. The Government
comes back to plans involving socialism
far too often for there to be any doubt
about the regimentation which confronts a
country that has been prepared to fight
on two occasions for the principles of
freedom and personal initiative. The
boys in the Caucus-room apparently have
their own ideas about what war-time is
for. In this respect they are playing a
low-down game.
Financial Agreement Amendment
Canberra has been dealing with a bill
to give the States 39 years more to pay
off their “special deficit loans” incurred
during the period 1927 to 1935. Though
these borrowings have never been actu-
ally funded, being in the nature of tem-
porary borrowings only, they are now
being virtually given a currency longer
than any long-term loan issued by the
Loan Council.
The total of “special deficit loans” was
£53 million at June 30 last. Out of the
National Debt Sinking Fund £3 million
is to be applied immediately towards the
reduction of these securities, and the
States are to pay off £7 million out of
their abundant cash resources, leaving the
total to be dealt with over the next 39
years at £43 million. And the Common-
wealth is to pay a quarter of the sinking-
fund contribution!
There is a shameless disregard of finan-
cial principles on both sides in this t.-p.
arrangement being made with the States
in respect to their depression deficit debts.
It all shows how useless it is for such
as Dr. Coombs to talk about the “com-
pensatory budget theory.” The States
as a whole could deal with most of these
debts immediately. Instead, regardless
of consequences, they are being given
almost eternity in which to do the job.
The Financial Agreement Act is also
being altered to validate contributions to
the sinking fund in respect of overseas
debts being made at the mint par of ex-
change prevailing in 1927, when the Aus-
tralian and British pounds were equal,
and the dollar was near 4.86 to the £.
By adhering to the mint par now that
Australian currency is at £125 to £lOO
sterling, and at £1 to $3.29 with the
United States, the alteration means that
sinking-fund allocations will be smaller
in relation to the true overseas debt
burden than was the case prior to our
departure from the gold standard.
Australia left the gold standard in
1929. The Government claims that
“these variations in the exchange rate
between Australia and London and New
'fork were never contemplated when the
Financial Agreement was entered into,
ind contributions have throughout the
whole period, from July 1, 1927, to date.
been made on the basis of the mint par
of exchange as existing at the commence-
ment of the agreement. Legal advice
indicates that this is not strictly in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the Finan-
cial Agreement.” So the amendment is
being introduced to make it legal.
The two amendments to the Financial
Ageement singled out here for mention
are bound to affect the credit of Australia
directly or indirectly. There is a breach
of implied contract in both cases, with
a breach of actual contract on the part
of the States —in the majority of cases
fattening on the war effort —that is being
readily condoned by the Copimonwealth.
S. T. Edwards, shipowners’ representa-
tive, did not move or support the suspen-
sion of the cut in the war-risk bonus, fol-
lowing the appointment of M. Bourke as
deputy-chairman of the Maritime Indus-
tries Commission (B. 22/11/ ’44). A sum-
mary of the proceedings at the meeting
following the resignation of Judge de
Baun is given as follows;
The commission normally consists of a
chairman, three representatives of ship-
owners, four union representatives and a
Government representative.
At the meeting on Nov. 16 the Govern-
ment representative, who was appointed
deputy-chairtnan, explained that it was the
wish of the Government that the new war-
risk bonus order No. 46, gazetted to come
into force on Nov. 1, should be suspended
until Jan. 31, 1945, and a motion to that
effect was moved by a union representative.
All four union representatives and the
deputy-chairman voted for suspension of
the order and the three representatives of
the shipowners against it.
The same union representatives then
moved a further motion that the previous
order No. 28, which had been replaced by
order No. 46, be restored for the period
Nov. 1, 1944, to Jan. 31, 1945. This was
purely a consequential motion, and was
necessary, otherwise there would have been
no order in existence covering the period.
No object could, in the circumstances, have
been attained by the shipowners’ representa-
tives opposing this motion, and even if
they had done so they would again have
been outvoted by five to three.
The feeling in shipping circles is that if
the Government had stood by the reduced
war-risk bonus decided upon by the Com-
mission before Judge de Baun’s resig-
nation there would have been little likeli-
hood of ships being held up for long.
What the Government has done, how-
ever, is to place a premium on direct-
action, The “restored” rate is a general
50 p.c. on wages and overtime on the
Australian coast (even in Spencer Gulf)
where a seaman has been in continuous
employment for six months. The “cut”
rate was adjusted according to zones—
-15 p.c., 25 p.c. and 33| p.c. for vessels
trading along the coast. The majority of
seamen would have received the higher
rates,
* * * *
A remarkable reversal in demand has
taken place in woollen shares in M.L.
during the last few months. In July
keen bidding for all leading issues car-
ried prices to record peaks ; now offered
at considerably reduced limits, there are
no buyers in the field. Principal manu-
facturing companies are in the South
Island. They enjoyed a boom when the
mills were turned over to war orders and
were assured of man-power priorities.
Now that a proportion of the war con-
tracts has ended and they are ready to
take up the slack of civilian output labor
shortage has again become acute. Steeper
taxation has affected net earnings in most
concerns. For instance, though the Bruce
company at Milton (Otago) grossed a
record £121,035 during the year, an in-
crease of £3527 over the previous year,
the net profit at £19,909 showed a de-
crease of £3625. Extra costs incurred
during the war have been another ad-
verse factor. For all that, post-war pros-
pects for New Zealand woollen mills are
very favorable, for the majority are turn-
ing out a product which can compete, in
a restricted field, on more than even
terms with the imported article. Under
the circumstances investors’ present apathy
towards the shares is hard to justify.


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSEASE
All mens-wear shops
<£nd chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
BRANDALFR-S
*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—’
not experiment with imitations.
Bxun>acßK * 00. ut. mimaux bko
NEW method*, new media, new
technique* will be needed in
advertising after the war—because
the war has upset so much of our old
ideas and there will be a tremendous
surge of Advertising effort required
for manufacturers to put their peace*
time products back on the market.
This means that NOW is the time
to prepare for a career in Advertising.
This involves study and preparation by
up-to-date tuition methods and latest
textual ■ material. This training is
supplied in the H, & R, Course in
Marketing and Advertising.
The man—or woman —who studies
now, and qualifies for the degree of the
Advertising Association of Australia
will unddubtedly secure preference for the
many post - war positions in Advertising.
Why not call or write in lo
H. & R, for full particular*
and be sure of your future .
Specialist Coaches in Business
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
-tfocnded and Owned By KnrT’inqwov A ffoEedtde Ry. Udl
Professional Tutors
24 Bank House. Bank Place, Melbourne
24 Chalf’t Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
For Sale.
HORIZONTAL BLACKSTONE OIL ENGINE rated at
200 h.p., 216 r.p.m., twin cylinder, direct couple to
a 135 kw. English Electric three-wire direct current
generator fitted with static balancer. Sale subject
to approval of Controller of Electricity,
For further particulars apply;—
PETERBOROUGH ELECTRIC SUPPLY,
Peterborough, S.A.
Smooth, Strong, Hard...
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is an exceptic
ally hard gypsum plaster especially rec
mended for dadoes and other wall surf
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used n
it ensures a smooth, glossy, pure white, sani
finish of great strength and hardness. It ha:
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal
ing any decoration as soon as the wall d
grinding and processing provide easy mb
properties and facilitates its gauging with
less hard surfaces are required.
SYDNEY. . MELBOURNE. ..BRISBANE. ..ADELAIDE. ..PERTH
Free
CONGO--
r Lime
plaster
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Packed in Jute Bags,
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., Building Materials Division
Pl 4-44
in
ih<i’ r
stat£
EXP# SS
333
5
'S':
■c
amqac
*C
0«*
C 7 ’
Pioii
It’s your fight — your money is needed now .
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
A Post-war “Vision Splendid”?
As the war in Europe approaches its
last phase imaginations are beginning to
take in new objectives. For a long time it
seemed that the war was nearly all ahead
of us; now that so much is behind it is
permissible, not to say desirable, to be-
come mentally prepared for peace, even
though there may be hard battles and
heavy expenditure still to come.
Australians were provoked into think-
ing about the peace by the August
referendum, which was rejected. It is a
pity that the campaign for additional
Commonwealth powers was conducted
by the Government in such an atmo-
sphere of false issues and go-getter sales-
manship, because the real economic and
political problems of the peace are de-
serving of far more painstaking and
sincere national discussion. Up to date
we have had no convincing marshalling
of the economic problems which are likely
to be met in the period of post-war tran-
sition. We get isolated facts now and
then; but except when they come from
commercial enterprises (or the central
bank) they are usually wrapped up in
some political stunting, and by their
manner of presentation lose their value.
Australians as a whole can only guess
at what position war-time manufacturing
and scientific developments have left for
them in the industrial world. Whatever
our own activities have done for us, our
position in world trade will still depend
a great deal upon what other countries
set themselves out to achieve. If the rest
of the world stood still the war-time in-
dustrial stimulation of this country would
have meant a great strengthening of our
manufacturing position. But, of course,
the rest of the world has not stood still.
Techniques in the United States have ad-
vanced in many kinds of production,
while in the United Kingdom the change
has probably been even more pro-
nounced. In the first instance, the in-
crease in the production potential is a
menace to the equilibrium of world
trade ; in the second, Britain will urgently
need all the trading advantages she is able
to provide in order to overcome the
many income and capital losses she has
suffered in paying for that part of her
overseas war-time purchases that pre-
ceded lend-lease.
During the desperate days of 1940 there
was a great deal of talk about a new
post-war order—a new way of life. Like
the Atlantic Charter, it seems to have
been a sort of blood-transfusion of hope
and idealism when those two things were
heavily taxed in the British Empire. This
war-time idealism was mainly for popular
consumption, and very early in the piece
responsible newspapers on both sides
of the Atlantic refrained from analysing
the terms and implications of the Charter
or the vague “new order” too closely—
neither stood up well to close analysis.
In fact, if it had been part of our
war effort, the “new order” propa-
ganda of the “middle” period of the
conflict would have been classed as wish-
ful thinking.
That is how it is beginning to appear
now, in the light of actual developments.
The physical and political problems of
various countries are making them speak
with different tongues in their plans for
post-war rehabilitation. The most united
step so far taken has been in connection
with international exchange and finance
problems. General agreement has been
reached by representatives of the' lead-
ing and many other Allied and neutral
countries, but the plans as yet need ratifi-
cation.
Australia is still in that position where
its young and enterprising will need to
be able to see “the vision splendid”
ahead of them in order to give their best
efforts to the nation. The war has
brought to this country further concen-
tration of population in the cities, and
with that concentration has come a de-
cline in standards of politics and adult
education.
One of the most refreshing poli-
tical developments for years was un-
doubtedly the stand taken by Peter
Dargin, the Portland butcher. He
is not interested in politics as such.
They just happen to have got in
his road. Politics have got in the road
of tens of thousands of other Australians
who have done far less about it. It is in
the open country where the spirit of
independence has risen. It is in keeping
with the stage of development which
this country has reached. Australia can-
not afford to be saturated with political
doctrines that stifle enterprise, exaggerate
the “value” of “social security” and pro-
duce regimentation.
At the beginning of the present war,
and more especially when lapan entered
it in the Pacific, few Australians believed
that such an orgy of politics and union-
ism run riot would have been possible in
this country. Communistic practices and
alien doctrines infiltrated us. Any strong
militant organisation seemed to command
respect by a Ministry which made poli-
tics its business. Corns, were given
a free hand, and red rackets in the trade-
unions flourished. Sheet-anchors of
political commonsense and national unity
disappeared one by one.
A post-war task of Australians will be
to rehabilitate themselves politically.
They have been standing in their own
light—obviously and sadly so during the
war —but only as the logical result of poli-
tical trends which had been developing,
principally as a result of Labor politics,
for many years prior to the war. Much
self-pity will need to be forgotten and
more credit given to the people who take
individual risks and who succeed because
of their enterprise. Class-friction has
taken great toll of productive efficiency
and economic stability. Much of the
trouble has been artificially created by a
certain type of politician and his natural
associate—the militant trade-union boss.
The unsatisfactory employer is not un-
known, but where he occurs he does not
permeate the whole economy as does trade-
unionism-gone-wrong. The mass going-
wrong of trade-union principles is some-
thing the effect of which is now being
realised fully for the first time. There
are far more trade-unionists in Australia
than there have ever previously been, and
the coercion applied in forcing wage-
earners to become unionists is now much
more formidable. The Government has
never been one to champion the rights
of wage-earning minorities any more
than it has been one to stand up for the
rights of such as Dargin at Portland.
Australians are not too sure how wool
will measure up against synthetics and
new manufactured fibres in the post-war
world, but many are prepared to say that
the sheep will continue to be one of our
most reliable productive inhabitants in
the face of all kinds of competition,
But marketing of any product has be-
come a science in itself. Australia has
for too long taken its wool-cheque as
a rqatter of course.
Taxation policy remains one of the
anxious questions asked in discussing the
post-war period. Governments and
especially Labor Governments—hate re-
laxing their control over the nation’s
purse-strings, and, after spending annually
a sum equal to half an inflated war-time
national income politicians whose eco-
nomic outlook has always been founded
on fallacy are going to be hard to wean
off the spending bottle. For the sake of
a sound—or at least less insecure—post-
war economy it is to be hoped that taxa-
tion rates are reduced in the order in
which they rose: that is, the first to feel
the burden of war-time taxes should be
the first to be given relief,
We shall be faced with the problem of
reducing an inflated civil service when
the war is over, and, as with taxation
revenue. Governments will dislike losing
control of an inflated payroll. For poli-
tical reasons only, the Labor party has
been keen to see as many people as pos-
sible become civil servants, trade-unionists
or pensioners. This may be good for
“solidarity” and vote-catching, but where
there is no sound economic reason for
this sort of thing the burdens of the
“free” population increase,
Inflation and interest rates will be two
first-class problems in the peace. There
is a tie-up—through the general standing
of the national credit—between the two.
The present Government has been re-
luctant to consider either as important
until comparatively recently. More re-
sponsible elements should be on guard
against what will be a natural tendency
when the war is over—inflating prices
and rising interest rates.


THE SERVIVE MAN
The Road to Mandalay.
“Ek Dum” : The most important recent
war development on the Pacific fronts
was the advance in Burma.
The British and British East Africans
crossed the Upper Chindwin, near
Thaungdut, and advanced to a position
12 miles east of the river along the
Indaw Road. This means that they are
within 50 miles of the 36th Division
spearhead moving down from the north
along the Irrawaddy, north of Pinwe.
It means also that a screen has virtually
been flung across North Burma from
Bhamo to Imphal; that the Japanese
have lost the whole of the territory of the
wild north and that their control of the
Chfhdwin to within reach of Monywa is
seriously threatened, along with the
Indaw oilfields. The East Africans are
also within a few miles of Kalewa, on
the main road to Schwebo and Mandalay.
When the British have the Chindwin
in their grasp as far south as the flanks
of Mandalay the kind of work will begin
which led General Sir Oliver Leese, the
commander of the Allied Army Group
on this front, to say last week: —
Many times we have said “We wish we
had the Ninth Australian Division with us.
I’d like to have them with me now.”
Fighting was going on at the week-end
in Bhamo, which had been entered from
three points by Chinese troops.
Chungking forecast during the week-
end that the Burma Road would soon be
opened. But it is not now of great im-
portance. Its capacity would scarcely
keep a modernly-equipped division sup-
plied.
Fighting on Leyte
On Leyte two U.S. divisions maintained
their drive against the Ormoc pocket.
Resistance continued heavy, but on
November 22 the U.S. troops broke into
Limon, at the northern extremity of
General Yamashita’s perimeter. It was
announced by General MacArthur’s H.Q.
that during this operation practically the
whole of the enemy’s First Division had
been destroyed. The Americans then
pushed on for about 1000 yards and cap-
tured a bridge over the Leyte River.
The weather has improved after a hur-
ricane blow and heavy rain. On
November 26 it was reported that in the
past few days 48 Japanese aircraft had
been shot down.
Communiques mentioned further gains
of ground, but greater stress was laid on
the persistent defeats of the enemy in his
attempts to reinforce. The wrecking of
two convoys towards the end of last week
was estimated to have cost him 16 trans-
ports, 14 escort vessels and 17,000 troops.
Japanese casualties at sea and in air
raids round the Philippines are becoming
almost bewildering in their niagnitude,
especially in view of the; light losses suf-
fered by Allied forces.
Tokyo Raided
The heaviest air attack of the week
was by a large force of B29s, based on
Saipan, against Tokyo and its adjacent
industrial district. The Japanese esti-
mated the number of raiders at 70. The
U.S. communiqfie called the force a
“sizeable one.” Two B29s were lost, but
the crew of one was rescued from the sea.
The distance which the machines had
to fly—1500 miles each way-precluded
their carrying a full load. It was the first
attack on Tokyo since April, 1942, when
General Doolittle made his carrier-based
raid, though reconnaissance rhachines
had flown over the capital.
It must have been a severe shock to the
Japanese to suffer such attacks, especially
in the two hours round midday, but some
enthusiastic interpretations can be written
off in the light of the statement of
Brigadier-General Hansell, of the 21st
U.S. Bomber Command, that “results
not meet expectations,’* though “the
attack was profitable.”
The limit which 100 B29s could be
expected to carry would certainly not
reach 800 tons. Tokyo is the world’s
third-biggest city. And even Berlin has
absorbed tens of thousands of tons of
bombs. Germany, in all, has been hit
by nearly a million tons of metal and
explosive without being knocked out.
Bombings of German cities, too, have
long been in the form of shattering cas-
cades, in which hundreds of tons are
dropped on small spaces within a few
minutes. So that 800 tons distributed on
aircraft factories, hydro-electric plants
and shipyards spread over 200 square
miles is merely a foretaste of what is to
come.
Correspondents’ stories which so far
have come in contain a warning which
cannot be ignored, 829 s are sub-strato-
sphere bombers. They operate from great
heights. But even at those great heights
the flak proved relatively effective and the
enemy fighters quick enough off the mark
—the 829 s are as fast as many fighters -
to get some blows in. The impression
given was that the defence was efficient,
and the new Japanese two-engined fighter
a very good machine.
On November 21 there was another
raid over the Omura aircraft factory
(Kyushu), but heavy cloud made only
instrument - bombing possible. Strong
fighter interception was encountered, and
in a fierce battle two 829 s were lost—the
first time U.S. aircraft had been shot
down over Japan. A third 829 did not
reach its base in China. The U.S. force
claimed 22 Japanese fighters destroyed,
19 probably destroyed and 22 damaged.
Nanning Claimed
Tokyo announced that Nanning, the
last U.S. air base in south-eastern China,
had been occupied and that penetrations
had been made for some kilometres to
the north.
This, if true, gives the Japanese control
of the railway to Hanoi. It will need con-
siderable repair, but when this has been
effected the enemy will a rail route
all the way from Korea and Manchukuo
to French Indo-China.
Back to the Rhine.
“Ek Dum”: Winter is throwing its
blanket over the Western Front. With its
coming the Germans have hastened their
retirement to the frontal positions of the
Westwall defences.
These defences run east of the Rhine
from near Karlsruhe southward. North
of this sector the lines take a short cut
across the great Rhine bend through the
Saar Basin and up behind the railway
which zigzags through from Zweibriicken
to Saarbriicken, Saarlautern, Saarburg
and Trier (Treves), on the Moselle.
Thence the frontal positions find their
way to the Roer, where the British and
Americans, round Geilenkirchen and
Eschweiler, have been attacking for the
first time the actual fringes of the Ger-
man main defences.
The signs of the enemy’s intentions
were to be read in His feeble defence of
Metz, where he did not use his big guns,
and where the force which he maintained
in the last weeks was so small that it
was commanded by a major-general. It
consisted mainly of second-class troops.
There were four sectors which the
enemy had to consider. Most important
of all was that along the northern border
shielding the approaches to Cologne,
Duisburg and the Ruhr; this because
it commanded the channels of com-
munication with Holland and covered
the Ruhr and the great Westphalian
Plain, on which he could not afford to
allow a foe superior in armor and trans-
port to emerge. Next was the Luxem-
bourg sector, of lesser importance since
it approaches the swiftest-running por-
tions of the Rhine, which are far distant
in any case, both before and beyond
which there are strong natural mountain
barriers. Then came the region of the
Lower Vosges. It was slowly evacuated
from Thionville to the areas below Metz,
under the strong pressure of General
Patton’s Third Army, but still on a time-
table which the enemy seemed able to
control.
Lastly, the High Vosges line, with its
core of crystalline peaks running to with-
in nine miles or so of Belfort, where the
range seems to be cut off as if with a
knife on the verges of the fortress area
and the Gap leading to the Rhine.
Leclerc Takes Strasbourg
This line was evacuated more suddenly.
When the French drove past Belfort to
the Rhine within a few hours it seemed
that they had made an epic breakthrough.
But the easy subsequent penetration of
Belfort and the rush of the French up
the flat western side of the Rhine Valley
towards Strasbourg, the great city of
“The Marseillaise,” together with General
Leclerc’s equally-swift drive from Sarre-
bourg to the north-west, which captured
Strasbourg with only minor fighting,
showed that the Germans were abandon-
ing the Higher Vosges and the western
side of the river. They certainly had not
the large forces in the High Vosges which
correspondents at first believed to be cut
off there.
The valleys in this 4000 ft.-high chain
of peaks generally run to the heights and
east and west. The enemy could move
out of them swiftly. The only Germans
west of the Rhine by November 26 be-
longed to a division which had been
caught in the Belfort Gap, and which was
trying to cut a way through to the Rhine
crossings or the Swiss border, and those in
a series of pockets and road blocks above
Mulhouse, which seemed to have been
established to delay the junction of the
French First Army and the American
Seventh Army, on November 26 six miles
apart in the Colmar region.
German tank resistance to the French
after they reached Mulhouse had been
bitter and sufficient to take the momen-
tum off the northward drive.
It is clear that the factor in the situa-
tion which the enemy least reckoned
upon was the drive of General Leclerc's
troops from Sarrebourg, which threw him
off balance and upset his general plan of
retirement and his co-ordination of move-
ment between the Lower Vosges (north)
sector, in which the Seventh Army was
moving, and the Higher Vosges (south).
The bulk of the enemy in those regions,
however, got away, and the Saverne Gap
was blocked by the Americans too late
to prevent the retreat of large bodies of
Germans north-eastward towards Hage-
nau. Hagenau is a distribution point for
traffic to several great Rhine crossings,
including those to Rastatt, Karlsruhe and
Mannheim.
The thinness of the enemy defence in
the Sarrebourg-Belfort strip was shown
by the fact that up to the week-end the
French in the south had taken only 5000
prisoners (of whom 1000 were in Mul-
house), the French in Strasbourg 5000
and the Americans about 2000
Across the Rhine
But inspiring to every Frenchman
was the fact that Strasbourg was once
more in French hands —actually in those
of the general who had fought his way
from Lake Tchad —with all its converg-
ing roads and railways. It is the knot
which ties together all communication
lines in the southern part of the western
Rhine valley. Across the long, main sus-
pension bridge which joins the lovely old
city to the small German customs town
of Kehl, the Germans, while defending
a bridgehead on the French side, retired
to their fastnesses beyond.
Kehl is a solemn, gloomy town which
was under French occupation for long
after the, last war. It is bitterly cold in
winter and its featherbeds are feet deep.
Northward out of it runs the road to
Karlsruhe, part of which is clearly visible
from the French side. Behind lie the
rising hills, with interlaced and re-entrant
valleys far better for defence than the
valleys of the Vosges. The Black Forest
sprawls here also. For centuries it has
been a favorite area for peacetime
manoeuvres.
The assault of this area is not so much
of a “naval action” —General Eisen-
hower’s graphic term —as it would be
where the broader stream of the Lower
Rhine has to be crossed, since much of
the river is shallow; but it would be a
very serious undertaking.
There are three bridges across the
Rhine in Strasbourg. All of them
were left standing. It was reported
that French troops had made their
way across the river, here about 400
yards wide. It would be a daring
manoeuvre, and the enemy must be very
weak indeed if he is unable to stave off
advance guards. The Germans on
November 27 were strongly in control of
the main international bridge, though the
French could shell it.
On the Saar
General Patton’s Third Army, after
taking Metz, swept slowly westward in
keeping with the advance of the Seventh
and the French. North-west of, the Saar
Basin Third Army troops had reached
the Saar River and the outskirts of Mert-
zig, across the German border, and were
approaching Saareguemines, on the river,
south of the Basin. This was interpreted
as an enveloping movement directed
against the Basin. But two layers of West-
wall crust will have to be broken, through
and the river crossed before envelopment
can take place. The country is made
for defence.
Fighting in the North
This fighting in the southern sectors
was, however, unimportant beside that
in the British-American sectors of the
north, where 400,000 Allied troops, or
their frontal formations, were for the first
time assailing the outer edge of the real
German defences. The northernmost
flank of this great intensive spearhead, of
which the main objective was to drive
to the Diisseldorf-Cologne secton of the
Rhine, was in the Netherlands, pressing
on the defences of Venlo, in the winter-
stricken, swampy Peel. The southern
part of it was .a little over 20 miles away
in the Htirtgen forest, pressing towards
Diiren, on the Roer.
, Immediate objectives was the two great
highways into which the Aachen-Cologne
main highway divides, enclosing an island
of hill territory arid the railway junction
at Rheydt. One road, on the north, passes
through Julich; one, on the south, through
Diiren. Both join again in the environs
of Cologne. The Roer is the obstacle
which forms the reinforcement of the
frontal edge of main German defences ;
the core of the system is further back
along the Erft and the Swist rivers and
the railway through Euskirchen, Rheydt
and Munchen Gladbach.
The fighting in the north is of an en-
tirely different character from that in the
hilly south.
Rain came down all the week in
drenching torrents. The Maas was over-
flowing with flood waters. In the mud
of Holland British troops inched yard by
yard along the raised roads towards the
Maas and Venlo, one of the keys to the
northern German flank. Further to the
south-east, in the Geilenkirchen region,
battles even bitterer and more intensive
than those of Caen were going on. The
weather had made effective Allied air sup-
port impossible, for the cloud layer was
almost on the earth. At the week-end
after six days of downpour it was im-
proving. But the Roer was running a
banker. Sheets of water lay over the
flats, and the hillsides were seamed with
torrents. In places Americans moving in
the area south of Eschweiler, the great
industrial township on the southern arm
of the Cologne highway system, found
themselves wading ankle-deep.
This was no work for infantry. The
defences are piecemeal; but each piece
calls for the military equivalent of a
diamond to cut it open. There are fox-
holes or well-defences and bunkers, yards
wide and miles long, which cannot be
dealt with by the use of fascines, especi-
ally when the rain has turned them into
moats. There are pillboxes which can
withstand repeated blows by guns of re-
spectable calibre and are so heavily armed
that infantry cannot approach them with-
out an intensive artillery prelude or
deadly loss. There are positions which
can only be rushed after the administra-
tion of large doses of mortar pills.
All this means that with every forward
move of attacking troops must go great
quantities of artillery, equipment and
ammunition. This slows up movement
to the limit.
Strongpoints are like tacks in a carpet.
They have to be picked out one by one.
Minefields are a commonplace. Often as
the defences are broken the defenders
fade away through subterranean passages
to fight another day.
Defences are so contrived as to give
mobility to German armor, of which there
are supposed to be four divisions along
15 miles of the Roer alone. Allied armor,
as it advances, has to cope with the diffi-
culties of a terrain which has been liter-
ally churned into a ruin of shellholes and
wreckage in process of subjection.
By the middle of the week the British
had secured a foothold at Hoven and on
the heights overlooking the Roer Valley,
north-east of Geilenkirchen. But the
Germans recaptured the village. The
fighting was some of the most terrible
which has so far taken place in the west.
German power of defence increases so
far with every yard gained.
The Allies have superiority in artillery
and in bomber and rocket blasting power
when they can use it. It has become
inaccurate to speak of their taking par-
ticular villages or towns. The truth is
that they take the place where the town or
village stood. Usually, when the preli-
minary barrages have finished with any
:entre of population it is represented only
by a dreadful scar amid the splintered
woods, where hundreds of shells per
minute have been sprayed on small areas.
Northern Flank Retires
On November 24 the first signs were
made by the enemy that the pressure of
the British Second Army was too strong
for him. As if a giant arm were being
bent back from the elbow by a tremen-
dous force, he drew his northern lines
eastward across the Maas, reducing his
bridgehead over the river to the thin
strip round Venlo. A great tank battle
raged in the interlocking defences north-
east of Geilenkirchen and, so far as
ground conditions and the rain would
permit, across the main highways into
the Hlirtgen Forest. There, south of the
Ninth Army sector, the First U.S. Army
was within a few hundred yards of being
clear off the timber.
But on the intermediate Ninth Army
front it was estimated on November 24
that there had been 8600
casualties in ten days, including 5600
captured, an indication of the strengt
of enemy protection against a blast ot
artillery and air-power which had no
left a building intact in any village within
reach of the guns. . .
On November 25 the First Americans
pushed their way out of the blood-spa
tered forest before the mangled rehiai ,
of the small village of Grosshau. It had
taken them weeks of steady fitting, h
dreds of thousands of shells and hundreds
of tons of bombs to win their way to
the open country on this sma s ® *
It had been blind fighting, for this fo, est


Missing Friend.
JAMES WILLIAMSON late of Kadina South Aus-
tralia believed to be in Sydney or New South Wales
son of PATRICK WILLIAMSON please communi-
cate with the EXECUTOR TRUSTEE & AGENCY
CO. OF S.A. LTD. 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO BERNARD KITCHENER (also known as
BRIAN SULLY and BRIAN NOEL KITCHIN).—
TAKE NOTICE that ERNEST HERBERT KITCHIN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1205 of 1944
on the grounds of your adultery with NOREEN
LOURVAIN KITCHIN If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 22nd day
of January 1945 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from VINCENT J. BRADY
Solicitor 60 Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MAXINE ETHEL O’BRIEN.—TAKE NOTICE
that GEORGE O’BRIEN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3276 of 1944 on the ground of your
desertion If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the sth day of January 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
VINCENT J. BRADY Solicitor 60 Hunter Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
was full of heavy timber thickly planted.
A little to the north-west heavy fighting
was going on in the industrial town of
Weisweiler, presently captured. Near
here is one of two great high-
ways to Cologne. But even now
the attackers had only reached the
outer crust of the forward German
defence system, and below them lay the
quagmire of the Roer Valley, with the
flooded stream running through it and
the canalised Erft beyond. They had
gained not a victory but a position from
which to begin to fight for a victory.
The German Plan
In three recent statements General
Eisenhower has made reference to the
need for keeping supplies of munitions
at a high level. The nature of the fight-
ing in the north illustrates his theme. It
is a type of action which will become
normal wherever the German main de-
fences are reached, unless German re-
sources run out.
As pointed out here (B. 20/9/’44), the
German border defence is based on a
smothering technique. It is not designed
to keep attackers out so much as to grind
them to pieces as they penetrate. It is
meant to cause them immense losses of
material, immense usage of ammunition,
great wastage of transport and great losses
of infantry, particularly picked assault
troops.
The Germans, by the building up of
mechanical fire-power in their defensive
positions and by the massing of armored
divisions and mobile artillery for com-
paratively close-range fighting, seek to
offset their inferiority in man-power.
Their hope is that by the time the Allies
have ground their way through 30, 70 or
80 miles of defence lines and water bar-
riers they will have seriously depleted
their reserves and impaired their will to
fight, so that the contest in the final mobile
phase of the war will be more equal than
at present. But is is a forlorn hope,
though the enemy is making so stubborn
a showing that nobody now trots out the
theory that, with a second front and 5Q
or 60 enemy divisions diverted from the
east, the Russians could deal with the
Germans in short order. Experiences in
the past few days prove how silly was
much of the over-optimism of several
weeks ago, how stupid the claims that the
Siegfried Line had been broken through.
The winter will call for as much resolu-
tion as the Allies ever have needed to
show.
Bombing and Terror Bombing
Bombing of German objectives,
especially of oil centres and railway
marshalling junctions feeding the fight-
ing fronts, went on during the week
consistent with the limitations of the
weather. And Germany continued to use
its terror weapons.
Very little information about the
damage done in Britain is being given
out. The fighter is powerless against
individual bombs, and there has been no
word of any other antidote save the
bombing of launching sites in Holland,
which were attacked successfully by Aus-
tralian Spitfires, and of factories in Ger-
many,
The murderous horrors are certainly
causing casualties among Britain’s civil
population as well as wanton civilian
damage. But how much or where is a
close secret, though it has been revealed
that on November 25 women and chil-
dren were buried alive, people were killed
in a bus. and others were found blown
under a car in which the driver was dead
when bombs landed in a southern Eng-
lish town during a busy shopping hour.
German communiques, which had hither-
to merely mentioned that VI and V 2
attacks were continuing, claimed on
November 26 (midnight Sydney time) that
the bombing was now “intensive.”
A curious development in the past few
days has been the dropping from Ger-
man shortwave broadcasts of the hitherto
familiar daily communique “from the
Fiihrer’s Headquarters.”
At Faenza.
On November 25 the British troops of
the Eighth Army won the battle for the
Cosina River crossings on and beside
the Bologna road. They badly mauled
two German divisions, one of which was
armored, and pushed on to the outskirts
of Faenza, north and south of the town,
taking 300 prisoners of the 26th Panzer
Division. On the left flank Polish troops
gave their usual exhibition of fiery elan.
The whole operation seems to have dis-
concerted the enemy, who, judging by
Berlin reports, was for a while not quite
sure what had hit him. He exclaimed
that a single German division had been
attacked by five or six British divisions,
but he did not deny that his position in
Faenza was precarious.
Faenza is 30 miles from Bologna. The
road to that city is not easy, as the
weather continues foul and there are
many natural obstacles in the shape of
canals and small rivers.
On the Adriatic coast patrols had on
November 26 cleared the enemy along
the Fiumi canal to within a mile of
Ravenna, and some progress appears
to have been made on the Fifth Army
sector approaching Bologna, though the
fighting was only on a patrol scale.
News from the other side of the
Adriatic continues confused, and some-
times unintelligible. Railways which
Tito’s vast army was supposed long ago
to have had under complete control are
suddenly cut triumphantly by the Par-
tisans, such as that “from Sarajevo and
Brok, the lifeline of the German retreat
from southern and central Yugoslavia.”
According to a Tito communique “Yugo-
slav troops have captured Ibar Gorge, in-
flicting a heavy blow on the Germans
falling back on Kraljevo, killing 1100
and taking several hundred prisoners.” It
was recently" asserted from the Free
Yugoslav radio station at Tiflis that the
Germans had 27 divisions in the Balkans,
which is incredible.
Little is being heard of the work of the
British and other Allies clearing the Dal-
matian and Albanian littorals.
The death of Field-Marshal Dill, the
quiet little Ulster genius who was
Britain’s representative on the Chiefs
of Staffs Committee in Washington and
Mr. Churchill’s personal representative
with Mr. Roosevelt, has brought about
important changes in the Mediterranean
commands.
General Maitland Wilson goes to Wash-
ington. General Alexander, raised to the
rank of Field-Marshal as from the date
of the taking of Rome, becomes Com-
mander-in-Chief in the Mediterranean,
and General Mark Clark, U.S. Army and
G.O.C. the Fifth Army, replaces General
Alexander as C.-in-C. in Italy.
Mud in Hungary.
“Ek Dum”: While Moscow Radio has
had much to say about forthcoming
offensives on the Eastern Front, with
frequent reference to eight-inch mobile
guns which are to be used against Ger-
man strongholds—they are commonplace
on the Western Front —there has been no
great actual movement.
There is a strangely archaic air about
the campaign on the Hungarian front.
There has been no mention of parachute
troops or of Russian bombing of Vienna,
Bratislava, Brno or Prague, or of Kdnigs-
berg or Dantzig. Of all these places the
Russians are within easy reach ; indeed,
the German points are as near to them
in the north as Munster and Hamm are
to the Allies in the west. But there
has been nothing comparable with the air
war which is constantly carried on along
the Rhineland borders and beyond.
For the first time in the whole Rus-
sian war there has been an admission
from Moscow that the weather has
affected supply lines. The length of Mar-
shal Malinovsky’s line through the
Ukraine was instanced, and it was em-
phasised that much of it passed through
a quagmire, in which roads had been
washed away and bridges torn down,
plains being filled with mud and moun-
tain passes with snow. There were word-
pictures of Red Army soldiers swimming
flooded rivers with rifles and light
machine-guns tied to their heads and
apparently arriving on the enemy’s side
equipped with ammunition sufficient to
tackle pillboxes and machine-gun nests.
The Russian main object in Hun-
gary last week was obviously to work
a way into Czechoslovakia through
the gap between the river and the
Slovakian ranges, at the same time cutting
enemy communications linking the
Danube area with Cracow and Eastern
Silesia. This involved drives against
Hatvan, Eger and Miskolcz, for a start.
Budapest, Hatvan (distant 28 miles),
Eger (45 miles) and Miskolcz (about 80
miles) can be joined by a straight line run-
ning north-east and forming the bow-
string of a bow of railway hanging down
to the south. Hatvan is on the Pest plain,
in open country, susceptible to heavy rain,
which turns it into something like the
Barcoo, only that the mud is not quite so
sticky as the western Queensland black-
soil. Eger lies in a valley on the south of
the Bukk Mountains; Miskolcz in the river
valley of the Saja, one of the upper tri-
butaries of the Tisza-(Theiss). It is an
important crossroad junction through
which main Silesian and west Polish lines
from the north into Hungary, lines from
the Ukraine to the north-east to Budapest
and Vienna and lines from Rumania and
Transylvania into Czechoslovakia con-
verge. Its capture would cut off some of
the German munition routes to the south,
and threatens all German communica-
tions through the Beskidens southwards
from west of Przemysl.
The enemy has been trying stubbornly
to hold all three towns. The fighting
swayed backwards ajnd forwards. Vil-
lages were taken and retaken. Berlin ad-
mitted the “evacuation” of Hatvan and
Miskolcz on November 25.
About 70 miles north-east of Miskolcz
the Red Army, in a full-scale offensive,
was reported on November 24 to have
“stormed its way into Cop (Gsap), south
of Ungvar on the Hungarian border, and
captured 3000 prisoners.” This is in-
terpreted as a threat to the German rear.
But if there is much German rear in this
area it will be surprising. The defence
lines are likely to be consolidated along
the mountain foothills further west,
somewhere east of the Dukla Pass line
of communications.
With the capture of Oesel Island, in the
Baltic, the last of the Estonian territory
is in Russian hands. A landing on Oesel
was effected during the first week in
October. Moscow reported the sinking
of an enemy destroyer and a 4000-ton
transport off the southern part of the
island last week.
A new Russian offensive by 52
divisions against the 30 German divisions
declared to be in Latvia was mentioned.
Moscow suggested that a general offensive
all along the eastern front was imminent.
Moscow announced that Marshal
Voroshilov had left the Council of De-
fence, “Rumors” from mysterious sources
suggested that he was about to take com-
mand in further Siberia as a preliminary
to an attack on the Japanese.
It seems hardly likely that such a cam-
paign would be opened in the Siberian
or North Chinese winter. But it would
be very welcome about June or July next
year. Between now and then it could
be scarcely more than a political gesture,
like the invasion of Yugoslavia “by per-
mission of Marshal Tito.”
There is a great deal of politics about
the Eastern Front,
"Fighting Charlie."
“Ek Bum’s” farewell:
The passing of “Fighting Charlie” Cox in a
Sydney suburban hospital received less press
notice than “an exchange of banter” between
two jockey boys. Yet Major-General C. F.
Cox, C. 8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., was a soldier whose
record belonged to Australian history and whose
name was known to cavalrymen the world over.
He was a Parramaftan, born in 1863, a man
so tall that when he was in uniform he had a
habit of leaning down hard on his stick to
bring himself down to the level of other men.
He had enlisted in the N.S.W. Lancers in
the early ’nineties of last century, was commis-
sioned in 1894, and by the Diamond Jubilee
year was a captain. He commanded the N.S.W.
Lancer detachment to the Jubilee. They were a
grand body of Cornstalks. Charles used to
relate with pride how the old Queen reviewed
them, looking up ever more steeply as she moved
down the line of six-footers and over until she
came to the tallest —“a real South Coast iron-
bark,” Charlie used to call him.
“And where do men like you live?” her
Majesty asked with awe in her voice.
“At Toolijooa, Mum,” said the Lancer.
“And where is that?” asked the Queen.
“Next station to Gerringong, Mum,” replied
the proud Illawarran.
In 1899 he took 100 Lancers to Aldershot for
training. This grand detachment was still in
England when war broke out. They volunteered
in a body and London, craning to look at them,
roared with enthusiasm as they rode through
the city. They were the first Australian
mounted men seen in England bound upon a
war mission.
That old war was just the kind of war to
suit them and their commander, who got his
C.B. while still a major, a distinction which
rarely indeed comes to a fighting officer of
that rank. He won it for a whirling bit of
effective cavalry tactics. Before the end of the
fighting he was a lieut.-colonel in command of
of the Third New South Wales Mounted Rifles.
He wore eight battle clasps on his South African
ribbons.
As soon as Australia entered the Great War
Cox was in if. As hostilities moved up towards
Palestine he succeeded Harry Chauyel in com-
mand of the First Brigade, A.L.H.
He it was who led the van in the night
march out of the desert, across the borderline
of the Wadi El Arish, one of the two inci-
dents of the war of which he loved to tell.
He used to start with the laying out of the
line of advance by Max Wright and others of
his staff. He would tell how the night was
spangled with stars and how he kept his eye
upon one of them (“a great big feller”), and
how the, sand seemed almost endless on the
20-odd mile ride. He would relate how he
saw the sky pale as dawn approached and how
he was afraid that when daylight came the
Turks would catch them floundering in the sand-
hills before they could cross the wadi to the
firmer ground beyond. And he would become
a little excited himself as he dwelt on the ex-
citement of the men as the clatter of hooves on
stony ground assured them that the wadi had
been reached.
It was December 21, 1916, when they crossed
the El Arish wadi; and before the day was
out they had reached the and had found
the Turks gone from the palm-shaded village.
But before they could eat their Christmas dinner
four days later they had to fight the Battle
of JV)agdhaba, which very largely was Cox’s
battle, with the First Brigade’s clanking charge.
To the man who brought an order to with-
draw and water horses just as he was engrossed
wtih the beginning of the bayonet charge of
Fulton’s Third L. H. Cox said, “Take that
damned thing ajvay and let me see it for the
first time in half an hour.”
He had a great share, too, in Rafa. And he
was in Second Gaza, at Asluj, at Beersheba.
He took Jemmameh, and was at Richon le
Zion, in the advance on Jericho, the Amman
raid, at Khuweilfe and at Ghoraniye. He forced
the Jordan and took part in the second Es Salt
raid in September, 1918, after his brigade had
braved the heat—l2B degrees —snakes, mos-
quitoes and scorpions in the lines of Musalla-
beh, and won the engagement with the Ger-
mans on July 18, 1918, at Abu Tellul.
Cox rarely spoke of these adventures save
to mention El Arish or to point with humorous
pride to a photograph of units of the First
Brigade passing through Bethlehem, a progress
which struck his imagination.
As a soldier Cox was almost unique among
the galaxy of great Light Horse brigadiers. He
was not trained to the bush. His horsemanship
was acquired in the environs of a city. He gave
little personal time to administration, but chose
his brigade staff with care and left everything to
them until the day of battle. Then invariably he
showed his mettle. He was not, as he should
have been, at heart a mounted infantryman. He
was by bent and capacity a very capable
cavalry leader, with a sure instinct which enabled
him to think clearly amid the thunder of battle
and to sort out the essentials; to let a fight go its
own way till the psychological moment, never
afraid to' stop or retire when action promised
nothing. But if a time came when he knew
that things were ripe for him, his force would
seem to come suddenly within his Pwn grip,
and he could be counted on to hurl it with
terrible momentum upon a flank'or rear which
would go to pieces under the blow. His tactics
were cavalry tactics in the purest sense of the
word. „ , ,
Cox was a simple man. He never talked of
bloodshed. He had no conceit of himself as a
commander —if he had anything to say on that
subject or of his military position it was usually
to voice his pride in the fact that after the
war he was in demand all over the country to
dedicate soldiers’ memorials in towns and
hamlets from which his horsemen hailed. He,
also, was a man who rarely spoke ill of any-
body—this officer or that was always a “good
fellow,” and there were plenty of excuses for
those who made mistakes. He carried this en-
dearing trait into Parliament —he was a Senator
for 18 years; oon-Labor, but above the battle
of personalities.
In his twilight years when he had retired
to his little cottage in Croydon, when his days
as a Senator were running out and his sight
was failing, the writer for an all too brief
period had an engagement to take him for a
drive once a week. Those drives were strenuous
affairs, sometimes covering 150 miles or more
in an afternoon, for Cox liked to roam all over
the country in which he had trained with the
Lancers when young. He knew his local his-
tory as few men knew it, and the ride was
never dull. He could point out the spot wheie
he had, as a boy, seen Granny Oakes, the first
free white child born in Australia, sitting ot
an evening. He knew the beats, through what
are now suburbs, of the ghosts of Bold Jack
Donahue and Pemulway and other early bush-
rangers, black or white. But best of all he
liked to go down towards the Cowpasture,
cruising the by-roads round Luddenham and
Bringelly, to recall the glorious young man-
hood recruited thereabouts that had served
with him when the thunder of a squadron could
still thrill men’s blood.
When the Sixth Division passed in review
through Sydney before it went to the Second
World War Cox was at the saluting base. And
as he walked through the vestibule of the Town
Hall afterwards, still erect and strong in spite
of his failing eyesight and his near-eighty years,
he murmured “Splendid fellows, splendid
fellows! ”
“But,” he added regretfully, “I miss the
horses. It can’t be real war without horses! ”


Thousands have written ....
THESE TABLETS can YOU,
too, to new vigorous health!
keoisterbo TABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS. ARTERIES, ETC.
fd
Thousand s of
grateful users have
written of the
amazing speed and
effectiveness of
Elasto in relieving
weariness and pain
resulting from
sluggish or poor
blood condition.
People suffering from rheuma-
tism, varicose veins, varicose
ulcers, piles, eczema and other
skin complaints, and even phle-
bitis, have successfully taken
Elasto tablets.
Elasto brings quick relief —the
amazing efficacy of this new
Biomedical treatment is due to
the fact that it goes to work
right at the source of the trouble
—on the blood stream.
Much unnatural weariness and
many chronic pain conditions are
due to a break-down of the blood
circulation system or a paucity
of certain elements of the blood
itself.
How ELASTO Works
Elasto is not a drug, but a
vital cell food. It restores vital
elements which combine with the
blood albumin to form organic
elastic tissue. This in turn en-
ables nature to restore elasticity
to the tired and devitalised fab-
ric of veins, arteries, etc.
Results
As result, normal, healthy
circulation is re-established and
true natural healing follows.
Varicose veins are restored to a
healthy condition; arteries be-
come supple: skin troubles clear
up, leg wounds heal naturally,
piles and rheumatism are re-
lieved. This is explained simply
but more fully in a free booklet
offered see below.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No signs of varicose veins'
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers ”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
S&O&r A#A/e. ' fitnowdd /
Books That Will Appeal to Lovers of Good Literature,
“ESSAYS AND LITERARY SKETCHES,” by Professor W. A. Osborne, 7/6d. (3d.). Here is
a selection of Essays and Literary Sketches written by Professor W. A. Osborne in the leisure
of a life devoted to science. The subjects dealt with cover a very wide range. A very
delightful book. “Argus”: “His collection of Essays and Literary Sketches reveal that, apart
from his work as a scientist, his scholarship embraced a wide and. catholic knowledge o£
classical and modern literature.”
“COLLECTED POEMS OF BERNARD O’DOWD,” 15/- (3d.). “Sydney Morning Herald”:
“This compact volume, with its fine portrait, will be warmly welcomed. His verse has
tremendous power to move.” “Mercury”: “O’Dowd is outstanding among Australia’s poets.
“Courier”: “Its publication has enriched our national life.” “Herald”: “There is no name in
Australian literature so sure of being remembered a century hence.”
“SELECTED POEMS OF MARIE E. J. PITT,” 10/6d. (3d.). “Bulletin,” Sydney: “Marie E. ,T.
Pitt has sung in many keys and sung well. Her verse is always tuneful, and on the ground
of good craftsmanship alone she deserves the good word of every lover of the lyric, if
attempt to speak of Marie E. J. Pitt’s relative place among Australian poets by the measure
of achievement in this book would be waste of words.” James Devaney: “Marie E. J. litt
is one of the true lyrical poets of this country.”
“PURPLE AND GOLD,” by Frank S. Williamson, 10/6 (3d.). This is the collected edition of
all the poems and lyrics of the late Frank S. Williamson. It is a fine Study of the poet ana
his writings. Professor W. A. Osborne writes: “In my opinion no Australian poet has
realized -the melodic possibilities of the English language in verse so effectively as
Williamson.”
“COLLECTED POEMS OF JOHN SHAW NEILSON,” 12/Gd. (3d.). “Argus”: “Mr. Neilson is
as sensitive in his perception as he is in his use of words. In everything he does he is a poet.
“Age”: “ will give a warm welcome to the well-bound lyrics and poems.”
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GOOD BOOKSELLERS.
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING COMPANY PTY., LTD., Melbourne & Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There were 38,000 at Randwick on
Saturday, and the tote turnover was
£130,484 155., compared with £92,876 15s.
on the corresponding day last year.
Evidently small bettors are not suffering
Irom shortage of money.
There was nothing fluky in Courtship’s
(Thompson) defeat of Civic Pride in the
Kirkham Stakes. The latter was the early
leader, but very little in advance of Court-
ship, who soon after entering the straight
had the other filly’s measure, and eventu-
ally beat her very easily, with Tactician a
poor third. Civic Pride’s defeat was such
a shock for her connections that, in the
belief that she was possibly doped, it was<
asked that a swab should be taken for
analysis. This was done, but not pro-
ceeded with, Civic Pride being quite her-
self on Sunday. Professor Stewart, who
examined her on the course, said that,
apart from showing the effects of a hard
race on a hot day, there did not seem
anything seriously amiss with her. I did
not see Civic Pride after the race, but,
when being paraded in the weighing-yard
before it, was impressed by her perfect
condition and lack of excitability. That
there was no loitering in the race was
shown by the time being three-quarters of
a second faster than Lucky Stream re-
corded in the Horsley Handicap.
War Effort (McGrowdie), after being
fourth and then third in the early part
of the Camden Handicap, shot past Star
Gold and Martheus at the turn and won
comfortably from Silverelda and Davinia.
Panchio, who commenced with his cus-
tomary was a dose fourth, and
then Barnsley who, in leading at the half
mile, proved he had all the pace with
which Newcastle reports credited him.
Gauntlet, favorite for the November
Handicap, was ridden a waiting race in
the hope that it might enable him to see
out the 11 furlongs. When he dashed up
second to Neta Linette (Doon) at the
turn it looked as if that idea might work
out correctly, but over the last bit Neta
Linette was going away from her fol-
lowers. There was little between Gaunt-
let and Lambeth for second, and the
latter will be improved by the run. Cor-
dale, last at the half-mile, made up lee-
way to run fourth, but he will need to
improve in order to win the Summer
Cup. Nothing favorable can be said of
the future prospects of any of the other
four runners.
Lucky Stream (McGrowdie) met with
interference at the start of the Hoxton
Park Handicap, and was ahead of only
a couple of other runners when the field
settled down. A furlong from home
Toulon and Tiber looked like fighting
out the finish, but Lucky Stream, with a
remarkable finishing run, got up in time
to beat Toulon a head. Flowers ran well,
leading into the straight, and will win
shortly, as may Fairness. Heart of Oak
was disappointing, as, though prominent
to the turn, he died right away in the
straight.
Severus, improving upon his previous
efforts, led into the straight in the first
division of the Farm Encourage, but the
topweight, Betza (Thompson), fairly out-
stayed him, and will not be out of place
in open company. Marquis, who finished
third, always looked a place-getter.
Nepean River (fourth) made up ground
in the straight, while Insolvent, after
being prominent to the turn, stopped
badly over the last furlong. The Gong
showed pace, but the best that can be
written of most of the others is that they
started.
When Guddengang headed Loyal
March (Moore) nearly a furlong from
home in the second division of the En-
courage Stakes the race looked his, but
Loyal March, hanging on in most deter-
mined fashion, got his head in front again
in the last few strides. Man o’ War, who
was always one of the leading division,
gained third place, and Flying Cloud
headed the others. Sunfel found the dis-
tance beyond her, after leading to the
leger, but she was responsible for the
time being 1.381, against Betza’s 1.391.
Despite his increased weight. Liberality
(Thompson) won the Welter Handicap
quite as easily as the previous week’s
welter. Air Link did not run up
to his second in that race, and
the minor place-getters, Dick Whit-
tington and Annie Laurie were never
really dangerous. Falcon Knight was
doing better at the finish than at any
other stage, and in one of the summer
handicaps there may be a chance of his
repeating the form that enabled him to
beat Mayfowl and Flight at weight for
age last season Invictus is not improv-
ing, and as Merrimba was second-last
it looks as if backers need not again
bother about him for some time.
* * * *
Peter’s defeat of Centenary and Three
Wheeler in the Eclipse Stakes at Caul-
field last Saturday had a sensational
sequel. Only half a head and a head
separated the placegetters, and W. Wil-
liamson, rider of Three Wheeler, pro-
tested against the first and second horses
on the ground of interference. Protest
was dismissed after a protracted inquiry,
but H. McCloud, rider of the winner,
was suspended for three months.
McCloud declared in evidence that
his mount had interfered with Tranquil
Star, but not with Three Wheeler. He
added that Peter had a habit of “ducking
in” when he got to the front, just as in the
Williamstown Cup. Heather, rider of
Tranquil Star, maintained that his mount
would have been in the fighting line, and
might even have won, had she escaped
interference, but, although his evidence
weighed heavily with the stewards, they
did not consider that the interference
which occurred when Peter went across
the field was sufficient to justify them
altering the judge’s placings. They re-
ported in respect of the protest against
Centenary that any interference to Three
Wheeler was very slight, but that Peter
went across Three Wheeler near the win-
ning post. McCloud was suspended for
allegedly not making a proper attempt to
avoid his mount “going in.”
Peter has been a wonderful investment
at the 240gns. he cost Mrs. D. W. Reddan
about two years ago. He won only £320
for his original owner, but in his new
colors has already won £7505 in stakes.
It is intended now to spell him until it is
time to begin a preparation for the
autumn, when his principal mission will
be the Australian Cup.
* * *
It is reported that Courtship may not
be a runner for the. December Stakes,
but, while an intelligent trainer must be
credited with knowing more about his
horses than an outsider, there seems little
reason why she should miss that race.
Her races up to the present, which have
proved little more than exercise gallops,
cannot have taken much out of her; she
is a robust filly and in the three months
between Christmas and the autumn she
will have time for a short let-up.
Her owner is a very light bettor,
and as first money for the December
Stakes will be over £l2OO it will be a
stake worth winning. Whether Courtship
will stay at three years is a matter of
conjecture, but the probabilities are in
her favor. Her maternal great-grand dam
D’Oro was a half-sister to Desert Gold
and Nigger Minstrel, and her sire, Agin-
court, is a half-brother to The Buzzard
and a son of Bosworth, an Ascot Gold
Cup winner.
* * « *
With two £lOOO races and two of £5OO
each in one day Moorefield is setting the
Sydney Turf Club—when it really
operates a high mark. Owners and
trainers are commencing to wonder
whether they will be really better off when
the S.T.C. has to hold its meetings away
from Rand wick, where it had the full
co-operation of the A.J.C.
* * * *
Modulation (9.5), in the Villiers Stakes,
and Veiled Threat (9.7), in the Summer
Cup, were not overlooked by the handi-
capper. Early selections are likely to be
wide of the mark, but Villiers possibilities
include Liberality, Streamford and Noble-
man, while Summer Cup horses worth
noting are Lambeth, Royal Peer, Craigie
and Cordale,
♦ * # *
The New Zealand Gup, run at Riccar-
ton (Christchurch) last Saturday, was won
by the six-year-old gelding Kevin (Mar-
tarma-Tarahiki), Bst., with Lowry Bay
(7,5) and Glenfalloch (9.2) in the minor
places. The N.Z. Derby went to Pensa-
cola, son of imported Golden Eagle
(Fairway-Golden Silence), who" died a
little while ago.
* * * *
A leading Sydney club lias banned
early betting on Saturday events, either
straight out or on doubles. This does
not please some of its bookmaking mem-
bers. They point out it will mean an .in-
crease of “black-market” bettors. Another
thing is that, to be consistent, the club
will have to drop down on all betting
within its precincts, and in doubles that
will presumably mean the most important
races. That is sure to tend to an increase
of “off-the-course” bettors, and it would
be difficult to convince the public that at
present, despite the penalties attached
thereto, some men licensed by the A-JC.
and members of leading clubs are en-
tirely guiltness of having an interest.
* ♦ * *
It is stated by those who should be in
the best position to give an authoritative
opinion that there has been a marked de-
crease in “black-market” betting. Per-
haps so, but it is still possible to make
substantial bets away from racecourses.
Of course, all the horses heavily-sup-
ported cannot win, but those in strong
demand before any race day generally
give their backers a good run for their
money. It makes one wonder what are
backers’ sources of information. News-
paper reports of track work give them a
good idea of the progress horses are
making, but they require something more
definite than that to induce them to make
three-figure bets.
* * * *
Wright, Stephenson and Co., in con-
junction with Pyne, Gould and Guinness,
will hold their annual sale of yearlings
at Trentham (Wellington) on January 19,
25 and 26. There are 274 lots listed, rep-
resenting 54 different sires. Twenty-one
youngsters are by Foxbridge, 15 by
Bulandshar, 10 by Coronach, 16 by
Robin Goodfellow and 18 by a new sire,
Nizami (Firdaussi-Numtaz Mahal). Kin-
cardine (sire of Kindergarten) has only
three in the list.
* * * *
As horsebuyers women are hard to
beat. Price does not stop them. In Eng-
land that has often been proved by Miss
D. Paget, and at the recent yearling sales
in America it was further demonstrated
by Mrs* E. Graham, She bought 15 at
auction at a total cost of $249,000 (about
£A75,700). A colt by Eight Thirty from
Heritage cost her $46,000 (nearly
£A14,000), and she gave $30,000 for
another. The lowest price she paid for
anything was $l6OO. She also bought
one or two privately.
» * * *
Several prominent old-time trainers
were, noted for their taciturnity. Times
have changed, and some of those of the
present day, thoroughly recognising the
value of advertisement, rarely miss an
opportunity of keeping themselves in the
public eye.
Miscellaneous*
Alleged to be the middleweight cham-
pion, Tommy Colteaux failed to show
anything like championship form against
Tony Villa at Leichhardt; and in the
closing scene he behaved just like a bar-
room fighter. With crude lefts he scored
more often than Villa, who has been
travelling with a tent-show, but in the
seventh round the Filipino surprised
by knocking him down for “six.” Sent
to the canvas again, Colteaux arose im-
mediately and upset Villa. While the
latter was on his knees the “champion”
struck him again, and was outed on a
foul.
Showing capital form, Joe Grant out-
pointed Archie Rash at the Sydney
Stadium, Rash was not in his usual
excellent shape, but he couldn’t have won
had he been trained to the minute. A
ringside brawl followed a bad decision
for Billy Hamilton, who boxed Allan
Stewart. A copper seemed to be the only
casualty.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
C Before acceptances .)
By "PILOT.”
Trial Stakes: Marquis, 1 ; Gud-
dengang, 2* Deputy Leader, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Flowers, 1 ;
Lucky Stream, 2; Gold Cascade, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap : Oliver,
1; Beltana, 2; King Step, 3.
Brighton Handicap: Annie Laurie,
1 ; Kookaburra, 2 ; Allan Veil, 3,
Moorefield Handicap: Bestow,
1; Dick Whittington, 2 ; Davinia, 3.
Sans Souci Welter; Clarion Call,
1; Brueghelier, 2; Brazier or Bruce
Wood, 3.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Sydney
Every year since the time of the Pil-
grim Fathers the President has issued a
proclamation declaring the last Thursday
in November (end of autumn in U.S.)
as a Day of Thanksgiving for special
mercies received during the year. This
is read in most churches on the Sunday
before. In Australia, for the fourth time,
U.S. Consul Ely Palmer read the Presi-
dent’s Proclamation at St. Stephen’s, in
Macquarie-street, and Mrs. Palmer was
just one of the crowded congregation
that was stirred when thanks was givern
for the liberation of so many of the
countries of Europe, and for the promise
of an enduring peace. Later Mrs. Palmer
and her husband visited the American
Centre, where they ate their turkey and
cranberry sauce. Here the traditional
Thanksgiving Day dinner was a non-stop
affair from midday until 9 p.m.
It was fitting that the women’s section
of the Australian-American Co-operation
Movement should choose Thanksgiving
Day for their party to the fiancees and
wives of U.S. servicemen, held in the
vestibule of the Town Hall. Hundreds
of young women came; some of the
young mothers brought their babies. Carrie
Moore and Strella Wilson, sang. Miss
Harriet Root, director of U.S. Informa-
tion Library, and the Rev. Bernard
Cockett spoke on the U.S.A. and the life
there. Other speakers were Lady Coote,
of the American Red Cross, and Ralph
Doyle, of R.K.O. pictures. The girls not
only listened eagerly to all that was said,
but during the tea-drinking formed groups
and kept those four good Americans busy
answering questions. Mrs. „ Florence
Taylor, president of the section, received
the guests, and Mrs. E. K. White and hon.
secretary Mrs. Ted Scorfield kept things
running smoothly. Joan Maurer, presi-
dent of the U.S. Fiancees Association,
spoke words of thanks. The party ended
after the singing of “The Star Spangled
Banner” and “God Save the King.”
For 34 years the Bush Book Club has
carried magic to readers in the bush dis-
tricts of N. S. Wales beyond the reach
of any School of Arts library. The sub-
scription is 2s. 6d. a year, plus freight or
postage on parcels. Since war has caused
such shortage of general literature the
parcels (each contains six books and some
illustrated papers) must be returned to
the club’s headquarters in Sydney. This
movement, which has brought untold joy
to men and women of the outback, never
lacks supporters, never wanes in popu-
larity. Last Wednesday was the annual
collection day. From half-past eleven,
when Lady Wakehurst arrived with a load
of books, there was a constant stream of
visitors to the Bligh-street address, and
each brought the novels, poems, travels
and biographies that had been a delight
during the year.
Secretary Beulah Bolton and mem-
bers of the committee reported a record
day. That’s not to be wondered at, con-
sidering some of the letters received dur-
ing the past twelve months. There was
a sympathetic grin for the man who
wrote: “Cut out religion and love and
books of travel. I am too old for those
sorts. Just send me crime and Wild
Western yarns to cheer me up a bit.” The
8.8. C. is very proud of a letter from a
member telling of the return from over-
seas of an airman son: “He was here for
twenty-one days’ leave from the R.A.A.F.
He has been away for more than two
years. He is a pilot—a bomber pilot.
You will remember how he has been
reading the books you sent him ever since
he was a little boy ; the Bush Book Club
helped me to bring him up, you know,
and can claim a share in him,”
An important and interested visitor
during the afternoon was Mrs. P. St.
Clair Maclardy, the daughter of the
founder, Mrs. Aubrey Withers.
Many of the women at the opening
of Mrs. L. G. Dalgarno’s show of paint-
ings and posters wore pinned tb their
summer frocks posies of the delicate
suede flowers for which the artist is noted.
Singer Constance Pickworth was one of
these fortunates. Anthony Hordern’s gal-
lery has been broken by screens to mark
divisions between the paintings and the
posters, which is a good idea ; the bold
design and bright coloring of the latter,
therefore, do not out-clamor pensive land-
scape and delicate still-life at the other
end of the long room.
Lieut.-Col. Clifford Archer, of the UCS.
Army, made the opening speech, and this
was appropriate, as many of the works
have an American background. Mrs.
Dalgarno and her two daughters, Mrs.
Macready and Mrs. Taylor, were kept
busy greeting friends, and Mrs. Evan Wil-
liams, of the women’s auxiliary of
Legacy, smiled as the chink of silver
reached her ears —the door collection was
to swell Legacy’s war orphans’ fund.
National Council of Women’s Ruby
Board stood lost in admiration of two
Indians in towering feather headdress.
Mrs. Harry Tighe was there with a group
of friends. During the show Mrs. Dal-
garno and Mrs. Taylor will give travel
talks.
The spacious rooms of the Legion of
Catholic Women’s Club in Castlereagh-
street have been commandeered (though
it may sound more like commando-ed)
by Mrs. Bertie Kelly and the of
her committee working for the about-to-
be St. Vincent’s Maternity Hospital for
a Games Night. This will make the wel-
kin ring on December 12. For three
shillings’ admission there will be lots of
fun, noise and refreshments. Kathleen
Cobcroft is running a stall of Christmas
gifts. What, with one thing and another,
the committee hopes the night’s takings
will bring the year’s total up to £lO,OOO.
A wedding of State-wide interest was
that of Eve Playfair, daughter of the
Strath Playfairs, of Woollahra, and Lieut.
Alex. Macleod, R.A.N.V.R. This took
place at St. Mark’s, Darling Point, and
the bride was as pretty as a picture in
her embroidered white organza frock,
with its high neckline and fitting bodice,
the skirt billowing to the ground. Gar-
denias held in place the short tulle veil.
Sister Judy ’maided in white organdie.
The bridgegroom is the son of the G.
Gordon-Macleods, of Cobbitty. Toasts
were proposed at the Australia, where
the bride’s parents and the bridegroom’s
grandfather, Alexander Watt, of Manly,
and Miss Bessie Watt received the guests.
There’s to be a Russian ballet night on
Tuesday, December 5, at the Independent
theatres. This is in conjunction with the
Ballet and Theatre Club’s exhibition, to
be opened on Friday at Cowell’s, George-
street. Norton Trevaire made this pic-
ture of Mrs. Hardwicke (Liliana Nemchi-
nova), who has arranged the programme
on which are the names of Taminarova,
Raissa Kousnetsova and Stephanie Edye.
Mrs. Hardwicke herself will give a film
and lecture demonstration of “Russian
Ballet in the Making.”
The Department of Education is
arranging, as a finale to a year’s activities,
a fete in Macquarie-place on Friday,
December 15. A number of the junior
technical schools are making toys, whilst
home science girls are assisting in pro-
viding handicrafts, jams, etc. The Tech-
nical Education branch, P. and C. Asso-
ciations, Infants’ Mothers’ Clubs and the
Teachers’ College are also co-operating
and providing goods of a saleable nature.
This fete should prove to be one of the
most attractive and outstanding held in
Sydney for patriotic purposes.
Mrs. Ivy Moore, president of the
Friends of France Club, had a parcel all
the way from Moore Creek, Rockhamp-
ton, Recently, This came 'from a Bulle-
tin reader in response to an appeal made
through this letter for handkerchiefs and
comforts for a group of French soldiers
in Italy. Besides hankies, there were
many cosy knitted articles in the package.
This unobtrusive little club has kept its
good work going ever since the outbreak
of war.
Another of Australia’s singing girls is
seeking American polish on her notes.
She is Mair Rhydderch and she goes off
to New York and the studio of Emilio
de Gorgoza, who trained John Brownlee
and groomed Sydney tenor Kenneth
Neate’s notes. Mair is a mezzo-soprano
and up to the present has been a pupil
of Lute Drummond, She was four
months waiting for authority to make the
journey, and now hopes the way to grand
opera is before her. Her voice has a
dramatic quality, so its development may
mean that the part of every great heroine
of opera will be on her menu. Before
taking up singing Mair, who is of Welsh
ancestry, did a great deal of amateur act-
ing, her favorite part being Oberon in
an Arthur Greenaway production of
“Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
From Melbourne
Melbourne had a glimpse of summer,
but this fine weather passed and the cold
dank days set in again. However, the
city is not discouraged, and the shops are
showing tempting wares. One enterpris-
ing firm has featured a window full of
the most delightful hats as worn by girls
in the new film at the State, “Coyer Girl,”
while another has been inspired to entice
women with new Deanna Durbin
fashions, as worn in the film “His Butler’s
Sister.”
The Tin Alley Players will make their
first venture into the field of Australian
drama in the Union Theatre on Decem-
ber 8. The play which has been chosen
is “Lightning Strikes Twice,” by Rex
Rienits, formerly of Sydney. Since their
arrivaj in Melbourne three years ago
both the author and his wife Jo (Mrs.
Rienits is pictured here by Broothorn)
have been closely associated with the Tin
Alley Players. Jo last appeared in the
Priestley drama, “They Came to a City,”
and was most successful as the carping,
jealous and discontented wife of the man
who wanted to stay in the city. She has
also revealed a strong flair for stage
decoration, and has designed the settings
for her husband’s play. Rex, who
last year produced “Hotel Universe”
at the Union Theatre, will be producer of
his own work. Profits of “Lightning
Strikes Twice” will be shared by the Lady
Huntingfield Free Kindergarten and the
University Union Fund.
Distinguished men and fair ladies came
to the Lud Mayor’s reception in honor
of Lord and Lady Keyes, and R. G.
Menzies rose nobly to the occasion when
it came to speech-making. But the most
effective tribute to the visitor came from
J. Arlington Bourke, for, as a junior
officer, he had been in the historic action
at Zeebrugge. His eulogy was picturesque
in wording. The admiral in his reply
was simple and direct. He praised the
wonderful efforts of Australia in this war,
and stressed the importance of being
always prepared for the possibility of
invasion. Lady Keyes, simply gowned in
black, said she thought Australia a grand
country with unlimited possibilities, but
it could do with a lot of irrigation.
Marjorie Spry, wearing a gay model of
a‘ Scots bonnet, was a guest, and was cele-
brating the tenth anniversary of her
wedding. Joyce Biggins, whose husband
is well known in Melbourne musical
circles, was on the eve of her eleventh,
and both were receiving congratulations.
Mrs. Robert Lane, a marvel of energy
and smartness, was beaming on all and
sundry. Flying-Officer Jimmy McLaugh-
lin was busy upholding the prestige of
the Air Force. Mrs. Sidney Baillieu
Myer, last seen in Red Cross uniform
viewing “Madame Curie,” had garbed
herself in dusty-pink and wore a. match-
ing hat with a navy-blue snood. Snatch-
ing a few moments from pastoral duties,
the Archbishop of Melbourne and Mrs.
J. Booth came along to welcome the
visitors. Also in the throng were Arthur
Robinson’s lady and Marjorie Tatnall,
who clad herself in deep sapphire-blue
velvet coat and matching hat. With Mrs.
Charles Wilson was friend Grace Mac-
Donald, who at all times is a centre of
attraction. Barry, M.L.A., who was with
his wife, discussed black-markets with
Cr. Peterson. Mayor Nettlefold was in
his element handing out samples of the
sweets he hopes to send to Great Britain
in the near future.
With not ovenpuch pomp and solem-
nity the Americans in our midst cele-
brated Thanksgiving Day. Dinner at the
American Red Cross was a feast for the
troops stationed in this city,- for 50
turkeys were baked and many pumpkins
cut up to make pies in the traditional
manner. Every table was decorated with a
posy composed of radishes, spring onions
and carrots, which was nonchalantly
eaten by the guests. Idea and. catering
were carried out by Mrs. Jud Holt, who
has done a wonderful job catering for
American servicemen far from home.
Later in the evening a happy dance was
enjoyed, with all the partners pretty Aus-
tralian girls. The sick men in Heidelberg
Hospital were not forgotten their
Thanksgiving Day dinner was sent out to
them.
Many attractions were staged at the
week-end. Mrs. Tutton and her com-
mittee arranged a two days’ fair in the
Town Hall in the interests of the Fund
for Blind Babies, and scored a great suc-
cess. With the weather uncertain the
attempt to regain the spirit of Henley-
on-the-Yarra was not all it should have
been, but the rowing and sculling races
were exciting, and dancers partaking in
the gay abandon of the Scottish strath-
speys and reels Were able to keep them-
selves warm. Proceeds went to the Red
Cross and R.A.A.F. Locker Fund.
In an effort to popularise Australian
writers and poets the Melbourne Bread
and Cheese Club has arranged to give
seven-minute talks every Wednesday night
over 3XY. The series will run for six
months. The first of the talks was on
November 22 by Bob Croll, who spoke
on C. J. Dennis. Miles Franklin is the
subject today (November 29). Whitcombe
and Tombs, publishers, are sponsoring
the series.
Last week found Captain Jan Bennick
of the Netherlands enjoying leave in Mel-
bourne. Down from one of the districts
in liberated Dutch New Guinea, he had
many tales to spin. His most amusing
was of the little native children, who after
three years under the rule of Japanese
tyrants lined up to sing “Pistol-packin’
Momma” with great gusto. Also passed
through India’s first High Commissioner,
Sir Raghunath Paranjpye, and his daughter
Shakuntala. The latter thinks Melbourne
very much like Geneva. She spent three
years there working with the Department
of Labor after she left Cambridge. With
Sir Raghunath is also his granddaughter
Sai, a schoolgirl who has published a
book of fairy tales.
If the weather is kind Sophie Graves,
a member of the U.S.W.A.C., proposes
to hold a “Night Under the Stars” on
Henley lawns. This will be a finale to
the two days’ fete which is always a not-
able attraction round about this time.
The Netherlands Indies Red Cross here
is a very live organisation. Supervising
the ladies, Dutch and Australian, who
freely give their time cutting out and sew-
ing, is the wife of Lieut.-Colonel Raden
Abdulkadir. She was born in Java, and
though she has travelled extensively still
wears the dress of. the country of her
birth. Madame Abdulkadir was among
the women who made plans to receive
refugees from Europe after the fall of
Poland. When Holland was invaded it
was realised that the Japanese might
attack Java, so plans were hastily made
for the defence of the Netherlands Indies.
Lieut.-Col. Abdulkadir, an officer of the
civil administration, was ordered to the
U.S.A., and on December 7, 1941, he,
accompanied by his wife, was on the high
seas, headed for New York.
Lieut.-Colonel and Madame Abdul-
kadir visited the Queen of Holland
at her summer residence in Stock-
port, Mass., and the Queen took
them round the grounds and showed
them over her house. The Abdulkadirs
also took two trips to Canada to visit
Princess Juliana, the second visit to attend
the baptism of the baby Princess Mar-
griet. In Washington they met Mrs.
Roosevelt, remembered as a “very busy
and vital lady.” For a while, Lieut.-Col.
Abdulkadir was a guest at White House.
While her husband is away on his work
Madame Abdulkadir lives with friends in
on of the garden suburbs close to the city.
But she hasn’t much time to spend in the
garden, for on five days of the week she
is at the Red Cross from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Closely associated with Madame Abdul-
kadir in the work of the Netherlands Red
Cross are the ladies of the Consulate,
Mrs. J, H. Wright, wife of the Consul,
and their daughter, Mrs. Gavin Wilson.
The wife of the Vice-Consul, Mrs. Peter
Wessells, also lends a hand, and already
many garments have been made and sent
to the freed parts of the Netherlands East
Indies for native women and children.
Madame Abdulkadir is specially grateful
to Melbourne folk, who are helping in the
good work and says “I would be glad to
see many more of these kind Australian
ladies.”


Public Notices.
I, BASIL (known as WILLIAM) BASSOS, of Greek
nationality, born at Skorcthenoo, Greece, and resi-
dent 14 years in Australia, now residing at 444 Anzac
Parade Kingsford, near Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ;MICHAEL MATHEWS, of Italian nationality,
Greek race (Dodecanese), born in Castellorizo in
1902, and now resident 23 years in Australia, at
present living at 54 Chisholm Street, Darlinghurst,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, LOUIS EDWARD PARRY, of Hungarian nation-
ality, born at Budapest, Hungary, and resident five
years in Australia, now residing at 63 Newtown
Road, Strathfleld, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
AreYouWatching
IOUr UOg His Health?
If your dog’s coat is dull, loose or ragged—if he
is listless, won’t eat or is out of sorts —he may
be suffering from digestive disorders. Start him
on a course of BARKO Condition • Powders.
Constant scratching is often a sign of Eczema.
Give him BARKO Condition Powdersand apply
BARKO Skin Lotion to the affected parts. Wash
your dog always with BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
Buy them from
all Chemists
BARKO
Give him
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION ... 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP ■ 9d.
s
■ ■
\
■III
four
'ram
ii » X 1
. . - J"h
k «*n w
■„ *
/ ♦ #
i
i
ss&Sfe
P*
I
(si?
30?
iH
f - v
wra
m
VJk
m
m
M
,i
lr !
I!
i
is
v,^
I
H
ss!
®«S!
ii
: S|
N
a
f,
n
w -■*- •SB r g| |i ,«rra |
CLOTH
rrQtmJjjU/SuUs/%^
i*4k.
*>•
P«
A ,W '
«(
lie'l
1
m
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
!;
-:
ST:
m
The pattern of combat may be hidden
beneath a pall of smoke. It is equally
difficult to see clearly now the pattern of
peace-time development.
But in radio you can at least be sure ot
Stromberg - Carlson 4 * post - war leadership
. . . established through peace-time appli-
cations of the lessons learned in Evolving
communications equipment to meet the
needs of battle timed to a second.
STROMBERG - CARLSON
A Company entirely owned and controlled in
Australasia.
SO Years of Communication Engineering
SUPPORT EACH WAR LOAN
SMOKE-OH!
“Go barefoot sometimes.” — Woman’s paper.
Don’t always be putting the boot into
your husband.
*l*
“A tax on widows was levied in England in
1696.” — “World’s News.”
To collect their mites?
•E *i*
Some of these soft-spoken people can
be amazingly hard-headed.
►I- *l* *!’ •’l*
“Everyone at the club knew that Hook had
a marked leaning towards Communism.”
—Short story.
A left Hook.
"I' *l* *l*
‘‘Can you guess what would be the first ques-
tion asked by a woman released from the Nazi
hell of cruelty, horror, starvation and murder?”
— Woman’s paper.
Yes. “Is my hat on straight?”
“Lost, Milson’s Point tramway station, Green
Stone Pendant.” —“Great Northern” (Sydney).
To hell with the pendant —let’s find the
station!
“Struggle in Beauty Cubicle.” “Sun.
To lift a pair of heavy jowls?
•J* *** *l*
“Wanted unfurnished furnished self con-
tained Flat.” —Suburban paper.
Why can’t he make up his mind?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted—3ft. gent’s Loughboy.”
—Sydney paper.
Dwarfs will haggle desperately for this.
•J* *l*
“Two tyres, and Tubes, 600 x 18, almost new.
What offer? Mrs. Ajax.”— Suburban paper.
They’ll go like lightning, no doubt.
“Housekeeper, 45, good home, no laundry,
no bedrms. — “S. M. Herald.”
She won’t go to sleep on this job.
•ir 4* *s* . e
“One of the girls present was incapable ot
taking a back seat.” — “Woman.
She liked to hold the wheel while
driving.
* * * *
“Piano, German, iron frame, Siebert, ivory
?????, good order.
—“Great Northern” (Sydney).
Doesn’t matter about the whatsit pro-
vided the thingummy’s okay.
4* 4* 4*
Ehrenfried in Furphyland.
• “Professor Kurz, the Viennese plastic sur :
geon, has been called to Berlin to disguise Nazi
leaders by remoulding their features.”— Another
robot-Baume fired from London to the Sydney
“Daily Mirror.”
“Reports filtering through diplomatic
channels add verisimilitude to a story I
had from a Swiss cheese musterer who,
while in Berlin, became an intimate friend
of the nephew of the footman to the man
who does the catering for the magnificent
banquets given nightly to fellow-drug
addicts by Goring at Karefthall.
“The once-fat Reichmarshal spends 18
hours a day in a Turkish bath, and sleeps
in a superheated boiler with 37 blankets
on him. The reason for this apparently
strange conduct by Hitler’s one-time
favorite is that Goring hopes to trick the
War Criminals’ Commission by disguis-
ing himself as a lightweight jockey, lo
reduce his height also he is given daily
taps with a specially-regulated steam
hammer.
“A striking example of the diabolical
ingenuity exercised by the master-rat
Goebbels has been furnished by the
action of the Propaganda Minister to
escape retribution for his crimes. The
story was related to me in confidence by
an authority whose identity must for the
nonce remain undisclosed, but the
authenticity of whose word has so far
proved, so I understand, to be beyond
question. It is that Goebbels has had the
skin removed from Bishop Count von
Preysing’s two thumbs and grafted on his
own, his own thumb-skins being grafted
on the bishop’s. When the crash finally
comes Goebbels will need only to
have the bishop handed over as
himself; his, fingerprints will tally with
those known to be Goebbels’s and he
will be hanged, thus furnishing the herr
doktor with a perfect revenge for the
bishop’s many taunts from the pulpit,
“It is understood that Goebbels now
spends days on end writing sermons, the
more readily to help him in the final de-
ception. Safely ensconced in the sanctity
of the chapter-house as the bishop, he
will be free to re-Nazify Germany when
the time is ripe.”
“A scheme so bold in its conception as
almost to take the breath away—the re-
port of which had it derived from any
other source I must instantly have re-
jected as being somewhat far-fetched—
has been evolved by Himmler to escape
justice.
“The Gestapo chief has had a copy
made of every known Bob Hope
film, and these are run through on slow
motion for hour after hour in his private
fheatrette while he studies the comedian’s
expressions and mannerisms. Already
Himmler’s nose has been made long and
pointed by Dr. Kurz, and he now has a
team of S.S. sturmtruppen concentrating
on thinking up witty wisecracks, which
he memorises by the thousand. When the
Russians enter Berlin he will have one of
his doubles double-crossed, while he him-
self, posing as Bob Hope, with Alfred
Rosenberg as Bing Crosby and Gerda
Klingsk as Carole Landis, will lead a
touring party of bogus Hollywood stars
in what will be announced as a surprise
visit. As nobody would ever suspect
Himmler of having a comedy sense, he
judges that it will be an ideal disguise.”
“Since I returned after those terrible
experiences with the Arnhem airborne
force reports have reached me, from
sources so diversified that credence
must necessarily be automatic, that
nightly at a leading Berlin vaudeville
theatre a man with a small sub-nasal
moustache and untidy hair parted on the
wrong side is appearing as The Boneless
Wonder.
“This undoubtedly clears up the mys-
tery of Hitler’s recent whereabouts,
for rumors were bruited about the Reich
that Professor Kidpeymintz, the great
Silesian bone specialist, had been given
quarters at Berchtesgaden for months
past. Hitler’s plan is now revealed in all
its starkness —-he has been deboned in
order to become a vaudeville star in his
own right and thus defeat his Nemesis.
Hitler is known long ago to have con-
fessed to his intimates to a passionate
ambition to appear at the Hippodrome
with Leslie Henson.”
Bo.
The Golden Fleece.
“Customs Minister Keane is seeking supplies
of corset material in America.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Can this be chivalry, inspired
Perhaps by feminine laments
Of pitiful expedients
Ingeniously taped and wired?
Or were you fortified by thoughts
Of playing an Homeric role
In search of a more priceless goal
Than that which drew the Argonauts?
While girls whose weight is in the zone
Of ten uncompromising stone
Await results with anxious mien,
Some leaner folk, who take offence
At your own modest corpulence,
Will wish you luck, Ulysses Keane!
P. M. LUSK.
Reversed.
“When wine is in the truth comes out,”
Declared some sage of old,
But present-day detectives doubt
This now applies; they hold
It is the sober fellows who
Divulge the truths they seek.
While topers, when they’re fou th’ noo
Are too well oiled to squeak.
F. M.
Operation.
“After a face-lifting operation, a woman m
Los Angeles (U.S.A.) discovered that the sur-
geon had stolen all her money.” —Daily item.
With beauty she was far from gifted,
So, wishing to become a belle,
She went to have her phizog lifted.
He lifted it, but how it fell C
When later she ,
Discovered he
Had lifted all her cash as well!
T. W. N.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed lirst is paid
4id. per line; all others per line.
post-war Plans
While British political leaders have indi-
cated fairly definitely what kind of New
Order can be expected after the war,
Australia seems hardly to have got be-
yond the stage of declaring, in a rather
quavery voice, for
(1) Better housing, more education, full
employment.
(2) No extension of Canberra’s powers.
(3) Nationalisation of a limited range of
medicines.
(4) A nebulous Utopia for trade-unions.
Only the first of these interests the
ordinary citizen. Doubtless the Depart-
ment of Post-war Reconstruction is up to
something ; but if only existing authori-
ties are consulted New Orders will be
apt to degenerate into new Orders-in-
Council, with a multiplication of forms
and regulations, regimented rather than
democratic.
I should welcome a form on which the
plain man could set out his post-war
aspirations; and, as an earnest, I answer
in advance some of the questions it ought
to ask. They would run like this:
(1) What kind of home do you want?
-Large rooms, more light, refrigeration,
all-electric equipment, a modern hygienic
kitchen, a roomy verandah and reason-
able privacy. I want to own it.
(2) What do you want in the way of
medical insurance? —I don’t want a fully
nationalised medical service, which would
prescribe a red-tape mixture for my ail-
ment after I had filled in the appropriate
form. If I am ill enough to go to a
doctor his advice will be worth 10s. 6d.;
but I may not be in a position to pay
for specialist treatment all my family
may need. I should like to insure against
this risk, and be prepared. I should be
content to contribute on a scale based
on my income, with less fortunate people
paying smaller premiums for the same
benefits.
(3) What changes do you favor in
education? —My children will live under
a civilisation depending more and more
on science; and I should like them to
have a sound elementary knowledge of all
the sciences that contribute to their daily
happiness. Their literary studies should
be directed to wide reading rather than
annotation of two or three Shakspearean
plays. They should be able to draw Cor-
rectly, understand music in a general way
and learn history and geography as a
world affair, with their own country and
its environs in the foreground.
(4) What chances do you favor in the
employment field? —I am satisfied to let
the Arbitration Court fix a fair wage ;
but count security of employment and
continuous income as most important.
If my employer hasn’t work for me, the
Government should have other useful jobs
available, not just an unemployment dole.
(5) What cultural developments do you
need most? —I want a good reference
library in my own suburb, a place where
I can look up something in the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica or other standard refer-
ence works. X should like to see in every
provincial town a gallery containing
prints or copies of some hundreds of the
world’s best paintings. For youth, drama-
tic and musical societies in the suburbs
would be better thanmore elaborate organ-
isations in the city.— Plain Man (Vic,).
Impatient for the Fray?
The A.I.F. looks to The Bulletin for
authoritative war comment. “Ek Dum”
is the final court) of appeal in any argu-
ments with which we amuse ourselves.
His comments on shows in which we
have participated have always been so
much to the point that we trust him where
we have no personal experience.
Lately, however, many of us have been
irritated by his suggestion that the A.I.F.
is straining at the leash —eager to throw
itself into (1) the Western Front, (2) the
Philippines.
To put it bluntly, this is not true. It
may be true of a few “brasshats,” greedy
for another inch or two of pectoral adorn-
ment. It may be true of a few young
reinforcements or subalterns anxious to
prove themselves. The disillusioned
Digger, with a few years’ service behind
him, merely envisages a further thinning
out of the ranks, and dispassionately or
despondently, according to his humor,
calculates his own chances of survival.
When Mr. Curtin or Mr. Forde re-
assures an apparently impatient public
with the promise that Australian troops
will soon be once more in the forefront
of battle the Digger turns in disgust
from the radio. The “public” does not
include his family —they are not im-
patient. Who then are these people who
are fretting at delay, and can be placated
only by some reflected glory from the
front line? The striking butchers or
miners? The black-marketeers? Appar-
ently these are the only people the Gov-
ernment finds it necessary to appease.
The Digger will do his job of work
wherever and whenever he is sent, and,
no doubt, will do it as well as ever. But
now this is a personal war. He will fight
to free himself from the military machine.
He will fight to avenge many a cobber
left behind in Syria, Greece, Crete, North
Africa and New Guinea. But any im-
patience or disappointment the Great
Australian Public may feel leaves him
quite cold. Any member of this appar-
ently belligerent public may have his
place for the asking.— Reo (A.I.F.).
Preference to Servicemen
Just how much preference can a soldier
expect to receive? For instance, if two
men apply for a job, one of them an ex-
serviceman with equal qualifications, it
appears on the face of it that the returned
man can be given preference without
detriment to the business or industry in-
volved. But this is, and will be, an ex-
ceptional case.
The soldier has given away five or six
years of life and experience in his civil
“Hope it doesn't fine up and spoil things for Saturday."
job. The years spent in the Army are
irrecoverable, and many a junior clerk
will return from active service at an age
when he should, with average luck, have
risen to senior clerk or accountant or
cashier had there been no war. What is
the fair thing to do for him —fair to him
and fair to the community?
Whatever reply the world may make
to that, the returned man will need strong
representation. The R.S.L. can provide
this, but unity is essential. Let us face
our future together, strong in purpose
and in number. We didn’t fear war; we
needn’t fear peace provided we face it
together.— Lieutenant (A.1.F.).
Servicemen and Trade Unions
A political set-up under which trade-
unions hold the reins, and hold them
tight, is tough on the A.I.F. and the rest
of the services. The serviceman, by law,
is prevented from forming unions. He
has no means of striking for better wages
or conditions, and no means but his vote
of securing any form of social recon-
struction. Soldiers may club together and
vote a soldier into Parliament, but the
chances are their votes will be outnum-
bered.
And yet the serviceman, taken as
a class, is doing a lot more for his coun-
try than any other section of society. He
who, by virtue of his deeds and his sacri-
fices, should be entitled to lead is just
one of the 25 p.c. of more or less un-
represented citizens.
Had we a system during war-time
whereby fighting men were directly repre-
sented, according to their numerical
strength, in Commonwealth, State and
municipal governments, we might feel
that those who fought for it had some
real say in the management of the coun-
try.—N. M. G. (R.A.A.F.).
Naval Canteens
At the request of the Navy Board Aus-
tralian Army Canteens Service has taken
over all naval canteens, and by so doing
has caused a great deal of dissatisfaction.
Previously every canteen staff in the
R.A.N. was able to buy on an open
market, on an unlimited scale, and with
an unlimited range. All goods were sold
at a reasonable price, and profits were
returned to the ship’s company in the
form of cash grants or comforts. Under
this excellent system sporting material,
wireless sets, books and magazines and
a hundred other items appreciated by
sailors were obtainable.
Under the A.A.C.S. it is forbidden for
any ship’s canteen to make a profit.
Lines not stocked by A.A.C.S. cannot
be bought. Beer, which should be
bond free at approximately 9d. per bottle
to all seagoing ships, is sold for Is. 9d.
a bottle. In addition, sailors have to
pay 75 p.c. more on all tobacco and
cigarettes (in one area, a ration of 2oz.
tobacco and 20 cigarettes a week has
.been imposed), 30 p.c. on toothpaste and
soap, and up to 200 p.c. on other articles.
There are a rebate of 5 p.c. from
A.A.C.S. and a grant of two-thirds of 5 p.c.
from the Navy Board, but these provide
barely enough to cover cost of transpor-
tation and wages to canteen staffs. The
Navy Board retains the other third of
its 5 p.c. grant for the purposes of a
“central canteen fund,” which is to pro-
vide sailors with benefits of an unknown
nature at an unknown date.
Sailors on service sigh for the old dis-
pensation. —Mo (R.A.N.).
If Birdsville Were the Capital
With the soil of Australia going up in
enough dust to darken the sun, I visual-
ised the action that would emerge from
the seat of government if the seat of gov-
ernment were at (say) Birdsville (s.-w.
Queensland).
The radio barks:
The Priminister, who has taken over the
portfolio of Interior and Federal Territories,
said today that three eminent engineers would
arrive in Australia next week to collaborate
with Australian engineers in finding the most
suitable scheme to provide adequate water sup-
plies for industrial, domestic and irrigational
purposes in Centralia.
The soil in the Cooper Valley, the Priminister
said, was among the richest in the world and
only needed water to turn it into a Garden of
Eden. The railway connecting Birdsville with
The Gulf was being pushed ahead with all
possible speed. Leftover war material was
being used in extending port facilities on The
Gulf. Good progress was being made in
the construction of highways from Cloncurry
and Bourke. As a preliminary step to save
our national heritage being blown into the sea,
the Priminister added, the Government was de-
termined that 100,000,000 trees would be planted
in Australia within the next two years.
The Attorney-General said tonight that he
agreed with the Chief Judge of the Arbitration
Court that the nation could not afford pros-
perity loadings on the wages of industrial
workers at a time when the very heart of the
country was being whipped into powder and
blown to smithereens.
—K. Me (N.S.W.).
Causes of Soil Erosion
Primary cause of soil erosion is tree-
destruction. Ringbarking, enthusiastically
practised by the early squatters, has re-
sulted in the death of millions of trees,
particularly N.S.W. and Victoria. Dead
trees have no foliage to hold rain. De-
afforestation has the same result as ring-
barking. It has been practised for many
years with little thought of replacements.
Overstocking and over-cropping are other
causes, products of a precarious financial
position or just greed.
Ringbarking must be disallowed, and
the felling of trees must be countered by
a systematic policy of tree-planting.
Larger areas will have to be planted and
attention paid to trees of a higher com-
mercial value than those selected in the
past.
Clauses should be inserted in all farm-
land leases to control overcropping, over-
stocking and other factors contributing
to erosion— Reconstruction (N.S.W.).
Travel Priority Wanted
Some of the men who are being re-
leased from the A.I.F. as unfit or to enter
essential services have married in States
other than their own. Many of their
wives have been, or still are, living with
their own people and in some cases one
or two young Australians are now living
there with grandma, too. The man is dis-
charged in his home State and is anxious
for his wife and family to be with him.
One does not travel across this vast
continent by merely wishing himself in a
certain place, and deferred pay will be
urgently needed to set up the family. The
Commonwealth Government should, by
providing free transport and travel
priorities, enable discharged pr released
men and their wives and families to settle
down. I would suggest priority based on
the size of the family.
This is a chance for Australia to repay
in a small though practical way some of
her debt to the men who not only fought
for their country, but are helping to re-
place their cobbers lost on manv battle-
fronts. —K. J. C. (Q.).
The Independence of Judges
Some ■ Queensland Judges have been
paid money in lieu of untaken leave.
They have had no right in law to such
payment, which is truly described as a
“gratuity,” for it is payable at the sweet
will of the Executive; and Executives
have their likes and dislikes.
The public and Parliament have been
led to believe that these “gratuities” have
been paid since 1889. That is false. The
first “gratuity” was paid in 1929 to Judge
Macnaughton, and Judge O’Sullivan, who
retired earlier, was paid a similar “gratuity,”
but when “Hansard” does not disclose.
Apparently Judge Jameson, who retired
in 1922, got nothing by way of “gratuity.”
It appears from “Hansard” that Judge
Henchman, who had over 10 years’ ser-
vice and so was entitled to over 12
months’ leave, had taken only nine
months’ leave. On the “gratuity” basis
his estate was thus entitled to over £5OO.
But in “Hansard” it is stated that “on
his retirement there was nothing due to
him.” Why?
Whether the position should be cured
by grant or pensions is beside the point.
What the public must demand is that the
Judge shall have nothing to hope for and
nothing to fear from the Executive —
otherwise, God help democracy.— LEX
(Q-).
The Teaching of History
We would know more about our neigh-
bors and about Australian history (“Beja”
and “Sailor,” B. 1/11/ ’44) if the people
whose job it was to educate us had given
us some idea of where we live instead
of trying to place us in Europe.
A fourth-generation Aussie, my patchy
education was anything but Australian.
The first school I played the wag from
was a State school, with a head-whacker
who never tried to teach us to be Austra-
lian, and would have felt it an onerous
duty, anyway, because he was as intoler-
ant of anything Austrajjan as he wasi of
anything American.
Next seat of learning was a private
school, with practically all the teachers
imported or imitation haw-haw. The
geography was even worse than in the
State school. We knew, more about
Europe than any other place, and nobody
bothered to mention that between us and
Europe lay innumerable square miles of
Asia and hundreds of millions of Asiatics.
Shanghai and Singapore and Tokyo were
spoken of as though they were on another
planet, instead of next door, and the
foreign language 1 was being taught was
not Japanese or Chinese or one of the
tongues across the way, but French.
Today, some 30 years later, I’m look-
ing through the paper trying to find
something about our war with Japan. I
can’t find anything on the front page,
which is given over to Europe. I turn
to the stop press. Not a thing. Wearily
I continue the familiar search, and finally,
stuck away in a middle page, is a little
piece about MacArthur in the Philip-
pines fighting a battle that means more
to us in Australia than the whole war
in Europe.
So 1 get the old feeling I had at school
—the feeling that nobody is going to en-
courage us to believe that events in our
part of the world mean anything, and
that what happens in Asia happens in a
world more remote than England and
Europe. Let’s ask our teachers and our
newspaper editors to start looking at the
world from this end of it. —Enveen (Tas.).


*rv - =
t j-
w.
y^M
7XV,
mkssmfflb
's.
m
W.U:
\
/>;
m
mi
&
///
A/
s=*
3%
/
'• At
3*
A'
X-
r \
dfd
During THE WAR amazing progress has been
made in every branch of wireless—at sea, on land and
in the air.
In this work the extensive research and manufacturing
organisation of A.W.A. is playing an important part.
It is to-day producing in ever-increasing quantities
high-grade wireless equipment for the Navy, Army,
and Air Forces of the Allied Nations, as well as manu-
facturing stations for vital Wireless Communication
Services.
When Victory is ours, most of these wartime develop-
ments will be applied in giving the public better service
in communications, in broadcast transmission and
reception, and in other phases of wireless.
* *
The post-war Fisk Radiola , incorporating many
wartime technical developments, will again take
its place as “Australia’s finest broadcast receiver.”
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
