

VINEGA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 65.—N0. 3360
Wednesday, July 5, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE IMPOSING GATEWAY OF FAMOUS RAGLAN.
QN one of the tributaries of the Usk River, near the border of
Wales, stand the remains of the castle that was the last in the
West to hold put for King Charles ; sturdy Raglan. Once a mighty
fortress, dating mainly from the reign of the fourth Edward, Raglan
is celebrated as the home of the grand marquis of Worcester.
Here is the birthplace of his son, the other marquis, famed for
his inventive genius. According to tradition it was this marquis
wno tirst had the idea of applying steam as a source of power,
and here, in the ditch of the castle keep, were the waterworks of
the inventive noble. The fine proportions of Raglan’s keep, with
its peculiar hexagonal plan, are greatly admired by architects, as
also are the guardian towers that flank the entrance to the castle
gateway. Following the memorable siege of Raglan some damage
was sustained by this not-yet-ancient castle at the hands of Crom-
llian forces. But, damaged as were portions of this castle,
Raglan still preserves its air of imperturbability, as if, against Time
itself, Raglan will stand on a piece of ground for ever England.


LImJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
5.13. 214 AGE
The Red Page
Emergence from Barbarism.
A. R. D. Fairburn’s We New Zea-
landers (Progressive Publishing Society,
Wellington), a booklet attacking com-
placency in the nation in much the same
terms as those in which Australian
pamphleteers smite Australian com-
placency from time to time, carries its
own defence and its own criticism.
The apologia:
This is my country and I am very glad
to belong to it —in spite of everything. 1
also claim the right to talk about it.
The criticism;
I think that sufficiently explains my
motive in writing this very inadequate and
rather scrappy essay.
Fairburn’s charges against his fellow-
countrymen —that there is too much lazi-
ness and too much stupidity and, in par-
ticular, that mediocrity is everywhere
enshrined —are doubtless true enough.
The same is true of any country at any
time; and, New Zealand having been
more recently settled and haying a
smaller population than Australia, the
general state of culture may be worse
there than it is on this side of the Tas-
man. It may even be true that, compara-
tively speaking, the state of literature is,
as he says, “barbarous.”
The barbarous state of letters in this
country may be measured by the literary
contents of the press—especially the book
reviews.
But if New Zealand letters and the
New Zealand culture as a whole are
“barbarous,” what is to be done about
it? The remedy lies in the hands of
New Zealand men oU letters —among
whom Fairburn has a prominent place
as a poet.
The nation will not be reformed by
attack. People will read Fairburn’s
pamphlet and then proceed to do exactly
nothing. One does not convert the
heathen by admonishment, but by a
shining light.
Born though it undoubtedly was out
of an honest indignation, We New
Zealanders is in itself in some degree
“barbaric.” Not in the sense of fum-
bling mediocrity in which Fairburn uses
the term when he speaks about reviews
in some of the dailies, but barbaric be-
cause, when civilisation is tolerance, he
complains that the average New Zea-
lander is not an “angry” enough man
for him ; barbaric because his remedy
for the fallen birthrate, for which he
blames in a large measure the Holly-
wood talkie, is not to produce better
films in New Zealand but “to ban nine
out of ten of the films sent to this
country.”
And above all barbaric because cul-
ture is not advanced by “very inadequate
and rather scrappy essays,” nor even by
adequate and comprehensive pamphle-
teering, but by the writing and publica-
tion of creative literature. The relapse
of the poets into political pamphleteer-
ing is the barbarism of the twentieth cen-
tury, It is a newer, more interesting,
and therefore perhaps more welcome
form of barbarism than mere incompe-
tence, but it is nonetheless a barbarism.
If, as is probably the case, the pamphlet
is merely a by-product of Fairburn’s
poetic energy, all is well; but if he
should abandon poetry for pamphleteer-
ing all would be very ill. One new poem
by Fairburn would do more than the
whole of this pamphlet to raise New
Zealand from its “barbarism.”
And, in fact, that creative literature
which is the test of civilisation is being
produced in New Zealand. Essentially,
Fairburn’s pamphlet is not the cry of
despair it appears to be but one of the
symptoms of the renaissance which is
obviously taking place in the Dominion.
There, as in Australia, the native litera-
ture is being published—and, presum-
ably, read —as never before. No doubt
the New Zealand “boom” is milder than
the Australian ; but the books are cer-
tainly coming out.
Recent mails have brought to this office
nqt only Fairburn’s booklet, but a novel,
Alexander Evelyn’s Thord (Pacific Press
Society, Wellington); Lady >Newall’s New
Zealand Gift Book, a miscellany of verse.
prose and reproductions of painting and
sculpture published by the Wellington
branch of the P.E.N.; English of the
Line (A. H. and A. W. Reed), a “poem
of some length” by Alan Mulgan;
Flametide, poems by various authors
chosen by Noel Farr Hoggard (Hand-
craft Press, Wellington); and from Fair-
burn’s oWn publishers, Progressive Pub-
lishing Society—a non-profit-making con-
cern which has done a great deal to
advance New Zealand literature, particu-
larly the short story, in recent months —
a collection of short stories by Isobel
Andrews, Something to Tell.
Thord, unfortunately, is the sort of
book which must be regarded as “bar-
baric,” in that its literary value is slight
and its general character retrogressive.
Halfway through it is what may be read
as the author’s own disarming defence
of faulty writing:
His reading made him vmnder at the
peculiar imperfections he noticed in many
otherwise good books. Paul offered an
explanation which appealed to Thord.
“Every good author’s work must reflect
the temperamental imperfections of himself
as well as his highest qualities,” he said.
“No literary work can rise above the mental
limitations of its author. That is how it
seems to me. Perhaps, some day, we shall
have the perfect book written by the per-
fect man. But I doubt whether it will be
worth reading. Perfection grows mono-
tonous.”
It’s not so certain that perfection in
literature —if it really were perfection —
would grow monotonous. Shakspeare’s
tragedies, which are as near to perfection
as we are likely to be offered, are hardly
boring. But it remains true that such
secondary masters as Dickens and Words-
worth are liked for their faults as well
as their merits. And it’s also true that,
human appreciation tempering critical
judgment, books that are nine-tenths
faulty can be liked for their lapses.
Which is the case with —and for — Thord.
The novel has its merits, certainly. A
good sense for character ; a Dickensian
affection for the oddities of character ; a
clear perception both of the human
comedy and the human tragedy ; a toler-
ant philosophy; a love of the New
Zealand earth.
But the faults outweigh the merits.
There is the old-fashioned style;
For a whole day Thord resisted before
he stood on the table and cut down the
bacon; and —lo! —(he trivial act set in
motion the fateful mechanism of his destiny.
There are the cliches:
The Bureau seemed redolent of the un-
easy quality usually, attributed to the calm
that precedes a storm.
It was indeed a poor situation that Miss
Smith could not, with the dramatic instinct
of seventeen, endow with the aura of
romance.
The traces quivered like serpents.... Flax
stalks seemed to claw the air with the black
withered fingers of mummified corpses.
Paul guided Thord out of the pit of de-
spondency.
He sought the jewelled canopy of the
heavens.
Thord felt as helpless as a chess-piece
between the fingers of Destiny.
And there is the Victorian melodrama
of the plot. Thord as a boy at the mercy
of his cruel stepfather. Jenner Smith
coming to stay with Thord and a
drunken schoolmaster and turning out (a
hundred pages later) to be the school-
master’s long-lost daughter.
The only point at which the story de-
parts from the stock pattern is in the re-
meeting of Thord and Jenner (for love,
marriage and a happy ending all round)
after a long separatioh due to Jenner’s
having had a child to another man.
Though Jenner comes into the story
again at a coffee-stall in “Middleport”
and is rescued by an evangelist, she is
not a “fallen woman,” but is suffering
from malaria and has lost her job because
she is wrongfully suspected of thieving.
Thord is a gallant attempt to write a
novel in the manner of Jane Austen and
the Brontes. If the author is young and
wishes to continue dealing with that
most dangerous of themes the analysis
of genius—Thord is portrayed as a
“poet”—he should read Sparkenbroke.
Here is, nevertheless, at least a read-
able novel; here is possibly a new
writer; and here is a new publishing
society.
Flametide and The English of the Line
might similarly be regarded as straws in
the wind. Not a new poem but an old
one reprinted, not the poetry of vision
but moving in Kipling’s world of poli-
tics and soldiers, not located in New
Zealand but in England, Alan Mulgan’s
contribution is “occasional” poetry, well
done and highly topical:
It’s “Anzac” this and “Anzac” that, and
“Canada’s brave sons,”
And “fiery Irish valor” and —you all know how
it runs;
But not so much for Tommy, poor Tommy of
the Line,
Of the unromantic regiment whose blood is
yours and mine . . .
Corunna, Albuera’s clash —from sea to Pyre-
nees,
Was it only Scots and Irishmen who won these
victories?
Flametide is one of those little books
for the existence of which there seems to
be no particular reason. It consists of
18 short poems by 18 authors. No
general theme or purpose can be dis-
cerned ; the quality of the poetry varies
from the sureness of J. R. Hervey and
Paula Hanger to the wavering and un-
certain flights of very young aspirants ;
and as a piece of book-making —which is
usually one of the justifications of these
very slim vols. —it is of no special dis-
tinction. If it was designed to encour-
age the very young, and if the very young
were paid for their verses, the booklet
might be regarded as a contribution to
progress ; otherwise, apart from the one
or two good poems, only the energy that
put it into print is of much value.
In one respect the Gift Book fosters
New Zealand’s “barbarism” rather than
aids its destruction: the contributors
gave their work free. True, it was for
the worthiest of causes —profits go to ser-
vice men. But if New Zealand soldiers
were fully aware of the struggles of litera-
ture in their country they would prob-
ably prefer to subscribe to a comforts
fund for New Zealand writers.
In all other respects the book is good of
its kind. Frank Sargeson and Isobel
Andrews contribute short stories ; there
are poems by Eileen Duggan, Arnold
Wall, Robin Hyde, Paula Hanger and lan
Gordon ; among the paintings reproduced
are some fine water-colors, one of Goldie’s
portraits and an impressive sculpture by
Margaret Butler of the head of a Maori
child ; in the documentary section, which
is the strongest feature, of the book, there
are essays by James Cowan, Guy H.
Scholefield, Eric Ramsden and Alan
Mulgan.
The Gift Book is not designed as an
anthology of contemporary writing ; it is
light in tone, popular in its aim. Parti-
cularly in the verse contributions (Wall
and Eileen Duggan are poorly repre-
sented) an insistence on national instead
of literary values has needlessly weak-
ened its impact. But, mingling the tradi-
tional and the modern, it maintains a
reasonably high standard. And it is
most handsomely produced.
As perhaps every writer must do who
does not produce “monotonous perfec-
tion,” Isobel Andrews makes her contri-
bution to barbarism as well as to pro-
gress in her collection of short stories.
And Dad said well for once you’re
talking sense and anyway I’m a bit fed up
of going to Aunt Minnie’s for Christmas
year in and year out. And Alec said we
can borrow Uncle Harry’s tent and get
those two stretchers down from the attic.
And that’s what they did and they bor-
rowed Cousin Gordon’s little primus stove
which he loved with a love that is stronger
than death and which he gave to Dad
when Dad asked him because he owed Dad
ten bob and thought if he lent him his little
primus stove Dad might forget about the
ten bob.
This, like Fairburn’s vehemence, is the
sort of barbarism that is almost to be
approved—because it is the very latest
barbarism, not a retrogression but one of
the symptoms of an' advance. Isobel
Andrews has been reading Gertrude Stein,
or some of her innumerable imitators.
She uses the Stein-prattle for the pur-
poses of humor ; and it works —“Camp-
ing Out” is funny and “Home, Sweet
Home,” a satire on commercial radio, is
very funny. But the technique remains
dangerous. Isobel Andrews (presumably)
is not a little girl any longer ; nor, cer-
tainly, is she a demented housewife; and
when she masquerades as one or the other
she loses individuality of style. The
humor of “Camping Out” is her own ; the
technical adroitness of “Home, Sweet
Home,” making a snap-ending not merely
pardonable but a delight, is her own ;
but her style is anybody’s.
Though the two strongest stories of her
collection, “Bondsmen and Free” and the
title story, are tragedies, the strongest im-
pression left by the book as a whole is of
comedy: a clear indication of balance of
mind and an awareness of the proper
function of the prose-writer.
One remembers flashes of wit or humor
—“Mrs. Brewster had suffered from Art
as a girl” ; “This thing called intellect
. . . wasn’t there anything you could do?
Fish, they said, was good for the brain.
If she ate more fish ” ; one 'remem-
bers delightful incidents, such as when
the baby in “Foiled by Fate” —a skit on
the talkies —hurls his shoes at the bald
head of the gentleman in the next row.
The author is doing exactly what a prose-
writer should do —observing the life of
her own time with an affectionately
ironical eye.,
Isobel Andrews is something of a
curiosity in the revival of the New
Zealand short story. Sargeson and
Roderick Finlayson, who seem to be the
leaders of the movement, are formidable
modernists with their full share of con-
temporary virtues and faults. So close
does Isobel Andrews come at times to the
conventional magazine story —“Even if
*JYe Are at War” is a simple little “wow”
story that could be published in a daily—
that one feels that only some strong in-
fluence, possibly Sargeson’s, possibly the
spirit of the times, has rescued her from
that barbarity of sentimentality and medi-
ocrity which is Fairburn’s complaint
against New Zealand letters.
If that is the case, if she owes a debt
of gratitude to those contemporaries
whom the Progressive Publishing Society
has brought forward in its New Zealand
New Writing series, she has also some-
thing to give: balance, tolerance, the
conception of the writer as an enter-
tainer, the true humanity of humor to
counteract the inhumanities of political
evangelism. It is more civilised to laugh
at the films than to demand that they be
banned.
When publishing is everywhere active ;
when stories as genuinely good as the
best of Something to Tell can find a
market; and when humor is breaking
into the deadly seriousness of the mass
of contemporary writing, New Zealand is
certainly emerging from its “barbarism.”
Perhaps it is easier to perceive the emer-
gence when one does not have to read
the book reviews in Fairburn’s daily
newspaper.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“C.Q.”: With Lyndall Hendrickson,
the young violinist, playing finely at the
Assembly Hall, John C. Goodchild show-
ing water-colors at the Sedon, and a
memorial exhibition of the works of the
late Matthew James MacNally at Koz-
minsky’s, South Australia has been well
to the fore in Melbourne culture lately.
MacNally, of course, came from the Vic-
torian town of Benalla and was known
as a painter in his home State before he
impressed himself on Adelaide as a news-
paper critic, artist and cheerful drawer
of the long bow. Goodchild is a Lon-
doner, born in the art colony of Chelsea,
who early made for Adelaide. The work
of both artists shows an equally warm
affection for the South Australian coun-
tryside, the most charming in Australia.
Goodchild has a technical facility which
MacNally never quite attained, but it
keeps him in the charted rather than the
uncharted seas and makes some of his
pictures look less felt than manufactured.
“Mac Hoots”: The things in youth that
most attract me are its modesty and its
solemnity. The “Under Thirty” group
has been having a show of paintings at
Sydney Educational Gallery, and over
the show as a whole floats the most
charming aroma of back streets in Dar-
linghurst; of rooms where in earnest and
passionate discussion it is proved beyond
doubt that the world is all awry, that
the only possible subject for Australian
landscape is a slum tenement, and that
all Australians, especially soldiers —all
American soldiers, too, I observe —are
shaped like lager bottles or the necks
of swans. One man, Harold Greenhill,
who has discovered that people are both
comical and pleasant, and that there is
light in the sky and water in the sea,
reveals a daring originality of outlook
and also —wickedly—some technical
ability. But few of the other paintings
take such risks. Youth, as is natural,
shelters modestly in the conventions of
its day.
“Curtain Raiser”: “Men Without
Women,” the sesquicentenary prize play
by Henrietta Drake-Brockman which was
given a two-weeks’ run by the New
Theatre in Melbourne, has a curious con-
struction. The first act introduces an
assorted collection of outback North Aus-
tralians, some of whom have grown as
hairy-heeled as their cattle, plus a flash
tart from the south who has married a
station-owner, and it also states an in-
teresting situation very nicely. Both are
forgotten in the next act and a fresh set
and a fresh situation are presented. The
final act offers still another thesis—that
white men abandoned by their wives are
apt to go combo (a Westralian phrase for
men who solace themselves with native
women) —so it is the bounden duty of the
wives to stick it out after the example of
Ma Bates, a hard-bitten woman who has
kept her farm and family together for 20 |
years, but whose Nemesis has come upon
her with a malignant cancer. In the final |
scene the breaking of the drought causes
a freshet in the river and prevents both
Ma Bates, who is going south for an
operation, and Mrs. Abbott, who after
two years is sick of pioneering, from leav-
ing the country. Ma Bates, is content to
die there, and her example makes the
flash tart content to go on living in it.
This is a false note in a play that has
passages of good description. The con-
version of Mrs. Abbott makes an im-
probable conclusion. The cast was good,
as it usually is in plays of this familiar
species, James Young, Norma Farrow,
Ken Otway, June Bennett, Len Bennett,
Kath Frank, Hazel Gilmartin and Valmae
Macdonald were all more than satisfac-
tory.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" . "THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS 7
120th Year of Service
SCIENTIFIC and TECHNICAL BOOKS
Am Introdnedon to Plant
Anatomy
By Arthur J. Eames, Professor of Botany, Cor-
nell University, and Laurence H. Mac Daniels,
Professor of Pomology, Cornell University. 363
pages, 6x9, 146 illustrations. 28/—; post., 1/0?
An introductory and fairly comprehensive treat-
ment of the fundamental facts and aspects of plant
anatomy.
Tool Engineering—
Jigs and Fixtures
By Albert A. Dowd and Frank W. Curtis.
293 pages, 6 x 9, 232 illus. 24/—; p., Hid.
Takes up principles and their application to design
and gives many graphic examples which illustrate
the use of the principles involved.
Tool Engineering—
Punches, Pies and Gauges
By Albert A. Dowd and Frank W. Curtis.
341 pages, 6x9, 171 illus. 28/-; p., Hid.
This book gives a detailed discussion of dies—both
for forging and for the punch press, the design of
gauges for interchangeable manufacture, the limit
system, modern drafting mom practice, elementary
pattern work, feeds, speeds and cutting lubricants.
as
mi
m
;
a
V
■
$BBBBB
m
* t
■
»
«s
i
• ••.V X v.
m
*s»? n
“•lttlfft;
The Principles of
Physical Metallurgy
By Gilbert E, Doan, Associate Pro-
fessor of Metallurgy, Lehigh Univer-
sity, and E. M. Mahla, 8.5., &c. 388
pages, 6x 9, 240 illus. 24/-; p., l/0f
A coherent account of the behaviour of
metals under the influence of the opera-
tions which are performed upon them in
the metal fabricating and manufacturing
industries. The approach is that of
classical physical chemistry and physics,
beginning with the states of aggregation.
The Lineman’s Hand-
book
By Edwin Kurtz, Professor of Elec-
trical Engineering, University of lowa.
650 pages, flexible, illus. 32/-; p. 11 id.
The first book written expressly for line-
men. It presents hundreds of kinks,
short-cuts, expedients and time- and work-
saving methods, as well as scores of use-
ful diagrams, tables, and formulas for
the lineman.
Machine Tool Operation: Part 1., The
Lathe, Benchwork and Work at
the Forge
By Henry D. Burghardt, Instructor Machine Work, Wm.
C. Dickinson High School, Jersey City, NJ. Second edi-
tion. 420 pages, 5i x 8, 254 illustrations. 18/—; post., 10jd-
An elementary textbook on the construction and operation of
lathes, on benchwork and on work at the forge.
Also Part II 22/-; postage, IOJd.
Engineering Drawing
By Thomas E. French, Professor of
Engineering Drawing, Ohio State Uni-
versity. Sixth edition. 622 pages, 6 x
9 24/-; postage, l/3i
A standard work, profusely illustrated
with perfect examples.
Principles of Direct
Current Maclaines
By Alexander S. Langsdorf, Dean of
the Schools of Engineering and Archi-
tecture, Washington University. Fourth
edition. 746 pages, 5? x 8, illus-
trated 44/—; postage, 1/2-1
This widely used textbook gives an un-
usually complete treatment of the funda-
mental principles that underlie design and
operation.
Principles of Alternating
Current Machinery
By Ralph R. Lawrence, Professor of
Electrical Engineering, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. Third edi-
tion. 678 pages, 5i x 8, fully illus-
trated 44/-; postage, 1 /2i-
The book covers the principles under-
lying construction and operation.
Structural
Engineer’s Handbook
Data for the Design and Construction
of Steel Bridges and Buildings. Third
edition. 1066 pages, 6 x 9, 400 illus-
trations, 250 tables, flexible binding.
New One-Volume edition complete.
Price 56/-; postage, 1/5 i
It is a source book and encyclopaedia of
useful information for engineers.
Radio Engineering
Handbook
Editor-in-Chief: Keith Henney, as-
sisted by a staff of 28 specialists. Third
edition. 945 pages, 4i x 7, 667 illus-
trations, flexible . . 40/-; postage, 1/1 i
It provides the engineer with technical
data on all fields and aspects of radio
engineering.
Theory of Alternating
Current Machinery
By Alexander S. Langsdorf, Dean,
Schools of Engineering and Architec-
ture, Washington University. 788
pages, 6x9, 571 illus. 48/-; p., 1/3 }
Gives a comprehensive discussion of all
types of electromagnetic machines as well
as the basic principles which influence
their design and operating characteristics.
Quantitative relations are approached
through the medium of geometrical
representation, since experience has shown
that a complex of relations can be com-
prehended in toto by this method better
than in any ether way.
Principles of Alternating
Currents
By Ralph R. Lawrence, Professor of
Electrical Machinery, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. Second edi-
tion. 475 pages, 5? x 8, illustrated.
Price 32/-; postage, 1/01
A thorough, standard, widely-used book.
Course in Electrical
Engineering: Vol. 1.,
Direct Currents
By Chester L. Dawes, Associate Pro-
fessor of Electrical Engineering, Har-
vard University. Third edition. 751
pages, 5} x 8, illus. 32/-; p., 1/1}
Volume I. begins with the most elemen-
tary conceptions of magnetism and cur-
rent-flow and gradually advances to a
more or less thorough discussion of the
many types of machinery, transmission
devices, etc., which are met in practice.
Course in Electrical
Engineering: Vol. 11.,
Alternating Currents
By Chester L. Dawes, Associate Pro-
fessor of Electrical Engineering, Har-
vard University. Third edition. 705
pp., 5i x 8, 477 illus. 32/-; p., 1/0}
Presents clearly laws of alternating cur-
rents and their applications to measure-
ments, polyphase circuits, machinery and
power transmission.
American Electricians’ Handbook
By Terrell Croft. Revised by Clifford C. Carr, Department of Industrial Elec-
trical Engineering, Pratt Institute. Fifth edition. 1634 pages, fully illustrated, full
gilt ■ ■ • r 40/-; postage, l/0i
A reliable, useful handbook for wiremen, contractors, linemen, plant superintendents and
construction engineers. It aims to give the practical man the facts on apparatus, materials
and installation which he needs in his daily work.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Book Department—Second Floor
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) Telegraphic Address: "Hordernia," Sydney BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE HARROWS
By JACK RICHMOND.
WHEN his mother woke young
Barry he could feel that sore
patch on his heel, and as he moved
to free the heel from pressure he
wa? conscious of the ingrowing nail on
the big toe of his right foot.
He had no pyjamas, and in the light
of the candle his legs showed the dirt
that had been gathered from the paddock
since his last bath. He eyed the dirt, its
darkness increasing toward his feet. He
said “Damn harrowin’!”
“There’s no one else to do the work,” the
mother said when he came limping into the
kitchen. “Your brothers are at the war,
and your father’s worked to a standstill.”
“I’m not kickin’,” the boy said. “If
Dad’d just get it into his head that har-
rowin’s harder than ploughin’, that’s all
I’d want. He just says I’m tryin’ to loaf
when I tell him.”
“Well, he ought to know; he was plough-
in’ and harrowin’ before you were born.”
“All the same he don’t know. Mum ;
anybody who’d say ploughin’ is harder has
forgotten when he harrowed or he’s a liar.’
‘ Don’t talk so of your father!” But
her voice had sympathy. “I, know the
work’s a bit too much at your age.
The boy straightened. “Nothing’s too
much at my age that anybody else can
do. Nothing except -the old man’s argu-
ment ; I can’t stand that.”
He went out and across to the stable. His
father was there, currycombing the horses.
“You’re late, Barry ; I watered and fed
your team.”
The boy didn’t say anything ; he had
watered and fed his father’s team last
night; also, he had milked and cut green
stuff and chopped the wood and fed the
pigs.
Now with his currycomb and brush he
worked so fast he nearly caught
his father, and started to put the collars
on only a short time after. Fifteen, he
was small for his age, slight, not strong
like his brothers ; and to reach the collar
and hames straps he had to stand close in
to the horses’ chests and rise on his toes.
With the stablework finished, he went
to the cowshed. His father came, too,
and lit his pipe and looked at the five
cows the boy was feeding and getting
ready to milk.
“I don’t know about Polly,” he said.
“Joe Sterne gave me an offer for her, and
I could do with the money.”
“Sell her,” the boy said. “There’s more
milk than we need.”
“You grumbling about doing the
milkin’? If it’s not the milkin’ it’s the
harrowin’. You don’t like work, do you?”
“It’s always such damn’ hard work.”
“Milkin’, women can do, son.”
“Harrowin’ ”
“I used to do it when I was ten.”
“How’d* you lift the harrows (o clean
’em?”
“Don’t say I’m a liar!”
“Well, a feller’s got to work, I know,”
Barry said. “But when you say har-
rowin’s easier than pi”
“You’re gettin’ them harrows on your
mind. They’re worryin’ you worse than
rationin’ worries your mother.”
THERE was a smell of chops frying
when the boy took the milk in. He
had his porridge and then a chop and
his mother said:
“Think of them poor people in town.
They’ve got to stand in line for meat,
like people going to the pictures. They
get only two and a quarter pounds of
meat a week, and here we’ve got rabbits
and
Her husband cut in “Well, they don’t
have to work as hard as we do ; they sit
on their bottoms most of the time in an
office, so why worry about ’em?”
“They don’t get sore feet,” the boy said.
“Don’t quarrel,” the mother said as
her husband’s jaws ceased to masticate
and his eyes fixed on his son. “Especially
don’t quarrel about sore feet and that
harrowin’. I can’t stand it.”
“One day he can take the plough and
it’ll nearly kill him,” the man said.
“Among all them stones and couch-grass
and a furrow horse that don’t seem to
understand there’s a furrow to walk in.”
“Damn’ horse ought to be glad to walk
in a furrow,” Barry said. “The furrow’s
hard where the share leaves it; behind
the harrows you sink to your hocks”
But he saw his mother’s face.
“What about Polly ; going to sell her?”
he asked.
“No,” his father said. “You go on
with the harrowin’.”
UP and down the paddock, feet sink-
ing in soil left soft by the springtooth,
and the dust rising in a cloud that accom-
panied him as he walked. And his feet hurt.
That didn’t matter, though. What mat-
tered was that the old man was so dense.
It would be hard to find anybody who was
denser about somethings than his old man.
By noon his stiffness had worn off but
his feet were sorer. When he got in to
the table and had his dinner he didn’t
want to get up again.
He heard his father say “Old Star’s
gone tender in his off foreleg or shoulder
somewhere ; reckon it was a jolt on one
of them stones. I dunno what to do unless
I put the colt in, but I’d like him on the
off side where I can handle him, and
he’s no good in a furrow. He’d better
go in the harrows.”
“All right,” the boy said. “I can handle
him.”
“Don’t mean to let you try; colt’s
too unbroken and he’d spill them har-
rows for you turnin’ so maybe there’s a
nasty smash. I’m going to take them
harrows myself this afternoon. You can
take the plough.”
The boy stared. “All right,” he said.
He was pleased, but too tired to show it.
“I’ll take Kate from my team and you
can put the colt where Kate was.”
ALTHOUGH he stubbed his sore toe
against stones and clods that fell back
in the furrow, it was much better walk-
ing in the furrow than on the soft ground
behind the harrows. And here he had
something to hang on to, for the plough
had a long steering bar he could rest in
the rack and on it lean part of his weight
and at the same time be partly dragged
along. It was not the hard going he had
known all the morning and for many days.
Across in the other paddock his father
was walking steadily in the cloud of dust
behind the harrows. He had to walk with
nothing to hang on to except the lines,
and even the colt, though breasting out at
times and lathered in sweat, didn’t always
keep the line tight.
At sundown the still air of the Tas-
manian autumn had its hint of frost, and
the team’s breaths were visible. The boy
pulled up at the headland, levered the
plough out of the ground by using almost
all his strength, and unyoked. He went
home, riding his furrow mare.
When the team was fed, there was the
round of greenstuff cutting and of milk-
ing and of wood-chopping, then tea,
then bedding the horses down.
HE finished at about nine and blew
out the lantern and went inside.
His father said “Did you bed my team,
too?”
He nodded. “They’re all right.”
His father, sprawled out on the living-
room sofa with his boots off, looked
slightly ashamed of himself. “I dozed
off. You got that basin, Jess?”
“What’s the matter with your feet?”
the boy said, watching his father take off
his sock,
“Got a sore patch Skin off. It was
that colt.”
“How was it the colt?”
“Reachin’ out and runnin’ off every-
where, the way he was. Made me tired.”
“It was the harrows,” the boy said,
“that made you tired. It was the soft
dirt, with your feet sinking down. That
gave you the sore patch too, Dad. Dirt
lets in your boots.”
“I know it does ; you don’t have to
tell me. I bet the plough brought the
grease out of you. ’
“The plough was hard in the stones
and couch, but not as hard as the harrows
in the soft dirt. You haven’t harrowed
for twenty years, and you’d forgotten
what it was like. You said it was easy,
harrowin’.”
“it was the colt that played me out.”
“No,” the boy said, “the harrowin’.”
His- mother brought the basin and his
father poured water out of the big iron
kettle and* splashed his foot and swore,
“j never knew such a boy in my life,
Argue his head off about things that
don’t matter.”
“They do matter,” Barry said.
. His father looked at him for a long
cSy'S
tired. I give in and you can have it your
wa Y- Harrowm s tougher than pl° u § *
The boy wanted to say Thanks, Dad,
but he didn’t get it out and was just
«silently grateful. His hatred of the farm
and of the work suddenly had gone from
him. It wasn’t the work that had got him
down, he knew now, but that antagonism
building up between him and his father,
It was all over.
They looked at each other and their
lips twisted in slow, friendly grins like the
grins of two boys who have made it up.
TO THE CONTROLLER OF RUBBER
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
SIR, —From the point of view of one
whose sole desire is to oblige other
people to save rubber, no doubt
your Contract Form 78, Form A
and Form B are commendable.
But, speaking as a man who has filled
in six sets of forms without results, I
insist that in the “STATEMENT IN
SUPPORT OF APPLICATION FOR
RELEASE OF TYRES AND/OR
TUBES,” the spaces for the answers are
not nearly large enough. Therefore I
enclose the following answers, being the
full justification for my demands, as set
out in Form A.
STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF
APPLICATION FOR RELEASE OF
TYRES AND/OR TUBES.
1. Name of Applicant {block letters):
ERIC O’SLUNKEY.
Coffin Rock Lane, Nevertyre.
2. Address:
3. For how long do you estimate it will
be practicable to continue the operation
of the vehicle on its existing set of tyres ?
Months.
Now, that depends entirely on what
interpretation you put on the word “prac-
ticable.”
I drove the sixteen miles to town and
back again six weeks ago, and no doubt
I could do it again if I were prepared to
put up with the disadvantages, viz., three
punctures on the .way in (had to cut up
my felt hat to make a sleeve); time of
travelling, hours ; two punctures and
a blowout on the way home ; walked the
last two miles.
4. Do you own or could you obtain
a suitable horse-drawn vehicle which
could be used, although at some incon-
venience, in place of the vehicle for which
tyres and lor tubes are required ?
Here it all depends on how much incon-
venience you expect a man to put up with.
I have a horse-drawn vehicle (also a
horse, though he is very old and very
slow), and this is the kind of incon-
venience its use involves. My tractor
broke down and I needed a new part
urgently. But three of the car tyres were
flat and the chances of getting them to
stay up were negligible (moreover, the
wife and daughter had been in town only
a month ago, so didn’t need to go), so
I drove in my horse-drawn vehicle. I
started before sunrise to give my horse
the advantage of the cool; arrived in
town at noon ; agent did not have spare
part but sent telegram for s.p.; said
would arrive in two days. Got home two
hours after dark. Two days later drove
horse in again. Part hadn’t arrived. Re-
peated procedure two days later. Total
time lost; three (3) days.
(P.S. —I know that other people have
to put up with inconveniences, too. My
brother, who lives in King’s Cross, writes
that it is practically impossible to get a
taxi, and that he sometimes has to “stand
all the way into the city in a tram.”)
5. Do you own any other motor
Under
vehicle {answer “Yes” or “No”) ? ......
protest, Yes.
But it is an old solid-rubber tyre truck,
and the police won’t let me register it
because the rubber has come off one of
the wheels. If I drive it unregistered I
will he fined. Moreover, it is very rough
to ride in.
6. If answer to No. 5 is “yes,” the
details requested overleaf must be fur-
nished in respect of any such vehicle.
Willingly, but remember the condition
4 it is in.
.7. Are there any other motor vehicles
owned by any other person residing or
employed on the property, or by any
company, and used either privately or in
connection with the running of the prop-
Yes, but.
erty (Answer “Yes” or “No”)? ........
My employee, Charlie Hanks, has a
small motor-car. For some time I was
able to persuade him to take me and my
family and up to fifteen doz. cases of
eggs to town. But lately he has become
very unco-operative.
His tyres are nearly as bad as mine,
and though I have lent him my two best
on several occasions when he took us in
it was a dreadful nuisance changing them.
They didn’t fit his rims very well, and
we had to tie them on with wire to stop
them coming off every time wo turned a
corner. He also complained a lot about
a broken spring. I’m afraid we will have
to write him off as a source of transport.
8. If answer to No. 7. is “yes” details
required overleaf must be furnished.
With pleasure, but remember that
Charlie (and his car) have become unco-
operative.
9. State whether there is a mail and / or
passenger service operating within reason-
able distance of your property and, if so,
why such service could not be availed
of in lieu of the 'continued use of your
own vehicle ?
The only service operating is at a de-
cidedly unreasonable distance, viz., eight
miles.
10. State the number of miles your
residence is distant from the nearest {a)
Nevertyre 16
Township—Name Miles ....
Nevertyre 16
( b) Railhead —Name ......... Miles...
16
(c) Doctor .. ... Miles.
This is the only case in which the space
is sufficient; the human element does
not enter.
11. State why the continued use of the
vehicle for which tyres and / or tubes are
required could not be dispensed with and
satisfactory arrangements made for the
work to be done with other vehicles (if
any) owned by you, or with vehicles
owned by neighbors. {lf the vehicle is
engaged in work in connection with
more than one property in which you
have an interest, attach a small sketch
map showing the locations and distances
apart of such properties.)
I cannot dispense with the vehicle be-
cause :
(a) I have none other suitable.
• ( b ) My neighbors’ cars are always full
of their families, their farm produce or
their stores whenever they go to town.
They refuse to lend or hire their vehicles
to me for fear of having their tyres worn
out and being placed in a similar pre-
dicament to me.
Like you, I was prepared to put great
faith in the goodwill and helpfulness
of my neighbors ; I tried my utmost to
solve the problem as you suggest, and,
although I and the members of my
family occasionally got a lift to town,
there was never room for the eggs.
I used to take these down to the road
in a wheelbarrow, hoping for the best,
but the stack grew week by week. (Actu-
ally, eggs should be delivered at least
once a week in winter, and more fre-
quently in summer. For confirmation
of this statement please consult the
chairman of the Egg Marketing Board,
who has an office in your city.)
At last, in desperation, I got out the
old motor-lorry and took the eggs to
town in it. My wife and daughter came
along in the cab, but even there we were
aware of unpleasant things happening.
The eggs had been kept too long, and
the rough lorry was too much for them.
We drove into town with an aroma
round us that made people run for
shelter. We were so mortified and ex-
asperated that we decided to be ruthless.
First I drove into the local Egg Mar-
keting Board depot. The manager
begged me to drive away before I ruined
his and the E.M.B.’s reputation; I did,
as soon as he had written out for me
a declaration which I wanted to show
the police,
I drove right up to the office door of
the police station, and the sergeant soon
agreed to change my priority from
“eight” to “two.”
From there I drove to the home of our
member of Parliament. He was, for-
tunately, in, the Federal Parliament
being in recess. I pulled up suddenly and
a couple of cases fell on his steps. He
speedily saw the justice of my demands
and gave me a written assurance (copy
enclosed) that if you do not instantly
authorise my full requirements of tyres
and tubes he will ask so many hostile
questions about you in Parliament that
you will be forced to resign.
12. If the vehicle for which equipment
is required is a motor-lorry, state whether
you have taken part in, or prepared to
take part in, any local co-operative carry-
ing scheme which is, or may have to be,
introduced in the interests of economy of
vehicles and their equipment
The vehicle is not a motor-lorry, and
I don’t intend to wear out my new set
of tyres doing jobs for anyone else.
But don’t try to use that as an excuse
to refuse my application ; you wouldn’t,
either, if you’d had my experience.
I hereby declare that the particulars
furnished above and overleaf are true
and correct, and may the Lord have
mercy on your soul,


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3360.
Wednesday, July 5, 1944.
CALLED UP.
“Miss Liberty, you are in a non-essential occupation. You are directed to report again after R-Day for service in Bourke or a pickle-factory."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man ’
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Wesxralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings ( opp■
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
"JACK" COMES BACK.
Mr. Curtin set out on his overseas
tour on April 3 and was back in Bris-
bane on June 26. He had a safe passage
everywhere, and returned fn good health
and spirits—matters for general satisfac-
tion, for, whatever may be thought of
Curtin the politician, everyone likes
Curtin the man and wishes him length of
days without infirmities. Moreover his
good spirits were obviously contributed
to by heartening things seen and heard
in the United States, Canada and Britain.
The Prime Minister was accompanied
throughout his travels by the Secretary to
the War Cabinet, and by General Blarney
until the C.-in-C. Allied Land Forces
South-west Pacific left the party to visit
New Guinea, returning to Brisbane in time
to greet the P.M. at the ship’s side. Mr.
Curtin should have gone to New Guinea,
too. Americans as well as Australians
would have been glad to see him. Fight-
ing New Zealanders have seen their Prime
Minister three times —in North Africa,
Oceania and Italy. _ Replying to friendly
remonstrances against Mr. Churchill s
Channel crossing to Normandy on the
seventh day of the invasion, Mr. Brendan
Bracken averred that “every Prime Min-
ister should visit his soldiers in the front
line”; and for this there are sound
reasons which, in Mr. Curtin’s case par-
ticularly, are by no means all military.
It was thought that the P.M., back on
his native soil, would straightway an-
nounce an early meeting of Parliament so
that he might report to it on his mission,
and through Parliament to the nation,
giving some indication of the measures
which will have to be introduced in con-
sequence. Instead he merely said on
stepping ashore that he would “report to
Cabinet and Parliament in due course.”
At night he had a long and desultory
talk with a party of newspapermen,
answering questions fired at him concern-
ing the future employment of Australian
soldiers (“front-line troops will, of course,
go outside Australia until Germany and
Japan are defeated”), the militia (“they
have been fighting magnificently in New
Guinea and there arc still a good many
places they can go to”), strategy (“the basic
strategy is to defeat Hitler first”), Ameri-
can opinion of the White Australia policy
(“I never heard it raised anywhere”),
Anglo-American opinion of General
MacArthur (very favorable), post-war
migration (“the talks did not get any-
where, and I saw no evidence that great
numbers of British people were anxious
to leave home”) and other matters.
Not all that Mr. Curtin said was pub-
lished, and accounts of what he did say
differed on some points. Referring to the
London discussions on post-war prob-
lems he revealed that “no decisions
were reached,” and that “the deci-
sions on other matters were not
irrevocable.” However, “I reached a
complete understanding with the Gov-
ernments of the United Kingdom and the
other United Nations on broad charac-
teristics of the readjustment of Australia’s
war effort,” though “decisions” here are
“essentially matters for the Australian
Government.” Subject, presumably, to
Parliament, even if Parliament has be-
come a secondary consideration.
Mr. Curtin was himself a pressman,
and ho has a high opinion of the
value of these press conferences. It
is not universally shared. The special
circumstances which led to their in-
troduction at the White House do not
exist in this country. Mr. Curtin is not
President of a republic who, by virtue ol
his position, rarely goes to Congress and
never takes part in its deliberations, nor
ever appoints Congressmen to his Cabinet,
Mr. Curtin is leader of the House of
Representatives, and as such the King’s
first Minister, head of a Ministry
formed of members of Parliament, and
responsible to Parliament, not to the
press. He can at any time be dismissed
or forced to the country by a hostile
majority in Parliament on a major issue;
a President cannot be removed unless
impeached in the House, tried in the
Senate sitting as a law court and con-
victed by a two-thirds vote —which has
never happened.
Mr. Churchill has never followed the
White House practice copied by Mr.
Curtin. He is truly, as he calls himself, “a
Parliament man,” and he makes his re-
ports on national affairs, not to any parcel
of journalists, but to Parliament. Though
he wrote much for newspapers when out
of office, he never gives a press interview
now, nor does any of his colleagues. If
he has cause to address the nation when
Parliament is not in session he speaks to
it over the air. And, unlike Mr. Curtin,
he does not shut up Parliament when he
goes away. The signing of the Atlantic
Charter was announced in the Commons
by tha Deputy Leader. So was the fact
that Mr. Churchill had fallen ill after the
Tehran and Cairo conferences.
Though bombed out of its home during
the blitz, and never free from the risk of
bombing since, the House of Commons,
except for the traditional brief breaks,
Is practically in continuous session ; and
it is a good thing for the people that
this is so. The Parliamentary reports,
still full and precise in great papers like
the “Times” and the Manchester “Guar-
dian,” show that members of all parties,
as well as outspokenly debating foreign
affairs from their several angles, energeti-
cally voice public grievances and keep a
vigilant eye on the audacities of officials.
In Australia, as Mr. Menzies has pro-
tested, Parliamentary reporting becomes
more and more a matter, not of what
Smith, the member, said, but of what
Jones, the reporter, thinks of Smith’s
speech and of Smith. Would-be manufac-
ture and fracture of political reputations
and attempts at King-making and govern-
ment by newspaper have been unpleas-
antly evident. And, unchecked by a Par-
liament which is often idle and always
in a hurry towards the end of one of its
short sessions, the audacities of non-
elected persons have become rampant.
The last Parliament sat for the last time
on July 1, 1943. Election day was
August 21, and the present Parliament
was opened on September 23. With that
ceremony counted in, the Senate has met
30 times for the transaction of public
business and the House 37 times, reckon-
ing that idiotic institution the “all-
nighter” as a single sitting. A list of sit-
tings and the time occupied at each, less
adjournments for meals and other tests,
is subjoined:
1943. Senate. House of Reps.
September 23 .. Ihr. 42min. 2hr. 19min.
„ 24 .. Ihr. 45min. 2hr. 42mm.
, 28 . . No sitting 3hr. 56mm.
„ 29 . . 4hr. 25min. 4hr. 31min.
„ 30 .. 2hr. 9min. No sitting.
October 6 .. .. No sitting 2hr. 18min.
.. No sitting shr. 18min.
„ 8 .. . . No sitting 3hr. 40min. •
12 .. .. No sitting Bhr.
13 .. .. shr. llhr. lOmin.
14 .. .. shr. 31min. 9hr.
„ 15 .. .. 3hr. 45min. 4hr. 53min.
1944.
February 9 .. 33min. 2hr. 53mm.
„ 10 2hr. 14min. 6hr. 28min.
11 .. No sitting shr. 59min.
„ 16 shr. 7min. 30min.
„ 17 . . shr. 30min. shr. 53min.
„ 18 .. 3hr. 45min. 4hr. 35min.
~ 23 . . shr. 7min. 6hr. 15min.
„ 24 . . shr. 27min. 6hr. 56min.
„ 25 . . 3hr. 29min. shr. 24min.
March 1 .. .. shr. 18min. 6hr. 43min.
„ 2 .. .. shr. 46min. 15hr. 6min.
(March 2-3)
„ 3 .. .. Bhr. 6min.
~ 7 .. .. No sitting 6hr. 6min.
„ 8 .. .. No sifting 7hr. 7min.
„ 9 .. .. No sitting 7hr. 4min.
„ 10 .. . . No sitting shr. 13min.
„ 14 .. .. 14min. 6hr. 18min.
„ 15 .. .. 2hr. 12min. 12hr. 15min.
16 .. .. shr. 23min. 4hr. 41min.
17 .. . . 4hr. 12min. 3hr. 40min.
„ 21 .. .. 6hr. 36min. shr. SStnin.
„ 22 . . .. 7hr. 30min. 9hr. 15min.
„ 23 .. .. 9hr. 46min. 9hr. 19min.
~ 24 .. . . 2hr. 15min. 2hr. 53min.
„ 28 .. .. shr. 51min. shr. 22min.
„ 29 .. .. 9hr. 51min. Bhr. 54min.
~ 30 . . .. Bhr. 15min. 21hr. 40min.
(March 30-31).
„ 31 .. .. 6hr. 7min.
So if kite-flying announcements are cor-
rect, and members are not to be
assembled again until ten days after R-
day, August 19, this Parliament will have
entered on its second year after election
with a record (minutes omitted) of 142
hours actually devoted to the nation’s
business in the Senate, and 239 hours in
the House —not quite six days in the
Senate and not quite 10 days in the
House: four six-hour sittings may be
rated a comfortable working week.
Yet it is asserted, with matchless impu-
dence, that this Parliament requires more
powers, not during the war—it has war-
time powers equal to those possessed by
the Parliaments of Britain, Maoriland and
South Africa and, except in one or two
particulars, greater than those possessed
by Congress —but after the war. And in
order that it may get these powers a very
costly and provocative plebiscite is being
forced on electors, who, service men and
civilians, have been required to vote at
a Commonwealth election, four State
Assembly elections and three State Coun-
cil elections in nine months. In point of
fact, the Commonwealth Parliament has
a great body of peace-time powers, some
of which —notably in the field of marriage
and divorce —it has never exercised. And
its war-time powers have not been availed
of to curb the excesses of union
bosses, or to restrain union mobs from
striking and loafing in defiance of the
need for commodities like coal and meat.
Mr. Curtin was himself “a Parliament
man” once. That was when he was a
private member, and when he was Leader
of the Opposition, and also during a very
brief period of his Prime Ministership.
On October 15, when he moved “that the
House, at its rising, adjourn to a date
and an hour to be fixed by Mr. Speaker
and notified to each member by telegram
or letter” (Mr. Speaker fixes what Mr.
Curtin has fixed already), Mr. A. G.
Cameron protested in these terms;
I am mindful of other days, when the
country was already at war, and when Mr.
Curtin, as leader of the Opposition, was
most emphatic as to the necessity for a
monthly meeting of the House. I recall
that - later, on a Friday morning, he agreed
on behalf of the Government to a pro-
posal to that effect. During the last Par-
liament, the general practice, when an
adjournment of the nature now proposed
was granted, was to place a maximum
time limit on the power of Mr. Speaker
to keep the House in recess. As the present
motion is worded, there is no such time
limit. It has been customary in times
gone by-for the Minister submitting such
a motion to acquaint the House of the
maximum period for which he proposed
that the House should remain in recess.
Mr. Curtin; We shall meet again early
in the New Year, unless an emergency
arises in the meantime.
Mr. Cameron: I look upon that as a
long recess. I agree wholeheartedly with
what the Prime Minister said from the
Opposition benches over, three and a halt
years ago, when he declared that in time of
war it was the duty of the Parliament to
keep a close watch on the actions of the
Executive.
It is also the duty of Parliament to
keep a close watch on the actions of the
swarm of officials to whom the Execu-
tive has delegated so much power. As
the “Quota Sold” inquiry, for one thing,
has revealed, this has not been done, and
it is not at all likely to be done if Labor
and its Communist allies get their way at
the referendum. That, indeed, will mean,
along with a vast extension of the author-
ity of the State over the individual, a
further decline in the usefulness and pres-
tige of Parliament, an abject subordi-
nation of elected members to government
by regulation and union decree, secured
and enforced by bureaucrats, doctrinaires
and mob-orators, many of them Com-
munists.
The Trial of Pucheux.
On March 20 the former Vichy Minister
of the Interior Pierre Pucheux—or
Pucheu —was shot in Algiers, a firing
squad carrying out the sentence im-
posed by a Court of the De Gaulle
Administration. The executed man had
been condemned as a “collaborationist
—that is, as one guilty of aiding the
occupying German enemy against his
country; as the Court found, a traitor.
“As a last wish” he asked for permis-
sion to give the order “Fire,” and
“scarcely had he uttered it when he fell.
The same quality of courage, when all
hope was gone, has come out in men
who certainly on their records deserved
to die. But whatever else Pucheux may
have been, he was a brave man ; in that,
if in nothing else, a promise of the France
that will rise again, unless his trial and
execution turn out to have been an omen
of worse to come on a wholesale scale
in France itself.
Except for the brief concession for his
death, there was not much in his favor
in the newspaper chronicles:
He was scarcely excelled even by Admiral
Darlan in his adulation of Germany and
hatred of England. He had close relations
with Berlin in negotiating for the forma-
tion of a cartel for the export of French
steel. His appointment as Minister for the
Interior in July, 1941, came chiefly to please
the Germans. 1
Thus a cabled account, damning him in
death. Perhaps he deserved it, though
in much that did not come here he would
seem to have had, at least, the semblance
of a case.
The trial was objectively reported in
full by the publication “France,” pub-
lished in London, and its accounts have
been examined and commented on by the
editor of “Nineteenth Century and
After.” There is a great deal more in
this documentation than an excited
exchange of insults and imprecations
stressed in newspaper reports of the trial.
According to the “Nineteenth Century”
editor’s comment, the British public,
“through the newspapers and the wire-
less,” was “encouraged to see in Pucheux
the hireling who selected the hostages
shot by the Germans at Chateaubriand.”
That was his crime over there, and it
would have been more than sufficient
warrant for his death if it had been true.
Completely false, it had to be withdrawn
in the Court itself. The doomed prisoner
—or the foredoomed —pointed out how
great was the odium concentrated against
him because of this charge ; but it had
been made and pressed, and, though after-
wards wholly withdrawn, “it continued to
pervade the atmosphere of the Court.”
It is pointed out that the trials of
Blum, Daladier and General Gamelin at
Riom were political, but no sentence was
passed. Even the Vichy Government
would not pass sentence in the circum-
stances —en presence de I’ennemi; and the
trials were called off, to the enemy’s
annoyance. No such considerations
counted in Algiers, where “all the wit-
nesses for the prosecution were Commu-
nists or Socialists.”
They admitted, under cross-examination,
that they had no proof of their charges,
though two of them confessed that they
had taken part in the Underground Council
of Resistance which had sentenced Pucheux
to death last autumn. The “sentence” was
passed when Pucheux was already under
arrest in North Africa. One of the wit-
nesses admitted that the sentence had been
passed after hardly any discussion at all,
that it had been based upon the alleged
complicity of Pucheux in the massacre or
Chateaubriand, and that it had been pro-
posed by the French Communist party.
Guiltless in that, Pucheux claimed—
“rightly, it would seem” —that he had, on
several occasions, on behalf
of condemned hostages and had saved
their lives.” It made no difference to
Pucheux’s fate, which might conceivably
have been sealed by one trend of the line
of his impassioned defence. He pointed
out that when he joined the Vichy Gov-
ernment in February, 1941, the vast
majority of Frenchmen were for Petain ;
that in those days both the United States
and Soviet Russia were represented at
Vichy (by Admiral Leahy and M. Bogo-
molov) ; that the Communists in France,
then and right up to when Russia was in-
vaded, were the greatest “collaboration-
ists” there.
In the circumstances attending the trial
it would seem that there was high cour-
age —which might, however, be called by
another name, considering that the man
may have been hastening his own sen-
tence —in this line of defence. There was
the same quality in Pucheux’s loyalty to
Petain, irrespective of what might be
thought either of him or of the Marshal.
He insisted that Petain worked to keep
“collaboration to a minimum,” and evi-
dence was brought forward to show that
he himself had “provided cover ? for
genuine resistance to the Germans.”^
“It was, in fact,” the “Nineteenth Cen-
tury” editor comments acidly, “made
clear that he had himself taken part in
that administrative sabotage which the
8.8. C. incessantly recommends to the
French in France”:
He helped in accumulating secret stocks
of arms and would appear to have been in-
strumental in preventing Darlan froni pro-
viding the Germans with facilities at Dakar
and Bizerta. He enopuraged General
Bethouard to “revolt” in North Africa
when the time should come and he himself
left France to join in the fight. That he
was accepted by General Giraud, and
that he was arrested as soon as he arrived
at' Casablanca, is one of the mpst shame-
ful episodes revealed in the trial.
There was more of Pucheux’s singular
courage in his eloquent final speech (it
cannot be called “moving,” at least as
far as the Court was concerned):
“I am oppressed by the extent to which
this trial goes beyond my person, which is
of no account to anyone except my family,
who are in the hands of the foe. The trial
goes to the very hearts of those Frenchmen
who never gave in but followed the
Marshal as long as they were sure they
were serving France. If the provisional
Government of France returns in the rear
of the armies with the same methods and
the same state of mind as today, I do not
give it a year before it is involved in worse
dissensions. If my life could be of use,
if it could redeem this awful period ot
reprisals which is dawning, then, however
unjust, I would say to this Court 'Take
my life.’ But I cannot believe that I alone
could appease such hatreds. I believe that
blood will call for more blood. When the
Government begins to massacre the Giron-
dins, it is on the road which leads inex-
orably to Thermidor. If you condemn me
your judgment will mark the prelude to
civil war. But I am at peace with my sell.
The “Nineteenth Century” editor’s
summing up was that, though Pucheux
was certainly a member of the Vichy
Administration during a period of re-
stricted “collaboration’ - with the enemy,
the evidence at the trial did not show that
he “tried to promote the victory of the
common foe.” Such a finding certainly
could never have been arrived at from
reports of the trial as read here. The
“Nineteenth Century” editor concluded:
For the propaganda and. the publicity
from London which led to the moral con-*
damnation of Pucheux in the eyes of the
world and may have affected the final ver-
dict itself, English money, English paper
and English wavelengths were used. The
whole Consultative Assembly was created
with English help and English encourage-
ment. All the more reason why English
opinion should have shown some conster-
nation at the partisan justice meted out at
Algiers.
But it seems illogical, surely, to have
expected such “consternation” or any-
thing of the kind. The jury for . moral
Verdicts in all such matters is the world
at large —here in Australia as well as
elsewhere —and on what informative evi-
dence are the moral verdicts arrived at?
On reports which are, at the best, frag-
mentary and rarely even intelligible or
coherent, and at the worst are a product
of the present prevalent journalistic con-
ception that views and news are one and
the same thing. That is to say, on propa-
ganda no more conducive to clear think-
ing and right conclusions than that of
Goebbels himself.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Independence Day.
Yesterday the citizens of the U.S.A.,
both at home and scattered throughout
the world in the greatest war in history,
celebrated Independence Day. July 4,
1776, is a momentous date in the history
of the race, for then there began an
experiment in “government of the people
by the people for the people” which,
though there have been trials, checks and
sorrows, has had great results.
Those eighteenth-century Americans
held only a small part of what their
republic was destined to hold. But what
they had they were willing to share, and
their doors were opened to whoever
might come. In the next 150 years people
of all races and creeds poured into the
United States. America laid its spell on
them, and oppressors in all countries have
come to know and fear the American
spirit.
Australians have good cause to bless the
work of the Founding Fathers, and to
admire the love of country evidenced in
the- bearing of the Americans among
them. And at a time when they are called
upon to worship false gods they would
do well to consider how mightily poli-
tical freedom and free enterprise have
contributed to the making of the Invin-
cible Republic.
Russians in Normandy.
“Russians are fighting in complete bat-
talions in the German defence of Nor-
mandy, Supreme Allied Headquarters
states.” This brief chronicle of one of
the most amazing developments of a war
which has had many amazing features
appeared in an early edition of the “Sun,”
published in the city where the Com-
munists have their Australian H.Q.
There had been a reference to a Turko-
man in German uniform being among
the prisoners taken by the Allies, along
with Czechs and Poles; and apropos of
the “complete battalions” (to which the
Melbourne “Herald” added the words
“and regiments”) it was “explained” that
“the Russians joined the Germans after
considerable pressure had been brought
on them.” No amount of pressure would
bring any complete battalion of Britons,
Americans, Canadians or New Zealanders
into the service of Hitler.
Perhaps Sydney people who read the
“Daily Telegraph” from dateline to im-
print, or have to, were not so staggered
at the bit about the “complete Russian
battalions” as were buyers of the first
edition of the “Sun.” One of the “Tele-
graph’s” Roving Reporters, Godfrey
Blunden, a very Russophile young man,
wrote after a sojourn in Russia that two
Cossack divisions were serving the Ger-
mans in Yugoslavia.
In an account of the fine achievement
of the Americans in the Cotentin Penin-
sula, a Sydney “Herald” correspondent,
Harold Austin, wrote: “On this sector”
—presumably one particular sector —
“Russian and Polish impressed troops,
under German officers and n.c.os., have
formed the bulk of the defending force.”
The after-the-war disposal of these fel-
lows adds to the burden of the Anglo-
American leaders.
* _
Warriors Return.
The little old vessel took three days on
the trip from Moresby to a North
Queensland port. Aboard her were 700
Diggers coming home on leave, some of
them after nearly two years in New
Guinea. They were packed like sardines
in a tin, for the boat would have been
overcrowded y/ith 250, but their spirits
were good.
They received two meals a day, one at
7 a.m. and one at 4 p.m.; bully beef and
biscuit. They were railed off from the
crew’s quarters, but those who man-
aged to get a peep into the crew’s eating
room saw the seamen eating chops and
sausages, with vegetables and other good
things. These things the Diggers had
dreamed about, having had a taste of
them just before the Commonwealth elec-
tion last year—the taste vanished after
the election.
Efforts were made to buy food from
mariners. And there were mariners will-
ing to sell rice at 4s. a dixie and bread
at 10s. a half-loaf.
The Diggers came ashore feeling some-
thing like Ulysses, “sad for forepast losses
but glad to have escaped at any rate.”
Somebody found a week-old newspaper
and a brown finger pointed to an adver-
tisement ;
Food is our job—a job equal in import-
ance to that which our fighting forces are
doing on every front. Food for Britain’s
invasion armies and civilians; fcfod for our
own forces; food for our Pacific allies!....
What you grow and what you save....
shortens the duration of the war Issued
by Commonwealth Food Control.
Thinking long thoughts the Diggers
headed for the railway station and the
south-bound train.
"Scientific" Dirt.
Doubtless to the delight of the Scientific
Workers who put on a Sydney conference
at which Communists were part of the
show and a Dr. Dark held forth on an
alleged wholesale sacrifice of life in
Britain, Dr. Ashby, “formerly Chairman
of the Australian National Research
Council and formerly Director of
the Commonwealth Scientific Liaison
Bureau,” got into print with an article
parts of which may be interpreted to
mean that Australia is in for a new
horror, the scientist-politician,
“The purpose of this article,” the
gentleman wrote, “is to explain why
scientific workers are becoming more and
more worried about what they call the
‘frustration’ of science, and why some
scientists of the highest standing are con-
sidering it their duty to leave their labora-
tories and to come out into the market-
place to fight for the fuller use of the
results of their work.”
Then Dr. Ashby gave what he de-
scribed as “examples of the failure of
Governments to use scientific know-
ledge.” One “example” was borrowed
from Dr. Dark, who was described as
having made “perhaps the most impres-
sive contribution” to the conference of
Scientific Workers, particularly by refer-
ring to “the effect of a means test on
mortality.”
Dr. Dark said: “When, in 1932, the
Conservative Government of Great Britain
was about to oppose the means test and cut
food relief by 10 p.c., the B.M.A. could
have issued a statement something like
this: ‘lt is not for us to say whether the
proposed economies are financially neces-
sary, but it is our duty to state that the
result will be the death, every year those
economies are in force, of nearly 30,000
people who without them would live. The
saving would reduce the income of nearly
four million people by ss. 6d. a week;
this reduction at the income-level of these
people means raising their deathrate from
21.01 per 1000 to 29.29.’ That statement
made on the authority of the 8.M.A.. ...
might possibly have saved the 200,000 lives
that were sacrificed t 0.... economy during
the next seven years.” v
It has been shown by quotation of
death statistics from the Statesmans
Year-Book (B. 7/6/’44) that no such
ghastly tragedy • .occurred. Actually,
British deathrates fell after the introduc-
tion of the means test. For 1931 they
were 12.3 per 1000 of population in Eng-
land and Wales and 13.3 in Scotland. The
average for the seven subsequent years,
1932 to 1938 inclusive, was 11.98 in Eng-
land and Wales and 13.24 in Scotland.
And in the worst of those eight years there
were 24,907 fewer deaths than there were
in 1929, before the means test was
thought of.
If “200,000 lives” had been “sacrificed
to economy,” death figures would
have shown substantial increases. “Nearly
30,000” is “nearly” equivalent to half
the actual number of deaths in Scot-
land during the period of the alleged cold-
blooded condemnation of 200,000 people
to death which the B.M.A. allegedly
might have prevented and didn’t prevent.
Nor was the Government that introduced
the means test a Conservative Govern-
ment. It was a national Government
headed by Ramsay MacDonald; and
among his colleagues were Snowden
(at first), J. H. Thomas and Sankey, who
had served in his Labor Ministry since
1929.
It is a damnable thing to bring and
repeat such charges, and that without
making a show of trying to prove the
unprovable, when Britain is bleeding.
A Presidential Candidate.
Compiled from the testimony of a
variety of witnesses:
Republican candidate for the U.S. Presidency,
on a vote of 1056 to one, with Governor Bricker,
of Ohio, as a running mate, Thomas E. Dewey
shows himself capable of understanding a
lesson. On December 1, 1939, he formally
announced that he was a candidate for the Re-
publican nomination, and he was subsequently
ditched. This time —while Willkie similarly an-
nounced himself a starter, and stumped the
country orating with the air of one who fancied
he had the nomination in the bag—Dewey
stayed mum, letting it be understood that he
was sticking by his earlier vow to see out the
full term of the New York Governorship, which
still has some time to run. Apparently there’s
a preference for the man who awaits “the call.”
Another thing favoring Dewey this time is
that he’s now four years older, and, as Presi-
dents go, young enough at that —42, a year
younger than Theodore Roosevelt was when,
from the Vice-Presidency, he succeeded to the
Presidency on the assassination of McKinley.
Dewey is 12 years under the average age of
Presidents at the time of their inauguration.
His age compares most strikingly with that of
Roosevelt, who, if his health, which seems to
have 1 been patchy of late, permits and he wants
a fourth term, would, on reinauguration, be
10 days short of 63.
Dewey has been described as “reactionary”
in an Australian sheet, “reactionary” being
one of those Leftist swearwords used to con-
jure up bogeys in the minds of mugs. He is
the very opposite of a “reactionary” in any
but the Leftist swearword use of’ the term.
There is a lot of the typical American in him.
He was born at Owosso (Mich.), son of the
editor-postmaster there, and is Republican by
inheritance. He became a national figure
(Continued on page 8.)
THE SHOW MUST GO ON—SOME TIME.
“Our leading man, John Curtin, has just returned from a highly successful world tour, excluding New Guinea, and with your kind attention he and
the entire strength of the company will positively appear before you—but not tonight.”


4 ■
&nly
a scrap of paper
. „ . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Re assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
k AN? CCNHV.L l, iMSUpAHCE CO LID A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello Douse, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins Douse, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PERKINS. General Manager
The MERCURY sim LATHE
Sole N.Z. Dist. Agents:
'A. M. Satterthwaite
& Co. Ltd.
Hereford St.. Christchurch
‘THE little GIANT
of the ihathe World
AVAILABLE FOR'CASH "or EASY TERMS
Manufactured by.
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co.pty. Ltd:
BRIDGE STREEL VALLEY:! BRISBANE.
For Victoria:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 28 Market St., Melbourne,
M
1
Sole N.S. W. f)ist. Agents;
Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.
139 Clarence Street, Sydney
FACING A PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
, . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
tn
'Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
when, as assistant and as acting State Attorney,
he fearlessly dedicated himself to and consum-
mated the dangerous job of prosecuting and
smashing a then-powerful New York gangster-
dom.
Dewey has said so little on foreign policy
that critics have alleged he hasn’t any; but it
was Dewey who, at the Republican forgather-
ing at Mackinac Island, advocated an Anglo-
American alliance at the heart of U.S. post-
war arrangements. Also, he endorsed the Ful-
bright Resolution; and the 1941 Republican
platform, which he inspired and may have
drafted, included American participation “with
other nations to secure the peace of the world,
by force if necessary.” He is described as
being “pragmatic, unillusioned and a gradualist
about the shape of the world to come and the
character and intentions of the other Powers.”
Republicans feel that if they can carry New
York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Illinois they will
elect the President this year, and they bank
on Dewey as the man who can do it. He is
certainly a very fine candidate.
POLITICAL POINTS
A Sydney Labor Council worthy
moodily suggested the possibility of a
Labor split in Queensland on the refer-
endum, and Premier Cooper tried to
laugh his fears away. There is a serious
Labor split in the Jeremiah’s own State,
the Lang group having come out for a
No vote. One of its grounds is that the
demand for full post-war powers has
been seized upon by the Communist party
as a means of “achieving its objective
through the capture of the Official Labor
machine and the A.C.T.U., both at •
present within its grasp.” With a scratch
organisation and a little-known team
apart from Lang himself and Mrs. Fowler
(both had towering majorities) the Lang
group polled strongly at the N.S.W.
election.
After 28 years Hughes has been invited
by the Labor bosses and the Commos
to throw his weight into their referen-
dum “fight” ; Spender, too. Poor old
Billy put Constitutional questions to the
vote in 1911, 1913 and 1919, and con-
scription questions in 1916-17, and lost the
lot. He could scarcely have felt as bad
about any of them as he did when he got
the Labor-Corn, invitation.
Giving evidence in Bardell # Pickwick,
Sam Weller quoted plaintiff as saying
“What a werry gen’rous thing it was of
Dodson and Fogg to take up the case on
spec, and charge nothing at all for costs
unless they got ’em out of Mr. Pickwick.”
Angry Sydney barristers are saying that
this form of generosity is provided for in
a bill slammed on the Statute Book by
Captain Martin, the N.S.W. Attorney-
General. Captain Martin, who seems to
have plenty of time to spare from his
military duties, protests that this is a foul
libel on a yoomanitarian piece of legis-
lation.
The first “business” in the reopened
Victorian Assembly was a debate on a
Labor motion for the adjournment of the
House “to call attention to” a Dunstan
ban on the Moonee Valley races, issued
because he had been advised that his
transport services were short of staff and
rolling stock as well as being dreadfully
worried about coal. At the same time
“the directors of the Sydney Turf Club,”
a State Labor war-time improvisation,
“applied for an extension of time in
which to make a decision as to the race-
courses they desire to acquire” and get
Commonwealth Government sanction for
borrowing the thumping amount required.
Then “the Federal Treasurer asked
patriotic bodies not to make appeals dur-
ing the next Victory Loan drive.” Noth-
ing about asking four State Governments
to stop lotteries, although their lottery
promoters rake in ten times as much as
goes into patriotic funds when war loans
are on the market.
The original Labor members had high
ideals for the workers, aiming, as they
put it, at “the cultivation of an enlight-
ened and self-reliant community.” Under
the deadly blight of materialism which
has settled on the Labor party, the ten-
dency now is to make gamblers of them,
and if they elect to be boozers also no
bygone zeal for “the nationalisation of
the liquor traffic” stands in the way.
In Adelaide on his return from West-
tralia, Dr. Evatt told reporters that the
West would Carry his referendum. He’d
better not back his opinion—if it is his
opinion—with a month’s salary.
The weary, dreary Pyjama Girl affair
ended at Melbourne in a manslaughter
verdict and a six years’ sentence. For
nearly 10 years the N.S.W. Police Depart-
ment had the case in hand, its lumbering
investigations extending to almost every
land where English is spoken. In the
end the killer, “Tony” to the Commis-
sioner, Told All in the Commissioner's
office ; “Tony” had been a familiar object
as waiter and hat attendant in the Com-
missioner’s favorite food-joint. Meanwhile
the Police Department had failed to catch
an astonishing number of other killers,
and the relations between the boss-cop
and the Police Association led to Premier
McKell taking charge of the force him-
self. The boss-cop is grappled to his job
by a Stevens Act forbidding his removal
except by Parliamentary vote. This
should never occur again.
As the first month of the Normandy
invasion closed, the Sydney firemen’s
union went on strike for overcoats, add-
ing demands for the dismissal of the
Board of Fire Commissioners and the
expulsion from the A.L.P. of chairman
YOU MUSTN’T GRUMBLE!
T. J. Smith, a former Sydney Labor poli-
tician. The soldiers in Normandy have
had to fight drenched to the skin,
but there is no record of their downing
weapons and demanding the removal of
Eisenhower, Montgomery, Bradley and
Dempsey. All the same, the overcoats
issue may suggest a new one to work-
stoppers on the N.S.W. coalfields, still
being implored by Forde to dig out an-
other 20,000 or 30,000 tons a week so as
to avert rationing.
Replying to friendly protests against
Churchill’s visit to Normandy, Brendan
Bracken, the Information Minister,
argued that it was the old warhorse’s
duty, as Minister of Defence, “to see
things for himself,” adding that “every
Prime Minister should visit the front-line
and see the troops.” There is one, also
Minister of Defence, who hasn’t done it.
Though for nearly two months Moscow
correspondents had to suppress them-
selves, the daily communique reading
“Nothing to report,” the resumption of
hostilities found them at the top of their
form and trapping the enemy at a great
rate. One young gentleman even dis-
covered from far away that “the ava-
lanche of fire” so unnerved “German
officers” that they “deserted Their men
and fled to the rear.” In the Cotentin
Peninsula the report was that German
officers forced rank-and-filers to keep on
fighting when all hope was lost and
“machine-gunned men who tried to sur-
render.” An obvious chance for Com-
munists to explain that the Soviet system
has an alchemy which makes dunces of
German commanders and cocktails of
common soldiers who, up against divi-
sions from capitalist countries, prove
themselves no mean adversaries.
Perhaps thinking, perhaps uneasily, of
the referendum, Queensland Premier
Cooper went into a long and somewhat
involved analysis of the State election
figures to prove that his party, which has
a large majority of seats, polled a major-
ity of votes. The “Courier-Mail” replied
drily that “Labor won *3l of the 55 con-
tested seats with a Labor vote of 225,000,
while the remaining 278,000 votes elected
only 24 candidates. If figures mean any-
thing, these mean that Labor got a major-
ity on a minority vote.” That can’t
happen at the referendum.
Queensland sugar-growers are worried
over the loss of technical staff. For years
before the war highly-skilled personnel
was underpaid, and now about half are
in the services or on Commonwealth jobs.
The State Government has been reminded
that after the war many of the best may
not be willing to come back without a
good deal more money. In other sugar-
growing countries experiment stations are
owned and staffed by the industry. In
Queensland they are Government affairs,
and State Governments are notorious for
starving agricultural education.
Dick Keane stepped off the ’plane in
New Zealand with great news for
reporters—-though black-marketing had
threatened to assume immense propor-
tions in Australia, it had been “largely
eradicated.” If Keane believes it why
did he wait until he got to N.Z. to say it?
In a couple of articles called “Our
JFuture in Films,” Prof. A. K. Stout,
chairman of the N.S.W. Documentary
Films Committee, outlined some of the
mistakes and disadvantages from which
Australian production of such films
suffers. He also had something to say
on the fate of documentary films imported
from Britain. Some had been given to
departments ; some had not been shown
at all because they didn’t apply here:
Others, like “Dockers” and “Night
Shift,” are withheld because their theme
is contrary to Government policy.
So they would bruise the sensitive souls
of wharfiea and coalminers.
Odd that the only legal and non-violent
loss of territory and population in this
war, which has seen so many countries
overrun, should have been suffered by
the mild King of Denmark. The Ice-
landers have snapped the ties which
bound them for centuries to his king-
dom. They have been threatening to do
it since 1918, and the German occupation
of Denmark in April, 1940, followed a
month later by the arrival of British
troops in Iceland and, 14 months later,
by the advent of U.S. soldiers—-still there
—decided them to clinch the business.
The island has a population of 124,000
and a two-chamber Parliament, with four
parties in each. One of them calls itself
the Socialist-Communist party, but it has
had small influence on the course of
events ; the movement for independence
came from the Conservatives.
Ward, Calwell and Lang ought to read
Liddell Hart’s Why Don’t We Learn from
History ? for in it the captain who was
so wrong about the Maginot Line pro-
claims himself an anti-conscriptionist. He
argues that “conscription does not fit the
conditions of modern warfare,” and
“serves to precipitate war, but not to
accelerate it.” And mentioning “the col-
lapse of the Russian, Austrian and Ger-
man armies, as well as the decline of
the French and Italian armies,” he pays
a magnificent compliment to Monash’s
men:
By contrast, the best fighting force in the
fourth year of war was, by general recog-
nition, the Australian Corps, the force
which had rejected conscription, and in
which there was the least insistence on un-
thinking obedience.
But it hadn’t rejected conscription, though
the civilians had.
Communist bosses do a tremendous
lot of travelling, and, unlike service men
on leave and their womenfolk, they
never seem to have any trouble about rail
priorities. The financing of these jour-
neys and of the costly output of propa-
ganda remains one of the scarlet mys-
teries.
Before his victorious election Playford
visited N.S.W. and went down a coal-
mine. According to Adelaide “Adver-
tiser,” he found the men “intensely loyal
and enlistments from the district strongly
supported the opinion.” But one-tenth
of the five-day week lost is through
strikes and absenteeism, and Playford
says this is why;
First, the doctrine of direct action has
been instilled since the men first entered the
mine as youths The doctrine of the right
to strike has almost become a mania. When
such an issue is raised, every other con-
sideration, including Australia’s crying need
for coal, appears to be forgotten. Second,
for the present, income tax The miner
has found that the more he earns the
higher the rates he has to pay. Third, the
mine union secretary’s job is subject to
election every few months, hence the secre-
tary has to keep on his toes to keep rivals
out.
A logical enough summing-up. Has
Forde heard of it?
Dr. Evatt found an energetic “anti”
league in Westralia, Party voting at the
State, election was nearly equal, and the
instinct to vote down proposals emanat-
ing from “the exorbitant East” is gener-
ally stronger in the West than party spirit.


TO JO LIKES YOU TO WASTE MATERIALS
Careless use of your Exide Batteries helps the enemy. It wastes vital materials needed by
our Armed Forces who depend upon Exide for over 100 services. Take no chances with
your house-lighting equipment and car and radio batteries. Immediately you suspect the
need for repair, replacement or recharging, consult your Exide deader. Remember—extra
care of your Exide means months of extra service.
HousE-ucHTmd BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
%
\WDav\V^ c;iX
amwa
PERSONAL ITEMS
Tom Elder Barr-Smith the younger, in
Adelaide, shows an intention to take up
wider public work than his late namesake
and father or his grandfather Robert,
one of the founders of Elder, Smith and
Co. Each of them in turn, while exer-
cising enormous influence but refusing a
title, devoted himself mainly to pastoral
affairs and to the Uni. The present T.E.
had experience at Geelong Grammar,
Cambridge and in the U.S.A.- Still young,
he is already chairman of one or two
pastoral cos, and on the board of Elder
Smith. And he has just accepted a seat
also on Adelaide City Council.
A man from Poland:
Frith’s victim, H. R. Krygier, is the only
Polish national in Australia entitled to wear a
war correspondent’s uniform. He is the Aus-
tralian representative of the Polish Telegraph
Agency, a position far beyond the realms of his
expectations when he graduated in law at
Warsaw University in 1939 and began to write
articles on foreign affairs for the Polish press.
The ink was scarcely dry on his first efforts
when Hitler’s hordes descended on his country.
Krygier walked across Poland through the tide
of invasion to Lithuania in the autumn of 1939.
Then he met the Russian tide of invasion and*
sidled through it to Moscow, whence, speaking
Russian to his great advantage, he succeeded
in getting to Tokyo—-and out of it just in time
to see Manila in the blackout and arrive in
Australia about half a jump ahead of Pearl
Harbor. Now he is interpreting the Australian
scene for overseas Polish papers in Europe,
America and the Middle East, while waiting
his opportunity to get to the South-west
fighting front with the A.I.F. units which shared
POLISH PRESSMAN.
the glories of Tobruk with the Polish detach-
ment now helping General Alexander to chase
Marshal Kesselring out of Italy.
The most consistently borrowed man
in Australia must be Stephen Lackey
Kessell, M.Sc., Commonwealth Timber
Controller. He has been on loan some-
where or other ever since he can remem-
ber, Originally Conservator of Westralian
Forests, he was borrowed by N.S.W. to
advise it on its leafy cover, was lent to
the Commonwealth to deal with soil-
conservation and has just been passed
on to the State Electricity Commission of
Victoria to devise ways and means of
saving Yallourn and its brown coal from
the bushfire menace. Kessell will do the
job if anybody can. A member of the First
A.1.F., he gained the Diplorha of Forestry
at Oxford, was first president of the In-
stitute of “Foresters of Australia, and is
chairman of the Soil Conservation Com-
mittee. He is the son of a N.S.W. parson,
and was educated at Adelaide and
Oxford.
“J.”: Had an 83rd birthday. Bill Kin-
near, doyen of Victorian saddlers. At one
time there were over 700 saddlers in Mel-
bourne ; now they number about 50, and
most are old men. At the last meeting
of the Saddlers and Harness Makers’
Association only four attended. Today
Bill is the oldest working saddler in Vic-
toria ; and his son Roy is the last appren-
tice to saddle- and harnessing-making.
Kinnear’s shop is a meeting place for
“horsy” men. Old coach-drivers (Bill is
auditor for their association), old-time
jockeys and men who remember “Kirk’s”
in its heyday and others drop in to hear
Bill’s whimsical humor.
Commodore Collins “of the Sydney”
having moved up to command the Aus-
tralian Squadron, his command of Shrop-
shire has been taken over by Captain H.
S. Showers, one of the first Jervis Bay
College cadets. Born in Melbourne,
Showers had cruiser, submarine and de-
stroyer experience in the last war, and
in the present fight commanded Hobart at
Guadalcanal.
Air-Commodore Arthur Henry Cobby,
D. 5.0., D.F.C., M.1.D., A.D.C., one of
Australia’s most decorated airmen, has
had a C.B.E. added to ribbons for out-
standing services in the S.-w. Pacific
area. For 18 months he has been air
officer commanding in one of the most
active sections of the R.A.A.F. operations,
and that includes the preparations for the
Milne Bay and. Buna offensives. Born
in 1894 at Prahran, Melbourne, and edu-
cated at the University College, Brighton,
he was an ace in the last war, and was*
subsequently Controller of Operations
for Civil Aviation. He has had a great
deal to do with the Empire Air Training
scheme.
A fiery colonel:
In the news lately because an Australian
Government —or an Australian Minister —re-
fused his request to publish a paper here for
circulation among his country’s troops in these
parts, Colonel McCormick, of the Chicago
“Tribune,” is sworn by, instead of at, by
members of his literary staff. One or two that
The Bulletin has met have had a great word
for him, and, according to an “American
Mercury” writer, McCormick’s relations with his
staff are, in general, paternalistic. As an ex-
ample of this, witness a big staff shivoo on the
colonel’s estate, called Caligtiy after a battle in
which the colonel took part in the last war.
The staff all forgathered for some time, there
was still no sign of the boss. At last a huge
float drew into the grounds. A ramp at the back
was lowered, and the colonel, who’d been
mounted astride his horse inside, rode out,
circled the staff-covered field, saluted, and rode
back into the float. The ramp was drawn up,
the colonel was whisked away, and the staff
festivities began. On the other hand, the
fieriness that’s a noted element in the
“Tribune” is not wanting in the colonel on
occasion. When Edmond Taylor, a “Tribune”
correspondent in Europe, cabled his suspicion
that Rumania was about to be invaded, back
cabled the colonel: “Your fantastic Rumanian
story, hysterical tone, and your recent cable and
other vagaries indicate you, along with Knicker-
bocker, Mowrer and others, are victims of mass
psychosis and are hysterically trying to drag
U.S. into war. Suggest you join Foreign Legion
or else take rest cure in sanitarium in neutral
country until you regain control of your nerves
and recover confidence in yourself. Until then
file no more.” As it happened, Taylor was
right.
“H.W.M.”: Frank Valentine Mason,
accountant and estate manager, who has
passed on in Melbourne after topping
fourscore, was the Pepys of his profes-
sion. He kept a very full diary of all his
interviews, writing it up at night and
adding his impressions of the party inter-
viewed. As he touched commercial life
from many angles his opinions of some
of his contemporaries would prove most
enlightening should the diary ever see
the light of day.
Auckland gets a good man from Adel-
aide in J. W. Stackhouse, of New Zealand
Insurance. He has had ten years in S.A.,
and before that was manager in Shanghai,
Hong Kong, Singapore and Tokyo. Fire-
fighting always was, and still is, a strong
sideline of his, and the Adelayle Brigade
presented him with a helmet as a memento
at the farewell dinner., John Parry moves
from Perth to succeed Stackhouse in
S.A.
They’ve always been pretty keen on
good music round Newcastle (N.S.W.),
and they get an extra-good one in that
line with Allen McCristal, now looking
after 2NA and 2NQ programmes. With
the help of his wife —formerly Dorothy
Gadsby, who has often broadcast piano
recitals —McCristal established the College
of Music at Townsville (Q,). He also
toured the northern State extensively con-
ducting music exams, for Queensland
University, and did likewise for the Uni-
versity of W.A., as well as appearing at
many army concerts in the West. Born
in Sydney, McCristal was originally
headed for engineering, but plans were
changed when he won the Crichton-Smith
Scholarship at the Conservatorium. It’s
had one disadvantage. He used to be
addicted to carpentry and cricket, but
had to give them up because they’re liable
to make fingers useless for music.
In South Aus. politics—off and on —
for the past quarter of a century, new
S.A. Minister of Agriculture G. F. Jen-
kins trained for his present post at Rose-
worthy, then on his own property, after
that as chairman of directors of Wirra-
G. F. JENKINS.
minna station and as president of the
Graziers’ Federal Council and the S.A.
Stockowners’ Assoc. He held the same
portfolio back in 1922, was beaten in
1924, in again in 1927, out again in 1930
for three years, then in again and there
since. •
R. W. Robson has trodden on Ward’s
corns by championing the indenture sys-
tem in Papua and New Guinea, and
declaring that he would rather see the
administration of both territories trans-
ferred to Britain or the U.S.A., “or, better
still, to a Pacific Regional Council,” than
remain the Australian Government’s
plaything. Busy with tongue and pen,
Roberts edits the “Pacific Islands
Monthly,” “Power Farming” and “Cur-
rent Problems,” and broadcasts frequently
from the A.B.C. on Pacific Islands affairs.
His dispatches are featured in 8.8. C.
service programmes.
Round at the R.S.L. h.q. in Sydney
they’ll tell you that in the time of the old
militia there wasn’t a better instructor in
the whole outfit than the chap who’s now
Major J. L. A. Kelly. One who certainly
looks the part, Major Kelly has seen
present-war service in both the Middle
East and New Guinea. Adjutant to the
2/13th in 1940, he was a staff captain in
the 20th Brigade for a while before re-
MAJOR J. L. A. KELLY.
turning to the 2/13th for El Alamein.
He had a “mention” for tiptop work at
Tobruk.
“L.C.”: The writer of the par. credit-
ing Jack Fletcher with being mainly re-
sponsible for A. L. Gordon’s old home
being now one of South Australia’s
national parks (B. 17/5/’44) couldn’t
have heard ever of Councillor Krummell.
Through Krummell’s efforts over 20 years
ago a committee was formed, the home
put into good shape, the property fenced,
water laid on to the garden and cottage,
tree-planting done and so forth. The
public and committee spent about £4OO
in restoring the poet’s old home.
Reported missing after air operations
over Europe, Flight-Sergeant Peter Knox,
only son of Brigadier E. G. Knox, man-
aging director of the Melbourne “Argus.”
Born at Neutral Bay, Sydney, the lad was
in his first year m arts at Melbourne
University when the war started. He was
18 when he enlisted.
Henry J. Craig, to be a Commonwealth
Conciliation Commissioner in Westralia,
was S.M. at Fremantle from 1924 and
Industrial Magistrate for the Perth area.
He has chaired numerous boards, and had
a lot to do with man-power and “conchy”
appeals. Born at Inverness (Scotland),
he was 21 when he came to W.A. as an
assistant Clerk of Courts. Later he was
magistrate in various country districts.
Before W.A. got its Uni. and Law School,
Craig was secretary to the Law Society,
which did what it could for young legal
aspirants. A great reader, he has feasted
on the philosophers from Socrates to
Professor Murdoch.
E. W. Cook, retiring at 67 from Adel-
aide Fire Brigade, has been “dined” by
officers and men, separately, as proof of
his all-round popularity. He claims that
his brigade service, since 1895, may be
the longest in Australia.
Frederick Charles Henry Thomas, a
Melbourne furniture warehouseman, left
over a quarter of a million.
Into the silence:
In Hobart, Gordon Harbord Walshe, City
Engineer for me past six years. He designed
most of Hobart's sewerage scheme.
In Hobart, at 48, Selwyn H. Findlay, a
director of Tasmania’s largest musical ware-
house and a founder of Lassie’s first commer-
cial radio station.
As a result of a street accident' at Geelong
(Vic.), Harry T. Pride, at 75. He was senior
vice-president of the Geelong District P. and A.
Society and its oldest member. He’d been
with it for 60 years and for over 40 on its
executive. A son is with the R.A.A.F. in Eng-
land.
In Sydney, at 72, James Taylor, C.8.E.,
Chevalier of the Legion of Honor; president
of the Australian Olympic Federation and
Amateur Swimming Association; member of
the latter for over half a century and its presi-
dent'for 33 years. Born at Gosford (N.S.W.),
he started out in Sydney as an accountant.
He was officially present at the Olympic Games
at Antwerp, Paris, Los Angeles and Berlin.
L. Duff, of the Amateur Swimming Assoc.,
summed up on him well: “More than any other
man he was the embodiment of amateurism.”
At 61, in Melbourne, James Leslie Batman
Weire, a great-grandson of Melbourne’s foun-
der. His grandfather, William Weire, was the
first town clerk of Geelong and married Bat-
man’s daughter. A son, Captain L. B. Weire,
is in the A.I.F.
At Narrandera (N.S.W.), at 77, John Alfred
Culley, of Yoorooga and Woodbine Park
(Crookwell), one of Riverina’s best-known
sheepmen. He began as a cattle drover in the
old Albury days, was overseer at Nowranie and
Momalong, then manager and stud classer for
the Brookong, Goolgumbla and Burrabogie
merino studs. He judged at Sydney and Ade-
laide and in Tasmania.
In Sydney, Mrs. Z. Aronson, foundation
member of the Red Cross in N.S.W. and a
great worker for charities over .many years.
In Adelaide, at 73, leading agricultural
scientist Professor A. J. Perkins. Born in Tunis,
trained* at Montpelier School of Agriculture
(France), he came to S-A. as Govt, viticulturist
in 1892. A past principal of Roseworthy
Agric. College and S.A. Director of Agriculture,
he gave the S.A. wine industry new pruning and
cultural methods, and wheat-breeding, lamb-
raising and pasture also felt his influence.
In North Sydney, Dr. Arthur Ernest
D’Ombrain. A small, alert, witty Irishman —
Wicklow was his county—he came of old
Huguenot stock, and had been brought to Vic-
toria when a small child. He took a medical
degree at the Melbourne University, and sub-
sequently studied ophthalmic science in London
and Vienna, after which he came to Sydney and
hung out his shingle as an eye specialist. He
was the oldest eye-doctor in Sydney—77 when
he passed out —and was an honorary surgeon
of Sydney Hospital for close on 20 years. He
was a member of the Linnean Society, one of
the founders of the Royal Australian Ornitho-
logical Union, and a member of the Wild Life
Preservation Society. What he didn’t know
about Australian flowers and birds wasn’t worth
knowing.
In Sydney, at 69, F. J. Walker, founder of
the meat-exporting business carrying his name
and managing director of half-a-dozen other
chilling, preserving and pastoral cos., includ-
ing the Sydney Meat Preserving concern. He
sent the first successful shipment of chilled beef
from Australia to Britain in 1932. A father to
those who worked for him, Walker was never-
theless not afraid to take a stand for the rights
of the wage-payer and for the freedom of en-
terprise. He will be missed in many places.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clooter”: The Swedes have taken to
eating rosebuds to replace vitamin C in
their diet. Dried rose berries, which we
call “hips,” are ground into a flour after
going through a drying process. The war
has cut off fresh-fruit supplies, hence the
need. “Hips” from the dog rose are
reckoned the best, and I fondly recall
the bright-red show of them on the wild
briar about Camden and on the New
England (N.S.W.). If I can get the “go”
sign from Man-power, Shipping, Supply,
D.1.P., Food Control and a few others
I’m thinking of setting up in business,
with a direct export to any country short
of vitamin C. But I suppose by the time
I got through filling in all the necessary
forms and seeing all the necessary blokes
and answering all the necessary ques-
tions, Eddie Ward would break out and
want to nationalise the industry. It’s a
hard world.
* * * *
“A.J.K.”: The prisoner, bareheaded,
stood alongside escort and witnesses, fac-
ing our stern Warrant Officer Disci-
plinary. The W.O.D. drew himself up
to his full five-foot seven and barked
“Party, right turn! Quick march ; lef,
righ’, lef’, righ’ ” The file snaked into
the C.O.’s inner sanctum. Then the
“Never mind how I got here-why haven't you been home on leave ?”
order: “Party, halt! Right turrrrn.”
Silence for a second, then the command-
ing officer, impressive and solemn, looked
up slowly from the charge sheet before
him. “Are you number one million and
ninety, Leading Aircraftman FitzMertle,
Horace Jacob?” he commenced. “Yes,
sir ” A pause. “You are charged under
the Air Force Act, Section 40, Cqnduct
to the Prejudice of Good Order and Air
Force Discipline, in that you, at 1600
hours on May 17, did negligently
Look out! Catch him!” The prisoner
had slumped sideways in a faint, lurched
against the escort and flopped to the
floor before anyone could catch him.
Escort and witness bundled the sagging
weight awkwardly into the orderly-room,
leaving the. squadron-leader mopping a
fevered brow. I know —I was the escort.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Few Melburnians who recently
shivered in the coldest June morning for
seven years know where their Weather
Bureau is situated. It is a quaint, old-
style mansion on the corner of Victoria-
street and Drummond-street, Carlton,
hard by the Trades Hall. Its name is
Frosterley, and previous to 190 S, when
the bureau went into occupation, it was
the surgery of a Dr. Snowball.
* * * *
“S.G,”: My friend the window-cleaner
uses methylated spirits in the water to
put a polish On the glass.
Three mornings running the
bottle vanished from the win-
dow sill and the same some-
what dilapidated individual
was observed in suspicious
proximity thereto. On the
fourth morning the cleaner
dropped some metho. into
the bucket, then slipped the
bottle in <feis hip pocket and
went blithely to work. The
s.d.i. passed behind him and
the cleaner grinned to him-
self, automatically putting a
hand round to feel the bottle.
It was gone. By the time
he’d got clear of the window
the s.d.i. had disappeared. It
just shows,” remarked the
cleaner, “how smart y’ can
be if y’ haveter.”
“Bo”: Let Corporal Knollpfeifer, A
Company, 736th Grenadier Regiment,
step forward and take a bow. According
to a correspondent, the corporal when
captured in a Normandy beachhead area
was “carrying a paper signed by his O.C.
reading: ‘I award Corporal Knollpfeifer
seven days’ detention because he failed
in his duty in that when n.c.o. in charge
of a working party he did lie down on
the grass and fall asleep.’” Well, well!
And to think that not so many years
ago a German private was run through
with a sword on a Berlin footpath by a
Prussian officer because he wouldn’t step
into the gutter! Being asleep at one’s
post is, even in the armies of the effete
democracies, liable to bring the slum-
berer anything up to 20 years of clink.
The indication that heads, already square,
have also gone soft encourages the hope
that some day Private Hans may give his
bullet-headed Prussian general a hearty
kick in the slats, and at his subsequent
court-martial be presented with a bunch
of roses and a merit certificate.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: What made our radio an-
nouncers think that robot —the term has
been brought into the news by the Ger-
man pilotless ’planes —is a French word
with a silent final consonant? If it is
anything it is Czech, the conception of a
mechanical man that could walk and talk
having been introduced by Karel Kapek,
the Czech playwright, in his play
“R.U.R.” (Rossum’s Universal Robots).
Anyhow, the word is singularly inappro-
priate for a pilotless ’plane that is, in
effect, merely an aerial torpedo. Kapek’s
satire was actuated by a fear that men
might be turned into machines by mass
propaganda.
* * * *
“Zake” on a priceless hoax:
“Angry Penguins,” a South Australian publi-
cation devoted to the writings of the ultra-
moderns, received 16 lengths of very free
verse, “The Darkening Ecliptic, ’ from one
Ethel Malley. Ethel wrote that her brother
Ern, a Sydney garage mechanic and insurance
salesman, had died at 25. She had come across
“I risked me life to get that Jap flag for you.”
"Thanks , Bert , but why didn't you get an Australian one!”
some poems he had written, and had sent
along for an evaluation of their worth. Dm
the poems, she timidly asked, possess any
merit? . ~ r
Any merit! Why, a co-editor found on
subjecting them to profound analysis that Ern
Malley ranked as “one of the two giants ol con-
temporary Australian poetry.” And out came
a special autumn commemorative issue or Ern
Malley’s works, complete with a biography, a
eulogy and an elegy. The fact that nobody has
yet been found who can tell what the elegy
is all about is beside the point. Doesn t the title
say it is an “elegiac,” addressed to the de-
parted genius of geniuses, Ern Malley? .
The Angry Penguins were not' alone in men
appreciation of the humble mechamc-cw/n-
-salesman’s “poems.” A Lecturer in Austra-
lian Literature was among their admirers and
“a United States army poet” sent them to New
York for publication in an anthology. .
The juiciest bait was a “poem” which in-
cluded these lines:
I have been bitter with you, my brother.
Remembering that saying of Lenin when the
shadow
Was already on his face: The emotions are
not skilled workers.”
That bit was irresistible! The line as well as
the hook was swallowed then, and the Angry
Penguins were trying to digest the sinker when
it was cruelly admitted by two ex-Fort-street
School (Sydney) boys, now Diggers, that they
were “Era Malley.” In cold fact the poems
were their .joint work, concocted in one after-
noon by weaving misquotations and hap-
hazardly chosen phrases and cliches with de-
liberately fashioned honsense: even the Lenin
quotation was “phony.” Their explanation
of why they wrote the “poems” was a model of
clear thinking and crisp writing To Lieut.
James McAuley and Cpl. Harold Stewart, joint
debunkers of Bosh and Blah and Blathei,
earnest thanks!
* * * *
“Cap. P.”: That Melbourne magistrate
who expressed the view that the Crown
should seek another brand for its prop-
erty since the broad arrow has nasty links
with our early history needn’t worry.
The rising generation, well fed on a
Hollywood diet, recognises only broad
contrasting horizontal stripes as the mark
of infamy. Witness my four-year-old,
clad in a blue-and-white-striped pullover,
who was told by a slightly older child
that “anyone wearing that thing looks
like he was in jail.”
* * * *
At the “Quota Sold” inquiry
in Sydney it came out that at least two
returned soldiers were refused permission
to open up in legitimate business after
discharge from the army. Yet, in my
street, there is a very lucky cove who,
with his peace-time job cut down, seem-
ingly had no difficulty in acquiring a
bookmaker’s license for Rand wick and
a grand, high-priced car, petrol allow-
ance and all. “My guess is that it s lucky
not to be a returned man in this country.
* * * *
“A Major”: Many kind things have
been said about A.B.C.’s Sydney sym-
phony orchestra by visiting conductors
(and some very dreadful things, too, by
some of them, in moments of rage), but
no tribute has carried quite the ring of
sincerity contained in that of Eugene
Ormandy The conductor from Phila-
delphia had a recording made of a recent
hg promises that j t w in be broadcast
throughout the U-S .A. In a way that’s a
t r ib u te to Ormandy, too.
„. * * *
“Petermac”: A publican I knew
eschewed cold tea but still avoided in-
toxication from drinks shouted by gener-
rnstniners (B 28/6/’44) He kept a
? u s <customers (B. b P d
bottle of olive oil behind the counter AUU
poured a thin coating of it on top or ail
his drinks His theory was that the oil
prevented the fumes from rising and fog-
ging his brain, so that at the end of the
busiest day he remained as steady as a
rock.
* * * *
“Pip” on a new-style wanderer:
After four years or more of practice the
average soldier is an adept hitchhiker and will
set out on long trips without the least trepida-
tion. The weekly stand-down day sees scores
of soldiery on the roads bound for townships
or lady friends up to 100 miles away, with no
set plan of getting there and less certainty of
getting back. Occasionally the luxury of a civvy
car is fluked, but mostly the journey is in the
back of a bumpy utility or springless t'hree-
lonner, and seven or eight changes of vehicle
for different stages of the journey are by no
means uncommon. In the early days of the
war the game was dead easy. The hitchhiker
could pick and choose, and a car without a
radio was allowed to pass unchallenged, prefer-
ence being given to speedy sports models or
straight-eight sedans. Petrol restrictions ended
all that, and now even garbage trucks are wel-
comed. Vehicles with gas-producer attach-
ment -are regarded with suspicion, for they
always seem to need re-charcoaling about two
minutes after a lift is given, and the soldier,
volunteering assistance, reaches his goal with
the complexion of a chimney sweep. Hitching
has a definite technique, and experienced ex-
ponents select a straight stretch of road with
a slight down grade. Hills and curves are
shunned. The thumb jerk is made when the
car is well back, allowing the driver time to
make up his mind. Standing ,by* the roadside
is fruitless; the hitcher must prove his good in-
tentions by walking in the required direction, a
slight limp being a decided asset. Many a
soldier, going through, has made the Queens-
land to Victoria trip, and one private started
well up north and finished in Adelaide. vThe
C.O. let him off at a fiver and seven days,' and
at the end of the seven days gave him a stripe.
UNFORGIVABLE.
“Melbourne had its third racelesa Saturday be-
cause of the coal shortage ; according' to a sporting
writer turf addicts are ‘seething with indignation
at Dunstan.”
Among a Roman Cassar’s worst offences
Was disregarding the insistent claims
From those he ruled for panem et circenses,
The popular demand for bread and games
When that fierce cry about the land was break-
ing . ■ „ , .
The man who failed attentive ears to lend
Was generally reckoned to be taking
Risks of a sticky end.
Twould seem we alter little down the ages;
Modern as well as medieval man
In querulous remonstrances engages
Unless he’s sport to supplement his scran.
Now gladiatorial scraps are off the menu
With ardor just as keen he seeks the grounds
Where horses challenge horses, or the venue
Where hounds compete with hounds.
How many a heart he’ll conquer who dispenses
When in authority he’s firmly set
A quantum suff. of panem et circenses
(With special emphasis upon the et)\
Were I a Premier with hopes fast-centred
On being all things to all kinds and sorts,
How I should hate to think my name was
entered
In the black books of sports.
What passions of resentment he'll uncover,
What dire reprisals may on him be sprung
Who seeks to rob a woman of her lover
Or dispossess a lioness of her young!
But wilder wrath he wakes whose ordinances
Cut down the takings of an Ikey Mo
Or put a stopper on a punter’s chances
Of doing in his dough.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THIS MODERN ARTISTRY.
“At the opening of the Contemporary Art Society s
exhibition in Sydney it was claimed that the pictures,
though practically unsaleable, were valuable as ex-
pressing the artists’ insatiable curiosity about the
future and. dissatisfaction with the past.”
These quaint vignettes on which you gaze
lamenting
Your inability to understand
What the creators purposed by presenting
Objects that never were on sea or land
Let seasoned critic and mere gallery moocher
Alike take heed! They feature, hard and fast,
Fierce curiosity about the future
And dour dissatisfaction with the past.
They sweep, like modern bards with their effu-
sions,
Into the brimming discard, for a start,
I All outworn misconceptions and illusions
About what constitutes pictorial art;
Scornful of how Old Masters won their lasting
Glory, they seize with aspect grim and glum
Brushes and paints, and set about forecasting
Their nebulous ideas on what’s to come.
Deal with them gently and forbear your stric-
tures !
Remember there may be as many ways
(And none entirely wrong) of limning pictures
As modes of perpetrating tribal lays.
Tis a new trail these pioneers are blazing,
And at some distant period—who can tell?
Albeit the bare suggestion sounds amazing,
Their cryptic handiwork may even sell!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Pip”; Out of action the unit medical
officer has a dull and particularly thank-
less job. His world is made up of coughs,
colds, sprains, bruises, inoculations, vacci-
nations and vague aches. The interlude
of a nice juicy operation is denied him,
for the patient goes to a general hospital.
“They’re scared of having to pay a bit
of pension,” complained one disgruntled
M.O. bitterly. Smokers’ cough is a com-
mon ailment and invariably brings the
advice “Give up smoking and you’ll be
all right, but perhaps you’d prefer to
keep the cough.” Before some of the
jungle marches a crowd is liable to line
up outside the R.A.P. with a mixed bag
of sore legs and aching feet, and separat-
ing the sheep from the malingering goats
calls for the wisdom of Solomon. A
regular who Vas prescribed a No. 9 for
his “bad knee” has never reappeared.
Contrary to popular belief the No. 9
receives very little use, as its effects are
tantamount to swallowing a depth charge.
This war has brought a number of
“happy” states to keep the M.O. out of
mischief jungle - happy, scrub - happy,
leave-happy, axe-happy and the rest, all
classified in the doc.’s galaxy of “War
Psychoses.” Malaria, scrub typhus,
dengue and tinea keep him busy,
too; and he must be an authority
on every phase of tropical medi-
cine. No longer do all M.Os, pin their
faith on mistusi and aspros.to cure every-
thing from a cold to a broken leg; they
use sulpha drugs instead. An M.O. of my
acquaintance is worth his weight in gold:
in his spare time he turns out a home
brew in his “workshop,” 10 p.c. alcoholic
content by accurate analysis. But don’t
tell Senator Keane.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: A waistcoat once worn
by Captain Cook may very well be in
existence and capable of becoming a
museum piece (B. 14/ 6/ ’44), but the
statement that it is in the possession of
the wife of a. descendant of the great
navigator leaves me a little dubious. Can
anyone enlighten me on the point whether
Cook left any descendants to carry on the
line? I have some recollection of having
read that his two elder sons died young
—one, I think, was drowned —but
whether he left any other male progeny
is not clear. Several of his biographers
mention that his widow, who lived to be
a nonagenarian, long survived all her
children, but there may, of course, have
been grandchildren.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”; The original slang
names of the policeman were “peeler”
and “bobby,” in sardonic underworld
recognition of the services of Sir Robert
Peel. His historic reform links in a way
with the Swan River, for in 1829
Thomas Peel, Robert’s cousin, set out
for Westralia with a fleet of three
ships, Gilmore, Hoogfily and Rocking-
ham, 400 indentured servants, and at least
£25,000-worth of food, goods and imple-
ments for the starting of a colony. Stand-
ing partner with Thomas in this venture
was Solomon Levey, of Cooper and
Levey, merchants, of London and Sydney,
As recompense for their investment the
partners, operating as the Swan River
Colonisation Association, received a
quarter of a million acres, a tract that
ran from just outside Fremantle right
down the coast to Mandurah and reached
out east to an indefinite boundary. The
grant was dubbed a job by Bob for his
country cousin Tom. The affair flopped,
mainly because of Tom’s lack of leader-
ship. Laborers, goods, tools dispersed into
other hands. Tom Peel dropped £DU,uuO
and lived out the remainder of his days
at Mandurah in semi-poverty.
* # * *
“Lao-dah”: A particularly senseless
piece of vandalism is reported from Lake
Nemi, 20 miles from Rome, where Ger-
man soldiers set fire to two ancient
galleys of Caligula, The emperor used
them for orgiastic rites honoring Diana,
the lake and the surrounding forest being
sacred to her. The lake has British
affiliations. It was from its shores and
the ancient rites of the goddess that
Frazer the anthropologist traced his
monumental 13-volume analysis of com-
parative religion The Golden Bough. The
custom in Caligula’s time was for the
reigning Roman emperor to appoint a
priest of Diana, on whose continued exis-
tence, it was believed, depended the fer-
tility of the soil and the security of the
crops. But the priest fetained his dubious
title only so long as he could prevent him-
self being murdered by the next aspirant
to the office, and lived a threatened life in
the grove of Diana, sleeping with his
sword beside him. Why anyone should
value the job it is difficult to imagine.
One priest of Diana hung out for so
longhhat the emperor of the time sent a
gang to murder him.
“Hamer”: As a postscript to
“J.H.M.A.’s” thumbnail sketch of Old
Sydney, it might be recalled that, though
the Castlereagh-Park-streets corner on
which the Barley Mow Hotel (now re-
placed by the Criterion) was built is most
advertised as an early place for hangings,
the first regular place of execution
was in Market-street, about where the
State Theatre now stands. It was in a
handy position to allow citizens to soak
in the lesson that Crime Does Not Pay.
* * # *
“Hamfat’s” theatrical experience:
I well remember the sensation caused in the
dining-room of the Dog and Pick-axe when a
boiled leg of fowl spoke up in answer to a
grumbler that he, too, would be tough if he’d
been living in the yard of that pub for 12 years.
The diner’s chair thudded to the floor as he
rose, and he left muttering. The some-
what disturbed table was setuing down when
a query about where the mustard was was
answered by a thin piping “Here I am,” and
later t'he cruet said sharply “Hey, waitress!
Why don’t you put me where people can get at
me?” These and other manifestations had the
pub in an uproar during the afternoon, enhanced
when a dog which was being driven out of the bar
by the handy said “Garn, you mong! Come a
step nearer and I’ll bite y’r leg off!” The
supposed owner of the talking dog had just
sold him for ten bob, when the publican, to
his very evident astonishment’, heard himself
saying “Come on, boys. It’s time I shouted
you all a drink.” That was too much for Bung.
He called me aside and demanded to know which
was the ventriloquist in our show. So he met
Val Vousden, who kept our audiences enter-
tained during intervals Val was a very good
ventriloquist who fell on some hard times in
Australia because of the stranding of an Ameri-
can team with which he arrived. He has been
heard from in various parts of the world, doing
well, since.
* % * *
“Uramao”: When a Taranaki (M.L.)
local body was discussing establishing
"....And presently he tries to strangle her, but the boy friend bumps him
off. Then she has a baby and they get married and live happy
ever after. Come on, Mrs. Brown, let's go."
baths in the town, a Scot of robust health
broke in with “Baths! Bah! What d’yer
want baths for? I nobutt had one bath
in ma life —and that was when Ah fell
in the river!”
* * * *
“F.S.”: A feminine critic remarked
the other day in Melbourne that, although
70 p.c. of A.B.C. programmes is musical,
there is not a single musician on
the commission. That’s often the way
of things. There is only one painter on
the Board of Trustees of the National
Gallery of Victoria —the other members
are two newspaper proprietors, seven
businessmen, a doctor, a chemist, a
librarian, a university professor, two poli-
ticians and two parsons. And how many
architects are in a directing position on
Post-war Reconstruction?
» * * *
“Lex”: A case which should have been
sensational has fizzled out in Adelaide.
A lawyer, now 86 and long since re-
tired, was charged with having in 1922
and afterwards “converted” some thou-
sands of pounds of clients’ property to
his own use. lawyers and doctors all
agreed that he is now far too ill, both
mentally and physically, to attend to any
business; and the Attorney-General has
decided to drop the prosecution.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: The Ballarat (Vic.)
Brewing Co. reports that it gets £2 16s. 9d.
net for nine gallons, the Government’s
share being £2 Is. 3d. Selling prices
have not been raised since 1920,
except to keep pace with excise duty in-
creases. So the next time I drain a pot I
will be able to reflect that I am not the
least of the pillars of the Treasury.
“Adelaide”: An Adelaide man has
been jailed for cruelty to his baby
daughter, aged nine months. His excuses
were threefold: (1) “I didn’t like my wife
being outside talking, and thought she
would come back if the child cried.” (2)
“I was annoyed with her, and took it out
on the kid.” (3) “1 had been drinking.”
Five months; and now a newspaper cor-
respondence urging that it is not enougn.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”; Government House
domestic staffs must have made no incon-
siderable contribution to the population
of Australia. Even the first three or four
Governors, mainly depending on convict
attendants, brought one or two personal
servants, who usually elected to remain.
When the word passed: “My dear, you’ll
find it very hard to get servants; the
people out there are so independent,” it
became the habit to bring whole staffs,
members of which, with few exceptions,
elected to remain. Sometimes they re-
signed from G.H. service before their
employer’s term was up and replacements
were brought from England. Not a
single member of the staff Lady Lygon,
sister of Earl Beauchamp, provided for
his, comfort in these’ parts returned to
England. The other day occurred a
golden-wedding event at which 138 de-
scendants of all ages—over a score of
them in the services—were mentioned.
The long-married couple were originally
servants in the Jersey household.
tt a r »» . ,• c .
A.J .K. reports a sporting fixture :
Come to the gala opening of our unit’s
boxing ring; 18 contenders for the champion-
ships of this New Guinea area.
As I showered at 5 p.m. three army transports
were already parked. Their occupants chewed
„ A i u-t
a makeshift meal and read to while away the
time. Tea was a mad scramble. We managed
to scrounge a few unoccupied positions at
6 p.m. and awaited zero hour (7 p.m.) as com-
fortably as the paint tins would allow. Jeeps
fussed into the clearing in ever-increasing
numbers. Huge transports, filled to capacity,
trundled over the newly-bulldozed tracks and
lined up under the direction of white-gauntleted
MJPs. The mob, seated on boxes, drums,
p,a„k ? , B—. and a —row, extended
back for 30 yards. Then the galleries of jeeps
and six-wheelers took the throng back a
further 30 yards.
At dusk the scene resembled a Roman holi-
day arena Trees fringing the clearing supported
figures in all attitudes, like so many suspended
flying foxes. Opposite me an old native had
barked up into a leafless bough; his naked
body was picturesquely silhouetted against the
failing light on the skyline. Native cftildren,
chattering and excited, filtered through and
occupied vantage points beside grinning soldiers.
They peered shyly from their newly-acquired
positions. Gus, from the photographic section,
was marked by an occasional bulb flash; the
electrical boys in a reserved ringside space
fidgeted with mikes and turntables. They alter-
nated with a battalion band and vaudeville
items to fill m the gaps
f
hold the rapt attention of 4000 men for three
hours. The success of the night is a tribute to
officers and men who slaved for weeks to clear
the arena, erect the ring from palm logs and
earth, and install the lighting, radio and other
facilities from spare, and often junk, equipment.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Might I remind “Oxmead”
(B. 14/6/’44) that the title of the Senior
State has long been cut down by most
Australians? Nine out of ten Cornstalks
in exile, expressing the keenest of their
desires, say “I wish I were back in good
old New South.” It being the people’s
own choice, therefore I prefer “New
South” to “New Wales.” The title
wouldn’t be a bad one for all Australasia.
All England was “South” to the Scots ;
“South” had a clearly-defined meaning
to the people of Northern and Midland
England ; in a wider category “the South”
meant Mediterranean Europe; and
America had its own idea of “the South.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: The Odyssey of a young man
who was released from Pentridge jail.
A benign authority started him out on a
fresh life with a special order for 150
clothing coupons. Going to a store in
Bourke-street he gave half a coupon for
a handkerchief. Followed to a hotel he
was seen exchanging his remaining 149 i
coupons for 255. A few minutes later he
was being held with his customer at the
City Watchhouse under National Security
Regulations for illegal sale of coupons.
* * * *
“Heel”: In Disney’s “Fantasia” a
gigantic tyrannosaurus battles to the death
with an equally hefty stegosaurus. At a
preview the curator of a Carnegie museum
protested that Tyranno belonged to
the Cretaceous and Stego to the Juras-
sic period, and therefore had failed to
meet by a trifle of some 90,000,000 years.
Disney was evidently unimpressed by the
revelation, for the monsters still came out
fighting when I saw the film at our Ritz-
Plaza.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: The bombing of Europe
inevitably must destroy an enormous
number of beautiful old buildings. There
are hundreds of villages, towns and whole
sections of cities in France, Italy and
other European countries which are
exactly as they were in the Middle Ages.
You can walk along streets so completely
medieval that you would not be surprised
if people walked out of the houses
dressed in the attire of the twelfth cen-
tury. It is the same in China, where the
Japanese have Seen storming walled
cities whose general lines were estab-
lished in the days of the Tartars. Eight
centuries of fighting did not change the
face of Europe as much as four days’
bombing can do in these days.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: A home vegetable grower
in one of Melbourne’s posh suburbs who
had sacrificed his Saturday afternoon’s
golf and part of his front garden in the
interests of the nation’s food supply
was weeding a bed of carrots when a
market gardener passed with his
family on the way to the pictures. “Oh,
good day,” said the great man, straight-
ening himself and rubbing his aching
backbone. “Tell me, is there a quicker
way of getting these things out?” “Yes,”
said the market gardener grinning, “pull
’em out faster!” He knew what was
coming—Carrots. Seven Pound for a
Bob.
% * * *
“Lao-dah” learns to read;
I have cause to remember Quiller-Couch. In
days when every critic and writer felt it obligatory
to publish personal lists of the 100 Best Books,
after examining various examples I plumped
for Quiller-Couch’s, and set to work with the
limited resources that Adelaide bookshops then
provided. The books I remember mostly were
the dialogues of Plato, Buckle, Gibbon’s
Decline and Fall (11 vols.) and Frazer’s Golden
Bough (10 vols.). I don’t suppose any authors
ever had such a devoted reader. My firm
ordered me abroad, and off I went with my
travelling library in an old tin portmanteau.
The decadent Roman emperors were my con-
stant companions from Darwin to Singapore,
from Singapore to Java and back to Adelaide,
when I finished with Mr. Gibbon. By this
time my library had increased to two port-
manteaux. Frazer kept me busy from Adelaide
to Manila, Hong Kong, Saigon, French Cochin
China, Singapore again, Borneo, Penang, Sin-
gapore for the third time, Hong Kong and
Shanghai, thence to Japan and across Siberia
to Europe and back to Australia. During two
years on a Bornean island I ploughed through
the meticulous Frazer’s collection of native
folklore. I never finished one-half of Quiller-
Couch’s selection, and I don’t suppose any-
body has ever read the lot, but at least the
King Edward VIII Professor of English Litera-
ture got me into the habit of reading the
authors themselves instead of commentators.
* H: * *
“Blue P.”: The advent of Dr. Edith
Summerskill among a bunch of politi-
cians visiting this country was a godsend
to the flapper press. The lady has been
picturised and written up in a manner to
make the fluffiest film star turn green with
envy. So far, among the reams of tripe
written about her, I’ve been unable to
find anything worth remembering, except
maybe her claim that wives should receive
wages. She was photographed holding
what the paper claimed to be the koala
that scratched Mrs. Roosevelt, She met
Dame Enid Lyons, of the opposite camp,
and found her “most tolerant”; Dame
Enid’s verdict on the visitor was “most
charming.” Nobody should be surprised
that in Dr. SummerskiH’s country a Mens
Party has been formed.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Lingabool”: The poet who wrote of
the relief of, Lucknow when the Scottish
girl heard Havelock’s pipers—“ But to
sounds of home and childhood the High-
land ear was true” —knew what he was
writing about. We were gathered outside
our Victorian Mallee hall preparing for
a shivoo when a faint noise came from
afar. Some said it was Long Tom tuning
his violin behind the railway siding; others
held that it was axle wheels squeaking.
“It’s the pipes,” asserted/ our Scottish im-
migrant hand; “an’ Ah’ll bet on it! ”
They took him up. Twenty minutes later
a sulky came up the road with a piper
skirling in it. Collecting his bets, our
Scottish hand incautiously mentioned that
someone had thought it was an axle
squealing. Then the piper wanted to fight
the town.
* * * *
“Ned”: “I’m milkin’, separatin’,
fencin’, suckerin’, corn-huskin’ and
mouth-organ-playin’ on a farm up Nanv
bucca way,” said Joe, “but I useter get
a bit of a spell on Sundays when the old
man took the family to town, where he
conducted the district choir. For the
potato-diggin’ he picks up a bloke from
South Oss who believed himself to be
another Bing Crosscut or somebody.
After he’d been among the murphies f’r a
week the only birds hangin’ around were
the jackasses. The cows were restless
and goin’ off, the old mare bolted with
the cream, and the dogs took to fowl-
killin’ and bitin’ the kids. But the old
man didn’t complain until the night the
warbler runs the rasp over all the old and
new sentimentals and has Peggy, the old
man’s pet Judy, accompanyin’ his
squawkin’ of ‘When You and I Were
Young, Maggie.’ Then he goes D flat,
‘I loves singin’, I loves music, and I
bought the piano t’ bring harmony inter
me home,’ he says, ‘but, me boy, I don’t
like bearin’ you murderin’ the time of all
them livin’ old tunes.’ That knocks the
bag o’ canary-seed sideways, and Peggy
strikes a note which she hopes will restore
harmony but which only produces dis-
cord when she says ‘Don’t worry, Dad ;
it’s better t’ murder the time once f’r all
than t’ beat it every Sunday as you do.’
I snatched me paper next afternoon when
the old man put me on spud-rootin’. ”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We landed a job at
wages and keep with a S.A. cocky. We
got eggs for breakfast, dinner and tea —
curried, boiled, fried, poached, scrambled
—until we had to keep a stern grip on
our voices to stop ourselves breaking into
a cackle. In reply to our hints, the boss
announced that waste was evil, and so
long as there were plenty of eggs it would
be absurd to spend money on other foods.
We stuck it for another fortnight, then
resigned. “But what’s wrong?” the boss
demanded. “Isn’t the job all right? Don’t
you get enough tucker? Isn’t the pay
good?” “Yair,” Mat replied; “but it
ain’t that. Me and my mate have bin
watchin’ them three plum-trees of yours.
They look like havin’ a record crop, an’
they’ll be ripe about the time your chooks
stop layin’. We wouldn’t want y’t’ waste
them plums on a coupla blokes who
couldn’t appreciate ’em.”
* . * * *
“M.S.”: The story of Burrongh was
given me by my father, one of the
old pioneers and cedar-getters of the
N.S.W. Northern Rivers. The Richmond
River territory was originally called The
Big Scrub, and warrior chief Burrongh
and his tribe were on their way from
south to north of the Scrub, now known
as the Tweed River District. Burrongh’s
mission was the reclaiming of his lubra,
who had been carried off by a kroge or
witch doctor. Burropgh was armed with
the weapon after which he was named —•
a sort of boomerang with long handle
attached. During the journey from south
to north of the Big Scrub several fights
took place with enemy tribes, the first
at a spot now known as Whian Whian,
approximately 20 miles from Lismore.
The aboriginal word Whian means “back”
-41 was here that Burrongh broke his
opponent’s back. During the next skir-
mish Burrongh broke his enemy’s thigh.
This place was afterwards named “Coora-
bell.” The last battle brought disaster
to the chief when he had received a
severe blow over the heart, and the re-
mainder of the journey was made slowly
and painfully. Eventually he could go
no further, and burying his burrongh
in the side of the creek bank he prepared
for death. At this spot where Burrongh
died now stands the township of Burring-
bar, originally named Burronghbar.
sH * * *
“Wester”: No doubt about Kelly being
able to get rid of strychnine baits (B.
21/6/’44). On the run that we honor
with our labor crows took to tearing
new sheepskins to pieces when they
were hung on the fences. The boss
ordered that strychnine be rubbed into
“Wake up, Prendergast; we've got a nibble!"
the fatty and fleshy bits. Kelly lobbed
on the skins, tore portions off, swallowed
them, became rather thoughtful, then hur-
riedly sought the woolshed roof, where
he heaved violently. Then he shook his
black head and floated into the blue,
cawing derisively.
*** * *
“M. 8”: That challenge by “D.R.H.”
(B. 21/6/ ’44) to take on any bowman at
50 yards with an automatic .22 rifle
wouldn’t depend on accuracy. An auto-
matic rifleman could get in three shots
while a bowman was adjusting and sight-
ing one arrow.
* * * *
“Square Dink”: Hori, the new hand,
wasn’t going well, and Barka’s re-
proofs didn’t improve matters. From
the patch of bush at the back about
a thousand posts had been brought
out and stacked, first-class posts one
end, seconds and thirds at the other;
so when the temporary break fence
was being put up Barka yelled to
Hori “Fetch a load of posts up and lay
’em on the line, and make sure you get
’em from the far end of the stack.” An
hour later, when he went to start on the
fence,'Barka nearly exploded when he
found neatly laid out on the line his best
posts. Hori swore he brought them from
the far end ; so after the collection had
been completed Barka accompanied the
sledge down to the stack. “Y’ silly cow,”
he growled, “1 told you to get the posts
from the far end, Whyinell didn’t y’ go
along there?” “Gripe, boss, I did go t’ere
first,” said Hori; “but, y’ see, when I
got along t’ere t’e far end was up here /”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Here, hold on, “8.4” (B.
21/6/’44), you’ve not been listening. It
wasn’t my theory that horses have to be
trained to eat bread. It was put forward
by that “Surcingle” cove in the first place,
whereupon I —and others —condemned it.
You must have come in when the subse-
quent argument was on. I don’t mind
being picked on, but I’m blowed if I’m
going to accept the credit for “Sur-
cingle’s” fantasies.
* * * *
“Larry”: I read that Port Adelaide
Council was covering the top of a rat-
infested rubbish dump with sand. I’ll still
back the rats. Camped in some sandhills
near Lochiel (S.A.), we found that the
light of the campfire seemed to suit them
well, for, despite our night-long counter-
attacks, they’d cleared the larder out by
the morning. Without exception every
rat-hole we saw was in almost pure sand.
* * * *
“E. and 0.E.”: Don’t know whether the
Aussie ’hopper is in any way identical
with the locusts of Palestine (B.
24/5/’44), but tell “Strawinthehair” that
those locusts which nourished John the
Baptist were really nuts or beans, prob-
ably pods from the carob-tree {Kharrub).
These pods, often called St. John’s-bread,
are eaten by both men and animals, and
also figure in the story of the Prodigal
Son, “the husks that the swine did eat”
being their rind or covering. It has also
been suggested that a carob-tree may
have been that one used by Moses to
sweeten the bitter waters of Marah, In
Sicily a spirit and a syrup are made from
carob pods. The carob seems to be a
thoroughly useful kind of tree to find
growing in the wilderness —a pity Aus-
tralian desert country is not stocked
with it.
* * * *
“J.G.C.”: It has been my experience
that, although the currawong lives on
various bush fruits and berries, supple-
mented by carrion, it prefers the more
fleshy bush berries than those of the
pepperina-tree, which are disseminated in
other ways (B. 7/6/’44). Flying-foxes
eat the berry in its very green state and
also feed on the blossom. Green para-
keets fly for miles in a dry season to
feast on the gum on the blossom.' When
the berries are brightly-hued and grow-
ing in clusters there can always be seen
a trail of dropped berries leading to the
bower-bird’s playground. Also branches
heavily laden with berries dumped under
flood level along creek banks, vehicles
emptied out at the first stopping place on
the run after having been parked under
pepperina-trees, cattle carrying clusters
on their horns, sheep with them on their
backs and horses’ manes and tails are
constant spreaders of the seeds. Any-
way, what mild infestation in odd places
there is in s.-w, Queensland can easily
be kept in check with the ringbarker’s
axe or poison.
* * * »
“Cres”: With Dave sitting on the last
load of pine for the day, the truck roared
round the bend before the culvert, and
there in the middle of the road, astride
his old grey, sat Angus, calmly rolling a
cigarette. Mac cursed and swung the
big truck off the road and then back for
the culvert. Dave flew into the ditch and
the load slipped in, seemingly on top of
him. With visions of a jangled body
under the pines, they worked to clear
the logs. Then Dave crawled forth un-
hurt and roared: “You’re a proper bone-
head, Angus, sittin’ there like that. Gripes,
now we’ll be late for tea!”
* * * *
“Fodgie”: “T hislleb r o o k” (B.
17/5/ ’44) is a bit astray when he says
that Ligurian bees were “forgotten” in
their island sanctuary since the ’eighties.
Although honey is not exported from
Kangaroo Island, there have always been
people who keep a few hives for their
own and local use. It was the inability
to procure purebred queen bees fropi
Italy during the war that induced S.A.’s
Agricultural Department to study the
island bees, not merely those on Flinders
Chase. It was feared that those on the
eastern end of the island might have
suffered some adulteration, so queens
from that portion are banned; but all
bees west of American River are guaran-
teed pure Ligurian. The S.A. Parliament
in its last session wisely enacted legisla-
tion to maintain the pure strain.
* * * *
“Joanna”; The land-army girls were
studying the sales announcements out-
side the auctioneer’s office. From
their midst came an indignant voice:
“Springing cows, my eye! It’s just an-
other leg-pull. I might have believed
they could spring forward, but 20 back-
ward springing cows J I never heard such
rot in my life!” *
* % H« ♦
“Sarina”: In years of scrub-wander-
ing round Mackay (N.Q.), I’ve found
hundreds of little reddish-grey and
black (rock) wallabies that will run up
leaning trees when disturbed. They live
in holes and caves around basalt rocks
in the scrubby hills. When they descend
a tree, sometimes from 50ft. up, it is in-
variably head first, but on nearing the
foot of the tree they leap off sideways
to get a start’ on anything that is await-
ing them on the ground. They’re a serious
pest in mountain cane-and-banana
patches. I’ve never seen them shin up
a straight tree. ‘
♦ * * *
“Bennie”: The entire Valley popula-
tion (18) was present tcf witness the christ-
ening of Bert Gallager’s freckled-faced
three-year-old kid. Despite opinions that
young Bert, who was a bit of a tiger for
his age, would make a holy show of his
parents, the ceremony had gone off with-
out a hitch. Afterwards the parson com-
plimented Bert: “I’ve never seen a child
behave so well.” “Wal, if ’e ’adn’t be-
’aved ’imself ’e’d ’ave got somethin’,”
responded Bert. “I bin gettin’ ’im useter
it fer a week by dippin’ ’is ’ead in Straw-
berry’s trough!”
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Domestic pets which revert
to living in a wild state are usually
treacherous creatures when handled, so
I can’t believe the dozen or so yams I’ye
read of a dog gone wild turning up in
the last chapter to savd the master of
its puppyhood from the slavering jaws
of the pack. At an early age I received
an object-lesson from a big yellow tom-
cat which had been one of a litter about
the place. Tom took to rambling away
among the bush cats of the neighbor-
hood. On one of his return visits he had
grown to a fine, sleek specimen. Find-
ing him drowsing in a corner of the
wheat-shed, I bent down to gather him in
my arms. Tom came to life suddenly;
his front claws sank into my face at the
side of each eye, and a savage bite on
the forehead above the nose put aside all
my doubts of Tom’s wishes to re-enter
the fold. Being an outback kid, I went
and found the greyhounds to continue
the argument.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Clumper” Carstairs sought ac-
commodation at the township’s only pub.
There’d been a picnic race meeting that
day and the best Bung could do was to
put up a bed for him in a room already
occupied by two others. Just as he
was settling himself to slumber one of
his room-mates came in, a beautiful case
for the Band of Hope to point to. After
struggling for about 10 minutes to get his
tie undone the newcomer lurched oyer
and appealed to “Clumper” for assist-
ance. “Clumper” obligingly snapped
it and settled down to sleep again.
He was just dozing when there came
a shriek from his room-mate and
a cry of “Shnake! Onya bunk!”
“Clumper” got out of bed a split-second
before the snake-seer made a terrific swipe
with a brass curtain rod and fell across*
the bed. As he seemed content to lie
there “Clumper” took his bed. He was
just shutting his eyes again when the
third room member lurched in, lifted
the kerosene-lamp and waved it around
as he peered about, finally giving a whoop
of joy as he recognised the recumbent
figure of the other drunk. Followed a
back-clapping reunion and the rendering
of “Sweet Adeline” in discords, the lamp
being used as a conductor’s baton. After
that an argument ensued as to their re-
spective vocal merits and some wild
swings were thrown. The contestants,
the lamp flailing, sflrged across towards
“Clumper’s” bed. As he got out once
more the lamp fell on the floor and
smashed. With deliberation he smote
each drunk on the jaw; then he picked
them up and dropped them on their
bunks. He was about,, to quench the
flames with a blanket when Bung pushed
in and roared “Y* drunken swine, what’s
the meanin’ o’ this?” “Clumper” grinned.
“I’m just goin’ to cremate a couple of
blokes,” he said, indicating with a sweep
of his hand the two figures on the beds.
“Give us a hand, will y’?”
SOLDIER OF FRANCE.
They brought a nameless soldier in and buried
him today
In Tunis where a storied arch has framed a
little square.
The shades of swarthy heroes of a thousand
years ago.
Unnoticed in the throng, might well have
joined the mourners there.
Cathedral bells were tolling, and I heard the
prayer call
From minarets that rear above the lanes of
Kasbah town.
The Roman, Vandal, Saracen once held the land
in thrall.
Here Carthage rose in splendor, and Carthage
crumbled down.
They buried him, the Nameless One, in soil
that holds the dust
Of martyr and barbarian, of warrior and
slave: , ,
In soil that France had won, and lost, and holds
again in trust —
France, that is rising, great again, from that
symbolic grave.
And who was I to stand and watch a nation’s
spirit bare
Among the ghosts the centuries had left and
shuffled by?
My land ... and this where all was strange ...
and how could I compare?
“A foreign place.” If anything was foreign .. .
it was I.
R.A.A.F.
J. A. HENDERSON.


“ Hey , Bill, cut out the snoring; you'll give our position away."
“Esk D.”: The headwaters of rivers
have a charm of their own, particularly
those little-known and rugged rivers
which strike from the Alps. The serenity
of the wide, smooth water of easy-flow-
ing current is lost suddenly as a gorge is
reached, a giant, shallow stairway of
rock pools, each of which appears even
more enticing to the fisherman as he
presses forward. But there is a marked
pattern to them all: a tumbling, churn-
ing rapid at the head, swift, white water
where trout lie, sand-bottomed back-
waters with swirling eddies—there’d be
bream there—then the deep, dark pool
as the current is lost and cod sleep
through the day in caverns and channels
of sculptured grey rock. The still water
tails off slowly with a strong surface
drag to the shingle or rocks where the
next rapid begins. Usually there’s a
platypus or two wallowing and diving
at the bottom end of a pool; black and
teal ducks prefer the lazy, shallow water
of the shingle stretches, which at times
writhe with a myriad of tadpoles. The
banks are an ever-changing scene, domi-
nated chiefly by a rich sea of ti-tree,
which even clings precariously to the
rocky towers and cliffs.
H= * * *
“W.A.R.N.”: An unusual visitor to
our part of the country, the upper reaches
of a tributary of the Karuah River, which
runs into Port Stephens (N.S.W.), is a
turtle of the Barrier Reef type. Over five
feet in length and weighing around 4cwt,
it came to within half a mile of fresh
water, struggled out on the bank about
20 feet above high-water mark and died.
Why it should have travelled such a dis-
tance of coastline, and then 40 miles of
river, before casting ashore to expire is
a mystery.
❖ % %
“Sailor Bill”: As the world’s most un-
reliable weapon I plump for my pea
rifle. I creased my pet cockatoo’s crest
with a bullet, but what caused the darned
thing to explode is a mystery. Next
something went wrong with the mecha-
nism, so that when I pulled the trigger
the powder exploded, splitting the shell in
the chamber, but not discharging the
bullet. Ignoring the knock I got I tried
again with the same result, except that a
long strip of timber was also blown off
the rifle-stock. The weapon was re-
paired, and for a few months showed no
homicidal tendencies. But the other day
I took an uphill shot at a goanna. At the
last moment the egg thief moved side-
ways, and the bullet, glancing off. a knot
on the tree, smashed into the fowlhouse
roof on a level with and six inches behind
my head. That rifle will soon be in its
third pair of hands. My old shotgun
will do me henceforth.
* * * *
“Mrs. P.”: Decoy, one of the old-
timers, is still on the Murray. In her gay
youth she traversed the Bight, and
those in W.A. with long memories may
recall her plush beauties when she ran as
a pleasure boat on the Swan, Returning
to S.A. she continued her passenger trips
on the lower Murray, and then, settling
down to more sober middle life, she saw
service as a cargo boat on the old river.
Now, in her quiet old age, she is making
an excellent houseboat home. Her four
rooms—exclusive of bathroom and
laundry—are lined with threeply, and
even a fireplace gives cheer in the large
and pleasant living-room. A garden of
nasturtiums grows from port paddle plat-
forms and falls, in amazing beauty, to the
water, while luxuriant pot plants make
a great place of the verandah. She is
still there, just above Lock 2. Four
years spent in her make me a judge of
her consistent comfort as a home —but
P. Junior’s crawling still makes it
evident that she’s not yet capable of
being converted into a nursery.
* * * *
“A.J.K.”; Our unit’s fish-trap ensnares
from eight to ten tons of fish in a tide-
lift. Consisting of Sin. steel mesh fencing,
it extends, T-shaped, for nearly 500 ft. into
the sea at high tide. The crosspiece slopes
gradually back towards the beach, and
has two 10ft.-high square mesh boxes
in the centre and further six-footers at
the extremities. Barramundi up to 351 b.,
large salmon, catfish, flathead and sting-
rays (edible after the barb has been re-
moved) and crabs up to 9in. in diameter
with claws as thick as a man’s wrist are
just a slight indication of the assortment
such a trap will yield in our tropical seas.
Such a catch on one tide alone would
yield £4O on current Sydney prices. Of
course, fish up to about 31b. escape
through the mesh, and others are
poisoned through contact with venomous
Portuguese man-o’-war which usually find
their way in. Still others may be lost
through an early ebb, leaving the catch
high and dry in the tropical humidity.
Our infallible test for freshness is to lift
the gills; if the flesh beneath is reddish
or bluish it is edible. It takes Bill and
his six boongs over an hour to clear and
clean the contraption daily.
* * * *
“Gip”: Queensland seems to lead Aus-
tralia in the number of poisonous plants ;
perhaps the deadliest of all is the heart-
leaf poison bush {Gastrolobium grandi-
florum), which is limited to a 200-mile
strip of country from the Central district
to the Gulf watershed. *lt is a bulbous
plant growing to seven feet high, with
red stalks and bright-green heart-shaped
leaves, the bell-shaped flowers being
blood-red. Like wattle, the heartleaf seeds
germinate after a bushfire. The jewel
beetle, recently let loose in the poison
country, has proved useful in combating
the pest, for grubbing is next to useless
unless kept up, necessitating years of
work. Cattle and horses bred in poison
country never eat it, but strangers always
eat it and die. From 1863 to 1883, when
the area was being settled, thousands of
sheep and cattle perished, 10,000 sheep
in a single night.
♦ ■ * * *
“Aperist”: Reckoning up the natural
enemies of my bees, located on the Swan
River, I find the list headed by two kinds
of moth; one large, one small. Next
come ants, meat-eaters and sugar-eaters;
spiders, a big reddish-black, and a small
grey ; then the cockroach, dining sumptu-
ously on the wax.of the combs. Finally
a tiny black beetle. Against moths and
ants the bees wage vigorous war ; against
spiders and cockroaches they appear help-
less. The small beetle they accept as the
inevitable end.
* * * *
“Zake”: Old Ned Hegarty, yarning to
the farrier while waiting for his horse to
be shod, sniffed the air and screwed his
eyes towards the west. “It’s a duststorm
cornin’, Dan,” he said, “an’ it’s goin’ to
be a beaut. Better tether Nell and shut
the door on her.” A few minutes later
the sun was visible only as a red ball
through the haze. Gradually it became
dark as twilight and then out of the west
there came swirling, choking clouds of
brick-red dust. Ned turned his coat collar
up and buried his nose into it, but there was
no escaping it. The rest of the little town-
ship had been blotted from view. After
a seeming eternity the storm subsided
until distant objects again became faintly
visible. When the pub showed its familiar
outline Ned, his mouth like a brick kiln,
made towards it. Higgins greeted him at
his bar door. “I’m afraid you’re going to
be stiff, Ned,” he said. “Beer ran out this
morning and there won’t be any till sup-
plies come tomorrow. All I got’3 sherry.”
Ned tried vainly to spit his disgust. “I
been chewin’ duststorms out here for
45 years,” he croaked, “and this is the
first time I been within strikin’ distance
of a pub when one happened. I’ll prob-
ably never get a flamin’ opportunity like
this again. Higgins, y’re nothin’ but a
blanky menace! ”
* * * *
“Pip”: The hornets’ nest that was
causing us trouble was on a low-hanging
branch. After dark “Mulga” built a fire,
carefully removed all the twigs surround-
!fsif the H nest ’ n T ] ! y b T, ke of l tbe nest
itself and carried it quickly to the flames.
An assistant was ready with half a cup
of metho., and as the nest was dropped
in the fire he poured the contents on top.
It was the quickest and most effective
method of disposal I’ve struck
* * * *
“E.E.”: H. V Morton wrote • “Edin-
burgh, London, Berlin and Rome are as
masculine as a herd of steers,” so perhaps
“Tapioca” (B. 7/6/’44) may be excused
for his reference to “the yard that held
the young steer calves ” Steers would
not be handfed.
* ’* * *
“Moyhu”:, During the lush autumn of
1939, when a false spring followed heavy
and protracted rains in the late summer,
the pastures in the Kiewa, Ovens and
King River valleys (Vic.) were belly-deep
and constantly saturated with both rain-
water and dew. Result: one of the worst
epidemics of footrot in cattle the district
has ever known. Weil and truly down,
all four hooves affected, most of the
animals remained in prime condition, pro-
gressing on the knees of the forelegs and
the hocks of the rear legs, the rear hooves
resting on the raised fore hooves. Thirst
was slaked by the moisture on the grass,
and natural functions were performed
apparently without undue inconvenience.
* * * *
“C.C.”: The horses to compete in a
southern N.S.W. town commenced to
arrive a week before the meeting, and
one evening a sulky came along with one
of the two occupants leading a horse in
a beautiful colorful rug. The horse and
the jfug were the centre of attraction in
the main street each day. The rug being
“Wish they'd do their deep-breathing exercises somewhere else!"
obviously an expensive one, the impres-
sion was gained that the horse under it
could gallop above the ordinary. When
he took his place in the main event of
the day the punters backed him to favorit-
ism, which enabled the occupants of the
sulky to get a nice price about the ulti-
mate winner, the horse that arrived in
the shafts of the sulky,
* * * *
“The Cadjibut Banshee”: At Carey
Downs there was one of those freak wells
that overflow when the stock don’t need
water and go dry when the jumbucks are
blue-tonguing for a drink. It was 80ft.
deep in ironstone most of the way; our
job was to drive a stope into the wet side
of the well to tap the supply. We had
blasted a cavity 3ft. deep into the wall
and about 4ft. high. My mate was on
the handle, I was below. When the
bucket was about halfway up it plunged
back at about 40 knots, and I averted
premature demise by flattening myself
like a shadow against the slimy stope
wall. I started to give the mate my
opinion of him, when a big black snake
struggling like a conger eel in the foot
of muddy water cooled my ardor. The
wriggler viewed me as a torpedoed
sailor does a raft, and tried to make a
landing ; I kicked him aside and, grab-
bing the bucket rope, yelled frantically
to be hauled up. Silence! I began
to climb the rope and made even time
for about eight feet, when the rope came
adrift from the drum and I fell in a
swoon into the foot of aqua polluta.
When I regained consciousness, or what-
ever I had lost, I found that I had fallen
on top of the snake and drowned it; then
I felt a rope tickling my face. Hauled to
the top, I learned that while the mate was
hauling up the bucket of silt he saw the
snake heading for the well; in his excite-
ment he let go the windlass to pick up a
shovel to attack the serpent, whereupon
the abandoned handle flew back and
smote him on the cranium,
*•* * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver’s sympathy
with fhe townshin’s mtrintic branch
was , ™ lth tne townships patriotic branch
” ntll he a young goose m a raffle.
Congratulating himself on his luck, he
invited half a dozen of us to dinner, be-
headed his prize and started m to rid the
thing of its pin feathers. His enthusiasm
waned with the hours. At ten he called
U a but ’ da . rkn , ess bringing a brain-
wave ’ mo T§ he renewed the attack
° ver a blaz ' n § fi r e - u Ht t burnt several
hln , §s ’ “eluding his hands, the brim of
hls hat and hls spare pants ’ then ’ cursm 8
fit to hit the roof, he got to work once
more on the blackened remains with a
pair of s ? ips - Time crawled past His
niong took refuge under the hut, and the
shed cat retired hurriedly to nurse a
couple of bruised ribs. Shortly before
midday I poked my head inside, to find
. our bost struggling with a mutilated
b° ,r or. Hey! I called, here s old Sandy
comm’ over. He’s bringing you a live
B° ose fr y’ r Good Fnda y dmner ” The
bloodstained fists paused over the mess,
“ wb y do^ 1 ? l r y skinning him?” I sug-
g£sted. By cripes, I will, he squealed,
divm § savagely through the door. “You
boot out his flamin goose so I c n g£t
a S° be cow *”
* * * *
“Nedher”: “They reckon cow-cockies
ain’t got no strategy behind their
whiskers, do they?” said Steve. “Well,
I’m not long in me new job when the old
man suddenly switches from tellin’ me
how well his sons are doin’ in the city
and what grand matches his daughters
had made to mag that he hopes me
ana his missus could get through the
milking, as he’s been crook f’r so long
that he’s feelin’ he’s about reached the
end of the lane. I could hear him
groanin’ above the noise o’ the sepa-
rator, but he eases up next day and sends
me over t’ tell Sweeney he’ll sell the
springers, as the herd is already a two-
man job for me and his missus,
Sweeney’s in with him a long time, and
calls back with his car early next morn-
in’, sayin’ he’s sure the old chap badly
needs seein’ a doctor. The old woman’s
too grumpy to say more than that he’s
pretty inconsiderate t’ leave her t’ battle
along, and I’m beginnin’t’ think I’d better
shoulder me knot when young Sweeney
rides over and asks me t’ go in t’ town
with him. The John Hop had sent word
for somebody to come in and collect
Sweeney and the old man as they were
making Bung wonder if his beer quota
would last until the week-end.”
THE GUNNER TO THE MOON.
Oh, hide your eyes, draw close your fine-spun
veil;
Behind that smile of phantom passion leers
Horribly splendid wisdom, fed of years
So mighty that I think and, thinking, pale.
Smile on, you witch o’erwatching hill and dale.
Across your face the sullen bomber veers
And flits through stars (remorse grants you
these tears).
Pregnant with doom it comes; the sirens wail,
I scan its course, the shrieking heavens hurl
My little kiss of death. Afar, the slow
Sweet flush of dawn seeps up; the stale fumes
curl
Above the blackened thing my skill brought low.
Forgive me, fading moon; like you I whirl
In glory’s blaze, and know not where I go.
A.I.F.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE. WAGOA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE GO. LTD
CERTAIN OEATH
to
dsf
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
OanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
<C7s?cFt|
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
m
. . . V ;.VN--..S V . . ,Y. v ' '
■■'■■'";■■ ■;■ ■■•••■ • 2...,
*
mm
v . ’•
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S” WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Ram Selection.
“Jumbuck”: Too many graziers are
guided by fashion,, not enough attention
being paid to selecting rams strong in
those characteristics in which the ewes
are weak. Constitution, development,
type and other essentials in the sires
must not be overlooked, but unless weak
features in the breeders are corrected
through the rams the faulty points will
show up in the progeny.
Another bad practice is purchase of
rams at so-called bargain prices because
they come from some little-known stud.
The wise buyer will seek rams from old-
established and proved studs. No matter
how good the ewes, only by using care-
fully selected rams can the standard of
the flock be maintained. It is the ewe
progeny of the mating that become the
future breeders.
Culling is essential, but is useless with-
out the right types of sires. The hall-
mark of a ram is manifest in its head,
and if faulty there the ram should be
rejected. When fresh blood is needed
many go to extremes. Orthodox meas-
ures must be taken and weaknesses eradi-
cated by easy stages, whether in the wool
or the size and constitution of the
breeders. One method that never fails
is to get size and uniformity in the ewes
and then to maintain the standard by
wise selection of sires.
Branding Colts.
“B-gar”; Get the job done as quickly
as possible and so prevent the colt from
straining and injuring itself whilst on
the ground. Run one colt into the catch-
ing yard at a time, and have everything
ready—ropes uncoiled and pliable, knife
sharp and sterilised, a bottle of vegetable
oil and an antiseptic solution handy,
branding and searing irons hot.
Once the head rope is on, the colt
should be pulled up quickly, and as soon
as it shows signs of choking down the
men on the leg ropes should get busy.
The instant the colt falls and the slack
of the leg ropes is taken up, the head
rope must be removed. It is imperative
that a reliable man take charge of the
colt’s head, which must not be allowed
to swing free. To facilitate operations
a loin rope can be used and the colt
brought over on its back, but, if not, the
free hind leg should be half-hitched by
using the slack of the temporary loose
hind leg rope.
Before starting the operation pour oil
into the sheath and work it well in. The
scrotum should be firmly grasped in the
left hand and a long sweeping incision
made. As soon as the organ is secured
and squeezed well free of its outer cover
the searing iron should be called for.
Using a small block of wood as a base,
cord and artery should be seared through
with a firm but steady pressure on the
hot iron. As soon as the operation is
done antiseptic solution should be poured
into the scrotum and a liberal supply of
oil poured into the sheath and over the
wounds. Brand without delay, oil being
rubbed ip well before the iron is applied.
The iron must be almost white hot and
placed on and off quickly so as to pre-
vent blotching. Remove ropes and bring
the colt to its feet.
Watch the colts a few days, and if
suppuration is noticed those affected
should be yarded and treated with an
antiseptic.
Kurrajongs.
“H.C.”: Australia can’t have too many
kurrajong trees, a fact demonstrated over
the recent dry period in west and nor’-
west N.S.W. Kurrajongs would have
saved the lives of close on a million
sheep. Though the value of the kurra-
jong has been known for many years
nothing has been done about State-wide
planting.
Nutrient value of the foliage is 46 p.c.
This tops all fodder trees bar the rose-
wood and it has a prussic-acid content
sometimes injurious to stock. Kurrajong
leaves contain 35.61 p.c. water. Fresh
leaves carry an even higher percentage.
This means water and feed for stock.
Other contents are carbohydrates 32.81
p.c., albuminoids 10.35, fibre 14.54, ash
4.99. One good tree will feed 200 sheep
over three months ; lambs can be reared
on kurrajong.
Plantations of kurrajongs, given the
same cultivation as an orchard, produce
foliage that reaches tons of fodder per
acre. In these cases fertilisers and organic
manures, which distort the roots of trees
and should be avoided when trees are
intended for timber dr ornamental pur-
poses, can be used to speed up growth.
Fenced off, these plantations make valu-
able fodder reserves.
When planting kurrajongs for fodder,
choose seedlings that have large, un-
divided leaves. These make stronger
growth, and at maturity yield more leafy
material per tree than those with fine,
well-divided leaves. Some of the narrow-
leaved types are also vigorous.
Seed Raising.
“Plane Creek”: Weak, unthrifty
plants or undersized fruit won’t yield
fine seed, nor will plants that ran to seed
through poor soil or thirst. Such seed
either germinates badly or not at all.
Tomato seed from vines that had blight
is certain to bear the disease.
Plants reserved for seed should be
strong, vigorous and heavy bearers.
Fruit should be as perfect as possible.
should be done immediately
the seed is mature and ripe—but not
before—-on the first dry day. The, seed
is completely mature when the pods
turn yellow or brown. Vine vegetables
and tomatoes become soft when the seed
is ripe. Delay in gathering seed will
result in moulding, sprouting or loss
through the pods exploding. Gather seed
in warm, dry weather. Threshing must
be done carefully or the seed will be
broken or hulled.
To obtain clean seed of such fruit as
tomatoes and cucumbers throw them
into a vessel and stir daily for from four
to six days. The mucilaginous seed-
coverings are loosened by fermentation.
Pour the pulp into a vessel of water.
Good seeds will sink ; immature seeds
and pulp will float and may be skimmed
off. Discard skimmings and allow the
good seed to dry gradually in a shady
place. Store in labelled paper or cloth
bags. High humidity in the tropics wifi
cause deterioration if seed is not stored
in well-ventilated containers,
Prow Mrvrp Tucprne
“Pat Ater”- “It’s on its own for
, • eTT T T u i cZnH S
dairy fodder, contends H Lamond of
Moss Vale, on the cool N.S.W high-
land country, who in a normal season
had three cuts, the best yielding 35cwt.
to the acre. It was grown in a paddock
where old-timers said it couldn’t be
grown, Lamond used dressings of two
tons of lime and Hcwt. of superphosphate
per acre, A few rain showers helped.
Along the N.S.W. South Coast at
Kiama W Cook does well with it, as do
most of the successful men about
Gerringong. J. Hoskins, of Scone, had
a 13-acre paddock which gave five cuts
of hay in a normal season, besides sus-
taming 30 bullocks for three weeks at its
p &
Now Dapto (N.S.W.) farmers are be-
ginning to realise that they were on the
wrong track by not including a good
patch of lucerne in their fodder and
grazing lots. They were converted by the
success of one man, who proved there
was nothing like lucerne to respond to
passing showers in the middle of a
drought
The winter-sterile paspalum has too
strong a hold on many dairymen. They
won’t be bothered preparing for dry
times, for winter feed and for extra pro-
tein in the feed. Paspalum is poor food
in the long run, as it doesn’t provide bal-
ance. What has deterred some from
putting down lucerne is the failure of
odd patches in recent dry years. Mostly
this was due to poor preparation of the
seedbed. Now that modern machine#
is available under the N.S.W. mecha-
risation scheme there is no excuse.
Lucerne should be the aim of every
dairy-farmer as an aid to better milk
production and an assurance of fodder,
Dairy herds like it, and the nutriment
is there. One big holder near Dapto
says it is better than silage, and brings
better yields. The only precaution neces-
sary is to see that dairy cattle are not
very hungry when allowed in to graze.
Before sowing the seed plough deeply,
break finely and turn in a dressing of at
least one to \\ tons of lime and lewt.
of super, to the acre. Don’t cultivate till
the young roots get a good hold and the
ground sets firmly.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrr”: Calves can be reared cheaply
on as little as 25 gallons of milk each,
They get it during the first five weeks,
supplemented with a gruel of equal parts
of pollard and linseed meal, to which a
cupful of limewater has been added. A
-|lb. of pollard and of linseed meal
boiled in a gallon of water to which the
limewater has been added, cooled to
slightly loWer than blood heat, provides
a cheap and excellent meal for a six-
weeks-old calf. Give the calf new milk
until it is two weeks old, then gradually
replace the new milk with the gruel.
By the time the calf is six weeks old
all the milk can be replaced by gruel,
“E. 2”: Bloat from clover can be
g uardec j a g a inst by judicious use of rye
and coc k s f o ot grasses in the pastures.
Even then c i over gets away lustily at
tj meSj and valuable cattle are lost before
tbe danger j s realised. On rich country
best to con fi ne the herd to safe pad-
at night and supervise closely the
graz j n g f or the few weeks when bloat is
p OSS ibi e ; the losses, usually the top
cows in the flush of t he season, are not
easily made up.
“M.” : If P asture is scarce pigs need a
good, green leafy fodder like lucerne hay
or chaff. It should constitute about 5 p.c.
[he normal ration _ llb . of good
( c haff will replace about lib. of
„ ra ; n . mea tmeal mixture
f „ ‘ . , .
Green Ink : When splitting posts out
of tough timber use two wedges, one
behind the other, and drive both with
alternate blows. If crack wont run
straight from end to end, mark the sap-
wood on the desired line and groove
lightly with the axe. If very tough this
will have to be done on both sides of log.
A crowbar is a handy tool to prise open
the billets, but in big timber a jack is
best Use an old axe for cutting strings
holding; log together as there are no axes
made that will stand up to hitting hidden
wedges,
Graz : Nitrogenous fertilisers am-
monium sulphate, blood and bone and
sodium nitrate—are in short supply. The
most economical way to get nitrogen
back into the soil is to sow legumes,
particularly lucerne, clovers and cowpeas.
The greatest source of nitrogen is m the
atmosphere, and legume leaves breathe in
nitrogen gas and bacteria in the legume
foots convert it into a fixed state so that
becomes readily available to all plant
root S- , Before sowing legumes in worn-
out cultivation paddocks the seed should
be treated with cultures to ensure germi-
,natlon. Superphosphate is essential for
l e § ume giowth.
“Myrrhee”: Toe-picking is a form of
cannibalism most prevalent when chicks
a re anything up to three or four weeks
old. When blood is drawn the victim is
attacked by other chicks and usually
killed. One of the chief causes is hunger,
Check it by putting plenty of scratching
litter, such as cocky chaff, on the floor
Ibis keeps the toes out of sight and
feeding cracked wheat in the litter five
or six times a day. Hang tender green-
stuff to keep the chicks from becoming
hungry and to give them something to do.
When a chick has been picked dip the
f° e m i° di ne and isolate until the toe
heals,
“K.Mc.”: Digging silage trenches with
a quarter-yard scoop, which is all most
farmers have, is long, hard toil. Shire
councils could be of practical service by
buying bulldozers and hiring them out,
drivers and all. The machines could be
used on roadwork when not needed by
farmers. Once farmers had the trenches
dug they could be depended on. to fill
them.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Pole-Soviet Conflict.
(Condensed from an “American Mercury”
article by William Henry Chamberlin.)
One would imagine that when another
dictator seems to be preparing a huge
land grab, this time in Eastern Europe,
by the familiar pre-Munich methods,
public opinion would be alert and re-
sentful, This is not the case. The
average person, even if reasonably well
educated, is unfamiliar with the history,
ethnology and international relations of
Eastern Europe. And he has been sub-
jected to a tremendous drumfire of
propaganda on behalf of Stalin’s terri-
torial claims.
In view of Poland’s struggle against
Nazi tyranny, the “smear Poland” cam-
paign is a disgrace to intelligence and
fair play. One need hold no brief for pre-
war Poland —policies often reactionary
and behavior towards minority races
often high-handed—to question Moscow’s
pretensions. Poland at its worst offered
more freedom and human rights than the
Soviet dictatorship at its best. The rela-
tive merits of the regimes, however, are
beside the point. The issue is whether
law, justice, the principles embodied in
the Atlantic Charter and the international
morality for which the United Nations
are fighting shall be swept aside arbi-
trarily by any one of them; whether
negotiation or arbitrary decisions by the
strong shall determine frontiers and Gov-
ernments.
It is often misleadingly asserted that
Poland v took” from Russia by violent
and felonious means the territory which
Stalin now demands as Russian. This
is entirely untrue.
Partitions of Poland towards the end of
the eighteenth century, of which Russia
had been the chief beneficiary, were an
international crime. On the question of
where the frontier should be drawn there
was room for considerable difference of
opinion. There is no line on the map
of Eastern Europe where one could say
that “Poland” ends and “Russia” begins.
Up to the Bug River the population
is almost solidly Polish. Between the Bug
and the pre-war Polish frontier the racial
composition is extremely mixed. The
number of Russians in the area annexed
by the Soviet Government in agreement
with the Nazi Government in 1939 is
negligible.
A good deal of nonsense has been
talked about the 'Curzon Line. Radio
commentators and columnists now accept
as fact a wholly propagandist version.
They represent the Curzon Line as a
Polish ethnographic frontier, which it is
not; or as an impartially prescribed
Polish political frontier, which it is not.
The impression is being conveyed that the
Soviet annexation in 1939 stopped at
that line, which is also untrue. In the
north the Soviet invaders occupied dis-
tricts west of the Curzon Line ana over-
whelmingly Polish.
The truth of the matter is: A tem-
porary Russo-Polish demarcation line,
roughly coinciding with the course of the
Bug River, was proposed by the Supreme
Allied Council on December 8, 1919.
It was a minimum, not a maximum
Polish frontier, stating specifically that
it did not prejudice Polish rights and
claims further east. It was accepted by
the Poles only as an armistice line, and
not accepted by the Russians. It came to
be known as the Curzon Line later, be-
cause in the summer of 1920 Lord
Curzon, intervening in the Russo-Polish
war, suggested the Allied Council line of
1919 as an armistice demarcation line
for the armies.
The Soviet Government, declining the
Curzon proposal in favor of direct settle-
ment with Poland, made the significant
admission that as a permanent border
the Curzon Line was exceedingly un-
favorable to Poland. Soviet propaganda
at the time emphasised that Moscow
would be willing to give Poland more
generous terms than those proposed by
“the western imperialists.”
What Lenin had in mind, of course,
was a Soviet Poland. After the crack-up
of Imperial Germany in 1918, Red forces
had pressed westward in the hope of Bol-
shevising as much of Europe as possible.
As the Polish national armies became
stronger and the main military effort of
the Soviets was concentrated against the
anti-Soviet forces of Kolchak and Deni-
kin, the Poles had repulsed the Red
troops and advanced eastward. By the
spring of 1920 the Polish armies were
holding a line somewhat to the east of
the frontier that was subsequently agreed
on at Riga. It is inaccurate to say that
Poland conquered this territory during
its war with Russia in 1920. It could have
obtained a more favorable frontier if this
war had never taken place, because the
Soviet Government was then eager to
conclude peace.
Marshal Pilsudski made a political
and military mistake which was more or
less cancelled out and balanced by an
equivalent mistake on Lenin’s part a year
later. The Polish leader dreamed of a
vast federation of non-Russian nation-
alities from the Baltic to the Black Sea.
His troops took the offensive in April,
1920, and occupied Kiev for a short time
in agreement with the Ukrainian nation-
alist leader, Simon Petliura. The enter-
prise was out of proportion to Poland’s
strength, and during the summer the
Poles were driven back to the Bug River.
It was then that Lord Curzon intervened,
fruitlessly.
Repeated Polish efforts to open peace
negotiations were sabotaged. The Red
Army drove on to the outskirts of War-
saw. Here the Poles rallied and inflicted
a crushing defeat on the Russian in-
vaders. Lenin had said: “We will break
the crust of Polish bourgeois resistance
with the bayonets of the Red Army.”
But it was the whole Polish people,
workers and peasants as well as the
“bourgeoisie,” that threw itself into the
struggle against a return, in any form, of
the hated Russian oppression.
The Peace of Riga (1921) represented a
reasonable compromise between Soviet
and Polish claims. It was based on re-
nunciation both of Pilsudski’s dream and
Lenin’s dream. The frontier line corre-
sponded closely with that of the second
partition of Poland in 1793, except in the
south, where the 1914 border was re-
tained. To a Polish mind this did not
seem immoderate territorial expansion.
While several million Ukrainians and
White Russians were included in the
eastern provinces of Poland, it is un-
likely that the majority of these people
would have preferred inclusion in the
Soviet Union, where the Ukrainian
nationalist movement was persecuted
more ruthlessly than in Poland.
In any case, it was not a dictated
peace such as ignorant columnists and
editorial writers are talking about. The
frontier was less favorable to Poland
than the line held by the Polish armies
in 1920. If the Soviet Government felt
a sense of grievance over the Peace of
Riga it certainly concealed it very effec-
tively from 1921 to 1939. Far from be-
moaning the loss of what it now calls
“Western Ukrainia” and “Western White
Russia,” it was constantly pressing the
Polish Government t# sign treaties of
non-aggression, based on mutual respect
for the existing borders. It concluded
such a treaty on July 25, 1932 ; and this
treaty, again at Soviet initiative, was
extended for 10 years on May 5, 1934.
The Kremlin loudly and repeatedly
accepted the frontier, and its official press
constantly described it as permanent and
inviolable by either country.
Poland loyally lived up to its obliga-
tions under the non-aggression treaty
with the U.S.S.R. Its Government re-
jected three offers from Hitler to co-
operate on the basis of surrendering terri-
tory to Germany in the west and acquir-
ing territory at Russia’s expense in the
east. But when Hitler shifted his tech-
nique of aggression and proposed a par-
tition of Poland to Stalin, he found a
ready partner. As soon as the German
onslaught had broken the backbone of
Polish resistance, tlie Soviet Government,
in complete disregard of obligations fre-
quently and voluntarily assumed, sent its
armed forces into Poland against the
protest of the Polish Government.
Soviet rule in East Poland, like German
rule in the western half, was a night-
mare of horrors. Vast numbers —not
only Poles but Ukrainians, Jews and
White Russians —were rounded up and
shipped in cattle cars to remote exile
areas in Siberia and elsewhere ; the Polish
Government-in-exile has officially esti-
mated the deportees at a million and a
half.
A brighter prospect for Poland’s
national future seemed to open up after
Hitler’s invasion of Russia in June, 1941.
The Soviet-Nazi partition was officially
repudiated in the Polish-Soviet agreement
of July 30, 1941, which declared, among
other things, that “the Government of
the U.S.S.R. recognises the Soviet-Ger-
man treaties of 1939 as to territorial
changes in Poland as having lost
validity.”
At this time, when his military position
was weak, Stalin expressed no doubts or
reservations as to the legitimacy and rep-
resentative character of the Polish Gov-
ernment-in-exile with which he made
the agreement. It must be reckoned a
cardinal blunder of American diplomacy
that there was no effort to link up lend-
lease shipments to the Soviet Union with
a specific promise on Stalin’s part to live
up to his own repeatedly pledged word
and the implications of the first three
clauses of the Atlantic Charter, to which
he adhered, and specifically to repudi-
ate annexationist designs.
This would have been a very cheap
price for the Soviet dictator to pay for
American aid. All that can be said in
extenuation of American diplomacy is
that the U.S. Government failed to en-
vision even the possibility that Stalin
might seek to swallow neighboring
countries.
The Soviet attitude toward Poland be-
came increasingly truculent as the Rus-
sian military position improved. There
was systematic Russian sabotage of
Polish effort to form a real army on Rus-
sian soil, and ultimately this army, under
command of General Anders, had to be
transferred to the Near East.
Growing bolder as its arbitrary actions
encountered no effective diplomatic
opposition from Great Britain and the
United States, the Soviet Government
broke off diplomatic relations with the
Polish Government-in-exile on April 26,
1943.
The real objective of Soviet policy to-
ward Poland became clearer in the pass-
ing of time as a little stooge group of
Polish communists and fellow-travellers,
most inappropriately called the Union of
Polish Patriots, with headquarters in
Moscow, was pushed more and more into
the foreground of Soviet propaganda.
Recent events are fresh in memory. A
Soviet declaration on January 11 sug-
gesting the Curzon Line as a new frontier
sneered at the Polish Government as “in-
capable of establishing friendly relations
with the Soviet Union.” A pathetically
mild appeal by the Polish Government
for a Four-Power conference, with the
participation of Britain and the United
States, to discuss all outstanding ques-
tions between Poland and Russia was
brusquely rejected by Stalin, British and
American attempts to intercede were
brushed aside. Through a vicious attack
on Willkie, of all people, Moscow served
notice that it considers its projected grabs
in East Europe as “domestic” affairs.
Poland, the first nation to take up arms
against Hitler, was treated by the Soviet
Government like an inferior colonial
State.
Very sinister' was the Soviet sugges-
tion of “compensation” in the west for
Poland’s territorial losses in the east. This
compensation would presumably take the
form of cession to Poland of East Prussia,
perhaps of the whole of Silesia. Now
all the crimes of the Nazis cannot
obliterate the fact that East Prussia is
a solidly German community, with prac-
tically no Polish minority. To violate the
right of self-determination in such a
crude way would be the surest guaran-
tee of another European war. And it
would transform Poland into a helpless
Russian vassal, dependent on Soviet
military aid to keep territory which
no German Government, conservative,
democratic or socialist, would ever regard
as permanently lost to Germany, The
fact that the Poles have not rejected this
offer is on the same level of intelligence
as their seizure of Teschen and hardly
adds to their moral stature.
The same pattern of contempt for his
own pledged word evident in relation to
Poland is evident in Stalin’s relations
with Finland and the Baltic Republics,
Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. These
countries also had their full quota of
non-aggression pacts, concluded at the
initiative of the Soviet Government and
violated at the first convenient oppor-
tunity.
Projects of World Control.
(As viewed by "Wall-street Journal.”)
It begins to appear that economic co-
operation between the United States and
Great Britain may prove more difficult
than political accord.
Widespread anxiety of Britons con-
cerning the post-war economic position
of the United Kingdom expresses itself
in proposals for an international body
having authority to regulate exports and
imports of the subscribing nations, either
through a system of currency exchange
control or otherwise. Emphasis is laid
on the necessity of the British Isles to
export greatly in order to buy indispens-
able food and raw materials ; Britain at
home is to be a debtor nation after the
war, bereft of her traditional income from
foreign investments and probably suffer-
ing a considerable reduction in earnings
of her world commercial services such as
ocean transport.
It has been said by Englishmen that a
mercantile marine is a luxury for the
United States whereas it is an essential
part of Britain’s livelihood. In regard to
both air transport and water carriage
Britons feel misgivings, considering the
’plane production capacity and cargo ship
tonnage the United States will have when
the fighting stops.
As many Englishmen see it, the future
should include a British economic council
for internal trade control, a standing
Empire economic conference, extension
of the “sterling group” to include, besides
the Scandinavian countries, Holland, Bel-
gium and perhaps France, South Africa
and India but perhaps not Canada. Be-
yond this, they hope for, even expect, the
participation of the United States in
world trade direction.
If Great Britain and some of the Do-
minions, Russia and the United States
entered into an economic super-control it
would be hard, perhaps even hazardous,
for other nations to remain aloof. But
Russia’s participation looks exceedingly
doubtful. Then what? Should her
present allies in war become a concert of
economic opposition? If they had any
power to punish economic separatism
would they not surely be suspected of
intending to exercise it?
This newspaper hopes that interna-
tional economic conferences will be held
and that sincere efforts at world co-opera-
tion will be made, both before and after
the end of this war. But it can hardly
imagine the United States participating
in the creation of an international body
with power to determine the volume
of exports or imports of constituent
States, their monetary balances and so
their internal economies, whether through
a world trade bank or by any other
means.
World Police.
(From a N.Y. "Times” article by Edwin
L. James.)
One of the world police force projects
receiving no little popular consideration
provides for a quota system by which
nations would earmark certain forces for
international preservation of peace and
keep those forces within their borders
until they were ordered out by an inter-
national body.
The United States quota would include
twenty battleships. That means the U.S.
Navy, for battleships don’t move alone,
but carry with them destroyers
and aircraft-carriers. *So the U.S. quota
contribution would include the Navy.
Does anyone think that the U.S. Senate,
or the people of the United States, will
agree in advance that the Navy can be
ordered anywhere, or fight anybody, with-
out the Government having a veto
power? Of course not. And neither will
the British people nor the Russian people.
The national Governments have to be
reckoned with. And when it is pointed
out that under this plan the Navy could
be ordered to attack anyone, including
ourselves, without, perhaps, our saying
so, the whole project gets tied in a knot.
U.S. and the Empires.
(Condensed from “United States News,” which
often reflects U.S. official thinking and policy
very closely .)
The strategy of sea-power and air-
power in tomorrow’s world is influencing
U.S. official attitude toward the way the
rights to vital corners of the world are
to be disposed of after the war. It is
causing differences between President
Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill.
Ir affects relations between the U.S. and
the various parts of the British Empire.
Mr. Roosevelt’s first concern is said to
be to make sure that the U.S. is not again
in danger of being shut out of the key
positions that affect U.S. defence.
Mr. Roosevelt and his advisers do not
forget that the French, without a fight,
turned over to Japan the big French naval
base at Saigon in Indo-China, thereby
enabling Japan to outflank and reduce
Singapore, and to cut U.S. access to
rubber and tin. The President remem-
bers that, when the U.S. was hardest
pressed by German submarines, the
Fiench island of Martinique served as
a hostile dagger aimed at the vitals of
U.S. defences in the Caribbean. He has
said definitely that French Dakar cannot
again be left under a control that will
threaten the approaches to America.
The President is thinking of other
French possessions also —Madagascar,
New Caledonia, French Guiana, the
islands of Miquelon and St. Pierre. He
is unwilling to see the whole French
empire restored intact, without guaran-
tees that will protect the security of the


m
W mm
m
n.
i
« 7
m
w
# &
W,
m
mt
V
U
- ss
■SSH
THE MAH BAG TAKES WINGS
If every man, woman and child in Australia
were to send a pound of mail by air, this amount
would about equal the 6,612,636 lbs. of mail
carried by A.N.A. in 1943. With its army of
technical experts, Australian National Airways
is rendering an invaluable contribution to the
nation in operating a vast network of airlines
which links every Australian capital with fast,
frequent, and true-to schedule air services.
INVEST ALL YOU CAN IN VICTORY BONDS.
w
USTRALIAN
TIONAL AIRWAYS
FIRST IN PEACE . .
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IR WAR
. . FIRST IN FUTURE
ALWAYS SMOOTH
CRAVEN X
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
m
mmm
m
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
Australia asks for your money <*
an enemy would take it.
Every £lO National Savings Bond
helps to keep you Free!
U.S. General de Gaulle, on the other
hand, insists on the restoration of France
as a sovereign world Power, He claims
full rights to all French possessions. The
unyielding attitude of General de Gaulle
regarding these possessions is said to be
the real explanation for Mr. Roosevelt’s
reluctance to give complete recognition
to the De Gaulle committee as the Gov-
ernment of France.
Officials hold that the U.S. has a defi-
nite stake in what is to be done with the
Italian empire. Part of it lies close to
Saudi Arabia, rapidly becoming a U.S.
zone of vital interest. Directly across the
Red Sea from Saudi Arabia is Italian
Eritrea, where the U.S. has built an im-
portant base.
It is generally assumed that the former
Italian possessions in Africa will not be
handed back to Italy. Either the British
or French would be glad to have them.
as mandates or outright. One proposal
would place them under United Nations
control. Another would place them under
a group of Allied Powers. U.S. will insist
on access to naval or air bases there.
The U.S. is certain to have a continu-
ing interest in the bases in Newfound-
land, Bermuda, the West Indies and
British Guiana leased from Britain in
1940. Also, the war has shown that
Hong Kong, Singapore, Burma and India
are as vital to U.S. security in the Far
East as they are to British security. Some
arrangement that will recognise this U.S.
interest is to be sought,
As for Canada, Australia and New
Zealand, the stake of the U.S. has been
sharply demonstrated. The U.S. is actively
defending Australia and New Zealand,
and has guaranteed the defence of
Canada. These British Dominions* now
look more to the U.S. for military aid
than they do to the Mother Country,
The Dutch empire contains areas of
importance to the U.S. The Netherlands
East Indies have big supplies of natural
rubber. Greenland and Iceland, affiliated
with Denmark, are indispensable links
in the chain of U.S.-British defences in
the North Atlantic. The Azores, owned
by Portugal and occupied by British
forces, have a strategic importance for
the U.S. supply line across the Atlantic,
The U.S. stake in the Philippines is
recognised in the fact that, even though
these islands are to achieve full indepem
dence after the war, the JJ.S. will retain
naval bases and military reservations, as
provided in the Philippine Independence
Act of 1934. And Puerto Rico is a key-
stone of U.S. defence in the Caribbean,
All these U.S. defence outposts scat-
tered over the world are being kept pro-
minently in mind by U.S. officials as they
look to the future. But signs are multi-
plying that the Churchill point of view
concerning them is beginning to differ
sharply from the Roosevelt point of view.
There was a time when Mr. Churchul
said that British affairs would become
more and more “mixed up” with the
affairs of the U.S. Home Secretary Her-
bert Morrison suggested “some wider
pooling of tasks and responsibilities with
others” in regard to the British colonics.
And Sir Oliver Stanley, the British
Colonial Secretary, pointed to the Anglo-
American Caribbean Commission as an
example of international co-operation in
the colonial field. Lately, however, British
policy has been veering away from close
co-operation with the U.S. in colonial mat-
ters. The trend now is toward steps that
will preserve and build up British power
as a counter to Russian power on one
side and U.S. power on the other. Some
British leaders have talked about a
Western European bloc, in which Britain,
France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Por-
tugal, Denmark and Norway would pool
their interests. It has also been proposed
that the Dominions be included in the
bloc and have an equal voice with Britain
in determining British foreign policy.
These leaders fear that, without such a
bloc, Britain will cease to be one of the
world’s great Powers.
Opposition to the British plan for a
balance-of-power bloc is being exerted by
Roosevelt and Hull, They know that the
British, French, Belgian, Dutch and Por-
tuguese empires together control more
than 21,000,000 square miles, or two-
fifths of the land area of the world. If
these countries should act as a unit in
matters of defence and trade, they could
shut the U.S. out of many of the zones
now regarded as strategic for U.S.
defence. Fully aware of what such a
combination could mean for the U.S., the
President is making a series of moves
intended to safeguard U.S. interests.
The British are moving toward the
creation of a “sterling bloc” that would
help them export enough goods to pay
for their necessary imports. The U.S.
opposes the formation of such a bloc and
favors a further reduction of trade
barriers.
The British would like to share the
commercial air routes of the world on the
basis of spheres of influence. Officials of
the U.S. want to assure U.S. commercial
air lines the opportunity to compete in
international air traffic anywhere.
The British would like to acquire some
of the cargo ships built by the U.S. dur-
ing this war, for use in their own mer-
chant marine. U.S. insists on carrying
a bigger part of the world’s .sea cargoes
in future. The British want to maintain
an exclusive communications bloc, with
higher rates for the U.S. and other nations
not included in it. Officials in Washing-
ton want to see UIS. companies compet-
ing widely in foreign communications.
Canada opposes any plan that would
harm her relations with the U.S. and
Russia. If Britain organises a sterling
trade bloc, Canada will not be a part of
it. As to post-war aviation, Canada
favors the U.S. plan for “freedom of the
air,” rather than the British plan for
spheres of influence,
Australia and New Zealand are not
prepared to go all the way with the new
British ideas. While they want a voice
in the making of British Commonwealth
foreign policy, they are acutely conscious
of their dependence on the U.S. for
defence.
The President’s opposition to the British
balance-of-power policy and his efforts
to safeguard American interests in the
strategic corners of the world are looked
upon as entirely consistent with the
efforts of Secretary Hull to bring about
a general international organisation for
the preservation of the world’s peace. If
such an organisation comes into being,
these strategic areas can be utilised for
the security of all the nations. They
can be under United Nations control, or
under the joint control of whatever
Powers are immediately concerned in any
given area. But, in any case. President
Roosevelt and Mr. Hull are determined
that the United States is going to be
dealt in.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
Colonel John N. Andrews of the Selective
Service System, has revealed that only one U.S.
discharged veteran of this war, out of more than
1,000,000 discharged since September, 1940, has
been compelled to obtain the assistance of a
United States Attorney to obtain his former
job. The times doubtless account for part ol
this record, but employers are credited by
Colonel Andrews with commendable efforts to
live up to the spirit as well as the letter of the
selective service law. Where veterans could
not be returned to their old jobs, successful
efforts have been made to adjust them to other
jobs or to find other opportunities for them. —
N.Y. “Sun.”
When the international organisation is estab-
lished, the city of Washington is the logical
place for its seat instead of Geneva or any
other place in Europe. The conflicting influ-
ences of European countries and their persis-
tence in a form of censorship of what is
printed even in peace-times make it difficult
for public opinion to function helpfully. By
holding sessions of the new international or-
ganisation, in America, the opportunity tor
discussion in the free atmosphere of a tree
press would unquestionably keep secret treaties
and special agreements from creating the
cleavages that lead to wars. — Washington syn-
dicate writer David Lawrence.
* * * *
Germany stripped of allies and occupied
countries would lose all of her nickel, all ot
her molybdenum, all of her manganese, one-
third of her liquid fuels, 80 p.c. of her chrome,
40 p.c. of her copper, all of her parachute silk,
45 p.c. of her mercury, 75 p.c. of her bauxite
reserves, all of her wolfram and considerable
steel. — Washington correspondent, N.Y. “Sun.’
H 5
General Smuts, in his references to France,
involved himself jn patent self-contradiction.
“The idea has repeatedly floated before my
mind/’ he said, “whether Great Britain should
not strengthen her European position by work-
ing closely together with those smaller democ-
racies in Western Europe which are of our way
of thinking, which are entirely with us in their
outlook and their way of life, and which in
many ways are of the same political and
spiritual substance as ourselves.” If General
Smuts excludes France from among the Great
Powers —“we may talk about her as a Great
Power, but talking will not help her much”—
she becomes ipso facto one among “thpse
smaller democracies in Western Europe which
are of our way of thinking.” As a smaller
democracy, however, she looks something of
an outsize. She might look even more so if
some of the really small democracies were
to rally around her so as not' to become make-
weights of the three Great Powers. This is a
possibility by no means to be ruled out. — From
a London “Fortnightly” article by R. P.
Schwarz. °
* H= * *
On post-war international order the confer-
ence of Premiers in London offered one ol;
those heartening statements which need a great
deal of definition. It asked for an agency with
power enough to prevent aggression and
violence. But because of the reluctance of
Commonwealth members tp consider pooling
of sovereignty within their own family so
that swifter action might be taken by the British
world when confronted with a threat of dis-
order, one is inclined to ask whether the en-
visaged world organisation would really be
given sufficient authority and power to act on
its own initiative in behalf of peace. If not,
we may see the League’s fatal weaknesses as
well as its sound precepts embodied in an-
other international essay.— “ Christian Science
Monitor.”
* * * *
The British favor emigration but would also
like to see Dominion citizens settling; it would
help solve the British population problems.
Many Canadian soldiers have expressed a
desire to remain in England after the war, and,
as the Dominions become more industrialised,
such interchange of populations might grow.—
London correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Japan is suffering from an oil shortage; is
hard pressed by the loss of tankers to U.S.
submarines. Japan’s oil supply line is exposed
and slender. Japan’s food reserves are dwind-
ling. Japan can be starved, can be prevented
from obtaining the fish and rice she must have
to feed her people. Japan’s shipping situation
is not far from desperate; is growing worse
by the week. Without adequate merchant
shipping, Japan will strangle. Result is that
the time is near when U.S. can strike some
vital blows. A series of dramatic sea-air, even
landing, moves can be expected. This war, as
a major operation, should approach its last
stages not many months after Germany is de-
feated. Japan is showing less and less ability
to keep up in the race on the sea or in the air.
U.S. advantage is piling higher.—' “United
States News.”


ds
fds
f
How to get at the
last few drops of
BRYLCREEM
6
6
All the Brylcreem at present being made is going to the
Services. So that with Brylcreem being difficult to get,
those last few drops in your jar have become very precious
indeed. And because Brylcreem has such excellent tonic
ingredients, there's a lot of good in those few drops. So
we suggest you get them out by adding a teaspoonful of
clean, cold water and shaking the jar vigorously. You'll find
every drop of cream will come cleanly away from the jar.
Save or Slave—Buy War Savings Certificates.
X
:
&y£v.\
C L OTH
i
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
TURNED 71 YEARS
AND STILL GOING STRONG!
R.U.R. BENEFITS NEURITIS
AFTER YEARS OF SUFFERING
Why put up with pain from rheuma-
tism, neuritis and such disorders when
relief is so readily available? Read
what Mr. Billy Hinde writes in the
letter quoted below and you will dis-
cover the secret of pain-free, active
living. Mr. Hinde says:—
“Being a great sufferer for years
with neuritis, I was advised to try
R.U.R. (Thanks to my friends.)
The result was after a few days’
treatment I was greatly relieved, and
today, I am most happy to say, it
has completely disappeared.
I still take the above twice a week to
keep fit and well. I have turned 71
years and am still going strong. Many
thanks for your valuable treatment
and the very best wishes.”
R.U.R. owes the benefits it provides for
so many people who suffer from rheu-
matism, neuritis, lumbago, sciatica and
similar disorders, to its commonsense,
natural method of healing. It is the
only remedy which, at the same time,
contains a laxative, liver stimulant,
kidney cleanser, blood purifier and acid
corrective. It is truly the five-fold
health remedy praised by thousands.
So take the shortest cut to robust,
pain-free health, stamina and energy.
Take R.U.R. for a while and you will
see how quickly it restores you to health
and good spirits.
Take R.U.R. regularly for a while.
Smaller size, 4/-; the money-back
guaranteed full treatment, 7/6.
Obtainable at chemists and stores
mCHT YOU MBS
Quiet
and Cosy..
sSc>= ..
m
m
TOC
jrS
Insulation with
CANE-ITE
INSULATING BOARD
The first essential in designing your post-
war home is interior comfort all the year
round. Cane-ite Insulating Board, for
lining all the walls and ceilings, helps
keep your home at an even temperature,
insulates against external noise as well as
against heat, and its natural ivory white
finish is a perfect light reflector. For a
bright and livable post-war home, specify
Cane-ite Insulating Board for every room.
CAME-XTE
W
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. Building Materials Division'
MARKETING: CA N E-I I E • C.S.R. SLAGWOOL
PLASTER PRODUCTS • ASBESTOS FIBRE
CA37-44
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy The Billy Book. — 3483.
To buy monthly issues of H. G. Wells’s
History of the World and Outline of History.
—3484.
To buy Spikenard and Bayonet, by Shaun
O’Leary.—34Bs.
Information Sought.
When did the first Canadian and Australian
forces to land in England during the present war
arrive there?
The first contingent of Canadians landed on
December 17, 1939; an R.A.A.F. squadron
arrived on December 26, 1939.
* * * *
When did the Australian Universities' Rugby
Union team tour Japan? What were the re-
sults of tour and Test matches? Who was
captain ?
In 1934. Played nine, won four, lost four,
drew one; points for, 128; against, 118. Aus-
tralia won First Test by 18 to 8, but was de-
feated in second Test by 14 to 9. R. West-
field (Sydney) was captain.
* * * «
How to polish sea-shells ?
Many need only a wash in warm .soapy
water, a second wash in water made just sour
with hydrochloric acid and a polish with raw
linseed oil and a finishing pad. Dull shells may
be polished with Tripoli powder, a soft brush
and a chamois.
# % H*
Early history of Edinburgh Castle?
Probably dates from the time of Edwin, King
of Northumbria (seventh century), but little is
known of its history before the later years
of Malcolm Canmore’s reign (1054-93). The
castle changed hands frequently during the
wars with England.
ap ' * * #
When and where was Bill Squires born ?
At Narrabri, N.S.W., on March 17, 1879.
jjc % H* Hr
How to remove iron in solution from house-
hold water?
If the iron is in the form of ferrous bicar-
bonate, it can be almost entirely removed by
bringing the water in contact with the air by
passage over a screen of some kind and filtering
through a sand filter. If the iron exists in the
form of ferrous sulphate, the water should be
treated with slaked lime and clarified by sedi-
mentation or filtering.
* $ * *
Composition of French polish?
Shellac is dissolved in methylated spirit (6oz.
shellac to one pint spirit). Orange shellac pro-
duces brown, white shellac “white,” polish.
* * * * .
What capital would be needed to begin sheep-
farming with about 750 sheep on a leasehold
property? How could a middle-aged man gain
the experience necessary and where could such
a property be purchased ?
Cost would depend on the actual property,
but if all stock had to be bought, £4OOO to
£5OOO would be required. By getting a job
on a sheep-farm for a year a knowledge of the
year’s operations could be gained. Places for
sale are usually in the hands of stock and
property agents; from time to time Crown lands
are made available for lease or purchase by the
Lands Department.
* * * • *
How many Christians, Mohammedans and
Buddhists are there in the world?
692,400,000 Christians, 209,020,000 Moham-
medans and 150,180,000 Buddhists.
Brief Answers.
D.G.H.: Coin is worth from 6d. to Is
J.G.C.: The actress’s own voice S.G.: Full
details have appeared in daily press H. 8.:
The Writers and Artists' Year-Book would help
y0u....M.C.: Questions cannot be answered
for security reasons RJF.: No statistics com-
piled ... J. C.H.: Probably... .G.R.R.: Trees
are entirely different R.C.C.: ’Phone again.
F.E.F.: Never published in this column.
. ...L.M.W.: (1) Scilla. (2) Menzies was Prime
Minister when the 6th Div. left Australia....
J.D.T.: If tin is thick and riveted, paint may
be burned out.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
C.H.: Only in extreme youth is it permissible
to ejaculate “Ah, woe are we!”... .P.G.S.:
Conventional lightweights T.J.H.: Try a
woman’s paper J.W.W.: When last sighted,
cheese was scampering in the direction of the
G.P.O T.E.H.: Come again J.W.: If
the covering letter wasn’t so disarming, you
know what we’d say... .F.J.L.: “Back to the
bush lam going.” By all means, but if every-
body has kept his word you’ll find a poet under
every gum-tree S.E.P.: Dizzy with its own
punch... .V.L.C.: Usual note on passing on
the torch J.G.C.: Don’t make your poems
a string of questions 0.F.: Black swans,
seagulls, wild duck, wild geese,* they’re all
“flying and crying” in a hundred poems from
which yours is indistinguishable T.M.:
“Granny sat dozing by the fire,” Halfway
through that story, no doubt E.D.: Take
away that woeful infant M.P.D.: Those
short sentences may occasionally be effective,
but mostly they read like the children’s primers.
. ...H.A.C.: Your Australians all speak Cock-
ney. .. .M.C.: Jasper should be kept under lock
and key....P.L.: “This is my first attempt, so
please don’t say it’s not all it should be.”
It isn’t anything it should be R.C.K.:
Don’t want surprise endings, especially when
they’re not surprising S.F.: If poor old Jim
had ever read any short stories he’d have
known all along that the moment he found
gold dear old Bill would hit him on the head
with a pickaxe... .K.8.D.: “Whenever Denny
opened his mouth the room roared "with
laughter.” Ah, but furniture has such a keen
sense of humor... .R.J.: It took half an hour
to decipher your handwriting and ten seconds
to decide that the time had been wasted.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.P.N.: Alleged humans with cylindrical legs
and plum-pudding heads spouting inanities
Bert C.: 111-shaped fellow gazing at the sea of
ink has his feet on the ground, but a cloud
is floating near his face P.J.8.: Lady with
knitting looks as if she had stepped on a land
mine... .A.D.G.: Disjointed undertaker and
neckless assistant are in office morgue P.F.:
Can’t you think up any jokes other than about
pimples and halitosis? Percy: The printing
on the signpost is the best part of it H.C.:
That fly-in-the-beer joke went flat in 1860
J.W.H: But why would Dad have cactus plants
instead of arms? R.H.R.: To conceal art
may be true art, but you overdo it.


C;0 R-• CO R - C O R -C O R ■ G O R- ■ C O R - COR
C O R ■ • C O R--C O R - C-O-R• • CO R• • C O R-• C O R -C OR ■ • C O R - ■ C OR
"C O.R Plus" Motor Spirit • • • "C.0.R." Power
Kerosene • • • "Coralite" Kerosene • • • "C.O.R.
Light Diesoleum" • • • w C.O.R" Diesel Oils; and
"CO.R" Fuel and Bunker Oils.
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
LIMITED
Branches in All States
G 0 R -■ C O R ■ ■ C 0 R - C 0 R - -H 0 R • ■ C O R - COR- C O R - C O R - G O-R
COR- • C-O-R • - COR • • COR • • C-OR- • C-OR- • COR
c,
ft
fcU.E
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong • Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
C O MPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney,
BP 9-44.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Doc., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 35,921 10 p.c. = 26,500 9,421 275,148
Drop in replacement reserve, £16,245.. 258,903
1935.. 29,867 10 p.c. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
From inner reserves, £40,500 .. 302,760
Reserves capitalised, £182,500 . . 170,260
1936.. 42,079 8 p.c. = 39,400 2,679 172,939
Insurance reserve, £913 .. .. 173,852
Added replacement reserve, £11,897 .. 185,749
1937.. 47,185 9 p.c. t= 44,325 2,860 188,609
Added replacement reserve, £12,582 .. 201,191
1938.. 49,812 10 p.c. t= 49,250 562 201,75.3
Added replacement reserve, £18,960 .. 220,713
1939.. 53,577 10 p.c. = 49,250 4,327 22j,U40
Added replacement reserve, £1547 .. 226,587
1940.. 49,443 10 p.c. = 49,250 193 226,780
Added replacement reserve, £9147 .. 235,927
1941.. 34,039 7 p.c. = 34,475 235,491
Added replacement reserve, £14,744 .. 260,235
1942.. 8,909 Nil 8,909 259,144
Added replacement reserve, £16,211 .. 275,355
1943.. 7,376 SJ p.c. t= 16,006 266,725
The collapse of earnings is due to a
combination of fortuitous circumstances
which upset both the co.’s Bundaberg
sugar and Solomon Island copra trading
activities. Island trading ceased a couple
of years ago, owing to enemy occupation.
Though the Jap has since been driven
out of the Solomons by Allied troops, it
is too early yet for traders to resume busi-
ness there. Damage to plantations, etc.,
is not expected to exceed more than
3 p.c. of the subsidiary’s total assets.
Exactly what that amounts to isn’t stated,
nor are the subsidiary’s figures broad-
cast. Fairymead exchanged 95,000 of
its own f.-p. pound shares for £195,000
of scrip (held by the Young family) in
the Malayta Co., which owps and oper-
ates the plantations. Returns from copra
and sugar have never been separated in
the parent’s published accounts, but ap-
pearances are that copra didn’t contribute
much to the pool pre-war. Because the
enemy’s thrust into the islands cut off a
large part of the world’s supply of copra,
there is now a strong demand for the
stuff at enhanced prices. But what post-
war market developments will be nobody
knows at the moment.
As for sugar, the mill plant was re-
modelled and brought up to date before
the war, to the benefit of costs. But
drought, followed by floods and then
shortage of labor, fertiliser and mechani-
cal equipment, all combined to reduce
the quantity of cane available for crush-
ing. That bumped up costs on the milling
side, and they were further increased by
shortage of Government rolling stock,
which meant treatment of part of the
co.’s cane at another mill. The co. doesn’t
mention the quantity of cane it puts
through the rollers, nor the tonnage of
raws turned out. But last season’s Aus-
tralian output of raws (505,000 tons, down
122,000 tons) was the lightest since 1927,
and most mills worked broken time.
After setting aside £16,211 (down
£1570) for depreciation, there was a
further contraction of £1533 in net earn-
ings (£7376), which shrank to 1.5 p.c.
on capital as against 1.8, 6.9, 10, 10.8
and 10.1 p.c. back to 1938. A better crop
is expected for the current season, so
shareholders were handed 3i p.c. ; they
were passed by in the previous term for
the first time in 42 years. For the decade
to the close of accounts in 1941 —it in-
cluded the difficult depression period —
divs. averaged 9.2 p.c.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1938. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £492,500 £492,500 £492,500 £492,500
Liabilities* .. 84,484 273,653 261,169 250,786
Estates .. 830,681 388,218 337,991 338,216
Factories, plant,
etc. . . 360,124 463,426 477,040 490,246
Stocks, etc. .. 45,648 211,484 174,019 174,073
Book debts .. 85,066 17,234 22,030 22,635
Cash, etc. .. 6,468 5,657 1,733 848
* Including provision for taxation.
Interest there centres mainly on plant,
etc., chief earning asset. Over the last
five, years £130,122 has been added to
this item, which suggests that the man-
agement is alive to its problems. Last
term the addition was £13,202. Allowing
for payment of the div., liabilities (they
include an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion) exceeded more or less liquids by
£69,236, or £5849 more than at the previ-
ous balance.
What the future holds for the sugar
industry remains to be seen. War-time
multiplication of world-producing centres
threatens complication of the overproduc-
tion problem, Australian growers' are
anxious to resume their obligations in
terms of the pre-war International Sugar
Agreement, under which Britain took
some 400,000 tons of Australian raws
annually.
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
f Dividends N To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves'
1934.. 19,796 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 19,465 831 104,474
1935.. 21,807 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 2,342 106,816
1936.. 25,540 8 „ 12i „ 22,270 3,270 110,086
1937.. 25,291 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 5,826 115,912
1938.. 10,968 8 „ 7j „ 16,659 110.221
1939.. 25,271 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 5,806 116,027
Prestige, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.*
1940.. 35,035 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 19,465 15,570 147,029
1941.. 38,705 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 19,240 166,269
1942.. 28,110 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 8,645 174,914
1943.. 36,319 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 1 „ Rf -. ISfi 7fi «
To staff fund, £5OOO .. f U ’ Bs4 186)768
1944.. 40,962 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 19,465 \ . a . onQ
To staff fund, £5OOO .. \ 16)497 203 ’ 265
* Profits ■ shown less outside interest.
Thanks to enterprising management,
which combined practical care for detail
with imagination and sound finance, this
23-year-old manufacturer of hosiery and
lingerie, etc., has given a distinguished
account of itself. Early difficulties out of
the way, an assault was made upon costs,
the aim being to improve quality, lower
selling prices and thus liven turnover.
Some glittering results were achieved.
Over the last 19 years the co. has never
failed to pay a div., average being approx.
11.3 p.c., and at the end of March last
there was £203,265 of reserves —they in-
clude £42,958 of share premiums—vis-
ibly supporting and assisting £270,260 of
share capital in the parent and subsidi-
aries combined.
For some years before war the women’s
hosiery trade was threatened with over-
production. To circumvent approaching
problems the co. spread its activities into
allied fields and developed subsidiary
interests. Prestige (N.Z.), Ltd., was
formed, and the parent commenced manu-
facture of fine lingerie. Then dyeing and
finishing were undertaken on a commis-
sion basis. So rapidly did this new sec-
tion of the business expand that another
subsidiary, Dyecraft Ply., was soon
formed to handle it. Similar remarks
apply to manufacture of fine woven fab-
rics, begun in 1941, mainly on defence
account, and taken over by a new sub-
sidiary, Prestige Fabrics, Ltd,, last term.
Meanwhile, a branch factory was estab-
lished at Ararat (Vic.), and new sections
for manufacture of clothing and other
requirements of the forces were added to
the Melbourne mill.
For the last three years the group has
been occupied mainly with defence con-
tracts. Rationing and other restrictions,
together with price control and shortage
of labor, affected output of high-grade
goods and lowered the standard of ser-
vice the co. used to give the public pre-
war. Also, official taboos on use of
trade-marks on goods supplied to the ser-
vices and dislocation of pre-war inter-
state trade the co. built up on service
and quality have created a new series of
goodwill and other problems to which
the management is now turning attention.
The switch from service to civilian
occupations will alter the emphasis of de-
mand. To what extent volume will be
affected remains to be seen. There is a
reservoir of spending power in accumu-
lated savings, and there is Government
talk about “full employment.” Much will
depend upon this and upon continued
Government interference in the shape of
remodelled controls. Exactly what these
will be will largely depend upon the re-
sult of the referendum in August next.
Experience to date suggests that over-
control might prove a crippling element
in post-war costs, which promise the
hardest nut manufacturers will have to
crack.
Last term combined net earnings of
the parent and subsidiaries sprang £4643,
reaching £40,962. That was after allow-
ing £4522 less for depreciation (£32,265),
making an unspecified provision for tax-
ation and deducting divs. paid to outside
interests. Including £5OOO sent to the staff
fund, the parent’s contribution was
£22,733 (down £6l) and the subsidiaries’
£18,229 (up £4361). The £40,962 was
enough to pay the parent’s pref. div. and
show 30 p.c. on its ord. capital as against
25, 17.7, 37.1 and 23.8 p.c. back to 1940.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
The financial position further im-
proved, of course:
Prestige,
Ltd. r~- Cons. Figures
1938. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital, . £215,259 £215,259 £215,259 £270,260
Outside capitalf 80,000 30,000 55,000
Overdraft . . 69,299 27,968 31,339
Sundry creditors* 45,467 104,339 189,253 171,207
Freeholds . : . 80,581 108,531 110,921 90,612
Plant, etc. .. 111,786 91,122 71,169 64,096
Shares other cos. 72,546 1,000 1,600
Stocks. . . . 134,816 294,165 366,236 300,190
Book debts, etc. 50,484 35,653 83,024 156,079
Cash, etc. . . 1,055 3,162 8,468 20,355
f Prestige (N.Z.) prefs. * Including tax provision.
The more or less liquid surplus (£317,057)
was £68,281 stronger than at the previ-
ous balance. Stocks were down £66,046. A
lot of money is now tied up in inventories
and equipment on war account. This
money will be needed for reconstruction
and financing civilian business when the
war ends. Then the prime need will be
quick settlements. The immediate need is
announcement by the Government of its
policy for financing war contract ter-
mination.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- He—
Dec.. Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
ai £ £ £
1932.. 533 Nil 633 9,582
1933.. 187 Nil 187 9,769
Renovations charged to reserves, £2191.. 7,578
1934.. 940 Nil 940 8,518
1935.. 2.854 24 p.c. = 3,250 8,122
1936.. 5,856 4 „ „ 5,200 656 8,778
1937.. 7,033 5 „ „ 6,500 533 9,311
1938.. 8,898 6 „ ~ 7,800 1,098 10,409
1939.. 5,858 44 „ „ 5,850 8 10,417
1940.. 6,93* 6 „ „ 6,500 434 10,851
1941.. 6,507 5 ~ „ 6,500 7 10,858
1942.. 8,005 5 „ „ 6,500 1,505 12,363
1943.. 9,208 7 „ „ 9,100 lflB 12,471
The hotel, built on leasehold that runs
out in J 960, looks across Belmore Park
to Central station; and in the palmy
1920’s the co. paid a run of 10 p.c. divs.,
sweetened with a one-for-one bonus scrip
issue in 1923. That was before the under-
ground started to carry thousands past
the co.’s doorstep into the heart of the
city and the Government squeezed
private bus transport off the roads.
Slump aggravated the position, of course,
and, after a three years’ drought, share-
holders have averaged a shade under
5 p.c. for the nine years to the close of
last accounts.
War brought rising costs, including
taxation, as. well as rationing of beer, price
ceiling for meals, restriction of civilian
rail travel, and staffing and other prob-
lems. Still, there have been compensat-
ing factors. As war expenditure, financed
largely by central bank credit, increased,
so did employment, the volume of cur-
rency and the length of payrolls. Wages
went up with the cost-of-living index,
while the influx of service and other per-
sonnel into the city has created an acute
shortage of accommodation and con-
tributed largely to the volume of spend-
ing, especially in the hotel business.
Last year the co.’s gross earnings
(£68,578) shot up £13,881. Including
£5890 (up £4890) written off the outlay
on an air-raid shelter, £4309 premium on
sinking-fund insurance, and an extra
£2375 paid in taxation, etc. (£20,749),
exes. (£59,370) took £12,678 of the in-
crease. That left the net result £1203
better at £9208, or a shade over 7 p.c.
on capital as against 6.1, 5, s.3*and 4.5
p.c. back to 1939. A couple of points
were added to the div., making it 7 p.c.
In 1940 a sinking-fund insurance policy
was taken out to cover “the full book
value of the building within the term of
the lease,” thus providing adequate pro-
tection for capital. Before that annual
contributions had been made to a sink-
ing-fund reserve, but the money (£39,360)
was used in the business, chiefly in im-
provement of fixed assets, and was not
therefore available for return off capital.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £130,000 £ ISO,00(F£ 130,000
Overdraft .. 16,220 14,265 2,594
Creditors .. 5,058 6,216 5,085 7,001
Leasehold .. 186,964 133,482 128,737 123,992
Furniture, etc. 12,489 11,851 17,753 12,724
Stocks .. 10,896 11,145 3,088 2,521
Book debts, etc. 2,986 2,669 2,449 19,630
Sinking - fund
insurance .. 8,618 12,926 17,235 21,544
Book debts, etc., now consist chiefly of
cash and Government securities (£17,329,
up £17,124 last term) and prepayments
(£2011). Sundry debtors figure at only
£290. The year’s improvement in the


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, S'ydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES Sr COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, SCO Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS;
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Dockland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T. C. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
df
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, Syuney.
d
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
Bmlt entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
- T - . SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get rid of
3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles of kidney tubes
and filters become clogged with poisonous waste and
the danger of acid»poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent or scanty
passages, with smarting and burning, show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which contain
only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect the kidneys,
which contain 15 miles of tiny tubes and filters.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S. BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used
successfully the world over by millions of people.
They give quick relief and wiU help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. GET DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist or store.
m
as
a
«
M
Sis-
mm
m
Wherever the wheels of Industry turn
Since v lB5B Ludowici Power Trans-
mission Equipment has played an
important part in the industrial de-
velopment of Australia. First with
their famous Pioneer Leather Belting
and, more recently, with a full range
of equipment to meet every need to
ensure maximum efficiency in the
transmission of power. Ludowici
Engineers are available to give you
the benefit of their expert knowledge
and experience on every power
transmission problem.
irl
J /\\>
wv
©
heather and Rubber
Belling, P alley s,
Bearings, Gears,
Hangers, Couplings,
Shafting, Short Centre
Pivot Drive.
LUDOWICI
POWER TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY . 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
5 Wig
ssi
a
F
reedom
To be free to think, ty) act, to worship as we
will ... to voice our opinions openly . . .
to elect our parliaments ... to frame the
very laws which govern this great land. That
is the measure of an Australian ... a birth-
right worth defending to the lasi man and
the last shilling.
Inserted in the National Interest by
the Manufacturers of
FELTEX
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
F 1.24.16
more or less liquid surplus (£36,694, in-
cluding sinking-fund insurance) was
£21,601.
What the earning power of the biisi-
ness will be in the future nobody can
say at the moment. Present inflated con-
ditions have pushed turnover to ar
apparent peak. Still, appearance of the
sinking-fund insurance policy and
strengthening of the cash position have
rendered shareholders’ prospects more
encouraging than at any time since the
old Central Palace Building, Ltd., an
Arthur Rickard venture, took over the
lease from the City Council over 30 years
ago.
Fletcher Holdings, Ltd., a rapidly-
expanding Auckland industrial concern,
which has a string of subsidiaries, is offer-
ing shareholders 125,000 new £1 ords. at
a premium of 2s. 6d. each, in the propor-
tion of one for three. Last October a
similar issue was oversubscribed. When
all the money on the present issue is in
paid capital will be £500,000. Started by
big Jim Fletcher (now New Zealand Com-
missioner of Works) in 1940, the holding
co. made rapid progress in establishing a
commercial plywood industry. Factories
were erected just south of Auckland, and
activities have been extended to the manu-
facture of asbestos cement, linseed pro-
ducts and plastics. Aggregate turnover
in the financial year recently ended was
nearly £4,000,000. Over 90 p.c. of the
co.’s products are now used for defence
purposes. The ords., which are unoffi-
cially quoted on Auckland Stock Ex-
change, have firmed in recent weeks from
255. to 275. 3d.
* * * *
Decision of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to establish an aluminium-ingot
industry in Tas. directs attention to the
Speck’s bauxite deposits. At the moment
the most promising are those in the Ouse
district. On the Gladfield estate the stuff
occurs as lenticular crust, up to 19ft.
thick, over an area of about 220,000 sq.
yds. Overburden is mostly less than 3ft.
and rarely exceeds 6ft. It is estimated
that 500,000 tons, averaging around 41
p.c. alumina and 3 p.c. free, silica, is
available, with another 100,000 tons of
probable lower-grade ore round the
fringes. And there are near-by deposits
of another 75,000 tons of pay-ore. Pros-
pecting and other investigation work in
the Campbell Town, Swansea and St.
Leonards districts have disclosed what
are expected to be extensive deposits of
bauxite suitable for production of alu-
minium, but a lot more work remains
to be done before blocks of ore are
isolated and their volume and grade deter-
mined.
Principal Deborah-line cos. at Bendigo
(Vic.) are at an interesting stage of de-
velopment. Chief money-spinner, the
North mine, achieved 18 p.c. expansion
in throughput for the half year to May,
and, thanks to a little labor relief, the
co, appears set to further quicken pro-
duction and exploration of its property.
To date the mine has yielded 56,5500 z.
gold from 61,150 tons. The following
table traces the gradual doubling of the
milling programme, and its subsequent
halving as the result of man-power stric-
tures which have left fewer than 300 men
in the dozen Victorian mines still, on the
active list;
Value All-in
Half- Treated, Yield, Costs, Net
year. Tons. Ton.* Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
May-,’40.. 4084 £13.44 59/10 £49,244 13/-£41,600
Mav,’4l.. 5170 13.34 76/5 49,321 17/6 56,000
N0v.,’41.. 6397 10.79 61/4 49,558 15/- 48,000
May,’42„ 8309 7.38 48/9 41,235 14/6 46,400
N0v.,’42.. 9538 6.82 40/4 41,188 12/- 38,400
May,’43.. 7095 6.04 45/9 26,937 10/- 32,000
N0v.,’43.. 4961 5.95 47/1 18,075 6/- 19,200
May,’44.. 5885 5.29 37/8 20,238 6/- 19,200
* Including pyrites.
Last term’s improvement in unit costs
(reduced development probably helped)
and increase in throughput combined to
offset a contraction in ore grade, and
net panned out £2163 better. Div. was
unchanged at 6s. a share, bringing the
aggregate distribution on a paid capital
of £24,375 to £361,500. Production is
assured for time from the 860 ft.
level, whence recent half-ounce ctushings
have been coming, and market optimism
is high because of encouraging reports at
depth and the substantial tonnages of
high-grade material still known to exist
in the upper reaches. F. Chenhall
recently brought a long experience at
Bendigo to the control of mine operations.
£ # $ 4
Figures published by the Westralian
Department of Mines show that in 1942
ore mined and gold produced per man
employed in the industry were 397 tons
and 104.1 fine oz. respectively. These
are the highest figures yet recorded for
the State. Corresponding figures for the
previous year were 321 tons and 84.4 fine
oz, respectively. Reduction of develop-
mental and exploratory work and curtail-
ment of activity to barest essentials in
all other directions, owing to shortage of
man-power, were responsible. Averages
for East Coolgardie field, which includes
the Koolgardie and Boulder mines, were
particularly high. Here production per
man employed was 481 tons ore and 145
fine oz. gold, compared with 421 tons
and 119 fine oz. for the previous year.
* * * *
Westralia has two sets of annual-gold-
yield figures. One is for metal received
at the Perth Mint, and the other for
output reported directly to the Mines
Department. The respective totals for
1943 were 546,475 and 531,747 fine
ounces. Mint receipts are not necessarily
gold produced during the calendar year ;
while a small percentage of production
is not reported to the department, despite
a strict surveillance. The Mint total is
accepted as official production, and the
department’s figure is used in tracing
the gold back to its source.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) reports a net
profit from gold production for 1943 of
£19,583 sterling. The appearance of the
mine justifies a higher Australian price
for shares, but the “ceiling” stands in the
way.
* * * *
From London: Gold has been, and
still is, in strong demand in Bombay. It
has been sold at up to 80 rupees a tola
(180 grains), but was recently offered at
71 to 72 rupees. For a while the Reserve
Bank unloaded small bars over the
counter to speculators who resold in the
open market at a profit. Now it calls for
tenders for limited quantities. According
to the “Times” there is little doubt that
favorable developments on the Burma
front would be followed by collapse of
these inflated Bombay bullion prices.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN/General Manager.
bout your
WUTVRE!
Don’t dream about your future—ACT NOW
No matter how limited your opportunities or
how poor your education, the I.C.S. can get
you out of the rut and fit you for a better
job and bigger pay.
An I.C.S. Course of Home
Study is your best chance!
Over 4,850,000 I.C.S. Students trained
for success in all parts of the world;
over £1,000,000 spent on I.C.S. Text-
books; over £240,000 spent on illus-
trations alone.
International Correspondence Schools
140 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY ,
Dear Sirs, —Please send me without obligation a free prospectus showing
how 1 can succeed in the occupation I have marked below {an enquiry
costs only a postage stamp—write to-day).
DRAWING:
—Architecture
—Mechanical
Structural
—...Shipyard
—Woodworking
—..Civil Engineer
-....Commercial Art
Black & White
Poster Design
-....Show Cards
—Fashion
—Ticket Writing
—House Planning
Building Constr.
Steam Power Des.
—Draughtsmanship
—Textiles
Surv. & Mapping
Dress Cutting
—Dress Designing
COMMERCIAL:
Accountancy
Bookkeeping
-....Advertising
-....Salesmanship
-....Secretarial
Shorthand
Police Entrance
—Nurses’ Entrance
Matriculation
Leaving
—Intermediate
—Senior Public
Junior Public
Journalist^
Short Stories
—Radio Plays
—Education
Business Letters
—Good English
Office Training
INDUSTRIAL:
Chemistry
Welding
.....Tool Making
.....Fitting 8i Turning
.....Automobile Eng.
Elec. Engineer
Refrigeration
Plastics
Fuel Technology
Metallurgy
Civil Engineer
Municipal Eng.
Steam Eng. Exams.
Cost Accounting
Diesel Engineer
Enginrng. Maths.
Mechanical Eng.
Radio Engineer
Aircraft Produc.
Shop Practice
GENERAL:
Quantity Surveyor
Shire Overseer
Sawmill Manager
Sheet Metal Worker
.....Heat. 3C Ventilation
Air Conditioning
.....Carpentry
Fire Engineer
Station Bookkpng.
Mari'ne Engineer
Mould Loft
(Ship Building)
Pulp & Paper Mkng
Gold Mining
Coal Mining
Colliery Manag.
Hydraulic Eng.
Refrigeration
......Radio Servicing
Foremanship
If your subject is not shown above, write it here.
You may prefer to send a separate tetter of enquiry rather
than cut out this advertisement. If so, please mention paper.
NAME OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
“Bu”
INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOLS
Safe and Profitable—
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY.
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to “The .Bulletin’s” criticism (17/3/’43). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
More Experts, Fewer Bureaucrats
There are many implications that the
t u 4. „a
Labor Government and its new ' y-
acquired socialistic departmental heads
are making a big throw for Common-
wealth control of industry and finance.
While they are planning that way it is
unhkely that they are making adequate
plans for industrial conditions based on
private enterprise. Yet if private enter-
prise is to remain the backbone of Aus-
trahan industry—as is quite likely, irre-
spective of the bureaucrats—full and sym-
pathetic Government co-operation will be
necessary in order to maintain or im-
prove living standards. A benevolent, dis-
ciplinary and sometimes instructive atti-
tude towards industry by Governments
has always been required in some degree,
The degree is to an extent set by the sue-
cess of Government co-operation in other
countries. Many have better trade repre-
sentatives than we. The world remains
competitive.
We have been having a hectic time,
and, after nearly five years of war, some
of us are losing sight of the realities of
peace. The Commonwealth Government
has made a huge splash during this war in
its departmental activities. In the Divi-
sion of Import Procurement it has gone
ing merchandising both as regards lend-
lease goods and diverted cargoes. The
Government has become a manufac-
turer as well as an importer, and it em-
ploys tens of thousands of persons. Its
Allied Works Council has done vast con-
structional work, possibly at an even
more vast cost. The Government print-
ing presses have been running hot turn-
ing out a variety of propaganda on behalf
of what really amounts to the Labor
party,
A great Labor-party machine which
has as one of its pledges the socialisation
of industry, partly paid for out of the
public purse, is at work within and about
the Government. Even when one of the
members of the machine may not be
entirely enthusiastic about out-and-out
socialisation of industry he will often
■» “> have a bias against the
present owners of industry that is almost
as cri ling to e ffi c i en t production as
« takin^ove *» would be .
In the past financial year the Govern-
ment spent upwards Q f £560 million
under the fi ead i ng 0 f “ war .” A propor-
tion of that huge outgo was departmental
waste Another proportion was the cost
of departmental energies directed towards
tbe introduction of new economic doc-
trines rather than towards the raising of
administrative efficiency and discipline,
Additional money was spent on planning
t fi at w ifi n ever be anything more than
planning. And a very substantial portion
0 f the total was spent on smothering-up
the defects of previous administrative
failure—the cost of subsidising excessive
inflation in prices, for instance. Then, of
course, there was expenditure on actual
munitions and fighting units, but this ex-
penditure has not been without its mis-
takes, waste and unnecessary, costly poli-
tical propaganda,
The producers of Australia—property
owners, business organisers and many
wage-earners—see a threatening situation,
Apart from the actual waste and
destruction of war itself, we see waste,
politics, departmental vanity, depart-
mental failure, indiscipline and delay
arising out of the huge war-time powers
and the huge war-time spending of the
Commonwealth Government. With the
coming of the present war the Common-
wealth revenue exceeded £lOO million for
the first time. It has now expanded to
over £3OO million, with total expenditure,
including borrowings, at over £7OO mil-
lion, compared with a little more than
£lOO million at the close of the 1914-18
war.
What a magnificent setup for the
bureaucrats, especially as the cost of
actual war is falling! What political power
and propaganda value the handling of this
huge national purse means to the Gov-
ernment and those sitting-in with it! A
bureaucratic and socialistic reluctance to
let go of this control over spending,
people and industry is understandable.
But from the point of view of the pro-
gress of industry and the raising of living
standards a letting-go is absolutely neces-
sary after the war as soon as the re-
adjustment period is past. It is quite
wrong to expect that the nation will be
prepared to pay to have its efforts and
enterprise frustrated by red-tape. Yet at
the present time a number of costly de-
partments are restricting the free move-
ment of people and essential activities in
a way not at all helpful to the war effort.
The real aim of war-time mobilisation
of industry is concentration upon one un-
pleasant job—war. In peace we will again
judge our living standards partly by the
variety of our production. Variety will
depend upon freedom to enter new fields.
It should become the policy of Austra-
lians to knock out of the heads of poli-
ticians and civil servants the grand ideas
some of them possess about Governments
actually entering into the control of
industry, and instead to press for a far
greater Government concentration upon
research into the problems of the land
industries, including mining, and of the
manufacturers.
The Government should also study
transport problems and marketing prob-
lems, both at home and in other coun-
tries. It should give attention to the
problem of internal settlement of the
continent, and study in particular water
supply and electricity questions. The
coal industry should be considered very
carefully after the war, and if mechani-
sation would appear to guarantee a
greater and cheaper coal supply then every
effort should be made to encourage
mechanisation of the mines, even if it
means the finding of new jobs for thou-
sands of miners. Housing problems, edu-
cation and medical research are other
items rightly coming within the orbit of
Government departments. More scientific
and just methods of taxation are matters
well worth the annual spending of a few
thousand pounds of Government money,
especially if some sort of permanent re-
viewing body is set up to adjudicate.
Unfair and illogical taxation can retard
industry.
Australia wants fewer political propa-
gandists and experimentalists on the
national payroll and more departmental
experts who really understand production
and public service.
Science, industry and social welfare are
things of vital importance to the Com-
monwealth. None of them can be wholly
the preserve of the Government or of
private enterprise. It has been demon-
strated time and again in this country
that, so far as industry generally is con-
cerned, it is most efficient when left in
private hands, what are known as public
utilities being among the few under-
takings handed over to Government or
municipal control. But upon industry
depends employment, and therefore a
Government cannot ignore industry. It
must do all in its power to further indus-
try so as to widen the field of employment
and to broaden the standard of living.
It can best help in this direction by
employing or subsidising experts who are
instructed to aid private industry and not
to preach revolutionary and disrupting
doctrines. The experts can be scientific,
economic, financial or technical; they
should be chosen for their ability rather
than their politics, and their qualifications
should be such that their opinions are
worth while. They should be given
facilities to conduct research and experi-
ment. Where necessary they should be
given power to establish standards for
goods for the export market, and power
to prohibit the export of inferior grades
of goods.
In some countries, notably Britain,
committees have been established where
Government and industrial representatives
join forces to rationalise manufacture at
home and sales abroad. For the benefit
of all manufacturers it is necessary that
any committee should be representative,
with Government patronage, so that no
one section is given an advantage over
others.
At the present time the president of
the United States Chamber of Commerce
is on a tour to ascertain the con-
ditions U.S, exporters will have to
cope with when the war is over. He
is also telling the countries he visits —
he has been to Latin America, Britain
and Russia, among others —what he
thinks the attitude of the United States
is going to be in general towards matters
of credit, loans, preferences, the “new
order” and the establishment of new
industries in backward countries. He is
noted for his blunt speaking and busi-
nesslike manner. He speaks for private
enterprise, yet he obviously has the bless-*;
ing of the U.S. Government in his travels
and talks.
If Australia were not politically dis-
traught it also would be at pains
to establish a groundwork for more
efficient post-war industry and a wider
export trade. Dr. Evatt has sponsored
a school for diplomats. There could also
be established, though perhaps on more
practical lines, a school for external trade
representatives, students being restricted
to those who have served some years’
apprenticeship in actual industry. Before
the war our trade with the N.E.1., Malaya
and China was subject to no effective Gov-
ernment supervision. Manufacturers and
exporters in the Commonwealth were
operating haphazardly and in the dark.
Even financial arrangements were not all
they might have been. Yet an export
trade to southern Asia was most im-
portant to us, particularly as we were
buying so much oil and tea from the
Netherlands Indies.
There is great scope in Australia for
the increase or improvement of Govern-
ment co-operation with industry. The
Government has failed to co-operate
adequately in the past, which makes any
Commonwealth attempt to take over
actual control of industry appear prepos-
terous. Government business methods
in war-time, it is revealed almost every
day, have been little short of a calamity.
But a comparatively few expert Govern-
ment employees can be of extraordinary
value to the nation when really co-operat-
ing with private industry.
In the Bankruptcy Court last week
John Woolcott Forbes, otherwise Louis
Brandi, said that certain members of the
Victoria Club, Melbourne, and Tatter-
sail’s Club, in Sydney, had approached
his solicitors and said they would meet
his costs in the trial for forgery whereby
he was sentenced to five years’ jail. Forbes
said he had formerly been a member of
both clubs, and the offer (which was
availed of) had been “a gesture of friend-
ship and personal regard.” In 1936, said
Forbes, his betting profits had been £7OOO,
with winnings of £4OOO next year. He
did not think he had lost money in
1938. On share transactions totalling
£167,721 in 1937 he had made a profit
of £l6Bl. Salary and directors’ fees that
year amounted to between £5OOO and
£6OOO. Living expenses ran him into £5O
to £6O a week. He had bought 100,000
shares of a new issue by the P. and G.
Finance, and he acquired 25,000 more on
the market at an average price of 30s. He
fell into arrears with calls, and borrowed
from P. and G. at 10 p.c.
* * * *
Between July, 1939, and February,
1944, the number of persons employed
by Government authorities increased
from 405,000 to 539,400. In the same
time people employed in private industry
rose from 1,325,200 to 1,372,800. In all
industry the rise has been from 1,730,200
to 1,912,200. The total of males has
dropped from 1,293,100 to 1,274,200 —
all the loss has been to private industry,
the Government male payroll rising in
numbers from 349,800 to 405,300.


FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
——
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN FRANCIS SNOW late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that VIOLET SNOW has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1479 of 1944 on the ground of
desertion -without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the Twenty-first
day of August 1944 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from PHILIP N. ROACH Soli-
citor 160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K
BODY, Registrar in Divorce. '
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO REX LAWRENCE TROTH late of Ferndale Giri-
lambone New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOHN JAMES CURTIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2444 of 1942 against his wife STELLA
MADELAINE CURTIN on the ground of her adultery
with you and in such petition you are charged with
committing adultery with the said Stella Madelaine
Curtin If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court Kino-
Street Sydney on or before the 25th August 1944
and obtain a copy of the petition without chara-e
from MESSRS. MARTIN & LAMPORT Solicitors 129
Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
Made hy
FORD SHERINOTON LTD.
OH r
V
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Ca ses
?
o
%
<?•*
%
%
%
Q
one 'JSAVS,
im may alio- PJIAft
Today s austerity 1 living enforces most of us to save and
we are glad to Invest our savings in War Bonds, realising
we only LEND.
When Victory comes we can spend again and undoubtedly
the first and biggest job will be home building.
SISALKRAFT for sarking roofs (to protect ceilings), for
sheathing walls and for even hydration of concrete mix
will undoubtedly play an important role in our postwar
building plans.
When you think of the building, investigate the numerous
advantages of
S VyA LKR4FT
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
®OUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., opp. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 626 Wellington
Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
„ T William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey
Street, Wellington.
AV. 11. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place,
Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen
Street, Auckland.
For years in its financial policy, and
now in its referendum campaigning, the
Labor party has failed to realise the part
confidence plays in all matters of law,
order, government and economic stability.
The danger in present public feel-
ing that the people are being played
for suckers is that confidence in the
matter of increased Federal powers may
be destroyed for all time. For this de-
struction of confidence the people cannot
be blamed. There is too much humbug
in high places.
* * * *
In future all sales of listed shares trans-
acted otherwise than through the Stock
Exchange will have to be submitted to the
Treasury for approval. It has been found
that some private sales of listed shares
have been carried out at prices higher
than those fixed on ’Change. Also, in
future, any sale of unlisted shares en-
abling a person to acquire more than a
quarter of the share capital of an un-
listed co. will require Treasury sanction.
* * * *
Regarding the “Mr. Y” case men-
tioned at the censorship inquiry, A. C.
Moore, Director of the Division of
Import Procurement, said that “the re-
quest which the division made to the
censorship authorities was not a request
for information regarding criticism by
Australians of departmental policy. It
was a request for information regarding
action by foreign concerns directed
against Australian Government policy
and the vital interests of the country.”
* * * *
A Government propaganda publica-
tion entitled Thirty Facts About Repat-
riation has already been mentioned here.
It is part and parcel of a rather furtive
publicity programme for Dr. Evatt’s
referendum. The repatriation pamphlet
was issued under authority of Calwell,
as Minister for Information. He is now
made the goat for Forty Facts About
A ustralia’s War-time Industry. At a time
when food is short “Fact 23” announces
with pride that “hundreds of food pro-
cessing machines have been made anc
delivered to food processing plants in
various States.” “Fact 25” says “3
clothing factories in the country alone
had been established or were planned a
the end of 1943.” It says this at a time
when the “Quota Sold” inquiry make
revelation after revelation of inexplic
able muddle attending the Governmen
handling of clothing. After stressing the
importance of Government factories, the
pamphlet comes to “Fact 38. After the
war, private industry will return to its
normal activities with Government assis-
tance to enable it to achieve maximum
employment capacity—because it is to
private industry that the big bulk of de-
mobilised soldiers and workers mus'
look for jobs and economic security.”
This pamphlet is being circulated among
manufacturers and the like. The Gov-
ernment would seem to have a referen-
dum story to suit all tastes. But there is
a great deal of hesitancy and blank space
in the telling of this particular story.
* ♦ $ sje
A leaflet issued by the Australian
National Service League, of Sydney,
refers to a booklet recently put out by
“the Hon, J. B. Chifley, Minister for Post-
war Reconstruction.” Its title is Social
Security and Reconstruction. Says the
A.N.S.L.;
Its propagandist intent is brazenly
flaunted by two illustrations —one depicting
a pot-bellied “plutocrat” lazily fishing,
the other a derelict “out-of-work” scav-
enging from a rubbish-bin.
Would anyone desiring to tell an honest
story, desiring to appeal to reason, and not
to prejudice, have resort to that?.... Even
the quotation from the Beveridge Report
at the head of the “plutocrat” stops short
of Beveridge’s complete sentence, resulting
in a distortion which can only be regarded
as deliberate.
Historians in later years coming across
this party propaganda printed at Govern-
ment expense should not find it hard to
determine “what the Labor party did in
the big war,” or what was one of its
chief concerns about the time the inva-
sion of Europe was the great preoccu-
pation of other Allied Governments.
* * * *
Between May, 1943, and March, 1944,
Canada provided mutual aid to the
Allies & the value of over £250 million.
The Dominion Government neverthe-
less regards this sum as a contribution
to the war effort that must be considered
in perspective with the sacrifices of all
Allied soldiers, sailors and airmen. Also, a
purpose of this aid is to avoid war debts
and prevent post-war economic frustra-
tion, Canada is paying for Australia’s
airmen being trained in the Dominion.
Mutual aid to the Commonwealth in the
period covered by the report cost £7.7
million all told. The national income of
Canada has doubled since the war began,
and the amount of taxation raised by the
Government is equal to two-thirds Aus-
tralia’s total national income. The Gov-
ernment’s internal economic policy has
been as realistic as has its outlook in re-
spect of mutual aid. Canada, though
its population is under 12 million, has
represented a major factor in the Allied
war effort. Principal reasons have been
hard work and political stability accom-
panied by a generous realism in dealing
with other Allies.
* * * *
Reverse lend-lease is now costing Aus-
tralia £lOB million a year. In the ten
months to April 30 Australian expendi-
ture on mutual aid was £9O million, mak-
ing a total of £l5O million since recipro-
cal aid began. Washington speaks of
tremendously increased quantities of Aus-
tralian food for American forces in the
Pacific.
* * * *
Carpet Manufacturers has been granted
Treasury permission to offer 190,729 new
ord. shares in the proportion of 174 for
every 100 now held by shareholders. The
new issue will bring paid capital to
£300,000. Formed in 1936, the co., after
an unimpressive start, paid its maiden div.
during the first year of the war. The
present rate is 6 p.c. For some time the
old scrip has been in demand at the ceil-
ing price of 245. 3d.
* * * *
Shareholders in that tricky, ill-fated
gold-copper show Mandated Alluvials,
which owns the Moresby King-Sap-
phire gold leases and the Laloki
coppermine in southern Papua, have
agreed to sell the main undertaking to an
unknown buyer for about £50,000 cash,
There was a demand hv a section of the
shareholders Tat £75 000 be asked
shareholders that £75 000 be asked,
and there was a menhon of an un-
ied le "* ”“ rs / e P°« f 7 at f Xw
of b.g ore values In 1936-37, follow-
mg glowing reports by a mining man,
the market for Mandated slwresloared,
to be smashed after a period of frantic
bulling and bearing on the mention of a
synclinal ore-body by E. W. Bonwick,
science master at Sydney Grammar
School. The speculation and collapse m
the shares brought ruin to some and
heavy losses to others. There was a great
deal of confusion about the nature of
the ore-body in the Moresby King and
Sapphire areas; even E. W. Bonwick
changed his mind on second inspection,
the change being to an even more psssi-
mistic view: after existence as a shallow
bed the ore-body dipped away into low-
grade sulphides. Worked in a small way.
a 3d. div. came to shareholders in 1939,
but operations were mostly unprofitable
afterwards, and there was a closing-down
after the Jap invasion. In 1937 T. R.
Victor and F. M. Murdoch estimated a
profit of £42,000 from positive ore
from the gold leases, which was
£14.374 above the estimate of Bon-
wick, but greatly below the speculative
estimates of Dermer Smith. In 1942 R.
Pitman Hooper and Dr. N. H. Fisher,
Commonwealth experts, visited the co.’s
leases, and the co. spoke of estimates 6f
265,000 tons of ore in the Laloki copper-
mine (which now came into prominence)
going 4.57 p.c. copper and over
3dwt. gold, which at 1942 prices “would
show a gross value of the ore as exceed-
ing £1,500,000. ’ In the Moresby King
and Sapphire areas the likelihood was
mentioned that considerably greater
9 uantlt,es of ore would be P roved
than were alread y blocked out ' There
f ; f ]OOOOO 5 sh in
Mandatcd AUuvials The common-
wealth Government has been a substan-
, creditor f h apparently being
interested _ for a pe riod-£in the copper
fTTwaned' ItS intereSt m coppcr has
*** * *
Foy and Gibson, the big Victorian re-
tailer which remains a proprietary co.,
has bought a controlling interest in the
D rd. capital of O. Gilpin, Ltd., a chain-
store concern that has a large number of
branches in Victorian and N. S. Wales
rura i are as. Foy and Gibson also con-
trols a Perth subsidiary that is in a big
wa y.
* * * *
Of the war expenditure of £5Ol million
during the first 11 months of 1943-44,
£159 million was met out of taxation,
In the corresponding period of the pre-
ceding term, when expenditure was
exactly the same, taxation’s contribution
was £llB million. The improvement this
term is good. It would appear that dur-
ing the last month of the year the figures
may be subject to a number of adjust-
ments, especially in connection with the
National Welfare Fund, income-tax col-
lections, the war expenses account and
reimbursement of the States for income
tax collected by the Federal authority.


THE SERVICE MAN
In the Pacific.
“Ek Bum”: With Garapan, the capital
of Saipan and the Marianas, virtually in
American hands, the focal point of Pacific
fighting was the difficult, limited advance
of U.S. troops, assisted by naval units
and powerful air support, through tire
heart of Saipan.
It is not easy. The terrain is densely
covered with vegetation and full of hills
and valleys which provide strong defence
positions; and the Japanese obviously
have decided to fight every inch of the
way. Resistance grew as the battle moved
northward and the Americans came
to attack the mid-island range country,
though the complete capture was a fore-
gone conclusion.
Meanwhile, Tinian, which is separated
from Saipan by a narrow strait and has
powerful batteries, was placed under
bombardment, but no landing upon it
had been reported at the beginning of
the week.
Losses on Saipan
There is much to be done in the Sai-
pan area, and progress is costly in lives
—froni June 15 to June 28 the Ameri-
cans, chiefly 2nd and 4th Marines and
27th Infantry, lost 1474 killed, 7400
wounded and 878 missing; total, 9752 —
their greatest losses in a fortnight’s
fighting anywhere in the Pacific.
It is a warning of what is to come. The
Americans in the period of their own
losses buried 4951 Japanese.
While Saipan was being gradually over-
run, Japan was attacked at the other end,
among the mists of the near Arctic, by
a task force which, on the morning of
June 26, appeared off Paramashiru and
bombarded Karabu Zaki, 1280 miles n--e-
of Tokyo, with 5000 shells. There were
some fierce unco-ordinated attacks in the
fog by enemy torpedo boats or other
small units, many of which were sunk ;
but the task force itself suffered no dam-
age and no casualties.
In the South-west Pacific, Biak Island
is still not yet fully in Allied hands, and
villages along the escape route to Korin
Bay still were being bombed on July 2.
Other bombing covered Rabaul,
Kavieng, the Wewak area and Noemfoor
Island, the small Mapia islands, 120-
odd miles north of Manokwari, the most
northerly of New Guinea mainland bases,
and installations on Timor and Ceram.
General MacArthur’s H.Q. estimated
that 247 Japanese aircraft were destroyed
in June for a loss of 32 Allied machines,
and enemy shipping losses during
the month were five destroyers, 14 mer-
chant ships, 95 barges, plus 12 small craft,
with a destroyer and two merchant ships
probably destroyed, and a cruiser, a de-
stroyer, 10 merchant ships, 71 barges and
10 small craft damaged.
Australian forces are now 70 miles from
Wewak at the mouth of the Sepik River.
In Asia
In Burma, with the occupation of
Mogaung, the campaign has virtually
ended and the monsoon has hit the
Imphal area with its full weight. Re-
ported Japanese counter-attacks are
merely the writhings of desperation.
British troops on July 1 were only four
miles from Ukhrul, the main Jap supply
base, 35 miles n.-e. of Imphal. With this
junction captured the enemy will be in
a bad way.
In China, however, the Japanese cam-
paign has entered a new phase. A fresh
enemy drive from Canton, 80 miles up
the Pearl River, has begun along the
Hangkow railway to meet the expedition-
ary force which is clearing the line from
the north.
Important is a White House statement
pledging the United States to drive the
Japanese from the Philippines and to
grant them full independence as soon as
normal Government functions can be
restored, meanwhile acquiring bases for
“the mutual protection of the Philippines
and the United States.” The commander
of the American Legion, back in the
U.S.A. from a visit to Australia, said that
General MacArthur expected to have the
Philippines by Christmas.
A Great Achievement.
“Ek Dum”: On June 25, with a sudden
spurt of the British barrage on the higher
ground 12 miles or so inland from the
Bay of the Seine, the earlier stages of the
first great battle of 1944 in France began.
A successful landing on a foreign shore
is a series of infiltrations from footholds.
The first test comes when the footholds
begin to be linked up. That stage, in
Normandy, was successfully managed by
the British-Canadian-United States troops.
The next stage was to extend the foot-
holds, so as to secure an assembly ground
from which real invasion could begjn.
This, too, was managed.
The beachhead along the Bay of the
Seine might be likened to a sword
whose point presently was thrust through
the heart of the basic defences of the
Cotentin Peninsula, so that these defences,
impaled and bleeding, with the head to
the seaward battered and bashed from
every side, presently died and disinte-
grated.
With the 600-odd square miles of
ancient Normandy contained in the penin-
sula and its open mouth of Cherbourg
Harbbr, through which invasion could be
fed, in Allied hands, the second stage
was over. The capital operation could
then begin—that which would decide
whether the invaders could extend their
beachheads and invade the interior.
Cherbourg’s Defences
Cherbourg had Strong defences which
held out to the last. There were huge 18-
inch guns in backward areas, but these
were not for defence against landings or
attack from the rear. They were part of
the system of port defence by which the
Germans had maintained western French
harbors as U-boat bases during three ter-
rible years which had cost the Allies a
great many grand men and millions of
tons of shipping.
To the end these batteries served their
function. Set in fortified tunnels
burrowed deep into the rock, under many
forts, including Fort de Roule, beside the
Cherbourg-Caen road, their operators
sealed themselves into the earth with con-
crete and continued to fire, even when the
strongholds above them were lost.
When the rest of the town had been
captured, the square mile of ancient
arsenal with its moats and its walls, 30ft.
high and 10ft. thick, still ’spat machine-
gun and mortar fire. And out on the
long Cape la Hague Peninsula, with its
cliffs and gullies, the narrow fortress of
the Grevilles and the Beaumonts, 19 miles
long, which is like the taproot of a hardy
tree burrowing between the rock borders
of the sea, the coastal guns continued in
action, holding warships at a distance.
Gradually all was surrendered. Lieut.-
General von Schlieben and Admiral Hen-
necke, the officers commanding, with a
personal guard of 800 men, came out of
their concrete, shell-proof tunnel under a
white flag. Maupertuis on the east, along
the Barfleur road, the German nests along
the Cape La Hague road to Auderville
overlooking Alderney and its cows, 10
miles across the Channel, gave in one by
one.
The German Technique
Von Schlieben was asked why he had
allowed his isolated “forlorn hopes” to
continue fighting after their positions
were hopeless. He said that in Russia he
had learned the value of the resistance
of small groups. In effect, while there
is a cartridge to kill an Allied soldier it
must be used.
Observation soon explained those
Russian-front photographs of prisoners
in German uniforms who look at the
lowest stage of starvation, cold and per-
sonal degradation, while Mediterranean-
front pictures have mainly revealed stal-
wart young fanatics in good condition,
well uniformed, arrogant and professing
confidence that their capture was only
an incident on their road to victory. Both
types were found in the Cotentin Penin-
sula.
General von Schlieben represented
one type. He said “I have been taken
prisoner by the British in the last war and
by Americans in this war. By whom next?
Perhaps the Japanese.” Russian-front
types were represented by poor creatures
from high-numbered labor divisions and
by foreign conscripts. They had built
the redoubts under threat, had fired heavy
guns at tommy-gun point, had been
left behind as demolition squads, as for-
lorn-hope defenders under duress—starv-
ing dregs to which the British and Ameri-
cans were welcome with the rest of the
wreckage, while the “flower” of the Ger-
man army retired to main-defence posi-
tions fighting.
On June 26 the Supreme Allied H.Q.
stated that whole battalions and regi-
ments of Russians were fighting. There
were German boys of poor physique. But
from these it is wrong to arrive at con-
elusions. One remembers the bewildered
Bavarian lads of the first onrush into
Belgium in 1914, from whose presence
so many incorrect deductions were drawn.
By June 30 Cherbourg and its penin-
sula were occupied by the Allies. The
forts on the Digue had surrendered.
Cherbourg itself was not seriously dam-
aged—it is difficult to damage the vital
part of the port, which is its deep-water
anchorage inside the Digue, 2} miles from
the shore. Many small Allied naval units
already were using this area; but big
vessels had not ventured in, since there
were still a few heavy guns down the
coast, ensconced in tunnels which a 16in.
shell could not crack open, which could
knock a battleship sideways at so short a
range.
In a matter of hours the doom of these
was sealed. A further 2000 prisoners
were taken when the gun crews and
pockets of the enemy in the Cape La
Hague area surrendered.
Allied Losses
Now, as the final forays took place in
the north and a Tricolor, made from
parachutes, floated over the Place de la
Republique to the strains of “The Marseil-
laise,” the cost of the accounts in man-
power pf the first two phases of the battle
could be balanced.
The U.S. Command announced that
the Americans had buried 4200 Germans
and killed, altogether, probably 5000 to
6000, since the Germans buried and took
away many dead themselves. U.S. forces
had captured 40,000, including those
taken in Cherbourg.
Allied losses for the first fortnight of
the invasion, now in its fifth week, were:
British. Canadian. U.S.
Killed .. 1842 363 3,082
Wounded .. 8599 1359 13,121
Missing .. 3131 1093 7,959
Totals .. 13,572 2815 24,162
Adding up to 5287 killed, 23,079
wounded and 12,183 missing, total 40,549.
The proportion of losses throughout
the whole establishment operation was
not nearly so heavy as at Dieppe. But,
having regard to the fact that probably
not more than 50,000 men were engaged
in actual first-class fighting in the first
week at one and the same time, propor-
tionate losses were far from light, prob-
ably 25 p.c. of all involved at least. Gal-
lant American parachute battalions suf-
fered severely in the first attacks.
The enemy’s losses to June seem
to have been 65,000 to 70,000.
The British Advance
With Cherbourg in Allied hands and
the reconditioning engineers at work on
the port, the thunder of the barrage grew
louder south-east at the centre of the
perimeter, where the British-Canadians
were starting to drive their wedge behind
Caen across the cartwheel of road spokes
which use that battered town for a hub.
They were driving off the hilly intru-
sions which come in from inland bocage
(“grove”) regions, tongues of high land
thrusting across the interior edges of the
coastal lowlands. They were striking from
a bit of country in conformation not un-
like that around Campbelltown (N.S.W.),
into flat lands which broaden out like
those round the Nepean at Camden.
All this country is clothed now in the
full richness of its summer green—the
grainfields ; the pear and apple orchards
on the sheltered hillsides; the wooded
heights and saddlebacks.
All last week was drenched with rain
and thunderstorms. The cloud ceiling
sat on it on June 26 like the lid on a
saucepan, ruling out air co-operation. All
the little rivers which run toward the
coast at right-angles to the shore from
the hills and gorges in the bocage country
were swollen. Of these little streams, the
Odon, which joins the Orne at Caen,
and is normally a hop-step-and-jump
across, was the first barrier to be tackled
by the infantry and armor. With its
steep banks soaked with rain it was no
mean obstacle, though it is full of fords not
more than waist-deep at ordinary times.
The Wedge Is Driven
Slowly, like the snout of a giant bull-
dozer three or four miles wide, the face
of the British-Canadian advance ploughed
through a German defence as solid as
anything encountered in mobile war. It
broke the hold of the Germans on the
Caen-Bayeux road and rail and on the
road to Villers Bocage and Conde, en-
gulfing Bretteville-sur-Mue. It rolled
over the wheatfields of Cheux and the
heath and woods beyond ; over Fontenay,
home of the Marmions, Tourville and
many another little village.
Mortaring formed a screen ahead of
the enemy’s frontal barbed wire, which
had to be ploughed to ribbons or beaten
down. Then came the minefields, and
behind them concentration of heavier
mortars and clusters of 88’s, long-
barrelled and deadly to even heavy tanks;
behind them long-distance heavy guns.
In every wood there were machine-
gun nests. Snipers lay among the waving
wheatfields. Each dripping, ancient, walled
farmyard, each capacious barn, was a
fortress. Wherever there was a shoulder
of the intruding hills or a glade with
cover, Panthers and Tigers lay hull down
on its further side, plastering roads, lanes,
infiltrating groups of infantry and guns,
but ready to run at the approach of anti-
tank artillery or mobile guns or rocket-
armed Typhoons too strong to cope with.
Over all this, over the wheatfields, over
the inland side of the salient and its thick
upland woods, the tremendous barrage
moved along two hours at a time in 100-
yard leaps, till it passed over the Odon
itself, with the infantry and their tank
support behind, followed by the engineer
corps roaring up with their bulldozers
and their pontoons and spans to turn the
little river into a rank of dozens of
bridged crossing places.
Into the mess ahead poured the shells
of H.M.S. Rodney’s 16-inch guns, firing
20 miles away, and heaven knows what
besides from the beaches, and the rockets
of the shrieking Typhoons.
On the flanks of the advance the Ger-
mans kept their steady squeeze with
armored muscles shaking under the strain,
and in the rear of attack and defence
alike armor and the reserves surged up
in a growing flood, as always in the
crucial stages of a big battle until one
side or the other has no more to throw
in and, its residues breaking, it comes to
defensive bankruptcy and defeat.
Inland, as the weather improved, the
Allied air-power screamed, tearing up
roads, smashing bridges, railway trains,
troop columns, annihilating, delaying,
maiming communications which the
enemy’s rehabilitation corps sought to
mend with masses of material.
He never quite caught up with the
destruction, though he had the advantage
in cover for his approaches and many
roads on his flank through which to feed
his legions.
Tremendous Power
It was obvious from the first that the
engagement would develop into a great
and momentous battle.
A glimpse at the assembled German
hosts was enough to make it clear that
the enemy realised this. He, with all
France behind him, had the advantage
of space in which to bring up and deploy
troops, and a wide expanse of good tank
country east of the bottleneck which
the British were seeking to force.
The Allies in their narrow beachhead,
even its shores still within long-range gun
fire in parts, necessarily became more
cramped in their movements as they
brought in reinforcements.
A mile of road or lane will hold only
so much armor, so many moving troops;
ten square miles of terrain only so many
airfields. Airfields were particularly
limited within the Allied perimeter. Allied
rearward communications depended
largely on the conditions of sea and air.
The enemy seemed determined to fight
while the advantages of communications
and of weather were with him. It was
the last time they would be with him if
he did not win the battle.
On the 60-mile front from the mouth
of the Dive down the Orne front in the
east, and round to Tilly, Rommel had
16 divisions. Of these, five divisions by
June 27 were armored, by July 1 seven;
all concentrated round the British-Cana-
dian spearhead.
Most of them were picked, veteran
divisions which had seen the invasion of
Poland and the overrunning of France
and/or of Russia. Some had been in
the fierce fighting of Libya and Tunisia,
with an interlude in Italy. They included
the 2nd Panzers, the 12th Jugend S.S.
Panzers, a Lehr Panzer division —one of
the model divisions which teach other Ger-
man divisions their business—the 15th
Panzers, the 17th S.S. Panzer Grenadiers,
the 21st Panzers ; all these arrayed against
the Second British Army. In this grand
army were included most of the veteran
divisions of the Eighth in Africa, includ-
ing the 50th Northumbrians and the 7th
Armored, the whole commanded by
Lieut.-General Miles Dempsey, who had
led the British 13th Corps through the
Mareth and Enfidaville drives; a six-
foot man of Cheshire, so young (47) that
he had barely, as a subaltern of the Berk-
shires, endured a year of fighting in the
last war, from which he emerged with
some wounds, a mention in dispatches
and a Military Cross.
The Critical Day
June 29 was the critical day of the first
phase of the battle. In groups of 10,
20, 35 the enemy threw in his heavy
tanks about 6 p.m., but they were mopped
up by the guns and by the rocket-firing
Typhoons which swept down just as
night was falling. Those which crept
round on the seaward flank were presently
closed off and destroyed.
The German Command admitted that
fighting all along a 17-mile front was
bitter and terrible, especially south-west
of Caen. It admitted a breach or two,
but declared that the British spearhead
was “compressed,” and that an attempt
by a British tank vanguard to reach the
Orne had “collapsed.”
The Measure of Success
In terms of actual geography, by June
30 the Second Army had cut a swathe


CD
am
seven miles deep and mostly 5000 yards
wide through the enemy field of defence.
While casualties must have been fairly
heavy, neither frontal defence nor
counter-attack stopped the advance in its
first week.
The British-Canadians had rolled across
the Odon on a wide front along the core
of the Evrecy road, and at the week-end
they were within striking distance of
Evrecy and Esquay. They were consoli-
dating, packing fresh artillery into their
forward areas, at the same time beating
off thrust after thrust by German tanks
—thrusts which sometimes died before
they were under way at all, owing to the
heavy pounding of their assembly areas
and the ability of heavy naval fire to reach
them. These counter-strokes continued
through the week-end in stormy weather ;
and German armor was‘still mounting in
power.
By July 2 the enemy armored divi-
sions were equal to a third of the whole
number on 2000 miles of Russian front
in the early stages of the 1941 drives. One
British staff officer had described the
fighting three days before as “really
tremendous in power and violence” —a
“very big battle” in which to have pushed
forward seven miles was “a tremendous
achievement.”
General Dempsey said:
We are facing the greatest and most con-
centrated force of German armor yet faced
by any British army.
But it was being faced confidently. The
initiative was in General Montgomery’s
hands. The Germans had to guard
against other landings round hundreds of
miles of coast. Only half the Allied force
in the beachhead was engaged. And the
enemy was faced with an almost moral
certainty that at the psychological
moment the Americans on the right flank
of the British Second Army would fling
themselves on the German posts in the
Cerisy Forest, beyond Caumont and
across the neck of Cotentin Peninsula,
and try to sweep down towards St. Lo,
while the British, turning inland after
taking Caen, regulated their direction to
try to gather in a tremendous double
armful of German divisions by a thrust
to the region of Alen?on, or towards
some other suitable point dictated by the
opportunities of the hour.
On July 2-3 a lull was reported as both
sides girded their loins against the next
phase of the battle —the assault on the
Orne crossings.
Increased Robot Bombing.
While the Allied aerial shuttle bomb-
ing of Europe continues steadily on a
four-way programme from Britain, the
Mediterranean and Russia, the Luftwaffe
has not been thrown into the battle for
Europe on any scale. This partly may
be due to the fact of the weather in
Normandy. There is no sign that the big
bomber any longer plays a large part in
German air-power, though some new and
novel types are in use in small numbers,
but this might later prove to be delusion.
The indiscriminate robot-’plane raids
on southern England, growing both in
regularity and volume, seem to point the
way to an increasing rocket-torpedo war.
The devilish invention so far used is only
a serious nuisance, a killer of civilians
and at best a haphazard weapon, but it
may develop into something far more
serious.
It is clear that the new method of
barbarism has advantages which cannot
be discounted:
(1) The flying bombs can be fired at
low altitude and at speeds of over 360
m.p.h. They are therefore less susceptible
to fighter attack, since fighters cannot de-
velop their greatest speeds at low level and
cannot manoeuvre fo any extent.
(2) Defence by fighters and ack-ack
against low-aimed bombs must cause ground
damage.
(3) The unmanned aircraft method of
attack has a wearing effect on the nerves
of a population subjected to it, and though
aiming is to some degree haphazard the
attacks can be made at all hours and con-
tinuously with a greater economy of man-
power effort than attacks by manned
machines. There is no loss of personnel;
aerodrome space is not used on a large
scale; petrol is saved on a larger scale.
(4) The flying bombs apparently are fired
from underground concreted tunnels which,
in effect, are tremendous torpedo guns so
deeply placed that few bombs can wreck
them. They therefore heed less ground
protection than aerodromes.
On the other hand, the limit of the
range of this type of weapon is obvious,
and an Allied advance into .France and
Belgium would soon restrict it.
Over the air on Monday it was asserted
that the enemy had offered to drop the
robot bombing if the Allies stopped their
bombing of Germany.
The British Government has been criti-
cised by correspondents and commen-
tators on the score of its silence as to
the direction and effect of the new
form of frightfulness—a 8.8. C. version
of a gloating enemy report conveyed the
information that bombs were dropping
on London—but it is used to criticism
from these sources. And hitherto events
have invariably justified its policy and
measures.
Kesselring Still Runs.
“Ek Dum”; After struggling to gain
time round the Trasimene Lake in central
Italy, the Germans began to fall back
further, their flank threatened on the west
by the advance of the Fifth Army.
On July 2 the Fifth Army in the
coastal region held Cecina, only 20 miles
from Leghorn, and further inland
was on the outskirts of Siena—to an-
nouncers “Sy-eena”—a beautiful old
town, which smells from a distance just
like a Centralian blacks’ camp.
Meanwhile the Eighth Army was forc-
ing a way along the western side of the
Trasimene Lake, where it had taken
some time to break strong defence posi-
tions at Castiglione. With the breaking
of these defences, a gap was soon made
and extended, and the Germans were
forced to retire again.
All the chances seem to be that there
will be no main resistance before the Po
is reached, even though the retreat may
be staged for a pause on the Pisa-Rimini
line.
Germany’s prime need is to have its
reserves centralised so as to be available
at the shortest notice for the French and
Russian fronts. Clausewitz is coming
into his own with a vengeance.
British Imperial Army casualties for
nine months to June 4 were 14,331 killed,
47,966 wounded and 10,825 missing. In-
cluded in the total of 73,112 were N.Z.
losses, 4058 (1020 killed, 2913 wounded
and 125 missing), and Canadian losses,
11,340 (2268 killed, 8572 wounded and
500 missing). On all fronts N.Z. army
casualties have reached 30,000, with
nearly 7000 killed.
The elder son of the Princess Royal
has been reported “wounded, miss-
ing, believed prisoner” in Italy, and the
enemy has certified that he is a prisoner.
Viscount Lascelles is a lieutenant in the
Grenadier Guards. He is 21.
Another Retreat in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: As far back as B.
10/2/’43, while they were still in the
Kuban and east of the Donetz, it was
here suggested that the Germans in Russia
might retire into Poland to their own
defence lines within the playground
of the Schlietfen-Hoffmann strategies.
A year later (B. 23/2/’44) it was
written that “by the same routes over
which they came —age-old strategic routes
governed by the terrain —the invaders are
going, the Russians hard on their heels.”
Berlin boasted that the Russians fre-
quently could not catch up with them.
From early in December, 1943, the
Germans reported frequent’ heavy Rus-
sian offensives against Vitebsk. Suddenly
on February 25 they announced that
Vitebsk had been abandoned and that
all military stores and equipment of use
to the Russians had been destroyed or
removed.
But the same was not reported of
Rogachev, one of the twin gates to the
route into Poland above the Pripet
Marshes. The other gateway town,
Bobruisk, the Germans did not abandon,
and the Russians did not then take it,
though they threw substantial forces
against it and Jlobin for weeks.
Even though it was on the far side of
the Dnieper, which the Russians had to
cross to capture it, Rogachev fell at the
first blow, leaving the southern Beresina
gate ajar at a moment when Berlin’s an-
nouncement about Vitebsk seemed to
assure that the main central gateway on
the greatest of all routes out of Russia
had been flung open by its abandonment.
Vitebsk, however, apparently was not
abandoned. Three days after Berlin’s
story was published the German com-
munique spoke of two Russian attacks
on the north-west and south-east which
had been successfully dealt with.
As had been pointed out here at that
time, abandonment of Vitebsk would
have meant retreat —“a stage of nearly
100 miles,” which would take the enemy
to the approaches of Minsk, and then
back to the Brest Litovsk-Grodno-Vilna
line. Possibly, the Germans were tempt-
ing the Russians to follow them in the
thaw—in vain.
Corollary to the Carpathians
To everybody who has studied the
situation and the German eastern defences
and strategy, it was obvious that, as a
natural corollary to the retreat to the
Carpathians, there would be a German
retirement from Central Russia to the
fastnesses of the northern jaw of the Ger-
man main defences.
Any failure to make a retreat in the
centre along the Vitebsk route would
endanger the rearward parts of the Ger-
man flank above the Pripet Marshes, es-
pecially now that amphibious transport
makes marshland immeasurably more
negotiable than a year or so ago. The
only question was when this retreat was
to take place.
The retreat began the moment the Rus-
sians struck in the present campaign, a
fortnight ago.
It has proceeded in an orderly way,
keypoints being abandoned in reverse
order to that in which they were occu-
pied, flanks of communication lines
secured and everything carried out with
a speed which would be inconceivable —
especially since there were across the pur-
suers’ path great natural lines of defence
such as the Dnieper and the Beresina —
if there had been any great resistance. The
Russians on some routes have travelled
100 miles in a week, too fast for heavy
artillery well supplied to keep up.
In the north of the front on July 2
Polotsk had fallen and the Russians
were 10 miles from the Polish border.
The frontal road to Minsk had been
opened by the crossing of the Bere-
sina and the capture of Borisov, and
forces which made their way through
Slutsk, on the south-east of the city, were
reported within 30 miles of Minsk, for
years the German G.H.Q. in Russia, and
had outflanked the defences by several
miles. The fall of Minsk seemed likely.
Press Nonsense
There was the usual excitement which
led newspapers to forget the victories
our own valiant men of the English-
speaking race were winning, victories far
more vital to the ultimate result of the
war than what is happening in Russia.
They forgot also to point out that if
there is a debacle on the Russian front
it must be due to the invasion of France.
Newspaper versions:
Nazis Leaving Russia to Fight for
Berlin—Broken Army on the Run: Shat-
tered German armies are in full retreat
front Russia. It is expected they will halt
on the German border in a bid to keep the
Russians from Berlin. Berlin Radio says
the Russians cannot keep up with them
The Germans are facing the biggest de-
feat in history.— Reuter.
Reds Inflict Great Slaughter—6B,ooo Ger-
mans Killed in Less Than Week 43,000
prisoners taken in five fierce days.... six
key towns fall in amazing drive Terrible
scenes as German rout grows
_ General Bagramyan five divi-
sions at Vitebsk. General Zakharov broke
12 divisions at Mogilev and destroyed the
remnants between the Dnieper and the Pruth
River. General Rossokovsky destroyed
five more divisions at Bobruisk A re-
treating German artillery group was am-
bushed in peat bogs and left a two-mile
heap of dead men, dead horses, carts, guns
and smashed lorries.
And A.B.C. spoke of tens of thousands
of German dead lying along the roads as
if struck by lightning, and of shoals of
prisoners “dazed and demoralised.”
It is to be hoped even the half of
this intelligence is true.
In March Moscow correspondents were
agreed that the enemy was so short of
men that the average division on the
Eastern Front contained only 7000 men.
However, all divisions wiped out are now
reckoned as containing 15,000 men “at
full strength,” though it is doubtful if
there has ever been a German division
of more than 12,500 men in this war. The
armored and parachute and ack-ack divi-
sions included in the reckoning are nor-
mally only 4000 to 5000 men.
While this “debacle” was in progress
the enemy on the French and Italian
fronts was putting up the tough, stern
fight of which he seems always to be
capable against British and American
troops (far better equipped than the
Russians), though the Anglo-Ameri-
cans have air superiority over him, to-
gether with the great aid of naval gun-
fire, which the Russians have not.
At the same time the enemy was re-
inforcing the Finns, and the Fin-
nish Government, risking an American
declaration of war (diplomatic rela-
tions have been broken off), had given
Hitler a pledge that it would not make
a separate peace. Moreover, it was offi-
cially-reported from the British front in
France that the enemy was reinforcing
in Normandy and, according to General
Dempsey, of me British Second Army,
even bringing troops from Russia.
Down to Realities
Viewed in a sober light, the real situa-
tion in Russia seems to be as follows:
The Germans, when or before the Rus-
sian armies struck in the central sector,
made a strategic withdrawal. As usual,
they left behind covering rearguards,
labor demolition corps and other troops
who could not be rescued, and began to
fall back on their main defences —the
20 divisions mentioned are thin coverage
on a 200-mile front.
These defences are shaped like the huge
mouth of some animal. The northern jaw
is formed round the East Prussian area,
the southern round the Carpathian and
Pripet area. Between the two jaws is the
Warsaw defence system, based on the Vis-
tula and over 100 miles deep in its main
layers. To penetrate this without smashing
either the Carpathian or East Prussian
jaw, the Russians must force their way
through an 80-mile gap between East
Prussia and the Pripet Marshes and then
attack the Vistula Line, which is nearly
200 miles from Berlin at its rear, with
the north and south jaws of the German
system pressing on their flanks.
Except for one limited drive from War-
saw which grabbed a large number of
Russians against the Pripet Marshes all
the German invasion drives into Russia
in 1941 came from either the Carpathian
area in the south against the Ukraine
(south of the Pripet Marshes) or from East
Prussia (north of the Pripet Marshes). All
the German drives out of Russia are fol-
lowing the same routes by the same
stages. There may be two or three halts
before the Warsaw defences are reached
—certainly one while movements in the
Baltic State regions are related to the
central front withdrawal.
At the north of the central front, aban-
doning Vitebsk, the Germans are retreat-
ing whence they came by a route which
is about 300 miles long to the Angerapp
Line, the most easterly outskirt of the
East Prussian defence area.
This area extends 200 miles east to west
and 180 miles from the Baltic coast
inland. It is thickly studded with lakes
and crisscrossed with rivers, served by
an intensive network of railways and
canals and three or four big ports—Dan-
zig, Konigsberg, Memel.
Here the Russian steam roller came to
grief in the last war. Following the mili-
tary routes, it is 500 miles from Vitebsk
to the main external defences of north
Germany—the Vistula Line from Danzig
down past Thorn, a very strong line cov-
ered by a wide screen of lateral commu-
nications. Berlin, beyond the inner
border defences of Germany, is another
180 miles or so away.
Further south, the Germans fell back
from Orsha on the main Warsaw road ;
also abandoning Mogilev on the west
bank of the Dnieper, and finally Bob-
ruisk, the series of withdrawals following
the rippling shape of the previous ones
of last year in the Ukraine.
In two or three days the country cov-
ered by the old Stalin Line, right down
to the point where the Beresina emerges
from the Pripet Marshes, was evacuated
and a general retirement was in progress
along a front of nearly 200 miles cover-
ing the whole of central Russia. The sug-
gestions as to the routes of retreat here
written in February have proved accurate.
From its pace and the swiftness with
which the stages were made, it seemed
that it must be only the retirement of a
strong screen, and that main forces
already had withdrawn. In short, though
the Russian achievement is creditable and
inspiring, there is as yet no German dis-
aster, though plenty of room for r,ne if
there should be serious mistakes qr mis-
calculations further back.
The numbers of dead and prisoners
tell their own story. Prisoners, who, if
experience in Italy and France goes for
anything, will include substantial bodies
of labor troops, are, on the Russian com-
putation, little more than the captures by
the comparatively small Allied landing
force in Normandy, which has not yet
come fully to grips with the enemy in a
large-scale battle. And the Normandy
prisoners have been taken in an advance
which nowhere has penetrated more than
20 miles from the beach.
The Germans may be cracking. It
would be possible that they could be de-
feated far from Berlin, either on the
east or west, if they could be brought
to fight in sufficiently large numbers. But
in Russia there are no independent wit-
nesses as to what is taking place—the
story is told for Australian and British
ears by reporters who do not see the
events which they report.


m
y
O' 1 *
4/
\
/
VG 14
HOTEL
Bent, Philli
METROPOLE
and Young Streets, Sydney.
lilii
111
111 win!
ill MlDljlif
Hill
ill
nil
f t,
Modern high-clf*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
'‘METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
Zalmon gave trainer D. Mcßae his
third successive Grand National Hurdle
success when he Jed over the last 2\ miles
and defeated Benghazi and the favorite,
Cape Hero, in a stirring finish at Flem-
ington on Saturday. Half a neck and a
head separated the place-getters, with Jerry
Cronin a close fourth. Mcßae had won
the two preceding Nationals with Claud-
ette and Saul, the latter, like Zalmon,
being owned by Mrs. J. Falkiner. All
Mcßae's three winners are by David.
Earlier this year Mcßae appeared likely
to have several G.N. runners. His team
included Zalmon, Cape Hero, Claudette,
Saul and Zara. Cape Hero was trans-
ferred to another trainer after his defeat
by Zara at Mentone in April, it was
decided to set Claudette for the Cups,
Saul was banned from the metropolitan
area and Zara sustained injuries which
caused her withdrawal. Zalmon himself
was injured in a fall at Flemington in
May, but responded to treatment. Zal-
mon will be a runner for the G.N.
Steeplechase next Saturday, with Godfrey
again in the saddle. He is well in with
10.4, and, though he has never raced over
fences, he is a natural jumper. Moss-
trooper in 1930 was the last horse to win
the National double.
Feature of the G.N. Hurdle betting was
a plunge on Benghazi. His price firmed
from 7 to 1 to 3 to 1, causing Cape Hero
to ease from 6 to 4to 9 to 4. Benghazi’s
rider, Fullarton, thought his mount had
broken down at the home turn, but when
he hit him Benghazi responded. He was
led back to the enclosure obviously dis-
tressed, but no lameness was apparent.
Fullarton thinks Benghazi might have
won but for getting in too close to the
hurdle near the seven furlongs. Cape
Hero had every chance, but 11.0 stopped
him right at the finish. Silgaro, stable-
mate of Cape Hero, started equal third
favorite with Zalmon at 5 to 1, but ran
considerably below expectations.
Highway King, runner-up to Winterset
in a recent race at Flemington, easily
defeated Dorset and Springhead in the
Kensington Steeple. He is a five-year-old
by Bulandshar from Blue Maid, and is
a definite G.N. Steeple possibility with
9st. Highway King is the first winner
trained by cross-country jockey J.
Mackie, who has been out of the saddle
because of injuries sustained in a fall
at Mentone several months ago. Mackie
once rode him in a hurdle race and
formed the opinion that he would shine
over fences. W. Johnston, who had the
winning mount on Saturday, probably
will have the National mount on High-
way King, who is raced on lease by
Mackie’s sister-in-law. Highland March,
started in preference to stable-mate Win-
terset, toppled some distance from home,
giving Meenan a harmless fall.,
‘ ‘ ~ frir
Blank Cheque, sold last Novembe for
650 guineas won the Maiden Hurdle at
his first s art over jumps, favorite
t 0 he won y g .
failure on the flatßftnk Cheque appeals
certam to d .o well at hurdling.
Philander, a place-getter in the Oaks
“ d othe L tair /nn CeS ’, a 'l.l SO wo! i n wT*
thls y«" for gul "
race whcn - star / ing favo J“ e a L rluim’
ran away from Spectre and Cell.n,
!l dle 'of t e J y p.
Totalisator figures for the course rose
to a new high w hen £57,232 10s. was put
through at Canterbury on Saturday. At
t h e corresponding meeting last year the
total was £39,782 10s. Threatening
weather did not affect the crowd, which
appeared to excee d 20,000.
• • • •
Unaffected by severe racing in the last
io weeks, during which he has started
n ine times, Russia scored his most im-
pressive win in the Canterbury Handicap,
Realising that horses seldom can come
from a long way back at Canterbury,
Thompson kept Russia among the leaders
a ll the way. He would have been criti-
cised for the plan had Russia been
beaten, but success is a cure-all and
Thompson was lauded. Russia will be
entered for the Newcastle Cup, to be run
on August 5. He will meet better-class
stayers, but in his present form it will
take a good horse to beat him.
Chatham’s Choice (second) and Salivant
(third) cut at each other all the way and
were easy f or R uss i a in the straight,
A lightly damp track, his weight (9.5)
and the f ast pace com bined to beat Prince,
who made up little ground in the straight,
though he finished fourth.
• • • • • •
Bruce Wood may have won the Flying
Welter Handicap had he secured a clear
run in the straight. Pulled from the rails
to the outside 'at the furlong, Bruce
Wood stumbled. As he carried lOst. 41b.,
recovering took the steam out of him,
and, though he ran close to Cradle Song
50 yards from the post, that mare finished
the better and won comfortably. Altered
tactics helped Cradle Song. Usually she
leads clearly in her races, but Shean held
her behind Burlington to the turn and ran
to the front only at the leger. Cadger,
surprisingly backed from 8 to 1 to 5 to 1,
suggested an early win by his fast-finish-
ing third. He was near the middle of the
field at the home turn and made up
nearly half-a-dozen lengths.
The Brisbane businessmen who race as
“Mr. T. L. Timber” were reported not
to have backed Hall Stand when he won
the first Three- and Four-year-old divi-
sion, but they are unlikely to miss him
when he starts next. Hall Stand showed
all his early brilliance to gain a long
lead from the start, and his apprentice
rider, T. Clarke, kept him going to win
by five lengths. A prize of £319 was little
return for an original outlay of 3500gn5.,
but Hall Stand is only a four-year-old,
and, now that he has won a race, he may
gallop more determinedly in better class.
St. Quentin beat the rest of the field
almost as easily as Hall Stand beat him.
He finished solidly and is racing much
more consistently since he had a throat
operation at Sydney University.
Interference to Grand Prodige in the
straight lessened Hauteur’s task in the
second Three- and Four-year-old division.
Grand Prodige was forced against the
rails when Hauteur ran to the lead, and
his rider, Munro, had to pull him almost
to a standstill. Hauteur then had to with-
stand a challenge from Royal Peer, who
is improving with racing and will do
better at a longer distance. Hauteur
now has won three races worth £9OO
this year. Joygiver, who did not begin
as smartly as usual, finished a fair third
and should win again in Newcastle,
where he has done most of his* recent
racing.
A sufficient weight difference will bring
most horses together. A failure in re-
stricted races, when handicapped about
the 9st. mark, White Feather, down to 7.9,
beat much better horses in the Campsie
Handicap. Little Doon, riding with the
confidence of success, kept White Feather
behind Bomb, Overjoyed and Glen-
dower to the turn, and quickly had the
race won at the leger. Glendower was
second, but Lord Spear (third) might
have beaten had he handled the
track properly. The sharp turns upset
him, and he stretched out only in the last
furlong and a half. A Queensland Derby
winner, Lord Spear previously had shown
little form in Sydney. Chief Man
(fifth) also was unlucky. He was
knocked from a perfect position on the
rails to nearly last in a scrimmage
approaching the turn.
An apprentice’s allowance for R. John-
son gave the favorite. Swan River, a
weight advantage in the Nursery Handi-
cap, but he won by only half a head
from Gainsford, with Top Line half a
head away third. Swan River did not
commence with his usual brilliance and
gave Ducal Gem and Gainsford five
lengths’ lead into the straight. His
trainer, M. McCarten, has no ambitious
plans for Swan River, who will continue
to race in suburban company while the
prospective champions are only beginning
their spring training. One of the bar-
gains of the 1943 yearling sales, Gains-
ford (J. R. Smith-Charmeta) cost only
50gns. He came again after being caught
close to the post and may have won in
another few strides.
Recovering gradually from a bruised
heel which interrupted his preparation a
month ago. Nobleman ran his best race
for some time when he finished fourth
in the first Three- and Four-year-old
division. He is dropping to a handy
weight, considering his good form of last
summer, and his appearance suggested
that Saturday’s run would improve him.
Royal Result, fourth in the Flying Welter,
also is improving and is worth watching
in a high-limit race beyond six furlongs.
He displayed plenty of dash to be third
at the half-mile and then held on gamely
when lack of racing failed him in the
straight.
Roger veered in badly and had to be
checked when he ran to Goshawk in the
straight in the Encourage Stakes, but he
got going again quickly and won by a
length and a half. One of the few horses
by Roger de Busli still racing in Sydney,
Roger ran loose in a paddock for two
years after his owner, Lt.-Col. Walcott,
joined the army early in the war. Now
a five-year-old, Roger will be debarred
by age from running in restricted events
after this month, but he is improving
rapidly and should win in; moderate
middle-distance company. The favorite,
King of the Mist, covered a lot of ground
on the outside and only plodded from
the home turn.
Miscellaneous
Striving to get into the V.F.L. “four,”
Essendon went to Fitzroy on Saturday.
It was anybody’s game all through, and
finished in a draw, Essendon 11.17, Fitz-
roy 12.11. As hard a match was played
between Footscray and Melbourne, for
’Scray had to win to stay in. Stay in it
did—B.ls to 8.13. Carlton, leading the
field, suffered a shock when downed by
North Melbourne, 11.15-7.10. Others:
Collingwood 15.12-9.13 v. Geelong,
“Sowth” 15.12-11.11 v. Hawthorn, Rich-
mond 11.18-7.11 v. St. Kilda.
* * * *
In Saturday’s Rugby Union, Gordon,
with five substitute players, was no match
for Randwick, which scored 12 tries to
one ; goals made it 50-5. After a dour
tussle against North, Cummins fooled the
defence to send Renshaw over for a last-
minute try that gave Uni. an 8-5 victory.
Randwick leads, two points ahead of
West, with Uni. third and East and
Drummoyne (equal) fourth. Other
games:
West 11, East 3; St. George 3, Parramatta
nil; Manly 6, Drummoyne 6.
* * * *
A soldier returned from this war,
Bobby Clarke, showed very good form
against George Delaney at Leichhardt.
He had his opponent dazed and bleeding
in the third round, and Delaney did not
come out again. “Jarred me left,” he
said ; but he was jarred from crown to
sole.
With a perfectly-timed right to the
chin Young Frisco floored Alan West-
bury (10.12|) in the second round‘of their
Sydney Stadium contest, and ringsiders
reached for their hats. But the Austra-
lian, 121 b. lighter, was on his feet at
“eight,” afterwards to give a fine exhi-
bition of well-planned and forceful
stoush. Gradually he gained the upper
hand, and body blows had the Filipino
so feeble in the eighth that Frisco could
not get away from a left hook that landed
flush on the chin. It was the finishing
blow.
G.N. STEEPLE SELECTIONS.
(At Flemington.)
WINTERSET 1
ZALMON 2
HIGHWAY KING 3
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances .)
Novice Nursery Handicap: White
Wings, 1 ; Sovereign’s Fate, 2;
Depredation, 3.
Novice Juvenile Handicap: Sir
Edward, 1 ; Royal Tip, 2 ; Union
Jack, 3.
Flying Handicap: Grand Prodige,
1 ; Milanja, 2 ; Highgate, 3.
Rosehill July Handicap: Haripur,
1 ; Streamford, 2 ; Salivant, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Chi-
nook, 1 ; Cockcrow, 2 ; Castle Fron-
tenac, 3.
Novice Handicap: Allan Veil, 1 ;
Craigie, 2 ; Manday Son, 3.
Parramatta Handicap: Ron Rico,
1 ; Royal Result, 2 ; Merrimba, 3.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —Is Divorce.
TO WALTER JOSEPH BARRETT (also known as
William Joseph Bennett). —TAKE NOTICE that
EDNA MAVIS RIGGS (falsely called Edna Mavis
Barrett) has filed a Petition for Nullity of Marriage
No. 2104 of 1944 upon the ground that at the time
of going through the ceremony of marriage with her
you were already married If you wish to defend the
suit you should enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before the Fourteenth day of August One thousand
nine hundred and forty-four and obtain a copy of the
petition filed herein from G. D. BONAMY Solicitor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT ROBERT JOHN GAVIN.—TAKE
NOTICE that EVELYN MAUDE GAVIN has filed a.
Petition for Divorce No. 1142 of 1944 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upward If you wfish to defend you may
enter an appearance-at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney New South Wales on or
before the Fourteenth day of August 1944 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from F. W.
REILLY Solicitor 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K- BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO NATHANIEL CLAUDE CLARKE late of Belmore
Hermidale New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
MAY ELIZABETH CLARKE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1143 of 1944 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney New South Wales on or before
the Fourteenth day of August 1944 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from F. W.
REILLY Solicitor 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
It’s always a surprise to see the femi-
nine interest in Parliament’s opening day.
When the Victorian Legislature started
off again last week the Chamber was
filled with gay millinery that made the
Speaker’s wig an also-ran. The specta-
tors were a l®t more interested in the pro-
gramme than the members, most of whom
had heard it plenty of times before. One
lady on hearing the lengthy saga of Acts-
to-be in the Governor’s address was heard
to whisper “Won’t they be busy this
session—poor things?” and there was real
sympathy in her voice.
Gyrating round islands of cakes and
tea in the attractive reception room of
the House were a lot of notables. Among
them was military attache Col. Wang,
who’d been taking a close interest in the
order of proceedings earlier. Making the
wishes of housewives clear to Minister
Holloway was Mrs. John Downing.
Among guests from other spots were
quite a few Allied service men who were
talking very knowledgeably about the
differences between our Parliamentary
ways and those of their own land. Inci-
dentally they said kind things about th
architecture and inner decorations o
Parliament House.
C.W.A. conferences are seldom barren
of solid discussions, but this time mem
bers outshone most previous occasions o:
the kind by their handling of questions
of real moment. The problems reviewec
were in many cases as much the concern
of women in cities as of their country
sisters, so conference reports were eagerly
scanned by women readers of the dailies
A demand for a fairer deal for the re-
maining aborigines struck an altruistic
note in the midst of more materia]
matters.
The best laugh of the conference was
raised when a woman waved aloft a lace-
trimmed portion of lingerie and saic
“Just look at it! Supposed to be 0.5.”
After chuckles had subsided there arose
from all around equally indignant mur-
murs agreeing that it was “hardly
S.S.W.” Thus was aired the “large
woman’s grievance,” which is growing in
bitterness in Melbourne. It is complained
that sizes are being made increasingly
smaller, apparently with the idea that
material, is saved if the owner of a well-
endowed figure can be persuaded to buy
a garment too small for her.
The housewife’s problem of the
moment is “What can one do with carrots
that isn’t the same as was done yester-
day?” When these vegetables were
scarce so much was said on all sides
about the value of the vitamins in them
that shoppers became quite passionate in
demanding them. Now that there is a
glut cooks worth their salt feel that they
must take advantage of it. But “plain
boiled” soon palls and raw grated carrot
can’t be eaten for ever. Aged parents
have been reviving last-war memories of
carrots fried in butter by French farmers’
wives—as if anyone could afford to fry
things in butter these days!
“We’re sorry, no Chinese food —aus-
terity, you know,” said Y.W.C.A. World
Fellowship Groupers to buffet luncheon
guests last week. Guests were treated
to some very satisfactory local fodder
nevertheless. The gathering was being ad-
dressed by the soignee Mrs. Fabian Chow
on the subject of her country and people,
and the organisers did their best to es-
tablish the right atmosphere, food and
all. Assembled were representatives of
Women’s organisations and those inter-
ested in Australia-China friendship.
So much has been said about our bad
manners in public that it is a relief to
.know that visitors (so they say) are struck
iby the general politeness in trams, espe-
cially the friendliness evident between con-
ductors and passengers. Instance cited
■was the number of inquiries directed to a
woman, obviously past forty, on an acci-
dent which had evidently occurred to her
husband. Every man on duty at one tram
depot came and asked after the victim,
land the fact that one lad put it thuswise*
t ‘How’s your boy friend doing?” was
taken as a compliment. After all, the
term has become universal, even taking
in elderly husbands.
I It seems hard on the early riser that
wool-lined sheepskin slippers should
“choose this moment to disappear from
the shops—nothing else coped quite so
successfully with the morning frost. The
shortage has led to efforts in the way
;of home manufacture, the first results
looking rather like Eskimo workmanship,
tbut with practice some very presentable
slippers are being turned out. They are
appearing on bazaar stalls—a sure draw
for winter buyers.
Conductor Ormandy has a full week of
social engagements planned for him in
Melbourne, but plans can be altered at
a moment’s notice if he decides that the
call of rehearsals is more urgent than
any particular occasion. So keen was he
to get to work without delay that press
interviews took place on Sunday after-
noon. Festivities for the visitor include
an after-concert party at Vice-Chan-
cellor Medley’s on Saturday night and
an A.B.C. reception at Menzies next
Monday.
Aileen Dent’s show, opened, by knight
Eggleston, at the Athenaeum gallery, was
quiet and conservative in tone, peaceful
after the horrors so often shown nowa-
days. Portraits, as onlookers said, “stand
out” from their frames. Particularly
glowing is one of Angela Cass. There
are some good portraits of men, too.
Sixteen-year-old pianist Allison Nelson,
here pictured, has collected a lot of bou-
quets from critics since last week’s
concert. Interviewers have found, too.
that she’s able to talk with knowledge on
a lot of subjects, and the history and
make-up of music is a topic into which
she can dip very deep. She’s still ill the
plaits-down-her-back stage, which means
that her looks belie her capabilities.
From across the border: Adelaide’s
Theatre Royal, which for many years in
Brough and Boucicault days, and after,
was the city’s one home of drama, but has
latterly given much of its time to the
cinema, is going back to its old ways—
with additions. Manager Wren announces
that the Firm has made an agreement
with the Tivoli circuit for the latter’s
revues to be staged at the Royal, with
G. and S., musical comedy and drama,
providing once again a “permanent living
theatre” for Adelaide.
From Sydney
The mystery of a maypole on the lawn
of Government House was solved when
Lady Wakehurst announced that mem-
bers of the Junior Red Cross would
dance in the interval between speeches
and tea. And they did, wearing royal
purple and gold petal dresses. The
Police Band supplied the music. There
was a queen, also dressed in the royal
colors, with two small pages to hold her
train in the correct Court manner. She
wore a crown and carried a silver sceptre.
Later the children were Introduced by
Lady Wakehurst to Lady Gowrie, and at
least one child told the Gordon lady
that “we’ve had a lovely time.”
This took place at a party given by
Lady Wakehurst in honor of Lady Gowrie
for members of the N.S.W. Red Cross
Division. Representatives of suburban
branches also came. The speeches were
short. Lady Wakehurst, in few but apt
words, introduced each speaker. Chair-
man Johnson of the N.S.W. Division is
ill in hospital, so acting-chairman A. L.
Blythe expressed the regret felt by all at
Lady Cowrie’s early departure.
A poinsettia-red leather-bound book
containing photographs of the Lady
Gowrie Home at Gordon was presented
by Mrs. Penfold Hyland on behalf of
the city and suburban branches. The
binding of this was done by a
soldier of the last war, M. Kabel. A
copy of The Happy Warrior, by Major
Patrick Hore-Ruthven, was presented to
Lady Gowrie on behalf of the country
branches by Mrs. George Mack. Wal
Taylor—-also a 1914-18 Anzac—was
responsible for the binding. This was
m gold crushed levant morocco the
only decoration being the square
panel formed by the title of the
book and the author’s name. In the
panel was a ram’s head, the Hore-Ruth-
ven crest. After Lady Cowrie’s words
of thanks Lady Wakehurst called for
three cheers for the guest of honor. After
tea, everyone gathered round the log fires
in the reception-rooms.
The Red Cross hopes to make it£
Thrift Shop at 60 Elizabeth-street (near
King-street) a real gift centre. It
hopes, too, that friends will help to
keep its shelves as well stocked as they
were last Friday, the day it opened for
business. It wants goods of every
description—utility articles that people
buy for their own home and the sort of
thing they would like to buy, know it
can’t be done, then decide that it can be
done, and buy it for a friend. In fact,
the shop will take anything from a needle
to an anchor. But who would want to
buy an anchor? The Friday special at-
traction will be a produce and cake stall
at the front door.
The shop, whose door was first un-
locked by Lady Wakehurst, looks like a
cottage whose owners take a delight in
keeping its white paintwork as spick and
span as that of a warship. The inside
walls are a faint duck-egg blue. The
creamy marquisette curtains on the front
windows are the envy of every woman
passer-by. On the side window is a
maroon silken fabric.
Stewart and Lloyds, of Newcastle and
Sydney, have given the shop to the Red
Cross for the duration of the war and six
months afterwards. Home-lovers will be
interested to know that it is built of
tubular steel. Stewart and Lloyds’ L.
Smalley said that some people would
think a tin-opener would be more suitable
for opening a steel door than the silver
key which he presented to Lady Wake-
hurst.
Tickets for the Advance Victory Ball
are selling like hot cakes. Those who
want to be in the fun and have not yet
bought tickets had better hasten. Myra
Dempsey and members of the Smilin’
Thru Club are putting the bee to shame,
so busy are they contriving a non-stop
night of frolic and laughter. Excitement
at the club’s rooms is rising higher and
higher. So close are the contestants in
the Popular Girl competition that no one
is taking bets. It is likely to be a dead-
heat for Navy, Army and Air Force
nominees. With the three forces, Direc-
tor of Ballet and Pageantry Maurice
Diamond will find plenty of material to
draw on. George Nathan will crown the
queen. All in all, the ball promises to
be one of the most spectacular events
Sydney has seen in years. Proceeds to
P.O.W. Fund, 113th A.G.H. and Dalwood
Homes.
The attractive lass pictured here is
musical-comedy star Leonora Laye, who
will be the evening’s soloist. Leonora
needs no introduction to this Letter’s
readers. She will be remembered as the
lead in the Firm’s most recent revivals of
“The Student Prince” and “The Vaga-
bond King.”
The Players’ Club is 21 years old. So
it gave itself a dinner party, complete
with cake and candles. The Feminist
Club was crowded out with members and
well-wishers. There was a huge pile of
telegrams and letters of congratulation
from the four corners of Australia, from
New Guinea and from England and the
Middle East. It seemed from the
addresses that there isn’t a corner of the
globe that isn’t blessed with present or
past members of this club. From Mel-
bourne Alice Gould wrote a letter telling
of different members she has met. The list
she sent would make a small directory.
There were many speeches and toasts and
now and again flashes of wit that brought
ready laughter. Francis Jackson, one of
the founders, told how, when he took the
part of a corpse (killed on the stage), a
group of his boys (he was then a teacher
at Grammar) who followed with interest
has career as an actor said, as the body
was pushed into a corner: “Thank good-
ness, Jacky’s done for at last.”
Equity Judge Nicholas said he thought
the youth of today were to be pitied.
They had never seen Trumpet make a cen-
tury. A young man got up and said he
didn’t feel at all sorry that he hadn’t.
It was the sort of party that could last
until midnight without anyone getting
tired, provided they were interested in
plays and playwrights and the stage’s
past and future. Arthur Reardon, in a
Shakspearean voice, said actors them-
selves were to blame for lack of interest
in the living theatre. He told of a recent
visit to the U.S.A., when he found Ethel
Barrymore, at the age of 70, getting
ready for a tour of over 70 towns. He
spoke of her voice, how a whisper of
hers could be heard all over the theatre
without the aid of a microphone. Kather-
ine Cornell, Helen Hayes, Dame May
Whitty and Paul Robeson were also cited
as actors who were carrying on the fine
old tradition.
A bad attack of bronchitis kept presi-
dent Richard Windeyer, K.C., away, so
Beatrice Wines read his speech and
Aubrey Halloran took the chair. Kath-
leen Robinson, herself a product of the
Players’ Club, was one of the honored.
She thanked Arthur Reardon for what he
had said about the professional theatre.
Patron Sir Hugh Poynter proposed the
toast, “Our Guests.” Lute Drummond
played, Constance Pickworth and David
Barwell sang.
There’s a grand story told of Mrs.
Roosevelt by Earle Looker in his life of
the U.S.A. President. When Franklin
Roosevelt was Assistant Secretary of the
Navy, during World War No. 1, he and
his wife were driving home after a dinner-
party. Suddenly the world rocked and
there *was a terrific explosion. They
thought that an ammunition dump down
the river had blown up till they turned
into their‘own street. There something
of a minor blitz had taken place. The
roads were covered with glass, the street-
lamps were blown away. The Roose-
velts found the front door of their house
blown open, the windows broken, the
ground floor just a mess. Husband and
wife rushed upstairs, terrified of what
might have happened to their youngest
child, Johnny. He was all right, but
having been awakened by the explosion
asked what was the matter. “Turn right
over and go to sleep,” mother said
firmly and calmly. “It’s just a little
bomb!”. If a woman like that can’t re-
assure the mothers of America about
their lads, who can?
The C.W.A. has already £4OOO in hand
towards the £5OOO promised to the
Gowrie Scholarship Fund. This was
gathered in at the conference early in the
year. The Cumberland branch is work-
ing hard to bring in the other £lOOO.
The proceeds from the branch’s Inter-
national Day party held at David Jones's
panned out about £5O. A.B.C.’s Heath
Burdock couldn’t have chosen a subject
more absorbing to his listeners than “The
Women of Britain in Relation to the
War.” Carrie Moore and Walter Kings-
ley were among the singers. Noticeable at
the C.W.A. party was the number of
women who dived into their handbags
and produced small bottles of real milk
for their tea.
Lieut.-Col. E. T. M. Wickham, leader
of the British Parliamentary Delegation,
found a first cousin in Sydney. She is
Mrs. A. H. Walker (Brenda Wickham),
of Manly. Mrs. Walker is the youngest
daughter of Harry Wickham, of Manly.


Missing Friend.
HANCOCK, Frederick.—Mr. Frederick Hancock, hus-
band of Margaret Ethel Hancock, who died in Perth
in 1905, or any person having knowledge of Frederick
Hancock’s present address, is requested to communi-
cate without delay with THE TRUSTEES EXECU-
TORS AND AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED, 401
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Public Notices.
I, ARNOLD FINSTERBUSOH, Stateless, born at
Medyka, Poland, and resident four years and eight
months in Australia, now residing at 47 Sir Thomas
Mitchell Road, Bondi, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
McLEOD, Richard Granville or Richard Gilbert
Maurice or Robert.—lnformation required as to
whereabouts of the above person. Last heard of in
1933 at Mt. Coolon, Queensland.- —EXECUTOR
TRUSTEE $ AGENCY CO. OF S.A., LTD., Adelaide.
w
a
War has taught “His Master’s Voice”
technicians many valuable lessons.
Ceaseless investigation and research
have yielded a wealth of knowledge
that will be embodied in “H.M.V.”
post-war Radio Receivers and Radio-
grams .. . craftsman instruments that
will combine to-day’s knowledge of
construction and design with yester-
day’s traditions of leadership.
“His Master’s Voice”
Radio Receivers-Radio-Gramophones
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD,
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
8.2/44
p
s Ah q
Sf «viCE
4?
<r
5??
#
w
SWEET BOUQUETS
FROM A WOOL GROWER
I Ve been around here lifting bonnets and showing
off the paces of Ford cars and trucks since the year
Phar Lap won the Melbourne Cup. But, honest,
it’s taken a war and NO new models to give me my
biggest thrill—having folks thank me for selling
them Ford six, seven, eight years ago or more.
Take Jim Logan who raises the finest sheep in
the district: “Ever seen such heavy cutters and
more impressive heads than these?” he says the
other day. ‘ ‘ Twenty years of ‘ know-how, ’ son,
that’s what it’s taken me to get the prime stock I
want. But, fair dinkum, I’d sooner lose my best
stud ram than be without my Ford! ’ ’
When old shrewdies hand out bouquets like that it
makes me more pleased than ever at being in
partnership with Ford. “Yes,” I say, “Ford started
with a lot of ‘know-how’ too —and was first to price
his cars so’s millions like Jim could enjoy the good
things of life. I’m real proud to be keeping things
moving up here while Ford makes the Aveapons
to help get things moving over there’.”
FORD V-8 CARS, TRUCKS AND UTILITIES . . . MERCURY CARS
PREFECT 10 H.P, CARS AND UTILITIES . , . ANGLIA 8 H.P.
Keep on Buying War Bonds F32.20.T.
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong, Vic.
SMOKE-OH!
“Latest scientific discovery is that bread can
be made from seawater.” — “World’s News.”
Well, people have been casting it there
ever since Solomon.
•j*
“Rabbit—Dearest sweetheart, just to say
you are always in my thoughts.”
— “S.M.H.” agony.
Of course she is, with the meat short-
age and no coupons left.
•i* 4*
“Wrapped in her song she was unaware of
the train.” — Woman’s mag.
Passengers were waiting for the music
to stop.
“Negotiations between the cemetery trustees
and councillors of a Wimmera (Vic.) shire re-
garding a site for a proposed new cemetery
have reached a deadlock.”
—Wimmera newspaper.
A grave situation doesn’t seem to agi-
tate these two live bodies.
•b
“The old man was in a state bordering upon
apoplexy, having just learned that the tale by
which young Edward had got that fifty pounds
.from him was bogus.”— “Sun.”
Suffering from a touch of the son?
f + 4* 4*
“Herbert had said that he was sailing that
afternoon, so Hilda decided to go down to the
wharf and see the goat off.” —“ Daily Mirror.”
Not exactly a compliment to Herbert.
“What’s Cookin’?”
It now devolves on every bride
To banish thoughts of fashion,
And feed the partner by her side,
However small the ration.
For maids and,cooks are gohe, they say,
Extinct as is the dodo :
Efficiency means more today
Than “suaviter in modo.”
I trust I make my meaning clear,
For, when the time arrives,
Where ignorance is bliss, my dear,
’Tis folly to be wives.
MRS. PAB.
Expansion.
“inheriting a large fortune in her late middle-
age, she became very affected.”.
—Biographical item.
Such ladies often swell with pride
When cash they do not lack.
They also put on too much side,
As well as front and back.
NAT.
The Art of Listening.
“A wife as a rule will listen to any explana-
tion her husband may have to give her.”
— Woman’s paper.
“I think I’m at least entitled to an
explanation,” said Maria.
“An explanation?” I asked.
“Oh, don’t pretend you don’t know
what I’m' talking about,” she went on im-
patiently, “You know very well what I
mean ; but this is the way you always try
to shuffle out of it. It won’t do, Aitchem.
When a husband, with a wife at home
slaving her fingers to the bone to keep
his home”
“If you mean my happening acciden-
tally to run into Miss Smart in the restau-
rant,” I began. I guessed it might be that.
I had seen Mrs. Gabbitt sitting at a far
table looking over towards me as I stood
talking, already glorying in how she could
blab about it.
“Ha! So you admit it!” cried Maria
triumphantly. “So you’ve been leading a
double life, and you thought”
“Double life be hanged! I happened
to bump into the woman as I was. com-
ing in and she was going out, and”
“Oh, you’ll crawl out of it some way.
You’ll find some excuse!” stormed Maria.
“While I sit at home darning your socks
you’re gadding about with other
women”
‘Hf you’ll only listen”
“I have been listening,” asserted Maria,
“but I have heard all I want to hear. You
convict yourself out of your own mouth.”
“Let me explain”
“I have let you explain. Didn’t I ask
you for an explanation? But it’s no
good your going further, Aitchem. If you
can take other women to lunch you can
surely take your wife. I’m coming into
town tomorrow ; and on Friday”
By breakfast next day I had not been
able to get in that explanation. I had
to pay the forfeit. Maria’s parting shot as
1 made for the train was to remind me
she was coming into town for lunch.
H. M.
Humility.
The Self, unknown but knowing, seeks to
know
The Not-self, but the Not-self is
unknown
And quite unknowable; which goes to show
That all conceited persons who are prone
To dogmatise , however hard they blow,
Are really voicing ignorance alone.
And, therefore, gentlemen, let us confess
That all of us are in a mental mess.
T. W. NATHAN.
The Art Critic Reports a Football
Match.
“Symbolical of that ever-concentricaliy-
spinning and unco-ordinated spirit of
rivalry and hyperbolic combatism which
has been adjudged by philosophically-
minded students of Homo sapiens down
the distant aeons of time to be effervescently
inherent in man, Gordwick team, attired
in jerseys of an ultramarine rendered in-
trinsically vivid by contrast with the cir-
cumambient sward splashed by the nig-
gardly hand of Nature with hues at once
subdued yet aggressively and blatantly
pale, trotted on to the field. Then Ran-
don, raimented in jerseys with alternate
hoops of a braggart maroon and a wheed-
ling, apologetically demure white which
tended to blend distance into a
chiaroscuric, polychromatic whole, in-
tense, vibrating and aura-like, came with
saltant steps to the pending fray.
“A coin, dully drab in contrast with
the palpitatingly crude colors surround-
ing it, was tossed. Time itself seemed to
stand poised, tensely, on winged feet, ears
a-strained, waiting with a hush for the
descent that was veritably pregnant with
Destiny. Breaths came, expelled with a
sense of unalloyed urgency, as Gordwick
elected to kick off with a vagrantly waft-
ing breeze at their backs.
“From the kick-off the leathern elliptic
slowly rose, luculently highlighted against
feathery cumulus merging into deeper-
toned sinister-looking clouds looming low
on a vast contemplative-seeming horizon.
It descended, with superb dignity and
grace, into the waiting arms of a maroon-
and-white-splashed player. Waiting not
upon the order of his going, the holder
of the inanimate object departed incon-
tinently, like some noctivigant astral
wraith, silently, yet withal with a fasci-
nating degree of exactness combined with
verticity and Mercurylike swiftness, a
supreme utterness of unpremeditated
abandon concomitant to his every move-
ment.
“Alas! He had traversed but ten yards
when, describing a glowing parabola, an
ultramarine figure flung himself from his
fellows to meet the materialness of the
accentuatedly memorable challenge. In
the ineffable spirit of sturm und drang
the two became indiscerptible. All hopes
of implanting the leather elliptic across
the tenuous but now aggravatingly in-
accessible line proved jejune, remote as
the incomparable Lusiad of Camoens.
“At this dynamic incrassated hiatus
there arose cries indubious, querimonious,
awful in their sustained, unquenchable
malignancy, from the madding throng.
Surged then upon the hapless two locked
on the earth in intransmutable collucta-
tion the opposing hordes, in indescrib-
able tramash. Came from the flagellat-
ing mass of limbs, bouncing with an
almost Comtean positiveness, yet touched
with a certain periphrastic essence of in-
consequence, the tempestuously flatulent
bladder. As it emerged, unhesitant and
decumbent, a reptant ultramarined
player rose with startlingly perspicuous,
almost declaratory urgency and, com-
pletely casting off, as Prester John might
have done his gemmed necklet, all circum-
locutory mawkishness, set out with a
fervid, titillating, even rapacious impetu-
osity towards his opponents’ goal.
“Denied he could not be. Encroach-
ment upon his disputed terrain brought,
hotfoot, emotion-surged and incisive, the
Randon full-back. Inexact, his placoid
feet uninhibited, he endeavored to thwart
the exigent one, who, however, with un-
imaginably agitative elan, decussated in
the corner.
“Score: Gordwick, 3 ; Randon, nil.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others per line.
War-service Homes
I applied for information about war-
service homes, and was told that I could
obtain no assistance until discharged, or,
in my case, being a member of the
P.M.F., until cessation of hostilities. In
many cases this ruling could, and should,
be waived.
Indeed, soldiers should be encouraged
to build now. This would help to relieve
pressure on building and allied trades im-
mediately after the war.
A man who left his dependants in
“apartments” or in a tumbledown slum
when he went to a forward area will be
worrying about them all the time he is
away. He’ll wonder whether the rain still
comes in on little Johnny’s bed, whether the
draught still makes it hard to find a safe
place to bathe the baby and how his wife
is standing up to the drudgery of trying
to make a hovel respectable. That man
would work and fight better and be less
of a sore spot in his unit if he knew that
his family had a comfortable house. He
would feel all the better, too, for the
knowledge that the money paid out as
rent was not being lost for ever, but was
actually buying security for the future.
The benefits of the War Service Homes
Act should be made available now for
all service men who can show they will
be in a position /to continue the required
payments after the war. Preference for
immediate assistance would, of course, be
given to those whose families are at
present living in sub-standard houses or
who have no house at all. — Sarge
(A.1.F.).
Against Flats
Most post-war housing schemes pro-
pose to provide flats for city workers.
Certainly they are to be of the most
modern style, with the latest labor-saving
devices, making a joke of the tiresome
housework of former days.
But why flats? Surely Australia has an
abundance of space surrounding her
cities? This should allow the building
of separate houses lor every family, thus
preserving the atmosphere of home alto-
gether missing in a huge barrack of flats.
Is it proposed to erect flats at such a
cheap rate that slum-dwellers will pay
the same rents they did formerly? If so,
is anyone going to educate these people in
the use of baths and electrical appliances?
Some have never seen such things, and
not many years will pass before flats are
slums.
Need we look further than the insidious
growth of flats in and around cities for a
good reason for the falling birthrate? —
Trained Nurse (Vic,).
The Australian House
Why flat-roofed houses for Australia
(B. 14/6/’44)? Why not very high-
pitched ones? Australian architects make
the objection that the high-pitched roof
was evolved in cold countries to carry
the snow off. In Siberia I have seen
houses bungalow-roofed like the Austra-
lian. So that can’t be the reason.
The high-pitched roof was developed
in England because the farmer wanted
more room-space. Instead of increasing
the height of his walls he adopted the
cheaper method of lengthening his rafters,
so that he could have space under his
roof for attics.
The high-pitched roof is eminently
adapted for the Australian climate be-
cause the attic, being well ventilated,
keeps the lower rooms cool in the day-
time and as it cools off quickly can be
used for bedrooms and sitting-rooms in
the night-time—also for storage.
Everybody admires the beautiful old
farmhouses of Britain and nobody likes
the drab monotony of the average bunga-
low-roofed Australian suburb. It was a
fashion copied from U.S., not a natural
development. The space it wastes would
be sufficient to house half the homeless
population.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
Army Canteen Control
Complaints regarding the conduct of
Army and Air Force canteens and the
distribution of surplus profits, often
heard, might be avoided if organisations
such as the Y.M.C.A. and Salvation Army
were given control of all such services.
Already these people provide, particu-
larly in forward areas, a very valuable
canteen service supplying hot tea, coffee
and cocoa or iced drinks. Their repre-
sentatives are doing great work in every
theatre of war and training area. Let
them organise the complete supervision
and staffing of the canteen setup, using
the profits to establish throughout Aus-
tralia rest homes and hostels for the use
of service men on leave. —Stanus
(R.A.A.F.).
Fighter Pilots’ Future
An airman kinsman raises a pertinent
point. Pilots who fly big bombing ’planes
acquire experience in handling large air-
craft, and when peace comes will be
qualified for good jobs piloting large pas-
senger and transport ’planes. But most
fighter-pilots have had no opportunity to
become proficient in handling large
machines.
Something should be done to give these
pilots a chance to get into civil avia-
tion on the same footing as bomber
pilots. Those of whom Churchill said
“Never was so much owed by so many
to so few” should not be relegated to the
role of aerobatic barnstormers. — Uncle
Ned (Q.).
Jobs and Population
Why the emphasis on jobs for all after
the war? A race that yearns to fall back
entirely on safe jobs is slipping. The
“ Yoo-hoo! Anyone ’ ome ?”
boys up wbere the danger is don’t bear
tbat out
What are needed most are not so much
j obs as opportunities for all, according
to their inclinations and abilities. If we
have to wait for jobs for all, we’ll never
be a hj e to absorb the immigrants we
need. America didn’t have jobs for all
immigrants, but they came fast enough.
offered free land and opportunity to
build up a business,
If private enterprise is to be burdened
by such taxes that nobody can make
money again, jobs will be hard to find,
But we have plenty of land, and no people
with plenty of land should be stuck for
work or opportunity. One thing that held
up pre-war land development was the
decline of the kind of farming that pro-
duced for the family first and the market
next. The few tons of foodstuffs needed
yearly for the family are easily produced,
but it takes a whale of a lot of produc-
tion to make enough profit to pay the
same family’s store bill. It is stepped-up
production that creates gluts and keeps
the number of producers down,
But if you put people on the land so
they can live there without glutting the
cities with the stuff they produce, there’ll
be almost no limit to the number of
people who could be settled.— Enveen
(Tas.).
’ •
Free Land
“W.C.C.” (W.A.) (B. 26/4/’44) asks
who owns the good dairy land to which
I refer. Well, he does, seeing it belongs
to his State, and I’ll bet he could put
in a forest of fence posts without paying
anything that matters if he has enough
money to keep himself while on the
crazy job. It isn’t the cost of the land it’s
the cost of clearing that -baulks, ’and
“W.C.C.” ought to know that much,
To say “If there were free land in
Australia this continent would become
populated just as quickly as happened in
U.S.A.” is nonsense, and shows ignorance
of geography and other things,
Fancy comparing prairie with our land»
You don’t get anything for nothing in
Aussie, and it isn’t sneering to say that
the average Aussie means to get the best
out of life with minimum sweat, that
being the way of all the world.
Then, again, “W.C.C.” says “If that land
were free there would be a hundred put-
ting in their pegs tomorrow.” That’s
about all they would do, and they’d leave
the pegs there. Governments have some
sense, and they woke up to that trick
long ago. Admittedly I don’t know any-
thing about the Kimberleys, but I do
know of hundreds of half-made farms
that any young Aussie could have walked
on to a couple of years before this war.
Of course, there are hundreds of thou-
sands of acres of W.A. tied up, but there
are millions of acres wide open, and if
any young Aussie wants fervently to go
on the land there’s no place I can think
of where he’d get more encouragement.
But he’s learnt arithmetic in the mean-
time, and he just can’t make those magic
pegs add up into a farm in his lifetime.
Pioneering for posterity is just bewhis-
kered boloney.— Hamlet (W.A.).
N.T. Settlement
In the N.T., north of Birdum, abun-
dance of grazing and arable land is
available with easy means of access to
Darwin and Alice Springs, and to Queens-
land via Darwin by rail and an all-
weather road.
The problem of settling people up there
has a relatively easy solution. A mili-
tary, naval and air force garrison of at
least 10,000 men will have to be estab-
lished, and this force, with families
and the necessary additional commercial
and administrative personnel, will ensure
a permanent population of between
80,000 and 100,000 in garrison towns,
which will afford markets for farm pro-
ducts.
Vegetables are being produced in large
quantities by the First Farm ‘Company.
All types of tropical and citrus fruits
can be grown, more profitably than ever
now that dehydration and canning have
made such strides. Tomatoes raised by
the Farm Company at Adelaide River
and sold as an experiment on the Adel-
aide market brought top prices. They
can be grown all the year round. Abun-
dant water is available at all times and in
all suitable localities. The pumps and
bores are already there.
You can see cotton of good staple at
Katherine, but only in small quantities at
present. Peanuts flourish almost any-
where, though not much cultivated yet.
Both these crops should be good commer-
cial ventures. The land in many places
is notable for rice and lucerne growing.
The latter crop offers great possibilities
with production of beef and mutton, pig-
meat and poultry. The wild pig (a good
type of Berkshire) is invariably fat and
free of disease.
Fish swarm in the rivers and the coastal
waters. Whole battalions have been sup-
plied with fresh fish from their unit traps.
The mineral wealth offers possibilities
now that all-weather roads have been
constructed. Tin, tungsten and tantalum
afford scope for the small man ; gold for
big companies. I saw gins with yam-
sticks digging tin oxide and tantalite in
some shows where the owners were doing
well. Modern machinery would make a
vast difference.
Timber such as cypress pine, Leich-
hardt pine and ironwood is available in
quantities ample for home-building—the
two former are being milled extensively
by the military. However, termites
abound, and fibro-cement homes built to
i tropical specifications, cool and durable,
make the best housing. There is enough
building iron (roofing) in the Territory
now for 20,000 homes, and this will be
available when the military camps are
demolished.
The old problem of making the coun-
try fit for a white woman and home-
making is already solved. All the settle-
ments described in We of the Never
Never —Katherine, Pine Creek, Mata-
ranka and Adelaide River—now have
bulk refrigerators and electric power;
indeed, are miles ahead of towns of simi-
lar size in the south in that respect.
Tropical diseases such as malaria and
scrub typhus do not exist, and dengue has
to all intents and purposes been wiped
out. In addition, the best-equipped hos-
pitals in Australia now exist at all these
centres.
Most troops in the north realise this
country’s possibilities. All the Federal
Government needs to do is to make an
adequate soil survey and so let the farmer
know the possibilities of the land in dif-
ferent localities, establish the garrison
and throw the country open. Henry
(A.1.F.).
The Decimal System
As a teacher of 30 years’ standing I
should like to see it embodied in post-
war education to replace one of the
biggest bugbears of the school curricu-
lum —our system of tables and money
and weights and measures. Goodness
only knows how many of the most pre-
cious hours of the child’s life are spent
worrying about fractions when the
children of nations allegedly not so en-
lightened as ours have only to shift a
little dot up or down the scale and the
thing’s done. The time and expense’in-
curred in the change-over would soon be
compensated for, and maybe it would be
a novel way of landing the hoarders of
notes and florins. — Nobraley (N.S.W.).
A Punter’s Apology
There is something to be said for us
punters. We may not be quite so enthu-
siastic as the great gambler who said his
greatest pleasure in life was winning at
gambling and his next greatest pleasure
losing at gambling, but we do, in fact,
like backing horses even if we lose. And
that is what the non-punter can never
understand. If he did understand he
would, of course, become a punter, too.
I do not say that we like to lose —far
from it; there is a feeling of defeat and
disappointment that is hard to avoid,
especially when we haven’t had what we
call “a run for our money”—but I do
say that we would rather lose than not
punt at all. And when we win—“easy
come, easy go?” Of course it is. There
was no better spending money in the
world in the days when a good dinner
and a bottle of wine could be had with-
out planning a campaign six weeks in
advance. A winning day at the races is
one of the great pleasures life has to
offer.
Selecting one racehorse to beat another
is a complete pursuit in itself. It is a
hobby and a recreation, and a breakTrom
the daily routine, and a link with your
fellow-men. It is not something for
Saturdays only ; it is something for pretty
well every day of the week. There are
weights and jockeys and barrier positions
and tracks and weather and past per-
formances and track gallops and records
to ponder and discuss.
And then there is the pleasure we take
in the horses themselves. Those to whom
Windbag, Heroic, Gloaming, Amounis,
Peter Pan, Tranquil Star and the rest mean
nothing are so much the poorer. To
men and women who have watched them
gallop and cheered the great spectacle of
beauty and strength and courage as these
superb horses come flying at the finish,
their names are at once an introduction
and a common meeting ground. Let
those who condemn the punter go to the
races and listen to the cry
racing! ”
I could go on. I could tell stories of
how my friend and I years ago shouted
ourselves hoarse, he for Heroic and I for
Windbag, and how the mighty Windbag
flew up that Randwick straight, and how
the red jacket of Royal Chief, hemmed
in by opponents until 50 yards of the
post, finally won clear and produced one
of the most thrilling finishes seen on any
racecourse ; and how Jimmy Pike and
Fuji San looked going down to the start
to win the Railway Highweight at Flem-
ington, and about Spearfelt’s Cup, when
Comus was out a furlong in front, and
—but enough. We are not the mugs the
anti-gamblers take us for. We have a
whole vocabulary that non-punters don’t
know; we have a world of color and ad-
venture at our command. We play no un-
worthy game when we indulge in the.
Sport of Kings.—A. E. B. (N.S.W.).


FAMOUS ADVERTISEMENT REPEATED
AFTER TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS in response
to many requests from all parts of Australia ...
HEENZO
was then, and still is, Australia’s most popular remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS AND ’FLU.
t?rr
mm
Wmm
mm
HENRY LAWSON
Australia’s famous poet,
eulogised HEENZO in
his own inimitable way.
The publication of
HENRY LAWSON’S
Poem inspired his old
mate JIM GORDON to
send along this poem.
The above poems caused Mrs. STAN ROBERTS and Mr. HARLEY COHEN to write the following poems, then
The poems c .. ABSO LUTION” and “FORGIVENESS.”
HEENZO SHOULD BE USED IN EVERY HOME
THE TRAGEDY.
By Henry Lawson.
Oh, I never felt so wretched, and things
never looked so blue
Since the days I gulped the physic that
my Granny used to brew ;
For a friend in whom I trusted, enter-
ing my room last night,
Stole a bottleful of Heenzo from the
desk whereon I write.
I am certain sure he did it (though he
never would let on),
For all last week he had a cold and
today his cough is gone ;
Now I’m sick and sore and sorry, and
I’m sad for friendship’s sake
(It was better than the cough-cure that
our Granny used to make).
Oh, he might have pinched my whisky,
and he might have pinched my beer,
Or all the fame or money that I make
while writing here—
Oh, he might have shook the blankets
and I’d not, have made a row,
If he’d only left my Heenzo till the
morning, anyhow.
So I’ve lost my faith in Mateship, which
was all I had to lose
Since I lost my faith in racing and
myself and got the blues ;
And so trust turns to suspicion, and so
friendship turns to hate,
Even Kaiser Bill would never pinch hi*
Heenzo from a mate.
A REPUDIATION.
By J. W. Gordon.
I never pinched your Heenzo —
On that I’ll take my oath;
But about the beer and whisky—
Well, I might have pinched them
both.
I still have faith in Russia,
And I still have faith in you;
But admit that Heenzo’s better
Than what Granny used to brew.
I have shared your meat and damper.
As we camped behind a log;
When the union was the puppy.
And the squatter was the dog.
I have pinched your pipe and ’bacca
Where the Western rivers flow;
But I never pinched your Heenzo
Where the lights of Sydney glow.
I have shared your beer and whisky
On the irrigated soil,
And have shared your rug and blanket
Where the Western shearers toil.
But I fear I can’t convince you
(Since your love has turned to hate)
That I never stole the Heenzo
From my damned old mate.
The bloke that stole your physic—
He was nothing but a “cow” —
I could smite him on the whiskers,
I could smite him on the brow.
I could yank him out to Yanco,
And there leave him to his fate,
Where he’d never more steal Heenzo
From my dear old mate.
A CONFESSION.
By Mrs. Stan Roberts.
I pinched your Heenzo, Harry,
And I’m feeling mighty blue
To think I made such mischief
’Twixt two old mates so true.
My eye fell on your whisky,
And to “hook” it I’d a mind,
But when I saw your Heenzo
I left t’other stuff behind.
Though I was sorely tempted
To go on a howling “scoot,”
The graveyard cough upon me
When I started out to loot
Made me pinch your blooming Heenzo,
For I knew ’twould cure my cold,
So I pounced upon that physic,
Which I valued more than gold.
Now that I’ve made confession,
Your pal you’ll' reinstate,
For he never stole the Heenzo
From his “dear old mate.”
Pray do pardon me, Jim Gordon.
Though I’m nothing but a “cow,”
I’ve no whiskers to be smitten,
And I hope you’ll spare my brow.
As for yanking me to Yanco,
To meet a fearful fate.
If you’re never short of Heenzo,
Well —fix an early date.
ANOTHER CONFESSION.
By Private Harley Cohen.
I have read your blanky squealm
In the papers just to hand;
How yer blame yer dear old cobber,
Which 1 cannot understand.
Though he did pinch all my ’bacca
And he did pinch all my beer,
If a nasty cold near skittled
My old pal and kept him queer,
I’d have said, “Buck up, y’ blighter,
Here, what’s mine is yours, old pard,
Though to part with all his Heenzo
Would have hurt a “digger” hard,
l\d have said, “This stuff is dmkum—
Of it I’ve uged a blinkin’ lot;
It will make yer cold a quitter.
Come, take a dose, old pot.
I tell yer, Bill, this Heenzo’s rippin’,
And I bet yer’ll say the same;
Yes, yer’ll bless yer dear old cobber,^
Just because he “played the game.”
So don’t blame poor Jim Gordon,
Nor wish him any ill;
But listen, Henry Lawson—
And take this as yer will—
I’ll make no bones about it,
But tell yer, frank and free, .
THE GALLIPOLI STROLLERS shook it—
That’s straight to you from me.
Yes, we pinched yer Heenzo, Harry,
For that crime we take all blame,
There wasn’t very much of it,
But it cured us just the same.
ABSOLUTION-FOR THE WOMAN.
So there’s a woman in the case!
I surely should have known it—
Wherever Hatred’s weed gains place
A woman’s hand hath sown it.
But for the silent, gentler sex
I’d no such bad opinion
As to conceive that she’d annex
Heenzo from my dominion.
(Oh, shame upon me old grey hairs,
And on me bygone splendor;
I thought I was locked in and safe
Against the female gender.)
But since she was in sore distress
And to the deed was driven,
I’m glad to know her cold grew less,
And so our souls are shriven.
'ARRY.
FORGIVENESS-FOR THE STROLLERS.
So they write to confess, and they
write in distress,
And each letter increases the
gloom;
For I didn’t let on that on different
nights .
There were two bottles pinched
from my room.
Well, a mate’s but a man who is
lighting his fate.
And a crook has his sorrow and
grief;
So the mate I’ll forgive for the sake
of a mate,
And the thief for the sake of a
thief.
And I’ll let the Gallipoli Strollers
go free
To pile up the takings (or bolt);
All players and strollers have had
claims on me
Since the generous days of Bland
Holt.
’ARRY.
