

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.— N0. 3352
Wednesday, May 10, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MUCKROSS ABBEY, LAKES OF KILLARNEY, IRELAND.
THE Lakes of Killarney are exquisitely beautiful features of
Ireland, about 50 miles north of Cork and 180 miles south of
Dublin. Each summer sees a multitude of American travellers visit
them as one of their first experiences in the European tour which
they begin by landing at Queenstown. After an ocean voyage almost
any cultivated land appears attractive. How much more, then, a
conspicuously lovely region like that of Southern Ireland! Nor
are the Killarney lakes merely beautiful. They have a charm which
the Old World imparts to almost every portion of its natural scenery,
panjely. that of histpfjgal .a&spfiiatioiL. Jkey.MS studded with finely-
wooded islands on which are the ruins of castles, convents and
abbeys, around which cluster souvenirs of many centuries. On one
island, for example, is Ross Castle, an old fortress of the
O’Donoghues; another has the picturesque ruins of the “Sweet
Innisfalien” of Tom Moore; while not far from this is Muckross
Abbey, built by the Franciscans in 1440. Other abbeys there are
in Scotland and England and on the Continent more beautiful
than this, but here a subtle sense of antiquity steals insensibly
over the visitor and thrills him with the realisation that here indeed
is traditional Ireland become manifest before his eyes.


LImI
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write r for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin/’
My Name
My Address
SB. 244 ...AGE
The Red Page
The Creation of Tasmania.
Angus and Robertson are to be con-
gratulated on the publication of Norma
Davis’s Earth Cry, not only because they
have presented the verses in a pleasant
format, but because for a long time it
seemed that they weren’t going to be
produced in any format.
That there was opposition to the book
is interesting. It suggests, of course, that
it has merit.
But that merit is not of the violent,
challenging kind that is popularly be-
lieved to provoke hostility. Norma Davis
is never likely to write a “Waste Land.”
If she had, the Commonwealth Fund
would probably have published it with
alacrity, for this is an age that welcomes,
even worships, the sensational. Norma
Davis’s is a quiet, unfashionable, essen-
tially rural poetry, and therefore it has
never been taken seriously by critics look-
ing for the astonishing.
I kneel and thrust my fingers in the earth,
Scooping the brown bush mould up, till I hold
It in my hands, a miser with her gold.
There is the image; a handful of Tas-
manian earth. A passage from Hazlitt’s
“character” of Wordsworth is extraordi-
narily apt;
To the author of the Lyrical Ballads
nature is a kind of home; and he may be
said to take a personal interest in the
universe. There is no image so insignifi-
cant that if has not in some mood or other
found the way into his heart: no sound
that does not awaken the memory of other
years—
“To him the meanest flower that blows
can give
Thoughts that do often lie too deep
for tears.”
The daisy looks up to him with sparkling
eye as an old acquaintance: the cuckoo
haunts him with sounds of early youth not
to be expressed: a linnet’s nest startles him
with boyish delight: an old withered thorn
is weighed down with a heap of recollec-
tions ; - a grey cloak, seen on some wild
moor, torn by the wind, or drenched in the
rain, afterwards becomes an object of im-
agination to him: even the lichens on the
rock have a life and a being in his thoughts.
He has described all these objects in a
way and with an intensity of feeling that
no one else had done before him, and has
given a new view or aspect of nature. He
is in this sense the most original poet now
living, and the one whose writings could
the least be spared: for they have no sub-
stitute elsewhere. The vulgar do not read
them; the learned, who see all things
through books, do not understand them,
the great despise, the fashionable may ridi-
cule fhem: but the author has created him-
self an interest in the heart of the retired
and lonely student of nature, which can
never die. Persons of this class will still
continue to feel what he has felt.
It is quite possible that the compliment
of those two concluding sentences may
be passed on, without modification, to
Norma Davis’s verses. She is not Words-
worth. Though she is/in a sense, the
core of Wordsworth —one does not have
to wade through twenty pages of dull
moralising and incredibly bad versifica-
tion to find the line “Clothed in the
withering sunshine of the fern” and all
autumn in it —Norma Davis lacks the
great man’s stature and his depth. Yet
Wordsworth would have liked her verses.
Clare would have liked and perhaps
envied them. Edmund Blunden in our
own time would like them.
And in Australia, if not elsewhere, “the
retired and lonely student of . nature” is
going to read them for a long time to
come. They are the best nature poetry
we have had. Somebody else may—
though it’s doubtful —have brought the
echidna into Australian poetry; but no-
body has such a passion for nature as to
become the creature and, with magnifi-
cent unseif-consciousness, share its meal
of ants:
I don the dark thorned mail
Echidnas wear, and quest among the peeled
Bark of white gums, or thrust in glee behind
Old logs that mildew like a rotting rind,
Crunching with joy the spicy ants I find.
“This is my song,” Norma Davis writes
after so charmingly becoming an ant-
eater. “Mine is the profit; mine, all
mine the gain.” She accepts her un-
fashionableness ; is content if she is read
only by Hazlitt’s lonely student. At the
present time, however, she is likely to
have a much wider audience.
This is due to three accidents. In the
first place, all poetry is selling to the
public. Secondly, owing to the war, the
public is especially interested in distinc-
tively Australian poetry. And thirdly,
poetic nationalism happens to be the
ruling cult of most of the coteries ; so
that Norma Davis may wake up one day
to find herself fashionable, even the
leader of a fashion. Critics looking for
the astonishing will find it in the fact that
she has brought the anteater into Aus-
tralian poetry.
And, of course, it is astonishing. It
would be hard to find any other poet
who is so simply and wholly and unself-
consciously at home in Australia as
Norma Davis.
Wordsworth made the cuckoo and the
daisy real to England. In effect, he
created the cuckoo and the daisy, for
they had been dead since Shakspeare’s
day. Norma Davis has created not only
the echidna, but “the guttering candles
of ripe broom,” “grey wattle moths,”
“the bright-eyed wren with hood of blue,”
the snake with its “white throat pillowed
on a sun-soaked stone,” the “tree-frogs
singing down in sandy dunes,” the “shy
scrub-pigeons beating through the brush,”
“the brown quail, silent as water,”
autumnal grass “bleached to the blond-
ness of binder twine,” the logs that lie in
black pools in the bush like crocodiles
with “blunt snouts darkly sunken in back-
wash holes,” the leaf-light and leaf-
brown hawk that “braves the blue
avalanches of the air,” plovers that skirl
like bagpipes, blackwoods that “squat in
a ring, like tribesmen making magic,”
the scrub leech clinging to the fern, the
breaking buds of spring whose mystery
humbles the soul, green grass that was
“made before man,” black rocks that
look like fishermen’s oilskins, the berries
of the snake-bush, rosellas “red as wild-
pea blossoms,” cockatoos like a pall of
white smoke, “gay fans of fungus,” lonely
tracks where birds make their dust-baths,
a log fence with “yellow sunshine warm-
ing its old wood,” frost like a “scorpion,”
scrub bandicoots “like fairy swine,” the
. bittern with “cool mud oozing between
‘ his toes,” rabbits on a wet day that “cling
to their burrows with a cat’s distaste for
wet,” sandy field-mice nibbling at the
yellow roots of the briar, wild tussock
country where “brown old barges of
banksias” drift into limbo, sheep country
where once the fugitive convict lay sweat-
ing with terror, the old tree where the
wild bees nest, the platypus that rides the
water so silently that the stream might be
oil and he “a handful of uprooted grass,”
native hens in the ti-tree, possums dream-
ing the day away and bats sleeping in the
boles of dead trees like “little ripe pears
of wintry brown,” cold earth found to be
as warm with life as if cattle had been
sleeping on it—the creatures of the Tas-
manian bush, the trees and flowers of the
bush, its scents and its colors, its storms
and its sunshine, its threat and its love-
liness, its mysterious and eternally en-
chanting self. In fact, at a suitable dis-
tance after the First Cause, Norma Davis
has created Tasmania.
It is rather a relief to find that she has
not attempted to formulate any definite
philosophy out of her love of the earth.
One can read these poems with the same
pleasure as one takes a walk in the coun-
try on a sunny day, without constantly
being reminded, as in Wordsworth, that the
daisy is a regular churchgoer. These are
the images of pantheism without much
of its philosophy. And yet, in spite of
one’s pleasure, there is something missing.
Unrelated to human life, unconcerned
in the main with the drama of man on
the earth, Norma Davis’s poems are not
in the great stream of poetry, but only a
tributary to it. And as with the thought, so
with the style. Often faulty, often very
beautiful, with a fine precision of phrase,
they are seldom finished works of art, but
rather like a series of extracts from one
long poem about Tasmania never worked
into a co-ordinated whole. They con-
tribute nothing new to the technique of
poetry. They are out of the great stream.
Yet Hazlitt’s lonely student, if no one
else, will keep them alive long after most
of the more pretentious poems of con-
temporary fashion have been forgotten.
Here is a poetry not of words but of
things: a poetry of earth, and earth en-
dures. “Persons of this class will con-
tinue to feel what she has felt.”
Voyagers to Australia.
Gordon Greenwood’s Early American-
Australian Relations (Melbourne Univer-
sity Press; by arrangement with the
Commonwealth Fund) begins with the
Spanish voyagers who made their way
into the Pacific and ends with South
American traders bringing wheat and
tobacco to Sydney up to 1830,
On two occasions Dr. Greenwood dis-
cusses the alleged discoveries of Spanish
relics on the Australian coast. He reviews
the evidence for and against the claims
that Lope de Vega was wrecked here
and that Quiros visited Port Curtis and
comes to the conclusion that neither of
them reached Australia; De Vega foun-
dered at sea and Quiros’s “large and
beautiful bay” was in the New Hebrides.
The Spaniards’ near-misses are, in a
way, more interesting than actual land-
ings would have been. Magellan’s ex-
pedition, after its leader had been killed
in the Philippines, came as close as
Timor; Saavedra, sent out by Cortes,
lighted on the shores of New Guinea and
“discovered about fifty leagues of the
land of Papua, beyond what had been
discovered by Meneses”; Urdaneta
wanted to colonise New Guinea and, had
his plans not been frustrated, they would
almost certainly have led to the great dis-
covery ; Mendana got to the Solomons ;
Quiros, ordered “to discover New Guinea,
Java Maja and Southern lands and
islands,” listened on the island of Tau-
maco in the Duff group to a native chief’s
story of a land so large that, to indicate
its size, he “opened both his arms, with-
out joining them again, shewing that it
extended without end” and, when he
reached the New Hebrides, thought that
he had found the “land without end” ;
Torres proved that New Guinea was an
island and came almost within sight of
the Australian coastline.
From the Spanish voyagers, Dr. Green-
wood leaps two centuries to the Ameri-
can War of Independence and shows how
the closing of American doors to con-
victs from England led directly to the
settlement of Australia. He gives an ac-
count of a plan to establish American
loyalists in New South Wales and of how,
owing to English procrastination, it came
to nothing. The Americans proposed to
import native families, especially women,
from the islands and “any number of
useful inhabitants from China” and saw
themselves becoming “a ruling caste over
a colony of colored people.”
Next comes a survey of American
whalers and sealers in the Pacific, estab-
lishing—often violently—the first actual
contacts between Australians and visitors
from America. Australian sealers were
hampered by the East India Co.’s
monopoly and the Americans were
strong competitors ; one American vessel
in one year shipped 20,000 skins to China.
A typical American sealer:
The Union had followed in Vancouver’s
tracks, pioneered sealing on the South Aus-
tralian coast, discovered new sealing
grounds in the Antipodes, transported
Government stores to Norfolk Island and
traded within the Pacific. Her crew had
won wealth in the shape of a good cargo
of seal skins, but ill-luck then dogged their
steps until every member either perished
by massacre or was lost at sea.
On two occasions there were fears of
something sterner than trade competition
from America. Spanish prizes captured
off South America during the Anglo-
Spanish war which began in 1796 were
brought to Sydney and Governor Hunter
feared that this might provoke a visit
from Spanish warships. He mounted
guns around Sydney harbor as a pre-
caution. Then when Britain was at war
with the United States in 1813 Mac-
quarie was warned by Bathurst —on
highly unreliable testimony from a Dane
named Jorgensen—of % projected Franco-
American attack on Sidney. Macquarie
didn’t think the attack likely, but said
he would “take what precautions his cir-
cumstances admitted At the same time
he was compelled to report the inade-
quacy of the present force for the
colony’s defence.”
After these perilous occasions Dr.
Greenwood surveys the rum trade with
the United States—“ The rise of the rum
trade in the colony led to the belief that
‘all quantities of spirits would be re-
ceived here with great avidity’ ” —and,
later, the trade with South America in
wheat and tobacco.
At this point, greatly in need of a con-
cluding chapter to summarise and round
oft the narrative, Early American-Aus-
tralian Relations peters out. Professor
Roberts hopes in a foreword that Dr.
Greenwood will deal in a further volume
with the gold-rush days.
Dr. Greenwood confesses that the
present book was originally written as a
thesis for an M.A. degree. The style
lacks color and, chiefly because it is diffi-
cult to regard the Spanish voyages as
“American” —and even if they did set
out from South America none of the
ships established actual “relations” with
Australia —the material is not moulded'
into a unity. A more satisfying history,
more topical and better justifying the
title, would have started with the whalers
—possibly summarising earlier “rela-
tions” in an introductory chapter—and
proceeded through the trading and gold-
rush periods to the present day. The
present book is to be regarded as “an
early piece of historical work, justified
by the almost total absence of other writ-
ing in the same field and by the intrinsic
interest of the subject.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Works by ten Australian official war
artists are on show at Sydney National
Gallery. Dennis Adams gives spirited
glimpses of warships and ’planes. Frank
Norton also finds his inspiration in trans-
ports and cruisers—“H.M.A.S. Parra-
matta, Port Said,” positively sparkles.
William Dargie’s jungle glimpses and por-
traits of strong-faced young fighters bear
the stamp of authenticity, and his “Well-
deck, Aft, in the Red Sea” is a water-
color achievement any painter might be
proud of. Ivor Hele found his element
in Libya. His big picture of Tobruk is
a worthy memento of a great episode. He
draws figures nobly, too. Roy Hodgkin-
son and Walter Murch, both “up north,”
have brought back excellent sketches.
Harold B. Herbert offers extremely pretty
water-colors, linked only by topography
with military operations. Lyndon Dads-
well, sculptor, shows figures and groups
which may very interestingly cope with
the problem of the plastic expression of
motion, but which, it may be guessed,
won’t be recognised by the troops.
Dobell’s fantasies are a personal state-
ment only dimly related to the C.C.C.
The Silly Season: — .
A storm of what one can only call silliness
seems to be raging in the art world of Sydney.
(1) The appointment of William Dobell as a
trustee of the National Gallery as a sequel to
the controversial Archibald Prize award seemed
a childish sort of defiance to the critics of the
award; it has riot been customary to elevate
Archibald Prize winners to the Trust. (2) The
agitation, led by the “Herald” and supported
by Dobell in his first public statement as a
trustee, for the destruction of unspecified “bad”
paintings in the Gallery again seems supremely
juvenile. Judging by it’s repeated attacks on
our “small Australian backwater,” the “Herald”
may well want the Streetons, the Gruners and
the Norman Lindsays done away with. It
seems certain, at least, that it is the paintings
of past generations that are to be destroyed:
which necessitates the infantile presumption
that the present generation has arrived at a
final standard of perfection, by which all paint-
ings, past, present and to come, must be judged;
that contemporary paintings will not in their
turn be subjected to the scrutiny and possible
scorn of the next generation. The “Herald”
in 50 years’ time will probably be demanding
the destruction of the Gallery’s Dobells. (3)
The exhibition of official war art evoked from
both the “Herald” and the “Telegraph” a
lamentation that nobody had feasted them on
the “horrors” of war. Neither newspaper gave
any recognition to the facts that the show
comprises only very limited selections from
each man’s work; that it is hardly the duty
of official war artists to paint—in war-time —
pacifist “horrors” to make civilians’ flesh creep;
that these paintings are for posterity and that
it is surely better for our nation to be repre-
sented as vigorous and heroic—as it is, and as
these artists have painted it—rather than as a
beggar exhibiting his sores. (4) Both the
“Herald” and the “D.T.” praised Dobell’s
paintings of the C.C.C. without finding it in
the least incongruous that “Billy Boy” should
keep company with Dargie’s portrait of a
V.C. winner. It’s a great pity that Dobell
can’t get on with his painting—which is cer-
tainly interesting—without involving himself or
being involved by his admirers in this frenzy
of juvenility and bad taste.
The most notable thing in the autumn
show of the Victorian Artists’ Society is
an elaborate model of the cafe of the
future by an American architect who is
a member of the Allied forces. It looks
like a cross between a Japanese teahouse
and the bridge of a dreadnought, and is
equipped with hydraulic apparatus so that
diners can be swung round in the direc-
tion of the sunshine and can enjoy their
buns and coffee without restraint from
the Melbourne climate. It is intended for
the Yarra, and would certainly strike a
note of complete modernity amongst the
derelict sheds and outhouses that deco-
rate that noble stream, and it is a portent
of post-war reconstruction when every-
thing, it seems, will look like the latest in
operating theatres. The rest of the show
follows the usual lines of V.A.S. exhibi-
tions, at which the modernists have been
slowly making inroads on the ranks of
the old campaigners. William Dargie has
one of his portraits, and there is some
vigorous work by Douglas Thomas, on
service with the A.A.M.C. in the Middle
East.
“F.S.”: William Ricketts’s sculptures
recently showing at the Velasquez Gal-
leries, Melbourne, are the expression of
an impassioned crusader against all those
things that he thinks are destroying his
country, from soil erosion and forest
destruction to the white man’s treatment
of the original proprietors. Ricketts de-
picts the white man as a monstrous,
moronic sort of creature chopping down
forest giants and the black man as
obsessed with charming creation legends.
As propaganda his sculptures are impres-
sive, especially the diatribe in clay entitled
“The White Brute.” His monumental
self-portrait, clutching a bunch of picca-
ninnies in each of its hands, is a testi-
monial to the ardor of his convictions.
Artistically, however, his work is hardly
on as exalted a level as his aspirations
or any better than a dozen products of
an academic training who haven’t his
idealistic background.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'THE SENIOR STOR£"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120 Years of Service
1
IS f
mm
mm
4J
m
: :
MILITARY
WEAR
ground floor
george street
Military Officers' Greatcoats ready for service. Made from 25-oz.
proofed Greatcoating. In double-breasted style with lancer front,
I
deep convertible collar, deep turn-back cuffs, and made on the
British Army pattern £6/3/6
Ready-to-Wear Military Officers' Uniforms. Made from Olive
Drab All-Wool Officers' Twist, regulation Ordnance cloth. Tail-
ored by Anthony Horderns' and ready for instant service, £7/9/6
All Military Clothing Coupon-free and post free anywhere
in the Commonwealth. Please post Authorisation with order.
V*
i
All Wool Pullovers with long sleeves, "V"
neck and medium winter weight. In
shades of Grey, Green, Wine, and Navy.
S.M., M., X.O.S 20/6
9 Coupons.
Men's All-Wool Half Hose with a cash-
mere finish. In shades of Grey and Navy.
Sizes 10 to Hi inches 3/9 pair
4 Coupons.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE MAN IN THE SILO
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
HE was first noticed
when he lit a fire
to. boil his billy on
the concrete ap-
proach to the wheat-tipping grilles. The
woman station attendant, the girl who
brought the mailbags from the post office
and the schoolmistress all mentally com-
mended him for his fire precautions as
they watched him from the platform
while waiting for the afternoon train.
The next day, when they saw he was
still there, they began to object. The
station attendant suffered from “nerves,”
and she didn’t like to have a strange man
camped near her house; the school-
teacher thought that he must be dodging
the Man-power authorities; the post-
office girl was sure there was something
queer about him since he chose to camp
among the concrete ramparts instead of
under a tree.
On the following day they did not see
him at “train time,” but they could see
his boots parked on the kerb where he
usually sat.
That night amongst all the families
about the village there was talk of him.
The farm workers, the rabbit-trappers,
the railway gang and the carrier were all
obliged to soothe their wives when they
came home from work. The little girls
were scared; the small boys vastly
curious.
During the next two days the more
venturesome of the boys spied on the
strange man. They decided that he was
extremely peculiar. But he had one very
admirable and enviable accomplishment
—he was the best climber they had ever
seen. He had succeeded, where they had
always failed, in effecting an entry into
the silo works when the gates were
locked. He took his boots off to facili-
tate his climbing, and his purpose
apparently was to collect a small quantity
of wheat, which, they believed, he boiled
in his billy and ate. He was very £hy,
and disappeared among the “works” as
soon as he saw them.
When this became known the village
began to get excited. The station atten--
dant, the post-office girl and the school-
mistress did not venture on -fo the station
platform until a short time before the
train was due; and even then they kept
a wary eye on the silos. The station
attendant was sure the man was a
criminal who was living on wheat be-
cause he would betray his identity if he
used his ration book. The post-office
girl thought he was an enemy agent, but
the schoolteacher reasoned that he was
a merchant seaman —which accounted for
his climbing ability suffering from
neurosis through being torpedoed too
often. They were unanimous that some-
thing should be done about him, and
done quickly.
THERE was no silo authority in the
village, so they decided that the post-
office girl should telephone one of the big
wheat farmers.
“It’s the farmers’ wheat, so they should
do something to protect it,” said the
teacher,
“He might sabotage the machinery,
too,” said the post-office girl.
They told the guard of the train and
the teacher told her fellow-passengers.
The post-office girl rang the farmer
who had been “Proper Authority under
National Security Regulations” during
wheat receivals, and had rationed silo
space and controlled road transport.
He was interested in the strange man,
but couldn’t do anything. “My authority
ended when the silos were filled,” he
said. “You get in touch with the silo
agent who booked the wheat in. He’s
your man.”
The silo agent was in another district
supervising the “trucking-out” of wheat
at another silo. He explained that now
he did only such jobs as the District
Supervisor alloted him. But he was in-
dignant that any unauthorised person
should be entering the silos, and advised
the post-office girl to notify the District
Supervisor immediately.
The District Supervisor was a very
busy man. He doubted if anyone could
enter the silos without a key, and was
inclined to dismiss the story as “chil-
dren’s invention and women’s interfer-
ing.” It was really the Inspector’s
responsibility. He had just done that
part of the area and would not be due
back again for some time, but he would
come along in due course.
The village settled down to await the
arrival of the Inspector. Each day the
guard on the train said “He’s not come
yet,” and asked for details of the latest
appearance. Train passengers stuck their
heads out of the windows and said “This
is the place.”
THE Inspector came on a Saturday
morning, and all the bolder boys
who could escape the protective care of
their mothers were there to assist him.
They showed him the place where he
made his fire, and explained how he con-
trived to enter the silos. Half a dozen
of them squeezed through the door after
the Inspector before he could relock it.
They had a good look round the base-
ment but found nothing. The Inspector
looked hard at the boys and cross-ques-
tioned them. They recounted most con-
vincingly how Jim had seen him on the
inside ladder on Monday, and Colin on
.the No. 1 bin roof on Tuesday, and Fred
on the trucking-out chute on Wednes-
day, and Tom on the conveyor-belt on
Thursday.
“You go and have a look on top,
Mister,” they said. “I’ll bet he scun up
the ladders as soon as he saw us com-
ing.”
The Inspector looked up the ladders
without enthusiasm. He was a fattish
man, and the ascent was not only
extremely difficult but also dangerous.
“Go in the lift,” the boys advised him.
They beat him to the lift and were
waiting for him inside. He was about
to order them out when they pulled on
the ropes and started the lift.
They had a good look, round the top
and saw nothing. By this time the In-
spector’s clothes were dirty with wheat
dust. He disliked prowling round at great
heights along precarious gang planks,
and he felt the carefree recklessness of
the boys as a reproach. The suspicion
grew that they had invented the story in
order to have an opportunity of explor-
ing the silos. He ordered them back to
the lift. They had almost reached it when
they heard the click of the starting clip.
As they raced forward they saw the lift
disappear downward. “There he is,”
yelled the boys.
The Inspector shouted down the shaft
ordering the lift back. Then it occurred
to him to check the number of boys, but
they were all with him. He shouted more
threats down the shaft; then, realising
that that was not a very sound approach
for a person in his predicament, he tried
reasoning. That having failed, he
promised a free pardon and finally a re-
ward of ten shillings. At that, to his de-
light, the lift began to ascend. But it
came only halfway and stopped.
“He did that,” said the brightest boy,
“so that we won’t be able to get him
when we climb down.”
The Inspector doubled the offered re-
ward, then redoubled it, but there was
no response. He resigned himself to the
climb down and sent the boys ahead, one
at a time, so there would be no sky-
larking. When they reached the bottom
they heard the lift go up to the top again.
The Inspector swore that he wasn’t
going to be kidded into a futile race up
and down the ladders. He wrote out a
long report to send to the District Super-
visor and caught the first train home.
But he left a key with the station atten-
dant to be used in case of emergency.
ON Sunday morning the man’s boots
were on the kerb near the approach
to the grilles again, and though the boys
kept watch in turn all day he did not
appear. Next morning the boots were
still there, and the boy who sneaked up
and inspected them discovered that spiders
had spun webs between them, thus prov-
ing that the man had not come out all
night. He did not come out during the
next two days, and gradually the con-
viction grew that he had fallen some-
where in the silos and was lying helpless,
dying or dead.
The station attendant,
the post-office girl and the
schoolteacher gazed on the
empty boots and felt more
fear than they had ever felt before.
The guard and the engine crew were
impressed with their convictions, and
before the train pulled out half the
passengers had joined in urging the
need for instant action. The post-
office girl ’phoned the District Super-
visor and the police. Neither was par-
ticularly impressed, but each promised
to send a man as soon as they could have
one from the other authority present at
the same time.
But by now the village was too excited
to wait. When the men came home from
work they got the key from the station
attendant and went over the silos. The
first significant discovery was that the lift
was up; the second, more gruesomely
suggestive, was the man’s hat, lying on
top of the wheat in a partly-filled bin.
It was easy to reconstruct the accident.
The man had fallen into the bin and been
seriously injured; his struggles had
caused the wheat to flow over and
smother him.
One of the men went down on a rope
to investigate. He landed on the high
side where the wheat had poured in, and
started an avalanche sufficient to bury a
house. He would have got into difficul-
ties if he hadn’t had the rope to hang on
to. He floundered round and probed
the wheat, but was unable to discover
anything. But he certainly proved that
it was possible for a man to be buried
there.
Next morning the police sergeant and
the silo inspector arrived. All the men,
women and children of the village were
there, as well as many of the local
farmers. They followed the officials and
watched the sergeant examining the site
of thei fires and the empty boots. They
noted that the boots were well worn.
They helped search the lower part of the
installations, and when the officials went
up in the lift most of the able-bodied
men and boys climbed up the ladders.
The sergeant went down into the fatal
bin and probed for the body with a piece
of piping. He recovered the hat, but he
was unable to locate the body.
“The only way to make sure,” he said,
“is to empty the silo.”
The inspector looked at him in con-
sternation. “That’s impossible,” he said ;
“there are six trainloads of wheat in that
bin. It would dislocate the war effort to
make that much rolling-stock avail-
able. And then think of all the priorities
and things. You’d have to get authority
from the War Organisation of Industry
Department, the Transport Board, the
Wheat Stabilisation Committee and the
General in Charge of Lines of Commu-
nication before you could even approach
the Commissioner for Railways. That
part of it would take at least six
months”
By the time he had finished his pro-
tests they were on the ground again, and
everybody joined in offering their
opinions. The inspector maintained that
the presence of the man’s hat in the silo
didn’t necessarily prove that the man was
in there, too ; it might have fallen in at
any time in his wanderings. The boys
were called for, and testified that some-
times the man had worn a hat and some-
times he hadn’t; they were divided on
the question of whether he had been
wearing one when he was last seen.
“He couldn’t have just gone away,”
said a farmer; “his boots are still here.”
That started another argument. It was
variously stated that a man who was
crazy enough to live in a silo was crazy
enough to walk off without his boots;
that the boots were worn out, anyway;
that he might have had , another pair of
boots ; that he had left them to make
people think he was still there after he
had gone.
The officials conferred at some length.
They announced that investigations would
proceed, but for the present their attitude
was that, while it was impossible to
prove that the man wasn’t in the silo on
the evidence available, it was even more
impossible to have the silos emptied and
prove that he was.
UP till the present nothing further has
been heard from official sources.
Among the men in the village you can
have a bet either way on whether there
is or isn’t a body in the silo. The boys
are eagerly awaiting the day when the
silo is emptied and the appearance of a
leg or arm at the mouth of the chute
will prove them right. To the station
attendant, the post-office girl and the
schoolteacher the silos have assumed the
quality of a haunted castle. They view
them with awe as they wait each day
for the mail train to come in. At night
they wouldn’t go near them for a hundred
pounds.
VARIOUS VERSE.
The Termites.
Here were the sparks from the fireplace, crude
gables
Of pioneers’ huts, the bark bails and the stables,
A permanent edifice yet unerected:
A gigantic fig-tree roofing the stockyards.
And yet architecture had once more perfected
A style which had won many men’s regards.
The building with unpainted slabs of the rough-
hewn
Native tree-trunks of ironbark, red-gum; the
stick-strewn
Hbuse yard where coach whip and whip snake
Reefed similar coils; a roof camouflaged
By fraudulent nature, presenting a fake
Security, an iron lake, where the wild duck
barged
In fatal error ; in terror of something
That flew in the mists of myopic stars...
How, on those moonlight nights the thumping
Heart held the b'unyip in dread! whilst Mars
Peopled the bush with an antennae people,
The termites, enlarging each mound to a steeple.
A priesthood that wanted directions in witchcraft,
Yet who undertook underpinning of men
In the tallest rooftree, in the deepest mine-
shaft ;
And, when men detected their spells, what then?
Did they see in the termites a likeness of race,
Beings pale in the body and burnt in the face?
Did they see in their indolent penchant for
timber
Any resemblance one right mind could recall?
Did they look at the anthills, then did they
remember
The eroded hills? Did they dream of a dance
hall,
Where, short of the female, the males at the
entrance
By their numbers doomed, every lad, his chance?
Did the young queen, in the settler’s housewife,
"Her prototype, see a raw deal for her sex;
For the rest of her days a prisoner’s life
In a bottom world, with a slave’s complex.
As she sank to the ground ’mid the fall of
wings,
The degraded queen of the termite kings?
Scarcely! The termites’ politics savored of
Marx.
Each worked for the nest, lived, died, irre-
spective
Of birth or position, in the common cause;
the crux
Of government solved by statecraft. The in-
vective
They suffered, when men saw their plan
In opposition to the system of man
Proved the termites right. Man, capitalist,
Raved for his assets destroyed overnight;
But the termites toiled with the force of, a fist,
And each toiled for each, a true troglodyte
Effacing himself from the blaze of the sun,
Knowing, in this way, freedom was won —
Not for the individual, but won for the nest.
The termite was nourished a soldier, or worker;
And each for his purpose was expert and
ablest;
Even the queen, and the short-lived shirker
Who served her desire, were impressed for the
State:
In pre-natal life was decided each fate.
Tire growing of fungus, the defenpe of a breach
With a viscous ant-spray, cementing with
plastics;
The admirable purpose apportioned to each—
By whom? By the State. And the State’s
statistics
Infallibly accurate formed the rules tof conduct,
Simple to function and safe to predict.
But still there were enemies; wars were rife;
Sometimes with nature, fire and flood;
And sometimes even a termite’s life
Seemed valuable; but what was for good
Of the nest, was the vital question,
Brooking no sympathy, no counter suggestion.
This, then, was the termite community
That built in these walls with impunity
Their perfect order, by the settlers despised;
Most effective for peopling the land,
The fairest of systems so far devised,
But a vassal life, whereas men planned
For the future, not far distant, no super State
—Government, deemed less important, could
wait —
But singular lives, each man as the tiger,
Bright as the sun in intellect, a creature
Dazzling from every aspect, no puny obligor
Of neighbors, but the lord of all nature.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.
The Wounded.
I.
Your thoughts are sharper than the bayonet’s
steel,
Your eyes deep as the sea
That feeds unto the sand
An unread history,
And in your heart dead soldiers move
Their last affection there to prove:
How cold their ghostly hands must feel
Upon your love whose thought roves far
Beyond the undiscovered star.
11.
Fate cross-cuts every road we take; but they
Who ploughed the nations for our peace will
march
Along a road where pride and sorrow arch
Their long procession back into the day
When children circle them with arms and smile
A joy on them who felt their precious breath
An agony in their thousand hours of death.
A long procession back for every mile
Is longer now, a mile or two or three;
A long procession back for they must bind
With bitter cords the threads of yesterday
That now are loose and blowing in the wind.
And they must find their dreams again above
The menaces of fate whose arch would span
The world in one dark circle without love;
Must find their way with eyes by grief made
blind
And wounded thoughts that limp within the
mind.
* 111.
Only the brave shall climb
The flight of stairs called Time;
And life shall rise with you
The height your spirit soars.
For when a dream has flown
Into the light unknown,
Then Life becomes a torch
Whose flame can never scorch
The mind that is her own.
And you who broke the doors
Of valiant Life and Death
Know what the Sentry cries
Who guards the house of each,
And why when Courage dies
Theirs is a common speech.
And why if it should live
Each have a world to give.
R.A.A.F.
JOHN HENDERSON.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3352.
Wednesday, May 10, 1944.
HANGING OUT THE WASHING ON THE BRISBANE LINE.
(PUZZLE: FIND THE LINE.)
“I exposed the weaknesses of the Brisbane Line theory in time to have the plans altered.”— Lieut.-General Bennett.


The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westhalia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
"ITS QUIET DOWN HERE."
At the Commonwealth elections last
August, as at the conscription polls in
1916 and 1917, and from much the same
motives, many thousands of electors voted
the Labor way who never voted the Labor
way before.
There was, of course, more in it than
that. Labor was helped also by the
“don’t - swap - horses - while - crossing-a-
stream” sentiment; by the decentralisa-
tion of war industries, a Menzies Gov-
ernment innovation which, wise as it was,
had bad political results for the Opposi-
tion parties, and by the enrolment of huge
bodies of war workers of both sexes as
Labor-unionists, subject to all the influ-
ences of association and union-boss per-
suasion—to put it that way. And it so
happened that most of Labor’s regular
supporters —coalminers, wharf-laborers,
transport and metal-trades workers, Gov-
ernment clerks and so forth —were in
protected callings, whereas a great many
regular supporters of the other parties
had gone into the services, which, as the
event proved, meant at least a 50 per cent,
loss of their votes. This patriotic migra-
tion had particularly unfortunate results
for Country-party members, who at the
same time saw a substantial new Labor
vote spring up in country towns.
Moreover, Mr. Curtin was built up,
and that in non-Labor papers, as Strong
Man John, hailed as Our Leader by what
used to be the principal non-Labor daily
and, administratively, as the first among
equals, “the Big Four,” while the pre-
tensions of Mr. Menzies and members of
his party were dismissed with sneers.
In the result, Labor was returned with
the greatest majority ever given to a
Commonwealth party. It won 49 of the
75 seats in the House, counting that of
the gallant but voteless Blain, and all the
1944-50 Senate seats, 19.
A vision of Australia completely domi-
nated by Labor dazzled the victors, as
it dazzled Mr. Theodore when Premier
of Queensland and contemplating a shift
to Federal politics. Caucus blithely in-
structed Dr. Evatt to go ahead with his
Constitutional - Alteration Bill. State
Labor politicians were equally confident
that Commonwealth-election voting
would be repeated in the contests in which
they were about to engage.
But at the three State elections held this
year it has not worked out that way. In
Westralia, though the electoral boundaries
were so much in the Labor Government’s
favor that it could have won. comfort-
ably with a minority of votes in the con-
stituencies, and did actually finish ten
seats to the good, it had a very small
majority of electoral votes, 5335 —118,838
to 113,503. In Queensland, with an
even more favorable arrangement of
boundaries and other advantages, which
produced a House majority of 12 seats,
the Labor vote was considerably behind
that of the other parties and Indepen-
dents. In the metropolitan area, predomi-
nantly Labor at many State and Federal
elections, the Chandler Opposition group
polled 5597 more votes (86,818 to 81,221)
than the crowd in office for 27 of the last
29 years, though the Chandlers got only
seven seats, whereas the crowd in office got
11. And in South Australia, where the
Labor party, in Opposition for 11 years,
bespoke support on the score of “full co-
operation” with Commonwealth Labor,
and Commonwealth Labor Ministers
tried to make the election a dress rehear-
sal for the referendum, the party wound
up with a minority of votes and a
minority of seats. Yet in August A.
G. Cameron was the only Opposition
member returned in South Australia; in
fact, the only Opposition member re-
turned west of Canberra.
It will be N.S.W. Labor’s turn on May
27. Like S.A. Labor, N.S.W. Labor is
committed to “full co-operation” with
Commonwealth Labor, and the words
now have an ominous ring. Still, Mr.
McKell can claim advantages which the
unfortunate Mr. Richards did not possess.
For one thing, Mr. McKell has been
Premier for three years, with a voting
strength of 56 in a House of 90 mem-
bers. Mr. Lang has been drummed out
of the party and is running another, but
its chances of making a good showing,
especially where it is opposing McKell
candidates, depend upon the Opposition
parties giving it preference over the
larger Labor faction ; and at the Com-
monwealth elections the U.A.P. very
foolishly threw its support to Official
Labor candidates where it could have
elected Mr. Lang and the late Mr. Black-
burn. Moreover, these Opposition parties,
allied in their prosperous years, have now
no more than a friendly understanding,
and the city party, after an unsuccessful
attempt to absorb a so-called Liberal
Democratic group that shot up last year,
as the Nationalists absorbed the All-
Australia League (hence the U.A.P.), has
changed its name once more, being now
the Democratic party. And whereas in
South Australia the Playford Govern-
ment received steady and useful backing
from the daily press, the Sydney morning
papers have extended their favors to Mr.
McKell. The Premier writes articles for
the “Telegraph,” and that paper asserts
that, as Premier, he has “made no bad
breaks.” Its senior contemporary allows
that “he can fairly plead that he has best
served the State and the nation by going
along quietly.”
Mr. McKell didn’t actually go along
“quietly” from the beginning. On the
contrary, he demanded huge loans from
the Menzies-Fadden Government, and
was very annoyed when they were re-
fused. His press-agent vouchsafed the
information that he regarded the social
part of the programme for which the
huge loans were required as equal in
importance to the war effort. On a later
occasion he testily objected to uniform
income taxation until overruled by the
bosses of the State A.L.P. organisation,
to whom and to the trade-union hierarchy
he has always been completely subser-
vient. He has since dumbly acquiesced
in Canberra’s 25 p.c. surcharge on the
highest income-tax rates in history.
To his agreeable surprise, Mr. McKell
found that, with the Commonwealth
making a lavish distribution of income-
tax revenue, taking over social services,
employing all and sundry and becoming
his Railway Department’s principal cus-
tomer, his problem was not to make ends
meet, but to spend the easy money that
rolled in. He has spent prodigally, not-
ably in buying mansions for delinquent
boys (in the McKell country delinquent
boys fare far better than service men’s
wives looking, often vainly, for shel-
ter), but so much has remained that he
has been socking away millions which
should be going into war funds. The
filling of war loans is a headache every
time one is placed on the market, but
not the filling of N.S.W, Government
lotteries. In this matter there is no “full”
nor any co-operation, a war-loan pros-
pectus being rather the signal for run-
ning three £25,000 N.S.W. Government
lotteries a week. Results of one were
advertised on the day Mr. Chifiey indig-
nantly announced that he was still
£25*000,000 short of the £150,000,000 re-
quired for the First Victory Loan, and
another was drawn next day.
“Going along quietly” has been a very
comfortable business for the 56 Labor
members, 13 of whom are Ministers, but
the people have no cause to be as pleased
about it as the “Herald” is. For them
it has been associated with ugly and
wicked strikes and loutish loafing; with
a recent one-day stoppage of Sydney and
Newcastle trams and buses ; with food,
fuel and housing shortages, in some cases.
the effect of strikes and go-slow, in that
of the Sydney milk supply the result
of a demented “system” of control (when
Opposition Leader, Mr. McKell was going
to do something drastic about that but
never did); with a booze racket, unspeak-
ably sordid in every feature, and with a
black market, not, only in beer, wines and
spirits or what passes for such when sold
at robbery prices, chiefly to service men,
by ruffians with and without licenses, but
in almost everything, from diamonds and
apartments to stockings and cigarettes.
It is idle to pretend that N.S.W. Labor
is exempt from responsibility in these
notorious matters. It controls a police
force of considerably greater strength
than the combined police forces of Vic-
toria and Queensland, which have nearly
200,000 more people ; Mr. McKell him-
self took charge of it when the Commis-
sioner fell out with the association,
many members of which want to make it
one of the semi-Communist Labor Coun-
cil’s unions. It frames and has a duty
to enforce the licensing laws —laws so
lax and so loosely administered that
bookmakers are granted licenses, and one
held by a woman about to be fined for
the third time on an adulteration charge
(that would have meant cancellation)
was transferred to a young son
even while black-market charges were
hanging over male members of the family.
The men and women who stopped the
trams and buses are this Government’s
employees. So are the slaughtermen,
who, in larrikin contempt of their lawful
duties and their responsibilities as home-
fronters protected by the fighting men
of the United Nations, habitually refuse
t 6 carry out the terms of their award.
Some of the coalminers themselves are
on this Government’s payrolls, and when
it took office all the coalminers were
under its control. The only use it made
of its authority was to introduce a pen-
sions scheme for miners still capable
of working. When General MacArthur,
then aged 62, reached Australia the Prime
Minister himself stated that in the two
previous months —the darkest this coun-
try has ever experienced —l6oo N.S.W.
coalminers, nearly a tenth of the total
number employed, had been taken out
of the mines because they had turned 60
and had been employed as coalminers for
20 years. It is partly because of this act
of folly, made more insensate by “liberal-
ising” the pensions scheme, that people
will go short of coal and coke this winter
and many may go short of jobs.
N.S.W. Labor should win again, but
it had better not be cocksure, as S.A.
Labor was. The indications are that
many electors are ashamed of or angry
with themselves for having voted for Fed-
eral Labor, and are in the mood to take
it out of the first Labor party that comes
, along. And it will be hazardous to appeal
to people with strong feelings about
strike-promoters, go-slow artists, bread
and lottery queues, black-marketeers and
the booze and gambling rackets,on the
ground that the Government has been
“going along quietly.” From the Trade
and from the fellows cashing in on all
forms of professional sport—astonish-
ingly numerous considering that the
Asiatic enemy is still in Australian terri-
tory—Labor may reasonably expect a 100
per cent. vote. Foil what the distinction
may be worth, it can claim to be the only
party in any English-speaking country
which has brought into existence a racing
club with the Government as guarantor
and the public purse to fall back upon if
financially embarrassed. The somewhat
different Playford Government snuffed
out racing and betting shops for two
years. It was freely predicted that this
would mean its certain defeat when it went
to the country, but the gambling interest
can’t be as powerful in South Australia as
it is—or believes it is—in N. S. Wales.
Carving Up Nippon.
If the plans for this, laid at Cairo, are
carried out, it will be thorough. But there
are still preliminary things to be done.
Estimates that may be considered as
trustworthy as such things can be
put the existing Japanese fleet at 10 to
12 battleships, three of them new; seven
or eight large and fast aircraft-carriers,
not including an unknown number of
smaller converted carriers and seaplane
tenders; 30 to 40 cruisers; 70 to 90
destroyers, exclusive of torpedo-boats;
80 to 100 submarines, exclusive of mid-
gets, It adds up to a major battle fleet,
yet to be fought and sunk. Jap tactics up
to now seem to indicate that it will not
be met until the Allied lines of com-
munication are at their longest and the
Japs’ at their shortest.
Of the Jap air force, which takes a
severe pasting in reports, a sober Ameri-
can war commentator has written that
“the total strength of combat ’planes in
operating squadrons is probably not very
much less than the total strength of the
Luftwaffe.” If that is so, only a limited
part has been encountered in action ; and
though it is believed that Jap aircraft
production is not large, the soundest view
probably is that the Japs are holding the
main part of their air force and the best of
their more recently developed ’planes in
or near Japan for eventual defensive co-
operation with the fleet and land forces.
For its army Japan has a population
of over 70,000,000 in the home islands,
and at least another 30,000,000 in the
Jap empire to draw on, leaving out such
forces as have been recruited and trained
in occupied countries. The existing strength
of the Jap army has been put at about
4,000,000 trained fighters. Actual com-
bat divisions are reckoned to total 65,
not including supporting units. It repre-
sents a huge force of men whose hard
fighting to hold distant positions may
indicate that they should, if anything,
fight harder when the defences nearer
their homeland are at stake.
There is still a vast land area to be
fought for and won back. The total
under Jap control was officially given in
America last December as 2,857,750
square miles. As well, distances still have
to be measured in thousands of miles
over the islanded seas.
Another U.S. official estimate is that
“one-third of the navy with which Japan
started the Pacific war has now been de-
stroyed.” But Hanson Baldwin insists in
the New York “Times” that “no exact
figures of Jap naval losses are possible.”
Our communiques have made many claims
of sinkings, but many of these claims
duplicate or overlap or are inexact, and,
even if these are winnowed out, Japanese
ships in certain categories claimed as sunk
total more vessels of these categories than
Japan is known to have had when the war
began. Communiques are only an inexact
guide to enemy losses, particularly in the
Pacific war, for the communiques are issued
hurriedly after action, and there must then
often ensue months of patient checking
before an enemy ship can be definitely
scratched off the list.
Allowing all this, there is no ques-
tion that the Japs have been get-
ting a steady grilling. It is still
a long way to Tokyo, but it is also a
long way—some 1700 miles —from the
“outer fringe” of Japan’s “defence arc”
to the Marianas, which have had a visit
from an American task force. Since
Pearl Harbor America has launched three
times as many new first-line carriers as
Japan is believed to have altogether.
With these and the whole remarkable
rest of the launchings, the U.S. Fleet is
now reckoned the world’s largest, so
much of it roaming the Pacific that these
days an American “task force” is likely to
mean anything up to a major fleet.
The “task force” which,attacked Kwaja-
lein, Truk and Saipan has been described
as “big enough to fight the whole Japan-
ese fleet,” the “improvement in the war
elsewhere” having made it possible for
“the United States to concentrate in the
Pacific the full strength of its Battle
Fleet.” To it is added the small but
effective force of Australian and New
Zealand cruisers, destroyers and lesser
craft, with a “considerable force” of the
British Navy also steadily closing in.
All things considered, it may still be
somewhat a matter of cooking a tough
bird before it is caught, but the all-over
improvement in the Pacific, the fact that
the victories now are all on the one side
and the still-mounting strength of the
present Allied Pacific striking force pro-
vide at least some warrant for those who
have already been going into details of
the ultimate carving up of Nippon.
Significant—and, in a way, curious—
there is all along a far greater volume
of comment and discussion on the Pacific
War in America than there is here. At
times it has seemed to Australian news-
paper readers that the Russians were
doing all the work and that the Pacific
war was no longer being fought, this
when it astonished one of the touring
American Senators to find that three-
fourths of the men engaged in the New
Guinea fighting under General Mac-
Arthur’s command were Australians. But
for this inexplicable hush-hush procedure
the Victory Loan would probably have
been filled without the wordy flogging
that was found necessary.
In contrast, newspapers throughout
America have always given the Pacific
War its proper emphasis. Even now
there is some mixed feeling there regard-
ing the war in Europe, but this has never
been true of the war against Japan, The
determination in this regard is solid and
national. Just as nationally solid is the
determination to see that the Japs, after
defeat, will be so weakened as a nation
that they will never again threaten total
conquest in the Pacific.
By the terms of the Cairo Conference
it is proposed to lop off and portion out the
Pacific islands “annexed” from the League,
occupied China, Hong Kong, the Philip-
pines, the Dutch East Indies, Indo-China,
Malaya, Burma, Manchukuo, Korea and
Formosa. The Jap mainland will be left in-
tact, but not much else —a prospect that
must be expected to make the still tough
Jap fight to the last kick. As the official
U.S. view is interpreted, the motive
for the thoroughness is not merely re-
venge for the things the Japs have done,
but a firm intention to bring home to
the Jap people in Japan everything that
any aggressors ask for when they start
modern war ; the same lesson that bomb-
ing is bringing home to the Germans.
The Japs will be demilitarised. They will
lose what may be left of their navy, air
force and army.
To ensure all this, according to Mr.
Kingsbury Smith, an American who often
writes with authority, “the planners en-
visage creation of an Allied Pacific Con-
trol Council to govern Japan for an in-
definite period.” Proposed members are
the U.S.A., Britain, China and Russia,
“if the Soviets should finally enter the
Pacific conflict.” It may not be flatter-
ing, after the Anzac Pact and all that,
but Australia and New Zealand are men-
tioned as possible additional members
only as an afterthought, along with
Canada and the Netherlands. But then
France is not mentioned at all.
Whatever its components, the Council
is intended to take over direct control as
soon as the fighting ends. While making
sure of the thorough disarming of Nip-
pon it would have the support of a power-
ful army of occupation. This army, with-
drawn, a close watch would continue to
be kept from air and naval bases estab-
lished near the Jap mainland.
It is part of the U.S. intention, as at
present understood, for America to take
over all the former Jap mandates. What-
ever else may come of the programme,
Australia and New Zealand will con-
tinue to do their best to ensure that
at least that part of the carving of Nip-
pon is carried out. With America there,
they would have a new, indefinite lease
of security, to make of themselves what-
ever the national genius of each may be
capable of making.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Insulting the A.I.F.
“Owing to inability to obtain employment
many young men and even middle-aged men
joined the second A.I.F. to be placed on the
payrolls. Quite a number of the first enlist-
ments were economic conscripts.”— Minister for
Information Calwell.
The only surprising thing about this insult
to the A.I.F. is that it should have sur-
prised anybody.
Members of that force can safely take
it as a warning of worse to come. All
that restrains some of the potential
smearers is the fact that there is still
plenty of ground fighting ahead, and the
A.I.F. is the force marked down to do
Australia’s share of it all the way.
That restraint will pass, and then Mr.
Calwell’s “economic conscripts” will be
nothing to what will come from some
non-starters. It will be mild to what was
spewed up last time.
Even now it is evidently politically safe
to insult the A.I.F. Otherwise there
would be such a flood of protest from
the whole of Australia that no insulter
could last 24 hours as a Federal Minister.
As it is, Mr. Calwell remains in his job
as secure as ever.
It indicates plainly what will happen
when the war is over. There then prob-
ably will be —there always has been after
wars —a public reaction against war. This
has commonly included everything asso-
ciated with war, and no doubt will again.
That is when insulting men who volun-
teered and fought to keep the country
secure and non-starters snug in their soft
jobs will be safe to indulge in. It might
be more than merely safe. It might well
pay political dividends.
For one other reason this advance-
insult should have surprised nobody, least
of all the Diggers who, through their
League branches, objected to “a slur and
studied insult to the men of the fighting
services, as it impugns the sincerity and
patriotism of those who voluntarily en-
listed in the early stages of the war.” This
other reason is that the insult was merely
symptomatic of hostility to the A.I.F.
among sundry of Mr, Calwell’s political
party. Now and then the hostility comes
out past the mask. One day the mask
will be dropped altogether.
Diggers might as well be prepared for
it. They have heard nothing yet.
Bennett's Bad Precedent.
When Lieut.-General Bennett returned
to Australia after his escape from Singa-
pore members of the Government were
delighted, for more reasons than one or
even two, and it rained compliments. Said
the Prime Minister, “His conduct deserves
the highest praise” ; and after a day or
two this was amplified into: “His leader-
ship and conduct were in complete con-
formity with his duty to the men under
his command and to the country.” Then
came the statement that the general
“would get a job consistent with his
ability.”
He was given the Westralian command,
and in it, by all accounts, he did good
work. Militarily it is not so important
now as it was two years ago or even
twelve months ago, but it must still be
accounted a highly responsible post.
.So it was astonishing to learn that
Lieut.-General Bennett had given it up
and was leaving the Army. Still more
astonishing were assertions he made to the
newspapers before he had actually doffed
the King’s uniform —that, though he had
been instrumental in causing the aban-
donment of Brisbane Line strategy, he
had been “sidetracked to Westralia” and
“refused ray right of returning with the
A.I.F. to Malaya and the islands”; re-
fused likewise an operational command
and “relegated to an administrative com-
mand,” one of the grounds being that
“such an appointment would be resented,
as public opinion was against me,”
General Blarney himself holding that “my
escape from Singapore was ill-advised.”
The C.-in-C. was bitterly criticised (very
properly he has not replied), and there
were invidious references to “other senior
officers,” General MacArthur was men-
tioned as “having escaped from the Philip-
pines” without its being pointed out that
General MacArthur so acted under the
express orders of the President, his Com-
mander-in-Chief.
In the Manual of Military Law it is
laid down that “an officer... .cannot
claim as a matter of right to resign his
commission whenever he - pleases.”
This was decided long ago, in the case
of officers serving the East India Company
and (more recently) in the case of a naval
officer who, having been refused leave to
resign, sent in his resignation and quitted
the service while abroad in order to take
up a similar appointment at home. Exactly
the same principles are applicable to com-
missions in the Army.
It is inconceivable, even under a Gov-
ernment of reformed pacifists, that any
junior officer, non-com. or private would
be permitted to do what Lieut.-General
Bennett has done. In this war, as in the
last war and the Boer War, generals have
been relieved of their commands and sent
home (examples: Gatacre, Smith-Dorrien,
Gough, Cunningham and Ritchie), and
in no case has the decent tradition
of silence been broken. By taking
the course he has chosen to take, and
making the remarks he has chosen to
make, the new recruit to radio and jour-
nalism has forfeited any claim to sym-
pathy he may have possessed.
The Australia First Cases.
An unfinished history:
Nearly 26 months have elapsed since it was
brought out in the House by Mr. Maurice
Blackburn, a good man, gone, that the Aus-
tralia First movement had been suppressed
and 16 N.S.W. citizens alleged to be members
“detained.” Among them were a retired bank
manager, an original Anzac, another Old
Digger (employed as guard at a munitions fac-
tory) and a direct descendant of Rawdon Hume,
brother of the explorer —he is also first cousin
of a V.C. Mr. Blackburn refused to believe
that there were “vocal enemy sympathisers”
among such men and the others “detained.”
B'ut it was asserted by the Minister for the
Army, allegedly on the basis of “documents,”
that they were associated with a concern en-
gaged in “elaborate plans for sabotage at
vulnerable points” by dint of “methods cal-
culated to make resistance to the Japanese im-
possible,” which aimed even at “the
assassination of prominent people.” Mr. Forde
—he was acting as Security Minister for Dr.
Evatt, who was abroad—said that the men had
been “arrested” and would be placed on trial :
“the first steps are being taken; the matter is
being considered by the Solicitor-General.”
The Prime Minister declared that “the Gov-
ernment does not wish to prejudice the trial of
these persons by naming them.”
Mr. Curtin said the same day (March 27,
1942) that the persons, “concerning whom a
prima facie case has been established by Mili-
tary Intelligence, have been interned.”
I do not know if any more persons will
be arrested. The whole process of law will
be invoked; the civil authority will be
directed to formulate charges on the evi-
dence that is available.
Later Mr. Forde corrected himself; the men
had not been “arrested,” merely “interned.”
Twenty-six months have gone by and (here
have been no trials. All the internees except
one, who has been mentioned as having
launched proceedings, have been released. Dur-
ing much of the two years they were cooped
up behind barbed wire, names being circulated
by Communists in brazen defiance of the cen-
sorship—Communists with whom Labor poli-
ticians have more than once appeared on plat-
forms.
The. men were forced to write to their
mothers, wives and children on letter forms
identical with those used in common jails, save
for directions on the outside, printed in large
letters: “Nur die Addresse auf dieser Seite
schreiben 1 ... L’indirizzo soltanto su questa
parte” —only sometimes with an English trans-
lation. When they were transferred from camp
to camp they aver it was under a bayonet-armed
guard in the presence of the public. One man
says he had to absent himself from his mother’s
funeral because he could not bear to allow his
boy to see him a prisoner under guard.
In the face of all the denials of these deeply-
injured men, and in the face of knowledge of
their records as civilians, Dr. Evatt asserted
last week that “the object of the Government
and the Security Service” had been “only to
prevent injury to Australia through the activities
of quislings, near-quislings and the associates
of quislings,” and that “when the internments
took place on the recommendation of the
Army authorities, the action was justified as a
precautionary measure in the interests of Aus-
tralia” —a very different version from those of
Mr. Forde and Mr. Curtin. And there was
more:
Any person rushing in to make political
capital out of these cases will find, after
the full facts are disclosed, that he is on
the side of a group the leaders of which
were prepared to stab Australia in the
back at the moment of her greatest peril.
The Director-General of Security Service
came in with the statement that “Security Ser-
vice will be able to show that the Government
has been humane and considerate to the maxi-
mum degree.”
All this appeared simultaneously with the an-
nouncement that Justice Clyne, of th* Federal
Bankruptcy Court, had been commissioned to
inquire into and report to the Government qn
the internments. Completing his extraordinary
departure from the rules, the Attorney-General
expressed the hope that Justice Clyne would
“carefully distinguish as to all the individuals
concerned directly or indirectly in the leader-
ship of what was undoubtedly a quisling, a sub-
versive, an anti-Australian and an anti-British
group.” Another hope that should be expressed
is that the Communist part in the affair, the
subject of characteristic Communist vaunts, will
be investigated and reported on.
Going on Dr. Evatt’s own reports, the Gov-
ernment could long ago have settled public
uneasiness by a frank statement to Parliament,
if necessary in a secret session.
Mentioning one .of the 16, Dr. Evatt said
that this man never availed himself of the
opportunity of applying for ah appeal, and that
his case, with others, was referred to a special
Committee and to Mr. Piddington, K.C., his
continued detention being recommended.
To this the man replied that he never saw
Mr. Piddington, and that, though he admitted
authorship of words quoted by Dr. Evatt, they
were torn from their context, and the full text
put a different complexion on them. And he
very inconveniently produced letters from Mr.
Calwell, written on the stationery of his Minis-
terial department, in which Mr. Calwell takes
credit not only for having had the man released
in the interests of justice, while advising him
to defer his claim for compensation till after
the war, but for having personally intervened
to have his call-up by Man-power deferred
there is quoted a telegram in which the N.b.W.
Deputy-Director of Man-power agrees to this.
In a later letter Mr. Calwell assures the man
that he has obtained for him permission to be
employed at a publisher’s. It seems a novel
proposition that a Minister of the Crown should
secure the release of a man which a special
committee refused to recommend; a man whom
the Attorney-General described in Parliament
as having written “the letter of a man who
wants Japan to win who hopes Japan will win
and who hopes in that event to advantage him-
self.” Stranger still to find a Minister whose
legal colleague held such strong views about
this man getting a job for him in a place where
an ill-disposed person could do most barm-
an office equipped with all the paraphernalia
and channels for propaganda.
The former internees asked for a full and
searching investigation by a High Court Judge
with a royal commission. One of them declared
that “if the full facts come out the country
will be shocked to its core by what is revealed
and by a new knowledge of the extent to which
the concentration camp has been used.”
Dr. Evatt has himself admitted that some of
the men perhaps should not have been interned.
“That,” he protests, “is a reflection not upon
the Minister for the Army, but upon the effi-
ciency of the Intelligence officers, upon whose
advice he acted —a few mistakes may have been
made, but if they were they were honest mis-
takes.”
Honest mistakes! Solidarity and special
pleading for ever! Dr. Evatt was an able and
outspoken High Court Judge. Imagine how he
would have dealt with the plea of “honest
mistakes” had it come from the Bar to him on
the Bench!
FOR “GOING ALONG QUIETLY.”
“Mr. McKell can fairly plead that he has best served the State and the nation by going along quietly.” — “S. M. Herald."


TIM r
7:he n
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are .of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET,, SYDNEY
PHONE; B 7901.
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 44
■
I
m
m
i
M
■
ii
■
n
POLITICAL POINTS
revenue for the 10 months to April 30
had exceeded expenditure by £2,738,000,
though expenditure was up £1,075,000.
Does the excess go into war funds? It
doesn’t.
It is an unusual day on which some
non-elected person doesn’t issue a state-
ment of policy. For example, a certain
Dr. Coombs, revisiting his native Wes-
tralia:
WE are conscious that demobilisation
will present a bigger problem here than in
the Eastern States WE want to get a
clear conception of the numbers likely
to be involved, as it might be necessary
for a larger public works programme to be
put in hand here than in the Eastern States.
Put in hand by US, though we will do an
infinitesimal portion of the paying.
Ward, back in Brisbane from his tour
of N.G., was asked why he had refused
to allow a native to carry him ashore
from a landing boat. “I apn no Simon
Many South Australians were more
annoyed than flattered when Common-
wealth Labor Ministers stormed into the
State election campaign, one comment
being that the invaders must have dashed
little to do. Growls were succeeded by
chuckles when it became evident that a
great deal of their oratory had been ex-
pended uselessly. Dr. Evatt spoke in the
Glenelg Town Hall for the Glenelg Labor
candidate. He lost. Dedman spoke at
Mt. Gambier for the Labor candidate
there. He lost. Pollard' spoke at James-
town for the Labor candidate for Burra
and at Salisbury for the Labor member
for Gouger ; Calwell at Naracoorte for
the Labor candidate for Victoria and at
Kapunda for the Labor member for
Light. All lost.
Premier Playford is not without honor
in his own neighborhood. Gumeracha,
which Labor was going to wrest from
him, gave him nearly a three-to-one
majority. In Norton’s Summit, where he
lives and was born, the voting was 1731
for Playford and 521 for Holmes.
Reports that Beasley was the life and
soul of the 1.L.0. party at Philadelphia
seem to have been—er —premature. Any-
way, Beasley was beaten for a place on
the governing committee by the Peruvian
and Greek delegates, though “Iran, Iraq,
Egypt and several South American repub-
lics” rallied to his cause. When he fell
out with the British Government delegate
(“Beasley Attacks Britain’s Refusal to
Declare Policy on Native Races”) it was
given out that Mexico was, behind him.
Mexico must have twisted.
When “more than £20,000,000” was
required to fill the First Victory Loan
A.B.C. in its New Guinea field talks had
a moving story of an A.I.F. officer who
arrived at a loan post with a £lOOO sub-
scription from his front-line unit. At
Moorefield races on the previous day
£2OO was promised by punters who “in-
vested” £57,300 in the tote and half a mil-
lion with the. bookmakers (estimate of the
Sydney “Telegraph,” indignant for once),
leaving out the s.p. and black-market
brigades. And during the same week the
N.S.W. Government "Lottery Department
rolled barrels containing 300,000 tickets
at ss. 3d, Advertising for the next war
loan should carry this order: “All forms
of gambling are prohibited till the loan
is fully subscribed.”
Describing the McKell Government as
being as “energetic as a jellyfish,”
Bruxner, the N.S.W. Country-party
leader, announced that his party stood
for country killing.
We are not prepared to tolerate longer
the condition of near-anarchy at Homebush
and, as a party, we are determined to break
the power of the men employed there, who
continually flout the conditions laid down
by-the Industrial Court.
This, of course, would be only one bene-
fit from country Others are:
Less cruelty to stock, elimination of losses
in transit, better and cheaper meat,
creation of employment in country areas
and extension of fat-lamb and baby-beef
production.
Flushed with pride at getting a major-
ity of seats with a minority of votes,
Queensland Labor announced that State
BAD CASE OF FOOT-IN-MOUTH DISEASE.
“What, AGAIN. Mr. Calwell?"
Legree,” replied the Messiah of the Man-
date. “If we allowed natives to carry
us, they would form the impression that
whites are a race of weaklings.” Why
should they, when they have seen so
many Diggers?
Before he went off to Philadelphia with
his drivel about Australia abandoning
the indenture system in Papua and adja-
cent parts, Beasley should have consulted
somebody wise in native affairs. Hubert
Murray is no longer available, but
Murray-trained men are. And neither the
old Master nor his pupils ever had
Pyrmont-Paddington objections to the
indenture system.
If anybody finds himself worrying
about how China will repay the
£50,000,000 loan promised by Britain, let
him remember that a t the 1.L.0. confer-
ence at Philadephia John Beasley pro-
duced a work-for-all policy covering all
nations. When Beasley gets work for
the 400-odd million Chinese, all that will
be necessary will be to slap on a wages
tax and the loan will be repaid overnight.
The S.A. election, as reported in Syd-
ney papers:—
“Sunday Sun”: Labor swing in S.A.
Elections. Probable state of parties, Govt.,
17 ; Labor, 15; Ind., 3; Doubtful, 3.
“D.T.” (1/5/’44): Labor gains in yester-
day’s S.A. election have placed the Play-
ford Govt, in a precarious position. Prob-
able result; Playford, 18; Labor, 17; Ind.,
3.
“S.M.H.” (same day); On latest counting
the L.C.L. will have 19 seats, Labor 16,
Ind. 3.
Next day the “D.T.” held that the result
was still in doubt. That was all, except
that the “D.T.” weighed in the day after
that with a yarn about somebody deliber-
ately making a vote informal. Still,
since S.A. is such a distant suburb of
Sydney, it was probably lucky to get a
mention at all.
Sydney “Daily Mirror’s” Isabelle Grace
on the worries of the woman short of
wearing apparel—in last week’s bleak
weather the same poor creatures could
be seen queueing up morning after morn-
ing at eight o’clock:
Never since the introduction of rationing
has black-marketing been so blatant. From
racketeers—at a price, and what a price! —
you can buy coupon-free dress-lengths,
sa,t : len f hs - underwear; can take your
choice from a liberal display of samples
and have the goods delivered to your home
or business address.
And this is only one branch of a wicked
business. Yet N.b.W. has a Labor
Government 56 votes strong in the
Assembly (lowest salary £875 p.a.) and a
police force (the Labor Premier himself
was j n c h ar ge Q f ft f or man y months)
with nearlv 4000 members Perhans the
idea is that it should be enough for the
public that, after scouring the world at
a reported cost of £60,000, the police
have made an arrest in the Pyjama Girl
case—that of an Italian who was a
familiar objdct for years to the Commis-
sioner, being employed in his favorite
food joint.
Weaver opened his N.S.W. election
campaign in typical Weaver style. His
party, he said, was committed to many
things, all of which sounded enticing.
But he made no mention of any intention
to deal with the booze racket, almost the
biggest blot on the N.S.W. landscape.
Queensland “Courier - Mail” claims
another record for its State—a record in
holiday-making for all belligerent coun-
tries.
It began three weeks ago , with the
Easter spell—four days for most people;
the following Saturday was election day,
then came Anzac Day and then Labor Day.
.... In four weeks only 16 days have been
fully worked in the State.
It’s one of the —er —benefits of continu-
ous Labor rule.
Developments in the Russo-Polish
shindy recall a Molotov speech to the
Supreme Council of the U.S.S.R. (Oct.
31, 1939): —
The Non-Aggression Pact has put an end
to the abnormal relations that existed be-
tween the U.S.S.R. and Germany. For
France and Britain to continue the war on
the ground of their commitments to Poland
is obviously unsound. There can be no
question of restoring the old Poland, and
there is no justification for the war, the im-
perialistic character of which is evident
to anyone who wants to face realities. If is
not only senseless but criminal to wage such
a war for the destruction of Hitlerism,
covered as a fight for democracy.
The bit about old Poland is still part of
Soviet policy, though the rest of the party
line has gone west.
In a report on post-war reorganisa-
tion, Bernard Baruch, who has been asked
to advise the White House in two wars,
wrote: “I don’t want the Government
to go into any business; I don’t care
whether it is sugar, oil or what it is.”
There has been too much parroting of
the slogan that “If individual enterprise
fails to provide jobs for everyone it must
be replaced by some other system.” The
war has been a crucible for all the economic
systems of the world, for our own, for
Communism, Fascism, Nazism and all the
others. And the American system has out-
produced the world.
True of the last 12 months at least, but
it is not the American system only.
Britain pioneered it and Britain’s achieve-
ment when Britain stood alone was mar-
vellous. The Australian system also has
yielded impressive results here, despite
handicaps imposed by clumsy experi-
ments in compulsory collectivism,
features of which were criticised by Mrs.
Roosevelt in her charming way.
In the reconstruction essays of Chifley’s
doctrinaires no mention has been made
of the part which the fighting and
auxiliary services will play. This is
already a live question in Canada, and
it is taken for granted that at least
150,000 Canadians serving at the end of
the war will continue to be so employed.
A proposal embodied in a report pre-
pared for the House of Commons Re-
construction Committee is that there
should be a standing army of 50,000
men, a navy of 20,000 men, an air force
of 30,000 and a commercial aviation
force of 25,000, plus 30,000 in munitions
and equipment factories. Pre-war strengths
of the army, navy and air force were
4500, 1700 and 4000 respectively.
Ward, cutting short his evangel to the
“exploited” but voteless N.G. natives,
made Brisbane in time for the Labor Day
parade, and announced, among other
things, that the High Court should not
be allowed to interfere with legislation
enacted by Parliament. Perhaps he would
think differently if their Honors formed a
Labor-union.


YOU CAN SERVE IN H.M.A.S. “
Even though you are not there in person you can help our Navy by taking extra care of
your Exide Batteries. Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment and car or
radio battery. Consult your local Exide dealer immediately you suspect the need for re-
placement, repair or recharging. Extra care will give you months of extra service.
HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
ft.
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Oldest member of aircrew in the Aus-
tralian Sunderland Squadron in E::gland,
and probably the oldest of all R.A.A.F.
aircrew over there. Sergeant G. .F.
Horgan, lately on leave in his home town,
Cottesloe (W.A.), is 42 and a father of
three, of whom the oldest (17) has had
three years’ service abroad. An engineer,
Horgan got into the R.A.A.F. as a ground-
staff fitter, but in England got himself
into the air as a flight engineer. They
call him “Lucky Jack,” three of the air-
craft in which he flew having come to a
sudden end, and he’s been shot at by
everything from a JuBB to an Italian sub.
The sub. didn’t live to shoot at anyone
else.
The Churchill Flag, now on its way
from Melbourne for presentation to the
Dominion P.Ms.’ host, has had a chequered
history. After raising £20,000 for the
Red Cross, the much-autographed bit of
bunting figured in a competition, the win-
ner of which was to bear the flag to
Britain. The winner turned out to be a
lady whom age prevented from making
the journey, and the mission was con-
fided to Pearson William Tewksbury,
0.8. E., originator of the notion. Tewks-
bury was born at Yackandandah (Vic.)
in 1869 and as a young man opened up
the Ovens Valley for gold dredging, then
did likewise in N.S.W., recovering over
a million pounds’ worth of gold which
he smelted and banked himself. Then
he promoted Yellow Cabs (Aus.). He
got his 0.8. E. for the Kitchener Flag
.movement, which raised £20,000 for in-
capacitated soldiers in the last war.
It had to happen some time, and it
happened the other day at the Presby-
terian Assembly in Melbourne —a
Maclean succeeding a Maclean as
moderator. The retiring Right Rev,
Hector Maclean was born at Lismore
(N.S.W.), his successor, Rev. Walter
Maclean, in Maoriland. Both were edu-
cated at Otago and ordained in ML.
The new Maclean won the M.C. in the
last war, and was mentioned in dis-
patches. He’s been minister at St.
Andrew’s Presbyterian Church, Bendigo,
since 1934.
Maoriland’s new High Commissioner
to Canada, succeeding Frank Langstone,
who resigned when he didn’t get the job
of Minister at Washington, is D. Wilson,
leader of the M.L. Legislative Council
since 1937 and Minister for Immigration
and Civil Defence.. A Scot fra Glasca,
now 62, Wilson learned his stitch in the
tailoring trade and was a prominent
unionist before sailing for Australia in
1911. Three years later he crossed the
Tasman, and was soon taking a leading
hand in Labor affairs in Christchurch,
Nelson and Auckland. He represented
the N.Z, Labor party at the 1926 World
Migration Conference in London.
Netherlands Consul-General J. G. B.
Pennink last week presented the Meri-
torious Service Cross to Captain J. D.
Thumann and Wireless-Officer J. Borgers,
both of the Dutch Merchant Navy, for
courage in trying to save their ship when
it was bombed by Jap ’planes in Milne
Bay on April 13, 1943. Now 22, Borgers
started out on a voyage that was to last
three months, but one thing and another,
including the sinking of four ships under
him, extended the trip to four years.
Dr. R. M. Stevenson, pastor of St.
Andrew’s Presbyterian Church, Suva,
Fiji, who has been visiting Maoriland for
fishing and deer-stalking, is a son of the
cousin of R. L. Stevenson who introduced
Fanny Osborne to R.L.S. The American
lady met R.L.S.’s cousin in France and
asked if he was the writer of the articles
in the “Cornhill.” “No,” said the author's
kinsman; “that’s him over there in the
canoe.” The introduction followed ; later
R.L.S. and the lady married, and when
she died in the U.S.A. her body was
cremated and the ashes were taken to
Apia and buried there on the mountain-
top with R.L.S. Dr. Stevenson spent ten
weeks with R.L.S. at Valimai, Apia, Samoa,
in the latter years of the author’s life.
Captains J. McLaughlin and G. P.
Hoskins and Senior Route Captains J. M.
Presgrave and R. M. Meates, who lately
completed five years with Ansett Airways,
were flying the company’s craft on the
inter-State network when Tojo inter-
rupted. They were then engaged on
transport of army personnel and supplies
and evacuating escapees. The joint total
of the four is 20,000 flying hours and
3,000,000 mileage, all done up to schedule
and without misadventure. This company
of fliers, numbering 20, has now been
joined by Captain “Jimmy” Broadbent,
who holds the Australia-England and
round-Australia solo records and a record
for war-time crossing of the Atlantic and
Pacific.
The recent appointment of Monsignor
Ormond, private sec. to the first Apos-
tolic Delegate to Australia, as Bishop of
Christchurch (M.L.) has been nullified
by the bishop-elect’s ill-health. The new
appointee is Monsignor P. F. Lyons,
vicar-general and secretary to Archbishop
Mannix, Melbourne. Born some 43 years
ago in Victoria’s capital, Mons, Lyons
was educated at Manly (Sydney) and
Rome, and ordained priest in 1927.
Dr. E. Alan Mackay, lately passed on
in Melbourne (B. 26/4/’44), helped the
Children’s Hospital to grow from a cot-
tage in the grounds of the late knight
Redmond Barry to its present tidy size.
Dr. Mackay founded the clan of his name
in Melbourne, and with the money col-
lected through it founded St, Andrew’s
Hospital. His son,
Major Alan Mackay,
served in the Middle
East and now serves
in New Guinea in the
A.A.M.C.
A. E. B. Goode,
g.m. of the Union
Bank, becomes chair-
man of the Associated
Banks of Victoria, a
job tha't’s usually held
in yearly rotation by
the g.ms. of the five
banks with head
offices in the southern
State. Goode follows
L. J. McConnan, chief
manager of the
National, who has
been chairman for
two consecutive years,
and had a former
term in 1938, becom-
ing National chief
in 1935. In his
younger days Goode
rowed in many win-
ning crews, and was
also a good shot.
These days he divides
his spare time between
golf at Royal Mel-
bourne and model en-
gineering, golf getting
the larger whack.
An artist’s abo. vision:
William Ricketts has been holding his second
exhibition of clay sculptures of abo. folklore at
the Velasquez, Melbourne. It’s art with a mis-
sion. Ricketts aims at inducing Government
or some understanding person to set aside a
vast sanctuary —mountain, plain, river and vir-
gin forest, with plenty of rock formations. On
the rock he will mould his allegorical concep-
tions based on the folklore of the abo., which
folklore he regards as full of significance and
beauty. He wants at least five years to pre-
pare this art gallery sanctuary, which would
then become the address of the 700 full-bloods
left in N.S.W., the 70 in Victoria and any
other abos. who 'could be persuaded to join
him there. The younger generation would be
taught the old legends and helped to develop
their inherited skill in drawing, woodwork,
carving and dancing. Ricketts himself will teach
them how to express themselves in clay, and,
all these arts and crafts being developed along
dinkum abo. lines, he visualises the natiye folk
one day making their own special contribution
to music, art, literature and ballet. There will
be a fine library for English-speaking natives.
Only teachers, advisers and anthropologists of
the white race will be allowed to live there until
this abo. Renaissance has given Binghi suffi-
cient self-respect to mix safely with his white
brother. No more complete antithesis to the
official notion of the native compound could
be imagined than Ricketts’s dream, and its
owner has the faith that moves mountains.
Ricketts has his own “Mountain Gallery” at
Mount Dandenong, 20 miles from Melbourne.
All the sales of his works go towards realis-
ing his dream.
“Ek Dum”: I offer for challenge the
military family record of Mrs. M. E.
Bums, Mundalla (S.A.). In World War I
her son, Corp. George Burns (3043), now
a captain in the V.D.C., won the M.M.
with the 27th Battalion—a unit which
held a future Premier of S. Australia,
Playford, and a future Deputy Prime
Minister, Archie Cameron. In the Owen
Stanley campaign, for endurance, courage
and devotion to duty, Corp. J. H. Burns
(5X4556), son of George Burns and with
the 2/27 Battalion, the new edition of his
dad’s battalion, now an M-M. like his
father, earned half a dozen judging by
the citation. And there is a third M.M.
in Mrs. Burns’s family circle —a son-in-
law, Staff Sergeant W. Sloane, of Lyn-
doch.
Myers, of Melbourne, have suffered
some bad losses by death in the
last few years—Sid Myer, the founder,
E. B. Myer and now Maurice Patkin, a
director. The Patkin family has been
hard hit, for the son, a flight-lieut. in the
R.A.A.F., was recently killed in opera-
tions over Germany.
“El V.” on a victor:
When the numbers went up in S.A. the man
who showed the least signs of excitement was
Tom Playford, the Premier, who seems to have
stolen Labor’s Federal-election-swing vote. Given
the beard of his grandfather, “Honest Tom,” he
might be taken for a modernised ghost of the
old statesman who was in the House of
Assembly in 1868, held T.P.’s present seat 30
years later, was Premier 1887-92, president of the
Federal Council of Australasia in ’B9 and
Deakin’s Minister for Defence 1905-07. Young
Tom, off to the Great War about the time
old Tom died in April, 1915, was in the ranks
of the 27th Battalion with his friend Archie
(Modelled by Frith.)
PREMIER PLAYFORD, S.A.
Cameron: he won his commission—Archie
didn’t until much later. It took Playford just
five years to become Premier after he entered the
House in 1933, aged 37; and ‘Premier he has
been ever since! His last success is a lesson to
Australia’s thousand aspiring politicians whose-
theory is that success can be gained only by
running with the popular tide. The outcries
of the racing crowd and the liquor interests
leave Playford unmoved. He gets alohg well on
the peculiar doctrine that the most successful
leader is one who leads. Outwardly he gives
the impression to strangers of being somewhat
stern and reserved, but his exterior conceals a
been sense of humor and he can be very good
company.
Woctralia’c PnKlio TTealth Cnmmis-
Westralias Fubiic weaitn commis
sxoner. Dr. Eventt Atkinson, is on leave
prior to retirement after 33 years, of
public service. Maoriland-born, he took
bis M R and Th R decrees at Fdin-
u rf; • ion/ io!;
k ur Sh University in 1906, went home
with a diploma in public health, served
the M.L. Government, had a spell in
private practice and arrived in Perth in
IQII Racteriolopist and Patholoeist
in.- C ffir ana ia 1 Og. .
Fhief Medical Officer a year later, he
became Commissioner in 1918. On a
Rockefeller invitation in 1927, Dr. Atkin-
cnry booltb in tho ITS A
SOr l , ltd public health in the U.b.A.
and subsequently collaborated With Pro-
fessor Dakin in the book Sex Hygiene.
Flying-Officer Peter Taylor, of Lind-
field, Sydney, has collected one of five
prizes presented by the Canadian
Authors’ Association for a short-story
competition. His yarn, “The Only Flaw,’
is to be published in a Canadian maga-
zine. Between flights as a navigator in
the Ferry Command, Taylor has written
several plays which have been produced
by the Players’ Guild of Hamilton,
Ontario, and has broadcast a talk on
Australia and his experiences with the
Ferry Command. Before the war he was
well known in Sydney amateur dramatics.
Off the mark early enough to be NX 17,
Major B. H. (“Jika”) Travers, one of
the New Digger sons of Old Digger
Colonel Jack Travers, g.m. of Sydney
“Telegraph,” has been handed an 0.8. E.
for good work in New Guinea. Both
he and brother Bill—Captain W.. H.
Travers, p.o.w. in Germany; taken
prisoner at Crete —have been topnotchers
in the playing fields. “Jika,” as Major
Travers has been known since he was
about Ift. high, captained “Shore” at both
football and cricket and represented at
athletics; also he was a G.P.S. rep. at
both games. Going to Sydney Uni. he
collected his “double blue,” cricket and
football, in his first year, but still had a
Uni. scholarship and a St. Paul’s College
bursary to show he wasn’t slacking on
the study side, and became N.S.W. 1940
Rhodes scholar. Overseas as a lieut. with
the first contingent, he was in Libya,
Greece and Syria—in the last-named
early enough to captain an A.I.F. foot-
ball team which went up to Beyrout to
tackle a French side in the days before
France collapsed. Brother Bill was a
member of the same A.I.F. team. Also,
both brothers earlier had represented in
Australian Uni. football. They’re of
soldiering stock on both sides. Col.
Travers won a D.S.O. and bar in 1914-18,
and married a daughter of the late Gen-
eral William Holmes, C.M.G., D.S.O.
Into the silence:
In an aircraft accident in Victoria, Flying-
Officer J. G. Lobban, athlete and widely known
Rugby Union player. He won his “blue” at
both Sydney and Melbourne Universities, and
before enlisting was with the Union Bank.
At 85, James Law, of Tallangatta (Vic.),
after 70 years on the Inky Way—in the
’seventies an eager boy devilling on a Carlton
paper, later at Beechworth* in the roaring days
of gold, then on to Benalla, where tradition
has it he interviewed, for the “North-eastern
Ensign,” Ned Kelly. “Apocryphal,” he him-
self said; “I only garnered gang news in safety!”
Finally, 60 years ago, Law settled for life in
Tallangatta, becoming owner-editor of the
“Upper Murray Herald.” Arthur J. Law,
M.A., principal of Victoria’s State Teachers’
Training College, is his son.
A. W. Greig, retired Registrar of Melbourne
University, and mainly responsible for the foun-
dation of the Historical Society of Victoria,
which he served well for 35 years as hon.
secretary, president and editor of the • society’s
magazine. His son John, a brilliant student
and lecturer in German at Melbourne High
School, predeceased him by only a few days.
At 47, in London, Dr. John Keith Roberts,
F.R.S., of Melbourne. One of the world’s
leading physicists, he was Professor Laby’s
first research student at Melbourne University.
At Cambridge Rutherford put him on to one of
the most important problems in modern physics
—heat. Roberts fell ill and lay for a year at
death’s door in a consumptives’ sanatorium in
Switzerland, During his convalescence he wrote
his treatise on heat which caused a world-wide
sensation in scientific circles.
At Brisbane, at 94, James Tregenza, born at
St. Erth, near Penzance, Cornwall; one of the
early-day metallurgists on tin ores of Tasmania,
and later one of the earliest pioneers of the
mining and metallurgical industries at Charters
Towers (Q.). A son has been Government
Assayer at Cloncurry (Q.) for many years.
At 55, in Melbourne, Brigadier Edmund
Frank Lind, C.8.E., D. 5.0., V.D., M. 8., Ch.B.,
soldier, doctor and politician. He served in
the last war in Egypt, on Gallipoli and in
France and joined the A.I.F. at the outbreak
of the present conflict. In between he main-
tained a private practice. He contested Henty
in the last Federal election for the Services
and Citizens’ party and was to have taken his
seat as president of that body this week.
At 85, at Mia Mia Vineyards, Rutherglen
(Vic.), C. H. Morris, held to have been the
oldest winemaker still on the job in Australia.
His father established Fairfield, and the son
travelled widely in the interests of the grape
and discussed its diseases in person with Louis
Pasteur.
In Brisbane, Martin Denny, a very clever
featherweight who fought three draws with the
great Griffo and in England won a National
Sporting Club championship. Denny also
fought notably in America, where he lived for
over 30 years, returning to Australia in 1926.
In Sydney he was a protege of A. G. (“Smiler”)
Hales, then on the “Referee,” who called him
the “Pelican Pet.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Zake”: War-time Sydney has become
more or less inured to shocks. 1 heard
the other day of a woman who landed
two eggs from a shop where she isn’t an
old pre-war customer and behaved as if
nothing had happened. But we Sydney
peak-hour suburban train travellers, who
of sheer necessity have become the
toughest of citizens, were thoroughly
tested on a recent afternoon. As our
train thundered in at Wynyard around
5.15 p.m., the crowd milling five deep
on the platform looked around at the
persistent ringing of a bell behind them.
They beheld, pushing a bike to which was
roped four lengths of 6ft. stovepipe (how
she got it up the steps is a mystery), a
woman of about 60 years of age, clad in
grease-spattered slacks, face to match.
So staggered were we by the apparition
that several young clerks fell back and
gave her passage, and even forgot to
elbow aside several old ladies in the sub-
sequent wild scramble for seats.
“Suburber”: Ever since its inception 12
years ago, Wynyard has had trouble with
its exits and entrances, not shared, appar-
ently, by Central, Town Hall or St. James.
Like the others, it is copiously supplied
with stairways of exit and of entrance,
indicated with large, extremely legible
signs “No Exit” and “Way Out.”
From almost the first week the free
people of a State that spends £6,000,000
a year on education proved themselves
“Stop your grumbling or I'll ask for your resignation !”
impervious to these hints. They surged
tempestuously in up the ways out, and
exited en masse through the “no exits.”
Alter 12 years it struck the authorities
that this wasn’t entirely according to the
regulations, and that Something Should
Be P one - B was. At the busiest times
oi the da Y some of the entrance turnstiles
are now marked “No Entrance.” Through
these portals surge the populace entering
the station, thereby leaving free for
exiters the remaining entrance turnstiles,
which are marked on the interior “No
Exit.” It’s a bit complicated in theory,
but it more or less solves the problem
of avoiding traffic jams,
“Tasser”; Hobart’s new Public Library
was officially opened just 95 years after
the foundation of the original institution,
which struggled along, always short of
money. The State Libraries Act pro-
mises to alter that, since it offers all muni-
cipalities an unlimited £ for £ subsidy
on library expenditure.
S*e * % *
“Little Four”: There’s a lot of talk
coming from Curtin, Beasley and co.
about providing jobs after the war. This
seems to be their main idea. But what
spirited Australian wants, in peace-time,
a job specially created for him by a Gov-
ernment department? Not I, for one. In
my time I’ve chucked jobs I didn’t like,
though sometimes it meant putting a swag
up and tramping a couple of hundred
miles to find another. I still feel that
way about it, and I’m willing to bet thou-
sands more are with me. Nothing is
more galling to the naturally indepen-
dent, nothing more soul-destroying to the
enterprising Australian, than the arranged
job. He knows he isn’t working because
of his skill, experience or initiative, but
simply to create the fiction that he isn’t
on the dole, and he can take pride neither
in his work nor in himself. I’m warning
the heads that if they try to shove me
into a job I don’t want it’ll be me for a
western river bend and a hollow gum,
* * * * *
“V.C.”: At 10 a.m. on a recent Satur-
day morning the door of our local ’am-
an’-beef was shut. Against it, reading a
newspaper, leaned a middle-aged man. A
quarter-hour later five persons had
started a line from him along the street.
Time passed and one or two more joined
the line. Then a bus arrived and dis-
gorged a crowd of women laden with
week-end shopping parcels freshly ac-
quired from a big shopping centre down
the road. They eyed the queue and a
good half of them quickly got into line.
Speculation was haphazard and ranged
from cigarettes to bacon. Presently the
queue reached the corner of the street
and began to extend round it. At 11.30
a.m, the door of the ’am-an’-beef
opened and the proprietor, armed with
fishing tackle, appeared and said to the
man against the door “Sorry to keep
you waiting. I’ve got everything. Is the
boat ready?” The other nodded, so the
door was shut again and the two headed
harborwards. As they turned across the
side street the shopkeeper suddenly be-
came aware of the line of waiting people
and drew his mate’s attention to it.
Whereupon, after a.brief consultation of
watches, they took their place at the end
of the queue.
».* * *
“P.McM.”: An R.A.A.F. casualty list
published last week in one of those com-
mercial-sport-as-usual papers was sur-
rounded by ads. for soap and metal
polish, and was in microscopic six-point
type—the smallest now in general use.
It recorded that five Australians had been
killed in air operations and seven in air-
craft accidents. Eighteen others were
posted “missing, presumed killed.” The
rest—22—were simply “missing.” Names
and towns were jumbled together so that
close scrutiny was needed to detect a
friend’s name. A contrast to the amount
of space devoted to football “heroes ”
Macßopus”: On recurring dates (B.
19/4/’44), the 11 years’ cycle will be
broken in 60 years or so. After 9/9/’99
the 11 years’ period goes to 10/10/TO,
but then we shall have 1/1 /’ll, 11/11 /’ll
and 12/12/T2 in successive years. After
ten years comes 2/2/’22, which recom-
menees an 11 years’ cycle.
* * * *
“Sailor Joe” remembers Sevastopol:—
We dropped anchor in Sevastopol harbor on
an autumn morning in 1918. It looked and
ni f d depr a S l ng k with £ y win u s blow '
mg acioss town and harbor. Close by lay a
British battleship sent to receive the surrender
of a German admiral whose fleet had been
operating in the Black Sea. I saw him as he
raced past in his picket-boat flying a German
ensign the size of a tablecloth. That flag came
“That ack-ack battery over there mistook me for a Spitfire .”
to a sad end. The German boat passed a little
too close to an Aussie destroyer, a grimy arm
shot out of a porthole and someone had a
souvenir. (I suggest a stoker, as seamen revere
ensigns while stokers have no emotions save
thirst.) The foreshore was littered with. the
beached hulks of Russian cruisers, destroyers
and smaller ships. Their crews had run them
aground and blown up their engines. Officers
who objected had been liquidated, we were
told later, and aboard the vessels bullet' marks
and barricades told the story of mutiny and
sudden death. Our forces were supposed to be
offering protection to the Crimean Cossacks
from the Bolsheviks, but we saw no Bolsheviks.
All the Russians wanted was food, employment
and to be left alone. Never have I met more
decent, manly people. They did not overcharge
us foreigners for the pitifully few things they
had for sale and would accept no gift beyond
a cigarette. But never have I felt such an
atmosphere of fear and poverty as hung over
the Crimea then.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: “The film of dust that was
certain sooner or later to settle” on water
standing in a container in the open (B.
12/4/’44) recalls a painful memory.
When A.R.P. regulations were every-
where some three years ago I went into
an Adelaide office block with my hands
full. By the lift stood a large iron drum,
filled with what looked like earth for use
against incendiary bombs. To get my
hands free* I unloaded, and straightway
a book and some magazines broke
through the seemingly solid surface and
went flop to the bottom of three feet of
water which had been standing there and
acquiring its camouflage for a year or
more.
Jjs H* % $
“Lord Bo”: These chappays who labah
undah the impression that we bluebloods,
who can trace our ancestahs back in a
dairect laine to Ethelred the Egghead and
othah ancient blightahs, are rolling
in filthy lucah must have suffered quaite
a shock to heah that what the jollay old
poet chappay called chill penury prevents
many of us from attending palavahs in
the Lords. Ai mean to say, we just can’t
rustle up the ballay car fare! It’s beastlay
whiffay when one has to hock one’s
jollay old coronet and robes to save hav-
ing to trudge from one’s countray seat to
the House and back. Onlay last week Ai
had to bite may third under-footman for
tuppence to find out in the papah what
Ai’d said to some bishop johnnay during
a debate which had taken me four hours
of hitchhaiking to attend. And there
was a positively ghastlay moment when
Lord Cranborne said it was against all
traditions for membahs of the Lords to
be paid. He needn’t have been so dashed
emphatic, what? Howevah, we may get
travelling passes and out-of-pocket exes.,
such as those which Ai’m told are enjoyed
by tens of thousands of what in Aus-
traliah you call “deadheads.” Funnay
and all that, what?
* * *
“Spasebo”: Bernard Shaw has said
that one of the chief causes of friction
between Americans and British is the fact
that they speak a common tongue. The
gibe seems to have some basis. In de-
scribing his audience with the King and
Queen, Senator Mead, one of the five
U.S. Senators who recently visited Aus-
tralia, reported that their royal hosts
“looked very plain and pleasant.” Ber-
trand Russell, lecturing in Boston, told
his audience that he was delighted to see
so many homely faces and couldn’t
understand why his hearers, mostly
women, seemed annoyed. He was in-
formed that in the American vernacular
“homely” means plain-featured. One of
the dictionary meanings of plain is “dis-
playing no affectation,” so the Senator
probably meant to be complimentary. But
Noah Webster, as great an authority on
British as on American usage, is clear
+“u i » tt *
that homely can mean not handsome
and 18 one of the synonyms of plain,
* * * * ,
“Schnorrer”; “Of old, the Jews useci
to rend their clothes as a token of
anguish,” says a Sydney paper. Jews still
“rend their garments,” although the ordi-
nary citizen meeting a Hebraic mourner
might not guess it. There is a slight tear
in every article the bereaved one wears,
mainly in the lining, where it can
be mended when the period of mourning
is over. The custom has become so
formalised that the actual size of the rents
for different degrees of mourning—the
loss of a father ranking highest—has been
tabulated, though, of course, anyone who
wants to show a special intensity of grief
can exceed the maximum.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: Taking advantage of
the free hand given them in turning out
army newspapers, young Allied journal-
ists and printing craftsmen are introduc-
ing new ideas in typography and make-
up. Camp newspapers are in tabloid
form, and news is disseminated by Camp
Newspaper Service, an official agency of
our Ally’s War Department. Most of
them now use a three-column front page
set in 10-point type generously spaced
between lines. In other pages they are
continually experimenting in display, en-
deavoring to present the news in the most
attractive form possible. When the
soldier readers get home they should be
connoisseurs of newspaper production.
THE ARMCHAIR STRATEGIST.
“Discussing when and where the invasion of
Europe will open, armchair strategists are having
the time of their lives.”— V.S. paper.
They never had a chance like this before,
The peaceful students of the art of war;
Never a map that stretched so wide to use
For setting forth their calculated views.
The broken soldier sketched in Goldsmith’s lay,
He whom the kindly parson bade to stay,
Sat by the fire and, while his yarns he spun,
“Shoulder’d his crutch and show’d how fields
were won.”
These, anything but broken citizens,
Sit at their desks, unleash their fountain pens
And, for sure aids to victory, specify
What should be done —and when and where
and why.
Could wars be won by oracles who bray
And bellow counsel from a world away
(Or cricket captains inspiration seize
From barrackers’ vociferous recipes),
How many well-established, proved and prized
Conventions would require to be revised!
Yet doubtless, just as long as wars exist,
We’ll always have the armchair strategist,
Often a bird, you’d find if you inquired,
Who never heard a shot in anger fired,
Explaining how, success to guarantee,
Campaigning will be planned—or ought to be.
To air their stocks of military lore
They never had such scope as this before,
Men who, had Fate ordained, might have out-
done
The feats of Caesar or of Wellington.
Study the forecasts that they pass along,
For, though it’s certain they’ll be mostly wrong,
Since it’s impossible to harmonise
Such palpably conflicting prophecies,
By all the laws of fickle chance it’s quite
As certain one or two will guess aright
And presently be heard to proudly crow
“What did I say?” and “Didn’t I tell you so?”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
A BIT OF COMFORT.
“A scientist has discovered that eating meat has
a harmful effect on the vocal cords, which is why
good singing voices are rare among Britons and
common among Italians, who subsist mostly on
vegetables and cereals. In further support of his
theory, he points out that all songbirds are vege-
tarians.”
Take heart, you chaps who grumble when
you’re dining
Where cuts from joints are sparingly allowed!
Here’s something that should soften your repin-
ing
And chipping at the ration-fixing crowd.
Here’s solace, and a bit of silver lining
That somebody’s discovered in your cloud.
Enforced abstention carries some rewards
In that it benefits your vocal cords.
Think, if we Britons had been less addicted
To beef and pork and mutton, steaks and
chops,
And for our tucker had been more restricted
To cereal and vegetable shops,
We might have won the right to be depicted
As musical a people as the Wops.
(Though Melba, it was sometimes noised
about,
Was not averse to porterhouse and stout.)
Think of the birds, the feathered choirs agrarian,
Linnets and larks and thrushes, all the throng
That naturalists class as vegetarian,
And how they fascinate us with their song;
And note how harsh and croakingly barbarian
The fowls of prey sound when they come
along,
The owls, the crows, the ravens —all the pack—
And, last not least, the strident laughing-jack.
Take heart, you epicures, and don’t be letting
Shortage of flesh occasion you distress.
In days like these ’tis little use regretting
The vanished scran to which you’d once
access.
What though your serves of roast or boiled are
getting
So niggardly, remember that the less
Of butchers’ meat appears upon the boards
The better for your good old vocal cords.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Rapide”: “Blue P.’s” reference to a
department as “the only mental hospital
in Australia run by its own inmates Id-
-5/4/’44) recalls the correspondence be-
tween headquarters and a medical officer
serving in’a forward area. Receiving in-
structions to report back to a start job,
the medico signalled his superior, using,
an abbreviation of the scientific term lor
“mental disorder with split personality •
“Fair go, Bill (stop) I’m no clerk (stop)
Cancel posting (stop) Would be scmzo
in a fortnight (stop).” Reply was
unsympathetic: “Posting stands (stop)
All schizo here (stop) Two weeks’ sanity
will be appreciated (stop).”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: With all deference to
“Zake” (B. 26 /4 / ’44) I don’t see how
“Australians in the last 30 years have
added frills to rhyming slang never
dreamed of in the Hub.” The jargon had
been exploited to its full capacity before
it ever came to this country through the
agency (it is alleged) of Cockney stewards
on the mail boats. As long ago as the
’eighties G. A. Sala could write : —_
As I sat in front of the Anna Maria
Warming my plates of meat,
I heard a knock at the Rory O’More
That made my raspberry beat.
“Raspberry” stood, of course, for ‘heart,’'
via “raspberry tart.” And over 30 years
ago I remember reading in a London
paper how the writer, visiting Covent
Garden market in the early morning,
was greeted by a porter with a friendly
inquiry after the health of the “bother”
(“bother and strife” —wife) and the
“Gawdfers” (“Gawd Forbids” —kids),
and a complaint that some mutual ac-
quaintance hadn’t been “First” (“First
of October”—sober) for a “bubble’
(“bubble and squeak” —week). You can’t
add many frills to a vocabulary like that.
“Petermac”: So “Zake” is of opinion
that Gary Grant added an authentic
Aussie touch in “Mr. Lucky.” Who
ever heard an Aussie refer to a
copper (policeman) as a “bottle and
stopper,” or his darling as his “briny
marlin”? As for walking down the
frog-and-toad with a twist-and-twirl,
that type of slang went out with black
whiskers. In 1944 he Would be pad-
ding the hoof with his charley, charley
having displaced sheilah as slang for a
long-haired mate. Incidentally, that
“Aussie” sergeant in “Stage Door Can-
teen” not only had stripes on both arms,
but also had his slouch hat turned up
on. the wrong side.
* h= * *
“T.”: For that Illinois “primary”
General MacArthur’s name was entered
by “721 county and city officials and
party committeemen in 94 of the 101
down-State counties,” among them “25
county Judges, 16 State’s attorneys, 36
sheriffs, 34 county treasurers, 32 county
clerks, 13 coroners, 19 superintendents of
schools and 36 circuit-court clerks.”
There was also “a sprinkling of circuit
and city Judges,” number withheld. The
general’s one opponent, whom he beat
hands down, is described as a former
prizefighter who asked (in vain) for
“special rations of 1666 gallons of gaso-
line for campaigning purposes.” It is on
record that a pug named Morrissey, who
beat the notorious Yankee Sullivan—
really a transported Cockney who escaped
from Sydney to San Francisco, there
eventually (o be hunted down by the
Vigilantes—became a Congressman, and
John Gully, the English bruiser, con-
queror of Bob Gregson, the Lancashire
Giant, Was an M.P. for five years (1832-
37) as well as the father of 24 children ;
but a prizefighter President would be too
much.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; An example of how the
artist can compensate for his feelings of
frustration is this year’s R.A, exhibition
in London. It reflects five years of
rationing in the large number of “still
fifes” depicting succulent joints, luscious
fruits and other good things, one mouth-
watering performance being “And Those
Were the Days,” portraying two chefs
serving pre-war foods from a table loaded
with roast beef, lobsters, salads and wines.
Of course, there are drawbacks to using
that sort of model. When Bernard Hall
painted his giant crab, now in the
National Gallery in Melbourne, with
its Flemish-schoOl attention to detail, he
had to suspend operations after half a
dozen sittings. The model was too “high”
for him.
* * *
“Kai Kai”: Troops must make their
own recreation in N.G. and swimming
carnivals in the tepid Bismarck Sea help
to ease the boredom. Two rafts built of
coconut logs lashed to oil drums are
anchored out in the surf some 50 metres
apart, and telephones and stopwatches
are swum out in tubs. Events are con-
ducted from the beach by means of an
amplifying system and range from 50
metres to 400 metres. As there are ex-
State champions about the swimming is of
a high standard and inter-unit competi-
tion is keen. Occasionally the gods are
kind and provide some surf. These are
red-letter days, and other sports are
abandoned while troops recapture, for a
few hours, the atmosphere of Bondi and
Coogee. Even the troppos forget N.G.
for the few breathless seconds it takes to
ride a shoot. This is the only activity
that does not produce sweat.
» « * *
“Keelrow”; The headgear of service
men up north these days is as varied
“How d' you expect to fire this? It hasn't been cleaned for months!"
as their womenfolks’ hats. Natu-
rally, the khaki Digger slouch pie-
dominates. Naval whites lend con-
trast here and there. Berets range
from the bright maroons and greens of
the paratroops and commandos to the
sombre blues and browns of the air
force and tanks. They were first adopted
by the Royal Armored Corps—theirs is
black—and quickly caught on as a swag-
gering battle-bonnet. Then there are the
forage cap (more beloved of our Allies),
the camouflaged steel bowler and the
tropical topee (cork, officers, for the use
of), which carries the unit ribbons or an
offcut from the old school tie.
* * * *
“A.J.K.”: The R.A.A.F. is discontinu-
ing the use of blue service chevrons, the
stripes issued on the scale of one for em-
barkation and one for each completed
year of service outside Australian terri-
tory. With the issue of the Africa Star
ribbon for desert fighters and the 1939-43
Star to jungle men, blue service chevrons
are considered unwarranted, seeing that
the new decorations effectively signify
overseas service. In their place, new red
“Something to cure chilblains, please."
"Sorry, Madam —we can only supply regular customers."
chevrons have been introduced, to be
worn by all personnel, one for each com-
pleted year of service, irrespective of
location whilst so serving.
*** * '
“H.W.M.”; Ambrose Pratt forsook
law for journalism. So did W. C. Went-
worth, at least for a time. Others from
the law who felt the urge to write were
James Martin, W. B. Dailey, D. H.
Deniehy, John Lang, who wrote Botany
Bay (1859), Arthur H. Adams and A. J.
Buchanan. Judges have figured credit-
ably in Australia’s literaturCi Justice
Beeby wrote stories and plays, and he
and Judge Curlewis were Bulletin
contributors. Dr. Evatt has a wide
reputation as a writer. Samuel Griffith
translated Dante’s Inferno; Victoria’s
first C.J., William a’Beckett, wrote Out of
Harness; and Frank Gavan Duffy earned
contemporary fame by his Dream of Fair
Judges. Leonard Mann, William Lewers
and Bernard O’Dowd (ex-Parliamentary
draughtsmen) are other lawyers of a
literary bent. “Banjo” Paterson, John
Dailey, T. B. Clegg and Andree Hay-
ward (“T. the R.”) had also the legal
background.
Of * * *
“Frosty”; In Canterbury (M.L.) it
Used to be customary with farmers who
had Old Dart experience, whenever the
province’s prowess in raising and
horses was being praised, to add “And
don’t forget grass-seed.” Kids round
the bays of Banks Peninsula, and even
some from Christchurch and Lyttelton,
used to earn good money in the seed-
picking season. The- work, as I remem-
ber it, was rough on the hands, but
mighty soothing to the pocket. And now
I read that Britain has recognised the
merits of M.L.’s Chewing’s fescue, brown
top, cocksfoot, Timothy and crested
dog’s-tail, and is buying the seed in quan-
tities and at prices that make the
Dominion’s fruit-export trade look like a
wilted plant. Not only this, but the
Fernlanders have captured John Bull’s
dried-pea market, formerly held by Hun-
gary and Morocco.
“P.S.”: The picture “Danas and the
Shower of Gold” in the Geelong Art
Gallery, which a Melbourne “Herald”
critic thought might be Titian’s original
masterpiece, has been diagnosed as a
copy by Gallery Director Daryl Lindsay.
But the fact that the picture is a copy
does not necessarily rule out Titian as
the author. In the days before mechani-
cal methods of reproduction most artists
used to copy their own pictures, and
pupils copied their masters’ works as
part of their training, the maestro giving
the finishing touches. Australian artists
have been known to follow the custom,
and the buyer of a picture from a show
in Melbourne waxed indignant when he
subsequently saw the same picture in the
artist’s possession. He was invited to
compare picture and copy and could find
no difference between them. “Well, then,”
said the artist, “you have nothing to
complain of.”
* * * *
“Norther”: “N.Q. Register’s” Winton
correspondent, no chicken, has been
moved to excitement by a heat wave. To
him it recalled a time, “over 50 years
ago,” when bush birds fell dead, Winton
chooks gave up the ghost and four resi-
dents died. Official temperatures, he
says, registered about 120 deg. in
the shade foy a week, though he
can’t prove it, because the files of the
Winton “Herald,” fittingly enough, were
destroyed by fire. Still, he yields the
record to Cloncurry with 127.5 deg. in
January, 1889, Winton’s closest being
123.2 deg. in December, 1888 ; “for one
whole week it exceeded 115 deg.” In
the newer language of these days it must
have been pretty dehydrated out there in
those days.
» * * •
“K.G.C.”: The success and the record
sale of the Albert Namatjira exhibition
held in Melbourne recently will be a
source of satisfaction to not only Albert
and those who are. interested in the abori-
gines, but to the whole Arunta tribe who
congregate round the Hermannsburg Mis-
sion, as they share in the proceeds. The
community is a socialistic one. A visitor
to the mission, meeting Albert, noticed
he was wearing an overcoat. It was a
warm morning. He asked the reason and
was told that the overcoat belonged to
the community, and first up had the
choice of wearing it. Albert is the proud
father of eight children, and although
only 42 he is a grandfather twice over.
Two sons are in tho forces.
# * * *
“Colonial Cove”: The aura of respec-
tability that graced Petty’s Hotel (B.
29/3/’44) was turned to advantage by a
clever rascal. In September, 1877, there
came to the Australian Joint Stock Bank
letters of credit purporting to be from
Barings, London, drawn in favor of
Senor Miranda, of Miranda Bros.,
Lisbon, for £20,000. A little later the
senor arrived, established himself at
Petty’s and called on the Spanish Consul,
Don A. Arrom de Ayala. To the Don
the senor disclosed a scheme to secure
tracts of Australian land suitable for the
culture of the vine by laborers to be
brought from Spain. Having established
himself with the Consul, whom he enter-
tained lavishly at Petty’s, Miranda called
on the bank, but allowed several weeks
to pass before negotiating his letters of
credit. Finally he drew £7OOO in gold
(allegedly to buy an estate at Port Phillip)
and requested that the remaining £13,000
should be transferred to the Oriental
Bank, Melbourne. With the thorough-
ness of a great artist he collected and
dispatched £4OO-worth of Australian
sample products to the Portuguese Gov-
ernment and in other ways gave his
operations an air of authenticity. Then
on a fateful day he called on the Oriental
Bank, withdrew his £13,000 in gold and
drove away, down to Williamstown,
where the £7OOO was waiting—also a ship
bound for .South America. Just a little
later came word from Barings, repudiat-
ing the letters of credit.
* * * *
“Blue P,”: At a conference of Mel-
bourne agents complaints were heard that
many salacious books and magazines were
being retailed. The newsagents said they
couldn’t do anything about it because
distributing houses sent the stuff in
general orders, and it was on display
before they knew it. All the same, they
agreed that it should be suppressed. Well,
they can suppress it easily enough it
they agree not to sell it. I’ve yet to
hear of a butcher charged with selling
crook snorks complain that they came
from the distributor, and he couldn’t do
anythhfg about it, though I must admit
some publicans use this defence of bad
liquor.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: In a report to Minister
of Education Hollway, the Vic. Council
of Public Education expresses the opin-
ion that no good purpose could be served
by class lessons in sex education given
by class teachers. In fact, the council
fears that such a procedure would be
dangerous, as it would tend to give undue
emphasis to the question and arouse un-
healthy curiosity. Osbert Sitwell put
that attitude neatly. He said that after
he had been taught the facts of life at
school from analogies with flowers by a
cold, scientifically-minded teacher he was
ashamed to look a daffodil in the face.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”; Kelly the crow has his cham-
pions, and Tim Bracken I would call the
champion of champions. I was made
aware of Tim’s status one day when, after
ten minutes of careful stalking through
the saplings, I was just taking a bead on
a crow sitting on a dead box when the
gun was knocked up and a fierce voice
upbraided me for a would-be murderer
of the friend of man. I was so staggered
that before I realised it I was listening
to Tim’s story. “Once, I’m prospectin’
Wombat Gully,” he said. “I’m on me
own, an’ when I’m satisfied there ain’t
no gold there I make fer Split
Ridge, 30 miles away across a dry
stretch. I get lost, an’ on the third day,
with the temperachur about 130 in the
waterbag that I ain’t got, me tongue’s
goin’ black an’ I’m startin’ to walk in
circles an’ sling me clobber off. I’d
noticed a big crow follerin’ me since
early that momin’. As I get weaker
Kelly gets more darin’, an’ in the end he
comes in dead close, so I grabs a big
gibber an’ with all me failin’ strength I
lets fly at him, hittin’ him fair on the
scone. Then I hears a splash, an’ —yair,
me gibber had fallen right in the middle
of the on’y soak for 20 miles. An’ wot’s
more, as I go over later to where the
crow lay—l thought I might be able to
do somethin’ fer the poor cow, but he’s
dead —I find a lOoz. nugget slap, along-
side his carcass! ”
“H.A.L.”: A weapon that will hold its
own against all others in a jungle war
is the longbow. It is light and silent;
you can improvise the ammunition, or
even the weapon itself, with only a knife
for a tool, and it is as deadly as a bullet.
As to rapidity of fire, tests with rifleman
versus archer, each firing five shots, have
always resulted in the longbowman get-
ting the shots off quicker and with a
better group on-the target. As a hunting
weapon the longbow will take beating; I
have had several meals of duck, wild
goose, fish and ’roo, all brought down
with it, during the past |ew months.
Nothing can equal the longbow) for bag-
ging surface-swimming fish which refuse
to bite, such as the Queensland fresh-
water mullet. The Queensland ghittoe or
saffron heart is for bow-staves fully equal
to the Spanish yew of the English long-
bows which wrought such havoc among
the steel-clad knights at Cressy and Agin-
court. Up in the islands the black palm
and the Chinese bamboo are two excellent
woods used by the natives for their bows.
The bowman, of course, needs a guard
for his left wrist to prevent the string
from cutting it; an old webbing gaiter
can be adjusted to that use. The string
is best made from a piece of cutty hunk ;
in the islands strands of the inner bark
of the pohon wahroo tree make a good
cord. Natives string their bows with a
strip of green bamboo, but I can’t man-
age it myself, nor can I attain any accu-
racy with their unfeathered arrows. 1
get best results by making my arrows
of the straight sticks of the Queensland
brown kurrajong, with points forged
from eight-gauge steel wire and steered
by tail feathers from the magpie goose.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Scene 1: An average
country township; two average blokes
sitting on the pub verandah. First bloke,
nodding towards a turnout jogging in,
“Curse these Commandos!"
presumably for the stock sales: “That
chestnut of Buckley’s is lookin’ better
since Johnson bought ’im.” Second
bloke: “Yair, but Johnno’s le'ttin’ ’im get
lazy—’e never used to drag ’is toes like
that.” Pause. Then: “Who’s that corn-
in’ in on Robson’s taffy?” “Dunno yet.
H’m, must be the son-in-law home on
leave.” Pause. “Ain’t that the colt Dixon
sold to Collins last winter?” “Yairs ;
looks a bit different clipped, but ’e’s made
up into a nuggety pony.” Pause. Then:
“See that old creamy? I ’aven’t seen
’er for about fifteen years; my old man
bred ’er.” And so on. Scene 2: Holly-
wood’s conception of an American
western town, the chief occupation of
which is horse-rearing. The good-bad-
man, having stuck up the sheriff and
traded a lame horse for the Law’s striking
black, rides down the main street. No-
body notices anything amiss. He rides
to the livery stable and hands over the
swapped moke to the care of the pro-
prietress. That young lady (born among
horses) yarns for some time, during which
time Luv at short-sight sets in, then sud-
denly starts —she’s recognised the horse
as belonging to her boy friend the sheriff.
Hooray for,Hollywood and its realism!
* « * *
“The Heel”: Recently, in a short story
with a rural setting, I read that the bush
“rang with cooees” as a search party
moved through the scrub on the track of
a lost child. And latqr “his feeble cooee”
was heard and brought swift succor. Of
course, we’ve all heard Bourke-street
pioneers giving tongue to the alleged Aus-
sie call as they battled through the track-
less wilds of the Sherbrooke Forest. But,
in my experience, when Dad wanted to
attract Dave’s attention at anything up to
half a mile, he simply parted his whiskers
and bellowed “Hoi!”
“M.U.R.”: Youths and cocked guns,
is it (B. 3/5/’44)? A visiting youth
wanted some duck shooting, so I armed
him with a .410 bore and led the way
with my old 12-bore s.b. gun. He was
creeping along behind me on the edge
of the river when X happened to notice
that not only was his fowling piece
pointed at the middle of my back but
he had the darned thing cocked. I
jumped sideways and whirled to curse
him for an idiot, but so startled him that
he half-turned in alarm, his artillery ex-
ploded and a black duck which had risen
when I shouted copped the lot. To this
day he avers he is the smartest snap-shot
the river ever saw, and there’s nothing I
can do about it.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: True, I never knew the
difference between slag and mullock until
“Gumsucker” (B. 3/ 5 / ’44) pulled me up,
never having worked in a goldmine,
though I’ve done a bit of prospecting.
In St. Arnaud (Vic.) the heaps I referred
to came from cyanide treatment works,
and while Mat and I were there we discov-
ered a bunch of local juveniles carrying
sleds made from sheets of iron towards
the Lord Nelson heaps, which almost
poured into the town’s main street. The
youngsters rode these sleds down the
slopes of the heaps ; they called it “slidin’
down the slag.” Who was I to question
the correctness or otherwise of their
description?
* sfc * *
“S.G.”; Out in western Queensland a
12-year-old lad cooked for his father and
elder brother, who were sinking a test
shaft for coal. The young cook was ex-
pected to keep the pot supplied by means
of a pea rifle, there being wild pigeons,
wallabies and other things about. With
two days to go to the end of the job
and only three bullets left the kid struck
a bad patch. There was no normal game
about, so he downed two butcher-birds and
an owl, plucked and cleaned them, burnt
feathers and offal and served them up
as pigeons and parrot. After smacking
their lips his elders fell into a discussion
about the gastronomic attributes of vari-
ous birds, and finally declared that they’d
have to be mighty near starving before
eating crow, butcher-bird'or owl, though
“if a man could get the kind of parrots
young Jim just cooked he’d never worry
about meat.”
♦ * * *
“Esk D.”: If those fenced-in rabbits
(B. 5/4/’44) had no access to water
they’d have turned up their toes in the
first dry spell. The probability is that
they’ve burrowed into a soak or catch-
ment in the rocks. In drought times
rabbits move en masse as dams and rivers
dry up, and it is not unusual for well-
watered territory nearly free of the pesls
to become overstocked almost overnight.
“Edjudina”: Out on the sandhills
and plains towards the Centre I have
caught rabbits for which water was an
unknown fluid. Roots of mallee, pig-
weed and samphire are all they require ;
on pigweed and samphire they feast
w'hile the fingers are green, and even
when the top growth withers it has to be
a long, long drought before all the deep-
driven roots perish also. Bunny digs for
them, finding both food and water.
* * * *
“Trey-C.”: It is a sad tale “Zake” (B.
19/4/’44) tells about that ancient mili-
tary ammunition made available for
shooting dingoes ; still, after half a life-
time spent on dingo country I can’t
muster sympathy for the cocky who has
no other method of offence. Here in
our Queensland district a few of us have
been consistently poisoning and shoot-
ing for 20-odd years, while the rest of
’em meet every so often and demand that
Authority take immediate and appro-
priate action to wipe out the pests. Not,
mind you, that they don’t believe in poison-
ing or shooting ; they do. But poisoning
is an awful nuisance, for cattle-dogs have
to be trained to instant and invariable
obedience; paddocks have to be con-
stantly baited; baits must be varied and
compounded and all the etceteras kept up
to the mark ; and, not least by any means,
strychnine needs to be handled carefully.
As for shooting, the whatnots are
never in sight when one has the rifle, and
when one hears them it’s too blasted cold
to get out of bed, anyway. Recently,
after much agitation, our shire council
procured baits for a Dingo Week.
Seven landholders applied for them. It
was out of season or something. So
the tired agitationists sent a rep. to a
meeting, which sent a delegation to the
Minister demanding that doggers be put
on. The Minister shooed ’em out. Told
them to go home and do the job them-
selves. The Fascist cow!
* * * *
“Sarina”: It certainly dries up fast
after rain on the N.Q. coast (B. 12/4/’44).
After the usual dry winter and spring
an early-morning thunderstorm last
October yielded more than 6in. of rain
in a few hours. Then the sky cleared.
A warm day followed, and in the evening
we burned firebreaks, making a good,
clean job. When you’ve been farming for
many years you burn your horse and
cattle paddocks cunningly. A burn after
a good rain in late spring means an
instant shoot of green grass. The damp
ground shields the grass roots from the
heat. Dry-Weather firing means a very
hot fire, injured grass roots and slow,
weak ratooning.
* # #
“Pat Ater”: Isn’t the dog’s tail (B.
19/4/’44) used mainly for leverage?
Watch a setter in action ; his tail acts
like a boat's rudder as he turns at right
angles, hot on the chase. The fox with his
long bushy tail is master of the weaving,
turning run. Apart from the ’roo, the
animal which makes the best use of its
tail is the flying phalanger. Should
danger threaten even when it is in the
act of volplaning out of a tree a
switch of the long streaming tail will
enable it to land on a tree trunk to
right or left of that originally selected.
The phalanger’s tail is longer than his
body. But “Billy See” should know
that the koala is not of the true bear
tribe at all, and that way back in evolu-
tion he probably lost his tail, finding it
inconvenient to the favorite sitting posture
in the fork of a tree.
♦
“P.A.”; “Sur Cingle’s” rusty-knife ex-
perience (B. 26/4/’44) gives credence to
the theory once expounded to me by an
old gardener—an Englishman who’d
“mowed the crops in June” with his
scythe—that “gettin’ ’em rusty does ’em
good ; rusts the iron out of ’em.” The
procedure he adopted was to hang the
implement out in the open all winter. He
contended that the rust-covered blade
when sharpened took a better edge.
* * * *
“Pawang”: I have been reading a book
on horse-breaking written 40 years ago
by an Australian horseman who lived all
his life in stockyards and on stations.
It is astounding how well he understood
the basic principles of behavior, the im-
portance of associations in the training
of horses ; how an unfortunate memory
attached to a stable could determine a
horse’s subsequent reactions; how a ner-
vous trainer will induce nervousness in
a horse and a confident trainer the re-
verse. He even came to the conclusion
that there is no such thing as a vicious
horse, just as modern psychologists say
there are no bad boys, only badly-trained
ones. This man of the Australian back-
blocks was as sensitive to horses’ feel-
ings as Freud was to the feelings of
human beings, and he lived at a time
when harsh methods of breaking-in
horses were as prevalent as harsh methods
of dealing with delinquent children ; and
his acquaintance with horses brought him
to similar conclusions to those Freud came
to. Yet a professor of psychology would
laugh if you told him you thought a
stockyard was a better school in which
to acquire psychological understanding
than a university.
THE KID.
[Frank Smiley, president of Cobb and Co.’s
Drivers’ Association, is 87 today (May 10). He
started driving at the age of 16, and was known as
The Kid.]
The Kid’s hands had a firm, light touch
To steer his five-in-hand —
His big brake had a mighty clutch.
But Frank, he never used it much,
He drove the Overland.
The hoofs of his good teams rang far
When, west of Bendigo,
By light of day and moon and star,
He drove for Cobb and Co.
The raw teams on the Colac run
Were wild ones from the bush;
To be rough-handled one by one —
The wheels went like a Gatling gun
When with a rearing rush
We let them go on open roads
That led to Melbourne Town,
To gallop with their reeling loads
Until they settled down.
Maybe they’d race for half a day . . .
‘Twas “All aboard!” and “Right away!”
And those who missed her had to stay.
Many a race they won, men say—
The Kid and Cobb and Co.
The coaches had the right-of-way;
On the road’s crown the mails must stay
The Kid would have you know.
And once the mails were in the boot
The driver was the boss;
Even when, bushies came to shoot
He’d argue out the toss . ..
The “pickaxe” teams had power and speed—
Two veterans in the wheel
And three brave youngsters in the lead:
Five raking roadsters full of breed.
They made the tired miles reel
And fall behind in weariness
Beneath the baking suns:
Ten miles an hour they did, no less,.
On those old bushland runs.
The ghosts of old teams run tonight—
Five lamps to every coach.
The horses’ hoofbeats fall so light
They give the old farm cows a fright
Unwarned of their approach.
Each driver on his high box-seat
Sways to the rolling wheels;
Where ghost-land and the old roads meet
And memory gently steals,
We see them passing, Ned Devine,
A 1 Hamilton —the dim stars shine
On Pegleg and old Timber-line.
They tip their elbows as they go—
Jim Nairn and Handsome George,
Owen Malone and Offside Joe:
From blazing plain and mountain snow,
By old Mat Johnson’s forge,
’Neath the dim starlight pass the ghosts
As all must pass some day,
While on old pub verandah posts
Tire busy spiders play.
“Salute The Kid!” they softly call,
“He is the veteran of them all.
Salute”.. .the soft ghost echoes fall!
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Old-timer”: Old Jim had a hand-
some grey cat as his hut mate. It was
popularly believed that each knew what
the other was thinking, and sundry per-
sons who’d managed to get close to the
hut before being discovered asserted that
they’d heard Jim discussing various mat-
ters with the cat. From this sprang a
local conviction that the blessed cat could
talk, and there were blokes prepared to
bet on it. Matters came to a head in
the pub one Saturday, when the school-
master scornfully derided the notion. The
drinks had flowed fairly freely, and
shortly a deputation, including the scep-
ti6al pedagogue, left for the hut, where
the question was put straight to the
owner. “Of course he talks t’ me,”
asserted James; “howinell else would a
cove know what he thought?” The
schoolie demanded a visual and aural
demonstration. Jimmy got his back up.
“I ain’t askin’ y’t’ believe it,” he snorted.
“Ah’ I don’t care a button whether y’
do or not. That flamin’ cat can talk,
that’s all I know. Now, you blokes clear
out an’ leave a man in peace.” The
deputation withdrew. “Blasted nuisances,”
growled Jimmy, shutting the door. Then
he looked down at the cat and said “Silly
lot o’ goats. Reckon you an’ me couldn’t
understand each other. Make y’ laugh,
wouldn’t it?” The cat arched its back.
“Too bloody right,” it said.
“... .Then just before comin' on shift I gently pat in a dab of cold
cream."
“Betcha”; Having promised Scottie a
hand to inoculate his ewes 1 rode over at
daylight and mustered his rough bush
paddock. At the yards I counted them.
“Fourteen ninety-eight,” I announced.
Scottie looked worried. “Y’ sure?” I
ran them through again. “Right,” I
called ; “I’ll bet on it.” “Some missin’
then,” was his verdict. “Might as well do
the lot while we’re at it. Wonder if y'd
ride back ’n’ see if y’ missed a jjunch
anywhere?” I combed gullies and slopes
for two hours and reported back. “Not
a sign of ’em, Scottie.” The old chap
hooked a heel over the lower rail and
stroked his chin. “Trouble is,” he
drawled, “once y’ open that inoculatin’
stuff it won’t keep, an’ bein’ hard t’ get
now they tell y’ not t’ waste it.”
“Couldn’t you run in a mob of wethers,”
I suggested, “and give some of them a
shot?” “No, they don’t need it,” grunted
Scottie. “Well, what about your lambs?”
“Aw, they’ll hang out awhile yet.” He
rubbed a hand over his pate. “I dunno,”
he worried, “ ’less we leave ’em till next
week. Don’t seem sense doin’ them four-
teen ninety-eight, does it, when there’s
enough stuff there f’r fifteen hundred
doses?”
* * * *
“Botano”: When I speak of the grass-
tree growing only about a foot in a
century I allude only to the species com-
monly called the blackboy of south-west
W.A. “Sarina’s” grass-tree of N.Q. (B.
5/ 4/ ’44) may be of quite a different
species, capable of quick growth. I know
the zamia palms of Queensland are dif-
ferent altogether from those of W.A. The
eastern variety grows with a stout, tall
trunk, whereas the western one is alto-
gether a ground palm, throwing out dis-
tinctive fronds, but carrying very little of
what might be called a trunk. I have had
several W.A. grass-trees under observa-
tion for some 20 years, and though they
have thrown up annual flower spears
they have made no perceptible trunk
growth. And the grass, weeds and kan-
garoo paws grow all around them, each
in its own special season.
* ❖ * *
“C.E.”: I ask forbearance of old hands
to humor “T.l.P.’s” (B. 19/4/ ’44) urban
innocence. You see, sonnie, stockowners
brand their newly-bought sheep for con-
venience and lest the animals stray back
to their former home. For no matter
how honest the selling neighbor may be,
with similar sheep wearing identical
brands and earmarks a man is looking
for trouble when he claims strays. Why
did Ma: take a saw? Simply because to
cut a decent-sized tree off a fence a saw
is much easier work, and to any but an
expert axeman is also quicker. Then,
after hauling bogged stock from the
waterholes, she went hunting dog tucker.
Because an animal is bogged doesn’t
mean that it is dead, and a constant
round of the dams is maintained to mini-
mise loss. If found early enough it often
means merely hauling or digging out the
animal and walking it about till the stiff-
ness goes from its legs. One could do it
your way, “T.1.P.,” but in this district
it isn’t usual to feed high-priced stock
to dogs when there are rabbits around for
the catching. Then, the feed query. In
late summer there is very often an abun-
dance of tall dry grass, grass from which
the seed has long since fallen, and from
which the sun has dried most of the food
value, making it useful only as roughage.
On such pastures sheep languish. Horses
and cattle, lacking more nourishing
fodder, will eat it, and this herd stock
will hold or lose condition according to
the animals’ physical constitution. But
to expect dairy cows to produce profit-
ably from a diet of bleached grass straw
would be futile; while no decent bloke
would ask a working nag to face his daily
job without the added nourishment of
chaff, hay, grain or something similar.
Incidentally, “T.1.P.,” there was nothing
to say that bushfi re in question was in
the grass country, nor, for that matter,
that there was any grass.
“Chuck”: Slogger was having a grand
time at the picnic race meeting till a par-
ticularly zealous John came along to
spoil things. Slogger resented it. Not,
he pointed out, that he objected to any
man doing his duty, but when he looked
so flaming conceited over it it was up to
Slogger to teach him better manners.
The lesson started with some neat foot-
work and short-arm jabs that soon had
the cop rocking groggily. His whistle
brought another officer, and after one
glorious round they subdued the dis-
“Grab y'r weppin , George — Zeros!”
turber of order. Before a large audience
he was ordered peremptorily into
a commandeered springcart, and as he
climbed up a baton landed smartly across
his hindquarters. It needed only a few
seconds for Slogger to rip off the tail-
board, and, swinging round, he sent both
Johns quickly to sleep. Then the towns-
folk plied water and brandy; as the
Johns slowly regained the perpendicular
a long-suffering voice came from the
cart. “Well,” it mourned, “if you two
mugs have stopped playing flash you can
come an’ take me t’ the booby-hatch.”
!j! * * *
“Blime”: After seeing Kelly bag a
couple of foxes Stan made himself a
squealer, spent a few days practising the
right note, then, armed with a rifle, set
off to try his luck. About three miles
out he selected a gully, crawled in against
the breeze, and, concealing himself, pro-
duced his decoy. At the first squeal a
fox appeared far down the gully and sat
up. Stan grinned, squealed again, and
as the fox started forward another
emerged from the ferns close by. Ex-
cited at his success the newchum turned
to look for the rifle and noticed two more
foxes approaching from higher up the
slope. For a moment he gaped help-
lessly ; then he spotted a fifth coming fast
down the spur behind him. Grabbing
the rifle Stan sighted first at one animal,
then quickly changed to another. “No,”
he gasped, swinging the weapon once
more, “better take the nearest —cripes,
he’s too small!” The rifle wavered un-
certainly around three parts of a circle;
then, jumping to his feet, Stan shrieked:
“Get t’ blazes out of it, y’ silly cows, ’n’
come up one at a time!”
* * * *
“Drover”: Temjporary earth burial
does render a possum palatable (B.
5/4/’44), and I have often seen possum
“chokers” complete the culinary job. A
hole was dug in the ground and a fire
built up until there was a good supply
of coals, on which the gutted possum was
dropped; the earth was then shovelled
in and another fire made on top. The
possum was left in the oven overnight,
and when taken out would be found
cooked to a T and a feed for the gods.
I’ve used the same method for cooking
a kangaroo tail.
* * * *
“Aperist”: Having opened hives hun-
dreds of times I would need a lot of con-
vincing that smoke terrifies the inmates
(B. 5/4/’44). Bees have no conception
of terror, though they" do manifest anger.
To open a hive without use of a smoker
one needs to be closely veiled, gloved
and clothed from neck to ankles in a
one-piece denim overall; and even then
the bees may find a crevice or a thin spot
in the armor. But with the smoker one
may on a fine day work the hive in a
, sleeveless singlet, and with the veil rolled
back over the hat brim. In the first case
we have angry bees, in the second soothed
bees. As for the suggestion that when
Apis smells the smoke she thinks her
house is on fire and loads up with honey
preparatory to clearing out —well, that’s
just what she wouldn’t do. After the
queen bee returns from her nuptial flight
she leaves the hive again only once: to
lead a swarm forth in search of a new
home ; but should the time not be due
for that flight nothing would force her to
leave, not though the woodwork of the
hive were crackling and the combs melt-
ing. And while the queen stays the bulk
of the workers stay with her; all to
perish together.
“Lower Tops’!”: At the commence-
ment of the Bass Strait mutton-birding
season a few weeks back the party of
Cape Barren Island half-castes who left
by auxiliary ketch to work Chapel Island
were very apprehensive of an increased
number of snakes there. The bleak, hill-
like island, on which was once the largest
mutton-bird rookery in the strait, has
been spelled for two years, and any time
it’s a bad place for copperheads. But the
catchers —those individuals who crawl
from burrow to burrow thrusting their
bare arms down the hole-nests to grab
the greyish fledglings—almost always
know if a snake is the occupant. A warm
temperature at the mouth of a work-
ing burrow denotes a live bird ; a cold
temperature, a dead bird with a reptile
beside it. Occasionally a warm burrow
in which a snake is about to kill the bird
misleads these half-castes, and it is then
they put on their time-honored trick of
pulling the snake out of the hole and
thrusting their bare arm back again for
the bird.
“Plane Creek”: The old joke about
boiling tough objects with a gibber until
the latter softened was first sprung half
a century back. The settlers had their
eyes on the “wooden pears” that were
once plentiful in the Queensland bush.
The tree bears pear-shaped fruit of solid
wood, which hang by the wide instead
of the narrow end, which explains why
Cap’n Cook called ’em “wooden peaches,”
The pioneers reckoned that slow 1 stewing
might render the pears edible. The
boongs familiar with the white man's
cooking methods, grinningly donated the
“gibber longa pot” method on being
pressed for information.
* * % *
“U. Hittus”: We were sitting outside
the soak in a W.A. goldfields town when
a prospector passed by. “That chap
must be pretty old,” I said to Joe; “he's
bent nearly double.” “That’s not caused
by old age,” said Joe; “why, Dan Brit-
ton’s only 85. I remember when he was
as straight as a ramrod. But he was too
clean —used to sweep out his camp three
times a day until the earth floor became
much lower than its surroundings. Then
one hot, sultry night, after kicking all his
blankets off on to the floor, he fell asleep.
He woke in the early hours shivering
with cold. Groping for the blankets his
hand came in contact with water. Heavy
rain had fallen, the water had rushed into
the hollow and soaked all his clobber.
Nearly perished, he was lucky I happened
to call on him next morning. I dosed
him up with whisky and gradually got him
round again.” “Is that what caused the
curvature in his spine?” I asked. “Well,
indirectly,” said Joe ; “but it’s really force
of habit. Y’ see, he shifted his camp,
burnt his broom and would never sweep
his new floor. Now the level has risen
so much he has to walk bent nearly
double to avoid beltin’ his head on the
rafters.”
THE HOLIDAY.
He'd come from Goondiwindi
For a holiday in town;
His eyes were full of distance
And his face was full of brown.
“I’m down t’ see the sights,” he said—
“l hope y’ comprehend;
It’s the first time I bin free for years
With time an’ cash t’ spend.
“I’m sick o’ nursin’ flamin’ sheep,
•I’m sick o’ lambs an’ ewes;
Ridin’ round ’em every day—
It gives a man the blues.
1 wish y’d show a bloke around —
Y ! gather what I mean?
I’m hoggin’ f’r a bit o’ life;
It’s dull out where I been.”
We showed him girls on Bondi beach,
The Cross on Friday night;
We took him out to Randwick
And to a Leichhardt fight,
With picture shows and ferry trips
And frequent stops for beer.
But the man from Goondiwindi
Viewed all with face austere.
.’Twas plain he wasn’t stirred a bit
By bathing girl or pug;
We racked our brains to bring a' smile
Upon his sun-burned mug.
We turned the city inside out.
The deeper grew his gloom;
Though he brightened up a trifle
When viewing Wentworth’s tomb.
He disappeared. For days on end
We wondered where he’d gone.
We wondered more when he came back
With eyes that fairly shone.
He wouldn’t tell us what he’d struck —
It wore a skirt, we guessed—
For the man from Goondiwindi
Had ceased to be depressed.
We trailed him one bright morning v
And found him in the shade,
Watching sheep come out of stock-trains
Where city butchers trade.
We left him drinking in the scene
And quietly stole away;
Left the man from Goondiwindi
To enjoy his holiday.
N.S.W
PITT ST.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON SJOCK, AN!D ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
• LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, krOGR AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW’ SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. 'TO
CERTAIN DEATH
aoa&t,
to RABBITS
sd
k
(Regd.)
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
throughout Australia.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LYS
J 6
RROO
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.,
mm
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
<- &'
K ■ ■
m
m
iS
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Beef Show,
“Bulago”: Exhibits, in numbers and
quality, were a tribute to the tenacity of
Australian stud breeders in difficult con-
ditions. Despite rail travel restrictions,
labor shortage and scarcity of feed there
were more cattle of every breed from
more studs (including several new to Syd-
ney), and there was a remarkable advance
in quality in several sections. A larger
and keener crowd followed the judging
than had been seen for years.
In the Shorthorn section studs from
four States competed. Coonong sent a
beautifully balanced team of the rich-
red, deep-bodied youngsters that are
keeping up the Red Baronet reputation.
Nalpa (S.A.) scored with its character-
istic white cattle, and Calool was also to
the fore. Awards were widely distributed,
and several newcomers triumphed in good
company. Bulls were mostly young, and
the tops were equal to anything yet seen.
Two Coonong bulls met in close con-
test for the championship. Copnong
Kiltie, now owned by E. L. Killen, had
age and scale on his side, but Coonong
Napoleon had everything else. Just over
12 months old, he is by Coonong K.C.8.,
and is one of the neatest, most compact
little bulls ever seen in Sydney. Deep
red-roan in color, he is very low set,
handles beautifully and will be worth
watching. He was unlucky to lose the
championship, but won reserve and
junior championship ribbons. Banool
and Nalpa shared senior and junior
female honors.
No breed has shown more improve-
ment in the past few years than Polled
Shorthorns. This year’s lot was outstand-
ing-prize-winners of several shows' ago
would form the tail today. Nine' studs
were represented, and the keenness of
the competition was such-that all col-
lected ribbons.
K. G. Mackinnon won championship
and junior championship with a neat
young red bull, beating the older Gundi-
bri Standard 41st and a Gunawarra bull.
Cows were few, but quality was good,
Netherby just beating a roan Peel heifer.
Junior ribbons went to Albinia and
Gunnawarra.
Hereford numbers and quality gave the
judge a full-time job. There were 68
entries in the class for bulls 15 to 18
months, and they were judged in two
divisions. The blue ribbon went to a
Colly Creek bull, with a beautiful head
and lines, that later won the reserve and
junior championships. Colly Creek cattle
were a fine lot, and figured high among
the prizes, though Fenwick’s Myalls ran
them close. Several comparative new-
comers scored well and showed the wis-
dom of sound foundations laid by buy-
ing first-class stock.
Windsor won the championship with
Lancaster, a beautiful two-year-old that
proved his sire, Windsor Puritan, as good
as the judges reckoned several years ago.
A stylish Timor heifer was champion and
junior champion; she is an outstanding
yearling. Myall and Herbert Park
females won reserve ribbons.
Polled Hereford quality was uneven,
but some good animals were shown. Very
few cows were entered, and with the
exception of the champion cow —Milton-
bred, but owned by H. T. Thompson —
female premier ribbons went to Merawah,
which had reserve bull champions. The
Milton polls were still the best all-round
cattle in most classes.
Leading Aberdeen-Angus studs were
well represented, and many cattle showed
the results of the postponed show in their
mossy coats. Chief honors went to
Booroomooka Lochiel, with a N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture bull runner-up.
Abington had some excellent polls. Kah-
lua provided most of the females, hard
to beat in any company.
Devons had faithful old Havilah and
Table Top to represent them ; a pity, as
this hardy breed deserves wider recogni-
tion. Red Polls were limited to two
breeders —Perry Bros, and T. L. and
J. J. L. Fleming. The balance between
beef and milk production varied here,
but the judge observed the distinctions
well throughout,
A Silage Stack.
“Jiff”: If stacked properly the silage
will last a season just as well as in a silo,
and that’s as long as is usually required.
Choose a well-drained site handy to the
feeding area. Put in strong posts to form
the frame of the stack and to keep it in
shape as it settles. A stack 12ft. x 10ft.
and 15ft. high will hold from 25 tons to
35 tons, according to the fodder used.
The posts should be 17ft. or 18ft. long,
as they should be sunk at least 2ft. in
the ground. For a stack this size 12 to
14 posts will be needed, connected with
wire around the top to keep the stack in
shape.
If using maize, sorghum or anything
with heavy stalks, take care to stack all
the stalks one way in alternate layers
to keep air out. If you have lucerne,
clover, cowpeas or soft grass, mix them
in whilst stacking. It will help in making
the stack airtight and result in a better
balanced fodder. If the fodder is a bit
dry, damp it down with a watering-can
as each layer is put on.
When the stack is complete top it with
an even covering of heavy logs. Stones
or dirt can be used, but if they are top
with a layer of grass first. The main
thing is to get plenty of weight on top
to compress it well and keep the air out.
A tarpaulin or a few sheets of corrugated
iron should roof the stack in wet country.
Silage made in this manner will be
ready for use in about two months. Stock
may not be very keen on it at first, but
will soon go for it in a big way. If
the silage has set very hard, as it will if
it consists of a soft class of fodder, break
it out by cutting with an axe and lift
out in slabs a layer at a time.
Pastures for Erosion.
“Hux”: In grazing areas where the
rainfall is heavy you can’t beat peren-
nial rye grass, cocksfoot, Phalaris
tuberosa, white and subterranean clovers,
Kentucky blue grass, tall fescue and
paspalum.
For sand dunes use marram grass
when the rainfall’s above Min.; at or
below that use blue lupin, burr and barrel
medick or evening primrose. Wimmera
rye and lucerne hold well in high-rainfall
areas; veldt grass is moderately good
under moderate to low rain averages.
Kikuyu and buffalo suit the 20in. country.
Spinifex and marram grasses have been
used with success on the hummocks of
the Victorian coastline. Kikuyu and long-
styled feather grass are A 1 binders on
loose soils. Couch grass is aggressive,
hardy, forms a dense mat and easily
springs up from seed ; it’s dormant in
winter. Sorrel has a deep-rooting system
and flourishes under low-fertility condi-
tions.
Where there’s some moisture in
summer, Kikuyu throws a permanent
cover over banks, and is frost-resistant.
Paspalum, a slow starter, is drought-
resistant and a good soil-binder; Phalaris
is slow in the first year but, like paspalum,
serves a double purpose ; both will with-
stand days under water. Kentucky blue
grass ranks amongst the most persistent;
spreads rapidly.
For the bottoms of gullies, water
couch will produce a dense mass of roots
under wet conditions; propagate by cut-
tings. Reed canary grass doesn’t mind
damp either, is rank, tenacious and has
a fodder value. For wet gullies in the
higher-rainfall districts try greater bird’s-
foot trefoil.
Pig Feeding.
“Myrrhee”; Even if milk is plentiful
it is advisable to feed lib. or more per
head of grain daily to growing and fin-
ishing pigs. When holding for heavier
weights take care to make them bigger
and not fatter by keeping the food allow-
ance at the same amount after the pigs
have reached the desired degree of fat-
ness. For example, if pigs weighing
2001 b. alive are given as much as they
can eat, they may consume four gallons
of separated milk and 31b. of grain per
head daily. If, instead of marketing them
at this weight, even though fat enough,
they are kept for another two or three
weeks on the same daily quantity of
food they will reach about 2301 b. live-
weight. They will be longer, but not
much fatter, because their growth rate
will have decreased to about per
day.
Sunflowers.
“Sarina”: Like other Peruvian plants
the sunflower grows well in eastern Aus-
tralia, particularly along the coast. It
needs a potash-rich soil which should be
deeply cultivated and well drained. With-
out plenty of potash the sead-heads will
not develop as they should. The seed is
excellent for fowl feed and canary food ;
the plants are relished by stock and make
excellent silage.
Difficulty of obtaining potassic ferti-
lisers should not prevent farmers from
growing sunflowers. Farmyard manures
will give good results, and newly-cleared
land carrying the ashes from grubbed
and burned timber is ideal.
Seed is ready for harvesting in from
four to five months from seeding. Cut
off the seed-heads before the seed is too
ripe and spread them out on a hard
floor to dry. Protect from rain or heavy
dews. Turn the heads over occasionally.
Leave the heads until they are dry, when
the seed may be removed by rubbing with
the hands. Remove all fluffy material by
winnowing. Finally, store the seed in
bags in a cool, dry shed.
Best period for sunflower seeding is
during spring and early summer months.
The plants are helped along by heat and
rainstorms.
Hints for the Farm,
“B-gar”: Tell “Bughouse” (B. 12/4/’44)
that the “white grubs” he found in the
marrow of the horns of some sheep were
bots. Sheep become infested when the
fly (Oestrus ovis) deposits its eggs in or
about the nostrils. When hatched the
larvae work their way up the nostrils and
gradually reach the sinuses of the head,
where they remain until they develop.
Except loss of condition, bots don’t do
much harm.
“Sarina”: Another remedy for greasy
heels (B. 15/3/’44) is an azure-blue solu-
tion of copper sulphate (bluestone). Wash
the weeping parts first, dry and apply
the solution. For good results move the
patients to well-drained land. Sloppy
yards should be drained and wet dung
removed from stalls.
“Green Ink”: Put an extra fastener
or two in the bale flaps, or a couple of
stitches in each corner to stop dust.
Many stores stack their wool on cement
floors, and the constant trucking makes
a fine dust, which gets into the wool.
Tight bales prevent this. Owners of two
or three bales often write their brands
on with a hand brush. This is crude and
slow. If you can’t cut a metal stencil
plate, cut one out of strong cardboard.
This will last many seasons if put away
carefully after use.
“Plane Creek”: Indian wax scale
knocks fruit-trees about in warm districts.
Simply dissolve 31b. ordinary washing
soda in Bgal. of hot water. Before the
solution is quite cool spray the trees
generously. If results are unsatisfactory
the infestation is severe and the treat-
ment should be repeated. The tiny para-
sites that cause the trouble are particu-
larly susceptible to the spray during the
late summer months.
“Mi Mi”: When you plant pine-trees
for windbreaks, don’t plant too near
fences, house or farm buildings. In no
time they will absorb all the soil in-
gredients and moisture, poke their roots
through the lawns, and push beneath
fence and house foundations. Plant
where the roots can spread and not be a
hindrance to plant and shrub cultivation.
“Gip”: Charters Towers (N.Q.)
graziers and dairymen are using nicotine
sulphate (Black Leaf 40) to combat the
buffalo fly. They say it kills the fly in-
stantly. It is best to spray cattle and
horses with it after every heavy rain.
Flies then settling on the animals drop
off dead in thousands. Without rain, it
lasts up to a month at a time. The mix-
ture is sold in small bottles for spraying
vegetables, but if it has been proved a
success against the buffalo fly it should
be available in larger quantities.


In all probability, this little boy’s grandfather was sceptical when
he heard that men had flown. He probably told the little boy s
father that it was “agin Nature” for men to fly . . . But this little
boy , , . and his father, too, will be able to fly as fast as sound;
and that before they are very much older.
This almost unbelievable progress is crowded within the memory
of living man. For the past twenty-three years Qantas has kept
pace with every outstanding development.
QANTAS
empire airways limited
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Townsville.
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
It's your fight your money is needed
now. Buy War Savings Certificates and
5 A National Savings Stamps.
19540*11.43
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
War in France.
(From N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”)
There is a war in France today. * It
has been going on ever since France de-
clared war on Germany in 1939—but it
has not only been a war of German
against Frenchman. Particularly since
the capitulation of Bordeaux the conflict
of Frenchman against Frenchman has
become acute.
Recently from Lisbon, Ralph Heinzen,
of the United Press, reported that this
conflict within France embraces half a
million armed men: the Fascist militia
of Joseph Darnand, Security Minister of
the Vichy Government, plus the police,
against the mass of the poorly equipped
but now well organised forces of the
Underground. Mr. Heinzen asserts that
the civil war exceeds “the ferocity of the
1794 Reign of Terror or the 1871 Com-
mune.”
It could hardly be otherwise. The
men who have followed Vichy from its
first betrayal to its ultimate degradation
have much on their consciences, and
their dreams are haunted by the spectre
of retribution. They will fight savagely
to delay the inevitable as long as pos-
sible. It is total war, in the grimmest
sense of that term, in France today.
Pinks on Poland.
(From a “Wall-street Journal” article by
Thomas F. Woodlock .)
There is something grimly humorous in
the reactions of our “Liberals” to the
sounds emanating from Moscow these
days. Moscow is still “always right,”
but it keeps its friends here on the “ner-
vous seat” by its abrupt sayings and
doings. There is, however, always one
recourse open, and that is to “take it out”
of “Poland,” for this not only eases the
feelings but also softens as with a mist
the rough edges of the Moscow attitude
generally.
Poland is a veritable gift from heaven
for our “pinks.” Poland has all the
“wrong” things and none of the “right”
things and comes nearer to being the
opposite of a “Liberal” community than,
perhaps, does any other occupied nation.
She is disappointingly short of good “re-
volutionary” elements; there are not
many Polish Communists, She has not
had a really sharp agrarian conflict. With
one quarter of all the world’s Jews in
her territory she had less violent anti-
Semitism than had Russia in Czarist days.
Definitely slanted to the “Right” in the
ultimates, Poland easily lends herself to
comprehensive condemnation by all good
“Liberals” as “Fascist.” A particularly
annoying thing in her case is that of all
the overrun countries in Europe she is
the only one which, apparently, sprouted
no Quislings under the German plough
and does not seem to be sprouting a
healthy growth of Communists under the
Soviet fillings.
The “problem” of Poland is quite
simple in terms. It consists of a people
of some 25 millions upwards with a long
national tradition and a deeply national
consciousness, which for a couple of cen-
turies has enjoyed a territorial home and
independence for no more than a scant
20 years. This people exists on a terri-
tory occupied now by two nations both
of which are ethnically, culturally and
traditionally hostile to it, and both are
naturally complementary to each other
in all material things. Both are now
again in contact with each other as they
had been for most of two centuries. They
are at war with each other, it is true, but
this war does not grow out of really
fundamental and permanent issues be-
tween them. The war could end be-
tween Nazis and Russians tomorrow. It
is the fact of Poland’s existence that con-
stitutes the problem—that is the existence
of the Polish nation as a nation between
these two great peoples, with whom the
Polish people have nothing in common.
How convenient it would be if the Polish
people could be liquidated as the Soviets
liquidated some 20 millions of their own
citizens and the Nazis are liquidating
Frenchmen, Belgians, Hollanders and
Poles! That process has worked well
so far!
India’s Would-be Fuhrer.
1 Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Alfred Tyrnauer, “foreign correspon-
dent and lifelong student of India, who has
personally known many of the leaders,” in-
cluding Bose.]
Subhas Chandra Bose, head ,of the
Japanese-sponsored “Free Indian” Gov-
ernment at Singapore, has emerged as the
greatest and most sinister Axis figure of
the war in Asia. He is towering above
all other puppets set up by the Axis; he
is a Fiihrer, a master intriguer and a war-
maker in his own right.
Shrewd, handsome, intelligent, British-
educated, vain and boundlessly ambitious,
Bose has changed from a revolutionary
Socialist into an advocate of Fascism.
With Japanese help he has organised
a “Free Indian” army, consisting chiefly
of Indian prisoners of war captured in
Burma, Malaya, Singapore and the Dutch
East Indies. Their number is claimed to
be about 60,000, but Bose is feverishly
recruiting Indians of the occupied terri-
tories, and announced that he would be
able to put an army of 300,000 in the
field within a few months,
Calcutta, claimed to be the centre of
Bose’s underground organisation, is
Bose’s home town, and his popularity
there was such that he had been elected
mayor on a radical Socialist platform in
1930 while he was behind the bars of a
British prison. Even though his political
views since have undergone a profound
change, he is said to have a large number
of fanatical followers in Bengal, and Bose
proudly claims the blame for all sabo-
tage, riotings and assassinations that are
being committed behind the British lines
guarding India’s eastern frontiers.
Through the powerful, British-built,
Japanese-operated Singapore radio, Bose
broadcasts day and night his propaganda
of hate. Again and again he charges
the British with deliberately depriving the
people of India of food in order to “teach
them a lesson.” Again and again he
incites Indian men and women to revolt.
Bose is a persuasive writer and a fiery
orator. He is an unscrupulous propagan-
dist and an aggressive debater. He is
capable of exploiting, to the utmost
Gandhi’s imprisonment for his purposes,
, , ~ v .• _
an d at the same time attempting t
undermine the prestige of the Mahatma,
Gandhi declared at- the beginning of
the war that he would oppose any action
ca ] cu i ate( j to take advantage of the deadly
danger confronting the British. “I do
not want to the Japanese—-not even
f or f ree i ng India,” he said. Hitler he
ca u e d a “deserved curse on mankind, bc-
cause of its ungo dly ways.” And he
re iterated, “India has no quarrel with the
British people. I love them even as I
i ove my own countrymen.”
Bose saw j n t h e predicament of the
British Empire a “unique opportunity
to drive the British out of India, to kill
t h ems t 0 drown them, to liquidate them,
once an d for all.”
Imprisoned, but later released on the
pro mise that he would refrain from poli-
deal activity, Bose disappeared. He fled
to j apan an d thence to Germany, where
Hitler made him the key man for his
Asiatic strategy.
Early j n t he summer of 1943 a Japa-
neSe submarine took Bose to Singapore,
where he immediately began organising a
“Free Indian” Government and an “army
of liberation.” He concluded alliances
with Premier Songgram, of Thailand, and
Premier Ba Maw, of Burma, and an-
nounced his coming offensive against
British India.
On the day when Field-Marshal Vis-
count Waveil ascended the vice-regal
throne of India in Delhi, Bose proclaimed
the establishment of his counter-Govern-
ment in Singapore,
Yet Bose must read the signs. The
Axis is crumbling, Italy has fallen, Ger-
many is fighting for her life, and Japan’s
inflated empire is shrinking in the shadow
of the gigantic war effort of America and
Britain.
But there was no way back for the
self-appointed Fuhrer of India, once he
set out on a German airplane and a Japa-
nese submarine. It may be a hopeless
gamble, it may serve only to prolong the
war and increase the number of its vic-
tims, but Bose is making a last desperate


6
6
How to get at the
last few drops of
BRYLCREEM
All the Bryicreem at present being made is going to the
Services. So that with Bryicreem being difficult to get,
those last few drops in your jar 'have become very precious
indeed. And because Bryicreem has such excellent tonic
ingredients, there's a lot of good in those few drops. So
we suggest you get them out by adding a teaspoonful of
clean, cold water and shaking the jar vigorously. You’ll find
every drop of cream will come cleanly away from the jar.
Save or Slave—Buy War Savings Certificates.
Designed to serve the needs of men at
peace, I am now the driving force of
hundreds of thousands of army vehicles,
from armoured scout cars to field
kitchens, from gun tractors to mobile
dressing stations;
Hauling petrol and water, bridge units
and folding boats, field workshops,
laundry trailers, ammunition and food;
Driving the winches that wind the cables
of barrage balloons;
The power unit of electrical generators for
radio direction-finders and searchlights;
I turn the propellers of landing barges
nosing through Pacific swells and up the
muddy rivers of New Guinea;
I AM THE
FORD V-8 ENGINE
LEND YOUR MONEY
TO HASTEN VICTORY
m
9V
i B
F33.20.C
FORD V-8 CARS
TRUCKS & UTILITIES
MERCURY CARS
fsdfs
PREFECT 10 H.P.
CARS & UTILITIES
ANGLIA 8 H.P.
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (.Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong, Vic.
LEND
NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS
BONDS.
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
IT
Save - or Slave. Pul
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds,
SO6S s
bid for power. He is reaching out for
the crown of the emperor of India and
for the halo of Mahatma Gandhi. He
believes in human sacrifice.
Stalin Leading on Points.
(From a N.Y . “World-Telegram” article.)
Stalin seems fickle only to those who
judge him as a Red propagandist. As
a hard-boiled practical nationalist he
operates with ruthless consistency, never
missing an opportunity to strengthen
greater Russia and to extend her power.
His diplomatic recognition of the
Badoglio regime is part of the pattern.
The fact that Italian Communists demand
Badoglio’s death and the King’s abdica-
tion is, naturally, of no consequence to
the builder of a Russian sphere of influ-
ence. Badoglio and the King are now in-
debted to Stalin. If that relationship does
not pay off for Russia, he can always
chuck them —and probably he will in
the end.
Stalin was first to recognise De Gaulle,
so he is in on the ground floor in France.
He is also ahead in his German plans,
having set up in Moscow a so-called free
German committee of captured Nazi
generals and others.
In Yugoslavia he backed a winner—
the Moscow-trained Tito, now belatedly
supported also by Britain and the United
States. Bulgaria is pro-Russian as always.
The Russian armies are deep in Poland.
The Baltic States are claimed by Stalin,
and are about to be retaken. Finland
must come to terms will} Moscow, or else.
Czechoslovakia has signed a separate
treaty taking her into the Russian sphere.
Stalin, however, is not a miracle-
worker. He has only taken advantage of
a situation created by Russian military
victories and Anglo-American diplomatic
default. Even in Italy and French Africa,
where we have military power and Stalin
has none, he is stronger because he knows
what he wants and we can’t make up our
minds.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The British have so far borne the brunt of
heavy fighting in North Africa and Italy, the
Australians in New Guinea. — “Life,” U.S.A.
* * * *
A grave food crisis faces Russian civilians
and the Red Army, now 1000 miles from supply
bases. Recaptured farmland was too devas-
tated by the Nazis to yield any food for many
months, so from now until August it will be a
vital problem of the U.S. Government to keep
the Red Army supplied with food.— Washington
“Star” correspondent.
* * *
So far in this war the great nations have not
yet found a solid basis for lasting peace. The
victory on the battlefield may come here this
year and it may not, but the only true victory,
the victory of lasting peace and security which
alone will justify the sacrifices of this slaughter,
is not yet in sight.— London correspondent
N.Y. “Times.”
* J * *
A story told by an American sailor might be
repeated here. His destroyer intercepted in the
Atlantic a Spanish ship whose papers revealed
her laden with oil from the United States to
Spain. Several days later, the story runs, the
destroyer found the Spanish oil ship at practi-
cally the same spot. The very suspicious con-
clusion is obvious. — “Christian Science Moni-
tor.”
* * * *
Five years ago the United States recognised
the need for something more than a mere “All
right, you’re a citizen now” from a tired official
behind a desk when anyone became naturalised.
A Congressional resolution set aside the third
Sunday of May as “I Am an American Day”
for all new citizens, including America’s own
young men and women. Last year the day was
observed in several hundred cities and towns.
There were parades, concerts, choral singing,
historical pageants and much oratory, to which
the foreign-born contributed a share. There
were dinners at which old citizens and new
broke bread together.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Interested officials now make it clear that the
reason no real report ever was made by Presi-
dent Roosevelt or Prime Minister Churchill on
their meeting with Josef Stalin is that these
leaders reached no firm agreements on anything
other than strictly military questions. — “United
States News.”
* * .-J: :j:
Total subsidies for stabilising the cost of
living in Britain amounted to £206 million last
year, a rise of £l5O million since subsidies were
first introduced. Although they have 'un-
doubtedly been the most important factor in
preventing social unrest by keeping down prices
of essential foods and other articles, subsidies
have failed to check the rising trend of wages.
The average level of full-time wage rates in all
industries at the close of 1943 was 39 p.c. higher
than at the outbreak of war, while the cost of
living index rose about 28 p.c. in the same
period. (The cost of living advanced mainly
in the first few months of the war; it has since
been stabilised.) The rise in wage rates does not
fully measure the increase in worker income;
it takes no account 6f the marked gain in earn-
ings which result from full employment, over-
time and the extension of systems which pay in
terms of production results. Up to January,
1943, total worker earnings had been increased
by about 65 p.c. over pre-war levels and trade-
unions are still pressing claims for increases.
—London correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
The “little ships,” the light coastal forces
which guard Britain’s shores and night after
night smash Hitler’s coast-crawling convoys in
swift, daring forays, have sunk or severely
damaged hundreds of enemy vessels in the last
three years or so. These achievements are a
tribute to the amateur sailor. Probably. 99
p.c. of the officers and nearly as great a pro-
portion of ratings are R.N.V.R., and many had
never been on the sea before. — Manchester
“Guardian.”
* * * *
“If the coming peace leaves the next genera-
tion of Germans a chance to build up a new
war machine, the wronged and tortured children
of Europe will grow up obsessed by a single
fear—‘Destroy the Germans or be destroyed.’ ”
—Leading Norwegian writer Sign'd Undset.
A British military observer who returned in
March from the headquarters of General Draja
Mihailovich, Yugoslav War Minister in King
Peter IPs Government, submitted a report to
Prime Minister Churchill and Foreign Secretary
Anthony Eden which is said to show that the
organisation and sabotage activities of Mihailo-
vich’s Chetniks are as effective in promoting
the Allied war efforts‘against the Axis as are
Marshal Tito’s skirmishes with the Germans.
An American officer on a parallel mission is
understood to be carrying an identical report to
President Roosevelt. — London correspondent
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.’'’
* * * *
Senators in the know are flabbergasted at
what happened just before Stalin recognised
Badoglio. The President had sent a message
to Churchill that Badoglio would have to go.
He had advice that Badoglio was a drain, must
be ditched. Gen. Eisenhower, back here in
January, felt that the poor response of the
Italians in aiding our armies might be due to
dislike of Badoglio. F.D.R. didn’t favor a
showdown with Churchill, defender of the
House of Savoy, who hoped the throne might
be preserved. But he acted —and two days later
the Russians, on their own, recognised the man
we wanted to bounce.—Drew Pearson; N.Y.
“Daily Mirror.”
« * * *
It is not for us [Americans] to tell the people
of occupied Europe how they should be gov-
erned after the war. That would be contrary
to our national principles, in the first place,
and in the second it would be futile to tell
European peoples who their rulers were to be
unless we intended, as we certainly do not, to
keep American garrisons in their countries to
support those rulers.— Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * *
If you believe some armchair strategist's, suc-
cessful invasion is impracticable against shore-
based aircraft. If that be true, Japan wins
hands down. It simply isn’t true. In the Solo-
mons and the Gilberts, in New Guinea and
New Britain, we have displayed our ability to
wade into the Japanese, knock down their shore-
based aircraft and take their airfields away
from them. For these key airfields we have
paid a bitter price in blood; and our going in
Japan will be many times tougher than on the
outlying defence perimeter, but it has to be
done, and it can be done. — N.Y. “Herald
“Tribune’'' Pacific War correspondent Joseph
Driscoll.
* * * *
Tell me the sort of agreement that the
United Nations will reach with respect to the
world’s petroleum resources when the war is
over, and I will undertake to analyse the dura-
bility of the peace that is to come.— U.S. Secre-
tary of the Interior Harold L. I ekes.
* * * *
At the front under the stress of combat
there has grown up a fine understanding and
co-operation between the Americans and Aus-
tralians. The generosity of the American
appeals to the naturally warm-hearted Aus-
tralian, while the “Digger’s” undoubted prowess,
as a fighting man has won the respect of fellow-
soldiers. But the farther one gets away from
the sound of the bursting bombs and the
urgency of action the weaker become the
bonds of amity.— W. E. Lucas; “Christian
Science Monitor Magazine.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO GLADYS MAY ROBB formerly of Ryan Street
Footsoray and Punt Road Richmond Victoria but
now of parts unknown Married Woman. —TAKE
NOTICE that your husband RICHARD JOHN ROBB
has instituted! proceedings against you for divorce
On the grounds of three years’ desertion UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
31st day of May 1944 and also file an answer
on or before the 10th day of June 1944 the case
may proceed your absence notwithstanding.—W. H.
JONES AND KENNEDY, 214 Nicholson Street,
Footscray, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
STOP™ Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® locahon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL* APPEL AN CE CO.,
(L>e»>t. 27). 8 Hfne«n Place. Sydney,
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flash Out Yonr 15 MILES of KiJncf Tutei
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching back
well and strong again—if the trouble is caused by
tired kidneys.
AH the blood in your body circulates through your
kidneys every 15 minutes to be strained of acids and
wastes Healthy persons pass about three pints a
day arid so get rid of three pounds oi waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
~re often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, waste and acids get back-washed into
the blood and may become poisonous. This is often
the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness. .
llon’t wait for serious trouble to lay you up. Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS and get the same quick relief they
have been giving millions for many years. If back-
ax he is bothering you due to tirld kidneys, try
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS today.
WRITHED IN PAIN ON FLOOR
Bus Driver’s
Incredible Escape
Sufferers from Lumbago, Scia-
tica, Rheumatism or similar
complaints, can gain new heart
from this remarkable experi-
ence of a young bus driver.
Mr. Walgers’ own words state: “I
was doubled up, and could hardly
walk, and sleep was out of the
question. I could not bear to lie
in bed and many times I would
fall to the floor and writhe in pain.
“After the first packet of R.U.R. I
began to get relief, and could at
last stand up straight,-and sleep
returned to me. I then took a
course, and can honestly say I
have not one pain left. I am back
at work again, and can even dig
in the garden. I now take R.U.R.
twice a week, and am feeling my
old self again.”
A NATURAL
INTERNAL CLEANSER
R.U.R. clears the body of poisons,
acids, and wastes. These poisons
and acids cause the unbearable
pains of rheumatism, neuritis,
lumbago, and sciatica ~. the dull
eyes and muddy skin of liver
troubles . . . the headaches and
half-asleep feeling of constipa-
tion, as well as the pain of kidney
troubles . . . the unpleasant,
“Can’t-eat-a-thing” feeling of
indigestion and gastritis. R.U.R.
gently reaches every eliminative
organ of the body, cleaning out
wastes and poisons, toning liver
kidneys, stomach, and bowels to
normal function. R.U.R. ENDS
constipation, but forms no habits,
Harley St. Prescription
I
!*:
Geo. V. Walgers, 104
Queen’s Road, Five
Dock, N.S.W.
R.U.R. Is de-
rived from a
Harley Street
Specialist’s
prescription.
Many users
say that they
obtain real
benefit from
the very first
dose, and re-
port remark-
able restora-
tions to health
from disorders
listed above.
When you realise that R.U.R.
costs but 4/- a packet to make 26
ounces of active mixture and 7/6
to make 52 ounces, it is no exag-
geration to say that R.U.R. is by
far the cheapest and most effec-
tive treatment you can use.
Take R.U.R. and Right You Are!
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
f y
/ s 'JBP
OH*
V
c*Ot
V.;. s
you
i
If
f 9
L
WW'Jw? /
V
# f'p «
/
\
when you buy
“TOP DOG” Men’s Wear
‘Top Dog’ Men’s Wear takes the
gamble out of buying. It gives you
garments with a national reputation
for quality to maintain garments
that are smart in appearance, con-
scientiously finished and which give
uncommonly long wear. Supplies
to civilians are restricted, of course,
but you can bring nearer the day
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also “TOP DOG” Products
of peace and unlimited
stocks by investing in the
First Victory Loan—to your
very limit!
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants,
To buy Judge Parry’s My Own Way. 3460.
To buy Gregory and Hadley’s Class Book of
Physics and Hall and Knight’s Higher Algebra.
—3461. . „
To buy Some' Human Ailments, Their Cause
and Their Treatment, by Dr. W. H. Hay.
3462.
Information Sought.
What were the populations of Germany, Japan,
Spain and Italy in 1939? How many of the
Italians were Roman Catholics?
Germany, 80,000,000; Japan, 104,000,000;
Spain, 26,000,000; Italy, 43,606,000 (41,014,096
were Catholics). The German figures include
Austria and Sudetenland; the Japanese, Korea
and parts of China.
* * * *
What are the salaries of Ministers and other
Parliamentarians in N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland ?
N.S.W.; The Premier receives £2445 p.a.;
Attorney-General £2095; Vice-President of the
Executive Council £1375; and £17,505 is
divided among the rest of the Cabinet.
Ms.L.C. receive no salary, but are allowed free
travel on Government railways and tramways.
Ms.L.A. receive £875 p.a. Victoria: The
Ministers’ salaries amount to £11,250. Ms.L.C.
receive £2OO p.a. and Ms.L.A. £5OO. Queens-
land: Each Minister receives £ll5O p.a. and
the Premier another £3OO. Ms.L.A. each get
£650.
* :!: * *
Recipe for rose-berry jam ?
Gather hips from briers after frost has nipped
them a deep red; boil till soft and strain
through a fine sieve to remove hairs. Stew
some tart apples in a little water, then add to
each cup of hip pulp one cup apple pulp, one
cup sugar and one tablespoon lemon juice. Boil
to jell stage.
* $ 9* *
How to soften kangaroo skins that have
hardened after tanning in wattlebark solution?
If skins are under-tanned it will be necessary
to soak for a longer period in the tan liquors.
11 they are under-oiled, wet thoroughly, shake
off surplus moisture and rub in neatsfoot or
fish oil or tallow. Allow to dry and repeat the
process until skin is of the softness desired.
* * * H=
Treatment for quittor in horses?
In a few cases deep drainage and antiseptic
treatment with Dettol or Lysol in a 2 p.c. solu-
tion will cure. More usually a radical surgical
operation involving the removal of all dead
tissue is necessary. This is a job for a quali-
fied vet. The convalescent period may be very
long.
Brief Answers.
8.M.: Book was published by Oswald Sealy,
Ltd. (Auckland). It is now out of stock in
Sydney bookshops... .R.T.; Time taken for
precession to move the solsticial point 30 deg.
is approximately 2100 years J.H.W.: State-
ment is untrue H.H.: No half-crowns of
that date exist; those dated from 1816 onwards
are worth about 4s A.H.T.: No books on
the subject are available in Sydney C.H.:
An A.I.F. warrant officer receives 12s. 6d. per
day, with 3s. per day deferred pay J.D.S.:
After the executor has obtained probate and
paid all estate and death duties he can operate
on the deceased’s bank account.,. .Distressed:
Consult your solicitor about the possibility of
obtaining an order for maintenance and custody
of the children G.R.: Assuming the right
to be merely a license to enter upon the land
and remove timber, it would not be assignable
without A’s consent... .J.C.8.: Cannot trace
those artists; try Brisbane Art Gallery
G.P.McD.: (1) Mrs. Mary Brown. (2) Dear
Sir and Ladies. (3) Mr. J. Brown, Mrs. M.
Brown and Miss J. Brown. (4) Dear Miss
Brown. (5) Mesdames Brown and Jones;
Ladies. • (6) The Misses Brown and Jones;
Ladies J.E.: Suggest you join a philatelic
society, which would have a system of ex-
change G.R.D.: (1) James Parkinson, an
English physician, 1755-1824. (2) A she-wolf.
(3) Impossible to say. (4) None obtainable in
Sydney E.E.P.: Consult a stockbroker
W.K.: H. Glendinning, 95 Bridge-street, New
Lambton (N.S.W.), has a small kennel of the
breed.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
R.W.: Spies are shot on sight... .P.S.:
Hardly a story E.J.W.: No trick endings,
please H. 8.: For a woman’s paper
H.WJ,: Thistledown.... F.S.: Sentimental....
H.S.T.; Just an anecdote M.S.; Try a
daily J.M.: Melodramatic W.A.M.;
“Bear a pack upon your back and we will
go a-roaming.” The poem will, anyhow
E.G.: “It seems fairly good to me.” Ah, but
you wrote it....G.8.: “And ewe lambs bore
with Nature’s meanor a spring unvaunted in her
grandeur.” It may be sublime, but it appears
to have neither rhyme nor reason J. 0.: You
can’t make a poem out of a string of questions.
B.C.: Can’t see a gum-tree piercing an
opal with a stiletto A.M.E.: Hackneyed.
... TA.M.: Come again R.W.: The usual
weather report... .J.M.: What’s the use of
going about shouting “Make off! Make off!”
at the mist? E. 8.: The two styles clash
H.F.: Try elsewhere E.A.H.: Too exclama-
tory D. 8.: The covering letter is much
livelier than the verses.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.H.M.: After months of trying, your figures
look a bit more like men than monkeys....
Bert C.: We forgive you for dressing Dave in
chaps, ten-gallon sombrero and a neckerchief, but
putting a cummerbund on Dad!... .C.H.W.:
Two sailors in invisible strait-jackets wouldn’t
talk like that, anyway 8.W.: Pardon us,
but flappers don’t have cauliflower ears
G.T.8.: The two propped-up corpses on the
lounge have their mouths shut tight—is the
voice coming from a cuckoo clock?... .R. 8.:
The bunch of wax dolls is on its way home.
Armfield: Gruesome joke, unimpressive
figures... .8.F.: Perspective good, girls’ figures
not bad, but your men’s noses need pruning.
L.J.L.: Ideas not up A.M.: Nice
background but joke doesn’t make it....5.W.:
Have another look at an ostrich’s neck....
G.H.: Drawing deserves something better than
that crude joke J.C.: That doesn’t make a
gag....8.R.: A.R.P. jokes are now one with
Nineveh and Tyre; astonished-looking lady
in doorway is facial image of Donald Duck.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors : THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
K - A - MANZIE, Managing Director. ' S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
Phone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Wherever the wheels of Industry turn
Since 1858 Ludowici Power Trans-
mission Equipment has played an
important part in the industrial de-
velopment of Australia. First with
their famous Pioneer Leather Belting
and, more recently, with a full range
of equipment to meet every need to
ensure maximum efficiency in the
transmission of power. Ludowici
Engineers are available to give you
the benefit of their expert knowledge
and experience on every power
transmission problem.
W
J /W>
w W
heather and Rubber
Belting, Pulleys,
Bearings, Gears,
Hangers, Couplings,
Shafting, Short Centre
Pivot Drive .
LVDOWICI
POWER TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY • 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee,
V?7HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by CO years* experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); lion. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass. Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Aoministrator etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverlna District Representative; C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H A Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Ineome.f Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £12,285 .. ..]
1939. . 3,090,661 1,551,769 317,545 9,646 I 0 „.
To tax reserve, £lOl,OOO .. .. | 9 ‘ 4 > 41b
To general reserve, £124,000 ..J
To staff fund, £14,952 .. ~K wn
1940.. 3,201,274 1,557,087 303,553 54,725 J
To staff fund, £14,668 .. ..]
Profit on sale of securities, £6267.. I, , nn
1941. . 3,263,475 1,684,266 267,390 f 1,190,418
To tax reserve, £113,000 .. ..J
To staff fund, £14,831 .. ..1
1942. . 3,429,797 1,651,406 275,866 52,105 j- 1,335,589
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO ..J
To staff fund, £14,503 .. ..1
1943. . 3,662,472 1,665,787 280,518 50,000 } 1,652,004
Profit on sale of securities, £338 .. J
* Includes dividends to shareholders,
t After deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Ineome.f Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£ £ A. £ dt.
Funds capitalised, £300,000.
To staff fund, £6217.. .. .1
1939.-1,352,118 507,610 419,406 5733
To tax reserve, £32,000 .. .. r
To general reserve, £32,500.. ” J
To staff fund, £7838 1
1940 1,452,237 530,257 417,756 2820 [ „ an rRa
To tax reserve, £13,000 .. .. [
To general reserve, £100,000.. !* J
To staff fund, £8250 ]
1941. . 1,570,713 581,294 436,364 1263 [ ...
To tax reserve, £31,500 .. , .. f 4l a,042
To general reserve, £100,000.. ’ ..J
To staff fund, £8426 1 n
1942. . 1,678,500 489,131 437,242 1742 ( 741,959
To staff fund, £8542.. .. ..1
1943. . 1,850.484 396,21,9 441 641 anr ,
To general reserve, £100,000..! .. f 9U9 > &ud
Profit on sale of securities, £1411.. j
f After deducting taxes.
Youngest of Australia’s big life offices,
the M.L.C. is one of the most progressive
and economically managed concerns of
its kind in the Empire, At the end of
1943 its investment portfolio added up to
£39,357,694 (up £2,803,294), of which no
less than 73.1 p.c. (£28,777,316, up
£3,503,678) was represented by public
securities, as the following table shows:
1942. p.e. 1943. p.c.
Public securities. £55,213, 638 69.3 £28,777,316 73.1
Mortgages . .. 7,714,283 21.1 7,192,887 18.3
Loans on policies 1,767,992 4.8 1,651,138 4.2
Cash, book debts,
„ et c 641,365 1.7 608,928 1.5
Property.. .. 603,355 1.6' 549,386 1.4
Debentures, shares,
6tc 653,767 1.5 578,039 1.5
£36,554,400 £39,357,694
Liabilities* .. 1,783,428 1,814,530
Net assets ..£34,770,972 £37,543,164
* Other than under policies.
And many of the assets are worth more
than their book value. Since war began
practically every pound that has become
available has been channelled into the
public Treasury, the total, including con-
versions, being over £14,000,000 in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, Canada and the
U.K. combined—the co. writes business
in all countries mentioned. And since
the close of accounts £2,500,000 of the
current Commonwealth Victory Loan has
been taken up. Also, further support has
been given to the national war effort by
rigid economy in use of man-power and
materials. Governments, unfortunately,
haven’t been at the same pains to protect
the purchasing power of savings thus
represented, as evidenced by the cost in-
flation in our economy.
The low cost at which the co. collects
its income and manages its investments,
the nature of the Assets, and the
satisfactory margins in all those things
upon which soundness and progress de-
pend have been very helpful in the writ-
ing of new business. The co. is one of the
few life offices to show a substantial in-
crease in new business last year. The
amount put oh the books was £6,800,388
(up £686,883) in the ordinary and
£4,142,727 (down £93,756) in the indus-
trial section, making total business in
force in the two sections combined
£111,783,756 (up £7,800,000-odd).
The cost of gathering new and manag-
ing old business was 10.6 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums in the ordinary and 25.3 p.c.
in the industrial department. For the pre-
vious year the figures were 11.1 p.c. and
27.5 p.c. respectively. Calculated on total
income last year’s expense rates were
only 7.3 p.c. ordinary and 20.6 p.c. indus-
trial. They are exceptionally low figures,
which spell benefit for both policyholders
and shareholders—there is £1,000,000
of share capital. Of profits earned
in both ordinary and industrial sections,
85 p.c. to 90 p.C. belongs to policyholders.
That is to say, £5 13s. 4d. to £9 has to be
earned for policyholders before share-
holders are entitled to a pound. Last
year shareholders got a 15 p.c. div.
(£150,000), same as for the previous term.
The office assumes that its funds will
turn in only 2 j p.c.—the most stringent
basis of valuation in force in Australia.
After deducting taxes (£164,442, down
£18,658 in both sections combined), the
net effective return on funds last year was
£3 19s. lid. ordinary and £3 19s. 9d.
industrial, as against £4 3s. Id. and
£4 ss. Bd. respectively in 1941.
War death payments amounted to
£174,598, making total on this account
since war began £459,358. After paying
all legitimate claims and exes., send-
ing £lOO,OOO to general reserves
(£1,100,000) and passing £84,810 to share-
holders’ account, the amount added to
assurance funds was £2,561,504, raising
the figure to £34,589,979. After making
such special valuation reservations as the
actuary considered necessary to meet war
and other contingencies, the amount
available for distribution among policy-
holders increased by £32,750 in the ordi-
nary and £4050 in the industrial section;
„ .. 1938- 1940. 1942. 1943.
Ordinary .. £849,680 £666,212 £563,782 £596,532
Industrial ~ 115,459 134,415 119,063 123,113
Total .. £965,139 £800,627 £682,845 £719,645
Contraction in the figures over the last
five years is due almost entirely to tax-
ation and the fall in interest rates. All
but a trifle of the surplus in each depart-
ment goes out as bonuses to policy-
holders at the same or greater rates as for
the previous year. Bonuses compare
favorably with other life offices here and
abroad. To conserve man-power and
keep costs down, the usual bonus certifi-
cates have not been dispatched, but each
policyholder’s account has been credited
with the year’s bonus addition in the
books.
Howard Smith, Ltd.
/— —Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Ee-
nec., Profit. 6 p.c, 14 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 47,168 15,000 30,000 2,168 308,830
p.c.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337,379
3| p.c.
1936.. 97,649 16,000 75,000 7,649 345,028
From contingency reserve, £10,000.. 355,028
6 p.c.
146 > 073 15,000 100,000 31,073 386,101
1938.. 141,821 15,000 100,000 26,821 412,922
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
~ _ „ I H.S. Divs. To Re-
Dee. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 181,160 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 66,160 1,228,546
1940.. 132,554 6 p.e. 5 p.c. 115,000 17,554 1,246,100
, n , Taxation written back, £9OOO .. 1,255,100
1941.. 106,073 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 95,000 11,073 1,266.173
Added reserve subsidiaries, £10,976 1,277,149
1942.. 120,006 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 95,000 25,006 1,302,155
Added reserve subsidiaries, £22,572 1,324,727
1943.. 131,130 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 16,130 1,340,857
* Deducting outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
This big holding co.’s interests cover a
wide range of Australian industry, both
in nature and earning power. Including
£250,000 of Government securities, in-
vestments in subsidiaries (£2,011,553) and
other cos. (£963,526) accounted for
£3,225,079 of a tjalance-sheet total of
£3,832,942 at the end of 1943. Major
activities are shipping, coal and steel,
with sugargrowing and cement also
prominent. In addition, the parent’s own
merchandising activities and its earnings
as agent for subsidiaries, etc., contribute
substantially to the pool.
Shareholdings include the following: —•
Howard
Subscribed Smith’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships £1,850,002 £1,849.997
Australian Sugar ~ 207,915 155,704
Caledonian Collipries 1 464,295 pref. 325,034 pref.
Caledonian Collieries j i,023,599 ord. 869.539 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 65,791
B.H.P. .. .. 13,862,054 354,180
Southern Port. Cement 004 pref. 96,809 pref.
I 639,885 ord. 250,001 ord.
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 50,000
A. Gohinan & Go. ~ 179,262 36,559
J. &A. Brown .. 1,900,007 38,400
First four on the list are subsidiaries
whose accounts are combined with those
of the parent and the consolidated fig-
ures shown in the tables. Shipping is now
principally in the hands of the Federal
Government on a charter basis. But
charter rates are insufficient to meet the
increased costs of overhaul (now about
100 p*c. greater than in 1939) and obso-
lescence. Hence the shipping subsidiary
has been again unable to pay a div., while
making only “moderate” provision for
depreciation. That is to say, compensa-
tion for lost tonnage plus depreciation
thereon to date will not cover cost of re-
placement at current inflated prices; also
the co.’s ability to replace obsolete
vessels after the war has been greatly
impaired.
By thus impairing efficiency of private
enterprise Government control (bureau-
cracy) is seriously weakening the main-
spring of industrial progress and all the
national benefits that go with it. Similar
remarks apply also to the distraught coal
trade, in which reduction of output per
miner, absenteeism and strikes have all
increased following Government control.
The Caledonian co. again paid 3 p.c. on
its 6 p.c. cum. prefs., but the ords. have
been shown an empty basket since 1928.
Invincible sent along nothing as against
ly p.c, in the previous year. B.H.P. and
the cement co. paid 5 p.c. and 3 p.c.
respectively as against 6\ p.c. and 31 p.c.
for their preceding terms. Figures for
the sugar and last three cos. on the list
aren’t broadcast. The holding in the
metal co. has now been entirely written
out of Howard Smith’s accounts, the final
£3162 being stiuck off last term.
After deducting equity of outsiders and
providing for depreciation (£117,913,
down £2019) and taxation (£BO,BOO, up
£7935), net earnings of Howard Smith
and its subsidiaries were £11,124 better at
£131,130. This was enough to pay the
prefs. their £15,000 and show 5.8 p.c. on
the £2,000,000 of ord. capital as against
5.2 p.c. for 1942. A point was added to
the div., making it 5 p.c. The improve-
ment was almost entirely the result of the
parent’s own increased trading activities.
In addition, £22,572 was added to the
reserves (now £601,844) representing ex-
cess value of net assets, of subsidiaries
over book value of the shareholdings in
the parent’s accounts.
The financial position further im-
proved :
Howard Smith and Scbsidiaries,
1939. 1942. 1943.
Pref. capital .. £250,000 £250,000 £260,000
Ord. capital .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Outside capital*.. 450,451 449,226 445,987
Deposits ~ ~ 42,855 J 4,666 12,065
Sundry creditors.. 187,366 392,340 387*897
Workers’ compensation 39,435 39,743 40,293
Tax provision .. 74,676 94,245 131,780
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. .. 468,320 463,979 5138
Steamers, collieries,
plant, eto. .. 2,062,926 1,887,786 1,818,600
Shares other cos... 1,026,319 1,028,458 1,026,296
Stocks, etc. .. 140,672 204,840 204,707
Debtors .. .. 168,746 408,197 455,052
Public securities
and cash, etc. .. 469,496 69'8,904 694,446
* Including’ proportion Of reserves.
The year’s surplus earnings, the allow-
ance for depreciation, etc., and a reduc-
tion of £46,855 in debtors’ balances en-
abled £95,542 to be added to public secu-
rities and cash and £54,943 to be lopped
off the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors. The more or less liquid surplus
(£1,857,561, including shareholdings) was
£158,561 stronger than at the previous
balance.
The protracted negotiations between
shipowners and the Government con-
cerning charter rates continues to drag
on owing to legal difficulties. The owners
are asking for rates sufficient to cover
present cost of overhaul as well as re-
placement of obsolete vessels after the
war. The post-war outlook for the coal
trade in N. S. Wales is anything but en-
couraging, but the shipping position
should improve, subject, of course, to
continued Government interference.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
w
'S
m
Established 1808 in Kelgn of George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia A New Zealand.
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LTD.
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 54.
NOTICE is hereby given that a first interim
dividend of 12i per cent v (6d. per share sterling),
in respect of the year ending 30th June, 1944,
less United Kingdom income fax at 10s. in the £
(3d. per share sterling), has been declared and
will be payable on 28th June next to all persons
registered as holders of shares on the Australian
register at- the close of business on 6th May,
1944. The net amount of dividend sterling is
equal to 3d. per share. The transfer books
will be closed from Bth to 10th May, both days
inclusive.
For Lake View and Star, Limited,
WILLIAM THOMAS, Local Secretary,
Kalgoorlie, 29th April, 1944.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* ♦ ♦ *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
CO/otc/
CLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies# but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
For Quality!
CAREFUL BUYING was always sensible.
But now, in these boupon Days, it is
more than sensible —it is vital.
You must get full value for money, and you
may be sure that every Akubra will give
you that. All these famous Australian Hats
are Pure Fur Felt.
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN AKUBRA
POST-WAR
RECONSTRUCTION
0
lot
e
mo
CVv^i
St
'o*
V?
VD*
*<*
l\» v
xtf.
c<»
3M
A*
mV
,M«V
«,e*
:^V v
oV
e* e
L W*
»<V
Mi*
«$*
Y)o*
O 5
tfv«
*&*•*
o®
,\V°
*e
ttv*
<A e
Ml®
oV 1
**«
,\>V
&**
w*
SO
«*
»V
\oV
,\\°
C.o*
oV
t®
&«
ct>
,4»
\P
,tfv<>
XV
tcve
Whatever innovations may mark the
post-war period insofar as building
methods are concerned, there will be
one indispensable feature of all post-
war homes——effective insulation. And
there is no better insulation against
heat and external noise than Cane-ite,
the modern insulating board.
£-jSTE
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Manufactured and Distributed by
COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
MARKETING: CANE-ITE , C. S. R. SLAGWOOL , PLASTER
PRODUCTS • MEDICAL AND DiNTAL PLASTER
PUT YOUR SAVINGS INTO WAR BONDS
FOR YOUR POST-WAR CANE-ITE INSULATED HOME
Plus
Modern
Insulating
Board
Placer Development . . i
This holding ana finance co. is registered
in Vancouver (British Columbia) with a
paid capital of $744,000. Accounts for
the year to April 30, 1943, presented Van-
couver, March 24, 1944, show net profit
at $346,812 as against $1,233,620 for the
preceding year. Divs, dropped from a
total of 120 p.c. 1942 to 50 p.c. 1943.
The contraction is due to the Jap. inva-
sion of New Guinea and loss of returns
from Bulolo Gold Dredging, which sent
along $900,000 for the 7± months to mid-
Jan., 1942. Latest profit, which came
chiefly from Pato Consolidated, with
Asnazu contributing for the first time,
was written after charging $43,369 to
property inspection account.
Placer’s shareholdings and their book
value are as follows:
Shares.
, » ,
Co. No. Face Value. Book Value.
Bulolo Gold
Dredging .. 300,(X00 $5 shares $6,300,576
Plato Consolidated 1,500,000 $1 „ 1,592,690
Asnazu Gold. •
Dredging .. 615,000 $1 ~ 215,736
Rutherglen Gold
Dumps.. .. 32,000 £1 ~ 17,966
Gold Dumps Pty. 60,000 £1 206,340
American Placers 533,99'5 $1 „ 533,995
Placer Management 19,995 $1 ~ 20,000
Kern County Land
Co 7,000 $5 „ 164,500
University Placer 1,500 No par value 40,000
Total book
value.. .. $9,091,803
The position at Bulolo will not be
known definitely until the co.’s own in-
spection party overhauls the property,
from which many items of equipment
were either destroyed by the enemy or
taken by the Allied forces for military
use. It is expected that the preliminary
claim of £538,426 lodged with the Aus-
tralian War Damage Commission will
have to be supplemented. For the 12
months to the end of May, 1941, Bulolo
cleaned up 19,465,000 c.y. averaging
4.147gr5. fine gold. Gravel reserves
are put at 150,000,000 c.y., of which
129,000,000 c.y. will be dredged and the
balance handled by hydraulic equipment.
Pato Consolidated (Colombia, South
America) turned over 14,220,000 c.y.
averaging 27.25 cents (Canadian) during
the year to April 30, 1943. Before allow-
ing for depreciation, etc., but including
Colombian Government taxes, operating
costs were 14.37 cents (Canadian). The
amount sent along to Placer was
$345,000. Gravel reserves at end of April,
1943, were:
Value
O.Y. U.S. Cents.
Closely drilled .. .. 384,413,000 15.5
Scout drilled . . • • 171,129,000 13.4
Total estimated reserves. . 555,542,000 14.8
A large area adjoining Pato, and under
joint option to Placer and Oroville, is
being tested. If satisfactory, the option
will be worked by Nechi Consolidated.
Asnazu’s two dredges (Colombia, South
America) handled 4,387,000 c.y. averag-
ing 18.51 cents (Canadian). Operating
costs and gravel reserves aren’t stated.
No. 1 dredge was working in difficult
bouldery ground. Placer received $30,750
in divs.
Placer’s Australian interests, Ruther-
glen Gold Dumps and Gold Dumps Pty.,
ceased operations in 1942 owing to war
conditions. For the same reason opera-
tion of the parent’s other interests are
practically at a standstill.
Lake View and Star pays an interim
div. of 6d. (stg.) a share on June 28, but
as the U.K. taxgatherer takes half share-
holders will get only 3d., equivalent in
Australian currency to £1 11s. 3d. per
100 shares. Co.’s two latest directors are
E. C. Leaman, joint London manager,
and S. H. Nicholls. Both were senior
members of the London staff’ of New
Consolidated Gold Fields of South
Africa, which has large mining interests
in South Africa, America, Mexico, Aus-
tralia and elsewhere, and which seems to
have the biggest say in Lake View,
Wiluna and Lake George,
* * * *
Directors of Consolidated Gold Areas
(W.A.) will ask shareholder in Adelaide
on May 11 to agree to reconstruction,
owing to lack of funds, following heavy
outgoings on the now-shut-down White
Hope mine, Hampton Plains, and pay-
ment of calls on the contributing holding
in Blue Spec mine, Pilbara. Reconstruc-
tion is recommended in preference to sale
of the White Hope and the balance of
its plant and disposal of the Blue Spec
holding, which, in view of the failure of
a recent Blue Spec debenture issue, might
be difficult to sell. If the board’s pro-
posals are agreed to shareholders will, on
payment of 2d. per new share, receive
one such share for every two shares now
held. No calls are to be made on the new
shares without consent of the Federal
Treasurer.
« * * *
At the annual meeting of the Westra-
lian Chamber of Mines president F. C.
Brinsden pointed out that, owing to the
adverse effect of war conditions on the
industry, 23 of the 60 co, members of
the chamber had ceased operations since
the outbreak of hostilities. Rise upon
rise in the price of supplies had bumped
up costs, while shortage of labor resulted
in decreased production and limited de-
velopment work, thqs forcing manage-
ments to draw unduly upon developed
reserves and broken ore. Speaking gener-
ally, this is an unwise practice because
of its possible effect upon future aver-
age value of ore throughout the mine.
The president appealed to the Federal
authorities to release more men for gold-
mining, and stressed the fact that the in-
dustry had made large contributions to
the war effort in both men and machinery.


m
utters
GIN
„ai
<p
Production is re-
stricted so don’t
blame your retailer
if you have diffi-
culty in obtaining’
Gillette blades.
Serving — Since the Blue Gillette and the 7 o’clock
blades have gone to serve the guns, Gillette
“Standard” Blades now serve the chins. Make them
l ast —they’ll give you the best shave money can buy.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Rpturn to Realitv
A Return to_ Reality
Early in the present war it was
pointed out here that one way_of avoiding
monetary depreciation resuhmg from he
expedient ot using bor J°w e d #
mg war-time (in order to financei part of
the war waste) was to continue war-time
it
empha-
rrfore diance^
amount of taxation for war purposes
S than there will be of
P There is little however to be found
wrong f with that,*if it is con-
sidered monetarily impossible to pay for
a war during the currency of the war, to
try to spread the burden over a period
longer than that of the war and not to
try to avoid part of the burden alto-
gether. Necessary post-war civil spending
could be made to come more from tax
revenue, for instance. War debts always
remain an obstruction to economic equa-
nimity, and the excess of spending power
that banks up during war-time resulting
from monetary taxation lower than the
material taxation of war brings the
danger of money depreciating in terms of
prices for commodities and services. In
other words, the excess causes inflation,
with the threat, therefore, of later de-
flation and depression.
The holders of Australian currency, of
bank deposits, of life-assurance policies,
of Commonwealth securities, of mort-
gages and of fixed pension rights are all
personal and political forces whose in-
terests are ranged against inflation. The
exporter is opposed to inflation while
costs are rising and the exchange rate is
stable, and the importer is opposed to it
when the exchange rate rises against his
country. Inflation, therefore, is no mere
mathematical or financial process, no
mere change of fashion or of faith. It
• brings economic revolution which cuts
diversely across so many personal and
political interests that social strife and
economic friction are a natural result. The
consequences of severe inflation open the
way to debasement of living standards
through economic confusion and collapse,
to political revolution and to anarchy.
We have been told lately by bureau-
cratically-minded people that post-war
taxation will be kept high in any case—
not in order to smooth out the impact of
war’s 'cost, but to put into the hands of
the Government and its legion of civil
servants, old and new, spending power
sufficient to make the Government cap-
a of shaping Australia’s industrial
and Ministers and civil
dlctatodal in their econo .
m ic powers. In these proposals political
ambition is more apparen t than econo-
lan • There is more w i s hful
° ften m ° re
better
plans and planners if, more
scruples were exhibited now by Minister
and others in matters where just recog-
The lack of recognition of the services
rendered to Australia by private enter-
prise-even if rendered often with
profit to private enterprise-by gentlemen
possessing great political power if not a
great sense oLresponsibility, is
a matter of denying honor either , it is
more importantly a matter of tailing o
define the real forces responsible for Aus-
traha’s industrial welfare and doing some-
thing to prevent their destruction by poll-
tical and bureaucratic adventurers If
pnyate enterprise is to be the ultimate sal-
vation of industrial Australia, why try to
devitalise private enterprise at such a
critical time.
Australia’s Mr. Beasley has had his
sneer at private enterprise in this country
while addressing the 1.L.0. in Philadel-
phia, and has incidentally misrepresented
the more sober and praiseworthy section
of the Australian economy His Sydney
Domain spouting at the I.LOi. conference
even if it has made the stature of Jack
Beasley no less than it always has been
m discerning Australian eyes has been
discreditable and unworthy of an Aus-
tralian Minister and an obvious embar-
rassment to other representatives at the
conference. To treat his Philadelphian
phi osophy mercifully would be to call it
shallow and unrealistic and large y poll-
tical humbug ot a crude kind. It: is; en-
firely opposed to the lessons which have
been available for the learning in Aus-
traha and most other Allied countries
during the upheaval of the present war
The chief lesson of the present war has
beel ? difficulty of obtaining national
service from all the people, not that of
maintaining living standards.
The Labor party in Australia had not
until recently openly advocated national
service of any kind, either of a monetary
or a personal nature, though in adhriinis-
tration it has at times shown ruthless-
ness in the service demanded of minori-
ties. The utterances of Mr. Beasley in
Philadelphia and those of other Labor
politicians on other occasions sound be-
mused when taken in conjunction with
actual conditions in the Commonwealth,
Perhaps confusion of the public mind is
a thing to be desired in Labor politics. In
any case, we continually get humbug
about the failure of private enterprise,
humbug about the merits of Labor’s war-
time financial policy as an employment-
giver (the latest from Mr, Calwell), hum-
bug about how living standards should be
improved, and humbug about housing,
For the moment the party has given up
humbugging about the “wicked bond-
holder,” the present Labor Government
perforce being the greatest public bor-
rower in Australia’s history.
M. S. Eccles, chairman of the Board
of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve
System, advocates the maintenance of
war-time taxation rates for a period after
the war. But he does so while visualising
a drastic reduction in Government ex-
penditures. “Every effort should be made
to balance the Budget as soon as pos-
sible A balanced Budget will en-
courage the owners of Government
bonds to retain their holdings, because it
will assure them that the purchasing
power ot their money, invested m bonds,
will be preserved. The important things
fi) note in these opinions is that balanced
Budgets, the aim ot Mr, Eccles, do not
involve the use of bank credit, and that
the high post-war tax policy is financial
and not political or
Mr. Eccles, though not a private
banker,’ is emphatic about the role pn-
vate enterprise should play after the war.
As in Canada, there is little political day-
dreaming or misrepresentation about the
realities of industry in the United States;
the basis of industrial progress is re-
garded as being co-operative individual
effort, with benevolent, remote super-
vision by Governments. In Australia
the Government is as neglectful and ob-
structive of the forces of private enter-
prise as the Labor party was shamefully
neglectful of the nation’s pre-war defence
preparations. Unpreparedness for the
realities and hardships of life are the
natural result of A.L.P. philosophy.
“The more fully private enterprise sue-
ceeds in providing the necessary volume
of employment,” says, Mr. Eccles, “the
less necessary it will be for the Govern-
ment to provide supplementary employ-
ment.” Present outlook of the Com-
monwealth Government is the other way
round. It sees in the increased grasp of
industry by Government a greater politi-
cal control over individual livelihoods and
votes. The national interest is being made
subsidiary to the party interest, even
though many members of the party may
not be aware of the fact.
The United States concern for the sub-
scriber to war loans is not merely a sen-
timental one. To aim at keeping Gov-
ernment securities at par or above is not
only being fair to the bondholder, it keeps
interest rates stable and cheap, and, by en-
couraging subscribers to hold their bonds,
discourages excessive spending on non-
essentials. In e J er Y Allied country there
will be a huge fund of war-time savings
available when peace comes, and exces-
sive spending will be a danger both to
the value of money and to the stability
of interest costs.
In Australia a war-time development
has been the abolition of the rebate ot
tax paid by companies when company
dividends reach the hands of shareholder
taxpayers. Mr. Eccles advocates methods
of reducing such double taxation so as to
“give strong incentive to new equity in-
vestments. There could be no better
illustration than this of the desire of
United States high authorities to g t pn-
vate industry back on to a vigorous and
virile footing when the end of the war
comes. U -
In Australia we see the position of
beggars set on horseback riding with
sm V§ irresponsibility an s ortsig t d
political ambition. It is time they had
so J? er condition
tbe f utur e of the horse,
-phe announceme nt by Navy Minister
]yj a j c j n a £4,500,000 cruiser and a
destroyer are to be built in
Australia SU gg e sts that the Government
looking for something for its “muni-
doneers” to do. It is unlikely that the
cru j ser anyway, will be completed dur-
• tbe presen t war> Our Navy, need-
jess tQ sa y 5 can d 0 with the vessels, how-
ever | ate tbe y ma y be arr j v ing. It is
SU gg es j ec } that building will take from
£ our tQ g y£ y ears
**' * *
Indicative of the earnestness with
which the British Government is study-
j n g post-war trading problems is the ges-
ture by Sir John Anderson in the matter
G f motor-car taxation. Flitherto British
cars have been ■ taxed on a horse-power
basis (in Australia the tax is on weight),
with the result that high-revving “baby”
cars of between seven h.p. and 16 h.p.
have been the backbone of the British
motor industry. These light cars, amaz-
ing though their performance may often
be, have not always suited overseas con-
ditions, especially where roads are not
good. With an eye to post-war export
trade the Chancellor of the Exchequer
has said that if motor manufacturers
thought a change from the present horse-
power tax to another basis, yielding about
the same amount of revenue, would be
advantageous, he was ready to listen sym-
pathetically to representations,
* * * *
The British Chancellor o* the Ex-
chequer points out that in 1938 Britons
spent 76 p.c. of their incomes on con-
sumable things. In 1942 the percentage
had fallen to 58, in 1943 to 53. Of the
increase of £6OO million in personal in-
comes in 1943, £385 million was taken
in taxation.


FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercan'ile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SBLWYN KING, Managing Director.
when
depends
on
everyone!
CALTEX LIMITED
Serving the Nation
IMPORTERS OF CALTEX MOTOR SPIRIT. KEROSENE and LUBRICATING OILS
*r=^l} rr[l 1 ll^
NOW SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
»
Saw.'
•: SB
lii
mm
■
.
m*.
m
mmsm
mmmm
SSis
■iva
S£«
«»:JSaS»S»S
The Bridg es of To-morrow
can be PLANNED To-day
As a municipal engineer or a member of a Local Authority you have a double
responsibility. Not only will you want to make your plans to provide employment
for service men and war workers, but these plans must fit a post-war world, the
pattern of which is not yet clear.
You can find a practical answer to your post-war bridge problems on both these
counts by specifying ‘ARMCO Multi-Plate Pipe and Arches. They give you a
strong, durable, basic structure that can be easily installed by even unskilled
labour. At the same time you assure a flexibility in design and appearance that
will enable you to conform to post-war standards.
Ease of transportation, quick assembly on the job site, and freedom from
maintenance costs are additional features of ARMCO construction.
ARMCO
ħsdfsd
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Lord Woolton, Britain’s Minister of
Reconstruction, has given an assurance in
the House of Lords that no currency
agreement with the United States and/or
other countries will be transacted with-
out the sanction of Parliament. Lord
Woolton’s assurance was a repetition of
that given by the late Sir Kingsley Wood.
* * * *
Supply Minister Beasley, from the dis-
tance of Philadelphia, has thrown a
gibber at B.H.P. and the rest of
Australian private industry; he said
that if Australia’s defence had been
left to private enterprise the Com-
monwealth “would have been invaded
long ago.” He was dismissing a sugges-
tion by Howard Myers, of the U.S.A.
employer group, that full employment be
achieved by developing private enterprise.
Mr. Beasley had better be reminded that had
Australia’s defence been left to the Labor
Government it could have been invaded
long ago. Private enterprise and volun-
tary enlistment, plus the foundations laid
by the Menzies and earlier Governments,
have been the basis of Australia’s war
effort; with the assistance of Allied forces
and munitions, and latter-day efforts on
the part of Mr. Beasley’s Government
after invasion was actually threatened,
the Commonwealth proper has been saved
from invasion. Private enterprise more
rapidly became a part of Australia’s war
effort than any Labor-party policy.
* * * *
Before lend-lease was introduced,
Britain parted with £lOOO million of over-
seas assets, and undischarged overseas
liabilities now run to another £2OOO mil-
lion. Sir John Anderson says that 90 p.c.
of these assets and IOUs passed into the
hands of Allies and associates, “most of
whom will emerge from this war with
their overseas position greatly
strengthened as a result of it, just as ours
is greatly weakened.”
*** ' *
During the 12 months to Nov. 27, 1943,
Britain’s output of coal was 197 million
tons, compared with 204 million tons in
the preceding year. Small opencast pro-
duction is not included in those figures.
The reduction in the later year of com-
parison, it will be seen, has been about
3 p.c., notwithstanding labor troubles.
Relative to population, Britain’s output
of coal is tremendous when compared
with Australia’s production,
* * # *
The optical glass industry in Australia
has gone ahead since war-time shortages
caused its establishment, and optical
munitions are being turned out which are
pronounced to be equal to the best in
the world. Manufacture of spectacle
lenses is expected soon to reach 650,000
pairs a year. Spectacle frames in a
variety of kinds are being made also. It
is possible that camera lenses will eventu-
ally be made in the Commonwealth, the
optical glass produced here reputedly
being of very high quality, though it
should be remembered that Britain, not-
withstanding its manufacture of some of
the world’s finest photographic lenses,
has never made the punch in the camera
market that the Germans have. The
Germans developed many camera types
and shutters as well as lenses.
He # * *
Application has been made to the Syd-
ney Stock Exchange for the listing of the
shares of Minerva Centre, Ltd., owner
of the Minerva Theatre in Orwell-street,
Darlinghurst. The co. was floated in
September, 1937, by David N. Martin,
and the share issue was underwritten by
Lamplough and Wharton, members of
Sydney ’Change. At June 30 last there
were 53,500 fully-paid £1 ords, issued
and 4340 7 p.c. prefs., with paid capital
at £57,835. A first profit (£9) was shown
in the co.’s last year, when the accumu-
lated deficit in p. and 1. account was
£15,905. Preliminary exes, total £3512.
Though the co. itself was in the show
business early in its career, the theatre
now is leased to Whitehall Productions
on a fixed rental, and some improvement
in profit is expected during the present
financial year. No divs. have been paid
on the prefs. since they were allotted, and
arrears, as well as p. and 1. deficit, stand
in the way of ord. divs. There were sales
of the ords. comparatively recently at 10s.
* * ■ * * >
The effects of inflation are already
damaging the war effort of China and
adding economic confusion to the devas-
tation of war, China has never been as
industrialised or as elaborately organised
economically as the Commonwealth, and,
confusing as the results of inflation have
been, they are perhaps not so distress-
ing to people accustomed to a low and
uncertain standard of life as they would
be to Australians. The rise in the Chinese
cost of living has been more than ten-
fold in certain areas. The Commonwealth
Treasurer is now trying to tread a more
sober financial path than he has done in
the past, and great efforts are being made
to stifle the inflation that was becoming
only too apparent a year ago. But while
he is trying to do that an inadequately
disciplined bureaucracy, ps well as some
Ministers and Communists friendly to the
Ministry, union leaders and strikers are
going a long way to undo Mr, Chifley s
efforts. Great pressure is being exerted
to extend the powers of a bureaucracy
which has proved clumsy and obstruc-
tive of private enterprise during this war,
while at the same time great talk is being
made of the improved living standard
that is to be when the war is over pro-
vided wage-earners and
barter “that mechanical freedom” of
choosing jobs and employees respectively.
Australians should remember that their
living standards depend on production
and costs of production, and upon the
percentage of productive citizens there
is in relation to the population. The
trend in Australia under present political
conditions is for the percentage of
bureaucratic deadheads to increase.


THE SERVICE MAN
At the Crossroads.
“Ek Dum”: With Hollandia well in
U.S. hands at small cost in men (enemy
killed counted number 732), and with the
Australians almost bloodlessly established
in the Madang and Alexishafen area,
Lieut.-General Northcott, Acting Com-
mander-in-Chief of the A.M.F., declared
that “no hope of relief” remained, as far
as could be seen, for “the 40,000 to 50,000
Japanese trapped in the New Guinea area
between Hollandia and Madang.”
Trapped also must be the 90,000 to
100,000 Japs reckoned to be in the
Solomons and the Bismarcks, including
Rabaul and Kavieng. The 14,000 esti-
mated to be at Hollandia appear to have
vanished for the time being. It is sur-
mised that they were turned back to
Wewak; but it takes substantial trans-
port to move 14,000 men in a hurry.
Of the enemy in the Australian zone,
Lieut.-General Northcott said:
There is no sign so far of the Japanese
turning to fight in New Guinea. Except by
submarines, they have no means of obtain-
ing supplies. It is possible they have built
up big reserves in the areas in their hands. .
At Hollandia there was a huge dump of
rice.
“Without attempting to predict General
MacArthur’s future plans,” Lieut.-
General Northcott expressed the view
that the policy of leaving the Japanese
to starve in the Solomons and Rabaul
might be followed in New Guinea. The
Japanese for some time had been antici-
pating attack on Wewak, and had been
concentrating forces there, with the result
that the bulk of the enemy were now in
a sandwich between the Australians at
Madang—“formerly well known militia
units” —and the Americans moving down
from Aitape.
At the week-end the gap separating the
U.S. forces from the Madang forces was
about 240 miles of wild coast. The only
fighting in that area occurred when a
group of about 200 Japanese ambushed
and isolated a U.S. patrol near Kanti,
eight miles south-east of Aitape. The
Americans, for “very light ‘ casualties,”
reported 59 Japs killed before reinforce-
ments arrived from Aitape and scattered
the rest. At Hollandia, among 900 enemy
casualties reported, 150 prisoners pro-
vided the biggest batch yet seen in the
South-west Pacific war, which may be
significant.
Statistics for April show compara-
tively small enemy losses in air fighting
—296 Japanese aircraft for a loss of 39
Allied. Thirteen Jap merchantmen, 128
barges and 25 small craft were claimed as
destroyed.
The R.A.A.F. carried out several vigor-
ous attacks on points between Dutch New
Guinea and Timor, systematically bomb-
ing the enemy’s line of bases.
Rabaul is said to be a hollow shell;
Kavieng also ; and all the other bases of
the Bismarcks and Solomons worth the
name are in like condition. No shipping
in this area has been reported capable of
supplying a division of modern troops
adequately. Enemy aircraft have largely
disappeared—entirely, except for defen-
sive types. Yet the official calculation is
that there are in the area three groups
of troops, each larger than any single
body which the Allies have had to face
in one piece in the South-west Pacific,
and all doomed. If it is soundly based,
the bottom must have fallen out of enemy
planning and organisation.
Bombing of Rabaul, Wewak and other
main centres continues, what time South
Pacific forces operating under Admiral
Nimitz from the Marshalls try to soften
up main bases to the west of their present
toeholds, while they accumulate the facili-
ties which will allow them to make a
full use of their great naval power deep
into the area near the Philippines-Borneo-
Celebes.
Truk Region Attacked
The fiercest manifestation of this policy
was a concerted series of navally-based
attacks on the triangle of islands—Truk
on the west, Satawan and Namoi to the
south-east of it and Ponape—on April
29 and 30 and May 1.
The attack on Truk was carried out
by carrier ’planes —they had supported the
landing at Hollandia —on April 29 and
30, when 800 tons of bombs were dropped
and 126 aircraft destroyed—6o in combat
by Allied aircraft, 60 on the ground and
five by the ship’s ack-ack batteries on the
first day, and a lone fighter which
appeared on the second day.
At Satawan and Namoi carriers and
cruisers shelled installations, and on
May 1 battleships and carriers attacked
Ponape, the attack being supplemented by
strafing by army Mitchells.
Liberators which went to Wake Island
and dropped 95 tons of bombs all re-
turned safe.
American losses at Truk were about 30
members of the flight crews. The ships
were unscratched. t
Consolidation in Burma
In the other zones of the Pacific
honors are unequal. In Burma, with the
monsoon only three weeks off, the British-
Indian troops are on the offensive in the
Imphal area ? and the American and
Chinese troops in the Mogaung Valley
working down from the Hukawng Gap
appear to have been making progress,
though information about them is vague.
They are said to be 17 miles from the
Irrawaddy railway, which the Wingate
force has more than once cut.
In the Imphal campaign the Japs did
no more than grab the two entrances to
the position on the plain and try to shut
off supplies. The southern entrance, the
Silchar cart road, was of secondary im-
portance. The method of the Command
has been to hold ground there and pre-
vent further infiltrations and reinforce-
ment of supplies, while a major battle
is carried on to throw the aggressors off
the main route to the railway via Kohima
and, their clutch broken, to destroy them
or force them back where nature will do
the destroying.
So far, everything has gone well. The
enemy’s rear has been threatened and
threatened again. Parties vital to his
communications have been pounced on
with superior fire-power from the ground
and air-power from above. Allied air
superiority makes the British troops more
mobile and less subject to the necessity
of keeping tied to ground communica-
tions. The enemy has sought to break
the clutch on his throat by lightning
counter-thrusts at Kohima perimeter, but
his acts are those of a desperate man.
The whole of the enemy’s lateral line
of communications —the broad Chindwin
River, and his service depots on the Irra-
waddy railway—are the playthings of
bombers and strafers, of which there is
everything from Spitfires and Beaus
downwards in the way of fighters, work-
ing with Mosquitoes, Liberators and
Fortresses.
In Arakan manoeuvring for positions
British-Indian troops have strengthened
their command of the Maungdaw-Buthi-
daung lines of high ground, and seem to
be bent on acquiring holding positions
and providing cover for their roads prior
to going into recess for the monsoon, for
which the signal was their retirement
from the no-man’s-land of Buthidaung
village.
By the time the monsoon is over to-
wards the end of the year the war in the
Pacific should have entered another new
phase in which the forces of Admirals
Mountbatten and Nimitz slowly close
their trap across the Indies, to secure
command of the seas from Malaya south-
ward, then throwing in land forces to
clean up positions which the enemy dis-
covers one by one to be untenable by
reason of the combined navies’ striking
power from sea and air.
China’s Troubles
The next stage, of course, will be con-
cerned with the China coast. The year
1944-45 should be China’s year. This the
enemy seems to have realised, and his
efforts in the wheat bowl have turned into
a more generalised campaign than usual,
one on which he might build hopes to
crush Chungking before the help which
is being organised for comes.
His drive is almost the heaviest since
the first year of the China war. He is
pushing out along the railway from thp
coast at Haichow to Sian, which junctions
with the Peking-Canton line at Cheng-
chow, at a rate which shows that his
column is meeting no resistance of any
weight. He is endeavoring to link up
forces moving from Hankow further
south with those from Chengchow junc-
tion, so as to open a land route not liable
to attack by Allied naval forces from
North to Central and South China.
For the first time in six years tanks are
being used, though not in heavy force. At
the week-end the two enemy forces had
about 50 miles to go to link up. in their
move to the west of Chengchow, which
might be merely a manoeuvre to screen
the main operation, the enemy claimed to
have captured Loyang and to be continu-
ing his progress. The Chinese admitted
the capture of Linju, 8| miles to the
south, and said the enemy was trying to
locate the main Chinese force.
The Chinese, who in this area have
retreated rapidly if they have had more
than patrols there, and who hold only
the narrow length of line which keeps the
Jap Hankow and Chengchow troops
apart, seem to have no intention of oblig-
ing Tojo with a battle for the moment.
Their policy is conservation. A spokes-
man announced that they would not fight
along the railway since they had neither
tanks nor co-operation aircraft to combat
the Japanese tanks and aircraft in a flat
and open terrain.
A War of Nerves.
“Ek Dum”: Move and counter-move
in western Europe cover a lot of hap-
penings about which the world is not
likely to be told. Troops are being em-
barked and disembarked off the British
coast, a normal kind of exercise for wait-
ing expeditionaries. German E-boats and
reconnaissance ’planes snoop in and —
even more quickly—out, if they can get
out at all.
The clouds of Allied aircraft hide the
sun and thicken the darkness as they
wing into Europe on the continuance of
an incessant blitz which has gone on
for a solid 30 days. The week closed with
a raid on Berlin by about 800 U.S. heavies
with a fighter escort of about 1000
machines, which included many from the
R.A.F.
April set up a record for weight of
bombs dropped. In March the U.S.A.F.
reported ,having dropped 30,000-odd tons
on enemy objectives; in April, 43,500
tons, R.A.F. totals were 28,000-odd tons
in March, 37,500 tons in April. Accord-
ing to a recent British official paper
American weights are in metric tons of
20001 b. and British in normal tons of
22401 b., bringing the total figure to
84,000 tons on a U.S. basis.
In April the R.A.F., operating from
“the west,” lost 259 machines over
Europe and claimed 62 German machines;
in Britain, one machine against 43 Ger-
man. American strategic bombers and
fighter escorts claimed 1282 enemy air-
craft in the air and 450 on the ground
for a loss of 537 bombers and 191
fighters.
Last week’s raids ranged all the way
across Europe, from the verges of the
German rear on the Russian front to the
Bay of Biscay, and covered railways,
factories and special communications and
aircraft targets. Losses of Allied
machines cannot be calculated with any
exactitude from this distance because of
overlapping communiques and correc-
tions of information, but seemed to be
250 to 300.
A lot of the “forecasts,” constructive
commentaries and “news” about Ger-
man jitters and weaknesses, especially
those coming out of Sweden, which is a
clearing-house for half the nonsense
generated in Europe, are not worth the
paper they are written on. It is notice-
able that very little news of any kind is
coming out of Switzerland and less out
of Germany itself.
Within the past few days the babel of
the air has become more raucous and
confused. The Allies have opened new
stations to talk to Europe; Berlin -has
altered its overseas short-wave hours and
introduced new “sessions.” And Goeb-
bels has been abroad with something
which for once bears some slight resem-
blance to the truth;
We know that the enemy’s preparations
for invasion are, on the whole, completed.
Therefore what has happened in the past
days and weeks is a matter of tactics and
a war of nerves.
Behind all the noise can be felt the
tension and the strain of waiting. De-
spite the propaganda, London broadcasts
do not suggest that Britain is much in-
terested in the Imperial Conference save
as one of many big events in progress
at the same time, secondary to bigger
action on which the national mind is
focused.
The banning of the Labor Conference
to have been held in London was men-
tioned only incidentally. Yet, according
to Sydney Communist papers, it was to
have been an earth-shaking affair: “The
A.C.T.U. delegates Crofts and Thornton,
sitting with Soviet trade-unionists, C. 1.0.
genuine Indian workers and Chinese
unionists, representing Chungking and the
Communist north-west, will tell the world
what workers are thinking in language
no Government will be able to ignore.”
The reason for the banning was given as
inability to provide transport.
The keynote of Britain was one of
calm determination salted with an
obvious realisation of the price which
might have to be paid for victory.
Russia and the Main Issue.
“Ek Dum”: Very little movement was
reported from the Russian front last
week, except in the air: Moscow an-
nounced the bombing of rearward Ger-
man communication and dump centres
Otherwise the almost daily report was
“no material change.” Correspondents,
however, declared that the Russians were
subjecting Sevastopol to “the heaviest
bombardment in history.”
The only German report which seemed
to have any claim to reality was one that
the Russians had begun a heavy attack-
in some descriptions nominated as their
“greatest effort of the war”—to break
the Jassy joint in Rumania. A Rumanian
communique asserted that “all Russian
break-through attempts have been foiled,”
and Berlin announced exuberantly that
they had failed.
It may be possible that weather con-
ditions in this latitude have cleared
enough to allow local operations on a
large scale; but all information so far
received is to the effect that the spring is
late in Europe, that the rivers of the Mol-
davian area are still in full flood and
that snows are melting. This means that
the Russians, as elsewhere, will be under
a disadvantage as to communications for
the next two months, during which much
of the country behind them will be a
slough. However, a Soviet Order of the
Day, issued on May 5, not, as is usual,
by Marshal Stalin but by the staff,
declared;
The Red Army is on the eve of a large-
scale offensive which will lead to victory.
We must cross the borders of the Soviet
State and destroy the wounded Nazi beast
in his lair.
German divisions have undoubtedly
been transferred to the west, and some
Moscow correspondents have gone there,
too, including the redoubtable represen-
tative of the British United Press.
It seems logical that the land campaigns
of the east and west will be concerted.
Marshal Stalin in his May Day broad-
cast said that the task of pursuing the
wounded beast and finishing it off in its
lair was obviously a more difficult matter
than the expulsion of the enemy from
Russian territory, but could be “solved
on the basis of co-ordinated efforts by
Russia, Britain and the Ignited States by
mqans of synchronised blows from the
east and west: only thus can Hitler be
completely crushed.”
Thus it seems that, leaving Allied land-
ings in the west out of the question, the
main campaign of 1944 is not expected
in Russia to reach its zenith until weather
and terrain are suitable for major cam-
paigning on both fronts. In Central and
Northern Russia this means June and
July.
The Germans’ preparations suggest that
they believe at present that they are more in
danger from the British and Americans,
to whose front they have transferred
most of their best generals, than they are
on the Russian front, where, so far, they
have gone no further, in terms of major
strategy, than to abandon a far-flung
offensive. They still hold Russian terri-
tory of considerable strategic importance
and, except on parts of the Carpathian
sector, they have not yet withdrawn to
even their main outer screen defences.
Maorilanders in Italy.
They are temporarily acting as a
corps under the Fifth Army in opera-
tions with the veteran Fourth Indian
Division, in which there are the usual
Scottish brigade, a British division and
British and U.S. guns and armor.
Their battle is over for the moment
on a front which is quiet, though there
is air attrition. It has included the wreck-
ing of the great Torre Dam, near Pescara,
by British Mustangs and the Australian
Kittyhawk Squadron which has followed
the fighting all the way from Africa and
Springboks. This raid was launched on
May 5 without loss.
At Nettuno, as at Cassino, fighting
is limited to fierce Allied exploratory
thrusts.
General Freyberg describes the Cas-
sino battle as “undoubtedly the most diffi-
cult of all our operations”:
The Cassino position is formidable, and
it is not for the first time in history that it
has barred the way to armies advancing
up the Liri Valley. Cassino, once a sub-
stantial stone town, lies at the foot of
Monastery Hill, which rises sheer out of
the plain, not unlike the Rock of Gibraltar
in steepness and height. The narrow plain
over which we had to advance was flooded,
wired and mined, and the entire defensive
system was covered by the small but swift-
flowing Rapido River.
Actually, Monastery Hill is 300 ft. higher
than the Rock of Gibraltar.
From the middle of February, General
Freyberg’s report relates, the enemy was
constantly under pressure, attacked from
the air and bombarded by artillery. He
was forced to employ his reserves against
the chance of a break-through. On Feb-
ruary 15 the monastery was destroyed.
Prior to the main attack, the Fourth
Indian Division fought a battle on the
steep, rocky slopes to the north of Cas-
sino. It gained ground on Point 593—50
named from its height in metres—and
still held it when the report —not dated,
though issued in Maoriland on April 17—
was made ; this in spite of heavy enemy
counter-attacks. The hill was honey-
combed with firing points blasted into the


Missing Friends.
EDWARD JAMES WILSON HOBBS.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of any
of the members of the family of the abovenamed
deceased person please communicate with the under-
ig T'he 'parents of the deceased were Frederick Hobbs,
a bookmaker, and Lucy Hobbs, nee Wilson, who
were, married at Liverpool, New South Wales, on
the 26th July, 1883, and at the date of birth of the
deceased were living at Ohalder fetieet, Marric -
ville. New South Wales. At the date of birth of
the deceased on the 13th June, 1886, he had one
elder living* brother.
J. E. DON, Public Trustee, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne. .
Public Notices.
I K KRAPP, of German nationality, born at Free
City of Hamburg and resident nine and a half years
in Australia, now residing at No. 2 Camp, A.W.C.,
Alice Springs, Northern Territory, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act XELO-
-1936.
I IVO ANTIN ANTUNAC, of Yugoslavian nation-
ality, born at Sibenik, in the Province of Dalmatia,
Yugoslavia, and resident six years in Australia, now
residing at Park Street, Mona Vale, New South
Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I MADELEINE LISA MARGARET NATASHA
YADAS, Australian by birth, Hungarian by marriage,
born at Perth, Western Australia, and resident all
my life in Australia, now residing at 70 Middle
Harbour Road, Lindfleld, New South Wales, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN ALLEN MERVAL MCCARTHY late of No.
25 West Street Crow’s Nest in the State of New
South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
PHYLLIS MARY MCCARTHY has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of adultery
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the first day of June One
thousand nine hundred and forty-four and in the
event of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding A copy of the petition
filed herein may be had free of charge on applica-
tion to THOMAS G. SPENCER Solicitor for the
petitioner Hosking House Hosking Place Sydney.—
DATED this twenty-fourth day of April One
thousand nine hundred and forty-four.—(t.s.) O. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILFRED HORACE HALLS late of care of
W. Halls Stratton Katoomba Street Katoomba. —
TAKE NOTICE that MAUDE AGNES MONA
HALLS has filed a Petition for Divorce Number
1248 of 1944 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 19th June 1944 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from A. W. -M. DICKINSON
Solicitor 33-39 Hunter Street Sydney.—(L.s.) O. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
cloyedtflujtle ffiwa
rock. The Indians stormed it at night
with bayonet and grenade.
Then followed (Feb. 17-18) the capture
of the railway station by the bold sortie
of the 28th Maori Battalion and the
failure by a hairbreadth to establish the
bridgehead across the Rapido.
Finally, came the full-scale attack by
the Second Maoriland Division and the
Fourth Indian Division. But, “dependent
as it was upon tank and air support,
there had to be weeks of patient waiting
till drying ground provided firm going
for the armor and clear visibility for air-
craft.”
Heavier than Alamein
At last, on March 15, the weather
seemed right. Before dawn Maoriland
troops on the north of Cassino were with-
drawn, and the terrific air bombardment
began at 8.30 a.m.
Flashes of flame from bursting bombs
leapt up from buildings, and explosions
reverberated through the hills and shook
the ground under our feet. No enemy air-
craft appeared during the attack. Enemy
a.-a. guns were neutralised by artillery
and none fired after 10.30. At .12 o’clock
the last flight of medium bombers planted
their bombs with impressive accuracy.
Twelve o’clock was zero hour.
The heavy Allied artillery, under the
Maorilander Brigadier Weir, C.C.R.A.,
opened fire with 500 to 600 guns of all
calibres, and the infantry, under Major-
General G. B. Parkinson, attacked behind
a creeping barrage. The bombardment
was “heavier than at El Alamein.”
The infantry, restricted by the bottle-
neck formed of towering mountains
on the west and the fast-flowing Rapido
on the east, advanced into Cassino from
the north. In this narrow approach it
was possible to deploy only one battalion
at a time, “a great handicap to our
operations.” The positions from which
troops had been withdrawn early in the
morning were taken without opposition.
Castle Hill —“a steep miniature of the
monastery feature just north of the town”
—was stormed and captured by the 25th
Maorilanders, and the 26th, followed by
the 19th Armored Regiment, attacked
Cassino itself.
Accurate Bombing
At first, casualties were very light.
Prisoners taken were stunned and re-
ported heavy casualties from the bomb-
ing. General Freyberg does not support
correspondents’ firm assertions that the
bombing was inaccurate. He writes;
The town was completely wrecked and
the whole area covered with wide and deep
craters, up to 60ft. across, which could not
be crossed by armor. In some places
where the bombs had missed buildings or
had not penetrated the reinforced base,
there were snipers and enemy posts holding
out. But, on the western edge of the
town, enemy positions blasted info the base
of the hill remained intact. From positions
south of Monastery Hill, enemy flame-
throwers and trench mortars came into
action. Heavy artillery, bombers and
fighter-bombers engaged the enemy mortar
areas and continued to attack in depth the
enemy positions on Monastery Hill and in
the areas in the valley beyond.
By evening good progress was made.
The plan was to mop up Cassino by moon-
light, while troops from the Fourth Indian
Division were to take over Castle Hill
from the 25th Maorilanders and then
attack Monastery Hill. Engineers were
to bridge the Rapido on the main Rome
road and clear a way for the tanks on
the enemy’s side.
The Weather Fails
At nightfall, torrential rain set in> Visi-
bility was poor; the moon made little or
no difference. “It was an impossibility
to keep control in the dark, and progress
in Cassino was slow.”
Because Cassino had not been cleared
the Indian division could not deploy
on the slopes of Monastery Hill and there
were inevitable delay and loss of cohesion.
In these conditions, the achievement of
the Gurkha battalion in capturing Hang-
man’s Hill, the point below the monas-
tery, before dawn was magnificent, but
the Gurkhas were “too thin on the
ground to attack Monastery Hill.”
Before morning the enemy in Cassino
had had time to clear away much debris
and organise strongpoints.
Shell and bomb craters had filled with
water during the night and the plain was
a sea of mud. But at first light the
N.Z. Sixth Brigade (Brigadier Bonifant)
with tank support continued the attack
in Cassino with the object of linking with
the Indians on Hangman’s Hill. Apart
from isolated posts the main enemy
stronghold was sealed in concrete at the
Continental Hotel, with support positions
dug into the sides of Castle Hill.
• •
Bridgehead Secured
With bulldozers routes were opened for
the 26th and a squadron of tanks to re-
capture the railway station, after a fierce
defence by enemy tanks and a.-t. guns.
The Fifth Brigade (Brigadier Burrows)
now joined the Sixth, with tank support,
fighting from bunker to bunker and
rubble heap toi rubble heap. Sometimes
houses had literally to be blown down to
break enemy resistance in them. On the
17th 180 prisoners were taken from two
strongholds, but the enemy still held the
western edge of the town securely, and
was able to supply and reinforce it by
night. By day and night the battle went
on, with Allied artillery constantly mask-
ing the enemy’s observation posts and
keeping down his fire.
Meanwhile, troops of the Fourth
Indian Division fought off counter-
attacks. The British forces lost Point 165,
but men of Essex and Kent firmly held
Castle Hill, on to which they had fol-
lowed the Maorilanders. , The Gurkhas
on Hangman’s Hill and a company of
the N.Z. 24th Battalion became isolated
—the latter on Points 146 and 202 —but
held on grimly, supplied by air by Ameri-
can dive-bombers and fighter-bombers.
General Freyberg sums up:
Full success of our operation depended
on our ability to clear Cassino and link up
with these isolated garrisons so that the
attack could go on to take the monastery.
This could not be accomplished, so the
isolated troops had to be withdrawn by
night The strong defence held. We have,
however, broken into the enemy’s main
defensive system and in the fierce battles
that ensued we have caused the enemy
heavy casualties. We have won and now
hold part of our objective. We have a
bridgehead over the Rapido River and we
hold Castle Hill, the bulk of the town and
the railway station.
General Mark Clark, G.O.C. Fifth
Army, thanked the Maorilanders for
their outstanding valor and determination
against “a desperate and stubborn
enemy.”
Getting at Japan.
“Ek Dum”: Ideas as to what will need
to be done range from linking up with the
Chinese army—it would take a year or
so to get sufficient supplies to the Chinese
over narrow winding roads 1500 to 3500
miles long, and another two years to
train and equip them —to wrecking Nip-
pon with carrier-borne aircraft.
The real problem is to get a hand on
Japan’s carotid arteries and block them.
The best foothold, if it can be got, looks
to be Formosa.
The occupation of Formosa would
isolate the enemy forces in the Philip-
pines, in the China Seas and the Malayan
and East Indies and Australian areas,
whether it were achieved by laying a
chain of bases across the ocean, via Truk
and Palau and the Mariannes, or by
climbing up the Indo-China and South
China coast,
Reading the clock from Tainan,
on the south-west of Formosa, distances
to the main adjacent strategic points are:
To Manila, 600 miles; to Hong Kong,
400 miles; to Amoy, 180 miles; to Chang-
sha —key to the “food bowl,” which the
enemy assails every year—soo miles; to
Hankow, 600 miles; to Nanking, 600 miles;
to Foochow, 200 miles; to Shanghai, 600
miles.
The main Chinese southern railways sys-
tems, the Yang Tsz and the Sikiang, and
all main Chinese treaty ports outside the
Yellow Sea are within reach of it.
All the places to the north are about
150 miles nearer from the northern port
of the island, Kilung, which is as close to
Shanghai as Rabaul to the Papuan coast.
Liberators could reach the Korean Strait
comfortably on bombing missions from
Kilung—about 750 miles. It would be
easier for the new B29’s. From Kilung,
Sasebo, Nagasaki, Shimonoseki, the great
western naval and armament bases of
Japan, and the Bungo Channel, western
entrance of the Inland Sea, would be
within bombing range of escorted long-
distance heavies and short-range carrier
attack
With control of a quadrilateral of fine
ports and harbors formed by Manila,
Formosa, Saigon or Camranh Bay and
Singapore and Hong Kong, the Allied
navies would have a box which could be
made impregnable, out of which their
carriers and battleships could operate
comfortably within their limit range right
into the Yellow Sea, and up to Hokkaido
along the eastern approaches.
The secondary steppingstones towards
Japanese defeat are the two peninsulas
which form the mouth of the Yellow Sea.
With, on the Chinese side, Wei-hai-Wei
and, on the other, the base of the Korean
Peninsula occupied and built into Allied
footholds, Manchukuo and its ports and
the ports of China would be isolated
from Japan for all practical
The whole of Japan west of Tokyo would
be open to short-range attack by bomber
and heavy fighter forces operating from
land bases and carriers, and therefore
able to choose their own angle of
approach and to deliver the heaviest loads.
Comparison with Britain
Britain was attacked in the air by
strong but inferior air-power from one
direction and from land bases only. Japan
will be assaulted by unlimited air-power
from all angles.
To attack Britain’s overseas shipping
from the air the Germans could approach
only from one main direction and needed
to penetrate a screen defence, the width
of the U.K. and its whole length, to get
at it. With Wei-hai-Wei and a foothold
in Korea, and big naval bases on the
upper Chinese coast or Formosa, the
Allies would be able to attack Japan’s
shipping from all directions without pene-
trating any screen of defence.
Neither Britain nor Japan could live
without open sea routes and abundant
shipping; but Japan’s margin is less than
Britain’s. Japan’s per-man ration is
smaller and less sustaining. Its expanse
of untilled land is less and allows of
little increase of local production. Much
of its food is dredged from the sea.
Britain faced attack across the sea de-
fended by a navy which held the domi-
nating position and was immeasurably
stronger on the surface than Germany’s.
Germany’s capital ships and few carriers
could sneak out only at great risk. They
could not capture bases, provide carriage
for great forces to occupy them, and
attack Britain from all round the com-
pass by air as well as under water.
Japan fights against superior fleets,
which have abundant aircraft-carriers —
none of Germany’s made the greater
oceans —and is as deficient in radar as
were the Germans, a field of detection in
which the Allies are nearly perfect.
Britain won the battle of 1940-43 as
much by its power to suffer loss of
shipping as by its naval superiority and
air defence.
When the war began somewhere from
35.000. to 40,000,000 gross registered
tons of shipping were giving Britannia
blood transfusion and putting weapons
into her hands.
It is true, that the U-boat campaigns
at times made her stagger; in one bad
stretch of seven months she lost nearly
6.000. tons of ships, her own and
friendly neutral.
Japan, losing 6,000,000 tons of mercan-
tile shipping, would be as bare of sea-
borne bottoms as the North Pole is of
giraffes.
it Japan’s shipping routes can be mainly
closed, its sources of supply cut off and
its territory brought under fire, General
Tojo can count himself defeated. If
Russia were to enter the war, without
even striking a blow, but making Vladi-
vostok and Possiet Bay available to the
Allies at the right time, the finish of
Japan would be greatly hastened.
Basically Naval
All thisi, boils down to the fact that the
war in the Pacific will be basically naval
up to its last phase, a job for Admirals
Nimitz and Mountbatten rather than for
the generals.
It must be won by using an
overwhelming naval force, in which
. overwhelming air superiority is primarily
inherent, and which is capable of utterly
destroying Japan’s communications by
sea and by air and applying a sealed
blockade to every part of enemy terri-
tory. Of this great sea-power land-power
must be the instrument at every stage.
Victory will be won by superiority of
fire-power and results in the ultimate sea,
air and land battles. This depends on
copious lines of communication and the
navies’ capacity to keep them open and
flexible and well served by huge numbers
of freighters, tankers and transports.
And the Allies’ power to submit to
wastage which Japan has no hope of
standing up to, and of indulging in usage
of material which would ruin their
enemy, will be a potent factor in expedit-
ing the end; for the Allies will be able
to run risks of failures that would wreck
Japan.
After “the Coral Sea”
It is from the sea that already the tide
has come up which has washed ruinously
over some of the enemy’s early successes.
It was the Coral Sea Battle—two years
ago exactly when this was written —which
ended at one blow the Jap’s rosy hopes of
landing on these shores. It was sea-
power which brought to the southern
Solomons those agencies which smashed
the enemy at Guadalcanal and in the
Battle of the Solomons in November,
1942. It was sea-power- again, in June,
1942, at Midway, which dissipated his
last hope of gaining footholds on the
Hawaiian Islands and the North Ameri-
can coast. „ T
It was the squadrons of Sir James
Somerville, R.N., fresh from their great
adventures of the western Mediterranean,
which turned him back in the Bay of
Bengal, and which forestalled the joint
German-Japanese plans to link across the
Indian Ocean from Asia to Madagascar
and cut Australian sea routes.
It is sea-power which will carve up the
enemy’s possessions in southern Asia and
the Indies and turn their resources to the
advantage of the Allies once more. And
it is the same powerful force which will
gain Formosa and/or the other northern
footholds which are necessary for the
final campaign.
But it will be a long, hard climb north-
ward, whatever by-passing is done.
The problems of transport alone are
tremendous.
In Jbrief: —-
Lt.-General Savige was present on April 3o
at the dedication o£ the Australian war cemetery
at Salamaua. In it there are 328 graves, together
with a memorial to 36 missing.
* * * *
Japan has lost its second naval Commander-
in-Chief since April, 1943, when Admiral Yaino-
moto died. This time it is Admiral Koga, de-
scribed as “killed in action in March in an air-
craft while directing personally important
operations.” But Tokyo Radio s references arc
so devoid of grief as to suggest that there may
be ground for the Chinese conviction that he
was another case of hara-kiri, as an aftermath
of the Allied victories in the Marshalls and the
failures to defend Truk.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
The U.S. War Department has announced the
loss of 498 persons in an American ship sunk
in the Mediterranean by enemy action.
* * * *
The Admiralty on May 2 reported the sink-
ing of an enemy destroyer by submarine patrols,
which also destroyed two supply ships
damaged two others and an escort vessel. An-
other submarine bombarded military targets at
Port Blair in the Andamans. The enemy shore
batteries replied without effect.
* * * *
One of the war stories still to be written is
that of the incessant raiding of enemy coasts
during which outposts are stripped of their
occupants, technical equipment is blown up
and other damage is done. A more than
usually important adventure reported from
Cairo on May 2 was one somewhat on the
lines of that in which young Colonel Keyes
lost his life and won the V.C. trying to capture
Rommel in his African lair. This attempt was
successful. British officers brought home from
Crete the German General Knepe, former
Commander of the 22nd Panzer Grenadiers,
the Sevastopol Division. _________


Accuracy
to the
II
fi
'
fed
m
m
II
K#
Bw ■
f
I 88881
S I -
m
BB HUH
degree
Th e demands of modern warfare have brought an amazing
degree of accuracy to precision engineering . . . accuracy within
microscopic limits. The manufacture of tools, gauges, optical
munitions, aircraft components, etc., demands skill of the highest
order. A.T.L.'s thirty years of experience in this type of work
is now at the service of Australia's war effort, supplying precision
tools and scientific equipment to limits as fine as 1/10,000 of
an inch. .
When you think of precision engineering . . . think of A.T.L
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
PRECISION ENGINEERS . TOOL & GAUGE MAKERS . TOIAUSATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY MELBOURNE PERTH BRISBANE
/ 1
//'/
m
‘ . i
NUGGET
MILITARY TAJV
makes lAe shine
AND THE
BOOTS
lasi lanqer
Because the shine lasts longer, you look,
smarter. Because the boots last longer,
you're more comfortable. Do yourself
good-get "Nugget"-the Military Tan
with the real, rich mahogany glow.
W V J
ov
'Qptt
UOOC 1
42/lA
SPORTING NOTIONS
Racing continues to draw big atten-
dances in Sydney. The crowd at Moore-
field on Saturday was 22,000, and the
totalisator turnover, £57,323, easily beat
the previous course record, £53,149 10s.
Helped by his light weight, 7.2, Valiant
Garde stayed better than expected to win
the Moorefield Handicap from Glendower
and Wee Laddie. Moorefield is an easy
course at 1} mile, and Valiant Garde
was able to race comfortably behind the
leaders, Chatham’s Choice, Wee Laddie
and Haripur, to the home turn. Glen-
dower handled the track better than at
previous Moorefield starts, but Haripur
appeared upset by the downhill Slopes,
and strode out freely only on the uphill
rise to the turn. He will do better on a
flat course, as will Chatham’s Choice,
especially when an apprentice allowance
again can be claimed for him.
Nightbeam may not have won the
Brighton Handicap but for a rails run
in the straight. Boorchief, who had led
at the turn, shifted out and Nightbeam
moved through to beat Annie Laurie in
the last stride. Nightbeam had not won
for 18 months, and his apprentice jockey,
R. White, previously had not ridden a
winner. Boorchief started favorite, but
evidently he is better under welter
weights. Lord Valentine, best backed
agajnst Boorchief, looked a danger at the
turn, but even a slight check in the
straight did not excuse his failure to finish
closer than fourth.
After five minor placings this season
St. Elmo deserved his half-head win from
Aquatic and Bruce Wood in the San
Souci Welter. Of greater public interest,
however, was the success of his* rider, W.
Cook, after 38 consecutive losers. Rac-
ing seems to be getting a trifle ludicrous
when a jockey of Cook’s standing carries
a lucky charm to help him, but someone
gets a kick from such antics. St. Elmo
was fortunate to beat Aquatic, who was
forced against the rails near the finish
and could not be ridden out. A protest
against St. Elmo was suggested, but St.
Elmo himself had been knocked on to
Aquatic by Bruce Wood, who finished on
the outside.
Bought for 550gns. at the 1940 year-
ling sales in Sydney, Chief Man did not
win a race until the Trial Stakes on Satur-
day. For two years, however, he was
running loose in a paddock at Cowra, and
was not trained seriously until early this
year. By El Cacique from Crystal
Wedding, Chief Man is a member of the
Wedding Day family, which has produced
some remarkable gallopers. Though well
back while Sir Francis made the early
running Chief Man had the leaders
beaten before the straight. Allan Veil —
like Chief Man, backed and beaten in a
maiden race at his previous start —
finished along the rails to get second,
ahead of Sir Francis, who seems unable
to run out a mile.
Victrix won the first Juvenile Division
as comfortably as her price, 9 to 4 on,
suggested. She waited behind Golden
Ore until the straight entrance, and was
not extended in the last furlong. Victrix
still has much to learn about racing. She
tried to run off the course near the turn,
but her rider, O’Sullivan, checked her
quickly. A rangy chestnut by Denis Boy
from Leila Vale, Victrix is rather like
her dam, who won good sprint races for
the late W. Booth. Knee Patch (second)
and Judy Loody (third) finished fairly,
but High Tension again showed no pace.
He can run winning gallops on the train-
ing tracks, but apparently lacks confi-
dence when mixed up with other horses
in a race.
Recovering quickly from interference a
furlong after the start, Gay Lovat won
the second juvenile race from outsiders
Swan River and Cooperi. Gay Lovat, a
gelding by Marconigram from Privet, cost
his owner, N. Frazer, 400gns. as a year-
ling. He had raced only once before his
Moorefield win, and, without making him
a champion, his ability to overcome a
check on such a tricky course suggests he
is a smart youngster. Platonic, the favor-
ite, also struck trouble in running, but
she was not racing well at the time, and
she would not have won. Swan River
(Midstream-Black Bird) spoiled his
chance by veering out in the straight. He
should soon repay the 300gns. he cost as
a yearling.
When Rufus moved away from Young
Valais opposite the Leger in the Three-
and Four-year-old Handicap, he appeared
certain to give the Ring another good
result. Cockcrow, however, finished
better, and won by half a length, with
the favorite, Clarion Call, third. Cock-
crow has taken a long time to regain his
two-year-old form, but his owner, W. H.
Mackay, does not regret his refusal of a
£lOOO offer for the gelding over a year
ago. Clarion Call, cut out at the start,
did well enough to suggest an early win,
perhaps on a bigger course and at a
longer distance than six furlongs.
* * * *
Sold by auction five days earlier for
300gns., Gamelin returned his new owner,
L. O. Menck, £420 in stakes when he
defeated Bavius and Carzana in the
Somerton Handicap at Moonee Valley
on Saturday. In addition, he landed some
substantial bets, having been backed from
7 to 1 down to -favoritism at 7 to 2.
Gamelin, like most of Gay Lothario's
stock, revelled in the heavy going, but,
with the exception of Centenary, who was
anchored by his weight, the field he beat
was one of the weakest that have contested
an open-company distance race for some
time.
Caragona received a flattering recep-
tion after he had completed a winning
hat-trick by defeating Pantoon and
Manaaki in the Donnybrook Steeple. This
gift horse is the most improved ’chaser
in training, and is to be set for the G.N.
Steeple. He has been ridden in his three
wins by 7s. 71b. former flat rider C.
Anderson, who has had only four mounts
over jumps.
Victory March, winner of the G.N.
Steeple last year, reappeared after a spell
and shaped well in running fourth to
Caragona. Victory March was ridden
by his part-owner, A. Fullarton, for many
years Victoria’s crack cross-country
jockey. Fullarton retired some seasons
ago, but, when weight permits, intends
to ride some of his own horses this winter.
He is now an amateur, his name in the
lists being prefixed by “Mr.”
Hullabaloo, racing over jumps for the
second time, outstayed Beau Spear after
the latter had passed him before the last
jump in the Ardmillan Hurdle. Hulla-
baloo was backed from 7 to 1 down to
11 to 2. His stable-mate, Sobersides, who
eased from 3 to 1 to 9 to 2, finished last.
Sobersides stifled a hurdle when a horse
in front slipped after landing over the
jump about seven furlongs from home.
Hullabaloo’s rider, V. Courtney, had not
previously been successful in the metro-
politan area.
Cornish Castle, a two-year-old colt by
Le Grand Duc-Tintagel, gave book-
makers a 50-to-l result in the second
Essendon Handicap. His win, although
he was practically unbacked, was a
change of luck for trainer S. Murphy,
and gave the latter’s apprentice, S. Henry,
his first metropolitan success. Henry,
aged 14 and weighing sst. 121 b., is the
son of a former successful trotting driver.
* * « *
Despite a name that would seem better
for a filly, Pensive, winner of the 70th
Kentucky Derby, didn’t improve the thin
record of the chancy sex in that event,
only once won by a filly. That was
Regret, in 1915, and she carried the
lightest weight in Kentucky Derby his-
tory and beat one of the poorest fields.
Still, as it’s spring over there at this time,
fillies are not at their best, and only
some 20 all told have started in the event
since it’s been going. Pensive, a bright
chestnut colt prepared in Missouri, was
only lightly raced last year. Beating 15
others by four and a half lengths, he
netted his owner the record prize-money
of $62,000 (£A19,500). When Regret won
the stake was only $11,500.
* * * *
Run on the first of a two-days’ mid-
week meeting, the Wagga Cup was won
by High Notions, an aged son of the
Caulfield Cup winner High Syce. High
Notions was bred and is owned and
trained by C. Starr, who has been racing
horses at Albury and elsewhere for
25 years and has led in winners of
several Albury Cups. Supposed transport
troubles notwithstanding, Jockeys made
the trip to Wagga from both Melbourne
and Sydney, the Melbourne jockey A.
Breasley riding the Cup winner. A bright
moment of the meeting was when the
rider of a favorite that was badly left
was asked to explain and said “When
the starter said ‘Go’ 1 thought he said
‘Whoa.’ ” Explanation accepted.
* * * *
Prices paid for his two imported stal-
lions, Actor (1750gn5.) and Lo Zingaro
(1050gns.), at the dispersal of his Under-
bank Stud must have disappointed Sol
Green, who had paid more than £16,000
to bring them to Australia. In keeping
with the world-wide demand for blood-
stock, however, the brood mares drew
keen bidding. Highest price, 2700gn5.,
was paid by H. G. Raymond and H. B.
Ranken, of St. Alban Stud, Geelong, for
the imported grey mare Blue Orchid,
N.S.W. breeders bought freely, and a
total of 78 lots realised 41,765gn5., an
average of 535igns.
*' * * *
Action of the A.J.C. stewards in repri-
manding four jockeys at Moorefield will
satisfy keen watchers who have seen un-
necessary interference creeping into Syd-
ney races. Overkeenness to win, through
war-time restrictions on opportunities,
may explain some, but not all, of the
trouble. Experienced riders are inclined
to blame apprentices for race scrimmages,
but they themselves are not always averse
from taking an advantage if they think
they can escape detection.
Miscellaneous.
A grand fight and a good decision was
the populace’s verdict (for once) on the
Fletcher-Wilkes affair at Leichhardt.
Fletcher himself made the decision by
knocking the other lad out in the 11th
round. After putting up a great show
and having Fletcher groggy with rights,
Wilkes weakened under Fletcher’s almost
continuous attack. He was down in the
10th. Disdaining the count, he regained
his feet, only to take terrific punishment
until floored again just as the bell rang.
Wilkes was still groggy when the 11th
onened, and a flurry of fists spreadeagled
him for more than 10 seconds.
Sydney Stadium “sports” also saw a
good fight, the parties being Day and
Daniels—both Jacks. Daniels, who is
welterweight champion of Victoria, boxed
better than Day, and, scoring often with
clean punches in the last three rounds of
12, was expected to get the decision. It
went to Day, and the “sports” hooted for
many minutes.
* * *
The V.F.L. broke loose in Melbourne
with 12 teams, Geelong having returned
after dropping the game for two years.
Most teams had young players out, and
there was a fair sprinkling of service men
in club colors. About 70,000 watched
the six games, a return to something like
normal. All the old favorites except
Carlton rolled home: ,Fitzroy 11.16, St.
Kilda 10.13 ; Collingwood 14.17, North
Melb. 9.11 ; Footscray 15.23, Geelong
8.7; Richmond 19.18, Melbourne 14.8;
South Melbourne - 13.10, Carlton 9.7;
Essendon 15.6, Hawthorn 9.14.
* * * *
Sydney Rugby Union matches on
Saturday provided a series of surprises.
Parramatta routed Manly 23-6 and Gor-
don beat Uni. 21-19. Down six-m 7 at half-
time, Randwick’s flying backs took charge
in the second spasm to trounce East 22-6,
Randwick is on top, unbeaten. Other
games: West 9, St. George 3 ; North 20,
Drummoyne 9.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
Trial Stakes: Russia, 1 ; Comacho,
2; Medieval Queen, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Victrix, 1 ;
Good Idea, 2 ; Gay Lovat, 3.
Flying Handicap; Soho, 1 ;
Clarion Call, 2 ; Bangster, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Bon Terre,
1 ; White Feather, 2 ; Beau Timide,
3.
Highweight Handicap: Noble-
man, 1 ; Valoroi, 2 ; Steadfast, 3.
Ashbury Handicap: Chatham’s
Choice, 1 ; Gryphon, 2 ; Haripur, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
It isn’t often a snow man can be made
within 30 miles of Melbourne, but the
feat could be accomplished last week-
end by those brave enough to venture
forth. Prevalence of rain (snow on the
higher levels, as the meteorologist- puts
it) has had its good side-— mushrooms
abound. Some even were found at the
bottom of Collins-street. Army personnel
came on great numbers of them, soup-
plate size, on rifle ranges and other deso-
late spots chosen for military doings. A
few lucky people were able to pick them
off the front lawn, and cafe diners found
the “with mushrooms” tag on several
dishes on the menu.
Last week’s biggest queues were out-
side umbrella shops. As soon as the rain
began to come down on any afternoon
they multiplied, as gampless persons
realised in a few minutes’ wetting just
what winter without a brolly and with no
raincoats in the shops was going to be
like. The umbrella shops in such dire
times open for a few hours only in the
afternoon, and as the opening time
arrives the door is pushed very gently
ajar and the head of the queue dis-
appears inside. A little later a couple
more are allowed into the sanctum, and
so on until the awful words “quota sold”
put a finish to the hopes of the unfor-
tunates at the outer end of the line,
HoneymoonerS who’ve been lucky
enough to trip off to the Apple Isle have
been making their friends green with
envy with descriptions of the jaunt. All
comment on the far-away-from-the-war
atmosphere, though the loyal Tasmanians
don’t feel it that way. Quite a few things
that have become scarce in Melbourne
are still in the shops there. Every re-
turning tripper seems to have a cherished
memory of some particular view that in
her opinion is the most beautiful in Aus-
tralia, and all talk about the marvellous
fish dishes that abound in hostelries about
the coast. In this respect Tasmania
seems to play to the mainland the role
that Portugal (where the best sea-food
cooks in the world are supposed to be
found) plays to the rest of Europe.
A pleasant departure from the usual
rules of entertaining vice-royalty is the
invitation of the Lady Mayoress to all
women interested to fill the lower Town
Hall for a farewell demonstration to
Lady Gowrie. Possibly Mrs. Roosevelt
set a precedent by insisting on this sort of
welcome for herself. She refused to con-
sider any reception by a selected elite,
and her meeting with this city’s women
proved a great success.
The coming turnout of women probably
will be a large one also. The vice-regal
lady has made a point of meeting as many
women as possible by taking part in a
variety of movements for social welfare
and patriotic ends, as she is disarmingly
informal and easy to meet. Both she and
the Governor-General have been much
pleased by the success of the Gowrie
Scholarship Fund and by the public sym-
pathy that has been expressed to them
concerning the loss of their son.
Cooks always head the list of recruits
wanted for women’s services. At the
moment it is the A.W.A.S. which is call-
ing for volunteers. The bait for women
enlisting as cooks is that they get a very
good training in culinary fundamentals.
This is true of all women’s services, and
it looks as if there will be a lot more
competent housewives in the post-war
world than there were in the pre-war one.
Mess officers, stores clerks and other per-
sonnel are trained in catering also. The
most interesting part, many of them say,
is learning where the various cuts of meat
come from. Suburban butchers will have
to have strong faith in their steaks to
stand up to these shoppers-of-the-future.
Lud Mayor Nettlefold’s idea of a civic
send-off for Captain and Mrs. Paul Henry
was a good one, as the pair have been
very well liked here, and the Town Hall
assemblage, being widely representative,
gave a lot of people a chance to say “best
of luck” to them. Speeches included one
by Archbishop Booth, in which he re-
vealed that Mrs. Henry was a daughter
of the vicarage. Among the health-
drinkers was Mrs. Henry’s sister, Mrs.
David Davidson, with husband Captain
Davidson and the Gengoult Smith pair,
she very striking in an ermine cap.
Though she’s well known to the public
as a lecturer it is 10 years or more since
Stephanie Taylor held an individual show
of her own work. An exhibition of her
paintings, mostly in water-color, has been
scheduled at the Velasquez Galleries,
where she has arranged shows for so
many other artists during the time she
has been chatelaine. She was trained at
the Gallery school, counts Mather and
Maclnnes among her preceptors, and has
p a i n ted fairly constantly since her stu-
denl: da y S> During last week her chief
worr y b as been paint—just ordinary
p a j nt j n cans> A b pictures in the exhibi-
tjon are to ba ve cream frames, and it’s
been tbe devil’s own job to buy the stuff
tQ cream them with in this be-rationed
tQwn
The oppor t un ity of hearing tenor
<sj c b eps i f or t wo bob (tickets were four
g U j neas on bis drst appearance at the
Town Hall) should bring a crowd to the
Stadium on May 14- The concert will
SU pp or t the candidature of the Demobi-
jjsed Soldiers, Sailors and Airmen’s
Association’s secretary in the “Mr. Mel-
bourne” Competition. Schepsi, who in-
sisted on a £lOO fee for appearing at the
show, on the ground of setting a proper
va i ue on artj w fll return his solatium to
a.C.F. coffers. Well-known radio per-
formers will contribute to the programme,
A combination of the heavyweights of
musical composition with the lighter fra-
ternity is aimed at in a concert at the
A .c.F. Assembly Hall listed for May 17.
The programme will, however, be entirely
classical. Beethoven and Brahms will
demand concentration in the first half
and Schubert, Rubinstein and Debussy
will impart a little relaxation and roman-
ticism to the after-interval section. Edith
Harrhy, here pictured by Leslie Barnard,
will be af the piano. Dorcas McClean
will be the violinist and Etta Bernard and
Desmond Worthington the singers.
By the departure from Australia of
Jean Campbell, the Y.W.C.A. will lose
one of the most dynamic personalities
it has had, A Canadian, with the super-
American accent of her Dominion, she
is a ready speechmaker, and puts life into
the most stolid teen-age audiences. She
spent some time in Chicago, where fund-
raising is really a fine art. She found
Americans very keen on the committee-
meeting-over-lunch idea, so much so, in
fact, that the idea is extended to break-
fasts, and plans are frequently talked oyer
to the accompaniment of early-morning
ham and eggs.
“Back to my job in the Rationing
Commission” is Joan Coles’s reply to
questions as to what her future plans are
since she became Mrs. Keith Summons
last week. The bridegroom will go into
the A.I.F. as, a medical officer on their
return from a fortnight’s holiday. Joan
wore traditional bridal array and what
has become unusual, though it’s very
much in the nuptial tradition, a coronet
of orange-blossom round her head. Joan
is daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Coles.
A good programme is promised for the
concert to be held on May 25 to raise
£250 (and it’s hoped quite a lot more)
asked for by Mrs. Churchill (via Lady
Gowrie) for the Y.W.C.A. War Service
Fund. Thomas Matthews and Eileen
Ralph will be soloists with the Symphony
Orchestra, and the “Kreutzer” Sonata of
Beethoven and Mozart’s Violin Concerto
in D and Pianoforte Concerto in E Flat
will be heard. The concert links up with
one to be held in London at which each
Australian State will provide a theatre
box, and Australians on service in Eng-
land will be invited to sit in them.
A star has risen on Melbourne’s musi-
cal horizon, Erma Clarke, who sang at
Red Cross concert in St. Peter’s Hall last
week. Her voice, which critics say is of
unusual timbre, sounds deeper than that
of the usual run of contraltos. Mrs.
Clarke’s husband is a British officer, who
was taken prisoner at Singapore, She has
two small children. She has a war job
and singing is a sideline. Mrs. Clarke
sang over Singapore Radio in pre-war
days.
From Sydney
No better night than last Thursday
could have been picked for asking aid for
the poor traveller. A shrewd and biting
westerly was almost blowing out the
moon, and the thought of the traveller
from Yass or from Canberra arriving m
the blasty arcades of Central without
knowing where to find a roof sent the
shiver of sympathy up the spine. They
say 400 turned into the doorway of Gov-
ernment House for the chamber music
recital in the cause. It looked more like
500. Even the musicians’ gallery was
crowded. There were enough furs to
make a holiday in Alaska. They were
natural blondes, dyed, or, like the best
woods, they showed the rich markings
of their natural grain.
Color had not gone with the wind.
Beneath the furs, frocks shone, gay or
rich in tone. The almost universal war-
time black for evenings was having a
holiday. Lady Wakehurst, however, was
a slim figure in black and pearls. Lady
Gowrie was in the audience, and Britain s
High Commissioner Ronalcj Cross and
his wife. Many Fairfaxes were there,
presided over, as it were, by Miss M.
Fairfax, who was seated in the raised
alcoye on the left of the ballroom. Mrs.
.Bertie Kelly, silver shining, came sur-
rounded by her family. Mrs. C. L.
Jones, her frock the greeny-blue cf a
Barrier lagoon, brought husband and
doctor brother, who has been following
the war on several fronts. The Tom
Gordon lady, the H. J. Bradys, Mrs.
Hamilton Kirkland, Lyceum chieftain-
esses Mrs. Thomas and Mrs. Metcalfe,
General Anderson and his wife, the
Walter Swinsons, Mrs. Hope Gibson and
Scots College Principal Anderson were
also in the throng.
Eileen Ralph, Thomas Matthews, Claire
Simpson and a chamber orchestra were
the musicians. Concertos, two by Mozart
and one by Bach, were the rich and spark-
ling fare. The setting was just right, and
gave the feeling that to have been a
Medici and have had such music always
at command (though perhaps that could
not be, lacking Eileen and Thomas)
would have been pleasant. Eileen, with
her Venetian red head, her dark ’moss-
green frock and her intensity, proved a
compelling figure. Claire, with her page-
boy haircut, her straight fringe, her
black frock, brought a touch of medieval
days into the picture.
Marie Fagan, as can be seen by this
picture, is doing her bit towards victory.
Major Max lan Wheatley, A.1.F., to
whom she has recently become engaged,
served in the Middle East, was taken
prisoner at El Alamein and until the col-
lapse of Italy was a p.o.w. in that coun-
try. He then escaped and made his way
to the British lines. The romance was
budding before the major went overseas.
The popular R. J. Fagans, of Sunnyridge,
Mandurama, are Marie’s parents. Max
is the only son of the Roy, Wheatleys,
of Rossmore. Monte Luke photograph.
Maoriland’s new High Commissioner
in Australia, J. G. Barclay, arrived in
Sydney last week with his wife. By now
they are settled in Canberra in the home
formerly occupied by the Carl Berend-
sens, who flit off to Washington. The Bar-
clay home has been in Wellington, M.L.,
so the cold of Canberra will hold no
terror for them. Mrs. Barclay is a de-
scendant of the Sutherlands of Waipu,
who migrated from Nova Scotia in the
early days of settlement. This is Mrs.
Barclay’s first journey from her native
land.
Not working bullocks but lords of
the pastures were the cattle displayed at
the cattle show that ended in Sydney last
week. Prancing young bulls passed from
owner to owner in exchange for hun-
dreds of guineas, and the cattle-breeder
from the north, south, east or west who
had managed to secure the bull of his
heart’s desire went back home warm
with satisfaction. There were dinner
parties, too, to celebrate. The Aberdeen-
Angus fans held one at the Metropole,
while the Hereford ' barrackers made
merry in another hostelry. Only two
women graced the Aberdeen-Angus
board. They were Mrs. Castle-Roche
and her daughter.. These two, who did
a man-size job at the show, are a tall,
slender pair, and daughter has pretty red
hair. Unaided, these two country women
filled the silos with the green fodder for
their cattle for the winter.
David Maddison, who as a small boy
pleased many audiences with his gifts as
a pianist, was the soloist in the Liszt-
Busoni “Rhapsody Espagnole” at last
week’s symphony orchestral concert.
David, now a tall, slender 17, played with
brilliant ease. His fluent fingers and com-
petent yet modest air were sure passports
to favor. He is, however, not making
music his career, but is studying medicine
at Sydney University. Another young
man starring on the programme was
Corporal Dai-Keong Lee, of the U.S.
Army Fifth Air Force. He conducted
his own compositions. The first,
“Hawaiian Festival Overture,” gave the
impression of hibiscus-red lanterns in a
riotous ballet. There were dignity and
intensity in “Pacific Prayer.”
Lady Cowrie was in the audience ac-
companied by Ivie Price. Lord Wake-
hurst was another vice-regal listener. The
floor of the Town Hall was crowded, but
there were empty places in the galleries,
and as the concert was to benefit China s
war orphans that was a pity. For this
cause every seat should have been taken.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax talked in the inter-
val with Mrs. Fabian Chow, Mrs. Walter
Burfitt and daughter Barbara. Com-
mitteewomen Mrs. Hope Gibson and
Mrs. Robert Dixson were busied about
many things. Pretty young Chinese girls
sold programmes and helped with the
ushering. Well-knowns of the Chinese
community brought parties. Allied service
men were many, and applauded vigorously.
Francis Sheed, of Sheed and Ward,
publishers, of England and America, is
back in Sydney, at whose university he
graduated in law. Frank’s first journey
to England was just for a “look-see.”
Then he was captured by the street-corner
lecture movement, jbined in, partly for
the fun of it; came back to Sydney, took
more law exams, and returned to London
and what he calls his tub-thumping, then
founded the publishing house that carries
his name. Now he is one of the most
popular lecturers in U.S.A. and Great
Britain. Something over two thousand
audiences have listened to his easy, laugh-
ing voice, his ready wit.
Mrs. Sheed is known to the world as
Maisie Ward, Britain’s foremost writer
on Catholic ecclesiastical history. In
using her pen on this subject she is fol-
lowing the Ward family tradition. Her
father published many noted works, in-
cluding a much-quoted Life of Newman.
Her grandfather was one of the first to be
captured by the Oxford Movement (no,
not the Oxford Group) and his example
and arguments helped to persuade New-
man to add his genius to furthering
the crusade. Maisie Ward’s latest work,
a Life of G. K. Chesterton, is having
colossal sales in the U.S.A. and in Eng-
land. The Life is really alive. The writer
lets her subject “speak and do” ; she does
not dress an inanimate figure with her
words and phrases. She had, of course,
the advantage of knowing Gilbert Keith
from her childhood days. In addition to
her writing Mrs. Sheed is a noted public
speaker.
Anzac House is to be worthy of the
Australian service men and women of the
last and the present wars. It is going
to cost £150,000 to build, and the R.S.S.
and A.I.L.A. will have in it a comfortable
club and worthy headquarters. On the
23rd of this month, at the Town Hall,
there’s to be a sparkling show to help the
fund. It will be an army show in every
detail, the same as those given in the
front lines. There will be no women on
the programme, but three impersonators
of the sex. .
A clear blue sky and 2000 men in the
blue and the jungle khaki of the R.A.A.F.
in the streets below swinging along to the
plaudits of watching thousands, to the
zoom and roar of fighter and bomber,
seaplane and flying-boat 70 of them.
Last Friday the march was an inspiring
sight, a fine celebration of the fourth
birthday of the Empire Air Training
Scheme. At the Town Hall Lord Wake-
hurst took the salute, and here the crowds
were dense, the aerobatics dazzling. The
parade was to stimulate interest in the
Victory Loan.
Alice Gore-Jones, social editor of
Brisbane’s “Telegraph,” has been in Syd-
ney—a busman’s holiday, business and
pleasure about fifty-fifty. This well-
known newspaper woman has written a
great deal of charmful poetry. The end
of the year, admirers hope, will see the
publication of a collection of her works.


OAe
mcS
Tftakß
tkade
T4i
ttiobCa
me
Ever Faithful
to the high traditions associated with “His
Master’s Voice” precision craftsmanship and
True-to-Life reproduction of sound.
For the present, war commitments have
restricted output for home entertainment, but
we hope the day will soon be here when
“H.M.V.” Radio Receivers and Radiograms
will return from active service. Then, when
production is possible, “His Master’s Voice”
will bring you the latest advances in radio.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
Radio Receivers—Radio Gramophones
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD..
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH
N.S.W.
*l/44
01
ill!
Hi
1,1 I)
ill
iiiiitl
Jiiilii
| illil
111
mm
ill
S3E
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
i 3
When Uoday’s Savings
Build Uotnorrow’s Tlomcs
SISALKRAFT will have as many peace-time uses as it now displays
irt forward fighting fronts.
Sarking to protect ceilings from roof drips, sheathing of walls to
keep out damp and wind, concrete curing, concrete underlays,
damp-proof underlining for floors and to protect work in progress;
these and numerous other uses will demand the sterling qualities of
SISALKRAFT.
Save and invest today in War Bonds so that in that long-hoped-
for "tomorrow," which will bring Victory, you may possess the
home you've dreamed about.
SI^yfILKMFT
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftua Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd.. 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty.. Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance.& Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnanee & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street,
Auckland.
SMOKE-OH!
“Locks and keys are practically unknown in
Lapland.”— “World’s News.”
An open race to the last Lap.
' . . *!•
entertaining may consist of conversation.”
— “Woman.”
By those present about those absent.
4 »!• *f*
“If the liver is functioning freely and fully,
and (to borrow an everyday phrase) sparking
in every cylinder, the outlook on life will be
illuminated.”— “Home Doctor.”
But not, of course, without the aid of
lights.
“Any woman can tell a Sydney girl.”
—Fashion page.
Admitted! But how much that she
doesn’t already know can she be told?
“Is there an existent master-mind capable of
computing the world cost of post-war recon-
struction?”—“Worker.”
Too tricky. How about leaving it to
the aftermathematicians?
•f 4. 1
“The Chief Justice said he hoped that some
day the citizens would realise how much they
owed to the lawyer.”— Melbourne “Herald.”
The C.J. is telling us!
“Clubs Needed to Keep Children Off Streets.”
—Headline in Melbourne daily.
The old man’s belt used to be adequate
once,
4*
“These rows between married people leave
a scar that is hard to heal.” — Dorothy Dix. -
But only if one or the other is lucky
enough to get in a direct hit.
•b *f* *i*
“Butcher’s sausage-filler wanted. Meat Co.,
North Sydney.”— “Great Northern.”
Preferably one who can make both
ends meat.
*f* 4*
“With the modern girl, blushing is definitely
a thing of the past.”
Nonsense! They still color up!
* -I- * *
Allied service men get taken in at some
apartment houses.
Lines to a Jellyfish.
Hail to you, jellyfish, gliding serenely.
Pale-eyed medusa, oh! where are you
roaming ?
Seek you a nest where the weeds rustle
greenly ?
Have you a mate where the breakers
are combing ?
Are you an outcast and ripe for the
slaughter.
Drifting as I do, forlorn and dejected ?
Why, like myself, do you get in deep
water? . . .
Well, you have failed to reply—as
expected !
T. W. NATHAN.
Necking or Nothing.
When wooing damsels in profusion
Reject the time-endowed illusion
That, since to many you’re endeared.
There’s little danger to be feared.
For isn’t it sound reasoning
The more you dangle on a string
The greater is the risk yon run
Of finishing tied up to one?
P. O. M. C.
Unearned.
“So you’re going out to enjoy your-
self on election day working in the poll-
ing booth,” said Maria stormily. “You
men are selfish. Supposing I wanted you
to take me out on that Saturday?”
“Well, I worked last elections,” I began,
“and”
“Of course you did. You can work
for other people, but if / ask you to
do anything it’s a different story. At least
they ought to pay you for it.”
“They do,” I said.
“A-ah!” breathed Maria, “That’s
what I wanted to find out! You wouldn’t
have said anything about it only I fer-
reted it out of you.”
“But I gave you that extra couple of
quid last time”
“Oh, so that came from your election-
day money! ” cried Maria. “And here
have I been giving you credit for giving
it out of your own money. And what
about the money you saved by not taking
me out? You made sure you stuck to
that. Well, go and enjoy yourself at
your old polling election booth. I’m no-
body, it seems”
The candidates may get votes, but I’m
betting that Maria will beat them easily
poling.
H. M.
Cascade.
It falls in a silver stream —
A truly beautiful sight
Which fills me with ecstasy
As I empty the till each night.
S. K. C.
Froth and Bubble.
Instead of a schooner I order a middy,
Then call for another before that is
done:
As somebody didn’t discover (or did
he ?)
I reckon that two heads are better than
one.
F. M.
The New Diplomacy.
“Candidates for diplomatic staff cadetships
have faced a series of written examinations and
personal interviews extending over four months.
Of about 1000 candidates only four will be
chosen.”
Australia, as the newest entrant into
the field of international diplomacy, has
a grand opportunity of introducing a
rugged individualism in its diplomatic
corps. The old hole-and-corner, oblique
method of being exaggeratedly polite to
those you despise could give place to an
entirely new school, more virile than the
old one, which still reverently quotes the
glib sayings of Rochefoucauld or Sully
or what Gladstone said in ’B4. Following
are a few test questions for the next
examinations:
1. —You are attending a brilliant recep-
tion at the Quai d’Orsay, at which the
entire Corps Diplomatique is present.
The doyen, Count Peddle de Bunk, comes
towards you with his wife, whom you
have not met for a few years. He stops
and bows formally, and you belt him
heartily on the back, roar “Well, if it
isn’t old Ped! How’re tricks, old boy?”
Then you add, after glancing at his wife,
“Good Lord, Count, what’ve you been
feeding your missus on? She’s getting like
the side of a house! ” What word in this
last sentence would you put the em-
phasis on?
2. —You have been appointed acting
temporary assistant Fourth Secretary to
the legation at Buenos Janiero. One day
a visitor is announced. It proves to be
the Bolivurian ambassador whom you
know privately to have German sym-
pathies. You are also aware he is trying
to get the toothpick concession in Aus-
tralia,'acting on behalf of a cartel backed
by his Government.. He says he would
like to discuss the possibilities of a
mutual trade pact. The First Secretary is
playing golf; the Second Secretary has
given strict instructions that he must not
be awakened before 3 p.m.; the Third
Secretary is entertaining a senorita and
the Fourth Secretary is also asleep.
Your game of solitaire, which you
were almost on the point of win-
ning, has been spoiled. A bit mad
at this, you say sharply: “Push off, Fish-
face, you make the place look untidy.”
Your visitor, in the words of novelists
who write for women’s magazines, “per-
ceptibly stiffens.” Detail the steps you
would take (assuming he was of inferior
physique) to dissuade him, after he un-
stiffens, from returning for a further inter-
view.
3. While ambassador to Taikaria you
are summoned to the Foreign Office to
see Baron Bockswiller, the Foreign Min-
ister, You are aware that he wants Aus-
tralia to relax its immigration laws to
allow all the explosive political elements in
his country unrestricted admission. After
half an hour’s talk he is still skirting the
fringe of the subject. Would you con-
sider this the appropriate stage to put
down the magazine you have been idly
conning and break in with “Pipe down
on the bull, Baron. You want us to be
the mugs and take all your misfits, half-
wits and cranks —is that what you
mean?”
4. —Under the mistaken impression that
this was necessary, you have, after long
practice, mastered the art of yawning
with a shut face. Explain briefly how
you would use this accomplishment if,
during the soup, the dowager duchess sit-
ting next to you at a big dinner began
talking about her pet Chow dog?
Bo.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4%d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Wool and Substitutes
My main impression after examining
synthetic fibres at the Australian Wool
Board offices, Melbourne, is the crymg
need for wool to sell itself more effi-
ciently.
The entire wool industry, from sheep-
man to manufacturer, is slumbering
under the opiate that wool has not
had and never can have a successful
rival. Evidence recently given before the
Tariff Board in Melbourne and Sydney
proved this. Substitute fabrics have been
loomed to catch the eye of women, and
women are the universal buyers. A draper
recently flourished an advertisement of
“ye goode olde woollie undies” so dis-
astrously unbecoming as to debunk any
popular appeal wool might be claiming.
The advertisements listed with the
samples of these substitutes demonstrate
that wool’s rivals, Dupont, who produce
nylon, and National Dairy Products, who
produce aralac, are prepared to outlay
fortunes on popularising their wares.
No textile-labelling legislation will sell
wool if synthetic fibres promise allure
and glamor. Wool must be lifted out of
the you-won’t-catch-cold-with-me class
and placed in the touch-my-loveliness
rank. This might cost half a million, but
it’s that—or else. — Flock Ram (Vic.).
More Publicity for Our Men
The reporting of the New Guinea cam-
paign leaves much to be desired. Where
are the cameramen to film R.A.A.F.
daylight raids? As yet there has not been
one worth-while picture released of
R.A.A.F. ’planes in action in the north.
The war correspondents do their best,
often very good, but more cameramen are
needed to give vivid action pictures.
Even when the Government publishes
booklets on what our men have done they
are printed on second-class paper.
What is wrong with us? We must not
let the modesty that runs through our
British character turn us against our-
selves. We receive enough propaganda
from foreign sources to choke us, and
we are becoming a little fed up with it.
Let’s boost our own side. — Australian
(W.A.),
Poetry and the War
Olive Willey (B. 19/4/’44) exaggerates.
The increased quantity of poetry written
and read by Australians cannot be attri-
buted solely to Singapore, This war has
drawn eyes to all fronts, and has been
instrumental in inspiring both more
writers and more readers to take an in-
terest in poetry. A great deal of the
poetry of today is written by service
men, and people enjoy reading the
thoughts and tales of their fighting sons
and countrymen.
The victories of the Middle East, the
battle for New Guinea, places like
Tobruk, El Alamein, Crete and, nearer
home, Singapore, Milne Bay and the
Kokoda Trail —all have influenced the
feelings and the outlook of Australians.
Poetry moves now in a wider sphere
in Australia. We were badly shaken
when Singapore fell; but our growth in
poetry commenced long before this disas-
ter. Dunkirk set fire to every heart in
the British Empire. Besides, Australia
herself is such a poetic country—provid-
ing inspiration sufficient for all our prom-
ising artists, so many of whom * are in
the services.—D. H. R. (R.A.A.F.).
Post-war Education
After the war education must be re-
formed. Such subjects as geography and
history need only be touched on, and
Latin should be deleted from all courses.
More practical subjects, with the object
of making children better citizens, must
be introduced.
Teach the youngsters how to manage
their own affairs, give them lectures on
health and its relation to living in all
communities. Physical culture-should be
included. Thus we will build up an in-
tellectual, independent race of fine healthy
Australians who will be inferior to
nobody. —A Bo (Q.).
Movies for Children
There has been a lamentable failure on
the part of the picture interests to pro-
vide films made especially for children.
Disney has done some fine work as a
screen Lewis Carroll; but his contribu-
tions do not fill the chasm.
Wishing'to give grandchildren a treat,
I have repeatedly scanned the notices of
the shows without finding a solitary
theatre offering entertainment that is
really suited to the young. “Children's
sessions” are frauds, A “Wild West”
picture, all galloping horses, and pos-
sibly a serial which in its crude, sharp
action is understandable to young minds
are thrown into the ordinary picture pro-
gramme, which (I still hope) the infant
audiences do not understand.
The kids like going to the pictures
because it is an excitement; but how
much they are bored by the bulk of the
pictures shown is indicated by the way
they turn from contemplating what is
passing on the screen to pursuing noisy
games amongst themselves.
There should be enough going, with
purely action films, colored cartoons,
travelogues and similar fare, to keep one
theatre in a big city running and to pro-
vide complete set-ups for the “children’s
sessions” in the suburban theatres. The
venture should be profitable, if made;
but Governments might very well insist
upon it, if the picture interests are too
lazy to see the possibilities for them-
selves.
Australian picture makers have here
a chance, in this field, to do some good
“Anyone'd think she’s president of the De Facto Wives' Association!"
work for all the world. There are rich
veins to be worked —/Esop’s Fables, the
ever-appealing Andersen’s and Grimm’s
tales and those stories of Kimberley abo.
children written by the Durack sisters.
Hamfat (N.S.W.).
Songs of the Times
Admittedly the lugubrious wailing
characteristic of the song popular at the
moment is hard to bear, but inveighing
against “jazz,” “swing” and the “hit
tune” is futile. Despite all diatribes the
crooner still sticks to his “hit tune,” the
“jitterbug” to his “swing.”
There’s a reason. The period we are
going through is not precisely one of
gaiety among nations. It is understand-
able that the sad song should hold
most appeal for people who have
been separated from husbands, fathers
and sons, in some cases permanently.
Cheerfulness in such cases could not
be expected, and would scarcely be
appreciated in our music. The empty
optimism of “Roll Out the Barrel
and “Hang Out Our Washing on the
Siegfried Line” has received too severe
a blow in 4\ years of war to be accept-
able to most people at this stage.
Then, too, with many mature males
away, and a big • proportion of adult
women also in the forces or absent on
other war work, the adolescent is more
to the fore in social life than in normal
times. Witness the predominance of the
“teens” at dance halls and picture
theatres. Consequently the immature
emotion of the popular song finds an
audience ready-made which would not be
there in peace-time.
Finally, comparison with songs of the
past is not entirely fair. Much of the
dross has disappeared with the ages, leav-
ing only the gems. And it must be re-
membered that in the past songs were
written by men of high culture—Jonson,
Herrick, Sir Philip Sidney, Thomas
Moore _for the educated audience of
bower and ballroom, salon and draw-
ing-room. Compulsory general educa-
tion has lowered the standard in this, as
in other spheres, to meet the demand of
a wider and less critical public. — Mc-
Intyre (W.A.).
The Cowrie Scholarships
The Gowrie Scholarship Fund would
have better served Australian fighting
men and their children had the benefits
not been confined to Australians. Some
of the scholarships—at the very least that
one which it is proposed to name for
Patrick More Ruthven —should be open
to British service men and their depen-
dants ; others might be available to
Anzacs from across the Tasman, or even
to any Empire service men and to Ameri-
can and Dutch allies.
That such scholarships would benefit
Australia and its universities as much as
the scholars is obvious when it is con-
sidered what the Rhodes scholarships
have meant to Oxford as well as to the
Empire. Australia cannot offer students
what Oxford has to offer, but this coun-
try itself, because of its great age and
strange plant and animal life, is of sur-
passing interest to scientists and anthro-
pologists, while Canberra might prove
an equally fascinating field to students of
political science or human iolly.
The new blood, the fresh outlook intro-
duced by these overseas students would
enrich University life, and from the clash
of wits perhaps a spark might light the
lamp of a new culture on this soil. All
great cultural movements, including the
Renaissance, have begun with the bring-
ing together of scholars from widely sepa-
rated lands—J. O. (N.S.W.).
Criticising Criticism
The view of “Bahut Achchha” (B.
19/4/’44) that “If nothing better can be
found one should refrain from criticism
until the better thing is found” may be
all right for political theorists, but it
won’t do in science.
Those inspired physicians of a darker
age who dared at the peril of their prac-
tices to assert that it would be better on
the whole for people to die naturally
than to be bled to death were—from a
contemporary point of view—destructive
critics. They were reactionaries on the
side of nature, and it may well be that a
similar “destructive” sanity is needed in
present-day politics.
Like “Bahut Achchha” I would cite The
Bulletin as a convenient instance. Week
by week the paper criticises as destruc-
tively as it can those political processes
equivalent to indiscriminate venesection
which, by all the symptoms evident to us,
are doing a sick world more harm than
good—J. W. R. (Tas.).
Buffaloes for Beef
“Gip’s” suggestion (B. 26/4/’44) that
buffalo could be used to bolster up the
meat shortage is supported by certain
inaccuracies of statement.
Up to 1939 an average of about 7500
buffaloes was shot annually in the N.T.
The peak year was 1937, when hides
reached per pound; about 11,500
were shot. Since 1939 shooting has been
almost entirely suspended owing to the
difficulty of obtaining cartridges, salt and
transport. Last year some of the shooters
operated in a small way; this year
supplies and transport are being made
available, and it seems likely that shoot-
ing will be resumed on a normal scale.
What “Gip” refers to as a waste of
good meat has not occurred on the scale
he would have us believe. The wild
descendants of the animals imported 120
years ago differ materially from the
docile stock mustered and tended by
the men of the Port Essington and
Fort Dundas garrisons, and for that
reason and several others it would be
almost impossible to market the meat if
shooting is resumed.
Firstly, any beast killed for human con-
sumption has to be slaughtered under
conditions laid down by health authori-
ties. A buffalo is a wild animal, and is
shot wherever it is found —on the plains
in the early morning and evening, in the
shade of stringybark forests and dense
jungles, or wallowing in the mud of the
steaming paperbark swamps when the
sun is high.
Secondly, only the bulls are shot, the
cow hides being too light to have any
commercial value. I very much doubt
whether a sirloin of buffalo bull would
compete favorably with a rib roast of a
horse.
Thirdly, type of refrigerating plant
required to follow a buffalo shooter around
would be very complicated and expen-
sive, and would have to be specially de-
signed. It would need to be no more
than 2ft. wide in order to get through
the scrub. It would require caterpillar
traction, and it would be necessary for
it to be amphibious. As it- would have
to follow the shooter closely it would
have to be geared up to 35 m.p.h. The
navigator of this remarkable vehicle
would need to be a cross between a
buffalo shooter and a Spitfire pilot. —
Mark Six (N.S.W.).
First Victory Loan
I want to thank you very much for the
timely assistance your paper has given
this campaign. In the April 26 issue par-
ticularly it seemed to me that on every
page there were sound reasons given for
support of the First Victory Loan —some
suggestions very subtly put forward,
others more bluntly, but all of them
stimulating. —C. F. Lewis, Acting
Deputy Director, War Loans Campaign.
The Literary Pension
The hearts of 32 literary pensioners
must have leaped with joy when Can-
berra announced an increase from £1 to
£2 a week. These doles, characteristi-
cally, were the last in the pension group
to get a lift.
It is rather odd that a Government led
by John Curtin, who has a real interest
in Australian literature, should have done
so little and so tardily for Australian
writers ; possibly this is among the multi-
tude of omissions chargeable to the war.
The real answer to the problem repre-
sented by 32 annual pensions is not, of
course, except in extreme and necessary
cases, a pensions problem at all; at best
the pension is a contemptuous way of
dealing with it. The answer is to give
Australian writers a fair chance to make
a living from their pen.
At present the job is almost hopeless;
a small population made up mainly of
non-readers (except form guides, comics
and astrological charts) finds few pub-
lishers ready to take any risks estab-
lished book houses find their bread and
butter in imported books; Australians
are still largely unaware of the richness
of Australian literature (though they’ve
been taught by high-pressure propaganda
to buy Australian shirts, hats and re-
frigerators) ; and the distribution of
books is perhaps the greatest problem of
all because outside the capitals there are
few bookshops interested in selling books.
—Den (N.S.W.).
Populate or Perish
A Perth daily featured on its front page
a group photograph of 30 Australian
wives of American soldiers with five
babies in arms who travelled to America
by the same ship as Australia’s Priminis-
ter. In the same week I read “One of
the outstanding questions put to Mr.
Curtin during his visit to England will
be about Australia’s attitude to immi-
gration.” Yet another message stated
that eventually hundreds of Australian
brides will travel overseas to the U.S.A.,
there to settle.
Meanwhile radio and press propaganda
is being focused on the need of increas-
ing Australia’s population, preferably
with our own kith and kin. A long-term
plan of immigration is spoken of, the
objective being a population of 20,000,000
at the end of the century. Furthermore,
this must be accompanied by a wisely-
planned scheme of spreading the new-
comers over the landscape, away from
the already bloated cities of the various
States.
Excellent. But should we commence
with an exodus of brides to another
land?—Ah Gee (W.A.).


Learning the Right Way Makes Efficient Workers
Newcastle Technical College. B.H.P. actively co-operates in the establishment of colleges like this, makes direct
contributions. Amongst the pupils are many B.H.P. employees whose attendance at the schools is sponsored by the Company.
By inspiring higher standards of technical education, B.H.P. encourages Australian
boys and girls to take their rightful place in industry, ensuring that we will not be left
behind in the race for post-war development.
Modern technical schools equip boys and girls with the knowledge of how to do a
good job. Those who join the steel industry must bring a skill and technique of a high
order for theirs is the responsibility of keeping Australia’s name in the forefront as being
the world’s most efficient steel makers.
A slab of tough Australian armour plate is
just as tough, if not tougher, than armour plate
that is made elsewhere in the world.
And an Australian steel girder is as strong as
the world’s strongest.
Moreover, the price of the Australian armour
plate and girder is lower than the overseas
article, because the price of our steel is the
lowest in the world.
■‘What is the reason foy this low price?” you
may ask. It is not a matter of climate; our
wages are not lower, nor do we work longer
hours than they do in other countries.
The explanation is to be found in the overall
efficiency of the Australian steel industry due to
the mechanical efficiency of the ■ plant and the
highly developed skill of the operatives.
A great deal of the credit for this efficiency
must go to the technical schools and colleges
which turn out their yearly quotas of eager,
proficient young men who have qualified to take
their places in these secondary industries which
are so vital to our national future.
Australia has every reason to be proud of its
system of technical education and should be
grateful to those who operate and administer it.
Whyalla Technical College in the fast-growing city
of Whyalla.
Equipment for modern technical training is often costly. B.H.P. has made it possible
for many of the schools to acquire a considerable amount of much-needed special apparatus.
There's nothing like learning the right way. Technical education, plus practical
experience, makes Australian workers efficient, and keeps the price of steel low.
