

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” VoL 65—No. 3375
Wednesday, October 18, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HAWARDEN CASTLE.
CDUILT in 1752 and added to in 1814, Hawarden Castle is in
Flintshire, North Wales. Standing in a fine wooded park
near the river Dee, this modern Hawarden Castle stands near the
ruins of a medieval castle of the same name, which suffered in
Welsh raids, and at the hands of the Parliamentary forces in the
seventeenth century. The castellated newer building possesses
a famous long gravelled walk, where the renowned statesman W. E.
Gladstone was wont to take his exercise, Hawarden Castle and
its environs is richly endowed with Gladstonian memories, for here
he lived for sixty years. His library, housed in near-by St. Deiniol
Hostel, which is much used by students, is among the best in
England. The Welsh name for Hawarden is Penarlag, but it is
for its associations with the grand old statesman that Hawarden
today is chiefly noted.


Hfc.*«agg
TJbiis Book FR££ to YUUI
SIOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write ]or Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,’*
A ly Name
My Address
S.B. Ui AGE
The Red Page
"Bowyangs and Boomerangs"
i of M. J, O’Reilly’s Bow-
yan ■ mierangs (distributed by
Old >me and Meredith Pty..
Ltd. s magnificent. It is the
ante of a prospector who has
waxi ngth and breadth of Aus-
trali - 0 for every kind of minera
and precious stone —gold, wolfram, mica
osmiridium, opals and rubies —and who,
though now “free from money as a frog
from feathers,” has found £40,000 worth
in his time.
He opens in the depression of the
’nineties, selling six dozen eggs, plus the
basket, for a shilling. After a dozen pages
he is prospecting around Coolgardie and
telling the story of the McCann rush —
how, as the result of a false report of a
new gold find,
Our crowd, who had waited near Widge-
mooltha, when they heard the news of the
hoax, rigged up a life-size effigy of Mc-
Cann, put it on the back of a camel and
proceeded to Coolgardie, where we were
joined by a large number of diggers, then
we marched along Bayley-street to the square
in front of the Post Office where, facing
the newspaper office, we saturated the effigy
with oil and set it on fire. Amidst hoots,
cries and curses against McCann and the
newspapers we became very excited.
Before the effigy was burned out a
number of us tried to hurl it into the news-
paper office, hoping to set fire to the place.
Next comes another false alarm, the
Sacred Nugget rush. It was started by a
Father Long who, O’Reilly believes, had
been hoodwinked into spreading the news
of a great gold discovery- by enterpris-
ing business people in Kanowna. “My
firm belief is that the part played by the
young priest in the bogus rush so preyed
upon his mind that it affected his health
and led to his early death. He passed
away a few months later at the age of 27.”
Stories of the individual diggers follow:
the colorful and completely frank ac-
count of the author’s own encounter with
a designing barmaid ; the suicide of a
gentleman known as “Pretty Boy” who
blew himself up with dynamite ; a duel
between a big Irishman and an Italian
sly-grogger, the Italian shooting with a
revolver and Pat replying with bottles.
In the chapter entitled “The Pilbara
Goldfield” there are a mirage and
kindly camel; then there is a meeting
with Flynn of the Inland and a vigorous
championship of the N.T. as suitable for
white settlement; from the Hatche’s Creek
wolfram field there is the yarn of Danny
Pedlar who, when he returned to his
camp after a walkabout and found that
his mate had been dead and buried for a
week, dug him up to retrieve his boots—
“ Fancy burying a man with a good pair
of boots on in a country where a lot of
the station owners only get their supplies
about once a year.”
There is the noble-minded Afghan -car-
rier who would always help the church,
and who was easily persuaded to trans-
port, free of charge, two “Christian mis-
sionaries” to Hatche’s Creek, whereupon
the missionaries thanked him and opened
a butcher’s shop. There are the two gal-
lant gunmen who never quite got around
to killing:
Fred and Tom were sworn enemies who
would have liked to punch one another.
Instead of a stand-up go and done with it,
they resorted to the wild-west American
tactics of pulling guns on one another. The
first to get the drop on the other would
demand an apology from the other for all
he had said or was supposed to have said
about him. The next time they met the
other fellow would have the advantage, so
he would do the same thing. Eventually
the bigger one of (he two reported to the
trooper at Newcastle Waters that the other
fellow was mad and not fit to be at large.
There are, in short, the wildest and
richest of Australian characters. There
are the wild Australian landscapes—“ One
could actually see the grass and herbage
growing a couple of days after the first
rains. As I rode away from Oodnadatta
along the track parallel to the railway
line I could hourly see the color of the
country changing. Twenty miles from the
township I camped for the night, where
my horses revelled in the green feed.”
And all the way through the book
there is the drama of fortunes won and
lost, the changing luck of the prospector.
This is good stuff. It is dinkum. A
man’s life story told frankly and
especially when it is such an adventurous
life as O’Reilly’s—is for as wide an audi-
ence as any book that is made. That
being so, it’s a pity that O’Reilly’s pub-
lishers seem to have been content to offer
him only to bookstall buyers. The book
is cheaply made and set in small type,
and there has obviously been little
attempt at sub-editing. It cannot be
offered now to sophisticated readers with-
out the warning that passages such as this
must be bypassed:
I secured a few days’ work on the water-
front which enabled me to purchase a light
swag, waterbag and sufficient tucker for a
few days, so I started off with a light heart
and the eternal optimism of a natural-born
prospector, to chance again Dame For-
tune’s smile o’er fresh fields and prospects
new.
It would surely have been easy enough
to sub-edit that at least to:
I got a few days’ work on the water-
front which enabled me to buy a light
swag, waterbag and sufficient tucker for a
few days, so I started off with a light
heart to try my luck again.
No newspaper office would dream of
attempting to publish any “copy” that
comes in without offering it to the mer-
cies of editor, sub-editor or re-write man ;
and, since books far more than news-
papers are supposed to have something
to do with literature, there is an even
greater need for publishers to have a
proper editorial staff. A book that could
have been as good as an Idriess, or even
up to the standard of the autobiographies
J. M. Dent was publishing before the
war, should not be abandoned to the
bookstalls. It’s to be hoped that a
few discriminating readers will pick
out Bowyangs and Boomerangs from the
trash that surrounds it, and pick out from
the book itself the genuine merits among
the lapses of style.
The Homely Simile.
Norman Nicholson, whose short poems
have been collected under the title Five
Rivers (Faber), is a specialist in what
one might call the homely simile. Sun-
light reminds him of soapsuds;
November sunlight floats and falls
Like soapsuds on the castle walls.
The flash of the sky reflected on glisten-
ing blackberries reminds him of ration
books, the wind, of a housewife:
But when the housewife wind-and-rain
Rubs the berry spick and span,
Compound it gleams like a fly’s eye.
And every ball reflects the sky.
There the world’s repeated like
Coupons in a ration book.
Sometimes it is a homely metaphor
he offers. Spleenwort, which appears to
be a kind of creeper, he sees as a zip-
fastener: —
On quarry walls the spleenwort spreads
Its green zipfasteners and black threads.
And also he believes in bringing homely
facts into his descriptions of nature:
The Irt comes up from Wastdale, the land of the
screes,
Of bracken up to your waist and ham-and-egg
teas.
And in all his homelinesses Mr. Nichol-
son shows a complete misunderstanding
of the essentials of poetry and the pur-
pose of imagery. Tennyson’s landscape
may be a trifle too smooth and parklike
for contemporary taste, but Tennyson
knew his trade. He wrote:
The splendor falls on castle walls
And snowy summits old in story;
and sooner than write
The soapsuds fall on castle walls,
which is, presumably, how Mr. Nichol-
son would put it, he would have jumped
off the topmost battlements.
Tennyson wrote;
Break, break, break
On thy cold grey stones, O sea;
And I would that my tongue could utter
Hie thoughts that arise in me.
The thought that arises in Mr, Nichol-
son is:
The broken sandstone slabs litter the shore
Like gingerbread.
Though, like another recent Faber poet,
Idris Davies, he writes grim poems about
coalmines, Mr, Nicholson’s true ambition
is to be a modern Wordsworth. He
writes in Wordsworth’s own countryside,
and he frequently refers to the master.
He has, too, touches of Wordsworth’s
grandeur;
He knew beneath mutation of year and season,
Flood and drought, frost and fire and thunder,
The frothy blossom on the rowans and the
reddening of the berries,
The silt, the sand, the slagbanks and the shingle
And the wild catastrophes of the breaking
mountains,
There stands the base and root of the living rock,
Thirty thousand feet of solid Cumberland.
It is odd, therefore —rather appealingly
odd—that he should share Wordsworth’s
most notorious fault of pedestrianism.
For if his homely similes, being some-
thing of an experiment, look impressive
now, future generations will find his ham
and eggs quite as odd as the resound-
ing “Jones!” with which Wordsworth
once began a sonnet. Bathos is none the
less bathos for being deliberate.
As wielded by Mr. Nicholson, the
homely simile is a development from
the deliberate —and often highly success-
ful—“journalism” of Auden and Mac-
Neice. The idea is to bring poetry down
to earth ; and that, so long as it is under-
stood that the earth is a jumping-off
place for the flight of the spirit, is a
good idea. But it is not a good idea to
imprison the Muse in the laundry or
the kitchen. It is no use poets pretend-
ing they are nice, homely, comfortable
fellows who think about soapsuds when
they see the sunlight or gingerbread when
they see the stones of the sea-coast; they
are wild men with straws in their hair
who see angels and devils.
It is not poetry merely to say a thing
is “like” another thing ; and most cer-
tainly it is not poetry to say a stone is
like gingerbread. That is merely simile
or metaphor ; poetry is concerned with
the image. Simile and metaphor are
merely the mechanism the poet uses to
present whatever image of spiritual truth
has been revealed to him.
Clime in Cenfralia.
One thing can be said about Frank
Clune —and it’s saying something of any
author—as he goes on he isn’t going off.
His The Red Heart is small but good.
Half a dozen chapters of Centralian
lore—personal experience, explorers and
so forth—the little book is atmospheri-
cally like its setting. (If Clune dislikes the
word he’s free to go and bury it in a
claypan along with his monstrous “trans-
continentalise.”) The prose is, much
more largely than is usual with Clune,
dry and crisp, without the slabs of pack-
ing and padding that often spoil this
writer. Cluneisms of phrasing are plenti-
ful enough, but not so much so or so
loud as to jangle the nerves. He shows a
warm fellow-feeling for the few inhabi-
tants, and he conveys impressively their
far solitariness in the immensity of their
setting. In fact, the thing has something
very like dignity, and nobody has hitherto
applied that term to Clune.
As to why Clune here leaves that im-
pression there could be any number of
guesses, and any of them could be wrong.
It maybe that Clune is definitely improv-
ing with age, or that the Centre sobered
his thinking and hence his style, or that
not being under necessity to write some
100,000 words agreed with him. Often in
his past opuses he has read like a good
writer sorely in need of a sub-editor.
Here he reads as if he had found one.
The little book is sub-titled “Stories of
Central Australia,” which is all right as
long as there is no confusion with short
stories. In “Good-bye, Mick Considine,”
there’s an impression that Clune is trying
to belt his good flying-doctor material
into the shape of a short story of a very
sentimental variety, but the local color is
nonetheless good, as it is in the other
sketches of the inner land and some of its
explorers, early and recent.
The accounts of dune’s personal visit
to Ayer’s Rock and of Colson’s crossing
of the Simpson Desert are exceptionally
clear, convincing descriptive writing. The
account of Hume’s wanderings in the
tracks of Leichhardt leaves the agreeable
impression that, after his past serious indi-
gestion troubles in his grappling with
Australian history, Clune can now digest
this hard tack with the ease of an emu.
The Hawthorn Press, Melbourne, has
done this firmer Clune the justice of a
neat presentation—a paperback, but most
tastefully turned out, with woodcut-like
decorations by Allan Jordan.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The picture of the week in Melbourne
from the point of view of size is Septi-
mus Power’s “The Bush Team” at the
Athenaeum, priced at 1000 guineas. This
well-known equine portraitist still sticks
to his horses, and paints them with usual
polish, but, however much one may ad-
mire Mr. Power for his devotion to his
favorite quadruped, one can’t help feeling
that the cow is at least worthy of some
attention, especially ip these days when
the dairying industry is No. 1 priority and
a really good milker is of more national
importance than 100 racehorses. A
sympathetic portrait, such as Mr. Power
is pre-eminently capable of painting, of
Carnation Ormsby Madcap Fayne, who
recently passed away after establishing a
world’s record of nearly 42,0001 b. of milk
and 14001 b. of butterfat in one year,
would be a valuable acquisition to the
national collection and an inspiration to
the people.
An exhibition of French art at the
National Gallery, Sydney, collected with
the idea of fostering Franco-Australian
friendship, is large enough to occupy
three bays—the organisers seem to have
ransacked every private gallery in the
State as well as collating the National
Gallery’s own French treasures. The
show is more interesting than impressive.
The examples of the period when French
art was sane and line come mostly from
mediocre and trivial-minded practitioners,
T.u eVe * tJ ? ese serve t 0 mark the depth
of the ditch into which great traditions
have been trampled in the twentieth cen-
tury. Supplementing works by French
painters are a few by Australians who
painted in France— Max Meldrum, Will
Ashton E. Phillips Fox, E. Carrick Fox.
Edward Officer, Penleigh Boyd—and
these stand out amid the degenerates and
poseurs of the later fashion like the jewel
in the head of the toad.
The spring show of Adelaide Society
of Arts is strictly moderate, though with
bright spots. The portrait-painting prize
established by Alex. Melrose is not
awarded this year. The National Gallery
has made two purchases—a powerful
view of towers by Jeff Smart and, less
accountably, a sort of back-garden scene
by John Dowie, who, however, has else-
where a head that is really fine.
The Gilbert and Sullivans continue to
follow tradition at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, and “Gondoliers” was duly suc-
ceeded by “The Pirates,” with “Trial by
Jury” as the customary curtain-raiser.
Trial by Jury” was hailed as a work
entirely without precedent in the history
of English or, indeed, of any music when
it was first produced, and “The Pirates”
contains some of the tenderest of Sulli-
van’s melodies. The present company
played them both with all the ease, and
possibly with some of the indifference,
that comes with long acquaintance. How-
ever, Ivan Menzies made his casual treat-
ment of Major-General Stanley a laugh-
able business, which is something, and
Muriel Howard, a rising star of the local
firmament, brought beauty and freshness
into the proceedings on the rocky coast
of Cornwall and in the ruined chapel.
“Cauboy” views “Ned Kelly”;
I went to “Ned Kelly” at the Union Theatre,
Melbourne, expecting to get out of the per-
formance something of the psychological,
philosophical and poetic qualities to be found
in, Douglas Stewart’s verse drama as it was
printed. They didn’t altogether come out in
Doha Ribush’s production.
Instead, there was an exciting story easily
followed, from the sticking up of the bank at
Jerilderie to the sticking up of Mrs. Jones’s
pub in Glenrowan, with, in between, a tense
scene in the kitchen of Aaron Skerritt’s hut,
where that Judas awaits his execution. Ex-
tremely well acted by Tony Riddell, Robert
Stirling and Elizabeth Hunter, it was, neverthe-
less, the physical rather than the spiritual tragedy
that emerged in this scene.
It was the same with the leading figure, done
by Lance Nicholls in stark outlines with no
overtones about it.
There is a local tradition that Ned had the
dream of establishing a bush republic where
free men would take the place of slaves and
bankers, and that he stuck up banks and mur-
dered policemen for the sole purpose of further-
ing this grandiose conception. If Ned had suc-
ceeded he would no doubt have gone down in
history as Australia’s first great lawmaker, but
he got hanged instead in the Old Melbourne
Gaol, not far from the Union Theatre, so it is
difficult not to see him as only another reaction-
ary oattleduffer, which, of course, he might
have been, fact being difficult to disentangle
from fancy in the case of these legendary
figures.
Something of this sort may have been in-
herent in Mr. Stewart’s bushranging epic, but,
if so, it was pretty well submerged in the action.
Mr. Nicholls’s Ned never assumed the heroic
proportions that would have endeared him to
the worshippers of the legend.
One of the interesting things about the
performance was that it showed conclusively
that the form of a work of art is not important.
The blank verse put into the mouth of Joe
Byrne didn’t sound as incongruous as might be
imagined.
The scenery and costumes designed by
Norman Lindsay and executed by George Up-
ward were admirable in character.
At the talkies:
“The Story of Dr. Wassell” (State; Mel-
bourne) is one of the most striking war yarns
seen for a long time. Based on fact, it nar-
rates the adventures of an American medico
who finds himself in Java with a hospital of
wounded sailors from a U.S. warship when the
Japs land. Finding that only the walking
wounded can be taken on a refugee ship, he
remains with the badly disabled. Repeatedly
bombed, they evacuate the hospital, there is a
nightmare journey through Middle Java, and at
length the medico gets them aboard the last ship
to leave for Australia. With hundreds of
people packed on the decks like herrings, they
are harassed by Zeros until Fortresses turn up.
The heroic doctor is summoned to appear be-
fore a naval board for disobeying orders, only
to hear the President of the U.S. telling his story
over the radio as an example of devotion to
duty and outstanding courage. Although in
technicolor, the scenes on the ship are extraordi-
narily vivid. Gary Cooper makes a dignified
job of the doctor. The various love affairs
don’t matter.
“The Fighting Seabees” (Sydney Lyceum) con-
forms to the pattern for all film fiction
in which a branch of the _ services is set down
for publicising and glamorising. First there are
the regular Navy man and his girl-friend. Into
their Eden bursts the big, strong but far from
silent hero who pushes officials and women
around with equal forcefulness. The officials
neyer like this, but the women secretly adore
it. Of course, this model of masculinity also
does a lot of boneheaded things which cause
casualties, because he is a rugged individualist,
and for this he gets rapid promotion. But i
this latter phase is very true to life, a lot o.
the other stuff in the film isn t, especially tn
hero’s decision to sacrifice himself spectacu-
larly against the Japs, not so much to sas
his comrades as to leave the way open u-,
his friend and rival to get the gou. Jo
Wayne is the muscular boor, and Dennis
O’Keefe the man who wraps his arms m tnumpn
around Susan Hayward at the final fade-out.


7RUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'THE SENIOR STORE'
.STUDENTS/ TECHNICIANS/ ENGINEERS/ DOCTORS.^
’PHONE YOUR ORDER TO M 2401 ANY TIME, DAY OR NIGHT,
OR MAIL YOUR ORDER ON THE COUPON ATTACHED, QUOTING
THE ITEM NUMBERS OF THE BOOKS YOU REQUIRE.
m
W>
I
i
125 TECHNICAL, SCIENTIFIC AND MEDICAL
BOOKS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
AMERICAN MACHINISTS’ HANDBOOK AND DIC-
TIONARY OF SHOP TERMS, Colvin and Stanley.
(Postage, 10*d.) . '
AMERICAN DIESEL ENGINES. L. H. Morrison.
(Postage, 1 /3i) 40/-
COPPER AND COPPER BASE ALLOYS; The Phyf'-
cal and Mechanical Properties of Copper and ,ts
Commercial Alloys in Wrought Iron. Wilkins and
Bunn. (Postage, 1/4*) 4 °/~
APPLIED MECHANICS AND HEAT. L. R. Smith.
(Postage, 6*d.) ,
DIESEL ENGINEERING. J. W. Anderson. (Postage,
10*d.) 24/-
DESICN OF STEEL STRUCTURES. Urquhart and
O’Rourke. (Postage, 1/1*) 40/-
DIESEL OPERATORS’ MANUAL. J. W. Anderson.
(Postage, 7*d.) 20/-
ELECTRIC WIRING: A Textbook of Applied Elec-
tricity. A. A. Schuhler. (Postage, 9*d). .. 207-
ELECTRON TUBES IN INDUSTRY. Keith Henney.
(Postage, 1/0*) 407-
ELECTRONS AT WORK: A Treatise on Electronic
Devices, Their Circuits and Industrial Uses. C. R.
Underhill. (Postage, 1 l*d.) 24/-
ELECTRONICS. Millman and Seely. (Postage.
1/3*) 40/
ENGINEERING PROBLEMS ILLUSTRATING MATHE-
MATICS. John W. Cell, (Postage, s*d.) .. HZ-
ENGINEERING ELECTRONICS. Donald C. Fink.
(Postage, 10*d.) 28/-
A TEXT-BOOK OF GRAPHIC STATICS. C. W.
Malcolm. (Postage, 11*d.) .............. 28/
GRAPHIC STATICS. Fairman and Cutshall. (Pos-
tage, 6*d.) 147-
HANDBOOK OF SHIP CALCULATIONS, CONSTRUC-
TION AND OPERATION: A Reference Book for
those engaged in the Bu’lding and Operating of
Ships. C. H. Hughes. (Postage, 10*d.) . . 40/-
PRINCIPLES OF CITY PLANNING. Karl B. Loh-
mann. (Postage, 1/0*) 32/6
PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRON TUBES. H. Reich
(Postage, 1/0*) 28/-
RADIO ENGINEERING HANDBOOK: Prepared by a
Staff of 23 Specialists. Keith Henney, Editor.
(Postage, 1/0*) 40/-
STRESS ANALYSIS FOR AIRPLANE DRAFTSMEN.
Greenwood and Silverman. (Postage, 9*d.) . 24/-
SIMPLIFIED MECHANICAL DRAWING: A Text-
book for Beginners. T. C. Crook. (P., 7*d.) 10/3
THE ESSENTIALS OF LETTERING. French and
Meiklejohn. (Postage, s*d.) 12/-
THEORY OF MECHANICAL REFRIGERATION. N
R. Sparks. (Postage, 10*d.) 24/-
STRUCTURAL MEMBERS AND CONNECTIONS:
Covers Steel, Cast-iron, Wooden Members and Rein-
forced Concrete, etc. Hool and Kinne. (Postage,
1/3*) 48/-
STRENCTH OF MATERIALS. James E. Boyd.
(Postage, 1/2*) 30/-
THE PRINCIPLES OF MECHANICAL REFRIGERA-
TION: A Study Course for Operating Engineers.
H. J. Madntire. (Postage, ll*d.) 24/-
PROJECTINC SOUND PICTURES: A Practical Text-
book for Projectionists and Managers. A. Naddl.
(Postage, 9*d.) 20/-
STRUCTURE OF METALS: Crystallographic Methods.
Principles and Data. C. Barrett. (P., 1/1*) 48/-
THE PHYSICS OF METALS. F. Seitz. (Postage,
9*d.) 32/-
MARINE ENGINEERING. J. M. Labberton. (Pos-
tage, 1/1*) 32/-
MECHANICS OF MATERIALS. S. C. George and
E. Rettger. (Postage, 1/2*) 307-
HANDBOOK OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION: Data
for Architects, Designing and Constructing E-gi-
neers and Contractors. Hool and Johnson. Two
volumes. (Postage, 2/5) Set, 80/-
HOUSEHOLD ELECTRIC REFRIGERATION: Includ-
ing Gas Absorption System. Wostrel and Praetz.
(Postage, 10*d) 32/-
ENCINEERINC DRAFTING. W. S. Smith. (Post-
age, 7*d.) > 18/-
ELEMENTARY MECHANICAL DRAWING: Theory
and Practice. W ; th Chanters on Geometrical
Drawing, Mensuration and Reproduction of Draw-
ings. Weick-, (Postage, B*d.) 167-
DESIGN OF MACHINE MEMBERS: Includes Infor-
mation Dealing with Plastics, Synthetics and So-
Called Rubber Substitutes. Vallance and Dougbtie.
(Postage, 1/0*) 32/-
DESICN OF CONCRETE STRUCTURES. Urquhart
and O’Rourke. (Postage, 1/2*) 36/-
CONCRETE ENGINEERS’ HANDBOOK: Data for the
Design and Construction of Plain and Reinforced
Concrete Structures. Hool and Johnson. (Post-
age. 1/3*) 487-
AIRCRAFT HANDBOOK. F. H. Colvin. (Postage,
I/O*) 40/-
AEROPHOTOGRAPHY AND AEROSURVEYINC. J.
W. Bagley. (Postage, 1/0*) 28/-
PRACTICAL CONSTRUCTION OF WARSHIPS. R.
N. Newton. (Postage. 10*d.) 37/6
ELECTRONIC CONTROL OF RFS'STANCE WELD-
ING. C. M. Chute. (Postage, 7*d.) 32/-
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS’ HANDBOOK: Contains
Data for the Design and Construction of Steel
Bridges and Buildings. M. S. Ketchum. (Post-
age, 1/6*) - 56/-
MARINE ENGINEERS’ HANDBOOK: Prepared by a
Staff of Specialists. F. W. Sterling, Editor. (P^t-
age, 11 *d.) 56/-
PLASTIC MOLDING: An Introduction to the Ma-
terials, Equipment and Methods U'ed in the Fabri-
cation of Plastic Products. L. Rham. (Pos+aee,
10*d.) ; 24/-
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
PRACTICAL SHIP PRODUCTION. A. W. Car-
michael. (Postage, Hid.) 24/-
SHORT WAVE WIRELESS COMMUNICATION: In-
cluding Ultra-Short Waves. Ladner and Stoner.
(Postage, Hid.) 6j/-
THE SCIENCE OF RUBBER. Prof. Memmler, Editor.
(Postage. 1/3-i) 120/-
INORCANIC CHEMICAL TECHNOLOGY. Badger
and Baker. (Postage, 10id.) 20/-
ELEMENTS OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING. Badger
and McCabe. (Postage, 1/3-i) 40/
PHOTOELASTICITY: Vol. I—This volume covers
the strictly Photo-Elastic Method, that is, those for
Plane Stress Analysis which arc based entirely
upon the Stress Pattern and the Isoclinies. M F.
Frocht. (Postage, l/3i) 55/
FIELD TESTS FOR MINERALS. E. H. Davison.
(Postage, 4id.) 15/6
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS’ HANDBOOK: Prepared by
a Staff of Socialists. John H. Perry, Editor.
(Postage, l/si) 80/-
FUELS AND THEIR COMBUSTION. Haslam and
Russell. (Postage, 1/4-i) LOA-
THE YACHTMASTER’S GUIDE AND COASTER’S
COMPANION. Frank C. C. Carr. (P., l/0i) 49/6
THE BOOK OF MINERALS. A. O. Hawkins.
(Postage, sid) 13/9
SULPHATED OILS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS: Their
Chemistry and Analysis. Burton and Robertshaw.
(Postage, Bi-d.) 20/6
PLASTIC WORKING OF METALS AND POWER-
PRESS OPERATIONS. E. U. Crane. (P.. 1/2-i) 46/6
THE CHEMISTRY OF MILK. W. D, Davies. (Post-
age, 1/1 i) 51/-
CANNINC PRACTICE AND CONTROL. Jones and
Jones. (Postage, 1/4-i) 58/-
INSECT PESTS IN STORED PRODUCTS: Includes a
Section giving the Methods by which the Infesta-
tion can be Avoided or Removed. H. Hayhurst,
(Postage, 7 id.) 27/6
PLASTICS IN INDUSTRY. “Plastes.” (Postage,
9id.) 25/-
THE PROBLEM OF FERMENTATION: The Facts and
Hypotheses. M. Schoen. (Postage, 1/0-i) .. 43/6
MARINE PRODUCTS OF COMMERCE: Their Ac-
quisition. Handling. Biological Aspects and the Sci-
ence and Technology of Their Preparation and
Preservation. Donald K. Tressler. (Postage,
1/4-i) £5/5/-
PLYWOODS: Their Development, Manufacture and
Application. Wood and Linn. (Post., 1 /6i ) 48/6
THE ART OF ARCHITECTURE. Richardson and
Corfiato. 686 pages, 148 plans and drawings, 471
photographs. A magnificent book. (Postage,
1/4-i) 69/6
THE SUPPLY OF WATER. T. H. P. Veal. (Post-
age, 7-id.) 31/6
THE ELEMENTS OF REINFORCED CONCRETE DE-
SIGN. Haddon C. Adams. (Postage, 5-i-d.) 12/-
CARPENTRY FOR BEGINNERS: The Woodworker
Scries. (Postage, 4-id.) 6/2
CONCRETE DESIGNERS’ MANUAL. Hool anu
Whitney. (Postage, 7-id.) 32/-
REINFORCED CONCRETE DESIGNERS’ HANDBOOK.
Chas. E. Reynolds. (Postage, 10-id.) 30/-
THE RAILROAD PROBLEM AND ITS SOLUT'^M.
John E. Muhlfeld. (Postage, 6-id.) 24/-
THEORY OF STRUCTURES. A. Morley. (Postage,
8-id.) ■ 15/-
STRENCTH OF MATERIALS. A. Morley. (Post-
age, 9-id.) 27/6
STEEL CONSTRUCTION. Burt and Sand^-g.
(Postage. 9-id.) 28/-
INDUSTRIAL WASTE TREATMENT PRACTICE.
E. F. Eldridge. (Postage, Hid.) 40/-
HANDBOOK OF HEATING, VENTILATING AND
A'R CONDITIONING. John Porges. (Postage,
10i-d.) 22/-
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING PRACTICE. James Na-gle.
(Postage, 6-id.) 25/-
APPLIFD MECHANICS FOR ENGINEERS. J. Dun-
can. Postage, 9-id.) 27/6
NEW ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF MACHINE SHOP PRAC-
TICE. Thumb indexed edition. Editor, George W.
Barnwell. (Postage, 8-id.) 18/-
COAN c ’S AUSTRALASIAN ROADS: The Unique
Australian Authority on Roads. Fifth Edition, re-
vised and enlarged by B. M. Coutie. (Postage,
1/6-i) 36/-
MPTAILURCY OF nrco r»gA w ""G AND P^'
J. Dudley Jevons. (Postage, 1/6-id.) 108/
PRINCIPLES OF PHYSICAL METALLURGY. Doan
and Mahla. (Postage, 9-id.) 28/
CORROSION RESISTANCE OF METALS AND AL-
LOYS. McKay and Worthington. (P.. 10id.) 63/-
CALVANI2INC. Heinz Bablik. (Postage, 10-id.)
Price 43/6
MACHINE SHOP OPERATIONS: Typical Jobs and
Practical Methods for Learning Machine Shop Work.
(Freight extra for 7 lbs. packed) 70/
AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS. G. E. Irvin. (Postage,
1/4-i) . 68 /
SHOP THEORY; The Well-known Henrv Ford Tr=»de
School Textbook. (Postage, 9id.) 10/
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
MODERN MACHINE TOOLS: Their Hydraulic, Elec-
trical and Mechanical Transmission and Operation.
H. C. Town. (Postage, Hid.) 46/6
HANDBOOK for machine designers shop
M r N and DRAFTSMEN. T. A. Halsey. (Postage,
1/s*) a 4B /“
HYDRAULICS AND ITS APPLICATION. A H.
Gibson. (Postage, 1/H) 36/
HYDoaiii ics FOR ENGINEERS AND FNCINEER’NC
STUDENTS. F. C. Lea. (Postage, 9*d.) .... 41/-
THERMODYNAMICS. F. E. Hoare. (Postage, s*d.)
Price 27/3
SENIOR WORKSHOP CALCULATIONS. W. A. J.
Chapman. (Postage, 6*d.) 20/-
APPLIED MECHANICAL DRAWING. Pauli and
Sgro. (Postage, Sid. ) 21/
APPLIED WORKSHOP CALCULATIONS. W. A. J.
Chapman. (Postage, 3-id.) 7/3
APPLIED TO ELECTRICAL ENGI-
NEERING. A. G. Warren. (Postage, 6-id.) . . 28/6
STANDARD HANDBOOK FOR ELECTRICAL ENGI-
NEERS. Editor: Archer E. Knowlton. (Postage.
1/8*) 64 /“
TM-ORV r>F yvi tkpim ATI MO niRREMf- MAC M 'N-
ERY. A. S. Langsdorf. (Postage, 1/2*) .. 48/-
ELECTR'CAL MEASUREMENTS. F. A. Laws. (Post-
age. 1/0*) 48 /-
PRINCIPLES OF ALTERNATING CURRENT
MACHINERY. R. R. Lawrence. (P.. I/O*) 44/-
PRINCIPLES OF ALTERNATING CURRENTS. R R
Lawrence. (Pgstage, 9*d.) 32/
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION OF ELEC-
TRICAL ENERGY. H. Cotton. (Post., 9*d.) 46/6
THE RECTIFICATION OF ALTERNATING CURRENT.
H. Rissik. (Postage, 9-id.) 37/6
UTILISATION OF ELECTRIC ENERGY. E. R Tay-
lor. (Postage, 9-id.) 37/6
PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRIC POWER TRANSMISSION
BY ALTERNATING CURRENTS. H. Waddison.
(Postage, 9*d.) 43/6
CONNECTING INDUCTION MOTORS. A. M. Dud-
ley. (Postage, 9*d.) 28/-
ELEMFNTARY MATHEMATICS FOR ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERS. Sir Ambrose Fleming. (Postage.
6*d.) 6/9
CYANIDATION AND CONCENTRATION OF COLD
AND SILVER ORES. John V. N. Dorr. (Postage,
1/0*) 40/-
HYDROLOCY. Edited by Oscar E. Meinzer. (Post-
age, 1/4*) 60/
THE CLASS ELECTRODE: Methods, Applications and
Theory. Malcolm Dole. (Postage, 10*d.) .. 41/
DONE IN OIL: All About the Petroleum Industry
from a Practical, Economic and Financial Stand-
point. David D. Leven. (Postage, 1/6*) 100/-
THE CHEMISTRY OF PULP AND PAPER MAKING.
Edwin Sutermeister. (Postage, 1/0*) 58/6
TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS AND CONGESTION. Max-
well Halsey. (Postage, 1/2*) 36/-
KNITTINC FULL-FASHIONED HOSIERY. Max C,
Miller. (Postage, 9*d.) 32/C
PROCESSING AND FINISH' - .*; COTTONS. James
F. Monaghan. (2 volumes./ (P. 2/1,) Set 115/6
SHOE AND LEATHER PROCESSING. L. C. Stock-
dale. (Postage, B*d.) 28/
METHODS OF PLANT BREEDING. Hayes and Im-
mcr. (Postage, 10*d.) 32/~
INTRODUCTION TO PLANT ANATOMY. Eames
and McDaniels. (Postage, 10*d.) 28/-
THE THERAPEUTICS OF INTERNAL DISEASES.
Editor: Ceo. Blumer. M.A., M.D. (Three volumes.)
(Freight extra for 20 lbs. packed weight.) Set, £l6
THE PHARMACOLOGICAL BASIS OF THERAPEU-
TICS. Louis Goodman, M.A., M.D., and Alfred Oil-
man, Ph.D. (Postage, 1/8*) 96/6
METHODS OF TREATMENT (MEDICAL). Logan
CHndenning, M.D., and E. H. Hashinger, M.D.
(Postage, 1/8*) 84/
MODERN DRUG FNCYCLO D Fn!A /‘ND TMERAP c U-
TIC GUIDE. J. Gutman, M.D. (P.. 1/6*) 70/-
SURCICAL PRACTICE OF THE LAHEY CLINIC,
BOSTON. MASS. (Postage, 1/6*) . 70/-
FUNDAMENTALS OF PHYSICAL OPTICS. F. A.
Jenkins and H. E. White. (Postage, I/O*) 40/-
ORDER COUPON
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.,
Rox 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me the Books whose
numbers I list below:
Name
Address
Cash, £ enclosed.) Strike out
Charge to my account. \ one line.
Signed
AYTHOMY HORDERNS’
Book Department-Second Floor
THONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


“GOING BACK” SAY THE WHEELS
By T. HUNGERFORD.
f I /"* OOD-BYE, darlin’; good-bye,
I “1 love! ” she whispered, the plump
V i lady who stood on the plat-
form waving to the train as it
moved out. She held one hand at her
breast, and fluttered the other, and as Jack
settled back in his seat and writhed out of
his shirt, he wished vehemently she had
had the sense not to come to the station.
He never grew used to them, the
mothers and sweethearts of these men
who, when the station faded into the
noise and steam behind them, shed their
home-life like a garment and donned
the khaki that in most cases was all they
knew or remembered Most cases;
a few sat like stunned magpies and
stared at their gear and shuffled their
feet, and remembered, like young Stedley
in the corner, who carefully packed some
cakes and oranges on the luggage rack
without actually knowing what he was
doing perhaps he was the plump
lady’s son.
Jack didn’t know who she was, he had
just happened to hear her whispered
words as he slid past her, for she was
talking almost to herself, but he felt that
a thousand grieving women could be no
more tragic than that one, with her small
homely words of endearment being
spoken to a retreating train, and lost in
the noise of wheels, the wheels that
chanted “Going away, going away, going
away,” faster and faster as the train
moved further from the station.
“P HAT was two days ago ; since then
1 they had covered a lot of the conti-
nent, and felt as though they had lived
all their lives cooped up in this rocketing
little box, six of them, with nothing else
to do but look out of the windows at the
eroded farm-lands and desert, with now
and then a small town squatting in the
emptiness.
The last day’s travel had been pleas-
anter ; torrential rains had made miles
and miles of the desert into soft green
pasture, wide and cool, and the sky had
a pale washed look about it. Jack loved
to lean back in the corner and watch it
flash by, green and red and blue, with
scuttling rabbits in the grass and hawks
circling above them.
Yesterday evening they had pulled in
at a little siding that crouched beside the
line like a group of huge boulders in the
red and purple dusk ; a couple of trees,
no roads, and underfoot the hard weath-
ered stones of the desert. All about it
the frightening immensity of the night
welled up from the plains, grey and
brown and velvety black.
The stop was a fairly long one, so
Jack took his towel and walked to a bore
about 50 yards up the track for a shower.
The water was warm and had a strong
taste, but a light wind off the desert
cooled it on his body as he stood naked
in the darkness. He'was reluctant to
dress and lose this moment in time when
it seemed he stood alone with the awful
forces that had fashioned the stark dead
hills and winds that swept over them, and
by the <ime he was ready to return to the
train lights were gleaming dully in a few
shack windows, and music from a wire-
less floated on the warm air.
There was a big peppercorn-tree stand-
ing in front of one of the houses, and
as he passed it Jack was aware of a girl
standing in its deep shadow. A shaft of
light fell for a moment across her face,
and he saw that she was gazing, lips
parted, at the long line of lighted car-
riages, and he wondered was it his fancy
that made her expression seem wistful.
He had passed in a moment, saying softly,
“Good evening,” but she didn’t answer.
“Thinks I’m on the make,” he mused,
as he sought his carriage ; but as he lay
on the floor later on, while the train
rocked through the night and the wheels
and the iron rails sang their unchanging
duet, he could not drive her face from
his thoughts, wondering what she did,
what was her life, that she stood in the
shadows and watched while a trainload
of troops cut a swathe of light and noise
through her life.
OVER breakfast next morning he had
mentioned this, and the talk turned
to the track and the people you meet on it.
“Remember that screw up Cairns
way?” said Fisher, taking a fork-full of
bully out of a tin on the floor; and so
many laughed that Jack thought, “Hell,
most of my section are bagmen! ” “Re-
member him?” one said, “I’ll say!
Useter walk alongside the train swingin’
a billy an’ sayin’ softlike, “Who’d like a
mug o’ chi, boys?” and if any poor cow
pipes up, he’d pull back the tarp. an’
say, “Right-ho, you bastards! out you
get!” Well, I seen him crowned a beaut
once. We was pulled up by a station,
and he conies his old trick, an’ a mug up
an says ‘Yes, mate,’ before we can stop
him. Well, when he sees he’s in he
crawls over to the side of the truck, and
when the screw pulls back the tarp he
crowns him with his nose-bag. Gawd
knows what he had in it, because it
dropped that screw like a maggot; an’
serves the lousy cow right!”
“All screws ain’t bad,” said Fisher, but
at that moment the train began to
slow up, and the men turned to the win-
dows. It stopped with a jerk, and Jack
walked out to the platform. Before long,
there was a game going beside the rails;
they’ll lose their pennies in that red dust
if they don’t look out, he thought as he
stepped down.
The train had stopped ip a grassy
valley between two long low slopes ; it
was cool and green, and as the men scat-
tered from the train rabbits leapt from
the grass and bolted in all directions.
They got away easily, but the game
was on. Some Yanks who were travel-
ling with the convoy joined in, and the
blue and khaki figures streamed up the
slope. Jack watched them till they dis-
appeared over the crest, and then saun-
tered down the length of the train.
It seemed inconceivable that only 50
years ago men had staggered over these
wastes, and died and gone mad in the
solitudes where now he stopped and
started, and travelled so unconcernedly
between water and water, feeling, some-
times vaguely, the hot threat of the
desert’s breath, but only guessing at the
parched lips and swollen tongue and
black despair of a dried waterhole. Such
agony happened to other people a long
time ago, and was not so much as a cut
finger, or the tea-coppers not being lit,
or any of the trivial things that could
make him forget that pain and death
never gave up the chase, that always,
just outside the circle of security, they
waited hungrily for the stragglers
A RABBIT came bobbing over the
TAbrow of the hill, a palpitating dark
speck among the red stones, and was fol-
lowed, lumberingly, by half a dozen sol-
diers. A wild view-halloo rose from the
men in the train, who had a grandstand
seat, and amidst loud ribaldry ->the little
cotton-tail disappeared into a hollow log,
thinking in its naive way that it had
found a safe harborage.
But it didn’t count on the blood lust
that had been aroused in the breasts of
the hunters, the slumbering lust that had
slept so long while meat could be passed
over a counter instead of being won by
skill and stealth and savagery. So while
the light wind from the desert turned
the tossing new grass into green flame
that ran up the hillside to be quenched
among the red rocks, and the restless
shadows of the amber-eyed hawks flick-
ered again and again across the slope,
the soldiers busily stopped all but one
entrance of the log with sticks and stones,
and proceeded to smoke out the quarry
that lay, wide-eyed and with twitching
whiskers, in the cool mould at its heart,
sharing his refuge with three pale lizards
who listened to the noise fearfully, little
pulses thumping in their smooth throats.
Practically everyone around the train
was now interested in the progress of the
chase, except the two-up players, whose
monotonous chant of “Dollar the mick”
or “Bringin’ him in, gents,” sung in a
high voice, supplied a sporadic Greek
chorus to the little tragedy that was being
acted out on the slope.
The group was far enough off as to ap-
pear like puppets to Jack, blue and khaki
figures slightly obscured by the mounting
ripples of heat that arose between him
and them. Suddenly a cord was pulled,
and all stood stock-still except one, who
held a brown wisp above his head, and
for a moment the group was as it painted
against the green and red backdrop of
the hill, with the creamy smoke writhing
amongst them.
Then the spell was broken, and Jack
saw a stick upraised, and could picture
a keen knife making the first slit in the
soft white belly, and the sleazy pelt
slowly leaving the little carcass.
Interest had left the hunt now. Faces
left the windows and turned inwards;
the train was due to start again any time.
The chap who had been in wheat said,
“I knew a cruel cow once; useter tie a
stick of jelly each side of a rabbit and
let it go down a burrow. Useter blow
th’ warren sky high.... cruel cow! ”
“I dunno,” said Jack. “You got t’ do
something about the little bastards, and,
when it’s a case of them or the crops
cruel or not don’t enter into it; Gawd
knows there’s enough of them that a few
warrens don’t make any difference.”
The train had started while he was speak-
ing, and he glanced back at the hillside, but
all he saw now was the restless shadows of
the hawks flickering across his face.
STEDLEY touched him on the knee,
offering a box of home-made biscuits.
“They’re not much good now,” he said,
“but they’re still not bad.” Jack took
one and put it in his mouth, and as he
said “Thanks, Sted,” he blew out a
cloud of fine crumbs,
“That’s orright,” Stedley replied. He
placed the box between them, lid off,
and motioned Jack to help himself,
“Mum makes beaut cakes. That was her
at the station the day we left. I saw
you looking at her.”
“Yes,” Jack lied unconvincingly. “I
thought she looked like you.”
“D’you think so? I got a bonzer
photo of her while I was home on leave
Gosh, it was good home, wasn’t it?
How did it go with you?”
“Fast!’' said Jack. “Too ruddy fa ; st!
And now we’re away again.”
He turned to the window while they
were speaking, and noticed that they had
drawn away from the grassy plain ; now
the whole landscape lay in three broad
bands of color, red desert, purple hills
and blue sky, joined by whirling pillars
of dust that faded and shimmered and
merged in the late afternoon heat.
Out of the corner of his eye he looked
at Stedley, who sat with one hand in his
lap, the fingers extended; with the other
hand he pulled the little finger away, and
then let it snap back into place, and his
eyes were blank. Remembering again,
mused Jack, and aloud he said, “Penny
for ’em, Sted!”
Stedley started, and said shyly, “I was
just thinking. You know how you get
feeling lousy, and never knowing where
you’re going or anything, especially like
now when we’re going away from home
again well, I got an antidote, sort of
I just tthink that, whatever happens, some
time we must be heading home’again
and if if we don’t make it, then I
guess we don’t know much about it, do
we? Even going away like this really brings
us nearer home, because, anyway, that's
what’s at the end of this bloody business
—home ; for most jokers, anyway.”
His voice trailed away, and, strangely,
the carriage was silent except for Fisher!
who was telling a yam about Tich trying
to sell his pig-sticker.
All up and down the long train they
would be “bashing” each other’s ears like
that. What they did on leave.
Jack turned and looked out of the
window again into the deepening twi-
light ; he didn’t want any tea, and sat
there until the last light went out in the
carriages and the last song dwindled
away, and the vast cool night enfolded
the train and bore it on swiftly to the
unmarked spot in the desert where it
would meet the morning. He lay back
and the song of the wheels came to
him, clear and insistent, “Going
Going away"
He thought of his talk with Stedley,
of the calm surety with which Sted
had reckoned “One day we will go
back,” and suddenly—so suddenly that
he wanted to sit up in the dark and tell
someone, anyone—he was burningly
aware that, no matter what happened,
time must pass; no matter what misery
and dirt and tiredness, no matter what
fear of death and fear of being afraid,
seconds and minutes added up to days,
pnd brought nearer the end of the war
when, as Sted said, they would be going
back.... going back.
Why, even now the wheels seemed to
have changed their song ; and while they
sang “Tickety tack, going back, going
back" the train sucked in the miles, and
disgorged them, and in the calm of the
sleeping desert Jack slept.
“THE MOVEMENT”
By “NILOC.”
VOU grin to yourself as your toes
toast; behind a book and wonder-
ing how the lad is enjoying tent life.
He should be home on leave soon,
and then he’ll tell you how the army's
going these days.
Much of it —since you know the army
of old—you’ll be familiar with; s.p.,
crown and anchor and the gentle game
of swy ; how the camp’s supply of empties
finds its way into a heap outside the
padre’s tent, to the happiness of all, in-
cluding the cleric; how someone has
scribbled on the tent the poem about
“The Old Monk of Priory Hall,” which
was evergreen thirty years ago, when
you personally inscribed it on a mess table.
But you mightn’t recognise “the move-
ment.” It has quietly been in action since
they first pinned an army camp in mossie
range of town. But last time you prob-
ably had a different name for it
There’s a camp near a city that I know,
and if you hunt .around you’ll find your
bloke’s gear by the three-inch letters on
his kitbag—laid out on the boards with
five others. Things look tidier than they
did when your wife faced the daily horror
of cleaning the young devil’s room.
There’s young Sandy, who still keeps
on speaking terms with mother earth, and
with plenty more of him to get dirty
now. “Is it on, Suggy?” he queries the
rear end of another young’n whose head
and shoulders are deeply buried in his-kit-
bag. “My flamin’ oath, just as soon is 1
land me socks. Col, where’s me socks?”
“I ate ’em.” Col is busy, too.
One by one they leave the tent and
pass leisurely to the showers, breaking
into a wild gallop as soon as Bn. H.Q.
sinks behind the guard hut. When they
have showered they return. From the
tent now comes a low buzz of conver-
sation, the brushing of boots and occa-
sional curses. It is “the movement.”
There’s an orderly exodus from camp
on a no-work night, when official scrutiny
might find ten per cent, with leave passes
and the rest leaping off through the
mulga. Those making themselves scarce
on any given night would be as good a
cross-section of a battalion as you could
wish for; privates, corporals, C.S.Ms. and
pips, the tailors and members of the band
—everyone, from the padre himself to
the vampires who find their homes in the
R.A.P. and dental clinics.
All being well, we walk to the railway
or travel in the luxury of cars whose
owners can’t resist the sight of the lads
hoofing it. These car-owners slow down
when they don’t stop, pointing to the
collection of kids and wild flowers occu-
pying the back seat
In town, the movement thins out into
individual fingers that could reach any-
where. Then we arrive back, and lie
down to die until morning in the snuf-
fling of sleeping soldiers. Next day’s
smoke-oh is a period of comparing the
“flicks” we have seen, the sarge himself
being a noted critic.
That, apart from trade secrets of lift-
wangling or how to eat a plateful of
sandwiches at the restaurant near the
station and still catch the train by the
last handgrip, is “the movement.”
Sometimes our best laid plans go astray.
Experts on “Malarial Control” or “How
to Survive on Widgetty Grubs” pay a
visit; and our stand down becomes a sit
up in the camp concert hall. Their
approach is usually sensed by someone
(in our case it’s a corporal—the expert of
the Bn), and “the movement” is aban-
doned. In the happiness of his second
plate of pud, this corp waves a spoon for
attention: “The drum for tonight is”
and we learn. He’s our barometer; and,
happily, reports of adverse conditions are
rare.
After the mess hut, it’s to the P.M.G.
’phone box. With a “movement” on,
and its coin-holding apparatus fuller than
a goog, it yields free calls, and continues
to do so until the nark arrives to strip
it of its generosity by emptying its belly.
Any bloke who looks like taking a week
to explain the situation to the other end
is howled into submission. We have our
standard calls, such as “Hullo, Mum, I’ll
be home for dinner. No, there’s no holes
in ’em” ; or “Yes, it’s me, darling. See
you at your place at seven, you beaut.”
After that, with our gear on and a
cryptic grin wafting through the ranks,
we march out to the afternoon’s bull-ring
to learn again what makes a Bren tick,
or the difference between a “Power and
Seffen Seconder,”
We take it all in till the end of the
afternoon, when the sarge’s voice begins
to creak in sympathy with the bashed
and quivering eardrums of his listeners.
The aiming-rests are put back under their
clump of gum-trees, the unlucky bunnies
cop the heavies to carry, and the column
comes back to the tents. There’s the
postal bloke looking like a post-dated
Daddy Christmas, and just as popular.
We smack our butts and grab our mail.
The one named Suggy pokes his nose
round the tent in the direction of Bn
H.Q. and withdraws it with a signal to
the others. They stream out and head
quietly for the road. You have to smile
as you watch them fade, Sandy and his
mates close on the heels of one who wears
a lion and unicorn. They and the Army
haven’t changed a bit.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3375.
Wednesday, October 18, 1944.
FRIENDLY-LIKE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street>
London, E.C.4.
STRIKELAND, 1917 and 1944.
What is the matter with New South
Wales? Why, when it has a Labor Gov-
ernment in Sydney and another in Can-
berra, in which there are seven N.S.W.
Ministers, is its strike record not only the
worst in the Commonwealth but worse
than that of all the other States and ter-
ritories put together? Why does it give
the appearance of being far more
interested in internal strife and in waste-
ful forms of commercial sport than in the
foreign wars which are deciding its future,
and the nearer of which is of such a
nature that stalemate would amount to
defeat? Why, in short, is New South
Wales so different?
There is nothing in the climate or the
racial composition of the people to ac-
count for it. The climate (especially that
of the coastal belt from Cessnock
to Kembla, in which nearly all the
strikes break out) is one of the
most genial in the world, nor has the
world any sounder stock than that from
which 95 per cent, of the people sprang.
And the region they inhabit is one
of the favored parts of the earth;
spacious, healthy and with an amplitude
and diversity of resources that many a
European country would envy. Out of
it have come soldiers, airmen and seamen
of superb quality, with an unsurpassed
record in battle: and the girls in uniform
are also thoroughbreds. To see a Sydney
march of A.I.F. veterans and nurses and
R.A.A.F. lads and W.A.A.Fs. is to be
convinced that there are no finer physical
specimens anywhere. No Ward or Wells
standing among the spectators could pos-
sibly persuade an observant foreigner
that these young people and the broad
masses were victims of a soulless eco-
nomic system, robbed of their inheritance
and of most of the fruits of their indus-
try by “the capitalists,” though a Ward
or a Wells might try.
According to Treasurer Chifley, “it’s no
use saying ‘let the Government tax the
rich’ —there is very little more revenue
to be obtained from that source.” “They
are paying up to 18s. 6d. in the pound,”
Senator Ashley explained; and the
P.M.G. added, understating the case, that
two-thirds of the national income was
going to “people earning less than £8 a
week.” The gentlemen were appealing for
subscriptions to the war loan, which, as
usual, is travelling badly, though—-also
as usual —a prodigious amount of money
is going into the lotteries and the totes
and the bookmakers’ bags. Certain parts
of the war effort are also travelling badly
because N.S.W. unionists have struck or
gone slow or absented themselves from
the job, in spite of Mr. Curtin’s frequent
appeals and remonstrances and the
country’s constant need."
This, of course, is nothing new in our
rough island story. As Ernest Scott wrote
in his volume of C. E. W. Bean’s Official
History, there was a multitude of strikes
in the last war, with New South Wales
heading the procession.
Disputes were more prevalent in New
South Wales than in any other part of the
Commonwealth. They accounted for 70
p.c. of the total in 1914, 76 p.c. in 1915,
66 p.c. in 1916, 67 p.c. in 1917, 46 p.c.
in 1918 and 58 p.c. in 1919.
These percentages really flatter New
South Wales, for some of the strikes in
other States were of N.S.W. manufacture,
extended to branches of federated unions
which sometimes were very reluctant in
their obedience. The effects were also
Australia-wide, particularly in the case of
coal, there being such a shortage in Vic-
toria that 300 Victorians, with police to
protect them, were sent to Richmond
and Pelaw Main. And the N. S. Wales
transport system was “paralysed” be-
cause on August 2, 1917, “the railway-
men ceased work as a protest against the
introduction of the time-card system and
induced coalminers, waterside workers
and others to strike.” Characteristically,
“the strike on the coalfields outlasted by a
fortnight that of the railwaymen which
had occasioned it” (it didn’t “occasion”
coal strikes which “caused difficulty in
the sailing of steamers in 1916”), but
“ended on October 3, 1917.”
That year 173,970 workpeople were
concerned in the strikes, and they lost
4,599,658 working days and £2,594,808
in wages. Figures for 1916 were 170,683,
1,678,930 and £967,604; and for 1919,
157,591, 6,308,226 and £3,951,936. Analys-
ing causes, Scott wrote that “the sudden
leap in the number of workpeople in-
volved from 81,000 in 1915 to 170,000 in
1916 and 173,000 in 1917 was not due
solely to dissatisfaction with wages, objec-
tion to the employment of particular
persons, and working conditions, but
more largely to that spirit of unrest, that
disturbance of mental equilibrium, which
so signally characterised those years.”
At the end of a tumultuous week in
the newspaper world it was mentioned
over the air that Charles Bean’s successor
as Official War Historian—by the look
of things himself an able and diligent
man with a great understanding of the
New Digger—had finished much of the
spadework and was looking round for
staff men. The writer engaged to do the
“Australia During the Second World
War” volume will be materially helped by
having Scott’s twentieth chapter, “Labor
Questions and the Industrial Ferment,”
to work on. In the way of altera-
tion he will need to substitute com-
munist influence on strikes and “dis-
turbance of mental equilibrium” for
the I.W.W. influence recorded by his
predecessor; and perhaps he will be
moved to discuss other origins of “dis-
turbance of mental equilibrium,” with
special reference to Government schools
and communist and fellow-traveller
teachers. He will also, no doubt, com-
pare the I.W.W. slogans quoted by Scott
(“Spread the I.W.W. dope everywhere” ;
“The I.W.W. is going to own this coun-
try in a couple of years”) with commu-
riist slogans current between September
3, 1939, and June 22, 1941, On the
subject of strikes he won’t need to alter
Scott much, except to show that the N, S.
Wales proportion was higher and the
effects worse—the calls on war industry
being greater and the country being in
a far more dangerous situation —than in
1916 and 1917.
But while parallels will necessarily
attract this historian, whoever he may be,
there are differences which will have to
be set down.
It was not widely accepted in the last
war, even in New South Wales, that it
was a dashing thing to break industrial
agreements, awards and national-security
(or war-precautions) regulations and refuse
the carriage of goods over Government
transport systems to citizens going about
their lawful occasions. Nor were Labor
politicians who championed these per-
formances then in the seats of the mighty.
When the Government railwaymen and
the waterside workers went on strike the
general feeling was that these services
should be carried on —and they were car-
ried on.
And, bad as the situation was in
1917, no dissatisfied band of Sydney
newspaper employees held up the publi-
cation of their paper in breach of a
general newspaper agreement having
the force of law and in pursuance
of a demand—4o-hour week and four
weeks’ annual holiday for all hands —
which could not be conceded without
the proprietary itself breaking the law.
Nor did three other Sydney newspaper
proprietaries, making common cause with
their partner in the newspaper agreement
—lest they too should be struck at and
defeated separately—and taking their
stand on an Industrial Court ruling
flatly condemning the strike as “illegal”
and “without justification”, join with
it in producing a daily issue. Nor did there
occur such scenes and outbursts as were
witnessed in Sydney last week —refusal
of carriage on Government trams and
trains, refusal of Government informa-
tion to the newspapers involved, refusal
of the State Parliamentary Press Gallery
to a “Herald” reporter, appearance of a
rival paper from communist headquarters
and threats from Ministers Ward and Cal-
well that the four newspaper proprietaries
would be squelched by Government
action somehow.
It is characteristic of Strikeland
that the journalists’ organisation should
have become “militant” when by remain-
ing independent, though friendly, it might
have prevented the dissatisfaction in the
“Sun” office —for which there seems to
have been some ground in respect of the
roster —from roaring into general turmoil.
Characteristic also that the emergency
sheets on both sides (all “unauthor-
ised,” Senator Keane protested, with a
noble appearance of impartiality) should
have made a feature of the lot’ry results
and enlarged on the vast importance of
the Randwick races. Feeling, perhaps,
that the war loan had become a casualty,
Mr. Spender addressed himself eloquently
to that topic. Mr. Spender himself is
characteristic of the breed of Sydney poli-
ticians, since he is “automatically” out of
his party, though he did not make it im-
possible for Mr. Menzies to carry on as
P.M., as did other Sydney members of
the party; nor, of course, did he bring
down the Scullin Government, which was
the work of Mr. Beasley, Mr, Ward and
other Sydney Labor politicians ; nor will
he be one of the conspirators when the
Ward faction makes an end of the Curtin
Government.
Said Mr, Spender;
It would seem that an increasing number
of people is fast forgetting that the war
is still to be won.
And not only the war, the peace:
We are in danger of drifting into an atti-
tude of mind which, if it is indicative of
the attitude of other peoples, will certainly
ensure that we shall lose the peace.
Tragically true ; and the former Army
Minister might have gone further. Aus-
tralia is the only Dominion which has an
enemy on its territory ; and the enemy
has not only been there a very long time,
but most of the time has held 23,000 Aus-
tralians in captivity. And Australia is the
only Dominion which may fare badly at
the peace conference. The vital part of
its immigration policy is certain to be
challenged there, as it was at Versailles,
only this time it will be challenged from
at least two quarters, and support for
Australia may be confined to one quarter.
For a nation in this situation three
things are necessary full support for
war loans, a war effort into which every
ounce is thrown by every person on the
home front and national unity, car-
ried over from the war into the peace.
It cannot afford to indulge in crazy forms
of gambling and internal strife. But the
Government of the Commonwealth and
the Government of New South Wales,
the State with two-fifths of the population
and a still greater proportion of the
national income and wealth, should set
the example.
Partitioning Germany.
What, if any, are the agreed plans of
the Allied Nations in the role of Destiny
rough-hewing the future of Germany, and,
hence, of Europe?
There are private plans to burn, as
most of them no doubt will. And there
is the proposal for an improved
League of Nations drafted at Dum-
barton Oaks, Washington, and signed
by the representatives there of Britain,
America, Russia and China. Briefly, the
improvement lies in separating the most
important function —the preventing of
war—from the general mass of social
and economic functions, some of which
the League managed passably well.
The new League is to have teeth—par-
ticularly national air-force contingents for
combined international use. Also, the
aim will be to come down on war pre-
parations, not to wait on the launching
of hostilities by a nation that has been
allowed to prepare for years. These pro-
posals are tentative ; they are to serve as
a basis for discussion at a full United
Nations conference ; but important spade-
work has definitely been done, and it is
promising that both Mr. Roosevelt and
Mr. Dewey have expressed satisfaction.
“The projected organisation represents
a major objective for which the war is
being fought,” Mr. Roosevelt declared.
“The task of planning the great design
of security and peace has been well begun.
It now remains for the nations to com-
plete the structure in a spirit of construc-
tive purpose and mutual confidence.”
What is to be done about Germany
specifically was not mentioned in the
Dumbarton Oaks resolutions, though
no doubt it was discussed, as between
Mr. Churchill and Marshal Stalin, also.
Perhaps nothing definite on this aspect
can be expected until after the U.S.
Presidential elections.
On one thing everybody concerned
should have no trouble in agreeing—the
complete disarming of the German
nation. A simple elementary requisite
in itself, it ties up vitally with the whole
planning for the lasting settlement of the
very real German problem. German dis-
armament will profit nobody in the long
run unless the settlement is such that the
Germans of a generation or so ahead
will still be prevented from re-arming ;
better still if it could be such that they
would not want to re-arm.
It seems to be now widely accepted
among the planners that there will be
some measure of partitioning of
Germany. Proposals that have been
made by apparently responsible men
or bodies range from a fantastic carving
up of Germany into small farms to
annexations by most of the bordering
countries.
“Partition,” former U.S. Under-Secre-
tary of State Sumner Welles has stated in
his thoughtful and generally very solid
book on foreign affairs from the Ameri-
can point of view, “will do more
than anything else to break the hold
which German militarism has on
the German people,” Mr. Welles takes
it for granted—as do many others,
apparently—that the handing over of por-
tion of Poland to Russia is inevitable;
Poland to get East Prussia; one of the
German States he envisages to get part
of the old Corridor, but leaving Danzig
and Gdynia in Polish hands; involved
populations to have the choice of chang-
ing either nationality or habitation, with
compensation for losses by individuals.
Germany itself, in Mr. Welles’s view,
should then be divided into three sepa-
rate States: (1) Southern Germany, com-
prising the former sovereign nations of
Bavaria, Wurttemberg, Baden and Hesse-
Darmstadt, with the Rhineland and the
Saar ; population predominantly Catholic.
(2) Upper Hesse, Thuringia, Westphalia
Hanover, Oldenburg and Hamburg (3)
Prussia (exclusive of East Prussia).
Mecklenburg and Saxony; populations of
(2) and (3) predominantly Protestant.
London “Economist” (August 12) de-
clared that the carving up of Germany
was to go even further. From “semi-official
statements and other sources it inferred
that part of East Prussia, with Konigs-
berg, is to go to Russia, while the rest,
together with large slices of Pomerania
and Silesia, is to be Poland’s share.
Parts of western Germany are to be
annexed by France, Belgium and Hol-
land, and the Sudetenland would be
cleared of Germans. The total popula-
tion transfers, it reckoned, would cover
as many as 10,000,000 people. The
Economist’s” finding on these pro-
posals was downright:
The treaty apparently proposed for Ger-
many is open to one verdict only. It will be
a very bad treaty. Far from banishing the
fear of war, it will make its return a cer-
tainty.
The objection to such a peace, in the
“Economist’s” view, is not that it would
be unjust—“nothing could be unjust to
the Nazis” —but that it would “raise to
a maximum the Germans’ desire for
revenge, and reduce to a minimum the
British and American willingness to up-
hold the settlement.” Insisting that there
was no question of being “kind” to the
Germans, the “Economist” pleaded for the
leaving of emotions “out of the very seri-
ous business of peace-making, which is
a matter for cold calculation, not for
emotions of either love or hate.” The
only sane aim was for a treaty that would
work or could be enforced:
And there can be no escaping the fact
that Allied opinion in the West will not be
willing, when the time comes, to lift a finger
to enforce the kind of settlement, particu-
larly the kind of territorial settlement, that
is now proposed.
That would go for Mr. Welles’s parti-
tion scheme, as for most others. The
great doubt that the “Economist” con-
siders—though Mr. Welles and many more
take it in their stride —concerns the con-
tinuing co-operation of the Allied Nations
over any appreciable length of time. Can
the Allied Nations be safely counted on
to stand together indefinitely, ready in-
stantly to use force to maintain an
arrangement which, by its nature, will
require force to uphold it? As for Britain
and America in this respect, the “Econo-
mist” anticipates that after the war two
distinct trends of opinion in both countries
will weaken their determination to enforce
such a treaty all the time: in the United
States, isolationism—“very strong, par-
ticularly in relation to European quar-
rels”—and in Britain “lazy, wishful-
thinking indifferentism,”
As for Russia, as some hold, being
alone able to “maintain the stiff peace.”
the “Economist” strongly questions
whether “Russia, exhausted and over-
strained by the war, will be prepared to
carry out single-handed the burden of
policing and quelling 70,000,000 Ger-
mans.” It questions, also, the likelihood
of Russia taking a “benevolent and
understanding view” of British and
American slackening in the years ahead.
It holds that in such an event —which it
considers not unlikely—the Russians
would suspect not “isolationism or weak-
ness” but a conspiracy, with Russia's
obvious move then to forestall this by
“making its own terms with Germany.”
The “Economist” article concluded with
a plea for the sort of settlement that Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt apparently
had in mind when they signed the Atlantic
Charter. “To plead for a ‘moderate'
peace,” it said, “is not to plead for
Teniency for the Germans, but for the
direct opposite.”
The whole question, when it comes to
making the final settlement, will hinge
on the possibility of the Allied Nations'
association and the peace organisation,
whatever its form, lasting long into the
future. If that is impossible, peace will
always be precarious. To the many dan-
gers in the way Mr. Welles adds one of
the most curious so far mentioned. In his
view, “the first stratagem of the German
military command will be to stimulate
throughout Germany the growth of Com-
munism in its world-revolutionary form”
“conditions” (among them “social
unrest as a result of economic prostra-
tion”) “will favor it.”
The kind of Governments, therefore, that
the German people are to be permitted to
insfal must be decided by common agree-
ment between the United Nations, with full
regard for the dangers which may arise
from any hidden military schemes.
Failing “common agreement” on a
question so full of possibilities, it might
perhaps be as well if Corns, started to
get in a little practice now for yet an-
other fraternal somersault. Failing com-
mon agreement on the whole boiling 0|
questions, it would be as well for all
others to be prepared to live in hope
rather than in confidence.
-


PLAIN ENGLISH
Favorite Recreation.
Boxing item from the “Standard Weekly”
(Sydney), “official organ of the Australian
Labor party,” October 12:
The ever-popular Eddie Ward was in his
usual seat at the ringside last Saturday
night.
No one enjoys a fight more than the
Minister for Transport, and whenever his
Parliamentary dulies permit it Eddie never
fails to put in an appearance.
And his Parliamentary duties, while
enabling “the ever-popular Eddie” to
swing at the Opposition, the banks, the
mineowners, 8.H.P., the insurance com-
panies, John Bull, Geelong Grammar
boys and their parents and all his other
aversions, don’t take up much of his time.
Since the present House was elected on
August 21, 1943, there have been about
50 sittings, and they never finish too late
in the week to prevent Sydney tribunes
filling ringside engagements, whether they
catch the 4.15 or ride in a Ministerial
car.
But the “Standard Weekly” didn’t men-
tion that one of the biffers who minis-
tered to the ever-popular one’s enjoyment
had arrived from Melbourne two days
before. Or that a bruiser from Sydney,
with a Sydney trainer in his corner, boxed
a Queenslander in Brisbane on the Friday
night. Or that another thumper from
Sydney kept a date with a Victorian on
the Saturday night. Or that it is an
unusual week when a scrapper from one
df the capital cities isn’t reported 500 or
1000-odd miles from his home town —
one from Sydney fought in Melbourne a
day after “Eddie’s” last philippic against
the “border-hopping” boys.
Rail priorities? It seems to be a case
of pugs preferred; stranded school-
boys “exposed” and held up to execra-
tion, if they can’t be prosecuted.
The “Weekly Standard” had another
reference to its ringside hero:
Mr. Ward warned that the Christmas
holiday period might be affected by the
transport difficulty. Unless additional
supplies of coal were available to rail-
ways a very grave effect was feared upon
the heavy movements of drought livestock
and fodder. A special conference of Com-
monwealth and railway authorities recom-
mended to Cabinet sub-committee immedi-
ate action to increase coal supplies. These
supplies were essential to save stock and
to enable the Victorian, N.S.W. and S.A.
railways to carry on, even at present
greatly restricted levels.
The “immediate action” is to be taken
by “State Priority Committees,” not by
the men who have deliberately refused to
supply the coal. They never work on
Saturday, so they are at liberty to devote
the day to the pursuit of sport, beginning
with horse-racing and winding up at
the fight or the dogs. For a while they
were on their best behavior, but since it
was laid down that wage - increases
ordered by one of their tribunals were in
conflict with the Government’s wage-
pegging regulations they have been strik-
ing merrily again.
In the New Order.
Extracts from the “Sydney Union
Herald” of 18/10/’5O:
Work on the new Government houses at
Glanroy has been held up owing to the dis-
covery that screws in a door-plate of one of
the completed homes were part of a consign-
ment from a Victorian screw factory since de-
clared “black.” The workers refused to go on
with the job until the screws were withdrawn.
Since they are “black” no worker is permitted
to withdraw them, and an application for per-
mission to declare them “white” for 15 minutes,
or whatever time it takes to remove them, has
been lodged with the Industrial Commission.
It is doubtful if the application can be heard
before next Christmas.
The start of the first race at Randwick on
Saturday was delayed until arbitration in-
spectors had checked up on all the jockeys and
trainers to ensure that they were financial
members of their union.
AH work in the city will cease at 11 a.m.
next Tuesday, when a mass meeting will be held
in Centennial Park to consider the report of
the pupils of Crown-street public school on the
conduct of the junior form mistress in speaking
sharply to a third-class boy who claimed the
democratic privilege of refusing to clean his
fingernails when told to do so.
At its meeting last night the A.L.P. executive
decided to instruct the State Government to
implement its election promise of more lot-
teries —at least one a day, Sundays included—
or else.
The Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon. E. J.
Ward, announced at Canberra last night that,
as a special gesture to mark the sixth anni-
versary of the introduction of the four-hour
week in the newspaper industry, relatives of
Henderson, W. Fairfax, F. Packer and E.
Norton would be permitted to visit them for one
hour at the internment camp on Friday. Special
Mr.
cession was not to be taken as a sign of weak-
ness on the Government’s part, nor was the
release of K. Murdoch on probation for one
ss® fidV&niss'as
them, and he intended to keep them there.
Mr. Calwell, leader of the breakaway Labor
party, gave notice of a no-confidence motion
on the ground that the action announced by
the Prime Minister was in the foulest traditions
of capitalism and a complete sell-out to the
exploiters.
Describing the defendant in a police court
case as a fossil, Sgt. Tittle said the man had
been arrested by the Barham police, who found
him in a river camp. Defendant claimed that
he had never belonged to a union and had no
intention of joining one. He said that all he
desired was to be left to himself. The magis-
trate committed the fellow to the reception-
house.
Statistics issued by the Department of Internal
Affairs give the following population figures
for the year ended June 30 last; By immigra-
tion, two; by emigration, 395,675.
"Criminals in Palestine."
.
AMERICAN Zionists have no use for the
Australian Zionist notion that Palestine
should be admitted to the British Com-
monwealth as a self-governing Dominion.
t,, £ b c •
The president of one of their orgamsa-
tions — there are several, and they are on
mutually insulting terms — turned up at
TTnmhartrm Oatc with n dpmnnrl for “tbp
uumbwton ueks witn a demand tor ne
abolition of the British mandate and the
establishment of Palestine as an autono-
mous homeland for the Jews under inter-
national guardianship,” salting his obser-
vations with an attack on Britain.
One of the other Zionist organisations
broke out in a rash of newspaper adver-
tisements to the effect that there were
800,000 Jews in Hungary and that it
was Britain’s business to get them all out
and carry them to Palestine.
Presently there came over the air an
account of the murder per bullet of the
_ i- „ • t
assistant police superintendent in Jeru-
salem — perhaps the work of the terrorists
who tried to wipe out the retiring High
Commissioner, his wife and such of his
staff as travelled in his ambushed car —
and of a curfew measure adopted as an
immediate sequel.
Next General Paget, C.-in-C. Middle
East, was heard from. General Paget
S *°
U beginning with the reminder that
through the exertions and sacrifices of
the forces of the Allies ” all races in
t £ s r five ye r “ v .‘; rtua i
immunity from the horrors of war, and
continuing with a plain statement of how
this blessing had been requited by Jewish
criminals-
Since early in 1944 Palestine has been the
scene of a series of outrages and crimes of
violence by Jewish terrorists, acting with the
deliberate intention of bringing about by
force developments favorable to realisation
ol political aims. Officers and men of the
Security Services have been murdered in
c °ld blood while doing their duty. Inno-
cent’ passers-by have been killed. Govern-
rnent buildings have been destroyed by ex-
plosives. An attempt, providentially unsuc-
cessful, was made to assassinate his
Majesty’s representative,
These events are proceeding side by side
with the bitterest phase of the critical fight
between the United Nations and Germany
—the cruellest, most implacable and most
F>[S or - in p , long hi ,l tory - of
Jewry. Criminals in Palestine, with active
and passive sympathisers, are directly im-
peding Britain’s war effort. They are assist-
ing the enemy. These facts will not be oyer-
world* P ubbc opinion oi the civilised
w< tL' * , ~ . „ , .
Every practical measure is being taken by
the army and police to prevent these crimes
and bring the authors to justice. The officer
administering the Government of Palestine
and the Commander-in-Chief call on the
Jewish community to co n ab orate with the
forces of law and order; to recognise
their responsibility and not to allpw the
g° od name of the Jews to be prejudiced by
£ 0 " h 0 '? lh c e an j pJSfaZ™ whole
T .
, *- as * y 63 !’,, 111 a sene ?. °f a r tic ! es ad-
fellow-Australians of his faith
3nc * Published in the Hebrew Standard,
I saacs PP. mt ed out that the claims
.^ ew Zionists were untenable in
law, unjust and ungrateful to Britain and
or ire a nh-Semitism.
. The Woodhead Commission found that
to include even part of Jerusalem in a
Jewish State would “lead to disorders of
the most serious kind.” How true that
opinion has proved to be is evidenced by
tbe preparations for civil war.
The wise old man’s writings, though
angrily objected to, in particular by Pro-
fessor Julius Stone, of the Sydney Uni-
versity Law School, have been justified
by events.
RETURN MATCH.
“Watcher uppercut, Basher—it beat yez last April.”


Making
your will?
hi*!
uni
OF
LIME
■in
By
IHE
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE 03. of N.S.W.,LTD
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
NUGGET
MILITARY TAN
■makes the shine
AND THE
BOOTS
lasiloncjer
m
' i \
''l'!'\ 11 y \"\ v
Because the shine lasts longer, you look
smarter Because the boots last longer,
you're more comfortable Do yourself
good-get "Nugget"-the Military Tan
with the real, rich mahogany glow.
DO'l©
Points
Calwell couldn’t have consulted Curtin
before he hurled himself into the Sydney
newspaper rumpus, rolling his one eye
wildly. Long ago, when branch president
of the A.J.A., Curtin was concerned
(though his “Worker” wasn’t) in a news-
paper strike in Perth. He was a most
reluctant party to it, and it was no secret
that he blamed the union zealots, styling
them “the young Turks.” When he went
to Canberra for the first time the leader
of “the young Turks” had become editor
of what had for decades been the most
conservative daily in Australia.
While the Sydney papers which turned
against Menzies in 1940 were having a
family quarrel, Bob was the central figure
at a Canberra conference designed to
form a strong Commonwealth party
organisation out of the diversity of out-
fits which, though opposed to Labor-
socialism (or Labor-communism), have
helped it materially by failing to agree
among themselves. He made a very good
job of his introductory address, and after
discussions marked by general agreement
on essentials, especially as to the need for
restoration of sanity in government and
finance, he had the satisfaction of seeing
a unity motion carried unanimously, at
the instance of spokesmen for two N. S.
Wales groups previously irreconcilable:
Bridges (Dem.) and White (Lib. Dem.).
Judging by the rapidity with which the
other crowd is going to pieces, it will be
necessary to prepare for an election next
year.
State politicians associated with
Menzies at the Commonwealth-party
palavers were Premier Playford (S.A.),
Weaver and Mair (N.S.W.), Hollway,
Maltby and Oldham (Vic.), Ross Mc-
Donald (W.A.) and Baker (Tas.), with
former M.L.A. Dr, Watson-Brown from
Queensland. There were also Federal
members and organisation leaders of both
sexes from the six States.
Opening sentences of a Manchester
“Guardian” leader published on Wednes-
day, August 2:
On Monday night 20 salvos from 224 guns
announced to the people of Moscow that
General Chernyakhovsky’s armies had
forced the Niemen and launched an offen-
sive against East Prussia. Today or to-
morrow they will be on German soil.
After this lapse into prophecy without
fulfilment the “Guardian” pointed out
that “militarily East Prussia is not essen-
tial to Germany’s defence,” and that not-
withstanding current mush about “the
aboriginal Borussians and the Polish
Masurs,” it had been part of Germany
for many hundred years. And “only a
minute fraction of its 2,000,000 Germans
could be called Junkers.”
Although November 7 is the date of
the Presidential election, the results may
not be known till December 7. Service
votes for Nebraska are to be counted
that day, and for ten other States from
November 9 (Delaware) to December 5
(North Dakota). They may number
4,000,000 altogether, and the 11 States —
among them are Pennsylvania, California
and Missouri—have a combined electoral
vote of 116, which could easily be de-
cisive. When Wilson beat Hughes in
1916 he had only 23 electoral votes to
the good.
Saying goodbye to Australians after
seven years as Canadian Trade Commis-
sioner, and distributing compliments,
Frederick Palmer said he would “always
be sorry that another Eighth Division
wasn’t formed to fight on against the
Japs, as another Fifty-first (Highland)
Division was formed after Dunkirk.”
Many Australians feel the same way. It
was suggested to the Government, but
that was the end of the thing, the
Government having no more imagination
than a piece of string.
Pith of the Sikorski-Maisky agree-
ment, signed in the Foreign Office, Lon-
don, on July 30, 1941:
The Government of the U.S.S.R. recog-
nises the Soviet-German treaties of 1939 as
to territorial changes in Poland as having
lost their validity.
Anthony Eden to General Sikorski,
same day:
I assure you that his Majesty’s Govern-
ment does not recognise any territorial
changes which have been effected in Poland
since August, 1939.
No wonder he is a perplexed and agitated
Anthony these days.
A new police training barracks was
established in Semaphore, an Adelaide
suburb. Trainees are rallied each morn-
ing by bugle call. In the Adelaide Par-
liament a Mr. Thompson (Lab.) asked
the Attorney General to do something
about it, as the bugle annoyed shift-
vtorkers and woke them up. If only
someone would sound a bugle that would
WARWICK IN SEARCH OF HIS KING,
tor us there are no more parties; Mr. Curtin is Australia’s leader ."
“S. M. Herald,” March 21, 1942.
wake the country up Chifley might not
have to beg Australians to fill the war
loan.
The S.A. Housing Trust has completed
its 2000th house. The Playford Govern-
ment is dismissed at Canberra and Syd-
ney as “reactionary,” but for all their
talk about housing neither the Curtins
nor the McKells has built a decent house
between them, though the McKells have
set up another racing club.
When fire destroyed a house at Port
Kembla (N.S.W.) last week, and cost an
aged man his life and put his wife in
hospital, it came out that the house was
Government-built, wood and canvas and
“highly inflammable.” It not being a
racing matter, no questions were asked in
the Sydney “Parliament.”
Calwell, arrived in Sydney during the
newspaper strike or lockout (you can get
both versions for fourpence), said his
visit was merely a “coincidence”
and then announced that his “Govern-
ment” might have to “consider taking
over the newspapers to give the people
the news in much the same way as it
has taken over the Coalcliff colliery to
give the nation coal.” Coalcliff was taken
over on 9/3/’44. On 27/3/’44 Harrison
(U.A.P.) asked Mr. Beasley if Coalcliff
strikers had their reductions of pay re-
mined, and was .old they had. They
struck again on 5/10/ 44.
F. D. Graham, Labor M.L.A. for
Mackay (Q.), is agin preference to re-
turned soldiers. He holds that preference
would mean giving one section a privilege,
and privileges mean getting away from
the pure democratic spirit Presumably,
the stickler for principle will now return
his gold pass, which entitles him to the
privilege of free travel on public-owned
vehicles throughout the country and pref-
erence in travel priorities,
“Russia ” said the Minister of Trans-
„ ’ . u milusier pr * ran s
port, ,s not in this war to help Britain
or Australia. Some people made a great
noise about opening a second front —
people who had no interest in Australia’s
part in the war while Russia was out of
it. What’s wrong, even at this late date,
about their agitating for Russia to open
a second front against Japan?” You
wouldn’t think Ward would say such
things—and he didn’t. It was Walsh, the
Queensland Minister of Transport,
Forde broke new ground when he
went to Flemington to appeal to punters
and bookmakers to spare a bit for the
war loan. No British Secretary for War
or Chancellor of the Exchequer or any
American counterpart has ever done any-
thing of the kind. If any of them can
be imagined as following Forde’s ex-
ample it would certainly not be to plead
and flatter but to announce roughly that
there would be no more betting or any
other form of gambling under Govern-
ment control until the loan had passed
out of the doubtful stage.
Still apparently persuaded, the drought
notwithstanding, that there is no limit to
Australians capacity to support a vast estab-
lishment, Dr. Evatt is sending another
professor to his Moscow outfit. The first
professor came back suddenly, but the
present gentleman is expected to stay at
least a little longer, being interested in
experiments in the extraction of rubber
from dandelions or moonshine from
watermelons. He was at London Uni-
versity, where apparently he came under
the influence of Laski, whose great dis-
covery is that Stalingrad set the seal on
the communist system, whereas the capi-
talist system was proved a washout when
Rommel took Tobruk. The gentleman
himself quoted with approval the asser-
tion of a Dr. Dark that “200,000 lives
were sacrificed to economy in Britain”
during the seven years which followed the
abolition of the means test, but shuffled
away when challenged to refute statis-
tical evidence that death-rates actually
declined.
Chifley had a deficit of 377 millions
last year, and expects a deficit
of 328 millions this year, but he never
uses the word if he can help it. The
Americans invariably do. And if this
Government did there mightn’t be so
much squandermania, nor would State
Governments rolling in easy riches be
encouraged to present impudent demands
calculated to swell the deficit damnably.
If their progress since 1937 is main-
tained the Republicans should capture
Congress—the House, anyway—even if
they fail to displace a President with a
great personal appeal. In that period
they have advanced from 16 Senators to
37 (there are 96) and from 88 Ms.H.R.
to 212 (there are 435); and whereas in
1938 there were only eight Republican
Governors in the 48 States there are now
26. Their 26 States, it is claimed, con-
tain 75 per cent, of the people, and, in
terms of war production, produce 80 per
cent, of the ’planes, 76 per cent, of the
ships, 87 per cent, of the ordnance and
83 per cent, of all other fighting equip-
ment.
Though obstacles are placed in the way
of houseless people who want to buy
cottages, and though small subscribers
to war loans have been asked to account
for their possession of the money, reports
of vast operations in the racing game
never seem to excite officialdom’s
curiosity, even when a war loan is on the
market. Middle-class people protest that
they have been nearly ruined by war
taxation, but this is obviously not the case
with the choice spirits of the racing
game.
The negro population of the U.S.A.
is, roughly, 10 per cent, of the whole, and
it is reckoned that 3,000,000 negroes will
vote at the November elections. Hanne-
gan, national chairman of the Democrats,
is said to have told a group of negro
newspaper proprietors at a private con-
ference that the elections might be de-
cided by the vote in eight cities in which
there are large negro populations: New
York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Detroit, St.
Louis, Los Angeles, Indianapolis and
Baltimore or Cleveland. While the Lin-
coln influence persisted the negro vote
was predominantly Republican, In the
second Roosevelt’s time it has been pre-
dominantly Democratic.
The Sydney Government is talking
about a bill to create “a board or com-
mission” to administer the State-owned
abattoirs at Homebush. So far it hasn’t
been stated how the board or commis-
sion is going to make the State employees
work the hours laid down in their award.
“The Government’s Abattoirs Move,” so
called, is certain to be just another crawl.
In its heyday the Victorian Mallee area
probably supported 100,000 people. There
might be 70,000 there now, including the
Swan Hill district. Yet the Mallee has 39
p.c. of Victoria’s crop lands. Of its
10.000. acres 2,700,000 were under
cultivation in 1941, 1,288,727 being under
wheat —an acreage far greater than that
of the richer Wimmera to the south. In
1942 the Mallee carried 1,250,000 of the
State’s 20,500,000 sheep, and they cut
9.000. pounds of wool. Wheat yields
for the three years 1940, 1941 and 1942
were, respectively, 18,000,000 3,200,000
and 14.400.000 bushels. This year few
Mallee farmers will harvest enough wheat
for seed.


(Voo»w®
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Montgomery, it is credibly reported,
carts with him on his campaigns, of all
things, canaries. They had to be left
behind in London at the D-Day inva-
sion, but Monty missed them, and subse-
quently sent two officers to Bayeux to try
to buy some. The mission brought back
three and a lovebird, costing in all about
three quid. If Monty’s batman is as good
as most of the breed he’d have got twice
as many for nothing. On this gentler
side of the war men, it’s also reported that
Eisenhower owns a Scotty that always
travels with him. Patton’s campaign pet,
as might be expected, is a bull terrier.
Further on the same theme, it was hotly
alleged in Congress and as hotly denied
that a destroyer had been diverted from
battle duty and" sent 1000 miles to the
Aleutian Islands to fetch the White House
pet Fala (a Scotty), accidentally left there
by Roosevelt.
Deakin’s Wing-Commander
Tommy White, M.H.R., retires from the
R.A.A.F. on medical grounds. He was
the second pilot to gain his wings in Aus-
tralia back in 1914. In the last war a
prisoner of the Turks, he put his experi-
ences into his book Guests of the Un-
speakable.
“J.K.”; When here in 1928, Dr. Maude
Royden, who married in England the
other day, shocked some of the unco
guid by her unorthodox ideas—she even
puffed gaspers. Apart from that visit,
she has another link with Australia. She
performed the marriage of Douglas
Sladen and Christian Dorothea Duthie.
The ceremony took place in the Sladen
garden under a cedar tree, which was re-
puted to have been planted by royalty.
The invitations bore the legend: “No
presents! No wedding garments!”
“U9L” farewells a bushman:
Station-manager and -owner C. J. Brabazon,
known from the Nogoa to the Georgina, rode
into the silence at Winton. A thousand stories
have been told of him; a hundred have
appeared in The Bulletin; every one of them
has been to his credit, to his human under-
standing, to his aid to the fallen and sore. For
his funeral service practically the whole of
Winton attended; men came from Julia Creek
and Monkira; never in the history of the
church at that western town has there been
such a big male congregation. Bearded
boundary-riders were there; bewhiskered dog-
trappers; outback stockmen to whom a coat
was a straight-jacket; these and many others
doing honor to the old boss,
Victoria’s Greek community com-
memorated the eighty-third birthday of
A. J. J. Lucas, Greek Consul since 1921,
though better known to the older genera-
tion of Melbourne diners-out as the host
of several successful cafes, notably the
old Vienna, which he renamed the Aus-
tralia. Lucas has been a generous donor,
sending £5OOO to Churchill last July for
the relief of children in bombed areas
and £5OOO for the’ relief of starving Greek
childrep. He usually marks his birthday
by a substantial cash gift to the Mel-
bourne Lud Mayor’s Fund.
New Assistant Director-General of
Man-power Philip Hampden Roper is a
son of a former N.S.W. Under-Secretary
for Lands and a cousin of the Evatts. Be-
ginning in the Registrar-General’s Depart-
ment, Roper was appointed to Gas and
Electricity, and then became the board’s
youngest inspector. He belongs to a
large family, all the members of which
have done well. Two brothers. Light Horse-
men in the last war, are on the land at
Binnaway, N.S.W. (one, George, is on the
Farmers and Settlers’ executive); others
are Roper, J., and Dr. C. V, Roper.
For, it appears, the first time on record,
a reward has been offered for the finding
of a missing airman—Queenslander
Flying-Officer F. L. Curr, D.F.C., D.F.M.
and bar. The reward —£500 —has been
offered by his parents, of Corinda, Bris-
bane, with official sanction. Flying-
Officer Curr was on a flight from Daru
Island, off Papua, to Horn Island, near
Thursday Island, and could be on one of
the isles scattered thereabout. His ser-
vice has included the Middle East, Malta
and England, and before he returned to
serve up North he had more operational
flights from England to his credit than
any other pilot of the R.A.A.F. He has
escaped injury in no fewer than eight
crashes.
.Dr. Everton Rowe Trethewie, senior
lecturer in physiology at Melbourne Uni.,
becomes Director of the Institute of
Medical and Veterinary Science in -S.A. —
which also includes the Keith Sheridan
chair of Experimental Medicine at Adel-
aide Uni. —in lieu of Dr. F. B. Byrom,
who was appointed, but was unable to
take the post. A Tasmanian, Trethewie
collected his M. 8., B.S. in ’35, and M.D.
in ’3B at Melbourne Uni., and was ad-
mitted to the Royal Australasian College
of Physicians in 1939. Having also won
an exhibition with first-class honors in
physiology in ’32 and the David Syme
Research Prize (biology) Australasia, in
’42, he was well fitted for his war-time
job on secret research for the Defence
Department, done in between hospital
clinics and Uni. lectures. Now 31, he’s
published many papers in English and
Australian medical journals.
Dr. Trethewie’s one failure was to get
into the Army, which told him he
couldn’t be spared from his research
work in chemicals at home. He will be
assisted in the S.A.
job by Dr. Irene
May O’Loughlin as
clinical pathologist.
She is one of a bril-
liant Adelaide
family, and is at
present at the Prince
Henry Hospital at
Little Bay (N.S.W.).
A sister is also a
nurse (Red Cross) in
Sydney, another in
Brisbane and a third
on the staff of Adel-
aide Uni.
Air Commodore
J. P. J. McCauley,
who has been Deputy
Chief of the Air
Staff here, is off to
“an important
operational post”
with the R.A.F. in
Europe. McCauley
commanded the
secret station at
Palembang, Sumatra,
from which a hand-
ful of R.A.F., and
R.A.A.F, ’planes did
their best to stop the
Japs’ rush south in
1942. Air Commo-
dore F. M. Bladin,
who takes over the
Air Staff post, lately
returned from the job of Senior Air
Staff Officer of the R.A.F. He had pre-
viously served against the Japs, and wears
the C.B.E. and U.S. Silver Star.
Airman Eric Chaseling made a
dramatic farewell “gesture” to Adelaide,
where, at 48, he died. After cremation
his ashes were, as he had directed, strewn
from a ’plane over the Parafield aero-
drome.
Dr. Eric Ashby goes from the chair of
Botany at Sydney Uni. to be the Aus-
tralian Moscow Legation’s scientific
attache. Chairman of the Professorial
Board and the Board of Higher Forestry
Education, he was also honorary scientific
adviser to W. 0.1. and to the Scientific
Liaison Bureau.
As well as Vacuum Oil managing-
director C. H. Gamble, off to America
on his job of Red Cross High Commis-
sioner in these parts (B. 11/10/’44), E.
A. Jones, director, has flown over there
on company business. Jones will be
taking a hand in conferences among oil
people on supplies for Australia how and
in the post-war. Also, he’ll look into
latest developments in production and re-
fining methods and into the right sort of
juice for the new cars that will be made
when the war’s over,
A grand veteran of the wars, with a
fine crew aboard, was reported on Sunday
in Canada on its way to Australia —the
Lancaster bomber G for George, cap-
tained by Flight-Lieut. E. A. Hudson,
D.F.C. and bar, of Rockhampton (Q.).
Others aboard are Flying-Officer F. P.
Smith, D.F.C., of Newcastle (N.S.W.);
Flying-Officer W. C. Gordon, of Raleigh
(N.S.W.); Flying-Officer T. V. McCarthy,
D.F.C. and bar, of Moss Vale (N.S.W.),
who has had 13 trips over Berlin ; Flying-
Officer C. H. Tindale, D.F.C., of Cre-
morne, Sydney; Flying-Officer G. B.
Young, D.F.M., of Matraville, Sydney ;
Flight-Sgt. Harry Tickle, of Adelaide, and
Sgt, K. A. Ower, of Telamon (N.S.W.).
The Lancaster has made 90 operational
flights over enemy territory, has carried
29 different pilots and crews and has
brought them all home safe.
“El V.”: Frith’s portrait of the week limns
the classic Scottish features of the Honorable
Doctor William»Forgan Smith, LL.D., Deputy
Chancellor of the Queensland University and
Chairman of the Sugar Control Board, in which
capacity he exercises some very wide Judicial
powers. It is also a portrait of BiU Forgan
Smith, Scottish house-painter and immigrant,
who came to Australia from Perthshire a
matter of 33 years ago, for in the process of
becoming a long-term Premier and an LL.D.
the subject has not changed noticeably. He
still has his rich Scottish accent. He is still
an old-time, God-fearing Scottish Labor man,
true to the best traditions of the movement,
bearing no malice, applying party principles
with common sense, and hating all communists
and dividers of the community with the same
burning hatred that he professes towards mon-
(Modelled by Frith.)
A QUEENSLAND SCOT.
opolists. He still believes that there is a
future for private enterprise, and he hit back
at Bishop Burgmann the other day with a
scornful blast against that reverend Leftist’s
plea for a communised family life —to such
effect that there was no reply. When Forgan’s
Golden Scroll comes to be written his work in
the interests of higher education in Queens-
land will not be forgotten. One of his last
acts as head of the Government before the
war was to provide a million pounds to erect
and equip the magnificent University Building
at Sf. Lucia and to create the splendid modern
medical and dental schools which are the envy
of most other universities in Australia.
Judge Foster, after many years on Vic-
toria’s County Court Bench, becomes a
Judge of the Commonwealth Court of
Conciliation and Arbitration. He had
Labor political aspirations before his ele-
vation to the Bench, but his attempts to
become a legislator were a washout.
“T.P.”; Thomas Fleming Cooke, chief
of Melbourne Public Library, retires on
November 29. For nearly a score of his
44\ years of service he has been in charge
of the lending library. He helped the
Teachers’ Union by addressing meetings
of dominies on children’s literature, on
which he is an authority, and supplying
lists of books suitable for varying ages.
Sending books along the track for men on
the tramp to pick up he never lost a
volume.
“H.W.”: Daniel Mahoney(B. 4/10/’44)
was known to everybody on the route
he traversed every day from the Museum
to the Melbourne Club, walking stick
hanging from his arm. One hand was
always in his pocket as he trudged along
pensively, but that hand also pulled out
cash of his own which he spent to make
up for Government shortcomings, on
which, in regard to the Museum, he held,
and expressed, strong views. His sister
is married to Dr. Ernest W. Jones, former
Director-General of Mental Hygiene.
“Dick” Crouch, ex-M.H.R., who has
donated two of Redmond Barry’s note-
books to the Victorian Supreme Court
Library, is noted for his liberality.
Among his many benefactions are two
large bronze plaques of Bernard O’Dowd
and Jennings Carmichael, and it was
mainly through his generosity that the
Adam Lindsay Gordon cottage was
placed in the Ballarat Botanical Gardehs.
Also, Crouch paid for the statues at Bal-
larat of Australian Prime Ministers, is
donor of the Crouch Memorial Art Prize,
won twice by Rowell, of the Melbourne
Gallery, gave a swinging ninth-century
Arabic lamp, which one time graced an
altar in a Greek Orthodox Church in
Byzantium, to the Melbourne Bread and
Cheese Club, and recently presented the
club with articles of abo*. interest.
Exit some racing men: —■
All in the space of a few days death came
to a remarkable number of racing men. One
of the best-known was Eric A. Connolly, of
Too.rak, Melbourne.- Sixty-four at the end, he
had been racing horses and backing them heavily
from the start of the century. When Murillo
won the Metropolitan in 1927 Connolly was
reported to have won £30,000 in bets. He won
Newmarkets with Rostrum and Sunburst, the
Oakleigh Plate with that other fine sprinter
Celerity, and, as far back at 1904, the Grand
National Steeple at Flemington with The
General. Another backer in a big way was
Teddy Knight, whose death was announced on
the same aay as Connolly’s. Knight was re-
ported to have put more money on horses
altogether than any other man in Australia.
Among others, he owned Mora, winner of a
Melbourne Stakes. Les Bols, proprietor of
Phair’s Hotel, Melbourne, who passed on at
52, owned El Reo and others. J. H. Walker,
who owned a string of good gallopers in his
day, watched the races till 78. Yet another
on the list, R. V. McGuinnes, was one of Vic-
toria’s best amateur riders. He had ridden on
all the metropolitan courses, but the Western
District was where he shone, on one day there
riding four of the six winners. He was an Old
Digger.
Edward William Mattner, S.A.’s latest
nominee Senator, is an Old Digger and
a successful farmer from Balhannah way.
Though he gathered the M.C., D.C.M.
and M.M. in the 1914-18 war he wasn’t
satisfied, and had a crack in this one, too.
He represented Adelaide Uni. at cricket,
and old followers of Sturt in the Adel-
aide League remember his play. He’s
now 51.
In 1940 and 1941, when Malta was
being blitzed almost daily, the R.A.F.
established a service which got the name
of the “flying nursery.” Its job was
evacuating women, children and sick
people from the smitten island, often in
the midst of air raids. In six weeks the
“flying nursery” transferred 400 people
to places of safety. For his share in
this Fl.-Lt. M. C. Baker, of Kew, Mel-
bourne, wears the A.F.C.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 47, Dr. Kenneth J. G. Wilson,
Middle East veteran and leading gynascologist.
While with the Army Medical Corps in com-
mand of a Queensland unit he escaped from
Benghazi and' got info Tobruk for the siege.
Invalided home, he offered again and was given
command of 116th A.G.H., but ill-health com-
pelled him to resign. A son is in the R.A.A.F.
In Adelaide, at 81, James Baxter Anderson,
first president and life member of the S.A.
Lothian Club, former chief of the Caledonian
Society and organising secretary of the League
of Nations Union. A Burns authority and a
popular lecturer, he was believed to be the last
survivor of the “Wet Review” Veterans’ Associ-
ation, which comprised members of the Scot-
tish Volunteer Forces who attended a Royal
review by Queen Victoria at Edinburgh in 1881.
In Sydney, at 76, C. A. Buchanan, senior
master at Newington for 45 years, and G.P.S.
chairman for quarter of a century.
At 57, A. P. Roberts, news editor of Brisbane
“Telegraph,” on which he started as a cadet
in 1905. He recently declined the editorship.
Colonel G. T. Goadby, an ex-army man well-
known in W.A. as an amateur expert in botany.
There was not an-acre of bush for miles around
Perth that he had not searched for the rare
specimen, and as well he obtained specimens
from other States, especially Queensland orchids.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Katherine Higgins,
widow of John Higgins and mother of Nettie
Palmer and Esmond Higgins of the W.E.A. at
Newcastle (N.S.W.). Mrs. Higgins was one ot
the founders of the Carlton Free Kindergarten.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Zake”: A Sydney business man who
is dragged around to the “best” functions
by his social-climbing spouse bears his
lot with fortitude, extracting what humor
he may from being bored stiff. At one
affair the small-time chit-chat developed
into a discussion on “shop” by a few soft-
goods magnates and their wives, and his
nibs was roped in. “I maintain,” said one
of the “executives” importantly, “that the
fashionably-dressed woman, with her con-
tinual replacement of gowns, is the real
backbone of the industry. Don’t you
agree, Soanso?” Just then a long,
scrawny matron clad in a backless frock
walked past . The bored one, thus
appealed to, glanced at the apparition,
then nodded, “You’re dead right,” he said
—“with knobs on! ”
* * # *
“E.M.” on service decorations;
It is difficult to understand why six months’
service in Palestine qualifies an A.I.F. soldier
for the 1939-43 Star, while active service in
Malaya goes unrecognised. However, there is
a precedent for this anomaly in the "ranting of
“ Don't you dare apply for your release until the piano's paid off!"
service medals. The first of these, as we know
them nowadays, was issued to those soldiers
who were at Waterloo. Years of previous cam-
paigning in the Peninsula and elsewhere re-
ceived no recognition until 1848. In that year
naval and military general service medals,
together with bars, including one for Trafalgar,
were given to the survivors of the strenuous
campaigns of the end of the eighteenth and
beginning of the nineteenth centuries. The
ribbon of the military General Service Medal
was red with blue edges, being identical with
that of the Waterloo medal, and later, when
the D.S.O. was instituted, the same ribbon was
adopted for that decoration. The wearing of
the Waterloo ribbon without the medal was
prohibited. The naval General Service Medal
ribbon was white with blue edges, being in
direct contrast to the blue with white edges
ribboo worn today with the naval Long Service
and Good Conduct Medal.
“Pitt St.”: The Australian Communist
party has not lived in vain. It came to
my rescue during the Sydney newspaper
strike. It is my habit, after a heavy day
in the office, to buy one or other of the
evening papers and browse through it on
the way home. Seldom do I fail to get a
laugh, either from genuinely humorous
episode faithfully reported or from the
inevitable misprint or gaffe. But on the
Monday night I could hope for no relief,
until a couple of peculiar-looking birds
heaved in sight howling “Paper—buy the
workers’ paper and get the truth.” I
handed over my tuppence, turned the
pages and came upon an item urging
everybody to write to the soldiers and tell
them all the small news;
If young Michael sat down plomp on his
teddy bear and said it was a “Jap bear”
and he himself was a Russian bear, tell his
father. He’ll be proud to quote it to his
mates and it will give .them all something to
laugh at.
I can well imagine a bunch of battle-
stained Diggers, fully aware that so far
as their particular enemy is concerned the
Russian bear is cooing like a dove, won-
dering whereinell young Mick gets his
ideas.
“P. McM.”: Absence of Sydney news-
papers brought forth some advertisements
appropriate to the period. One in par-
ticular caught the eye—“No one is De-
pressed at Blank’s” —a city alehouse.
Ht * * *
“Hamer”: “Ear Punisher’s” story (B.
4/10/’44) reminds me of another early
experience in the history of Australian-
matured whisky. One of the pioneer
distillers employed a popular chap to go
round the pubs asking for a brand newly
placed on the market. His devotion to his
job sometimes entailed tribulation. On a
Saturday morning he stood in the comer
of a bar at a favorite hostelry with his
head in his hands, moaning. The bar-
maid asked him what he was going to
have, “I think you’d better give me some
prussic acid,” he groaned. “Why not try
your new brand?” asked Hebe brightly.
“They tell me it’s the next-best thing.”
* * * ♦
“El Madjal”: The wogs did not take
rifles, rack and tent-pole complete from
E.P.I.P. tents (B. 20/9/’44), but they did
remove part of the tent-pole with the
rifles. The method was to saw the tent-
pole through just above the webbing
strap. I saw where it was done at Tel-
el-Kebir, where the tent lines were by
no means dispersed. An even stranger
thing happened at Tel-el-Kebir. A war-
rant officer had just arrived from Aus-
tralia, and was sleeping on a palm bed
in an E.P.I.P. with five sergeants, when
he got a .303 bullet in the head, fired
from somewhere in the camp lines. I
was orderly officer and saw the w.o.
breathe his last, and also inspected the
bullet. Every rifle in the camp was im-
mediately accounted for and inspected,
the Tommy Field Security people were
on the job straightway, and a court of
inquiry was held. But to this day the
firer of that shot is not known or even
suspected.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Who said chivalry in the
rising generation was dead? On our
Sydney suburban rattler the other even-
ing a girl returning from her day’s toil
came aboard at Redfern and, finding all
seats in the carriage taken, sat on the
floor of the lobby. A youth sprawling
in the seat nearest the door tossed her his
newspaper to sit on!
-♦**
“Enno”: F.M., the “new” method of
radio broadcasting, recent subject of a
politico-press argument, is an old develop-
ment in a modern dress. On February
10, 1902, one Cornelius Ehret, of Phila-
delphia, U.S.A., put in for a patent cover-
ing “transmission and reception of code
signals or speech” by varying the fre-
quency of the wireless waves. It was the
first patent to describe specifically any
system of modulation. Frequency modu-
lation was applied for many years to key
long-wave telegraph transmitters because
it was easier to change the frequency
than to key large amounts of power by
“ I don't know what's come over you since you became a bootblack at
the American Centre!"
interruption. Old Morse men remember
the “ringing bell” effect. F.M. was not.
however, used for speech and music until
35 years later.
* * * *
“Tummas McN.”: That shooting
match in Notre Dame (B. 11/10/’44)
seems to me to be one of the most re-
markable affairs that has happened in
this troubled world. The Australian
papers carried descriptions and photo-
graphs of the scene, all very stirring and
exciting, but nowhere have I read of any-
body being killed or wounded, though
there were references to “bursts of
machine-gun fire” and “flying bullets.”
Far be it from me to demand corpses
and blood to enliven my day, and I’m
dashed glad nobody was hurt. All the
same, I can’t help thinking that there
must have been a lot of woefully bad
shots letting loose around the old
cathedral
* * * *
„ T . u , . unr ,
Ennex : It happened at a V.D.C.
Instructors’ School in an inland N.S;W.
district. The powers-that-be decided that
the Hav and the rnnrse were not lone
tne day and me course were noi ong
enough and that all hands must attend
the weekly A.R.P. lecture in town. No
notice was given to the local A.R.P. or
the lecturer that a party from the camp
was coming. The V.D.C. contingent
arrived a bit late, to find that the audl-
ence consisted of two or three elderly
ladies, a nurse or two from the hospital,
„ r’ . \r a \\r a a a cv.
a few V.A.Ds., W.A.A,A.Fs. and
A.W.A.S. and some feminine Red
Crossers. The lecturer, a woman medico.
was well embarked upon her subject,
. , , -,u „ i;
the stage draped with some arresting
diagrams. With heroic fortitude the
doctor carried on, but it would be hard
to say whether she, the original audience
om L QT
or the latecomers were the most embar-
rassed. The subject was Emergency
Obstetrics.”
* * * *
“Numurkah”: Shepparton, the thriving
centre of Victoria’s Goulburn Valley, is
on the verge of civil war. Shopkeepers,
hands and town residents want to
nlfpr thfi wppklv half-hnlidav from Wed-
alter the weekly nalt tiouaay iTom vve
nesday to Saturday. Fruitgrowers and
small farmers are agin it. The growers’
association has threatened to go into the
retail trade and start its own delivery
service if the petition for Saturday closing
succeeds, a threat which has prompted
the retort that last season town workers
gave up their weekly half-days to help
pick fruit. The Wednesday half-day is
a survival of the horse-and-buggy times.
farmpr? marlp 9atnrHav their market
when farmers made Saturday tneir marker
day. The coming of the motor-car and
good roads did away with the need for
the long day and late night of Saturday.
There have been fights in other places
over this change, but most of those who
changed to Saturday closing wouldn’t
have it any other way now.
****
“W.P.T.”: Songwriters seem to have
neglected Australian rivers, although
their names are just as euphonious as
Thames, Rhine, Swanee, Shannon,
Danube and all those other rivers favored
by songwriters. What is wrong with
something like “The Darling of the Darl-
ing,” “The Lazy Lachlan,” “Where the
snowy Snowy Flows,” or something about
the ’Bidgee, Tweed, Shoalhaven, Bogan,
or even the Yarra?
**. . * *
“Bo”: A motorist in a N.S.W. country
town who ran over a policeman’s foot has
been fined for “careless driving.” It seems
to me that the indictment was ill-worded.
Actually, most careful driving would be
necessary for a motorist to get over such
an obstacle. Unless he went at it with
supreme confidence and had an exact
knowledge of the capacity of his engine
he might have to get down to a low gear
to do it, and even then might stall the
engine. The imposing of a fine in this
case is to be deplored. Had the Beak
stopped to consider the patriotic motive
behind the motorist’s action —it is patent
that by not backing and going around the
policeman’s boot petrol was saved to the
nation —I’m sure that, not only would no
fine have been imposed, but the motorist
would have received the Bench’s com-
mendation.
* * * ♦
Beresford Fowler makes a correction:
The statement (B. 20 /9 / ’44) that the play
“General Sir Hector MacDonald,” “still in
manuscript form,” was commented upon by the
Scottish papers is not correct. It was after
publication of this play, which I wrote in col-
laboration with Sylvia Archer, that it was re-
viewed in Scotland at considerable length by the
newspapers. A second impression is being
published, with a new introduction featuring
the comments of Bernard Shaw, Noel Coward,
James Agate and international newspapers,
together with the authors’ reply.
MORE REPS.
“Mr. Curtin is of opinion that the number of
Federal members should be increased.”
We need more Reps. Our seventy-five, says
Curtin,
Are all too few to fill the varied parts
Allotted to them. Here’s a view that’s certain
To win assent in many hopeful hearts.
It’s odds we’ll all of us have finished pegging
Terrestrial claims, except in graveyard grants,
When billet’s worth a thou, a year go begging
For lack of applicants.
We need more chaps with voters pledged to let
them
Assist' in framing equitable laws.
And if —as ’twould appear—we’re like to get
them,
Who’s chump enough to shoot at Santa
Claus?
It’s true we’ve got six hundred odd—a rally
Even the House of Commons hardly tops,
But surely not a bit too tall a tally
For seven talking-shops.
We need more tongues to fill the holds of
Hansard,
More voices, foghorn-strong and crystal-clear,
To thunder forth, and challenge to be answered,
“The burning words that tyrants quake to
hdar.”
We need more Menzieses, and evidently
More Evatts, Beasleys, Pages, Faddens,
Fordes,
More Billy Hugheses, too —and, incident’ly,
More Calwells and more Wards !
Six hundred spokesmen for the mother-nation
At little more than half the Canberra screw
Britons may deem to meet their situation;
For us such parsimony wouldn’t do.
To watch the welfare of our country, heedful
Of all her problems, and to guide her steps
The way she ought to go, the first thing needful
is (do you hear?) more Reps.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
RE-ENTER MARES.
“After three years of enforced silence Mr. Mares
has been allowed to resume his daily weather fore-
casts.”
How true it rings, as oft as you peruse if,
The age-old saw that says you won’t descry
The value of a thing until you lose it,
Or miss the water till the well runs dry.
Three years ago the silence closed about your
Remarks on atmospherical atfairs;
Three war-worn years we’ve had to do without
your
Tips, and TU say we’ve missed them, Mr.
Mares.
The matutinal meal seemed sadly lacking
In, pabulum no kitchen could purvey,
That forthright forecast (with official backingi
Of whether storm or shine was on the way.
Men who would scan the glass on naval stations
No more could sit intently in their chairs
Assimilating the vaticinations
Of indefatigable Mr. Mares.
Now at long last the ban is off. Our trusty
Guide gives his morning warning once again,
Foretells if weather will be hot and dusty,
Or wild with wind, or riotous with ram.
The oracle’s no longer dumb. The muzzle
Goes by the board. The wizard’s worth-while
wares . ,
Once more are ours. It sure remains a puzzle
How we endured without you, Mr. Mares.
How good for Bill to know when mack Oi
brolly
Are indispensable and when they re not
As forth he fares —and, better still, when Molly
May don the frailest, frilliest frock she s got,
And when she ought to wrap her comely “gure
In something that the dressmaker prepare*
Against the fickle climate’s sudden ngor.
Here’s luck, resuscitated Mr. Mares.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“S.T.S.”: Perhaps every joke gets a
fresh and appreciative audience if kept
in storage long enough. As recent Eng-
lish magazines have been full of praise
of Tommy Handley, I took the oppor-
tunity of hearing Thomas on the air.
Within five minutes he had got off the
“not a sharp pain, a dull itch” (for the
suburb Dulwich), which I used 40 years
ago (not in The Bulletin ; it barred puns
even then); also “my twin brother and
I were so much alike that when I died
they buripd him instead” from the last
century —1870 at a guess.
* * * *
“Hallelujah Imabaume”: Most of the
papers asserted that the only correspon-
dent with the airborne troops who
battled so grandly for Arnhem was Alan
Wood, B.A. of Sydney University, and
son of the unforgotten man who was
Professor of History there. Strange, for
I had it on the eminent authority of
“Terewth” that F. Ehrenfried Baume,
“Terewth’s” European Editor and only
accredited War Correspondent on the
Western Front, was there. “Terewth’s”
headlines and introductory sentences in
smaller type were explicit:
Dramatic Dash from Arnhem.
Baume’s Graphic Escape Story.
F. E. Baume tells how he escaped from
the Arnhem trap with one of the biggest
stories of the war. He tells how he took
the wrong road and after an adventurous
car journey reached safety through a cor-
ridor of death.
London, Saturday (Sept. 30). —With other
front-line correspondents I have just escaped
over the Holland road after being trapped
for four days amid the Arnhem airborne
tragedy.
“Amid”? Well, “heroic paratroops a few
miles north of where we were eating and
sleeping... .had been withdrawn. We
moved up to meet them coming in....
decided that somehow or other we would
have to get back to where cables could
be dispatched” and moved into the Cor-
ridor of Death, via “a road that looked
fine on the map”:
There was a nice village at the end of it,
and the children waved. A mile further on
there were two very newly-dead cows
We swung round a bend [and] under a
clump of trees was a tank with some very
amused Guards blokes manning it
Roars of laughter.
Going back to the nearest crossroads we
took a detour to reach a bridge We
swung through the gap against the line of
tanks on a muddy by-pass from which
you could not deviate six inches because of
mines. But we were through the gap and a
hundred miles ahead lay Brussels.
Now I am back in London, and it's
funny sleeping again without the sound of
gunfire.
“One of the biggest stories of the war?”
Not quite; but, having become philo-
sophic’in these matters, 1 folded my copy
of “Terewth” and waited stoically for
the next instalment. There was none.
Blast these strikes!
jjc ;[i
“Nakhoda”: I see there’s talk of ration-
alising the hours during which pub bars
are to open, and hope it won’t be just
talk. Whether the anti-liquor people like
it or not, a Tove of strong waters is
almost instinctive in human beings. I
doubt if there has been one race, nation,
tribe or primitive horde which hasn’t dis-
covered some way of making intoxicants
out of something or other, from rye and
potatoes to v coconut sap and parsnips.
Every race seems to have felt that with-
out this occasional release from the
burden of existence life would become
unbearable. Some have the habit of tip-
pling daily; for others it is a periodical
orgy. An English traveller found a tribe
in Borneo which put its aged members
into earthenware jars when they died and
suspended the jars to the ceiling. When
the body had completely deliquesced
they poured arrack into the jar, knocked
a hole in the bottom and drank the
liquid until every man, woman and child
was unconscious. Next day they went
about their life’s work and remained
stone sober until the next occasion. The
traveller found no signs of weakness or
degeneracy in the tribe that followed this
quaint custom.
* * * * 4
“Pip” on newspapers for the troops:
Of the bundles of newspapers which arrive
regularly in army camps only a small section
is read. They tatke up to two months to come
through and by then their news is ancient his-
tory. Army papers cover world events, and
those parts of southern papers which appeal
to the servicemen are the week-end supple-
ments (including the comics), -items of local
interest, and special or leading articles. Post-
ing supplements and cuttings of these items at
surface mail letter rates ensures thdir arrival
in a week or two and saves the postal service
transporting so much junk. Magazines and
periodicals should be sent as at present, for
a couple of months’ delay with them is of no
account. Of these, women’s papers are the
most popular. They are light and frothy and do
not call for or engender deep thinking. Short
story publications, pictorials and those maga-
zines designed exclusively for men (usually
very innocuous) also have a universal follow-
ing. The A.E.S. and A.C.F. provide books,
and most units have a library of their own, so
these need not be sent unless specially re-
quested, Digests, however, are always wel-
come, and usually fall to pieces before being
discarded. And sporting tabloids should also
be sent in, too. Lapse of time does not dull
their interest.
“ Backsheesh , backsheesh!"
“A er a m”: “Bernard Hackshaw’s”
account (B. 20/9/’44) of the effect of war
developments in Stockholm came out on
the same day that Brisbane had things
to come foreshadowed in another way.
Firemen were flown by chartered Doug-
lases at 3 a.m. to save a burning vessel
in Mackay Harbor. The fire-fighting
party took Proto equipment, which is
used in fighting blazes in mines and such
confined spaces —the fire in this case was
below decks. The blaze was got under
control after 50,0001 b. of foam gas had
been sprayed on it.
* * * *
“Hamer”; A reference to 50 guineas
paid to Alfred Austin for some poor verses
reminds me of the payments some of our
own poets have received. Victor Daley
had a contract with a funeral firm to
supply “In Memoriam” quatrains, which
the undertakers passed on, no doubt at
a profit, to their clients. It is a legend
that a grateful citizen insisted on giving
the poet himself a tenner for what Daley
described disgustedly as “the most loath-
some bit of morbidity I have ever per-
petrated.” It was this association that
enabled Dale/ and his bad angel, Harold
Grey (“The Pilgrim”), to get hold of the
hearse in which they gave a copy of the
“S. M. Herald” a funeral procession
through Sydney streets, Henry Lawson
received a cheque for five guineas
for a verse he wrote for a cough-cure
advertisement; and, gathering some
pals, he sought to cash it in a pub. The
publican, looking suspiciously at the
cheque, declined to cash it; as Lawson
had no other money Bung consented to
chalk up the drinks already served. A
great idea dawned on Lawson. For three
days he trailed a group of friends from
pub to pub, ordering drinks and then pre-
senting the cheque, which was invariably
“knocked back”—after the drinks had
been consumed. The glorious -time came
to an end when a publican said “Certainly
I’ll cash your cheque, Mr. Lawson.”
It nearly broke Lawson’s heart.
sic * * *
“G.G.”: While the usage of “sick,”
“vomit” and “pike” is under discussion I
feel moved to quote a sentence from a
story written by one David Macbeth
“Walk on the footpath, you fool!"
“ ’Oo d'ya think I am — Blondin?"
Moir, 1798-1851, “The Laird’s Dinner
Party.” The preamble is that Uncle
Jamie beinn confronted with £L black
Jamie, Demg conrromea wuni d diuck
segar for the fiist time at the Ear
party, misguidedly chews and swallows
it to the last morsel, with the result that
on the way home in the dark he incurs
the wrath of old Bailie Bogie, “whose
best black coat, square in the tails, that
he had worn only on the Sundays for
nine years, was totally spoiled by a tre-
mendous ‘blash’ that my unfortunate
uncle happened, in the course of nature,
to let flee in the frenzy of a deadly up-
throwing.” “Blash! ” Could anything be
more aptly descriptive?
* * * *
“Cism”: Collapsible beds made out of
palm-fronds and fitted together without
nails, issued early in the Palestine days
of World War I, were responsible for a
lot of things besides gasps of amazement
(at their ingenuity), blown-down E.P.I.P.
tents (when numerous pegs had been
lifted to “prop the beds up) and backaches
(after the first night’s sleep when they
had caved in the middle). When fire-
wood was scarce broken-down beds
began to disappear, and our two i/c went
on the rampage. Anyone caught burn-
ing beds was to be crimed. Before long
two of my company were caught bed-
handed and got six days’ C.B. Several
days later I had to detail a working party
of two for a job at Bn. H.Q. The two
C.B, lads were sent off to do it. And
were they mad when they got back! Their
job had been to cart a great pile of
broken beds from the R.Q. store to a
huge bonfire 300 yards away—just to
get rid of them.
¥ -1: * *
“Espra”: The death of “Al” Smith
is sure to unleash a flock of stories
illustrating his picturesque personality.
Here’s one: Al was invited to a shooting
party and telephoned home: “This is Al
speaking. I’m going shooting, so send my
gun round right now.” “Your what?”
“My gun.” “Your gum?”, “No. Listen!
G. for Jonquils, U. for Europe, N. for
pneumonia—G.U.N. Gun.” Al got his
gun.
* * * *
“El Madjal” remembers some war
cemeteries;
The war cemetery at Bomana (B. 27/9/'44)
should be a worthy addition to those established
in other parts of the world. These cemeteries
are in all sorts of places, and whoever is re-
sponsible for their maintenance deserves the
highest praise. At Deir al Balah, about halfway
between Khan Yunis and Gaza, there is a small
cemetery containing, about 500 graves, a
British field ambulance having been stationed
the . re f ? r a time during the Palestinian cam-
paign in Wor c ar I. Although in an
out . of . the . way spotj and apparently under the
surveillance of a couple of Wogs only, this
ceme t e ry is as neat and orderly and well tended
as the larger ones at Gaza and Jerusalem. Per-
haps the oldest war cemetery in the Middle East
is at Tel el Kebir, on the Sweetwater Canal, in
Egypt. It is a beautiful little green spot be-
tween the railway and the road, and owes ks
origin to the 'battles of Quassassein and Tel el
Kebir in the ’eighties. As well as some indi-
vidual memorials, there are regimental monu-
ments bearing the names of those who fell in
those fights. During the last war British,
Maorilanders, Australians and Russians found
a resting-place there, and this war has beerf re-
sponsible for the addition-of more British and
Empire troops as well as Poles, Greeks and
Italians. When I last saw it in 1941 the latest
to come to rest there were two young German
airmen who had been shot down in their ’plane
near Zag-a-Zig. There is nothing depressing
about a war cemetery. On coming away you
have the feeling that you have been paying
a friendly visit to old mates who have finished
with strife and turmoil and are enjoying a well-
earned rest.
“Eureka”: In . Liverpool (N.S.W.)
cemeteries can be seen rows of white
crosses which mark the graves of Ger-
mans who died in the internment camp
during World War I. These crosses, with
little bronze plates, were provided by the
Commonwealth •Government in accord-
ance with international agreement. In
addition to the crosses/several of the
graves are marked by elaborately carved
sandstone tombstones, the work of an in-
terned monumental mason. It/vas his in-
tention to carve one of these tombstones
for each man who died, but when the
’flu struck the camp the 39b got beyond
him. Each Armistice Day a white flower
is placed on each German-s grave before
dawn. This has happened ever since
1918, but nobody seems to know who is
responsible.
* * * *
“Gifiseppe”: The news of Allied
armies fighting on the banks of Rubi-
con, in North Italy, needs some topo-
graphical amplification, for no one now
living knows the location of the Rubicon.
When Caesar crossed it in 50 b.c., it
marked the boundary of Italy, but which
of the many streams flowing thereabouts
into the Adriatic Sea constituted that
boundary is uncertain. The rivers have
mostly changed their beds, and the Rubi-
con may now be either the Pisciatello
(most northerly), the Fiumicino or the
Uso (nearest to Rimini, towards the
south). Most maps add (Rubicon)
after Uso, but this is taking a lot for
granted. Presumably the war correspon-
dents accept the atlas tip and refer to
the Uso.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: A young nephew told
me about an upset at his school when
a classroom was filled with an unbear-
able stench. In the far-off days of my
own schooling “Stinkaway Jacks,” beans
of a bush plant that, under the
foot, produced a first-class ill-odor, pro-
vided a schoolboys’ joke ; but my young
friend had not even heard of the obnoxious
plant. The trick-player had used char-
coal for his prank. The reaction also
was different from what it would have
been in my day. Arranging for the
removal of the class to a playground shed,
the r master, > after failing to get the perpe-
trator to own up, said he would leave
the discovery of the culprit to three of
the senior boys. When the class re-
assembled a boy who looked dishevelled
and had indications of a coming black eye
made a contrite apology, and was sent to
clean up the classroom he had made
smellful. “The silly fool won’t try a joke
like that- again,” my nephew assented
smugly. It seems that the class as a whole
was annoyed at the interruption to its
studies. Believe it or not, the kids of today
like their schooling. My daughter-in-law
keeps her two in order by ’ threatening
that if they don’t behave themselves she
will keep them home from school!
* * * *
“Nakh”: “When you correct your
children’s speech you are told ‘it is
pansy to talk like that,’ ” moaned a
speaker at a meeting of the Women for
Canberra Movement in Melbourne. The
children are probably right. Most adults
who are appalled at the “slovenly Aus-
tralian accent” try to make their children
conform to some arbitrary standard like
the Oxford, Cambridge or ladies’ college
accent. The children naturally rebel,
because they feel, without being able to
reason about it, that good speech is not
a matter of accent, but depends on
the speaker’s vocabulary. Rounded
vowel sounds don’t make good speech.
It is entirely an accident of environ-
ment whether one says “cow” or
“keow.” A good speaker, whether
he is an Irishman, a Scotsman, an
Englishman, a Canadian or an Aus-
tralian, will always be found to have a
rich vocabulary. If a person’s voca-
bulary is restricted to a few words like
“quaite” or “rahly” or a few of the major
expletives he can’t be a good speaker
whatever bis accent * any more than an
artist can paint a good picture if he
doesn’t even know how to mix his colors, 1


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; I’ve struck some sulky
coves in my time, but easily the cham-
pion of ’em was “Sultry” Stevens, who
inhabited the Nymagee (N.S.W.) country.
Wounded by a word, intentional or
otherwise, “Sultry” would brood for
hours in a surly silence, and all attempts
to discover the cause of the trouble or to
placate him with apology were futile.
Called upon as a witness in a breach of
contract case, “Sultry” went cheerily
enough to the local court and gave evi-
dence, but when the case took a turn
and was adjourned to Sydney and he was
informed that he would have to travel to
the city he bucked, though it was ex-
plained to him that all his exes, would
be paid. He disliked train travel, had
other things to do, couldn’t they get
someone else, and so forth. Finally the
law lost its patience and informed
“Sultry” tartly that either he’d go wil-
lingly or be charged with contempt and
taken forcibly. A thunderous silence
descended upon “Sultry.” All that day
he uttered no word. Next day on the
train it was the same. In the court on the
third day his vocal cords were still ex-
cept for monosyllabic grunts in response
to questions. Then the case ended and
they put “Sultry” in a taxi and headed
for the station, travelling along Pitt-street.
His eye brightened slightly. “One-way
traffic here,” he remarked, then bit his
lip and, disgusted with his own weakness,
relapsed into silence again.
* * * *
“Rooster”: When “8.4” (B. 27/9/’44)
suggests that a large snake would raise
its head only a foot from an attkcking
cat’s left hooks he underrates Joe’s tech-
nique. Any self-respecting ophidian
would rear aloft several feet, and the
drop then would be on the cat, which, in
any case, wouldn’t, unless it sprang off the
ground—thus rendering itself vulnerable
—be able to reach the vital head.
$ * * *
“Mudlark”: There was a terrific bang
on the roof of the dairy ; the hissing
stream of milk dried up in an instant as
Jessica kicked her way clear of leg-rope
and bail in a wild dash for the open,
leaving Throgmorton, Sen., sitting in a
pool of milky mud. A shattering report
from the chook yard brought a fanfare
of hysterical cackling from the Rhode
Island Reds and a cloud of black feathers,
the mortal remains of B. Orpington Esq.
A shower of Rome Beauties coincided
with a third detonation from a tree in the
front stalls of the orchard. At the official
inquiry which followed immediately it
was revealed that Throgmorton, Jun., was
the inventor of a secret weapon, of which
a box of detonators and a bow and arrow
formed the chief parts, the launching
platform being the fork of the old pepper
tree. The royalties, about which no argu-
ments were allowed, were paid by Throg-
morton, Sen., without delay.
* * * *
“Betcha”: As none but a novice would
assume that because a dog followed a tyre-
trail for 30 miles he used his eyes for the
job, “Plum” (B. 20/9/’44), is excusable,
though why he credits me with the idea
is a mystery. Again, from his claim that
an hour or so after it had passed on a
public thoroughfare “the aroma of a well-
used skin-truck would blaze a trail as
clear as a sign-posted highway to the
nose of the average human being,” I can
only conclude that I am not one of the
average. What old Mick’s mong smelt
on that trailing feat I don’t know ; I only
vouch for the performance. Though a
dog’s nose is fairly dependable, when it
comes to eyesight the canine is a wash-
out. With the trail of a cornered rabbit
running round in circles, crossing and re-
crossing till the following pack are con-
fused, it is a lucky mong that spots the
crouching quarry. Why, hang it. I’ve
even had a fool tripehound stand on the
bunny while looking eagerly about in
every other place for it.
* * * #
“Pip”: The abo. varies his fish-spearing
methods according to water depth.
Operating in the shallows, one man uses
a, long pole for propelling the boat, and
his mate has a bamboo spear, about 25
feet long, with a four-pronged fork on
one end. With the reverse end he helps
propel the craft, standing high in the
bows. As a fish swims past he calls a
warning and poises the spear, holding it
in the right hand and balancing it with
the left. Tracing a slow arc, he follows
the underwater movements, then sud-
denly lets fly, releasing his hold. Tumbling
into the water, he grabs the free end of
the bamboo and drives the spear hard
into the sand, completely transfixing the
already wounded fish. An eight- or ten-
pounder is quite common, but even
smaller fish are caught with the same ac-
curacy, For deep-water work they use
goggles and a four-foot reed spear with
a fire-hardened bamboo point. The
“boy” floats on the surface until he
catches sight of a fish ; then he expels the
air from his lungs and sinks. The fish
“Too pretty , pretty, Paul — you're just a copyist"
invariably ignores his presence, but soon
there is the swift plunge of the spear, and
a gleam of white teeth on the surface
tells of another success. The natives are
particularly fond of the fish heads, which
they roast and eat, eyes and all. They
will gladly trade or give away the rest of
their catch.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We came off a late
train, found a pub and were given a
room. Just as we’d settled down a loud
voice in the next room began describing
the virtues of a house it had bought or
rented or sold or something. “Yes,” it
boomed, “proper bathroom fittings an’
wire door an’ winder screens. Lovely
cool rooms, too, and all the doors with
automatic locks. There’s a cellar an’ ”
“Hey,” Mat called, “can y’ lock that
cellar, mate?” An astonished silence,
then the voice, “Yes, why?” “Then lock
yourself in it an’ let’s get a bit o’ sleep,”
Mat howled. Then, as the books say,
silence reigned supreme.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Strange diets
for fauna, is it (B. 14/6/’44)? During
the ’27 drought on Toorak station, Nelia
(N.Q.), the brolgas everywhere lived by
wading up and down the bore-drains eat-
ing small fish. Around Cooktown during
the dry each year the town cows live
solely on mangoes growing around the
many old deserted homes there. A thing
that has always had me thinking is how
thousands of sulphur-crested cockatoos
I once saw at Elliot Cove, on Tassie’s
wild west coast, found their way to that
bleak, inhospitable spot. They were feast-
ing on innumerable maggots that were
crawling through acres of washed-up,
moist kelp on the shore. The most un-
usual delicacy I’ve seen an animal take,
however, was that of a fox near Dargo
(Vic.). By a small shallow stream I
watched Reynard leaping from bank to
bank pawing like a cat at a lOin. trout
until he finally worked it ashore. I didn’t
see him eat his catch, but, by the way
he settled its flapping and by the lordly
air with which he carried it away, he cer-
tainly gave the impression he had fished
before.
* * * *
“Pranger”: I see that unbelieving pest
“The dD.” wants to know what a “wild
brood duck” is (B. 4/10/’44). My guess
is that it is a mother duck who has
spotted the world’s champion doubter
eyeing her ducklings. That would make
any brood duck wild.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: I’ve inspected groups
of swallows’ nests grouped together on
a bank of the Murray, I’ve seen them
rear young on sheds, verandahs and horse-
yards in every State, but I’ve had to come
to New Guinea to learn that the little
snipe-like fliers can attack as viciously
as magpies. Anchored in a lonely jungle-
fringed cove, we have our stern line tied
to the wreck of a sampan on which two
pairs of swallows have families in the
usual mud nests. As often as you go
near them they dive-bomb you inces-
santly, flying straight for your face. Often
they swerve only inches away, and at
times they flip your ears. And although
we’ve had our stern on the wreck for
days they show no signs of letting up.
* * * *
“Blime”: I’ve met more than one bloke
who believes a nag’s color affects its
ability, but I haven’t struck one so pig-
headed about it as Mudgie, Was riding
home with him one evening when he
suddenly interrupted the silence with
“Hold on a minute, I got t’ see Bill about
a new moke,” so we turned in at the
horse-breeder’s gate. There was a dopey
chestnut in his yards and a brown on
the rails. “Yair, that’s the one you were
askin’ about, Mudgie,” Bill nodded to-
wards the chestnut, “but this bloke here’s
a lot better hack if y’d like t’ try him.”
Mudgie scarcely glanced sideways as he
climbed the fence, “Wouldn’t buy
nuthin’ but a chestnut,” he answered de-
cidedly. “A man c’n depend on them.
Y’ see, a chestnut’s either good or he’s
bad, and there ain’t no mistake about it.
What’s this one? Does he bite or kick?”
“Well, no,” said Bill. “He stumbles a
bit,,and I admit he’s not fast, but no, he’s
not vicious,” “Must be one o’ the good
ones, then,” crowed the little cove,
waking the crock with a slap on the
rump. “Can’t mistake a bad chestnut,”
he added cheerfully, “or a good one. I’ll
take him.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: One of the most loudly
acclaimed triumphs of war-time medicine
is the curing of a Melbourne racehorse
of arthritis in th? stifle joint by means of
one of the new sulpha drugs. After five
days’ treatment the horse became groggy
and was losing its coat. But the drug had
done its job, and in a few days the animal
recovered the use of its leg and is now
as fit as ever.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; Despite the views of
crooners and popular-song writers, the
dove has been debunked in the council
as a designer of love-nests. I propose to
give the bird’s pedestal another wobble
by challenging its right to the reputation
for peacefulness. Actually, the dove is
a particularly savage fighter—especially
whep the eternal triangle enters the case.
Like the “spag,” it contravenes all avian
rules of warfare by preferring Rafferty’s
Rules on the ground to a rapier duel on
the wing. The scrap generally starts like
a cock fight: both birds face up to each
other, bob, weave, feint, then in a flurry
of wings meet in an upward leap. All
else is forgotten in the heat of the
vicious exchange of pecks and buffetings
—a circumstance that often means poultry
for the feline lunch —but if the fighters
survive the disturbance both will fly to
the same limb, where the battle is con-
tinued in short, fluttering bursts. The
last dove fight I saw was also witnessed
by a poultry-farmer. “Huh,” he grunted,
“I hope they both lose!” Asked to ex-
plain the reason for such an ‘unsports-
manlike utterance, the fowl-flunkey de-
clared that doves were either heirs to or
carriers of countless complaints, which
their habit of drinking the fowls’ water
spread from run to run and farm to farm.
Did I hear a crash, as of a pedestal
falling?
* * * *
“E. 2”: Dan had a bad cold, so he sent
the kids down to the pub for five shil-
lings’ worth of rum. When he got it Dan
took a long swig from the bottle, then
held it up to the light. “Not bad stuff
that old Morgan has,” he said a'pprais-
ingly, “but, cripes, just get a gink at what
the lousy cow gives a man for a dollar.
No wonder he’s makin’ a forchin.”
* * * *
“Dinkum”; Off and on for weeks
George had been wakened at night by a
possum sliding down the roof, and what
he wasn’t going to do to the blanky thing
when he caught it wasn’t worth mention-
ing. There were no trees near the shack,
and where the animal came from had
George properly puzzled till, climbing on
the meathouse for a tin of tobacco he’d
planted, he spotted it curled up in the
ceiling. “Hey, Joe,” he called softly,
“pass up that piece of rope and a stick.”
Eventually George got a noose over the
animal’s head and dragged it out. “Got
the flamin’ blanker!” he crowed. “An*
cripes, look at that, will y’,—a bloomin’
joey f’r good measure.” He scowled at
the little grey bundle blinking in the light.
“Just as well I got ’em, or—quick, Joe,
here comes the missus.” Snatching up
a bag, George shoved the possum inside
and dropped it behind the rain barrel.
“Wouldn’t do to let her see it; she’d want
t’ keep the infernal thing,” he explained
when the coast was clear once more.
“Too damned soft-hearted, women. Well,
I bet this bloke don’t trouble nobody
again.” Catching his horse, George
shouldered the bag and rode across coun-
try till he struck the river, then he turned
upstream.. After another three miles he
dismounted and took the possum from
the bag. “There, that’ll teach y’,” he
growled, placing his catch in the fork
of a grey-box. “Bet ’y won’ find y’r way
back from here.”
* * * *
“Ben C”; That par. (B. 4/10/’44)
about Abe and his agistment country and
his using young Ike as a blind reminds
me. In many years of knocking about
Australian farming country I’ve struck
only one of Moses’s descendants on the
land, a thing which always intrigues me
when I read about Jewish farmers in
Palestine and proposals to settle Jews in
the W.A. Kimberleys. Whatever else they
may be, our native and introduced Jews
aren’t farmers.
* * * *
“Fancar”: Tell “Pat Ater” (B.
27/9/’44) my pepperina, large, vigorous
yet compact, was no lady. It bore no
berries, but, like the other males of its
kind, shed its matured flowers in great
drifts on every midsummer breeze. And
what authority has “P.A.” for assuming
that the flowers of the male plant of a
dioecious couple lack nectaries? Like
calyx and corolla, the nectaries of a
flower have no special sexual significance.
Indeed, according to species, any part of
a flower may be modified, even as the
definitely masculine stamens of many per-
fect flowers, to secrete or hold nectar.
I have observed many tiny insects at work
right at the base of the stamen of the
male bluebell, well below the anther,
surely an indication that these male
flowers have nectaries. Yet why shouldn’t
a bee visit the pollen-bearer first? The
protoplasm of pollen contains nitrogen,
vital requirement of insect as well as
animal life, and without nectar. English
beekeepers hold that when the broom is
out in flower bees will forsake for it the
most nectar-rich garden blossoms; and
broom, though one of the heaviest
pollen-producing plants, has, like many
other flamboyants, no nectaries.
* * * »
“Aeram”: A claim that Phyllis, a 19-
year-old merino of Mowbray, Bogan-
tungan (C.Q.), was our oldest sheep was
challenged by a Dirranbandi resident’s
nomination of a wether in a Nimmitabel
(N.S.W.) flock, who is 23 years and ten
months. Respect must be paid to that
venerable wether, but Phyllis’s contribu-
tion to the sheep population of 12 lambs,
including three sets of twins in 18 months,
places her in a class by herself.
HYMN TO LOVELINESS.
Gone are the crowded hours since Morning
presspd
These growing things against her scented breast,
And left each tiny web among the green
Pearled with her breath.
All the day long
The beauty of the Earth
Streamed to my soul,
Beat in my very fingertips,
Reached to my lips, ,
But could not break in song.
The human heart is such
A fragile thing with which to love so piuch;
For ecstasy is not without its pain.
Only a god could hold
His goblet to this moon and drink,
Without a leaping heart,
The lit reflections sparkling at its brink.
But I, a clod,
Can only stand and wait
For words that will not come .. .
For all the surge of longing to express
In outward form a hymn to loveliness,
I know the helpless struggle of the dumb
Who stand without the gate.
Clumsy and inarticulate.
TASMANIA.
Phyllis Gurney Wright.


“Hanko”: “Me land gal hadn’t hardly
hit the joint,” said Posthole, “before she
makes a beeline fer the big dam. After
she’s been gorn about a nour I goes t’
see if she’s got herself drowned, an’ finds
’er more’n’ three-parts naked, lyin’ on the
bank sunbakin’. She even invites me in
t’ sample me own dam.” Posthole
scowled as I grinned. “I don’t hold with
this bathin’ in the dam ; though, mind
y’, she’s turned out not too bad on the
farm. Anyway, I decides t’ pinch her
bathin’ togs while she’s feedin’ the pigs.”
“Did that fix her?” I asked. Posthole
sighed. “No,” he told me. “Wot I hoists
out’ve her room turns out to be her
braziers an’ shanties or some such fal-
lals!”
*** . *
“Zake”; Once struck a bloke in N.S.W.
coastal scrub country holding in his hand
an upturned tumbler on a piece of card-
board. He would pause, gaze for a space
intently at the tumbler and move on
again. I thought at first he was a hatter
with a new idiosyncrasy, but getting
closer to him I found that he had a bee
under the glass. The bee, he informed
me, possessed strong “pointing” instincts.
He had captured it on a blossom and
was using it as a compass to guide him to
the wild hive. Eventually, with the bee’s
aid, he located it in the fork of a tree
200 yards from where I first met him. He
said the method never missed.
•fi
“Tormac”; Noticed that two hovering
kestrels took over a nest used, to my
knowledge, for six years by a family of
magpies. After completing their domestic
duties satisfactorily the kestrels sought
pastures new. This nesting season the
maggies are back at the old home.
* * * *
“Gin-gin”: Out doing a bit of treasure
hunting, ’roo-shooting and muttonfish
snatching along the coast about 50 miles
north from Fremantle, we encountered
a spot of rain and took refuge in a fair-
sized cave. Being a bit wet, we starred a
fire among a gnarl of dry roots that came
down through the roof at the far end.
It burned briskly, and was still going
when we left; there was no way that
we could put it out, and, anyway, it
seemed unlikely to do any harm. Pass-
ing that way a month or so later we
found it still burning. Evidently a forest
had once grown on that limestone plain,
and the buried roots weie so linked and
tangled that as one lot burned out a fresh
lot took fire. Visiting the spot still later
we found the fire gone, the plain now
being full of vugg holes and tunnels
where the roots had been. But the climax
came on our fourth visit. This time we
struck a heavy thunderstorm, well over
“Did you say Dais could have them johnny-cakes, Ma?”
an inch falling in less than an hour ; and
once more the plain took fire. Where
each root had burned out a lining of lime
had formed around the hole. Now, with
the rain pouring in, this lime commenced
to slake. Columns of steam rose, the rock
heaved and burst under the stress of giant
chemical action. When the rain ceased
the plain was a ruin, the water streaming
away milk-white with slaked lime.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Belting along the Jerry-
nmngurup track with the radiator boiling
and our tongues nearly as bad, we struck
a lone—well, for once, let us call it a
ranch. But the owner wasn’t giving us
any fluid out of his tanks. “Just down
around the bend a bit you 11 find a well,
he said. The well was there, nicely fitted
with a shadoff, that Egyptian device of a
long cross-beam weighted on the balanc-
ing end with a stone. But what tickled
us was the “rope”—a ten-foot length of
spearwood, to the bottom end of which
the bucket was fastened with a few
inches of fencing wire. “Yes, it’s got
down to that,” remarked the owner*
“Once on a time I used a bit of rope,
but it went that quick that I got tired of
replacing it. Then I tried fencing wire,
but that went, too. Now, if anyone
wants the sapling they’re damn’ well wel-
come to it.” But evidently no one did,
so one wayside resident’s problem was
solved .
* * . * *
“Solitude”: For two days Seventyfiver
had been out of tobacco, so first thing he
did when we hit town was to make a bee-
line for the store. I caught up just as
the storekeeper finished telling him about
the short supply this month, and how he’d
neglected to put the old chap’s usual
ration aside. We turned moodily to the
door. “Forgetful cow,” I growled sym-
pathetically, nodding back at the bloke.
Seventyfiver’s eyes drifted thoughtfully
to the horizon, “Aw, it ain’t his fault,”
he said presently. “Hitler’s, eh?” I
grimaced. Again the old coot shook his
head. “No,” he answered, “me own. An’
by cripes, I’m old enough t’ know
better.” He leaned wearily against the
verandah post. “Oh, I been caught
before,” he went on disgustedly. “Every
25 years or so they have a war ’n’ this
happens. Well” —his jaw set resolutely—
“hoardin’ or no hoardin’, when this
scrap’s over I’m goin’ to get in a damn’
good stack ready f’r the next.”
* * * *
“Rover”: Goats with which many Bar-
rier Reef islands teem have saved scores
of shipwrecked fishermen from starva-
tion. Latest case was that of four Mac-
kay fishermen, who, marooned on Digby
Island for 12 days, kept themselves alive
with goats’ meat until rescued by an
American tanker, signalled with the aid
of a shaving mirror. Most of the goats
on these islands are descendants of
animals placed there years ago for just
such an emergency, and on some islands
they strongly resent the intrusion of man.
Our arrival at Sir Charles Hardy did not
meet with the approval of a bearded old
Billy, who became quite menacing when
we neared a spring. It was the only fresh
water on the island, and the wickedly-
horned patriarch had to be kept at bay
with stones. After replenishing our
supplies we lost no time in getting off
the island, leaving the old chap and
his harem in peace. Shellfish and birds’
eggs appeared to be their chief foods ; a
couple of nannies were seen browsing
among the rocks, crushing shellfish with
their teeth and sucking out the contents.
*'* * *
“Cypress”: Writers of recent pars, on
the food value of various vegetable tops
should be interested to learn that, as a
result of extensive research work, Queens-
land’s Government Analyst has come to
the conclusion that the common nastur-
tium .contains more vitamin C than most
vegetables and fruits. He claims that the
nasturtium provides 27,000 international
units per pound as against 21,000 units
from lucerne, 15,000 from turnip tops,
5500 from cabbage, 5500 from kohlrabi,
1100 to 2000 from lettuce, 6000 to 10,000
from spinach, 1600 to 500 from potatoes,
6500 from watercress, 1000 to 2500 from
tomatoes, 4000 to 6000 from orange juice,
etc. He says the leaves are excellent
eaten with cheese, while the seeds can be
used as capers.
* * * *
“Creel”: Conger eels (B. 4/10/’44) are
bad enough, but the long-tailed reef-eels
(.Rhabdura macrura ) of N.Q. waters beat
any groper or shark for sheer ferocity.
A world’s record was established when
a grey monster measuring 12ft. llin. was
hooked outside Maroochydore in 1929.
Feature of these eels is that the roof of
the mouth is studded with small, needle-
sharp teeth, slanting inward towards the
throat; thus, once an eel ’has seized its
prey the victim rarely escapes. On the
southern shores of Newcastle Bay we
met an abo. who had lost four toes from
his right foot when attacked by a small
eel while wading through a coral pool on
the Barrier Reef. The eels lurk among
the growing coral, darting out to snap up
victims as they swim past. I was on a
fishing boat when an Bft. specimen was
hooked near Barnard Islands ; it was
carrying in its jaw a large rusted hook
wifh several inches of wire trace attached,
The hook looked as if it had been there
“Oops— sorry!”
for years (the wound had completely
healed), but it in no way impeded the
movements of the eel, which put up an
amazing fight before it was killed.
% # *
“Horseless Horseman”: Experimenting
with a .303 rifle in tropical seas lately,
I’ve realised its bullet is far more effective
under water than is generally imagined.
Fired perpendicularly down it will hole
a kero.-tin 14ft. below the surface. A
good clean shot at a 10ft. shark 50 yards
away and a foot under water will kill
it so long as you hit the front half. Small
fish want to be near to the top, and close
up, or else with “the bend” you’ll easily
miss, but anywhere does them for a kill.
As for whitebait, a shot fired in the water
will knock over all within a yard radius
of it.
* * * *
“Bo”: As we ambled along the Gun-
ningbung road through the drowsy after-
noon Dick the Dodger idly flicked at the
flies above the mare’s rump and dis-
coursed on her extraordinary intelli-
gence. “Never noo a dappled that
turned out a dud,” he said. “Never
buy any other sort, but this one’s the best
I ever had. Y’ know, whenever I get a
heavy cold I lose me voice, but it don’t
make any difference to Biddie here she
picked up lip-readin’ in no time! ” Dick
let this sink in before he went on. “Mind
y’, I don’t say she can read, but all the
same it’s a funny thing that if ever I’m
readin’ the local rag an’ she’s lookin’
over me shoulder the on’y time she’ll
whinny is when I turn over to the back
page when there’s an illustrated ad, of
Craddon’s, the produce bloke in town.
Just a minute and I’ll let y’ see how good
she is.” A minute later, round a bend
in the road, the mare drew in to the side
and stopped. There was not a habitation
within miles. “There, y’ see?” said Dick.
He pointed to the skeleton of a chimney
nearby that was nearly overgrown
with blackberries. “Used to be
Phillips’s shanty pub—got burnt
down durin’ the big bushfire in
’09.” “But the mare can’t be more
than 15 years old,” I protested.
“She ain’t either,” said Dick trium-
phantly, “and that’s what makes
her so intelligent. Y’ see, it was
her ole man uster pull up here when I
went in for a drink!”
* * * *
“Hist”: I am filled with hope after
reading “Moyhu’s” par. (B. 20/9/’44). I
will advertise for 50 silky-haired bitches
to foster-mother lambs from my rough-
as-bags crossbreds, and, presto! in a
couple of generations I shall have a nice
mob of fine comebacks. The implications
of his discovery, that the hereditary char-
acteristics of a sheep are modified when
it is reared by a bitch, are terrific, and
Mendel must be turning in his grave.
Further, seeing that the natural laws gov-
erning heredity are universal in appli-
cation, it follows that a baby reared on
cow’s milk may transmit to its progeny
bovine characteristics. Hence, perhaps,
crooners.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: Arriving at Morning-
ton Island (Gulf of Carpentaria) we
anchored alongside the remarkable jetty,
built by abos. living at the mission estab-
lished on the island 30 years ago by the
Rev. Bob Wilson. Lacking funds to erect
a much-needed jetty, Wilson asked the
100-odd children attending the mission
school to each bring a stone to school
every morning. The kids thought it great
fun, and stones of all shapes and sizes
arrived daily. Within six months suffi-
cient material was available and the kids’
fathers set to work, completing inside
another six months a solid stone jetty,
80ft. long and 10ft. wide, which some of
the worst cyclonic storms ever known in
the Gulf have failed to destroy. Our
first meal on the island included some
of the largest and choicest tomatoes any
of us had ever eaten. They came from
the abos.’ own farm, the site of which
was formerly a salt-water swamp. The
natives drained the swamp, levelled a
high hill of sand and spread it over the
area to a depth of 12 inches, then dug in
tons of ant-bed, soil and seaweed. All
kinds of vegetables are grown, as well
as bananas, pineapples arid other tropical
fruits. The abos. have their own dairy
herd and an efficiently-run sawmill. Some
of the natives are expert woodworkers,
one of the finest being a bearded veteran
who was one of the ringleaders in an
uprising of 1918 during which a mis-
sionary was speared to death. The old
chap’s best work was his hand-carved
model of one of the Empire flying-boats
which in pre-war days passed over Morn-
ington on their hop between Karumba
and Groote Island.
* * * *
“Stanus”: Jack, a Roper River (N.T.)
black, was entrusted with the care of the
station fowlyard. After losing a few
chickens to the activities of pythons, Jack
sheltered the birds in the hut in which
he slept, jumping out of bed to dispatch
the invading reptile when the chooks
set up a clamor. Sleeping soundly one
night he awoke at dawn to find every
chicken missing and the tracks of a
crocodile right through the hut. Jack
still can’t work out whether he was lucky
or otherwise in not waking up that night.
* * %
“Blime”: It was a cold night, and the
mob were seated round the fire in the
hut, each wondering who would be the
one to go for more wood. As the fire
burnt lower Tom suppressed a shiver,
eyed the fireplace and then the clock.
“Quarter to eight,” he murmured ab-
sently, and returned, to his book. By
eight the fire was reduced to a bed of
coals, and by quarter-past all chairs had
been dragged in as close as they could
get. “A bit fresh tonight,” remarked Bill,
sociably. No one answered. At half-
past eight Jake turned up his collar and
buttoned his coat, and 20 minutes later
old Ted decided he’d go to bed early.
Presently Jake glanced round the mob.
Mike’s teeth were* clenched on his empty
pipe; Bill, white and determined, pre-
tended to doze ; and Tom, openly shiver-
ing,, was still absorbed in the same page
of his book. Jake came out to bunk.
“Talk about a lazy mob,” he exploded.
“Wouldn’t even get a piece of wood.”
“Why didn’t you get a bit?” I asked. “It
was just at the door.” “Me?” Jake
gasped. “Why should /be the flamin’
mug? Gripes, no ; let ’em damn well
freeze if they’re that lazy.”
WISTARIA.
Lovely lavender waterfall,
D:opping mistily down the wall,
Glory of rose and tulip proud
Pales in your glowing, soft, mauve cloud.
Deep in your fragrant pastel blooaas
Visions rise of tapestried rooms,
Dainty ladies in satin and lace,
Gallants bowing with courtly grace,
Valentine and minuet,
Bamboo bridges in far Cathay,
Exquisite china, an ivory fan,
Storied paintings from Old Japan:
Fragile all, you beautiful thing,
As you when the warming touch of spring
Fades your delicate petals grey,
Your tender radiance steals away.
VICTORIA.
H. E. Ramsay.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTfIERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
Smooth, Strong, Hard...
_ from Alkali
Free n° m H ARD w a l l
CONCORD HAK
O r Lime
PLASTER
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is an exception-
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended for dadoes and other wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a smooth, glossy, pure white, sanitary
finish ®f great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers or sa- * K * K **“* i * aK
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base for receiv-
ing any decoration as soon the wall dries out. Special
grinding and processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
Packed in Juie Bags.
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PIASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., Building Materials Division
SYDMEY ... MELBOURNE... BRISBANE.. .ADELAIDE... PERTH
1
fT
m
1
- •
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
r 7u
- Sterilised
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
CERTAIN DEATH
sdf
I to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
OanogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
fn‘si ! ". b k e .. f «” BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
throughout Australia.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVES
MANPOWER
THE MAN ON THE LAND
”DON;T WORRY, IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.“
Beef Types.
“Aeram”; The short-legged, thick-set
Shorthorn has solid supporters in Quilpie
(western Q.), where the rangy type is con-
demned as an economic liability. R. C.
Phi Ip, of Springfields, disapproves of the
long-barrelled Shorthorn because it does
not carry sufficient depth of meat on the
ribs. “Our greatest trouble is to keep
our cattle poor enough to breed—the
modern Shorthorn is such a good doer
that there is a tendency for breeders to
become overfat,” he said.
Springfields is well supplied with
natural water, having a double frontage
to Kyabra Creek, a tributary of the
Cooper. This country has no equal in
Australia for cattle, because of the variety
of feed. One of the great advantages of
cattle fattened on the Cooper is their
ability to hold condition in winter when
coastal cattle are out of condition. Often
Cooper cattle are primer in winter than
in summer. This is borne out by high
prices paid by Sydney butchers over the
past few months, Kooroongooloo bul-
locks having made £l7 on trucks. Irriga-
tion schemes, even low-level dams, would
be a boon in these areas. The water is
available ; last February the flood waters
were 42 miles wide at Windorah.
Need for Learners.
“Sheepo”: Yes (B. 23/9/’44), there will
be need for greater control of shearing
in the future, but unless the number of
learners is' increased soon a shortage of
shearers will mean continuance of zone
shearing for several years. The clause of
the award dealing with employment of
th'e full number of learners has been side-
stepped by graziers and contractors alike.
The grazier wants his sheep shorn as
quickly as possible, and learners aren’t
of any use to a contractor, but that is
no reason why the parties to the award
do not insist that the clause be carried
out in its entirety.
At a shed where I classed and where
there should have been two learners the
contractor fulfilled the conditions of the
clause by classing as “learners” two
shearers who were 200-a-day men and
had been shearing for ten years. To the
organiser who visited the shed, however,
they were learners. And the other
shearers in the team said nothing because
the contractor had too good a run of
sheds for them to miss. With “barrow-
ing” barred at most sheds, employment
of the full number of learners must be
insisted upon if youth is to have its
hights.
The Community Forest.
It is a forest owned, worked
and used by a community. These
forests are more successful than State
forests because they are local affairs, in-
fluenced by local conditions and the close
care of local people. They offer a good
chance for tree cultivation in Australia,
which is so badly in need of trees.
Few communities in Australia have
good stands of timber close at hand.
Many are already sending 30 miles or
more for firewood, while millable timber,
except from the inadequate State forests,
is practically unprocurable. Many com-
munities are suffering from wind and
water erosion. Community forests would
help combat this evil. Forests to the
windward of towns in the drier areas
would break the wind and free the towns
of dust.
A watershed forest will stabilise
the flow of local streams, and in Aus-
tralia, .where development is limited by
the water supply, every watercourse, how-
ever small, should be carefully guarded.
If small creeks that were permanent
streams last century, and are now often
dry except after rain, could be restored
to their former condition the country
would benefit enormously.
The community forest, planted, de-
veloped, managed and owned by the local
people, and growing close enough to the
community to be a lovely recreation area,
to provide permanent employment for
local residents, and to found secondary
industries based on a steady supply of
raw materials pro'duced close at hand,
becomes a local and national asset.
Forestry is an excellent way of absorb-
ing unemployed men in reproductive
work. Every established forest would
help to arrest the serious drift of popu-
lation to the cities.
Anyone who contemplates the large
part forestry and its products play in the
life of other countries must be amazed
that Australians have allowed their forest
wealth to be destroyed without raising a
hand to stop it. A community forest, in
which every man, woman and child has
an interest, must rouse an appreciation of
forestry and its benefits which, up to
now, has been starkly lacking.
Legislation to enable local governing
bodies to begin community forestry under
the direction of State foresters is being
included in an amendment to the N.S.W.
Local Government Act. It is to be hoped
that the Government will pass it speedily,
and so give one lead to Australians to
help themselves to greater stability, pros-
perity and development in the future.
Training the Dog.
“Bugaldie”: When it is thought
Brownie is old enough to head a sheep
—about six months —take him out with
an old dog who knows his work and let
him get used to following you, and if you
use a whip, used to that also. Some dogs
never overcome whip shyness, others go
to the other extreme. If your choice in
the first place has been anywhere near the
mark, you will find in three or four weeks
he will start to take notice of the sheep,
and after another few will work with the
other dog. The time to assert your
authority is when he begins to get out of
hand. Pick up a few light sticks, and at
the right moment either whistle or call
him, at the same time throwing a stick
at him—you’ll rarely hit him, and even
if you do you won’t hurt him. You’ll
find this far ahead of the leash and
switch.
When he is working well with another
dog take him out on his own, otherwise
he’ll be continually looking round for
the other dog when told to do anything.
Patience will have to be exercised at this
point, as it may be some time before he’ll
work on his own, but the secret is to
keep him fresh. Keep him on the chain,
and only let him off immediately before
you are going to work him; you’ll get
no work out of a good dog if he’s either
tired or footsore. You want him keen
and “raring to go.” In good judges’
opinion, it takes up to two years
thoroughly to break-in a sheep-dog.
A Useful Slide.
“Liss”: A slide is much more con-
venient than a cart when hauling posts
and firewood, but unless a good job it
makes heavy hauling for the horse.
From an old pair of cart or dray
wheels, complete with axle, you can make
one that hauls easily and will handle a
heavy load if a pair of'horses, are yoked.
Wire all the spokes in the hub so that
the butts can’t drop out, and then saw
the spokes off flush. The body of the
slide should be made as usual, except
that the runners should be shaped up at
the back instead of the front and shod
with flat iron bolted on with heavy tyre
bolts. The fronts of the runners are
dropped on to the axle and clamped in
place with U-bolts, the hubs acting as
rollers.,
Such a slide can be elaborated for
cleaning up fallen timber and stumps in
a paddock in winter, when the stumps
can be pulled. The cross members of
the slide should be morticed into the
runners and the latter held together by
two pieces of fin. round iron passed
through them a few inches from the cross
pieces and bolted each end. Draw bars
should be welded to a ring out in front
of the slide and passed through the front
member and bolted behind the rear one.
Draught is then right from the back. A
similar pair of bars should go the other
way, ending in a heavy ring behind the
slide to which the drag chain can be
hooked for pulling stumps,, which are
then loaded on the slide and hauled to
a dump for burning.
A Handy Book.
“J.J.H.” reads it:
The fifth edition of Sheep, Farm and Station
Management brings this well-known work up
to date. Although primarily written as a guide
to the young man going on the land, it deserve,
a place on the bookshelf of every sheepowner
One man in a lifetime on the land may
accumulate much experience of value to those
who intend to follow in his steps, but this
publication covers a wider field. The author
has gathered the wisdom of many men of proved
ability, acquired under conditions that are
fairly general throughout Australia.
Station owners and managers, veterinary sur-
geons and scientists are among the contributors
Every phase of station life has been covered!
A large section deals with improvements and
teems with useful facts and figures on dams
tanks, bores, wells, fencing, gates and yards
An important feature is the illustrations and
plans of drafting yards and shearing sheds.
Breeds of sheep are well covered and illus-
trated, while the section on wool and shearing
contains much of value. Mating, classing!
lamb-marking, dipping and drought feeding are
capably dealt with. The chapters on diseases
cover the majority of ailments met with in Aus-
tralia. This is one of the most ticklish subjects
to handle in a work of this kind, but it has been
admirably treated, and every effort’ has been
made to offer the clearest and most up-to-date
knowledge available. There are few men on
the land who could not profit from the book,
and a copy should be in every jackeroo’s swag.
Sheep, Farm and Station Management, by E. H.
Pearse. (Pastoral Review Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
and Sydney, 17s. 6d.).
Hints for the Farm.
“E. 2”; Plough mouldboards take a
shiny surface quickly if painted over once
or twice before use with dilute sulphuric
acid. Avoid rusting by smearing with
oil or grease when not in use. Imple-
ments should be kept painted ; it’s a cheap
insurance against rust. For bolts, always
grease the threads when fitting, and the
nuts will unscrew even when rusted.
“P, Ater”: To kill trees with arsenic
it is well to remember that the poison’s
tendency is to work upwards —with the
sap. Anything that suckers from near
ground level or from the roots needs to
have the poison solution injected or
poured into the buttresses or roots them-
selves to make sure of a kill.
“Portergaff”: Pumpkins, marrow and
squash need plenty of manure. Heavy
dressings of well-rotted stable manure
should be worked into the soil before
planting. Pumpkins can be stored for
several months in a cool shed provided a
couple of inches of stalk is left attached
to each one. Chief disease is downy
mildew, and it can be combated by dust-
ing with sulphur. Sow seed from October
to December.
“Bennie”: Young weeds should never
be removed from a garden patch. They
should be turned in where they will rot
and become beneficial to the soil. This
method will assist to mitigate weed
growth.
“Ben”: Some manures possess intense
heating substances which are too much
for the plants. Break down extreme heat
by sifting wood ashes, and add them to
the manure. Poultry manure is far too
rich on its own, so is goat manure.
Diluted with wood ashes both become the
best the gardener can use.
“Myrrhee”: To fatten poultry for the
table use a fattening coop, and for two
weeks before the birds are to be marketed
give them a ration made up of dried milk
(skim or buttermilk) 51b., meatmeal 51b.,
ground wheat or barley 301 b., ground
maize 301 b., ground oats 301 b. Mix with
water to a thick porridge and feed twice
daily. Liquid milk may be used —a gallon
equals 11b, of dried milk.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Fraser and His Fleet.
(i Condensed from an article by N.Y. Herald
Tribune” war correspondent in Europe Richard
L. Tobin.) .
The appointment of Admiral Sir Bruce
Fraser as commander-in-chief of the
British Eastern Fleet is regarded in Lon-
don as one of the most important of the
war. If any proof had been needed that
Great Britain intends to prosecute the
naval war against Japan to the very last
Admiral Fraser’s appointment supplies it.
Admiral Fraser is regarded in the
Royal Navy as perhaps the brightest
lighting man in that enormously success-
ful service. On every British ship on
which this correspondent has been a
guest —including three battleships and a
dozen smaller craft —as well as in White-
hall, where London contacts are made,
Admiral Fraser has for some years been
a sort of idol of the Royal Navy.
There isn’t anything, apparently, that
Admiral Fraser is not good at aboard a
ship. His very presence in Japanese
waters is comparable to the presence of
men like Generals Alexander and Mont-
gomery on a British front. He appears to
have imagination, great daring and an
instinct for gunnery that is his chief
renown among British seamen. His books
on gunnery are the gunnery textbooks of
the British Fleet.
Admiral Fraser, flying his flag in
H.M.S. Duke of York, was escorting a
Russian convoy when, in the Arctic dawn
of St Stephen’s Day, 1943, the German
battleship Scharnhorst was sighted pro-
ceeding at 28 knots in the direction of
the convoy. At about 4.15 in the after-
noon Fraser was able to give the Scharn-
horst a broadside from his Min. guns,
scoring a hit. It would scarcely have
been a characteristic shot if he had not
scored a hit on the first burst, despite the
heavy sea, so careful are his gunnery
calculations. The Scharnhorst was even-
tually sunk, and the Russian-bound con-
voy, without loss or damage, went on
its way. Later, also under Admiral
Fraser, the battleship Tirpitz was smashed
by midget submarines in Alten Fjord.
Admiral Fraser is tremendously popu-
lar with the fleet, just as Montgomery is
popular to a point of adulation among
How is Australia going to start
the population burgeoning to fulfil
its dream ? The birthrate is not
promising. It will have to be
through immigration. The Govern-
ment is, for instance, offering in-
ducements to Italian war prisoners
who are held in Australia to remain
there. The Government hopes to
get a flow — controlled, but still a
good flow —of people from the
countries ravished by the war. It
hopes , too, for some immigration
from the United States. A rather
important Australian official, who
probably would be mobbed if I
named him, remarked one day with
a grin “We don’t like the way our
Australian girls go for you Yankees,
but they do a good job as bait.” —
David G. Wittels; “Saturday Even-
ing Post.”
the British Army, particularly the ratings.
The admiral is short, energetic, with the
traditional bluff and hearty manner of
the seadog. He is regarded as especially
expert, in addition to gunnery, in com-
bined air and sea operations —a talent
which suits him for the Far Eastern
assignment.
Fraser is no stranger to the Far East.
For three years he was chief-of-staff at
that station before war began. London
“Times” said: “He goes to what will un-
doubtedly become before long the chief
seagoing command of the war, straight
from what has been the chief command
up to date, for he relinquished command
of the Home Fleet only in June.”
With as energetic a commander as
Admiral Fraser assigned to the war
against Japan, it is possible now to pub-
lish what British naval strength will be
available to the Allies out there even-
tually. The day the war against Hitler
ends the following battleships will be
available for Far Eastern duty: H.M.S.
Warspite, Nelson, Rodney, Queen Eliza-
beth, Royal Sovereign, Ramillies, Valiant,
Renown, Resolution, Malaya, King
George V, Revenge, Lion, Temeraire (and
two others of this class whose names are
not for release at this time), Duke of
York, Anson, Howe and other battleships
not as yet made public. Nineteen battle-
ships are the minimum estimate.
As to aircraft-carriers, an estimate is
difficult, as so many new carriers have
been added but not made public. How-
ever, there are the Indomitable, Implac-
able, Indefatigable, Illustrious, Victori-
ous. Formidable, Argus, Furious and
dozens of smaller converted cruisers and
merchant ships that have been doing con-
voy patrol. These will all be available
against Japan.
As to cruisers and destroyers, the list
exceeds 300 vessels of all types, tonnage
and fire-power. There are, besides, 12
classes of British submarines, with as
many as a dozen submarines in each class,
possibly 100 British submarines which
will be immediately available.
A token fleet will be kept in British
waters, but every British naval man I
have talked to is convinced that virtually
every ship in the Royal Navy will be
sent to beat Japan when Hitler goes
down. Add this fleet to an even larger
American Navy and the strategical prob-
lems of the First Sea Lord of Japan
stagger the imagination.
The English regard the appointment of
Admiral Fraser, the 56-year-old naval
counterpart of Montgomery, as the
British Empire’s signature on Japan’s
death warrant.
A Word for Poland.
{From a speech by U.S. Senator Arthur H.
Vandenberg, typical of much being said and
written in America on Poland.)
We fight to unchain liberty in a free
world from which international pirates
shall be permanently barred by the
organised conscience and the united vigi-
lance of free men. And I know of no
better typical test to apply to the pro-
gress which we make toward this eman-
cipation than to apply the test to Poland.
This World War Number Two started on
Polish soil in defiance of cruel aggression
against outraged Polish independence.
It cannot end in equity or honor ex-
cept as independent Poland once more
takes her exalted place among the free
and sovereign nations of this chastened
world.
If hope for Poland ever dies, hope for
all continental democracy will lie in the
same grave.
Russia fights magnificently. So do
others in full and equal measure. So
does intrepid Britain and her indomitable
Commonwealth. So does China —against
incalculable odds. So does our America
—with a prodigality and devotion un-
matched in martial history. So do the
nations that have felt the tyrant’s heel.
Poland, for example—Polish legions at
the battlefronts, Polish aces in the air,
Polish underground resistance in the
stricken homeland, the most dangerous
belligerence of all.
It is a fraternity of combat. It must
be followed by a fraternity of peace in
which all shall share the decisions and
the blessings for which they strive and
die.
I concur in our own U.S. State De-
partment’s plea that this is no time —
until we have won the war —to start the
reallocation of innumerable controver-
sial boundary lines. But if it is no time
for us to do so then it is no- time for
others to do so either—and I know of no
reason why our Government should not
persistently and relentlessly say as much.
It is a poor rule which does not re-
strain all the United Nations alike and
in equal measure ; or which, by the same
token, does not permit as great a candor
in Washington as is enjoyed by Moscow.
{Comment by N.Y. “Journal-American.”)
That the German conquerors are being
driven out does not constitute liberation
of Poland —for the simple and obvious
and now acknowledged reason that a
Russian conquest is swiftly and inexor-
ably supplanting the German conquest,
and Russian masters are taking over
from German masters.
This is a bitter pill for the freedom-
loving people of Poland, and the Rus-
sian Government is making only the
mildest atid utterly meaningless efforts
to sugar-coat the pill. It has professed
and proclaimed, it is true, its lack of
ambition or intention to acquire Polish
territory or change the social structure
of Poland. But in the same motion it
has established Russian sovereignty over
the entire eastern section of Poland, and
openly and ruthlessly made it a part of
Russia—without agreement or consulta-
tion with the Polish people, and against
their wishes. ,
It has ignored the exiled Polish Gov-
ernment in London, the only legitimate
Polish Government in existence as
American and British recognition attest.
It is indulging in the hollow mockery
of turning the administration of civil
affairs in Poland over to a puppet Gov-
ernment which was created in Russia
and exists only because Russia can rely
upon it and compel it to serve the Rus-
sian Communistic purpose.
Poland is not undergoing liberation,
but a change of masters. Poland will not
be a free, democratic nation as the cul-
mination of these events and as it desires
to be, but a Communistic appendage of
Soviet Russia in such small degree as it
is not an actual part of Russia.
The professions and intentions of Rus-
sia toward Poland, insofar as they sug-
gest that the present military campaign
in Poland is one of liberation, are empty
professions and intentions.
Strengthened Empire.
{From an article on the present state and the
future of the British Empire by Demaree Bess,
in the “Saturday Evening Past.”)
Less than four years ago the British
Empire was counted down and almost
out, not only by its enemies but also by
its sorrowing friends. Today British
imperialists are taking no back-talk from
anybody —not from Russians, Americans
or their own anti-imperialists.
In the first years it was easy to find
Englishmen who were ready to admit that
imperialism was a handicap to modern
nations, and that the British Empire
would emerge from the war much weaker
than when it went in. During that dark
period many Englishmen even agreed
with foreign critics who were claiming
that imperialism had exhausted its man-
date, and that the British Empire would
inevitably be replaced by something dif-
ferent, no matter who might win the war.
While very few Englishmen ever con-
ceded the possibility of outright defeat,
many of them did feel that the Empire
would be overshadowed in the post-war
world by both Soviet Russia and the
United States.
Now those who were so vocal in
1940 and 1941 have been completely
routed, and it is poor form to
criticise Neville Chamberlain’s policy at
Munich. That policy, like Stalin’s deal
with Hitler in 1939, is held justified by
subsequent events.
British imperialists are sure of them-
selves today because the evidence is over-
whelming that the British Empire is more
powerful now than it has been for genera-
tions. It not only possesses a stronger
relative position in world affairs, but it
has a firmer hold upon the British people
themselves, here in the British Isles and
overseas in the Dominions.
No one can doubt this who listened,
as I did, to speeches at the London Im-
perial Conference and to Parliamentary
debates on British foreign policy. Proud
confidence was the -keynote of all these
speeches and debates —confidence that the
British Empire has been revitalised by
this war and that it is certain to play an
even greater role in the future than it has
played in the past.
This viewpoint is not confined to
British Conservatives, like Winston
Churchill. It is shared by the Liberals
and the Socialists. It is shared also by
the Dominion statesmen who travelled
to London last May to participate in
drawing up plans for the British Empire’s
role in the post-war world. This Imperial
Conference was a far cry from the atti-
tude of the Dominions in the early years
of the war. A large minority in South
Africa had been opposed to entering the
war at all, and in 1940 all of the
Dominions revealed uneasiness about the
cohesion of the Empire.
Public confidence in imperialism
reached its lowest ebb following Pearl
Harbor, when the Japanese overran so
many of Great Britain’s possessions in
the Far East. When this Japanese menace
was most acute some Australian leaders
pictured their future as linked more
closely with the United States than with
England.
But there was no such talk at the
Imperial Conference. South Africans
now foresee the fulfilment of their dreams
of a Greater Africa Confederation, in-
cluding rich additional territories, and
Australians have changed their minds
about the future of the British Empire in
the Pacific. Australia and New Zealand,
plus India, anticipate equal post-war par-
ticipation with Britain and the United
Stat.es in a regional council which will
supervise and co-ordinate defence and
civil administration in native territories.
To an American, accustomed in his
own country to wide divergences of
opinion about foreign policy, the serene
attitude in England now is startling. The
future of the world, as expressed both
in Parliament and at the Imperial Con-
ference, depends upon the maintenance
and strengthening of the British Empire
and its colonial system, as well as upon
the continued existence of the Common-
wealth. Right, Left and Middle are in
general agreement upon the same broad
outlines of foreign policy.
What is this foreign policy upon which
most of the British people are united, not
only in England but -also in the
Dominions? In its essence it is extremely
simple: Its first aim has been to win the
war, and to win it completely. Second,
it aims to keep the British Empire intact
and to fortify it. Third, it aims to
strengthen British influence everywhere,
in the confident faith that British influ-
ence is as good for the rest of the world
as it is for the British Empire.
Britons sincerely want some kind of
world organisation wider than the British
Empire, but they recognise that such
organisation still depends upon unpredict-
able actions of.other great Powers, while
the consolidation and reconstruction of
the British Empire can be undertaken im-
mediately by British leaders alone.
So, during this period, while larger
schemes remain in suspense, British im-
perialists are concentrating their attention
upon their Empire. They know exactly
what they require for it during the imme-
diate post-war period, and they are work-
ing indefatigably to get it. It has not
been necessary for British leaders to wait
until the end of the war, either in Europe
or in the Pacific. London already is the
centre for continuous conferences, de-
signed to adjust and to fortify the British
position in every part of the world.
When I left the Upited States a few
weeks ago many Americans believed that
Soviet Russia was calling the tune in
world affairs and that Stalin’s aggressive
diplomacy had taken the lead away from
the British Empire as well as from the
United States, Some American critics
were so busy deploring the British atti-
tude toward India, toward the Jewish
homeland in Palestine and toward the
monarchies in Italy and Jugoslavia and
Greece that they overlooked the rapid
advances which British diplomacy was
making all over the world.
Since that time British successes have
become more obvious, so that everybody
can see now that British statesmen are
making hay while the sun shines. The
imperialists look back to pre-war days
with feelings of wonder that they ever
let themselves become so weak, and they
do not intend to relapse again.
Fiasco at Bretton Woods?
[Some brief cable references at the time
left the impression that the International Mone-
tary Conference at Bretton Woods (U.S.A.) was
a big step toward the planners’ brave new
world. Samuel Crowther was engaged by the
U.S. Hearst press to report the conference,
and the following is his eventual summing up
on it.]
Taking the Bretton Woods meeting as
a preview of things to come, it is obvious
that while the United States is expected
to pay the piper Russia will call the
tunes. Uncle Sam was elected Uncle Sap
by acclamation —and beamed as he was
so honored. Misrepresentation marked
the inception and every action of the
conference.
The real reason for the meeting had
nothing to do with either the war or the
peace. It was put on to demonstrate the
President’s mastery of foreign affairs and
his general indispensability for the bene-
fit of the Democratic National Conven-
tion. The Russians broke up that show
and on orders from the Kremlin kept
the conference hanging in the air until
after the convention had closed. This
gave rise to rumors that Pal Joey did
not love Comrade Frank any more.
It was represented in the President’s
opening address that the Stabilisation
Fund and the bank, if subscribed to
exactly as written, would provide full
employment for everyone in the world,
raise all standards of living and,
through some sort of idyllic world trade,
provide everlasting peace and well-being.
That was for American consumption,
and was bait for free-trade and one-world
babblers.
The discussion was channelled away
from the premises on which the fund and
the bank were founded, and it was made
to appear that the delegates of the prin-
cipal nations agreed, and that the. plans
were the key to a new and beautiful
world and differed only on slight details.
The New Dealers pretended the con-
ference was about money, knowing that
the average American takes money as a
profound and mysterious subject which
only the gifted can understand. Under
this cover they brought out a
cated device to promote world inflation,
on the notion that war booms can be
translated into peace booms if only
proper controls are provided. This they
called a Stabilisation Fund.
Also they brought out, disguised as a
bank, an equally complex method for
replanning and rebuilding the world with
printing-press money. This scheme gets
down to a planned and controlled World
State, run on the W.P.A. principle of the
abundant life through abundant debt, and


Cloxyic/ 7Z£2jdszAd -weca/it
use O'
CLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
» j ;■
The World follows Britain's lead
rV:': ’SM
SISSP
■s.'.
*5
RAILWAY TRANSPORT
RAILWAY locomotives, which have hauled the major portion
of the world’s land traffic for the best part of a century,
were invented in Britain, and British steam trains are still the
fastest and safest in the world.
Not least among the many other discoveries and inventions for
which the world owes a debt to Britain is the development, of
rayon by the firm of Courtaulds. It is almost entirely due to the
enterprise shown by Courtaulds that the development of rayon
has advanced with sucljt giant strides. The pioneer work done by
this British firm has been the means of creating a vast industry in
England, the United States and other countries.
Today, rayon has won universal acceptance and admiration. As
a factor in raising standards of life and comfort, Courtaulds
rayon yam, and the lovely fabrics made from it, deserve a prominent
place in the regard of all nations. The necessities of the war
have restricted the available supply of Courtaulds rayons. But
when victory is won, the results of unceasing research and experi-
ment during the war years can be translated into even more
beautiful and more versatile rayon materials.
In the post-war years the British Commonwealth will demonstrate
that in the future, as in the past, British brains and industry can
guide the world towards fresh achievements for the well-being
and happiness of the human race. To this great ideal the firm of
Courtaulds dedicates its vast store of technical skill and experience.
The World's greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics
distributed overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd.
GEORGE
STEPHENSON.
Born 1781. Pioneer of
railway locomotion.
His famous engine
“The Rocket” made
history in 1829 by
pulling a train at a
speed of 29 miles per
hour.
sd
ONLY
£17/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED*
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines a! only a fraction ol
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans, Music, etc.
Buiti tmirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
- ; ; SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
__ tine in its cavity.
"tIS Write To-day for
LIKE THE HHIID FREE LITERATURE.
BABKERB DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lQ), 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
fs
BRANDALERrS
Yt*
t*" 4
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRAJfDAVSE * 00. U 4. UKIUSSHAIC KN»
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course i
111111 UXI u V- yj Ui
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN POTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS. ,
n
BARKO
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Defuse all substitutes. Remember
the. name DOAN’S.
with Washington as the headquarters.
This is offering continuous inebriety as a
cure for drunkenness.
The immediate effect, however, of the
fund and the bank together would be- to
drain off the resources of the United
States as a preliminary to the uplift, and
the only reason why the foreign dele-
gates came was to book places in the pay-
off line. Stalin broke that up by send-
ing word that when the line formed
Russia would be at the head.
The conference could not agree on any-
thing, not even on a simple formula for
dividing up the assets of the United States.
They took the plans and pretensions as
campaign bunk. But they were polite
and, to save the face of the Roosevelt
Administration and keep the American
cashbox open, they consented to sign two
long documents —in diplomatic jargon
known as “Acts”—outlining the fund and
the bank.
The signing only meant that the dele-
gates would submit the documents to
their respective Parliaments. Blit in order
to make certain that their signing could
not be construed as an agreement most
of the more important signatories regis-
tered what are called “reservations” in a
document that was not made public.
These reservations said, in effect, that the
signing was just good, clean fun and not
to be taken seriously.
Palestine in U.S. Elections.
(«Stuart C. Dodd, Professor of Sociology, Ameri-
can University of Beirut, Lebanon, wrote this
letter, published in the N.Y. “Herald Tribune.’’)
In their eagerness to get the Jewish
vote both the Republicans and the Demo-
crats have inserted into their platforms a
plank which urges unlimited immigration
of Jews into Palestine. As America hears
the Jewish voice but seldom hears
the Arab side of the case, it may interest
fair-minded voters to realise a few conse-
quences of this plank. These conse-
quences are as seen by one who has lived
for 16 years out there, with warm friend-
ships among both Jews and Arabs. Also,
as the organiser of the only poll of public
opinion held in that part of the world, he
has been in an unusual position to
observe the trends.
(1) The Arabs intend again to resist
unlimited Jewish immigration with blood-
shed, if such immigration is again im-
posed on them by force. To urge Jewish
migration there is to offer Jews, not the
security they so urgently need, but a
threat of new pogroms. This plank tends
towards civil war in Palestine, with
America and England taking sides against
each other.
(2) The international security called for
in the platforms is contradicted by this
plank. For it tends to convert the present
vast Arab goodwill toward America into
bitter-resentment and active enmity. Mil-
lions of Arabs will see this plank as ruth-
less imperialism crushing down their
rights because of mere expediency in
the U.S. election. This American im-
perialism speaks louder to them than our
claims to be fighting for freedom. That
Americans do not generally see it as
imperialism is because America is igno-
rant of the Arab side of the Zionist con-
troversy.
(3) America has a large and increasing
stake in the oilfields of Arabia. Insofar
as we make bitter enemies of the Arabs,
the Palestinian plank tends towards a
future choice before us of losing those oil
fields or keeping them with the bayonets
and the lives of American soldiers.
The question is whether the Republi-
cans and Democrats are wise in inviting
Jewish votes at a cost of reduced inter-
national security by inciting further con-
flict abroad.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Any “peace” must be a “negotiated peace”
if it is to be at all. It is true that Europe
has never known a single century of freedom
from war— that is, never has achieved a really
lasting peace. We talk, indeed, of the “long
peace” between 1815 and 1870. Yet there were
many “peaces” and “peace treaties” which did
liquidate the issues of the conflicts that they
terminated. That other “issues” arose does
not change that fact. Vienna is a case in point.
It liquidated the Napoleonic attempt at “world
power.” The new and far more dangerous
attempt of Nazidom must similarly be liquid-
ated if Europe is to have peace again for a
while and “liquidation” implies “negotiation”
sometime with someone. — Thomas A. Wood-
lock; “Wall-street Journal.’''
* * * *
The wheat carryover in the United States
declined by over 250,000,000 bushels during the
crop year ended June 30, 1944. The four great
wheat exporting countries together reported a
cut in their carryover of some 600,000,000
bushels, the largest yet recorded in any one year.
Despite this sharp reduction in the carryover,
it is now feared in some quarters that world
markets will be confronted with a burdensome
surplus of wheat next year should the war in
Europe end soon. — N.Y. “Journal of Com-
merce.”
* * .
Since the beginning of the war the United
Kingdom’s exports have dropped substantially.
She refuses to allow our [U.S.] officials to re-
lease actual figures, but unofficial estimates
range from a 60 per cent to a 75 per cent loss.
After the war with Germany ends she should
be able to step her exports up considerably,
with or without lend-lease support, but it may
take some time before her production is suffi-
cient to bring them up to pre-war levels. Also,
since the outbreak, of war she has lost (through
Japanese conquest in the Far East) and liqui-
dated an estimated 50 per cent of her foreign
investments. These estimates again are unoffi-
cial because of the deep secrecy—never fully
explained—that surrounds these figures. Ameri-
can officials believe, off the record, that she has
liquidated more than a third of her U.S. hold-
ings.^-N.Y. “Journal of Commerce.”
* * * *
War eats with a terrible appetite not only
materials but men. The fighters who are best
supplied with the material things war consumes
have the best chance to survive. They have the
best chance to come home. We who are not
in uniform have a moral responsibility to the
men we sent so far away to risk mutilation and
death in order that we might survive as a free
people.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Reports from exchanged American war
prisoners reveal unspeakable conditions in Ger-
man camps. One prisoner, recently returned
from Oflag Camp No. 54, in occupied Poland,
reports the diet as follows : Breakfast—Nothing
(with water if you want it). Lunch —Thin soup,
one thin slice of black bread (occasionally
“Unconditional surrender” should
be easily comprehensible. It means
exactly what it says, namely, the
laying down of arms by the de-
feated army and the acceptance of
whatever terms the victors impose
for suspension of military action —
that is, as the price of an armistice.
That is all that it is. It has no
further connection with the
“peace.” The essential thing in it
is its acceptance by the defeated
party —real acceptance as the lesser
of two evils. —Thomas A. Wood-
lock ; “Wall-street Journal.”
mouldy, invariably stale). Supper—Two pota-
toes. Were it not for food packages from the
Red Cross prisoners could not live. As it is,
mpst are suffering from malnutrition. — Drew
Pearson; N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
In the shadow of Mount Parnassus there
existed until very recently the village of Dis-
tomo. It had enjoyed its hour of fame more
than a century ago, when the intrepid
George Karaiskas won a signal victory there
during the Greek war of independence. It had
survived its hour of defeat, when the German
avalanche rolled down from the north. Early
in June 30 Germans were killed near Distomo
in a clash with partisans of the Hellenic Libera-
tion Front. The next day the town was sur-
rounded by Nazi Elite Guards. With sys-
tematic thoroughness the entire population of
1000 souls was herded into the square. When
the Red Cross got there several days later they
found only charred ruins and a few half-mad
children roaming in the woods. — N.Y. “Herald
Tribune,”
* * * *
An official tally adds up to 12,086 Jap ’planes
destroyed in the air or on the ground by
American fliers since Pearl Harbor. This comes
to an average of better than 12 enemy aircraft
eliminated per day by American fliers alone. —•
Milwaukee “Journal” ( U.S.A .).
* * * *
American trucks are carrying a good 50 p.c.
of the highway-borne military supplies to the
Russian front.— Chief of the American military
mission to Moscow. Major-General John R.
Deane.
* * * *
Uninstructed by the warning of General
George C. Marshall’s objection to Senator
Robert F. Wagner’s resolution for unrestricted
immigration into Palestine as “prejudicial to
the Allied war effort in the Near East,” the
Republicans included in their platform a similar
programme, while the Democrats added the
Jewish Commonwealth, presumably political,
to their platform, despite Zionist assurances
that there was no question of a Jewish Stare,
co-signatoiSTof P thfXlamt ed t dtizen5 ’
t ro iiers of some of the ™!^ rter ’ ®°?’
the world, should seek to prove their svmnathv
h tl f.^ se^ uteci . Eur °pean Jewry not by open-
d ir ° t^ n d °^;, but by forcing yet more
themselves are neither the owners nor the man
controllers nor even members of the
League which controls the mandatory.— Former
v lllta iA £ nd Clvd T Govern or of Jerusalem Sir
RomU ?""• " "f-% a-**"
The time is fast approaching when Great
Britain and the United States must reach de-
9 181on8 which will largely determine the
immediate maritime future of the world. The
united states is destined to emerge from the
ar equipped with the greatest merchant fleet
world history, but without any certainty
It can or desires to employ more than
*} a , *he British will emerge with a sorely
depleted fleet, but with the conviction that it
18 a matter of life and death to them to attain
an d, perhaps, once again surpass shipping
equality with the United States. It is no more
... be expected that the British will accept
without a struggle the role of a second-rate
maritime Power than it is to be expected that
the United States will willingly revert to its
Pm-war position m this respect. The problem
18 to establish some form of modus vivendi
that will reconcile the maritime aspirations of
both peoples with the least possible friction.
N.Y, Journal of Commerce.”
. * * *
Brisbane an American technical sergeant
“ om Ohio showed me a tiny bicycle-repair
shop. This,” he said, “is practically half
mine. Ive got an understanding with the
owner. When the war’s over I’m buying into
lt- ” e re going to make our own parts. Then
our own bikes. Then—hell, I don’t know yet,
but it doesn’t matter. They need stuff here,
and I’ve got the know-how. Back home a
million guys have got the know-how. Here
b-’ s something. Here I’ll be a big shot. ’
David G. Wittels; “Saturday Evening Post.”


Public Notice.
I, PAUL KENDE, of Hungarian nationality, born
at Pecs, Hungary, and resident five years in Aus-
tralia, now at “Gresham,” No. 6 Flat, 4 Norwich
Road, Rose Bay, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM BOWMAN, late of Christchurch, New
Zealand, or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with the District Public Trustee, Christ-
church, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE CONSTANCE MARY JANE MADELEY late of
Glenora Street Wynnum Brisbane in the State of
Queensland. —NOTICE is hereby given that EDWARD
GEORGE MADELEY usually known as “Ted” Made-
ley Wood Carver last heard of in Sydney in the State
of New South Wales or any person having knowledge
of his whereabouts and all persons claiming by or
through him to be entitled to share in the estate of
the abovenamed Constance Mary Jane Madeley late
of Glenora Street Wynnum Brisbane in the State of
Queensland who died on or about the ninth day of
November 1940 at Glenora Street Wynnum Brisbane
in the said State ,are hereby required to communicate
with THE PUBLIC CURATOR of Queensland Bris-
bane on or before the Thirtieth day of November
1944 and that after the expiration of the last men-
tioned date The Public Curator will proceed to
distribute the assets of the said deceased amongst the
parties entitled thereto having regard only to the
claims of which he shall then have had notice.
Dated this Twenty-second day of September, 1944.
PUBLIC CURATOR,
Brisbane.
U7f7
Hjv&C
m
‘I want to swap the steamy jungle for the things that are waiting
for me back home . *. . the simple things like a picnic in the bush, with the
billy boiling and the smoke spiralling to the sky; and the dance in the old
barn; and the little church on top of the rise. But I’ll stick in the jungle
till my job is done —until every Jap is cleared away and the sun of Nippon
sinks in flames. Only then can I come back to the things I want and the
people I love.
“If you all, at home, put victory first,
then I won’t be away so long. But if you let a
few good headlines make you complacent; if
you forget that victories in Europe don’t kill
any Japs —then this Pacific war may last for
many more arduous and expensive months.”
We’re all in this war for the duration —
let’s all get on with the job of winning it.
INVEST IN THE
Hel P
' ri,e ” you !or
,oty «»»* U Z
. W,te -an.e of *
district i n thp y ° Ur
Vided on the n P T
fo ™ you pphca “ou
- wiSl
1 Qtlof<
District
Zeccnd Vic&tof LmW'
2V.12.1S
55658
:
i
years’ reputation for quality •
CRAVENI
10 FOR 1/1
v
20 FOR 2/2
Save your money to save your Freedom.
Invest in War Savings Certificates.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Investments (Angas), Business Cycles
(Mitchell), and Business Annals, by Thorp and
Mitchell. —3522.
To buy “Sydney Mail” of Oct. or Nov.,
1915, describing the Armistice on Gallipoli.
3523.
To buy vols. two and three of Black’s Flora
of South Australia. —3524.
To buy Rio Grande and Other Poems, by
“Banjo” Paterson. —3525.
To buy The Science of Life. —3526.
Information Sought.
Information aßout cattle mobs brought from
the N.T. in 1942 ?
No. 1 mob left Lisadell on June 14 with
Alexander Potts from that station. At New-
castle Waters it was taken over by Ted Lewis,
who delivered the cattle at Lake Marion on
Nov. 10. Mob 2 left Alice Downs on June 24
with Alf Johnstone; Dave Macindoe took over
at Newcastle Waters, and arrived at Morston
Downs on Dec. 27. Mob 3 left Newry on
July 6 with Jack D’Arcy, who delivered it to
Morston Downs on Nov. 2. Mob 4 left
Nevergne on July 7 with Alf Hansen, and was
delivered to Lake Marion on Nov. 6. Mob 5
left Lisadell 'on July 8, and was delivered to
Morston Downs by Jack Graham on Nov. 29.
Mob. 6 left Argyle Downs on July 10 with
Norm Stacey, who delivered it to Dijarra on
Nov. 27. Jack Althaus left Inverway with
Mob 7 on July 24 and delivered it to Lake
Marion on Dec. 18. In all, 9238 cattle left the
yarding area at Hall’s Creek; 6155 arrived at
pasture. Some of those lost have since been
recovered.
* * * *
Details of the wreck of S.S. Quetta? Who
owned her?
On her way from Brisbane to London she
struck a submerged rock in Adolphus Channel
(near Torres Strait) on Feb. 28, 1890. The
ship’s bottom was ripped out and she sank in
a few minutes. One hundred and thirty-four
lives were lost; there were 150 survivors, in-
cluding two women. ■ The boat was a British
India steamer.
* * * *
When did the first electric train run on the
fiJS.W. railways?
A six-car set left the Mbrtdale car sheds at
7.10 a.m. on March 1, 1926. This train ran
empty to Rockdale and then served all stations
to Sydney, where it arrived at 7.48 a.m. During
the day it ran between Sydney and Oatley.
i Brief Answers.
G.R.D.: An artificial compound is one pro-
duced as an imitation of something found in
nature —the word is used as opposed to natural.
A synthetic compound is one built up by the
union of simple ingredients or its elements/...
W.8.D.: Written by J. Milton Hayes E.G.:
Not possible to give a general ruling C.L.:
Apply to Registrar in Divorce, Supreme Court,
King-street, Sydney J.L.: “Mr. Smith has
been dismissed from the service” is correct....
D. 8.: It was drawn up at a conference in an
Atlantic port in .August, 1941... .M.D.: The
present market for felspar is fully supplied,
and material from new sources can be sold only
if it is supplied at a lower price than that now
ruling D.M.Y.: Nearest words are (1)
Millumbawa or Murningulpa, (2) Wildoona
8.P.: The point is not covered in the latest
Rules of Auction Bridge; should say that a
bid of three hearts after a bid of two hearts
has been doubled would stand as an undoubled
bid, if not also doubled by the opposition.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
'
P.L.C.: Promising if you’re young G.W.:
Try thg spring SQng on a daily... .E.J.0.:
“Judgment Day” falls short of heavenly
NK _. Call a g a in... .k.V.N. : All poems en-
titled “Wanderlust” are the same poem
G.R.: “What are the. most suitable poems for
publication?” Good ones M.T.: Sorry;
must have been the gremlins E.O’M.: No im-
provement on “Danny Boy” D.H.R.: Good
idea; a picture of the watch would have im-
proved the ending W.P.: Sonnet laborious,
C.W.: Notes on gum-trees with pink rib-
bons in their hair might please very young
children... .A.D.McK.: Phoebus wings upon his
way E. 8.; “We, united, strive to ply The
fabric of our nation’s flag With firmer grip from
crag to crag.” We what ? J.F.: Shakspearc
and water C.W.W.; “I have even gone the
whole hog and composed music to suit'.” Poem
provoked us to a grunt, too N.R.Y.: Con-
ventional, but nicely done K.E.; Patchy.
D.H.: Not a hope A.W.: “I am en-
closing a few lines about Hitler.” As usual,
they’re about the devil kicking him out of hell.
P.N.R.: Pretty; but that’s not enough....
P.M.J.: Character interesting; anecdote point-
less M.R.: No use trying to conceal a weak
conclusion with an exclamation mark.


1,260 Hours between overhauls
with no intermediate top overhauls
mm
THE TRAINING ENGINE OF THE EMPIRE
De Havilland Aircraft Pty. Ltd.
Australian Branch of the
DE HAVILLAND WORLD FORMATION
Great Britain Australia India
Canada Africa New Zealand
DH. 16
YOUR FAMILY’S FUTURE
NOWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many.
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desired to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trustee with t e
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility; that can guaranty
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 58 years’ experience.
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the Compan> 5
service and what it costs.
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS: T. 11. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox,
H. Norman Pope; Allen 0. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others, A
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £63,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Rubber Aust., Ltd.
, Parent’s Figures.
Net r Dividends , To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ i £ £ £
1934.. 10 p.c. 5 p.c. = 281,283 6,646 144,621
Unexplained reductions, £37,392 .. 107,229
1935.. 016 10 p.c. Nil 93,000 27,016 134,245
1936.-307,183 10 p.c. 5 p.c. = 281,283 25,900 160,145
1937.. 409 10 „ 7 „ 356,595 53,814 213,959
1938.. 414.702 10 „ 7 ~ ~ 356,596 58,106 272,065
1939.. 417.650 10 „ 7 ~ 356,596 61,054 333,119
1940.. 450.505 10 „ 7 „ „ 356,596 93,909 427,028
1941.-381,369 10 „ 7 .. ~356.596 24,773 451,801
1942.. 375.768 10 „ 5 „ 281,282 94,486 540,287
1943.. 386.293 10 ~ 5 ~ „ 281,282 105,011 651,298
1944.. 316 10 „ 5 „ „ 281,282 99,034 750,332
t Goodwill ( £354,377 in parent’s books) not treated
as an asset herein.
Before the outbreak of war defence
requirements called for no more than
about 12 p.c. of the co.’s turnover. Now
they take practically the lot. Expanding
service demands and loss of 90 p.c. of
the world’s rubber-producing areas, fol-
lowing the Jap thrust into Malaya and
the near-by Indies, called for drastic cur-
tailment of civilian consumption—petrol
rationing played a part, too —and Gov-
ernment control of production, distribu-
tion and consumption of rubber goods
followed.
Then, last term, there came control
of selling prices, and with it the limiting
of profit margins. There is nothing in
the published figures to suggest the need
for this. The table shows a contraction
in net earnings and recession in the div.
from 7 p.c. to 5 p.c. This because of
the narrower margins on defence con-
tracts and increases in taxation and costs
generally, including the cost of getting
cotton, sulphur and carbon black from
overseas —zinc oxide (an activating agent)
and tar distillates (used as softening in-
gredients) are produced locally.
The co.’s success in meeting service and
other demands—it turns out about half
the tyres and two-fifths of other essen-
tial rubber goods produced in the Com-
monwealth —has been due partly to the
stock of crude accumulated before the
fall of Malaya, and partly to extensive
use of reclaim, production of which was
pioneered by Dunlop some 40 years ago.
Reclaim amounts to over one-third of the
total rubber content of most rubber
goods now produced in Australia.
To conserve the co.’s diminishing stock
of crude, synthetic rubber is to be used
during the current term. Two of the
organisation’s executives, together with
other representatives of the industry in
Australia, are now in America studying
technical and other problems involved.
Production of synthetic calls for special
plant, and, compared with natural rubber,
the stuff is harder to work, slower in pro-
cessing and involves the use of more
man-hours. For some special purpose
it is superior to crude, but for general
use, including tyres, it is not as suitable.
Since it may be some time after termi-
nation of hostilities before adequate sup-
plies of plantation rubber become avail-
able, the use of synthetic meanwhile will
be inevitable, despite questions of suit-
ability and cost.
Last term a new subsidiary, Dunlop
Waterproofs Australia Pty. (nominal
capital £75,000), set up in a factory leased
from the Government at Wagga (N.S.W.).
It is turning out waterproof garments
from chemically treated woollen
materials, mainly for the forces. Post-
war prospects of this latest offshoot are
encouraging.
After providing £135,235 (up £679) for
depreciation and making an unspecified
allowance for taxation, the parent’s net
earnings from all sources were £5977
lighter at £380,316 —from subsidiaries
£60,937 (up £11,295) and from trading
and other investments £319,379 (down
£18,216). The £380,316 was enough to
the pref. div, (10 p.c. = £93,000) and show
7.6 p.c. on the £3,765,655 of ord. capital
as against 7.8, 7.5, 7.6, 9.5, 8.6 and 8.5
p.c. back to 1938. The div. was kept
at 5 p.c.
The position was a little better than the
parent’s accounts alone disclosed. Com-
bined figures for the entire organisation
show net earnings at £381,132 (down
£9819). That was after allowing £144,748
(up £2202) for depreciation and whatever
was considered necessary for taxation.
The £99,034 of the parent’s net earn-
ings that remained, and £150,966 from
reserves as well, making £250,000 in all,
has been earmarked for developmental
and deferred expenditure post-war. This
in addition to the outlay that will be in-
volved in transfer of the Montague (Mel-
bourne) factory to Beaumaris, some 20
miles down the bay, where a Dunlop in-
dustrial centre, including a housing
scheme, etc., for employees is to be pro-
ceeded with as soon as conditions permit.
If Australia is to have a high level of
employment and a high standard of liv-
ing, its workers (in the most comprehen-
sive sense of the term) must creatp them
by their own performances. In making the
financial provision just referred to, the co.
is providing the means whereby such
things can be earned ; and its action in
this respect deserves more recognition by
way of tax relief than the Government
has yet seen fit to grant.
Consolidated balance-sheet figure of the
parent and subsidiaries show a healthy
financial position:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Paid capital— 1939. 1943. 1944.
Dunlop interest £4,695,655 £4,695,655 £4,695,655
Outside interest* 222,379 25,951 26,617
Reserves! . . . . 692,281 1,010,045 1,110,190
Liabilities.. .. 290,564 279,547 382,428
Tax reserve .. 112,270 254,368 232,627
Freeholds, etc. . . 1,216,009 1,026,676 1,009,546
Plant, etc 1,054,565 748,062 764,671
Stocks .. ... 2,116,460 1,907,092 1,776,275
Debtors . . . , 916,925 884,656 1,115,020
Investments, etc... 6,265 222,865 222,866
Cash, etc 217,977 878,404 960,587
Rationalisation acc. 46,137
Goodwill . . .. 630,830 739,708 739,699
* Includes share undistributed profits, f Subject to
goodwill and rationalisation account.
Last term an addition of £230,364 to
debtors’ balances and of £82,183 to the
cash holding, etc., was accompanied by a
contraction of £130,817 in stocks and a
growth of £102,881 in the amount com-
ing to trade creditors, etc. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£3,459,693) was £100,519.
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
& £ £ £
1934.. 228,295 12.5 p.c. =187,500
To staff pension fund, £20,000 10,795 1,320,311
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO
1935.. 232,809 10 p.c. = 150,000 7 79 RnQ
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO ( 13,809 1,598,1/0
1936.. 249,165 10 p.c. = 150,000 99,165 1,492,285
1937.. 288,456 10 „ „ 150,000 138,456 1,630,741
1938.. 321,884 10 „ „ 150,000 171,884 1,802,625
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,792,625
1939.. 260,837 10 p.c. = 150,000 110,837 1,903,462
Assets, adjustment, £296,808.. .. 2,200,270
To tajc reserve, £40,000 .. •• 2,160,270
War exes, donation, £20.000.. .. 2,140,270
1940.. 346,718 10 p.c. = 150,000 196,718 2,336,988
1941.. 392,340 12} „ „ 187,500 204,846 2,541,834
1942.. 415,877 124 „ „ 187,600 228,377 2,770,211
1943.. 624,124 12} „ „ 187,500 436,624 3,206,835
1044.. 542,440 12? „ „ 187,500 354,940 3,561,775
Over the last five years the figures are
in Maoriland currency, and therefore in-
• flated in comparison with earlier ones,
which take no account of exchange.
Before the books were ruled off in 1940
£296,808 was added to reserves on ac-
count of unearned increment arising out
of the exchange value of assets held out-
side the Dominiofi.
About one-fifth of the co.’s contracts
are written in N.Z. An idea of the
geographical spread of the other four-
fifths can be had from the following dis-
section of Government and municipal
security holdings, which accounted for
66.8 p.c. of total assets at end of May;
United Kingdom .. .. . . * £1,317,364
Maoriland and Australia .. .. 1,769,259
Union of South Africa . . . . 85,584
India .. .. . . . . . . 46,650
United States of America . . . . 744,815
Argentine .. ~ .. .. 435,875
Additions to these holdings last term
were United Kingdom £253,652, United
States £221,713, Argentine £81,616, Maori-
land and Australia £75,828. There was
little change in the figures for S. Africa
and India. Bulk of the world’s marine
business today consists of risks originat-
ing in U.S.A., the U.K. and Argentine.
War Shipping Administration (U.S.A.)
has insured in the open market all
ocean-going merchant tonnage which
is under hare-boat charter to it,
and that is virtually the whole of
the American merchant marine. And
the U.S. Government has officially
announced “restoration to the commer-
cial market of a large volume of builder's
i isk insurance on vessels under construc-
tion m American shipyards.” In the U.K.
the Ministries of Food and Supply have
placed in the open market substantial
marine contracts covering the bulk of
their respective imports.
And the enterprising management has
lost no time in extending the co.’s activi-
ties in other fields. Last term a number
of new branches was opened in India,
and in East and South Africa, all ot
which look like promising fields for fire,
accident and motor-car insurance post-
war. This extension of activity, together
with the large volume of marine business
at rates inflated by war conditions, and
more fire premiums, owing to growth of
merchant inventories, have more than
compensated for loss of the co.’s East
Asian business, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s monopoly of marine war-risks
on the Australian coast and shrinking in
motor-vehicle insurance.
The spring in net premium income
last term was £109,903;
Loss Expenw
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1910., £605,509 £391,321 £172,593 64.5 28.5
1920.. 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1931.. 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
1939. . 1,405,787. 910,489 377.632 64.8 26.8
1940. . 1,763,659 1,105,966 462,809 62.7 26.2
1941. . 1,948,595 1,099,744 570,448 56.5 29.2
1942. . 2,079,841 1,140,948 647,966 54.8 32.1
1943.. 2,412,183 1,338,808 622,039 65.5 25.8
1944. . 2,522,086 1,247,031 926,199 49.4 36.7
The loss rate (down £6 2s. p.c.) was one
of the lightest in the co.’s 65 years’ ex-
perience, thanks largely to the success of
the Allies in dealing with the submarine
menace. But extension of activities
bumped up the expense rate by £lO 9s.
p.c. The underwriting surplus (£348,856,
down £102,480) was 23.2 p.c. on capital,
and interest and rents turned in £166,340
(up £14,219), or 11.1 p.c. on capital.
Including an unexplained addition of
£27,244 to investment fluctuation reserve,
the net return on capital from all sources
was 36.1 p.c., as against 40.1, 27.6, 26.1
and 23.1 p.c. back to 1940. It needs to
be remembered, however, that the profit
shown in the table makes no allowance
for unexpired risks, usually long-winded
in the marine section, and that capital
has the support and assistance of reserves
over 2\ times its own size.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in. this solid form:
1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
£'£ £ £
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 772,108 998,003.1,134,163 1,418,192
Public securi-
ties .. 2,793,221 3,182,043 3,777,046 4,409,809
Mortgages. . I),281 5,2 10 2,331
Shares, etc. 744,982 757,961 656,41.0 599,627
Freeholds . . 572,898 596,152 596,15 p 620, 81 S
Agency bal-
ances and
cash . . 815,427 839,270 018,672 959,8ft2
Liabilities consist of provision for unex-
pired losses (£766,206, up £96,589) and
sundry creditors and provision for taxa-
tion (£641,986, up £187,440). Available
funds were channelled into public secu-
rities (up £632,763).
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ & £» £
1934. 69,255 8 p.c. - 50 000 7 16 7fi - 155>701
Provident fund. £2500 1
1935.. 83,539 8 p.c. * 57,115 7 23 924 159 625
Provident fund. £2500 ( 23,924 109,6 “°
1936.. 93,739 8 p.c. = 67,415 7 23.824 183,449
Provident fund, £2500 1
1937. . 134,118 10 p.c. = 104,167 7 27,451 210 900
Provident fund, £2500 f
1938.. 102,555 8 p.c. = 90,101 7 g ) g s4 220,854
Provident fund, £2500 }
1939. . 140,669 10 p.c. = 125,000 1 13 igg 234,023
Provident fund, £2500 f
1940.. 133,307 8 p.c. = 113,115 747 593 251,715
Provident fund, £2500 1
1941. .138,683 8 p.c. - 120,000 7 16>183 2 67.89 S
Provident fund, £2500 }
1942.. 113,360 74 p.c.= 112,500 7 __ 266
Provident fund, £2500 1
Intangibles disappear, £ll,lOO .. 277,Cm!
1943.. 139,204 7} p.c.= 112,500 ) 24 2 04 301,562
Provident fund, £2500 S
1944.. 142,653 8 p.c. n 120,000 7 20 153 321 715
Provident fund, £2500 j ’
Brewers this co. and Queensland
Brewery are the two principal ones in the
northern State—have gathered more on
the war-time swings than they have lost
on the taxation and other roundabouts.
War, which set the north buzzing with
activity, gave rise to a new and strong


Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big.. King & Castlereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at all branches
Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Home-
'.solders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
IHahufacturers
Filter
■iijwwSj
Cylinder
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Public Notice.
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED.
NOTICE is hereby given, that the Transfer Books
and Register of Members of the abovenamed Com-
pany will be closed from 2nd November to Bth
November, 1944, both dates inclusive.
The last Meeting of Directors at which shares
can be transferred before the closing of the Trans-
fer Books will be held on Wednesday, Ist November,
and Transfers to be dealt with at that Board Meet-
ing will require to be lodged with the Company
by noon on Monday, 30th October, 1944.
By Order of the Board,
Kent Brewery, S. PENTON,
Sydney, 18th Oct., 1944. Secretary.
Position Vacant.
MARINE BOARD OF LAUNCESTON,
TASMANIA.
Applications are invited for the position of Harbor
and Works Engineer to the above Board for a mini-
mum period of five (5) years. ,
Applicant to have thorough knowledge of Harbor
development and maintenance, concrete and wooden
wharves, training walls, and hydrographic surveys,
etc and must furnish particulars of qualifications
and previous experience, together with age, and
military service if any. ...
Salary at the rate of £lOOO per annum, rising by
vearlv increments of £5O to £l2OO per annum.
Applications addressed to the Secretary, and en-
dorsed “Harbor Engineer” must reach the Board’s
Esplanade, Launceston, Tasmania, not later
than'noon on the 15th February, 1945.
GEO. S. MEREDITH,
Secretary.
INVEST
I N
WAR
BONDS
m
■
■R
“We make it possible"
says lack Ryan, Machinist
"We in the tool room take a pride in
every Richards job, because we made it
possible. Another thing we’re proud of
is that the main factory hasn’t asked
us for a template, jig or die yet that
we couldn’t supply —and since the war
started they’ve set us some tough
assignments. There’ll be a lot of re-
tooling to do when peace frees us to put
Richards’ Bodies and Richards’ peace-
time products back into circulation,
but we’ll see that there’s no time lost
on the job.”
RICHARDS INDUSTRIES LIMITED
r. a MC.
j# WTf Cfe
£
<<✓
-A
St
-A
CL
m
Kfi.
C\^ V
c,V^
&
>s■
C\°
S>*
V^ V
N c.o
o\^'
\l\w
y4/so Medium
and Full Strength
If you’d like to smack a Jap —
Smack him with a Victory Bond.
demand for beer in the shape of service
requirements for our own and Allied
forces. Moreover, these requirements
rail outside the public rationing scheme,
under which civilian consumption is
ne»eed at two-thirds of the Jan.-Feb.,
1942, level. ■ . .
Though this service demand is shared
by southern breweries, the northern co s
oet their full share of the trade,
and they also gained a bit on the
civilian side, following the ban on inter-
state freighting of ale and stout. Also,
increased employment in production or
war goods, and wage lifts, and satisfac-
tory returns for primary products under
Government contracts all helped to
swell the volume of spending-power. In-
creases in excise, aggregating ,2s. 10d. per
gallon since 1939, have been all passed
on to consumers. But the substantial
increase in taxation and other costs have
had to be absorbed by traders.
There appears to have been no check
to expansion of turnover last term. After
setting aside £150,000 (up £10,000) for
the taxgatherer—the Government gets
more out of the business than share-
holders —and openly allowing £12,474
(down £2676) for depreciation, the amount
available for shareholders was £3449
better at £142,653. This was 9,5 p.c. on
capital as against 9.3, 7.5, 9.2, 9.4 and
11.2 p.c. back to 1939. Half a point was
added to the div., making it 8 p.c., and
after sending the customary £2500 to the
staff fund, £20,150 was put on the shelf,
raising the lay-by to £321,715. Though
this is none too stout a prop for capital,
assets appear to be conservatively valued
in the books. Hotel freeholds figure at
£1,507,794 (down £5093 last term),
whereas furniture and plant in these
hotels is given a book value of only
£l4B7 —scarcely the cost of footrails.
Pre-war there was vigorous competi-
tion between this co. and Queensland
Brewery. It took the form of purchase
of hotel properties, in order to tie down
PATENTS. —Have vou an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorney*.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Abvt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street. Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —AuVT.
the market for their products, there being
no price-cutting in the trade. For the
half-dozen years to the close or accounts
in 1940, C.P. added no less than
£1,011,688 to the book value of hotel
properties. To finance the outlay, share-
holders put up £875,000 of fresh capital
at par, and the management went out-
side for an extra £152,699. War halted
expansion in this direction, and limited
expenditure on improvements, etc;, as
well, which means that the bill for re-
novations and replacements will be sub-
stantial when man-power and materials
for the purpose become available. Here
are balance-sheet figures;
1935. 1940. 1943. 1944.
. . 781.250 1.500.000 1,600.000 1.600.000
r OKI QB4 310,898 300,574 .. *1,410
Tax reserve.'.’ “so’.OOO 106,000 140,000 150,000
’’ffieT 329,732 471,720 506,750 498,957
Debtors " 9M59 110,887 100,6 9
Cash. etc. .. 13,715 32,237 42,040 73,240
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
When the books last closed liabilities, in-
cluding the tax reserve, exceeded more
or less liquids by £119,856, an improve-
ment of £52,625 over the twelvemonth.
“0.8 ”: Edna May struggles on at
Westonia (W.A.). A loss of £8220 for
the year to June 30 last compares with a
loss of £11,593 the previous year, and a
profit of £11,392 the year before that.
When the co. acquired the property, from
which four Adelaide cos, which closed
down in 1922 had taken a combined pro-
duction of 294,4630 z. of gold, it raised a
six-figure sum in share money to reopen,
recondition, equip and “bring the venture
to continuous and profitable production.
Ore reserves were estimated to contain
£750,000 worth of gold, the calculation
being made at a time when the price of
the metal was lower than it is today.
Shareholders received one div. of 6d. a
share early in 1941.
* * * *
Possibility of turning the gold-bearing
Kanowna pug (W.A.) to profitable
account after the war is being talked ot
in Perth. The general opinion among
mining men with Kanowna experience is
that the average value of the hitherto
unsuccessfully treated pug is very low,
and that the real difficulty of extracting
the gold arises more from its absence
in payable quantities than from the re-
fractory nature of the material. The rich
patches, they say, seem to be irregularly
distributed,
* * 4= *
Profit of South Kalgurli (W.A.) for the
12 months to the end of March last was
£26,833 stg., compared with £20,353 the
year before. Dividends of 22j p.c. from
mining profits and bonus of 2? p.c. from
non-mining profits are unchanged. Allow-
ing for U.K. income tax of 10s. in the
£ and exchange at the current rate, net
dividend per 100 shares is £3 17s. 9d.
Australian. „
* * * *
Belated accounts of Boulder Persever-
ance (W.A.) for the 12 months of 1943
show a profit of £18,860, or £30,468 less
than for the previous yfear. Lower tonnage,
due to man-power shortage, and higher
war-time costs are responsible. The div.,
25 p.c. for 1942, was lowered to 15 p.c.
* * * *
Some of the old resurrected mines at
the northern end of Kalgoorlie (W.A.)
have proved profitable. In one, Devon
Consols, a rich patch of ore struck the
other day yielded 70oz. of gold, J nCiU “'
ing 17oz. of specimens, nearly all gold.
It was in this part of the field that the
Hidden Secret, a pipe of telluride me,
was located about 40 years ago. Unlike
the tellurides in Golden Mile mines two
to three miles further south, the Hidden
Secret contained a very high percentage
of silver and comparatively low propor-
tion of gold. The pipe vanished at shal-
low depth, and no other has been found
at the north end.


FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
-
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
The “VENUS” 7-inch LATHE
STURDY
QUICK
ACCURATE
Built in Australia to
Schlesinger Standards
ol Accuracy.
Manufactured by
MARS Machine Tool Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole pist. Agents for N.S.W.: THOS. HERBERT & Co. Pty. Ltd., Clarence
St., Sydney; for Victoria: THOMPSON & WILLIAMS Pty. Ltd., 28 Market
St., Melbourne; Stockists: GOODALL & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney
Dynamically
Balanced
sd
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as —
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts.or approved
purposes.
The following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months :
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Full particulars at Personal Loans Dept;
4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
Business, Rollery, Ete.
Second Victory Loan
Subscriptions to the Second Victory
Loan have not been helped by either Mr.
Lazzarini’s crack-brained views on bank-
ing or by the industrial turmoil in N. S.
Wales, where the printers and journalists’
strike showed signs of spreading like a
cancer. At the middle of last week, after
a fortnight’s publicity and canvassing,
Mr. Chifley announced that £B5 million
of the £l6O million had been taken,
largely, he said, by the life-assurance
societies and the savings banks. New cash
amounting to £62 million had come in,
with £23 million converted in the matur-
ing loan. But the Treasurer was clearly
disappointed with support from indi-
viduals.
And he had reason. It is time Austra-
lians looked into the realities of war
loans as they have never looked before.
They should clear their minds of the
fuzz and fog of cranky currency ideas
and “class” chatter and give commonsense
a chance. It is to the individual good
and the common good that our war loans
should receive enthusiastic, widespread
and representative public support.
Later in the week knight Claude Read-
ing, of the central bank board, said that
incomes from wages, as from other
sources, would be threatened if inflation
followed inadequate support of war loans.
The fact that the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank had to take up over £BO million
of Commonwealth loans during the year
to June 30 la'st shows that direct and
spontaneous public support in two loans
which yielded £277 million was short of
the desirable thing. The first loan brought
m £126.4 million from 567,700 sub-
scribers, including the savings banks and
life offices; the second £150.5 million
from 452,916 applicants. Applications
for the first loan represented approxi-
mately one in 12.7 of the population, the
second one in 15.9. The Canadian re-
sponse to the Sixth Victory Loan was
one in 3.8 (from 3,077,123 subscribers),
which was the best to date, though the
average right through has been high. The
position is that in Canada nearly four
times as many people (in proportion to
population) put money into war loans
by comparison with Australia.
Public borrowing in Canada last year
fully covered the gap left after taxation had
all been spent, and there was no budgetary
recourse to the chartered banks or to the
central bank for any new financial assist-
ance. The savings banks were called
upon for only $lO million, which is less
than £3 million Australian. Individuals —
entirely apart from limited-liability com-
panies of any kind—put nearly £370 mil-
lion into loans in Canada last year, where
the population is about 11,700,000. Non-
individuals—that is, insurance and other
cos., etc.—found close on £420 million.
The sol id public support for war loans
in Canada is reflected (a) in the virtual
absence of any bank-credit finance, a
thing only too obvious in Australia, and
( b ) in the minor role which savings banks
(as banks) play in the filling of public
loans. The difference between Canada
and Australia, so far as savings banks
are concerned, is that in Canada deposi-
tors of their own accord apparently with-
draw or earmark a considerable part of
their deposits for investment in war loans.
In Australia there is too little of this direct
investment in war loans by s.-b. deposi-
tors, and as a result of poor public loan
support generally and the rapidly mount-
ing pile of s.-b. deposits the s.-b. boards
re-invest in war loans on their own re-
sponsibility large sums deposited with
them.
This is a most* unsatisfactory position
for the country to be in. It is charged
with almost the same inflationary possibili-
ties as use of central-bank credit, because
s.-b. depositors are entitled to withdraw
their money after the banks have put
part of it into loans, whereas if they had
subscribed direct to war loans depositors
would not create additional cash if they
sold a bond.
For the success of this loan Australia
will want to see large withdrawals from
the savings banks and corresponding in-
vestment in the war loan, as well as in-
vestments from current earnings. The
country can do several times better than
it has done to date. Since Japan entered
the war there has not been one really
creditable public response to war loans.
It is up to Australians to make the Second
Victory loan an exception to this experi-
ence.
Plainly, Australians, by helping to fill
war loans, are helping themselves finan-
cially as well as helping to hasten the end
of the war. The population should stir
itself into a mood of determination and
financial responsibility.
In his last Budget speech Canada’s
Finance Minister Ilsley said: “It is on
the increase in personal savings, and on
the work of the war-finance organisations
in mobilising those savings, that we must
rely. Borrowing the personal savings of
individuals for the temporary use of a
nation at war is the only type of borrow-
ing which will relieve rather than in-
crease the inflationary pressures which
are continuously at work.” These re-
marks apply with more than equal em-
phasis to Australia. We have only
scratched the surface in “borrowing the
personal savings of individuals.”
Canada’s Post-war Planning
The latest from Ottawa;
Plans have been made for three new depart-
ments of the Federal Government, namely (1)
a Department of Veterans’ Affairs, to have
charge of rehabilitation and re-establishment
ot veterans’ pensions and allowances; (2) a
Department ot Reconstruction, to promote and
co-ordinate planning for national development
and post-war employment; (3) a Department of
National Health and Welfare, to organise and
assist in administering activities of the Federal
Government in the held of health and social
insurance.
A War Service Grants Bill passed the third
reading without a dissenting voice. It allocates
a sum of £A215,000,000 for war service gratu-
ities. These are based on length of home ser-
(£2 2s. a month) and overseas service
(£4 4s. a month). Generals and privates with
similar service records receive the same amount.
In addition, every man serving overseas will
receive seven days’ pay and allowances, in-
cluding dependents’ allowances, for every six
months of overseas service.
In practice, a private who has seen a year’s
service in Canada and three years’ overseas, if
married and having two children, will receive:
Gratuity £177
Extra overseas pay .. .. 57
Rehabilitation grant .. .. 31
Clothing allowance ~ .. 28
Total £293
Of the total, £ll6 is payable in cash on dis-
charge and £177 is payable in monthly instal-
ments not exceeding the soldier’s rate of pay
and allowances.
In addition, loans may be granted to service-
mC u t 0 amount of their gratuity in order
to help buy or improve a home, buy a business
or tools of trade, Establish a new business, or
to pay premiums under a Government insur-
ance scheme.
The Government has established two agencies
JJ* c ° nne 9 tion with disposal of war material,
ihe first is a Crown Assets Allocation Commit-
tee, consisting of representatives of agriculture,
labor, industry and the Government, set up to
advise Cabinet on questions of general policy
affecting obsolete and surplus assets. The
second is a Crown company, the War Assets
Corporation, Ltd., which has been established
to handle the sale of war surpluses to the public.
Its policy in connection with Government-
owned plants is for the Government to retain
ownership of plants which can be best' operated
by the Government. In cases where plants
cannot be operated successfully in competition
with private industry they will either be sold
to private companies or shut down.
The Export Credit Act was passed to provide
export credit as a means of encouraging
Canada’s export trade after the war. The Act
has two sections. No. 1 establishes a Gov-
ernment-owned export credit insurance corpora-
tion, on a commercial and self-sustaining, but
non-profit-making, basis. No. 2 provides for
direct credit assistance to foreign Governments
for a three-year period during the transition
from war to peace.
Legislation has been enacted which will pro-
vide £A69,000,000 for Government assistance to
persons wishing to build or repair their own
homes, to aid in slum-clearance and stimulate
the building of low-rent housing units.
Under the housing programme £37,500,000
will be loaned for the construction of new homes.
Another £25,000,000 will be loaned for repairs
and modernisation to existing homes and
£5,000,000 will be made available for slum
clearance.
The Federal Government has constituted a
board to establish fair prices for farm products
during the transition from war to peace. The
board will have a fund of £55,560,000 at its
disposal.
Provision for establishment of an industrial
development bank to aid in the conversion of
war industry has been made. This bank will
be a subsidiary of the Bank of Canada, which
is owned by the Government. The bank will
have total resources of £27,500,000. This bank
will aid in the creation of new industries, as well
as in the conversion of war industries. The
object of the industrial bank is to supplement
existing lending facilities rather than displace
them.
The family allowance legislation, which will
cost £69,170,000 a year, will come into effect
from July 1, 1945. It will provide for the pay-
ment of allowances for all children under 16
years. The monthly scale proposed is 275. 6d.
for children under six years, 335. for children
6 to 10 years, 38s. 6d. for children 10 to 13
years and 445. for.children 13 to 16.
The term of knight Give McPherson,
of the Commonwealth Bank Board,
expires this month, and it is tipped that
he will not be nominated for a new term
by the Curtin Government. “This,” said
the “Argus’s” Canberra correspondent,
“notwithstanding the fact that M, B.
Duffy’s term as a member of the board
was renewed last month for another
seven years. The significant differ-
ence is that Mr. Duffy’s affiliations go
back to the trade-unions, and Sir Clive
McPherson’s to pastoral and financial in-
terests.” Mentioning the undoubted ser-
vices of McPherson to the central bank
and to the rural community, this corre-
spondent adds, “But the undisguised
policy of the Labor party is to change the
complexion of the Commonwealth Bank
administration, and Sir Clive McPher-
son’s affiliations with the Dunstan Gov-
ernment and his financial orthodoxy
make him unacceptable to some Minis-
ters in Canberra, and probably to the
majority of the rank and file in Caucus.”
Pointing out that the term of H. T. Armi-
tage, governor of the bank, expires in
June, 1946, and that of knight Claude
Reading, chairman of the bank board,
expires in January, 1946, this authority
says that “if this Government runs
its full term it may be able by automatic
administrative act to replace both the
present governor and the, chairman of the
bank with nominees appointed for seven
yfears each.” Yes, indeed, if the Govern-
ment runs jts full term.
* * * *
During the three months of 1944-45
to the end of September Australia spent
£111.5 million on war—£63.4 million out
of revenue and £48.1 million out of loan
money. Estimate of total defence expen-
diture for the year is £505 million, a rate
which has not been established by actual
spending over the first quarter of the
financial year. The Treasury-bill debt
stood at £378 million on Sept. 30.
* * * *
B. S. B. Stevens, formerly Premier of
N. S. Wales, says that the Federal Gov-
ernment’s .national welfare scheme will
cost more than £7O million a year, though
the Government has been talking in
terms of taxation running to £3O million.
As was pointed out in these pages last
week, “social security” in the past finan-
cial year cost the New Zealand Govern-
ment £17.6 million, and the population
of the islands, including Maoris, is about
1,637,000. That is less than a quarter of
a * lC ? n Commonwealth, so
tnat it a similar service per head is
rendered in Australia the cost is likely
o be at least the figure mentioned
by Stevens. In New Zealand a social
security tax of a shilling in the pound is
levied on all incomes, and, though this is
not so satisfactory as a contributory
scheme, it is a far fairer proposition than
one in which there is no certainty that
many beneficiaries will pay anything at
all towards the benefits they receive
* * * *
One of those terse little financial cables
ironi London mentions growing criticism
ol the international currency fund pro-
posals ; opposition has been expressed “at
numerous gatherings throughout the
country.” It goes on to say:
This movement, which is not connected
with any particular political party, has the
support of a number of members of Parlia-
ment, bishops, university professors and
many others equally distinguished. A good
deal of this opposition, which is really
based on the distrust of bankers —native
and international—and the hostility to-
wards gold itself as a standard in controll-
ing exchanges, is inclined to be confused.
Confusion of this type is not unusual
where eccelesiastics, wishfpl thinkers,
Communists and those who by ancestry
and temperament are “agin the Govern-
ment” get together and overwhelm the
voices of those who talk less but reason
more. One service bankers render is the
comparative freedom from confusion
which accompanies their activity. Most
confusion in economic matters these days
arises from political interference. Bank-
ing and economic management are still
open to improvement vast improve-
ment —but interference based on a
confused mixture of wishful thinking
is hardly likely to help. It has
been a serious hindrance in Australia’s
financial effort during this war. The in-
fluence of Caucus on war-time finance
has brought the prospect of great future
difficulty, and therein should be a lesson
for all that the “orthodox experts” really
have something to offer the people in the
way of financial service. In spite of past
mistakes, the pre-war financial system
formed part of the trellis-work on which
world population climbed. The great
danger in new economic “systems,” even
where they appear workable in theory,
is that they may be contrary to long
experience of human nature. Human
nature and human political behavior have
to present new credentials before evolu-
tion in financial matters can be safely
displaced by revolution.
* * * *
During the last financial term Brad-
ford Cotton, a concern which has made
remarkable headway because of a long-
standing shortage in this country of
cotton goods, recorded substantial in-
creases in the turnover of all its subsi-
diaries (except in the case of one small
one), but recently there has been a fall-
ing-off. The reverse has been due to
man-power and associated difficulties; it
has been hard to get hands for textile fac-
tories for a long period. Bradford Cotton
has many strings to its bow apart from
the spinning of cotton yarn and weaving
it into canvas and denims. It makes
tyre-cord and has a pre-shrinking subsi-
diary—Sanforising Services of Australia
—among varied activities and affilia-
tions, Capital account has swollen as
a result of war-time expansion, but unless
labor troubles become more difficult it
looks as though earnings will keep in
step with the share-register. Taxation
allowance of £103,331 last year was
almost equal to the net profit (£107,559).
Ordinary div, is 10 p.c,
* * * *
The Canadian Government has ordered
a study of international cartels and
patent arrangements and their possible
effect on employment, domestic and
foreign trade. The study will be made
under the direction of F. W. MacGregor,
Commissioner under the Combines In-
vestigation Act,


Public Notice.
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
OF SECRETARIES
( Incorporated in Victoria; Founded 1932 )
Designation of Members; Fellows, F.I.C.S.
Associates, A.I.C.S. Licentiates, L.I.C.S.
Write for full particulars:
H. C. BRIERLEY, F.1.C.5.,
10 O’Connell St., Sydney. Phone: 8W729S
EYE LOTIONi
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Every where
H.Rosei C0..P1y..Ud.. King Street. Sydney.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSEASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
.Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S
TAKE CARE
OF YOUR .
-
s
n
NEW PRICES
Supreme, 16/5
Diploma, 18/11
Autoflow. 26/3
14-carat Gold Nibs
14 CARAT GOLD NIBS
MORE PRECIOUS THAN EVER
OWING TO RESTRICTIONS
■nemobilizaiio"
for peace.
The future belongs to those
who prepare for it.
During the post'war period when
business will be rushing to get
back on the markets —those men
and women who have trained
and qualified for some specific
business occupation will find it
comparatively easy to obtain con-
genial and well-paid positions.
Whether you are in the armed
forces or in essential service,
NOW is the time to train and
qualify and the H.R.I. with 47
years of business tutorial experi-
ence can advise and help you to
choose the right career training
for you.
Prepare Today for Tomorrow’s
Opportunities
Consultation costs you nothing.
Consult H.R.I. about your future.
Let us help you to choose the voca-
tion for tvhich you are most suited-
seek our advice —start training NOW!
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
(founded ond Owned bv Heminqwov * Robertson Ply. Ltd!
Professional Tutors
and Launceston. __ __
"pie"ase - send me FREE copy of your I
98 p. “Guide to Careers in Business. ’ 1
Name - j
Address - |
Career Interested in A 24/668 I
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
%
■
ill
H
bMpOOP™
the specification calls for
STEEL
SHEETS
• • • call
MMC§
HEREVER steel sheets of any kind
are required for your manufacturing pro-
gramme get in touch with Armco (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd. Whether you require Stainless
Steel, Deep Drawing Sheet Steel for all
types of pressings, Sheets for Electrical
Work, Bright Steel Strips, or Black Sheets,
you’ll find that Armco (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
caters for all your needs.
STAINLESS STEEL
ELECTRICAL STEEL
DEEP DRAWING STEEL
(for pressings)
BRIGHT STEEL STRIP
BLACK SHEETS
IK IS
fn Jail
3
W"fW
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE
Maoriland’s War Loan
Maoriland had something of a struggle
to fill its recent £4O million Victory Loan,
only half of which Was subscribed a tew
days before closing date. This, despite
the fact that in August deposits in the
banks totalled £122 million, of which
over £9l million were “free,” while the
balance of “fixed” could be readily
drawn on for the loan. In addition, there
was £lO4 million to the credit of deposi-
tors in the savings banks. Little wonder
that the investment market was hardly
affected by the flotation.
Why was the loan so hard to fill com-
pared with the earlier five issues? Quite
a number of factors can be cited which
might account for the lack of enthusiasm.
When the loan was launched the Allied
armies were sweeping through France,
and there was much glib talk of “victory
next week,” with a ready assumption that
the Fraser Government might not need,
for war purposes, the amount of money
sought.
There was much criticism of loan pub-
licity, characterised as it was by a bar-
rage of super-emotional ballyhoo* But
possibly the most potent influence of all
was the damaging report issued by the
Auditor-General just before the campaign
began, disclosing extravagant and waste-
ful expenditure in the armed forces as
well as grave deficiencies in stores and
equipment. Not long after that the public
was told of drastic reductions in the size
of the Air Force, a reform long advo-
cated in the press, but hard to tie up
with Budget provision a few weeks earlier
of no less than £34 million for this ser-
vice, a considerable rise on last year’s
provision.
Secrecy of Cabinet members concern-
ing war expenditure and refusal to give
full details of the War Expenses Account
have not improved public confidence in
war administration generally. Other
critics contend the farmers held off con-
tributions because of the Government
decision to “ration” or withhold the big
lump sums received from Britain as com-
pensation for high import values during
the war. This theory has some support
in the poor response to the loan in many
rural areas.
To date the Dominion has raised £135
million in war loans, which is a fairly
creditable effort for a country of little
over 1,500,000 people. Unpopular and
widely condemned, the compulsory prin-
ciple of the first war loan, which was
non-interest-bearing for the first three
years, was not repeated. With the
present exception, Maoriland war-loan
investors never showed any hesitation to
“back the attack.” Many citizens, whether
ordinarily investors or otherwise, must
now feel regretful at the latest effort.
Improved living standards depend upon
increasing production per head. There
is a tendency for production to so in-
crease by reason of mechanical Improve-
ments and because of the opening-up of
new avenues of reciprocal trade, which
encourage full employment. But in Aus-
tralia, more especially in key industries
where employment is unusually secure,
there are demands for a shorter working
week and a smaller output per man. Not
nearly enough thought is given to this
fundamental matter in arbitration affairs
or in bona fide trade-union circles. Un-
less wage-earners as a body produce more
goods and services per week than they
have done hitherto it is unlikely that they
can improve their standard of living or
establish any real pension fund for un-
employment, sickness or old age. Even
if the “boss’s” share be entirely taken
away from him it would improve the liv-
ing standards of others by almost nothing.
Most of the “boss’s” share goes back into
production facilities, such as plant, etc.
* * * *
The United States Price Administrator,
Chester Bowles, has warned his coun-
try that it faces a grave inflation
danger. The United States and Australia
have probably more potential inflation
(proportionately) in their economies than
any other countries on the Allied side.
The reason for this has been excessive
political interference in economic matters.
The United States has been handicapped
by its New Deal politico-economic philo-
sophy, which is based on the belief that
nobody wants to shoot Santa Claus. In
Australia the reason for excessive war-
time credit-creation has been much the
same, though there is a strong socialistic
and “new economic” influence at work
also. U.S. prices-man Bowles is all for a
co-operative free enterprise after the war,
with a taxation policy that will encour-
age risk-taking in new business and agri-
cultural undertakings.
* * * *
The chairman of Thomas Owen and
Co., British paper manufacturers, has re-
ported to the company’s shareholders
how lend-lease has affected the export
trade in paper. Before the United States
came into the war Owen and Co. was
increasing its trade with Australia and
New Zealand in vegetable parchment for
packing butter, etc. As the war pro-
gressed this trade was stopped by the
British Government on the ground that
America was supplying Britain with
woodpulp under lend-lease, and that the
U.S. Government objected to paper being
made from this pulp and re-exported.
American exporters have now taken over
the co.’s markets in the Pacific. This
co.’s complaint illustrates a complication
of lend-lease which has been fairly
obvious since early in the operation of
the system. Canada, incidentally, has
never accepted lend-lease aid, and in con-
sequence has, had more freedom in. its
external trading activities.
* * * *
Including earnings of the savings bank,
the Commonwealth Bank for the year
ended June 30 earned profits of
£4,264,827, equal to 58 p.c. on the capital
shown in the bank’s accounts, or to 19
p.c. on capital and reserves, including
with reserves the profit shown on realisa-
tion of the national gold holding. Greatest
earnings came from the note issue depart-
ment; these totalled £2,743,114. At
balance day the central bank held £lB5
million of the private banks’ special war-
time deposits, on which interest of only
15s. per cent, is paid. This money has
helped to meet the discounting of Treas-
ury bills at 255. per cent., but until the
Treasury-bill debt is funded by public
borrowing there will remain an infla-
tionary menace.


THE SERVICE MAN
Japan's inner Lines Attacked.
“Ek Dum”: Far and away the
most momentous event in the dual war
against Japan and Germany in the past
week was the concerted air attack on For-
mosa from aircraft-carriers at sea and
from the Chinese mainland.
It has been maintained in these pages
from the beginning that Formosa was
far more important in primary strategy
than the Philippines, since its capture
would block all Japanese sea routes to
the south, relieve the Chinese position,
open Chinese ports to the Allies, deprive
Japan of metal and rubber and oil sup-
plies from Malaya and the Indies and
generally apply a garrotte to the throat
of the Japanese South-east Asia Co-pros-
perity Sphere.
With Formosa in Allied hands, the
other objectives conquered by the
Japanese would be easier to re-occupy,
for they would be much in the position
in which New Guinea is today. Though
the Philippines, Malaya and the Dutch
East Indies might be full of Japanese
still, these exiles would have nowhere
to go and nothing to go with. The main
objective, however, is to secure a foot-
hold on the Chinese coast, an objective
which has become urgent.
Formosa was named by the Portuguese
for its beauty and by the Chinese, who
call it Taiwan, for its size. It lies across
a turbulent channel, 80 td\ 200 miles wide,
from China athwart the Tropic of Cancer.
Sitting on the tropic is its apex, Mt.
Morrison, about 14,6Q0ft. high, named
after the most famous of all Geelong
Grammar border-hoppers, Dr. Morrison.
The whole of the eastern side consists
of wild mountain ranges, which run the
whole length of the island and fall
down into the Pacific in what are sup-
posed to be the highest cliflfs in the world
—the tallest of them are about 7000 ft.
high from sea level, but they go on drop-
ping below the ocean surface.
These mountains are full of tall timber
and barfdits and are a magnificent rain
catchment area. The water collected pours
down over the western side of the island,
cutting its flat plain into watercourses and
spilling soil out into the ocean in mud-
flats and banks.
On the north of Formosa is Taihoku,
which holds about 250,000 people, and is
reputed to be the most modern city in
the Far East. It is joined by a railway
down the western plain to Takao, more
than 200 miles away, which possesses a
naval harbor and is supposed to be a sort
of Gibraltar,
Other than these features the main
characteristics of Formosa are that it is
about the size of New Britain, has a popu-
lation of about 5,000,000, including a
large helping of Japanese officials, pos-
sesses the world’s camphor monopoly and
is notable for its wealth and variety of
venomous snakes.
Across the Fokien Strait, on the China
coast, are the great ports of Swatow,
Amoy and Foochow. Foochow, taken
by the Japanese a few days ago, has
about the second-largest anchorage in
southern China.
Formosa is the central focus of a ring
of Japanese-held objectives which the
Allies covet earnestly. To the south, the
northern tip of Luzon is 270 miles from
Takao, Manila about twice that distance.
Hongkong iS about 500 miles from the
south of the island; Shanghai the same
from the north. By direct airline from
Formosa to the Kiushiu islands and the
great Japanese industrial areas it is under
700 miles. The Canton-Hankow railway can
be bombed from Formosa within 450 miles.
Thus, as a bombing centre, Formosa
would bring a whole, ring of great ports
and war objectives, including the busiest
and most vulnerable portion of industrial
Japan proper, within reach of normal
heavy bombers, and within range of B29’s
carrying a maximum load. From For-
mosa the whole of the seas through which
shipping to the China coast south of
Changhai must travel would be under
surveillance.
And what is worst for Japan, the ladder
of the Luchu (Ryukyu) islands hangs
down between Kiushiu and Formosa like
a chain holding the Empire to its hilly
satellite. Halfway up the chain, 400-odd
miles from Kilung (N. Formosa) and only
350 miles from Kiushiu, is the sizeable
island of Okinawa-Sima, a useful base.
Luchus Attacked
The Formosan attack followed one of
the typhoons for which Formosa is famous,
and lacked nothing by comparison.
It began in the Luchu group of islands,
when carrier forces appeared and the
usual type of sea air battle ensued. The
Pacific Command claimed 77 Japanese
ships, including four submarines and 50
small craft, sunk and 119 aircraft shot
down.
Next day the carriers raided Luzon,
which is across the Pacific zone border
in General MacArthur’s bailiwick, of
which the demarcation line is 20 degrees
north running across to Hainan Island,
south-west of Hongkong.
The carriers found little game there —
only 15 enemy machines at the utmost
were shot down.
Very evident became the direction in
which the fleet was making, hitting its
targets as it passed them.
It could have surprised nobody, least
of all the Japanese, when the force turned
up at 7 a.m. on October 12 somewhere
off Formosa. It had travelled roughly
600 miles since its appearance on Mon-
day. It was obvious that it must be a
heavy fleet, and that it had come with
the sincere intention of looking for naval
trouble. Otherwise, it would not have
ventured in so leisurely a fashion into
waters which hitherto have been the pre-
serve of the Japanese heavy squadrons.
At 7 a.m. it was imitating the typhoon
of the previous Tuesday week all through
the smitten region of Takao and the ad-
jacent city of Tainan, which holds about
60,000 people. This area, apart from its
naval base at Takao, is a home-from-
home for Japanese aircraft. It holds great
repair and supply bases, and it was obvi-
ously well defended locally, as well as
having its approaches thickly covered.
There was plenty of sea traffic in its
vicinity, since, including the operations
in the Luchus, the Pacific Fleet reported
the destruction of 227 ships and small
craft from October 8 to the evening of
October 13.
Ten hours after the first message from
Formosa Tokyo reported that the attack
was still in progress. It was added that
it was an all-out blow with about 1000
machines; 100 had been shot down.
Next day it appeared that the opera-
tion was still in being, and that land-
based machines from the single set of
bases remaining to the Americans in
south China were in use. These could
only be 8295. The range of the blast
was certainly catholic —it reached the
whole length of the island down its flat
western side from Tamsui, at the extreme
northern tip, to Taichu halfway down,
and on to the Takao base in the extreme
south-west and Okayama, the repair
centre for aircraft, north of Takao.
Warehouses, docks, factories, oil
dumps, hangars and shipping were
pounded. On Friday night it was re-
ported that within 48 hours 221 more
Japanese aircraft had been destroyed and
16 more ships sunk and 19 damaged. On
Sunday night the figure had increased to
396 aircraft, And 63 ships sunk on damaged.
Leaders’ Broadcasts
Tokyo’s attitude showed that it was no
ordinary raid. The consensus of opinion
there seemed to be that invasion of For-
mosa or the Philippines or the China
coast was in the offing. Some color was
lent to this by the arrival of the largest
force of 829 s ever to be used, in a third
day of attacks upon the island, in a way
which left little doubt about there being
a softening-up operation in progress,
especially when the news was read with
two little-noticed public statements made
earlier in the week.
One, by Premier Koiso, which seemed
at the time to be inspired by the attack
on Korror Island, in Palau, by 1000
Allied machines, was obviously the pro-
duct of the first raid on the Luchus, of
which the world had not then heard.
The enemy intends to invade the Philip-
pines and the Japanese homeland. The
situation is admittedly grave. The Japanese
forces are awaiting the opportune moment
to crush the enemy with a single stroke.
However, this might not be possible unless
the hcyne front increases its war produc-
tion.... The truth about the gradual retreat
in the Pacific is that home-front production
has been insufficient to cope with the
enemy’s general counter-offensive.
Next day Admiral Nimitz said that
typhoons were interfering with replenish-
ing ships at sea, particularly in the Palau
area, and added:
We must make landings on the China
coast in order to obtain a land mass close
enough to the Japanese Empire to enable us
to employ the air forces at our disposal
I assure you we are moving up as rapidly
as possible in the Pacific in order to extend
our power westward. In due time that
power will include China’s east coast. So
long as Formosa is in Japanese hands it
will be a very strong point, as the enemy
can continue to supply it with air power.
The admiral said he strongly desired to
hasten victory by contacting the elusive
Japanese fleet. He gave the heartening
piece of news that sections of the British
Eastern Fleet were operating in the Bay
of Bengal and in the Sumatra-Burma
■a.cd, wuere they were greatly assisting
the general campaign, as were Australian,
N.Z. and Dutch units.
Tokyo Tales
The Japanese version of what had
taken place round Formosa was that
from Thursday till Saturday 2950 U.S.
aircraft had appeared over the island,
including two forces of 450 carrier-borne
machines on thejnorning of October 14
and 100 829 s in the afternoon.
Tokyo Radio on the night of October
15 broadcast a communique alleging that
the American task force was in full flight
eastward, pursued by Japanese forces. It
was claimed that seven large American
aircraft-carriers had been sunk and two
so damaged as to be useless ; that a de-
stroyer had been sunk and that U.S.
ships damaged included a battleship, a
cruiser and II other warships.
It was admitted that 90 Jap aircraft
were lost, but it was asserted that 160
U.S. aircraft had been wrecked and that
several hundred others were believed to
have been forced to dive into the sea be-
cause their mother-ships had been sunk.
But despite the alleged headlong flight of
the U.S. fleet it was announced that
attacks on Formosa continued on Oct. 15.
The Japanese News Agency said that
the Japanese fleet had been ordered out
to take advantage of “the long-awaited
opportunity to rush to the scene of battle
in full force.”
Premier Koiso went on the air for the
second time in a week to stress that the
main inner Japanese defences were under
attack and that invasion of the Philip-
pines—“which will never be given up”—
was imminent. And Admiral Takahashi,
C.-in-C. at the naval base of Kure,
appeared at the microphone to spread the
news that the main Allied fleet in the
Pacific was not far behind Admiral
Halsey’s task forces.
Early on the morning of October 16
Tokyo Radio said that a great naval battle
was in progress east of Formosa in which
the Japanese fleet was involved, along
with the Imperial Air Forces. There was
no immediate confirmation of this story
from Admiral Nimitz’s H.Q., but it was
announced officially that 60 carrier-borne
aircraft had attacked Manila, and that
there had been further attacks since
Friday on Formosa, resulting in the loss
of another 91 Japanese aircraft and
further shipping.
Pacific Plans Advanced
The Pacific schedule is miles ahead of
its programme. The Japanese will have
to accelerate their home-front production
with a vengeance to win the sea war. The
very expansiveness of operations during
the past week is enough to indicate what
it will be possible to achieve when out-
lying Japanese bases, such as Rabaul,
have been cleaned up and shipping, man-
power and aircraft may be concentrated
on one main objective.
The Formosa raids were the largest
air operations yet conducted in the
Pacific ; apparently the largest conducted,
mainly from the sea, in history.
They do not necessarily mean that there
will be immediate attempts at invasion of
the Japanese inner ring ; but they are an
earnest that the forces already are avail-
able to attempt siich an invasion, and
they should have proved an enormous
encouragement to the Chinese armies.
And it is significant that they took place
contemporaneously with operations which
ranged over something like 9,000,000
square miles of ocean. The furthest south
and east attacks were in Buka Passage
and at Rabaul, which was combed over
with 200 tons of bombs by 300 machines
on October 7-8 ; the furthest north, on
Wake and in the Bonin group, the
southern arc of the blast reaching 3000
miles across Japanese-held areas from
New Ireland to Koepang, through Ceram,
Amboina, the Sundas area and the
Tanimbars and biting northward as far
as Balik Papan and Palau.
The attack on Korror was the heaviest
made by carriers up to that time in
the Philippines region, and that on Balik
Papan was described as having done irre-
parable damage to the oil storage and re-
finery facilities. The Japs declared that
it was beaten off without damage and 96
U.S. machines destroyed.
The bombing, however, was done by
50 Liberators, which dropped 135 tons
of bombs under an escort of Thunder-
bolts and Lightnings, flew a record
distance for fighters of 1500 miles and
engaged en route in a battle with a heavy
force of enemy machines, of which they
destroyed 36 for a loss of three bombers
and one fighter.
Substantial Australian forces were in-
cluded in the air strength which took
part in the week’s bombing, including
100 R.A.A.F. Kittyhawks and Mitchells,
which shared the attacks on the
Ceram-Amboina area, and Beaufighters,
which made their debut in the Halma-
hera zone with deadly effect. In the
Ceram operations 23 coastal vessels and
small craft were destroyed. The Wewak
areas held by the Japanese Eighteenth
Army were heavily combed over
Operations on the ground in the Pacific
have been on a minor scale. In the
Palaus, where Japanese dead have reached
nearly 13,000, there was still small fight-
ing in the constricted areas which the
enemy still holds on Peleliu and Angaur,
and a further small island was occupied
without opposition.
Kweilin Falls
On October 15 it was announced from
Chungking that Kweilin, the great aero-
drome centre of Kwangsi, had been cap-
tured by the Japanese after the defenders
had been killed to the last man. The
statement declared that the Chinese had
been outnumbered four to one.
The Chinese situation is a desperate
one. The advance threatens not onlv
main communication lines but Chung-
king itself. The fortunes of the Chinese
are at their lowest, and their position is
not far short of absolute military defeat.
No doubt this fact has had a good
deal to do with the manner in which the
Allied effort in the mid-Pacific is de-
veloping.
As Winter Comes.
“Ek Dum”: Commentators who held
that when General Montgomery smashed
the Seventh German Army in Normandy*
and forced the withdrawal of what re-
mained of two other armies, the drive
would continue into Germany without
such formalities as the creation of supply
routes and the establishment of depots
and dumps and aerodromes, and that all
would be over by Christmas, have begun
reaching for their histories of trench war-
fare. And the belief that there remained
in the Reich only 100,000 hospital cases
capable of offering resistance has given
way in some newspaper offices to a sus-
picion that between Aachen and the
Dutch islands of Beveland and Walcheren
there are 500,000 well-trained Germans.
Very unlikely ; but, obviously, the enemy
force there is powerful.
Holding on in Normandy involved
very great losses, but it enabled the Ger-
mans to consolidate their border defences,
and their operations conducted under
continual bomb attack have been orderly.
The tenacity with which some of
their small forces have maintained
themselves in isolated positions was not
that of troops whose morale was im-
paired, as witness their defence of the
Biscay ports and Dunkirk —far from an
easy place to defend, but still held—and
of the Schelde mouth, which the Allies so
far have been unable to open so that
traffic may flow into Antwerp and so
towards the frontier.
On the southern part of the Western
front, along the Vosges, the position at
the moment is little better than stalemate.
What movement there has been during
the last week is of no consequence. Here
and in the Belfort Gap region, where the
experienced French First Army is operat-
ing, only a fortnight remains before
winter sets in.
And the forcing of a passage across the
Rhine and through the Black Forest, or
further north through,the Kaiserslautern
Gap and along the strategic routes mid-
way to the sea, is no enviable task. It is
fairly safe to say that if there is no break-
through in the next fortnight operations
must be limited for some months to come
unless there is a complete German col-
lapse. But the Allies may not intend to
attempt a break-through in the south.
In the north the enemy obviously is
playing for time, and that desperately.
He may be straining his strength, as he
did in Normandy, trying to capitalise the
period before the Allies come into full
possession of the short communicatin
routes and efficient aerodromes and re-
serve dumps of supplies immediately
behind their lines. Once they are fully
organised, the job of the German High
Command will become much harder.
In the north the issue is greater for
the German than in the south. If he can
establish defence of the Lek it will take
some shaking. The longer he can hold
Walcheren and the Fortress of Holland
the bitterer the North Sea weather will
become, and the longer it will be before
the ports of Holland and Belgium can be
put to maximum use by the Allies.
At a press conference General Eisen-
hower refused to predict when the war
would end. He stressed the fact that the
resumption of full-scale Allied onslaughts
must await the resumption of communi-
cations and supplies, a tremendous job.
A million tons of supplies could not be
moved from London to the front-line in
ten minutes.
Battle for the Schelde
The main fighting in the north has been
in three areas. First, the battle for the


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY FREDERICK ROBINSON late of
Paddington in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE ANNIE ROBINSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2405 of 1944 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards You may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Thirtieth day of November
1944, and obtain a copy petition free of charge
from A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD Solicitors
of 17 Bolton Street Newcastle or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO. Solicitors Assembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney.
(l.s.)— C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Pnhlic Notice*.
I, LAZARUS GLUFCHES, of Greek nationality,
born at Rosno, in Greece, and resident sixteen years
in Australia, now residing at No. 92 East Street,
Narrandera, in the State of New South Wales, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
CD
am
Schelde mouth and the approaches to
October 8, the Canadians on
the Belgian side of the estuary had estab-
lished a bridgehead in the German pocket
between the river and the Leopold Canal.
They made some advances, but met a
bitter fire from mortars and Spandaus,
and on the ninth were clinging by the skin
of their teeth, but with the greatest gal-
lantry, to a narrow three-mile strip of
bridgehead, interrupted at intervals by
German penetrations.
It is wet, low country, flooded, in the
main, and crisscrossed with dykes which
the enemy was turning to account.
Every house was a German m.-g. post,
going full blast. The pontoon bridges and
rafts carrying reinforcements across the
canal were under constant mortar fire,
and the Germans were bringing up shells
for a sizeable amount of artillery.
On the other side of the river the
Canadians had pushed forward and taken
Hoogerheide, about a mile off the high-
way which leads from the Walcheren-
Beveland islands in the Schelde to Bergen-
op-Zoom and the mainland Netherlands.
They actually cut off the causeway at one
stage, but were forced to retire.
At this stage fresh British and Cana-
dians were landed from the sea in two
beachheads, south of the Schelde estuary,
apparently opposite Walcheren, and
began to push south-eastward toward the
Leopold Canal bridgehead. They were
still harassed by the guns of Walcheren,
the emplacements of which were in many
places surrounded by the waters let in by
the R.A.F.’s breaking of the South Dyke.
The north side of the river, where the
Canadians were trying, as yet vainly, to
reach the causeway linking the islands to
the mainland, at this stage was the scene
of fighting as bitter as anywhere in the
battle zone. On both S. Beveland and
Walcheren there were still reputed to be
20,000 German troops, with road and
rail to Bergen and the mainland in the
north in their hands.
Heavy bombers and Typhoons gave
support to the British-Canadians nearer
the sea by bombing the eastern dyke of
Walcheren and blasting gun emplace-
ments.
All the week the battle went on fur-
iously. The Germans threw in parachute
troops to menace the British and Cana-
dian beachheads near the river mouth.
They were wiped out with flame-throwers.
By the end of the week the situation
had greatly improved. The Canadians
had tanks across the Leopold Canal, in
their landward bridgehead, and-the three
bridgeheads on the Belgian side of the
Schelde had become one, six miles long,
Their compatriots north of the river were
within reach of the road from Bergen to
the S. Beveland causeway, although they
had lost some ground which they had
gained. The water swirled round the
German forts on Walcheren. But the fight
was not over, and two German divisions
still stood at bay.
On Oct, 15 it was reported from Lon-
don that German resistance along the
Schelde was beginning to crumble.
Towards the Meuse
All through western Holland the enemy
was evidently strengthening his defences.
The British thrusting at him along the
left of their corridor had not succeeded
at the week-end in making much further
progress towards the Fortress of Holland
via Hertogenbusch. Swift and substan-
tial progress it was unreasonable to ex-
pect. It is unlikely that at this stage
Field-Marshal Montgomery is attempting
a main operation. His sole concern
would be to hold his ground while he
secures adjacent port communications
and aerodromes, establishes the reserve
supplies and man-power essential to a
great battle, and arranges his front most
suitably with that end in view.
Second Army fighting consisted during
the past week of little engagements to
clean up positions which offered a threat
to their security at some point or another,
small pushes to clear the way through
minefields to suitable jumping-off points,
elimination of bridgeheads over the
Lek and the Meuse and the warding off
of the enemy’s continual prodding coun-
ter-attacks.
The best pointers to the nature of the
action on the Second Army front lay in
three features:
(1) Having secured the whole of the south-
ern bank of the lower Rhine (Lek) from a
mile west of Arnhem to 12 miles to the east,
General Dempsey ordered Allied bombers
to destroy the Arnhem bridge across the
Lek, so gallantly blocked off by Major-
General Drquhart’s airborne division so that
it might cease to provide an entry by which
Germans beyond the Rhine in Gelderland
could menace his northern flank.
(2) One of the most powerful series of
air blows ever delivered by the R.A.F.
was concentrated against German towns and
cities along the Rhine. This began with
the destruction of the beautiful town of
Cleves (where Henry VIII found a bride),
which stands on a lovely hillside, and Em-
merich just across the Rhine from it.
(3) From south of Nijmegen the British
began an advance on a 2000-yard front
near the town of Overloon, just below the
Cleves area. They appeared to be seeking
to create a spearhead salient pointing along
the main routes to Wesel, the great Rhine
crossing-place en route to the Ruhr. But
they may have been merely probing or
clearing out the area on the Dutch side of
the Meuse.
The chief marshalling yards for this
part of the world and Duisburg, the
greatest inland port in Germany, received
special attention contemporaneously with
the continuing land drive which was
making slow but steady progress in the
mud beyond Overloon, through the mined
areas on the left bank of the Maas.
Duisburg suffered the heaviest batter-
ing ever administered to a town —4500
tons delivered by British Lancasters in 25
minutes, with a second helping next day,
which brought the load up to 10,000 tons.
No less than 500,000 incendiaries were
dropped on the city.
Aachen’s Doom
The battle in the north which was
most reported of all was the fight for
Aachen.
A fine old city which normally holds
about 165,000 people, Aachen is in an
amphitheatre of hills which rise all round
it. Many of them are 700 or 800 ft. high
—one sticks in the memory as being
named Lousberg. Tramways run out of
the main city up the slopes of these hills,
a dispensation which allows American
besiegers to roll tramcars of dynamite
into the city proper.
Egress and access on the Cologne
side, where a great industrial area runs
for miles, is through the hills, gashed
with lead, iron, zinc and coalmines
and fouled with great chemical works at
Stolberg siding and the enormous Con-
cordia blast furnaces.
Little seems to remain of the carefree
population of Aachen or of the city itself,
but a grim garrison held out all the week
against artillery, mortar fire, consistent
bombing and raiding.
A demand for surrender under threat
of complete destruction of the city was
refused. Again and again ironclad relief
forces from the Cologne side tried to
break the American grip, which gradually
squeezed a four-mile-widc corridor, the
garrison’s only avenue of contact with the
outside world, down to half a mile, with-
out being able up to Oct. 16 to close it
completely.
Once, at least, the German counter-
attacks nearly succeeded. Even with
United States troops actually fighting in-
side the city the enemy had not given up.
On Oct. 15 he was massing great bodies
of tanks east of Aachen while clouds of
bombers wrecked Cologne behind him.
There was not much of Aachen to
rescue. Most of its suburbs were burn-
ing or levelled by the incessant pounding
of the bombers. The city is not now
strategically important, but its defence has
a moral value apart from the fact that
these resistances in individual centres are
intended to have a cumulative wearing-
down effect on attackers as part of the
general “tiring-out” programme for which
the West Wall system was especially
designed.
The Allied air campaign inside Ger-
many was widespread and heavier than
ever. The Kiel Canal was temporarily
blocked, disorganising much of the traffic
between the Baltic and the Elbe, though
not cutting off water communication
across Holstein altogether, since there are
other canal routes. Hamburg, Berlin,
Hanover and Cologne were all further at-
tacked with growing power till there were
4000 Allied machines over the Reich on
Oct. 15.
In Italy and Greece.
“Ek Dum”: The weather having im-
proved in Italy, the Fifth Army and the
Eighth Army have renewed their drives.
South Africans and Americans on
either side of the road from Florence
to Bologna pushed forward som§ dis-
tance. The Americans took Gesso, 20
miles or so south-west of Bologna.
The Eighth Army, working along the
coast across the Fiumincino and down
the slopes of the Apennines further in-
land, had at the week-end seized Monte
di Tesoro, 11 miles south-west of Faenza
and 30 miles south-east of Bologna. From
the forward lines there can be seen Mus-
solini’s native town of Forli.
Resistance by the enemy on both sec-
tors of the Italian front is described as
fanatical.
Athens Abandoned
In Greece the Allied advance across
the Morea realised the promise of the
landing operations.
Corinth and Athens were found to be
abandoned, with adjacent aerodromes in
the hands of Greek patriot troops and a
rejoicing, if nearly starving, population,
whose necessities are being relieved by
prompt and generous allied action.
A German communique issued on Oct.
15 declared that the abandonment of the
Greek Peninsula and adjacent islands had
been made necessary by the “betrayal”
of Germany by Rumania and Bulgaria.
The withdrawals, it was stated, had begun
among the islands of the Aegean, though
“some of the best supplied” were “still
being held” to hamper the Allies.
The retirement from Greece had begun
some time ago, and the last German
troops had left Athens on Oct. 12, well
in advance of the landing of British and
Greek troops at the Piraeus.
Corfu also has been occupied by the
British, and the few ragged German rem-
nants there have surrendered.
The Germans apparently left the
Athens area without destroying the aero-
dromes and their facilities. Airfields at
Athens and Megara were reported to be
in use as 1 bases for attack against the
retreating enemy columns.
Forward in the East.
“Ek Dam”: The Russians in a few
days mopped up most of the
Kovno province of Lithuania. They
crossed into the Memel territory, which
was annexed to East Prussia in 1939,
and on October 14 were reported to be
fighting in Memel itself and to be
bombarding Tilsit, across the Niemen
River.
The Niemen is the strategic boundary
of East Prussia in this region. Until it
is crossed and the Insterburg defences
further south are broken it cannot be
said that the East Prussian defences have
been even penetrated.
The 150,000 Germans claimed as
trapped against the coast in Lithuania
are subject to the usual division sum, and
there is as yet no reason to believe that
they are trapped when they have ports at
their disposal.
Round Riga fighting continued in the
forests and swamps of the northern side,
and on the outer ring of defences seven
miles or so from the town, on the East
Prussian side.
Before the week-end the city and port
appear to have been evacuated, the garri-
son being partly removed by sea and the
rest, except for the usual rearguards and
demolition gangs, attempting to escape
towards Libau, under cover of some
naval support. The Russians said that
the Germans suffered immense losses.
In the present drive from Lithuania
on East Prussia the enemy estimates
Russian forces at 1,000,000 men, made
up of 60 infantry divisions, six tank corps
and 12 tank brigades. If these figures
are in any way nearly accurate, the battles
of the next week or so along the Niemen
Line should provide a fairly accurate test
of German strength in general.
The situation in the Balkans remains
confused, but the Russians, supported by
a Czech corps, seem to be making sub-
stantial progress in Transylvania and less
progress in Yugoslavia.
A statement attributed to a German
commentator was that the German High
Command had abandoned the “whole
Carpathian wall,”
The enemy has abandoned the eastern
Carpathian wall, and, apparently, the
passes as far west as the west Beskiden
Mountains. But he has shown no sign
of giving up any part of the mountains
west of the Dukla Pass. It is from this
point that the mountain mass intrudes
southwards almost to the Danube, where
the rivers running north reach across
Hungary, end at the Czechoslovak border,
30 miles or so north of Budapest, and
swing westward to Vienna.
It is in this area that the enemy will
have to make a stand if he wishes to
keep Vienna inviolate.
Fight for Hungary
Advances in Hungary along a broad
front placed the Russians and their
allies ifi possession of all the strategic
points which matter primarily in Tran-
sylvania, including the great railway
centre of Cluj, of which the Hungarians
reported the capture by the Red Army
several weeks ago, though it proved a
false alarm.
There have been considerable penetra-
tions beyond the Tisza River into the
Hungarian Plain. The Red Army holds
an important bridgehead at Szeged.
But the most vital operation in being,
involving very heavy fighting, is the battle
for Debreczen, a medieval-looking corn
and cattle metropolis about the size of
Newcastle (N.S.W.), 80 miles due east of
Budapest, on the main railway to Russia
through the Jablonica (Tartar) Pass and
a junction through which many other
railways pass.
Oct. 15 seemed to be a red-letter day,
in that upon it Germany lost its last
European satellite. Admiral Horthy, the
Hungarian Regent, broadcast a statement
that the Allies had been asked for an
armistice. Although the Hungarians were
still fighting, it appeared that the Ger-
man legation at Budapest was vacant,
and that if terms had not already been
accepted by the Allies it was only a
matter of hours before they must be.
At their nearest point Russian spear-
heads seemed to be under 60 miles from
Budapest on October 14.
Half a Million “Trapped”
The “trap” expert of the British United
Press in Moscow is convinced that half
a million Germans are in peril from the
northward sweep of Cossacks and tanks
from Ordea, which allegedly had cut the
Debrezcen-Budapest railway. They are in
no greater danger (if there) than all the
other mythical millions which the B.U.P.
young man has previously wiped out or
corralled single-handed.
The position in Yugoslavia continues
as before. Marshal Tito’s communiques
continue to sound as if they were being
written by a shell-shocked Hollywood
comedian.' A few weeks ago the Mar-
shal’s forces had cut off all the communi-
cations of the Germans in Yugoslavia.
But it was a matter for triumph when
the Belg-ade-Nish railway was severed
with the assistance of the Russians during
last week.
The Bulgarians, who were left in pos-
session of southern Yugoslavia and bits
of Greece without molestation from Tito’s
forces during the time they were at war
with the British and United States, though
not with Russia, are now, it is reported,
being withdrawn, dragged off their spoils
as a consequence of Mr. Churchill’s visit
to Moscow, which also has resulted (Mos-
cow reports) in the British-American mis-
sions being allowed to return to Sofia.
The Partisan Radio claimed that the
Russians had crossed the Morava River
south of Belgrade and joined with the
Partisan flank forces, which in any case
were supposed some time ago to have
crossed the river in the opposite direction
and already joined with the Russians. So
that there should logically have been a
line across the Morava long ago.
The Russian drive on Belgrade from
the north, which ten days days ago was
supposedly within ten miles of the capi-
tal, seems to have been halted. But the
good news came from Marshal Tito that
his Partisans and the Red Army had
split the German forces in Serbia into
two groups.
In the light of geography and Tito com-
muniques, it is difficult to make head or
tail of this statement, for it seems unlikely
that there are many Germans in Serbia,
south and south-west of Belgrade.
There followed the news that Nish,
the main railway junction in Eastern
Siberia, was surrounded and that the
“12th Yugoslav Division” had entered
Belgrade on Friday, October 13, and cap-
tured Kumodraz, a suburb about two
miles from the heart of the dreary city.
Russians and Germans were said to be
fighting in the city itself, which is very
circumscribed in area.


R ABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS.
ARTERIES, ETC.
What is ELASTO? , . . What can it do for me ?
Here are the Answers t
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness; if you
are the victim of chronic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles,, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
Elasto, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be”, you might well
say, when so many things have
failed ...
Here is how ELASTO works
It has long been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Elasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to work at
this source —it revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries,
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing.
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble is bad circulation.
This Is more fully explained In
simple language in a free book-
let see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say:
The fact is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Elasto. Here is
what a few of many grateful
users have said:
"No sign of varicose veins
now."
"Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
"My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis."
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 B.
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto*makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
f&mfe' • ?/rw jb&urticfo /
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & GO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
SPORTING Notions
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The attendance at on Satur-
day did not approach a record, but the
tote turnover, £192,306, was £31,000
more than the previous best.
It is improbable that any Sydney race-
goer ever saw a two-year-old race of
class accounted for in easier fashion
than Civic Pride (Moore) won the Gim-
crack Stakes. Her track work had been
exceptional, and some backers were lucky
in being able to lay 2 to 1 on her. She
started at 9 to 4 on. In the first hundred
yards she was clear of the remainder
of the field, and from then to the win-
ning post she increased her lead to eight
lengths without the least effort. She is
a good-looking half-sister, by Ajax, to
Astrid, Buonarroti and other good gal-
lopers. She cost 1600gns., and could have
been sold for SOOOgns. before Saturday’s
race. Lucky Stream (by Manitoba) and
Questing (by Hua) filled the minor places,
and Merry Avon was impressive. It is
probable the seeming impossibility of
beating Civic Pride told against the efforts
of some of the runners.
The Colin Stephen Stakes was a repeti-
tion of the Warwick Stakes. Flight (J.
Thompson), who did the pacemaking with
Victory Lad, led immediately after enter-
ing the straight, and then looked almost
certain to be beaten when Katanga was
alongside her a furlong from home.
However, Flight fought on in the gamest
fashion, and though Katanga made a
grab at her, did the better in the last
few strides, winning by a head. Veiled
Threat plugged along into third place,
while Shining Night’s effort was below
w.f.a. form, as was that of Cream Puff
and Falcon Knight. Victory Lad hung on
well to run fourth.
Modulation (D. Munro), after being
out of the winning list since beating
Prince in the Quality Handicap at Rose-
hill in September of last year, and beaten
three or four times recently when backed,
compensated for his failures by winning
the Epsom in brilliant fashion. In the
middle of the field for the first half-mile
he had worked into a fair position at the
turn. Versailles led commencing the final
furlong, and then Modulation fairly ran
over him. Winnipeg, who was prominent
throughout, was a good third, and Prince’s
fourth was very little behind his second
of last year.
It was against Versailles that he drew
the absolute outside position, but Thomp-
son claimed that, despite that disadvan-
tage, he would have won if War Effort
had not cost him several lengths by
swerving and carrying him out near the
half-mile. It was noted that the boy was
upset when he dismounted to weigh in.
Bartle, rider of Mayfowl, also had a
hard-luck story. He said that when
Abbeville died away at the straight
entrance he came back on Mayfowl, who
was then making a forward move, and
that the grey nearly came down. Abbe-
villc had every chance, being one of the
, eaders approachin g the straight entrance
and th en collapsing in remarkable
fashion. Haripur ran well, as did Kiaree,
Melhero and Bahtheon, who may pick
a sprint race in Sydney. Nobleman
and g as t er Time were disappointing.
In winning the Derby Tea Rose
(Darke) merely repeated her previous
form. At the top of the straight, where
High Tension, Removal and Shannon
were slightly ahead of her, it seemed as
if she would be hampered, but when an
opening presented itself she quickly put
the result beyond doubt. Though he had
no chance against Tea Rose, Removal
made an excellent showing, and at present
he and Prince Verity are the best of our
colts. Interruptions to Shannon’s
preparation told against him. He made
a forward move at the turn but could
not go on with it. Murray Stream and
Accession again proved that they are a
far remove from first-class. The surprise
of the race was the good showing made
by High Tension, a colt by Brueghel II
from High Mary. He ran fourth after
doing a lot of the pacemaking. It is a
pity transport difficulties may prevent
Tea Rose getting to Melbourne. She
would stand an excellent chance of add-
ing the two Melbourne classics to her
record.
Royal Peer (Gollogly), second to Chat-
ham’s Choice from barrier-rise to the
home turn in the Sydney Handicap, then
took charge, and narrowly defeated
Nightbeam, who is showing himself a
better stayer than previously supposed.
Orderly, in third place, was suggestive of
trouble after turning for home, but, with
51b. more than his Metropolitan weight,
was not dangerous right at the end. Two’s
Company was much below expectations,
as were Mustang (sore), Dewar and Cum-
beroona. Grand Fils ran respectably,
but, apart from Nightbeam, nothing
behind the winner did sufficiently well to
suggest success in the Metropolitan.
Chinook lost his reputation in the first
division of the Kensington Handicap, in
which, after being nicely placed from the
start, he was wanting in the straight,
finishing third. Omapo showed his old
form, running to the front a furlong from
home, and winning comfortably from
Rylstone. Others well up were Bestow
and Thrax. The winner was ridden by
the Queensland jockey, Sinclair, a cap-
able horseman, but just heavy enough to
limit his Sydney opportunities.
In the second division of the Kensing-
ton Handicap D.S.O. led round the turn,
then giving place to Slreamford (G.
Moore), who stopped in that position to
the end. Cockcrow raised his backers’
hopes when he started out after Stream-
ford in the run home, but was not making
any impression on him at the end. Our
Barney did well to get third, while neither
Brueghelier nor Liberality ever looked
like winning, though they headed the
unplaced division.
* * ♦ ♦
Lawrence returned to Caulfield Cup
favoritism after his defeat of Coun-
sel and Tranquil Star in the Caulfield
Stakes last Saturday. Lawrence’s rider
succeeded in getting the last run on Coun-
sel, and he won running away by over a
length. Lawrence, however, met Counsel
61b, better than Caulfield Cup terms, and
the latter’s trainer stated after the race
that he still regarded his gelding’s chance
as bright. Tranquil Star set a fast pace,
but the first and second horses were 100
solid for her at the finish. Third money
of £2OO increased her stake earnings to
£20,140.
Claudette disproved rumors concern-
ing her condition by justifying her
favoritism for the first Herbert Power
Handicap. She outstayed Peter and Con-
tact, carried 91b. more than her Caulfield
Cup weight, and obviously is back to the
form that enabled her to Apish third in
the Melbourne Cup and win the Williams-
town Cup last spring. Sirius also firmed
for the Caulfield Cup as a result of his win
in the second Herbert Power Handicap,
He won decisively, but carried 31b. less
than his Cup weight, and Claudette is pre-
ferred of the pair next Saturday.
T,. ... ‘ „
Fighting on better than generally
an b c i > pate . m t ore k eat Silver Rocks
and Regal Coin in a head and half-head
finish for the Caulfield Guineas. He has
been scratched from the Derby and Cups,
his owner not wishing to sacrifice his
brilliance in an attempt to make a stayer
of him this spring. Kintore’s perform-
ance was good, but Silver Rocks looked
unlucky. He was second-last at the turn,
and would have won in another stride or
two. Unfortunately, he sustained a deep
wound in the off thigh during the race,
and at the time of writing the full extent
of the trouble was not known.
The Bohemian gave bookmakers a
50-to-l result in the Toorak Handicap,
Favored by a good run throughout, he
won narrowly- from Nagation and
Phoines. The Bohemian was entered for
the Caulfield Cup, but did not survive
first forfeits. Mauve Star (St. Magnus-
Lady Mauve) surprised at 12 to 1 in the
Debutante Stakes, for two-year-old fillies.
Her dam won the corresponding race
in 1935. Attley, a 260gns. colt by Porto-
fino from Coveshaw, upset general ealeu-
lations by winning the Debutant Stakes
25t0T y C ° ltS and « eldi “S>' M
* • * ,
Of Metropolitan candidates weighted
ab r 8 ‘? f Satu P r . da u y ’ s racin §« rSK*
said most for Flight. She carries a pound
more than in the Colin Stephen Stakes
but, meeting Veiled Threat and Shining
Night on much the same terms, should
again beat them, even though there is an
extra furlong to travel. Mayfowl
Abspear, Grand Fils, Dewar and Cream
Puff were all runners in various races
with over Bst. last week, and did not
shine. Bartle holds that Mayfowl did
not get a fair chance in the Epsom, and
whether that was so or not, the Metro-
politan distance favors the grey more
than a mile. Still the Metropolitan at its
present distance has been won only once
with more than 9st., Beau Vite scoring
with 9.4. Speciality and Dashing Cava-
lier each won with 9sl,
Cream Puff was outclassed in the Colin
Stephen Stakes with 9.1, but her pros-
pects with 8.1 in the Metropolitan are
still bright, if Saturday’s run did not
knock her out. Falcon Knight drops
121 b. from the 8.11 he carried in the
Colin Stephen Stakes, but his recent form
has not been encouraging. Orderly has
a handy weight, and is 71b. better off as
compared with Nightbeam, who beat him
for second in the Sydney Handicap. The
three-year-olds Victory Lad and Melhero
are likely to run well. Lightly-weighted
Craigic is entitled to be taken into ac-
count, but I shall stick to my early selec-
tion, Flight. The last mare successful was
Feminist, 7.11, and, before her. Loqua-
cious, 8.11.
* ♦ * «
The following times were recorded in
the three mile-and-a-half races at Rand-
wick on Saturday: Colin Stephen Stakes,
Flight, 8.9, 2.32; A.J.C. Derby, Tea
Rose, 8.5, 2.331; Sydney Handicap,
Royal Peer, 7.10, 2.31.
* * * *
A glance over the early double betting
list suggests that the Epsom and Metro-
politan must have given some operators
a lot of “dead money.” Flight, as the
early Epsom favorite, was a liberal con-
tributor, and Moorland, one of the
earliest Metrop. picks, helped to swell the
books’ gains. If all the heavy betting re-
ported on the double was transacted, the
books as a whole cannot suffer severely,
no matter what wins the Metropolitan.
Miscellaneous.
With snappy lefts to the face Max
Cameron (11.3) ran up a points lead on
Tommy Colteaux at Leichhardt, but had
to take what looked like real punishment
before he was awarded the decision. A
right to the chin floored him for six
seconds in the fifth round, aqd in the
seventh Colteaux hurled him through the
ropes. After this breach of the rules a
left “downstairs” made Cameron assume
a sickly grin. His lefts did not hurt, but
they scored, and the judgment of the
court was correct.
Although Ron Heron was thought
good enough to be matched with the
second “Tommy Burns,” A 1 Kimber, no
champion, gave Heron 71b. and a beating
at the Sydney Stadium. Fighting Rafferty
rules, now increasingly popular in poli-
tics, Kimber was cautioned once for
“shouldering,” and thrice for punching
after being ordered to break from
clinches. Heron fought fairly, but found
Kimber too vicious. A right on the
point floored him for eight seconds as
the eighth round was ending, and, still
suffering from the knockdown, he was
hopelessly beaten in the ninth when
the police called a halt. Even so did Ken
Alexander thump too hard for Billy
Marsden in the other bout, billed as a
12-rounder. A left knocked Marsden
down for “nine” in the fourth, and a
right finished him for the night in the
seventh.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By "PILOT.”
Canonbury Stakes: Don Gio-
vanni, 1 ; King Spa, 2 ; Tamaroa, 3.
Widden Stakes: Thalia, 1 ; Quest-
ing, 2 ; Merry Avon, 3.
Chester Handicap: Star Gold,
1; Industry, 2 ; Lagoon, 3.
Metropolitan: Flight, 1 ; Cream
Puff, 2; Castle Frontenac or
Craigie, 3.
Members’ Handicap: Silent, 1;
Wheatland, 2; Wilton Park or
Eagle Hawk, 3.
Final Handicap: Prince, 1 ;
Strcamford, 2; Omapo or Hari-
pur, 3.
CAULFIELD CUP SELECTIONS.
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Lawrence 1
Counsel 2
Claudette ...... ........... 3


Women's letters
From Sydney
Kae McDowell, alert and sympathetic
president of the Women’s Auxiliary of
the National Defence League, is anxious
for more and more wives, mothers and
sisters of servicemen and -women to
know about the post-war reconstruction
classes now in full swing at the N.D.L.
rooms. The subject of the classes is the
rehabilitation of the serviceman and
-woman in home and social life. From
the discipline of army life, and, in the
case of men, combat experience to the
daily round of the suburban or country
home is a far cry. After the first bliss
of reunion home-coming may be a try-
ing experience for the warrior, especially
if health is temporarily shattered.
The lectures are given by experts in
their fields of practice and research, but
as it is realised that thousands will not
be able to attend the classes, the addresses
will be published as pamphlets, and later
a small book giving the substance of
the whole course will be brought out.
The first pamphlet, “Welcome Home, Ser-
viceman!” by psychologist Dr. A. H.
Martin, is already out and can be bought
for sixpence.
From Siberia to Tokyo and back to
Petrograd was the itinerary set by the
composers for “Viktoria and her Hussar.”
They might have travelled faster if
they had travelled alone, but un-
fortunately Viktoria, thinking her Hussar
dead, has picked up a husband.
He is an American ambassador, name
of John Carling (Ormonde Douglas),
whose politeness and decorum in most
trying circumstances suggest that he
has carefully studied the works of Emily
Post. Anyway, being an ambassador,
John’s staff of secretaries and servants
flutter from Nippon to Russia. That’s
how the Hussar, Stefan, and Janczi (Don
Nicol) did the trip—as part of the house-
hold. John knew Stefan was an escaped
p.0.w., but did not know that he was the
man Viktoria had loved back in her old
home town in Hungary,
Considering that the “travel-by-air”
idea must have been in its infancy when
the play was written, the composers must
have spent many weeks of rail and boat
travel to get their atmosphere. That they
never in their wildest dreams conjured
Pearl Harbor is evident by the smiling,
bowing, cherry-blossom-bearing, oh, so
polite Japanese they introduce to the be-
holder in the grounds of the American
Embassy in Tokyo. Apart from the
topography, Viktoria, etc., is just a story
of another great love thwarted by circum-
stances. The key of the whole thing is
given by Stefan’s (Herbert Browne) song
“One Girl Only in the World for Me.
Gladys Moncrieff (Viktoria) was the girl,
and looked worthy of it. Her first en-,
trance in a lobelia blue summer frock
and a large-size cyclamen hat carried in
the hand, was quite stunning. The voice
is as fresh and ringing as ever.
Against a background of delicately-
hued and freshly-costumed Hungarian,
Russian and Japanese ballets and
choruses Don Nicol, Fred Murray,
Miriam Lester and Betty Sparks do
lightning sketches of fun. The Royal
was packed last Saturday night with
applauders.
Next Sunday at eleven o’clock the
yearly Seafarers’ Service will be held in
St. Andrew’s Cathedral. The preacher
will be popular Padre Clive A. Goodwin,
chaplain to the Sydney Missions to Sea-
men. A feature of the service is the
carrying in procession of the House flags
of overseas and inter-State shipowners,
and their dedication by the Archbishop.
George Fitz Patrick and his wife are
very proud grandparents. Their daughter,
Mrs. Bloomfield, had a birthday last
week, and celebrated the event by pre-
senting twin girls to Australia.
The Kaloola War Service Group held
corroborree on its fifth birthday last
week. So it is to be seen that its members
went into action before the war gong’s
first reverberations had died down.
Kaloola is an aboriginal word meaning a
campfire, and the group chose this name
as symbolic of the home fires they wanted
to keep burning for Australia’s warriors.
First of all the members made garments,
thousands of them, for the children of
Britain. Members of the Group were in
the van as camouflage-netters. They
opened a hut four years ago in the
grounds of Christ Church, St. Laurence.
The popularity of the Hut’s showers can
be guessed by the fact that 1300 towels
are in the laundry each month.
All the original Kaloola-ites were at
the party except those who are now in
the services. Matter of congratulation
over the cakes and coffee served in the
Secondary Schools’ Club was that the
work of the Group has been continuous.
pj cn ] cs> concerts and dances for the sol-
djer are a j wa y S being arranged. Money
£ or j be c ] ub ’ s activities is raised by a
series of enterta i nments> Sometimes an
occas j ona j cheque drops like manna, if not
from heaverlj from the Commonwealth
Bank and the National Defence League.
Th° lunch-hour meetings of the Aus-
tralian-American movement, at which
the Women's Section entertains guest
speakers draw many members. Last
Thursdays coffee-and-sandw.ch pre im.n-
ary to tfce address saw a great Butter of
summer frocks and hats in the gallery of
History House. Guest-of-the-day Stewart
one and aB h a d their coffee hot.
-phen there was general descent to the
concert ball
,„ ~ • .
Ptuscr, tall and lean, is a member
°t StalarXtssociata of
officer ot the Standards Association or
Austral,a. He has vis,ted every colony
and Dominion of the Empire. On Thurs-
f a J. ■» was An Australian Looking at
India.
Patricia Clift (pictured here by Norton
Trevaire) is proud of being a fourtn-
generation Australian. She is one of the
Breeze station clan, and it is just about
104 years since the first homestead was
built on that site At first Breeza was
. one bi holding but gradually, as
J descendants becarae more numerous, it
broken up into different sta , ions ,
Patricia . s home^s know „ as Spring Ridge,
sh „ with admiration that her great-
grandfather and his brother were the flrst
[G cross the Li ver p oo ] Range—among the
ear ,y pj on eers of wool-growing, too.
* F .
. War w °rk Wlt h the C.U.S.A. orgamsa-
t} 011 occupies most of her time, so no
th \ subj ! C i of . thl lP h ?f D ph * mor *
at her address in Elizabeth Bay than at
Spn n g Ridge. Preparations for marriage,
too are in the a i r . Patricia has just be-
con^e engaged to Captain (Dr.) Edward
p Connolly, A.A.M.C., A.I.F. The two
h t 0 be marr i e d towards the end of
the year Patricia’s father is W. W. Clift,
Her fiance ’ s parents are the Edward
Connollys, of Manly, whose home Moana
Kite, as its name suggests, commands an
uninterrupted view of the sea.
Tall dark and handsome, Colin Bate-
man (third officer, merchant navy) is back
in Sydney refusing to talk, unless under
,p re ssure, about his ordeal in the Indian
o cean. Twenty-one-years-old Colin, whose
mother lives in Victoria, spends a great
deal 0 f his leave with his aunt, Mrs.
Maurice Gulson. He was in a merchant
ship that was torpedoed in the dead of
n j g ht. With great presence of mind he
rushed t 0 his cabin and broU ght up his
sextant and logbook—both of them in-
valuable during ten days adrift on the
Indian Ocean, when he was in command
of the lifeboat. Finally the drifters were
sighted by a Catalina and picked up.
Then they were dropped on an atoll. It
sounds romantic, but it wasn’t. Then
later on they were picked up again and
taken to civilisation,
As a relief from war worries, couponed
clothes and butcher-shop trials, the dis-
play of flower pieces recently held at
David Jones’s cannot be overvalued. It
reminds one of the Chinese poet who
sa j d; “if you have two loaves of bread
se fl one and buy a lily.” Who is there
won’t feel joy of heart at Dora Jarrett’s
original approach to her subject? Here
j s a flower stall in Martin-place, burning
with color, against the cool green awning
on which a spring rain is falling. Beside
the stall there is a tall, thin sailor buying
flowers for his girl. It’s like laughter.
Any woman would desire Paul Jones’s
posy of flowers, dewdrops and all. From
Queensland Vida Lahey sends offerings.
The show was opened by Professor
Waterhouse.
The Revenue Branch of A.C.F. looked
over its books on the fifth birthday of
the fund, and found a good deal of satis-
faction in the reading. Ten days after
war was declared the organisation began
to function. This was no magic over-
night growth. It was the result of months
of consultation before the world cracked
asunder between then Mayor of Syd-
ney, Norman Nock, B. S. B. Stevens,
Cljief Secretary Gollan, Premier’s De-
partment Under-Secretary J. W. Fergu-
son and Town Clerk Roy Hendy. Their
conferences were on the measures neces-
sary for a Central Comforts Fund should
war come. From the first year’s receipts
of £483,718, the sum has risen to
£1,485,606. Of this the Salvation Army
has received £181,634, the Y.W. £219,545,
and the Y.M. £57,518.
From Melbourne
The home of Robert Knox and his lady
has been made happy by the return of
their son, Major Keith Knox, who, after
many years’ service with the British
Army, has an imposing row of decora-
tions on his tunic. These include the
M.C. and bar. With the King’s Own
Yorkshire Light Infantry, Major Knox
was in the evacuation of Dunkirk and
the campaign in Ethiopia. Later he served
with the Scottish Borderers in Burma,
where he was badly wounded. Rosemary,
only daughter of the house is an ardent
Red Cross worker, and the Knox lady is
up to her eyes in plans for a dance to
help the Mayor’s Hospital Fund.
The Ribush production of “Ned Kelly”
aroused a lot of discussion, but the work
evidently met with general approval, for
the Union Theatre was booked out for
all performances. When the Lud Mayor
launched his appeal on behalf of hos-
pitals the first function to raise money
for the cause was a night at “Ned Kelly.”
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell and her Younger
Set Committee took charge of the usher-
ing, ticket-collecting and other devices
whereby the funds were augmented.
Eileen Hattam was dashing about full of
happiness. Word had just come through
that brother, Captain Harold Hattam, a
medico in the A.1.F., had reached Eng-
land safe and was attached to a hos-
pital in one of the loveliest of English
counties.
It was a happy thought which
made Mrs, Mitchell (pictured here by
Broothorn) interest husband Wallace
in her committee, for Wallace Mitchell
and a number of his friends have made
plans to help the hospitals, are also inter-
ested in the welfare of limbless soldiers
and arranged a gala performance to be
given at the Tivoli Theatre tor the last-
named cause.
Splendid work has been done by the
“All In” Group on behalf of A.C.F.
These workers, (there are ten of them),
under the leadership of Mrs. Leonard
Newstead, will soon be celebrating their
fourth birthday as a patriotic organisa-
tion. During the last four years the
group has raised over £3OOO. It is now
planning a shop which will open in Little
Collins-street towards the end of the year.
A similar shop raised £368 last year. To
stimulate interest in this year’s venture
the amateur shopkeepers are offering a
prize of five guineas for the most original
yet artistic gift sent in to be sold. Entries
are free and close at the end of Novem-
ber. All articles are to be sent to Mrs.
Newstead at her home, Ottawa Flats, 501
St. Kilda-road.
Audrey Stott is wearing a beautiful and
unusual engagement ring. Set in plati-
num, diamonds form a heart, in the
centre of which is a sapphire. Audrey
is the daughter of Mrs. M. D. Stott, of
East St. Kilda, and of the late Clymer
Stott. Ring was placed on her linger by
Frank Kelly, only son of Mrs. M. E.
Kelly, St. Kilda-road, Melbourne, and
of the late Adam Kelly, of Birmingham,
England. To announce the engagement
Mrs. Stott gave a before-dinner party,
and then Audrey and Frank went with
friends to Claridge’s for a dinner-dance,
Audrey wearing a garnet-red dinner
gown with diamente embellishments.
Among those at the dinner-dance were
the Norman Milners (for this Mrs. Milner
chose a black lace dinner frock) and Mr.
and Mrs. H. Hickson. Mrs. Hickson
wore a full skirted wine taffeta evening
coat over white figured taffeta.
Radio announcers made merry at a ball
at Admiralty House, which was high-
lighted by a ballet trained by Alice Uren.
Mrs. Nance Tupper, Mrs. John Dexter and
Mrs. Les Ross, all wives of announcers,
chose white evening gowns and made a
decorative trio. This was the first big
“do” of the newly-formed Announcers’
Club, and it will become an annual
feature.
The trustees and committee of Aii
Force House did not wait until the war
ended to tell the voluntary helpers of this
hostel just how greatly their work was
.appreciated. Five hundred invitations
were sent out for a late-afternoon party,
and judging by the attendance every one
was accepted. Setting was the newly-
decorated and enlarged Air Force House-
Agriculture Minister Norman Martin was
guest of honor. Welcoming the guests,
the president of Air Force House, Mrs.
J. V, Fairbairn, in the course of her
speech of thanks told the bedmakers that
up to the end of June, 1944, they had
made almost a quarter of a million beds.
Minister Martin disclosed that the Gov-
ernment had undertaken to back Air
Force House to the extent of £lOOO, but
subscriptions from the public and care-
ful planning and running had made the
grant unnecessary.
A bunch of trustees, among them J. J.
Woodward and knight Harold Luxton,
were on hand. In addition to the presi-
dent, Mrs. Alec Russell, Mrs. Grey Smith
and Mrs. Harrison were hostesses. Eve
Becher and Ethel Seekamp, clad in the
natty blue Air Force House uniform,
assisted manageress Matthews to ply the
guests with provender. Among the guests
were stately Maud Hammond, accom-
panied by daughter Joan, and decorative
Grace Forge, who brought daughter
Margot with her. For many months these
four were housemaids two mornings
every week, but with the marriage of
Margot and the war job of Joan
the two mothers were left -to carry
on. Another guest who does yeoman
service in the Victoria League Hospi-
tality Bureau at Air Force House is Mrs.
J. Robertson. Every Sunday morning
finds her busy with daughter Shirley,
arranging luncheon parties, picnics, hikes
for Air Force lads passing through or
posted to establishments in and around
Melbourne.
Ron Warren, of Adelaide, came to this
city to make Iris Tie, A.B.C. pianist, Mrs.
Ron Warren. The wedding was a fuss-
less one, but Mr. and Mrs. E. Sheffield
were determined that Iris, who is leaving
this city to make her home in Adelaide,
should have a wedding party. This was
attended by a few intimate friends of the
newly-wedded pair. Daughter of the
house Molly, who wore a blue and silver
lame blouse with her black skirt, was re-
sponsible for a wedding cake attractively
iced and decorated. Though handicapped
a bit by war-time austerity, Mrs. Shef-
field managed to give a most delectable
supper. Jill Burnet, in a simple black
frock with dainty white frills at neck and
sleeves, though the mother of two
“middy” sons still achieves a youthful
appearance. Mrs. Charles Wenman was
with her two daughters, Pat and Sunday.
Petite Dot Rankine was enjoying the
party and waiting for husband John
Fraser to arrive. John is at the Tivoli,
where his voice is one of the highlights
of the show.
Theatre people came on after their per-
formance, among them blonde Madge
Aubrey, who has been in the “Kiss and
Tell” co. from its beginning. Claude
Flemming is having a rest for a few
weeks, and Eric Rieman has taken his
place. Eric’s part of the American soldier
has been given to Ron Turner, now out
of the army, and the change has brought
a little variety into a show which has been
running well over ten months. Madge
Aubrey on the night of the party was
bubbling over with joy, for she had re-
ceived a leter from her husband who is
a p.o.w. in Malaya. Max Oldaker, not
being in the present performance of “The
Yeoman of the Guard,” came along to
drink a toast to the bride. Having re-
ceived word that his mother was on the
sick list, Max decided to fly. to Tasmania,
where he will spend a few days with her.


WOLFE'S
c zrtromdbc
SCHNAPPS
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Speed the Victory BUY VICTORY BONDS
W. 5.166
TURNED 71 YEARS
AND STILL GOING STRONG!
R.U.R. BENEFITS NEURITIS
AFTER TEARS OF SUFFERING
Why put up with pain from rheuma-
tism, neuritis and such disorders when
relief is so readily available? Read
what Mr. Billy Hinde writes in the
letter quoted below and you will dis-
cover the secret of pain-free, active
living. Mr. Hinde says:—
“Being a great sufferer for years
with neuritis, I was advised to try
R.U.R. (Thanks to my friends.)
The result was after a few days’
treatment X was greatly relieved, and
today, I am most happy to say, it
has completely disappeared.
I still take the above twice a week to
keep fit and well. I have turned 71
years and am still going strong. Many
thanks for your valuable treatment
and the very best wishes.”
R.U.R. owes the benefits it provides for
so many people who suffer from rheu-
matism, neuritis, lumbago, sciatica and
similar disorders, to its commonsense,
natural method of healing. It is the
only remedy which, at the same time,
contains a laxative, liver stimulant,
kidney cleanser, blood purifier and acid
corrective. It is truly the five-fold
health remedy praised by thousands.
So take the shortest cut to robust,
pain-free health, stamina and energy.
Take R.U.R. for a while and you will
see how quickly it restores you to health
and good spirits.
Take R.U.R. regularly for a while.
Smaller size, 4/-; the money-back
guaranteed full treatment, 7/6.
Obtainable at chemists and stores
everywhere.
mCHTJYOV ARE
Please use less BRYLCREEM
The Services want it!
As al! the Brylcreem at present being made
is going to the Services, you may find diffi-
culty in buying it. So use as little as you
can each time and massage every drop well
into your scalp. And here Is a useful hint.
When the jar is nearly empty add a teaspoon-
ful of clean, cold water, shake vigorously and
note how clean the cream comes from the
jar. Yes! you can use the last drop.
Put Victory First—Buy Victory Bonds.
A,
9S
MX
\-0
\6O
Mv\U otvs
Fill her up.
Tigers!
This time our war
chest needs a re-
charge of 160-
million pounds.
Think of the kick
that’ll give the
Japs. It’s up to us,
Tigers! So roll up
at your Bank or
Stockbroker’s and
buy a Bond to help
fill the Victory
Loan.
INVEST IN
Masse
BATTE RIES
are tigers for work !
VICTORY
LOAN
SMOKE-OH!
“Be careful about your diet if you want to
avoid those outbreaks of spots.”— “Woman.”
Don’t take whisky with oysters, for
instance.
q. q. q. q.
“A Kansas law forbids intoxicated persons
from operating any vehicle on the highway —
except a wheelbarrow.” — “World’s News.”
Or a water-wagon.
q* q* q*
“What kind of language was spoken by
human beings in the Stone Age is a difficult
problem. ’ ’ — M agazine.
Not at all; gibberish, of course.
•J* *l* *l* *l*
New Angle.
“At the time he thought he had committed
a crime, but later events proved he was mis-
taken.” — Short story.
When subsequent events occurred
He found his crime was really naught.
In short, though once he thought he erred,
He only erred in what he thought.
Nat.
q* q* q* q*
Playing the Game.
“ ‘lf our enemies had learned to play cricket
we might' now be playing Test matches with
them instead of being at war,’ says Professor
Tasman Lovell.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
The Olympic Stadium in Berlin was
packed for the match. A deafening “Sieg
Heil! ” greeted the appearance of the Ges-
tapo XL A scattering of shots from the
grandstand told where one or two spec-
tators had failed in their duty to rise and
barrack for the Fiihrer’s hopes.
Losing the toss, the Gestapo men filled
in a few minutes tossing a couple of
bombs to each other. The crowd thinned
noticeably, but was still large enough to
produce a heartening volume of hisses,
jeers and catcalls for the two members of
the All-England XI as they strolled to the
wicket. An unconventional note was ob-
served in the placing of the field, the Ges-
tapo insisting on fielding in pairs, back
to back.
England’s wickets fell rapidly, due
partly to the wicket-keeper’s habit of
kicking the wickets and yelling “Wie ist
das?” every time a batsman missed the
ball. When this failed to dispose of a
couple of sloggers, the resourceful ’keeper
took to kicking the batsmen behind the
knees and rabbit-punching the backs of
their necks.
With a mere 50 wanted for a win, the
Gestapo started their innings confidently,
but found themselves handicapped by the
use of rubber truncheons instead of bats.
However, with Teutonic thoroughness
they stuck to their familiar weapon, as
the replacement rate among wicket-
keepers seemed high enough to justify the
disadvantage. Most of the Nazi team
were run out, as they found it difficult
to run in jackboots, and a fundamental
unwillingness to trust each other led to
their finishing the run backwards.
The match ended abruptly when the
last man was given out I.b.w. with only
48 on the board, and both umpires fell
in a fusillade of shots. However, all was
not lost for the Fatherland. The scoring
was done by a small, dark, lame man,
whose decision of a German win by an
innings and 586 runs was accepted with-
out question by the spectators and the
press.
Plum.
q* q* q* q*
“Would you please design me a pair of
sleeping pyjamas.”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
With instructions how to put them on
without waking them up.
q- q* q* q*
“Though I have often seen in dreams the
man I would like to marry, I have never met
him in real life.” — Story.
He is only a nodding acquaintance.
Patent.
“Which side does a cow’s milk come from?”
I’ll bite. And though my intellect’s
A trifle on the thin side,
I’d say the stuff the kine ejects
Comes plainly from the inside.
Percy.
•J* *l*
Another “Composite” Paper.
Very strange bedfellows have been
tucked in together nightly in Hunter-
street, Sydney, and the possibility cannot
be ruled out that some future rumpus
may throw equally ill-assorted periodicals
to be bedded down on the same matt.
When, for instance, “The Ironworker,”
“The Poultry Breeders’ Gazette,” “The
Amateur Fisherman” and “The Screen-
player” have to come out in one sheet
the main front-page article might read
something like this:
CAN SCAB-LEG IN AUSTRALORPS
BE CURED?
By Ernie Thornton.
“Minions of the bloated capitalistic
press who grovel before their great god
Profit Motive, apers of Goebbels, Himm-
ler and other Fascists they openly admire,
make no bones about being out to grind
the toilers into the dust. It is their avowed
intention to engineer, on behalf of the un-
scrupulous captains of industry whose
mouthpiece they are, another Big Depres-
sion so that the parasitic banks can suck
the life blood out of the down-trodden,
despairing masses.
“While on the set during the shooting
of ‘Love In a Palace,’ the super-colossal,
stupendous magical musical in miracle
technicolor, Betty Grable was heard to
say to a script girl: ‘Gee, kid, your hair-
do looks swell!’ As a result the lucky
script girl was rushed before the cameras
for a test ‘take.’ She reacted okay, and
now Unimount has signed her up for a
long-term contract at a fabulous salary.
The discovery, whose name has been
altered from Eileen Hennessy to Patty
Brindletop, is now being groomed to pre-
pare her for stardom. She is a stream-
lined 110-pound bottle blonde, is attached
to her mother, goes to bed at 9 p.m.
and reads till 10 p.m.; favorite authors,
Pliny and Berta Ruck.
“When the combs of your Australorp
cockerels up to five months old lose their
‘bloom’ examine carefully between their
toes for red mite, thrips, knots, splits
shakes, white scale or hives. If the birds
are running a temperature with it or
them the pin feathers will need currv-
combing briskly for a few minutes while
standing (the birds, that is) in a bath of
weak molasses and vinegar Should a
bird who is thus affected also crow in
a bass-soprano and immediately after-
wards fall on its face roup may be indi-
cated. Our amalgamation with the muni-
tion workers has strengthened the
workers’ cause everywhere, and has struck
terror into the hearts of the employing
■ class, who now see the writing on the wall.
“It is said that Roz Russell has the
shapeliest legs in Hollywood. In her latest'
film she wears an exciting brassiere-and-
half-trunks creation in dollar spots on
organdie, specially designed by the
famous fashion house of Blague. It is
said that it shows off her sultry limb
loveliness to perfection. Some anglers
consider that cutty hunk is superior to a
No. 9 gut when fishing off a reefy bottom
for snapper, especially when squid is the
bait, on a 7/0 French hook. The day
when the State will write finis to the
shady activities of the top-hatted octo-
puses of commerce who batten on the
calloused hands of the wage plugs is not
far distant. The importance of con-
stantly burleying with pollard when
angling for redfish cannot be too strongly
stressed.
“At present Deanna is working on
a new film, which will bring out her
dramatic talent, and the fans are agog at
the news. Gossip writers have noted that
she was at the Coconut Grove with a
handsome but little-known ‘bits’ player,
and his rise to stardom is tipped. Rhode
Island Reds and Langshans are not so
subject to bulging of the crop as are White
Leghorns and Australorps. The disease is
marked by the birds gnashing their eye-
brows and sharpening their beaks on their
claws.
“The Ironworkers, despite the cease-
less propaganda directed at us by the
capitalistic enemy, are united as never
before. Catfish are plentiful along the
upper reaches of the Hawkesbury. Tough,
aggressive Humphrey Bogart aims to be-
come the screen’s Great Lover.”
BO.
Shock.
“Whenever she gazed at him he felt enmeshed
by a strange hypnotic power.”— Magazine story.
1 know the kind! They cast a glance
From danger-laden eyes where dwells
The poison of hypnotic spells;
The victim dithers in a trance.
Poor man! When such events occur
He ought to flee far, far away,
Or he will wake to find one day
That in a trance he married her.
T. W. Nathan.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIMD
The contributor placed nrst is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
frees
l take great interest in the Seppelt pic-
tures of England on The Bulletin front
page each week, and think the sponsor-
ing firm is to be complimented on its
gracious idea. But, noticing that most of
the pictures represent trees, in profusion,
I have come to the conclusion that Eng-
lish people have not learned the right
way to treat these woody plants.
The proper thing to do with a tree in
t be country is to ringbark it immediately
jt is spotted, then leave it to grow naked
(perhaps for four or five years). Let it
fall down, or chop it down when it is
completely rotten. If the tree should be
jo a suburban street, the proper thing to
do is wait until it shows fresh verdure,
have a corporation laborer in readiness
a nd instruct him to cut it away imme-
diately.
After a few years of making your tree
look like a bladder on a skewer, the cor-
rect thing to do is to send along a man
with a ladder and a saw. He will show
lhat tree who is boss, and will also bene-
fit all the population by removing
shadows, and allowing the winds all
round the compass their free entry.
“Only God can make a tree,” but we
Australians do know how to deal with it!
—M. R. (N.S.W.).
Trees of Tribute
The Servicemen’s Parents’ and Wives’
Association of Tasmania is carrying out
the suggestions made by Emily Edwards
(B. 20/9/’44). When the first State
Council met about a year ago it was
decided, as one of our activities, to plant
trees for all Tasmanian servicemen who
died during this war.
In Hobart the City Council is gladly
co-operating with us, and a new recrea-
tion area, large enough for two football
grounds, will be planted with Trees of
Tribute as memorials. We have set up an
advisory board of tree and forestry ex-
perts, who are giving most valuable assist-
ance.
In some other parts of Tasmania plant-
ing has begun, and we expect to make a
start next winter in Hobart.
If there are associations similar to ours
in any other of the Australian States I
should be glad to hear from them, or
from any parents and wives of service-
men who would be interested in the for-
mation of such associations. Geo.
Limb, President, S.P.W.A. (Tas.).
Keep the V.D.C. Going
The feeling of “just playing around”
is hitting the V.D.C. hard these days,
assisted by the general feeling (shared by
V.D.Cers. who have not bothered to
understand the position) that the organis-
ation has done its job.
The V.D.C. has an even more definite
job than ever before. In war-time it
would be the greatest folly to leave any
area, however remote from war action
and service it seems, without its garrison.
The V.D.C. is now a good part of such
garrisons in Australia. Its presence en-
ables other men to be sent to more for-
ward areas. The man who stays with the
V.D.C. is helping in a very definite way
to finish the war.
It is regrettable that public announce-
ments about the lessening of parades—
fiuite possible now, and desirable in dis-
tricts where men have work to do on their
: arms—have been made without an ex-
planation that would show that the main-
tenance of the organisation of trained
men, and, in fact, an actual increase, is
not onlv desirable but necessary.—Vee-
&EESEEß (N.S.W.).
Soldier Settlement
Farms are being sold in some districts
Victoria at record prices, the buyers
m many cases being neighboring farmers
who already own extensive properties,
-'lost of this land is in fair condition
a Qd would make excellent blocks for
■ £ ttlement of soldiers.
Buying available land now, at a face
'Uluation, in proved districts for returned
p*sn to start on appears sounder policy
l han yarding them into poorly-developed
preas, leaving them to face the bullocking
a hd pioneering necessary to making a
ppcent living. Selection of good farms,
mough costing more in initial outlay, will
hrove the least expensive in the long
*hn.—E.2 (Vic.).
School for Sailors
“M.N.’s” condemnation of the Gov-
ernment’s apathy about the future of our
Merchant Navy (B. 20/9/’44) is timely.
Less than a decade ago I saw in a
Japanese port a large four-masted barque
full to the hatches with Jap boys being
trained by their Government in seaman-
ship. Australian boys have been signing
on Dutch steamers, realising the hope-
lessness of any Australian assistance or
encouragement. Our neighbors in the
Pacific are awake.
The Commonwealth Government has
built and is building 10,000-ton ships,
with which it hopes to compete for
Australian trade. These vessels are to
carry each two cadets to be selected by
the Government, and two deck boys to
be picked up out of dozens offering. Is
there any sane reason why these ships
or others to be built should not be
constructed to carry up to 30 boys or
more and also a tutor?—M.M. (Q-).
The Federal Government is said to be
contemplating the establishment of an
Australian fishing industry, and is also
gravely concerned with the problem of
delinquent youth. Here is a scheme to
deal with both aspects:
Establish a fleet of small training ships,
preferably auxiliary sailers, staffed by ex-
naval men. Such ships could train delin-
quent youths and engage in fisheries re-
search work. Magistrates of Children’s
Courts would be able to post boy
“ Brandy's off, sailor. Do you think a strong raspberry syrup Would
bring 'im round?”
offenders to such ships instead of having
no alternative (in Westralia, at any rate)
to sending them to jail. The boys should
emerge after, say, two years of training,
good and useful citizens with a career in
front of them as fishermen or members
of ships’ crews. — A. B. Williaams (W.A.).
In the Army
So “1914 Digger” (B. 13/9/’44) hears
from every lad on leave the same
tale, “learning nothing, doing nothing,
fed up,” does he?
Take my youngest son (not the only
one in uniform). Enlisted at 18, he
trained 18 months as engineer ; diesel and
searchlights; ack-ack ; coastal artillery.
Then did six months up north ; saw some
Jap air raids. Returned, he was put to
commando training, unarmed combat
and the like. Then infantry ; more ack-
ack ; more artillery ; machine-guns. Now,
at 22, he is as fit as a gladiator, browned
from head to foot, part of his training
being to lie naked to the sun. He can
swim like a seal —also part of his training.
When the day comes he won’t be like
those poor chaps who were hurried to
Singapore as reinforcements only to
fall as p.o.w. to the Japs. When
General MacArthur asks for the new
Australian Army it will be ready, despite
the moans of “1914 Diggers.”
Anyway, if “1914 D.” used his soldier
knowledge he would know that every
country at war maintains reserves. To
throw everything in too early would leave
nothing except 1914’s for the finish. —
W. C. C. (W.A.).
Comfort in Men’s Clothing
It is reported that several New York
manufacturers will next summer intro-
duce a shirt-and-trouser ensemble for
men. “It will combine trimness, utility
and comfort and will eliminate coats,”
says a N.Y. trade journal, which goes on
to say: “Stylists foresee a revolt against
tight-collar tyranny by soldiers, who, after
bare-chest styles at semi-tropical bases,
will never again button themselves into
coats and vests in hot weather.”
Australia, particularly in summer time,
should set its own standards for com-
fort in men’s clothing, and start now to
evolve simple, new styles for post-war
wear. It’s no use saying “We couldn’t
do it here,” for soldiers who have be-
come accustomed to the freedom and
easy-wearing comfort of shorts-and-
shirt or slacks-and-shirt (both tieless) all
agree that they “will find it hard to go
back to the old heavy suits, complete with
waistcoat and neck-chafing collar-and-
tie.” And think of the saving!
1 know the tailors and clothing manri-
facturers won’t like this change, but it s
about time we started wearing clothes
suitable to our temperatures, anyway. —
Harry Wallis, (A.1.F.).
Queensland and the Clothing Trade
By W. 0.1. decree Queensland clothing
manufacturers have been forbidden to
produce anything but “austerity” styles
in female outerwear, with the result that
retailers seek their requirements from
southern manufacturers —and get them.
Brisbane frock manufacturers who have
somehow managed to visit Sydney and
Melbourne have been amazed to see
frocks adorned with frills and fal-dals
which definitely infringed all regulations.
Members of the trade in Queensland
are wrathful, not at the making of such
garments in the south, but because polic-
ing by W. 0.1. officials in Brisbane has
prevented them from doing likewise. The
volume of inter-State mail orders is
reaching gigantic proportions. Space
saved on railways by priorities in rail
freightage is counterbalanced by the in-
crease of parcel post, which the railways
eventually carry.
Any Queensland housewife can tell you
where to send —to Melbourne for dress
fabrics, towels and baby clothes; to
Sydney for men’s wear and Manchester
goods; to North Coast towns (N.S.W.)
for curtains, etc. — Aeram (Q.).
Niemeyer
It’s nice to see young fellows like
“A.G.A.” (B. 27/9/’44) taking an interest
in what makes things tick, but regrettable
to see them display confusion of thought.
Niemeyer came (at our Government’s in-
vitation) ; he saw ; then he spoke. He did
not say, as “A.G.A.” suggests, “plough
in those spuds, feed these apples to the
pigs.” He did say, in effect, “you, in
common with the rest of the world, have
been trying to get something for nothing.
Cut it out, spit on your hands, balance
your Budgets and you’ll pull through.”
We followed the advice (Labor vocifer-
ously dissenting) and we did pull through.
How much longer it would have taken
us if Labor’s inflationary views had pre-
vailed and we had, in “A.G.A.’s” words,
“overhauled our economic system and
focused attention on methods of ensur-
ing consumption and distribution of pur-
chasing power,” is anybody’s guess. The
U.S. tried something of the kind, and the
more they primed the pump with shots of
paper money the more the pump failed
to function.
If Sir Otto had not been so scrupu-
lously polite he might have told us that
if we let history repeat itself in the matter
of going after something for nothing we
could assuredly depend on the rest of
the story coming true. It isn’t our much-
abused economic system that needs over-
hauling so much as it needs understand-
ing. And that understanding has been re-
duced by a famous economist (not in our
post-war reconstruction department) to
just five words: “There is no free lunch.”
—J. A. Spence (Q.).
The Call for Nurses
Mr. Bellemore wants 795 girls for
N.S.W. hospital staffs, and appeals to
girls to take up nursing in preference
to any present employment. Apparently,
Man-power fails to realise that women
must be both mentally and physically
suited for the profession, which is the
most exacting in the world. Nothing but
the best will do in a hospital, where life
is often in the balance. Therefore, in
pre-war days every trainee was on three
months’ probation to test her ability for
nursing.
There would be no staff shortages, and
no need to increase the responsibility of
the already overworked sisters, if the
Government redeemed repeated promises
to improve conditions.
In N. S. Wales hospitals a qualified
sister’s salary is £4 13s. 3d. per fortnight,
out of which, for the first year, she has
to provide her own uniforms; then she
receives a ss. rise, plus material for four
uniforms if she is fortunate enough to
have 52 coupons to spare. Out of her
meagre salary she has to provide for her
own dental and medical treatment, and
when on annual leave is charged full
board for her room. Debarred from the
services, she must face competition after
the war with a horde of preferred women.
The appalling quarters Sydney Hospital
nurses have had to put up with for years
typify the Government’s attitude ; so long
as they get the staff nothing else matters.
—Sister (N.S.W.).
The Wool Outlook
Have accumulated wool stocks reached
their zenith? W. J. Hutchinson, M.P.,
says the total is 16,000,0001 b pretty
alarming figure. But John Bull and
Uncle Sam as the owners can be depended
on to see that it doesn’t glut the post-war
markets. With a smaller Australian clip
and French and Belgian mills likely to
be using all the wool available shipping
space can carry to them, consumption in
the next twelvemonth should equal pro-
duction.
For many years France was Australia’s
second-best wool customer, and it is good
news that the great Roubaix-Tourcoing
mills were left undamaged by the retreat-
ing Germans. Belgian mills are also in
Allied hands. At this juncture sufficient
shipping space will not be available to
transport all the wool needed by Europe.
Later on ships bringing Allied armies and
arms to the Pacific will be able to take
Australian wool on the return trips as
back loading.
Mills are likely to be fully employed
for years ahead. At the moment Ameri-
can mills are working at full capacity
turning out clothing for U.N.R.R.A.
shipments to Europe. In the post-war
period putting millions of service per-
sonnel back into civvies is going to make
heavy demands on available apparel.
When rationing is relaxed civilians will
buy larger quantities of woollen material.
The world over, home-building looms
high in post-war schemes, and each new
house will increase the demand for
woollen goods.— Graz (N.S.W.).
Wool Prices—Raw and Retail
The disparity between the price the
woolgrower receives for his wool and the
price charged for a finished woollen
article is often discussed by graziers, who
are concerned with the effect the high
price of woollen goods is likely to have
after the war, when wool will have to
meet strong competition from artificial
fibres.
The president of the Australian Wool
Producers’ Federation (F. E. H. Hitchins)
gave the Reconstruction Commission the
following table of costs, obtained by him
from a U.K. source ;
Raw wool (clean scoured) .. 2/6
In tops .. .. .. .. 2/11
In yarn .. .. .. 5/-
In cloth .. ■. .. .. 8/4
Wholesale price .. .. ..21/9
Retail price 30/-
Mr. Stewart asked what effect could
follow even a 50 p.c. reduction in the
price of the raw material. He suggested
that it might pay woolgrowers to form a
corporation large and powerful enough
to enter the wholesale field, if that were
necessary, to reduce the heavy charges at
present extracted for processing and
manufacturing services.
Many graziers have long contended
that they should form a strong co-opera-
tive body to control the sale of their
wool and to buy graziers’ requirements on
a wholesale basis. It would not be a very
big step from such an organisation to
one responsible for the manufacture and
sale of woollen goods.
Graziers are continually being urged
to reduce production costs in an endeavor
to meet the expected competition from
synthetics, but whatever they might do to
reduce costs would not assist the indus-
try very much unless the manufacturing
and selling costs were substantially re-
duced. — Outback (Q.).


WEAR THE SOMBRE COLORS OF WAR
YARRA FALLS’ production is severely limited by man-power difficulties; the greater portion
of its output is required for the Australian and Allied fighting forces, the remainder being
limited to the cloths made to the standards ordered by the Government, leaving no opportunity
to make for the public the high-class fabrics on which Yarra Falls’ reputation has been established.
r
■■-wr
i '■■■■■■- ■
■ ■
m
'■-X;.
: 1
YARRA FALLS
Renowned for lie excellence Worsted
Manufactures, all made from Australian drain wool
ABBOTSFORD • VICTORIA* AUSTRALIA-
Hii
T
D
mm
