

•. (
'
The Bulletin
«The Bulletin,” Vol* 65- —No. 3373
Wednesday, October 4, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post a|||||jlewspaperj
Jeppelts
EATON HALL.
C AXON HALL (he magnificent seat of the Duke of Westminster,
Ek somerhine less Thfn five miles from Chester, the most
medieval-looking town in England. Finely situated on the river
Dee, Eaton Hall is surrounded by a deer park, some 374 acres
in extent, and has gardens that are celebrated throughout the
world. The present house, not the first to have been erected here,
is an imposing Gothic pile designed by the well-known English
architect' Mr. Alfred Waterhouse, who also designed the London
National History Museum. Eaton Hall, closely associated with
the political life of England from the seventeenth century, was
the home of the first Marquess of Westminster a title besWwe
in 1831 upon Robert Grosvenor, second Ear ° ros £"£ r ’ '“
grandson was created Duke of Westminster m 1874, In the county
of Cheshire the faintly of Grosvenor ts of great ant.qu.ty the
ancestors of the Grosvenors of Eaton were cadets of the kmghlly
house of Le Grosvenor. their baronetcy dating from 1622.


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
SB. 144 AGE,
S. H. Prior Prize
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
As no award has been made in the
last two years, the total prize-money
offered for the current competition
is £3OO.
The Prize will be awarded to the
author or authors of the book by an
Australian writer which the trustees
consider the most valuable contribu-
tion to Australian literature pub-
lished in Australia between June 7,
1944, and June 6, 1945. (“Aus-
tralia” and “Australian” for the
purposes of this award include New
Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
The Red Page
Chance Met.
Swing back the gate till it stumbles over
the furrows.
Where the plough swerves close to the
fence and the brown earth crumbles
From mountains crested with tossed-up
tussocks, to valleys
Funnelled with rivers of rain.
The drops hang bright on the wires, the
diligent spider
Worked shifts all night to set up his
house by sunrise
Between the hinge, rusted with rain, and
the latch.
Who went before through the gate —this
affable stranger
Who touches the topmost rail and leans
to dazzle,
Spinning his hat for greeting ? Morning,
Golden and rakish, who stole his shirt
from the scarecrow
To shroud the fire at his heart. Good
Morning
Swing back the gate, good fellow.
Swing back the gate! There is nobody
there. The sunlight
In golden footprints runs up the ridge
of the hill.
n.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Tricks of the Trade .
The first number of “Southerly” since
it has come under the aegis of Angus and
Robertson shows no marked change. In
its quiet way it always was a good liter-
ary magazine—with verse, short stories,
capable reviews, and the special advantage
of being one of the few vehicles in Aus-
tralia for the critical essay—and there is
in the present number the beginnings of
a quiet expansion.
Insofar as an editorial policy is per-
ceptible, the verses of A. D. Hope and
the American Karl Shapiro show an in-
terest in “moderate modernism,” while
the snippings of literary history show a
feeling for the Australian tradition as a
whole. One of the “bits” Is a literary
bombshell —not as dramatic as Ern
Malley, but nonetheless a bombshell.
Headed “The Blank Verse of ‘The Wan-
derer,’ ” it is a letter written by Chris
Brennan to his friend Richard Penning-
ton, now librarian of Queensland Univer-
sity.
Those who have read all that has been
written about Brennan’s scansion—in par-
ticular the learned attempts to prove that
he wrote in classic metre —will appreciate
fully what a bombshell it is. “I have
not written about my ‘metrical innova-
tions,’ ” said Brennan, “because there
aren’t any, only developments.” He scans
“a few of the seemingly more licentious
lines”:
Hither and thither up on the earth and grow
weary
The woods shall awake hearing them, shall
awake to be tost and riven
And the waves of darkness yonder in the gaunt
hollow of night
For until ye have had care of the wastes there
shall be no truce.
Citing Milton, the Bible and Blake as
forerunners in this sort of measure, Bren-
nan points out that he is scanning by
stresses. “The verse of five stresses is
not an iambic pentameter, and that of
six is not an Alexandrine.” In short, he
wrote a line sometimes of five stresses,
sometimes of six, and he didn’t bother
about the unstressed syllables.
Where the critics have gone wrong is
in trying to make some orderly measure
out of the unstressed syllables. Scanned
in the orthodox way, the lines are a wild
jumble of iambs and anapaests and dac-
tyls and spondees and what have you.
They are not, Brennan says in effect,
meant to be scanned in that way ; dis-
regard the unstressed syllables and you
get an easy and natural rhythm of some-
times five, sometimes six, stresses per line.
The misunderstanding of Brennan was
probably due to the critics’ imagining
that standard English poems, which pass
as regular in scansion, are, in fact, regu-
lar. But the great poems of the language
are nearly always a mixture of the natural
rhythm of stresses that Brennan used and
the artificial “regular” metres.
For instance, in Wordsworth’s “Sonnet
on Westminster Bridge,” there is the per-
fectly correct iambic pentameter
And all that mighty heart is lying still.
That is the last line, and, whether he was
aware of it or not, Wordsworth wrote
correct iambics there because he wanted .
a smooth ending to his sonnet, a sort
of marble finish. Elsewhere it is
hard to find a “correct” line in
the sonnet; the ideally-correct lirle,
that is to say, where stress and
accent fall together, making an unexcep-
tionable iambic pentameter. Not fully
aware of what he was doing—though he
did know there was something terribly
wrong with the classicism of Pope —
Wordsworth may have scanned the line
“Dull would he be of soul who could
pass by” to read in his mind:
Dull would he be of soul who could pass by;
but, spoken aloud in its natural rhythm,
the line is
Dull would he be of soul who could pass by;
which is a long way from being a regular
iambic, but which is still a good line of
five stresses.
This confusion between stress and
accent, between natural and artificial
scansion, is to be found in nearly all
standard poems. For some reason or
other poets are continually forgetting that
they have the right to count only their
stressed syllables if they wish ; forgetting,
indeed, that this system of scansion is
traditional in English poetry.
Dryden and Pope, those masters of
artificial metre, apparently knew nothing
whatsoever about natural rhythm. Mis-
taking the moral for the image and verse
for poetry, the eighteenth century also
mistook metre for rhythm. “The dis-
covery of Dryden and his follower Pope,
that Chaucer and others were ‘rude’ in
their versification,” says the editor of
the Cambridge edition of Dunbar, “was
perhaps the greatest literary mare’s nest
ever announced,”
The letter in “Southerly” does not indi-
cate whether Brennan knew how com-
mon his method of scansion has been in
English poetry. He mentions some lines
of Milton; Blake and the Bible. Did
he know that the system goes right back
to “Piers Plowman”?
Here, in a four-beat line instead of
the five or six beats of Brennan, is exactly
the same principle of scanning by
stresses: —■
In a somer seson when soft was the sonne
I shape me in shroudes as 1 a shepe were,
In habile as an eremite unholy of workes
Went wyde in this world wondres to here.
With the alliteration dropped and a
five-beat line substituted for the four-
beat, this is precisely the principle on
which Webster scanned the blank verse
that has so baffled his academic editors.
Chaucer scanned in this way; so did
Dunbar.
Whitman (who perhaps, being athletic
in all things, took very deep breaths)
rolled out most of his allegedly “free”
verses in lines of seven stresses. Hopkins,
whose amusing conception of “hangers”
and “outriders” simply meant the dis-
regarding of the unstressed syllables, em-
ployed the same principle under the name
of “sprung rhythm” ; as did Bridges after
him. In our own time, it is the method
used by T. S. Eliot.
“Properly read aloud,” said Brennan,
“the measure ought not to worry any-
body.” Scan in regular iambics and fail
to let in an anapaest or two, he believed,
“and you will very soon kill your reader.”
He knew, in other words, that he had
dropped on to the natural and living
rhythm of English poetry.
It may not be generally realised how
natural that rhythm is. Moliere stated
only a half-truth when he made his quip
about the man who had talked prose all
his life without knowing it; most people,
when their emotions are aroused, talk
poetry without knowing it.
I once heard a man speaking of his
home in the country; “The air’s so clear
—ten miles away at night you can hear
the whistle and the train coming into the
station. You can hear it going away to
Brisbane in the night, and that’s ten miles
away.” Then he went on to rage against
the city: “You can feel the air all thick
with the people tramping the bitumen up
off the roads.”
He was speaking with emotion ; and,
in a line of five stresses, he was talking a
quite tolerable poetry:— :
The air’s so clear —ten miles a way at night
You can hear the whistle, and the train coming
into the station.
You can hear it going a way to Brisbane in the
night,
And that’s ten miles a way.
You can feel the air all thick with the people
tramping
The bitumen up off the roads.
That is the natural speech rhythm on
which all the academic measures of
poetry arc based. It is the rhythm of the
awakened emotions, like the beat of the
heart. If you listen for it carefully you
will hear it when men are speaking their
minds about the Government; and it
lends'a pleasing dignity to household
quarrels to know that they are usually
conducted in a blank verse of five stresses
per line.
People, of course, do not talk very
good poetry. And that is the danger of
the natural method of scansion. As one
can easily see in Whitman, and some-
times in Hopkins, it becomes chaotic.
One loses the beat of the stresses in the
wilderness of unstressed syllables. Or, if
the beat is not strong enough, the result
is the sort of monotonous mumble in
which a good deal of Eliot’s The Family
Reunion is written.
Uncontrolled natural rhythm will con-
fuse the reader ; over-controlled academic
metre, in Brennan’s phrase, will kill him.
The poet’s problem is to strike a balance
between the two systems, as Brennan did
consciously and as most good poets have
done unconsciously.
Since natural and artificial rhythms are
thus equally important, Brennan’s asser-
tion that “the verse of five stresses is not
an iambic pentameter, and that of six is
not an Alexandrine” is likely to be mis-
leading. The statement is correct as far
as it goes; but it would be better to
regard his five-stress line as an iambic
pentameter modified by natural rhythm,
or a line of natural rhythm modified by
the iambic pentameter—whichever way
you like to put it. He took the iambic
pentameter for the basis of his verse ;
then played games with it, “counter-
pointed” it, or, to use another —and an
appropriate— term of Hopkins’s, “sprang”
it on the critics.
S.
"Novel of New Zealand."
It’s a pity that R. M. Burdon’s Outlaw’s
Progress (Progressive Publishing Society)
bears the sub-title “A Novel of New
Zealand,” for, in the first place, being
perhaps 25,000 words, it is hardly more
than a long short story, and in the second
place it will do nothing to enhance the
reputation of the New Zealand novel.
Concerning a retiirned-soldier farmer
who, in monetary difficulties, imagines
there is a conspiracy against him and goes
mad and shoots a policeman, it has cer-
tain merits—clear-cut characterisation
and, among much that is forced, flashes
of genuine humor.
But it is obviously the work of an un-
practised writer. The scenes are not
fully visualised, and the style, particu-
larly where the writer attempts a
“modern” pseudo-scientific jargon, is
clumsy. An example of the failure to
visualise:
After he had dodged the piece of soap,
the core of an apple and the wet dishcloth
that Dora threw at him, Owen began to
feel curious as to what she meant.
If that is meant to be custard-pie comedy,
the scene is far too brief to succeed.
Again, in a description of landscape, we
learn that “A thrush perched in a tree
suddenly stopped singing,” but we are not
told what the thrush looked like, nor
what kind of a tree it was; we are told
that the road is “rough,” but not whether
it is a metal or a clay road, nor whether
the clay—if it is clay—is red volcanic or
blue papa, nor whether it is dry or damp
... in short, the reader cannot see the
bird or the tree or the road, and the
story, in this vague setting, inevitably
lacks conviction. These are small points ;
but they are just the points one admires
in good writing.
As to the style—the killer, lying under
a tree in his refuge in the bush, is reported
as “envying the birds who seemed to
pass the time agreeably in obeying an end-
less succession of nervous impulses”—an
odd phrase to pass through the mind of
a simple farmer. A little further on he
discovers that “The inert passivity of
inanimate objects exasperated him with
their suggestion of eternal inactivity”—
which, even if one grants that the author
is thinking for the farmer, is colorless
ungrammatical and a masterpiece of re-
dundance.
South Seas Stories.
Light enough in tone, sketchy enough
in substance, flimsy enough in format and
starred with enough misprints to have
been brought out by one of the minor
Australian publishers, Eric Ramsden’s
Strange Stories From the South Seas,
from the reputable firm of A. H. and
A. W. Reed, Ltd., Wellington, is an indi-
cation that the book boom has its disad-
vantages on both sides of the Tasman.
In itself, the book is interesting. With
a foreword by the author saying that it
is designed to widen our knowledge of
the Pacific, and reminding the Allies that
the native peoples have the greatest right
to be considered in the peace settlements,
it tells of the “last pirate of the Pacific”
in the Gilberts; of Gaugin refusing to
paint the portrait of a Governor of
Tahiti on the ground that “he was not an
animal painter”; of murder on a Tahitian
schooner ; of the spirit lover of the queen
of Huahine; of mass murder by black-
birders ; of the first Japs to reach Hawaii
—blown from the coast of lapan by a
hurricane, their junk had drifted blindly
for nearly eleven months ; of a “mad”
missionary; of William Masters, “the
patriarch of Palmerston Island”; of the
Bounty mutineers... certainly interesting
yarns, and valuable in their way.
But Eric Ramsden is a historian. He
wrote Marsden and the Missions and
Busby of Waitangi and, instead of print-
ing casual, disconnected yarns about
pirates, spirit lovers or missionaries, he
is capable of co-ordinating his material
and writing a comprehensive history of
pirates, ghosts or missionaries ten times
as interesting and ten times as valuable
as the present little work. Strange
Stories From the South Seas is mere
journalism.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
There is a greater diversity of styles
and fashions than ever in the 26th annual
show of the Twenty Melbourne Painters
at the Athenaeum, and if there is any link
between them it isn’t the same as the link
between an orchestra and its conductor.
The colored photographic still monopo-
lises a lot of the wall space, but there are
signs of restlessness in some of the
members. William Prater and Arnold
Shore paint sunlight with bite in it in a
series of landscapes and Percy Watson
has an unorthodox sketch of boys model-
ling in the Warrnambool Technical
School. Miss A. M. E. Bale departs from
her meticulous flower studies to paint a
memory sketch of listeners at a concert,
and Alma Figuerola records a grey day
at Cowes very nicely. “Afternoon Sun-
light” by John Farmer is a pleasant land-
scape.
Pianist Vera Bradford, who has been
complaining about the neglect by the
A.B.C. of Australian artists, gave point
to her argument the other evening with
a concert under Tail management at the
Assembly Hall in Melbourne. The force
and vigor of her playing in a programme
composed of Schumann’s Etudes Sym-
phoniques, Bach’s Chromatic Fantasia
and Fugue and some lovely Brahms and
Chopin couldn’t have left much doubt
in her hearers’ minds that there is no
necessity for entrepreneurs to look abroad
for talent.
At the talkies:
In her transcription for the screen of the
Dorothy Macardle novel, Dodie Smith has made
of “The Uninvited” (Sydney Victory) a con-
vincing essay on the theme that a house may
“absorb” something of the tragedy which wiped
out almost all the previous inhabitants. The
effect this has on the orphaned survivor of the
tragedy when, grown to a sensitive girl, she
comes again to the house, is neatly worked out
by Gail Russell, a newcomer who makes an
impressive ddbut.
“The Song of Russia” (St. James) sets out to
inform the world that —no matter what Dos-
toevsky said about them —Russians laugh and
sing all day long. The fatuous story is com-
pensated for by some magnificent playing by a
full symphony orchestra of Tchaikowsky, in-
cluding the Fifth and the Second Pianoforte
Concerto, and a nice job of work by Susan
Peters.
Eddie Marcel has shown at the Tivoli what
comedy can be wrung by a seeming mug on a
pair of ice skates. Comedians Abbott and Cos-
tello, with the added scope that the screen
gives them, add ski-ing to the comic skating
sequences in “Hit the Ice” (State); and a hign-
speed escape on skis from some gangsters is
very funny. Honest slapstick, done with plenu
of energy and a few new twists, is still a winner.
Eddie Cantor doesn’t make many films these
days, but in “Show Business” (Regent) ms oi
skill as a producer is such that he almost con-
vinces the audience that there are no wnisKers
on the plot.


d
Workman’s Togs
Eg:
NO COUPONS
FOR
DYED MILITARY
TUNICS
Ideal for hard wear . . .
brand new ... all wool
. . . good quality re-dyed
Nervy Blue . ,* , four large
pockets. Have not been
worn. Sizes 3,4, and 5.
34 in. to 38 in. chest, 20/-
MEN’S
818 AND BRACE
Bib and Brace Overalls of
guaranteed British Drill.
Full cut, and double sewn.
Sizes are 4 to 8,6 i to Bi.
Navy Drill 14/11.
17/6, 18/6, 21/-, 24/6
Khaki Drill 14/6,
18/6, 21/- and 24/6
6 coupons.
WORK TROUSERS FOR HARD WEAR
'«■
Strong cotton Denim Trousers made in U.S.A. Size 30 in.
to 46 in. Larger a little extra 13/5
Olive Fawn Ingot Cotton Twist 19/11
All Wool Tweeds in Mid/Dark Grey 24/6
Lighter weight all wool Tweeds. Greys or Browns . . . 27/6
5 coupons.
i\
m
t
/?
Seasonal Underwear
FOR SUMMER
Men's cotton Undershirts. White
cotton ribbed knit Athletic cut under-
shirts with no sleeves. Sizes 34 in.
to 42 in. chest 2/10 and 3/4
5 coupons.
MEN’S SANDALS
In Black or Brown grained leather.
Strong sewn soles. Sizes sto 10.
Price .. 15/11
8 coupons.
’TWEEN SEASON
Durable weight men's cotton Under-
shirts. Round neck and short
sleeves. Sizes 34 in. to 44in. chest.
Prices 3/9 and 4/6
Cream cotton Interlock Undershirts,
soft finish, round neck, short sleeves.
Sizes 34 in. to 44 in. chest 5/4
5 coupons.
MEN’S SLIPPERS
In Tan or Black. Sewn leather soles.
All sizes 15/11
5 coupons.
Freight paid in New South Wales. The difference between New South Wales
and Interstate Postage will be charged.
.
Shaving Aids and Hair Restorer
ROLLS
SHAVING CREAM
Made only from the purest
ingredients obtainable.
Guaranteed to contain
nothing injurious to the
skin. Will soften the
toughest beard 4/6
ROLLS
After Shave LOTION
Healing, soothing, cleans-
ing and astringent.
Makes shaving comfort-
able 4/6
NASON’S
DANDRUFF REMEDY
Cleanses the scalp, soft-
ens the hair, perfect hair
dressing, restores grey-
hair to its natural colour.
Price % 3/11
Postage extra on these goods.
% f
< mm
u'
mi
V s .
mm
ANTHONY
famous
'PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS'
low prices
BOX 2712 C* G.P.0., SYDNEY


v’• .. .* V *'» vV. •*
.«* •••:
%
a
&
»y*
. *!
■.;
1
fj
>•?
•r»-
>•*
a
•». %t
-A
*. •» :
i* **
•.
v..
\ " .
%•*
M
i .
; : v
HV
v.i
Oo.'
*
'V.r> -IV
V*- ?
* •
and other Famous Products
including:
CREME de MENTHE - CHERRY BRANDY
ADVOCAAT - ORANGE & WHITE
CURACAO - CREME de CACAO
GILBEDENE - ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY - ROM - GIN SLING
BRONX & MARTINI COCKTAIL - SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH & GAUNTLET WHISKY
W. & A. CILBEY LTD.
Distilleries at
Moorabbin .. Victoria Toronto . . . Canada
London .... England Cincinnati . , . U.S.A.
Address all enquiries to: W. & A. GILBEY LTD., 33 ROSSLYN STREET. WEST MELBOURNE
Telegrams and Cables: "Gilbeys" Melbourne
or 109 Regent Street, Sydney Telegrams and Cables: "Silbeys" Sydney


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3373.
Wednesday, October 4, 1944.
OUR MRS. GUMMIDGE.
“After his emotional outburst Mr. Curtin kept passing his hand under his chin.”
“I'm a lone lorn creetur’ and everythink goes contrairy with me. My troubles has made me contrairy. I wish I didn’t feel ’em, but I do.
I wish I could be hardened to ’em, but I ain’t. I make the House uncomfortable.”— Dickens, and not a word altered.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE GRIM TASK AHEAD.
Opening the latest loan campaign—
“target” £160,000,000, at the subscription
rate of £5,000,000 a day, which ought to
be well within the compass of the new
rich —Mr. Curtin set the theme for the
“drive”: a long, tough, hard war ahead
in the Pacific ; “the strains and stresses
on this country” to be “double, treble
what they have been,” “The time re-
quired for this global war,” Mr. Curtin
declared, “will not be short. I make no
bones about that; I have never misled
you.”
Well, maybe it wasn’t Mr. Curtin but
only somebody with the same name and
position who suggested, in advance of an
earlier loan, that the war ahead in the
Pacific was to be a “football match” with
the Jap as the “ball.” Anyway, the
P.M.’s loan-launching view of it would
have been more effective if he had been
hammering on the theme for some time,
and not suddenly producing it in this way,
when many will have the excuse of taking
it with a shrug as the latest in loan propa-
ganda music, and all must wonder why it
needs a loan-filling necessity to recall —
as every loan does —that 23,000 of Aus-
tralia’s best are prisoners in Jap hands,
seemingly forgotten between loans, except
by their families.
The popular feeling which, a fortnight
ago, had Sydney preparing to stop trams
and trains, testing out bell ropes, oiling
Up whistlers and tooters, overhauling
streamers and bunting and laying in
bottled goods from the black market to
celebrate impending victory—that wide-
spread state of mind was no overnight
growth. Skimpy reporting of the fighting
that has been steadily and bloodily going
on in the Pacific, with the splurges and
the splashes of excited accounts of the
Russian part of the war, was largely re-
sponsible. But Mr. Curtin and Govern-
ment have their share of the blame. If the
papers and the other purveyors of the
war as an entertainment were determined
to focus all attention on Europe, with
more given to even the Russian front in
a day than to the whole Pacific War in
a week, the Government could have cor-
rected the balance. What official war cor-
respondents has it got, and what have
they been doing?
Instead, what has meanwhile been com-
ing from Government sources was such
stuff as the Army Minister’s explanations
of army reductions—Mri Forde has had
the face to criticise others for giving
these reductions “publicity”!—and the
mentions of cutting down home-defence
forces now that these had “outlived their
purpose” and, moreover, were costing
money. The purpose served by such
forces as the V.D.C. in taking over from
men who might be used in fighting areas
appears to have been forgotten. The
general effect of all this, along with the
official dumbness on the Pacific War,
has been the creation and encouragement
of the idea that this war was a side-
show ; that the war in Europe was the
only real war; and that, when Germany
turned it in, it would be no time until
we here in Australia were back to normal
life again.
One who must be dissociated from the
rosy-outlookers is General Blarney. The
general warned Australians at the out-
set that the war would be long and ter-
rible. Coming back from the Middle
East he infuriated sport- and flapper-mad
newspapers by his blistering attack on
the rampant “carnival spirit.” He said
last week in a broadcast that “we will not
destroy the Japanese by that form of
wishful thinking so often expressed in
public and press circles.”
It will require hundreds of thousands of
fighting men, incalculable shipping and
time —time to place these men, ’planes
and ships in position, time to plan their
use, time to fight. The Australian army
knows that many tens of thousands of men,
possibly as large an army as this country
has ever maintained in the field, will go on
fighting, and that behind these men an
even larger army will have to be employed.
Australia has had another winter of
pleasure, with racecourses, professional
footballers, pugs and lotteries doing the
business of their lives. The P.M., of
course, is not going to interfere in any
way with these. The racecourse orgy of
fantastic betting, the lotteries and the rest
of it are to go on, openly competing not
only against the loan but against what
is clearly to be the theme of loan propa-
ganda: “The march towards victory will
be as stern as was the retreat in the dark
days.”
Back in April the New York “Times”
Pacific War correspondent Frank Kluck-
hohn reported with amazement that “You
can get an odds-on bet in Australia at
present that the war against Japan will be
over before Germany is crushed.” That
notion, prevalent at the time, has altered ;
but Sydney’s recent rush to the head of
celebration fever —with papers like the
“Daily Telegraph” applauding it —was a
fair indication that the change has not
been to anything like hard realism about
this part of the war. All that is now hap-
pening is that this country at last is being
officially told what it should have been
officially told regularly all along, and
what has certainly not been similarly kept
dark in America.
In that country all along the Pacific
War has bulked as largely in public
information as the war in Europe,
and the reporting has been anything but
optimistic. There have been some very
good American war correspondents in the
Pacific, and the Australian loan cam-
paigners could do worse than look up
their realistic accounts and frank findings.
One of them is Lewis B. Sebring, lately
returned to the U.S.A. after twenty-seven
months in Australia and New Guinea.
In the N.Y. “Herald Tribune” he reported
that a first-hand study of all the factors
involved had led him to the conclu-
sion that this war in the Pacific “must
go on for at least two or three more years
before a decisive victory can be attained
over the Japanese,” “There are,” he
added drily, “those who will disagree,
but few of them are in the Pacific. The
facts of the Pacific area speak greater
volumes than wishful-thinking theories.”
Mr. Curtin laid stress on the “aggre-
gation of shipping that was required
for the North African operations
and the landings in France” ; the “vast
air cover that wds required”; the “stag-
gering immensity of the supply problems
involved” ; all of which “will have to be
done in the war against Japan” ; with
Australia billed for the role of “organic
base” that Britain had had, and not that
alone: “Our fighting services will go
forward.” But north of the Equator they
will be without the militia. Mr. Curtin
made this clear in the House the day
after he spoke on the loan, saying some-
thing about there being “far too many
Japanese south of the Equator for it to
be practicable for all the Australians re-
cruited to be sent north of the Equator.
Mr. Sebring on the time factor:
We have assurances from all official
quarters that “when the European war is
over” everything the United Nations can
muster will be thrown into the Pacific. Fine,
and agreed. Even now this transfer is be-
ginning to take place. But how long will
it be before sufficient forces can be brought
into the Pacific, properly assembled and
trained, and equipped— not only with im-
mediate supplies, but with those millions
of tons that are needed for reserves—and
then finally transported through the Pacific
areas to deliver the knockout blow?
Mr. Sebring quoted “official opinion,
unofficially presented,” as putting the
time at “a good year,” or, if the war in
Europe finishes before the end of this
present year, then it will take “almost all
of 1945 to gather the forces which are
in the last analysis needed in the Pacific.”
“I happen to know,” the correspondent
added, “that for months past plans have
been drawn that are headed boldly
T946,’ and I do not doubt but that other
plans, sheaves of them, are headed
T947.’” His conclusion: “Through all
of 1945 this [assembling] will have to go
on; perhaps by late 1945 or early 1946
some major moves can be made. Per-
haps by two years from now an impres-
sion will be made on the Japanese that
they will not forget.”
There are, of course, possible eventuali-
ties that may modify these views. A
completely successful battle against the
Japanese Navy could have a decisive
effect. It is impossible to guage
what effect the final defeat of Germany
may have on the Japs, and there are other
uncertainties, such as the results of sus-
tained bombing of Jap cities. In the
meantime, the total sea and land area
that the Japs still hold and control is so
vast that the whole of what Hitler’s
hordes overran at their furthest could be
put into less than half of it; and mean-
while, too, as the fighting in the Pacific
these last few months only too disquiet-
ingly indicates, the Japs are holding on
desperately, fighting as fanatically as
ever. The Saipan and Guam experiences
have been repeated in the Palaus.
First, there will have to be the time
for massing all the forces against them.
Then there will be the slow, grim process
of rooting them out yard by yard from
every hole they have -dug. Australia,
Mr. Curtin has shown, is to be a main
base in these coming operations, and Aus-
tralians are to be among the main fighters.
This Mr. Curtin has seen fit to reveal
only by way of helping a loan appeal,
but even that is better than keeping its
grim truths secret.
Sparring for Time.
In the third week of September, 1918, the
Germans, by confession of Hindenburg
and Ludendorff, were hopelessly licked,
although they then had three allies, Aus-
tria-Hungary, Turkey and Bulgaria—in a
bad way, but still in possession of their
homelands —and with their own or subor-
dinate forces held nearly all of Belgium,
and Serbia and parts of France and Italy.
Russia and Rumania they had beaten
out of the war after occupying all
Rumania and nearly half of European
Russia. And at the end of March they
had inflicted a great defeat on the British
Fifth Army.
In the fourth week of September, 1918,
the rot set in. On the 25th Bulgaria
asked for an armistice, which was signed
five days later. By the ensuing week
the Austro-Hungarians were ready to
cave in, but the Turks beat them to it,
the armistice with Turkey being signed
on October 31, and with the represen-
tative of the unfortunate Emperor Karl
on November 3. On November 11 the
Allies received the surrender of Germany,
and the war was over.
In the third week of September, 1944,
Germany’s only European ally was Hun-
gary, in military strength inferior to
the 1914-18 Hungary, and apparently
incapable of carrying on much longer.
It had been fought to its frontiers by
British, Americans, Canadians, French,
Poles, Belgians, Dutch and Russians,
and was hard pressed on the south
by the armies of General Alex-
ander, in which there are Poles,
French, Italians, South Africans, New
Zealanders, Canadians, Indians, Greeks,
Brazilians and Palestinians, as well as
soldiers from Britain and the U.S.A. There
were also arrayed against it Yugoslavs,
Rumanians, Bulgarians, Finns, Czechs
and Slovaks, though it would be optimis-
tic to expect these auxiliaries, or such of
them as are recent, to put forth the whole
strength of their nations, nor can this be
expected of the French, Belgians, Dutch
and Italians.
The Germans’ only other ally is Japan,
and, save for possible small supplies of
necessaries carried in submersibles, Japan
can give them no help against their multi-
tude of foes in Europe. They are sub-
jected to terrific aerial bombing by the
air forces of the U.S.A. and the British
Empire, with Australians doing their
share. In retreat all this year until retreat
could no longer serve them, invaded from
the west and cut off from foreign supplies
of oil, fuel and metals, they are most
obviously waging a lost war. Why, then,
do they hang on? Apparently because
their rulers believe that time is their
one remaining asset, that it may bring
chances equivalent to a fluke punch
swung by a groggy pugilist, that persever-
ance may save them as it saved Frederick
the Great; above all, that their prin-
cipal antagonists may fall out and en-
able them to snatch a peace preserving
the Nazi Government and the pre-war
boundaries even out of military defeat.
The enemy has cards in his hand which
he did not possess 26 years ago. One is
a fairly abundant food supply, largely
the result of requisitions and forced
labor. Another is a home army com-
posed of and led by ruthless fanatics,
and formed with the deliberate intention
of preventing another collapse with the
1918 features, military and civil. He also
has a great many more prisoners of
war and foreign slaves held to labor in
fields, factories and workshops than he
had in 1918. He is not above trying to
shake the resolution of the United
Nations by compelling these unfortunates
to take the worst of the bombing. At
that, the bombing is immeasurably more
destructive and nerve-shattering than was
the case 26 years ago.
On the other hand, though in 1918 he
had exhausted his armory of frightful-
ness, he has recently exploited the devil-
ish weapon of the flying bomb, with cruel
results to the British, and though it has
failed to lower civilian morale it may
have military possibilities still. His claims
to the possession of a still more terrible
missile have not been lightly dismissed. In
the political sphere he is patently basing
hopes on the Russo-Polish quarrel, on
Russian policy in the Balkans and the
Baltic States, on the possibility of Com-
munist outbreaks in Italy and France and
on the general effect that these develop-
ments may have on American opinion,
as shown in the first place at the Presiden-
tial and Congressional elections.
Meanwhile, there have been added to
the objections to Russian policy in Poland
the Baltic States and the Balkans, point*
edly expressed by American newspapers
and politicians, doubts on another score.
While welcoming the Russian offensive
in Estonia and Latvia, “S. M. Herald’s”
military correspondent pointed out that
“this movement is virtually limited to the
elimination of enemy personnel and the
possible cutting of escape routes,” and
that “drives through Poland, in the
Warsaw or the Cracow sector, would be
far more important in their effect on the
course of the war.”
If the convergence on the Reich is to
be complete the Russians must break the
temporary stalemate before the summer
ends For some reason or other the Rus-
sians have been unable to use the best
summer months to drive into East Prussia,
or to resolve the Vistula deadlock around
the Polish capital.
The mild Professor Roberts himself
found “the relative quiescence somewhat
surprising”;
For the past few weeks Russian activities
appear to have been directed towards the
political objective of removing Bulgaria and
Finland out of the war.,. .Several explana-
tions might account for the comparative
hiatus. The degree of Soviet exhaustion
from past campaigns and from the spring
offensive may have been greater than was
admitted; transport and communication
difficulties may have needed extensive work,
or the food position may have been serious
enough to divert mart-power from the
armies to the harvests.
And as “the autumn shadows lengthened
over Europe” the leader-writer recom-
mended the Allies to strive for “a quick
knockout.”
By none of the allied nations can such
a consummation be more devoutly wished
than by Russia, to whose people another
winter under arms would bring untold
misery. Stupendous as have been her
effort and sacrifice in the common cause,
if the power lies in her every dictate of
strategy and self-interest must now impel
Russia to launch that culminating drive on
Berlin of which her leaders have so often
spoken.
All this, for Sydney war journalism, is
a startling departure from the accounts
of Russian progress dished up in the
dailies as a regular thing. Previously the
possibility that the Russians had been
checked or might be unable to live up
to the glowing stories and predictions of
Moscow correspondents and radio
speakers wasn’t even hinted at. If the
present mood persists the public may be
told that Marshal Tito, hero of a hundred
photographs and a thousand laudatory
articles and puff paragraphs, has failed
to come to light with the mighty army
with which he was credited, and that the
democracies may have to do the bulk of
the work of dishing Hitler from the Mar-
shal’s country, as well as from Italy and
the West.
There is no indication that the defeat
of Mr. Roosevelt and the ousting of the
Democrats from control of the House
and possibly the Senate would weaken
America’s determination to finish the
Nazis off, but the Nazis might conceiv-
ably think they would. The chances of
the Democrats can scarcely have been
improved, nor can the war possibly be
shortened, by the Morgenthau plan for
carving up Germany among Russia,
Poland, Czechoslovakia, Britain, France,
Holland, -Belgium and Norway, “closing
all” its “industries” and “reconstituting”
the remaining fragments, if any, on “a
purely agricultural basis.” Mr. Morgen-
thau is a Jew, and allowance may be
made for his feelings about the crimes
committed against his people. All the
same, his plan is loaded with dynamite,
and so is that of Admiral Land, whose
idea is that the Japanese —with about 24
times the population of N. S. Wales occu-
pying territory less than half its area—-
should be compelled to become a pastoral
people. The United Nations look to other
men, military leaders, to force uncondi-
tional surrender, and to others again,
statesmen, to shape a peace that will last
for at least a generation or two.
Drawing on his youthful acquaintance
with South African terms, and having
Himmler in mind, Mr. Churchill said a
significant thing six months ago. He said
the German war might “peter out.
Returning to the theme in his latest speech,
he deprecated “premature expectations of
an immediate cessation of fighting,” since
“nobody” could “guarantee that the war
would not go several months into 1945.
.There is the possibility that after the
organised resistance of the German State
» and army is completely broken fierce war-
fare might be maintained in the forests and
mountains of Germany by numbers ot
desperate men.
This would be “petering out.” And,
considering the fierce resistance encoun-
tered in isolated ports and cities, it
seems much more likely than an
early and total collapse of a Germany
which is still fighting tenaciously-on ail
fronts, knowing that capitulation worn
mean for its leaders not another issue o
Fourteen Points or anything like them,
but trial for their lives, with the Prob-
ability of a sticky finish on the scaffold or
facing a firing party, and for millions o
their followers the prospect of years o
exile in reparations camps.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Rafferty Rides Again.
Parliament, the one for which more
powers were sought, is out of action
again. It was refused the powers, but
there is no reason to suppose that it would
have improved in diligence and in
manners if they had been granted. Since
the election of August, 1943, sittings have
been few and generally short, except
when, say, a Budget had to be disposed
of at an “all-nighter” in flat contempt
of Parliamentary control of the public
purse. And though it is early to judge
of the Senate, as altered in composition
since the end of June —hopes are not
high—the House grows less and less like
a deliberative assembly concerned with the
gravest matters and careful of the rights
of members and the courtesies of debate.
Before John Bull impressed his charac-
ter on a startled generation it used to be
said that he was addicted to muddling
through his wars. Blustering through
has become the Curtin Government’s ex-
pedient when difficulties arise. It fell
back upon bluster when faced with the
charge that it had spent a King’s ransom
without Parliamentary authority in put-
ting the Labor case for the referendum,
and again when trafficking in radio-
station licences for the benefit of Our
Party came to light. On each occasion
Mr. Calwell was relied upon to do the
blustering.
Mr. Curtin himself is above this kind
of thing, but his lack of control over the
Brisk Boys is not made any less evident
when he chooses to assume the role of
a Strong Man in agony. A debate on
coal always produces one of these per-
formances, and he worked up another
domestic tragedy when tackled about giv-
ing the House wrong information —as he
did, in all innocence—about the Adelaide
radio-station affair. His Strong Man
reputation, made for him by ignorant
as well as interested parties, is now re-
duced to rags and tatters.
Of course, no session, however brief,
would be complete without an exhibition
of “push” politics by Minister Ward.
With ill-co,ncealed relish, he announced
that a party of Geelong Grammar boys
had travelled to Sydney by ’plane during
the school holidays—as they had a per-
fect right to do—and had been refused
rail permits to make the return journey,
their ’plane having been laid aside for
repairs. One of them, he said, was “a son
of the Governor of New South Wales,”
another the son of a director of the air-
ways co. (this was proved false in both
instances, but when bowled out the ill-
conditioned Minister had “no apology or
withdrawal to make”). Four had been
caught border-hopping by ,a special
watch he had set on the Murray Line,
and would be prosecuted with the utmost
rigor of the regulations.
This was too much for the Attorney-
General, who, incidentally, has a friendly
interest in Geelong Grammar. He refused
to authorise the prosecutions,
a far-off echo of Burke breaking with
Fox, Mr. Ward renounced his friendship.
Mr. Anthony tried to ask a question, but
before he had completed it the Speaker,
Mr, Rosevear, called him to order, and
when Mr. Anthony and other members
protested he was “named” and suspended
for the rest of the sitting. So was Mr.
Stewart, of Parramatta, who “made a
remark about the Chair being used to
save the face of a larrikin Minister,”
After a wrangle on procedure, Mr.
Fadden moved the suspension of Stand-
ing Orders to admit of a motion of no-
confidence in the Speaker being put to
the vote. Though the four Independents
supported it —it was the first occasion on
which they had been together—the
Government, as always, had the numbers,
and the scene closed with other members
protesting that Rafferty had been substi-
tuted for May.
Afterwards Caucus took a vote on
appointments to a committee which is to
investigate “demands” for “increased sec-
retarial assistance for private members
and possibly an increased stamp allow-
ance and travelling expenses.” Ministers
Chifley and Forde failed of election.
With only a brief pre-Christmas session
in prospect, it is too late for the party to
go to pieces this year, but 1945 may see
it galloping madly in all directions, like
Leacock’s horse. It will be the four-
teenth year after the last split, and that
happened in the fourteenth year after the
previous split.
They "Must Be Released"!
It being war-loan time, Australians have
received one of the strangely infrequent
official reminders that nearly 23,000
fellow-Australians are in the hands of the
Japanese (22,919 was the total last given,
though of 2877 “no news at all has been
received”), and that the great majority
have been captives for nearly 32 months.
Said Mr. Curtin, launching the loan:
Our gallant men locked up in Singapore
must be released. Fill this loan with your
money to enable this, and all that it means,
to be done with the least delay.
The papers that reported this injunction
published also an announcement by the
chairman of the American Red Cross.
That gentleman stated at Washington that
he was discussing relief measures for
prisoners of war in Japan with repre-
sentatives of the Australian Red Cross,
and that in proportion to population Aus-
tralia had a greater number of men in
Japanese p.o.w. camps than any other
nation. The number, in fact, far exceeds
the total population of Victorian cities
and towns other than Greater Mel-
bourne, Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo
and the electoral population of 40 of the
65 Victorian" Assembly electorates.
Among the captives of Japan were
three members of Parliament, all middle-
aged : A. M. Blain, M.H.R. for the
Northern Territory, and two Victorian
Ms.L.A., W. S. Kent Hughes (Kew) and
Hamilton Lamb (Lowan). Mr, Lamb
was a lieutenant in the A.I.F. On August
31 his sister received word from the mili-
tary, who had got it through the Red
Cross, that he had died of malaria in a
prison camp in Thailand. Nothing had
been heard of him since October, 1943.
Under Victorian law the Speaker of
the Legislative Assembly is required to
issue a writ for a by-election within a
month after the occurrence of a vacancy.
The sad report from Thailand necessi-
tated an alteration of the law to provide
that “where a vacancy arises as the result
of a death of a member in war service,
it shall be deemed to have occurred when
the fact of the death becomes known to
the Chief Secretary.” Lieutenant Lamb
died in December.
Just on nine months between death
and notification! This fact should give
even the thoughtless and careless some
idea of what at least 100,000 Australians
deeply interested in the fate of the im-
prisoned 23,000 —mothers, wives, sisters,
sweethearts, fathers, brothers, children —
to say nothing of their own feelings, must
be going through. To rescue them is a
sacred duty, and time is the essence of
the contract. A member of the fine organ-
isation formed in their interest has been
permitted to state publicly that, so far
from being “locked up in Singapore,”
they are held in many countries under
enemy occupation, from Amboina to
Japan itself. None of these countries
should be placed beyond legal bounds to
any Australian in uniform.
Yet even while people were reading
what Mr, Curtin said about “our gallant
men in Singapore” in relation to the loan,
he was announcing at Canberra that his
party’s Act forbidding the sending of
militiamen north of the Equator was on
no account to be altered.
A National Tragedy.
Another chapter in the tragic history
of the Victorian Mallee is being written
by the red fingers of the drought, which
has reached serious proportions also in
the Wimmera, nearly half of N. S. Wales
and parts of South Australia, with serious
losses of stock as well as crops. Bad as
the situation is, other districts can and
will recover. The Mallee is another
matter.
The Mallee comprises, roughly,
10,000,000 acres, bounded by the S.A.
border on the west, the Murray on the
north, from Swan Hill to Boort on the
east and from Boort to the border on the
south. It embraces four counties and
15 comparatively large towns, ranging in
population from 1000 to 6000 people.
The Mildura settlement, with its 27,000
people, and the Swan Hill settlement with
its 20,000, are in the area, but are happily
placed on the Murray and are irrigation
districts. Places like Boort, Hope-
toun, Ouyen, Rainbow, Sea Lake,
Murrayville, Ultima and the smaller
towns between are in and of the Mallee.
Inside the Mallee are nine railway sys-
tems, totalling close on 700 miles of lines,
trunk roads and highways and lesser
roads. A vast State water scheme sup-
plies the eastern half with water and
in the west there are Government bores
and tanks. All the towns have modern
services ; there are schools, banks, a bulk-
wheat system —all the appurtenances of
a settled district. And over it all, day
after day, drifts windblown sand from
the ruined lands. The sand chokes the
water channels, blocks the railways, bars
the roads, smothers gardens, fills tanks
and dams.
This drought is the final grim touch
to a long story of erosion.
What is to be done? Plainly the area
is worth saving, for it amounts to a very
big national asset. Millions of public
money have gone into it. Its capacity for
{Continued on page 8.)
BREAKTHROUGH ON THE MURRAY LINE.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Houie-
adders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Making
ittf
Hi*!
of
ecX|
On afp
By
PAS^h
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W.,LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
FC* A/8>«*»
production, under good management and
with adequate soil conservation measures,
is still high. It has the Murray waters
on its north and the vast State water
scheme feeding it from the south.
Through it run the Avoca, the Tyrrell,
the Wimmera and the Yarriambiack, an
there are several good-sized lakes. It is
handicapped, of course, by its distance
from the State capital and by metropoli-
tan indifference to its fate, but Australia
cannot afford to lose it. If the responsible
nr nnuHllins
State Government is unable or unwilling
to make a serious effort to rescue it t
the national authority must step in, as
should have stepped in long ago m tne
matter of eroded lands.
That way the U.S.A. saved its er
areas, though only after vast losses.
POLITICAL POINTS
On paper there is one Labor party in
the House at Canberra, with 49 of the
74 votes. When Ward and Evatt parted
company over the affair of the four Gee-
long Grammar boys, the prosecution of
whom as “border-hoppers” the Attorney-
General refused to sanction after his
rowdy colleague and former friend an-
nounced that everything had been
arranged, there looked to be at least two
Labor parties, and if the Opposition had
had the ordering of things there would
have been no adjournment till the middle
of next month. Signs of a return to the
spirit of 1917 and 1931 had shown them-
selves during the debate on the radio-
station licenses, which had Curtin so wor-
ried that he lost his head. The proposal
to send Eggleston to Washington for a
few months is evidence of the Govern-
ment’s uneasiness about the outlook.- It
wouldn’t think of a stopgap if it felt
secure.
During Ward’s term as Transport Min-
ister the inter-State journeyings of pro-
fessional “sports” and Communists have
become notorious. How like the fellow
to turn his blind eye on this traffic and
go after the scalps of a parcel of stranded
boys!
These are glorious days for Canada,
so generous with its gifts to the other
United Nations and so obviously on
the way to becoming a very great country.
In their progress from Caen to Calais
Canadian soldiers captured all the big
guns from which Dover, Deal and Folke-
stone were shelled, together with most
of the Channel-coast flying-bomb bases,
and the jjame and grateful English will
never forget it. And to the delight of the
able and courteous men who look after
Canadian affairs in this country, an ad-
vance party of Canadian troops has
arrived in Australia to renew the grand
partnership of August-September, 1918,
A great many Australians will always re-
gret that it wasn’t renewed as well in
France and Flanders.
The Tariff Board is going into the
question of why it is so hard to buy wine
in the bottle that many people have given
up trying. Transport difficulties are
blamed by viticulturists, but the secretary
of the Melbourne Licensed Victuallers
said that 15,920,922 gallons, practically
three times the annual home consump-
tion, were in bond on June 30, 1941, and
he suggested that too much was sent
abroad. An esteemed contemporary
comes in here:
In an earlier edition At was stated in
error that wholesalers had sold on the black
market. This should have read on the
“best” market.
One of those typographical errors which
are treasured in newspaper offices — other
. newspaper offices.
Though Wonthaggi (Vic.) miners have
been on their best behaviour during the
war, the Government coalmine continues
to be a losing proposition. The loss for
the year to June 30 is reckoned by Dun-
stan at £67,000. It generally runs into
six figures, so that was a good year for
Wonthaggi. If the N.S.W. coalmines
were taken over by Ward it would be a
banner year if the taxpayers didn’t have
to find ss. for every ton mined.
Not 24 hours after the war loan was
“opened” in Sydney “40 officers of the
Auditor-General’s Department” had to
give up auditing for the day to examine
and check Government lot’ry marbles, the
barrel having capsized during a drawing.
It was a reminder that the N.S.W. and
Queensland Government lotteries have
hauled in more money this last year than
in any previous twelvemonth, and that
neither these Governments nor the other
two Governments that run lot’ries are
obliged to pay prizes in war bonds.
Compulsion exists in the case of people
who want to buy real estate. Common-
wealth Treasury permission being refused
unless they can show war bonds to the
value of 20 per cent, (on £500) to 100
per cent. (£lO,OOO and upwards) of the
purchase money, Chifley doesn’t care to
be reminded of that.
The authority established to attend to
rural fire prevention and suppression not
being able to carry out the plans for the
coming season, Lind, Victorian Minister
for Forests, has announced that Com-
mittee G (Rural Fire Fighting Services)
and its 171 local committees will be re-
sponsible for the organisation of preven-
tive measures pending the passing of
legislation. Doing too little and being
too late has become a habit with the
Dunstans.
Senator Keane was moved last week to
comment on the large number of journal-
ists that haunted Canberra and to remark
that since little of the Senate’s doings
were ever reported there might be other
work at which the journalists would be
better employed. Apart from, “5.M.H.,”
DUKE OF GLOUCESTER: “But, look here, Winston, I’ll have to take the family
travelling, and how are WE going to get priorities from Mr. Ward?”
now giving excellent Parliamentary
reports, the best way for a Senator to get
his name in Sydney papers is to (1) win a
lottery, (2) be photographed with a lass in
a scrap of bathing costume, (3) become a
Rugby League footballer, a pugilist or a
dog trainer, (4) join the Communist party.
According to the North American
Newspaper Alliance, Churchill plans to
visit Australia in January to discuss
Pacific strategy and “to remind Austra-
lians that the Commonwealth is still part
of the Empire.” No real Australian needs
or will ever need such a reminder.
After listening to an impassioned
speech on the disqualification of a jockey
from Geraghty, the publican-member for
North Sydney, perhaps a substitute for
a threatened indictment of fellow-Bongs,
Sydney Assembly had a debate on the
“alternative” syllabus for socialist—no,
social—studies in Government schools.
Weaver and Billy Sheahan (Labor) con-
demned the thing ; Heffron defended it,
declaring that “no ‘ism’ is going to get
hold of the Education Department while
1 control it.” Unconvincing without an
assurance that the gentleman has had no
recent or past relations with Commu-
nists or fellow-travellers. Macdonald,
the former Presbyterian minister from
Mosman, asked a question couched in
critical terms, and then said he was "satis-
field that the syllabus would render excel-
lent service.” He must be easily satisfied.
The Jinnah-Gandhi "talks” in India
have broken down. According to Jinnah,
“1 have failed in the task of converting
Mr. Gandhi.” Lang has had the same
experience with McKell, or vice versa,
and Curtin is having it with Ward, or
vice versa, so the merry old game isn’t
confined to one country or one race.
Admitting in the Senate that meat
rationing had failed by 50,000 tons to
produce the amount of meat aimed at,
Keane said he thought the position had
improved recently. The position at the
Sydney Government slaughteryards never
improves, and the position in stock-pro-
ducing districts is ghastly.
Although Queensland Labor has a legal
man in the Assembly it has continued
with a lay Attorney-General. This wasn’t
a matter of consequence when there was
only a farmer Opposition, but things arc
different since a smart young barrister,
C. G. Wanstall, came in with the Q.P.P.
Wanstall’s main mission appears to be to
clean up the mess surrounding State
elections. The Q.P.P. has demanded a
commission of inquiry on six stated
grounds. Meantime the Elections Bill
occupies a low place on the business
paper.
On June 16 the Commons held a debate
on the detention of people for security
reasons under what is known as Regu-
lation 18b. One of the persons held then
—226 at the end of May—was Captain
Ramsay, M.P. During the debate a
Labor member said he had just seen Cap-
tain Ramsay and “asked him what he was
locked up for.” This was the reply:
First, because I am a believer in the
Protocols of Zion, and, second, because
the Government suspects that 1 have more
knowledge than I have of the documents
in the Tyler Kent case.
It sounded silly ; nevertheless, the capting
has been released and is back in the Com-
mons. Tyler Kent, a United States Em-
bassy code clerk, was tried in a British
Court and sentenced to seven years’ for
communicating with the enemy. He is
still in gaol.
Having nothing to do except draw his
salary and be on hand with his vote when
wanted, Lazzarini, the “Home Security”
man, has written a pamphlet proposing
that “the counterfeit laws should be
applied to the creation of currency
through the cheque operations of the
private banks.” This country has fallen
into the hands of a queer crowd.
How politicians love to value in terms
of money! Calwell remarked at Can-
berra that, whereas the British Ministry
of Information is spending £6,000,000 a
year, its Australian imitation gets away
with a mere quarter of a million,
although, on a comparative, population
basis, his department ought to be spend-
ing a million. The best propagandists
for Australia never cost the country a
penny.
Hamilton (“Ham”) Fish, an isolation-
ist before Pearl Harbor, and, chiefly on
that score, the most-abused Republican
Congressman, has survived another
attempt to deprive him of the party nomi-
nation. His New York electorate was
supposed to have been made less Fishy by
changes required under the electoral law,
but they made no difference in the pri-
mary election. An old family connec-
tion with New York and Washington
stands to “Ham.” His father and grand-
father, each also Hamilton Fish, were
Ms.H.R., grandfather exactly 100 years
ago. Grandfather Fish, as well, was Sec-
retary of State—as such he negotiated the
Alabama settlement —and Father Fish
was Assistant Treasurer, And a great-
grandfather (J 758,1833), “of New York
City,” like the “Hams.,” was a soldier
and politician of the Revolution.
Ernie Pyle, the U.S.A.’s No, 1 war
correspondent (he has won the Pulitzer
Prize two years running), meets some
Russian prisoners in Normandy,
They had a rank odor about them, like
silage. Two had their wives with them;
they had been living together right at the
front. The women thought we were going
to shoot their husbands, and they were
frantic. That’s one way the Germans keep
these conscripted Russians fighting—they
have thoroughly sold them on the belief
that we will shoot them as soon as they are
captured.
No Private of the Buffs spirit in that lot.
Still, if the Soviet system is what it is
cracked up to be it is strange that the
women should be so silly—Bishop Burg-
mann and the young lions of the N. S.
Wales Teachers’ Federation insist that
the schooling is marvellous—and the
men such creeping creatures as to take
service with Hitler.
Almost every Victorian Assembly
debate resolves itself into a discussion on
the sufferings of members who* after
they have travelled long distances to
attend the discussions or wrangles in
Spring-street, and have paid taxes, hotel
expenses and donations to football clubs,
have little left out of £5OO to spare for
the amenities of existence. But why
should the country be expected to pay
donations to football clubs?


(Vtl cutdo
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
V.R.C. timekeeper for very many years,
and father of the late Rod Heath, Davis
Cup champion, Fred Heath, of Mel-
bourne, must be unique among Austra-
lian company directors. At 91 he has
presided as chairmai) of directors at the
Robertson and Mullens annual meeting,
and, by the way, had the pleasure of tell-
ing shareholders that the past year’s ac-
counts were the most satisfactory yet pre-
sented. He’s also the head of Gaunt’s,
the timekeepers who keep the Melbourne
public informed every quarter of an hour
when the temperatures hover round the
century.
One of the missing passengers on the
N.E.I. transport ’plane which vanished
between Brisbane and Cairns on Septem-
ber 7 was the remarkable schoolmaster
Samuel Jacobs. Born in Amboina,
regarded by Dutchmen as the most beau-
tiful island of their archipelago, he was
teaching school at Dobo, in the Arus,
when the Japs appeared in the offing.
A Japanese-inspired revolution seized
power and was ruling the island when
the schoolmaster staged a counter-revolu-
tion and regained possession. He ran
the place until Dutch military forces
arrived. When the Japs came in force
Jacobs escaped to Australia, and since
then has been attached to the N.E.I.
school of civil administration. He has
left a wife and eight children in Mel-
bourne.
Brigadier Weir, who took over when
Freyberg, V.C., was injured in a ’plane
crash, is New Zealand-born, a native of
Otago. At 39 the youngest brigadier in
the N.Z. Army, Weir was chosen as a
cadet to go to England for training for
the Dominion’s staff corps, and was
several years at Woolwich. Lieut.-Colonel
wtith the Third N.Z. Echelon, he went
through the Greek, Crete, Libya and
Tunisia campaigns, winning a D.S.O.
and bar.
“H.W.” gets a fright:
Having been trained in the law and in
accountancy, I am always as nearly certain as
possible as to information contained in para-
graphs I forward to The Bulletin, but lately
I got a fright. I sent a par. referring to former
Chief Justice Mann as Lieut.-Governor of Vic-
torl2; Next night’s Melbourne “Herald” had
this item:—
The Lieut.-Governor of Victoria (Sir
Edmund Herring), in today’s “Government
Gazette,” directs the provisional recognition
of Mr. James B. Lindsay as Vice-Consul
of the United States of America at Mel-
bourne. Mr. Lindsay has not yet arrived.
I at once wrote to The Bulletin explaining
that when Mann resigned as C.J. he had an-
nounced that he intended to retain the Lieut.-
Govemorship and I had seen no announcement
of any change. Then next morning’s “Age”
came out with this:
The Lieutenant-Governor, Sir F. Mann,
attended by Lieutenant-Colonel E. J. de C.
Boys, was present at an address on peni-
cillin by Sir Howard Florey in the Wilson
Hall, University of Melbourne.
A ring to the State Premier’s office settled
it —Mann is still the Lieut.-Governor. Inci-
dentally, the dapper knight does the Lieut.-
Governor job with an absolute minimum of
frills. The other day I saw him battling his
way on to a crowded electric tram in Collins-
street, where he got pushed about along with
the 'rest, and he paid his fare with a penny-
ha’penny tram voucher.
“Aerani”: Damien Parer (B. 27/9/’44)
was the seventh son of J. A. and Mrs.
Parer, of Maleny (Q.), and formerly of
New Guinea. Damien’s brother Kevin
was killed whilst trying to get his ’plane
off the ’drome at Lae during a Jap raid.
Another brother, Bernard, is associated
with A.N.G.A.U., and a third brother.
Bob, is operations superintendent with
the Department of Air Production, Bris-
bane.
G. H. Wise, of Sale (Vic.), who
recently passed his 91st milestone, has
spent 70 years in legal practice. He
has been six times Mayor, was Federal
member for the district, has been Min-
ister of Defence and Postmaster-General
and was one of the founders of the Sale
Technical School. He’s a bit too deaf
now for Court appearances, but he still
attends his office.
Gallipoli veteran and former Mel-
bourne “Argus” director Lieut-Colonel
Allan Spowers, D. 5.0., M.C., having
gone again to the wars, his son William
made an under-age entry into the New
A.1.F., and was training in Australia
when news came that the colonel had
been taken prisoner at Alamein. In
Egypt a little later William, now 19,
transferred to the British paratroops with
the big hope that he might somehow get
a chance to rescue his father. Instead,
after taking part in three parachute
attacks, he was severely wounded by
machine-gun fire in ground fighting. He’s
now back in Australia.
From John Brennan :
It was the First Marine Division, “Mel-
bourne’s Own,” which made the assault on
Peleliu. They’re the Guadalcanal Marines,
the division which on August 7, 1942, made the
landings at Tenaru, Tulagi and Gavutu, and
began the first attack of any magnitude against
the Japanese in the Pacific. They left Guadal-
canal in January, 1943, went to Melbourne as
heroes, and were received as heroes. Their
commanding general, Alexander A. Vandegrift,
returned to the States to a promotion and the
eventual overall command of the rapidly grow-
ing Marine Corps—the First Division was
considerably larger than the two-regiment
Marine Corps of the 1914-18 war. Vandegrift’s
A.D.C., Major-General William H. Rupertus,
took over the First. He had his three regiments
—the First, the old Fifth and the Seventh —in
Australia for nine or ten months till they went
in on the assault on Gloucester, New Britain,
on December 26, 1943. They were scattered
about Victoria, but they all came to regard
Melbourne as their second home. Over a thou-
sand of them were married to Australian girls.
Very many of them say they’re going back to
Melbourne when the war is over. The division
mailbags carry more letters to and from Vic-
toria than they do to America.
One of the many long-distance per-
formances of “S. M. Herald” staff mem-
bers ended last Saturday, when H. E.
Dadswell reckoned he’d earned a spell.
For 20 years his name has appeared
in the “Herald” as printer and pub-
lisher ; he has been secretary since
1916, and, all told, 54 years with the firm.
A distance performer outside the office
as well, he has been lay secretary of the
N.S.W. Congregational Union for quarter
of a century. P. H. Palmer takes over
the job of “Granny’s” head chaperon.
With the appointment of Isaac Siggins
as new g.m. of the State Produce Depart-
ment, S.A. continues to show its liking
for ex-Diggers. Siggins was a sarge with
ISAAC SIGGINS.
the did 43rd Batt. and was three times
wounded. He started in 1906 as a
cadet in the department he now heads.
For 16 years he has managed the
Port Lincoln freezing works, in which
time quarter of a million has been put
into improvements there, and lamb-kill-
ings for export have gone from 4500 to
120,000 yearly, “He is,” a report accom-
panying this Coventry drawing of him
states, “a former bowls singles champion
of Port Lincoln and a golfer of little
ability.”
“P.A.”; One of the Kingsford Smith
clan—a nephew, too —was missing from
that review of Smithy’s serving nephews
(B. 27/9/’44). Young Graham Kings-
ford Smith, of the “S. M. Herald” staff,
just returned, after serving for two years
in the Mediterranean hotspot on an Aus-
tralian destroyer—3o-odd bombings—and
base job, with bad eyes. He’s now re-
covered.
Going to America by Government
appointment to help publicise Australia,
fish authority T. C. Roughley holds that,
in one sense, the man-eating’sharks can
be numbered among this country’s assets.
They have a pretty-near irresistible
attraction for U.S. big-game fishermen.
It’s the man-eater idea that gets ’em.
Think of collecting a man-eater’s scalp!
Roughley will be able to tell them plenty
about the big fellows, and about all other
sizes, down to the teeming sardines. He
might even fetch out of his pocket a tin
of some sort of Australian canned fish
that scarcely any Australians yet know
the taste of, such as tunny, which have
something of a chicken flavor. Listed in
OFF TO LECTURE.
the Australian Who’s Who as a zoologist
—among other things, including B.Sc.,
author, sometime president of a variety
of piscatorial societies and a former first-
grader in cricket and baseball —Roughley
is a fish specialist from the fisheries point
of view; that is, he’s most interested in
them in bulk. He has written a book
about oysters and another about the
wonders of the Great Barrier Reef, and
it will be largely on the Reef that he will
lecture in the U.S.A. He should get him-
self billed by the full length of his front
names, Theodore Cleveland, which will
have a familiar ring over there.
C. V. Wickens, chief clerk and acting-
manager of the W.A. branch of A.M.P.,
goes to the S.A. branch as manager. He
succeeds another Westralian, H. R. Mc-
Larty, who goes to manage the Victorian
branch.
New g.p. of the Australian Chemical
Institute, R. D. Williams, is also president
of the Tasmanian branch. Electrolytic
Zinc’s chief research chemist, he trained
at Adelaide Uni. and was for a time
with B.H.P. at Port Pirie. He has been
with Electrolytic Zinc for the past 25
years, and is now in charge of the huge
amount of chemical researching carried
on these days at Risdon (Tas.). The
Institute meeting, held in Melbourne,
named Dr. H. E. Dadswell (a leading
technical officer of C.5.1.R.) as hon. gen.
sec. and F. J. Watson (head of Mel-
bourne Tech, chemistry department) as
hon. gen. treasurer.
W. E. Potts, City Engineer and Build-
ing Surveyor at Launceston, goes to
Hobart as City Engineer. Now 53, Potts
is a Sydney Uni. grad., M.lnst. C.E.,
M.I.E. Aust. and certified Government
engineer (N.S.W.). He’s filled some re-
sponsible jobs, among them assistant sur-
veyor railways location in N.S.W. Public
Works Department, demonstrator in sur-
veying at Sydney Uni,, draughtsman of
Sydney Water Board, assistant engineer
of Birmingham (Eng.) Drainage Board,
Shire Engineer at Rylstone, Municipal
Engineer at Canterbury (N.S.W.) and
chief engineer to the Federal Capital
Commission. An old Digger, who won
the M.C., he has lost a son on active ser-
vice in this war.
Air-Commodore R. Grice, 0.8. E.,
D.F.C., head of the U.K. Army and
R.A.F. liaison staff in Australia, flew it
the last war, joining up with the R.A.F
in 1917 as a just-left schoolboy of 17.
Then he spent five years in Palestine and
Egypt. The present conflict found him
commanding one of the hottest fighting
bases in Britain —Biggin Hill, Kent —
from which flew many of the foremost
British aces. Grice was president of the
Air Crew Selection Board from 1941 to
1942, then took charge of a heavy bomber
station. He came to Australia as deputy
head of the British liaison staff, and has
since covered most of Australia and the
South Pacific.
Awards to the schoolmaster branch of
the Navy Education Section are very
limited, but one recipient is R. G. Fen-
nessy, of East Brighton, Melbourne. A
permanent R.A.N. officer, he earned his
D. for meritorious work while with
H.M.A.S. Nestor in the Mediterranean.
On board that ship when she was lost by
enemy action, he was transferred to sister
ship H.M.A.S. Napier, and is now serving
as Education Officer in northern areas.
Into the silence:
Collapsed in the lobby of Parliament House
in Melbourne just after making a speech,
R. A. J. James, U.C.P. member for Bulla and
Dalhousie. A last-war Digger, as so many C.P.
members are, he was a South Gippsland dairy-
farmer with a sound knowledge of the primary
producer’s problems. A scheme of his for
watering the Keilor Plains from the Maribyr-
nong River is under consideration.
In Adelaide, at 79, Napoleon Louwyck, a
most unusual parson. Born in Belgium, R.C.
missionary in India, then at 40 changed to C. of
E. and ended as an Anglican country rector
in S.A. A profound scholar, and a born fighter,
he was noted locally for argumentative letters
in the newspapers, and for original books on
“Mental Stumbles” and the like, which he
printed and even bound himself, and which, in
their strictly limited editions, should be valuable
to collectors.
In Melbourne, Rev. Robert Williams, presi-
dent of the Methodist Conference of Victoria
and Tasmania; one of three brothers all
members of that ministry.
Recently in Melbourne, Alice Maud Wirth,
widow of Phil Wirth. Aided by two sons and
five daughters, Mrs. Wirth ran the family circus
after Phil’s death, but she still ‘found time for
charitable work.
At 65, at Geelong (Vic.), Wilfred Libby,
who, as a sailmaker and ship’s chandler, equip-
ped many fine ships with their wings. Owner
of some of the finest yachts that sailed out of
Corio Bay, he won the La Carabine Cup in
1908 and the Northcote Cup in 1909.
At Heidelberg (Vic.), Bishop Arthur Green,
the only Australian bishop to reach half a cen-
tury in episcopal orders. Ordained Bishop of
Grafton and Armidale when 37, he was trans-
ferred to Ballarat in 1900 and was bishop there
until 1915. He was born in Surrey in the
Indian Mutiny year and his early Australian
days were spent in the Kelly country, where his
father was a parson.
At Hastings (MX.), at 79, T. H. Lowry, who
owned, among other good ones, that fine mare
Deserf Gold. Randwick trainer George Price
rode Lowry’s first important winner—Madrigal,
in the 1904 Hawkes Bay Cup.
In Adelaide, R. A. Haynes, born at Ballarat
in 1888, on the literary staff of Melbourne
“Argus,” produce-merchant in Adelaide, Aus-
tralian Trade Commissioner in Canada, where
he claimed to have founded the Australian Club
at' Toronto, finally busy again in S.A., and its
representative on the Australian Dried Fruits
Association.
J. H. Burgess (60), a leading Adelaide ac-
countant, learned his profession with his Uncle
Frank in Melbourne, but latterly was of the
S. firm Neill and Burgess. He did fine work
outside his office for Prince Alfred College,
Parkin Trust, Home for Incurables, Toe H,
Rotary and S.A. Forestry Board.
At 66, in Melbourne, a few days after con-
tributing an article to a daily on “Our Starved
Museums,” Daniel James Mahony, M.Sc.,
Director of the National Museum for 14 years.
It was during his incumbency that Phar Lap was
added to the museum. The late director always
maintained that it was one of the finest ex-
amples of the taxidermist’s art in the collection
and also, as he rather regretfully admitted, the
most popular attraction in it.
At 60, Harold Vivian Piesse, M.L.C., member
of a family which has set its mark on Wesf-
ralia. His father, F. H. Piesse, M.L.A., was a
Commissioner of Railways and Director of
Public Works in the Forrest State Government
of 1890 and was acting-Premier of W.A. in
1900. In the Legislative Council for the South-
east Province since 1932, Harold Piesse farmed,
among many other big ventures, a large holding
near Kojonup. A son is on active service.
At Clare (S.A.), at 79, Robert E. H. Hope,
pastoralist and turf enthusiast, S.A.J.C. mem-
ber, amateur horseman, judge, breeder and
owner. His horses won most of the S.A.
classics, and some good Melbourne races, and
old St. Speed, a Goodwood Handicap winner, is
still in the paddocks at the Wolta WoPa stud,
though 29 years old. Hope’s biggest stations
were in N.S.W. —Para, Winbar and Avoca, in
the Far West.
At Wellington (MX.), F. W. Millar, sec.
Public Service Association and editor of the
“P.S. Journal.”
At Rotorua (MX.), E. G. Bridgens, promi-
nent' in business and on the Turf. Himself
president of the Auckland Trotting Club, he
raced trotters, and gallopers also.


i
■»
¥
m
m.
uv\\
Proprietors of the
following trade marks:
“C.O.R. Plus" Motor Spirit
“C.O.R.” Power Kerosene
“Coralite” Kerosene
“C.O.R- light Diesoleum”
“C.O.R." Diesel Oils
“C.O.R.” Fuel & Bunker Oils
BRANCHES IN
ALL STATES
C6
Safe and Profitable —
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY.
o Old age or untimely death terminates a mans earning-power, but matures
o' dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong,
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the po icy matures. -pi
« Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank myestmen •
Office directs attention to “The Bulletin s criticism rol ]
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office; A.C.A. Budding, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane Wttttix , c treet Adelaide.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, -
Western Australia; Warwick House, St. Georges Terrace Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Future of the Banks
The Federal Labor atti-
tude towards banking policy in the post-
war period is now under discussion, in
Canberra. Members of the party, accord-
ing to press reports, are to be given the
opportunity of expressing their views in
Caucus in anticipation of legislation to be
brought down in 1945. Politically, the
Government, subject to any dissension
within its own ranks, is in a position to
have an open go on the banking situation.
It controls both Houses of the Federal
Parliament, and it possesses the required
constitutipnal powers. During the war
banking functions, whether conducted by
private banks or the Commonwealth
Bank, have been virtually nationalised by
National Security Regulations. It will
not be possible to continue these or
similar controls after the expiry of the
National Security Act unless further legis-
lation is passed through Parliament.
Excessive political interference in bank-
ing policy brings four chief dangers.
They are (1) overexpansion of central-
bank credit to provide the Government
with “easy” spending money; (2) the
undermining of the administrative quality
of the central-bank board by “packing”
it with political appointees ; (3) continued
denial of the discretion and economic
influence of the trading banks ; and (4)
outright nationalisation of the banking
system. *• -
Australia has had more financial con-
trols during this war than any other Allied
country. We have been alone in our strict
controls over Stock Exchange dealings,
and nowhere have the discretion and earn-
ing power of the banks been restricted
as they have been in the Commonwealth.
A thing which the Labor party is prone
to overlook is that credit —which it is
only too ready to talk about even if not
to think about —is compounded partly of
confidence, and Labor-party control of
any financial function has never inspired
confidence, even among its own adherents.
This is seen in the hoarding of notes
and currency, and in the desire to acquire
real estate and other non-monetary assets.
It appears that there are two banking
objectives under consideration by various
sections of the Labor party. One is the
nationalisation or rigid control of the
trading banks, and the other is the recon-
struction of both the control and func-
tions of the Commonwealth Bank.
Precisely what is Mr. Chifley’s attitude
towards the private banks now is not
clear. There have been suggestions that
he is an obstacle to the radicals in the
party. However, when he has anything
to say on the subject he is no com-
fort to those who regard a competitive
banking system as essential to the pro-
gress of the country. It may be that war-
time experience, if he has been capable
of absorbing any of the lessons to be
learnt, has tempered his previous outlook
with more caution. But he is a good
party man, and every now and again the
leader of his party goes “credit-happy.’
There is, perhaps, no sadder picture of
wordy recklessness than that of John
Curtin when he sets out to promise the
electors a bigger, better, brighter and
more beautiful country simply by issu-
ing loads and loads of bank credit.
Mr. Chifley’s opinion as to private
banks was definite enough when he was a
member of the Banking Commission in
1936 —five years before he became
Treasurer. In a dissenting report he said:
In the opinion of the other members of
the Commission, the achievement of the
objectives of the monetary and banking
system outlined in the report is most likely
to result, “in the present circumstances
in Australia,” from a system in which there
is a Government-owned central bank, regu-
lating the volume of credit and currency,
and, “as an integral part of the system,”
privately-owned banks, which distribute
that volume, and which may be advised
generally by the central banks as to the
direction in which the distribution should
be made.
With this opinion I am unable to agree.
The evidence given before the Commission,
and personal observation and experience,
lead me to believe that there is no possi-
bility of the objectives being reached, or of
any well-ordered progress being made in the
community, under a system in which there
are privately-owned trading banks which
have been established for the purpose of
making profit
Banking differs from any other form of
business, because any action —good or
bad —by a banking system affects almost
every phase of national life. A banking
policy should have one aim—service tor
the good of the community. The making
of profit is not necessary to such a policy.
In my opinion the best service to the com-
munity can be given only by a banking
system from which the profit motive is
absent, and, thus, in practice, only by a
system entirely under national control
If the ideas of Mr. Chifley go into
practice what happens? In place of the
“profit motive” with which the trading
banks are charged we get the vested in-
terests of Labor politics for the
duration of the Labor Government,
at any rate. Any observant citizen
of this country who is not politically
biased cannot fail to see how the nation’s
finances have been prostituted to politics
even during the crisis of this war, and, as
a result, cannot fail to fear for the future
of the country far more than he ever
did when private banks were able to
exercise checks and controls over the eco-
nomic system.
The trading banks learnt a hard lesson
in 1893, and have been improving their
banking technique ever since. It is per-
haps true that the threat of political con-
trol has helped to accelerate improve-
ments in their service to the country. But 1
that is as far as politics should enter into i
banking. Actual nationalisation would -
bring a monopoly in banking, which :
would be more dangerous than any other i
form of monopoly because of that very <
intimacy which finance occupies in the 1
lives of everyone. The present Labor Gov-
ernment has made so many matters vital 1
in the government of the country the
plaything of politics that it cannot be
trusted with greater powers over the eco-
nomic structure. To have Caucus making
decisions on what should be the latest
banking technique would be as absurd as
having that body deciding what surgical
methods should be used by doctors. We
have already seen the effect of its de-
cisions in the case of the A.I.F. and the
militia.
The opinion of the other members of
the 1936 Banking Commission was that
the central bank should be a credit-
regulating member in an otherwise inde-
pendent banking system. Such a set-up
would seem to be the extreme extent to
which centralised control should go. And
there arises the question as to what the
form and constitution of the central bank
shall be.
Owing to the fact that an abnormal
number of vacancies have occurred on the
central bank’s board during the Curtin
Government’s period of office, the number
of Labor nominees has increased to such
an extent that Labor-party control seems
not far distant. It has not been Labor’s
habit in the past to make its appointments
with much regard to the banking or com-
mercial knowledge of its nominees, and it
is possible that the central-bank board
may eventually be overloaded with what
are simply “party men” and doctrinaires.
Some Labor men are asking not for
actual nationalisation but for controlled
private banking and a more vigorous and
competitive Commonwealth Bank, with
the trading activities of the latter much
expanded. War-time controls over the
trading banks include restriction of profits
to a low figure and the deposit of “sur-
plus investible funds” with the central
bank at 15s. per cent, interest. There
are also restrictions placed upon the lend-
ing operations of the banks, and they
must not invest in war loans without the
consent of the Treasurer. At the time
these controls were imposed the banks’
only protest was that they had already
voluntarily given, for the duration of the
war, all that the Government demanded
under the Banking Regulations.
It is typical of the hopes —and the
results —of Labor financial policy to con-
sider a remark of Mr. Curtin at the time
of the introduction of the Banking Regu-
lations. He said they were “designed to
prevent the war financial policy of the
Government increasing the profits of the
private banks and providing the basis for
an unsound expansion of credit.”
Shackled as the trading banks have been,
and entirely subject to Treasury policy,
there has been more unsound expansion
of credit under the Curtin Government
than in any country in the British Com-
monwealth. This credit-expansion has
come from the central bank itself. Let it
be said that the bank board, as at present
constituted, has not been entirely a will-
ing party to the expansion.
Britain is to buy Australia’s surplus
meat from October 1 this year until
September 30, 1948, and our dairy pro-
duce surplus from July 1 this year until
June 30, 1948. There will be further dis-
cussions about the maximum quantities
of pigmeats which Britain will take during
the final two years of the arrangements.
Mr. Curtin said financial details could
not yet be revealed, but the prices at
present being paid for various classes of
meat for export under the Common-
wealth Government meat-purchase plan
would be maintained. The statement by
Mr. Curtin that financial arrangements
must remain undisclosed—for the present,
at least —calls to mind that New Zealand
has recently obtained new export-price
increases from Great Britain, and on
August 3 Prime Minister Fraser made
some definite and some indefinite an-
nouncements in this regard. As to the
definite, there is to be a lump sum paid
to the Dominion Government of £l2 mil-
lion sterling as “compensation to meet
the abnormal increase in prices of imports
from the United Kingdom from 1939 to
the present,” and further payments “of
£4 million per annum for the period of
four years to cover the disparity in
prices.” A third payment is the retro-
spective increase in dairy-produce prices
for shipments over the past 16 months,
estimated to represent £stg.4.s million.
In addition, a N.Z, paper has been speak-
ing of “the new four-year contract fixing
the price for the first two years and
carrying at least the prospect of further
increase for the second two-year period” ;
it is “expected to increase the export
income by £stg.6.s million a year.” The
whole thing has become a political issue
in the Dominion because of the fear
that the Government is going to take
most of the “lump sums” to itself. The
common headline, “Whose Money Is It?’
sums up the nature of the controversy.
* * * *
The British social-security scheme,
which is contributory, is to be brought
into operation by 1945. It is based on
the Beveridge plan, and it will be paid
for by employees, employers, other types
of contributors and by the Government.
Everybody is covered by it—there is no
means test —and it provides for retire-
ment and widows’ pensions, unemploy-
ment, sickness and maternity benefits,
and there are allowances for industrial
injury and death. It is expected to cost
£650 million sterling in 1945.
* * * *
In Canada during the five years from
1914 to 1919 the national debt increased
nearly seven times, but because the aver-
age interest rate rose from 3.58 p.c. to
5 p.c., the annual interest charge inflated
more than nine times. About a third
of the debt was payable outside Canada,
and a substantial part of it was in
tax-free securities. In the five years
covering the present war the Dominion’s
debt has risen more than three times, but
the average rate of interest has declined
from 3.52 p.c. to 2.57 p.c.; thus the
annual interest charges have risen only
2|- times. The share of the debt payable
outside the country has fallen from 26
p.c. to about 3 p.c., and there are no
tax-free issues. The new borrowing has
been distributed very widely; interest on
the debt will probably be distributed
among not less than 60 p.c. of the in-
come-earners of the Dominion.
* * * *
The cost of price stabilisation to the
Commonwealth, charged up as “war
expenditure,” is this year estimated at
£26 million. The sum includes subsidies,
bounties and estimated losses on land
products, as well as subsidies on the im-
port of jute bags and fertilisers.
* * * *
Total reciprocal lend-lease aid given
by the Commonwealth to United States
forces was £169 million up to June 30.
Of this amount, £lO9 million was in re-
spect of the year to that date. The
Budget provides for a similar expenditure
during the current year.
* * * *
Chairman E. S. Wolfenden, at the meet-
ing of Masonite Corporation, suggested
that the injustice of double taxation of
company dividends could be got over
simply by putting in shareholders’ per-
sonal returns the dividends and income
tax paid by the cos. in relation to the
dividends, both the div. and tax being
: taken by the department as income, but
the tax paid by the co. being subsequently
■ allowed as a deduction.
* * * *
At June 30 the national debt stood at
; £2,366 million, of which £1476 million
was Commonwealth and £B9O million
1 State.


FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Gar
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SEJ-WYN KING, Managing Director.
d
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Shepherd’s Delight.
w
%
m
s
m
rv'iVV
s»® mu
tm.
>■'
i
*il
v >
pi
H
«::>5
m
. and the embodiment of animal health. Yet diseases of sheep cause an annual loss estimated in
money values at over £1,000,000. Mastitis, a disease which attacks dairy cows, alone reduces our
milk supply by nearly 48 million gallons a year. Although Britain has done more than any other
nation to raise the standard of animal breeding, we can ill afford such losses when food is a major
problem of war. The British veterinary profession, helped by the work of the research chemist and
the products of the British chemical industry, is setting out to reduce them. The duty of the veterinary
surgeon, "the physician of the farm,” is to prevent disease as well as to control and cure it. For
these purposes he must have a wide and growing range of chemicals ranging from simple salts
to make good the mineral deficiencies in their food or pastures which cause wasting diseases in
animals, to complex synthetic compounds used to remedy certain glandular troubles, including
forms of sterility. He needs a variety of disinfectants and antiseptics to destroy germs; arsenical,
sulphur and derris compounds to check external parasites; and organic products, such as pheno-
thiazine, to purge animals of parasitic worms. Sulphonamides and flavines help him to combat
strangles in horses, mastitis in cattle and pneumonia in pigs. He exercises increasing control over
many diseases by chemically treated vaccines. The vaccine for dog distemper involves the use
of formalin and a recently developed vaccine for swine fever, of crystal violet. These are great
advances. But such serious diseases as tuberculosis, Johne’s disease and contagious abortion
1C
still await specific cure. The alliance between the veterinary profession, the
research chemist and the British chemical industry is already a close one,
but it must be developed and strengthened before it can be expected to cut
Britain’s annual bill for animal ill-health to a figure which the nation can
view without anxiety.
No. 21 in the "Services of an Industry” series
issued by
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD.
Economic Truths
“Axiomatic economic truths are not
very difficult to understand, but the
absurd* tradition is still handed on from
one generation to another that economics
is a ‘dismal science.’ That aphorism has
cost this country very dear in discourag-
ing people from taking an intelligent in-
terest in economic questions.” Thus the
“Times Trade and Engineering,” Lon-
don, a journal that has taken consider-
able pains to spread the opinion that
money and related matters these days
are not below the level of gentlemanly
and literary interest. It is all very true ;
economics are among the chief factors
regulating present-day living standards,
“economics” in this reference meaning
money management, prices, wages and
production methods in relation to the
citizen.
With contact between the producer
and the consumer growing more
remote every year by reason of the
spreading fields of manufacture and con-
sumption it is only natural that the im-
personal relationship that has come from
the setting-up of world-wide buying and
selling facilities (assisted by monetary
arrangements) should make the welfare
of the individual more and more depen-
dent on the design and efficiency of the
economic organisation. And money is
essentially organisation; that is its only
real value. It has speeded up commerce
by displacing barter and has enabled
mass production and distribution. Organ-
isation, we know, is a matter for intelli-
gence and skill rather than wishful think-
ing and political opportunism. And that
is why the co-operation of the people is
so necessary to the smooth running of
the economic machine and the mainten-
ance of employment and prosperity.
Upon the co-operation of the people
depends the attainment of any first-class
objective in times of stress. Times will
never be permanently better in any coun-
try than the intelligence of the people
warrants. Through their votes, their
work, their wages and their buying are
their destinies largely controlled, and
international relationships come into the
picture as well.
The Atlantic Charter, signed by
Churchill and Roosevelt, aims “to further
the enjoyment by all States, great or
small, victor or vanquished, of access on
equal terms to the trade and to the raw
materials of the world which are needed
for their economic prosperity.” But it
is not much use of nations aspiring to
such heights of idealism unless they are
able to keep their houses in order inside.
A disorderly internal economy that is
under the strain of political or industrial
inflation becomes a sick or unruly mem-
ber in a team that depends for success
on reasonable harmony and stability.
September 30 will bring another
balance day of the General Mining and
Investment Co., a Sydney concern spon-
sored in 1937 by the “Investors’ Review”
—“all the expert information possessed
by the mining board of the Investors’
Review’ Advisory Service” was made
available to G.M.1., and “readers who
followed the definite recommendations of
the ‘lnvestors’ Review’ earned 60 p.c. on
their investments, taking both losses and
gains into account.” Earnings of G.M.I.
did reach 18 p.c. on capital for a period,
but at March, 1939, 46 p.c. of the invest-
ments held were tin shares, 41.2 p.c. gold,
6.8 p.c. base metal and 6 p.c. industrial.
The holding of tin shares showed heavy
market losses when Japan swept over
Burma and the F.M.S., and gold hold-
ings suffered when the Japs threatened
the Bulolo goldfield. P. and 1. debit stood
at £40,770 at September 30, 1943, in a capi-
tal of £108,634. In 1942 the board said,
in respect of market losses, that “it is
difficult to express an opinion as to
whether the loss is merely temporary or
likely to be permanent. This question
must abide the result of the present world
war.” But before Generals Eisenhower,
Montgomery, MacArthur, Blarney, Lord
Louis Mountbatten, Admiral Halsey, etc.,
had a chance to bring a final result to the
world war, the General Mining and In-
vestment board apparently decided to
make some of the loss permanent. “Since
Sept., 1943, the co.’s investment portfolio
was progressively rearranged as oppor-
tunity offered. A number of non-
revenue-producing mining shares were
sold and the proceeds invested either in
dividend-paying gold stocks or industrial
shares.” The tin holding showed a par-
ticularly big decline —base-metal and tin
constituted only 5 p.c. of total invest-
ments, according to a report dated April
30 last. Subject always to what has hap-
pened to the market for the new scrip
acquired, it seems to have been rather a
bad time to have disposed of Malayan-
tin shares. On Oct. 1, 1943, the Sydney
index for tin shares stood at 61.82, and
on May 1 this year at 59.93—that covers
the period of the “progressive rearrange-
ment.” But last week (Sept. 25) the index
for tin shares rose to 74.22.- Of course,
that “expert information possessed by
the mining board of the ‘lnvestors’
Review’ ” —if still available —may have
worked wonders not visible to the naked
eye. But, to the ordinary observer, last
week would seem to have been a far
better time to sell tin stocks than any
occasion between September, 1943, and
April, 1944.
* * * *
It is clear from recent statements, in-
cluding that of the Minister for Muni-
tions, Mr. Makin, that the man-power
position in the Commonwealth has under-
gone great alteration over the past 12
months. But while there has been a big
reduction in the number of hands em-
ployed in munition factories and a with-
drawal of an unspecified number of men
from the fighting services—Mr. Chifley
mentioned this in his Budget speech—
there has not been a noticeable improve-
ment in the supply of civilian goods for
domestic use or of dairy produce for
export. Coles, M.P., the rationing man,
can see no prospects of improvement in
the clothing position. Transport has be-
come more restricted than ever, but more
because of fuel problems than by reason
of man-power shortage. It is possibly of
significance that, although the number of
Government munition workers has fallen
heavily, the total of Government em-
ployees shows little change. Industries in
which output seems still to be far short
of reasonable requirements are thpse pro-
ducing butter, meat, textiles and coal.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bo”: A Sydney bachelor who lives
“up at the Cross” patronises a laundry
which mangles his shirts into strips at a
slightly slower pace than other laundries
he has tried, and so perforce he sticks to
it. His contention that this laundry boils
his shirts in some acid before putting
them under a bulldozer the management
hotly denies. But, though he has become
more or less reconciled to the shirts,
being able to hide them, except on the
hottest summer days, under a coat, he
boils at a greater heat whenever he thinks
of what the laundry does to his collars.
1 thought he had barbers’ rash, but it
seems it is just the action of the serrated
tops of his collars on his neck. The other
day he got someone else’s collars back.
White-hot, he tore up to the laundry.
The haughty marchioness behind the
counter said they couldn’t be anyone
else’s. “We have a filing system
here” she went on. “I know you
have,” he said bitterly. “And that re-
minds me —when you do find mine again,
would you mind using something small,
like a nail-file, instead of a 12in. rasp?”
* * * *
“Cauboy” : v If Beresford Fowler, of
Melbourne, produces his play, “General
Sir Hector MacDonald” (B. 20/9/’44),
he will have a problem in casting. A
newspaper of 30 years ago described the
Scottish peasant who rose to be Com-
mander-in-Chief in India as “a man of
five feet nine inches, with kindly features,
a well-shaped head set on massive
shoulders, clear blue eyes and black eye-
brows,” Another thus portrayed him :
“The moral degenerate was shown by his
prognathous jaw, protruding chin,
elephantine fly-flapping ears, gleaming
sea-green eyes, morose mood and
manners. His hatred of pretty women
was intense. During life he was little
better than a fighting savage—splendid,
but savage.”
* Jjc % ♦
“Tuart”: Sydney “D.T.” came out
the other day with a picture of the Ameri-
can generals Patton and Bradley, taken
in a transport ’plane, and remarked on
the signs of strain written on their faces.
I am happy to report, lest anyone augur
ill from the strange lack of news about
Marshal Tito, “Communist party mem-
ber,” and his conquering army, which
was expected to be rolling up the Huns
at a great rate, that there is no need for
concern as to the strain on the marshal.
“The Partisan leader of Yugoslavia” gave
a “Life” photographer “a full day in his
mountain-cave headquarters,” and the
camera caught him at the top of his
form: sociable, smiling, well-nourished,
spick and span ; beautifully turned out.
There are photos of the marshal in full
uniform (and what a uniform!) writing
at his desk (“he writes with double-
ended blue and red pencil”), dictating to
his secretary (a very neat young woman),
smoking as he studies a map (“he smokes
cigarettes in a pipe-shaped holder”), tele-
phoning at the entrance to his head-
quarters, dog at feet, and playing chess.
There are four studies of the marshal as
a chessman: (1) He “starts a game with
his able Chief of Staff, Arsa Yovanovich,
who wears the two stars of a Yugoslav
general of division” ; (2) he “fights defen-
sively, and imperturbably holds his main
forces in reserve” ; (2) he “grins at his
Chief of Staff and prepares for the kill
(during dinner that night Tito’s whole
staff had gibed at him about his prospect
of losing the game)”; (4) he is “obviously
now far stronger at the board than his
opponent.” The. series is rounded off with
a picture of the marshal in motion, sup-
porting himself on a long “pokret” (stick)
and followed by two units of his army ;
“he is on his way to swim in a near-by
lake, where he plays in the water with his
dog”:—
His speed of foot is such that one tired
Partisan once said he wished someone
would give Tito a horse. The marshal is
meticulous about shaving every day.
Judging by the appearance of Patton and
Bradley, they don’t bother; and as often
as not Montgomery has a two-day growth
of hair on his homely dial. Also, whereas
Marshal Tito in his mountain-cave looks
as if he could step straight on to the stage
to play lead in one of those Balkans musi-
cal comedies which delighted our mums
and dads, his get-up being a triumph,
Monty knocks around in a worn beret,
sweater and slacks.
* * * *
“Avon”; There are more ways of con-
ducting a sale at auction than one could
shake a stick at. In Maoriland, in the
flower markets, • they’ve developed the
quietest, least arduous method imagin-
able —finger-bidding. If you want to
buy, when the auctioneer introduces a lot
and names the upset price, you raise a
finger. He steps up the bidding by six-
pences, threepences or pennies (flowers
are bought by the half-dozen bunches),
and when, and if, the price gets too stiff
you drop your finger. The last surviving
finger marks the winning bid. How dif-
ferent from wool-sale technique!
* * * *
“Visitor”: Adelaide is planning still
another reservoir. It relied on its Torrens
catchment till about 1890, when it har-
nessed the Onkaparinga, 20 miles south
of the city. After the 1914 drought it
went upstream and took all the Torrens
could supply at Milbrook. About 1930
it did the same with the Onkaparinga in
a great Mount Bold scheme. The new
idea is to draw on the Para, 25 miles
north ; leaving nothing but the Murray,
60 miles away, for future extension.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Victoria’s police are deeply in-
terested in sumptuary matters at the
moment. A committee recently came
forth with a design for a new uniform,
superseding the old heavy, buttoned-up-
to-the-neck serge tunic with a light shirt-
jacket. The Johns are frankly dissatis-
fied with the new sartorial issue, and
want it to conform to the Australian
“Well, do I get it, or do I tell the taxation officials you're a 'dodger'?"
Army officer’s uniform, with a place for
a necktie. The tall black helmet for
winter wear is also out of favor. The
general consensus of opinion in the force
is said to be that the officer sort of cap
for winter and the white helmet for
summer are absolutely de rigueur. Com-
missioner Duncan is unsympathetic to
these projected sartorial splendors when
clothing is in short supply to the popu-
lation, and explains that the changes are
designed merely to give maximum free-
dom of movement to the wearer, a very
necessary thing for a policeman.
* * * *
“Derwenter”: The Speck’s Govern-
ment has come to an arrangement with
the Professional Musicians’ Union as to
the future management of Australia’s
oldest theatre, the Royal, at Hobart. The
union is to buy the theatre (under an
agreement not to sell its interests or sub-
“ It's no use, George —I LOVE the American and he loves me."
let its rights without Government con-
sent for 20 years), and will receive £350
a year Government subsidy for 10 years,
itself contributing £291 a year. The
union undertakes to preserve and im-
prove the theatre, and will make it free
of charge to schools (State und non-
State) for 10 nights and 20 afternoons
each year. It also undertakes to provide
light orchestral concerts at low admis-
sion rates and to give concessions to
educational bodies —quite an ambitious
programme on a budget of £641 a year.
* * * *
“Zake”: I lived in a Sydney suburb
which after the last war broke into a
rash of delayed patriotic fervor and re-
named thoroughfares after Allied generals.
Haig-street, Joffre-road and Pershing-
avenue were samples, and they sound
rather well. But, after five years of this
war, there is a strange reluctance among
suburban Bumbles to repeat the perform-
ance. Alexander-street and Montgomery-
road would be right enough, certainly far
better than the Muggs-street and Trotter-
road that have not preserved the memory
of long-forgotten civic fathers. Perhaps
it is that the civic dads boggle at a Blood-
and-Guts Patton-crescent or a Tito-
avenue. And what half-shot homecomer
would like to try to explain to a kindly
helper that he lived in Bagramyan-street?
* * * *
“V. Cl use”: Since our drunk went on
and kept on—the waggon things
were tending to become rather glum
out our way. But the situation has
been saved. The female, as in so many
other matters, has appeared to replace
the lost man-power. A citizen, hearing
a knock on his back door, opened it to
find a charming if somewhat blithered
creature standing there with a candle in
her hand. Uncertain whether it was the
Statue of Liberty or merely another ped-
lar, he was gazing in silence when a husky
voice broke the silence. “Light me
candle, Mister,” it said. Still dumb, he
produced matches and obliged, where-
upon the lady turned about and, shield-
ing the feeble glow with an unsteady
hand, drifted amiably up the path and
along the street. He’s still trying to con-
vince his missus that he had nothing to
do with the visit.
He * * *
On an old-time war correspondent:
Probably the first of the breed was a poet,
still read. When the Boer War broke out, and
N. S. Wales decided to send a contingent, his
friends and patrons urged that it would be a
great thing to send a man of the poet’s literary
status to record its achievements. So he re-
ceived a courtesy commission as captain and
entered upon such a celebration, as he accepted
the congratulations of all and sundry, that the
day of embarkation arrived before anything had
been settled about his salary or uniform and
before the army authorities knew he had been
appointed. At the eleventh hour the bards
friends insisted that a uniform was necessary, and
a bright spirit suggested that actor-manager
Bland" Holt might help. Bland did—-ordered
that poet and entourage should be allowed to
inspect his whole stage wardrobe and should be
given whatever they selected. The Aberdeen
was about to sail; the bands were playing tne
troops on to the ship, the crowds were cheer-
ing on the bunting-bedecked wharf when the
C.O. saw something approaching that made
him suspect there were visions about. It was
the poet. He was wearing a cocked hat that
might have been an admiral’s, a frogged coat,
with epaulettes on the shoulders, tight-fitting
buckskin pants and an elaborately decoram e
pair of top-boots. A cavalry sword clanked be-
hind him. Escorted by half-shot friends, the
apparition marched on board amid a roar o
cheers, caused by a rumor that the Govern
had arrived to speed the departing troops.
But he didn’t get far. The C.O. descende
upon him with an inquiry about what the heu
he was supposed to be, and the Official
Correspondent was soon ashore again. He ana
his party adjourned to a neighboring P
and, finding funds shorty running low,
decided to pawn the cavalry sword, which
was a nuisance anyway, and was contm >
tripping its wearer. That started it, the
of the outfit went, piece by piece, to the
shop. Correspondent's like Jack Abbott
out as enlisted men; the first Official
Correspondent took no part in the war.
* * * *
Winding-up the “in” or “on” a ship
controversy: — .
“Stanvee” (35 years’, naval service): In the
merchant service it is invariably on
“in” a ship. In the navy one is m
ship—never “on.” Naval officers refer m .rnv
cabin”; m.s. officers refer to > c erv ice):
“Two Blocks” (50 years’ merchant
I was always “in” a ship whether , ■ f
mast or aft. In an old re [ er t eni 'u e (Mr.
officer of an Aberdeen Pa cket, the c.o.
Douglas) refers to me as having s
the ship. The term “with’ was J^ d I te ‘ “I
tion with some notorious master or m t
was with Mad Harry ‘m’ the Saucy
Holy Writ speaks of those who f t °that'
the sea ‘in’ ships” and so belay at
AT 80.
“Mr. W. M. Hughes spent his 80th birthday quietly
at home, reading hundreds of congratulatory tele-
grams.”
William, I wish you luck, and stout resistance
For many birthdays more to all the ills
That flesh is heir to! True, it’s not the distance
(A proverb tells us) but the pace that kills.
Still, while you’ve shown rare aptitude for stay-
ing
The course that’s kept you in the public view,
You’ve often helped to make, there’s no gain-
saying,
The pace a cracker, too.
What memories half a century must supply you
Of changing settings and of passing shows,
Of long-gone figures ranged against or by you,
Of foes made friends, and friends who turned
to foes!
They came and went, antagonist and rival
Alike. You hold your place upon the stage,
A hardy annual, a lone survival
From quite another age.
What ups and downs there are for your recall-
ing!
You rose to eminence that few can boast,
Bestrode your world—and, when it came to
falling.
At least you didn’t fall as hard as most.
You kept your seat with stubborn resolution
And, flatly scorning to be counted out,
Became the sort of public institution
We scarce could do without.
A trifle isolated, it’s admitted,
Never a too accommodating soul,
But, still and all, how admirably fitted
To drop into the Elder Statesman role!
What better check on statecraft’s twists and»
tricks than
This modem Nestor can his country show—
One who’s forgotten more of politics than
Anyone else can know?
William, your health! In this our land you’ve
written
Your name as clear for vigor, nip and nous
As your compatriot in Britain’s Witan
Lloyd George—now, too, the Father of his
House.
Historians should record you for a pair of
Taffies whose close resemblance never fails,
Since each inherited an ample share of
The wizardry of Wales.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ear Punisher”: There are plenty of
stories of Australian whisky standing on
its own merits in relation to imported
brands these days, but it wasn’t always
so. A Scottish whisky knight on a visit
to Australia was travelling to Tasmania,
and on the same boat was the representa-
tive of an Australian whisky firm. The
Australian was talking enthusiastically to
the skipper about the local product,
which he asserted couldn’t be distin-
guished from the imported, even by a
connoisseur. “Right,” said the skipper.
“Come to the smokeroom before dinner
and I’ll introduce you to Sir Bungham.
I will call for a round of whiskies, and
whatever brand is asked for I’ll give the
steward private instructions to serve us
your stuff. Then we’ll see what Sir Bung-
ham has to say about it.” The party hap-
pened as arranged, and in due course the
skipper sent for the tipple. The great
overseas distiller drank his impassively
and with excessive slowness, put his glass
down and made no comment. “Well,
what did you think of the whisky, Sir
Bungham?” asked the Australian repre-
sentative with ill-concealed expectation.
“Was that whusky?” asked Sir Bungham.
“I thocht it was kerosene.”
* * * *
“ Wagglegun”: “El Madjal” (B.
20/9/’44) is right. Thefts of rifles by
Arabs outweighed sales easily—our unit
had several “cliftied” from the guard tent
itself at Hill 69 —and battle casualties in
the Syrian show would account for a few.
But the latter part of “El M.’s” yarn
should have been entered in the Tall
Story Welter. The thieves who took
rifles, rack and tentpole complete from
an E.P.I.P. tent must have been in col-
laboration with Indian rope-trick experts.
An E.P.I.P. has two 15ft. poles standing
in the centre of the tent, about 6ft. apart.
They are slotted Bft. from the ground to
take the spikes on each end of a con-
necting stabilising cross bar. There are
24 guy ropes holding the fly to as many
pegs, and a similar number are holding
the tent to pegs. The weight of the tent,
excluding the sides, needs a team of hefty
blokes to trundle it about. I have heard
of this remarkable piece of pinching, too,
but never have met anyone who was in,
or near, a tent when it was done.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Of all the drugs that have
been added to the armory of the medical
profession none has been credited with
“Care to take the wheel for a while?"
so many miraculous powers as penicillin,
I met a woman the other day who was
bitterly resentful of the fact that she was
refused a consignment just as the spring
was coming on, and she was dreading her
annual outbreak of hayfever. Yet Sir
Howard Florey, Australian co-discoverer
of the drug, has warned the public that it
is not a cure-all. He made this point at the
conferring of the honorary fellowship of
the Australasian College of Physicians in
Melbourne after eminent medicoes had
spoken almost as rhapsodically about the
specific as daily newspaper reporters do.
* * * *
“Pip” on air transport for soldiers:
The soldiers of this war are decidedly air-
minded ; by now most forward troops have
made several long flights. Their experiences
will go far to popularise air travel after the
war. A few are still a bit scared of 'planes,
but they go along with the rest of the boys
without a murmur, only a hollow groan when
an air pocket plays tricks betokening any un-
easiness. Conditions on service transport air-
craft are rough and ready. The Digger’s pack
is his seat, if he can find somewhere to put it
down amid the mass of bodies and stores. Even
then his own rifle and almost everybody else’s
are apt to prod him in the ribs. He daren't
move for fear of the pilot’s wrath, and petrol
fumes circulate freely through his lungs. There
is always a wit, too, peering through one of the
little glass windows, forecasting that the ’plane
is too heavily loaded to clear the mountain
ahead, or warning about the sinister beat in the
starboard engines. Bumpy landings and steep
turns are also hair-raising. But these incon-
veniences are outweighed by the speed and ease
of travel, and are preferable to lugging packs
and stores up mountains and down valleys.
Which is why the sar-major’s announcement of
“air travel” brings the chorus “you beaut!”
From “Fireside Rover”;
In a U.S. transport ’plane with a U.S. pilot
the chap who handles the freight is a “kicker-
outer.” The doorways of the ’planes are too
wide for the men to grasp both sides at once
and they cling to the side and balance against
fhe motion of the ’plane and the force of the
slipstream. They wear no parachutes. Some-
times they carry strange cargo. One forward
patrol in rugged country bespoke three
donkeys. These were not troublesome passen-
gers, though they entered the ’plane with re-
luctance and left it finally with far greater re-
luctance. At one time it seemed that the
efforts of the kickerouters might be in vain.
While flying over tropical jungle a lad leaning
out to watch the stores go down lost his
balance and fell 300 ft. The ’plane’s log bore
the laconic entry; “One kickerouter missing.
Three days later a ’plane landing at the nearest
airstrip took the missing boy back to base.
He fell while the ’plane was over a river.
Crashing through vines and overhanging
branches, which broke his fall (also three ribs
and an arm), he plunged into the stream, from
which natives immediately rescued him and
carried him to the landing strip.
* * * *
“C.Ma”: The story of the man who had
Kreisler arrested for pinching his own'
violin recalls another case of mistaken
identity. Einstein is not only a great
mathematician but a good violinist, and
often gives platform performances at
charity concerts. A critic who had so
specialised in music that his knowledge
of most other fields was a blank listened
to Einstein play at a concert in an Ameri-
can city and wrote: “Mr. Einstein’s play-
ing, though sound, did not justify his
tremendous reputation. There are plenty
of violinists as good or even better.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: An English officer on the
Italian front, who had brought fishing
paraphernalia to fill in his leisure while
not smiting the Hun, received a shock
when two Maoris arrived on the bank of
the Volturno to watch his methods. He
had been whipping the river for a con-
siderable time without result, and was
growing impatient at being under such
close surveillance. When he told the
Maoris to stand back and not make a
noise, his audience stripped, fished from
their clothing a couple of hand grenades,
threw them into the river, then each took
a header after them. Before the English-
man recovered from his astonishment at
such unorthodox behavior Hori and
Timi smilingly emerged with armfuls of
trout,
* * * *
“Jurumudi”; All wars have, in a sense,
been surgeons’ wars, and this one is no
exception. The advances made in medi-
cal science have been as great as in avia-
tion. But, unlike previous wars, this one
is becoming also an architects’ war.
Whole cities have been blasted out of
existence and the amount of re-building
that will be necessary in Europe is enor-
mous. Young architects will have oppor-
tunities for designing, not merely
suburban villas, but the layout of cities,
and the development of the robomb and
“My dear boy—anyone who's interested in Margaret is always welcome!"
the rocket has made it a moot ques-
tion whether there will be any more
completely above-board cities. Possibly
the city of the future will be one-eighth
above earth and the rest below it.
* * * *
“Harap”: If Government succeeds in
its proposal to make the pharmacist a
mere dispenser of standard mixtures it
will be just another losing round in the
fight for professional status that the pill-
maker has waged for centuries. First
round occurred in 1224 when Ferdinand
11, King of Sicily and Naples, established
a School of Medicine to examine, register
and license doctors and chemists. The
movement spread to England m 1345,
when the first apothecary’s shop was
fnV
the SrS
arraar
medical profession. With the coming of
the nineteenth century the chemist moved
toward industry; but before long the
beginning of specialisation sent him back
to pure medicine and left the industrial
field to the engineer. In the same period
the crowding together of factory workers,
with its consequent increase of disease
and accidents, made the doctor’s services
indispensable, and his position advanced
to the eminence it now holds. Once more
the chemist is turning to industry, but it
looks as if his brother the pharmacist
will pass permanently from the profes-
sional to the merchant class.
* * *
“Lao-dah” on the ways of Malays:-
As the Allied fleets and forces approach the
Philippines there is talk of a resistance move-
ment against the Japs. Resistance movements
have been familiar in the Malay Archipelago
ever since the advent of Europeans. The Mo-
hammedan branch of the Filipino population
resisted the Spanish with great persistence until
Admiral Dewey blew up the Dons fleet at
Manila. They continued to resist the Americans
out of habit, indifferent to the fact that the new-
comers were anxious to establish a democratic
regime. The Sulus were the most inveterate re-
sisters. At times when a Sulu warrior got dis-
satisfied with his wife or discouraged with the
burden of existence he donned his battle dress
(rather like an Eton jacket), drew his kris and
amokked down the nearest main street, selecting
any whites who were abroad as his targets.
During the period of Dutch monopoly of the
spice trade, when spice plantations were forbidden
outside the region under direct Dutch junsdic-
tion the resisters became pirates, who preyed
on the shipping of all nations. The Illanuns,
inhabiting the islands between Borneo and the
Philippines, raised piracy to an art and a pro-
fession. Their armadas of three-decker praus,
armed with cannon and propelled by slaves, like
the Roman triremes, and often with white slaves
amongst them, ranged the narrow seas from
New Guinea to Siam, and even tried their
strength against British frigates. The steam-
ot iP Sa? a wak “nd'iKloSS?
interest back to agriculture.
* * * *
“A Major”: “F.S.’s” diatribe on non-
executant critics of the arts (B. 20/9/’44)
touches on the spot, it must be admitted,
one of life’s chronic anomalies. These
matters are managed better in the athletic
field, where the referee or umpire is
usually an emeritus professor of the game,
Unfortunately, in the arts there are no
retirements, so the refereeing must be
done either by a competitor or an out-
sider, and theoretically, at least, the out-
sider should be fairer. It needs to be said,
too, that executant and critical ability
are not indissolubly wedded. I have
known “virtuosos” of the pianoforte and
fiddle who had forgotten everything they
learned about music except digital dex-
terity, and who couldn’t have written two
lines of intelligent criticism about a rival’s
performance. In Maoriland years ago,
when musical and elocutionary competi-
tions were in their infancy, there was a
rule that on the final night the judges
must each contribute something to the
entertainment. It was soon discovered
that a very sound, fair judge might be a
S ad flop when it came to public per-
formance. So nowadays if a judge sticks
his neck out it is because he asked to be
allowed to do so.
* * * *
“Zake”: The notion held by many
peo ple that the foreign troops in
Hitler’s western armies would, at the
first sign of the liberating Anglo-Saxon
arm j eSj s h oo t their German officers and
fl . themselves with glad cries into the
****
allegedly impressed troops caused the in-
tans that they peedn t have been so en
thusiastic about their fighting. There: i
nothmg incredible m the theory that they
voluntarily fought for Hitler. There s a
precedent m the history of the Ottoman
Empire. The best and most fanatical
fighters the Turks had were Spahis and
Janissaries, who had been Christian chil-
dren taken m tribute and trained in blind
loyalty to Islam. Such was the effect ot
their training upon them that many, re-
taken by their parents, had but one wish
—to return and again serve their Turkish
masters.
,! . „ !. r _ .
“Nakhoda : Mr. Curtin s reference to
the King John who pulled out the teeth
of merchants (B. 6/9/ 44) recalls that
those merchants were Jews. Ihe Jews
were expelled from England in 1290 and
j - tf j 1,, rVnmwpll in IbSS the vear
readmitted by Cromwell in Idjj, me yea
G f the first important settlement of Jews
in New Yor k. Now there are more Jews
, . , • rubpr • nrnbahlv
m that city than m any other , probably
more than there ever were in Palestine ;
certainly more than there are in the
Empire, Palestine included—if it
’
can be mciuaea.
* * * *
“593”; A correction to “El Madjal”
_ . - T
(B. 6/9/’44) on S African War uniforms;
The Third Victorian Contingent (Bush-
men ’ s c o rp S ) was issued with putties,
, „ v ’ , , , , . * J
also forage caps, helmets and hats turned
up on the left side. After about a montn
Q f helmets had gone under the
. , , ,
wheels of bullock wagons, and forage
caps we re a curiosity. Six months later
of our hats were worn out, and
mos * 01 our nais ’
what we wore were borrowed from Boer
stores or farms—a hat that, after rain,
«« to turn pink. About this time
some who had been sick in hospital or
depots returned to their unit with leg-
gings or top-boots as favored by flash
Boers, but most still had putties. Our
mob was first under Carrington (Portu-
guese territory, Mashonaland, Rhodesia),
then with “Baden Powell’s Circus,” then
with “Plumer’s Bloody Wanderers.” I
remember after 12 months wearing a
pink hat, blue shirt, khaki cords patched
with bag, no socks and boots that had
one sole.
OUR FLAG.
While, exultant, we behold it,
Floats our flag as winds unfold it
O'er Australia.
Ours the task to keep it ever
By bright deed and brave endeavor
Proudly flying.
Ours the task to hold its splendor
Free of stain, and homage render
To it ever.
Pride in all it stands for voicing,
'Neath its silver stars rejoicing,
Hearts united,
Sing we therefore, “Flag of Glory,
On thy folds is scrolled a story
Rich with promise!
“Emblem of an honored nation,
Thine be world-wide salutation
Through the ages!”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The swagman breasted
the little rise and saw the river about a
mile below him. Standing against the
wall of gums was a two-roomed hut, and
he eagerly noted the wisp of smoke float-
ing from the squat chimney. It was hot,
with a strong wind blowing dust flurries
along the road, and the swagman had a
sudden vision of fresh,, hot tea and, maybe,
some home-made scones. He wiped the
sweat from his face, gave the knot a
hitch and started for that hut. As he
drew closer he was impressed by its isola-
tion. He hadn’t passed human habitation
in the last 20 miles, and beyond the hut
he could see road and river sweeping
away for miles with not a roof showing
anywhere. Then he reached the hut,
dropped his swag thankfully and called
“Hey, anyone home?” A tall, brown-
faced woman appeared, and before he
could get a word out she snorted “My
good man, if you intend to beg something
to eat, kindly go round to the back. You
should know that without being told.”
He was still gasping when, having tra-
velled the 10 feet or so between back
and front doors, she greeted him with
a smile and said “If I didn’t keep up that
sort of thing I’d go mad. One needn’t
lose one’s sense of decorum, need one?”
“No, missus,” he mumbled faintly; “do
y’ mind if I go away for ten minutes
an’ come back. Y’ see, I forgot t’ put
me coat on.”
* * * *
“Moyhu”: “The 0.D.” (B. 23 /8 / ’44)
couldn’t have been along the Upper King
Valley (Vic.) during a wet winter. In
these usually soggy regions large numbers
of black and mountain duck perch in the
trees to escape footrot, common among
duck which do not observe this pre-
caution. The structure and webbing of
a duck’s foot, designed primarily for
paddling in squelchy country, make
perching on a narrow surface difficult,
except where the foliage is dense. The
birds overcome the difficulty, however,
by resting their heels on the limb and
leaning back among the foliage, which
provides them with a restful seat and
ideal camouflage.
“The 0.D.”: Ignoring me, but “for
the edification” of others, “Blime” (B.
20/9/’44) writes, “I repeat that it is no
more unusual for a wild brood duck to
light on a straight, dry limb,” etc. Who
said anything to the contrary? “Blime’s”
original assertion was that the “duck
soared comfortably to a treetop,” where
therd aren’t any straight (meaning nearly
horizontal), dry limbs, and that’s what I
picked him about. And while we’re at
it, apart from freak web-foots that can
“soar,” whatinell is a “wild brood duck”?
* * * *
“Zimple Zimon”: Was watching a big
mob of sheep pouring through a wide
gate when suddenly one right in the
centre made a jump, obviously under
the impression that it was likely to trip
over a gate-stop, such as one finds where
a pair of gates are hung. From then
on all the rest of those woollies along the
centre line made a similar jump on arriv-
ing at the imaginary obstacle, no doubt
congratulating themselves on so success-
fully overcoming it. Conversing with an
ancient shepherd, I was informed that
such blind jumping was common with
sheep in a mob. Now I’m puzzled as to
where the jumbuck learned that trick,
since not one Australian bush gate in
a thousand is double and with a stop in
the centre. I am inclined to tbink
that such an instinct to jump over an
imaginary object must be an inherited
faculty passed down from ancestors who
tripped over gate-stops either in Spain
or Saxony, from which countries most
of the progenitors of our modern Aus-
tralian sheep originally came.
* *■ * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’re hay-diggin’ for
a cocky out in the Undowangie country
one year, and when we’ve got the stack
about half-built the boss’s married
daughter arrives on a visit. She’s a good-
looking, hearty young woman with plenty
of life, and all there for laughter and
jokes, and it don’t take her long to wake
up that Mat is shy of women. She starts
teasing him, but he don’t worry, because
"You guys had better put on y'r parachutes."
we know she’s married and there nothing
flirty in her fun. One day she brings
out some tea and cake, and comes up the
ladder on to the stack and sits on the
hay, chipping us while we wrap our-
selves around the scran. Presently she
gets up to go down the ladder but misses
her footing, grabs Mat with a squeal, and
the pair of ’em slide down in a heap of
hay. They’re not hurt, and she gets up,
red as a turkey-cock, and hurries off to
the house. Mat seems pretty silent the
rest of the day, and he’s deep in thought
when we go to bunk. About two o clock
next morning I wake up to see him come
sneaking into the room. “Hey, where
you bin?” I asks. “Sh-h! Want t’ wake
the flamin’ house?” he whispers. “Y’
remember that hay business this morn-
in’? Well, y’ never know with these here
wimmen, so I bin huntin’ round t see
if there was any letters or telegrams.
But there wasn’t any, so I reckon it was
a accident.” “Letters or tele” I
gawps. “Yairs,” he says. “I had t’ be
dead sure she was still a missus an not
a widder. You know what them widders
are! ”
*** , *
“M. 8”: Re the uses to which an abo.
puts an empty meat-tin (B. 20/9/’44). The
abo. may use the small disc inside the
tin for a mirror, but the canner doesn’t
put it there to catch vagrant solder. It’s
the buyer’s guarantee of the contents
if the disc is tarnished the meat is crook
and the eater thereof a potential victim
of ptomaine.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Those groper that
“Cape Voltaire” mentions as biting the
hands clean off divers (B. 2/8/’44) must
be a different species from those found in
Great Barrier Reef waters. In the experi-
ence of Torres Strait Islanders such a
feat... is impossible ; and I say this after
being out with skin-divers trochusing on
the reefs between Darnley and Murray
Islands and getting the good oil since
writing the par. which “C.V.” answers.
These islanders don’t care a hoot about
the biggest of groper, because of their
relatively small teeth and because, ff
the giant fish do occasionally attack, they
can be pushed aside with both hands.
Next to sharks, what these divers
fear most are large conger eels. These
snakelike brutes, up to 6in. in diameter,
|[ stick their heads above the coral to watch
for an opportunity before'tackling a diver.
Moreover, the sea slitherers can t be
ducked and have their backs broken Y
a hand’s pull like sea-snakes; they are
too handy with their teeth, which can
bite an arm off. To combat this enemy
Darnley “boys” always carry a steel spva
underwater, and, whenever possible, they
catch Mr. Conger behind the head with
it while he’s still sitting.
*** * *
“Bo”: Rowlings and Kinnane, fossick-
ing around some old diggings, came on
an abandoned vertical, timberless shaft,
around 30ft. deep. Who knew but what
the owners had tossed in the sponge when
perhaps within a few feet of a rich vein.
Resolving to chance it, they rigged up a
windlass, and Kinnane, the lighter of the
pair, went down in the bucket. After a
few feet had been excavated they decided
to put in a shot. Kinnane had lit the fuse
and was a few feet on his way up when
the crazy windlass broke. He yelled to
Rowlings to catch the rope, which bed
quickly detached from the bucket, and to
sling down one end of it, which he d fasten
around him, and for Rowlings to haul
him up. Rowlings caught the rope and
then disappeared. About 15 seconds later
he reappeared and got to work. Kin-
nane was about half way up when the
shot exploded harmlessly beneath. “Where
the hell did y’ get to?” asked Kinnane
furiously as he poked his head out of the
shaft. “A man mighta been skittled!”
“Well, I’d made a billy o’ tea just before
the drum busted,” explained Rowlings.
“I just went to take it off the fire. Y’
wouldn’t want stewed tea, would y’?”
* * * *
“S.G.”: It was out of Kingaroy (Q.)
and the boss was driving an eight-horse
plough team, tearing up some rough
country. The job was a tough one and
the boss’s temper short; hence the team
strained and panted to an accompani-
ment of lurid language. Then the boss’s
missus and some of her lady friends
arrived to view the work, and the boss’s
profanity dried up. The silence appar-
ently persuaded the team that work was
no longer necessary and the plough came
to a halt. Almost purple in the face, the
boss hurled words at ’em-—words that no
lady could object to—but the team stood
stolidly, ignoring him. Then the ladies
departed and the boss opened out, bring-
ing from his pent-up store a sizzling flame
of words. The team hit the collars like
one horse.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; The most
curious thing to me about domestic con-
ditions around New Guinea is not the
conspicuous absence of pubs but the utter
contempt that birdlife shows for jumped-
up civilised surroundings. At a former
unused harbor where today sea, land and
air traffic roars night and day herons
calmly feed about the water’s edge among
landing barges thundering ashore on the
beach. Martins in hundreds cheekily
roost in ships’ riggings. In the trees fring-
ing the busy airstrip leatherheads, coco-
nut-birds, honeyeaters and many (to me)
unknown varieties abound in the same
proportions as they do along the unin-
habited coastline, while about the square
miles of foliage covering camps and
dumps the feathered population is sup-
plemented by crows, willy wagtails—a
little bigger and blacker than Aussie ones
—and spurwings on the outskirts. Only
thb sulphur-crested white cockatoo-
ubiquitous in N.G., though what he finds
to eat in some places is beyond me—
hangs aloof. It almost seems that so
long as you retain the natural flora you
retain the native birdlife, regardless of
civilisation.
* * * ♦
“Aperist”: The strange thing about
bees is the hive’s collective mind. For
some reason, not necessarily an overstock
of honey, the queen will lay drone eggs.
To the beekeeper that is a sign that
swarming is approaching. On that day,
up to ten thousand bees will emerge pour-
ing put of the hive like a flood while
others, who are to remain, unconcernedly
go about their work. How do those ten
thousand departees know that they are
the selected ones and the others know
they are not? Seeing such a swarming
begin I placed an entrance guard on the
hive, a metal screen that permits workers
to pass through, but confines the larger
queen. The emergence took place, the
swarm gathering on a near-by tree. For
perhaps half an hour it hung, then in
some queer way the word passed that the
queen was not among them. Within ten
minutes the whole swarm was back inside
the hive. Two days later they repeated
the attempt, but as I still kept the queen
confined they returned. Next day they
tried again, this time flying a considerable
distance before clustering. And their
combined pushing having opened the
; screen a little, I felt sure they had the
queen out. The way they clustered firmly
and hung for over two hours also sup-
ported the belief. But, no ; word again
passed that the queen was missing, and
with a roar the whole mob flew back.
* * * *
“Broke”: You will start a grass fire
with a cigarette butt (B. 2/8/’44) if you
drop one, when it’s around llSdeg. on the
back verandah and there’s not too much
wind, on a thoroughly dried cow-pat or
an old weathered piece of cornsack out
where the ground is hot enough to grill an
• egg. In nine cases out of ten it will set the
bag or cow dung smouldering, and that
means the grass around it will quick!}
; catch alight. In the Pembroke shed out
towards the Maranoa (Q.) a few years
ago I saw the same rubbish heap catch
fire twice within a few days from butts
tossed out of the door by shed hands.
“Left wheel!”
BABBLER’S SONG.
Mixin’ flamin’ brownie, settin’ of me dough,
Cookin’ stoo an’ roastin’ lamb an’ jumpin’ to
an’ fro; _
Up at flamin’ sparrer chirp, stokin’ up me fire;
The bloke who reckons life is sweet’s a rotten
ruddy liar.
Gotta keep me mouth shut, while the greasies
Gotta keep the tucker up t’ stay their appetite.
Some don’t like me pumpkin, some won’t eat
me rice—
Flamin’ ringer had the hide t’ order cheese an
spice!
Gotter toil on wet days, though the others spell;
Y’ oughter see ’em hangin’ round, waitin’ for me
bell.
Sundee flamin’ mornin’, think they’d go away;
Strike me fat, they’re hungrier than any other
day.
Listen to ’em skitin’ how they shear so neat.
’Struth, what I could tell y’ of the sheep they
cat I
Hungry lof. o’ blankers, ’nough f make y
weep—• . .
Bef their flamin’ grinders are chewin’ in their
sleep.
Penners-up an’ pressers —got the flamin’ blight,
Gallopin' consumption, day an’ bloomin’ night.
I’m weary an’ I’m anguished, I wanter stop an’
rest —
Some greasy wants a pint o’ tea t’ pour beneath
his vest.
Heaps o’ things I could ha’ bin —could ha’ went
t’ sea,
Might ha’ bin a actor or a not'd licensee —
If only I’d ha’ knew before, what measures I’d
ha’ took
T’ make dead sure I never was a flamin
shearers’ cook!
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Wang”: “I met an ole bloke one
time,” related Dan, “sittin’ on his swag
be the side of the road. He had a half-
bred, stumpy-tailed fox-terrier snifflin’
round him, a real perky little tyke he
looked. After yarnin’ a bit I remarked
that his dog seemed a smart sorta animal.
The ole bloke looked as pleased as Punch.
‘He’s that, all right,’ he ses ; ‘he’s the on’y
dawg I’ve ever seen what could spell his
name. It’s a fac’; I’ll get him t’ do it fer
y’.’ He clears an’ levels a patch of sand
on the road in front of him, an’ calls the
dog up an’ put one end of a piece of
stick about four inches long in his mouth.
‘Go on, boy,’ he ses ; ‘spell y’r name fer
this gent.’ The tyke cocks an eye at me,
an’ then gets busy with the stick, an’
scratches about on the cleared patch of
sand with it. When he’d finished the ole
bloke takes the stick from him, pats him
an’ points proudly t’ what the dog has
done. ‘There y’ are,’ he ses, ‘it’s plain
ernough, ain’t it? That’s his name!’
An’, lumme! so it was —‘Digger,’ written
better than I’ve seen lots of blokes write
it. As I’m standin’ there admirin’ it the
dog makes a rush up near the front of
the word, squats down an’ wriggles his
stump in the sand ferj a second an’ then
trots orf. ‘What did he do that fer?’ I
asked, curious. ‘Gripes,’ ses the ole bloke,
‘didn’t y’ notice? He’d suddenly remem-
bered he’d fergotten t’ dot the “i”.’ ”
* * * *
“Forty”; Queer things come out of the
Northern Territory. At Katharine we
found a pile of human bones, among
which was a skull with a bullet hole in it.
Our medical officer pronounced the skull
that of a white woman of about 45 years
of age, while the other bones were those
of a male aborigine. Close by was a
rusty, sawn-off .44 Winchester rifle. Curi-
osity prompted a search of the neighbor-
hood, with the result that two dilapidated
12-gauge guns were also found. The
armorer-sergeant went to work and made
a butt for one of these guns. Our medi-
cal officer later took it to Timor, where
no doubt it went with him into the misty
uncertainty which surrounds the fate of
many of our lads.
% * % jfc
“Billy See”: I for one don’t doubt
“Moyhu’s” statement (B. 30/8/’44) that
newly-hatched duck, goose and hen
infants battle their way up and out of
the lowan’s nest. Ninety p.c. of them
would have the vitality to do it, and
naturally they would scratch towards the
light. The vitality of the newly-hatched
chick is considerable, even the incubated
variety; only when it reaches four or
five days does it become a weakling. On
emerging from the shell the chick carries
with it the residue of the egg-yolk
from which it developed. On this, pos-
sibly the most nutritious of all foods, it
is sustained for the period above men-
tioned. At the end of that period it is
obliged to begin eating in order to main-
tain vitality. Some fail to do so, and
that is the main pitfall that awaits the
purchaser of day-old chicks. The extreme
vitality of the duckling can often be seen
in a delayed hatch, when one or two of
the setting appear often days ahead of
the others. I have known such lone duck-
lings to wander away and be lost for
days, and then return to home and mother
when the rest of the clutch came out.
And in the mallee hen’s mound there
would be plenty of insect food that would
be sustaining once the fledglings took to
eating.
* * * *
“E. 2”; The little scrawny cove who
came to work for Radway was cocky in
his knowledge of the labor shortage, and
he flaunted inefficiency and slovenliness
before his employer, not caring whether
he got the sack or not. When the poddy
calves began to lose condition Radway
tackled him about it. “Aw, them,” he
replied contemptuously; “they won’t
drink. I pour the milk over them an’
let it soak in, see?” Radway’s boot
caught him squarely as he dodged through
the gate.
% % * *
“Blime”: Old Abe always wanted top
price for anything he had, and when the
agent inquired if he’d take cattle on agist-
ment Abe thought of his wasting grass
and quoted is. 9d. per head. The follow-
“Leave us alone, Prendergast — it's Agent F4. She has the plan of
Yokohama Dockyard embroidered on her quarter-deck."
ing week he ran into Bruiser. “Just passed
Mathews on his way down with a big
mob of bailies,” said Bruiser, nodding
over his shoulder. “Wants grass, but says
he ain’t payin’ no Is. 9d. for it.” Abe
grunted thoughtfully, and, mounting his
nag, disappeared along the road. He was
tapping at a stone wedged in the animal’s
shoe when the bailies strung past.
“ ’Day,” greeted . the cattleman amiably.
“Live round here?” Abe disinterestedly
admitted it. “Suppose y’ don’t know
where I c’d get cattle grass reasonably?”
came the next query. Abe dropped the
nag’s hoof and hitched his pants. “Well,
now,” he pondered, “there’s Tom Scott’s,
out on Scrubby. Y’ might get ’em in
there f’r two bob a head. Or there’s
Martin’s, only with no decent water on
that place they’d soon lose condition.”
He stopped and stroked his chin slowly.
“Well, o’ course, there’s old Abe’s, down
the road here, with stacks o’ good feed
’n’ water, but I bet y’d never be lucky
enough t’ get in there. No, y’ best plan’d
be t’ try Alf Marshall. Feed’s fair in
Marshall’s even if it is old stuff, an’ Alf
c’n do with a few extra bob just now.
Been losin’ a lot o’ cows lately. Poison
weed, they reckon, but so far it ain’t been
located. S’long. Hope y’ get on awright.”
Abe got young Ike to take delivery of the
cattle when they arrived later in the day.
* * * *
“Pisces”: Fishing in a waterhole at the
head of the Nogoa (C.Q.), I hooked an
eel —a good specimen. The Nogoa runs
into the Fitzroy, which drains into the
sea at Rockhampton. I noticed in other
holes near by that air bubbles were rising,
indicating other eels. Just over the rise,
a few hundred yards distant, there was
another hole in the headwaters of the
Barcoo, which runs to Lake Eyre. The
water looked the same, the surroundings
were similar and eels can travel overland.
But there were no bubbles in any of the
“They orter be broke in by the time we get 'ome .”
Barcoo waters, and the local Seventyfiver
assured me on his oath an eel had neyei
been known there. I’m still looking for
the answer.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: McKenna and Fagan were
neighbors and bitter enemies, and when
Fagan’s Millie and McKenna’s Tom
started making sheeps’ eyes at each other
across the aisle at church the feud prom-
ised to blow up with increased vigor. But
Millie was a determined lass, and found
all sorts of pretexts for meetings on the
common ground of Dan’s place. One
afternoon, when the bashful Tom was
lending a hand there, she rode over and
met Dan’s quizzical stare at the gate.
“I’m looking for a stray baldy calf,” she
said, blushing furiously. “Have you seen
one around, Dan?” “Aw, yairs,” grinned
Dan, “y’ll find him over in the big shed
helpin’ young Harry with the chaff-
cutter.” >
* * * *
“Liss”: A cloud of dust was rising from
the corner of Nextdoor’s paddock. When
I rode over to investigate I was co-opted
to help with the queerest lamb-marking
in my experience. The property consists
of one 1200-acre paddock, the flock com-
prising sheep of all ages and sexes.j There
were no sheepyards, so Nextdoor and his
lad were holding the mob in the corner
with the dogs. One of them carried a
chaffbag which they partly filled with
long-tail lambs. These were then marked,
and put back into the mob, and the bag
was refilled,
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Behind a fence that skirts
a narrow and very straight track a watch-
dog has lurked for quite a few years.
An “0.D.” heeler to the initiated, the
self-appointed sentinel sleeps with one eye
open lest a passing dog should wander —
or appear to wander —slightly off the
track. Many old dogs inured to hard
roads have passed by with only an occa-
sional exchange of “wuffs,” and frolick-
some, blundering pups often escaped with
a few snarls, until a “Narrin” gun-dog
brought the “0.D.” heeler to his feet
with hackles bristling. The resultant
brawl —through the fence —echoed for
miles, and finished only when the belli-
gerents were too exhausted to do more
than raise an intermittent bark. Then a
“Surcingle” sheepdog that had been put-
ting in a bark or two on his own account
got i'nto a bit of a rumpus with a “B. A.
cur” over a hunk of bread a horse was
eating. When the dust had cleared a
little the Donnybrook had somehow be-
come a duel between the “Surcingle”
sheepdog and the “0.D.” heeler. In the
heat of the scrap a good-natured “Old-
timer” Airedale wandering past entered
into the spirit of the thing with a couple
of light-hearted “wuffs” —and was in-
stantly wheeled upon by the “Surcingle”
sheepdog. The “0.D.” heeler promptly
seized 1 the opportunity to get in a telling
nip through the wire on the “Surcingle,”
while finding time to fling a series of
barks at a “Blime” pointer that was en-
deavoring to point at a flock of ducks
perched in a tree. And so, at the moment,
the two battlers —with the “Blime”
pointer defending himself in the back-
ground—are snarling, snapping, barking
and generally kicking up hell’s delight as
they charge up and down the fence. One
day a hole will appear in that fence, and
the “0.D.” and “Surcingle” will find
themselves face to face. Then they’ll
walk around each other, snarl —and trot
off together to find a bone to share.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: These early rains in the
back country should bring up the ground
lice in their millions. Bug-like creatures,
scaly, with a musty scent, and more or
less harmless, they used to form an
entree at many abo. feasts. The dish
was easy to prepare: Rake up a few mil-
lions of the bugs, sift the grey mass by
letting the wind blow some of the dust
from the falling stream, and dump the
lot on the hot ashes —not coals ; they
would sizzle the feast to a cinder. When
the bulk turned red it indicated com-
pletion of the cooking. It doesn’t sound
any more appetising than it really was,
but the abos. whaled into it.
* * * *
“Anthropo”; Though the aboriginal in
his primitive state had little to trade with,
he was always willing to swap names.
Out on the exploration which resulted
in the discovery of the Moore River
(1836), G. F. Moore, Westralia’s first
Advocate-General, came on an amiable
native who proudly announced that his
name was Paddy Mulowney. He had
recently been on a trip to Perth and there
had met the original Paddy, a private of
the 63rd Regiment; in the whimsical
way of his race Paddy had swapped
names with the “nagur”—at the latter’s
request, of course. Among the tribes
themselves it was considered a signal
mark of affection and respect to offer to
exchange names. Thus a man eminent
in aboriginal society of those days might
have half a dozen names, all donated to
him by admirers, who; of course, took
on his napie. But this compliment also
carried possible penalties, since, besides
the virtues, the sins also went along with
the name. Thus Paddy Mulowney, the
soldier, was considerably surprised when
one day a couple of armed warriors
accosted him on the outskirts of Perth
and announced their intention of spear-
ing him in retaliation for some offence
committed by his aboriginal name-brother.
Luckily, Paddy had his musket handy, so
the idea failed to fructify. After that
Paddy announced, through aboriginal
circles, that he was taking his name back.
* * « *
“Edjudina”: I was almost overcome
with admiration on reading “H.S.G.’s”
recipe for making oneself comfortable
whilst camping in the bush, also his con-
tempt for those alleged bushmen who de-
sired their fires set in a geometrical pat-
tern (B. 23/8/’44). Provided one had a
special pack animal for carrying one's
nap, his idea of a bed might be all right;
but how would he get on if all he had
w-ere a single worn rug and a chaff bag?
Recently I fell heir to old Bill Murphy’s
belongings. Bill, I found, had ended with
half a rug.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: That idea of “Moyhu’s”
(B. 20/2/’44) about putting orphan lambs
to a milking bitch isn’t new. We tried
it on the Murray years ago, and old
Harry Leslie was even considering im-
porting a special line of St. Bernard
bitches —the idea being that they could
find the lost lambs —until the night when,
awakened by the maddening barking of
the station dogs, he took his stockwhip
and went forth, only to find the noise was
coming from eight or ten orphan lambs
penned behind the woolshed.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Can assure “E.H.” (B. 13/9/ ’44)
that the jackaburra has not varied the
landing technique inherited from his
laughing ancestors. Nature has equipped
him with most inconspicuous and
diminutive landing gear for such a
bulky chassis. Consequently the act of
extending his ludicrous tootsies when
landing is often missed, the attention of
the casual observer being concentrated
on the heavy body lurching forward and
the bayonet beak engulfing the tucker.
The speed and manner of the aerial
descent vary with the menu. A scrap
of bread is critically inspected with much
head-turning and angling and tentative
beak trials before being disdainfully flut-
tered on. A rat, frog or mouse incites
a sudden swoop, the big bomber occa-
sionally ripping hair off his chest in the
frantic lurching dive to beat the other
jacks to the hors-d’oeuvre. But always
the tiny trilbies are dropped to take the
shock of impact at the psychological
moment.
THE STUDIOUS OWL'.
Above the pigeon-roost, an owl
Sits on the flagpole. There’s a scowl
Upon his brow, for he looks down
On pigeon antics with a frown.
Although his eyes are wide, he sees
But little; clouds and hills and trees,
The fresh green grass, the opening rose
(Unless it’s right beneath his nose),
All lovely things, are blurs to him
In the bright day his eyes are dim.
The pigeons court and strut and preen,
Their feathers have a lucent sheen,
They bow and coo and clap their wings;
The owl, he is above such things.
But pigeons strutting in the sun,
Though not so wise, have much more fun.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


THE WORLD ROLLOUTS BRLTALJVS LEAD..
S ■■' • ■":
i EM
rr wsffmmm
SitsaaP-• 1
TWM&
mi - . .
a* £*vgEgggafej
•$&%&> < v■•;;..•■
':‘ ' "'jr- ir ' ’ *'-; i
•■•<
r-
!aaaaafcft»^afe^;^ : v;.‘.
sap
Group Captain
FRANK WHITTLE,
C.B.E.
an officer of the R.A F.,
is the inventor of the jet
propulsion engine by
means of which aircraft
are flown with greater
speed and efficiency. The
engine is different from
the recognised type and no
propeller is required. The
first successful flight was
made in 1941 .
JET PROPULSION
FOR AIRCRAFT
MANY inventions and discoveries of enormous benefit
to mankind were originated within the British
Commonwealth. The principle of jet propulsion bids
fair to revolutionise air transport and, perhaps, land
and ocean travel as well.
Amongst other notable achievements to the credit of
Britain is the development of rayon by Courtaulds. This
remarkable textile, with its innumerable uses in war and
peace, has been brought to its present standard of per l -
- in great measure by sustained research and patient
endeavour on the part of this British Company.
Courtaulds rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from
it, have improved standards of life amongst millions of
people and have been the means of founding vast new
industries in England, the United States, Canada and
elsewhere.
The necessities of the war have restricted the available
supply of Courtaulds rayons; but when victory is won,
the results of research and experiment during the war
years will be translated into even more beautiful rayon
fabrics. In the post-war years the British Commonwealth
will demonstrate that in the future, as in the past, British
brains and industry can guide the world towards fresh
achievements for the benefit of the human race.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics; Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd., London, England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre Fibres Ltd., Coventry, England
Money, too,
must have
STAYING
POWER
R» v,CTOR,ESore won sta y' m 9 p° wer
—the ability fo stay on the job
until it is finished. Our job is not yet finished,
Our efforts must not be relaxed. That is why
holders of Australian Consolidated Inscribed
Stock and Treasury Bonds which mature on
15th October, 1944, are specially urged to
convert these securities into equal amounts
in the Second Victory Loan, Make your
application now.
CONVERT
YOUR MATURING SECURITIES INTO THE
Second Victory Loan
Applications for conversion may
be lodged through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office, or member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
CL3-26
Germany’s Foreign Troops.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
(Condensed from a report by the London
correspondent of N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”)
Of the tired, dazed-looking, beaten men
who in the earlier invasion days, marched
through the port towns in the south of
England on their way to prisoner-of-war
camps one out of every five was not a
German.
The number of foreigners in the Ger-
man armies in the west was estimated in
London at between 15 and 20 per cent.
The presence of these foreigners in the
enemy’s camp, some of them fighting
well and courageously, according to re-
porters in France, raises political ques-
tions likely to affect both the course of
the war and the task of making peace.
According to British specialists in the
matter, these men fall into four groups.
There are some, but not many, ideologi-
cal converts to Fascism. There are some
who are fighting on Hitler’s side just be-
cause they feel passionately against the
rulers of their own nation. Then there
are vast numbers who had no choice ex-
cept between Nazi labor battalions and
starvation. Finally, there is a surpris-
ingly large number of desperate, lonely
men, twentieth-century Condottieri, who
fight because they like to fight and whose
only home is now a German soldiers’
barracks.
Most accounts agree that Russians and
other Slavs bulk large among soldiers of
this persuasion in the German armies.
They are apparently eager not to fight on
the eastern front. The French Maquis
have reported Cossacks in German uni-
forms being used for military police
duties in the south of France. German
radio broadcasts to Greece have openly:
threatened the rebellious Greek people
with talk of giving a free hand to the
Georgian mountaineers, who wear the
distinctive uniform now being used
against Greek partisan bands.
Before the war began Nazi Germany
was a hospitable refuge for dissident
Communists, White Guard officers and
disappointed politicians from the Balkans
and from the border regions of the Soviet
Union. To this nucleus has been added
an uncertain number of prisoners of war
who were glad to escape from the Red
Army.
These anti-Stalin Russians are not be-
lieved to have been used on the eastern
front, except for a brief Nazi experiment
with General Vlassov, a shadowy Red
Army renegade who has now receded
again into the mist which hangs over all
Nazi puppets. At the beginning of the
Nazi-Soviet war Berlin followed the
deliberate policy of discouraging the
Ukrainian nationalists and other groups
which might have been won over. At
that time the Nazis had an export surplus
of German-born gauleiters. This policy
has sharply changed. In Vienna in June
Nazi party officials were host to a strange
convention of men from central Asia.
The “London Observer,” commenting
on the strangely polyglot files of prison-
ers arriving from the beachheads, wrote
in June : “However much the war may
have lost its ideological character for the
Cabinets of the great belligerent Powers,
it has not done so for millions of fighting
and working people in all countries.”
Balkan Power Politics.
(From a N.Y. “World-Telegram” article by
William Philip Simms.)
A Communist-led minority, mostly
Croatians, is using the war to wrest
control of Yugoslavia from the Serbian
majority. There are approximately
8,000,000 Serbs as against 3,500,000
Croats and 1,500,000 Slovenes.
An* effort is being made to convince
the world that the Serbs of Mihailovich
are helping the Nazis. The fact is the
Serbs are anti-Communist but pro-
Russian. In the first World War they
alone of all the Balkan peoples fought
on the Allied side from beginning to end.
Again, on March 27, 1941, the Serbs
showed their colors. On that day they
overthrew the pro-German regent, Prince
Paul, and installed a pro-Allied Govern-
ment. This, it is remarked, came at the
darkest hour of the Allied cause. Quite
„ warp of what thev were doing, they cast
fhrir'lot whea it looked
[Jlfj * sinking shin That they would
desert the* on tie eve" of vie-
tory, is absurd on its face.
Marshal Tito and his Partisans were
unheard of in March, 19 • J'.y
not enter the picture until after Germany
attacked Russia.
tin,,, Rrifich abandoned Mihailo-
Why the British abanaonea ivii idu
vich is still one of the war s mysteries.
It was said that Tito had been more active
in the field, hence merited more aid.
is a matter of record, however, that A
The Allied invasion of Europe was
built up over a period of months,
even of years. Its preparation pro-
ceeded openly, inexorably, and
there was little the Germans could
do to prevent those preparations.
They could only hope that the
Allied chiefs would miscalculate
and strike before they were ready,
or that they would yield to the
clamor of amateur strategists for a
premature “Second Front.” These
German hopes were in vain. —
Demaree Bess; “Saturday Evening
Post.”
instructions to Mihailovich were not to
risk his guerrillas unduly, but to con-
serve them against the day when the
Allies would be powerful enough to
march with him. Moreover, the Allies
neglected to provide him with neces-
sary weapons.
No proof of the charge that Mihailo-
vich has been co-operating with the Nazis
has yet been made public. On the con-
trary, the British Minister to Yugoslavia,
Ralph Stevenson, said at Cairo:
“All accusations of the Partisans that
Mihailovich is a Fascist collaborating
with the occupational forces are com-
pletely unfounded.”
Thus old-fashioned power politics such
as have made the Balkans the hotbed of
international intrigue and the breeding
ground for war for centuries still appears
to be going strong, with the interests of
Moscow, London andVWashington pull-
ing strongly in different directions.
How a President is Elected.
[Even in the U.S.A. the election of President
is puzzling enough to most people to require
careful explaining, as in this article by George
T. Renner in the “American.” The author is
Professor of Geography in Teachers’ College,
Columbia University.]
Millions of American voters will flock
happily to the polling places in November
in the general belief that they are going
to elect the President of their choice.
This belief, however, is pretty much of a
delusion. As the Constitution now
stands, electing a President is not a matter
of the popular will. The States, through
their electors, choose the President, not
the people.
This is one of the results of the fact
that the U.S. Federal Government is a
republic, not a democracy. Moreover,
the method by which the States do the
electing is so undemocratic that, under
unusual circumstances, 12 people could
outvote 95,000,000 in choosing a Presi-
dent.
The founding fathers have much to
their credit, but apparently they had no
intention of allowing the American
people to choose their Presidents, and
hence they fixed things so that it would
be almost impossible for them to do so.
At any rate, they set up an Electoral
College to do the electing.
The American situation back in 1783
was much as it will be in Europe after
this war. Any move for European unity
in the post-war period will run headlong
into the fear felt by Switzerland, Den-
mark and the other small States toward
Russia, Britain and Germany, with their
teeming millions of voters. After the
American Revolution, Delaware and
Rhode Island were similarly very fearful
of such populous States as New York and
Massachusetts, and would accept only a
system whereby the States rather than
the people elected the President; more-
over, in setting up such a system they


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolwortb’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The
Help Australia control the spread of Tuberculosis —the enemy
■within our gates! Support the Anti-T.B. Association in its
£50,000 Appeal. In N.S.W. the Association has helped nearly
130,000 sufferers in 10 years. Give generously notv I Send con-
tributions to the Honorary Treasurer, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Anti-T.B. £50,000 Appeal
Listen to ...
HUMOURETTES
Every Sunday at 12.30 p.m.
2GB
LtA t~
PERRINS
.iIJUUi
r
\ A
H
S( PERRINS
SAUCE.
The ECONOMY SAUCE
V-8 FORD AND
CO TO
Very different from the luxurious Ford and
Mercury of peacetime are these steel landing craft,
now helping to carry the war to the enemy.
Building them is one of the many war assignments
of Ford-Australia. Through the long swells and
pounding surf of the Pacific they go, with loads of
up to 40 tons—even more when they work the
rivers of New Guinea.
Different, yet in one respect the same — they are
driven by Ford Y-8 and Mercury engines, standard
except for marine cooling systems and exhausts.
Working at peak loads for long periods, these Ford
and Mercury engines are giving that extra measure
of faithful service which thousands of Ford-owners
throughout Australia have learned to expect—
even under wartime handicaps.
FORD V-8 CARS. TRUCKS AND UTILITIES MERCURY CARS
PREFECT 10 H.P. CARS AND UTILITIES . . . ANGLIA 8 H.P.
Ford Motor
Company of Aust,
Pty. Ltd. (Inc,
in Vic.}. Reg'd.
Office, Geelong.
Keep on
buying
War Bonds
‘S3IVDI3II33D SO Ml A VS 3VM AflB —MIM 01 IDO 33V
stacked the cards in favor of the smaller
States.
The voters in each State elect a group
of electors, who, together with those from
the other States, form a body known as
the Electoral College. The total number
of electors in the college is 531, so that
in contests where there are two Presiden-
tial candidates a minimum of 266 votes
is required for election. The citizens in
each State do have the chance to say
whether Democratic, Republican, Social-
ist, Communist or Independent electors
shall represent their State in the Electoral
College ; but having made such a choice
their part in the process is ended.
While the electors of a State cus-
tomarily vote for the candidate of their
party after he carries the State in the
November elections, they are not required
to do so by the Constitution. This was
emphasised this year when the Texas
Democratic State Convention passed an
extraordinary resolution providing that
the Democratic electors from Texas
should not be bound to vote for the Presi-
dential candidate chosen by the Demo-
cratic National Convention. This was
interpreted by some as a move by anti-
fourth-term Southern Democrats to steal
the election from Mr. Roosevelt.
The States vary in their number of
electors. Each State is given a flat allot-
ment of three-*-two for its Senators and
one for its people. If its population is
large it is allotted an extra elector for each
300,000 people above the first 300,000.
Four States Delaware, Vermont,
Nevada and Wyoming—have only the
basic number of three electors. Nine
more States, such as Rhode Island, have
only four each. Maine has five. Colorado,'
Oregon and Nebraska have six. Nineteen
States, such as Washington, Virginia and
Wisconsin, have from eight to twelve.
Only 12 States have 13 or more electoral
votes; in any election they are the “big”
States. Any candidate who carries them
all will win an election, because their
voting power is really enormous. New
York, with 47 votes, is more than 15 times
as powerful as Wyoming. Pennsylvania
is almost 12 times as powerful, Ohio
more than eight times, and even North
Carolina more than four times as power-
ful.
Originally, up in the Electoral College
each elector cast two ballots for President.
The candidate receiving the largest num-
ber of votes became President, the next
largest became Vice-President, This
method sought to select the two best
men for office, but since the President and
Vice-President were not always elected
from the same party, complications arose.
In 1804 the Constitution was changed
so as to have each elector vote for a Presi-
dent and Vice-President, a change which
has made the election merely a, routine
matter.
The Electoral College method makes it
possible for a candidate to become Presi-
dent against the wishes of an actual
majority of the people. The latest census
gives the national population as
131,669,275. For the sake of simplicity
let us assume that all of these are voters.
If so, then a majority necessary to elect a
President would be 65,834,638. If, as a
start, a candidate carries the 13 least
populous States he will receive 48 elec-
toral votes for their 6,052,000 people.
This will outweigh New York’s 13,497,000,
with their 47 votes.
If the candidates goes ahead and car-
ries all the 37 smaller States he will have
268 electoral votes —enough to become
President —although he will have the sup-
port of only 59,083,610 people. This is
6,751,028 less than a majority, and
13,502,055 less than the unsuccessful
opposition would receive.
Thus, the Electoral College plan also
makes it possible to win the support of a
majority of the American people and still
lose an election.
The key to the whole matter is that
the 11 large States—New York, Pennsyl-
vania, Illinois, California, Texas, Ohio,
Michigan, Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Missouri and North Carolina, with 'a
constituency of 72,585,665 people—-have
only 263 votes in the Electoral College,
whereas 266 are necessary to elect. In
order to win a candidate who already
has a majority behind him must carry
some additional State —Nevada, say, with
110,247 people and three votes.
The reason for this astonishing situa-
tion is that the popular voting power of
each State is modified by adding two
bonus votes. In a small State the error
introduced varies from 200 per cent, on
down to 18 per cent. If a candidate gets
elected by carrying the small States his
vote is stacked 37 times in amounts vary-
ing from 18 to 200 per cent. If the can-
didate gets elected by carrying the large
States his vote is stacked only 12 times,
and then only in amounts varying from
4 to 18 per cent.
It is a startling possibility that a poli-
tical party might carry the elections in
the 11 large States plus Nevada by a
margin of one citizen’s vote each time,
meanwhile receiving not a single vote in
the other 36 States. With only these
36,292,840 popular supporters, the party
would, therefore, have 266 electoral votes
and could name the President. This
despite the fact that 95,376,435 citizens
were opposed to him.
In this instance the votes of the 12
citizens who provided a majority of one
vote in 12 State elections would out-
weigh the votes of 59,083,695 citizens!
Some provisions for improving the
electoral machinery have been made. The
law provides that after each 10-year
Federal census the electoral votes of the
States shall be readjusted. Since the 1940
census considerable reapportionment has
taken place: Massachusetts, Pennsyl-
vania, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, lowa, Kan-
sas, Nebraska and Oklahoma have each
lost one vote. Norfh Carolina, Tennes-
see, Florida, New Mexico, Arizona and
Oregon have each gained one vote. Cali-
fornia has gained three votes. These re-
adjustments, however, do not take into
account the huge movement of popula-
tion to areas of war industries since 1940.
Britain’s Interest in Greece,
{Condensed from a London “Contemporary
Review v article by Thomas Anthem.)
If Russia is going to bestride the Con-
tinent the whole of the Balkan peninsula
would seem certain to come within her
“sphere of influence,” and the question
which comes naturally to the mind is:
“What is to become of Greece, a non-
Slav race, in the midst of a ‘sea of Slavs,’
with Big Father Russia as the mighty
Colossus dominating the scene?”
The Greeks may be excused if they
feel some qualms about their future.
True, Dr. Benes, after the signing of the
Soviet-Czech Pact, declared that the old
Panslavist notion was considered dead,
but that the federation and co-operation
of all the Slav peoples would be one of
their objects in the new European peace
structure. Assuming the sincerity of this
statement, how can Greece hope to' es-
cape the barrage of Communistic ideas
which the Slav countries can expect to
have directed at them from Moscow and
—what is more important— to what ex-
tent could she hope to resist interference
in her government?
The modern Greeks, like the ancients,
are not afraid of new ideas; but while
they are in spirit the most democratic
people in the world, they are by nature
incorrigible individualists (atomismos
is the word they use to describe it), and
Communism has never taken serious root
in their country. Attempt to collectivise
them against their will could only result in
disaster and bloodshed. The Russians
would be well advised to be guided by
the lessons of Greek history in their deal-
ings with the Greeks.
The future of Greece in the Balkans
and in the Mediterranean is linked with
the future of Britain in the Mediter-
ranean, and it would be the height
of folly to deny that a great reorienta-
tion of power or influence in that sea is
about to take place, though the Nazi
suggestion that Britain is getting ready
to abandon the Mediterranean to Russia
is sheer nonsense. Certainly Russia can
no longer be excluded from this sea, an
exclusion which British Foreign Office
policy considered fit and proper in the
past half-century or more, and Russia
will expect, and probably demand, that
her ships shall be allowed to pass freely
through the Straits from the Black Sea
with wheat from the Ukraine, oil and
minerals from the Caucasus and coal


OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY 1944
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office; Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone; 87131 (Three Lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
V'
kS njU h?
(A/i lo Si
V/j
SHELL MOTOR OIL
lt'6 V*ui&-f%ee
THE SHELL COMPANY Of' AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(fNCOftPOBATED 11. ENGLAND)
The MARS High-Speed, Accurate
9 Vi Precision Engine Lathe
mmmsm
■Hp TWO MODELS
Gap and
Wllm Straight Bed
The "Mars" 9i" Engine Lathe is a fine sturdy
Lathe which has been built specially for accurate
and efficient service and may be used for all Sliding,
Surfacing and Screw Cutting operations.
OUTSTANDING FEATURES
1. All Headstock parts are Dynamically Balanced to
ensure vibrationless running at all speeds. *
2. All Gears are Machine Generated for smooth
meshing.
Every "Mars" Lathe is subjected to the Schlesinger. Test of
Accuracy during progress of manufacture and a Test Results
Chart supplied with each Lathe.
f
X
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
For N.S.W., THOS. HERBERT & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
For Victoria, THOMPSON & WILLIAMS Pty. Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne.
For N.Z., A. M. SATTERTHWAITE & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street, Christchurch
STOCKISTS:
GOODALL &, Coy. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by:
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Bridge Street Valley Brisbane
ESTABLISHED FOR A QUARTER OF A CENTURY
and metallurgical products from South
Russia. It has even been suggested by
one British writer on foreign affairs that
Russia, in support of her Aigean policy,
would support Turkey if the latter were
to claim the Dodecanese Islands, as these
isles command the approaches to the
Straits from the Mediterranean. This
would be a monstrous settlement of the
Dodecanese question, as the islands are
as Greek as Attica itself, and Greece
expects their return as part of her just
reward for all her sacrifices and suffering.
The Greek mainland, with the whole
of the Greek islands, constitutes a great
strategic bastion, if adequately fortified,
in the Eastern Mediterranean, and as this
area is vital to Britain’s communications
with Palestine, Egypt, the Middle East
and the Far East, British relations with
Greece in future obviously assume im-
portance far greater than was the case
in the past, in view of the bitter lessons
of the yEgean warfare in the present
struggle. And although Greece may be
surrounded by a sea of Slavs on her land
frontiers, on her long, indented coastline
she joins a Britain which, with her power-
ful Navy, may still be regarded as the
Colossus of the Mediterranean, in no
less degree than Russia is destined to
become the land Colossus of Europe. In
the network of bases would be not only
the Dodecanese and Cyprus, but Crete
and Corfu and the other lonian isles.
With regard to Cyprus, it would be in
Britain’s interests either to restore this
island fully to Greece and gratify the de-
sire of the Greek population (four-fifths)
for union with their motherland, or to
grant the island complete autonomy. Our
past handling of the Cyprus question has
been discreditable.
Britain has a priceless asset in the loy-
alty and friendship of Greece. We have
given a number of destroyers to the
Greek Navy during this war, and after
the war we might give many more war-
ships with incalculable advantage to our-
selves, even if we were to bear some
share in their maintenance. If in the
past we had promoted a strong Greece
(which Italy consistently and resolutely
opposed), instead of permitting Italy to
build a big navy, Mediterranean history
might have run rather differently in the
past ten years. Economically Greece is
poor and requires financial backing on a
generous scale, but the Greeks are fear-
less soldiers and mariners, and their
deep-rooted democracy and high intelli-
gence rate them as the most estimable
allies of Britain in the Mediterranean.
Their future is definitely with Britain,
rather than with Russia and the Slavs of
South-Eastern Europe.
Jap “Listening Post.”
(From John O’Donnell’s N.Y. “Daily News’’
column.)
With considerable smug satisfaction,
some of the worthy gentry in the U.S.
State Department announced that the
removal of the popular Finnish Minister
to the U.S. Hjalmar Procope “closed up
the last Axis listening post in Washing-
ton.”
But so far as we have been able to
discover, Russia has no intention of shut-
ting down Japan’s listening post in
Moscow.
The Japanese staff in Moscow is natur-
ally interested in digging up all the infor-
mation possible about the 10,000 Ameri-
can-made ’planes, 500 tanks, etc., that
have poured into Russia. Our enemies,
the Japs, have a very effective and large
staff of experts in their business of keep-
ing on good terms with the Russians and,
quite properly, digging up our secrets.
Shrewd Naotake Sato is Tokyo’s
Ambassador to Moscow. His opposite,
the Soviet Ambassador to Tokyo, is
Jacques Alexandrovich Malik. The top-
men in Japan’s setup in Moscow form a
spy bureau which is impressive to our
military and naval men who have met
them in peace-time.
The Jap Army experts in Moscow are
directed by Col. C. Yabe and Major K.
Nokhara. Naval attache Capt. S. Yama-
guchi and his aides, including Capt. M.
Fumoto, are very busy picking up what
they can learn about our Navy plans and
shooting the information under diplo-
matic secrecy back to Tokyo.
The list of Japs in Moscow is well
salted down with experts in aviation and
espionage. The latest list showed the
presence of these top-flight agents, career
men in the legalised art of spying when
carried out under diplomatic immunity:
Minister-counsellor G. Morinima ; coun-
sellor Karaeyama ; secretaries Takeuchi,
Kawasaki, Yukhani, Akiyama, Takakhasi
and big-shot undercover experts, desig-
nated as attaches, Umenuro, Komuro and
Kawamata.
We’ve politely intimated to pal Joey
that the presence of Jap army and mili-
tary experts in a spot where they can get
ripe and valuable information on our
equipment shipped to Russia may mean
the death of American fighting men in
Burma, or in the South-west Pacific under
General MacArthur, or in the broad
Pacific command of Admiral Nimitz
Pal Joey has just puffed on his pine
and smiled. He put on the pressure for
us to boot out the Finns. We did. We
renewed our request that he play ball and
oust our' enemies from Moscow. Pal
Joey has given us the diplomatic grin
the Russian shrug, and sits tight.
Gay Paree.
[From a report by a N.Y. “Daily News” stall
correspondent in France. A number of similar
reports, contrasting remarkably with earlier
reports on conditions in France, have been
appearing in U.S. newspapers since the invasion.}
In Normandy and Brittany, when we
found food plentiful and the population
well clothed and apparently prosperous,
we said to one another “This is the pros-
perous agricultural fringe of France. Wait
till we get to Paris and we’ll really see the
horror of the Nazi occupation.”
But here we are in Paris—and the
women have more cosmetics and fancier
clothes than we saw in London, the
children are chubby and well fed, and
the hotels I’ve looked through are as lav-
ishly furnished as ever, with elaborate
draperies and expensive satin quilts.
To me Paris is conclusive proof, fol-
lowing a wealth of evidence in Normandy
and Brittany, of what the Nazi occupa-
tion of France has really been. On the
surface it has been genteel and the hard-
ship of the general populace has been
kept to a minimum.
In many cases the French have been
even more prosperous than they were
before the war, permitted by the Germans
to thrive on printing-press money—all
part of a subtle programme to keep in-
dividuals contented while their entire
national existence was being gobbled up.
I’ve heard dozens of American soldiers
and correspondents say they were “dis-
illusioned” to find Paris as it is instead
of writhing in Nazi torture. The soldiers
felt they should have found a starving
and abjectly poor and persecuted popu-
lace, instead of people as well turned
out as those in any American city.
Dewey on “Big Four” Control.
(From a speech by U.S. Republican Presidential
candidate Governor Dewey.)
“The fact that we four have developed
overwhelming power as against our
enemies does not give us the right to
organise the world so that we four shall
always be free to do what we please,
while the rest of the world is made sub-
ject to our coercion. That would be
rejected by the American people.
“Within the area of peace-loving
nations, peace is a task of co-operation
among equal and sovereign nations.
Force is essential in any realistic pro-
gramme for the permanent maintenance
of peace. But in the long-term solution
of international problems peace and se-
curity cannot be left to the sanction of
force alone. To leave them exclusively
in the hands of a permanent military
alliance of four victorious powers would
be immoral. It would be a denial of the
ideals for which we are fighting.
“The millions of Americans are not
fighting and dying to dominate the world
or impose our will upon freedom-loving
people. We are fighting for our own
freedom and to establish once and for
all the rights everywhere to live in peace
and freedom, safeguarded from the
coercion of more powerful nations.
“We must not sink into the abyss of
power politics. We must rise to a new
high level of co-operation and joint effort
among respected and sovereign nations
to work for and to preserve the peace of
the world through all the years to come,
based on freedom, .equality and justice.
“The kind of world organisation we
seek must concern itself with the basic
causes of world disorder. It must pro-
mote a world opinion that will influence
the nations to right conduct. It must
develop international law. It must create
an ‘international tribunal to deal with
international disputes.”
Italy a Democracy?
(From a London “Fortnightly” article by C. M-
Franzero.)
The only current which in Italy showed
[in the past] a continuity of purpose ana
practice was the anti-Socialist current
I deliberately abstain from calling it a
party because that current could from
time to time be identified with each ot
the large parties, or rather groupings oi
parties, which govern Italy.
This is the puzzling question: Has that
political physiognomy changed?
Let it be noted that Mussolini was
overthrown, for the benefit of the natio* 1
and the people, by the throne and by -
palace conspiracy which could be dev
cribed as reactionary—and not by any
effort of the socialist and other leftis
sections. Whatever their “secret” feelings
might be, they certainly left it to the


AKUBRA
kats-
IWfANUFACTURED in Australia from
Pure Fur Felt, every AKUBRA Hat
is made to retain its smart shape and
colour throughout its long, all-weather
life Although not so plentiful
as in pre-war days, these popular Hats
are still obtainable, and discrimin-
ating men always select an AKUBRA.
[AS
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN AKUBRA
> r f&M
J SSBp
fy7Ha&
m
-- -s
PC
m
»S
. . . the Kiddies' room of 194 X
—Masonite, of course.
When the war ends your kiddies won’t be babies
any more. Your post-war home will have to in-
clude a room which will be theirs exclusively .. .
a room with a floor that can “take it” ... a floor
of Masonite Tempered Presdwood. The fittings
and furniture will also have to be of this steel-
strong, knock-proof wonder board because Tem-
pered Presdwood can withstand all the bumps
% and thuds those lovable young barbarians can
provide! The walls? Masonite Presdwood,
bevelled and grooved, creating an environment
of which those kiddies may well be proud.
MASONITE PRESDWOOD.,.TEMPERED PRESDWOOD...TEMPRTILE...QDARIRBOADD OE LUXE
Manufactured by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD-
SALES DIVISION. 369 Pin ST., SYDNEY
Reasonable supplies of Presdwood and Tempered
Presdwood obtainable from all builders’ suppliers,
timber merchants and hardware stores.
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
“despised” monarchy and the “guilty”
l. , j ”, i UnA Wn
bourgeoisie to do what they had b
promising for a long time they would
accomplish — one day Now we are quite
accustomed to, not to say weary of, refit-
ticians, talk very glibly of what they had
always “felt in their heart” and of the
leadership they had in “underground”
affiliations
ons.
1 he first batch of politicians who came
to the fore in post-Fascist Italy Still be-
lieved that tho noHtiTal battle of anew
tai 1 ,, , 6 political battle oi anew
rtaiy could be won through vociferations.
They cried: “The king’s head on a platter
or we stay out.” The same mentality 20
years aeo nrnmntoH the democratic
onmdfii 1 prompted the democratic
pposition to cry. Mussolini S head or
we stay out.” Twenty years ago they said
that they “had retired upon the Aventine
Hill”—that petty histrionic fondness of
Italian politicians of all times for empty
rhetorical expressions which is the incur-
able disease of political life in Italy'
r» _ o i • . , J ’ ,
Because of this one feels prompted to
ask : will Italy ever be a democracy in the
British sense? I have heard people in
Fnobnrl oo„ (i a • •
England say that democracy is the pnvi-
tege ot politically mature peoples. In
some cases that may be SO Many
Italians, however would renlv that de-
m ocracy- r 7ar*mo W cmiy j'SS is 16 say.
real freedom of the people’s true govern-
ment — seems to be the privilege of
wealthy countries which heln to make
wealths ’ f i n ° .VT
y and powerful nations. When
mere is wealth—natural wealth and some-
times also conquered wealth — there is
freedom from want and freedom from
ear, and then democracy is possible, in
its truest and largest sense. Political
maturity is only a secondary point Italy
ha s Tnnn iv , * , ‘
. Y ears °t political maturity, yet
poverty has always denied her that democ-
racy which the young and immensely
wealthy United States of America ner-
fecteH err vr! OI A C P er
u so soon.
Germany Was Licked.
(From a London “Times’'' letter by Lord
Vansittart.)
President Wilson’s Fourteen Points
were put forth on January 8, 1918, and
immediately rejected by all Germans,
Right, Centre and Left. The press records
are definite. The Germans fought on,
expecting to win.
Not till September did the High Com-
mand realise that defeat was inevitable,
and from September 20 sent in more and
more alarming reports.
Ludendorff was soon pressing for an
armistice, and for some democratic
window-dressing to trick the Allies into
better terms. By October 1 he had de-
clared that “the army could not wait 48
hours.” Accordingly, on October 3 —and
only then —Hindenburg wrote, insisting
on an armistice, to Prince Max of Baden,
who was still unconvinced. The military
situation was becoming desperate. So on
the night of October 3-4 —but only then—
the German Government addressed Presi-
dent Wilson, accepting the Fourteen
Points “as a basis” —note only as a basis
—“of peace negotiations.”
As late as October 25 Ludendorff and
Hindenburg pretended to change their
minds and to want to go on fighting.
Collapse, however, was now imminent,
and it is surely significant that Scheide-
mann himself wrote: “Without the col-
lapse the Revolution that broke out six
weeks later would probably not have oc-
curred.” I agree, except that it was not a
revolution, but a revolt.
The facts speak for themselves. The
Germans only gave in because the High
Command knew the army was beaten.
In dealing with Germans promises have
proved rather an embarrassment to us
than an inducement to them. The Four-
teen Points no more shortened the last
war than five years of futile propaganda
have shortened this one. No political
offers or blandishments have stopped the
Germans from fighting. Even if the
Atlantic Charter had been wholly applic-
able to the Germans —of course it is not
—they would still have ignored it for
three years.
There is only one way to deal with
them: to beat them.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
An army poll of a group of U.S. soldiers
overseas showed that they were nine to one
in favor of a strict peace for Germany, but
nine to one against peace-time occupation by
U.S. troops.— “United States News.”
* * * *
As normal political erosion undermines the
foundations of the grand alliance of great
Powers the leverage of the small Powers will
increase. If something better than a new appli-
cation of the Nazi strategy of absorption is to
follow the present struggle, those who urge
immediate formulation of a United Nations or-
ganisation would do well to step up their de-
mands. The present reliance on three-power
decisions —with China included now and then
for courtesy —may win the war, but it can never
produce a peace which does not rest on the
sinking sands of imperialism and personal poli-
tics on the international level. That way lies
only a “war of continents” to multiply the hor-
rors of the war of nations which now taxes our
strength.— “ Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
It is turning out, as the devastated areas in
Europe are recaptured, that there is a develop-
ment which was not generally foreseen. This
development is that the nations which have
been overrun by war are not as helpless as had
been feared. They are proving able and eager
to help themselves. Thus, the first inter-
national organisation formed to do a post-war
job [U.N.R.R.A.] is finding that the individual
nations are taking much of it's job away.—■
“United States News:”
* * * *
In the first such drastic action ever taken,
Thomas A. Quigley, 30, a motorman and father
of two children, was blacklisted at Philadelphia
for employment in any industry for the duration
of the war for failure to comply with an Army
directive to striking transportation workers to
return to work. — N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
The latest popular poll [taken in England
after the beginning of the robot bombing] for
the first time shows that a majority of English-
men want a severe. settlement to punish the
Germans. The head of one of the largest
unions said flatly: “We demand organised and
systematic reprisal.” Prime Minister Churchill
pledged to embittered England that the German
use of robot bombs would be remembered by
the Allies when the Germans asked for peace.
So the Germans, for a temporary gain, created
in England a grimmer will to victory and a
spirit of revenge which Germans will regret. —
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
Maj.-Gen. John R. Deane, chief of the United
States military mission to Moscow, on returning
from the Eastern Front: “One reason I was so
welcomed at headquarters, I think, was because
1 followed right behind the 300,000 th United
States truck that had just arrived.” — N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Personally, I am unable to understand how
anyone after serious study of the Cripps plan
[for India] can justify the Mahatma in compell-
ing the party, against the expressed judgment
of its committee, to reject it. It was a straight-
forward and unqualified guarantee that India
will receive her freedom at the close of the war
if she can by that time agree on a Constitution.
Great Britain will accept that Constitution,
whatever its character. Without a Constitution
there can be no Government, and she cannot
turn over India to a vacuum. — Post Wheeler;
N.Y. “Times” letter.
* * * *
The Serbs were never more united than they
are to-day—and they stand united behind the
King and his Commander-in-Chief [Mihailovich].
This makes it impossible for the King himself—
and for any Yugoslav Government —simply to
discard Mihailovich. To do so would shake
the throne itself. It would be regarded by the
Serbs as an action undertaken by Great Britain
and hostile to themselves. — London “Nineteenth
Century” editorial.
* * * *
Statements of President Roosevelt and Admiral
Nimitz must be accepted as a warning that
victory in Europe will not mean an end of the
war, and that, while we may hope for the best
in the Pacific, it is still necessary to prepare for
a struggle as bitter and possibly more difficult
than any we have faced thus far. — N.Y.
“Times.”
9 * * *
However much the Russians may limit their
immediate objectives, and however much they
may concede to expediency, they regard their
ultimate purpose as fixed and universal. They
believe in world revolution and are working
for it still. The difference between Stalin and
Trotsky is purely tactical, between the piece-
meal and the simultaneous liberation of all man-
kind. The end is the same. — London “Nine-
teenth Century” editorial.
* * * *
A most gripping war story was Ralph Allen’s
poignant description in the Canadian “Globe
and Mail” of the tragic end of the Royal High-
landers of Canada (Montreal’s world-famous
Black Watch), trapped on a barren ridge just
above May-sur-Orne on July 25. The four rifle
companies that were the heart and pulse of the
Black Watch were trapped by the Germans and
annihilated after a savage duel to the death.
Major Phil Griffin, 24, from Vancouver, in com-
mand after his two senior officers had been
killed, signed his own death warrant by send-
ing back a message that will be engraved for
ever on the pages of Canadian history—“ Don’t
send reinforcements,” said Major Griffin, know-
ing they’d be cut to pieces. The Black Watch
thus went to its death with all the gallantry
you expected of a regiment of thoroughbreds.
— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
Not the least of Hitler’s performances has
been to create a vast Government with which
his enemies in arms cannot deal except as judge
to criminal. If the army cannot put forward
some fairly clean spokesmen when the time
comes the Allies may have to search out what
is left in the concentration camps to accept the
armistice terms. — Chicago “Tribune.’''
* * * *
If mistakes or misfortunes should estrange
Britain and France history will repeat itself,
Germany will recover her power for mischief,
post-war Europe will be fatally weakened,
and a third war will be almost certain. — Man-
chester “Guardian.”
* * * *
The Polish issue was one of the centres of
Allied dispute during the Congress of Vienna
[lßl4]. The Poles could then lay no claim;
and their appeals could have little effect on the
decisions of Allied statesmen; in the Napoleonic
wars they had fought on Napoleon’s side. At
the peace conference the three Powers that had
already partitioned Poland were the victors.
Even so,* British opinion then was neither indif-
ferent to nor silent on the fate of Poland. In a
letter to Castlereagh, Liverpool wrote in Novem-
ber, 1814: “We must likewise not conceal from
ourselves that we shall have a hard battle to
fight against public opinion in defence of any
arrangement of which the independence of
Poland does not now form a part.” At the next
peace conference Poland will appear with the
weighty titles of its seniority in the Alliance,
its sufferings since 1939, and its manifold con-
tribution to the Allied war effort. Can it be
doubted that “any arrangement of which the
independence of Poland does not now form
a part” would this time provoke a “battle
against public opinion” much more strenuous
and exacting than that of which Liverpool
wrote? — London “Economist.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK.
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA. HENTY, HAY, MOKEE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
G
ain when REDUCING
To reduce the diameter of a Tube uniformly
without cutting or machining is quite a problem...
one that affects practically every form of steel tube
construction, from the building of bombers to the
making of household refrigerators. But B.T.M. has
the solution to the problem of reducing or expanding
Cold Drawn Precision Seamless Steel Tubes a
simple, inexpensive manipulative
process that will reduce costs to
the consumer in peacetime just
' as it is saving material, time and
money for the Nation today.
R.a mc.i
■BB4
mmnm
Emmy
EGELABRA MERINOS
Four times winners of the Stonehaven Cup. Winners of Ist and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram and
Ewe, Sydney Sheep Show, 1940.
Orders are now being booked for the
rams dropped in April, 1943, and shorn
in April, 1944.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gns. per head.
H. E. KATER Cr SON - - - Egelabra, Warren, N.S.W.
Telephone: Warren 10
I
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
c
Sterilised
__ . BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3SB3S. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 768 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, a
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Buffalo Fly.
“Outback”: Unless hopes are realised
regarding the probable effectiveness of
D.D.T. the progress of buffalo fly down
the,Queensland coast indicates that it will
reach the N.S.W. border within two
years. D.D.T. is not yet available for
large-scale experiments in buffalo fly
control, practically all supplies being
frozen for defence purposes. Moreover,
the emulsifying agent used today would
make the drug very costly. A cheaper
emulsifying agent is being sought.
Both the C.S.I.R. and Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture are doing their
best to beat the pest. K. R. Norris, of
the C.5.1.R., has been in fly-infested
north Queensland for several months con-
ducting experiments. The Department
has transferred its fly-spraying plant from
Kajabbi to Yaamba, near Rockhampton,
and has erected spraying plants at Cler-
mont (C.Q.) and other centres on which
cattle from the fly country converge.
Until a spraying liquid is found which
is something more than a repellant there
is nothing to stop the fly coming down
the coast. The horn fly trap now being
mass-manufactured for dairymen could
not be used on large cattle properties,
where stock are not “handled.”
The fly is now dormant at Nebo, near
| r ickay, and just north of Clermont, but
’ ’ a . summer it will become active, and
he expected in the beef and dairy-
: districts south of Rockhampton this
•year. Travelling cattle are sprayed, but
not non-travellers, and the fly goes from
one property to another. In that fashion
it worked its way from Charters Towers
to Clermont last summer.
Conditions in this north are totally
different from those in central and south
Queensland. The large northern cattle
properties carry little stock compared with
the coastal and dairying districts, and in
such country, provided cattle leaving by
rail are effectively sprayed, as they were at
Kajabbi for some years, and the train is
moved away immediately after spraying,
the fly could be kept in check. In the
more closely populated cattle areas
numerous hosts are provided for the fly,
which can flit from sprayed to unsprayed
cattle. The fly is already held responsible
for a reduction in milk production on the
Atherton Tablelands, but actual figures
have not been obtained officially. Cattle-
men contend that the first year the fly
is on a cattle station stock lose about
501 b. per head through irritation.
D.D.T. and the Blowfly.
“J.R.D.”: The Australian Wool Board
has issued a warning that the new drug,
D.D.T., may not be the answer to the
sheepman’s prayer. D.D.T. has been
used extensively in war areas for keeping
down insect pests, has reduced the inci-
dence of scrub typhus in jungle areas and
has many other feats to its credit. It is
being tested against the buffalo fly.
Sprayed on windows or walls, it makes
an invisible film, and any insects alight-
ing on or walking across a treated sur-
face will die. Apparently it. acts through
its contact with the feet of the insect.
Death does not occur immediately, how-
ever ; it may take an hour or so to kill.
Herein lies the factor likely to upset rosy
hopes that by spraying sheep with D.D.T.
they would be immune to fly attack.
The fly could alight on the sheep and
lay its eggs without hindrance. If that
sheep were treated with D.D.T. the fly
might die soon after, but so far as we
known at present D.D.T. would not pre-
vent the hatching out of the maggots and
their attack on the animal tissue. The
effect of D.D.T. on sheep ticks and lice
has also to be investigated, and the pros-
pects of better control are highly favor-
able.
It seems that though D.D.T. may not
prevent the fly striking the sheep it should
lend itself to widespread use in extermi-
nating blowflies. Its use in conjunction
with a lure which would attract the flies
and hold them long enough to give them
the lethal dose seems feasible and prac-
ticable.
Australian Horses.
‘Clyde”: In B. 6/9/’44 it was re-
marked, apropos of Miss Jocelyn Hender-
son, of Holbrook (N.S.W.), and her com-
munity forests scheme, that Australia was
badly in need of citizens with ideas.
True, and another with a good idea is
Jack King, the Sydney trainer, who con-
demns the present system of breeding
and training thoroughbreds, and blames
it for the alarming decrease in quality
and numbers of the Australian stock
horse and police and Army remounts.
King holds that racing controllers and
bloodstock breeders are interested in
horses only while they are racing, whereas
“the horse begins to be a national asset
only when he has finished racing.” This
is the attitude of the general Australian
to most of his national assets, particularly
to his land, which he flogs to death and
leaves exhausted and ruined, whereas
with proper farming that same land would
be more productive at the end of a
generation than at the beginning.
At the beginning of this war, when
Army buyers went through the country
looking for horses and expecting to find
numbers of the old waler type, they were
appalled to discover that the country’s
horse population consisted mainly of
animated hatracks. People who saw the
kind of moke which the Army had to get
along with wondered if they were dream-
ing. Yet Australia needs horses, and
good ones, for it must expand its meat
and wool production, and the horse is
indispensable for stock work. There was
once a big Australian horse trade with
India and the adjacent countries and
islands, and there will still be a market
there after the war.
In order to save the thoroughbred for
his proper mission, i.e., the building up
of the horse population, King wants two-
year-olds prevented from racing before
December, and then obliged to race
not less than six furlongs and three-
year-olds not less than seven furlongs.
He suggests a Government committee
with full power to control breeding, a
limit on stallion services, culling of poor
mares and certificates of soundness for
stallions. It’s to be hoped King’s ideas
get the attention they deserve.
Inferior Fleeces.
“Green Ink”: Many small wool-
growers penalise themselves by putting
inferior fleeces in the centre or the bot-
tom of a bale. The nrespnt •
system is practically infalhbKn? 11122 *'
bale on the show floor i oL
spection. for m*
Two out of four have the tnn
open. This is alluded to as a ‘■butt-up”
The remaining bale has the whok top
,’n a l! d i he Va ' Uers del ™ down 2
this with both arms and scatter the wool
a I over the place. These are known™
toppers, and sometimes only 201 b. or
301 b. of wool remains in the pack after
inspection.
The appraisers can, if at all suspicious
have any bale cut open wherever thev
Wl f, h > J 0 inferior fleeces are planted it
will affect the price of the whole clip.
Locusts in Cane.
Plane Creek”; Locusts are back on
the C.Q. coast. Mackay district has
swarms here and there. Last year they
worked over the November - March
period. Before vanishing they filled all
well-drained ground with egg capsules,
which the bandicoots have been rooting
up ever since.
Last summer locusts caused plenty of
damage where the cane was backward.
They spread gradually through the dis-
trict, and it is obvious that every farm
will breed its own swarm this season.
So the damage may greatly exceed that
of last year.
This year young plant and ratoons are
very backward, due to lack of rain. New
cane varieties in many instances are ger-
minating slowly. Even the optimists
agree that if locusts in heavy infestation
tackle the young cane in the near future
it may be wiped out.
Had arsenic pentoxide for baiting been
made available immediately the first
locust parties appeared last November
they could have been stopped. But the
Queensland Sugar Experiment Stations
refused to move until February, 1944, by
which time infestation, over dis-
trict and other sugar centres had become
general and heavy. Later it was asserted
that no locusts reached Mackay district
until February. We have been told that
prompt measures will be taken against
them this year. If not, many of us will
be in the C.C.C. next year!
Carob-bean Fodder.
“V.V.”: “H.C.” (B. 5/7/’44) gives ex-
cellent advice about the cultivation of
kurrajongs as fodder for stock. A sheep
station in the Upper Hunter district had
tree conservation which was a boon to
the stock and encouraged many a shower.
The property changed hands, and the
new owner immediately demolished every
tree —evidently hungry to get a financial
return from every handful of earth. I
saw the result later during a drought.
Erosion was doing its damnedest, there
was practically no feed, the temperature
was well over lOOdeg., the miserable
sheep were without a vestige of shelter
from the blazing sun.
Returning to Australia from Europe
just before this war, I was full of enthu-
siasm for the planting of the Carob-bean
tree, a prolific bearer of beans excellent
for fodder, which will thrive in dry dis-
tricts. But I met a wall of indifference,
though the Carob-bean tree flourishes


Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
THIS
DUPLICATOR
agents
£l7/10/- ™,
lias all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cate* will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
df
Smooth, Strong, Hard...
Free
CONGO
from
R D H
Alkali
DW ALL
Lime
aster
A R
CONCORD Hordwoll Plaster is an exception-
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended for dadoes and other wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a smooth, glossy, pure white, sanitary
finish of great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers or sa- “*&&**«**■■
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base for receiv-
ing any decoration as soon as the wall dries out. Special
grinding and processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
Packed in Jute Bags.
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
.
&
iWjm
m
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD,, Building Materials Division
SYDNEY . . MELBOURNE .. . BRIS'BANE .. . ADELAIDE
PERTH
Pl 4-44
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. * READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d., POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
iiiii
•• m ~
s WS&yM
i
Oy
m
iiii
11
■
■
*&<■
**
There's only one "Caterpillar
§>) '
*T
The name Caterpillar" is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria, Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
%
m
/
CatcrpiUg**
When a Caterpillar Diesel Tractor says:
“Come ashore!” to a big gun, ashore it
comes, in short order and up it goes into the
fighting line. But lumping guns is only one
of the jobs of this most versatile of all diesel tractors. With equal dash it turns itself
into a jungle fighter. Armed with a bulldozer, it uproots giant trees, moves aside
rocks, clears river crossings so that infantry and supplies may move forward pronto.
And it will build a permanent road or an airport as part of the day’s work. Nothing
can withstand the amazing power of a Caterpillar Diesel on the warpath.
Meantime, on the home front, Caterpillar Diesels are drawing ploughs and all forms
of food-producing equipment—sometimes on a 24-hour-a-day schedule, to feed
the troops who win the battles.
CATERPIIIAR Dtesei
■ EG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS ond CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone—LA3 321. Marquis St., Gunnedah. ‘Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
'Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne Sf *
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
Fight, Work, Buy War Savings Certificates j
CT,a« 38.44
along the dry coast of Greece —one Medi-
terranean island collected £30,000 for its
crop of Carob-beans in 1937.
Hints for the Farm.
“Farmer’s Wife”: I have reared two
orphan pig litters by giving three of water
to one of milk, always adding sugar, a
teaspoonful to each feed, gradually in-
creasing the strength of the cow’s milk
until the little pigs reached a month old.
Then I gave half and half of separated
and pure milk. At six weeks the pigs
were given wholly separated milk. The
vet. who saw the pigs informed me they
would have died had sugar and warm
water not been added to the cow’s milk.
“24X”: If a horse cracks his hoof
heat a blunt chisel or similar implement
just short of a dull red. Place the blade
lightly above the last bit of crack, at
right angles to it, and sear in no more
than the depth of the thickness of your
own thumbnail. Just get through the
outer hoof, that’s all. The crack will
stop there and grow out with no further
trouble.
“Myrrhee”: To retard rot in sacks arid
hessian dip in a solution made as fol-
lows; Dissolve bluestone in 9gal.
water in a wooden tub or barrel. In
another vessel dissolve 31b. washing-soda
crystals in Hgal. of water. While stirring
add the soda solution slowly to the blue-
stone solution. Immerse the bags one by
one until fabric and stitching are
thoroughly wet. Dip twine to be used for
stitching the bags. Run the bags through
a clothes wringer and hang out to dry.
“E. 2”: Transfer bees from box hives
and natural sites to frame hives in spring,
when honey and pollen are coming in
freely. Combs of worker brood should
be' cut out and fitted in frames and
fastened with string or by wooden cleats.
Hive bodies should be of at least
thickness of timber and of stout construc-
tion ; covers need to be waterproof and
insulated against heat or cold. Good
floors keep out ants, spiders and other
pests.
“B.”; Ordinary blemishes of sooty
mould on citrus fruits are best treated
with a light brushing. In bad cases im-
merse the fruit for a minute or two in a
solution of jib. boracic acid and £lb.
chloride of lime to a gallon of water;
wash in clean water to prevent a whitish
deposit on drying. Dry thoroughly
before packing. Work gently. Injury to
the rind may infect the fruit with green
or blue mould.
“Plane Creek”: If fungoid diseases
and insect pests are simultaneously attack-
ing veges, don’t use ordinary lime-sul-
phur and lead arsenate in one spray. The
lime-sulphur causes the lead arsenate to
burn up the plants like pentoxide. There
are now mixtures which are capable of
preventing fungoid diseases and killing
chewing and sucking pests without en-
dangering the plants.
“P’gaff 7 ”; To ensure vigorous growth,
young plants, especially lettuce, require
plentiful water. When firmly established
water thoroughly at least twice a week.
Use furrows rather than sprays. Avoid
watering during heat of day.
“Say All”: In “Hux”
recommends derris-root for ticks, and
wisely, but the Department of Material
Supply appears to think that the preser-
vation of dogs is not of any great
moment, and refuses to allow wholesale
distributors of derris to sell it for this
purpose. It must be mixed with a
dilutent and sold simply for dusting vege-
tables. All who buy it are required to
sign a certificate that it will not be used
for anything else. Yet a ton a year at
the utmost would preserve all the dogs
in Australia.
“C.S.”: Potato Freezing Order No. 16
has been annulled and all locally-grown
potatoes of all varieties in all districts of
N.S.W. can be marketed for table purposes
through accredited distribution channels,
“R.N.”: Legislation to control label-
ling of wool textiles has been passed in
Victoria. The Act provides that goods
labelled “all wool” must contain a mini-
mum of 95 p.c. pure wool fibre, and that
all textiles containing wool must bear a
tag showing the percentage of wool, re-
claimed wool, re-used wool, synthetic
fibre, cotton or silk which they contain.
Now it’s up to the rest of the States to
follow suit.
“P.McM.”; Outbackers will welcome
a new chemical compound which when
applied to any unsurfaced road or track
renders it waterproof. “Stabinol” is a
resinous compound, and is mixed with the
top inches of soil. When it rains the
water will either drain off or, in light
showers, quickly evaporate instead of
seeping through to make the road boggy.
Tests show that roads treated with the
compound are still waterproof after five
years and don’t become rutty or sticky
after severe rain.
Wool-classing
The new edition of Wool-Classing and
Shed Management, by J. J. Hardie, re-
tains all the useful information of the
first edition on the preparation of the clip
for market, and, in addition, has been
revised to give the very latest informa-
tion on the subject under appraisement
conditions. This book written par-
ticularly for the benefit of those growers
whose clip is too small to obtain the
services of a professional woolclasser. It
covers every phase of shed work, the
preparation of merino and crossbred
fleece and skirtings and shed accounts.
There is an up-to-date chapter on shear-
ing machinery. Every woolgrower should
have a copy. Price 3s. 6d., post free.


Personal and Missing Friends.
mcmillan—would william robert mcmillan
and JEAN ELIZABETH McMILLAN children of the
late JOSEPH McMILLAN of Tyrendarra Victoria
(who died on 20th February 1905) or any person
knowing their present whereabouts please communi-
cate with EQUITY TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY CO. 472 Bourke Street Melbourne or W.
A. GILDER SON AND CO. Solicitors 27 Hunter
Street Sydney?
TO EDWARD STORY formerly of Warne Ponds in
the State of Victoria now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife FRANCES VER-
ONICA STORY has instituted proceedings against
you for Divorce on the ground of desertion Unless
you enter an appearance in the Deputy Prothonotary’s
Office at Ballarat in the State of Victoria on or
before the Twenty-eighth day of October 1944 and
file an Answer on or before the Seventh day of
November 1944 the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs. —NOEL C.
BOUSTEAD, of 31 Lydiard Street, South Ballarat,
aforesaid, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO KATHLEEN MARY WASS formerly of 19
Windsor Orescent Surrey Hills and later of 115
Union Street Windsor in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown Married Woman. —TAKE
NOTICE that your husband HERBERT STANLEY
WASS has instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the grounds of three years desertion
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the Prothono-
tary’s Office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on
or before the Thirty-first day of October 1944 and
also file an Answer on or before the Tenth day of
November 1944 the case may proceed your absence
notwithstanding.—W. H. JONES & KENNEDY, 214
Nicholson Street, Footscray, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
TO PAUL SMITH formerly of Albert Park in the
State of Victoria Steeplejack and Sailmaker but now
of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
MARY CAROLINE SMITH has instituted proceed-
ings against you for Divorce on the grounds of
desertion during three years and upwards UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
31st day of October 1944 and file an Answer on or
before the 15th day of November 1944 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs. —J. P. MINOQUE CAREY & MORAN,
20 Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
m
mu
M
US
Owing to the disruption In transport, and shortages of
manpower, refrigeration is playing an increasingly
important part in the foodstuffs industry, from the
primary producer to the finished goods.
ZEROHEAT Low Pressure Refrigerators, either auto-
matic, electric or engine driven, are made for walk-in
cool rooms, food storage cabinets, milk cooling and
storage, or mobile units.
There is a ZEROHEAT Refrigerator Unit suitable
for every use.
Agents:
HENRY BERRY & CO.
(A’ASIA), LIMITED.
ECKERSLEY & SONS PIL LIIL
SOUTH MELBOURNE . . VICTORIA
INFECTION!
HEAL UP
DANGER
SPOTS
with
Double “D”
Oi4^tl44ja4iyt
mm
A scratched pimple or open wound needs immediate attention to
prevent it from becoming a source of infection. Be cautious
follow these simple directions:—
BATHE with a teaspoonful of Double “D”
~ Eucalyptus in warm water.
■KjH APPLY Double “D” Ointment and cover with
wmmM " adhesive tape.
The high antiseptic properties of Double “D” Ointment greatly
assist in preventing infection, and also help in healing pimples and
wounds and clearing up skin blotches. 1/6 a jar.
Double “D"
SOOTHING HEALING ANTISEPTIC
SMOKE-OH!
“Very few politicians have distinguished
themselves at athletics.”— “World’s News.”
Despite the fact that many are ex-
tremely long-winded.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Anti-Rat Activities.” — Heading in daily.
Some Commos being ejected from a
union?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Woman, over 45, for few hours m after-
noons, cook dinner for three refs.”
— “Clarion,” Willoughby ( N.S.W. ).
Knowledge of football or boxing an
advantage.
Clerical Error.
“The Rector of Pitsea (Essex) has received an
official notice notifying him of his death and
asking him to officiate at his burial.”
—“Daily Telegraph.’’
These little bloomers are always liable
to occur among the meandering lanes of
bureaucracy. My Army call-up was one
of them.
After medical examination I was re-
jected as unfit on the grounds of epilepsy,
gallstones, housemaid’s knee and water
,on the brain as well as a few really seri-
ous ailments. A week later I got another
call-up, and the subsequent medical ex-
amination concluded with a second sheet
of foolscap, bearing a new crop of com-
plaints, attached to the first.
On receiving my third call-up a fort-
night later I laughed so much that I suf-
fered a paralytic stroke. However, I re-
covered sufficiently to be wheeled along
for another vetting, and the stroke, along
with most of the other diseases not already
credited to me, furnished the medico
with enough material for a stout file,
which he riveted to my rejection certifi-
When my fourth call-up came things
seemed to be getting beyond a joke, so
I showed the file to the doctor and asked
him what it was all about. He mumbled
something about a comb-out, and ran his
stethoscope over me like a prospector
panning a well-worked claim for the last
pennyweight. He found a couple more
obscure diseases to add to the list.
The fifth sawbones finished it for them.
Finding nothing more that I could have,
he signed a death certificate and got me a
job as a reference list of diseases in the
B.M.A. library.
Now I simply scrawl “Deceased”
across my call-up forms and send them
back.
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When my husband was a police constable
he used to drink with acquaintances and after-
wards arrest them for being drunk.”
—Divorce report.
It’s clear he was a zealous trap,
A real clinker who
Would clink a glass with any chap,
And later clink him, too.
Brian Bureau.
•|«
“Young cattle-dog, good guard.”
Suburban paper ad.
He should be easy to train.
4* 4* 4* 4* ,
“The milk sang on the bucket bottom and a
a warm mist wafted upwards.”— Short story.
The inevitable result of employing
crooners on dairy farms.
4* b 4* 4*
“Slacks and skirt's figure largely in her ward-
■ robe.” — Woman’s mag.
But she figures more widely in the
slacks than in the skirts.
Reduced Forces.
“The U.S. Army Department has ordered
girls- of the Women’s Army Corps to reduce
their weight. An inspection showed that many
of them had grown too plump for their uni-
forms.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
Although a careful choice of dress
May help a lady to suppress
The truth about her bulkiness,
A service girl cannot disguise
From her commander’s questing eyes
A uniform of standard size
Too adequately filled to be
Correctly reckoned soldierly.
So now the ordinance is plain
Unwarlike billows to restrain.
And few, if any, will resent it
Provided someone can produce
(For service and civilian use)
A formula to implement it.
P. M. LUSK.
The Rub.
“Her husband believed that every man had
the right to beat his wife.” — Divorce report.
The chap next door agrees with that.
He’d like to wallop his lady flat.
He’s little more than skin and bone
While she goes just on eighteen stone.
“So what’s the use of the right,” says he,
“When you haven’t got the ability ?”
NAT.
Adventure, 1944.
Lone-handed I battled and stubbornly
risked
The might of this mob and its purpose
fanatic.
My love from my side was relentlessly
whisked;
My courage was high but the end
problematic.
“Use the boot,” sang a primitive voice
in my soul,
A method effective —though ethics de-
plored it —
Regained me my love and accomplished
my goal,
The last Manly ferry, and we were
aboard it.
Sol.
4* 4* 4* 4* ,
“Maybe you are the crusader type of
woman.” — “Woman.’ 1 ’
And the slightest thing makes you
cross.
Indefinite.
A movie star has lost his wife,
A cable states. It isn’t stated
Just how she passed out of his life —
Whether cremated or WE-mated.
F. M.
t
Derailed.
“Express fireman, age 25, good app., desirous
meet young lady, view mat.” — “SM.H.”
Being a fast worker he quickly found
his ideal, and thanks to his burning ardor
they were soon coupled in matrimony.
At first the venture appeared a signal
success, but it wasn’t long before their
hopes turned to ashes. Although she was a
clinker to look at, she had a fiery nature
that began to grate on him, and as a
safety valve he took to coming home full
of steam. She soon lost all the tender
feeling she had had for him, and when
he began to work points in order to get
out she discovered that he had a blonde
in train —one of his old flames. She be-
came superheated at that, and heaped
coals of fire on his head, so after half-
throttling her he shunted off for keeps.
He’s still in smoke, and happy to be
travelling light again.
Cal,
4* + +
Careers and Complexes.
_ “According to a psychologist, various phy-
sical characteristics, such as the color of the
hair and the shape of the hands, may deter-
mine a boy’s most suitable vocation as much
as the present exhaustive tests do.”
My Uncle Zebedy was a wizard as an
industrial psychologist. He it was who
pioneered the physical - characteristic
analysis.
He had only to see a boy with an extra-
large mouth and he would immediately
recommend that he take up glass-blow-
ing or politics.
Were a freak boy to appear who had
wavy hair that looked as if his mother
had permed it Uncle would straightway
get out a ripsaw and start hacking into
some galvanised iron with it. If in
response to a question the boy then ex-
pressed admiration for the noise it made
Uncle would strongly urge that he fit
himself for his life’s work as a dance-
band leader.
When a lad showed up with eyebrows
so fine as to be almost non-existent, or
of a texture which led Uncle to believe
that they would practically have dis-
appeared by early middle age, he would
recommend that the lad strive to become
either a professional poker-player or a
dramatic critic, in each of which occu-
pations he would be able to register—
to himself—pained surprise without those
near him being aware of it.
Tfye possession of a steeply-sloping brow,
a bullet head and a prognathous jaw,
combined with a slouching walk, evoked
the recommendation that the owner
should become an economic expert. Uncle
Zebedy, arguing from solid premises, con-
tended that he couldn’t make a bigger
mess of things than had the herds of
economic experts built on orthodox lines,
and that he must inevitably stand out in
such company.
The spindle-legged boy who gave
promise of bettering even time over the
hundred yards Uncle naturally urged to
take up lion-taming or crocodile-hunting.
One with a very long, straight nose was
recommended to become a taxgatherer;
one with a long hooked nose to lay the
odds against the feeuld. A boy having
knock knees was told he would make
an ideal receiving part of a knife-throw-
ing vaudeville act—his knees would keep
on knocking then with perfect natural-
ness.
Uncle Zebedy made only one major
bloomer in his long and distinguished
career. A boy came to him one day
cased in boots about the size of ukelele
cases. Uncle unhesitatingly urged him to
join the police force.
Some years later the same lad, then a
cop., came back and sold Uncle a dozen
tickets in a police art union. This con-
stituted a record in salesmanship, as he
actually succeeded in collecting the money
for them on the spot.
It was then that Uncle, glancing again
at the enormous trilbies of his ex-client,
realised the mistake he had made. He
should have urged the youth to become
a house-to-house canvasser—any fellow
wearing a boot that no partly-opened
door could possibly close on must be-
come a first-class salesman.
Bo.


Personal and Missing Friends.
HERMAN OTTO SCHULZ, formerly of Nhill,
Victoria, or his children, will hear to their advantage
by writing to TRUMBLE & PALMER, Solicitors,
Nhill, Victoria.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAXSKASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Hmmmoyne, N.S.W.
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get rid of
3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles of kidney tubes
and filters become clogged with poisonous waste and
the danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent or scanty
passages, with smarting and burning, show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which contain
only 27- feet of intestines, but neglect the kidneys,
which contain 15 miles of tiny tubes and filters.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used
successfully the world over by millions of people.
They give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. GET DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist or store.
iL cm,
R FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
LCL
<S‘
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
t 10 9
Dandruff goes after a few ap-
plications of McMahon's. It
makes the scalp clean and
fresh . . . banishes scurf, itch-
ing and dryness . . . prevents
falling hair.
Obtainable from Chemists, 1
Hairdressers and Stores. >
Wholesale: Craig & Altken Pty. Ltd., I
Sydney. i
A rtK%CTO&f
(PS
K ■
9
U
Vi
TS
&
%
ass
m
o
m
w
Help fill your LOCAL
LOAN QUOTA
We’re winning, but we haven’t won yet. The
road to Tokio is still long and the battles for
it will be tough and costly. That’s why we
must go all out for Victory. That’s why each
one of us must buy Victory Bonds to the limit.
Buy a bond out of your present savings, an-
other by instalments out of income. Join with
your friends and neighbours to put Victory
first, and help fill your local Victory Loan
Quota.
HELP WIN A
VICTORY LOAN
PENNANT
2V.14.1S
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Theodolite Surveying and Levelling,
by J. Park.—3sl6. J . .
To buy Oxford Literary Dictionary and booK
of poems by Charles Morgan.—3517.
To buy Charles Barrett’s Koonwarra. 3518.
Information Sought.
Final figures for referendum of August IV •
State Yes No. Inf.
N. S. Wales .. 759,211 911,680 23,228
Victoria .. .. 597,848 614,487 15,236
Queensland .. 216,262 375,862 J,444
South Australia .. 196,294 191,317 4,8.-
West Australia .. 140,399 128,303 3,637
Tasmania .. 53,386 83,769 2,256
Total .. ..1,963,400 2,305,418 36,633
No majority, 342,018.
Services Vote.
State. Yes. No. Inf-
N. S. Wales .. 79,901 70,647 1,209
Victoria .. .. 61,318 50,787 904
Queensland .. 26,694 34,056 600
South Australia .. 19,337 17,573
West Australia .. 25,116 15,682 329
Tasmania .. 6,086 6,403 162
Total .. .. 218,452 195,148 3,482
What powers had the Commonwealth for
conscription for home defence prior to Japan s
entry into the war? ,
Under the Defence Act the Governor-General
might by proclamation call upon all persons
liable to serve in the citizen forces to enlist
and serve as prescribed. All male inhabitants
between the ages of 18 and 60 who had resided
in Australia for six months and were British
subjects were liable to serve.
Rates of pay for members of the Aliens’
Service Corps ?.
It is an instruction that it must not exceed
(a) the rate of pay (including subsistence allow-
ance and dependants’ allowances) which would
be payable to a member of the military forces
performing similar services or (b) rate of pay
for similar services under any relevant industrial
award, as the Minister thinks fit.
Recipe for a spray to protect carpets from
silver fish. etc. ?
Mix one quart kerosene and ilb. pyrethrum
powder, stirring frequently for two hours.
Strain off powder and add two fl. oz. methyl
salicylate to neutralise kerosene smell. Spray
floor and under side of carpet.
What mixture should be used for candle-
making so that the candles will be hard, clean
and long-burning?
Use a mixture of 2/3 tallow and 1/3 white
beeswax, with a little resin stirred in. If
candles are given a coat of clear varnish they
will burn longer.
I wish to lend £5OO (perhaps a little more) to
a friend to enable him to build a house. How
could the loan be secured?
Engage a solicitor to secure a mortgage over
the land and a building agreement. Loans over
£5OO must be approved by the Treasurer.
Who was Breughel the EJder, mentioned in the
Red Page of B. 23/8/’44. ?
Pietro Brueghel, a Flemish painter, born near
Breda (Holland) in 1525 of peasant stock. He
travelled to France and Italy, settling later at
Antwerp and then at Bruges. His paintings are
mostly scenes of peasant life, humorous in
character. His “Adoration of the Kings” is in
the National Gallery, London.
Brief Answers.
J.V.G.: Terry’s “Sea Shanties,” bk. one,
11s. lid., bk. two, 10s. 5d., from Paling and Co.,
Sydney... .H.A.F.: First referendum, 72,399
for and 58,894 against; second referendum,
103,789 for and 93,910 against... .T.W.: (1)
A disputed point. (2) No G.1.H.: C. W.
Bushell, 17 Kingston-street, Haberfield (tel.,
UA1872) could advise you V.E.M.: (1)
Hardy Bros., 60 Castlereagh-street, and Miller
Stokes, 52 Margaret-street, both Sydney. (2)
Would be necessary to inspect set E.E.S.:
No reference in contemporary Melbourne news-
papers. . . .G.R.D.: No known reason G. 8.:
Manufacture of cordite except under licence
is prohibited... .F.C.M.: F. R. Edwards, 215
George-street, Sydney, could take an order in
November; it would be necessary for you to
come down for measurement... .F.G.T.: Apply
to Superintendent of Technical Education,
Sydney Technical College, Harris-street, Ultimo,
giving particulars of occupational experience and
interest's... .J.E.W.: Because of the exchange
system Sandy: Yes, see a solicitor P.S.:
(1) On marriage she ceases to be a British sub-
ject and becomes an alien. (2) They are aliens.
M.A.: Depends on his contract of service
or industrial award Don: No fixed per-
centage. •
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken se contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
K.T.: Letter admirable, poem lamentable....
JJ.R.: Amiable doggerel P.A.F.: “Kind”
is the wrong word, if you don’t want to sound
sentimental and moralistic... .A.L.; A grin;
but you might have made more of it
H.V.W.: Indistinguishable from a hundred
others on the same theme... .G.T.; Even in
a blitz you can’t make your piano rhyme with
Britannia N.M.: The line “Where bird and
lover drink the zephyr’s wine” would give
great offence to several teetotal pigeons of our
acquaintance H.L.: Whatever it’s all about,
at least it has feeling R.D.T.: Your bush
girl will not climb up on our sfringybark roof
and warble about the spring T.S.: “I am
enclosing several apologies for verse.” Apologies
returned R.C.: “Little Eva Benson, one of
your imaginative children, developed secretly
an unusual fantasy.” One of your imaginative
children M.V.: Ghosts are shot on sight.
A.M.: “The Shoe” walks nowhere in par-
ticular J.V.G.: “It has been refused by
every newspaper in N. S. Wales, but nobody
will tell me what is wrong with if.” Read
De Maupassant and find out for yourself
J.W.W.; And in what “country tavern” in Aus-
tralia do they serve you beer in the pewter?


dustry
in
ch
b ran
ev&j
In
St AI
ten 5
s
tony
then
ort" C
pay
econ
e\s
t \oOS
stc
\\ca
n\e sS
apP
5U C *'
n\ess
stat
Pot
stat
use
attt
oduct‘° n
the
e *ttava9
w etc»
co«t
not
u \ce
othet
stacto tV
s apP
toattV
53t'
nit'
et» ot
nW
cd
sup
tW
the
deve»°P
ddv
qtea
tea
vet
ste
ate
ta»
rt\ess
ttecte
nte
stat
tttes
sa vitt9 s
Indus
tvtce
5«1
ent
*
ppat
&x. a
::v
%
lIH
saM®
s e3=
less
t eM
„ w i. s ta"-
us'°® osts 0 sts at
o tie'Ph^^aftttO
"ft
ta'tt
\Vie
S 3
*
PRODUCTS
no stxiZ.rT*:
detain '? ff! ain 'ess Sfc~i There
favour t Steel heat L' s no Co T^
" >w "4 , S^Sg^
**
fs
m et%i c b [ ia ht n^ in l es
ste e i
Crea ‘fic^ t^ause
v af<; ,
there J? Pr °ve
no
aff ect the"s. are
P. a ste’e'
Vion
vje'Q'
d.
du® e
STOCK AVAILABLE : Sub-
ject to release, stocks of
the highest grade and finish
American stainless steel
sheets and plates are now
available in Melbourne and
Sydney.
'
"V
*°°?ate? oDU CTs.
nd Slr npiify lntl ng ar)d * Sfa/ (
y c/e ®n/ng. Per 'od,
AVIATION: Stainless steel exhaust
manifolds do not scale under today s
. _ . I mrtnifinn^
f
Queensland Bunding,
88 WHliom Street,
Melbourne,
Phone; MU 6185-6
d
l/rrfoit House,
247 <»eorg© Sfteef,
Sydney.
Phone* 8W4455>7
fdf
THE VOICE OF A SHIP
By “STANDBY.”
Mister Stephen carter,
second engineer of the little
wooden ex-coastal steamer
Wortan, wedged himself securely
into a corner of the tiny saloon and
watched his friend the mate struggling
with the last of his meal.
Carter was a thin, wiry man, whose
narrow shoulders were perpetually
stooped. He gave the impression that he
had just emerged from the shaft tunnel
and hadn’t quite got the kinks out of his
back. His once white boiler suit had,
through many imperfect washings, taken
on a color of its own —a pale drab color
that matched the pallor of Carter’s skin.
His habit of stroking the bristles on his
cheek whenever he was thinking always
left a large black streak across the left
side of his face.
In appearance he had nothing in cojn-
mon with the young man seated opposite
him, for Jack Dovedale, the Wortans
first mate, was tall, straight-limbed and
muscular. Even at sea, in his working
rig of khaki shorts, open-necked khaki
shirt with short sleeves displaying strong,
tattooed forearms, he presented a strik-
ing figure. In his best shore-going uni-
form he would attract attention anywhere.
Less favored shipmates declared that in
a crowded bar Jack Dovedale could
always catch the eye and claim the atten-
tion of a busy barmaid. His mop of
naturally fair hair was bleached even
whiter by constant exposure to sun and
spray, for at sea he never took his cap
off the peg on his cabin bulkhead.
“What do you think of it, Jack?” the
engineer asked.
He was referring, not to the unappetis-
ing mess on the mate’s plate, but to the
alarmingly heavy sea that was flinging
their little ship about. Not only was she
rolling heavily; she was pitching and
pounding in a manner that seemed to
jar every plank in her worn old hull.
“Don’t like it at all.” The mate made
a wild grab and just managed to save
his plate from careering across the saloon
table.
“Cookie! ” he yelled. “Better take these
dishes away. It’s no blasted good trying
to eat while this sea’s running.”
He waited till the cook had disappeared
before continuing.
“I tried to get the Old Man to put in
for shelter when I came off watch this
morning.”
The second engineer raised his eye-
brows.
“Bad as that is it?” he asked. “What
did he say?”
“Told me to mind my own business.
Informed me once again that he was
master of the ship.”
“He would. He was holding forth in
his usual style just before you came
down. Telling us all about the fine ships
he’d commanded and then cursing his
fate for being stuck with a rotten old
wooden tub like this. What do you make
of him, Jack?”
The mate looked around to make sure
the cook was out of hearing.
“Just between ourselves, Steve,” he
answered ; “I don’t think he ever was
or ever will be a good seaman. He’s got
no feeling for his ship. Look at the way
he slams this poor -old girl alongside a
wharf. And look at him now. Trying to
drive an old wooden ship against this sea.
Why, she’s not making two knots, and
she’s straining hell out of herself. Look
at that bulkhead working! Lord, it’s a
marvel how the poor old girl stands up
to it.” . , . .
“She’s certainly doing a lot of creaking
and groaning. How old is she?”
“Dunno. Somewhere around forty
years, I should think. She was laid up
for a few years. Still would be if it
hadn’t been for the war.”
The second engineer rubbed his hand
thoughtfully up and down the black patch
on his cheek.
“Is she as, rotten as she looks?” he
a sked
“No. As a matter of fact, she’s fairly
sound in the hull. I was working-by on
her during her refit. All she wanted was
a few deck beams and some braces to
stiffen her up a bit. I told them that
when they ripped the old steam engines
out of her and put these new Diesels in,
but they didn’t take any notice of me.
Said she’d do for the job, and that she’d
only be used in sheltered waters.”
“ ’Struth! Would you call this shel-
tered water?” The second engineer clung
to the edge of the saloon table as an
extra heavy roll flung the vessel almost
on her beam ends. “I thought she was
going right over that time. Do Y ou
reckon this sea’s getting worse?”
“Yes, I think it is.”
“What’ll happen if it does get much
worse?”
The mate shrugged his shoulders and
pointed both thumbs downwards.
“She’s empty and she’s top-heavy,” he
said. “She’s straining herself, and I’m
afraid of the hatch covers. I’ve done
everything I can to make them secure.
Blast the Old Man! Why couldn’t he
listen to reason? I hate to see a good
ship knocked about.”
The engineer looked at his friend in
surprise.
“Gripes, Jack, you can’t call this old
tub a good ship, can you? She’s falling
to bits. Listen to her!”
“She’s all right,” the mate defended.
“With proper handling she’d stand up to
a lot of work. You’ve got to look after
these old ships, Steve. Look after your
ship and she’ll look after you. I’ve grown
attached to the old girl. Let’s get out
of here, Steve. I’m going to try to get
a bit of rest before I go on watch again.”
A T five minutes to four the mate clawed
Tv his way to the bridge. His gaze
swung from the waste of angry water
ahead to the figures of the three men
trying to retain their balance against the
wild, corkscrew motion.
With bare feet planted wide apart and
knuckles showing white with the strain,
the helmsman stood gripping the spokes
of the kicking wheel. Streaks of sweat
trickled down his face as he fought to
keep the ship’s head somewhere near her
course. Over in the port wing the young
second mate clung to the bridge rail and
stared ahead as if fascinated by the on-
rushing sea.
Captain Black, the Wortan’s master,
had wedged himself securely in the open
door of the chartroom. He was a short,
bow - legged, aggressive - looking man.
Bushy eyebrows hung down and half-
concealed a pair of small eyes set close
together. His lower lip thrust out as
if it strove to reach further for’ard than
his short snub nose. A pair of large ears
standing out at a sharp angle from his
bullet head gave the impression that he
was listening intently. The impression,
however, was misleading.
“I’m going to bring her round and run
for shelter, Mister,” the Old Man an-
nounced.
The mate stared at him in amazement.
“It’s too late now, sir,” he said. “She’ll
never come round in this sea. She’ll go
right over when she gets it abeam.”
For a second or two the men stared
at each other—the master, aggressive,
scowling and seeming to have to remind
himself and everyone else of his author-
ity ; the tall, fair young mate, so strong
and easily sure of himself.
“I didn’t ask for your opinion, Mister,'
the Old Man 'marled. “I’m master of
this ship. Staru'd* hard over. Bring her
round to nor’-west.”
“Starb’d, hard over,” repeated the
helmsman.
HALFWAY round the big wave
caught her. She seemed to be taken
unawares without time to rise as the
great mountain of water crashed inboard,
smashing in her old wooden bulwarks
and forcing her over on her beam ends.
It stove in the port lifeboat and tore the
old-fashioned windlass loose from its
rusted bolts.
The mate caught a glimpse of the
windlass sliding crazily down the sloping
deck before his eyes were drawn to some-
thing far worse. Several short heavy
planks, together with a tattered length of
oiled canvas, shot to the surface of that
swirling torrent and were swept over the
place where the lee rail should have been.
To the second mate’s startled cry of
“She’s gone! She’s going right overl
he added his own bellow.
“Hatches carried away, Sir!”
This, he knew in a numb amazement,
was the end. Even if she didn t turn
right over, she was doomed. The sea
was pouring in thousands of gallons down
the gaping hatch, and there wasn t a
thing he could do about it. Before he
could reach the lower deck she would be
swamped. Apparently the engine-room
had been flooded, too, for he could no
longer feel the vibration of the engine.
“Starb’d, damn you! Starb’d! Bring
her round!” roared the Old Man. And
then to the mate, “Get for’ard, Mister,
and do something about those hatches'
Move, blast you!” . .
The mate was a good seaman. Disci-
pline and respect for his superior officers
had been drilled into him till it became
second nature, but now, for the first time
in his life, he rebelled.
“You poor fool,” he said. “Can t you
see she’s done, and all through your
stupidity? She can’t answer her helm
without the engines, and I haven’t got a
thing to repair those hatch-covers with.
There’s not even a decent bit of dunnage
aboard.”
A look of amazement spread over the
skipper’s face. For a moment he
incapable of grasping the staggering fads
—that his ship was doomed and his mau
was refusing to obey an order and calling
him a fool on his own bridge.
His first realisation was that his blun
had been called. His stories about the
big ships he had commanded were on )
empty lies. Years ago he had been cm"
missed for incompetence, and had it no
been for the war and the shortage o


THE INSIDE STORY ON ROOFING
The roof is the most important part of your house
and the one you see least of. Make sure, then, that
your roof is waterproof and. weatherproof right from
the start.
If your roof is right, your ceilings will be right and
free from damp and moisture. The best way to
ensure satisfaction and freedom from leakage worries
is to make certain your roof has adequate “sarking
—in other words, provided with an inner waterproof
roof of SISALKRAFT.
SISALKRAFT is a durable, serviceable, weather-
proof material. It comes in rolls and is easily applied
to rafters and inner walls. It is so economical and
beneficial that it is foolish to build without making
full use of its possibilities and protection.
Full particulars and demonstration will be
given with pleasure .
s
&
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street,
Auckland.
%
&
-4-. d-frr n L
&
.v- 1*
sgS\
'r\
p.
Even the fury of war's destruction has a constructive
side. For instance, Stromberg - Carlson's war - time
achievements in perfecting communications equipment
for front-line conditions, will be paralleled by equally
distinguished peace-time achievements ... in the
development of post-war radio products embodying the
results of war-time experience.
Post-war, too . . . there will be nothing finer than a
Stromberg-Carlson.
STSOMBERG-Cfim&SON
A Company entirely owned and controlled in Australasia.
SO Years of Communication Engineering.
SECOND VICTORY LOAN . . . SUBSCRIBE NOW.
officers he’d never have secured another
berth. Dimly he grasped the fact that,
although his ship was not turning over,
she was heeling at a dangerous angle and
floating like a half-submerged log. The
violent rolling had ceased, and almost
every wave swept clear across her decks.
“Call all hands, Mister,” he snarled.
“Abandon ship. Get the boats lowered.”
The mate smiled grimly.
“There’s only one boat,” he said. “The
port boat is smashed to bits. Come on,
second. You, too, Foster. It’s no good
hanging to that wheel.”
<< DELAY, there. Belay. Don’t cast
L-' off those falls yet. Cast off your
gripes, man. Haven’t you had enough
lifeboat drill yet? Cookie, get to hell out
of the rpad. If you can’t remember what
to do, don’t get in everyone else’s way.”
The mate was issuing orders purely
from force of habit and a life-time of
training. Subconsciously he was aware
that the single boat would never carry
the entire ship’s company of twelve men
in a heavy sea. He doubted whether with
her normal crew of six men she’d live for
five minutes in the sea that was running
today.
“Never mind hanging to that damn’
stanchion, cook. Get to your boat
station,” the skipper’s voice cut in.
The mate stood back.
The Old Man was taking charge.
Well, let him. There was no sense in two
men giving orders on a job like this. It
would only lead to confusion.
“Jack !”
He distinctly heard the agonised cry
coming from the direction of the bridge.
Regardless of the heeling deck, swept
every minute by breaking seas, he
plunged for’ard.
He had scarcely covered half the
distance when he saw the big sea curling
inboard and realised that he was trapped.
He was caught off balance, and there
wasn’t a hand-hold in reach.
With a tremendous crash the wave
broke across the deck, lifting him off his
feet and dashing him against a heavy
stanchion. Half stunned, he struggled to
regain his feet, but something seemed to
be holding him down, gripping his legs
with a force that almost made him yell
with pain. It took him some time to
realise what was wrong. Nothing was.
holding him. His legs were bent forward
at a most unnatural angle, both bones
snapped clean above the knee.
Through a mist of pain he heard voices
yelling.
“Mister Mate!”
“What happened to the mate?”
“Washed overboard. That last sea
caught him.”
“Anyone see him go?”
“Yes, sir. I saw the wave pick him
up.”
Dimly he recognised the voice of the
second engineer and strove to make him-
self heard. Even to his own ears his
voice sounded feeble.
“Come on, there. Lower away. We’ll
have this boat stove-in in a minute.”
That was the Old Man. Oh, hell.
What did it matter? What did anything
matter? They’d all be drowned soon,
anyhow. Certainly the mainland was
under fifteen miles away, but that over-
crowded boat couldn’t live for long in
this sea. Vaguely he remembered a
former shipmate, an old chap who’d
served in windjammers, saying “Them
old wooden ships never sink. They’ll
float nearly awash for years.” Would
they? Hell, what was the use of worry-
ing?
Two other things were worrying him,
though. The bight of a manilla line had
caught around his broken legs, and its
heavy coils, swishing to and fro, were
adding to his pain. And then there was
the voice that had called to him.
Come to think of it, there had been no
one for’ard. The entire ship’s company
were clustered around the starb’d boat.
He’d checked them over himself.
He freed the annoying rope from his
legs and hauled in the slack. At any rate
this was something real and useful. He
was busy lashing himself to the stanchion
when he heard the call again.
“Jack!”
“Ahoy, there!” he called feebly.
For a few minutes he could hear noth-
ing but the howling of the wind and the
crashing of the seas.
“Jack r
This time he located the voice, only it
wasn’t a voice at all. It was the blasted
ship.
Only a few feet ahead of where he lay,
the wing of the bridge had collapsed and
hung suspended in the sea. Each time an
extra big wave caught it the broken
timbers creaked with a loud “Aack.” Dis-
gustedly he finished lashing himself and
look stock of his situation.
So long as the old girl floated he’d float
now. He -was lying in the lee of the
chartroom, and while it held together
he’d be protected from the main on-
slaught of the waves. Much of the bridge
superstructure had already gone. The
flag locker, originally screwed to the
chartroom wall, had torn loose and
threatened to come crashing down on him
at any moment. When that damn’ locker
cuts loose it’ll probably bash my brains
out, he thought. Well, what if it does?
I can’t stop it, and it will only put me out
of my misery.
The pain was becoming unbearable.
Water cascaded across the deck and,
swirling to and fro, was twisting and turn-
ing his broken legs about till it made him
cry out with pain. The ship was full of
noises. The creaking and groaning of
her timbers was mixed with the crashing
of breaking woodwork. The mate could
feel himself sinking. Dimly he wondered
whether the ship was going down or he
was losing consciousness.
“Jack !”
He half-jerked himself up just as the
locker came hurtling down the sloping
deck and, missing his head by a few
inches, disappeared over the side.
“God, that was close,” he muttered.
“The chartroom’ll be the next to go, I
suppose. No good yelling to Jack when
that cuts loose, shipmate.”
SOMEHOW the hours dragged by. He
did not notice when darkness set in.
There had been so many periods of dark-
ness wherein he fought to regain control
of his senses, fixing his eyes on the
blurred outline of the chartroom.
It became a sort of a symbol to him.
When that chartroom went he’d go.
It was dark. He knew that, because not
long ago he’d tried to see which way his
legs were lying, but he could see nothing
but the dim outline of the chartroom
against the dark, racing clouds. There
was something else, too. Something that
made him sure night had fallen. Of
course. That star. He remembered think-
ing something about a star of hope.
Blasted rot. What hope was there for
him?
A NOISE awoke him.
“Whoo-oop. Whoo-oop. Whoo-oop.”
What was that and where was he? Of
course. He was still lashed to the stan-
chion, and the noise was a corvette blow-
ing her siren. No other ship made a wail-
ing “whoop” quite like that. It was day-
light, too. Must be morning. Where
was that corvette?
Oh, blast. He couldn’t even turn his
head now. He’d slumped down into a
heap and felt paralysed all over. They’d
never see him from the comlte’s bridge.
Never. They’d go right on and leave him
to die. Feebly he waved his arm.
“Whoop. Whoop.”
What did that mean? Had they seen
him or was that just a parting blast before
the corvette stood away on her course
again? Anyhow he couldn’t keep on wav-
ing much longer.
It seemed hours later when he heard
the next sound. Long ago he’d given up
trying to wave. They’d missed him, but
what did it matter? What did anything
matter?
In the early morning light no one would
have recognised the Wortan’s tall, mus-
cular young mate in the pitiful figure
lying slumped against the stanchion. The
grey, lined face with the mass of wet
hair plastered across the forehead and
the flabby, lifeless limbs could have be-
longed to any nondescript, middle-aged
seaman.
“Here he is, lads. A couple more of
you nip up here and bear a hand. He
looks in pretty bad shape.”
He opened his eyes and saw a young
naval officer bending over him.
“Take a swig of this, old chap. It’ll
do you good. Go on, take a good one.
I’m afraid we’re going to hurt those legs
of yours pretty badly getting you on
board.
The mate coughed and spluttered for a
moment and then wearily closed his eyes.
“Carry on,” he whispered, “I can take
it.”
He was dimly aware that someone was
cutting the lashings that bound him to the
stanchion. The sea must have gone down
considerably, for' the waves were no
longer crashing aboard. Voices seemed
to be floating down to him from a great
height. Someone was saying something
about strapping him to the stretcher ; and
then distinctly he heard the voice of the
young sub-lieutenant say: (
“Gripes, she’s a weird-looking old tub.
Wonder what she’s been. She looks like
one of those old wooden steamers they
used to run along the Tasmanian coast.
Imagine going to sea in a thing like that! ”
With a tremendous effort the mate
forced himself up till he was almost sit-
ting.
“Lay off that! ” he snarled. “What the
hell do you know about her? She was
a good ship —a ship any sailorman would
be proud to sail in.”


What a
Trustee Company
Will Do
In the whole realm of human affairs no responsibility presses so heavily as,
trusteeship for others. That is why the Union Trustee Company was formed
in 1885 to provide security and the requisite experience to those with family
obligations. Under special Acts of Parliament passed in Victoria, N.S.W.
and Queensland, the Union Trustee Company:
Will act as Executor of your estate.
Will act as Trustee by direct
appointment, or in place of a trustee
who desires, for health or other
reasons, to relinquish his trust.
Will act as Administrator of a will
where an executor declines, or, by
consent of next-of-kin, will act as
Administrator where there is no will.
Will act as Attorney or Agent for
the management of property.
Will act as Manager of the estate
of an insane or incapable person, or
as Guardian of the estate of infant
children.
Will act as Trustee for the holders
of debentures.
In all these cases the Union Trustee Company, with many years of proved
capacity behind it, will at small cost relieve the individual of onerous duties
and exacting responsibilities.
Write for free booklet.
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
J. C, Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H, Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager : Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager : John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector ; H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD :
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman)
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector ; Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman);
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, m.c., f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., b.c.e.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager: H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.c.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.x.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager)
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
The future belongs to those
who prepare for it . . .
Prepare NOW for your post-war
future by qualifying in one of
these vocational subjects—
$
H.R.I. Post-War
Career Training
Department of Accountancy & Commerce -
Accountancy and Secretaryship
Cost Acc’ncy and Factory Management
Banking and Securities
Insurance Examinations
Local Government Examinations
Effective Correspondence
Psychology and Human Relations
Department of Distribution —
Selling and Sales Management
Marketing and Advertising
Retail Selling
Showcard and Ticket Writing
Department of Business Administration —
Business Administration
Modem Merchandising
Factory Management and Foremanship
Department of Public Service —
Public Service Grade, School, Police and
Nurses’ Examinations
Pre-war is not good enough for post-war
The already high standard of H.R.I. tutor-
ltd services is being constantly improved.
As a result, H.R.I. have won more exam-
ination honours than ail coaches in Aus-
tralasia combined
Let us help you to choose the vocation
for which you are most suited seek
our advice start training NOW I
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
(Founded ond Owne<J by Hemingwov & Rob«rt»on fV ltd!
Professional Tutors
24 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
4 24 Chain Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
Bk and in all Capital Cities. Newcastle
o** and Launceston.
Please send me FREE copy of your I
96 p. “Guide to Careers in Business. I
N ame - .....Age...— |
Address..
Career interested in
BRANDAIERA
PENS
Etc rY point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with Imitations,
o. bbaxoavu * 00, LU. antuadfuu.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
n . , u i • r r c„j„ ow
B “ UoLS;
£ £ £ £
gg” KJg S ‘“-rfsKS &SSBJSS
1936.. 298,227 6 „ „ 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
1937.. 342,041 64 „ ~ 308,035 25,000 4,419,231
1938.. 365,975 7 ~ „ 331,730 35,000 4,418,4.6
i>»39 377,454 7 , ~ 331,730 35,000 4,429,200
1940.. 389,492 74 „ „ 355,426 35,000 4,428,266
IS ’ lnS ?1 ” ’’ioS 11:888 JffiS
1943.. 374,098 74 ~ „ 355,426 15,000 4,422,837
1944.. 379,823 74 „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,422,234
War has created new industries, stimu-
lated old ones, lifted wages and increased
employment. It has also bumped up costs
and taxation, and brought difficulties asso-
ciated with finance, labor, production
and distribution. And Treasury bill
finance, stimulated by heavy Allied war
expenditure, has built up a large volume
of purchasing power without the counter-
weight of an adequate, volume of goods
on which to spend the money.
Pressure on prices has been held in
check by controls, including freezing of
the increase in bank deposits since
1939, additional taxation—some of it ill-
considered—raising of voluntary loans,
control of capital expenditure and trans-
fer, rationing of consumption goods and
imposition of priorities and a price ceil-
ing, etc. End of hostilities will remove the
exceptional factors which provided the in-
centive for most of these controls. Aus-
tralia’s internal position will then be
dominated largely by the requirements of
reconstruction. These will initiate new
wants, which promise to give a sharp fillip
to trade activity. Together with a vigor-
ons public works programme, this ought
to mean much so far as employment is
concerned.
Planning will be needed, undoubtedly,
amid the abundances and scarcities
of the transition. But the danger to
prices and costs arising from scarcity of
resources and the volume of spending
power available should ease as ordinary
trade production catches up with deferred
civilian demand. In this connection,
hopes are that much will be accomplished
between the end of war in Europe and
the end of war with Japan, after which
early discontinuance of controls for which
war was the prime incentive should be
possible without danger to either prices or
costs. Much, of course, will depend upon
what the Government does meanwhile to
help or hinder the process. In the long
run internal stability will depend upon
balanced Budgets, sensible tariffs and
sound monetary and credit practices.
Agreement with the desirability of
reaching the goal of Government policy
—“full” employment and a high and in-
creasing standard of living—should not
blind us to the obstacles to be overcome
on the way. Further monetary and costs
inflation must be avoided if local manu-
factures are to be sufficiently competitive
to discourage imports on a scale that will
threaten our trade balance. The less fet-
tered industry is the higher will be the
level of both employment and real wages,
and, therefore, the standard of living. An
early need is overhaul of the Government
machine preparatory to removal of emer-
gency departments, directorates, boards
and committees which have or will soon
become obsolete.
Government has announced its inten-
tion of continuing post-war some of the
controls to which the banks are now sub-
ject. Custody of portion of their deposits
is a right likely to be retained by the cen-
tral bank, because it is a powerful factor
in credit control. Also, regulated thaw-
ing of now-frozen bank deposits can be
expected; and open-market buying and
selling of Government securities by the
banks might remain regulated, too, be-
cause of possible effects on interest rates.
Control over the direction in which
money is spent is a matter that can well
be left in the hands of the trading banks,
whose services in this and other respects
have made them a pillar of strength in
the past. And earning power of the banks
ought to be given more headroom by rais-
ing the present low “ceiling” for their
profits, upper limit of which is average
net earnings for the last three pre-war
years. This ignores changes in the risk
and cost factors altogether.
C.B.S.’s net earnings last term (up
£5725) were equal to 8 p.c. on the
£4,739,013 of capital as against 7.8, 7.9,
8.1, 8.2, 7.9, 7.7 and 7.2 p.c. back to 1937.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined) the year’s profit was
only 4.1 p.c. The div. was kept at
p.c.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the com-
mon experience:
1939. 1943. 1944.
Notes.. .. £13,602 £13,542 £13,532
Deposits* I: silinS} 69 ’ 941 ’ 462 81 ’ 703 * 03 °
Liquids . . 20,895,574 44,127,625 58,100,997
Advances .. 42,114,246 33,603,347 31,413,371
Premises, etc. 1,206,620 1,133,096 1,101,441
Other assets. . 430,499 439,710
* Including provision for contingencies.
Last term a contraction of £2,189,976 in
advances was accompanied by an expan-
sion of £11,761,568 in deposits and of
£13,973,372 in low-interest-bearing liquids,
which include a special war-time deposit
of £23,399,000 with the Commonwealth
Bank, carrying only 15s. p.c. interest.
When the books closed liquids amounted
to 71.1 p.c. of liabilities to the public,
deposits to only 38.4 p.c. of deposits, and
the bank was holding £8 18s. sd. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own. It all means strength and low-earn-
ing power.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends— N
Pref. To Re-
June. Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary,, serves. Reserves.t
£ £ £ £ £
p.c.
1934.. 50,472 36,000 6,710 7,762 16,398
1935.. 47,615 36,000 6,710 4,905 21,303
1936. . „ 50,109 36,000 6,710 7,399 28,702
1937.. 48,658 36,000 6,710 5,948 34,650
1938.. 60,304 36,000 6,710 17,594 52,244
124 p.c.
1939. . 69,207 36,000 10,066 23,141 75,385
Divs. from subsidiaries, £15,172 .. 90,557
Capital reserve, £72,153 .. .. 162,710
1940.. 80,989 30,000 10,066 34.923 197,633
1941.. 70,189 36,000 10,066 24,123 221,756
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 211,756
1942.. 80,612 36,000 10,066 34,546 246,302
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 236,302
1948.. 64,987 36,000 10,066 18,921 255,223
To staff fund, £5OOO ... .. 250,223
1944.. 64,537 36,000 10,066 18,471 268,694
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 263,694
t Excluding depreciation reserve.
The business is in better fettle than at
any time since 1922, when the present
co. welded the interests of Lincoln
Spinning Mills and Lincoln Knitting
Mills, and £400,000 of expensive pref.
capital (9 p.c. cumulative) was gathered
to lighten the debt and finance expan-
sion. Three years later a fire made re-
construction inevitable, and 16s. per share
(£322,000-odd) of ord. capital was jetti-
soned. For the next decade the struggle
was to keep up payments to the prefs.,
owing to the heavy call for depreciation.
By 1938 plant had been modernised, and
the allowance for depreciation was cut
nearly in half. Hence the jump in
profits, and the ords., which received their
first div. (8i p.c.) in 1934, got p.c.
The rate has remained steady since with
wide margins.
War, and with it priority requirements
of our own and Allied forces, soon
doubled the output of yarn, portion of
which was exported to India, and greatly
increased turnover in the knitting section.
But low-priced defence contracts carried,
and continue to carry, small profit mar-
gins, while costs, including taxation, kept
on advancing. The Government’s stabi-
lisation policy, brought down in April,
1943, helped to steady the rate of advance
in outgoings. But the gain in this respect
was more than offset by loss due to short-
age of suitable operatives. Hence the
drop in the level of net earnings after
1942.
Last term the labor problem became
more acute, and part of the spinning
plant was idle during the second half.
As a way out the board decided upon
decentralisation, and a branch each of
the spinning and knitting mills was
opened at Parkdale and Gisborne respec-
tively. Defence orders tapered, allowing
a small increase in releases for civilian
purposes. After allowing £21,152 (up
£618) for depreciation, gross earnings
(£195,159) improved £7529. But exes.
(£130,622, including an unspecified pro-
vision for the taxgatherer) took the gain
and £450 as well. Enough was left
(£64,537) to pay the pref. div. (£36,000)
and show 35.4 p.c. on the £80,527 of ord.
capital as against 36, 55.4, 42.6, 55.8,
41.2, 30.2 and 15 p.c. back to 1937, the
year before the change in depreciation
policy. These rates need to be considered
along with the cut in capital already
referred to. In addition to the lay-by
shown in the table (13s. per 4s. share),
there is a depreciation reserve of £118,914
(up £21,186).
As for the co.’s post-war prospects,
textile plant capacity in Australia
promises to be in excess of local demand.
Among other things, this means keen
competition and, probably, investigation
and development of markets outside Aus-
tralia. Although recent installation of
new plant has enabled some old equip-
ment to be thoroughly overhauled, tech-
nical developments look like making
obsolescence more costly than wear and
tear. A matter on which early announce-
merit of Government policy is awaited is
that of contract termination, with which
are wrapped up questions relating to
stocks and plant conversion, etc.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1941. 1943 iq..
Paid capital.. £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £4BO 527
Liabilities . . *33,838 *205,379 *188,843 ♦is3*R9n
Jleprec. reserve t 58,939 97,728 lis’ou
Freeholds .. 81,596 120,884 143 501 uim,
Plant.. .. 114,124 204,604 238 9’7
Stocks . . 341,805 464,364 466 894 4-7’qoa
Book debts etc 113,462 226,426 203,065 186 59s
* Includes tax reserve, f Deducted from asset!
Last term’s surplus earnings, together
with allowances for depreciation and
taxation, and a reduction of £16,467 in
debtors’ balances, etc., enabled £11035
to be added to stocks, £4553 to plant and
£35,023 to be clipped off the amount
coming to outsiders. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid iurnlus
(£581,116) was £70,409. P
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 22,148 4 p.c. = 22,000 148 110 148
1935.. 26,200 4* „ „ 24,750 1,450 111 5M
1936.. 22,348 4J „ „ 23,375 2- no’sn
1937.. 23,331 4J „ „ 23,375 u0’527
1938.. 28,665 5 „ „ 27,500 1,165 111692
1939.. 31,428 5„ „ 27,500 3,928 lls’e’O
1940.. 37,072 6 „ „ 33,000 4,072 119 692
1941.. 34,605 6„ „ 33,000 1,605 121,’297
1942.. 40,664 6„ „ 33,000 7,664 128 961
1943.. 51,715 6 „ „ 33,000 18,715 147*676
1944.. 58,310 6 „ ~ '33,000 25,310 172!o86
During the last three years the co. has
made the best showings since the slump
of the early 1930’5. This was followed by
increased competition from chain stores
and others, and, worse still, a drift of
the shopping public from the Valley to
the Queen-street end of the city, with the
inevitable consequences for earnings and
divs. A steady 10 p.c. was paid for the
half-dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1930.
Though war brought clothes- and
drapery-rationing and the price-ceiling,
which limited expenditure in this direc-
tion, it also brought a heavy influx of
temporary population, which has given
retail turnovers in Brisbane a greater
fillip than in the southern capitals. The
next table shows the percentage change
in aggregate turnover compared with the
corresponding period of the previous year


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Auvr.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888;,
hydiaulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Auvr.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 3(50 Collins Street, Melbourne, CM. Austra
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Auvr
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : (JEORIIE WD HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS;
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland. F. W. Hixson. Orwell
Phillips G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T C. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst. (Jen. Manager
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months :
Fortnightly Monthly
A longer period to repay may be
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instal ments.
Full particulars at Personal Loans Dept.,
4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
%
A
9 9
4
itiif
YES:'lw
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
and CENERALINSURANCE CO LTD. A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street. Melbourne.
It. V. PHU&INS, General Manager.
Public Notice.
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
OF SECRETARIES
(Incorporated in Victoria; Founded 1932)
Designation of Members; Fellows, F.I.C.S.
Associates, A.I.C.S. Licentiates, L.I.C.S.
Write for full particulars:
H. C. BRIERLEY, F.1.C.5.,
10 O’Connell St., Sydney. Phone; 8W7295
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
m
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
OtAU
VICTORY
LOAN BONDS
The "Second Victory Loan" closes
Oct. 31
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
Hastenvolte
M
for the 12 leading department stores in
Brisbane:
Average Three Ended
& Mar. June Year.
1938- .. + 3.7 + 1.1 + 0.7 + 3.5 + 2.6
1939- .. + 6.1 + 9.9 + 9.1 + 8.7 + 8.5
1940- .. + 5.3 + 3.0 + 5.9 + 8.8 + 5.8
1941.42 .. +12.3 +10.6 +22.2 1.0 +ll-0
1942- .. 0.0 + 0.7 + 1.4 +13.9 + 4.1
1943- 2.1 + 3.5 + 8.0
For the most part the war years have
been a seller’s market. Many lines or
merchandise are now unobtainable, most
others are in short supply and their de-
livery irregular, while quality has fallen
and prices have risen, with costs close on
their heels. With end of war the present
temporary demand will be partly replaced
by deferred civilian demand. But as pre-
sent controls, or most of them, are cast
into the limbo of the repealed a buyer’s
market can be expected to develop again,
and with it a keener demand than ever for
service, and all that that means.
During the 12 months to the end of
July last McWhirters, which has always
enjoyed a reputation for keen values and
service, recorded a drop of £3256 in
gross earnings (£243,943). Including pro-
vision of £55,000 (same as for previous
year) for taxation and £10,015 (down
£519) for depreciation, exes. (£185,633)
were pulled back £9851. That left the
net result £6596 better at 10.5 p.c. on
capital as against 9.4, 7.4, 6.3, 6.7, 5.7
and 5.2 p.c. back to 1938. The div. was
kept at 6 p.c., making the average over
the last decade 5.2 p.c.
The financial position further im-
proved :
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft .. 117,097 85,273 12,041
Creditors . . 33,837 33,667 34,309 45,798
Tax reserve .. 15,000 37,000 59,699 66,894
?
Freehold and
plant .. 438,940 431,090 420,550 410,649
Stocks . . 299,380 339,359 346,269 341,211
Book debts .. 113,892 78,230 40,804 40,198
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 3,266 2,723 12,604 60,120
Trading is now mainly on a cash basis.
When the books last closed debtors’ bal-
ances were less than one-third of the 1940
figure. The year’s surplus earnings, to-
gether with allowances for taxation and
depreciation, and an extra £11,489 from
trade creditors, enabled cash and invest-
ments to be strengthened by £47,51'. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£328,837) was £35,209.
£3,000,000 Aluminium Project
The Commonwealth and Tasmanian
Governments proposs to enter into part-
nership for the purpose of manufacturing
alummium ingots in Australia. A fac-
tory is to be set up for the purpose in
Tasmania, where cheap power is avail-
able from the big State hydro-electric
undertaking. The cost, O.ld. per unit, is
claimed to be comparable witn the price
paid for power by large aluminium manu-
facturers in North America. The im-
portance of power as a costs factor can
be judged from the fact that each O.ld.
per unit would mean the addition of
about £lO a ton to the cost of the metal.
Exact location of the works has not
yet been deemed upon, nor have details
of estimated capital outlay, operating and
production costs, and saxes been yet made
available to the public. Since its money
will be at risk in the venture, it is entitled
to this and a lot more information than
the Government has yet seen fit to give.
When Parliament meets again it will be
asked to ratify an agreement between
the two Governments to go ahead with
the undertaking, loosely spoken of as a
£3,000,000 project. If mining and pro-
duction of aluminia and fabrication are
to be included, as well as smelting, some
people who are competent to judge con-
sider that more capital than the figure
mentioned will be needed.
Aluminium is made from aluminia-bear-
ing material, chiefly bauxite, commercial
deposits of which occur in N. S. Wales,
Victoria, Tasmania and Westralia. The
Government’s estimate is that Australia’s
minimum requirements of aluminium post-
war will be around the present level of
6000 tons annually. That is to say, post-
war decline in defence requirements, now
largely for aeroplane construction, is
expected to be offset by the increase
in civilian demand, which is mainly in
the form of kitchen utensils and a variety
of other gadgets. There is, however,
always the possibility of demand being
strengthened by wider use of the metal.
And the Government expects a market
for its aluminium in the Pacific area. The
winning of markets and success, or other-
wise, of the venture will depend largely
upon the level of production costs.
Appearances are that, to enable the infant
undertaking to get on its feet, tariff pro-
tection against competition from Ameri-
can and other foreign producers will be
necessary. The capture of markets out-
side Australia looks anything but bright.
The undertaking is to be controlled by
a commission of four —two appointed
each by the Federal and Tasmanian
Governments, The Commonwealth’s
nominees are A. V. Smith, secretary De-
partment Supply and Shipping; Dr. I.
W. Wark, C.5.5.1.R.; Tasmania’s, L.
R. Benjamin, superintendent Australian
newsprint mills ; W. H. Williams, Direc-
tor of Mines, Tasmania. The commis-
sion will be responsible for technical and
commercial administration, but cannot
spend more than £50,000 without consent
of the Federal Minister administering the
Act. One danger of such close political
control lies in the influence exerted upon
politics by outside pressure groups. As
a piece of political window-dressing, the
commission is forbidden to act in concert
with any commercial “trust or combine.”
More convincing of the ability of the
undertaking to stand on its own feet would
be information whether the services of
anyone experienced in commercial pro-
duction of aluminium ingots have been
obtained, and what steps have been, or
are to be, taken to train key personnel
prior to commencement of production.
The mountainous piles of Government-
owned stocks of metals and minerals in
U.S.A. suggest that Congress holds the
key to the world’s biggest strongbox of
raw materials that feed industry. Here
are some of the figures:—'
Pounds.
Aluminium (refined) 310,100,000
Bauxite 5,650,393,600
Copper (anode scrap) 3,560,000
~ (refined and blister) .... 527,918,000
Ore 310,734,000
Lead (bullion) 68,000
(refined) 348,202,000
~ Ore 11,966,000
Tin (reclaimed) 2,022,720
„ (refined) 89,166,160
Ore 235,350,000
~ Oxide 1,785,280
Zinc (concentrates and ore) .... 1,023,380,000
„ Metal 893,362,000
„ (sulphide) 30,874.000
In addition, there are large tonnages of
metals and minerals in the hands of pro-
ducers and manufacturers, as well as
considerable quantities of scrap. Ameri-
can opinion is that worse trouble
threatens for aluminium and copper.
Government bauxite stocks are claimed
to be 170 p.c. greater than U.S.A.'s 1940
consumption of the stuff. Obviously,
much will depend upon the strength of
rehabilitation demands, including those
from devastated areas, and upon the U.S.
Government’s policy for channelling the
flow of current production, plus Gov-
ernment stocks away from war uses to
peace-time industrial production.
* * * *
New Milano (W.A.) is to have its
annual roll up in Melbourne on October
5. Goldmining operations at Mt. Monger
for the year to February 29 last showed a
loss of £4711, compared with a profit of
£3790 for the year before. Directors
state that the Government is paying
£7 10s. a week for maintenance of the
Leslie mine, closed down on account of
shortage of labor. Co.’s representative,
H. E. Annear, continues to send the board
results of assays of ore from a new ac-
quisition—the Inverness mine. In regard
to some assays, he says the ore appears
to be patchy. Most gold-bearing rock at
Mt. Monger is, and shallow-seated as well.
* * * »
Directors of Youanmi Gold Mines
(W.A.) advised voluntary liquidation,
though the co.’s Australian consulting
engineer, H. E. Nicholls, opposed the sug-
gestion. An extraordinary meeting in
London sided with Nicholls, taking the
view that there need be no hurry to wind
up, which would involve loss of the whole
of the ordinary and two-thirds of the
preference capital. A proposal to elect
an additional director was carried by a
show of hands, but was lost on holding
a poll. The co. ceased operations in
January, 1942, owing to disappointing
results at depth.
* jH * *
New State-backed ventures in
Westralia are mopping up a lot of money,
and critics think they will absorb a
lot more. Lake Campion alunite de-
posits, operated not by the Mines De-
partment but by the Industrial Develop-
ment Department, have got away with
£186,000, and a further £30,000 has been
obtained from the Federal Government.
Some inquisitive persons want to know
when capital outlay is likely to end, what
present receipts are and what profits, if
any, are being won or are likely to be
won. Another doubtful Industrial De-
velopment Department undertaking is the
charcoal-iron venture. The Mines De-
partment is concerned about expenditure
of £5OOO on a prospecting hole on the
unopened-up Irwin coalfield near Gerald-
ton,
* * * *
“O.B.”: On the basis of prices ob-
tained by producers in U.S.A. and Chile,
Britain’s Minister for Production Oliver
Lyttleton, formerly a London director of
Zinc Corporation, estimated savings at
about £35,000,000 stg. from the Govern-
ment’s bulk purchases of copper from
Empire producers. These producers con-
tracted to sell at roughly pre-war prices,
plus war-time increases in production
costs.


i m
f
mm
■■
L -JS
m
ill
■
mm
■.
X^os
iM
-
a
■ .' f i||||
y/ ;^PpilMfcpM
«ii i/J
&wrM
*A
m
«iii
MKm
: : WSSSg£.
' - 'i,** '“”*^
illilii
- .
' . ; /
*
' A 'C?
**ll
tis i
i»,“' # i a '■ - -, B ■ ' :M
■ -/-/ /MRSf:-jm>K .■ »%\ \
■
p M* M - f w& V * * Mf, it - - <
iS' ' ■;, - '
*# * ft * fill . It /' %lk
#/ - * % I L;.' ;. -A
■mtS - ' ■ - ‘ V"' ■' > :, . - ■
jy ' <?
_: ~■ / ■
■ - .■••■■.■; . •
■1Py?; :
■ M
>■. ■".. .:■ -v.
- , iK & * - ■-,
."■.■■ :, %, mm I
,*»» '‘l&St vS||i|
■fH
.'„V
, ' *
X '■■ ''*s&. ■
&/■ V • =3B§Bfc&V J
MHi
■ I
:. •■' ■'* S
m
When a “Grinnell” Sprinkler Head automatically
strikes ... it kills the very heart and source of the
fire. At the same moment the Fire Brigade auto-
matically gets the alarm. But before the engines
arrive that fire is OUT! And fire and water
damage is confined to a few square yards. The
chances of a fire escaping from the control of a
“Grinnell” Sprinkler Head are almost negligible.
The 1943 Grinnell Record speaks for itself!
• Fifty-three out of eighty fires controlled by Grinnell
extinguished by just one Grinnell Head.
•In thirty-one fires the damage was nil or so slight
that no claim was made on Insurance Companies.
• The Average Loss per fire for the eighty “saves” was
£92/2/-.
A Grinnell Sprinkler System installation means a 50%
discount on Fire and Loss of Profits Insurance
Premiums.
G RINNELL SERVICE! The Grinnell Fire Protection Service maintained by Wormald
Bros. Pty, Ltd. in every city where there are Grinnell Installations has behind it the
accumulated knowledge of more than half a century of servicing every type of fire risk.
* * ■
df
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. Fire Protection Engineers since 1889 —Branches throughout Australia and N.Z


soi/alffiir/de ffhm
THE SERVICE MAN
In the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”; There was little news
from the Pacific during the past few days,
though Tokyo repeatedly predicted a new
Allied campaign on a large scale. It
said on October 1 that so soon as the
American positions on Halmahera and
the Palaus were consolidated invasion of
the Philippines would be attempted.
The Japanese at the week-end held only
one mountain position on Peleliu in the
Palaus, and the Americans had landed on
two further islands of the group to the
north, Ngesebus and Kongauru, on which
there were small and scattered Jap forces.
More than 10,000 Japanese had been
killed in the Palaus up to October 1.
Numerous raids were made on objec-
tives from the Solomons to Batavia.
Batavia was visited by Dutch East Indies
long-range aircraft based in Australia, and
later strafed by other Allied squadrons,
which flew 3000 miles there and back
to make the attack.
It was announced that in the third
carrier raid on Manila Bay, on September
23, 24 Japanese ships had been sunk and
43 others damaged, while 36 aircraft
were shot down, for a U.S. loss of 10
aircraft, five pilots and three other fleet
personnel.
In the three assaults on Manila 153
ships, apart from small craft, and 438 air-
craft were reported destroyed.
On September 25 Catalina patrols off
Zamboanga met a seven-ship convoy and
sank the largest vessel, a 10,000-tonner,
besides damaging a 6000-ton freighter.
The oil centre of Balik Papan, on Borneo,
was raided later in the week.
Mr. Churchill on Asia
The Burma and Chinese campaigns
were reviewed by Mr. Churchill on Sep-
tember 28. He said he had been sorry to
notice that many American papers
seemed to imagine that the British cam-
paign in Burma had been a failure, re-
deemed by the brilliant capture of Myit-
kina by General Stilwell, with a very
high-class regiment of American com-
mando men supported by Chinese.
The P.M. pointed out that the 14th
British Indian Army, in which there was
a very substantial proportion of United
Kingdom troops, had by its aggressive
operations protected the American airline
for which China depended for its supplies
and allowed India to “repose securely
once more amid the tumults behind the
Imperial shield.”
He declared that fighting on the 14th
Army front had been severe and corr-
tinuous. In particular localities the issue
had at times been in doubt. But 10
Japanese divisions which had been
allotted to invade India and cut the
Chinese lifeline had been shattered in a
bloody and costly campaign, in which
50,000 to 60,000 of them had been
slaughtered—the largest and most im-
portant land fighting which had occurred
anywhere on a Japanese front.
This cost the 14th Army 237,000 sick-
ness casualties, who had to be evacuated
to the rear, and more than 40,000 battle
casualties. But the Japanese had been
pushed back, and the campaign had con-
tinued through the monsoon. The policy
on Lord Louis Mountbatten’s front was
to keep the enemy moving so as to give
as much relief as possible to the Chinese,
whose misfortunes were to be deplored.
Britain in the Pacific
Of the Pacific war the Prime Minister
said that “a large portion of the British
Fleet is already gathered in the Indian
Ocean,” and that Britain hoped to place
in the Pacific “a fleet capable in itself
of fighting a general action against the
Japanese Navy.” This, added to “the
far greater U.S. naval power, should
give naval command of all these vast
ocean spaces of the most complete and
decisive character.”
The scale of our effort against the
Japanese will be limited only by available
shipping. Presently we will have a magnifi-
cent addition, because the end of the U-boat
war will allow us to go out of convoy in
the Western Hemisphere,
There are already east of Suez con-
siderably more British troops than Aus-
tralia has anywhere near the front line,
despite the calls of France and Italy, the
necessary continuance of the defence of
Britain, the requirements of Africa, Malta
and the Mediterranean generally and the
huge sea effort.
In a Bad Way
The condition of China is, indeed,
parlous. The one Allied nation which
can give substantial help is Russia, and
Russia is not at war with Japan. In any
case, Moscow appears to be hoping that
the Chiang Kai-shek regime will fall,
making way for the Communist armies
of the interior. These armies are not
fighting Japan to any noticeable extent,
but are apparently securing supplies from
Russia —there seems to be some ground
for the belief that supplies sent to Russia
by the Allies are being passed on.
The Japanese, when last heard of in
Kwangsi, were only 30 miles east of
Kweilin, which is theirs for the taking.
It seems on the cards that other American
air bases beside Kweilin will fall into
Japanese hands. In the recent fighting
some of the best Chinese divisions have
been destroyed, along with their equip-
ment. The Americans have evacuated an-
other air base —Tanchuk, 130 miles south
of Kweilin.
The one bright spot in China is an
astonishing Stilwell claim that the Ameri-
can bomber forces sank 288,000 tons of
Japanese ocean-going shipping, plus 27
vessels of under 100 feet long, in a single
week.
The enemy replied with a typical claim
to vast sinkings—l9 Allied battleships,
36 aircraft-carriers, 99 cruisers, 90 de-
stroyers, 143 small naval vessels and 771
transports since the outbreak of war.
Tokyo Radio remarked that these losses
had proved sufficient to affect the Euro-
pean situation!
Shaping Up in the West.
“Ek Dum”: All eyes were so closely
focused on the airborne divisional troops
of Arnhem that observers seemed to lose
all sense of proportion regarding the
operation in which those troops were so
gallantly engaged. An impression must
have been created that General Mont-
gomery was trying to invade Germany
with 8000 men.
Actually, though the Airborne Division,
under Major-General Urquhart, was the
farthest-flung of the formations involved,
and caught the brunt of German force,
it was only part of a large body of troops
who were trying, not to invade Germany,
though some units did cross the border,
but to establish firm bases for future in-
vasion. General Montgomery is not the
man to open large-scale attacks, especially
those which involve the use of major
bodies of infantry, without having the
bases which he intends to use as spring-
boards safe, well supplied, sound in com-
munications and generally defendable.
When the Germans invaded Holland
and Belgium in 1940 they attacked along
certain definite routes dictated by the in-
ternal road systems and defences of the
Netherlands.
General von Kiichler’s Eighteenth
Army came over the numerous bridges
north of the Waal and the Lek and, mak-
ing main crossings of the Meuse south
of Nijmegen, struck at Hertogenbusch
(Bois-le-Duc) across the Grave and across
the Bridge Gennep on the Meuse via
Mill to Vechel, which has been much in
the news during the last week.
Von Reichenau’s Sixth Army—after-
wards wrecked at Stalingrad —came in
through Venlo —Helden and through
Roermond, further south. Its targets were
Eindhoven, Tilburg and Breda, south of
the Wilhelmina Canal. Von Kluge’s
Fourth Army, part of which captured
Fort Eben Emmael in the first strike, was
aimed at Namur and Antwerp.
General Montgomery’s design was to
establish depots on all the routes by
which the Eighteenth and Sixth armies
came, from which he might proceed in a
reverse direction to that of the enemy
in 1940.
There was nothing original in his
tactics. As the Germans used parachut-
ists and gliders on a large scale in 1940
to penetrate the essential strategic posi-
tions, so did he.
In the Germans’ case the Eben Emmael
fortress and the Rotterdam area and the
bridges leading into the fortress of Hol-
land were swamped from the air; in
General Montgomery’s case the main
crossroads and river crossings facing the
Meuse and the German border were so
assaulted.
The crossroad towns, when held,
would provide nuclei round which to
build offensive centres. Control of river
crossings, like control of crossroads,
would slice the enemy into compartments
and prevent him overwhelming the nuclei
before they could be strengthened and
toughened into part of a solid dam, wall-
ing off the Germans on the Dutch sea
coast from those in Germany.
Three airborne divisions were used in
the initial operations. They were, in
effect, cavalry striking at the enemy’s
flank and rear. Only instead of having
to go round the enemy’s flank, like old-
fashioned Dobbin Detachments, they
went over it —or rather through it, since
in modern three-dimensional war in
which airpower is integral a flank should
not only have depth but height, about
40,000 feet of it, studded with fighters,
dive-bombers and rocket aircraft.
The function of the Urquhart force
was to block and to hold. Its fate was
that which has often been the lot of
outflanking cavalry, isolated, concerned
with immediate objectives and never with
the ultimate aim of the complex opera-
tion of which they were a part. As has
often been the way with cavalry, the
force was cut to pieces. Brave men died
in heaps. But they hung on to their aim,
which in this case was the same as that
of the small boy in the school-book
story —the one who put his fist into the
hole in the dyke and held the sea back.
The first objective was to isolate and
seal the Arnhem bridge, so as to prevent
Germans reinforcing their troops nearer
Belgium from the north and going to
meet General Dempsey’s advancing
troops and the two other airborne divi-
sions, mainly American. These latter
were operating against the H-mile-long
bridge at Nijmegen, and on the crucial
routes across the Meuse. This river runs
along the German border, and is the chief
obstacle which the British Second Army
will have to face when it delivers its
attack.
In pursuance of this objective,
Urquhart’s gallant fellows held on liter-
ally to the last man, pounded by heavy
artillery, mortars, m.-g. fire and bombers,
and plagued day and night by swarms of
snipers. After three days they had Polish
reinforcements. Throughout supplies
were parachuted to them. But they were
overwhelmingly outnumbered and they
were in the front line all the time.
The Fight for a Line
They, however, kept the entrance to the
battlefield on which General Montgomery
was arraying his troops for the future
main operations. If they had not done
so those troops would have had a thin
time. For there were strong forces of
Germans on the North Sea side and even
stronger ones on the German side. A
third influx would have been “the limit.’’
The weather prevented these advancing
troops having the air support which they
should have had, apart from the fact that
their advance from Normandy had been
so swift that it had not yet been possible
for aerodrome organisation and protec-
tion to catch up. It also precluded the
air force from co-operating with
Urquhart’s men to best advantage.
The first ground advances were re-
stricted in direction and scope by the
limitations of the bridgeheads on the
Escaut Canal and the roads out of them
northwards on which the men moved.
And in tempo they were restricted by
mined roads, and strong enemy resist-
ance on their flanks and from the air.
As it was, there was a continual battle
against enemy air onslaughts. And the
advance to and beyond Nijmegen, at first
a thin, if virile, trickle of armor and artil-
lery support, was twice divided into
islands by German attacks. Once the
route between Nijmegen and Eindhoven
was cut for 25 hours, and once for 37
hours.
The gaps were closed again, A con-
tinuous wall of British-American forces
was built, stretching northward across
the Wilhelmina canal, across the wide
Waal at Nijmegen, and for several miles
beyond to within artillery range of Arn-
hem and the bridge there across the Lek,
which was then blocked off with shellfire.
The Gallant Three Thousand
On September 25 the remnants of the
Urquhart force were withdrawn. There
were about 3000 out of 8000 left, includ-
ing the bulk of the 800 Polish parachut-
ists who had crossed the Lek to help
the British. About 1200 wounded were
left behind with their own doctors. The
Germans claimed 6450 prisoners and the
destruction of 1000 gliders.
Mr. Churchill, summing up the situa-
tion, said:
This operation will take a lasting place
in our military annals... .“Not in vain”
may be the pride of those who survived and
the epitaph of those who fell.
Field-Marshal Montgomery’s spokes-
man described the complete airborne
operations as “80 to 85 per cent, success-
ful.” For the bridges at Nijmegen and
Grave were in Allied hands.
When the troops of the Urquhart force
and of the other airborne divisions fell
out of the sky on September 17 the
British holdings in Holland consisted of
four small bridgeheads across the Escaut
Canal.'
When the troops at Arnhem gave up
their task and made their way at night
across the Rhine in “ducks” and boats or
under their own steam on September 25
a solid front had been established parallel
with the German border all the way
northward beyond Nijmegen. By the
week-end new layers of troops, artillery
and armor had been inserted to widen
this penetration, and it now reached from
inside Germany, in the Reichswald (Forest)
east of Nijmegen, almost to the Belgian
border, following the course of the Meuse
and the Meuse Canal, and in places 20
miles wide. Thus the British had estab-
lished a two-edged sword in the vitals
of the German border defences with the
point thrust into Germany itself.
This newly-fashioned weapon could be
used to cleave eastward into Germany
or westward towards the Fortress of Hol-
land and the coast.
At the northern end the British salient
stretched laterally from near Bemmel,
four miles north-east of Nijmegen, 20
miles west.
At the week-end the Germans were
throwing in heavy counter-attacks in the
north-east and near Best, 14 miles east-
south-east of Tilburg (near the Belgian
border), which was under German shell-
fire. Generally the British and American
offensive effort seemed to be slackening
as preparations went forward for larger
operauons. But on October 1 the Ger-
mans delivered a heavy but futile tank
blow north of Nijmegen, near Elst, with
a view to preventing further attacks on
the Lek bridge and destroying the British
bridgehead over the Waal.
The British, however, were driving on
Hertogenbusch (Bois-le-Duc), the im-
portant road and rail junction on the road
to Amsterdam, which has been a pivot
of every campaign in Holland from time
immemorial. On October 1 the advance
had reached strong defences six to eight
miles from the town and 20 miles from
the coast. Further south-west Canadians
and Poles were over the Tournhout
Canal, north of the Scheldt. Already this
movement, combined with the grim Cana-
dian and Polish pressure south of the
Scheldt in Zeeland —though there at the
week-end the Allied troops had not
reached the river estuary in any force —
had constrained the enemy (so it was
reported) to the abandonment of Wal-
cheren and Flushing. It was only a
matter of time and lives before the West
Scheldt would be in Allied hands and the
port functioning.
This would be a tremendous develop
ment from the point of view of supply.
Flushing is only 109 miles from London,
which is ten hours from Antwerp by
packet. The Allied air forces had made
German communications in western Hol-
land virtually unuseable.
The Static Border
The armies of General Bradley had
inched forward in the Vosges, a mile or
two here, a few hundred yards there.
Along the Luxembourg border the enemy
had gained a little ground. In the Aachen
sector he was fighting stubbornly behind
strong and intricate defences. Berlin
at midnight on October 1 declared that
four main Allied attacks had been stopped
during the week —at the Belfort Gap, on
the middle Moselle, before Aix and in
Holland, Strong German attacks near
Metz were reported.
Some Allied progress has been made in
the far south towards the Belfort Gap.
But it was on the north of the Gap,
where the hills climb down steeply about
4000 feet in less than ten miles, and it
did not look like a very promising de-
velopment as yet. There was heavy fight-
ing in the Forest of Parroy, where the
U.S. Third Army has its most advanced
positions towards the Rhine near Lune-
ville. Artillery was active along 200 miles
of line.
On October 2 the Germans reported


?v»
4K:
Q
m
m
tss&.
/--i,
ss
■
a
m
GOOD NEWS TRAVELS FAST
Letters travel the skyways, too. More than
six-and-a-half million pounds' weight of mail
was carried last year by A.N.A. airliners.
This is yet another essential service rendered
to the nation by Australian National Air-
ways ... yet another instance of the efficient
organisation by which A.N.A. has created,
in Australia, the world's largest internal
airway service.
INVEST m YOD CAR II VICTORY 80101
m
W"
I.
USTRALIAN
TIONAI IIRWAYS
MRS! IN PEACE
PTV. LTD.
. FIRST IN WAR
FIRST IN FUTURE
£
i* ■*
y' '
Pjl
o
o
0
I
JifM fat JeleUUm i
The Masse’s a tiger for work—which explains
Why the Armed Forces rushed it for tanks, guns and
’planes.
And also the reason your Televisor
Will depend upon Masse —after the war.
It’s developed such kick and such long life as well,
It’ll televise anything Telies will tel.
But meanwhile take care of your Masse In case
You can’t get another; they’re hard to replace.
Everywhere
There are
Masse Dealers
BSkujg
BATTE BIES
are tigers for work !
that the U.S. Third and Seventh Armies
had opened attacks on a grand scale.
Gris Nez and Calais Captured
Probably the greatest thing to the
British, however, was the capture of Cape
Gris Nez, the nearest point of France
to England, and of the last of the guns
with which the enemy had been shelling
patient Dover, while aircraft bombed it.
Altogether, 107 persons had been killed
and 200 injured in Dover by long-range
gunfire, and 109 killed and 144 injured by
bombers. Scarcely a home remained un-
damaged.
Dover must have haunted the Ger-
mans. Their photographs from the
French coast show it not merely as the
bare, smooth green carpet hung over
white cliffs and a sea smoothed out by
distance which was so familiar before the
war. Across the Channel the enemy could
see towering above the earth the mighty
frames of many radar towers, somewhat
like the radio towers of Sydney. They
look, in the German photographs, like
something out of Mars, gigantic, menac-
ing, indestructible. And they must have
been a constant challenge to the gunners,
Calais, too, had fallen at the week-end,
and the gallant men of Nicholson’s
brigade who held it to the death in, May,
1940, to keep the way to Dunkirk open
were avenged. The Germans had done
everything to avert the end. They had
called for a 24-hour truce to evacuate
civilians-it ended after 20 hours. They
had suggested that old Calais should be
declared an open city. But they were
met with a grim demand for uncondi-
tional surrender.
As the Canadians were well through
the outer perimeter and had taken the
citadel, which is on the south-west, west
of the well-known landmark of Notre
Dame and near the inner basins of the
harbor, there was no hope for the be-
sieged. By midnight on September 30
Calais was in Canadian hands, with 4000
prisoners and more being dug out of
cellars. About 82,000 prisoners have
been taken in Channel ports and coastal
areas.
Then there was only Dunkirk to
assault, and its fall will be an occasion
for a real national celebration.
.
Autumn Arrives
Autumn is settling down in typical
European fashion. The weather is
erratic and rainy along the Western
Front, especially in the north. The beech-
woods will be turning to brown, the leaves
falling. The surface of the Ardennes and
the ground of Holland will be changing
into mud. Campaigning weather is com-
mg to an end, but there is time for one
more fling m the autumn for which both
sides seem to be preparing on a great
scale.
Along most of the western line the
Germans have much the advantage in
terrain—woods, hills and streams and
areas capable of being flooded favor
them. Batteries cough at each other along
the German frontier from positions
almost as static, save in Holland and
Belgium and the far south, as those of
the last war. According to German
Radio, the West Wall defences are in
places 63 miles deep,
The enemy has an air of grim confi-
dence which belies the occasional bursts
of staged despair by his radio. At the
week-end he was canvassing the pros-
pects of a heavy Allied main attack on the
Belfort Gap, which, being in the south,
is less subject to North Sea weather than
Holland. The chances are, that, if con-
ditions allow, he will have to meet attack
k°fli north and south,
. The test £ or u hl ™ be almost as
grievous the battle of Caen.
A few flying-bombs, launched presum-
ably from the Hook of Holland, fell m
southern England during the week but
they were a trifle beside helpings of de-
f™* 1 ™ , tb ® * AF - an V^
U.S.A.F. ladled out to Germany and its
strategic approaches.
Maorilanders at Rimini.
“Ek Dum”: General Alexander’s
forces in Italy continued their steady pro-
gress, crossing the Rubicon and spilling
one British division out on the plains
of the Po.
On the line north of the Rubicon,
among the last helping of hills, heavy
fighting went on all the week, the Ger-
mans persistently counter-attacking.
Meanwhile Americans of the Fifth
Army on the other side of the battle line
took Mts. Bastione, Oggioli and Canda,
which cover the main road from Florence
to Bologna, and by October 1 were nine
miles from the Mola, on the Rimini-
Bologna highway.
The Gothic Line has been broken in
bits, and the only part which remains to
go through the mincing machine consists
of a few miles on the Ligurian Sea coast,
which has been virtually outflanked.
Newspaper readers may have been sur-
prised to read that the Maorilanders, now
engaged in the heavy fighting north of
Rimini, where they were last heard of
forcing a crossing of the mouth of the
Fiumincino, ten miles north of Rimini,
“renewed their old fighting partnership
with the Greeks in the capture of Rimini.
Actually, at the time the whole credit
was given to the Greeks by newspapers
which pay scant attention to the glorious
deeds of our nearest neighbors and
brothers in the British Commonwealth.
The facts are that the capture of
Rimini was achieved in gusty ram by
New Zealand tanks in co-operation with
Greek infantry
The combined force fought its way to
the outskirts of the town on September
21. Next morning, about 8 o clock,
Second-Lieutenants C. G. E. Cross
(Hamilton) and A. H. M. Maurice (Field-
mg) left their tanks about a mile down
the road and walked into Rimini. They
found that the enemy had flown from
the main part of the town, and drove in
with their tanks.
It was some time later that Greek in-
fantry arrived on the coast road, so that
the Maorilanders were the de facto cap-
turers of the town.
They found it a battered ruin, with
miserable groups of shivering refugees
straggling back into it with their little
possessions. What had not been wrecked
by Allied shellfire inside the town had
been stripped from it by the Germans
in a final period of sack.
By the same evening (Sept. 21) Maori-
land spearheads had burst out of the
town on the other side and were across
the Marecchia River. Here, fighting in
one of the most thickly-populated areas
of Italy, they found every second house
a small fortress. The way was thick
with Spandaus laced with dug-in heavy
tanks mounting 75’s.
It was seen that these small fortresses
were mainly manned by Russian rene-
gades—Turkomans, of whom it was re-
ported by the N.Z. official war correspon-
dent that “they fight grimly until they
realise the hopelessness of their posi-
tions.” The N.Z. tanks needed all the
sound support they had from the infantry.
and over the first 24 hours after passing
Rimini their guns were seldom silent.
The enemy suffered heavily and there
were little groups of dead all along the
2000 yards of the advance beyond the
j'jygj'
After September 23 the push continued
steadily, and there were few hours in
which the Maorilanders were not under
fire until bad weather inhibited opera-
, c , . , , v ...
tions and forced the abandonment of the
Fiumincino bridgehead. But Savignano,
nine miles from Rimini, and six miles
of the eastern bank of the little river had
been cleared of the enemy up to Oct. 2.
General Freyberg, V.C., was not in
the operations. About the first week in
September he was injured in an air crash
and became the first patient in a new
front-line hospital, into which he was in-
ducted while it was still being equipped.
There, when last heard of, Maori-
land’s gallant leader was successMffv
coming through his second war-time
period in bed—he was previously severely
wounded in Libya,
Mr. Churchill's Report.
During the first 24 hours of the inva-
sion of France, the P.M. said, 250,000
men had been landed. By the 20th day
there were 1,000,000 men ; by September
27 between 2,000,000 and 3,000,000, with
hundreds of thousands of vehicles and
millions of tons of stores. After 120
days the proportion was two British to
three Americans on the ration strength
and four to five and a half in the fighting
divisions.
Taking the Italian front also into ac-
count, Britain had in Europe almost
exactly the same number of divisions in
the field as the United States had so far
been able to send to Europe. And the
British Army on the eastern frontiers of
India numbered 250,000 to 300,000 men,
apart from base services.
Russia’s Part
The Prime Minister summarised the
Russian position:
Russia is holding and beating far larger
hostile forces than those facing the Allies
in the West, and she has borne the brunt
of the struggle on land.
Generous to a fault, especially as no
stress was laid on the fact that before
being forced into the war Russia had a
population equal to that of U.S.A.,
Britain, Australia, Canada, S. Africa and
N.Z, put together, and vast home supplies
of everything required. Moreover, the
eastern front effort is Russia’s total effort.
The British Commonwealth and America
have armies spread over the whole world.
Their naval and air effort is infinitely
greater than that of Russia. And they
are supplying that country with huge
quantities of war materials, besides carry-
ing on campaigns against Japan, in which
Russia is not involved, supplying China
as far as possible, and entirely bearing
the burden of the bombing of German-
occupied Europe, while also giving active
air and sea support to the Russian and
Yugoslav fronts.
Referring to the British achievement,
Mr. Churchill said:
Considering that the people of the British
race number only 70,000,000 and that we
sustained many losses in the early years
of the war, it is certainly a remarkable
effort, and one which was recognised at
the Quebec conference.
Casualties
Casualties in France and the Lowlands
as given by Mr. Churchill:
British, 90,000 killed, wounded and miss-
ing.
Americans, 145,000.
Enemy, 900,000, including about 500,000
prisoners, but excluding 200,000 which
“may” be cut off in ports and elsewhere.
It is not clear whether the British
figures include casualties! among the Cana-
dians and the foreign brigades and divi-
sions attached to the British armies, or
whether those of the Americans include
losses among the French divisions in the
armies of Generals Bradley and Patch.
Considering what has been achieved,
the losses may be accounted light.


Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
VT/HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your "Will you should
1 satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent, financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P* Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative; O. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga, Wagga.
Western District Representative: H A Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place. Orange.
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Cases
CERTAIN DEATH
CVanogaS
‘IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
SAVES
MANPOWER
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
7 You Cannot
Buy a
Better Polish!
You cannot buy a better polish than NUGGET - for Nugget contain* the
fine waxes that give the brilliant all-day shine.
You cannot buy a more economical polish than 'NUGGET- H lasts longer.
It's blacker, it's brighter and gives a better shine for tkss polish and less effort.
NUGGET’.
itso/“ ,e,y
m*
If youd like to smack a Jap—
Smack him with a Victory Bond
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS,
The Battle for Riga.
“Ek Dum”: German retirement from
Latvia and Estonia continues, though in
Latvia it is marked by violent and most
tenacious fighting, especially in the vicinity
of Riga, into which the Russians have
now been trying to break for nearly two
months. The Russian armies coming in
from the north were slowly working their
way across a countryside full of creeks,
swamps, forest and natural and artificial
obstacles into the environs of the city,
which already had been reached on the
south-eastern side. The enemy was fight-
ing every inch of the way, and it seemed
that both sides were suffering heavy
casualties.
In the Estonian battles the Russians
claimed to have killed 30,000 Germans
and captured 15,000.
Most of the East Prussian front was
quiet, but a battle flared up near Suwalki,
facing the lakes position, on September
28. The Russians claimed some penetra-
tions of German territory,
Warsaw, except the part held by
General Bor, remained in enemy hands.
Little was heard in Sydney of the
bridgehead which the Russians said they
had driven across the river, but readers
of the Melbourne “Herald” had this from
Trevor Smith in London:
Marshal Stalin got a division across the
Vistula, but this, like the British airborne
troops [at Arnhem] at the moment when
great things were looming up, was checked
and then liquidated.
Supplying of footholds across the Vis-
tula is a difficult matter, for it is a broad
stream.
The Warsaw Poles are having a bad
time. They have been pushed westward
by German forces which have crossed the
Vistula from the Russian side.
General Bor has been appointed
Commander-in-Chief Polish armed forces
in succession to General Sosnkowski.
Followed a savage outburst from the
president of “the Polish Committee of
National Liberation” ip Moscow, who
alleged that “the instigator of the prema-
ture rising in Warsaw” was “a criminal”
who, if he fell into the hands of “the
Polish Army or National Committee,”
would be “arrested, tried and punished.”
In the Balkans
Main attention was riveted on the
curious happenings in the Balkans.
The Germans, on September 26, an-
nounced that a Russo-Rumanian offen-
sive was about to begin on a 100-mile
front in south-eastern Hungary, on a line
from Sged, on the Tisza River, to Oradia,
just inside the Transylvanian border on
the Budapest-Cluj railway, which is the
main line from Hungary into Transyl-
vania. At the southern end of this line
the Russians seem to have been/ clearing
the north bank of the Maros River; the
enemy admitted that they had taken the
towns of Foldeak and Mako, about 14
miles from Sged.
The Russians were about 120 miles
from Budapest at this stage, but the tor-
tuous Tisza lay across their path. If
there is any resistance left in the Hun-
garians the way to Buda is not so easy
as it sounds in Moscow dispatches.
Coupled with this movement was an-
other one nearer the Danube. Marshal
Malinovsky had “launched an attack to
outflank the Iron Gates gorge,” and his
troops had on September 28 “reached a
point 30 miles west of Turnu Severin”:
A Moscow dispatch acclaims this feat as
brilliant, because the only way to reach the
area is through the mountain tracks of
the Transylvanian Alps.
Only Tito or some genius of the
contemporary art school could interpret
this, because (1) Marshal Malinovsky,
being 30 miles to the west, has not pierced
the end of the Transylvanian Alps where
they reach the Danube; (2) there is a
perfectly flat route for most of the way
from the Russian border via Bucharest,
of which the Russians are in full control;
(3) the Russians were already well across
the ranges from the north and had taken
Timisoara a fortnight ago, so that the
Iron Gates were already well outflanked
by about 80 miles.
On Sept. 29 Berlin reported Russians
across the Danube in the bend west of
Turnu Severin. Marshal Tito reported
them there 12 days ago.
Marshal Tito has “granted permission”
to the Russians to enter Yugoslavia to
deal with the Germans and Hungarians.
What need there is to do this it is diffi-
cult to understand, if the official repre-
sentations regarding the Marshal have
been true, and he has had 350,000 men
and women under arms —with another
55,000 Chetniks joined to his armies
recently. Some months ago the world
was told that Tito was holding as many
enemy divisions pinned down in the Bal-
kans as General Alexander’s two
modernly-equipped armies in Italy, and
the Sydney “Daily Mirror” consistently
gives him pride of place over Alexander.
As the Germans have since withdrawn
more than half the divisions in the Bal-
kans, and as Tito claims to have cut every
railway line in Yugoslavia a couple of
times over, Russian help should scarcely
be necessary.
The truth seems to be that Tito has
been holding the claim in Yugoslavia as
a dummy for Moscow. So far he has
not taken, or attempted to take, any
sizable Yugoslavian town, and when the
Germans sent a few hundred troops after
him at a time when he was supposed to
be making the feats of General Alex-
ander look small he had to be rescued
by the Allies.
Nevertheless, his pretensions are vast.
While the United Nations’ Relief and
Rehabilitation Administration Bill was
being passed at Canberra it came out
that Tito had declined U.N.R.R.A. aid
because his “National Committee of
Liberation” wasn’t to have the handling
of it.
Allies Land in Dalmatia
Even more mysterious than the events
on the Danubian side of the Russian
front are those in Dalmatia along the
Adriatic. Here, under British command,
according to various communiques.
Allied troops, including Yugoslavs, have
been landing for nearly a fortnight.
Yugoslav H.Q. —not Tito’s H.Q. —re-
ported that Yugoslav troops and naval
units had occupied Pag, a 40-mile-long
island off the Dalmatian coast. This move
cuts off the naval ports and bases of
Zara, Spalato and Ragusa, Among the
south Dalmatian islands “Allied troops
and Partisans” were said to be engaged
as early as September 16,
On September 27 the first Allied com-
munique from the Balkans said:
Seaborne and airborne troops from the
land forces of the Adriatic are now operat-
ing on a wide front in Adriatic country,
including Albania and the islands off Yugo-
slavia.
Strangely enough, so far from wel-
coming this succor. Marshal Tito met the
arrival of the first troops with a denial
that they had landed, though the Ger-
mans confirmed the news. The Marshal’s
name has not been associated with the
venture, despite the fact that fhe forces
are operating in what was supposed to be
the main sphere of the operations of his
350,000, who supposedly held all the main
communications in this region in their
“unbreakable grip.”
It is significant that the Germans treat
the new force seriously, whereas they
invariably refer to Tito’s forces as “ban-
dits.” For the first time since 1941,
Hitler’s H.Q. communiques speak of
“heavy fighting” in Yugoslavia.
On September 29 Ankara reported that
Allied parachute troops, supported by
glider forces, had landed on the Agean
coast of Thrace, some near Kavalla,
about 80 miles east of Salonika,
The Allied air forces certainly are con-
ducting a widespread campaign against
enemy communications in the Balkans,
and particularly in Greece. It remains to
be seen whether there are still many Ger-
mans in the latter country. An Exchange
Telegraph map cabling from Instanbul
asserts that Russians, “co-operating with
Bulgarians,” are in Thrace and are “set-
ting up Communist local administra-
tions.” Greece, which owns the country,
doesn’t seem to be in the picture.
British forces have landed on the Greek
islands in the Agean, including Kythera.


*
")r
&
%
1
/MVN
&
m
4r
Production la restricted so
don’t blame your retailer
If you have difficulty in
obtaining! Gillette blades.
Gillette is called up. No more exemptions for
the Blue Gillette or 7 o’clock blades. As stocks run
out they must get into battledress as Gillette
“Standard” Blades. But they’ll still give you the
finest shave you can buy.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. eacli and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
Thousands have written ....
THESE TABLETS con help YOU,
too, to new vigorous health!
rboisterbo TABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS, ARTERIES, ETC.
d
Thousand s of
grateful users have
written of the
amazing speed and
effectiveness of
Elasto in relieving
weariness and pain
resulting from
sluggish or poor
blood condition.
People suffering from rheuma-
tism, varicose veins, varicose
ulcers, piles, eczema and other
skin complaints, and even phle-
bitis, have successfully taken
Elasto tablets.
Elasto brings quick relief —the
amazing efficacy of this new
Biomedical treatment is due to
the fact that it goes to work
right at the source of the trouble
—on the blood stream.
Much unnatural weariness and
many chronic pain conditions are
due to a break-down of the blood
circulation system or a paucity
of certain elements of the blood
itself.
How ELASTO Works
Elasto is not a drug, but a
vital cell food. It restores vital
elements which combine with the
blood albumin to form organic
elastic tissue. This in turn en-
ables nature to restore elasticity
to the tired and devitalised fab-
ric of veins, arteries, etc.
Results
As & result, normal, healthy
circulation is re-established and
true natural healing follows.
Varicose veins are restored to a
healthy condition: arteries be-
come supple: skin troubles clear
up, leg wounds heal naturally,
piles and rheumatism are re-
lieved. This is explained simply
but more fully in a free booklet
jffered see below.
What users of ELASTO say:
"No signs of varicose veins
now.”
"Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers ”
" 'Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at ray
quick recovery from phlebitis.’’
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Rox 1552 E,
Sydney, for youi FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto" booklet.
Or better still, get a supply pf
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto mikes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
fd
fd
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
At the Hawkesbury meeting at Rose-
hill on Saturday Versailles added'to the
number of short-priced favorites that
have given backers some nasty shocks
this season. It was a surprise when
Nobleman (J. Duncan) paced it with
Versailles in the early part of the Quality
Handicap, and a greater one when the
former, after losing ground through shift-
ing about in the straight, gave the favor-
ite a start over the last furlong, and beat
him. Modulation was fourth without
being dangerous. Soho, one of the tail-
enders to the straight entrance, finished
fast in third place.
The fast pace bothered Prince early in
the piece, while Easter Time, after losing
a lot of ground through backing away at
barrier - rise, did well to run fifth.
Nobleman met Versailles 91b. better and
Soho 51b. and Easter Time 41b. worse
than Epsom terms.
In winning the Hawkesbury Handicap
Cream Puff (Cook) probably ran the best
race of her career. A long way back for
the first seven furlongs, she was eighth
turning into the straight, where Falcon
Knight and Kiaree were among those
ahead of her, and then scored by a head
from the last-named, with Falcon Knight
a very close third —the best race he has
run for a long time. Faust and Gauntlet
made the running, but though they led
into the straight the last bit found them
out. At the finish Kiaree was squeezed
between Falcon Knight and Cream Puff,
but the stewards did not take long in
dismissing a protest against Cream Puff,
who met Kiaree 41b. better than will be
the case in the Metropolitan. Castle
Frontenac started, but did nothing to
uphold the support he has recently re-
ceived for the Metropolitan.
The Three-year-old Handicap favorite
Laudus again disappointed, and he is evi-
dently not so good as he looks. He
tired after being a possible place-getter
halfway down the straight. Cordiality
was at the head of affairs until opposite
the leger, but then weakened so badly
that she finished nearly last. In winning
Murray Stream (McGrowdie) came home
so strongly from fourth into the straight
that he gives F. McGrath’s stable a
Derby runner.
Wilton Park (McGrowdie) comfort-
ably won the Novice Handicap, but his
task would have been stiffer if Wheatland
had fared better shortly after barrier-
rise. As it was, Wheatland finished fourth,
coming from a long way back at the turn.
Cabaret Boy and Western Monarch, in
the minor places, shaped well, while
though there was a lot of money for
Lavaine he never looked a place-getter.
Wintune showed pace, as did Burlington,
but, as usual, tired a furlong from heme.
J. Munro has always held a good
opinion of Silent (Tomlinson), and this
time the son of Talking upheld it by tak-
ing up a prominent position at an early
stage of the Trial Stakes, and badly beat-
ing the opposition over the final furlong.
Approaching the turn Cargeonel had a
lead sufficiently great to give him a win-
ning chance, but he is an indifferent
stayer. Oberon was one of the leading
bunch for a long way, and Goshawk’s
fifth pointed to an early return to his
best form. Paul was never dangerous,
and heavily-backed Massena again failed
to act up to his early promise.
Bestow’s last season’s wins included
one at Randwick, when he beat Moor-
land in a handicap. In the first division
of the Weller Handicap he proved he
retained his pace by taking up the run-
ning in the first half-mile, and then hang-
ing on gamely to squeeze home a % head in
front of Rylstone, who was his closest
follower from the straight entrance.
Bruce Wood, who was always one of the
leaders, was a good third under his big
weight, and while Davinia shaped well,
a return to form on Omapo’s part is not
far off. Newcastle jockey Hone was on
Bestow.
It was certain a long way from home
that the second division of the Welter
would be won by D.S.O. or Babillard
(G. Moore). The former and Lagoon
were the early leaders, and when the latter
died away Babillard stayed too well for
D.S.O. Behind the place-getters Lagoon’s
effort put him in line for an early win,
and Thrax was also doing so well right
at the end that he is worth another bet.
Night Parade, who was a pronounced last
for a half-mile, and had not greatly im-
proved his position at the bend, made
up a lot of leeway in the straight, Kim-
bell is not improving, nor is Steadfast.
* * * *
After a float mishap had delayed his
arrival at the course until about 45
minutes before the race, Bootle, unfancied
at 50 to 1, defeated San Martin, Kintore
and other Victoria Derby candidates in
the Moonee Valley Stakes last Saturday.
Precept, in the same ownership, won the
corresponding race before his Derby suc-
cess last year. Bootle won gamely, but
was lucky to defeat the even-money
favorite San Martin. Latter lost several
lengths at the start and was forced wide
on the turn. Delina, champion juvenile
last season and a stable-mate of San
Martin, was well backed, and was un-
lucky not to finish closer than fifth.
Prating (Talking-Lady Madcap) en-
hanced his Guineas and Derby prospects
by decisively defeating three O Three
and Single Action over the 10 furlongs
of the Pascoe Handicap. He is an im-
proved galloper, but, on their form when
last they met, will have to make more
improvement to defeat Silver Rocks.
Counsel, who has been solidly backed
for the Caulfield Cup, surprised by de-
feating Claudette and Florin in the first
Ou-ilitv Handicao He eased in the
betting from 6 to 1 to 12 to 1. It was his
second race after a spell, and obviously
he is back to his outstanding form of
last season. Counsel was trained by L.
Robertson when he separated Dark Felt
and Claudette in the Melbourne Cup last
year but now is “"dwJhe care of R.
Webster who trained Dark Felt for that
race. Although Counsel won wel
n .° l c do, l B ari j beU f r tha " d auc ? ette
the finish, and the latter should be cap-
able of as much improvement Li ete
Dominate and Saint Warden disappointed
their Cup supporters.
*.‘‘ ‘ * .
Nagation created a course record for
10 furlongs when he beat J i
o\ia^fHL a d n |cal H?hts been a ™el
Quality Handicap He has been a quiet
tip tor the Caulfield Cup, but being a
five-year-old who has not won £5OO clear
in any one race, still is in danger of
elimination if, as appears probable, heavy
ballotmg is necessary after final accept-
ances. Little excuse was possible for
Tea Cake, but Simmering would have
finished closer than fourth had she not
lost ground at the start and been forced
wide on the turn.
* * * *
Abbeville was not a runner at Rosehill
on Saturday, but results did more towards
strengthening his position than that of
any other Epsom candidate. Only that
bookmakers’ commitments against Ver-
sailles in doubles are so heavy he would
have weakened consequent on his defeat,
Abbeville gave Nobleman 41b. and a
beating in the Theo Marks Camellia
Stakes, while Versailles failed to give the
latter 161 b. in the William Gosper
Quality Stakes. Versailles has to concede
Abbeville 31b. in the Epsom. Therefore,
while figures still favor Versailles,
there is the possibility of the extra fur-
long, as compared with last week, prov-
ing a stumbling block. Soho may also
be troubled by the mile, even though the
way he finished on Saturday suggested it
might now suit him. Never a smart be-
ginner, Prince neither commenced nor
finished well in last week’s race, but it
might be inadvisable to entirely dismiss
him on that account, as Randwick with
an extra furlong to travel, may suit him
much better than Rosehill.
* * * *
Mayfowl s gallop between races at the
Hawkesbury meeting was impressive,
Travelling in remarkably smooth fashion,
he put on the pace for the last six fur-
longs of nine, doing 1.131, and, though
he generally sweats a lot after a race or a
gallop, pulled up as if he had done
nothing more than strong work. He was
ridden by Bartle, and carried more than
nis Epsom or Metropolitan weight. If
Mayfowl fails m his coming races at
Randwick it will not be due to lack of
condition.
p * , ~ * . *
p] * f on S aturdav h h he
™ e ° n SCe ? a
look ° ut for her Derby opponents. The
■ horses S* '!“
st .\ r ‘ ° f ofotLrs p
flnished , d ’ hive bc°en
~ h f “ *;**, uccn
anvlh : n „ tha , finished behind her ° nBS
anythm f that wished behind hen
It is decidedly unusual for threc
places jn an important two . year . old race
t 0 be filled by horses in the same owner-
ship, but this happened in the Princess
Pa{ Stakes at Washington Park (Chicago)
Qn August 5. Good Blood won > rom £ e
stable . males Xwosy and Thine Their
respective portions of the prize were
$29,340 (about £A9125), $5OOO and
J2m making wjnnings of Warr£n
Wright’s horses from the commencement
of the 1469 - 400 (approximately
£AI42 780) There is certainly big money-
good stable in America,
* * ,
Last year on i y two borses started at
j ess tbar | 10 to 1 for the Epsom Handi-
cap—Modulation 2 to 1, Prince 5 to 1.
Xbe latter ran second, Kiaree won at
j and R on Rj co was t bj rd at 20
to j Modulation was not one of the
g rst half-dozen. The Metropolitan
favorite, Goose Boy (5 to 1) fared little
better ; Main Topic (7 to 1) winning from
Moorland (6 to 1) and Eureka (40 to
1), Seven horses started inside 20 to 1,
one of these being Cream Puff (16 to 1),
who ran fourth with 7.2 and has 131 b.
more this year. No doubt she has greatly
improved, but the difference is sufficiently
substantial to make a win for her diffi-
cult, despite her good form of last Satur-
day.
* * * *
The A.J.C. has, in its many years’
work, raised racing to a high standard in
N.S.W., and the present seeming desire
to subordinate it to Parliamentary con-
trol is regrettable. The ruling body and
its stipendiary stewards have done—and
will continue to do—their job in a manner
that it would be difficult for any Par-
liamentary-sponsored club or board to
equal let alone improve upon. The
A.J.C. is not infallible, but the good it
has accomplished more than offsets any
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Breeders’ Plate: Don Giovanni,
1 ; My King, 2 ; Deliverance, 3.
Craven Plate: Mayfowl, 1 ; Flight,
2 ; Tea Rose, 3.


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO JAMES GEORGE LE TALLEC formerly of Grey
Street East Melbourne in the State of Victoria Rail-
way Employee but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ANNIE MAUDE LB TALLEC
has commenced proceedings for Divorce against you
on the grounds of desertion during three years and
upwards UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of
Victoria at Melbourne on or before the 17 th day of
October 1944 and file an answer in the said Office on
or before the 27th day of October 1944 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs. —McKENNA & TALBOT 423 Little Collins
Street Melbourne Solicitors for the Petitioner.
ESTATE OF HERBERT TRATHAN.—WiII MRS.
MARY JANE TRATHAN Widow of Herbert Trathan
and their children or anyone knowing their present
whereabouts please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE Wellington New Zealand?
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE SARAH ELLEN GRUBE usually known as Sarah
Ellen Walker and Sarah Helen Walker late of 27
Balaclava Street Woolloongabba South Brisbane in
the State of Queensland deceased.—NOTlCE is hereby
given that all persons claiming to be next-of-kin of
the abovenamed deceased (Nee Green) late of 27
Balaclava Street Woolloongabba South Brisbane in
the State of Queensland deceased who died on or
about the Second day of January 1944 A.D. at Bris-
bane in the said State are hereby required to com-
municate with and forward proof of their relationship
to THE PUBLIC CURATOR Brisbane on or before
the Thirty-first day of December 1944 and that after
the expiration of the lastnamed date The Public
Curator will proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto
having regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice.
Dated this Twenty-first day of September, 1944.
F. M. ALLSOP,
Public Curator, Brisbane.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand wnen placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
LIKE THi HARD FREE * LITERATURE.
ACTS
BARREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lF). 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
f
> How to get at the
last few drops of
BRYLCREEM
All the Brylcreem at present being made h going to the
Services. So that with Brylcreem being difficult to get,
those last few drops in your jar have become vary precious
indeed. And because Brylcreem has such excellent tonic
ingredients, there's a lot of good in those few drops. So
we suggest you get them out by adding a teaspoonful of
clean, cold water and shaking the Jar vigorously. You'll find
every drop of cream will come cleanly away from the jar.
Save
Slave —Buy War Savings Certificates.
»
T»
<?S
'ScA
'•ep
*c/
''‘*3
7/63
*nd
• ®n
, ;ece
PW
°9u/
' w e<y
'O'erf
Tel
?0)W
WH
gr *Ph
erjtf
VONWi
CO^
t>7;
Off!
'O
p 0 ST.
**LTh
***9s
y*sr
Ow„
sa 9».
O,
Op
C.W
*“str
mw
Dep
mm
S 3
Vo.
fA/r
°'rfi
fip
r *c 8
r
p#,-
«/*
'or
P<J|
0"/«,
W/J)
30
"m#
/
10
°d
c 4XB
lod
9rr>
B*f
ffOl
34
*>#
V
«8S
S.
Jiircoo
p °Rat
o
IP
Ed
Job
p
D
WANd
s
f inb
WGZito
PSBC
s #im
tSIOM
G
COtff.
STop
CT
Arj TOMA
Air
stand
Tin
TOTjll
4#Ds
IN
NBCq
Tsat,
WSxpA
GIf TSB D
°Ns
Li AN
p Nßci
AS
T’INBs
Sx ON
X
WIN*
WBzd
Woh/n
S? 0
“sSfgglf
gouges. ins .| i r e U "ed to limits of super-occuro Y-
must be engmeereo to
t
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SyDNEV.... MELBOURNE.... PERTH.... BRISBANE
ATI T. A
m
55638
For Your Throat’s Sake.
CRAVEN I
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
s|: The will to save is the will to win.
Buy War Savings Certificates.
mistakes it may have made. It is im-
probable that any of the suggested boards
would improve upon the present p
tion. If that can be accomplished, by all
means let them make the attempt, but
it is doubtful whether they would suc-
ceed in raising racing administration to
a higher level than that at present pre-
vailing.
* * * *
Retirement of Count Fleet, last season’s
three-year-old champion of America, is
definitely announced by his owner, John
Hertz. His stud fee is $l5OO (£A456),
with return privilege if the mare does not
foal, and his 1945 list is full, while those
for 1946 and 1947 are nearly so. His
early retirement is due to the develop-
ment of a splint resultant on an injury
which affected him after running in last
year’s Belmont Stakes. Undefeated in
six starts in 1943, Count Fleet was the
horse of the year.” His total winnings
were $250,300, well below Whirlaway s
world record of $561,161.
Miscellaneous
About 42,000 people solved the trans-
port problem sufficiently to watch the
V.F.L. “grand” final, Richmond v. Fitz-
roy. Making good use of a strong breeze,
the Tigers rattled up a six-point lead in
the first quarter. After the change-over
’Roy bottled up the Tigers’ champion
sharpshooter, Dyer, and by dint of torrid
rucking and superior teamwork took the
lead and held it. Richmond still had a
chance in the final quarter, and by means
of snappy short passing rushes got within
16 points of ’Roy’s total. The attacks
withered before ’Roy’s solid defence, and
when the bell rang it was Fitzroy 9.12
(66), Richmond 7.9 (51). Fitzroy last
won the premiership in 1922.
♦ * ,* ♦
The Bennell-Dundee act was put on
again at Leichhardt, it being their
eleventh performance. Each is so familiar
with the other’s stuff that only blindfold-
ing them could have made the thing inter-
esting. Having to entertain themselves,
galleryites and ringsiders hooted both
often, and wound up by hooting the
verdict, which went to Bennell.
Jack McNamee and Alan Westbury
turned on the fireworks in their Sydney
Stadium headliner. Intense fighting char-
acterised each of the 12 rounds, and there
was so little between them that Joe Wallis’s
decision, a draw, was not questioned.
Westbury, attacked more consistently and
finished stronger, but McNamee scored
a multitude of points with snappy leads.
He had been compelled by the Westbury
party to take off 91b. to come in at list,
lib.—rotten sportsmanship.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Sydney is saluting the Tricolor. Since
France’s Minister Monmayou opened the
Spirit of France exhibition last week the
city has been talking of French painting,
literature, architecture. But, most of all,
the talk has been of the courage that kept
the flame of resistance against the invader
burning bright for four long years.
The exhibition in the Blaxland Gal-
leries was designed by Professor G.
Korody. The color scheme is black and
orange-red. That is to say, the wall
background for the pictures, maps and
photographs is black, with a narrow
edging of the red, and some incidental
pieces about the gallery emphasise the
strong, bright shade.
There is a very slender, ethereal Joan
of Arc just inside the doorway. There’s
a gay, care-free can-can figure dominating
the Arts section. And here in a promi-
nent place is Elaine Haxton’s Map of
France as a place of good living. Here
inside the bounds of the different pro-
vinces are painted the fruit, the fish, the
wine for which each is famed. Photo-
graphed copies of underground news-
papers are never without a small group
of interested gazers. This section is
exhilarating to men and women jour-
nalists, as it shows that the power of the
press is no myth, and that’s nothing new.
In his French Revolution Carlyle seems
amazed by the spate of newspapers and
pamphlets those troubled times brought
forth.
The dolls, dressed in provincial French
costumes, are on stands about the room.
They are examples of exquisite needle-
work. One dear little creature wears,
rising from her forehead, a sort of minia-
ture Christmas-tree in lace. There are
two very elegant Paris marquises. There
are pictures of fighting French, of French
people at home. There is the story in
sketch and printed word of the small
boys who crossed in rowboats from Nor-
mandy to England, were presented to
General de Gaulle apd Mr. Churchill,
and are now in the French forces. Per-
haps that is the most vital exhibit of all.
Federation Hall in Phillip-street rang
with everything but a Maori haka one
night last week. Music and laughter
and the spirited strains of the Maori
Battalion nearly lifted the rafters of the
little hall. Two hundred and fifty En-
zedders and friends were celebrating
Dominion Day, just 37 years after Maori-
land h&d been raised to that status by
Edward VII. That was in the days of
Joseph Ward’s Prime Ministership.
, Another reason for rejoicing was that it
was Mrs. Elenor Hempton’s birthday.
Mrs. Hempton is president of the N.Z.
Club, which had arranged the dance,
and was yet another of the club’s
money-makers towards the establishment
of a hostel for Dominion troops passing
through this city. There was an outsize
in cakes, with a top dressing that out-
rivalled Everest, specially made in Mrs.
Hempton’s honor. Everybody had a
piece of it. There were sheaves and
posies of flowers, and a speech by Maori-
land’s Trade Commissioner, W. Taylor,
eulogising the president and the work
she find the club members have done in
raising £5OO towards the hostel fund.
Mrs. Hempton, her silver lame gleaming
almost as brightly as her smile, made
a neat speech in reply.
Talking of Maoriland reminds that
that country’s really stirring National
Anthem is scarcely known in Australia.
There is real poetry in its words, the
music is devout. The words were written
by Thomas Bracken, author of the much-
quoted “Not Understood.” Mrs. Hemp-
ton is about to send over the Tasman for
some copies of the anthem.
Members’ night at the Royal Art
Society’s exhibition made a bright glow
on a dull, wet night halfway through last
week. Over 400 artists and their pals
were grouped around small tables in the
Education Department Galleries. They
listened to the music of Carl Gotsch’s
orchestra and watched with the eye of
discernment the lightning sketches done
by F. A. L. Butler. President Howard
Ashton and his wife received the guests,
and Mrs, Hinchen, vice-president of the
women’s auxiliary, and Mrs. Estelle
Andrews, R.A.S. secretary, were two
who helped to put swing into the
night. Vice-president Erik Langker and
his wife, the Albert Shermans, Percy
Lindsay, organist Alice Bryant (a sister
of artist Charles, whose good work is
still remembered), Lieut. Hanke and his
wife and the Jimmy Jacksons were among
the many. So was Howard Hinton. The
two paintings he lent to the exhibition,
“A Summer Storm,” by Sir Arnesley
Brown, R.A., and “The Mirror,” by A. T.
Woolmer, he has now given to the
Teachers’ College, Arfnidale.
Mrs. Walter Elliot, like her sister Lady
Wakehurst, has a genius for making a
party or a meeting “go.” At Govern-
ment House last Friday night numbers
of Sydney’s social welfare workers and
youth leaders listened with attention to
Mrs. Elliot telling what Britain is doing
and has done through five bitter-sweet
years for its young people. The youth
and girls’ clpbs have taken great hold on
the affection of the girl and boy in Eng-
land. So much so, that there is a stand-
ing arrangement that, however often
.their club may reel and perhaps fall alto-
gether under enemy bombs, the members
will meet under the nearest lamp-post
the following night and make provision
to carry on at anqjher address.
This was Mrs, Elliot’s fourth speech
that day, but she was as fresh and un-
jaded as a brook. Her knowledge of and
interest in her special subject are pro-
found. There were as many men as
women in her audience, and after her 45
minutes’ talk everybody, including the
Governor, who had opened the meeting,
had supper, and over their tea or coffee
talked plans for the future that would
ensure that no young thing should grow
up without happy companionship, healthy
amusement.
The recital of French music given by
Jeanne Gautier and Raymond Lambert
was a starry prelude to the “Spirit of
France” fortnight. Jeanne (like Ray-
mond) needs no introduction to Aus-
tralia’s music-lovers, all of whom are
familiar with this violinist’s brilliant work.
Photograph of Jeanne from Athol
Shmith,
All house-proud women will be in the
front line at the Town Hall when Max
Lawson auctions the hand-embroidered
linen table sets and the art treasures at
the China Ball on October 28. Among
the lucky competitions which will further
help the cause, the Chinese Comforts
Fund, is one for a 72in. by 90in. dinner
cloth with matching table napkins. These
are of pure Irish linen, heavy with
Chinese hand-made cutwork. Another
prize worth winning is the jade stone
inlaid teak and camphorwood chest.
China’s Minister in Australia, Dr. Hsu
Mo, is the patron of the ball. Guests
who, at supper, enjoy the course of Chao
Fun (fried rice) should remember that
this delicacy is the result of the denial
of the Chinese community, who have
given a portion of their rice ration.
With the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
on October 5 musical young Australia will
be heard. This group includes three girls
and two boys who were the finalists in
the recent A.B.C. concerto contests in
Sydney, The public will hear these in-
strumentalists in the works with which
they ravished the judges’ ears. All five
are Conservatorium students, and several
of them have Eisteddfod successes to
their credit. Della Woods, the violinist
of the quintet, is from Brisbane, Leone
Stredwick is from Grafton. Like Val
Price, who has played with the Con,
students’ orchestra, she is a pianist, as
are also Richard Farrell and the even
younger Laurence Davis. Bernard Heinze
will conduct the orchestra.
The first of the monthly meetings of
the International Youth Committee on
Saturday, October 14, at the Atlas (Greek)
Club, 252 Pitt-street, Sydney, will cele-
brate the Liberation of France. Guest
speakers will be Mr. and Mrs. Louis
Coleman. Their subject will be France and
her people, with emphasis on youth, and
will include political, economic and cul-
tural aspects, Mr. Coleman lived for over
15 years in France. Mrs. Coleman was
born in Belgium, but has lived nearly all
her life in France, her father being in
the Belgian diplomatic service. Mr. and
Mrs. Coleman were in Paris when it fell
in 1940, and after many difficulties got
away to Australia about six months later.
The small but energetic Lunch-Time
Music Club made over £l7 from its
special concert last week in aid of Anzac
House, It has asked that the amount be
earmarked towards an electric gramo-
phone for use in the clubrooms. Later
the L.T.M. Club will have a concert to
help the people of Holland.
From Melbourne
Evening gowns came out of cold
storage for the R.A.A.F. Locker Fund
Cabaret Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall, and
the scene was almost pre-war in its cheer-
fulness and gaiety. On these semi-official
occasions the uniforms of the services,
plus the decorations worn, provide an
excellent foil for the women’s dresses.
Among the dancers was a group of pretty
Chinese girls in the festive garb of old
China, striking an exotic note among the
frocking of the Western world. Busy
welcoming official guests was president
of the Locker Fund, Mrs. George Jones,
who had her husband, Air Vice-Marshal
Jones, assisting her. Among the official
guests were Colonel Shepherd, represent-
ing the Army ; Captain Perry, represent-
ing Lieutenant-Governor Frederick Mann
(who was patron of the ball) and Group-
Captain and Mrs. T, Wilkes of the M.L.
Air Force. Mrs. F. Lukis, wife of Air-
Commodore Lukis, another member of
the committee, brought a large party.
Among her guests were Captain Ivan
Holyman, relaxing after a few strenuous
days at Canberra, and Mrs. Holyman.
Group-Captain A. L. Walters, D.F.C.,
tripped a measure with pretty dark-eyed
wife Jen, a former resident of Parramatta
now domiciled in this city. The money
raised by this effort will be used to pro-
vide comforts for R.A.A.F. personnel, not
only in forward areas in Australia but
for those in distant countries,
Robert Knox, chairman of the Red
Cross Roll Call Committee, was so elated
at the success of the drive for new mem-
bers that he and his lady gave an after-
noon-tea party at the Windsor for those
who had helped to make the effort so
successful. Bruce Bellamy, assistant to
the chairman, told the guests that up to
the end of August 100,500 new members
had signed up, and the figure was ex-
pected to reach 200,000. The response
from children was excellent, 12,000
youngsters having linked up with the
Junior Red Cross. Enrolment centres in
the streets had accounted for 21,000 new
members.
Mrs, Baker, a district superintendent,
who topped the list for personal enrol-
ments in 1943, was this year again the
winner, with 4000 new members to her
credit. Mrs. Sidney Myer, who has made
the Red Cross her war job, was a guest and
received congratulations on the decoration
of her son Kenneth, a lieut. in the
R.A.N., for his work in a recent naval
engagement. • Also among the guests were
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, a member of the
National Red Cross Committee, and Mrs.
Charles Sindrey. The latter supervised
all the women working for the Roll
Call. Kathleen Gepp, having shed
her Red Cross uniform after four strenu-
ous years, was another guest delighted at
the success of Roll Call. She was wear-
ing a smart tailored black suit and one
of her delightful hats. She is pictured
here by Broothorn in one of them.
The Town Hall was packed for the
Concerto Festival, and the eight per-
formers, chosen in competition from
students of the Uni. Con., showed a high
standard of jirtistry. One of the most
promising was Helinka de Tarczynka. She
is good to look at, and her simple white
gown showed of! her golden locks and
slim figure. In the Mendelssohn con-
certo her playing showed a good sense
ot rhythm. She has inherited her musical
ability from her father, formerly leader
of the A.B.C. orchestra in Adelaide, and
before that Laureate of the Warsaw Con-
servatorium. After a distinguished career
in Europe he came to Melbourne, and is
now its best-known violinist. On this
occasion he played in the orchestra
associated with Helinka in the concerto.
This young performer has been a pupii
of Edward Goll, whose Beethoven recitals
have been a feature of Melbourne’s musi-
cal life for two decades.
The International Festive Dance, in aid
of Red Cross p.o.w. funds, filled Mel-
bourne Town Hall with dancers in the
characteristic garb of many lands. The
Greek men in their stiff starched white
skirts, pointed shoes and caps attracted
much attention. John Masson, assisted
by Laurel Berryman, had a fine time
running the dance and marshalling the
various groups on to the floor for their
national dance. The Russian group made
a good display, and the Chinese, who sang
their Guerrilla Marching Song, had a
cordial reception. The food of Austria,
Greece, Russia and Italy was served from
buffets and found favor with many. Count
and Countess Jacques de Selle brought a
large party along, among them the sister
of the Countess, Mrs. Geoff Nicholl, who
is busy with plans for the R.A.A.F.
Locker Fund Dance.
The States were well represented at the
farewell party hostessed by three Mel-
bourne lasses who work valiantly for
patriotic funds. Major Fortune (W.A.),
Captain Alice Adcock (N.S.W.) and Cap-
tain Jean Crameri (Vic.) were guests of
honor. They are leaving to rejoin
their unit, 9th Aust, General Hospital,
where they are on the medical staff
(Major Fortune is a medico). All three
have seen service in New Guinea
and in the Middle East, and have a very
high opinion of the Australian soldier.
Ray Harper, of the Navy Office, made a
happy little speech of farewell, to which
Major Fortune replied. Mr, and Mrs.
Charles Hotmer lent their flat at Pasa-
dena, St. Kilda-road, for the occasion.
A farewell was given at Menzies to
Emerald Goetz, a lass who has been in-
strumental in raising a large sum of
money for the various funds for which
she acted as organiser, just prior to her
leaving to take up a job as Public Rela-
tions Officer for the Adelaide College of
Music. Good-byes were said with flowers
and other good things, including real silk
stockings. Well known in broadcasting
circles, Emerald is better known for
her work as organising secretary of the
Centaur Appeal Fund and as Judge Strce-
ton’s j ight hand in his appeal on behalf
of the Opportunity Clubs for boys and
girls. Her first appearance on the stage
was at the age of four, when she played
a violin solo.
Janet and Bowen Paine quickly gath-
ered together a convivial band of friends
to greet Sheila Helpman when she paid
a hurried visit to see her mother recently.
When Sheila left to pursue her career
in the Harbor City her mother was breed-
ing Pekinese ; now Sheila finds her play-
ing nursery maid to fowls. Mrs. Helpman
has another important interest in life, son
Robert, whose dancing has gained him
fame in the Sadler Wells ballet. His latest
letter from London tells that early next
year he is to be the guest artist in the
Russian Ballet, and will appear at the
Metropolitan Opera House, New York.
A friend on hand to greet Sheila was
Mrs. Russell Gourlay, better known to
theatre-lovers as Noel Boyd. Noel is
now with A.B.C. as an announcer; hus-
band Russell is in the R.A.A.F. Max
Oldaker was among those present.
Norman Bradby (A.1.F.), youngest
member of a well known Ballarat family,
was wedded to Babs Hodgson, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. S. Hodgson,
South Yarra, at St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill
The bride and bridegroom were
unattended; Babs wore a charming out-
fit of dusty pink and pinned a spray of
matching orchids in her frock. After the
ceremony the parents of the bride enter-
tained at a cocktail party at the Windsor.
Mrs. Bradby, mother of the bridegroom,
was surrounded by the Bradby brood,
including daughter Vi, who was with her
husband Cecil Davies.
Another wedding was that of Allen
Darragh (A.1.F.) and Shirley Holman.
It took place at Holy Trinity, Thorn-
bury, and many of the lads in Allens
unit were at the church. Sergeant
Noel Hatherley took care of the ring and
produced it at the right time, and the
bridegroom’s sister, Jean, in pink georg-
ette and wearing a Juliet cap on her taxr
curls, was a perfect foil for the bride, wn
wore a white georgette and lace trocK
and long tulle veil and carried a spray
of white orchids.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Aid for Greece
Can any of us turn a deaf ear to the
silent appeal that comes from Greece?
Can we be indifferent to the sufferings
that this nation has born for three and
a half long years? As one who served
there with the A.I.F. in 1941 I can testify
that hundreds of Australians who went
to the hills to escape capture would have
perished but for the assistance they re-
ceived from the farmers of Greece.
The Greek peasant is very poor ; many
families squat outside in the yard around
a large, common eating bowl, having
their big meal of the day. Even so, many
Australians will remember with sadness
and pleasure many little friendly and un-
selfish acts —the small piece of bread, the
ring of dried figs, gladly handed over to
help our men on their way ; boatmen who
stood in the cold water in order to save
our chaps getting wetter than they were
when transferring from one small boat
to another.
Isn’t it our duty as Australians to have
a ship loaded and ready to sail for
Greece with foodstuffs, clothing, medi-
cines and comforts for these splendid
people who have for so long withstood
the rigors of German occupation?
Greece, like other occupied countries,
has been ravaged and deprived of live-
stock and crops, but Greece was particu-
larly persecuted because the Greeks had
the temerity to oppose the entry of Ger-
many into their country in April. 1941.
If you could have seen the meagre
equipment with which they dared the
mechanised might of Germany you would
have counted it a privilege to have been
associated with the Greeks in their
struggle. For three days we travelled to
the north of Greece in early April,
through farm lands that were being
worked solely by the women. Repairs
to roads were being carried out by boys
and girls. And one woman I saw,
assuredly over 70 years of age, was
wheeling a barrow load of road metal!
These were the things the Greeks were
doing in defence of their country and to
enable Australian, M.L. and English
troops to move more quickly to the
Yugoslav border. Everywhere we were
greeted with flowers and friendly smiles,
and we felt we had something in com-
mon with these people in the terrific
struggle that lay ahead.
Now that the liberation of their country
is in sight let us move quickly in the
matter of helping those who so generously
helped us.—W. J. C. (Vic.).
A Bespectacled Nation
The discovery by officials of W. 0.1.
that one out of every four Australians
ir bespectacled ought to make the public
wonder whether, after all, modem optical
science is an unalloyed advantage. Our
grandfathers didn’t use these aids to
vision to anything like the same extent
that we do, though they saw no worse
than we do, by all accounts. In their day
it was regarded as unfortunate to have to
wear glasses, but now it is almost the
fashion—a recent photograph in a daily
showed a bevy of bathing maidens all
wearing unsightly dark goggles.
I have worn spectacles for nearly 40
years, and have always supposed that I
couldn’t do without them. The other day
1 read The Art of Seeing, by Aldous
Huxley, in which he tells the story of
how he re-educated his sight, after being
half-blind from a child, by applying the
Principles of the American Dr. Bates.
Out of curiosity I decided to give it a
go, and, removing my spectacles, I went
through a few of his exercises for a few
minutes and then looked at a printed
Page. The result amazed me. The type
leapt out at me as sharp and clear as
U does when I wear spectacles. The
effect was only momentary, but Huxley
says that after two or three months’ prac-
tice on the Bates plan I could discard
spectacles for ever.
W. 0.1. researches indicate that Aus-
tralia is becoming a C 3 nation in the
matter of seeing, and the official solution
, IS > °f course, better facilities for people
t 0 get glasses. If Huxley is right, all it
rriay produce is a semi-blind nation. —
Pawang (Vic.).
k of Scottsdale
, Kenn cott ” 08. 13/9/’44) suggests
Pat Scottsdale’s free hospital isn’t free
because ratepayers are asked to contri-
bute a bit extra towards the scheme. But
isn’t our compulsory system of “free”
education dependent upon taxation? And
the “free libraries” that are being insti-
tuted come back to the ratepayer and
the tax contributor for their means of
existence.
As to the “official receiver taking over
the municipality,” Scottsdale’s municipal
affairs, under the old regime, got into
such a state that the council was replaced
by a Commission. The Commissioners
did an excellent job, and the finances are
on a good basis.
“Free cars” haven’t yet materialised,
but “Kenn Scott” may be interested to
know that on the day his par. was pub-
lished the Launceston Fifty Thousand
League put forward a proposal for free
travel on Launceston’s trams and buses!
They have worked it out that with these
services free no conductors and inspec-
tors would be required, the office staff
could fee reduced, about £4OO a year
would be saved in tickets and Launces-
ton would get a splendid advertisement.
It would mean a jump from 3d. to 2s.
in the pound if fares were eliminated and
the whole cost (instead of part as at
present) borne by the rates, but that
doesn’t deter the Fifty Thousand execu-
tive from putting it up to the city coun-
cil. — Derwenj (Tas.).
Railways and War Effort
There has been built up a legend that
the railways “did a great job” in the sal-
vation of Australia. The facts are that
the total train miles run in Australia in
the year ending June, 1942, when the
“Did two soldiers in a bulldozer pass this way ?”
invasion scare was at its height, aggre-
gated only 14.2 per cent, more than in
the year ending June, 1939, before we
were at war with anybody. But we col-
lected 47.7 per cent, more in total rail-
way revenue! Passenger journeys in-
creased by 25.3 per cent, in the same
period, but the passenger revenue col-
lected increased by 59.7 per cent., so that
the increased reward was more than
double the increased service. Tons of
goods hauled increased by 17.5 per cent.,
but the amount collected for hauling
them increased by 43.6 per cent., so that
the reward was 2.5 times the extra work.
It was a great bean-feast, and, limita-
tions on profits notwithstanding, Queens-
land railways returned 7.4 per cent, on
invested capital in 1942, which was also
the year of “austerity”; and 15.45 per
cent, in 1943, when the danger of invasion
was past. And Canberra was snorting
anathemas at profiteers! Whether or not
the Australian railways were deterred by
their mixed gauges from making a full
contribution to “the war effort,” the
mixed consciences of seven Governments
did not deter them from profiteering in
the face of the enemy.— Junius (Q.).
National Projects
“E.N.8.” (N.S.W.) was unfortunate in
his choice of an example of the blighting
effect of State enterprise. The traffic
bridge at Peat’s Ferry, Hawkesbury River,
is being constructed by contract.
As to the “primitive punt,” the diesel
vessels formerly in use at Peat’s Ferry
were required by the armed forces, and
for this reason are no longer available. —
S. R. Henderson, Secretary, N.S.W. De-
partment of Main Roads.
Federal Voting Methods
Exclusive of service and C.C.C. votes,
nearly 9000 absent a.nd postal votes —an
average of one in six of total enrol-
ment —were recorded in my Federal elec-
torate on the referendum. The Federal
method of recording absent votes is obso-
lete. The so-called secrecy of the ballot
is destroyed. A slick party scrutineer
can note the voter’s name and also how
each absent and postal vote is cast.
The large absent vote is augmented
by the drawing of boundaries between
subdivisions. In many electorates these
boundaries bisect townships, making it
obligatory for electors to record an absent
vote or to travel several miles to the
nearest polling booth in their subdivision.
In cities the inconvenience is not great, but
in country electorates it is considerable.
The Act ought to be amended to en-
able electors to vote as ordinary electors
for their division at any polling booth
within their own State on -similar lines
to those of State elections. The present
Federal method serves no purpose other
than to provide statistical records. It
also involves much time and waste of
paper.
Amendment of the Act relating to
postal votes ought also to be made. In
cases of total incapacitation or infirmity
lodgment of a medical certificate stating
the elector’s condition should be enough
for a ballot paper to be forwarded with-
out special application; and another
elector should be authorised to witness
the vote. Under the present system inca-
pacitated and infirm people have diffi-
culty in finding a J.P. — Scrutineer (Q.).
Let Them Know!
Many Americans appear to be inclined
to settle in Australia after the war, but
they should know what encouragement
the Government is likely to offer.
Australia owes much to America and
her fighting men, and should give Ameri-
cans preference next after Australian
soldiers when Government schemes to
assist war veterans are put into effect.
A far-seeing and wise Government
will realise that we have here an excellent
opportunity to encourage American and
other Allied soldiers to settle'* in this
country. But our Allies should know
now exactly what they can hope to expect
if they return. —R. K. Wilson (N.S.W.)
Teaching of Australian History
All will welcome the appointment to
the University of Sydney of a Professor
of American History, but it is a poor
sort of tribute to our own past that our
oldest Australian university should still
be without a Chair of Australian History.
So far, there has been no organised
approach to research in our national his-
tory. A few scholars like Dr. Eris
O’Brien and Dr. George Mackaness
have made notable contributions to Aus-
tralian historical research ; Eleanor Dark
with her Timeless Land and Ernestine
Hill with My Love Must Wait have given
us popular readings of real value about
our past; but to most Australians their
national history is either wholly unknown
or so ill learnt as to make them receptive
vessels for such distortions as the Bligh
libel (as contained in the Hollywood ver-
sion of the Mutiny in the Bounty),
Now it seems that our children are
destined to learn of Yorktown and
George Washington before they learn that
Flinders charted Australia from the mast-
head or that Marcus Clark’s For the
Term of His Natural Life has a sorry
foundation in fact.
If our national history had received
the deserved dignity of a Chair devoted
to its study, it is a safe assumption that
Dr. Bean’s History of Australia in the
Great War would have been prescribed
as a standard text, and in consequence
the student body might have taken a dif-
ferent stand when a Senate majority saw
fit to ignore the claims of soldiers to
those two Law School appointments.
There exist at present not only a host
of original documents, but living mem-
ories which can go back to within a hun-
dred years of the arrival of Phillip and
his fleet. Why not a Professor of Aus-
tralian History to organise research into
such material? —XNXGrad (N.S.W.).
Education and Peace
Post-war education must include reli-
able descriptions of life in other lands if
our children are to understand their
fellow-men. All school taught me about
Japan was a sort of fairy 'tale connected
with cherry blossom, kimonos, paper
houses, rice and earthquakes. This week
a woman told me, quite seriously, that
our bombers would soon finish off Tokyo
when the paper houses caught light.
For all I know, Japanese children are
told that the barbaric Australians live in
wurlies and fight with boomerangs. This
mutual ignorance doesn’t help to foster
a spirit of sweet reasonableness between
nations.
While youngsters leave school with
nothing but a vague idea that all
Germans drink beer, Dutchmen have
baggy breeches, Italians live on spaghetti,
Scotsmen wear kilts, Irishmen live on
potatoes, Americans dwell in skyscrapers,
Frenchmen eat snails and English is the
only language worth speaking no League
of Nations will be able to put the inter-
national Humpty Dumpty together again.
There’s no harm in believing that
British is Best. But it won’t hurt us to
learn how other peoples live. Such an
education would, for example, have pre-
vented one of our worthy but tactless dig-
nitaries informing a gathering of cultured
and patriotic Chinese that “Chinamen
always make such wonderful servants.” —
Scrap (S.A.).
The Taste for Reading
“The Tatler” (B. 6/9/’44) blames the
Australian education system for failure
to inculcate a taste for cultural reading.
But lack of interest in good books is due
not so much to bad teaching methods as
to the disinclination of the so-called edu-
cated classes to set an example.
Higher education in Australia is too
often regarded merely as a means to the
end of getting a well-paid job. Many
who manage to surmount this hurdle turn
their backs on study for life, and spend
their leisure in diversions not noticeably
different from those of the common herd.
Not until many more university gradu-
ates show by their example that educa-
tion is something more than a passport
to a higher income will the ordinary man
be persuaded to look for higher pleasures
than booze, cards and racing.— Col (Q.).
The Prior Prize
Far be it from me to try to tell the
Prior Memorial trustees their job, but
isn’t it anomalous to offer a prize on the
one hand for “the author or authors of
the book by an Australian writer which
the trustees consider the most valuable
contribution to Australian literature,”
and on the other hand to debar any work
“that has already won a monetary
prize?”
The “most valuable contribution to
Australian literature” should stand alone
as the condition. If the author or authors
have won other monetary uibute for it
then more power to them ; heaven knows,
the Australian writer needs every brass
farthing he or she can get. An author
could, under these conditions, produce a
book which might sweep the literary
world, collect cash and other awards here
and abroad and yet be debarred from
winning the bouquet of a Prior Prize,
even though the trustees considered it a
masterpiece. I never met S. H. Prior, but
I’ve heard a lot about him, and I doubt
if he’d want it that way.— Vaucy
(N.S.W.).
Another Thrust
In an editorial tilt at the Rugby League
(B. 20/9/’44) you suggest that its activi-
ties might be employed in some direction
more useful to the war effort. I agree.
But I note that your Sporting Notions
page consists of something like inches
of news about horse-racing, about two
inches about Victorian football, H
inches about boxing and an inch or. two
on Rugby Union football. All without a
hint of criticism or a suggestion that the
colossal amount of time and money ex-
pended on horse-racing (for instance)
might be used to rescue our lads in
Malaya a little earlier. —M. (A.1.F.).
Tax Evasion
Treasury officials have announced that
unsuccessful attempts to evade taxation
last year involved £1,584,000, but what
about successful evasions? Quite apart
from those who understate income and
overstate expenses, there must be thou-
sands who never furnish a return.
To rope in these non-starters I suggest
that all identity-card holders aged 16 and
over and all registered aliens should be
required to furnish returns irrespective of
income.— Apia (Vic.).


Victory
is in
our
Pockets
Whatever we do now is of small
account unless it hastens victory . . .
We must think of that whenever
we hold back a pound that might
go into war savings ... £1 might
lessen by a minute the duration of
the war.
...£lOO might cut off an hour. That
is what we are saving... not simply
money but lives. Put every pound
you can into war loans. That is
what the M.L.C. is doing.
• • »
••• • • •
The business of life assurance is
protection, and we know of no
better way of protecting the
hundreds of thousands who entrust
the guardianship of their future
to us than by investing in Victory.
And Victory is in our pockets.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Limited
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES.)
FOUNDED 1886.
Assets exceed £41,000,000
Payments to Policyholders exceed £48,000,000
The MLC.
