

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
Bulletin,”
Vol. 65.—N0. 3334,
Wednesday; January 5, 1944.
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
PORCHESTER CASTLE.
pORCHESTER CASTLE, on a narrow neck of land jutting out
into Portsmouth Harbour, is a quadrangular building showing
traces of many different styles of architecture. The Britons cer-
tainly possessed a fortress on this spot, calied Caer Peris. Under
the Romans it was called Portus Magnus, and the circular and
semicircular towers, as well as the outer walls, still show signs
°t Roman workmanship. Roman coins and medals, too, have
often been dug up in the neighbourhood.
The keep at the north-west angle of the castle seems from its
appearance to have been originally Saxon ; but there are clear
marks of Norman style, and even Tudor. Indeed if we turn to the
annals of the place we find records of the continual repairs which
the castle underwent.
Ihe earliest incidents connected with Porchester are the frequent
visits of King John ; the building was in his time a State prison,
but the King seems to have been attracted there chiefly because it
was his wine store. It continued to be used as a State prison, and
during the war with the French in the period of the Revolution, as
many as 8000 men were confined there at one time —Dutch prisoners
from De Winter’s fleet captured at Camperdown (1797), galley
slaves cast ashore in Pembrokeshire, some of the choicest sailors
from the opposite coast, and Tallien, the accuser of Robespierre-
all huddled together, captives in the castle. This place used to be
the principal station of the British navy ; but the sea retired and
Porchester gave up its importance to Portsmouth. Through the
Nortons the property passed to the Thistle-thwaytes, who in this
century laid out the approaches to the outer entrance to the castle
as a public garden. The walls, which are from 8 to 12 feet thick
by 18 feet high, enclose nearly five acres.


Writing
NtOrVl T at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
llnnklet explaining how to Write Jor Profit, at
adveltl’ed in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
Sty Address
S.B. 2ii i AGE
The Red Page
THE BLUE-TONGUED LIZARD
The blue-tongued lizard, I am sorry to
record, is a dirty fighter. For ferocity of
intention and expression, unscrupulous
exploitation of his advantages in size and
weight, remorselessness in persistence at
a weak spot or an injured limb and ruth-
lessness in victory I have never known
anything, with the possible exception of
Aristophanes, to match him.
The grasshopper or the trapdoor spider
probably enjoyed the contest more than
I did. For to them the gladiators in their
armor of green and blue who came
tumbling and gasping and hissing and
biting from the granite outcrop to the
water-worn rut in the long, green grass of
the glade must have looked as gigantic
as crocodiles. It was a fight to the death
in” the rut. The mountains lay blue in
the sun, magpies sang, plovers stalked
through the grass, the creek was glittering
among the willows in the gully, the
speckled granite—its own tombstone —
waited on the hilltop for eternity ; and
among so much loveliness and tran-
quillity the larger of the combatants dis-
covered that the rasp of his jaws had at
last worn away the skin above his
opponent’s right eye.
The little bloke —about ten inches long
to the other’s fourteen —had not yet had
enough. He hissed and twisted, snapping
at the big fellow’s belly. The big fellow
circled with him, eyes glaring, jaws open
—the tongue and throat showing their
deadly-nightshade blue —the clumsy body
tense, the whole concentrated fury of his
being focused on that raw place above
the eye. The body lunged, the jaws
closed, and he was crushing the weak
spot again.
The little bloke didn’t like it. He’d got
into a fight and into a hole —both literally
and figuratively—and he wanted to get
out and he couldn’t. There was nothing
for it but to go on fighting. He broke
free and bit at the belly again. The big
lizard took his time. Blood showed now
on the raw spot. He found it again
easily, his jaws gripped and crushed.
It had been a good fight, but it was
finished, and the little bloke knew it.
When he broke free and scrambled madly
for safety up and over the wall of the
rut, the big fellow lumbering after him
with a horrible, clumsy swiftness, I
stopped the fight. My stick directed the
big lizard back to the granite outcrop,
and the other, his green back hard to
distinguish now among the grass, lay flat
to the earth, his sides panting, his red
right eye fixed upon the yet'more terrify-
ing monster who had come to his rescue.
Maybe, after I had gone, they met
again and finished it; or maybe the little
bloke is waddling north or south or east
or west as fast as he can lick*
There was a distinguished company at
the guesthouse to listen to the story of
the battle. Not counting the ducks, the
turkeys, the overfed and malevolent pet
lamb, the dog, the cat that caught the
flying-squirrel and the assorted Sydney-
siders who were palely recovering from
a year of modern civilisation, there were
the late W. H. Davies, Boswell and Dr.
Johnson, Sir Walter Scott, Euripides,
Aristophanes and the Norwegian drama-
tist Bjornstjerne Bjornson. A good com-
pany, but out of place, some of them, on
holiday in the mountains of New South
Wales.
Dr. Johnson should have been in-
terested in blue-tongued lizards: he was
a man interested in everything, even in
his own poetry. If he could appreciate
to the full, as he did, the oddities of
human behavior —
Mr. , who loved buttered muffins
[said Mr. Beauclerk] but durst not eat them
because they disagreed with his stomach,
resolved to shoot himself; and then he
eat three buttered muffins for breakfast, be-
fore shooting himself, knowing that he
should not be troubled with indigestion—
he ought to have been equally fascinated
by the aberrations of the animal world.
But Dr. Johnson was a devil of a fel-
low to talk to. The world for him began
and ended in London. He had been
violently rude about America ; his soli-
tary recognition of the existence of Aus-
tralia was an impolite one. To offer him
any subject for conversation was to ex-
pose oneself to sarcasm ; offer him a blue-
* tongued lizard and he’d have fnistaken it
for a Scotchman.
Bjornstjerne Bjornson, then? Bjornst-
jerne Bjornson was a bit of a problem.
Here were three comedies and three
dramas in the Everyman’s Library
editions. The first of the comedies, “The
Newly Married Couple,” was about a girl
who adored her parents, thereby nearly
wrecking her marriage. Overemphasis of
her filial affection made her such a
simpleton that she didn’t deserve her
happy ending. It amounted a reproof
to unduly possessive parents and uncjuly
affectionate daughters.
“Leonarda,” the second comedy, con-
tained a very good situation —an aunt
and her niece in love with the one man,
and the man switching his affections from
the younger to the elder. The young man
was the nephew of a bishop who was
convinced that the aunt was a scandalous
woman because of her affection for a
certain General Rosen. And Leonarda,
the aunt, was a rich piece of characterisa-
tion.
But the blessed aunt went and sacri-
ficed herself for the sake of the niece ;
and one was led to suppose that the
-young man would quickly become recon-
ciled to his first love ; and then it turned
out that Leonarda wasn’t scandalous at
all, because General Rosen was really her
husband. So the play turned out to be a
reproof to the bishop for believing in
scandalous gossip, and amidst so much
blamelessness and nobility and self-
sacrifice there didn’t seem to be a place
for the fury of a blue-tongued lizard.
In the third comedy, “The Gauntlet,”
the heroine appeared to be as much of
a simpleton as the daughter in the first.
She is in love with a young man, finds
out that he has had an affair before their
engagement and has fits about it. Then
she finds out that her father, whom she
had always regarded as a model, is also
a naughty fellow. More fits. Then she
forgives everybody, and the play amounts
to a reproof to her mother for not having
told her all, years before.
The wit of these comedies had prob-
ably been lost in translation. How could
anyone translate Bernard Shaw into Nor-
wegian? But when the wit is gone one
is left with the Reproof, with the social
drama; and, important though Bjornson
may have been in awakening Norway
from a more than Victorian darkness,
the fiords are a long way from the moun-
tains of the lizard and the social drama
is dated. All three of the plays labelled
“dramas” were moralistic political pieces:
one about the wickedness of the press,
one about the wickedness of speculative
finance and one about the beauties of
democratic monarchy ; and it seemed that
Bjornson, like Ibsen, wasn’t a man you
could talk to after he gave up poetry for
preaching. The light had gone out of
him: a heaviness had replaced it. He
might have been able to reform a world,
but he couldn’t refresh a soul. He could
not look upon the whole spectacle of life,
both what we call good and what we call
evil, and shout with Davies:
And like the wild gulls flashing in my sight,
Each furious thought that’s driving through my
brain
Screams in its fresh young wonder and delight.
If the death-grapple of the lizards had
been too macabre for that sort of purely
lyrical delight, a dramatic spectacle offer-
ing the grimmer pleasure of tragedy,
Davies was still the right man to discuss
it with. Hadn’t he written the extraordi-
nary ballad of Mary Price? At 14, Mary
Price was “ruined” ; when she was 35
the man —whom she had married and
learned to love —was dead. Wordsworth
in a poem or Bjornson in a play would
certainly have stopped at that point.
Davies proceeded:
Now, Mary Price is seventy-five,
And skinning eels alive:
She, active, strong and full of breath,
Has caught the cat that stole an eel,
And beaten it to death.
Davies died last year, but there never
was a poet more alive. He’ll be telling
about Mary Price when all the preachers
and three-quarters of the poets of our
time are forgotten. Strictly regional, a
poet of the English countryside, he had
nevertheless the universality of the truly
great:
This is the hour of magic, when the Moon
With her bright wand has charmed the tallest
tree
To stand stone-still with all his million leaves!
I feel around me things I cannot see;
I hold my breath, as Nature holds her own.
And do the mice and birds, the horse and
cow,
Sleepless in this deep silence, so intense,
Believe a miracle has happened now,
And wait to hear a sound they’ll recognise,
To prove they still have life with earthly ties?
Walter Scott, too, was at home in the
country of the lizards. Probably, if he had
come out walking that day, he would not
have noticed the fight; he would have
been admiring the “prospect.” Scott’s
novels, like Byron’s poems, are full of
scenery but barren of earth. Scott would
have marvelled at the views from the
tourist lookouts at Katoomba ; he’d have
been entranced by the great, gloomy archi-
tecture of the Jenolan Caves; but he
would not have gone down into the gullies
with Davies to listen for a lyrebird, nor
would he have found the most charming
of all the sights of Jenolan, the nest of
the wild bees in the sunny wall of the
Grand Arch.
The waterfall in Old MortcJity was
dramatically painted:
Here the guide turned short off the open
heath, and, by a sheep-track, conducted
Morton to the brook. A hoarse and sullen
roar had in part prepared him for the
scene which presented itself, yet it was not
to be viewed without' surprise and even
terror. When he emerged from the devious
path which conducted him through the
thicket, he found himself placed on a ledge
of flat rock, projecting over one side of a
chasm not less than a hundred feet deep,
where the dark mountain-stream made a
decided and rapid shoot over the precipice,
and. was swallowed up by a deep, black,
yawning gulf. The eye in vain strove to
see the bottom of the fall; it could catch
but one sheet of foaming uproar and sheer
descent, until the view was obstructed by
the projecting crags which enclosed the
bottom of the waterfall, and hid from sight
the dark pool which received its tortured
waters; far beneath, at the distance of per-
haps a quarter of a mile, the eye caught
the winding of the stream as it emerged
into a more open course.
It was a good waterfall, but there was
not a fern to be seen. There was no
smell of water or smell of earth. The
place was not described for the love of
wild places, for an image of the mystic,
cold life of water and rock, but for a
dramatic setting, like stage scenery, for
the quarrel between Morton and the
fanatic called Burley.
But if, with his eyes upon the pano-
rama of the mountains, Scott had missed
the duel of the lizards, he’d have been
a sorry man, for nobody better loved a
fight.
“I contemn your threats,” said Morton
[much as the smaller lizard might have
said as it departed for safer climes]; “I
pity you, and leave you.”
But, as he turned to retire, Burley stept
before him, pushed the oak-trunk from its
resting-place and, as it fell thundering and
crashing into the abyss beneath, drew his
sword and cried out, with a voice that
rivalled the roar of the cataract and the
thunder of the falling oak, “Now thou art
at bay! Fight, yield, or die!” And stand-
ing in the mouth of the cavern he flourished
his naked sword.
Old. Mortality is. not one of Scott’s best
novels. The inevitable Hero and Heroine
—noble, suffering, pure, self-sacrificing
and, in their misunderstandings of each
other, slightly subnormal —occupy the
centre of the stage for longer than usual,
and far too long. Only the romantic
maidens of the period, whom Scott must
have selected as his audience, could be
filled with breathless excitement and
wonder when Morton saves his rival’s
life for the third time ; or when the rival
saves Morton’s for the third time.
Yet no novel of Scott’s was ever far
short of a masterpiece. The minor char-
acters rich as always ; the history —the
revolt of the Cameronians in the time of
James the Second, some true fighters for
liberty, some the wildest and most bigoted
of fanatics —interesting; the prose superb;
The precincts of the gloomy and ruinous
hut were enlightened partly by some furze
which blazed on the hearth, the smoke
whereof, having no legal vent, eddied
around, and formed over the heads of the
assembled council a clouded canopy, as
opake as their metaphysical theology,
through which, like stars through mist,
were dimly seen to twinkle a few blinking
candles, or rather rushes dipped in tallow,
the property of the poor owner of the cot-
tage, which were stuck to the walls by
patches of wet clay. This broken and
dusky light showed many a countenance
elated with spiritual pride, or rendered
dark by fierce enthusiasm; and some whose
anxious, wandering and uncertain looks
showed they felt themselves rashly embarked
crn a cause which they had neither courage
nor conduct to bring to a good issue,
yet knew not how to abandon, for very
shame. They were, indeed, a doubtful
and disunited body.
There was plenty of belligerence in
Aristophanes to make him fit company
for Scott and the lizards; a’ fury in his
polemics that lifted them above the
fatherly admonishments and moralisings
of Bjornson. And there was even a touch
of country charm —“The Frogs” and
“The Birds” —that would have appealed
to Davies. The birds building their city,
for instance:
There came a body of thirty thousand Cranes
(I won’t be positive, there might be more)
With stones from Africa in their craws and giz-
zards,
Which the Stone-curlews and Stone-chatterers
Worked into shape and finished. The Sand-
Martens,
And Mud-larks, too, were busy in their depart-
ment.
Mixing the mortar There were the Geese,
dll barefoot,
Trampling the mortar
And trains of Ducks, there were, clambering
the ladders,
With their duck legs, like bricklayers’ prentices,
All dapper and handy, with their little
trowels
The Woodpeckers
Laboring upon the gates, driving and bangmg
With their hard, hatchet beaks, and such a dm,
Such a clatter they made, hammering and hack-
ing
In a perpetual peal, pelting away
Like shipwrights, hard at work in the arsenal.
Power, wit and that always surprising
charm shone through the singular vapidity
of the translation; and, it should be
added, were illumined by the excellent
commentary of this Everyman’s edition.
But it’s impossible for anyone who likes
Euripides ever to feel at home with Aris-
tophanes. On those dark and terrible
dramas, on the creation of Medea —with
the possible exception of Shakspeare’s
Cleopatra the most vital woman in the
literature of the world—
But I with anguish think upon a deed
Of more than common horror, which remains
By me to be accomplished: for my sons ,
Am I resolved to slay, them from this arm
Shall no man rescue... .For the scornful taunts
Of those we hate are not to be endured,
Happen what may Greatly did I err
When I forsook the mansions of my sire,
Persuaded by the flattery of that Greek
Whom I will punish, if just Heaven permit.
For he shall not again behold the children
I bore him while yet living. From his bride
Nor shall there issue any second race,
Since that vile woman by my baleful drugs
Vilely to perish have the Fates ordained.
None shall think lightly of me, as if weak,
Of courage void, or with a soul too tame,
But formed by Heaven in a far different,
mould —
on all that stormy splendor, the proudest
achievement of antiquity, the comment
of Aristophanes was that Euripides’,
mother sold lettuces.
I wish I may be hanged, my dear Euripides,
If ever I trouble you for anything,
Except one little, little, little boon,
A single lettuce from your mother’s stall.
Every tiniest fault pounced on with
delight, the great rhetoric ridiculed by
parody, as if W. S. Gilbert, instead of
making his solitary (and justifiable) gibq
at “The Princess,” had flung, dirt and
scorn upon every line Tennyson ever
wrote ; the attack going beyond literary
criticism into the most venomous per-!
sonal abuse ... it is impossible to see
Aristophanes otherwise than as a man
consumed by jealousy, the little man
hating the big, the light-verse writer rag-
ing at the poet. Like Dr. Johnson when
he talked about Garrick, Aristophanes
was a bit of a blue-tongued lizard in his
day.
S.
Holiday Shows .
From Brisbane:
A new legit, enterprise, calling itself Forum
Productions, is to open at the Albert Hall on
Jan. 11 with “Watch on the Rhine.” John
Nugent Hayward, who played in “Watch on
the Rhine” at Sydney Minerva and who is
known to radio audiences as an extremely
powerful dramatic actor, is one of the
directors; Donald Davies, who stage-managed
for Edwin Styles on his recent Australian tour,
is another; Melanie Price Jones t'he third. The v
cast includes Hilda Dorrington, Jean Robert*
son, George Esau (from Doris Fitton’s Inde-
pendents), Margot and Frank Brookes.
Coward’s “Fallen Angels” is to be the second
production. |
From Melbourne:
“Kiss and Tell” has arrived at the Comedy
from Adelaide. Light war-time comedy, well
played by Claude Flemming, Peter Mendoza
and Gwenda Wilson. Alec Pratt, the enormous
Melbourne journalist who made such good
work of Shaw plays under Gregan McMahon,
makes a pleasant typhoon as a navy com-
mander.
The panto, epidemic broke out at the Tiv.
and Wirth’s, and threatening symptoms were
developing at His Majesty’s. George Wallace,
Clem Dawe, Eric Edgley, Syd Beck and Charles
Norman in “Cinderella” at the Tiv. are all so
restrained in their verbal humor as to be
almost unnatural but are satisfyingly generous
with slapstick. Wirth’s converted its ring into
a theatre complete with three stages, garbed its
elephants in mosquito-net ballet skirts and put
the rest of its menagerie to good use in a
robust interpretation of “Dick Whittington.”
From Sydney:
May Hollingworth’s S.U.D.S. players got
the audience involved in Eliot’s “Murder in the
Cathedral” by battering through the doors of
Sydney Town Hall and swarming up the aisles
to murder the archbishop; but it was difficult
to immerse oneself completely in the play,
partly because the acoustics made the chorus
inaudible, partly because Eliot wrote a better
dramatic poem than he did a drama. Charles
Tasman played Becket splendidly, and the
actors made the most of their somewhat' slim
opportunities for character-playing in the roles
of herald, priests, tempters and knights.
Gilbert and Sullivan are still spending eternity
at the Royal: “lolanthe” brightened by the
new costumes. The Tiv. is running a “Mother
Goose” panto, in the afternoons and “Hits
and Highlights” (Jim Gerald and Jenny Howard)
o’ nights. Kirsova’s ballet at the Con., though
still handicapped by lack of an orchestra, is dis-
tinguished by two notable performances: that
of °Kirsova herself in “Vieux Paris” and that
of Helen Ffrance in an otherwise unexciting
“Harlequin.” The Minerva, offering lately an
extraordinary variety of shows, changed from
“Tobacco Road” to “Peter Pan” ; and on Jan.
3 switching “Peter” to matinees only, began a
five weeks’ season of “Separate Rooms.”
Talkie outbursts include “My Friend Flicka”
(Empire), about' a boy wot loved a horse—very
nice in its way and helped by color; “The Silver
Fleet” (Embassy), in which Ralph Richardson
is good as a Dutch shipbuilder outwitting Ger-
mans one of the best Occupied-Europe offer-
ings to date; “They Got Me Covered” (May-
fair)—Bob Hope’s wisecracks in a comic-spy
satire on the “ace” newspaperman; and
"Springtime in the Rockies,” a musical sweet-
ened by the cacophonies of Harry James and
his bellowers and decorated by Cesar Romero.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
"THE SENIOR STORE"
m
• " •
m
*v£>
Vi«X
* v v'' :
. m >' :V ,« va ,o>
sisMs
BAILLIERE'S NURSES' COMPLETE MEDICAL DIC-
TIONARY. With 21 Appendices, including illus-
trated sections on surgical instruments,, anaesthetic
apparatus, bandaging, blood transfusion and first
aid. Tenth edition, 1943.* Price, 5/3; postage, 3sd.
THE PHARMACEUTICAL POCKET BOOK. Contain-
ing much information on the science and art of dis-
pensing, percentage calculations, Equivalent B.P.
Formulae and Doses of Official Medicaments, Note
on Bacteriology, Vitamins, Hydrometers, Alcohol,
Poisons Law, Poisoning and Symptoms, and Trade
Names, etc. Invaluable to dispensing chemists.
Price 10/-; postage, 4£d.
REED'S PRACTICAL MATHEMATICS FOR MARINE
ENGINEERS. The object of this text-book is to pre-
sent the principles upon which the Board of Trade
base the questions in Practical Mathematics for
first to second class certificates for engineers.
Price 58/-; postage, 1/OF
THE MODERN DIESEL. 7th Edition Revised. A
handbook which has served its purpose in familiar-
ising many thousands with the characteristics of Oil
Engines, the intricacies of fuel injection and equip-
ment, and thd problems of service and maintenance.
Available for road and rail transport, aircraft and
marine work. Price 9/-; postage, 4Fd.
MANUAL OF MASSAGE AND MOVEMENTS. By
Edith Prosser. The technique of the various mas-
sage manipulations and how they can be adapted
and modified in the treatment of surgical and medi-
cal conditions. The use of passive, free and resisted
exercises is discussed and illustrated with simple
"match" diagrams that students can easily produce.
With a great many illustrations. 23/-; postage, 7Fd.
MACHINE SHOP OPERATIONS. Shows hundreds
of major operations which a skilled mechanic is
called upon to do. This practical method for learn-
ing Machine Shop Work, by a study of actual jobs,
simplifies and shortens the training period. Published
by the American Technical Society. Strong, durable
Rexine binding. Price 70/-; postage, 1/9F
SHOP THEORY. Henry Ford Trade School famous
Text Book. Eliminating all non-essentials, this book
'gives you a quick working knowledge of the basic
tools, machines, and instruments and the funda-
mental operations of machine shop work. Profusely
illustrated and a full cloth binding. Revised edition.
Price 12/6; postage, 10-£d.
• Technical Books—Second Floor.
Abbott: " Practical Geometry
and Engineering Graphics."
Price 23/-; postage, 6id.
Althouse and Turnquist: "Mod-
ern Welding Practice."
Price 36/-; postage, 7 id.
Atkins: "Practical Sheet and
Plate Metal Work."
Price 16/6; postage, Bid.
Audel: "New Electric Science
Dictionary." 9,000 definitions.
Price 14/-; postage, sid.
Camm: "Everyman's Wireless
Book." Price, 7/-; postage, 4id.
"Cars and Lorries": How they
work and simple faults.
Price ... . 1/9; postage, 2|d.
Davies: "The Science and
Practice of Welding."
Price 18/9; postage, 7id.
Dubois: "Plastics: Their Manu-
facture and Use for Engineers
and Designers." 24/-; p., 7id.
Ellis: "An Introduction to Work-
shop Practice." For Junior En-
gineering Students. 9/-; p. 4id.
Flood: "Elementary Electricity
for Radio Students."
Price 1/9; postage, 2id.
Grundy: "The Theory and
Practice of Heat Engines."
Price .... 32/6; postage, llid.
Gyngell: "Applied Chemistry
for Engineers." 27/6; post., 7id.
Hobbs: "Arithmetic of Electrical
Measurements." 3/9; post., 3id.
Kuns: "Flight - Aviation En-
gines." 26/-; postage, 10id.
Leeson: "Fitting, Small Tool
Making, Lathe Work and Screw
Cutting." 5/6; postage, 3id.
Low: "Theory, Construction
and Performance of Heat En-
gines." Price, 31/6; post., Bid.
" Motor Electrical Manual."
Price 5/9; postage, 3id.
" Motor Repair Manual."
Price 5/-; postage, 3id.
O'Brien: "How to Run a South
Bend Lathe." 3/6; post., 3id.
Parkinson: "Engineering Work-
shop Drawing." Illustrated.
Price 6/-; postage, 6 id.
Parkinson: "First Year Engi-
neering Drawing." 7/3; p., sid.
Parkinson: "Diesel Mainten-
ance." Price, 10/-; post., 3id.
Reyner: "Elementary Wireless
Course for Beginners."
Price 6/9; postage, 4id.
Sowerby: "Foundations of
Wireless." 10/-; postage, 4id.
Willoughby: "Taking Care of a
Car." Price, 2/6; postage, 2id.
Willoughby: "How a Car
Works." Price, 1/9; post., 2id.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS BOOK DEPARTMENT
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


River Odyssey
By BRIAN JAMES.
THE skipper of
the Buttercup
didn’t really
look like a sea-
faring man at all,
and even his lan-
guage—which was rich and varied —
seemed rather to belong to the tall timber
than the waves. As a matter of fact, he
had only recently left a sawmill in the
mountains to take command of the
Buttercup.
Apart from seamanship, his chief
qualification for the command was a
reverence for cream. Why a timber-
worker should have such deep respect
for cream can’t be explained. Heredity
may have had something to do with it.
The crew of the Buttercup was a small
one—but he was earnest and efficient. He
would be called up in March, he said, if
they didn’t reserve him. Whenever the
skipper ran the nose of the Buttercup
into the mud' —a nice piece of work that
was, for if he rammed her too far in she
couldn’t get out again under her own
power—the skipper immediately became
a deckhand and assisted the crew in the
loading of “fulls” and the tipping off of
empties and what loading there was for
up the river. In the old days there were
jetties at the landings, but these were
rotted out long since and unusable now.
It was cheaper and perhaps more pro-
gressive to use the bank-ramming pro-
cess. Besides, it was a lot more exciting.
When the Buttercup .made a cloppy,
sucking noise and didn’t go back or for-
ward any more, the plank was run from
deck to bank. It was a long hardwood
plank, a foot wide and several inches
thick, and weighed quite a fair part of a
ton. The crew worked the plank with a
skill that was truly wonderful, and com-
bined this expertness with a rare know-
ledge ,of gravity, speed and what the
Buttercup was likely to do next. An
exact forecast of the latter was very im-
portant. Getting the plank back was
much simpler and depended largely on a
strong pull as the Buttercup disengaged
herself' from the mud.
Sometimes the crew got a splinter in
its finger —and then mothers with young
children loudly exhorted their offspring
to look at the turtles or garfish or some-
thing— at least while the first pangs of
the splinter were vocalising themselves.
There were nearly always passengers—
people going up the river to visit friends
or going home after sojourn in town or
sightseers “just up for the day.” The
skipper and crew would eye the passen-
gers and unerringly set them in their right
categories. The river wa6 deep and wide
and full of surprises at every turn. There
were many turns. At some of these a
still, clear reach would reveal itself, with
a fine view of the high, blue hills in the
soft distance. Then someone of the “up-
for-the-day” crowd would be sure to tell
the crew what a beautiful river it was.
His answer never varied, “Aw, she’s right
enough—but she can be a bitch, too.”
AT Werners’ wharf Mr. Odgers and his
granddaughter underwent the trials
of embarkation. There was no wharf
visible, b'ut it was a fairly safe landing,
for a bench of the bank was level with
the deck. Several of the Werners, who
were also grandchildren of Mr. Odgers,
saw the old gentleman safely to the
middle of the plank, and from there the
crew clutched him and yanked him on
board.
The granddaughter, who had a shy,
country smile and lots of pimples, wasn’t
helped at all. Anyway, a girl who could
milk as many cows in such short time
as she could “and strip them all dry like
one thing” didn’t need much help.
Everyone called Mr. Odgers “Monty,”
and it seemed that he was well known on
the river and all about, too. Two women
on the shady side of the deck started to
whisper, and somehow one just knew that
they were discussing Monty and that
Monty wasn’t all that he should have
been—or perhaps a little more than he
should have been.
Monty sat on a bag of chaff, and all
who didn’t already know soon learned
that he had been to Brisbane for a month
or two and that he didn’t think too much
of the river.
That rather nettled the crew, who
seemed to think that condemnation of
the river was his own special right. But
Monty had been seeing the “great big
earth” and so must have the privilege of
invidious comparison.
There was a warmth of greeting, how-
ever, at every landing, and Monty was
human enough to bask in it. These wel-
comes at times were such as Columbus
surely knew on his first return from the
Sea of Darkness. Then Monty showed
out as the “hard case” he was, and as
the Buttercup threaded her way with
delicate caution into the black mud he
would roar to the party on the bank
“Have you any watermelons?” The
harmless query was greeted with such
good-humored bursts of laughter that it
was evident that the joke, whatever it
was, was good enough to have sustained
several generations of river folk. Then
Monty would become dreadfully serious
and announce that the Japs were coming
—up the river in gunboats!
“Cripes!” And they laughed again.
Only once did Monty descend to sober
reflection on current affairs. Perhaps he
was justified. Amidships were stowed a
full-size porcelain bath and a pair of
cement washtubs. Monty looked at. the
consignment labels and read the legend
“R. J. Green —Happy Jack —per Butter-
cup.” It was learned then that R.J. of
Happy Jack was to be married, and that
these articles were to go into the home
that was now nearly completed. Monty
considered such items as bath and tubs
a gross reflection on the pioneering days.
“Did we ask for such things when we
got married —even if there were such
things then?” And “What will these
women nowadays want next?” These
questions didn’t show the women nowa-
days in a very favorable light at all.
'T'HE Happy Jack landing was a huge
t stump, and everyone, except Monty,
assisted in depositing the conveniences
and amenities of the modern young bride
on top of the Happy Jack stump.
Monty said no more about it, but spat
viciously over the bag of chaff into the
river.
■ Later, a very fat woman hopped
on board with surprising agility and
kissed Monty and’"' said “How’s Bris-
bane?” and hugged the granddaughter
and said “How's the warts, Elsie?” And
gabbled on without waiting for answer.
She was one of Monty’s daughters.
Monty for once had to listen, and so did
everyone else.
As a family history it rather lacked
coherence to the uninitiated —except for
one sentence, said in a confidential
whisper that was quite inaudible to any-
one half a mile away: “Jean is expecting
on the 7th.”
The Buttercup made awful sucking
noises in the mud, and the fat woman
nimbly leapt ashore and yelled joyfully
“Tell them about Jean!” Monty spat
twice over the chaff-bag. And was so
thoughtful for the next two landings that
he didn’t mention watermelons or Japs.
At Belgrave Square two small girls and
a small boy giggled over the plank and
claimed Monty as their grandfather, and
eyed a well-worn grip on the board seat
near the chaff-bags. Monty burrowed in
the grip—to the delay of the Buttercup
and impatience of the skipper—till he
found the “presents from Brisbane.”
The trid got ashore somehow, and
shouted joyfully: “Old Mrs. Owens isn’t
expected to live, and Dolly has a new
foal —a colt!”
Then came Rennies’ a ticklish sort
of landing which seemed to have kinship
with the river in that it was, the crew
said, a “fair bitch.”
There was a big crowd of cream cans
and a small crowd of people at Rennies'.
Monty had regaled them with the water-
melon joke and the Jap invasion by the
time the plank was shoved on to the
bank. The crew tossed out the empties
and Jones’s meat and Smith’s bread and
“that there case for the Schneiders” be-
fore the “fulls” were started on.
The skipper left his cabin and stowed
the “fulls” in their right place. It was a
big job—Rennies’ was the most im-
portant landing on the river, but at
length there was only one can left.
IT may have been the extra load and
I the poor distribution of wpight or it
may have been something else, but the
nose of the Buttercup eased slightly in
the mud just as the crew was on the
middle of the plank with that last can.
The plank slewed a little and the crew
struggled to keep its balance. Of course
he must have had a yellow streak in
him somewhere, for he so far forgot
himself as to let go the can.
He shouldn’t have done that whatever
happened. But he did, and the can
plonked into the water and disappeared at
once beneath a greasy-looking bubble.
It is only in the face of sudden, stark
tragedy that the real stuff of our natures
reveals itself. The crew, in a sense to
blame for it all, re-
trieved what his first
craven fears had lost
for him: he dived
into the black depths.
On the bank Sandy
Garlock, owner of the cream, shouted
“Get that can out —it’s my cream!”
Not a noble sentiment, perhaps, but
quite understandable.
All on board rushed to starboard and
gazed at the moving drama. With the
rush the Buttercup listed greatly, and the
skipper threw himself flat on deck and
explored the water and weeds with his
long arm. Then he heaved and grunted,
and the top of the can broke the surface.
“Thank God!” said Monty, and the
wife of an up-river preacher ejaculated
“Ah, the Lord be praised!”
The lid hadn’t shifted—no mud had
got in and no* cream had got out. Willing
hands hoisted the muddy can on deck
and, in less time than it takes to tell,
willing hands were reverently washing off
the defiling mud. Sandy Garlock was
pleased, even if he did mutter that “It
shouldn’t have happened.”
Then someone thought it curious that
the crew hadn’t reappeared after his
dive, and ventured the opinion that some-
thing should be done about it.
A foot weaving to and fro just under
the water was considered a likely pointer
to the whereabouts of the crew.
Again the skipper did the rescue—he
caught the foot and heaved hard, and
the crew left the mud and weed tangles,
and was a sorry sight when he was
dragged on board. For a moment he
nearly vied in importance with the cream
can, but he wasn’t too far gone to be
unable to look after himself. \ -
He heaved-and panted and was sick—
which Monty said was “only natural.”
Then he went aft and tried to clean up
with a bucket of water.
Sandy said “A close shave that!”
Everyone knew he meant the cream.
The crew washed and sluiced and
bubbled and blew. He seemed all right,
except that a patch of skin about three
inches square was missing from the right
side of his face. He couldn’t account for
it at all, and no one worried about it
particularly, apart from the point of
academic interest —whether he struck the
plank or hit a snag. General opinion
favored a snag.
BY the time Cedar Logs was reached
the crew was as good as ever.
Monty was sympathetic, and told him to
keep the flies—if he could —off the raw
patch. The crew didn’t think flies
mattered very much.
At Cedar Logs old Ernie Eather came
on board and poked Monty in the ribs
with his thumb and said Monty was a
sly old dog and when was it to be and
what was she like and how’s Brisbane.
Monty grinned all over with a grin
that belonged to fifty years ago, and inti-
mated that he and Ernie “could show
the young ’uns yet.”
And Ernie said that Elsie would find
her hand a bit out of practice with “the
milking,” and Elsie blushed apologeti-
cally.
Ernie stayed aboard the Buttercup as
the voyage proceeded, and told the
skipper that he needn’t have, and so he
couldn’t charge him, and it was all on
account of Monty, anyhow. The skipper
grinned and said he be damned for some-
thing or other.
By this time the crew’s right eye had
closed entirely, and the humor of this
lack of symmetry made a ready appeal
to everyone. The crew nodded perfunc-
torily at the river and reckoned she
could be “a bitch all right.”
At Riley’s Rock the Buttercup finished
her run. All except those “up for the
day” got off here.
A , tousle-haired, disgruntled sort of
man with very scaly arms and looking a
trifle older than Monty came on board.
He greeted Monty with utter lack of
enthusiasm as “father” and Elsie greeted
him as “dad.” And Monty didn’t men-
tion watermelons or Japs.
The skipper rolled a cigarette and
watched Monty’s party ascend the steep
bank to a rickety motor-lorry. Elsie
carried nearly all the luggage. The crew
viewed the passing show out of one eye
and remarked “Aw, y’ can’t tell me! ’
which might have meant anything.
Then the Buttercup headed down-
stream for the straight run home.
Various Verse
Crossroads.
“There’s the grey road to the northward,
Where the guns are roaring,
There’s the red road to the southward,
Where the cocks are crowing,”
Sang the starling at the crossroads,
Sitting on the shrine.
“There’s glory to the northward,
Where the sun glows high,
There’s love to the southward,
And sunset low in the sky,”
Sang the starling at the crossroads,
Sitting on the shrine.
“There’s action to the northward,
Where the fields run blood.
There’s languorous love to the southward,
On the old Nile’s flood,”
Sang the starling at the crossroads,
Sitting on the shrine.
“You stay with me at the crossroads,
In the scented morning,
For there’s death to the north and the south-
ward,
And the red cocks are crowing,”
Sang tlie starling at the crossroads,
Sitting on the shrine,
With the morning air about him,
His song running into mine,
At the crossroads.
N.S.W.
R. P. FAIRFAX.
In a Cafe.
She holds the cup in both her hands
Over the rim her glance compels,
(A man forgets his hat, returns;
The waitress leans against the shelves.)
And Botticelli, painting in the corner,
Glances absorbed across a half-turned shoulder,
Thinking of lilies springing where she walks
As now she rises, moves across the room.
(The yawning waitress gathers up the stalks,
The ash, the butt-ends and the dregs of tea.)
Pausing between the gesture and the motion,
Lifting her hand to brush away her hair,
He limns her in an instant, always there
Between the doorway and the emphatic till,
With waves and angels balanced on a shell.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
The Widows of Turoah.
Growing round their sago huts
Ginger and okari nuts,
Anatto and derris root,
Without menfolk, by repute
Of Babaka and Baboah,
Live the Widows of Turoah.
Skirting their irresolute waists —rushes,
Hurting their nasal alae —tushes,
Gladding their lively hackles —reeds,
Glozing their hypnotic bosoms —beads,
Desirable, but as black as Shem,
The Widows of Turoah are as God likes,
them.
Tired of living single lives,
Sisterless, and wanting wives,
Ga-Ga, Sisia-Vake, and No,
Observing due pundtilio,
Launched a lordly lackatoi
And sailed in search of Married Joy.
Hitched to their glistening torsos —shells,
Stitched to their staggering biceps —spells,
Decking their barbarous frizzes —quills,
Wrecking their convex nostrils —spills;
Fallible, and as black as Shem,
The Men of Wassi-Kussa are as God likes
them.
Posh love-potions Sisia-Vake
And Kote-Ga-Ga agreed to take;
Wisely, too, they took the charm
That shields a Wassi-Kuss from harm;
Neither to such lengths would go
In sorcery as reckless No:
“Take from a virgin’s hair —a head,
From her tobacco-pouch—a thread;
Add, before the mixture thickens.
Ten feathers from her father’s chickens;
Mash, and reduce to ash” —No did it;
He tied it in his sash and hid it.
Past the Yodda and the Fly,
Dungari and Samurai,
Past green Ova and Euroah —
When they came to far Turoah
(Journeys end in lovers’ meetings)
Fifty widows waved their greetings.
Skirting their irresolute waists —rushes!
Hurting their nasal alae—tushes!
Gladding their lively hackles—reeds!
Glozing their hypnotic bosoms—beads!
—Desirable, but as, black as Shem,
The Widows of Turoah were as they liked
them!
Leaping quickly on the beach
Wild to woo a widow each,
Ga-Ga, No, and Sisia-Vake,
Knew at once which line to take:
“We are tired of single lives!
Lovely widows! Be our wives!”
Hitched to their glistening torsos —shells!
Stitched to their staggering biceps— spells 1
Decking their barbarous frizzes— quills
Wrecking their convex nostrils —spills.
—Fallible, and as black as Shem,
The Men of Wassi-Kussa are as some like
them!
“Ga-Ga! Sisia-Vake! ’urn go!
Widows we ob juicy No!”
Aboard Ga-Ga and Sisia leapt;
No was eaten while he slept.
Oh, foolish No forgot the charm
That shields a Wassi-Kuss from harm.
N.S.W.
ETHEL ANDERSON.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3334.
Wednesday, January 5, 1944.
LETTERS OF MARK.
“Reviewing his illness, Mr. Churchill praised ‘the marvellous drug’ M. and B., ‘which I may also call Moran and Bedford, after my physicians.’”
“And I’m not forgetting R.N., old boy.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
TOWARDS VICTORY.
For the Axis 1943 was the worst year
of the war; and 1944 will be worse.
Long since halted by splendid fighters—
at Alamein and Stalingrad, on the heights
above Moresby and on the seas and in
the skies —the Axis war machine, from
being within a hair’s breadth of dominat-
ing the world, is now forced into reverse
gear. Holding the initiative, the Allied
Nations are generally on the offensive.
The weakest of the Axis Powers has
changed sides. Germany and Japan, with
no victories to encourage their home
fronts, are the ones now in the position
of having to guess where the next blow
will fall.
It adds up to a strong possibility that
this year will prove decisive. The Ameri-
can General Eisenhower marked his ap-
pointment as commander of the “Second-
Front invasion forces” with a heartening
prediction: “We will win the European
war in 1944.” Another American —Vice-
President Wallace —committed himself to
the forecast that the “German war might
will be destroyed within a few months
after a cross-Channel invasion,” and, by
report, American leaders are as impatient
as the Russians that that invasion shall
be soon. Britain, it has been said, was
against invasion this side of June. Per-
haps this was merely another of the
persistent efforts to belittle J. Bull,
though—in holding out alone, in beating
the apex power of the Luftwaffe in the
Battle of Britain, in fighting the worst of
the Battle of the Atlantic unaided, in
advancing 2500 miles from Alamein to
Italy, in getting the convoys through with
vital war materials to Malta and to
Russia —Britain has done more towards
winning the war up to now than any other
nation.
Though calmly confident with
reason General Eisenhower is thor-
oughly well aware that the big job is
ahead. He described the advance to
Rome as “disappointingly slow”; the
fighting, “dirty slogging against a heavily-
resisting foe,” with further progress “de-
pending on the quality of the reinforce-
ments the German Command decides to
hurl against us.” This does not support
any notion of a quick and easy victory in
Europe, to follow rapidly on application
of the magic formula of a “Second-Front”
invasion, nor does the warning, repeated
at intervals by apparently authoritative
spokesmen in America, that Ameri-
cans must be prepared for as many
as 500,000 casualties when the much-
discussed invasion is launched.
No doubt when that happens the whole
tribe of Second-Fronters will deafen the
air with claims of how right they had
been all along. When it comes it will
emphatically prove how wrong they were
in urging a premature adventure which
would much more easily and surely have
lost the war than invasion now will win
it. As Italy and the fighting in Russia
indicate, the invasion fighting will prob-
ably still be difficult enough, even now.
At its worst, it will be nothing to what
would have happened if the empty-
headed non-starters who have been bel-
lowing for two years had had their way
earlier.
Now, with vastly-improved command
of the sea and of the air, there is fair
prospect of decisive success. The Ger-
mans face the certain threat of having to
fight on three or more fronts, knowing
that Allied operations on the new front,
or fronts, will bring every part of their
country within the range of bombers
covered by fighter escorts. If they hold
out under that threat, they will suffer
over the whole extent of their home front
as no nation has so far suffered. What
has happened to Hamburg, Berlin and
the rest up to now will be mild to it.
It will be a demonstration of the war-
winning power of the air arm, and it will
not be necessary to march on to German
soil to put that to the test.
As far as Europe is concerned, though
hard fighting and grievous losses must be
expected, there would appear to be ample
reason for anticipating that 1944 will see
the eclipse of Hitler and his gang. The
year also opens with fair promise against
the other remaining member of the Axis.
Except for the sporadic fighting in China,
the Japs, too, have had their racing war
machine forced into reverse. Even with
the latest American invasion successes
under General MacArthur in New Britain
only handkerchief-size edges of what the
Japs took have been taken back from
them ; but the encouraging fact stands
that the bits- are being, taken ; that the
Japs are now on a losing defensive ; that
they do not know where the next attack
is to be launched —evidenced by the ap-
parent surprise element in the landings
near Cape Gloucester —and that, though
there has been no noticeable lessening in
the toughness of the fighting anywhere,
the Japs have for a long time now
suffered a beating wherever they have
been attacked, whether by Australians or
Americans.
Compared with the distance still to go,
the victories over the Japs so far have
been little more than mere nibblings,
though every minor advance made now
will have greatly enhanced importance
when the time comes for turning the full
Allied weight against the Japs, while, all
things considered, the fact that there have
been advances at all has encouraging
significance. The Chief of the U.S. Navy
Bureau of Supplies, Rear-Admiral Wil-
liam Brent Young, stated in November
that supplies were now “pouring into the
South-west Pacific on a scale large enough
to support a major offensive against the
Japs.” Against that, on about the same
date a U.S. Associated Press correspon-
dent at General MacArthur’s head-
quarters insisted that “the constant pleas
for more men and more supplies, voiced
for more than a year, have not changed
the situation materially.” Those who
had emphatically assured him that Gen-
eral MacArthur’s command was now
“receiving great increases in war supplies
and men” were “mistaken.”
Not only are more rnen and material re-
quired if MacArthur is to take long strides
on his way back to the Philippines, but if
this area is to be given the sole task of
holding off the Japanese, while big attacks
are launched from India - or. pther areas,
it still has a big problem in the matter of
replacements.
If that report was correct the supply
position could not have been so greatly
improved in the meantime to account for
the later successes against the Japs. All
along General MacArthur and others en-
gaged in the Pacific War have had to get
their fighting done on the proverbial
shoestring, and, even though they are cer-
tainly better supplied now than they were
a year ago, they are still waging their
share of the war on the ground and in
the air with weak forces compared with
the general strength massed on the job
of beating Hitler first. The fact that,
with such weaker forces, they have
not only halted the Jap all along the rim
of his vast conquests, but are beating him
back bit by bit is a promising augury of
what will eventually happen.
As to when that —the beating of the
Japs back to where they belongs—will
happen, the prophets are not so precise.
A wave of something like pessimism as
to this followed on the airy optimism—
the war ahead just “a football match”
with the Jap as the ball —which preceded
the elections here. In America, too, un-
warranted optimism has at last given way
to a more realistic view. Instead of its
being “all over by Christmas” —the late
Christmas, that is—it is now accepted
that, even when Hitler is beaten, Japan
will be anything but a soft snap. It
seems a case for neither optimism nor
pessimism, but only for realism. In this
view hard fighting and mounting casual-
ties are only to be expected, as in Europe,
with a prior victory in Europe having
most helpful effects throughout the whole
area of the Pacific-front fighting.
Thus, 1944 opens with the military
outlook good, and with, it may be hoped,
the resolution firmly taken by the democ-
racies never to be caught napping again.
In parts of Europe the political out-
look is not so good, but the opportunities
for mischief which the enemy is now
exploiting, particularly in Yugoslavia
and Greece, will dwindle as he is driven
back.
On Hellzapoppin' Ridge.
There were only 265 Japs along the
ridge ; a reinforced rifle company. In the
wider strategy of the war in the South
Pacific the taking of the position was
unimportant. It was merely a dent in
the perimeter around the Empress Augusta
Bay beachhead and the Torokina air-
field —a dent which never threatened to
wear into a hole, and which could be
hammered out today or tomorrow or the
next day. Yet before the position was
occupied very nearly all the weapons of
modern warfare had been brought into
the combat —rifles and grenades, mortars
and heavy artillery, machine-guns, dive-
bombers, flame-throwers —the ridge was
laid desolate and half a hundred men had
given their lives.
For nine long days and nights of tense
inaction the “battle” raged. Men wormed
their way along the spur which jutted
like some huge nose from the foothills
of the Crown Prince Range to overhang
the tiny, nameless stream which feeds
the Torokina River. It was not more
than 200 yards long, and it tapered at
the bridge to a width of 35 yards ; the
sides sloped a steep 300 feet to the water.
There was enacted war in all its grim
ferocity, its high, bright, laughing hero-
ism. Men sweated and swore and
cowered in holes, went yelling and curs-
ing and leaping to death. They called it
“Hellzapoppin’ Ridge.”
There on December 9 the Japs attacked
our lines. Previously their defence of
their Empress Augusta positions had been
no more than that —determined, bitterly
contested, but still defensive. Here they
began the “battle.”
Four days earlier a small independent
unit of the Marines had been thrown in
a thin line out across the base of the
spur from where it joined the range.
Here in the hills the giant trees began ; the
vines and tangied undergrowth of jungle
were thicker than on the sandy swamp-
lands just behind the beachhead. It was
twilight at high noon. A few yards
away a man could fade like a ghost
into the heavy, green-draped walls of the
jungle.
Where the ridge sloped the treeless,
grass-covered sides of volcanic Bagana
could be glimpsed. Even the tractors,
which for five weeks had hauled supplies
from the beach through the slowly-
moving mud of swamps to within a hun-
dred yards of the line, balked at climbing
the ridge. On the morning of December
9 supplies were parachuted to the men in
the forward positions.
That afternoon the Japs attacked.
They figured, doubtless, that this sector
of the perimeter was thinly held, that
supply lines were difficult, that reinforce-
ments would be slow in coming.
Their attack was successful. The
Marines withdrew from off the spur.
They left 27 of their dead behind, and of
the men who fought their way back from
jutting tree-root to jutting tree-root 48
were wounded.
Next day another small group was
sent in to retake the ground and wipe out
the “30 or 40 suicide Nips” who it was
believed had launched the attack. It
made a short distance against fierce
opposition. Mortar and machine-gun fire
caused it many casualties. It was impos-
sible to work around those steep slopes.
The advance must needs be along the
crest of the spur, and the Japs had
scratched out their burrows there among
the roots of the trees and covered the
width of it. Men lay in holes that night,
holes dug alongside the corpses of their
comrades who had died the day before.
There was no time to bury them, but
stealthily during the long, anxious wait
till dawn Marines shovelled a little more
earth out and over their dead.
Yard by yard, the costly advance went
on again with the new day. It was fight
and dig, fight and dig, scratch out a hole
while the next man fought, lie in it an
hour or less, then move forward a few
yards and scratch out another. The
rattle of machine-gun fire was continu-
ous, punctuated by the high snap of the
sniper’s rifle and the shuddering blast
of mortars. Grenades burst with the
sharp, harmless-sounding noise of fire-
crackers.
Men moved slowly, painfully back
along the trail leading to the spur, their
teeth clenched against the searing agony
of their wounds. Scarcely one of them had
seen the enemy. He was there, some-
where just ahead, and there to the side,
and there in the trees, and there, and
there, and there, “perhaps 30 or 40” of
him, but nowhere to be seen. He lay
covered with leaves and trailing vines by
the side of that bush not five yards
ahead.
In the late afternoon the forwardmost
screen moved up alongside the stiffening,
bullet-riddled body of a Japanese officer.
In the pocket of his grey-green jacket
were sketch-map and notebook. Here,
roughly sketched in pencil, was the top
of the spur ; that end showed our posi-
tions, and, with an accuracy that was sur-
prising, there at the other end was the
enemy’s disposition. But that showed no
small “suicide party”! This was the
layout of a company—26s men the note-
book had it.
It meant a change ,in plan. Artillery
would blast them out.
The barrage began next morning from
the batteries down on the flat country
behind the beach. But this was a narrow
ridge; the slope on each side was steep ;
there was no hitting the reverse side of
the spur with artillery, and to lay the
shells along the top they Would need to
be put down not a hundred yards ahead
of the Marines’ line of foxholes.
When the barrage lifted the advance
began. But the enemy’s machine-gun
fire seemed undiminished; his snipers
still clung to their positions in the tree-
tops ; the ratholes in the roots of the
trees were undamaged except where a
shell had scored a direct hit.
A gunnery sergeant, tall, broad-
shouldered, an athlete back home, hurled
more than 50 grenades in an hour and a
half of fighting madness. He scrambled
from his hole at last and broke into
a stumbling forward run. “Come on,
let’s get the little bastards now!” he
shouted.
A sniper’s bullet tore a gaping hole
in his chest. He pitched forward on his
face on the ground ; then, dazedly,
calmly, he got to his feet and turned and
walked slowly back across the ridge to
the trail leading out. The blood was
welling out and down across his spotted
jungle suit. '
He died, but he gave his name to the
point of the spur.
A young lieutenant yolunteered to lead
a squad around one side of the slope. It
was pinned down by machine-gun fire,
but he went ahead. He came out of the
undergrowth just below the crest of the
spur where the barrel of a machine-gun
was poking out 18 inches above his head.
He reached up with his pistol and shot
the gunner. He escaped by hurling him-
self down the “steep slope into the under-
brush.
That was another day. Next morning
the artillery tried again. One battery was
moved two miles down the beach to
get a better angle of fire. But the
barrage accomplished little. The advance
that afternoon was again measured in
yards.
Dive-bombers were called for. They
did a remarkable job. They made their
runs across the ridge alternately from each
direction, and they put their bombs fairly
and squarely along the crest not J 5 yards
beyond the front-line positions. The Japs
were driven out of their forward holes,
and as they finally swung out and away
the Marines raced forward to occupy the
positions. But the Japs got back be-
fore them. When they were still some
yards from the line of holes the machine-
guns were already taking up their
chattering again.
The “battle” developed into a foot-
race, and three times the Japs got home
first. At last bombing was ordered on
positions 50 yards beyond the forward
line of Marines. When it ended just on
dusk the flame-throwers were ready to
move forward. The returning Japs were
met with the sweeping, searing blast of
liquid fire. They half-turned, screaming
horribly, and died.
The Marines moved forward slowly,
cautiously out along the bridge of the
nose towards the point overlooking the
tiny stream. “Hellzapoppin’ Ridge was
cleared of the enemy.
The ridge was no longer green. Vines
and fallen trees were a thick, tangled,
browned-off mat across the earth. The
dust of explosions was still in the air.
The bomb craters crowded each other
lip to lip. Nowhere in all the Soutn
Pacific had any piece of earth
laid waste. All one side of the spur had
slipped away; there was a dam of eartn
across the little stream. The stench of
death hung heavy as dust m the air. Great
lumps of charred and putrefying fhsh no
longer recognisable as the remains of
human beings lay half-buried m the
powdered earth. A protruding
pointed stiffly at the Pb* me . f B ™°
above Mount Bagana accusingly as it
all this destruction had sprung fiom
earth itself.
JOHN BRENNA.


PLAIN ENGLISH
MacArthur and Roosevelt.
At a time when the controllers of the
Sydney morning papers were coming out
strong as strategists (they charitably
agreed that tactics might be left to com-
manders), “S. M. Herald” prepared a
plan for use by Americans in these parts.
Granny is now concerning herself with
the future of General MacArthur.
By ali accounts, a great many Ameri-
cans want the general as President, an
an Indianapolis “Star” reporter recently
asserted that he was “making tentative
plans to return to Washington in March
for a series of conferences,” going on
to speculate on the possibility of his pre-
senting his resignation to President Roose-
velt on reaching the retiring age of 64
on January 26” and “taking heed of the
‘MacArthur for President’ movement.
From a G.H.Q. spokesman came a denial
in these terms: “There is no foundation
whatever for the statement that General
MacArthur is going to Washington in
the near future for a conference.”
Granny was not satisfied. ‘The situa-
tion developing in the United States,” she
boomed, “makes a further statement on
the matter by General MacArthur desir-
able in the interests of all concerned.”
Prolonged uncertainty as to the general’s
attitude should not be allowed t'o preju-
dice this theatre of operations.
As if it could! Then, diving into
American history, the old girl stated that
“there is no precedent for a soldier giving
up a command in the field to stand for
the Presidency,” while allowing that
“there is no inherent reason why such a
step should not be taken.” Actually, only
one Presidential election has been held in
time of war. Without stressing this im-
portant fact, the “Herald” mentions the
instance, and is sure that the ‘ Mac-
Arthur for President” people “have it
in mind” —
General McClellan’s selection as the
Democratic candidate against Lincoln in
1864. But in one vital respect the parallel
fails: McClellan had been retired from
duty almost two years before his nomina-
tion.
It is far more probable that Senator
Vandenberg and his friends have in
mind,” not the case of the unfortunate
McClellan, the reference to whom is in-
vidious, but that of a successful general,
Zacharv Taylor. U.S. commander in
Texas, 'Taylor beat the Mexicans in a
series of engagements, but “resigned and
came home, considering himself ill-used
by the Polk Administration.” During
the year in which peace with Mexico was
made he was elected President —at 64.
General MacArthur, it seems, is to be
“drafted” by Illinois Republicans, who
aver that it is the inalienable right of the
American people to draft any citizen for
service, particularly in time of peril.
The Government has been forced into the
position of announcing that it will place
no obstacle in his way if he chooses to
retire at 64. The New York “Daily
Mirror” (November 4) quotes a “Repub-
lican leader” to this effect:
MacArthur will be a formidable figure if
■the war in the Pacific is going slowly, no
matter what goes on in Europe. An irre-
sistible slogan will be “Make MacArthur
the real commander-in-chief, win the war
quickly and bring our boys home.” He
would remain at his post during the [elec-
tion] campaign, saying only that he is a
good soldier and will accept any assign-
ment from the American people.
And why shouldn’t he? Precedents
are beside the question; it would be a
precedent for Mr. Roosevelt to accept a
fourth-term nomination. In any case, it
is not a matter in which Australians
should take sides or entertain fears. They
can be certain that both these eminent
Americans, to whom they owe so much,
will remain worthy of their admiration
and trust.
Falsfein on Falstein.
“The keynotes of Max Falstein’s character
are sincerity, progressiveness and stead-
fastness of purpose.... His outstanding
brilliance, ability and integrity his in-
tense loyalty to his constituents, his per-
sonal courage and his ability to grasp
and analyse the most complex problems
have marked him out for a future Minis-
try Never in the history of Watson
has there been such an outstanding mem-
ber at the age of 26 the youngest
member ever elected to the House.” So
it appeared (with portrait) in a Watson-
election circular issued, if not written by,
“Hon J. B. Chifley, M.P., and Hon J. A.
Beasley, M.P., Campaign Directors,” and
it may serve as an introduction to the
subjoined extracts from “Hansard” and
other publications:
June, 1941: “It may be said that I am a
young man and that' my place is in uni-
form—While the present Government re-
mains in office, I shall not offer my services
to Australia, because I fear that if I
were to go abroad the same kind of hope-
less .thing would happen as is happening
at present If it be good enough for
young men to go abroad to fight for
their country, it should also be good enough
for yoilng men to stay at home and admin-
ister it. As long as this Government re-
mains in office there will be a fight not
only abroad but also at home. I say quite
frankly that one of the reasons why I
would not enlist, even if another Gov-
ernment were in power, is because I would
be frightened to do so.”
May, 1942: “In this morning’s issue of
the Sydney ‘Daily Telegraph’ [May 21]
the editor, Penton, has charged me with
being a coward. Whether or not that is
true will be tested when I go into action
with the Royal Australian Air Force, in
which I have enlisted as an air-crew
member. I invite Penton to join me
in the fighting forces, where his own pat-
riotism may be better demonstrated than
under a masquerade of words.”
September, 1942: A.C.2 Falstein
paraded at' the office of the camp adminis-
trative officer and demanded that the
sergeants’ mess should provide beer for an
A.C.2 party; “we must have it.” This
being refused, Falstein said “You may be
legally right now, but I am going to Can-
berra next week-end and you won’t be
right then I won’t be silent. You listen
to me....you are the most hated man on
this station, and when I go to Canberra
I will have you shifted.” — From court-
martial proceedings which resulted in Fal-
stein getting—and serving—2B days at
Holdsworthy military jail.
June, 1943: Falstein receives an R.A.A.F.
commission.
June 22: “Many waterside workers share
the risks that I run as a member of the
R.A.A.F The members of our fighting
forces have never been reluctant to bear
arms.... I happen to be serving in the
R.A.A.F., in which I have risked my life,
having flown for 200 hours... .As a mem-
ber of our fighting services ”
August 21: Falstein, now a pilot-officer,
is re-elected for Watson.
December, 1943: “Herewith application
for transfer to R.A.A.F. reserve on the
ground that the increasing exercise of legis-
lative and executive authority is having so
severe an effect on the electorates that
inquiries and requests for interviews are
reaching excessive proportions. Moreover,
the proposed referendum necessitates a con-
siderable campaign of education which will
in itself provide full-time employment of
the highest national importance. Further,
it is desired to make a detailed study of the
Lease-Lend agreement in conjunction with
Magna Charta [The Bulletin’s mistake,
Atlantic Charter]. In brief, the saturation
point has been reached where I have per-
force to make the reluctant determination
that the job I personally can do with the
R.A.A.F. is outweighed by the obligations
and the duties I am bound to discharge as
a member. My request for transfer to the
reserve in preference to discharge is made
because I desire to serve again in an active
capacity should the nation’s peril ever
require it.”
Meaning, perhaps, if the Wars of the
Roses break out again.
The N.S.W. executive of the Old Dig-
gers was first in with an objection “to
fully-trained officers being transferred to
the reserve while still capable of carrying
out the duties for which they have been
trained.” Secretary Lewis made the arid
point that Falstein’s application “came at
a time when the R.A.A.F. is asking for
more pilots,” and W. C. Allen, councillor
and sub-branch president, had a bitter
reference to the effect of the Falstein
affair on the “R.A.A.F. recruiting cam-
paign.” To which Falstein replied, “Any-
one with half a grain of sense knows that
to carry out Parliamentary duties it is
necessary to be handy to that work.”
He didn’t take that view when he
joined up. Neither did Blain, M.H.R., who
is nearly twice Falstein’s age. Neither
did the Victorian Ms.L.A. Kent Hughes
and Hamilton Lamb, also much older,
who are prisoners of war, like Blain.
Neither did Bate, Turner, Robson and
Chaffey, Ms.L.A., who enlisted to fight
and did fight, worthily representing
the U.A.P. (16 members) when there was
no corresponding movement from the
N.S.W. Labor party (55 members).
Neither did Senator Wilson nor J. E.
Duggan, the Labor M.L.A. for Too-
woomba.
Sydney “Sun” reports Falstein as say-
ing that “he wished the whole matter
forgotten.” By the shade of Monash and
the living presence of Peter Isaacson he
will never hear the end of it!
The Censorship Squabble.
On December 14 the Prime Minister
made a statement which seemed to answer
all questions on the war-time censorship
finally and completely:
The Australian Government’s view, which
is shared by the Commander-in-Chief, is
that newspapers shall be free to treat' all
accounts of the war as their judgment re-
gards as proper, the only stipulation being
that there shall not be conveyed to the
enemy information which would be of use
to him.
Since then a serial wrangle has been
carried on between the responsible Min-
ister and the chief censor on the one side
and leading daily newspaper interests on
the other. The total result is a deepening
suspicion on the part of the public that
war facts of which it should be informed
are being suppressed, accompanied by a
notion that, without censorship, some
newspapers would recklessly publish in-
formation of use to the enemy.
The latter notion has been fixed by the
responsible Minister’s dark hints regard-
ing the nature of items the censorship
has, in fact, suppressed. It does not
seem to occur to his side in the wrangle
that, with a censorship operating, news-
papers might submit to censorship items
which they would not dream of publish-
ing on their own responsibility if there
was no censorship. In fact, newspaper
men have sometimes been astonished at
what the censorship has passed for pub-
lication.
Supporting the notion of newspaper
irresponsibility is the fact that one daily
early in the war published a cartoon
which would have made it clear to a
half-witted enemy agent that A.I.F. troop-
ships had put out from Sydney that day.
Members of the public who have their
folk in the services would hate to think
of newspapers being completely free to
publish that sort of matter, however
veiled.
The snag in Mr. Curtin’s apparently
definite statement is, of course, that the
censorship is left to decide just what in-
formation might be of “use” to the
enemy. This is an open order. For
example, would Mr. Curtin agree to the
prohibition of the publishing in an Aus-
tralian newspaper of an item that had
appeared in the London “Times”? Most
probably such information would be
already in the hands of the enemy. The
London “Times” seems a reasonably
responsible newspaper; anyway, if it
published something it shouldn’t have
published its export from Britain would
be prohibited there.
What would Mr. Curtin’s ruling be in
such a case? A ruling by the P.M. would
clear the air a bit and help allay the sus-
picion that, when the war is over and
another Ernest Scott comes to write the
war-time history of the home front, the
chapter on censorship will be read with
loud laughter.
FINISHING TOUCHES.
“Montgomery is to be Commander-in-Chief of the British group of armies under Eisenhower.”


ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
m
THE ONLY
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
PYROX PROPRIETARY LIMITED, 18 Albion Street, Sydney
HHS
• • ■■■
N
g
m
/w
m
POLITICAL POINTS
Maxie Falstein has asked for a transfer
to R.A.A.F. reserve, one of his excuses
being that “the increasing exercise of
legislative and executive authority is hav-
ing so severe an effect on the electorates
that inquiries and requests for interviews
are reaching excessive proportions, re-
quiring personal handling and attention.”
The “effect” should be even more severe
in Britain, but there it seems to have been
disregarded by serving mefnbers and
cheerfully accepted by non-serving mem-
bers. And 12 Ms.P. (there are 615, six
more than the number of Australian poli-
ticians) have had service men’s funerals.
Sydney “D.T.’s” Roving Reporter, G.
Blunden, makes the astonishing assertion
that the Germans have a “renegade Cos-
sack division” in Yugoslavia. Blunden
was in Russia, and if he is right about
the “renegade Cossack division” not all
the huge migrations from that country
have been forced. Perhaps the Poles are
warranted in claiming that theirs is the
one occupied country without Quislings.
As part of its long appeasement of
N.S.W. coalminers, one of whose de-
mands was “Remove Brockman,” the
Curtin Government set up a Central
Coal Authority, with A. C. Willis, some-
time miners’ secretary and Labor Min-
ister, as chairman, and awarded the miners
nine days’ holiday. Many of them made
it 9\ days. Mindful of the State election,
the N.S.W. McKell Government de-
clared January 3 a public holiday.
Thereupon the Willis Coal Authority
granted the miners double pay for that
day, somebody cheerfully mentioning
that it would cost the taxpayer £19,000.
The decision denied double pay to mine
enginedrivers and mechanics, and they
caused it to be announced that they
wouldn’t work unless they got it. They
got it. And again the taxpayer was the
mug.
Federal Arbitration Judges O’Mara and
Drake-Brockman attributed most of the
appalling N.S.W. holiday mess to State
Government “monkeying.” It stung Mc-
Kell,- usually polite, into a denunciation
of “these Tory-appointed gentlemen,”
who, he alleged, had “become notorious
for their reckless statements against
Governments and Ministers since Labor
attained office.” McKell should have re-
membered that the gentleman he
appointed chairman of the State Indus-
trial Commission protested against Minis-
terial “monkeying” in the case of
slaughtermen employed at the Govern-
ment abattoirs, who have been known to
work a 33-hour week —though not at
Christmas.
“Chevroford”: After visiting Wan-
garatta (Vic.), where ten persons lost their
lives and another ten were injured in the
first bushfire of the season, Premier Dqn-
stan thought he put his finger on the
prime cause of these conflagrations when
he stigmatised the carelessness of gas-
producer owners who empty live coals
the roadside. There are irresponsible
idiots who do this; still I doubt the
importance of Dunstan’s diagnosis. After
the great 1939 fires, when upwards of 70
perished, scores of causes were canvassed,
from the effect of the sun’s rays passing
through broken bottles to the cigarette
butt thrown from car windows. But for
weeks before the outbreak fires were
smouldering over hundreds of square
miles of country. The 60-m.p.h. gale
which came that January was all that was
needed to fan these embers into a blaze
which no fire-prevention service in the
world could bridle.
Though at the last census only 11.86
per 1000 persons enumerated (78,652 out
of 6,629,839) were Irish-born, whereas
there were 48.86 per 1000 (184,470 out
of 3,773,801) in 1901, the Irish immigrant
has not vanished altogether. Australia
got one of the best in Private Richard
Kelliher, of Ballybeggan, Tralee, County
Kerry, who, serving with the Queens-
landers in New Guinea, has been awarded
the V.C. for supreme bravery. Now for a
bard to write a worthy ode to the Bhoy
of Tralee!
U.S. reactions to the Hull-Eden-Molo-
tov conference were not uniformly favor-
able. W. C. Bullitt, sometime Ambas-
sador at Moscow and Paris, sharply ci iti-
cised the exclusion’ of all European coun-
tries —he denies the description to the
U.S.S.R. as well as the U.S.A. and Britain
—from the arrangements for their conti-
nent. “A division of Europe into spheres
of influence, one Communist, one capi-
talist, would,” he said, “lead inevitably
to revolutions and counter-revolutions,
and eventually to a Soviet-British war
in which we Americans certainly would
be involved.”
From Melbourne:
There are all the materials for a mystery
thriller in the affair of the racehorse Saint
Warden, which arrived in Adelaide from Mel-
bourne despite transport regulations, and then
returned to its stable at Mentone in a similarly
supernatural fashion, having apparently slipped
through police cordons, railway officials and
departmental bigwigs whose job it is supposed
to be to see that just' that sort of thing should
not happen. It would also supply a golden theme
to a playwright who wanted to write a satire
on bureaucracy in action. Whether the animal
was carried to and from Adelaide on a trailer
behind a private car, or whether it walked,
swam or flew, or travelled in a cattle truck dis-
guised as an heifer, nobody seems to know;
its owner refuses to answer questions.
My greengrocer’s guess is that the creature was
dehydrated and canned in Adelaide, sent through
the post in a perfectly legitimate manner and
then restored to normal by the addition of
water. But the case is in the hands of Edward
J. Ward, the Great Detective, who discovered
the Brisbane Line, so let Menzies and Fadden
tr-remble!
Percival Cornelius, retiring editor of
the British “Hansard,” says many mem-
bers of the Commons aren’t worth their
£6OO a year. What he’d think of some
of our members, many of whom get
more, might have to be printed on
asbestos.
N.S.W. authorities are concerned at
the increase in the number of persons
in durance vile. It is suggested that the
war is responsible. Once safely in jail
there is no more worry about food,
tobacco, beer, taxes, man-power, black
markets or train travel.
“There are many today who are intoxi-
cated by the heady wine of war-time con-
trol.” So recently said William Mabane,
Parliamentary Secretary to the British
Ministry of Food ; and he dealt with the
gentry in a few meaty sentences:
They are busily preaching a controlled
society as the greatest good that can befall
us. But I do not believe the British people
will accept a regime in which the State be-
comes the arbiter of the life and fortune
of the individual. I regard a precise and
logically-ordered society as a bad exchange
for freedom. And let none pretend that
the two things are reconcilable—they are
not.
Yet here is Dr. Lloyd Ross saying as
Senior Research Officer of the Ministry
for Post-war Reconstruction (what a
mouthful!) that “after the war controls
and priorities will have to be continued
in an even wider field than at present,
the field of political and economic con-
troversy.” A.case of being intoxicated
Math his own verbosity and the possibili- *
ties of his own office.
From Churchill’s last full-dress House
of Commons speech, in which he spoke
BALING OUT.
“Pilot-Officer Falstein, M.H.R., was photographed at
Randwick wearing a reservist badge.”
kindly of ,the coalminers —he said “only
750,000 tons of coal have been lost dur-
ing the last 12 months by strikes out of
upwards of 200,000,000 tons produced”:
Our task is long. The toil is heavy. The
fifth year of war weighs harshly upon our
minds and upon our shoulders. Do not
let' us add to our difficulties by any lack
of clarity of thinking or by any restive
wavering of resolution... .We have to con-
tinue to show our enemies that our flex-
ible system of free democratic government
is capable alike of pursuing the most com-
plex designs in modern war and bearing
invincibly all the varied strains which
come on our soldiers in the battlefield, and
on all of us whose duty lies behind the
fighting fronts.
It would almost seem that he had a
premonition of what was coming to him.
Britain has had ten Prime Ministers
in this century —Lord Salisbury, Balfour,
Campbell-Bannerman, Asquith, Lloyd
George, Bonar Law, Baldwin, Mac-
Donald, Neville Chamberlain and
Churchill. Churchill has been longer in
office than his predecessor, whose term
ran from May 28, 1937, to May 10, 1940.
Within the century, Bonar Law’s tenancy
of 10 Downing-street was the shortest
(October 23, 1922, to May 22, 1923) and
Asquith’s the longest (April 8, 1908, to
December 7, 1916), but Lord Salisbury’s
three terms (the last was from June 25,
1895, to July 14, 1902) ran to just on 14
years, a total unequalled since the Reform
year, 1832.
When Food Controller Murphy was in
Townsville (Q.) listening to complaints of
shortages, he heard some
mixed talk from the
Mayor, who said that the
present representations
would be the last Towns-
ville would make. “The
next overtures will be in,
the only language the
Federal Government ap-
parently understands, the
language of the N.S.W.
coalminers.” The Mayor
needn’t assume he’s made
a discovery.
Last Monday was the
307th anniversary of Wil-
liam Dampier’s landing on
the Westralian coast. He
is said to have been a
buccaneer, but he’d have
beep surprised could he
have survived to see the
buccaneers that infest the
continent now.
Professor Bland, of
Sydney University, wants
to know whether our war-
time authorities are aware
that by appeals to in-
formers, spies, eaves-
droppers and snoopers,
and by the employment of
an army of special agents
and even agents-provoca-
teurs, they are “effectively
introducing the Gestapo
and Ogpu to Australia.” A
further and more import-
ant question is, if they are
aware of it, what do they
care?
The Inverell and Dis-
trict Association of War
Agricultural Committees
was coolly informed by a
Mr. E. H. Panton that
there would be Govern-
ment control of agricul-
ture in some shape or form
for many years, if not for
ever, and that if they
didn’t “implement” the control it would
be “implemented” from hundreds of
miles away. The astonished agriculturists
then realised that Mt. Panton was from
Sydney and went away in profound
thought.
“Something for your scrapbook,” as
F. Ehrenfried Baume puts it before reach-
ing for the scissors :
The feeling grows again that until the
ships of the Royal Navy are regarded as
battle units, and not as defensive show
pieces, there will be other Cretes and things
of which Nelson never'thought.
The Famous War Correspondent wrote
it after one of the most glorious deeds
of Cunningham and his men ; and no-
body rammed it down the F.W.C. s
throat.


fm-
-1
EXBt-42
“This Will he a Darning Needle Year”
—says the Prime Minister.
A stitch in time saves nine. An occasional call on your Exide Dealer will keep your
battery up to the mark. When replacement is needed remember . . .
txlhC BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
dfsg
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
It’s like heresy to mention it, but doubt
has been cast on one of the most popular
beliefs of today —concerning Churchill,
cigar-smoker. “On the word of no less
an authority than a man who is forced to
sit in the British Cabinet room within
breathing distance of the Prime Minis-
ter’s famous Havanas,” the P.M. has been
declared “a chewer” —one who works
every cigar from both ends and “com-
mits the unpardonable sin of letting every
cigar lie dead between his teeth for in-
terminable stretches of time.” There is
worse in the indictment. Though, with
every Ambassador or Minister from every
country that ever grew tobacco weighing
in with private caches and admirers all
over the world sending presents of their
favorite brands, enough cigars now reach
10 Downing-street to put up an invasion
smoke-screen, and though the cellar at
that address is reported to be “full of
good and bad cigars,” the P.M.’s choice
often runs to “twofers.”
The latest Australian to win a V.C.
is an Irishman. He’s a Queenslander
from Ballybeggan,. Tralee, County Kerry
—QX20656, Pte. Richard Kelliher, with
an aunt at Bowen Hills, Brisbane, and
mother living back on the Ould Sod,
W'hence the V.C. came 10 years ago, to
live and work in the Queensland capital.
Another of the family of 11, a sister,
lives in Sydney. Though no doubt he
didn’t notice it, Pte. Kelliher took the
additional risk of picking September 13
for his V.C. deeds. Five of his platoon
having been killed by a concealed enemy
machine-gun in that morning fighting at
Nadzab, New Guinea, Kelliher suddenly
rushed the post alone, attacking with
grenades. Some occupants still showing
fight, Kelliher got back to his section,
seized a Bren and again went out, this
time silencing the post. Then, though
under fire from another quarter, he went
out once more, to bring in his wounded
section-leader.
K.C. at 36, Westralian Crown Solicitor
E. A. Dunphy is a Perth native. Edu-
cated by the Christian Brothers and
articled to his father’s firm —Dwyer,
Durack and Dunphy—in 1927, he was
made a nartner on his admission to the
Bar in 1932. He was named Crown
Solicitor just before the war ; he has since
appeared for the State in practically all
litigation concerning it, finding time to be
as well a member of the Adult Education
Board and the Broadcasting Advisory
Committee and chairman of the Magis-
terial Examination Board.
The leaders: —-
The tipsters, mostly American, were wrong.
Back in September a whole tribe of them were
tipping that the invasion leader would be
General Marshall, U.S. Chief of Staff. Those (
who see J. Bull as the nigger in every woodpile
asserted that he was intent on “kicking Mar-
shall upstairs” into the job for some nefarious
purpose unstated.
There was a wild press fight over it, in -the
course of which Marshall was held to be —
as he possibly is—one of the greatest generals
of all time. But it was hard to see who wanted
what. On one thing all seemed unanimous
—that the big job was cut and dried for an
American.
In that, at least, they were right. General
Eisenhower had commanded all Allied forces
in North Africa from when the Americans
landed there. Aggressive, restless (in talking to
a caller he often gets up and paces about the
room or moves from one chair to another),
and with more energy than most men far
younger (he’s 53), he takes his great responsi-
bilities in his stride and is noted for getting
through an enormous amount of work every
24 hours. He stands by his subordinates, but
can lash out and swear emphatically when
orders are bungled. Last August he was
given the U.S. Army permanent rank of major-
general, having been up to then a mere colonel
by “permanent” rating.
Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Tedder,
Deputy Commander-in-Chief to Eisenhower,
has commanded the air operations in the
Mediterranean fighting, and is a master of air
strategy. He’s a rather small, thin-faced Scot
to whom the air represents personal tragedy —
his first wife was killed in a crash near Cairo
and his eldest son was killed fighting high over
Britain. The amount of work he, too, does
would kill a horse. Mostly quiet, he has a
sharp and sometimes cutting humor. Born,
1890.
Admiral Sir Bertram Home Ramsay, Allied
Naval C.-in-C., looks the darkest horse of the
whole invasion team. In 1915-19 he com-
manded Monitor 25 and H.M.S. Broke in the
Dover Patrol, and was back in the Dover
neighborhood as Flag Officer Commanding,
1939-42. Between wars he had accompanied
Jellicoe to India and the Dominions, had been
Chief of Staff China Station and Rear-
Admiral and Chief of Staff, Home Fleet (1935),
and had retired only a year before the present
war brought him into action again. He was
born in 1883.
General Sir Bernard Montgomery (56),
C.-in-C. of the British section of the invasion
army, is the non-smoker, non-drinker, some-
what dour leader of the great British Eighth
Army which smashed the Axis back from
Alamein to Italy. Son of a former Bishop of
Tasmania, he was born in London in 1887.
In the New Year honors R. G. Casey,
Governor of Bengal, who has been a
special favorite with J. Bull ever since
Australia exported him to Washington,
joined Bruce, Hughes, Earle Page and
Essington Lewis as another Australian
Companion of Honor. A knighthood
went to John Cowan, retiring from the
S.A. Legislative Council after represent-
ing Southern District for 30 years, with
portfolios in several Ministries. Highest
in the Commonwealth allotment was' a
C.B. to Colonel (Temporary Major-
General) F. P. Derham, D. 5.0., V.D., o£
Malvern (Vic.). Captain George Dunbar
Moore, of the R.A.N., and Colonel A. C.
S. Holland, of Mosman (Sydney), became
Cs.B.E. (military division), and G. R. R.
Nicholas, governing director of the Mel-
bourne Nicholas concern, became C.B.E.
(civil division). South Australians Judge
Paine (Judge in Insolvency for more than
20 years) and H. T. M. Angwin (State
Engineer-in-Chief) became Cs.M.G.
Though not much in the limelight these
days, Major Murray Jones is doing a great
job producing aircraft He served in No.
1 Squadron, A.F.C.,- in the last show as
a flight commander, winning the M.C.
He later went to France, where he got
his squadron and majority and D.S.O.
After the war he joined the permanent
air force, when Dicky Williams formed
it, but, finding things slow, he resigned,
and for a while had an orchard in Vic-
toria. De Havillands apparently have
never regretted digging him out from
there to take charge of their Australian
interests. Once; flying a Martynside
MAJORMURRAYJONES, D.S.O., M.C.
loaded with bombs, Jones was attacked
by enemy aricraft, which set his machine
on fire. He sideslipped it down, made a
good landing and hopped out. The Huns
then bombed him, and one of the eggs fell
only a couple of yards away —it was a dud.
In France the tail fin of an 5.E.5 he was
flying fell off, but he succeeded in getting
it down, and in the crash suffered only
a broken nose. Fellow-pilots always
averred that he might meet death by
slipping on a banana-skin, but would
never be killed flying. A magnificent and
absolutely fearless pilot, he should, with
his civil experience, play an important
part in Australia’s post-war civil aviation
policy.
Sydney G.P.O. has acquired from Adel-
aide an official who is more famous for
his sideline of ship models. H. D. Hall
has made many such, especially of Buffalo
and Rapid, S.A.’s two pioneer vessels.
The bronze H.M.S. Buffalo on the
Pioneers’ Memorial at Glenelg was cast
from his design.
Any person or persons found in pos-
session of a series of essays on the Greek
lyric poets (with translations) by Chris-
topher Brennan will be gratefully greeted
by John Quinn, retiring librarian of the
N. S. Wales Parliamentary Library. Bren-
nan spoke of the essays as completed in
1929, but nobody can find ’em. Quinn’s
retirement means that at long last the
Collected Brennan which the Common-
wealth Fund has been promising for years
may be on the market within a reason-
able time: he is collaborating with Prof.
A. R. Chisholm, of Sydney University—
both men knew Brennan well —in produc-
ing a Collected Prose and Poetry which,
though not the poet’s complete output,
may run into three vols. A few unpub-
JOHN QUINN.
lished poems, none of any great conse-
quence, have been unearthed. The prose
will include half a dozen lectures on
poetry, some articles from “Art in Aus-
tralia” and the “Bookfellow” and the
50 columns of critical writing Brennan
contributed to The Bulletin. Quinn
himself wrote criticism for the Red Page
in the days of Bertram Stevens. Like
the library in which he has spent 35
years, Quinn is compact and companion-
able.
From John Brennan:
An honorary birthright as an Australian can
fairly be granted t'o Captain H. C. Corry, of
the British Solomon Islands Protectorate
Native Labor Corps. He got his first' look at
Australia at the age of three, he has a a son in
the A.1.F., his eldest daughter is a Waaf and he
himself is an enthusiastic barracker for Aus-
tralia and things Australian, and a firm believer
in the country’s right (and duty) to have a large
say in South Pacific affairs. Corry’s people
took him back to his northern Ireland birth-
place shortly after that 1891 visit, but he was
back again l ' in 1908 as apprentice on a sailing
ship, arriving in Sydney on the day of the
Burns-Johnson fight. He wandered about
N.S.W., working on various jobs—on the Nim-
mitabel railway and at Burrunjuck—till 1913,
when he got the urge for the Solomons. Coming
here as skipper of a recruiting schooner, he
worked as a recruiter for five years before
taking up land at Aolo on Guadalcanal. He
took over alluvial leases at Gold Ridge, too,
though he mentions* Wryly that most of the
gold had' already been removed on the side
when the ridge was declared a field. There
when Japan came into the war Corry was
evacuated to Sydney with the rest of the white
civilian population, but the Solomons were in
his blood, and before the year was out he was
back on Guadalcanal oh his present job.
Dr. A. R. Ellis, appointed to the
vacancy on the Victorian County Court
Bench and the chairmanship of the Rail-
ways Reclassification Board, was a long
time taking the plunge into legal waters.
Educated at Talbot State school and
Ormond College, he became a rural
teacher and then classics master at the
University High School, Melbourne. In
the last war he rose from private to cap-
tain, and won the M.C. After that he
became assistant to the Parliamentary
draughtsman, before starting practice in
1923. He was one of the late Leo
Cussen’s collaborators in the immense
task of consolidating the Victorian
statutes. A history he wrote of the Fifth
Australian Division got him a doctorate
of letters.
. Major - General Sydney Fairbairn
Rowell, “appointed to an important post
at the War Office” (vide cable from
Cairo), is a South Australian (b. Lock-
leys), a regular soldier and the son of a
soldier, Col. James Rowell. An original
Duntroon graduate (August 14, 1914),
Major-Gen. Rowell has been an Austra-
lian liaison officer in the Middle East,
after service as a brigadier in Libya,
Greece and Syria and as commander of
the Australian troops in New Guinea.
In the last war he was a Light Horse
officer on Gallip., invalided home in 1916.
Between wars he kept to soldiering as a
profession, getting in early with the new
A.I.F. (Sixth Division), October, 1939.
Lately he has been helping with the re-
patriation of Australian prisoners of war.
His War Office post is that of Director
of Tactical Investigation.
An odd record in theatrical longevity
was established by 80-year-old J. D.
Stoyle when he appeared in the revival
at Melbourne Assembly Hall of Plan-
quette’s comic opera “Rip Van Winkle.”
Stoyle was the Demon Dwarf of the
original production in 1883. In between
he played with Pollard’s Opera Co.,
Melba’s, * Williamson’s and a host of
others.
Neil Traylen, of the psychology staff
of W.A. University, went from Perth
Teachers’ College to the R.A.A.F., was
seriously injured in a crash in England
and was subsequently commissioned to
look into psychological aspects of the
R. and American Air Forces. Now
back on his native heath, his next job will
be with the psychology branch of the
Australian Army.
While training, Sergeant Lloyd William
Lewis Godfrey, of the R.A.A.F., formerly
a Melbourne “Argus” press photographer,
made a valuable record of two aspects of
England—the one of its ordered land-
scape, quiet streams, old manor houses
and castles ruined by time, and the other
of the architectural devastation wrought
by‘Nazi bombers. Sgt. Godfrey has now
been reported missing.
Into the silence:
In Perth, at 68, S. H. Lamb, a W.A. master
printer, Rotarian and local recording Y.M.C.A.
secretary for 33 years.
At 60, Rev. T. G. Paul, one of those who
doffed the clerical collar to become an infantry-
man in the 1914-18 war; he fought with the
Sixth Battalion, and won his commission and an’
M. in France. Recently rector of St. John’s,
Camden (N.S.W.), he wanted to get to this war,
too, as a padre but was held to be too old.
He was a local R.S.L. leader.
At' 69, William Coad, one of the group that
caused Henri Verbruggen to become lyrical
about the quality of Australian musicians.
Coad went to U.S.A. in 1924 and was first
violin of the New York Symphony Orchestra
and a teacher at the Manhattan School of
Music before becoming Professor of the Violin
at the Ithaca College, New York.
At 88, in Bendigo, John Thomas Woodyard,
who, born near Wangaratta, in his youth helped
the Kellys to round up horses when that was
an innocent pursuit. They became outlaws
and he went the opposite way, joining the
police force and staying in it till his retirement
in 1919.
At 78, in Melbourne, Dr. Ramsay Mailer,
president of the Melbourne Cricket Club and
one of the most versatile medicoes in Mel-
bourne. He was a farmer, a stud owner,
a lifelong worker in the cause of slum abo-
lition and a Collins-street specialist, and he
played cricket both against and with W. G.
Grace, who, when Mailer was studying medi-
cine at Edinburgh, chose him to fill a vacancy
in an English eleven playing Scotland. He
played a'gainst W.G. in a Victorian team.
At Manly (Sydney), at 81, C. T. B. Turner,
another of the great old-time cricketers to pass
on recently, and one of the best of them. At
19 he bowled havoc through a visiting English
team at Bathurst (N.S.W.), and in three visits
to England he bagged the remarkable total of
689 wickets. In Tests he took 101 wickets for
an average of 13.76. Turner was in the
N. Savings Bank for many years.
At 46, at Hobart, Dr. Arndell Neil Lewis,
leading lawyer and son of a former Premier of
Tasmania. An authority on the Apple Island’s
natural history. Dr. Lewis did good work for
the Royal Society. He won the M.C. in the
last war as an artillery officer and in peace-
time was lieutenant-colonel commanding the
Sixth Australian F.A.B.
In Surrey (Eng.), at 91, Steward Salter, one
of two brothers who founded a Mitcham in
S. and a Mitcham in Victoria, naming them
after their English birthplace and pioneering
lavender-growing in each district.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clooter”: I see where that prince of
optimists Scully is proposing to increase
the meat ration by “action to increase the
trapping of rabbits.” I’m not averse to
a bit of underground mutton myself, but
I foresee difficulties. Apart from the fact
that the moment anything in this
country comes under Government con-
trol it becomes a black-market com-
modity, I predict trouble with the sturdy
trappers when they find themselves hav-
ing to (a) obtain permits to buy trapg,
(b) obtain permits to trap, (c) get permis-
sion from Man-power to go to rabbit-
country, (d) obey dictates from the Rabbit
Directorate as to length, number and
color of rabbits which it is permitted to
trap, and ( e ) become members of a union.
Still, the newspapers should support
Scully. They’re sure to get a lot of dis-
play advertisements telling housewives
how to cook the rabbits they can’t buy,
and to cook them with wood so as to
save coal miners won’t hew.
* * *
“Lomond”: All soldiers on enlistment
or prior to discharge have to go through
the psychological hoops. A Digger was
being discharged on account of age—s 9.
Apart from army service, he had lived
and worked on a farm all his life, and
he had every intention of finishing on
one. After the Psychology Section had
been at work on him for three hours he
staggered out of the examination room,
“Sorry, sir—only one to each customer !”
eyes goggling. “Do you know what they
told me?” he bellowed to a mate. “They
says I ought to be a farmer. Me!”
* * * *
“K.”: Current newsreels covering the
Italian campaign make those brass-rail
strategists who have been howling at the
old firm of Eisenhower, Alexander and
Montgomery because of the slowness of
results look completely silly. Shot after
shot shows men and machines ploughing
through mud of as glutinous a quality
as the Kokoda Trail. And the terrain
has to be seen to be believed. Anyone
who was around Flers in T 7 knows how
torrential rain on clayey ground can bog
an army—and a mechanised army is if
anything often in worse plight than a
horse-drawn one, especially around river
flats. But it looks as if after the war the
Italians will have to coin another phrase
to publicise their country’s attractions.
“Sunny Italy” certainly sounds funny
now.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: In the December “Medical
Journal” there is an uncommonly in-
teresting report by Major Sinclair,
A.A.M.C., on “310 psychiatric casualties”
admitted to a field hos-
pital in N.G. during five
months of the Owen
Stanley and Buna-Gona
operations. Conditions of
fighting were, it seems,
contributory causes :
“physical hardship and
exhaustion were greater
factors than in other
campaigns,” and “the
enemy, by adopting an
individual type of attack,
further accentuated the
personal aspect of the
struggle; he became a
well-camouflaged single
enemy rather than a
front.” Another factor
—this in 28 p.c. of cases
—was physical illness,
“just prior to or in asso-
ciation with the upset”:
malaria, scrub typhus,
dysentery. In all cases a
psychiatric history was
taken, and “29 p.c. of
neurotic casualties gave
evidence of an unsatis-
factory school record ;
they were unable to pass
the first qualifying ex-
amination in a State
school.” After treatment,
which was patient and
elaborate, 48 p.c. of the
casualties were returned
to their units, 27 p.c.
boarded B-class to remain
i n New Guinea and 25 p.c. evacuated to
the mainland. Summing up, Major Sin-
clair notes these things among others:
“The incidence of frank psychological
disorder at an Allstralian general hos .
„.-x„i « * ,• x
! n 18 ZI ,P C ' ° C ad :
mltted ; the campaign has introduced
Psychologicall hazards new to Australian
troops; cardiac symptoms have been
commoner than in the Middle East;
uncomplicated malingering is uncom-
mon ; the soldier with personality defects
is a quickly-recognised medical |iability
and should be removed from the army
; at an early period of his training.”
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Words do change their
meanings. I don’t lyiow how it is in
other States, but “dirty” has become a
complimentary term in Melbourne. A
damsel got up in the latest fashion and
exuding all the perfumes of Araby (at
half a guinea a bottle) was greeted by
a young man with obvious appreciation.
“You smell like a dirty big garden,” be
said.
* * * *
Ftp ’: Christmas is over and the camp
can go back to sleep after being disturbed
tor months by the tapping and scraping
ot amateur present-makers. Trays, bread-
boards, serviette rings and inkstands were
produced in large numbers from Queens-
land timbers. A few fashioned Spanish
galleons, with sails of old tent canvas
decorated with flamboyant, if unheraldic,
lions and crosses. Some plaited belts
from leather, and one wizard made cello-
phane belts from the wrappings of
tobacco and cigarette packets. Rings were
in great demand. Take a two-shilling
piece, tap it gently around the edge for
hours with a hammer, cut out the centre,
polish the finished article carefully and
a fine silver ring results. Unfortunately
you risk boiling in oil or something for
defacing a coin of the realm. Duralium
and perspex from crashed aircraft made
up into excellent rings, and were easily
“I always respeck the dead!"
inscribed with the unit color patch. A
couple of A.E.S. students, doing drawing
courses, used sketches dnd etchings (for
bachelors) as gifts. We asked the girls if
they’d done any faneywork. An
A.A.M.W.S. answered “Today I have
fixed 47 dressings, supplied 178 cups of
tea, emptied 312. bedpans, scrubbed two
large floors and helped in the kitchen in
my spare time. Faneywork!” We saw
the point.
* * * *
“Fronsac”: Touching “Simon’s” asser-
tion (B. 22/12/’43) that “the temperature
of the ocean, even in the tropics, never
exceeds 78 degrees,” it used to be a prac-
tice in passenger ships to record the tem-
perature of the swimming-bath into which
ocean water was pumped. My diary of
one of these voyages (1934) shows that
in February the water temperature near
Cocos was 80deg. F., and remained fairly
constant until, off the coast of Ceylon,
82deg. was reached, the maximum re-
corded at that season on the Australia-
Suez run. A few months later the water
temperature from Perim across to Bom-
bay (about 1800 miles) was almost con-
stant at 84deg. to 85deg., but had risen
to 87deg. off the west coast of Ceylon.
Chambers’s Encyclopcedia states “the tem-
perature of the surface waters of the
ocean varies from 28deg. F. in the polar
regions to 85deg. or 86deg. in the equa-
torial regions.”
* * * *
“Nipper”: The church' queue has
arrived. Over the Christmas period at a
Sydney suburban tabernacle the congre-
gation had to queue up to receive com-
munion.
* * * *
“Jachris”: During the fighting at Piva
or at Cibik Ridge or possibly at Koro-
makina Lagoon on the other end of the
beachhead, a young Marine caught sight
of a Japanese officer carrying one of those
large two-handed sabres with jewel-
studded handles which rank as the best
possible souvenirs of the war in the South
Pacific. The Marine made after him,
fired the last two shots with his pistol,
both of which missed, then grappled with
the Jap and, while the rest of the battle
raged around them, finished him with bare
hands. The colonel came into the pic-
ture when the fight was over. He saw the
Marine carrying the sword and ordered
the youngster tp hand it over. The
Marine refused. The colonel demanded
j t a g a j n> “See here,” yelled the Marine ;
“i’ ve already killed one natural child to
ge t what I’ve got, and I’m ready to kill
ano ther to keep it.”
* * * *
“T.P.”: An Anglican clergyman (Vic.),
editor of the diocesan journal, before leav-
ing Victoria for S.A. fired a farewell
shot at his correspondents. Among other
things he wanted to know why he invari-
ably “occupied the pulpit” instead of
“preached,” why the “organiste presided
at the instrument” instead of playing the
organ, and why that “organiste.” It re-
minded me of J. F. Archibald’s note on
a manuscript he returned to me umpteen
years ago: “A man cannot ‘wend his
way’ through these columns. He ‘walks.’ ”
* * * *
“Allwet”: An Allied service man
walked into a Melbourne hotel, slapped
his two bob down on the bar and called
for “Spahtch and soda.” The barman
dropped an ice cube an inch square into
the glass, filled it carefully to the Plim-
soll line with whisky and splashed in
some soda. The Yank took a sip from
his drink and beamed at the Diggers who
breasted the bar around him. “Cold
drinks just like in the States,” he ob-
served. “Plenty of service here, boys.”
“And not too much whisky! ” commented
an Australian. “That ice cube must dis-
place three parts of your drinks. Next
time make ’em put the ice in after the
whisky.”
A KNOTTY QUESTION.
“Police patrolling King’s Cross, Sydney, on New
Year’s Eve were specially instructed to be ‘tolerant
of harmless gaiety, but to take stern action against
hooliganism.* ”
Easy to say, but pretty hard for cops
To tell when noisy merrymaking stops,
And joie de vivre oversteps the border
Dividing it from riotous disorder.
Add to his ordeal that the man in blue
Must come to lightning-quick decisions, too,
And make it his immediate concern
When to be tolerant —and when be stern.
Some peelers, with no sense of humor blest,
May sense a misdemeanor in a jest;
Others, with wits, like Yorick’s, somewhat
keener,
Find mirth material in a misdemeanor.
What might as cheerful frolicking be view’d
By some, to others would be horseplay rude.
There is no yardstick anyone can try
To measure public ebullitions by.
Tot homines. I venture to surmise
That solemn clerics’ disapproving eyes
Are often turned on capers which the laity
Regard as nothing more than harmless gaiety.
And, on the other hand, one meets with blokes
Who carry what they designate as jokes
And whimsicalities to the excess
That ends in lamentable lawlessness.
Our guardians of the peace, I might suggest,
Should be subjected to another test
Touching some formula which could decree
Precisely when innocuous jollity
Has passed its mark among the madding throng
And flagrant misbehavior comes along.
Could I supply one? No, I’m at a loss,
But wouldnT it be useful at “The Cross”!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
THE WORST SUFFERERS.
“The effect which meat-rationing will have on the
diet of prisoners in N.S.W. jails, who have hitherto
been allowed 71b. a week, is being considered by the
Minister of Justice.”
These war-time cuts must be, you’ll understand,
Borne with good grace by every citizen;
Belts must be tightened even in a land
Inhabited by “five-meal, meat-fed men.”
Hence, though your steak grows scarce, forbear
to curse.
It’s worth recalling, while you kiss the rod,
Conditions will be infinitely worse
For lots of chaps in quod.
When meat has taken off your twist the edge,
You can assault the spuds and beans and peas,
Or any other kind of toothsome veg.,
Or fill the chinks (like Jorrocks) up with
cheese.
Delicatessen joints will furnish ways
The cravings of the inner man to stem.
But those who’re “on a diet,” spare me days!
There’s no such luck for them.
Cuique suum. We all must burdens bear,
Whether they weigh a little or a lot.
The strict teetotaller need never care
Whether a tid’s available or not.
And he who hates the smell of “fags” may go to
His office registering no regrets
At notices in shops announcing “No To-
Bacco or Cigarettes.”
The more of anything you’ve had, the more
You’ll miss it obviously. And the less
You’ve known, the smaller reason to deplore
Its lack, or view its absence with distress.
Think of the hapless souls to whom it meant
So much for lightening their daily cares,
And ask yourself what cause foe discontent
You have, compared with theirs.
Your pounds of flesh, my friend, may fall be-
neath
Your farmer whack, yet you will bear th e blow
More manfully than if you’d sunk your teeth
Weekly in half a stone of it or so.
Besides, you’ve other edibles. So, while
You munch your tucker, you can thank your
stars . „
You’re not what poets call “in durance vile,
/.<?., behind the bars.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tuart”: One of the Melbourne papers
claims Casey as a native son, “bom in
Melbourne 52 years ago.” Actually, he
was born at Brisbane on August 29, 1890 ;
the fact is recorded in a publication issued
from the paper’s office as well as by Bean
in his history of the last war. The Gover-
nor-elect of Bengal is an accomplished
linguist, a circumstance which no doubt
helped him with Churchill, master of only
one language, though what a master!
With the First Division in France, Casey
could often be seen interrogating German
prisoners, and aboard the old Orvieto in
November, 1914 —he was then aide-de-
camp to Major-General Bridges—he was
the recipient of Captain von Muller’s
confidences. As Bean tells the story, the
captain of the Emden “was asked by
Lieutenant R. G. Casey what he would
have done had he sighted” the Anzac
troopships ; and this was the answer:
I was 52 miles away from you that night.
If I had got up to you I should have
run alongside her [indicating the cruiser
on the port bow of the convoy] and fired a
torpedo. Then in the confusion I should
have got in among the transports. I would
have sunk half of them, I think, before
your escort came up.
Instead, there came the historic signal
from First Sydney: “Emden wrecked and
done for.”
* * * *
“Visitor”: Adelaide’s most practical
advertisement has gone out of business
for a time. It is the lifelike dummy of a
house-painter, slung in a painter’s cradle
on a high wall and seemingly hard at
work. In his 30 years of existence all
sorts of legends have grown round that
painter: pious churchgoers have com-
plained of his toiling on the Sabbath ;
unionists have branded him as a scab ;
factory inspectors have inquired about
his long hours affd so on. Rain, sun and
wind wear his clothes out every four or
five years, and new ones would now
for coupons.
* * * *
“Hamer”: In the grocer’s the person
next to you whispers “Got any eggs?”
It is meant to be heard only by the
grocer, but you hear it. And you hear
also or utter whispers about cigarettes,
beer, chocolates, tinned goods—indeed, a
wide range of commodities—hoping to
preserve the favor you or the other whis-
perers may have acquired. I met an old
friend on a tram, and he whispered that
he was going to Bondi Junction. “But
why whisper?” I demanded. “Well,” he
said, very sotto voce, “I heard they are
selling bottled beer at one of the pubs
there.” When the guard came round I
handed him threepence instead of my
full fare to Bondi and whispered “Bondi
Junction.” We’ll be a nation of whis-
perers if this goes on.
* * * *
“Skyrider”: A lone Australian in or
out of uniform is a common sight, but
how many unaccompanied Yanks do you
meet? Perhaps the best example is to
be met in the places they call barber
shops. Arrived for my weekly ration of
tobacco I saw one American soldier being
shaved while his pal stood near and
yarned to the chap in the chair. In
another saloon was a similar tableau.
Forgetting both I landed a week later at
my barber’s ( not a tobacconist), and
while I waited five minutes watched a
young U.S. officer standing over his
friend while the latter was being clipped.
When I dropped into the chair the knight
of the shears pointed them at the Ameri-
can backs. “Funny thing,” he said, “I
never shave an American or cut his hair
without having to listen all the time to a
mate talking to him.”
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: An outer-suburban
Melbourne citizen tootled home with a
brace of turkeys. But the house was
locked up, the family having gone out to
do its Christmas shopping; and, having
nowhere else to put his precious cargo,
he deposited it temporarily in the outside
convenience and went off to the pub for
a snifter. Getting home later —and
fuller —than he expected he went to bed,
forgetting his pair of buzzards. Next
morning he hastened out to salvage and
deliver them to the missus. But the tur-
keys were gone, and in their place was a
note: “Very, very many thanks for your
Christmas present. —The Nightman.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The prosperous old gent,
paused, removed his prosperous hat and
wiped his prosperous brow with a pros-
perous handkerchief. Then he stood, tall,
corpulent and impressive, a brief case
and satchel of books ostentatiously under
one arm, his hat held negligently in his
other hand, and somewhat benevolently
surveyed the passing crowd. Along came
three Diggers. One of them eyed the
rich figure standing there, dived into a
pocket, brought forth a handful of cop-
pers and silver, selected a couple of cop-
pers and threw them into the hat. “There
y’ are, ol’ man,” he said, “that’ll give
y’ a jingle t’ start with.” Beating off
apoplexy by a miracle, the recipient of
the largeSse bolted hurriedly into his pala-
tial office.
* * * *
“N.X.”: A country not possessing
folk songs and its own legendary tales
lacks a cultural background. Operas of
older countries, Germany in particular,
grew from the folk tales and music of
the people. Modern American attempts
at opera look to the negro folk songs and
spirituals for inspiration. An Australian
opera would have to draw from similar
indigenous sources. Since they don’t
seem to exist we just can’t have any
opera. Incidentally, I heard a couple of
the Australian composer James’s .melo-
dies recently. His stockrider “riding,
riding, riding home again” and the ro-
bustly sentimental “Comrades of Mine”
seem to me to catch the spirit of Aus-
tralian tradition much more accurately
than “Waltzing Matilda” does.
I ** * *
“C.H.”: Going to a picture show in
New Guinea is a novel experience. A
“Gunner Blair, sir; the most conscientious guard in the unit, sir!”
mobile cinema unit sets up the projector ;
a diesel engine supplies power and
troops move into the “theatre” a good
hour before the beginning. The seats are
forms, boxes, handmade stools, blocks of
wood and empty petrol drums. With a
preliminary “Hats off in front,” we settle
down to enjoy the entertainment. There
being one projector only, it is necessary
to change the spool in tense moments,
sometimes when hero and herowhine are
about to clinch. During such an interval
a record is played and we. take the oppor-
tunity of stretching our legs. If rain
looms groundsheets and gascapes are
brought into use. At the end of the
show a long column of men carry their
seats back to billets, the scene being
reminiscent of a day at an auction sale. *
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A coincidence attended the
changing of the site for the open-air
symphony concerts wliich Melbourne’s
youngest conductor, Hector Crawford,
has made such a do of in the Botanic
Gardens. Expecting a crowd of at least
25,000, the management selected the
centffil lawn near the lakeside kiosk be-
tween two trees. One, it turned out, had
been planted by Nellie Melba in 1903 ;
the other in 1904 by the sensitive hands
of Paderewski.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Probably what stuck to
Churchill in his illness was that he had
an obsession —to see Germany defeated.
That helps to keep going a stout man of
69 who, by ordinary standards, ought to
be living quietly in retirement, having cut
out excess smoking, drinking, eating,
thinking and violent action. The obses-
sion sustains him. Take it away and you
would have a person prone to imagine
that at his age nothing much could be
expected of him, let alone running the
affairs of a nation at war. Given that
obsession you haVe a man who can over-
come two attacks of pneumonia at an
age when one used to be regarded as likely
to be fatal. The medical profession, no
doubt, would say that his return to
health was a triumph for sulphanilamides
—I plump for the obsession.
“Lawnston”: Winning a lottery isn’t
always a passport to pecuniary satisfac-
tion. A man fined £2 in Tasmania for
trying fraudulently to convert into money
a sample ticket issued to tote clerks for
their guidance admitted that last year he
won £lO,OOO in a “consultation.” The
fake ticket was ostensibly worth 6s. 3d.
% * * *
“Avon”: A certain amount of cynicab
amusement is to be obtained from con-
sidering the history of Maori land-owner-
ship in the Hutt Valley, near Wellington
(M.L.). This chapter came to an end a
few weeks ago when the last native re-
serve in the district was taken over by
the Crown, at a valuation, for housing
purposes. Way back in 1847, certain
chiefs sold the land on which Wellington
stands, and thousands of acres around, to
pakehas for a few blaqkets and axes.
When the rank and file of the dispossessed
tribes kicked up a fuss Sir George Grey
sent along Lieut.-Col. McCleverty to
appease them. This the colonel did by
showing them a beautifully engrossed
deed that secured to their race a fine
large area of land further north in the
Hutt Valley, the title to which, it may
be guessed, was at least a little cloudy.
The Maoris made the best of a bad bar-
gain and took what was offered. As
Wellington grew and the population of
the Hutt expanded, more and more Maori
acres were taken by the Crown for hous-
ing. But it isn’t on record that the
Maoris offered any objections. The full
market vslue of the land has been paid,
and the money is held in trust for the
benefit of the tribes concerned. A large
part of the last block to pass into the
hands of f the Crown was leased to
Chinese market gardeners, and arrears of
rates due to the Lower Hutt City Council
amounted to £BOOO, half of which amount
has been remitted.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.” recalls a master of invec-
tive
That picturesque Irishman Sir Henry Browne
Hayes, who founded the VauclUse estate near
Sydney (afterwards Wentworth’s home and
now a nationa 1 showplace), while on his voyage
to Sydney in the transport Atlas, under sen-
tence of permanent exile for abduction, fell
foul of the ship’s surgeon, Dr. Jamison, and
thus describes that gentleman in a letter of
complaint to Downing-s.treet: “In order to
secure myself a respectful treatment,” he says,
“and decent accommodation on board, I had
paid a considerable sum to Captain Brookes,
commander of the ship appointed by the Gov-
ernment. The Transport Board had also by
letter ordered Captain Brookes to receive on
board of his ship a man named Jamison.
Would your lordship wish to know him? In
figure he resembles a Hackney chairman, in be-
havior a clown; illiterate beyond measure,
stupid when sober, and when drunk outrageous.
While we lay at Rio this man in one of his
drunken fits quarrelled with Captain Brookes,
and they actually fought- on the quarter-deck.
Compassion for a moment superseding contempt
engaged me to join the company in separating
them. Our kindness procured us all, and me
in particular, a volley of abuse in terms not
calculated to escape notice. On shore the next
day, when the fumes of liquor were dissipated,
I requested an apology, and obtained satisfac-
tion. The steps I then took were those univer-
sally approved of. He went on board another
ship, and I forgot him.”
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: An elderly man and a
young man approached the station-
master at Spencer-street, Melbourne,
and told a sad tale of how they
had fruitlessly stood in a queue for hours
to get a travel permit to attend the funeral
of a very near relation. Inviting the
young man into his office, the s.m.
commiserated with him, and then asked
him the name of the near relation.
“Wright,” was the reply. Going outside,
the s.m. then accosted the older man,
and, after expressing sympathy with him
in his bereavement, asked him the same
question. “Malone,” replied the older
man after a moment’s hesitation. No
travel permit!
*'* * *
“Ex-M.P.”: In reply to “Half-pint” (B.
8/12/’43) calmness and reasonableness
are by no means corollaries of party
government, drunk or sober. In the main
the members are a sedate crowd who
have learnt that spongers rather avoid the
strictly moderate or non-drinker. Albert
Bruntnell, sometime Minister for Educa-
tion, is mentioned ; he had really few un-
accommodating attributes, and played a
game of billiards or smoked a cigar with
complacence. Wowsers are never numer-
ous in Macquarie-street, Sydney, but they
have always deported themselves sensibly.
For instance, they had nothing to do
with the introduction of the prayer with
which each sitting of Parliament is lat-
terly opened, they knew that the real
prayer in each member’s heart would be
related to the selection and election so
that he might remain a member for as
long as he wished. Another prayer
would be that perdition would seize any-
one that tried to stop him.
* * *
“Zake”: For years before the war
pseudo-scientific know-alls used up
gallons of ink explaining how
any war would stop almost as
soon as it started, the new
weapons would be so potent.
Their best bet was the “death
ray.” Then there was tb be a
mysterious beam which would
stop a ’plane’s motors. Poison
gases would, of course, be so
deadly that the ground over
which they would be released
would grow no vegetation for
several decades. Yet this war
goes on much like the last-
steady slogging, with new
twists given to well - tried
weapons. The acoustic and
magnetic mines are just the
old mines with new gadgets.
The rocket-gun merely repre-
sents the application of an
ancient notion in a new way.
Gases are still a speculation,
as they will not be used unless
as a last desperate Hitlerian
resort, but it is likely that they
would prove no worse than
phosgene and mustard. Per-
haps the most roaring bit of
nonsense was the oft-repeated
claim that “the war would be
fought by germs.” It hasn’t
been, and won’t be, the thing
on the “grand” scale necessary
being impracticable.
“L.L.”: Social reformers get themselves
into some awkward predicaments. The
spokesman of an anti-liquor body recently
held forth in the Melbourne press about
the growing tendency of women to in-
dulge in strong drink., He received this
retort: —
The reverend gentleman who considers
it disgraceful for a housewife to queue
up for a bottle of beer has apparently little
sympathy with or understanding of the
working class. The housewife who queues
up for a bottle of beer is usually doing so
for the benefit of a hard-working husband
who, owing to our stupid licensing laws,
is unable to enjoy a glass of ale unless he
finishes work before 6 p.m.
After that, presumably, silence reigned.
* * *
“F.S.”: If I had charge of State educa-
tion I would burn all the textbooks and
put in the pupils’ hands novels like Quo
Vadis?, A Tale of Two Cities, The Last
Days of Pompeii, the magnificent Waver-
ley series and The Last of the Barons.
The writers of these books saturated
themselves in the life of the periods they
dealt with and could paint a living pic-
ture. Standard historians of the periods
were dull dogs, though massive scholars.
To them dates and facts were more im-
portant than a beautiful building or a
human being. And nine-tenths of their
alleged facts —whiph the unfortunate
pupil has to remember —were the propa-
ganda of some political party or other.
If that were not so it would be difficult
to understand how the Roman emperors,
who, according to the historians, spent
their time eating, drinking, lovemaking
and murdering the opposition, found time
to build such magnificent buildings,
bridges, aqueducts and temples. I
strongly suspect that Caligula, who made
his favorite horse a Senator and com-
pelled leading citizens of Rome to walk
across (i bridge before it was finished so
that they all fell into the Tiber, wasn’t
as bad as the historians make him. I’m
sure none of the history-book writers in-
flicted on me in my schooldays Under-
stood the periods of which they were
writing.
STREET SCENE.
On olive drab and khaki brown,
As we go up and down the town,
The sunshine glints. It glimmers, too,
On navy and on air-force blue.
No braver shades were ever seen,
More noble lads have never been
Than those who wear them ... each Christ’s
brother,
Willing to die to save another.
n.s.w.
NORA KELLY.


ABORIGINALITIES
“M. 8”: Among the crowd that
managed to get down to Sydney for a
day or two at Christmas was “Sleepy”
Stevens. It’s a long way from Back
Pufftaloon, but that was hardly sufficient
reason for his looking like a drought-
stricken jumbuck. “What’s wrong?” we
demanded. “Aw, cripes,” he moaned,
“had t’ sit with me back t’ the engine of
the train all the way. That always makes
me crook.” “Well,” we said, “why
didn’t y’ ask one of the people sittin’
opposite t’ change with y’? They’d ’a’
done it if y’ told ’em y’ was crook.” A
slight light dawned on “Sleepy’s” dial,
then faded as he said “Aw, how could
I do that? There wasn’t anybody on
the opposite seat.” When we recovered
we snorted “Well, y’ silly goat, why
didn’t y’ just change?” “Sleepy” came
back tartly: “Just shows how much you
know. I’d booked me seat after a lot o’
trouble an’ wasn’t goip’t’ let some other
bloke into it!”
.** * *
“Pat Ater”: It must have been just
such a season as the present unusually
benign one when in 1807 explorers broke
out of the heavy bush and saw the Cow-
pastures for the first time. From the hills
overlooking this 'Strangely fertile mid-
eastern N.S.W. grassland they could see
grazing herds of cattle in what appeared
to be “another bit of England.” Those
cattle were the progeny of beasts that
escaped after the landing from the First
Fleet and were given up.as lost in a wild
and inhospitable bushland. At present
those grasslands look like the Cotswolds
in their best mood, particularly when the
setting sun shows up contour and color
of softly rolling hillsides. There are green
grasses knee-deep now waving silvery
seed-heads in spite of grazing stock ; oat
crops of exceptional height; prodigal
fields of lucerne and clovers. Splashes of
color from jacarandas are relieved by
the creamy-white masses of odd euca-
lypts in bloom —to give a real Australian
flavor. *
* * * *
“G olden Mile”: “Fancar” (B.
1/12/’43) wonders if the ferocity with
which the male magpie helps his missus
defend her nest isn’t reaction to his being
henpecked. But aren’t humans much the
same? The greatest nark around our
neighborhood when I was a lad was a
respectably-married ex-professional pug.
We boys couldn’t play a game or even
&old a conversation within hearing of his
home but he would be out ordering
us off and, if we tried to argue our rights,
threatening to have a piece of the lot of
us. Grown, to manhood I met Dan on
the W.A. goldfields quite 2000 miles from
his old home, where, as he explained,
the little wife was still keeping the fire
burning. Leading a bachelor’s life once
more Dan was hail fellow wherever
met, never a harsh word, never a glower ;
his one-roomed humpy was Liberty Hall
to everybody. It was his elder brother
gave me enlightenment on this surprising
change. “It never was Dan that was the
nark, it was his missus. She used to
hunt him out to order you lads away,
and if he didn’t go she’d have given him
a hell of a time.”
* * * *
“Norther”: Out in Central Queensland
the few sunburned, dusty, whiskery
blokes who’ve escaped the man-power
authorities are rooting energetically in
dry gullies looking for gems, the things
having suddenly acquired a high value.
There are tales of big prices being paid
for rubies, and “one old resident dis-
“Come, come, young woman—make up your mind!”
posed of a yellow gem for a m'odest £5O.
Three hours later it changed hands for
£lOO, and a week later a southern buyer
bought it for £300.” Still, as the “N.Q.
Register” rather neatly remarks, “Real
values cannot be relied upon now the
boom is on. A visitor to Rubyvale paid
£lO for an old boomerang.” I expect to
hear any day of a big sum being paid
for a bunyip’s tusk.
* * * *
“Eureka”: An old bushman I know on
Monaro (N.S.W.), who has spent a life-
time studying the habits of native animals
and birds, avowed that he had never
known of one case of a ringtailed possum
giving birth to a single young one. It is
always a case of twins and the twins are
invariably male and female.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: The “mixed” rumbled
tp a stop at a little siding on which the
solitary building was labelled “Post
Officer’; the post - cum - stationmaster
emerged, crossed the platform and disap-
peared in the guard’s van ; and silence
settled again. Nobody came to the train,
nobody left it; nothing was loaded,
nothing left; nobody moved on road or
track, not a horse, not a dog—the only
moving objects were trees dancing in the
haze far across the plain. The stillness
descended as a tangible force, and all
talk in the carriage ceased ; till after ten
minutes of it I wrenched myself free
and moved to go out, and the chap
opposite shot up too as though released
from a spell and joined me. Strolling
past the van we were just in time to
catch the guard’s peroration: “‘Right!’
I says. ‘lf that’s the way you’re taking
it, from now on I’m out! I wouldn’t
have dealings with you again not if your
life hung on it an’ you went on your
knees to ask me! ’ ” And his audience of
one endorsed both action and narrative
with appropriate force. Then the guard’s
eye caught us. “Travelling, gents?” We
admitted that hope. “Well, hurry on!”
he called brightly. “Time’s up!”
* * * *
“Billy See”: That cocky discovered
fishing in a small well (B. l/12/’43)
would have made a fair match for an
easy-living neighbor of mine who earned
a reputation for mild eccentricity for a
similar reason. Every Friday and oftener
Mick might be seen holding a rod and
line over the manhole of a big square
rain-water tank in his backyard. And,
surprisingly, he invariably caught a fish.
The explanation, though not given to
the public, was that in a not-distant lake
Mick ran an illegal drum net, which when
lifted was invariably well filled with siz-
able perch and carp. The carp being a
muddy-fiavored fish became much more
palatable through being housed a week
or so in clear fresh water. But once in
the tank there was no way of getting those
fish out again except with hook and line.
And Mick,, although admitting that the
drum net was horribly unsporting,
reckoned he got all the angler’s thrill
when hooking a four- or six-pounder out
of the tank.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: According to the Sydney
press a “mysterious” disease has hit
horses in the Grafton (N.S.W.) district,
causing them to try to climb trees and
run around in circles. Some deaths are
reported, and it is said that experts sent
to the scene couldn’t diagnose the trouble.
The running around in circles suggests
only one thing—blindness. My tip is that
the extra-good season has brought on
some weed, probably the little acrid
paddymelon vine. I’ve seen horses go
blind and die on it out in western N.S.W.,
and, since draughts are said to be the
worst sufferers around Grafton, it looks
a.good bet, most draughts in lush districts
-being turned out to graze every night
and being hungry enough to eat any-
thing. The tree-climbing is something
new —possibly the' equines are trying to
get a look at the surrounding country,
having heard that some susceptible re-
porters are in the vicinity.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: Will Lawson (B.
1 /12/’43) asks me to explain why old-
time whalers hardly ever suffered from
t.b. and never from rheumatics. My
answer is that men who live an open-air
life and wear the minimum of clothing
seldom suffer from such complaints. For
myself, the only time I ever felt the
“screws” was when prospecting the W.A.
interior, where the kidneys didn’t get
sufficient fluid daily to enable them to
function properly—an insufficiency due
to both shortage of water and the
intense evaporation of moisture from
the skin. Just the opposite would
prevail on a whaling trip to the
far south: cold coupled with an oily
skin and the minimum of clothing would
make the kidneys practically the only
Vehicle for removing excess moisture
from the body, with beneficial results
in the elimination of uric acid. As for
t.b., any man who could daily consume
a big slice of whale wouldn’t be in the
slightest danger*
“Horseless Horseman”: Some horses
are prone to homesickness all right (B.
10/11/’43), particularly those reared on
sweet, well-watered pastures. I’ve known
“road - horses” around Thargomindah
(Q.) still head back each night towards
their birthplace on the mid-Murray, 700
miles away; I’ve had others in the Cape
York Peninsula that have returned to
their home at Chillagoe. But the best
example I know were John Cleeland’s
anchor-brand ponies, bred around Wollo-
mai House by the cape of that name on
Phillip Island (Vic.). Those mokes that
were sold off the place used to break
back to San Remo on the mainland to-
swim The Narrows —the strongest tide-
race in Victoria-—to their island nursery,
and not many mares or geldings of that
brand ever forgot or settled down else-
where. A trait I’ve-noticed in regard to
horses making home is those that have
been away some time take the job on
only after big rains.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: In mentioning that
the Cape Barren Island “half-castes”
travelled in “ill-found” whaleboats (B.
15/12/’43), I may be a bit out of date
perhaps, but it certainly was so. Some
years back Captain Harry Burgess put
me ashore from his crayfishing ketch at
Settlement Point, Flinders Island, and one
of these islanders kindly offered me a
passage ten miles down coast to White-
mark, the chief township on that large
island. I’ve never seen such a badly-
equipped boat anywhere, let alone in the
tide-whipped, storm-lashed waters of Bass
Strait. Her broken top strake was mostly
missing, she had fishing-line jib halyards,
a stone for an anchor, and as for
running gear—well, in the hard offshore
easterly the main halyard parted three
times, the falling gaff crowning a huge
kangaroo dog. The boatman’s fine sea-
manship and splicing alone prevented us
from being blown off the land.
* * * *
“Packbag”: The most useful garden
pets I’ve seen lately were a mob of
spurwing plover running in the China-
man’s vegetable garden at the 80-year-old
homestead at Apsley (Vic.).
The black, white and brown birds have
superseded silver gulls there as slug-
chasers, and they have the additional ad-
vantage of being, with their squawking
call, most reliable watchdogs.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’ve never seen first-hand
evidence to confirm the supposition that
a go.’s bite leaves an annually recurring
sore, but I recently got a new (to me any-
way) angle on snakebite. Struck an old
schoolmate who some 20-odd years ago
was bitten by a black snake. Mentioned
the incident, and was shown the scar.
The spot has an unnatural shininess
which, the bearer declared, peels every
year, the outer skin withering as though
sunburnt. Moreover (as I saw for myself),
though the rest of the leg might become
dirty when exposed to the dust on a
sweaty day, the scar always remained
shiny and clean. Seeking an explanation
of the phenomenon, I decided that the
wound had upset the pore system, thus
preventing perspiration from exuding at
that spot. The theory had to be dis-
counted, however, when experiment
proved that even when wet the scar still
remained impervious to dirt.
* * * #
“H.H.”: That notice “Nuthinmatters”
(B. 15 /12/’43) recalls one I saw in Bourke
(N.S.W.) at the Boxing Day race meeting
in 1933. A huge canvas sign above the
bar read: “Please don’t use bad language
—give the police a chance!”
* * % *
“Edjudina”: Ope of the geological
problems of the continent concerns the
vast accumulations of sand. Between
Oodnadatta and Alice Springs lie the
Depot Sandhills, millions of tons of sand
swept up from what are now the gibber
plains of the same region. Borings in
the Finke and other Centre riverbeds
have revealed deposits of sand often
600 ft. deep, evidently great gorges of the
once-flowing streams, now filled to the
level of the plain with wind-blown sand.
It is in these great beds of sand that those
rivers lose themselves even when heavy
rains start them flowing. But such de-
posits are mere children’s sand castles
compared with the billions of tons that
lie piled on thousands of square miles
between the 20th and 28th parallels just
west of the W.A.-S.A. border. Rising to
an average of 80ft., though often to
120 ft., these east-west sand ridges are like
the waves of some strange frozen sea.
Eighty to the mile have often been
counted, though at times there may be
regions with the valleys up to a quarter-
mile across. All sand, so dry that it flows
under the feet of the climber—man,
horse or camel. nAs to what agency placed
them there only the wind can be guessed
at. But not such winds as blow today,
MURRAY WHALER.
In the dying light of my campfire red,
Bill came last night... “Hullo!” he said,
“I’ve searched for you till I’m almost blind . . .
The things you do! Have you lost your mind?
Hiding away in the bushland. thus,
Like a bale of hay or a platypus?
You’re a whalerman of the ocean wave,
Not a tailorman or a cocky’s slave.
What do you do? And where do you go
To find the brew that the whalers know?”
“Bill!” I said, and I said it plain,
“I’m scared of the dead come back again.
And the stuff they drink I never taste.
Whatever you think of a Lady’s Waist
Or a Barmaid’s Blush or a Horse’s Neck,
A Bull-whale’s Crush or a Slippery Deck,
There’s nothing solid in what ghosts drink;
It’s gone ere it’s swallowed; and, come to think,
I’d like to show you round this trip,
If you’ll promise me now not to give me the
slip . . .
“First to The Cripples, where bushmen died
'From poisonous tipples of grog they tried;
Then to the Tangle and old World’s End,
And from there we might wangle a wet at The
Bend.
It’s a pleasant day on the wallaby” . ..
Bill looked away; then turned to me,
“I see what it is,” he said at last;
“It’s come to this—you’ve forgot your past.
You’re a whaler yet, but, my oath!” said Bill,
“I’d hate to be on the whales you’ll kill. . .
“Bigger in size than a Murray cod,
Why, damn my eyes, the wrath of God
Should hit your tanks on the waterline,
If ’Bidgee’s banks or the Condamine
Was ever meant for. seamen true
That has always spent far more than they drew!
Why your pubs ain’t even got decent names,
..Like Golden Heaven or Ship in Flames...
Whalers!” —he spat in the river then —
“Who named you that should be cursed ag&in.
“Runaway whalers! Pah!” said Bill —
“Tuppenny sailors make me ill.
Sorry, me lad! I’ll stand a lot
But it makes me mad to see you rot
In a river bend when the seas are there
With a sail to mend and a song to spare,
In the Roaring ’Forties and ’Fifties, too.
Your paddle-wheel snorties can’t sport a screw ;
Blownaway ships and runaway men
That the sea never grips in its fist again” . . .
It was only a dream, a dream that fled
At a screech-owl’s scream, fit to bring the dead
To earth again. And I guess it did
Bring back dead men .. . Where the shadows
hid
The stream, I seemed to sense again
Something that' gleamed in memory then,
That whalers know —the faint, high cry,
“Blow! Ah, blow!” —and a ship went by,
Her canvas grey in the moonlight still . . .
How far away you are, Old Bill!
n.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


“The Ninth Divvy thought me clothes was all right, so I don't see Wot
you're squawkin' about!”
“Betcha”: Jack searched the country
for shearers this season without success.
Finally he consulted his offsider. “Ever
shear a sheep, Joe?” he inquired “No ;
have you?” “Not yet,” was the deter-
mined reply, “but we’ve got to learn.
C’mon.” They cleaned the engine, mus-
tered the jumbucks and started in. Stop-
ping only for a bite or a drink, they
sweated over the job for several hours ;
then, calling a halt, Jack counted their
combined effort. “Thirty! Chuck us
that pencil, Joe,” he grunted, flopping
on to an upturned petrol-tin. He figured
strenuously for a bit, then heaved a sigh.
“With quarter of an hour a day for
dinner, and workin’ Sundays an’ all,” he
announced, “we’ll get through in 14
months.” Joe nodded thoughtfully. “Not
bad,” he agreed ; “only what about next
shearin’?” Jack, hitched his blueys and
snatched a gulp from the waterbag. “Well
be a bit later startin’ each year, that’s
all,” he decided. “And the flamin’ war
can’t last for ever.” Suddenly he dashed
for the engine. “Yair, that’s all right,”
he yelled, “but, blast it all, now we got
ten minutes t’ make up somehow! ”
* * * *
“Old-timer” : Old Harry, ex-salt-water
sailorman, finished his yarn of the sea
and dropped into a doze. We were on the
fo’c’sle of the Murray steamer Invincible,
tied up for the night below Minduk, and
the warmth and the moon, with the
whisper of the water along the hull and
the soft air of peace, made us drowsy.
Suddenly young James cried “What’s
that?” Out in midstream a dark
bulk moved slowly down river, its black,
rounded surface gleaming under the
moon. . Old Harry came awake, gave it
one look and yelled “It’s a whale. Boats
away!” We didn’t believe in whale in
the Murray, but Harry plunged into the
fo’c’sle and came out with a .32. He
sighted and let go. A booming roar came
from the thing, which rolled sluggishly
but kept going. Harry let go again but
missed. By this time the thing was going
round the bend, so we piled into the
dinghy and gave chase, Harry up in the
bow with the rifle urging us on. As we
drew near Harry gave it another bullet,
and again came that booming roar. Then
Long Tom backed water. “Not on y’r
flamin’ life,” he cried. “I dunno what
it is, but anythin’ that can take a couple
o’ .32 slugs and roar like that an’ keep
goin’ ain’t gettin’ a chance at me in this
cockleshell.” And though Harry wept
and prayed, we agreed and turned back.
Next day, thundering downstream in the
Invincible, we found the “whale,” a 36gal.
keg, bobbing harmlessly in a backwater
by Mallee Cliffs.
* * * *
Will Lawson: One of the sights in days
gone by at Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.)
was the 1300-ton paddle-steamer Namoi
taking the turn in the river at
Devil’s Elbow. Farmers used to gather
to see the fast, pretty old ship perform
this nautical trick, with her stem just
trimming the bank on one side and her
counter bending the willows on the
other. Complaints about the wash of her
passing, 35 miles up the river from the
sea, mostly fell on deaf ears, for she
saved a lot in land freight to Newcastle.
The Namoi bunkered at Morpeth. Pat
Morgan, long remembered as her trim-
mer, used to wheel the coal up a gang-
plank to the bunker hatch, while the boys
on the wharf marvelled at his strength
and dexterity with the big barrow on a
narrow plank. The Namoi was rarely
late, rain or fine, fog or clear. One
time when a dense fog hid the river all
the way from Newcastle she swung into
Morpeth wharf only half an hour late.
Her mate, Angus Livingstone, when asked
about it, said “The auld ship smeeled out
her own way.” Built of good Lowmoor
iron in the ’eighties, the Namoi has
vanished now —all but her two funnels,
which, in her day, were set at such a
rakish angle. Now, horribly perpen-
dicular, they are used as smokestacks
in a timberyard on the upper reaches of
the Parramatta.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I was interested to learn
that Perth has a burial ground for
pets (B. 8/12/’43). Even more interest-
ing was “Tut tut’s” lamentation concern-
ing the difficulty of disposing of defunct
tripe-hounds these days; the ordinary
simple-minded numbskull wouldn’t be
able to conceive a less-complicated
method than five minutes’ work with a
spade. Am I jumping to conclusions
by assuming that there is earth in Perth?
* * ' * *
“The 0.D.”: That must be a ter-
rific drought which has smitten Wangaratta
(Vic.), where, according to “Thistlebrook”
(B. 22/12/’43), it hasn’t rained since
an old resident’s grandfather tipped
a bag of salt on Morgan’s grave in the
cemetery. At least, that’s the only
reason I can find for the inference that
the salt has stuck there all these years,
thus stopping grass growing on the spot.
* * * *
“Squeaking Tree”: “Herbert Daw-
son’s” dictum on cleanskins and steers
is rather sweeping. I have seen
cleanskins of up to 10 years that
were steers. Have pulled two-year-
olds down in the scrub around New
Koreelah (N.S.W.), earmarked and made
them into steers, sometimes not seeing
them again for several years. Inciden-
tally, a very good man can stop a charg-
ing beast with a stockwhip from horse-
back, but not by “wielding a. heavy stock-
whip round the animal’s hindquarters.”
He might face the charging beast while
standing in the stirrups and chopping it
right and left around the head, but he'd
want all his wits about him to do the job
and get away. When I was up in the
Gulf country a man who couldn’t get
two out of three cleanskins would be left
to mind the mob. There a beast would be
thrown, its hide cut round the base of the
horn, which would be given a crack with
a stick and the horn would be off. The
beast would still charge, if a bad one, but
a trained horse would always drop it in
its track.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “When our cook
was took to horspital with yaller janders,”
said “Barwidgee” Bill, “the boss brings
back a surly old bloke frum the township
to take his place. ‘Poison’ Peter he was
known as, but his moniker had nothin’ to
do with his perfession. He made won-
derful stoo, dry hash an’ brownie, but the
curious thing about him wus that flies,
muskeeters an’ other insecks wouldn’t
never light on him, although it might be
takin’ us all our time to keep frum
bein’ et alive. One evenin’ after tea he’s
bringin’ in a hefty back log fer the night.
It’s got a bit of a holler an’ a knot-’ole in
one side, an’ he’s lowerin’ it orf his
shoulder w’en a brown snake shoves his
head out o’ the hole an’ gets him on the
neck, jest missin’ his juggler. He drops
the log an’ the snake slides out an’ gets
fer his nacheral. Not havin’ any reg’lar
snakebite cure we gives the poor cow a
shot o’ painkiller wot made him turn up
the w’ites o’ his eyes, an’ we backs it up
with another about midnight, an’ in the
mornin’ he’s as well as ever. W’en we
goes out after breakfast we finds the
snake near the cookhouse chimbley with-
out a broken bone or mark on him an’
not even a scale missin’.” “Y’ don’t mean
t’ say as he died of a crook heart or a
par’lytic stroke, do y’?” queried Tommy
the burr-cutter. “’Struth, no!” roared
Bill. “Have I got t’ tell y’ agen that
he bit the babbler?”
* * * *
“Nepean”: Not all Queenslanders are
as thrifty as “Sarina’s” bushman (B.
8/12/’43). Long ago on Yorkshire
Downs (N.Q.) a newchum got lost, and
when a search party found him next day
he rushed the waterbag. “But you must
have crossed bore drains,” they asked
him. “Oh, was the reply, “but I
had nothing to drink out of!”
*** • *
“Billy Sfee”: The land girls in the big
all-female camp were a bit nervous at
night, so “Dingo” Jack, on being called
up, left them the blue heeler bitch that
in a cowering sort of way used to recog-
nise him as master.* Christened Lady
Dog, the blue heeler developed anti-
men tendencies of the most violent type.
Yet anything female, even though clothed
in masculine garments, was received with
extravagant delight. Then came the morn
“ Prospectors , eh? Looking for gold?”
“No, beer!”
when the girls found Lady Dog sur-
rounded with half a dozen blind pups.
After that it was hardly safe for a man
to appear on the landscape, especially if
carrying anything resembling a sack. Yet
the girls could, and did, pick up the pups
while the mother fairly beamed with
delight. One attempt to bring a male
to view the wonders was met with Lady
Dog flying at his throat. Then# Jack
returned on a spot of leave! With growls
and obvious reluctance, the bitch allowed
him to look over her litter. “Not bad.
They’re the firsj purebred lot she’s ever
had, and the first lot she’s ever suckled.
That’s why she gets so savage at the sight
of a man, ’specially if he has a bag—she
thinks hes coming to take her pups to
drown ’em.”
* * * *
“Walkabout”: We had drafted off
about 800 weaners, and next morning the
mob of cows was started off to a creek
about 20 miles to the north while three
of us dodged along with the weaners in
a southerly direction. Camping the
weaners at night in tailing yards en route
we took them 30 miles away from where
they’d last seen their mothers. After
tailing the weaners for a day on some
good feed we reckoned a distance of 50-
odd miles between them and their mothers
would be sufficient to keep the two mobs
apart, but on the morning after our return
to the homestead, and six days after draft-
ing, clouds of dust and incessant bellow-
ing up at the yards told us the worst had
happened. Later on in the day, after the
horse paddock had been mustered and
the mob yarded and drafted, a count was
made. Every cow was present, and there
were only four weaners missing. The
cows, however, didn’t mother their calves
after that second draft; after being taken
tc their respective localities again each
mob was tailed and yarded at nights for
a week.
* * * *
“Bogger”: That English girl and the
raised tank with the firewood under it
(B. 1/12/’43) recall the 1500 ft. level of
the Ivanhoe (W.A.) gjn. long ago.
Being the trucker on the level, it was my
job to warm up the billies coming on
crib time. This I did by lighting an inch
of candle under each, the billy being sup-
ported on a circle of small stones. Seen
in the semi-darkness of the level, the row
of small illuminations made quite a pretty
sight. One day the manager brought
down a party of “nobs,” among whom
was an English lady journalist in search
of color. Sighting the billies, the lady
bubbled over. “Now isn’t that just too
quaint; look at all the men cooking!”
* * N= *
“Zake”:, Big Jim, blacksmith, wheel-
wright and general handyman, who lived
in an old cottage on the station, attended
a Christmas-afternoon shivoo at the
homestead. On previous occasions when
he had come back from the township
with a skinful there had been ruc-
tions at the cottage, so, to avoid
hostile accusations the two hands who
brought the well-sozzled James back
at about ten that night proposed dump-
ing him on the verandah mat and silently
fading into the friendly darkness. But as
they were manoeuvring him up the step
the door opened and out came Mrs. B.
The hands waited for the verbal flood ;
instead, they received a tolerant smile
and a request to get their charge on to the
bed. He’d been working hard, and a bit
of diversion wouldn’t do him any harm.
Amazed and not a little thankful, the
Samaritans withdrew after dumping Jim.
On the Sunday Jim and his missus were
great friends ; so on Boxing Day the big
fellow slipped into the township, re-
turning at teatime just about mellow but
under his own power. Next morning he
turned up at his smithy with a beautiful
shanty, just turning purple, hung on one
eye. Mick the horsetailer asked him had
he spoken out of his turn. “No,” drawled
Jim in his slow, deliberate voice. “I never
said word. It’s because I lobbed back
a bit ripe yestiddy.” “But she didn’t go
lemons Saturday when you were a proper
cot case,” commented Mick. “That was
different,” said Big Jim. “It was turned
on free then. It was when I went and paid
for it meself that she flew orf the handle!”
FOR PETER.
(In memory of Captain Peter Barclay, of
Sydney, killed in action.)'
Often, old friend, I think of our first meeting,
The camp at Julis near the orchard trees:
Recall your laughing eye, your cheery greet-
ing,
Your voice that rippled like a passing breeze.
I call to mind the leave we had together,
The chains forgotten so the heart could live:
The orchestra, the dance, the willing tether
Of dark eyes in the dusk at' Tel Aviv.
I recollect your hunt for Bergonzoli,
And how we laughed until the mess-tent
shook;
How singing on our way we tramped it wholly,
The desert road from Mersa to Tobruk.
You thrilled to Greece, the classics took new
color;
You fought until the very end on Crete:
So Palestine and Lebanon seemed duller
Till green Ceylon delayed our homeward feet.
I left them, but you crossed the bloodied
mountain,
You led the lads whose deeds will never die,
For courage is an ever-flowing fountain:
You live —beyond the jungle where you lie.
Yet sometimes in the crowd I feel your presence,
Or hear your voice from out the silent night
That sends me vagabonding in remembrance
And touches all these Brisbane hills with light.
In peace we’ll go from Moresby down to Buna
Not as you toiled: we’ll read the words
engraved,
Unconquerable tales, fold late or sooner
For us who live, within the land you saved.
QUEENSLAND.
R. S. BYRNES.


FAMOUS SAUCES BY
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
LEA & PERRINS TOMATO SAUCE
H.P. SAUCE
KEEP ON BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 186 S)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
QUICK and DEADLY
KILL THOSE RABBITS
with
k
(Regd.)
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”.
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTEC TS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY*,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Mite.
“Bungaree”: The parasite will not be
found on wool samples, but is always
right down on the skin. Symptoms of its
presence are a general restlessness of the
animal, stamping of the feet, picking at
the wool—fleeces show the results of
rubbing against trees and logs. Quality
of the fleece is seriously affected, there
is lack of length and the wool becomes
cotted and is often tender.
Damage caused by these mites is very
much greater than is generally realised,
and many flocks are affected unknown
to owners. One large flock cut only a
51b. average, and the value of the wool
was reduced by over 25 p.c.
Regular annual dipping in an arsenical
dip controls but won’t eradicate, and if
dipping is missed for even one season
the mite will spread quickly. Don’t miss
dipping on any account. The parasite
is most likely to spread immediately after
shearing or while the wool is short.
Infested woolly sheep have been penned
with clean sheep for weeks on end with-
out harm, but clean and infested shorn
sheep penned together soon were all
infested.
Complete eradication can be obtained
by dipping sheep several days off shears,
in a lime-sulphur dip, made from a con-
centrate of lime-sulptiur used for spray-
ing fruit-trees. Use lime-sulphur having
a guaranteed polysulphide-sulphur con-
tent of 20 p.c., and use five gallons of
this to each 100 gallons of water in the
dip ; 6oz. of Agral 3 per 100 gallons will
ensure quicker wetting. Soft water
should be used, and the strength of the
dip should be kept up when used over
several days by adding more concentrate
in addition to the extra water required
to make up the volume. This dip will
turn the sheep bright yellow for a while,
but this will soon fade and the wool will
not be affected in any way. The sheep
should be thoroughly wet, particularly
on top of the head, but remember that
the dip is likely to kill if swallowed.
Selling Young Stock.
“Jesmond”: I agree with “A.W.” (B.
8/12/’43) about the sale of vealers and
sucking pigs, but, though I live in a dairy-
ing district, I have yet to hear of a cow-
cocky who has been encouraged to sell
his cattle ‘for beef. Actually, local dairy-
men are so keen to increase their herds
that prices at auctions have soared to
100, 200 and eyen 300 guineas for good
stock in this Victorian district.
I disagree with the claim that prohibi-
tion of the sale of dairy cattle (for beef)
would safeguard agginst a milk shortage.
All good dairymen are constantly culling
their herds, and if the farmer cannot sell
his culls he’ll hit them on the head to
make room for something more profit l
able. Thus, such a prohibition wouldn’t
safeguard ttie milk supply but would in-
crease the shortage of beef.
There is a lot of youngs cow beef on
the market, but this is due, I think, not
to dairymen being encouraged to sell their
cattle for beef, but to the effect of
machine milking, which shortens the
profitable life of ttie cow. However, apart
from the man-power shortage, machine
milking has come to stay, because the
shorter milking life of the animals is
more than offset by decreased labor costs
and the saving of time.
Worms and Lambs.
“Steve” to his critics:
Evidently “J.R.D.” (B 1 . 15 /12 / ’43) assumes
that I don’t know the difference between the
large stomach worm and’ the black-scour
worm. The sub-editor deleted my emphasis on
the damage done by the small hairlike Oster-
tagia circumcincia, which, I remember dis-
tinctly, I said was so minute that it could
best be discerned by placing the contents of the
intestine in water. Apart from that, “J.R.D.”
and I seem in accord except that I persist
in a frequent and weaker drqnch as against the
more concentrated one he would adopt.
The importance of my drench is for southern
graziers at the present time. The sale of
old crackers is now most profitable as against
the prices we formerly got. Last year I culled,
in the autumn, all doubtful and broken-mouthed
breeding ewes, placed them on a good fodder
crop, drenched them frequently and then trucked
the lot to tire canners, averaging Bs.; the lowest
“If y see anything else that needs doin' y' might fix it after you've
done the springs."
price was 4s. 6d. If I had used the concentrated
drench many of these old wormy toddlers
would not have gone 100 yards from the pens.
The argument used “Graz” (B. 15/12/’43)
re price of lambs is beside the point. He says
I should be well satisfied with £1 for a prime
351 b. lamb. I certainly would be if the freezer
were not guaranteed 245. for the same lamb.
Take 351 b. at 7d. (the freezer is guaranteed to
7fd.), which is about 20s. 6d., plus the skin
at 45., then the £1 I get looks small. In regard
to lamb versus wool prices, it seems we fat-
lamb raisers are on a better wicket than
“Graz,” which is nothing to write home about,
anyway. We would both do better, financially,
on the wharves.
Windbreaks.
“H.C.”: On farms they reduce erosion,
increase yields and conserve moisture. In
N.S.W. lucerne protected by windbreaks
has yielded 20 to 30 p.c. heavier; in
droughts it increased 200 and 300 p.c.
In Queensland higher yields followed
protection by windbreaks. In some
Western N.S.W. areas cfiop yields have
been reduced three to four bushels by
strong winds.
Main object must be to protect the
widest possible area from wind. Run the
windbreak across the prevailing winds.
One-row windbreaks are draughty and of
little use ; those of trees that go to top
and possess few lower branches are as
bad. Dense growth is needed from the
ground up.
A seven-row windbreak is ideal. Plant
a row of Pinus insignis down the centre
with three rows of eucalypts on each
side. Space the conifers 10ft. apart and
the eucalypts 12ft. to 15ft., allowing
10ft. between each row of gums. When
the gums are six years old cut the inside
row at ground level and let it coppice.
Follow up by putting 'one row each year
to keep the windbreak dense.
Don’t follow the fence line for a stock
shelter belt. Plant so that animals will
get maximum protection from bleak
winter winds. In large paddocks place
the trees in the centre so stock can get
under them on all sides. Two belts
arranged in the form of a cross give
shade and shelter over a fairly large area.
Trees planted in unused corners supply
both shelter and timber. All trees need
wiring off from stock and rabbits while
young.
Burning Off.
“Sarina”: Gelignite is good when used
before a fire (B. 4/8/’43). A small quan-
tity detonated in a stump or fallen tree
will splinter the solid wood and make it
burn freely. Green wood frequently
burns well after being dynamited. Plug
auger holes carefully with clay for best
results.
All the logging in the world won’t cause
a complete burn of a stump unless a
good deep trench is opened around it.
Chop off lateral roots. Sods are ideal for
keeping the fire inUhe right place. Old
cane or corn stools will do equally well.
Burn old grass in grazing paddocks
early in the season before it is completely
dead. Right after the first spring rain
is a good time. In neither case will the
grass roots be affected, and the young
grass will shoot quickly after the fire.
Careless burning is as bad for pastures
as overstocking.
Most old clumps of lantana can be
burned in summer. Brush the green stuff
on the windward side and touch her off
on a warm, breezy day. The dry stuff
in the clump should carry a fire through.
As soon as the a sties are cool hop in with
a cane knife or brusher and fell the
charred stems for a second burning. They
get hard and tough if they’re left long.
Potato Moth.
“Pat Ater”: It’s not likely to be so bad
in a wet season, when the soil is tight and
ttie grubs don’t find it easy to get down
to the tubers. Tests in the field have
shown that the most effective control is
deep planting. Tubers with a soil cover
of only 2in. were affected only slightly
and at 4in. deep the grub infestation was
negligible ; anything 6in. deep was clean,
even in an area where moth visitation
was serious.
That led experts to advise deep plant-
ing in any class of soil that permits it—
sandy loams, deep free basalts or allu-
vials. Down to Bin. and more on sandy
ground or deep sandy loam is advisable
and dispenses with the useless “hill-
ing.” Make shallow depressions to hold
moisture in these sandy patches. Deep
planting has the same virtues as hilling,
and is the best safeguard against grubs
and late (Irish) blight being washed down
to the spud-clusters. Most sandy soils
are well drained.
During digging, bagging and storage,
the moth grubs get their chance. Don’t
leave dug spuds on the surface for the
moth to deposit eggs into crevices and
eyes. If the spuds are used for seed or
stored, the emerging grubs will soon
spread right through them.
Get the crop into bags, which should
be sewn and moved without delay. Don’t
allow foliage in with the spuds. Burn
old haulms. Roll all stored tubers in
pyridine dust —by shuffling and dusting
them on corrugated-iron sheets in batches
or by shaking the powder well into the
bags. It is necessary to ensure that every
potato is covered with the dust and that
it gets into all the eyes. Fumigation with
carbon bisulphide is effective where
growers have the means to do it safely.
Rebag and store in dark sheds.
Hints for the Farm.
“Steve”: Clearing a 300-acre paddock
of green gum I used a good deal of
gelignite for shattering stumps and
splitting logs up to in diameter.
I’m satisfied now that gelignite is effec-
tive for hollow logs, i.e., big trunks with
a “pipe”, of from four inches to a foot
or more in diameter. After pulling down
the trees it was necessary to cut the big
ends into 6ft. sections ; the charge was
then placed about 18in. or 2ft. up the
“pipe,” well packed with damp clay. The
explosion always found the grain, and
frequently laid big logs in two halves
without any shattering.
“Agro”: Sore shoulders on horses
should get special attention. If you are
to work the horse put a piece of soft bag
or felt between collar and sore to stop
irritation. Sore shoulders should be
washed with water and lysol occasion-
ally to keep them free from poisoning.
Stockholm tar can be applied. Prevent
sores by checking the collars regularly
to ensure that the filling has no lumps
or depressions to cause friction.
“H.G.H.”: If the leaking tank is full
of water cut two or three plugs of soft
wood half an inch in length, varying in
thickness, carrotlike in shape and with a
head similar to a large nail or bolt. Place
a piece of rag, lin. x lin., over the point
and carefully plug the hole. Allow, say
an hour, for the wood to swell and take'
up, then place a tarred piece of light,
strong cotton material 6in. x 6in. in size
over the plug and gently brush the patch
on with an old paintbrush dipped in
tar. Some perseverance may be neces-
sary should a slight leak exist, as tar will
not stick to a damp surface. If the tank
is empty a tarred patch alone affixed
over the hole will prove effective if
allowed to dry first.
“Myrrhee”: For roundworms in poul-
try add nicotine sulphate (| teaspoon by
measure glass) to one pint water. Mix
thoroughly into 41b. of dry mash, which
makes a daily ration for 25 young pullets.
Leave the mash to the birds all day and
throw away any not eaten by evening.
Grain should not be fed during treat-
ment. Feed greenstuff at midday and
collect and burn droppings daily. Con-
tinue for seven days and repeat a month
later if necessary.


Ruwol
f
I
.
I
1
< •? ■'
™ Ai .. <-*
Three Throw Hydraulic Pump;
to deliver 120 gallons per minute against a working pressure of
1,5001 b. per square inch. Finished weight 13 tons.
Two of the above Pumps were recently designed and built
by Ruwolt’s for Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
The Pump illustrated is a good example of high-grade engineering
work as produced by Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately attend
to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done in the
past.
I
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.I ■
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
* uniegf^
■ :
w
am
*
LIGHTING TAKES OVER !
This cool, glareless, virtually shadowless light, pene-
trating to every corner of factory or work room,
maintains continued daylight conditions so necessary
for the eye-comfort and morale of employees-. The
even glow of Fluorescence merges with daylight and
also gives perfect daylight lighting at night.
“Cold Cathode” Fluorescent Lighting steps up produc-
tion and reduces maintenance.
WHY NOT TEST A FLUORESCENT UNIT IN YOUR
FACTORY AT OUR EXPENSE? War production
plants can enjoy this man-made daylight right away.
Our quota for stores, hospitals, offices, etc., is, at
present, small. Earliest enquirers get first priority.
Consult
INTERIOR FLUORESCENT LIGHTING
Division of Neon Signs (A’sia) Ltd.
11-19 HARGRAVE STREET, SYDNEY - ’Phone: FL 3132
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Last of an Islander.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post " report by
U.S. war correspondent Joseph Driscoll.)
On Bougainville, which lies on the
northward road to the big enemy naval
base at Truk, the Jap occupiers decided
to kill the paramount chief of the native
tribes as an object lesson. The idea was
to terrorise the lesser chiefs into co-
operating in the spreading of the Tokyo
brand of enlightenment in these parts.
The paramount chief, a fine specimen
of Kanaka manhood, was led to a clear-
ing in the jungle and shoved before a
chopping block. Alongside the block was
a newly-dug grave. Around the rim of
the clearing stood the sub-chiefs, their
dark faces impassive. Their eyes were
on the paramount chief, who stood,
utterly fearless, his arms folded, his com-
posure icy.
He didn’t change expression as the
Japanese commander, a round-bellied
little man, read his death sentence and
then chattered a diatribe against the Eng-
lish, who, he said, were weak and de-
cadent, and the Americans, who were
even worse. To show his contempt for
the Americans, the commander went
through a pantomime of making his put-
teed legs quake, a common gesture of
derision on the part of Japanese braves.
The paramount chief didn’t move a facial
muscle, nor did he when the commander
exhorted all present to refuse co-opera-
tion with Allied soldiers.
But when the ranting was over and the
headsman stepped into position, the para-
mount chief finally spoke. “Me glad die
’long white man,” he said in pidgin Eng-
lish. Then he knelt and bowed his head
over the block, and the blow fell.
Spearhead of Invasion.
(Condensed from “United States News.”)
England is getting set for a land inva-
sion of Western Europe. England, Scot-
land and Wales have been built up into
an armed camp. They are an
a base for sea war, air war and soon for
land war. In no other part of the world
is such vast military power packed into
so small a space.
This centring of powerful military
forces in England has one aim. That
aim is to be ready, when the right time
comes, to strike a blow that will knock
out Germany and win this war.
The time to strike is said by Allied
leaders to be drawing near.
The outcome of the war may depend
on the Allies’ success when they strike
the Germans’ western flank. And their
victory or defeat may hang on how well
the job of getting ready has been done in
England.
On land probably 2,500,000 Allied
troops are, or soon will be, massed in
the United Kingdom. The Allies can
draw upon millions of reinforcements
from the United States.
On the sea there are more than 600
fighting ships in the British fleet. America
can supply the aid that may be needed
to protect sea-borne invasion.
In the air Britain, the United States
and the other Allies probably have 3000
bombers and 4000 fighter ’planes in the
operating forces based in England.
In men the U.S.A. is steadily adding
to the forces already in Britain under
command of Lieutenant-General Jacob
L. Devers. Soon overseas movements to
British and other fronts are expected to
rise in tempo. Owing to an improvement in
the supply of ships the goal of 5,000,000
American troops overseas may be reached
in June, six months ahead of schedule.
In Lend-Lease supplies the United
States has been pouring into the United
Kingdom nearly half the total for all
countries. This help has been going to
Britain at a rate of $4,000,000,000 a
year. Tanks, ’planes, munitions and every
other kind of fighting equipment needed
by the British have been sent.
In warships, cargo ships and landing
craft the United States’s huge output has
assured that the thousands of sea craft
will be available when needed to support
an invasion.
The route across the North Atlantic
from the United States to England has
become a broad highway for transport-
ing the men and materials of war. This
continued movement, despite submarines,
is assurance that the invasion armies,
once landed, will be reinforced and
supplied.
The flow of men and weapons from
the U.S.A. has been paced by another
flow from Canada. But much of the
great power that has been building up
for invasion comes, not from abroad, but
from within Britain itself.
Britain is carrying on. a prodigious war
effort. ‘That effort multiplies the value of
England as a springboard for invasion.
Britain’s war factories are rolling out
weapons. Then, too, Britain is located
close to the front so that the weapons can
be sent straight into the fighting. The fight-
ing quality of the British troops is of the
best. The output of British war materials is
tremendous. Until 1942 Britain’s produc-
tion exceeded that of the United States.
Today 70 per cent, of Britain’s resources
is going into the war effort, compared
with about 50 per cent, for the United
States. The productiqn of ‘critical
weapons is on the rise.
In man-power virtually every able-
bodied person in Britain is in the war ser-
vices or in defence production.
Britain jumped into the lead over Ger-
many in airplane production in 1942. In
the last year the British trebled the
previous year’s output by weight of
bombers. They doubled their production
of artillery and pushed up the rate of
their output of all military supplies 25
per cent.
All in all, the resources of the United
States and Britain combine into a power-
ful force for invasion. And there is no
talk now among Allied commanders of
failure when the invasion begins.
U.S. and'Jap Navies.
(Condensed from a "Christian Science Monitor”
article by Capt. Frederick L. Oliver, U.S.A.)
Accurate information concerning the
present strength of the Japanese Navy
is unavailable, but its estimated strength
and that of the United States Navy are:
U.S. Japan.
Battleships .. .. .. 21 10
Carriers .. .. .. 15 8
Cruisers .. .. • • 55 15
Destroyers .. .. •. 325 80
Submarines .. .. .. 182 90
There is considerable uncertainty about
the number of Japanese carriers and
battleships. Intelligence reports on
Japan’s Navy have always been difficult
to obtain, and there' has been reason
to suspect that some pre-war construc-
tions described as battleships and large
cruisers really were carriers.
Looked at from any angle, the inferior-
ity of Japan’s Navy is apparent, and its
reluctance to offer battle is understand-
able inasmuch as, once the Japanese Navy
is removed from the status of a fleet in
being, the entire Pacific- will be wide open
for any campaign the United States may
decide to project.
The Japanese, if they have to give
battle, are going to make every effort to
have the battle area within striking range
of their shore-based Tslanes. This possi-
bility presents the Onited States Navy
with the necessity of making surprise
attacks on airfields to immobilise their
air strength before it can get into action.
There have been three recent instances
of carrier-based ’planes having success-
fully attacked Japanese airdromes, fol-
lowed by the supporting ships belching
devastating bombardments. Had the
Japanese Fleet been found in the vicinity
of one of these bases, no shore-based
aviation would have been available for
its support, and the United States forces
would have attacked with substantial air
support flown from its carriers’ decks.
In addition to the regular carriers
listed, the United States Navy has an
undisclosed but very considerable number
of escort carriers which carry 30 or more
’planes, all of which can be used effec-
tively in a Pacific campaign.
Nor has any account been taken in this
recapitulation of air and naval strength
available from the other Allied Nations,
nor the fact that the United States has


JtyrsP,
\C
ft
N
f
rr
r\
/
Ho* f 1!
<?
I
MP
9
UoW
w /
s
mil
/
a
=:
f#
*7
> 4
mm.
• Hot waters—Mo matter how it is heated—uses up COAL. By shortening
your shower you can save nearly a cwt. of coal in a year. Assuming
that 100,000 other people also shorten their showers, that v means a
saving of 2,500 TONS OF COAL! —at a time when every shovelful
counts! Please co-operate! Coal is vital to victory!
CUT DOWN ON CAS. ELECTRICITY AND HOT WATER
cm
Wf
BBSAVED)
Issued by the Commonwealth Coat Commission.
COAL TIPS!
Don’t use the bath
heater to heat shaving
water . . If you take a
hot bath, keep the
water a little over ankle
deep .. Don’t wash your
hands under running
hot water . , Turn hot
taps off properly . Drips
cost coal.
GB.II-19"
k
few
N
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never
vary
T
Carreras Ltd—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5063 a
many more combatant ships in various
stases of completion.
Without venturing to be overconfident,
it would seem that the Japanese, sooner
or later, will be forced to expose their
Navy to an attack which will result in its
destruction.
Russia v. Japan.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” report .)
Addressing a conference on the United
Nations in the Pacific, W. H. Chamber-
lin, of the “Christian Science Monitor,”
expressed the opinion that Stalin would
“most likely” strike at Japan “when the
island empire is reeling under air and
naval blows” from the Anglo-Saxon
Powers.
Mr. Chamberlin declared that “Stalin
is not the kind of man who does some-
thing for nothing. The least he would
expect as the price of intervention would
be a restoration of Russia’s former privi-
leged economic position in north Man-
churia. Perhaps he would take over the
whole of Manchuria under the camou-
flage of having the Manchurian ‘workers
and peasants’ express an irresistible desire
to organise a Soviet republic and join
the Soviet Union.”
“This,” Mr. Chamberlin asserted,
“would precipitate a crisis with China,
and one of the keys Jo the future develop-
ment of Asia will be the ability of the
Soviet Union and China to live peace-
fully together.”
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed, from various acknowledged
sources .)
Figures on casualties among the Germans at
home are not easy to compile, but there are
apparently authoritative reports that the Allied
air blows up to Oct. 1 had rendered nearly
7,000,000 persons homeless, and that the dead
or missing number 1,200,000. — N.Y. ‘‘Daily
Mirror.”
* * * *
There will be no relaxation of the blockade of
Europe to permit the dispatch of relief food
to the hungry in German-occupied countries,
Dingle M. Foot, Parliamentary Secretary to the
Ministry of Economic Warfare, told the House
of Commons. Replying to pleas from members
of Parliament for “mercy ships” to such
countries as Belgium and Greece, Foot said:
“If we let in substantial quantities of relief
food supplies at this time, it would be a form
of lend-lease for the enemy.” He told the
Commons that such relief would provide the
enemy with a powerful inducement to create
extreme shortages over much wider areas, and
added: “We know from experience he would
not hesitate to do it. We do not propose
to lay ourselves open to this particular form
of German blackmail.” — London correspondent
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
“Whatever the nations which want peace may
together decide to do after the war in order to
secure it* an indispensable part of any such
larger plan must *be the discovery of a firm
basis for Anglo-American co-operation.”— Lord
Halifax; address in New York.
* * * *
No one was more popular in the United
States between 1932 and 1938 than Eleanor
Roosevelt. That popularity is waning. The
First Lady used to be a political asset; she is
now a political liability. She also runs counter
to the mood of the people. Curious how small
things count. When everybody is going with-
out gasoline, her travels, which made her popu-
lar, have become offensive. No one can figure
these things. In the last war the Queen of
England probably saved the throne for her
family by her constant appearances, the mother
of her people. That role does not serve in
this war and Mrs. Roosevelt cannot perform
it. Mrs. Roosevelt’s period ended when this
country went to war.— George E. Sokolsky;
N.Y. ‘‘Sun.”
* * * *
In April, 1942; airplane production in Britain
reached parity with that of Germany, and today
that production is not only above that of Ger-
many but it is greater than that of Germany
and enemy-occupied countries plus that of
Italy before the armistice with that country.—
London correspondent N.Y. ‘‘Times.”
* * * *
There is no doubt that Churchill’s prestige
after victory will exceed that of any previous
statesman in British history and scarcely less
doubt that the majority of Britishers will look
on him as a leader through the difficult period
of transition from a war-time to a peace-time
footing.— London correspondent; ‘‘Wall-street
Journal.”
* * * *
Amateurs of grand strategy known to be
adherents of the late Captain Alfred Thayer
Mahan had to take many a beating in the
early days of the war.' Mahan’s stock declined
to a record low seemingly as the air forces of
the world spawned mightily on a hundred
assembly lines, spread their wings and performed
miracles. The poor old battle wagon took a
bad mauling not only on the high seas, where,
after all, it gave an account of itself, but at
cocktail parties, where another kind of courage
was up, and it was completely demolished by
enthusiasts for the air arm, Mahan along with it.
Mahan devotees are beginning to counter-attack
in force, pointing out how magnificently the
battleship still fights at sea and how effective
it can be even in land battles; how at Gela
it overcame tank columns that were proving
too much for the best infantry doing better
than their best; how again at Salerno it went
into action against enemy land forces with
something like decisive effect. Hats off to the
British battleships Valiant and Warspite and
to the American cruisers Philadelphia, Savannah
and Boise and almost 20 destroyers which are
said to have helped most formidably to turn
the tide of battle that was going so desperately
hard against our infantry the sixth day of the
Salerno landing. Captain Mahan’s stock is
arising with his battle wagon as the confla-
gration of war rages on. — N.Y. ‘‘Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
American Army and Navy fliers have knocked
four enemy ’planes out of the air for every
American aircraft destroyed, the Anny box
score from Pearl Harbor to Sept. 1 being 7.312
Axis ’planes downed to a loss of 1867 American
craft. Simultaneouly all efforts of the Ameri-
can Navy since January to lure the main body
of the Japanese fleet into a major test of
strength have been unavailing. The Japanese
concentrated a huge armada, including battle-
ships and aircraft-carriers, near their powerful
South-west Pacific base of Truk last January
for a showdown fight with the United States
Navy, and the American Fleet prepared for
attack. But at the last minute the Japanese
evaded action, dispersed their forces and con-
centrated only on evacuating hard-pressed troops
from Guadalcanal. Since then the Navy has
sought on a number of occasions to provoke
an all-out engagement. It was hoped that the
American attack on Attu would bring out the
enemy fleet, but the Japanese played safe. Then
came the deep penetration of the American
carrier task force to bomb Marcus Island, 1000
miles from Tokso, and subsequent carrier
thrusts at Wake and the Gilbert Island bases.
But the Japanese Fleet has refused to be drawn
out. — Washington correspondent; “Christian
Science Monitor.”
* * * if
There is such a galaxy of talent amongst our
[British] admirals that it is almost invidious to
mention a few of them. Andrew Cunningham
is the very embodiment of our naval fighting
traditions; Bertram Ramsay brought more men
away from Dunkirk than was ever thought pos-
sible and then took our armies to North Africa
and Sicily without losing a man; Syfret con-
ducted a timely operation in the occupation of
Madagascar and, flying his flag in the Nelson,
fought a convoy through to Malta at a vital
moment in the teeth of most violent enemy
attacks; Burrough splendidly assisted Syfret on
this occasion; Burnett commanded the naval
escorts in a most desperate convoy battle on
the Murmansk route; Vian in command of
only cruisers and destroyers defeated a greatly
superior Italian force and damaged a battle-
ship which formed part of it; Somerville has
been repeatedly in action; under Lyster the
rleet Air Arm has developed into an aggressive
fighting weapon. We do well to think of these
great sea officers with pride and of the superb
seamen who command our cruisers and de-
sttoyers-men such as Warburton-Lee and
Sherbrooke, whose names typify the spirit ani-
mating them all. — Lord Wins ter; Manchester
Lruaraian.
* * * *
One American air correspondent tells me
that he has seen in the same American Air
Force group men of the English, Scots, Irish,
German, Polish, Red Indian, Italian, Scandi-
navian and Hawaiian races. The average age
is about 21. — London correspondent Manchester
“Guardian.”
* * * *
Britain could endure, in 1940 and 1941, a
situation apparently more hopeless than that
of Germany today. She could sustain air
attacks that seemed to be the ultimate, though.
we now have proof that they were light indeed
in comparison with what can be done. She
could bear up under defeats by sea and land.
She could stand firm when she was almost
defenceless. But her people did not rise to these
heights at the order of the King, the Prime
Minister or any ruling class. Power to endure
and to strike back came up out of the hearts
of the people. Mr. Churchill is a great man,
but his greatness in that crisis was in his
ability to reflect and focus the greatness of the
common man and woman in Britain. In his
most lordly moments he remained a servant
of his people. He could ask from them the
ultimate sacrifice because they willed to give
it. He could not exact it. They were fight-
ing for a system of society in which it would
always be given in time of crisis for the very
reason that no one could exact it. — N.Y.
“Times.”


Missing Friends.
RE Estate WILLIAM SYDNEY FORD, deceased
Would MRS. or MISS AMY POTTER (said to be a
cousin of the late wife of the abovenamed deceased)
or ALICE, a sister of the said Amy Potter, or any-
one knowing their whereabouts, plea.se communicate
with HAROLD T. MORGAN & SONS, Solicitors,
Box 195, G.P.0., Sydney, when somehing will be
heard to’their advantage?
WILL ROBERT LESLIE FALLOWS, last heard of
in January, 1940', and then residing at 44 Money
Street, Perth, Western Australia, communicate with
STONE, JAMES & 00., Solicitors, 47 St. George’s
Terrace Perth, who wish to get in touch with him ?
Legal Notice.
HAROLD PADFIELD of no fixed place of abode
formerly of Springvale Road Springvale Victoria
died intestate on 19th July 1938 and the Public
Trustee for Victoria is administrator of his estate. —
WHEREAS WILLIAM GEORGE PADFIELD a
brother of the deceased or his children if any would
be entitled to share in the said estate if he or his
children survived the said deceased NOTICE IS
HEREBY GIVEN that unless the Public Trustee for
Victoria receives a claim from the said William
George Padfield or from one or more of his children
or their legal representatives before the 15th day of
April 1944 the Public Trustee proposes to distribute
the said estate as if the said William George Padfield
had predeceased the said deceased without having
children. —J. E. DON, Public Trustee, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
NOTICES.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District,
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in respect' of
which premiums are paid to an insurance com-
pany not registered in the State; are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1943.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1944;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable
in respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the
said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales, returns show-
ing the total amount of the premiums received
by or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st De-
cember, 1943, within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1907-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act. •
The time appointed for receipt of theweturns
is on or before the 31st January, 1944; subject’
to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds for
every day 6f default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
TH AT
ZH E *
If Executorship is a
Burden, delegate the
duties to us
In these abnormal times, it is quite sufficient responsibility for you to have to
look after your own affairs, without having the added care- of an estate to
administer. You can hand over this work to Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited. Write or call for a free booklet, "The Task that Few Men Want.
It will show you how you can relieve yourself of the burden of executorship,
and hand over the responsibility to a Company which is organised to give
constant, competent, and conscientious service. Apply for this booklet, now.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B, 5.P.0., Sydney.
BP 47-43.
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d., POST FREE, "BULLETIN” OFFICE.
mi
9
7
«\\
P»
WP
-7
n
zz
•fag**
“Fair cities on western plains far out
“It is they who will set fair cities
On the western plains, far out;
They who would garden the deserts —
It is they who would conquer the drought.
They see to the dykes on the skyline,
Where a dust waste biases to-day ,
And they hear the lap of the waters
On the miles of sand and clay. ,f
—Henry Lawson.
;
m
m
m
mm
ft*
•y-
-mm
m
44
-
m
u
m
m
m
m
m
:i, ■.
130 H.P. Caterpillar Diesel D 8 with elevating grader
making a road somewhere in Australia,
If Australia is to find a prosperous living for the millions of people necessary
to hold it safe... we must make plans now for speedy development. The
population, which clings to its seaboards, must be offered a prosperous stake
in a bountiful hinterland made so by water conservation, irrigation, and
cultivation. The fear of loneliness and isolation must be banished by quicker
means of communication. Out there where now lie loneliness and waste,
great cities must be built in the future. So that this gigantic task can be done
within our national budget only the most modern equipment should be used.
When the time comes the whole of our resources, now required for fighting,
will be placed at the disposal of the nation.
CATERPILLAR Dt£S£L
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS wAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVmG EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone—LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
'Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 9b Kincaid St., W crggcr. Phone—2BB6. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. ‘Phone—Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. Phone—lnmsfail 475.
BUY
WAR
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
CTS-33-43
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
(1) Number of those who sat for exam, for
R.A.N. College in September? (2) Number who
qualified? (3) Number of vacancies?
(1) 540. (2) 210. (3) 16.
What was text of Churchill’s reference to
“blood and sweat” and when and where was
it made? .
Churchill said: “I have nothing to offer but
blood, toil, tears and sweat. We have be-
fore us ah ordeal of the most grievous kind.
We have before us many, many months or
struggle and suffering. You ask what is our
policy? I say it is to wage war by land, sea
and air. War with all our might and with ail
the strength God has given us, and to wage
war against a monstrous tyranny never sur-
passed in the dark and lamentable catalogue
of human crime.” —May 30, 1940; Commons.
(1) What became of Cec Overall, the amateur
boxer who later turned professional? (2) Did
Overall win any championships, amateur or
professional? , ,
(1) Overall died in a Melbourne hospital
on August 3, 1942, from concussion received
in a fight with Young Frisco at West Mel-
bourne Stadium two nights earlier. (2) As an
amateur Overall won the S.A. heavyweight, the
Vic. light-heavyweight and the Australian light-
heavyweight championships in 1937. He won
the Victorian heavyweight championship ana
was beaten in the final of the British Empire
light-heavyweight championship in 1938. Overall
beat Les Brander in a match for the Australian
professional light-heavyweight championship at
Sydney Stadium on April 28, 1941.
How to remove pulp from quandong seeds
when nut is (a) fresh and (b) old and dry>?
(a) Steep in warm water with a little washing
soda added and when pulp is thoroughly
softened shake wet seeds in a bag. (b) Nuts
will have to remain in the water until pulp is
softened.
Directions for making a fireless cooker ?
Simplest form is a box packed tightly with
straw and paper cuttings and fitted with a lia
padded with a cushion. The cooked rood is
put into billies, which are pushed into nests
in the lining and covered with more fine straw,
the whole is then shut tight and the food
should be ready in the morning.
How to pickle gherkins ?
Place in brine (strong enough to float an egg)
till yellow, take out, wash, and pour over them
hot, spiced vinegar made by bringing a quart
of vinegar, loz. whole pepper and allspice and
ioz. each of salt and ginger to the boil. Keep
in a cool place.
How to make desiccated coconut?
Grate the green nut meat or put through fine
mincer and spread it thinly over a tray of fine
wire so that air can circulate. Place tray In
hot oven (160-180 deg. F.) for 45 minutes
(longer for very coarse meat). While drying,
pull tray in and out frequently, stir thoroughly
to ensure even drying, and cease drying when
crisp. Remove tray and shake in current of
cool air till cold. Wrap in greaseproof paper
and seal in airtight jar.
Brief Answers.
Coco": Write c/o A.8.C., G.P.O. Box 487aa,
Sydney T.G.N.: The Kaffirs punch a hole
out of the centre and work the inside edges
to the right size AJ.W.: Little demand for
the grade mentioned; price would be about
£7 10s. per ton. Buyers are Norman Hill and
Co., 11c Castlereagh-street, Sydney. A permit
must be obtained from the W. 0.1. before
mining Noonbinni: Question too vague; ex-
plain details and give address E.F.: N.S.W.
State Lottery was established in June, 1931,
at Government Savings Bank Building, Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. In October, 1931, it moved
to corner of Barrack and York streets J.E. :
Unavailable N.T.: Phil May in Australia is
available at Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 281 George-
street, Sydney, for 30s C.E.L.: Poem was
written by Wm. Herbert Carruth C. 8.: Loss
of feathers is due to feather-picking by the birds.
Cause of death cannot be diagnosed without
further particulars P.W.8.: There are sharks
in the English Channel, but no record of them
ever attacking swimmers.


Insure with the
'AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD'.
ESTABLISHED 1872. »
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
AH classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH : Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Wi
Wf FR&Afi
V
In addition to equipment for the three fighting
services, wherever there is a heavy haulage job on
the Home Front, there you will find Olympic
Tyres “pulling their weight” for Victory.
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
w
tedl)
SULATE
CABLES
/PtoGfaicfcon, vf
"Olympic
TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD*
a scrap of paper
. . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE,
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PJEItKINS, General Manager.
mmm
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ l £ £ £
1933.. 72,659 6 p.c. = 72,000 659 632.254
1934.. 84,426 6J „ „ 78,000 6,426 638,680
1935.. 92,751 7J „ „ 90,000 2,751 641,431
1936. .. 108,819 8 „ ~ 96,000 12,819 654,250
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 754,250
1937 ’• 1 2 °’ 13 . 6 = 112(453 1 2,683 756,933
Staff fund, £5OOO .. •• )
Share premiums, £70,000 . . .. 826,933
1938. . 151,973 9 p.c. = 131,905 1 - Qgg 042 001
Staff fund, £5OOO . . .. S IJ,UbB 84 1
Share premiums, £89,051 .. .. 931,052
!939 152 287 9pc. = 144,327 | 2>960 934,012
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. S
i 7?’ 2 u 3 /-n'nn = 156,843 f 9 > 370 9’ 43 - 382
Staff fued, £oooo .. .. )
1941.. 135,208 9 p.c. = 155,925 922,665
1942.. 143,649 8 „ ~ 138,600 5,049 927,714
1943 -r I 4?’ 18 , 4 ” 138 ’ 600 1 5,584 933,298
The lift in earnings, during the last
couple of years is due mainly to increas-
ing demand for beer from our own and
Allied service canteens. Service require-
ments aren’t subject to the public ration-
ing scheme, introduced in March, 1942,
though the services ration themselves
where the* “hard” stuff is on tap. Also,
since the mordant comment of the Federal
commission of inquiry into the operation
of defence canteen services, Tooheys got
some of the business it missed in connec-
tion with the A.I.F. in the Middle East.
Civilian consumption of the amber
beverage has been pegged at two-thirds
of the Jan.-Feb., 1942, level. So, despite
growth of both employment and the basic
wage, there was a contraction of 2,169,000
gallons in the quantity of beer sold to
holders of publican, club and other licenses
in N.S.W. during the 12 months to the end
of 1942, as the following figures show:
Year
ended Beer, Spirits, Wine,
Dec. 31. gallons. gallons. gallons.
1938 .. 34.249,000 848,099 1,622,540
1939 .. 35,379,000 883,618 1,640,351
1940 . . 37,904,000 883,160 1,765,267
1941 . . 38,073,000 820,729 2,056,367
1942 . . 35,904,000 731,000 2,582,000
The contraction in the beer figures is the
first thing of its kind to show up since
1932. It is due to rationing and the fact
that these figures do not include beer
supplied to the services, whose demands
have been stimulated by the requirements
of Allied forces. Thus total output of
beer has continued to increase. Federal
excise receipts (£44- million) were 10 p.c. in
excess of Budget estimates for 1942-43.
Excise, now 4s. 7d. per gallon, has
increased by 2s. lOd. per gallon since the
close of accounts in 1939, lifts being 3d.
1939, 9d. 1940, 3d. 1941 and Is. 7d. 1942.
These increases have been passed on to
hotelkeepers and then over the counter
to the customer by a combination of
price lifts and adjustments in the size of
containers. The gross return to the re-
tailer depends largely upon whether the
bulk of the beer is sold in large or small
containers, the small being the best
revenue-producer per gallon. In the
metropolitan area the price over the bar
of a 16oz. “schooner” is lid., of which
syd. goes to the Federal Treasury. The
other syd. has to cover the retailer’s and
brewer’s costs plus profit; and from the
profit the Government again takes a deep
bite for taxation. It is thus plain that
the Government gets much more out of
the business than do shareholders. Of the
amount received by the breweries for
bulk beer over 73 p.c. goes in excise. The
whole network* of controls in which
brewers and other traders are enmeshed
has resulted in the leapfrogging of costs,
which the Government has sought to
restrict by imposition of the price “ceil-
ing.” Austerity three-course meals at
fixed prices and limitation of trading
hours have affected the hotel section of
the business in varying degree, and man-
power drives and call-ups have added
to and complicated staffing problems.
Within the framework of war-time con-
trols the lot of traders'grows increasingly
difficult and their control over costs more
remote.
After allowing £35,003 (down £1706)
for depreciation and providing something
for other contingencies, there was a sharp
spring of £209,246 in gross earnings last
term:
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Gross £ £ £ £
earnings 935,661 1,113,926 1,232,538 1,441,784
Exes. 772,647 978,718 1,088,889 1,292,600
163,014 135,208 143,649 149,184
Exes., with which is lumped an unspeci-
fied amount of excise and taxation, made
off with £203,711 of the increase. That
left the net result only £5535 stronger at
8.6 p.c. on capital as against 8.3, 7.8, 9.8,
9.5 and 10.3 p.c. back to 1938. The div.,
from which a point was chipped in the
previous term, was kept at 8 p.c., and
£5OOO was sent to the staff fund, leaving
£5584 to put on the shelf. /
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital .. 1,732,500’ 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,732,500
Sundry
ereditorst. 563,469 669,142 727,503 627,537
Loans* .. 795,301 799,651 809,643 804,690
Brewery,
hotels, etc. 3,339,178 3,435,604 3,492,611 3,447,597
Stocks . . 101,876 122,090 141,378 135,514
Book debt? 623,858 617,128 581,847 538,645
Cash, etc.. . 13,491 9,039 11,613 11,358
Shares in
other cos. 39,212 39,212 39,212 39,212
* Advances by subsidiaries, t Including taxation, etc.
Last term £45,014 more was written off
than was spent on fixed assets. Growth
in this item since the outbreak of war
has been due mainly to expenditure on
the brewery and plant; Government
control of capital expenditure has limited
purchase and improvement of hotel
properties, which was the chief form
competition used to take. For the same
reason there has been a lighter call for
assistance from clients, the year’s reduc-
tion in debtors’ balances being £43,202.
The amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes provision for taxation and
other contingencies, was lowered by
£99,966. When the books closed, more
or less liquids exceeded the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors by £57,980, an
improvement of £50,645 over the twelve-
month. That leaves out of the reckoning
loans from and shares ia other cos.,
which are family matters connected with
the finance subsidiary.
As for the future, much will depend
upon when and in what degree present
controls are relaxed. This in turn will
be governed by the course of war activi-
ties in the Pacific and by the plan for
demobilisation of the services and war
industries. At the moment, all this looks
like being a protracted business. Still,
early official announcement of the
Government’s policy in the matter would
enable traders and others to make their
long-term plans to the benefit of the
whole national setup.
Associated Pulp and Paper (Tas.)
Towards
Re-
April, Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £
Rights, development, etc. .. .. 251,233
Preliminary exes., £11,006.. .. 262,239
1939.. 51,823 Nil 314,062
Added patents, £5007 .. .. 319,069
Profit.
1940.. 31,743 3 p.c.f= 28,500 3,243 315,826
1941.. 132,092 6 „ „ 68,827 63,265 252,561
To stock reserve, £31,150 .. .. 283,711
1942.. 121,631 6 p.c. = 90,300 31,331 252,380
1943.. 108,545 6 ~ „ 90,300 18,245 234,135
* Excluding “Reserves for depreciation, renewals,
etc.,” now £324,853. t Ord. shares only.
Paper in all its forms is indispensable
to a nation at war for purposes as diverse
as the packing of munitions and food-
stuffs' and the dissemination of news and
maintenance of communications. Aus-
tralia has therefore cause to thank the
ingenuity of its brown-paper, newsprint
and fine-paper ventures in developing a
technique of manufacture based primarily
on the indigenous eucalypt, a raw material
vastly different from the long-fibre soft-
wood pulps of Europe and America. At
the moment the Commonwealth is self-
sufficient in Kraft paper and board only ;
but both Australian Newsprint Mills at
Boyer and this Associated co., with mill
and forest lands around Burnie (Tas.),
are waiting only for the disappearance of
conditions which prevent the physical ex-
pansion of their undertakings to speed Aus-
tralian independence of overseas supplies.
Reaching commercial production in
August, 1938, output of the Burnie mill
has expanded from initial visualised capa-
city of 15,000 tons to something like
21,000 tons p.a. Nominal tariffs against
subsidised foreign competition at the start
proved inadequate; but the protection
afforded by war conditions has given the
co. a great breathing-space to organise
against the reappearance of things of the
kind, and this at no expense to the Aus-
tralian consumer. Indeed, Burnie paper
has been one of the means helping to
restrain the up-trend of the price-level, be-
cause under rigid control Associated has
been selling its products substantially
below the cost of landing similar papers
from overseas. The price adjustment con-
ceded in October, 1942, was the first for
two years, and it is pleasing in the in-
terest of post-war employment to record
that the increases to a large extent em-
bodied the principle that both the co.
and the “Wild Cat” have consistently
labored, viz., that something more than
normal depreciation allowances is neces-
sary under existing conditions, while
there is a need to provide for the risks
necessarily run in maintaining emergency
stocks of imported materials purchased
at high cost.
A Controller of Paper was appointed
during the last term, when Government
priority ordefs increased the civilian
order-book lag to 12 months or more and
the annexe to turn surplus chemical pro-
ducts to account for defence purposes
came into production. Output of finished
paper was slightly less than in 1942 owing
to special maintenance which could no
longer be deferred. But one of the chief
bumps to profits came from emergency
measures to maintain pulpwood and fire-
wood supplies in the face of forest labor
and transport difficulties. Depreciation
(£88,318) and taxation (£80,000), taken
together, were also established on a plane
£10,268 higher. In the final result net
earnings were left £13,086 lighter at 7.2
p.c. on capital, compared with 8.1, 8.7 and
2.6 p.c. back to the attainment of a profit-
able footing. The div. was kept at 6 p.c.,
leaving £18,245 to strengthen finances.
While the £256,454 paid for rights is
offset as to only £22,319 by free reserves,
the £324,853 earmarked for depreciation,
etc., covers a quarter of the cost of fixed
assets, for the most part installed ahead
of inflated war-time values.
Public interest is largely indirect, the
co. partly representing the co-operative
effort of A.C.1., North and South Broken
Hill, Electrolytic Zinc and Zinc Invest-
ments. Among them, this group has con-
tributed £714,000-odd, or close to half
the capital:
1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital .. £1,200,000 £1,505,000 £1,505,000
Liabilities.. . . 341,826 57,563 79,490
Tax provision .. 1,675 85,359' 93,204
Freehold land, etc.* 100,834 121,558 121,858
Buildings and plant* 971,967 1,048,922 1,124,676
Stores . . . . 61,373 269,303 315,333
Finished stocks . . 52,057 59,418 43,542
Debtors .. ■ . 26,679 79,924 129,517
Cash, etc. .. . . 16,529 97,571 78,636
Rights, preliminary
exes., etc. .. 314,062 276,916 256,454
* At cost.
Further expansion of the share-register
is foreshadowed when dispersal of the
war clouds enables installation of a third
paper-making machine, increasing capa-
city to 27,500 tons p.a. The board is also
turning a post-war eye to the “impressive
possibilities based on the use of the
natural resources of Tasmania in other
directions than that of paper.” This and
other things of the kind suggest that for
the Apple Isle reconstruction will simply
involve extension of the natural industrial
development war has accelerated. Mean-
time, much will depend on the extent to
which Federal price-stabilisation policy
neutralises the rising tendency of costs so
conspicuous in the past 12 months.


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* # * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *'
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anp Trade Marks.—Advt.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson,
General Manager.
T. 0. Reynolds,
Asst. Gen. Manager
FACING fl PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
tt chi
r n i
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
mmm
CE
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROPSSER APPRIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney'.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 siile3
of tiny tubes or filters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
pf waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood
hre the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back-i
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and ienergy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, puffiness under the eyes, head-*
jaches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day" and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS ... used successfully!
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY .PILLS pt your fihemist
or etoro,
MANY NEVER SUSPECT CAUSES OF COMMON
WAR-TIME ILLS
THIS PROVEN TREATMENT
BRINGS HAPPY RELIEF
Many people suffering from
rheumatism, lumbago,
sciatica, kidney troubles
and the like do not realise
that most of such disorders
owe their origin to faulty
elimination, these days
often accentuated by irre-
gular hours and meals, as
well as war-time worries.
But many more have found
a simple, safe solution by
taking R.U.R. regularly for
a while.
R.U.R. gently nudges kid-
neys and liver, and gets
them on the job again.
It aids in reducing uric
acid accumulations, and
keeps bile flowing freely.
Thus, frequent causes of
faulty elimination are cor-
rected. Normal functions
are restored, and glowing
health is a speedy result.
Pain and discomfort dis-
appear.
Yes, take R.U.R. regularly
for a while, and lethargy
disappears, to be replaced
by fitness and vigor.
Your chemist or store sells
R.U.R., so if you are “down
to it”—if you are suffering
from rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, neuritis, kidney
troubles, sluggish liver, con-
stipation—get R.U.R. right
away. If you can’t get
R.U.R. locally, send 4/- for
the smaller size, or 7/6 for
the money-back guaranteed
full treatment to R.U.R., 841
George Street, Sydney.
UX: '§k'L:£m
mmmimmnr
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
Great Boulder Pty. held a statu-
tory meeting in London on December 30
and will meet again shortly to receive
accounts from July 1 to December 31,
1943, the first six months since the new
board took over from the liquidator. An
official circular which accompanied the
notice of the statutory meeting said that,
like all other Australian goldmining cos.,
Gt. Boulder was suffering from the effects
of war conditions. Call-up of the younger
men made the labor situation difficult,
and operating costs had risen. However,
the position of the co. was sound, ore
reserves had been maintained, and pro-
vided there was no serious worsening
in operating conditions in Australia, par-
ticularly as regards to labor, an early
resumption of dividends might be anti-
cipated. The last dividend, of 3d., was
paid on June 28, 1940. From September
20 of that year until June 30, 1943, the
co. was in voluntary liquidation.
* * * *
Taking a big shrinkage of man-power
into consideration, Westralia’s 11 months’
gold yield at 506,5920 z. and the full
year’s estimate of 550,0000 z. are regarded
as satisfactory. The 1944 output is tipped
to show a 20 per cent. - reduction on the
1943 total because of more mines closing
down for want of labor.
* * *
Kalgoorlie and Boulder (W.A.) con-
sumed more beer and. less water during
the half-year ended September 30 than
for the corresponding six months in the
year before. Consumption of beer and
water for both towns, in gallons, is not
yet available, but the water used by the
Golden Mile mineowners approximated
170,500,000 gallons, compared with
176,000,000. Decrease is attributed to
present restricted mining operations. War-
time conditions have assisted in making
the flow of draught beer and sale of
bottled stuff greater.
**:!:*
Tin is a metal the future of which
aftdl- the war does not appear to be very
secure unless new uses and greater de-
mands come with the peace-time world.
Electrolytic tinning in place of hot-dip-
ping in the United States has reduced the
tin used in plating by from one-half to
two-thirds. “Bonderising”—a form of
lacquering—is being used in packing non-
acid foods. Certainly the use of substi-
tutes, in many cases not as satisfactory as
tinplate, has been responsible for much
of the drop in United States consumption,
but the fall has been really phenomenal;
in 1942 consumption was only half that
of 1941, and for 1943 consumption is
expected to be halved again. Should
there be a great post-war increase in the
call for tinned containers it is pos-
sible that, if the demand is anything like
equal to the supply, the thinner, cheaper
electrolytic process of tinning will enable
a higher price to be bid for the metal
without bringing the cost of the container
above that prevailing pre-war. However,
the outlook is by no means as clear as
in the case of lead, and Australian pro-
ducers which have been relying on war-
time prices for their profit-margin may
find post-war tin economics disturbing
for a time. Before the present war about
half the tin used in the world was ab-
sorbed in tinplate, about a fifth in solder,
a tenth in bronze, a tenth in bearing
metals, collapsible tubes and foils. Mis-
cellaneous trades took the remaining
tenth.
* * * *
From London:
Search for oil has been intensified. Practical
policy for the moment is to investigate promis-
ing areas, including some in localities hitherto
not in the forefront as likely producers. Drill-
ing in United States is proving that new dis-
coveries are not sufficient to keep pace with
the increase in consumption. Boring is now
going on in South Africa, and new deposits of
oil have been reported in Russia, on which
work is being done. Jhe “Financial Times”
says that perhaps the most' interesting recent
event is the projected development of oil re-
sources in Arabia by United States oil interests
which have already large holdings in that
country, as well as in Iran and Iraq. Since oil
was first struck in Saudi-Arabia in 1936 pro-
duction has been extended and reached a total
of nearly 6,000,000 barrels in each of the past
two years.
$ * * *
Although the great Rand goldfield has
been producing for over 56 years and has
turned out over £2OOO million-worth of
the precious metal, the present bosses of
the industry are like the old-timers —
always seeking something new. Anglo-
American Corporation recently secured
options on large areas in Far-west Rand,
and a new co. has been formed to drill
deep-level ground. Initial working capi-
tal is £750,000. The general public is
not at present being invited to take any
part in the new venture. By the time that
it will become possible to list it on the
Stock Exchange drilling and geophysical
prospecting should have thrown much
light on the chances of successful mining
at depths of 8500 ft. vertical and below.
* * * *
Orange Free State’s “coming gold-
field” continues very much in the lime-
light. European Investment and its
associates have already done 77,000 ft. of
diamond-drilling over an area of nine
miles by five miles. Nine of 15 bore-
holes on what is known as the Basal
Reef were payable, averaging 28.9dwt.
per ton over 17.6 inches. Distance be-
tween the extreme boreholes giving pay-
able results was seven miles, so it is
claimed that a large proportion of this
area has been proved well in advance of
shaft-sinking. Systematic drilling of a
potential gold area beforehand is
reckoned to have given not only geologi-
cal information but also reef values in
new country. Drilling costs have been
comparatively low owing to favoralle
geological conditions.
Company Meeting
NATIONAL BANK
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
“We cannot afford to have idle men
and resources where monetary manage-
ment can promote their use, nor can we
afford to see incomes and savings de-
stroyed by wanton credit expansion.”
%
The chairman of the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia Ltd. (Mr. H. D. Giddy) made this
statement in the course of his speech to the
bank’s shareholders at the annual meeting on
Nov. 24.
Of the bank’s officers 1293 had been re-
leased for war service, and profound sympathy
was extended to the relatives, friends and former
colleagues of the 38 who had paid the supreme
sacrifice.
Referring to war finance, Mr. Giddy said,
“A few weeks ago the Federal Treasurer told
Parliament that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment had spent £670,000,000 during the 12
months ended June last, and that he estimated
at least £715,000,000 would be spent during
1943-44. Five years ago such mammoth Gov-
ernment demands for money would have been
regarded as fantastic, and it is little wonder
that this tremendous increase in Government
expenditure has had a profound effect on our
economic and financial structure.
MOUNTING DEPOSITS.
“The outstanding feature of our internal
financial position is the public’s ever-growing
accu'mulation of monetary wealth in a volume
which is huge in relation to the present supply
of goods and services for civilian use. The
constantly growing deposits in the savings and
trading banks and the continually expanding
note issue evidence this accumulation, while at
the same time the demands on the nation’s pro-
ductive resources for our war effort and to
assist our Allies grow stronger, reducing the
physical volume of goods and services for civil
use.
“Herein exists the real gap in our economy,
which gives rise to many of the present-day
problems of economic management. The gap
is quite unavoidable under conditions of war,
and the tendency is for it to widen rather than
contract.
“Heavy taxation, war loans and the direction
of capital investment have assisted to inhibit to
a moderately successful degree possible in-
flationary effects of this gap. Superimposed
thereon are control of prices and of produc-
tion, and consumer rationing, all of which show
signs of becoming intensified.
POWER OF MONEY.
“The various steps taken to prevent these in-
flationary tendencies from bursting forth and
endangering our whole economic structure have
produced circumstances surrounding the powers
and functions of money that are new in the
history of Australia. Firstly, national control
over the extent of the community’s monetary
wealth has been established. Secondly, though
money still remains the normal economic re-
ward for effort, the economic powers and
privileges that formerly attached to its posses-
sion by the individual have been greatly cir-
cumscribed.
“Without suggesting that these developments
should (persist to their present degree, it is
certain that the experience gained from them
will be reflected in the future conduct of
national finance. We cannot afford to have
idle men and resources where monetary manage-
ment can promote their use, nor can we afford
to see incomes and savings destroyed by
wanton credit expansion.
MANAGED FINANCE.
“Monetary management, however, is not the
all-powerful influence some! people would have
us believe. Manipulation of money and credit
cannot of itself lead to economic progress or
raise the standard of life of the community,
but sound direction of finance is essential to
the attainment of these goals, and it is the
duty of those responsible to so manage our
monetary system that it actively assists and
does not obstruct real economic progress for
all the people.”
Mr. Giddy referred to the determination by
the State of the priority of the use of physical
resources under war conditions, and said, “I
agree with the principle of broad determination
by the State of the employment of our physical
resources, and I consider that social and eco-
nomic benefits arise from competent national
guidance and direction on broad lines. I do
not believe, however, that the severe application
of this principle necessary under war conditions
would be conducive either to material progress
or to the happiness of the individual in days
of peace. While the driving force of individual
freedom must be directed with full regard to
the interests of the State, it must not be de-
stroyed. It must be preserved. The vital
issue is not whether there ought to be com-
plete individual freedom or no individual free-
dom in the economic field, but, just where the
balance between these extremes lies.
PERSONAL INITIATIVE.
“A measure of the present controls will be
necessary for some time after the war, and
industry will no doubt be expected to operate
within a framework charging each section with
a direct responsibility to the interests of the
community as a whole. From its experience
of the last four years and its fuller apprecia-
tion of its social responsibilities, industry
should be in a position to make a valuable con-
tribution toward the design and erectibn of
this framework. It is imperative that this
national framework be designed to broaden,
rather than restrict, opportunities for indi-
vidual initiative and action, and permit of ade-
quate rewards for the exercise of these indis-
pensable qualities. Men and women want
opportunity, not philanthropy.”
Mr. Giddy laid stress on the importance
which must be attached to the problem of
stability of international exchanges and the
bearing which new factors, such as extensive
lend-lease arrangements and foreign exchange
control, would undoubtedly have. Consider-
able thought was being given the questions
overseas, and Australia was vitally concerned
in their resolution.
“The trend of economic and financial man-
agement under conditions of total war has
given rise to a good deal of confused thought.
Indeed, one hears many exaggerated views as
to its meaning and possibilities, often indicat-
ing a mistaken belief that national control and
management in itself is a mainspring of 'eco-
nomic progress. The sober fact remains: An
improving standard of life for all can be
attained only by an ever-growing volume of
goods and services produced from the work,
enterprise and genius of individual men and
women. From this, the supreme econbmic
problem of all, our thought and energy must
not be diverted by wishful thinking or false
doctrines.”


«
ENCEHOSPI
iw%w.
m
m i
»;<s
9
mm
mmrn^SM
IlStili®
£is^!
ft:
?S.
!§S
I’-Hlt*
I
» Ws|
V# ■
EM
i
To induce natura 1 , healthy sleep,
so important to convalescence, there
is nothing like a cup of delicious
Bourn-vita at " lights-out". Made
from egg?, full-cream milk, barley
malt and chocolate, Bourn-vita is
both nour shing and easily digestible ... the perfect food
drink for all convalescents. Bourn-vita is today in wide
use in military hospitals and convalescent homes assisting
the recovery of our sick and wcunded men.
§
'mi
Qjt
•s
to
Shifts ,►
F Cft lot
V 41 1 ;
BOURN-VITA
for deep, refreshing s 7 eep
NOW AVAILABLE
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
TO ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Supplies of new "INTERNATIONAL" trucks have
been specially imported by the Government as a
Defence measure to ensure efficient road transport
within Australia. These vehicles are equipped with
sturdy, full floating, 2-speed rear axles; imported
all-steel cabs; imported platform bodies with skid
strips, coaming, front loading"board and rope rails;
detachable dropsides and tailboard or triple-purpose
stakesides, and other approved essential body types.
Capacities up to tons.
Deliveries of these vehicles can now be arranged for
essential users who obtain the necessary "Permit to
Acquire" from the Emergency Road Transport Board.
Application forms for official permits, full details of
prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase may be obtained from our branch in the
Capital City of your State, or from any Authorised
Metropolitan Distributor for International Trucks.
Ask us to help you with your application.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF* AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD,
iniUinHl lunnb nn <|*<COHW»nftTEO IH V(CTOHIA)
Business , Robbery, Etc.
A Peak Year
The year 1943 was one of achievement
and changes in Australia. About half-
way through it the Prime Minister an-
nounced that Australia was safe from
invasion, and, though this was to become
a matter of political controversy in view
of previous remarks by Mr. Curtin, it
seemed to coincide witth a new stage
in our munitions-production policy.
Soon afterwards the abandonment of
tank-manufacture was announced, and
there have been indications that certain
other Australian munitions are now pro-
duced to excess, have become obsolete or
can be more economically made in other
parts of the Allied world. In view of
the impending large-scale offensive opera-
tions, not only in the Pacific but in
Europe as well, Australia’s traditional
role as a food-producing country has
come in for more emphasis and plans have
been shaped accordingly. Amongst the
community itself food has become No. 1
political and economic problem, whereas
in the preceding year clothing was the
main item of civilian controversy.
The venture in tank-production is said
to have cost Australia not much more
than £4 million all told. If so, it was a
sum of money spent in a genuine endea-
vor to do a job that appeared necessary
at the time plans were first laid down. A
number of tanks were turned out under
great machine-tool difficulties, and much
bigger sums of money have been wasted
in this war in producing results that have
less merit. The tank has become an
armament of secondary importance in the
Pacific war at its present stage. Tanks
are in adequate production in the U.S.A.
War expenditure, including charges for
reciprocal lend-lease, appears to have
ceased climbing. In 1942-43 the average
monthly expenditure was £47 million,
and for the first five months of 1943-44
the average has been £46 million. In
November the monthly figure was above
average at £47.9 million. A greater pro-
portion of present war outlay is in respect
of reciprocal lend-lease, so that upon our
own munitions output we are spending less
than the peak reached about the beginning
of 1943. This smaller spending is not en-
tirely illogical. For a lengthy period the
nation was “tooling up” at great cost, and
actual production from our tools and fac-
tories was likely in the end to cost less per
year than the original capital outlay in-
volved. But for our smaller present out-
lay we should be getting a far greater
supply of the actual munitions of war
than we were receiving during the period
of greatest capital expenditure. It tyould
seem in some cases that after possibly a
couple of years of tooling-up the output
of a few months from mass-production
machines has almost given us a surplus of
the article we really aimed at getting.
The great use of bank credit made by
the Labor Government in lieu of ade-
quate taxation, plus the unavoidable in-
flation of war-time, produced such a pres-
sure of rising costs and prices that as
from April 12, 1943, a “prices ceiling”
was introduced by the Federal authority.
All goods, with the exception of perish-
able and seasonal primary products,
were brought under the ceiling. Be-
fore a producer who finds himself
being squeezed between rising costs
and the ceiling will be granted a
subsidy he has to “satisfy a Price Stabi-
lisation Committee that he needs relief
after having exhausted the possibilities
of economies resulting from rationalisa-
tion and improved efficiency.”
Later on (just before the election)
the Government reduced the price of tea
by Is. 2d. a pound, and fixed the charge
for potatoes at 51b. for 6d. in capitals,
subsidies being involved in each case.
Sales tax on rationed clothing was also
reduced from 12| p.c. to p.c. in an
effort to stop price inflation that was all
the time being reflected in the basic wage.
Statisticians’ figures indicate that the
rising cost of living has been checked,
and the basic wage has been adjusted
accordingly, but a corresponding adjust-
ment to pensions has been sidetracked.
In truth, much of the claimed check to
living costs is based on the price of un-
obtainable commodities,
In his Budget speech Treasurer Chifley
said:
By imposing a price ceiling on April 12
the Government took responsibility for put-
ting a limit on prices. That limit will not
remain indefinitely at the present figure,
but some limit there must be under the
disturbed conditions of war and the im-
mediate post-war period'. The importance
of such control for preventing the inflation
of prices likely to follow the conclusion
of the war will be easily appreciated.
The cost of subsidies to primary pro-
ducers, largely dairymen, for 1943-44 was
estimated by the Treasurer at £ll.B mil-
lion. Other price-stabilisation costs were
put at £l2 million. The total is being
charged up as war expenditure.
There were two public loans during
1943. The Third Liberty Loan produced
£lO2 million from 422,000 subscribers.
The Fourth Liberty Loan brought in
about £126 million from 560,000 sub-
scribers. Both operations were disap-
pointing from the point of view of public
support. At no time during the flotation
of each loan was there any reduction in
the total of savings-bank deposits ; the
most that happened was a slowing-down
in the rate of increase of these deposits.
During 1943 very nearly £lOO million was
added to s.-b. deposits, and, though much
of the increment was diverted to the war
loans by the management of the savings
banks, secondary investment of savings
for war-loan purposes is not nearly so
satisfactory as direct contribution by
wage-earners. Canberra estimated that
one person in every 12 invested in the
Fourth Liberty Loan, compared with
one in every four in Canada’s Fifth Vic-
tory Loan.
In order to reduce the amount of bank
credit necessary to bridge the Budget
“gap” during the current financial year
the Treasury is asking the public for an
extra £75 million of loan money. It is
doubtful indeed whether it has had much
success in this direction so far. Public
support has not been fully responsive to
the needs of the occasion and bank-
credit use has been running ahead of
schedule.
As a means of enforcing additional
loan support from the investor class
(always easier to press into service than
the wage-earner) the Treasury decided
to deny consent to property deal-
ings running into £5OO and upwards un-
less a graduated scale of contribution was
also made to war loans. The rule does
not apply to people buying homes for
their own occupation or to farmers buy-
ing land which they intend to work for
themselves. Both loan and property in-
vestments since the outbreak of war are
aggregated for the purpose of this Trea-
sury regulation.
Coal production became a national
problem as 1943 progressed. In spite
of efforts to keep the supply of this
essential fuel up to the increased level de-
manded by war-time activities, cuts in
essential services had to be made on a
large scale. Coal production in N. S.
Wales without the strikes and obstruc-
tionism that have occurred among the
miners could be much greater. Though
every assistance and priority has
been given to the industry, frivolous,
wasteful stoppages still occur. In the
case of both wharf-laborers and seamen,
service men had to be used to keep essen-
tial sea-borne traffic going during the
. year.
Pay-as-you-go taxation, adopted in
Canada and the U.S.A. and partly in
force in Great Britain, was sidestepped
for some inscrutable reason by the Com-
monwealth Government. The system is
one by which a wage-earner retires or
dies practically free of income tax, in-
stead of owing at least a year’s tax, as
under the present method of assessment.
If any setback occurs in employment in
the post-war period the burden of de-
layed taxation assessment on war-time
earnings will prove crushing in thousands
of cases. At present there appears to be
widespread and deliberate evasion of
taxation by workers moving from job to
job and by small traders selling goods for
cash. The note issue has soared to above
£l6O million, a substantial part of the
rise being due to currency hoarding.
At the end of the year Supply Minister
Beasley said: “I am as anxious as any-
one to see war-time regulations removed
as soon as possible, but if we are to avoid
chaos we shall have to exercise strict con-
trol of the ‘de-controlling’ process.”
Quite true, but some think we have used
too many arbitrary artificial controls in-
stead of utilising the obvious natural
ones, and for that reason distrust all
Government controls.
The year just past, in brief, can be
summed up as one in which the economic
war burden appears to have reached
pretty nearly its peak ; the diversion of
man-power to the fighting forces and
munition industries passed its peak ; food
became a No. 1 problem because of re-
duced production in some cases and in-
creased demand in all; although taxation
was increased early in the year (this peak
having been reached much later than in
Britain, Canada and New Zealand) there
was still a need for excessive public and
bank borrowing ; the money left in the
hands of the people continued to far out-
run the available quantity of goods and
services; the inflation menace stung the
Government into more drastic action with
regard to price control; black-marketing
became a national evil; the return of the
Federal Labor Government with a
majority in both House's appeared to have
added a little to its sense of responsibility


mmm
THIS
DUPLICATOR
has all the fir.es! features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
Bu.tt i„ Aumalic by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co.,Pty.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
Public Notices.
I, KURT OHLBERG, of Austrian nationality, born
at Vienna, Austria, and resident four years in Aus-
tralia, now residing’ at Buxton, Tusculum Street,
Potts Point, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, IVAN VUKSIC, of Yugoslav nationality, born at
Kokoric, Yugoslavia, and resident 16 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 18 Bardie Street, Darling-
hurst, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 19'20-193C.
£
m
mm
m
■-- ■-■_
Another way you
can help him is by
SAVING FOOD
You invest in War
Loans. You buy War Savings Certificates regularly. You send
him parcels and canteen orders. What else can you do to ease
the strain of waiting and bring him safely home again? YOU
CAN SAVE FOOD!
The more men our Allies send to the South-West Pacific, the
sooner we'll beat Japan. But the Allied Forces, like our own
boys, must be fed. That is where you come in.
Every ounce of food you save, every ounce of food you pro-
duce, releases more food to feed those gathering armies . . .
to speed the hour of Victory.
FOOD is a Mighty Weapon of War
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control .
F. 9.27
-
THE DIFFERENCE
LIFE AND 1
BETWEEN
DEATH
m
8
m
.
Air Tactics Diagram
shows how
FLYING HORSEPOWER
wiil aid our fighter pilots
Mobiloil
Picture an Australian pilot up there, four
miles above the Pacific-fighting an oppon-
ent who moves 500 feet a second-twisting
and turning in mile-wide manoeuvres.
He's a long way from home, and the white-
coated scientists in the petroleum labora-
tories, yet... Because those scientists found
a way to produce a fuel which is vastly more
powerful in today's super engines —our
flyers will carry a great advantage into battle!
The new TCC Process and the sensational
new Bead Catalyst are the revolutionary
refining developments which will make this
super power possible-which will help many
an Australian shake a Jap from his tail, zoom
up at an angle his enemy can't follow and
come back spitting sudden death.
This new super fuel will make today's 100
octane gasolines seem old-fashioned...
means far greater speed and manoeuvra-
bility for our fighters, increased range and
heavier "pay loads" for Allied bombers.
Thus, a new power "Flying Horsepower"
will help the United Nations to air suprem-
acy in this war...and promises undreamed-
of performance from the super motor cars,
giant air liners and'air-flivvers'of to-morrow!
Serving the Nation on Land, Sea, and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
VI-410 .INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA.
PTY.
LTD.
without fortifying its courage ; the de-
mands of a number of trade-unions
showed no regard for the problems or
welfare of the country at war ; and post-
war reconstruction began to figure as a
real problem in the eyes of the Govern-
ment as well as thousands of others*
Knight Claude Reading, chairman of the
Commonwealth Bank Board, was out-
spoken about the evils of injudicious use
of bank credit. Eddie Ward, following
the Brisbane Lie, was transferred from
Labor and National Service to Transport
and External Territories. •
Minerva Centre, Ltd., which owns the
Minerva Theatre in Orwell-street, in the
King’s Cross area, Sydney, made a
first profit (£9) last year, and is re-
ducing the mortgage. Recently there
have been sales of the £1 ords. at 10s.
David N. Martin, founder of the enter-
prise, has been appointed to the board in
place of E. J. Tait, who retired when
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., sold its holding
in Minerva Centre, Ltd., to a group
headed by the chairman of that co. “The
Firm’s” holding had been acquired
cheaply some time after flotation. The
Minerva Theatre, after financial and
constructional difficulties, opened in
May, 1939, with the show “Idiots’
Delight.” There was originally to be
a second theatre —the Paradise —but,
though the site (in Macleay-street) was
bought, the co. was fortunate eventually
in being able to sell it to the City Council
for the making of a park. Otherwise
the financing of the Minerva would have
been even more of a problem. The co.
had an unremunerative first year, followed
by others; and there were various
changes on the showing side before long.
The location of the Minerva was
a matter for controversy. A number
of people were adversely affected finan-
cially by reason of their interest in
the theatre; also, some friendships were
strained. Although retained by Minerva
Centre as architect at the beginning, the
late Bruce Dellit objected to being called
the designer of the completed theatre. A
dispute between the management and the
MollisOn-Basquette stage partnership
received considerable publicity. Joy
Howarth returned from the U.S.A. after
her legal tussle with George Brent to
appear on the Minerva stage in “Good
Morning, Bill.” “Stars” were being paid
around £4O a week back in 1939. Dave
Martin later formed his own producing
co., which leased the theatre, apd tied up
with the Comedy in Melbourne, with
apparent success. Later still Whitehall
Productions came in and played to good
houses. In spite of the bad luck, losses,
disputes, changes, etc., that attended
establishment and the first couple of
years’ running, and the heavy expendi-
ture of money, after 4\ years the
Minerva, picturesque in design and in
history, is still a fiesh-and-blood house,
and Dave. Martin is back on the board.
Certainly the war has helped show busi-
ness, but, whatever the post-war prospects
of the legitimate stage, the Minerva and
its associated production cos. have at
least given the Sydney stage the chance of
survival in the “new order.” Much young
Australian talent has appeared before the
Minerva footlights.
* * * *
Latest lend-lease development has been
the putting of a number of U.S. exports
on a cash basis; Among these are
machine tools and industrial equipment
likely to be of permanent value to
Britain. French North Africa is already
cut off from lend-lease. Generally,
“American exporting firms will resume to
a limited extent their peace-time activi-
ties.”
* * * *
The New Zealand brewing industry in
1942-43 worked at top pressure. A total
of 22.2 million gallons of ale and stout
was produced, up 2.4 million gallons (12.2
p.c.) over the previous year’s output.
There were 1191 persons employed in
brewing, etc., a reduction of 3 p.c.,
though the wages bill (£436,574) rose 8.9
p.c. There was a cut of 54 p.c. (to
23,309 cwt.) in the quantity of sugar used
—a result of the rationing of sugar and
a cut in the alcoholic content of beer
brewed after May 1, 1942. The basic
rate of beer duty was raised from 2s. a
gallon on that date to 3s.
* * * *
Canberra reports that rubber planters
who have returned to New Guinea at the
discretion of the G.O.C. hope to exceed
the peak pre-war output (1200 tons) in
the first year of revived production. The
planters resumed work in July, 1943 ;
there are now 73 whites on the job,
assisted by hundreds of natives. Pro-
duction is paid for at fixed rates by the
Government, with a guaranteed margin
of profit of not less than that obtained
before the war. In Papua some rubber
production has scarcely been interrupted.
* * * *
Knight Ernest Fisk, speaking at the
annual meeting of Amalgamated Wire-
less :
Indications at the present time, and all
advices received from those in a position to
know, are that we in Australia shall have
to continue and, if possible, intensify our
war effort' for a number of years yet. At
the same time thoughts of many in re-
sponsible positions are turning towards
post-war problems.
Fisk added that for A.W.A. there is likely
to be a difficult period when the war ap-
proaches or reaches its end. But “at a
later stage new and wider fields of radio
development will begin to open.” Output
of television equipment will be subject
to the organisation of entertainment pro-
grammes.
* * * *
The average number per month of new
dwellings erected in the six capital cities
and suburbs of Australia, excluding Gov-
ernment buildings, during the yejar to
June 30 last was 38. In 1940-41 the
average per month was 1386.


THE SERVICE MAN
Ashore at Gloucester.
“Ek Dum”: After a month of the
heaviest air bombardment which any part
of the South Pacific has suffered, United
States Marines landed in New Britain on
December 26 —on two narrow beaches
between Dorf Point and Borgen Bay,
round Cape Gloucester. The landing was
covered by a bombardment group of the
Royal Australian Navy under the tall,
bearded Rear-Admiral Crutchley, V.C.,
who also covered the first landing of the
Marines at Guadalcanal on August 7,
1942. A second landing followed round
the corner of the island to the south-west,
between Dorf Point and Sag Sag. The
two forces were destined to crush the life
out of the Japanese garrison between
them.
Most of the Marines were veterans of
the Solomons, “rested, reinforced and re-
equipped in Australia.” Those who had
not been through a landing before were
stiffened by the presence of the men who
«had. And the aircraft which had engulfed
the Cape Gloucester area as a preliminary
and the hew equipment made the affair a
very different one from that at Guadal-
canal. There the attack had been made
with the enemy superior at sea and in the
air; made with only a tithe of the artil-
lery and a shadow of the aircraft cover
now available.
For days life had been humming in
the dusty base from which they set out,
while air squadrons kept life humming
even more loudly at Cape Gloucester.
The camp was like a zoo of iron mon-
sters all roaring at once.
The official celebration of Christmas
was pushed ahead to December 22 by an
Order of the Day. That night there were
religious services. The Protestants met
together in the stadium, their padres to-
gether on a dais in front of the movie
screen. The Catholics had a midnight
mass, at which the altar was shielded by
a tarpaulin and decorated with palm-
leaves, and at which Major-General
Rupertus led his men to the communion
table. Rain fell in torrents during the ser-
vice, but the Marines stood in a long
line waiting to kneel in the mud before
their priests.
The Marines Embark
Next night there were movie shows
which lasted far into the morning. And
on the blazing morning of Christmas Eve
the men marched down the ramps,
weighted to the limit with battle gear, and
climbed into their armada, into which,
for a week, all the steel mastodons of the
Marines’ Zoo had- been disappearing.
By Christmas morning the dusty beach
had been cleared of its mounds of im-
pedimenta. The transport and soldiers
were packed into the L.C.Is. and other
troop-carrying ships like matches in a
box. All round were vessels piled high
with tanks, bulldozers, guns, crocodiles,
buffaloes, ducks and other mechanical
equipment of coastwise battle.
With the L.C.Is. bearing the assault
battalions in the lead, the heavier craft
with mechanical equipment behind,
and a fleet of warships shepherding the
herd under the largest air umbrella yet
seen in such an expedition, the attack
force left harbor, while the big bombers
got ready to lay their last preparatory
load of 300 tons of bombs on Cape
Gloucester.
Christmas Day was spent at sea. While
Sydney grumbled at its poultry shortage
and slept off its rush of Christmas Eve
gaiety, the Marines were eating bully beef
and peas in their iron craft, which absorb
heat like a stove.
The night went down in Vitiaz Strait
with all the suddenness of tropic nights.
The craft sent out phosphorescent trails
behind them. The morning sky darkened
and the stars spangling a temporarily
clear sky became brighter. The long ten-
sion somewhat relaxed, for it was known
that Cape Gloucester was near and the
enemy attack ’planes, the threat of which
had kept faces turned to the sky all
through the previous day, had not
materialised.
The shadows of the warships slipped
by. About 4.30 a.m. they swung in a
wide circle about six miles out from
Cape Gloucester, where the sea washes
lazily over a long coral reef, and from
there opened fire at 6 a.m.
Still in darkness, these first artillery
shots of the war inside the ring of
Bismarck Islands echoed back from the
volcanoes at the western tip of New
Britain and dispelled for ever the repu-
tation of that part of the ocean as the
Stille Meer the “Quiet Sea” of the
German time.
The landing ships glided inside the
reef. Destroyers scurried in with them,
and their sharper barking was a comfort-
ing sound, for it was known that they
were “doing over” the foreshores.
Sea Scene at Cape Gloucester
Dawn unfolded itself —it always seems
to unfold in those regions—into waves of
crimson and yellow, revealing the dull
grey sea of the tropics in the north,
ringed around with the fantastic cloud-
shapes which always hover on sea hori-
zons. In the foreground was the wreck
of a Jap destroyer piled high on the
vicious-looking reef. To the south-west
lay the battered Cape Gloucester area,
with its broken and dejected-looking
palms, its vegetation deadly green and
dripping in the morning damp, two
narrow beaches only a few feet wide and
steep, less prominent than the black
beaches of the Solomons, but knife-blade
wide, steeply inclined, with the lazy wash
of the lagoon water inside the reef lash-
ing high up on them in a full tide.
Behind, somewhat to the east, was the
blunt, clifflike Target Hill, a fortress
stump, standing out above the foreshores.
In the background were the high peaks
of Talawe (6800 ft.), Tangi and the
other less-imposing volcanoes which
huddle together at the western end of the
island.
With dawn the clamor of the guns
rose. The northern horizon was turned
into a sort of horrible aurora borealis
against a background of smoke. The
heavier fire was being concentrated on
Target Hill, the whole top and face of
which could be .seen sliding away. Then
there was a slow rumble in the air.
About 7 a.m. the guns of the warships
became suddenly silent, and the deep-
bellied Liberators came down and filled
the air with deadly canisters. All the
broken cap of Target Hill and its sur-
rounding area seemed to rise hundreds
of feet and disappear in mushrooming
spray, the detonations drowning the
cheering of the onlookers. Then the
wicked Mitchells roared in at low level,
their 75’s blazing while their shells
bounced and tore through the target area.
They left behind them a trail of incen-
diaries which started up all over the fore-
shores into phosphorescent blazes.
Now it was the turn of the naval guns
again, and while they shouted from the
sea the destroyers shuttled across the
foreshore line, leaving behind them a wall
of smoke which climbed until it hid the
sun itself. Through this the landing craft
roared, their packed masses of men
crouched low, the Mitchells hurtling over-
head like express trains on their prepara-
tory runs. The naval guns were still bel-
lowing. In all sectors that morning they
fired 3000 shells.
The ramps touched the steeply-shelv-
ing beaches walled round with what
seemed impenetrable vegetation. The
aii was full of the choking fumes
of high explosivq and incendiary which
stung the eyes and took away the
breath. The Marines leapt ashore waist
deep in the tide which had almost hidden
the beaches. Their rifles and automatics
were at the ready, but there was no recep-
tion committee waiting. Not a Jap rifle
spoke. The only movement ashore was
the swinging of the broken palm leaves
and the whirl of the smoke rising from
fresh craters and smouldering fires. Up
soared the flares to tell that the landing
had been made.
Out at sea the guns ceased firing. The
cruisers, their work done, with a protec-
tive ring of destroyers round them, began
to move silently into the mist of the once
more Quiet Sea.
Then, about an hour and a half after
the first guns had opened from beyond
the reef, the long procession of mechanised
transport and armament began to pile
ashore, enormous but orderly. The alli-
gators and the bulldozers broke their way
into the bush, while from one beach the
Marines fanned up south-westward
toward the air strips and others worked
eastward towards Target Hill.
The Enemy Arrives
During all these operations there had
been no resistance. For all the effort
the enemy made he might have been
sleeping his last sleep. At sea none of his
ships showed up; overhead the silver
specks which had been identifiable as
Allied patrol aircraft before the smoke
blotted them out were still there un-
molested well through the morning.
It was 2.45 p.m., when the beachheads
were well established in three places, be-
fore a swarm of between 20 and 30
bombers, covered by 40 or 50 fighters,
came screaming along New Britain from
the east in a stormy attack. The Light-
nings up above shrieked down on them
while the enemy fighters tried to fend
them off.
The dive-bombers hurtled down almost
to sea level. For half an hour hell was
loose round the Gloucester beaches with
a vengeance, the sea lashed into geysers
of spray, bullets and small shells hurtling
in from a variety of directions, fighters
chasing bombers, with other fighters
on their tails, Japanese ’planes diving
like wind-swept branches into the sea, and
going up in clouds of flame and smoke
as their tanks burst.
In half an hour 17 bombers and four
fighters were shot down by the Allied
cover.
Nevertheless, the Jap was game. One
lot came down to deck-level across the
long line of barges and landing craft in
a raging sweep the full length of the
beach.
The enemy’s losses in no way seemed
to dismay him. In the afternoon another
of his formations broke in over the naval
escorts from the direction of Madang
and engaged in fierce battle with the
covering Thunderbolts and Hawks.
“Practically No Loss”
Night came with the operation well
advanced. It was the busiest Sunday and
Boxing Day most of the Marines had
ever spent. They had gained their first
objective. The casualties from the air
attack had been light—“practically no
loss in ships, .’planes or men,” the com-
munique said. Only one small vessel was
wrecked from a direct hit, and three
others suffered minor damage from near
hits. Seven Allied aircraft had been
destroyed, against 36 bombers and 25
enemy fighters brought down, apart from
probables.
The Japanese, of course, had a differ-
ent tale. They claimed to have destroyed
two Allied cruisers and two transports
and damaged three other transports, and
to have shot down 21 Allied ’planes for
a loss of 17 of their own.
During the day another 300 tons of
bombs were added to the tremendous load
which already had fallen from Allied
bomb-bays, mostly on the aerodrome
area between Silimata Point at the western
extremity of Borgen Bay and Dorf Point,
where the coast turns southward west of
Cape Gloucester. The landing forces in
the Sag Sag area on the west and on the
Gloucester beaches toward Target t-lill
were in a position to begin the roping-
off of the whole western end of the
island and enemy installations by con-
verging and infiltrating movements.
By Tuesday morning a communique
announced that Target Hill had been cap-
tured after some resistance and that the
airstrips to the west were under Allied
artillery fire.
In pouring rain the Marines advanced
from the Cape Gloucester position
against increasing enemy resistance till
they were within a mile and a half of
the aerodromes.
The enemy obviously was not in the
aerodrome area in any strength. As at
Lae and in the Markham Valley he had
withdrawn during the preliminary bomb-
ing, leaving strong patrols.
The actions fought on the way to the
landing grounds were similar to those
fought by the Australian detachments on
the way from Nazdab to Lae.
At intervals, where a position was
favorable, a thick patch of bush with
natural features for defence, a defendable
hillock or some point which lent itself to
a surprise pounce on an advance tank or
patrol would be strongly held by a for-
lorn-hope platoon or section of Japanese
whose duty it obviously was to die to the"
last man.
On December 30 Allied H.Q. reported
that the enemy “initially disposed in
coastline cordon defence has effected
local concentrations in the airstrip and
Borgen Bay areas, and is operating
against our eastern perimeter in strength.
Our attack ’planes executed direct-sup-
port missions against enemy defence
positions at the aerodrome.”
Next day General Krueger, Com-
mander of the Sixth American Army,
had “the pleasure to present Cape
Gloucester to the Commander-in-Chief
as a New Year gift.”
The two aerodromes had been taken,
1000 dead had been counted and the
attack on the eastern American perimeter
from the direction of Borgen Bay had
been beaten off and 200 of the enemy left
for dead. The final occupation of the
Qipe Gloucester airfields was made after
a pounding with 250 tons of bombs.
The enemy patrols later attacked fruit-
lessly. Their attacks had merely a nui-
sance value. The new beachheads at the
week-end were well consolidated.
In other areas there was considerable
activity. On Christmas Day one of
Admiral Halsey’s naval squadrons poured
7500 shells into the Buka and Bonis de-
fence areas in the northern Solomons.
There were attacks on enemy outposts in
the Empress Augusta Bay area during
the week by land patrols, with regular
bombing and torpedo attacks on defence
points and bivouac areas.
In the air there were numerous expedi-
tions engaged on missions which were
diversionary so far as Cape Gloucester
and Arawe were concerned, and at the
same time preparatory for further events.
Wandokai and Shaggy Ridge
Wandokai and its little beach having
fallen into the hands of advancing Aus-
tralians in the Huon Peninsula, with a
quantity of arms and ammunition, the
Finschhafen column moved on.
After ovfer three months of stern, if
intermittent, fighting—the sternest which
has been seen anywhere in the Japanese
zone since Buna-Gona, not excepting
New Georgia—it seemed at last that the
enemy was letting go his hold on the
Huon Peninsula.
The environs of Wandokai, when the
Australians took it on Christmas Eve,
were like nothing imaginable. Dead
bodies and the tatters of abandoned
clothing and equipment had blazed the
trail into the village. It and its surround-
ing cliff caves and crannies were slimed
with greasy, foul-smelling dirt. There
were all the signs that dysentery and star-
vation had been as deadly as bullets and
that, once command of the Vitiaz Strait
had been established by Allied naval
units, the enemy had abandoned his out-
posts, who had cleaned out the last
morsels of food and cut down palms
and pawpaw trees to gnaw the pith.
Wandokai itself was a scene of ruin.
Its fires still smouldered; its heavier
armament and wireless equipment had
been wrecked as far as possible, but there
were still large dumps.
The spearhead of the Australians did
not wait. It pushed on rapidly along the
kanaka tracks through the long grasses
which span the cliff edges of the coastal
ridges, while the little M.T.Bs. came in
close to the coast ahead and blasted
everything that looked Japanese to hurry
the enemy along. Ashore the rain gave
place temporarily to broiling heat and
thick volcanic dust.
By the morning of December 30 H.Q.
reported that Blucher Point had been
reached, more than halfway to Sio from
Finschhafen. Since September 22 2774
Jap dead had been counted.
American Landings
Under cover of a heavy naval and air
bombardment elements of the Sixth U.S.
Army were reported by the G.H.Q.
communique of January 3 to have made
landings on three beaches at Saidor, a
station with an airstrip, about 55 miles
south-east along the Maklay coast from
Madarjg and about 80 miles from the
Australian spearhead marching up from
Wandokai. Thus the enemy, both in the
Bogadjim area facing the Australians in
the Ramu and on the Sio coast retreating
from Wandokai, is caught in the rear.
Over 200 tons of bombs were dropped
between Sio and Saidor.
There was no mention of resistance in
the communique,
The Ramu Force
It has ceased to live the “quiet” life
that characterised its existence for some
time.
While a spearhead can be pushed for-
ward by air with almost incredible speed,
the matter of supplying it over unde-
veloped country and in a mountain
region and of building up its resources
in men and material so that it can engage
in major warfare is a long process.
There had been no substantial move
in the Ramu campaign since the end of
October. Little had been written of it
until the gallant fellows engaged in it
fought a terrible little battle in the alpine
country of the great Ramu jump-down
on Shaggy Ridge, north of Dumpu. There
the concentrated fighting was more
difficult than any seen at Cape Gloucester
or perhaps even in the final phases of the
attack on Sattelberg.
Shaggy Ridge is a well-known feature
of the landscape. It is a towering razor-
back spur about 5500 ft. above sea level,
dominated by a natural fortress crag
christened “The Pimple,” perhaps 70 to
100 feet above the main line of the ridge.
The Australians flung themselves on to
one end of Shaggy Ridge and hung on
like limpets in the forest. This despite
comparatively little shelter and cover,
the most arduous type of communications
—up steps cut in the mountainside, slip-
pery with misty rain and badly exposed —
and heavy machine-gun fire, designed to
wash the attackers out of their precarious
perches.
The track to and past The Pimple was
narrow and perilous. It could be nego-
tiated only one man behind the other
and with much exposure to enemy fire.
It was taken much as medieval castles
were taken. A combined artillery and air
attack, the heaviest heard in the Ramu,
was concentrated on The Pimple, so that
much of it slid into the valleys below.
About 4000 shells were supplemented by
tons of bombs and a hail of m.-g. bullets


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO HEATHER BEATRICE MORRIS late of 53 Ingal
Street Mayfield and JOHN ERNEST BENTLEY late
of 11 Barton Street Mayfield.—TAKE NOTICE that
MY lilt MORRIS has filed a petition for divorce No.
2811 of 1943 on the ground of adultery If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 14th February 1944 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from F. M. DODD Solicitor
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
Public Notice.
IN THE COMMONWEALTH COURT OF CON-
CILIATION AND ARBITRATION.
In the matter of the National Security
(Industrial Peace) Regulations
AND in the matter of an award of the Court dated
the 19th day of May 1939
wherein
THE AUSTRALASIAN MEAT INDUSTRY EM-
PLOYEES’ UNION (an organisation of employees)
and
THE MASTER BUTCHERS MEAT AND ALLIED
TRADES’ FEDERATION OF AUSTRALIA and '
others (employers)
are parties
AND in the matter of an application by the Meat
and Allied Trades’ Federation of Australia to have
the said award as varied declared a common rule
of the industry and/or industries of butchering and/or
the making of small goods and meat products and/or
the sale of fresh meat and/or meat products in the
States of New South Wales Victoria Queensland and
South Australia excluding any of such work per-
formed in Ham and Bacon factories in the said
States: ,
TO the organisations and all employers bound by
the abovementioned award AND TO ALL other
interested persons or associations:
WHEREAS the Meat and Allied Trades’ Federation of
Australia has made application for an order declar-
ing the abovementioned award as varied a common
rule of the industry and/or industries of butchering
and/or the making of small goods and meat products
and/or the sale of fresh meat and/or meat products
in the States of New South Wales Victoria Queens-
land and South Australia excluding any of such
work performed in Ham and Bacon factories in the
said States NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN:
I. THAT the said application will be heard by
the said Court at Melbourne in the State of Victoria
at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon of Tuesday the
Bth day of February 1944 when interested organisa-
tions persons or associations personally or by legal
or other duly authorised representatives will be heard
on the said question.
11. THAT organisations persons or associations in-
tending to oppose the declaration of the said common
rule shall in writing to be received by him on or
before Friday the 4th day of February 1944 notify
the Industrial Registrar 468 Lonsdale Street Mel-
bourne of their intention so to do.
111. THAT if intending objectors fail to give such
notice of intention to object or having given such
notice fail to appear or be represented at the hearing
the said award as varied may in their absence be
declared a common rule as requested by the applica-
tion binding upon them.
IV. THAT any order- which the Court may make
on the said application may be in terms differing
from those contained in the said award as varied.
V. THE following are particulars of the k matters
to be made a common rule as aforesaid: —
The provisions of the said award as varied includ-
ing the provisions therein relating to the basic wage
and adjustment thereof special loadings in certain
Queensland districts marginal rates rates and con-
ditions for permanent and casual employees employee
transferring from one shop or factory to another
rates and conditions of apprentices and male juveniles
proportion of juveniles and apprentices opening and
closing times of shops limitation of female labour in
retail butchers’ shops hours of labour meal intervals
overtime meal allowances holidays and rates for
working thereon annual leave Sunday work and rates
for working thereon payment of wages time and
wages books right of entry of Union official engage-
ment and dismissal of labour mixed functions leave
to employees to attend Union business supply of first-
aid appliances supply of facilities for taking of meals
and changing clothes posting of award employment
of aged or infirm workers and Boards of Reference.
VI. THAT copies of the said award as varied may
be inspected free of charge at the Principal Registry
of the Court 46S Lonsdale Street Melbourne and at
the District Registries of the Court at the following
addresses: —
119 Phillip Street Sydney
45 Flinders Street Adelaide
Supreme Court Building Brisbane.
DATED at MELBOURNE this 20th day of Decem-
ber 1943.
MURRAY Nr. STEWART,
Industrial Registrar.
CD
am
from diving Kittyhawks and Boomerangs.
Then, while the smoke still hid the crag,
the infantry rushed it, scrambling over
the rubble and through the dust and acrid
smoke of the bombardment in Indian
file, some men carrying ladders which
failed to find a purchase amid the debris,
abandoning them, rushing and' clawing
up the rock face but beaten back by
machine-guns and grenades.
Next day The Pimple was outflanked
under a barrage of mortar fire. But, with
this crag position immobilised in their
rear as they crawled still singly along
the knife-edge of the ridge, the Austra-
lians found themselves up against a pill-
box, impregnable to any small arms.
Three brave men charged it, one at a
time, with bayonet and grenade. Each
in turn fell wounded. There seemed to
be nothing possible save to dig in and
await events in the fine mountain rain. But
at this stage The Pimple’s garrison suc-
cumbed to the long series of one-man
assaults and to the continual blast of
mortar and grenade.
Soon the 25-pounders were being
hauled to the summit. After that it could
be only a matter of time before all
Shaggy Ridge should fall into Australian
hands. The newly-established batteries
looked down from their eyrie on eight
miles of Japanese positions spread among
the tangle of the ranges. They were
nearer to Japan than any other force
save those in mainland China.
The enemy counter-attacked unsuccess-
fully. Since his driVe was pushed back,
the Ramu area has seen considerable
small skirmishing.
In Europe.
“Ek Dum”: Europe has the air of
limbering-up for great things.
While the command is being perfected
troops continue to pour over the Atlantic
in an immense shuttle ferry service and,
in the worst kind of weather, the air
attack on the Continent has been main-
tained. It is divided, as last week, into
two sections.
Heavy bombers dropped 2000 tons of
bombs on Berlin on December 29, the
anniversary of London’s most destructive
raid, 4nd other attacks on Germany, as
well as on Northern France, were made
the same day. All operations cost the
R.A.F. 20 machines.
At 3 a.m. on January 1 Berlin was
blasted with a further 1000 tons or so,
released from an all-Lancaster force,
which included Australian squadrons.
Hamburg, of its remains, also were
attacked. That day 28 machines were
lost. None of the three raiding forces
encountered much fighter opposition, but
ack-ack fire was heavy.
On December 31 large U.S. bomber
forces, covered by Allied fighters used
tb extreme range, attacked south-west
Germany, two ball-bearing works near
Paris and the great Bernard airfield near
Cognac. In all 78 enemy machines were
shot down, and the Allies lost 22
bombers and 23 fighters.
All these attacks were contemporaneous
with the almost incessant and withering
blast against the Pas de Calais district
of Northern France, through which all
the main communications of the Channel
coast areas of France run. It sounded
as if the air forces had set out to strip
the district of every kind of military
facility and communication.
The Eighth Advances
Following the capture of Ortona by
the Canadians, the Eighth Army pushed
forward about three miles towards Pes-
cara, the Adriatic head of the trans-
Italian road from Rome.
In the last stages the Germans put Up
a devilish resistance in Ortona. They
turned every strong house into a pillbox
and dropped tanks into cellars, where
they were used as underground forts.
But, one by one, with grenade, mortar
and bayonet, the enemy was wiped out
and the British and Dominion forces
pushed on over a terrain which might be
compared to the greasy slope of a giant
mansard roof, scored every few miles
with rushing streams across the direction
of their drive. To add to their difficulties
rain turned the frozen ground into slush
and mud. But on New Year’s Day artil-
lery was able to fire into Pescara.
The Fifth Army pressed forward slowly
through the honeycombed heights of the
Garigliano region ; but it seemed in no
hurry. Probably it was waiting for the
Eighth Army to complete the vital opera-
tion of taking Pescara, which could be
guaranteed to make General Clark’s path
easier and save lives.
Germans Retreat Again
As the old year merged into the
new the Russians were on the march
again.
At two widely-separated points —in the
Korosten area (Korosten and Zhitomir
were captured during the week by Gen-
eral Vatutin) and before Vitebsk —the
enemy suddenly abandoned positions over
a front which gradually widened to 200
miles in the south.
He retired too swiftly for there to be
really heavy fighting, but no such retire-
ment can be made without loss. The
Russians mention prisoners, without
specifying numbers, and claim 2000 to
4000 enemy dead pCr day in one sector.
At the week-end the enemy alleged that
he had stopped the advance in the Vitebsk
area and recaptured a number of villages,
but admitted that on the Kiev bulge his
troops were still falling back. The Rus-
sians, who had regained 7000 square miles
of territory in ten days, allowed that they
had not come up against a main enemy
force. *
In Yugoslavia
The usual flood of propaganda about
heavy fighting by the Partisans under
Tito came out of Yugoslavia. The Par-
tisans admitted during the week that the
enemy was concentrating against Dal-
matia and that they had been forced to
evacuate Korcula Island, off the Dalma-
tian coast, while declaring that all enemy
break-through attempts in the Livno
region, n.-e. of Spalato, had been frus-
trated.
A Yugoslav Government statement
issued in Cairo on January 1 asserted
that the Partisans had, for the most part,
been broken up by the Germans into
small groups, the only large groups still
holding out being those in the vicinity
of Livno and Duvno. Next day Berlin
issued a claim that between September
and December 31, 1943, 37,790 Partisans
had been killed and 41,659 taken prisoner,
and that large equipment, chiefly Italian
and poor in quality, had been captured.
It was said that there was “nothing to
fear” from the scattered and demoralised
residue. Only time will tell how far
and which stories emerging from Yugo-
slavia are true.
On January 2 Reuter’s Cairo corre-
spondent reported that King Peter had
left that city on a secret mission.
Exit Schernhorst.
“Ek D.”: The German version was
issued first. It began with the statement
that , German reconnaissance ’planes
spotted a convoy bound for Murmansk
loaded with munitions and food for the
hard-pressed Russians. It was the usual
Arctic weather at this time of year, with
virtually no real daylight and rough, ice-
bound seas. A task force, headed by
Rear-Admiral Bey, who was using
Scharnhorst (26,000 tons, Captain
Hintze) as his flagship, set out, and at
11 a.m. on December 26 made contact
with British destroyer screens.
As the enemy naively put it, “the
British succeeded by surprise movements,
which; owing to bad visibility, could not
be at first observed, in bringing up heavy
units.” After several hours of very
fierce action “enemy units encircled
Scharnhorst; and Scharnhorst sank at
7.30 p.m after inflicting heavy dam-
age, firing until the last shell had
been spent. The remaining German units
suffered no loss.”
They seem to have cut and run.
• The Admiralty account issued next
day—security reasons led td delay until
the convoy had reached its destination —
was more precise, and showed what kind
of units “surrounded” the ship which
till then had borne a charmed life.
The convoy, while heavily protected,
was being used as bait, it seems. Immedi-
ately covering its vast array of ships, and
obvious to an enemy in contact with it,
was a cruiser squadron commanded by
an Aberdonian, Vice-Admiral R. L.
Burnett, whose flag was flying in the new
12 6in.-gun cruiser Belfast. With him were
Norfolk and Sheffield, similar to Aus-
tralia and Canberra —Norfolk had been
first to sight the 41,000-ton Bismarck in
Denmark Strait on May 23, 1941, and,
with Sheffield, helped to finish her off.
When the convoy came off Bear
Island, which lies five degrees nearer the
Pole than the Arctic Circle and right on
the edge of the Polar spring ice, Scharn-
horst was spotted rolling along towards
the convey at 28 knots.
Scharnhorst had a broadside of nine
1 lin. guns throwing 7001 b. shells, plus 12
secondary guns equivalent to the British
six-inchers, Norfolk had eight Bin.
guns throwing 2571 b. shells; the main
armament of Belfast and Sheffield was
about equal to Scharnhorst’s secondary.
They opened fire on the battleship while
the conyoy was diverted northward. Nor-
folk claimed a hit, and Scharnhorst
turned away and was noticed clearing off
to the north-east at top speed, perhaps
hoping to cut off the convoy.
Several hours later she again appeared.
Once more the cruisers engaged her.
Norfolk was hit aft, but the reception
had been so hot that the German turned
about and made helter-skelter for the
Norwegian coast. The cruisers and
destroyers, with superior speed, had no
difficulty in dogging her.
Meanwhile the second part of the con-
voy’s escort, which had been keeping out
of the way waiting for just such a
chance, was moving up at top speed from
the south-west under Admiral Sir Bruce
Fraser, C.-in-C. of the Home Fleet. His
flag was in Duke of York, 35,000 tons,
10 14in.-guns, a sister to Prince of
Wales. It was now dark, but at 4(15 p.m.
the two battleships were in contact, and
Scharnhorst opened fire on Duke of
York’s port bow.
The great Duke moved roftnd carefully
to bring her whole broadside to bear.
She let go and scored a hit. Scharn-
horst tried to break off the action, and
with her speed and lead she might have
succeeded. But three British destroyers,
Savage, Saumarez and Scorpion, and the
Norwegian ship Stord were too fast for
her. They headed her off and hit her
with three torpedoes, thus enabling Duke
of York to close the range.
In short order Scharnhorst was “a
proper mess” ; on fire, almost hove-to,
60 miles from the Norwegian coast, from
which no land-based aircraft came to
help in the murk of the northern night.
Jamaica, sister to the gallant Fiji, lost
off Crete, moved in and administered the
coup de grace at 7.15 a.m. Her torpedoes
tore holes in the 740 ft. hull and 26,000
tons of tangled steel went to the bottom.
Of the crew of 1460 36 were saved. Nor-
folk and Saumarez suffered a few casual-
ties and minor damage. The convoy,
unharmed, moved safely on to Mur-
mansk.
Australians shared in the fight, for
Lieutenant R. J. Baffet, R.A.N., was
flotilla torpedo officer in Saumarez, which
“surrounded” the enemy and brought her
to a standstill, and there were others in
the wardrooms of Sheffield and Jamaica.
In Biscay
This successful action, fought in the
best R.N. tradition, was followed by
another as fast-moving in the Bay of Bis-
cay. Here H.M.S. Glasgow, one of the first
12 six-inch-gun cruisers to be laid down
(1936), and the old seven-gun Enter-
prise (1919) came up against five
of the new Narvik-class German de-
stroyers, which are really very fast light
cruisers of 2400 tons, each carrying six 5.9’5.
These were in company with six 1100-ton
Elbings, which carry four 4.l’s apiece.
A Liberator picked the German flotilla
up after dawn on December 27. They
were proceeding westward, and Glasgow
and Enterprise set off at full speed,
guided over a murky sea by the Liberator.
They opened fire early in the afternoon,
while Halifaxes, a Sunderland, the Libera-
tor, Mosquitoes and Beaufighters hurried
to the scene of the fray. The enemy air
opposition was light, but a Mosquito
shot down a Heinkel 177.
The destroyers broke into divisions and
ran for it, but the cruisers concentrated
on four of them, chased them till after
dusk, sank three and damaged others.
About 150 survivors were picked up. The
cruisers suffered a few casualties, and a
Beaufighter and a Halifax were lost.
Glasgow suffered some damage from
aerial bombs, and Enterprise had her
wireless aerial shot away.
A 5000 - ton blockade - runner which
the destroyers were possibly going to
meet \Vas first wounded by a Sunderland
and then finished off by a Czech.
About 70 survivors were rescued.
In brief: —-
The Sixteenth Infantry Brigade had a date
in Sydney yesterday, in jungle-green with
bayonets fixed. The brigade has been in every-
thing from Bardia to New Guinea.
* * * *
Back from Blighty,' 68 R.A.A.F. men—s 4
officers and 14 n.c.os., of an average age of 22\
years, with three years of war behind most of
them. Some fought as far afield as Russia.
With them came 33 moustached R.A.F. officers,
two w.os. and 12 sergeants who are to join
Spitfire squadrons in Australia.
* * * *
On Boxing Day R.A.A.F. men helped in
beating back a Jap raid on Chittagong in
which five enemy aircraft were destroye,d by
interceptors and one by anti-aircraft fire. Four
others were damaged. Flying-Officer G. W.
Andrews (Newcastle, N.S.W.) and Flight-Lieut.
8.. Chatfield (Bendigo) each shot down two
machines.
* * * *
In 1943, the U.S.A.A.F. dropped 55,000 tons
of bombs in Europe. The R.A.F. quota was
well beyond double this figure. And the R.A.F.
announces that in September 50 p.c. of Ger-
many’s fighters and 85 p.c. of night fighters
were allocated to the western front.
* * * *
The U.S. Bomber Command claims to have
destroyed 3465 enemy fighters, and probably an-
other 836, during 110 missions over Europe last
year, for a loss of 976 bombers, or less than
4 p.c. of the aircraft used. In Dec. the U.S.
heavies in 10 major operations dropped 12,000
tons of bombs on enemy objectives—four times
the quantity delivered in July. The effort cost
167 bombers, but 204 German fighters were
destroyed.
* # * *
U.S. war casualties to December 31 were:
Dead 30,107, wounded 42,345, prisoners 28,991,
and missing 32,138. Of the total of 133,581 the
army’s share was 100,481 and the navy’s 33,090.
* * * *
U.S. Lend-Lease aid to Russia to October
31 included 7000 aircraft, more than 3500 tanks,
130,000 submachine-guns, 150,000 trucks, 25,000
jeeps, 1,350,000 tons of metals and 600,000 tons
of petroleum products. British help is nearly
as substantial.
* * * *
The British Home Security Ministry reports
that' air-raid casualties in Britain in the first
11 months of 1943 were 2347 killed and 3421
seriously injured, compared with 3112 killed
and 3948 injured in the same period last year.
There was no raid over Britain of any military
consequence.
* * * *
A German claim that 3,000,000 tons of Allied
shipping was sunk during 1943 shows how the
mighty have fallen. At' the end of last year
Berlin was claiming that the sinkings averaged
1,000,000 tons a month. The Admiralty de-
clares that in 1943 only one British cruiser was
lost —no aircraft-carrier or capital ship.


PLANNING
Through the whole wide sweep of Philips activities in the field of
electricity there is evidence of inspired planning .. . not'for the moment
only, hut also for those needs which will depend on discoveries and
developments yet to emerge from the laboratory and the drawing board.
p HI LIP S
Lamps . Discharge Lighting . Lighting Equipment . Radio
Receivers . Radio Transmitters . Radio Parts . Valves
and Thermionic Devices . „ Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment
Electrical Measuring Instruments . , Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide
, l'i< !'/
v
s O/-
V
PO
Pit.
V
v\
N.P. IS
//
V\
'' I ’~\ v \
5^
°#?ej
N.P. IS
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Fifty thousand witnessed the racing at
Randwick on Saturday, and a tote turn-
over of £136,951 was the second-best
for a day at that track. The record is
£155,227 10s. last Derby Day.
After being out of the winning list
since January of last year Trimmer won
the Carrington Stakes in quite his old
style. Ridden by T. Webster, he was
leading from Hesione at the half-mile,
and at the turn the nearest to these two
were Industry, Flying Knight, Flight and
Grand Prodige. In the straight Panchio
put in a great run from near the tail end
of the field, but was just too late to over-
haul Trimmer. In another couple of
strides the result would have been dif-
ferent. It could scarcely be claimed
Panchio’s defeat was due to bad luck.
As in short races on other occasions his
slowness from the barrier was the
trouble.
The tiring Hesione was cut out of
third place by Industry, and, without ever
looking a possibility, Tahmoor ran well to
get fifth. Yaralla never threatened
danger, nor did heavily-backed runners
in Grand Prodige, Soho and Flying
Knight, and Nobleman ran like a tired
horse. Flight, Soho and Grand Prodige
will be all the better for more racing and
may be seen to greater advantage at the
Anniversary meeting.
Like Trimmer, Grand Fils (Mc-
Growdie) had not scored a win for a
long time, but in Tattersall’s Cup he
acted up to the form that enabled him
to pull off the 1942 Metropolitan. Half
a mile from home Grand Fils ran up to
the pacemaker, Spear Patrol, and their
closest followers at the top of the straight
were Cream Puff, Moondarewa and
Modulation. Cream Puff made a game
bid in the straight and actually hit the
front, but was outstayed by Grand Fils.
A neck separated them, and Two’s Com-
pany, who finished faster than either, was
a head further away.
Lord Neith and Sir Neith failed as
stayers, the former being specially disap-
pointing, but Modulation was the greatest
failure. Fifth at the turn he finished last.
Dewar has seemingly reached a mark
that will make further wins for him diffi-
cult.
In the Novice Handicap Felbeam (J.
Thompson) acted up to her private repu-
tation. Great Scot was the only runner
to pace it with her, and she had no
trouble in disposing of him after enter-
ing the straight. Buzz Off’s third gives
him a chance in a similar class of race.
Of the remainder Marabelle and Prepare
did best. Felbeam is a sister to Scaur
Fel, being by Felcrag from Ginaton.
The Two-year-old Handicap saw P.
Riddle produce his third winner of that
age this season. This was Beltana (J.
Thompson), who ran up to the leaders,
Union Jack and Flare, soon after turning
into the straight, and won nicely from
Union Jack (by Manitoba) and Ascertain
(by Assignation). Bramble (by Le Grand
Due) shaped well, and Pax (by Le Grand
Due) and Brittanic (by Golden Sovereign)
are promising, the last-named being a
really nice colt. Beltana is by Midstream
from Glade, by Spearhead from Lucina.
He is a brother to Aquatic.
Sunfel (by Felcrag) showed a lot of
pace in the Three-year-old Handicap,
leading from Sir Frances, Fine Art, Annie
Laurie and Sincerity at the home turn.
In the straight Fladdon Hall (McMena-
min) dashed to the front looking a winner,
but Van Eyck (Shean), with a strong
finishing run, dead-heated him. Sunfei
hung on well to get third, while, though
Sir Frances tired at the end, it was his
first run for several months, and he is
likely to do better at his next appearance.
A protest against Haddon Hall for alleged
interference with Van Eyck was dis-
missed. The latter raced unluckily last
season, failing to win but scoring three
seconds and a third. Haddon Hall was
very lame subsequent to his run.
Going to the front in the first couple
of furlongs, Kimbell (W. Cook) did not
after leave the result of the Alfred Hill
Handicap in doubt. Thrax, who can be
improved, was his nearest attendant most
of the way, and struggled hard to get on
terms in the straight, but the task was
too much for him. Boorchief, in thud
place, ran well, and in finishing fourth
Tel Asur did better than at his recent
appearances. Ron Rico was heavily
backed, but, though fifth, never really
flattered his supporters.
Mac Rob, an aged entire with doubt-
ful forelegs, showed the best form of
his career in winning the Bagot Handi-
cap, li mile, with 9.6 at Flemington on
Saturday. Last entering the straight he
unwound a devastating finish, and won
going away from Peter and the pace-
maker, New Princess. Mac Rob won the
corresponding race last year. The widely
discussed Saint Warden, winner of the
Port Adelaide Cup five days earlier, was
a well fancied runner. He was never a
possibility and evidently was feeling the
effects of his rush trip to Adelaide and
back.
Backers received a setback when Re-
ception, 5-to-2 favorite for the Standish
Handicap, swung around as the barrier
rose and was hopelessly left. The race
was won by Phildoll, an aged mare by
Devonshire from Philetta, and one of the
most consistent sprinters in Melbourne.
She was in front two furlongs from
home and won decisively from El Reo
and The Vanquisher. Cacique and
Burma disappointed.
Kintore outsped his opponents in the
Stradbroke Stakes for two-year-olds.
Favorite at 9 to 4, he led all the way,
ran on better than in his previous races,
and won easing up from Cabonne and
Fortune’s Folly. Kintore is a colt by
Caithness from Bridal Path. He has
raced four times for two wins, and is a
bargain at his yearling cost of 725
guineas.
* * * *
Among the older horses few of special
note came to light at the summer meet-
ings at Randwick. As a stayer Cream
Puff showed more improvement than any-
thing. Although Grand Fils beat her in
Tattersall’s Cup that only took him back
to his 1942 Metropolitan form. Dewar,
Abspear and Eureka have evidently
reached an age at which improvement
cannot be expected in them, and Modu-
lation’s temporary loss of a lot of his
dash has not been compensated for by
development of marked staying ability.
Neither Sir Neith nor Lord Neith
shaped like a stayer in Tattersall’s Cup.
and though the latter has won at a little
beyond a mile and a quarter his latest
effort suggests that in strong company
he is a good welter horse, with nine fur-
longs his limit. Moondarewa is much
where he was earlier in the season, and
Lambeth has fallen short of expectations.
A kick while at the post disposed of
Gryphon’s Summer Cup chance, but, a
winner at a mile and a quarter and a
place-getter at a mile and a half, he may
yet stay. Wellesley did not run again
after missing a place in the December
Handicap.
As a sprinter Trimmer’s form in the
Carrington Stakes was not better than he
had previously shown, and neither Yaralla
nor Flying Knight would appear to be as
smart as in some of their earlier races;
while Tahmoor, though good, is not an
exceptional sprinter. However, nothing
in Sydney has made greater improve-
ment than he during the past six months.
Industry continues the same consistent
customer, generally running well enough
to keep him on a mark from which it
is difficult for him to win.
* * * *
There was not much difference in the
totalisator turnover on the Carrington
Stakes and Tattersall’s Cup. The total
for the former was £22,716 5s. —£9681
10s. win, £13,034 15s. place—and for the
latter £22,933 10s— £10,346 10s. win,
£12,587 place. In the Cup the tote re-
turned a half-point shorter about Grand
Fils than the books’ closing price. Modu-
lation, though favorite in the ring, was
not the popular pick of tote bettors.
* * * *
“Unlucky to lose” is a comment often
heard relative to some horse or other.
However, in a betting connection, it
rarely pays to make too much allowance
for a supposedly unlucky competitor. A
horse may be hampered at some stage of
a race, and then finish well, but it is
always advisable to remember that the
check experienced has caused it to be
eased slightly, and left it with a better
finishing effort than if it had been fight-
ing for a position all the time. In horse-
racing excuses are among the many
things that do not pay. On occasions a
horse proves it was unlucky to have been
defeated in a previous race, but that is
rarely the case.
* * * *
An outcome of Saint Warden’s trip to
and from Adelaide is the issue of a writ
for £2500 by owner-trainer J. Nicholson
against the Melbourne “Herald and
Weekly Times” for alleged libel.
* * * *
As a result of backing Loyalist, win-
ner of the Perth Cup, Prime Minister
Curtin’s future attitude towards racing
may be more tolerant. “Isn’t as bad as
I thought” may have been his summing-
up as he pocketed his winnnigs.
* * * *
Outwardly pleased at the reception ac-
corded him after his win on Tahmoor,
D. Munro, if he has a sense of humor,
must have laughed inwardly. Beaten
recently on several well-backed horses
he had to listen to loudly-voiced and un-
warranted remarks by disappointed
backers, but a win on a short-priced
favorite again made him a hero. A well-
known Melbourne jockey, now retired,
put a proper value on the opinions of a
large section of racegoers. As a rule
he stonily ignored demonstrations, favor-
able or otherwise.
* * * *
The weighting of Shannon, Majesty
and Bravo will be something of a prob-
lem for the A.J.C. handicapper if he has
to gauge their relative merits in the near
future. At their last two meetings Shan-
non, in receipt of a few pounds, beat
Majesty, form which, prior to last week,
would have entitled the latter to receive
weight from Shannon. However, Bravo
in the Summer Nursery was rated 51b.
better than Shannon —a slightly exag-
gerated estimate. Then, to complicate
matters, Majesty gave Bravo 51b. and a
beating in the December Stakes. Bravo’s
form was below that shown by him in
his previous races, but all the vaporing
about the extent he was disadvantaged
by being on the inside and was upset by
the starter’s “Go” cannot be treated too
seriously. It looked as if Majesty
travelled a little too fast for Bravo over
the first couple of furlongs, and the chase
after the leader left the latter without a
finishing run.
* * * *
Nawab, the big two-year-old brother to
High Caste, may turn out as well as the
latter. At the Auckland R.C. meeting he
ran away with the six furlongs Great
Northern Foal Stakes. On the same day
the four-year-old gelding Lord Chan-
cellor (9.2) won the Auckland Cup in
3.231 for the two miles. Last season he
was Maoriland’s best three-year-old, and
has evidently retained his form. Lord
Chancellor’s sire, Mr. Standfast, is a half-
brother, by Buchan, to Beau Pere, and is
now at the Alma Vale Stud, Greenmount,
Queensland. As a yearling Lord Chan-
cellor was sold for 525gn5., and his half-
brother, by Foxbridge, is among the
youngsters catalogued for sale at Welling-
ton on January 14.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOL."
Encourage Stakes: Buzz Off, 1 ,
Etching, 2 ; Blankit, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Union Jack,
1 ; Prince Galahad, 2 ; Gay King or
3
Flying Handicap: Martheus, 1 ;
Lagoon, 2 ; Fermanagh, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Bronze
Orchid, 1 ; Van Eyck, 2; The
Beacon, 3.
Peter Moore Cup: Faerie Queene,
1 ; Kimbell, 2 ; Arahura, 3.
Welter Handicap: Cordale, 1 ;
Boorchief, 2 ; Gigli or Louana, 3.
Miscellaneous
Disregarding defence, Tommy Johns
pursued Ron Warner round the Sydney
Stadium ring for seven rounds, and
knocked him out with a right to the body
in the eighth. He had beaten Warner
twice before, and these bitter memories
affected Warner’s tactics. Although Johns
was wide open to straight lefts, Warner
got home. few.


Womenis Letter
From Melbourne
It has indeed been “the fortnight of the
child.” Beach-bound buses and trams
were crowded with bonny bundle-carrying
infants loudly proclaiming what Santa
Claus had brought them, and giving
spirited renderings of “The Harp That
Once” and other simple ditties on mouth-
organs (this incidentally was a drumless
Christmas, so parents were let off some-
thing). Xenophon’s Five Thousand could
hardly have competed with the enthu-
siasm with which they yelled, as the
vehicle rounded the last bend, “The sea,
the sea!”
As soon as shops dpened again the city
became almost as crowded as in the pre-
Christmas days. The present-giving urge
apparently hadn’t subsided, and book-
sellers’ and jewellers’ shops were popular
haunts. Of course, the young on holiday
were fairly numerous, as the festive
season must needs include a visit to a
pantomime or a film, and made up a great
part of the crowds. Films with the larg-
est queues were those rated “good” by
critics rather than the girl-and-glamor
types that usually draw the largest even-
ing theatregoing crowds.
Books being ever-suitable gifts, the sub-
ject of reading tastes has been a much-
discussed one over the week. Those
who’ve felt that their own views on read-
ing matter were hardly likely to be
general ones, and have taken to studying
bookshop displays to gauge the more
general tastes, have been given the im-
pression that war books and the serious,
solid and improving kinds of literature
seem to be the popular favorites. Appar-
ently social reform ideas put forward by
professors, archbishops or economists,
or tomes on art or sculpture adequately
illustrated, are the‘books of the moment.
The anti-literary view, however, was put
pretty bluntly by a 10-year-old, who, sur-
veying gift-giving relatives at a New
Year’s Day tea-party, said, reviewing the
festive season: “This has been a very
good Christmas; I didn’t get any books.”
The outdoor-concert idea has certainly
caught on with a big section of the public,
and not the usual concertgoing crowd
either. This latter fact struck the on-
looker rather forcibly at last week’s
Botanical Gardens concert. The devotees
of Town Hall symphonic affairs of
the reverent “don’t move an eyelash
or clear the old throat” variety were
replaced by a hearty and chattering crowd
who’d brought grandpa and the babies
along as well, to make a family party.
In the great outdoors, of course, there’s
a chance to relax and have a few words
with one’s neighbor, as the sound does
not carry to the detriment of the
orchestra.
New Year’s Eve saw quite a lot of
party-giving of the very quiet drop-in-
and-have-a-sherry kind. Christmas seems
to creep up on most people unawares,
and there simply isn’t time to do the
necessary cornering of the local liquor
output. A week’s grace, however, allows
time for some preparation for January
1. Among those who extended a wel-
coming doormat was Mrs. Russell Jackson,
whose New Year’s Eve parties are well
known to her friends as the kind where
everyone can find enough kindred souls
to have a really satisfying spot of talk,
whether their tastes run to cooking or
Sanskrit.
There wasn’t much chance of Decem-
ber 31 being anything but a suitably
quiet and sober night once the railways
and tramways people issued their edicts
on late trains and trams. The normal
schedule was not to be varied one iota,
which meant, of course, that after-mid-
nighters would have naught but an
hourly tram service. Last New Year’s
Eve they were very accommodating, and
quite a number of vehicles were popping
along throughout the early hours. The
same was done on July 4, so that Allied
visitors shouldn’t feel too bad about this
city’s grandmotherly ways.
It’s the day of the expert, and welfare
organisations are finding the need for
trained personnel as much as the rest of
the world. Jobs that were formerly put
cheerfully into the hands of people with
but kind hearts and good characters to
recommend them are now being reseived
for the highly trained. Y.W.C.A., with
its wide needs, is taking the matter of
training up very solidly. It has been
found that the short three-weeks’ courses
for welfare workers just weren’t good
enough, and both war-service workers
and those on the civilian side are being
put through carefully-planned lecture
courses.
The training of personnel for per-
manent secretaryships and the like is a
six-months’ affair, and the Un Y
Extension Board is being called m to
be j Course is starting in March, and
j n t ead j ng candidates will go into resi-
dence as jf s thought that a community
atmosphere has a lot to do with welfare
training. Course includes lectures and
tutorials, and literature and music will
bave a ’ b j g par t in it. More severely
prac tical subjects will be the control of
committees, the young and the ins and
outg Q £ psychology and the social setup,
while-Prof. W. E. Agar is news as
author of tbe ’recently-published book on
animals that j s stimulating no end of dis-
cussion in these parts, daughter Elizabeth
do j ng gQ od work in the English
5 Last year she was married to
Lield L . A. Marshall, R.N.V.R., interest-
ing point being that the church chosen
was Iffley, Oxford, where brother Captain
W. T. Agar married Rosemary Roff, well
known in this State in pre-war days. Pic-
tured here in W.R.N.S. officer’s uniform,
Elizabeth was one of this city’s very well-
liked girls, both in Uni. circles and out-
side, before she left for England.
The many institutions which had the
help of holidaying teachers last year will
be welcoming them back this year with
a genuine warmth. They made them-
selves very well liked wherever the hand
of Man-power sent them, to hospitals,
factories or orchards. This year they are
taking on an even greater variety of
jobs. Hospitals, including mental ones,
still come first on the list for women
teachers, as the need for help in them,
particularly on the domestic side, is very
great. Contrary to the popular school-
boy notion that teachers are just natural
bullies, they’ve shown that they’re just
as cheerful about taking orders as giving
them.
A vacation job that is taking the fancy
of those who’ve the required flair for
dealing with the young is the staffing of
National Fitness Council holiday play-
grounds. These are set up in spots where
no organised playground already exists,
and industrial suburbs where children
have little space for playing at home are
put first on the list. Staff of each ground
includes one highly-trained organiser.
Many Uni. students doing the social-
service course and members of school
staffs, with helpers drawn from senior
boys and girls who show a knack for
looking after younger children, are giv-
ing their services. Children are shown
puppet-theatre plays and encouraged to
make use of the travelling libraries which
tour the playgrounds, as well as indulg-
ing in games and sports. Swimming is
always' on the curriculum if there’s some
suitable water about.
There’s more to the playground scheme
than simply giving the children a happy
holiday time. The National Fitness
Council is taking the view that the
example’s the thing. The idea is that
local councils, seeing how valuable is the
work of staffing and equipping suitable
play centres, will themselves provide
similar facilities all the year round. It’s
agreed that it will take time to make the
required impression, but the success of
the scheme in former vacation periods
could not be doubted by those who saw
it in action.
The problem of what to do when two
men want one easy chair has been a
frequently-arising one at Air Force House
in the past year. Result is the new sit-
ting-room and dining-room extensions
which are now under process of erection.
The dining-room has been simply en-
larged, but sitting-room extension has
taken up an old stone passageway.
Parquet floor and duck-egg blue walls
are part of the remodelling scheme. The
popularity of the House with airmen isn’t
hard to understand, as it is run entirely
on the lines of an attractive man’s club,
with no “hostel” atmosphere about it.
A committee that knows its job well and
a very competent supervisor, Mrs. B. K.
Matthews, are part of the secret.
From Sydney
On a Sydney gay with bunting subur-
banites in their thousands, as this Letter
was going to the printers, were gather-
ing to pay homage to one of the
A.l.F.’s most famous brigades —the 16th
—for its march through the city. Sydney
has an especial interest in this brigade,
as it is mostly made up of men who en-
listed from the capital, and one battalion,
the 2/Ist, holds the title “City of Syd-
ney” Regiment. Units of the 16th have
fought everywhere that the A.I.F. has
been in action, except Malaya, and Syd-
ney accounted it a proud hour to have
such magnificent fighters pace its streets.
There were races at Randwick on New
Year’s Day. At the Sydney Sports
Ground the Highlanders forgathered,
pipes and all. In the evening were
a laugh-raising show at the Tivoli, “Peter
Pan” at the Minerva, and at the Royal
“H.M.A.S. Pinafore.” This good old
dreadnought pranced easily through the
love story of the jack-tar (Max Oldaker)
and the captain’s daughter (Elva' Blair).
The frocks of the heroine Josephine and
the sisters, the cousins and the aunts of
Sir Joseph Porter, K.C.8., were fresh and
glowing. There were six recalls for Jose-
phine, her gallant captain father and
Ivan Menzies in their trio “The Why
and Whebefore.” Ivan ran about the
stage like a blithe spirit, dragging out
secret weapons (a ship’s cannon), and well
in the background forming the V for
victory with a couple of marlinspikes.
Evelyn Gardiner’s Buttercup was indeed
a plump and pleasing person. “Cox and
Box” held levee in their joint lodgings
while H.M.S. Pinafore was entering port.
One of Sydney’s clever home-weavers
is Marie Monypenny. Up in her Lind-
field home, like some modern Marguerite,
she bends above her spinning wheel or
works her hand-looms, and the result
these days is soft and cleverly-designed
tweeds. In the weaving of tweeds mathe-
matics makes an entry, for shrinkage has
always to be allowed for, so that if a
40in. wide" material is required the loom
must be set to a width one, two or three
inches greater. There can be no set rule
for this, because different yarns react
differently to the shrinkage process.
Marie, who can weave linen, too, but
doesn’t do so because linen threads weave
more smoothly in damp than in dry
climates, learned her art at, and has the
diplomas of, the London School of Weav-
ing and Violetta Thurston’s Dragon
School of Weaving at Minehead in Somer-
set. To both schools came pupils from
all parts of Great Britain and some from
the Continent. At the Dragon School
were always girls from Norway and
Sweden who were learning English and
teaching weaving and dyeing.
Shortly after the war cracked our world
asunder there was a demand for wool
for seaboot socks. Marie wove a great
deal of this herself; also she found her-
self called upon to put back into working
order spinning wheels of every vintage
that had been stowed away in family
lumber rooms. An amazing number and
variety of these came to light, evidently
brought here by the pioneers. They had
come from England, Ireland, Scotland
and Europe. One North Shore line family
actually produced a fourteenth-century
wheel. Every one of them responded to
patience and skill, and indeed seemed
happy to find themselves whirring again.
When Marie is not spinning wool and
yarns she is spinning words, for she is
an enthusiast of the Penguin Club, a
movement which trains women in public
speaking. Photograph by Norton Trevaire.
The woman w’ho lived in a shoe has
nothing on Matron Hill as regards num-
bers of children in her care. But Matron
Hill, of the Far West Children’s Health
Scheme, does know what to do and does
it with beautiful efficiency. From its very
beginnings the scheme has been enriched
by the enthusiasm of this worker, and
today, with 105 children to look after,
the camp at Manly is running smoothly.
For the past two years there was no
camp owing to war-time conditions, but
this year the kiddies have come to the
ocean from Wilcannia and Bourke and
Cobar and other outback places. The
railways are the subject of a pcean of
praise from all nurses who brought the
10- and 12-year-olds to Sydney. They
met with nothing but kindness and
courtesy all along the line. The scheme
keeps four clinics travelling by rail all
the year round, and the nurses of these,
too, hand out laurels to Mr. Hartigan and
his men.
Fewer child delinquents and fewer
accidents are the assets the State will
reap from the throwing open of holiday
play centres. This is one of the best
things the powers have done for the
children of New South Wales, and the
60 centres opened last week, 31 in and
around Sydney, will supply the youngsters
with fun and education in the form of
handicrafts, story-reading and play-
acting. From Monday to Friday the
centres will be open, the doors wide from
nine till five o’clock. There will be
trained supervisors, and social workers
will gladly give the benefit of their study
and experience to parents. There will
be free milk and lots of fun, t and the
National Fitness Council is to be con-
gratulated on doing a fine job. Minister
for Education Clive Evatt made speech
at the Hurstville centre; so did Director
of Physical Education Gordon Young,
whose remark that if children got into
trouble in the holidays it was because
they were bored, not because they were
bad, had a good deal more in it than
just alliteration.
Produced and presented by the old-
established firm of Mrs. Ben Edye, Bort
Fahy and Lilian Frost, the Christmas
party for the services in the hall of Christ
Church St. Laurence could be nothing
but a success. These three, who, just after
the war’s outbreak, grouped about them
a posy of young girls anxious to help
entertain the lads in uniform as they
hoped others would cheer up their own
sweethearts and brothers, have never
failed to hold revelry every Wednesday
night at the old address. Of course,
Christmas Week party was quite a “do.”
Carrie Moore was the star performer.
And did the boys like her! She sang all
the songs that had made her famous, and
the boys, picking up the refrain, joined
heartily in the choruses. There was a
Christmas-tree with a gift for everyone.
There were eight great bowls of agapan-
thus and gladioli. Bush and bell were
festooned around the walls. There was
a cake of immense proportions glitter-
ingly caparisoned in icing; there were
games and dancing, and lastly there were
carols. It was one of the city’s happiest
Christmas parties.
The children of the Fighting French
volunteers made the club'rooms of the
Friends of France sound like an aviary of
happy and excited fledglings on a day to-
wards the end of last week. Mrs. Ivy
Moore, who presides in such friendly
fashion, had brought the true meaning of
the festival within the four walls. Here
was the manger with its kneeling adorers,
its oxen and its lambs. Here, too, came
Santa Claus with his pack of toys and
sweets and books. Fruit drinks for the
young and coffee for grown-ups, accom-
panied by cake and sandwich, rounded
off the party.
There was joy in McDonald-street,
Erskineville, last week when the neigh-
borhood children made free of the
Kirsova ' playground. Helene Kirsova
from her ballet seasons has donated the
whole £B5O for the setting-up of this
corner for childhood. There are swings,
slippery slides and a merry-go-round.
There will also be, when the playground
is completed about the end of January,
a sand pit, a shelter and a jungle gym.
In the meantime, while Minister for
Works Cahill, at the opening, and
other notables made speeches, the
swings and the slides were kept working
overtime. The kind-hearted giver, there
with husband Dr. Erik Fischer and small
son Ole, cut the red and white ribbons
which symbolised the opening. Alto-
gether from her ballet seasons Helene
has handed over £1678 to the Erskine-
ville Council. Present season at the Con.
benefits the cause.
The Women’s Air Training Corps is
about to spread its wings in the New
Year to a number of suburban centres.
This will give girls who are anxious to
join more facilities to devote themselves
to this work. Officers will be needed, and
women over 23 willing to take a course
of training for these duties should apply
by letter to the secretary, W.A.T.C., 221
George-street, Sydney. Closing date of
such application will be January 14, 1944.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO BETTY MORRIS late of 74 Liverpool Street Dar-
linghurst in the S'tate of New South Wales.-—-TAKE
NOTICE that MARY ISABEL NICHOLSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 984 of 1943 on the ground
of her husband’s adultery with you If you wish to
be let in to defend the charge you may if you so
desire apply to the Divorce Office at the Supreme
Court King Street Sydney A copy of the petition
may be obtained without charge from MESSIEURS
BOYCE & BOYCE Solicitors 79 Elizabeth Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HENRY WILKS formerly of Orange.—
TAKE NOTICE that LAURA WILKS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2062 of 1943 on the ground of
desertion without just cause for three years and up-
wards You may enter an appearance by 14th April
1944 at the Divorce Office King Street Sydney and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
GILBERT C. MURDOCH Solicitor 133 Pitt Street
Sydney.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
■Hi- Vi' mu
m
iVAt
.. »
®ts
as
Wmm
&SWSZ
«ms *
Kft
m
?•!
W
as»
s*
r.s'jL
sW
’U
r'iV
r-5?
fiSiM
%’
mjw
»■*
kVi»
a?
r. ••},
-n
«S>B
til
i>V
«■ %•
m m
W?&M
mi
m
SB
■ N • .
ss»!
J’<’r v *W Xtf
Mf.V.Vi •*
- 1
', .v^-%
'i•«» - ;% • %*:-!.*.* C i ;
► ••?»'*«*#\ W v * •*.*'» • r• *
a »v» J *• . ,*■> . %
ff*r;4»t-.*v.k4*» .•.%,• • **•... %'•%
r?i’.v*>?!■ /av.-,:*. •»'
• 4 4 * f 4»'f»V* • •»*. J'» •*» '*•* ,
v«/•«;.»<ir. v*s •.%4>; J• .•«. J
r< »* v* W s % V V..\'' jf <*•*■* * ,* *'»,'• m
- , ' %/•*. »*.*? .V' /* % \, -j • •-
, i •:
s*3k>W>
VOW
BBDi
For Australia at War
V s !AR 7q
&
3
O
V/
at
Q
O
Ja
cc
.0
£
0
TO'^
QYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Co.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
mm*
m
ii
■
m
-1
U
|
*
- '
m mm
mm
mmm
m
- *
mmm
m
■ *
X?Wi
m*
m
Wzt'H -Wi-
, £ N V f
/ . .. vi. r :ii|
■ •
.„'■ * , /
m
.v
. . * which, will nevev
cease fire I
At Raymond Terrace (within jeep-range of Newcastle,
N.S.W.) is a battery of guns which will continue to salvo
when all the guns of war are but salvage—the "guns” of
the Masonite plant.
All through the war these guns have been firing, round after
r nd—blasting chips of timber into tons of fibre .. . wood
fibre . . . Masonite Boards in embryo.
And Masonite Boards, born in these "guns,” reared in
hydraulic presses, perfected in a rigid "finishing” school,
tempered and given stamina to ensure amazing longevity,
have gone forth to war.
You’ll find them fighting weather, wear and time wherever
troops assemble, wherever ships trade. In munitions plants
and camps; in Army huts, canteens and hospitals ... in
every place where durability helps war effort, you’ll find
Masonite Boards. And when "Cease Fire!” sounds around
this war-torn world, the Masonite "guns” will keep on firing
. . . blasting chips of timber into embryo Masonite.
And again Masonite Boards will go forth ... but this time
in the cause of peace . . .
to build homes for the people
. . to provide security,
comfort and beauty for a
nation whose dwellings are
the centres of their lives.
0.
MASONITE PRESDWOOD :
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD .. .
TEMPRTILE . QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
Distributor.: THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE .... BRISBANE . . .
ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
MA 76-43
INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
SMOKE-OH!
“Lost, Brown Walking Stick, crook handle,
Dr. — Hobart “Mercury.”
Perhaps the doc. intends fixing the
handle up by putting .splints on it when
he, gets it back.
* * >l* *
“During the contest he showed that he was
definitely not a dirty fighter.”— Boxing story.
By scoring a clean knockout?
4* •!* *J*
“Lying on the sands in the sun made him feel
like a grease spot. He plunged into the cool,
lucid waters.” — “Daily Mirror.”
And came. out dripping.
•i* •!«
“Centuries ago in England, Christmas jollifi-
cations began on December 21 and were car-
ried on until January 6.” — “World’s News.”
Probably coincidental with the dis-
covery of coal.
“Two American soldiers bearded a bus.”
— “World's News.”
And were whisked to their destination.
4* 4* 4*
“She had been talking on the extension tele-
phone in the library.”— Woman’s paper.
“Women in France during the eighteenth cen-
tury wore lightning rods on their hats.”
—“ World’s News:”
Perhaps they were unable to conduct
themselves properly.
Impious Fraud.
“False Teeth Bite Surfer.”
~“S. M. Herald.”
If this goes on we’ll read of cork
legs kicking about town on their
own and being charged with having no
visible means of support, and of natural
right eyes not knowing what glass left
eyes are doing, causing their owners to
step off escalators 11 feet from the
bottom.
Artificial arms, too, might start taking
things into their own hands and get their
swearers pinched for shoplifting.
And what’s to prevent barristers’ wigs
suddenly preferring the page-boy style or
Eton crop to plain curls?
Percival.
T" »I*
“In the disgraceful brawl which ensued Jake
lost one of his front teeth.”— Story.
One of a bad set.
Morbid Moment.
Deep sorrow, like a fierce attack
Of indigestion, pains my heart.
My days are drear „ my skies are black,
My nerves are being torn apart.
And yet I do not wish to die,
For pessimism rears its head
And tells me fate would then deny r
The bliss of knowing I was dead!
T. W. NATHAN.
A girl needs no extension ’phone
To cause us irritation.
On any ’phone she has a good
Extended conversation.
YAIR
Compensation.
Those legs of yours, my darling Mary,
Like spiders’ legs, are very hairy.
Hence, though you’re neither fair nor
wise,
Perchance you’re good at catching flies !
NAT.
Easily Satisfied.
“Seven Ships Now Held Up. Minister Satis-
fied with Position.” — “S.M.H.” heading.
Interviewed in his dressing-room at the
Stadium last night when he came to after
his contest with “Bruiser” Bogginn, which
terminated suddenly lmin. 35sec. after
the opening gong, “Swinger” Milham
said: “I lorst, see —so what? I’m tickled
pink with the show I give—it couldn’t
’ve bin better. Just becorse me jaw
happened to git in the way of ‘Bruiser’s’
heavy right cross don’t make no
diff’rence. I feel I’ve earned a slap at the
title, and I’ll expect a big guarantee.”
Speaking at a meeting of St. Bill’s
Church, at which concern was expressed
by several deacons and churchwardens
regarding the serious decline in congre-
gation attendances, Rev. Samuel Sing-
songvoice said the fact that the present
average attendance of 17 at all services,
as compared with 250 when he took over
the incumbency six months ago, was
absolutely no criterion by which to con-
demn the congregation’s alleged apathy.
He considered the attendance excellent.
The fact also that only 10 out of the 16
who attended last Sunday morning’s ser-
vice were asleep towards the close of his
sermon was a matter of intense gratifica-
tion. It might perhaps be a slight exag-
geration to say that their church was en-
joying a “boom” period; nevertheless,
the position could not be described as
other than completely satisfying.
After receiving a sentence of seven
years’ hard labor and being declared a
“habitual,” “Slim” Nukkeldusta, alias
“The Monk,” told Judge Fullwig at
the Quarter Sessions that he’d have been
greatly disappointed if he hadn’t been
handed seven years. He had the laugh on
the old cow, anyway, because he didn’t
want any freedom. Nothing pleased him
better than to be cooling off in the jug,
and if he were granted a pardon to-
morrow he wouldn’t accept it. The fact
that the safe he blew had yielded only
2s. 7d. in coppers suited him, too, as it
saved him all the worry of spending a
large sum. As for the slug he had copped
through the slats when the watchman he
had dominoed got a lucky shot in, the
Crown wouldn’t get any satisfaction out
of that. He’d waited for years to get a
cheap rest in a hospital and have doctors
and nurses dance attendance on him, and
he’d succeeded at last. And being “de-
clared” was right into his barrow ; when
he came out he could get back again
without the trouble of busting open safes
or heads.
At a Nazi party rally held at Blud-
w r urst, whose great underground shelter,
with its 50ft. thick reinforced concrete
roof, is the deepest in Germany, Goeb-
bels stressed the happy position occupied
by the Third Reich. He freely admitted
that they were encircled by a ring of
powerful, relentless enemies now enor-
mously strong in arms and man-power,
and that half the great cities of the Reich
were rubble and ashes, whilst the Luft-
waffe was being remorselessly driven
from the sjdes as the U-boats were being
hounded from the seas. More terrible
destruction could be expected this winter
with another five million Germans home-
less and jobless and an ever-worsening
food position. Nevertheless, he was
greatly pleased with the country’s pros-
pects for the coming year, which he con-
sidered were the brightest since the out-
break. In fact, every time he stopped to
ponder Germany’s situation he couldn’t
help having a hearty laugh, so joyous was
his mood.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed Erst is paid
4 a d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Criticising Criticism
Browsing over O.F.M. pages I was
moved to examine the contributions over
a number of weeks with the idea of ascer-
taining what the writers had to give.
Eighty paragraphs of varying lengths
were examined and divided into four
classes, with these results: Destructive
only, 32; constructive, 13 ; both, 22;
neutral, 13.
In writing one’s thoughts it is much
easier to be destructive than constructive,
but, even so, a proportion of close on
50 p.c. of purely destructive criticism
seems unduly large.
The section classed as “both” contains
many entries that only just make the
grade. The contributions in the section
rated “constructive” gave evidence of
sincere thought and a real desire to help.
The thoughts of others are always
most interesting, but to be interesting is
not enough. There should be some posi-
tive idea.
We know by bitter experience how
much more difficult it is to create than
to destroy. That is why every sincere
effort to give something to the world is
welcomed by thinking people no matter
how small or weak that effort may be.
The great privilege of writers is to
give birth and meaning to new ideas, to
enlarge on old and well-tried ones and
to keep alive and active that great spirit
of adventure which makes a people surge
forward. — Bahut Achchha (Fiji).
A Post-war Plan
Among the plans placed before the
Rural Reconstruction Commission at
least one is worth some attention. It
came from F. Whitehouse, B.V.Sc., a
lecturer in animal husbandry at Sydney
University, and it aims not only at
decentralisation of higher agricultural
education but also at pruning away much
extraneous matter from existing agricul-
tural courses and producing a compact
and practical course in what its designer
describes as “Farming and Grazing.”
In brief, Whitehouse suggests the
setting up of Colleges of Farming and
Grazing at such centres as Armidale,
Orange and Wagga (N.S.W.) and similar
places in other States where university
colleges are, or are likely to be, estab-
lished. Students would be admitted on
an Intermediate pass, provided the sub-
jects taken were in accordance with
matriculation requirements; in other
words, the students would be those seek-
ing an agricultural course.
The course would be of five years,
covering the present State agricultural
college curriculum, first and second years
in agriculture and first and second years
in veterinary science at a university—the
whole worked into a continuous course.
It isn’t possible to elaborate on White-
house’s scheme here, but there seems no
reason why it, or something like it,
shouldn’t turn out the kind of man the
country wants. This is how Whitehouse
sees him:
A practical, all-round farmer with a
mind tuned to country life at an early age
and kept so tuned.... with a background
of knowledge not now obtainable in agri-
cultural colleges.... with a sound basic
knowledge of animal anatomy and physio-
logy.... a practical farm or station econo-
mist.... with a knowledge of world history,
geography, politics and markets if he
, prefers it, a man thoroughly fitted to follow
on as a research worker or specialist or to
enter commercial life.
This country certainly needs men of
that type. It can use them not only in
farming and grazing but also in its pub-
lic life.—C. H. S. (N.S.W.).
The Dedman Plan
Mr. Dedman has been outlining Aus-
tralia’s pattern for post-war living. The
Government is going to apply its experi-
ence in war administration to peace-time
problems. Its experience has taught it
that, as it has been possible to produce
in war-time vast quantities of munitions,
uniforms, foodstuffs and constructional
works for the fighting services while
those fighting services, to the tune of
hundreds of thousands, have been with-
drawn from production, it should be pos-
sible after the war to produce houses,
nutritious food, clothing, education and
health on an unprecedented scale.
So the Government will train artisans
to produce consumer goods, workers to
build houses, teachers to provide educa-
tion, doctors, dentists and scientists to
keep us healthy.
Mr. Dedman says nothing about how he
is going to teach the people how to spend
their leisure, of which, if he is right, there
will be plenty. Leisure doesn’t keep
people healthy ; only work does. Leisure
without the skill to use it might only
provide more opportunity for self-indul-
gence and for being silly.
Moreover, work without interest won’t
keep the worker healthy and the mass-
production methods visualised by Mr.
Dedman are the very things most calcu-
lated to destroy all interest in what a man
is doing. No craftsman worth his salt
could be interested in making standard-
ised houses or clothing or pots and pans,
and no farmer could be interested in
farming if the associational element of
running his own farm was lacking. The
associational value the horse gave to
farming was enormous, but that interest
went out when the rotary hoe was in-
vented. The rotary hoe is a marvellously
productive gadget—l use it myself—-but
compared with a horse it is an uninterest-
ing object. Soon the only horses left will
be those strange-looking objects that
cavort around a racecourse.
So it may be that if Mr. Dedman suc-
ceeds in achieving his post-war pattern
for new collective living people will begin
to think the real Utopia was in the Middle
Ages.— Lord Luvus (Vic.).
“Sold to the gent, who can speak English!”
Union in the Pacific
In other days Maoriland politicians
found “1200 reasons” against union with
Australia. The “reasons” have been
annihilated —by aircraft and the presence
of a common danger.
Maoriland will ultimately join the
Commonwealth. Why not begin nego-
tiating now? One could write columns on
the advantages of such a coalition and
look in vain for one real objection. The
islands now under Australian and M.L.
mandate, together with many others,
would become parts of ope powerful
South Seas Commonwealth, with a net-
work of trading airlines, eliminating
competitive aims.—J. F. S. (N.S.W.).
A Good Word for Repat.
When I returned from the last war I
was granted a correspondence course of
instruction in business management;
cost, £42, and no strings to it. When I
was two-thirds through I. was allowed a
further course valued at £32 10s. Still
no strings. I was encouraged by an officer
of the department, a stranger to me, and
later on took a course in composition and
diction. I dug my toes in and eventually
built up a business which has returned
a net income of £2500 p.a. for over 12
years.
My personal opinion is that if a re-
turned man shows an honest intention to
help himself Repat. will do its part and a
bit more. —29162 (Q.).
Mrs. Pankhurst’s Ghost
Mrs. Pankhurst’s ghost may - have
cheered that Public Service motion on
equality, but is “X.S.” (B. 24/11/’43)
sure he has not mistaken a spectral
groan for a howl of delight? There
will be no cheers from men who have to
suffer unemployment because of the
glorious results of Emmie’s advocacy.
The good woman’s pernicious doctrine
has left behind a trail of unhappy, frus-
trated, selfish females and a disillusioned
crowd of male hangers-on.
It’s a great pity that ill-conceived
fancies don’t die with their authors.
Gwan (Vic.).
“Explained”
I acknowledge without gratitude an
“explanation” by the Deputy Director of
War Organisation of Industry of regula-
tion 59aa.
To boil it down, the regulation pro-
vides that I must not move my business
from one site to another, and must not
manufacture a new article or launch a
new concern. If I manufacture goods
for the Army and my contract expires I
must not make the same goods for the
public.
All these things are verboten without
a permit to do so. And who is to give
that permit? A board of businessmen?
No* a civil servant. —G. R. (Q.).
Fruit-juice and’ Wine
After the war is over we should greatly
develop the fruit-juice industry so that
bottles of fruit-juice will be delivered to
every home just as bottled milk is de-
livered at the present time. Fruit-juice
should be just as plentiful and just as
cheap in this country as milk.
And while we are about it we might
also produce a good-quality wine with
a low alcoholic content which could
safely be served with meals to even the
youngest member of the family. The
fact that wines are intoxicating and
expensive no doubt has played an im-
portant part in developing us into a
nation of tea-drinkers. We would have
better health if we drank less tea and
more non-alcoholic wine.
We might also get breweries to produce
a light beer which could also be safely
served to every member of the family.
We badly need a beer which would
satisfy the beer-drinker and yet be harm-
less enough to allow it to be drunk as
one would drink lemonade or orange
juice.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
A Word for Spanish
Spanish ought to replace'German as a
subject in Australian schools, as an
alternative to or in conjunction with
French. It is the tongue of the Pacific
seaboard of America from Cape Horn to
the southern border of the U.S.A. and
also of the Philippines.
Australia had commercial relations
with western Spanish America before the
coal-export trade was killed. They may
be recovered. And Australia may come to
maintain its own diplomatic representa-
tives in these republics.
It is questionable whether German is
of greater cultural value than Spanish.
From a commercial point of view it is
far less worth study by Australians. Not
only are there no German-speaking terri-
tories in the Pacific, but Australia’s trade
with Germany since the First World War
has been of only moderate volume. After
this war it will contract still more. —
Tom (N.S.W.).
Flaw in the Ceremony
Unless the mortgage on that conven-
ticle (B. 1 /12/ ’43) was not registered Bap-
tists concerned in the cremation cere-
mony described by “Uramao” would
find there was a blot on their title when
next they tried to deal with it.
The Torrens system, which exists in
ML. as well as Australia, requires a dis-
charged mortgage to be lodged at the
Titles Office, where the discharge is re-
corded on both office copy and the
owner’s deed. That is returned to him ;
the discharged mortgage is held at the
T.O. for ever. Even under the old sys-
tem an original discharged mortgage must
be held to keep all the links in the chain
after a sworn copy of the discharge is
lodged with the Registrar-General and
given a registration book and number. —
Mort Gage (N.S.W.).
Wholemeal Bread
I note that a witness at some inquiry
or other says that “Australians should
be encouraged to eat wholemeal bread.”
I don’t quite know what form the encour-
agement will take. If jt is only a matter
of publishing articles extolling the virtues
of wholemeal bread this will —as it has
always done —produce an equal number
of articles on the other side to prove that
wholemeal bread is injurious to health,
that it ruins the coat of the stomach
and leads to cirrhosis of the liver and
diarrhoea and leprosy.
Personally, I agree with the late Marie
Lloyd that “a little of what yer fancy does
yer good,” which is a profound truth that
no food faddist has ever recognised. It
doesn’t matter a bit how good and how
wholesome a given food may be if the
recipient is not accustomed to it or doesn't
like it. In that case, his stomach revolts,
and the good food is wasted, whereas if
he gets a good fill-up of fried fish and
greasy chips with a pint of beer he is
all set for another few hours, no matter
how far the gorge of the food-faddist
rises at the mere thought of such luxuries.
—Fitzwilliam (N.S.W.).
Contraceptives
In reply to “1.J.” (B. 1/12/ ’43) who
would “like to see the manufacture, sale
or possession of contraceptives made
criminal”:
Not only the manufacture, sale and possession
of contraceptives should be illegal; outlawry
should fall on the printing and sale of all
literature relating to sex “education.” The de-
porable laxity in 'morals and the consequent
increase in V.D. in all classes is only one aspect
of _such knowledge being a dangerous thing.—
Priapus (Vic.).
Certainly we want to raise the birthrate, but
throwing bricks at birth-control won’t do it.
What I should like to see is complete know-
ledge of a safe method of birth-control given
out with each marriage license. In a few
generations there’d be no need to worry over
a falling birthrate. The average normal couple
want children, but a few children in as many
years in nine cases out of ten turn a woman
into a physical wreck, who looks upon a child
as a calamity.—E. N. (N.S.W.).
“IJ.” is treating contraception as a cause,
rather than as a symptom, of our low birth-
rate. If it were possible to ensure (1) security
of employment and of reasonable wages for men,
and (2) adequate domestic help in the home,
much of the present disinclination for having
children would disappear. In the case of (1),
complete preference would have to be given
after the war; this would be conducive to
earlier marriages and more children; and as
for (2), the female labor released from indus-
trial work would be available for absorption
as domestics. Not' only is domestic work a
better training for marriage than industrial
occupations, but it is a safer and more normal
life. No amount of refrigeration and hot-water
services can ever help a mother to “mind the
baby,” but such things can and do make the
lot of the domestic worker much more con-
genial and more attractive as an occupation.
Given these incentives for rearing a family, I
don’t think contraception would make much
difference one way or the other— Hussif (Q.).
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
K.C.:
“What will I get lor Christmas, Momma?”
“Peace, my child,
And mercy mild,
And a. toy torpedo-bomber.”
(Mrs.) A.W.: Beginning pointless; end com-
monplace; see if you can polish the middle....
Jebu: Come again... .F. 8.: Same old swag-
man E.G.: “Masculine Lament” would
make a stone weep... .E. 8.: Not a glimmer of
anything new in “Dawn’ ... .T.M.: Compare
it with Burns’s “For A’ That”... .N.T.: Thin.
. K.C.G.: If you’d avoided that city-verms-
country theme T.D.: Needs a livelier con-
clusion M.S.: Overstocked with birds and
bees M.W.: Prosy N.S.: Keep coming.
... .E. 8.: Not far off... .P.J.8.: Pretty
enough; but it’s hardly an “Ode to the Nightin-
gale”. .. .M.G.: Doesn’t rise above descrip-
tion... .C.E.N.: Dying swaggie and faithful
dawg —tut! 8.V.: Sentimental T.: Pass-
able stanza for an anthem 5.8.: No home
here for lonely abo. drinking firewater, gnaw-
ing bone with dog and brooding over stolen
lubra S.P.H.: Foothills only C.W.:
You’ve far to go G.D.: “Tom-t'oms” sin-
gularly flat D.V,: Nothing very wrong with
’em; nothing triumphantly right M.H.: Sew
the “flamin' bags” a bit more tightly next time.
....W.: Nearly J.H.8.: Pessimism war-
ranted. .. . D.R.: Atmosphere all right; story
pointless L.R.H.: Devils pleasing; pathos
old stuff 5.8.: Unless you can think up
a newer wheeze than that, crime is not your
forte J.M.D., A. and A.D.: No wow end-
ings, please G.K.R.: For publication as a
short story, it should start at the descent into
the 5ea....M.W.: Just a yarn E.Q.: Ghost
commonplace... .B.A.J. and 1.W.: Try a
woman’s paper G.A.8.: Pleasant feather-
weight.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.H.G.: An ancient, harmless gag subjected
to cruel treatment....B.O.R.: That makes two
of your ships wrecked.


VICTORY
is in
our
Pockets
Whatever we do now is of small
account unless it hastens victory . . .
We must think of that whenever
we hold back a pound that might
go into war savings ... £1 might
lessen by a minute the duration of
the war.
...£lOO might cut off an hour. 1 hat
is what we are saving... not simply
money but lives. Put every pound
you can into war loans. That is
what the M.L.C. is doing.
The business of life assurance is
protection, and we know of no
better way of protecting the
hundreds of thousands who entrust
the guardianship of their future
to us than by investing in Victory.
And Victory is in our pockets.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Limited
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES.)
FOUNDED 1886.
Assets exceed £39,000,000
Payments to Policyholders exceed £47,000,000
The M.LC.
