

f
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin/’ Vol. 65.—N0. 3346*
Wednesday, March 29, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner.
Seppelts
ELLEN’S ISLE, LOCH KATRINE, SCOTLAND.
of the loveliest features in the Trossachs is the little sheet
L - ' of water known as Loch Katrine. It is diminutive, but so
incomparably situated that its small size makes it the more enchant-
ing, since not a> single charm escapes us. What can be more
attractive than the combination here of light and shade when its
fair surface is flecked by touches of the sun and clouds? Around
it mountains rear their massive forms like giant guardians of the
peaceful lake, within which they again appear like an inverted
world, until we can with difficulty tell which is the real and which
the" counterfeit presentment! Moreover, its heathery banks and
limpid waves, so long as they endure, will be fondly associated
With memories of Sir Walter Scott and his fairest creation, the
“Lady of the Lake.” In fact, the pretty island in the centre is still
known as “Ellen’s Isle,” for, according to Scott’s fancy, this wave-
encircled sylvan retreat was the home of that fair Lady of the
Lake. “Her head thrown back, her lips apart, Like Monument of
Grecian art.” Scott is the special genius of this place, and here
one fairly revels in the scenes portrayed with absolute perfection
by his magic pen. Each point recalls some stanza or some well-
known line, so accurate are his poetical descriptions. Never was
a writer more particular in this respect than Scott. For example,
while writing the “Lady of the Lake,” he once galloped the entire
distance from Loch Achray to Stirling to prove to himself that
his hero could have ridden it in a certain time!


Learn
Writing
at HONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin/’
My Same
My Address
S.B. 241 AGE
33 Prizes Offered
For Short Radio Plays
The Quensland Temperance League an-
nounces a Competition for short Radio
Plays (seven minutes’ playing time), deal-
ing with the advantages of total abstinence
from intoxicating liquors or the danger
and folly of drinking such liquors.
Entries will close on May 31, 1944.
Entry forms, with full conditions of the
competition, may be obtained from the
Campaign Secretary, Queensland Tem-
perance League, 318 Edward St., Brisbane.
In addition to the above prizes, £l-1-0
will be paid for every play accepted by
the League.
PRIZES.
FIRST ..
SECOND
THIRD
£lO
£5
£3
The Red Page
DRAWINGS BY CEZANNE.
Publication of a book of reproductions
(all save one in monochrome) of
Cezanne’s water-colors (Bruno Cassirer,
London) brings with it, inevitably, a
recollection of the difficulties that have
beset the student who seeks to rationalise
the exalted, almost unique position ac-
corded this painter by almost all the
fashionable critics.
If he has access only to black-and-
white photographic reproductions of the
most famous of the artist’s work in oils
the student is struck by the childish
clumsiness of the drawing and concludes
that the magic that has called forth so
many superlatives of praise must reside
in the color. And when colored repro-
ductions are available, and there is still
no evidence of genius, or even of talent,
the inquirer is apt to conclude that the
rhythm, the pulsation, the flow of atmo-
spheric masses and the rest of the
almost supernatural qualities attributed
to these paintings are mythical.
It is, perhaps, some comfort to those
who, too honest to accept assumptions
at face value, conceive they may have
missed a great aesthetic experience that
nearly three generations of French
painters and critics were afflicted by the
same disability. Cezanne started paint-
ing about 1854, and plugged on steadily,
sustained by ideals which he never
ceeded in making quite clear and relieved
of the necessity for selling his work by
the possession of an inherited income.
It was not till 1904 that it was discovered
that his work possessed qualities so rare
and wonderful that its expositors have
ever since used the language of ecstatic
evangelism in extolling it.
In earlier times, of course, genius
(despite all the tosh about it, being in-
variably neglected and suppressed) was
earlier recognisable. Raphael painted
(and was well paid for) two of his greatest
works before he was 21 ; Rembrandt had
an established reputation at 25 ; Titian
at 20 was! assisting his master Giorgione
to deck the fondaco dei Tedeschi with
immortal frescoes ; Velasquez had King
Philip as a sitter at 24 ; Turner was an
A.R.A. at 24 and an R.A. at 27;
Reynolds, before he was 30, was the rage
of London, doing a hundred portrait
commissions a year. And the history of
pictorial art is the history, in this respect,
of all the arts —genius demonstrates itself
in youth ; establishes itself in the minds
of all intelligent people.
The biographies of Cezanne and his
recently-published letters —surely the dull-
est ever inflicted on a trusting public—
give abundant testimony to his living in
an atmosphere of futile struggle and frus-
tration. He complains repeatedly of his
own “stupidity.” He essays portraits;
insists, in the typical case of a M. Vol-
lard, on 115 painful sittings, and then
gives over, remarking “I am not dis-
pleased with the shirt-front.” Palpably,
of course, he could not draw, but that
is accounted to him for righteousness.
An English Cezannophile, Prof, Roger
Fry, says:
He was not a master of line in the sense
that Ingres was. “The contour escapes
me,” as he said. That is to say he arrived
at the contour by a study of the interior
planes; he was always plastic before he was
linear.
The jargon does not help towards an
understanding of the process, whatever
it was, but these reproductions of water-
colors, which are so essentially a matter
of contour, might have been expected to
cast further light into a very dark corner.
Prof. Lionello Venturi, who chose the
pictures and explains them at some
length, is evidently perfectly convinced
that the world will -share his raptures.
One drawing he describes as “A superior
masterpiece of lightness, spontaneity and
grace ; like a song of youth ; like a gay
dance ” It represents, apparently,
some dumplings garnished with parsley
or perhaps some boulders on a shrubby
hillside. The title is “Roses.”
Then there is an essay on a classical
theme, after Delacroix —“Medea.” Medea
is supposed to be murdering her two
babies. She wears the slightly abstracted
expression of one asked the time while
shelling peas, and is trying to hold the
squirming infants, each of whom must
weigh about Bst., with her elbows. It’s
an awkward business, but the faithful
Venturi can prove it to be an eccentricity
of genius:—
, A detail particularly reveals Cezanne’s
creative imagination. When Delacroix rep-
resented the left hand of Medea holding the
dagger, he knew the natural way for a hand
to hold it, but he distorted the right hand,
and the relation between it and the natural
left hand is unpleasant. Cezanne felt this;
he did not change the distortion of the right
hand, but also he distorted the left, making
the holding of the dagger appear absurd
and finding a happy rhythm in the opposi-
tion of the two hands. This is freedom in
painting.
A sketch, “Bare Trees by the River,” it
is alleged, “mysteriously represents the
fathomless depth of water.” Very mys-
teriously indeed, for the surface under the
bridge might be gravel or asphalt or mud.
“The Gardener Vallier” seems to be yet
another of those portraits that wouldn’t
come right. The old gentleman’s face is
an escapee on this occasion.
Possibly this book of drawings by a
master on whose behalf it is boasted that
he could not draw will build still higher
the fame of “The Father of Impression-
ism,” but it is unlikely that it will be used
as a textbook in schools—even in art
schools ot extremist tendencies —for
students are still supposed to learn
draughtsmanship, no matter what pre-
tence of ignorance of the subject they may
have to make later on when portrayirig
the subliminal reaction of their psyche in
the presence of a saveloy.
A. W.
The Devil and Mr, Joad.
Uncle: By load, Willie my boy, for a
serious-minded lad like you there couldn’t
have been a better book than C. E. M.
load’s The Young Soldier (Faber ; Angus
and Robertson). Here we have a young
soldier wandering about in search of the
New Order.
Willie ; Somewhat after the manner
of Mr. Shaw’s Black Girl in Search of
God, I presume?
Uncle: Somewhat, my lad. The first
person the Young Soldier meets is the
devil. The devil tells him that there isn’t
going to be any New Order.
Willie: That is the most sensible
thing the devil has said for years. In
fact, except when he tempted me to my
first experiments with tobacco and
spirituous liquors, I cannot recall him
ever exhibiting such profound good sense.
Uncle: 'But, hang it all, the Young
Soldier is extremely upset about this.
Aren’t you upset?
Willie: Speaking for myself, no. I
have never assumed, Uncle, as these
plump, elderly gentlemen of the Left
assume, that I have the right to speak
for the young soldier. Mr. load, of
course, presumes from the outset that
the Young Soldier believes he is fighting
for a New Order?
Uncle ; Of course.
Willie : I should have thought he was
fighting to protect what we have from the
Germans and the Japanese. Does Mr.
load imagine that we in Australia went
deliberately to war with the Japanese so
that, having beaten them, we might build
more houses, shorten the working week,
provide free medicine and so on?
Uncle: Be that as it may, Willie, Mr.
Joad’s treatise is delightfully illustrated
by Mervyn. Peake and there is a price-
lessly funny moment when the head of
a Mr. Speakeasy changes into a micro-
phone.
Willie; Rather in the way that people
change their shape in Alice in Wonder-
land'?
Uncle: Yes, Willie, rather like that.
There is another priceless bit when a Mr.
Redtapeworm prophesies that the talkies
will be developed into the “feelies.”
Willie; As in Aldous Huxley’s- Brave
New World, Uncle?
Uncle: Precisely, Willie. Then there
are some pricelessly funny verses which
have been contributed by friends of Mr.
Joad. One, I grant you, is based on a
chorus of W. S. Gilbert; another on a
song by Burns; and yet another on a
hymn.
Willie: A good parody, Uncle, is a
criticism of the work it parodies. A
“parody” which is not a criticism but
which merely borrows the form and some
of the phraseology of the original is in-
defensible.
Uncle: Well, well, my lad, at least you
will agree that it is a very witty saying
that whether or not life is good depends
on the liver.
Willie: Witty, indeed, Uncle. I re-
member laughing heartily at it when the
play “The Patsy” was performed in my
infancy. Is there by any chance some of
Mr. load’s own writing in this volume?
Uncle: He admits, Willie, that he has
borrowed a good deal. But there is a
pleasing debunking of the rigid Marxists
and of Huxley’s “non-attachment” ; and
the last person the Young Soldier meets
is a wise, kindly, tolerant, humorous,
sceptical but amiably optimistic philo-
sopher who
Willie : I seem to recognise him. What
is Mr. load’s policy for the New Order?
Uncle : Some form of federalism ;
more education ; and a revival of spiritual
values. Also, mild socialism as in the
Beveridge Plan. I thought this book
would particularly appeal to you because
Mr. load does not expect too much. He
even points out that all discussions of
New Orders are more or less meaning-
less when, if the birthrate does not mend
its ways, there will be only four million
people in England in a hundred years’
time.
Willie : And what does Mr. load think
is responsible for the condition of the
birthrate?
Uncle: “The employment of women
resulting in late marriage ; the education
of children, which means they are no
longer a wage-earning asset to the
family; the practice of birth control;
distrust of the future.”
Willie; It is my unshakable convic-
tion, Uncle, that Mr. load is responsible
for the fall In the birthrate.
Uncle: Tut!
Willie; Let us consider his analysis.
The emancipation of women —humanism.
The education of children —humanism.
Birth control —humanism. Distrust of
the future —laboriously instilled by the
humanists. I do not say that these things
are not desirable, Uncle. I merely point
out that, as an indefatigably energetic
humanist, Mr. load has been quite as
busy as anyone else in depopulating the
world. Were not the large families bred
in the slums of the nineteenth century
and in the wilds of Australia in the harsh-
est of the pioneering days? Can we
reasonably expect them to be bred in
Mr. load’s heavenly New Order? I sug-
gest to you that it is not the devil who is
the devil, but Mr. load. The devil is
a humanist.
Uncle: Oh, the devil take you.
Chinese Childhood.
Although the theme of Chiang Yee’s
A Chinese Childhood (Methuen ; Angus
and Robertson) is that fundamentally
China will never change, his book is a
pretty effective picture of changes that
have occurred in his own lifetime. When
he was nine years old the Revolution
took place and he was shorn of his pig-
tail ; and China has lost more than its
pigtail in recent years:
There were no war memorials in China
in my younger days. I saw nothing of war
weapons. I heard no stories of national
heroes who had fought in such and such
battles. No books of war experiences were
published. I did not think Genghis Khan
so wonderful a person as many of my
Western friends think him. But now my
youngest cousins and nephews write to me
in a most belligerent strain. One has be-
come a guerrilla fighter in the rear of our
enemies; another has joined the regular
army as a soldier. I have just received a
photograph of my youngest cousin stand-
ing by his warplane; he recently finished
his training as a pilot.
A Chinese Childhood is not designed,
however, as a political survey. It is an
attempt to evoke the spirit of the China
of long tradition in which the author’s
father, though an artist by profession and
not greatly interested in affairs, still re-
sented the Manchu overthrow of the
Ming dynasty in 1643 ; in which a
scholarly uncle could interpret the Con-
fucian injunction not to look to right or
left when walking so literally as never
to glance to one side or the other ; in
which an uncle could still be a “boy
scholar,” endeavoring to pass an exami-
nation in the classics, at the age of 62 ;
in which a grandmother, viewing an
expensive coffin purchased for her by
her devoted children, could express her
absolute contentment with life and could
be congratulated by relatives with cries
of “What felicity! ” ; in which the vener-
able grandfather could every morning
take his three caged birds for a walk ; in
which an artist could spend his life draw-
ing flowers and birds on silk with charred
willow twigs ; in which a man could take
three times as long over a walk as an
Englishman would allow himself; and in
which a family could occupy the same
house for ten generations.
Like most pictures of Chinese life,
Chiang Yee’s is at once bizarre and
homely. In the midst of customs utterly
foreign to Western minds, there are
glimpses of the children “playing shops”
and a small sister cheating at the game
to get more imaginary sweets than she
is entitled to ; there are the small boys,
not allowed outside the gates of their
garden until the age of ten, galloping
round the paths on bamboo sticks whicii
they pretend are horses; there is a wife
who, resenting her husband’s taking a
second spouse, smashes the crockery...
A pleasant, light essay in a familiar
pattern.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Sketches by Colin Wyatt, made in New
Guinea and the Trobriand Islands while
the artist was on duty there, are on show at
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. All the
work is 'straightforward, sincere and un-
affected, so that the pictures have con-
siderable ethnological and topographical
interest. Obviously facility increased with
exercise, and even such ambitious
attempts as “Sunrise, Goodenough Island"
and “New Guinea Coast from 3000 ft.”
manage to convey the impression aimed
at.
William J. Gulliver’s show of oils at
Kosminsky’s, Melbourne, is varied in
subject matter but not in treatment.
Gulliver’s travels have taken him to
Hong Kong, Canton, the Great Wall of
China, Singapore, Ceylon, Egypt,
North America and Australia. Among
the most attractive souvenirs of his
peregrinations are a bright “Hong Kong
Side Street” and “Moonlight, Kiating.”
An unusually fine film on the life of a
great man is Gaumont British Dominions’
“The Great Mr. Handel” at Melbourne
Athenaeum. Wilfred Lawson is handsome,
but not after the manner of the matinee
idols who usually do these parts, and
there are a dignity and an intensity about
him consistent with the noble music which,
by a stage convention, he is credited with
writing. When a “great” actor utters pro-
found thoughts by a great man it gener-
ally sounds as if a cow had started to
sing grand opera, but Lawson, a big man,
is as impressive as the music; which—
played by the London Philharmonic with
instruments of Handel’s time, ranging
from some of the loveliest songs to ex-
cerpts from the “Messiah” and conclud-
ing with the Hallelujah Chorus, the
London audience rising in awe according
to tradition—is glorious. The royal in-
trigues that drove Handel to Dublin are
well handled, though the scene of his 21
days’ inspiration when he wrote the
“Messiah” is a trifle long, and the
composer might at least have eaten one
meal to relieve the tension. Elizabeth
Allen brings a fine voice to the part of
Mrs. Cibber, and the British aristocracy
which nearly fought a civil war over
Handel’s music is well depicted. There
isn’t a cheap note in this film.
Lamentation of a Sabatini-ite:
Writing that rousing tale of the Caribbean
The Black Swan, Rafael Sabatini called his
heroine plain Priscilla Harridine, and spoke
of her “golden head.” You’d never have
accused Sabatini of not being romantic, but
Twentieth-Century Fox, which made the film
of the same name now at Sydney Plaza, has re-
named the heroine Lady Margaret, and—of
course—cast for the role Maureen O’Hara, who
has raven hair. The hero is “Sabatini’s im-
mortal character, Captain James Waring, the
dashing buccaneer.” Correct, except for the
trifling variance that the author had never
heard of a Captain Waring, the hero in the
book being the Frenchman Charles de Bernis.
But, of course, how on earth could Henry
Morgan roar out affectionately “Jamie boy:
if the hero were called Charles! The script-
writers have made a gracious gesture to the
author by retaining two of his characters, one
of whom is the pirate Tom Leach. Of mm
Sabatini wrote descriptively: “Black curls clus-
tered about a low animal brow; his nose a
thin cruel beak....” Who else then to cast
as Leach but George Sanders with his long
straight nose, and wearing a flaring red beard
with hair to match? The only character who
is true to his creator’s description is Sir Henry
Morgan, Governor of Jamaica, and the capable
Laird Cregar fits the part perfectly. There is
plenty of rousing sea action, and Tyrone
Power is a beautiful lad whose gorgeous
clothes come out well in technicolor. But it
is not Sabatini.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING 1
"THE SENIOR STORE"
&
Urh
--t
mwM
mm
HI
m
m
m
TH
6
ttfW-
\o
■JH
&
Us
&
d
*
s
r/
M.
*«ia
w*
m
A 3
$
M
A
/3a
0
£_-' x
STv '>•«
fe=
'i i
S £34
MEDICAL
SUPPLIES
7
A
(A '
J>
POOLED
HUMAN
SEROPrt
BLOOD
TRANSFUSION
&
m
/#v
i 4
♦
INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS
SPINNING
Be sure to visit this
wonderful Exhibition
x J'f-s
Admission is free.
Fine Art Gallery
Fourth Floor.
JUNIOR RED CROSS
2l
r s
-V
r <
U! y-r^PJ
■ rJi
c2^
!/l /\ \
mi
' * ' 1 PRISONER
OF WAR
m s. PARCELS
U„. u- .
* v
-/kcftu*^
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
n
library
1
model HOMES
SYDNEY
BOX 2712 C. GJ.O., SYDNEY.


THE SEA AND THE LAND
By S. D. B.
LEE stood, facing astern, in the* square
cockpit of the cutter, the tiller nudg-
_ ing gently between his knees as she
slipped along. The line in his hand
fretted the water with each swing of his
arm, and the cutter made sufficient speed
to keep it from sinking. Fifty yards or
so astern the baited hooks darted, hesi-
tated and darted again like a white streak,
about a foot beneath the surface.
Ele pulled in, hand over hand, rhythmi-
cally, as a slim silver flash broke the sur-
face briefly behind the bait. The line
fell in careful coils and a trickle of water
ran across the dampness of the deck to
the tiny scuppers. He urged the cutter
a little closer into the wind, taking the
weight off the fish’s mouth. The boat
sat in the short waves, rocking, waiting
until the snoek dropped into the well;
then, answering the knee again, she
picked up her steady course. Lee re-
baited, glanced under the boom for the
land bearings, swung the tiller hard over,
and, as she jibed, tossed the line back
into the water, letting it run out by itself
while he wiped his hands on the front
of his canvas apron.
He fished unconsciously, instinctively,
his mind divorced from the actions of
his body, his eyes vacant, unfocused, ab-
sorbing detail unseeingly.
This was his last day. That night he
would sleep for the last time in the
cutter’s stiff little bunk. Next day he
was going to the city for good. The
jarrah deck with its narrow pitch seams
would be city footpaths with their
ribbons of black tar. Instead of the
warmth and friendliness of the water
moving around him, there would be the
rise and fall, the flow of people. The
red clay cliffs of the shoreline would be
the city buildings and all this laziness
of sea and sunlight the brisk routine of
ordered life.
Lee laughed a little at the thought of
rising at seven o’clock every morning.
Wind and rain and the tides, they were
th® things that should govern a man’s
rising. For two years they had called
him up or turned him over in his bunk
to sleep again. Wasting his life,
they said at home—fishing; the wheat
yards in harvest; lumping in grain ships
when the yards were shipping out; farm
jobs. With his brains and education he
could be doing something with his life,
they said. Lee was quite sure that no
outside urging had influenced his de-
cision now, and yet he had been unable
to define it himself. It was something
deep inside like a voice, constant, com-
pelling.
At the tug on the line he pulled it in
again automatically, still busy with his
thoughts. The fish, a big one, swam
with the line, leaving it slack. He leaned
to lift it into the boat, and another shape,
long and grey, took it almost from his
hand in a single fluid twist and a flurry
of water. Lee felt the muscles in his
stomach contract. Sharks always made
him feel like that. He took the mangled
head from the hooks, the gills hanging
like little shredded wisps of red cloth,
and he threw it back into the water with
a savage “Here, you b , you forgot
something.” Then 'he wound the line,
swabbed the deck and put away his
apfon.
Above the red rocks on the beach, a
mile away, a white flag flapped on the
corner post at the top of the cliffs. That
meant six o’clock. Huddy would be
waiting with the truck to load the fish.
Lee turned and hauled the mainsheets,
his knee stiffening as the pressure in-
creased, and the cutter came to life
beneath him. Like a horse when you slip
the bridle, she tossed herself and headed
for home, beating the short waves down
and spraying them about her neat bows.
The sleek ripple of her working trail
creamed and bubbled as she spanked
along.
IT was nine o’clock before the brothers
finished their meal and washed the dishes
over the side. Lee lay along the deck
near the stern, listening to the creak of
the blocks and the lap of the water. The
night was warm, and in the long curve of
Black Point there was hardly a ripple on
the sea. It was not a night for sleep,
but a night to lie and stare into the flood
of stars and think. He found himself
weighing the life he was leaving—the
stars, the sea, the creak in the block, the
people he knew—against the intangible
coldness of the city, the streets and the
people who seemed to have nothing to
say to him. Almost he changed his mind,
but he knew that eventually it would be
there again, the voice inside compelling.
He thought of the long grey shape, glid-
ing under the stern, and he saw again
that his decision was motivated by fear
—not of the shark, but of all the things
in his life that made it hard for him to
break away. Many times he had tried
to analyse his fears, and always the one
predominant fear came back —the ter-
rible, sickening fear that life might swamp
him and leave him to eke it out, wallow-
ing in the shallows.
The whole two years that had gone
surged into his mind in a rush of mingled
incidents. The enmity of the people
when first they had started to fish. The
Andersons on the Flat. The night off
Rogue’s Point when Archie Anderson
had capsized and they had searched the
shallows with carbide lights, his ybung
wife waiting in the ghostly shadows in
the blue bush ; only two hundred yards
to the shore, but a shark had mangled
his body and the sea lice had been at
him two hours before they found him.
He thought of tho night they had raced
home in a thunderstorm, eleven miles
hugging the cliffs with only the light on
the home jetty to steer to. With the
wind from the land there was no fear of
going ashore —as long as the light was
visible. The trailing dinghy had yawed
and swung on a short lead and the pile
of net on the board suddenly went over
the side. Lee had jumped without think-
ing, and the dinghy stuck her nose under
the first wave and went down. Only
Huddy’s firm fingers on his wrist as he
grabbed the rail had got him back on the
boat
He thought ° £ .he long bi.ter „igh.s
off the Knobbles, bending and ha g
over the board. The night with a boat-
load of Tommy Ruffs in the gill net,
and the pair of them pulling them out
by the head through the mesh, their
hands numbed with cold and burning
with pain from the spines and fins, r The
long Sundays in the sun with a book.
The life he was going to was so essen-
tially different that Lee found it hard to
visualise his future. The whole business
seemed to be one of coming to life as the
world was coming to life. There were
jobs, productive jobs—not taking a living
hand to mouth, day to day, but jobs for
expansion and enterprise. He realised
the family was right. He was going to
the city to make something of himself,
to satisfy himself that all the conquering
dreams of boyhood were not ephemeral
and unreal, that life, in whatever form
you faced it, was exiting and interesting.
There swept over him a sudden satis-
faction, a sense of inner content, he had
not known for years. He glanced at his
watch—three o clock. Huddy was snoring
steadily be.ow. Lee wen. to his bunk.
?“ P ot clltts L ,f C
hf Si m ?f ,h‘ e Sea ', 9
we./ s,u r E “ , , ™ ount l ms
So roflfi f T f fire,
¥ L to n d f ” oment watching a long
fished the:
gently and the splashes of early sunlight
played in the water movement as she
bobbed on the morning tide. He turned
and walked quickly up the gully to the
bouse
CRONIES
By R. S. HARRIS.
THEY were past their prime when I
first knew them; of ‘an old-
mahogany mellowness, their eyes
wise with experience, their faces
wrinkled with sardonic chuckling.
On the job, hammer on hip, squinting
along the line of wall-studs, old Charlie’s
six-feet-five of stringiness resembled
nothing so much as an old Nankeen
crane. It was draped with faded dun-
garee and surmounted by an overworked,
floppy felt.
He gave me the job of wielding bar
and shovel, sawing planks and gouging
mortise holes all the assistance he
thought necessary in the building of a
large wooden cottage for my brother-in-
law Bill. Its date of completion, so far
as Charlie was concerned, was in the
lap of the gods. He mixed a whisky and
water pretty often every afternoon, and
there were times when I could get him to
eat nothing but raw eggs. Turned loose
for the first time in my life with saw
and chisel, I made some frightful mis-
takes, but not I nor the heat nor the flies
could disturb his drawling politeness. His
geniality was proof against everything but
old Arthur.
Charlie’s contempt for Arthur was
fiercely reciprocated. They were cronies
of innumerable drinking bouts and race
meetings. They knew every publican
from Tam worth to Singleton. Arthur
was a coarse little chap with a chronic
scowl and a jaundiced eye.
When he had drifted in to work for
another of my relatives in the district,
Arthur rode over one morning to where
we were building the cottage. Charlie
unravelled his coiled length from sight-
ing down a twenty-five-foot four-by-four
floor-plate we were laying on the round
pine blocks. I thought he had seemed
pleased when I told him the previous
evening that his crony was amongst us,
though he had addressed a solemn dis-
sertation to my sister on the danger to
life and property arising from the pres-
ence in the district of such a social
menace. “That old scoundrel,” he had
concluded in fervent crescendo, “is of
no commercial value whatever, Mrs.
Cummins! ”
He now surveyed the bobbing, hunched
figure with marked disfavor, lit his pipe
and bent again to the floor-plate. It was
warped, of course, and I had to lever
parts of it to one side or the other with a
crowbar as Charlie directed. We were
doin the last block, and as Arthur reined
up Charlie’s hammer was ringing on a six-
inch spike. When it was home I re-
leased the pressure and saluted the visitor,
while Charlie drove another spike.
Arthur nodded curtly, waited till the
hammer ceased and then spoke directly
to the old bushman. His voice always
seemed to come up out of the ground—
a sort of trumpeting sub-bass like the
hoarse bellow of a locomotive. It was
many sizes too big for him.
“ ’Day, Charlie! ” he hooted.
Charlie straightened, coil by coil, came
about slowly with the dignity and majesty
of the Queen Mary, opened his mouth
and stared with childlike amazement,' as
though Arthur was some multi-headed
animal not previously exhibited by any
circus or sideshow. Then his face, as
was its wont, became a vast smile.
“What? Arthur!” He strode out of
the foundations and extended a hand
like a frying-pan. “You still alive old
fella? They didn’t hang you after all 9”
His suavity conveyed that it seemed an
awful pity. The battle was on. The little
man dismounted stiffly, not forgetting to
inform the mare of her doubtfffl origin
anH BpiiWatpiu tv,
Smefv InSd L„S
Charl,e ™ s
* g ° od f prepared to
accept suggestions from womenfolk
(which he subsequently forgot); but that
a man should have the incredible inso-
lence tocheck up on his work!
Yet he didn t liquidate Arthur- with
the hammer. Instead he ponderously ex-
tracted a half-plug from among the
assorted nails in his apron pocket and,
paring the tobacco on to a piece of
dressed lining with a chisel, spoke as
one would humor an entertaining three-
yea^"°\d * . . .
Well, is it straight?” he drawled, his
voice vibrant with benevolence.
The effect upon Arthur, however, was
nil. He stumped around and surveyed
with a, puzzled air Charlie’s carefully-
laid blocks and plates.
“I thought you were going to build a
house for Bill?” he inquired blankly,
Ten minutes later Arthur clambered
aboard the patient old chestnut, casually
mentioning to her that she should have
been dog’s meat twenty years ago. He
took an affectionate farewell, jogged away
some thirty yards, reined in and swung
the mare sideways.
“Eh, Charlie!” in urgent double bass,
Charlie turned a poker face. “Look,
you go home and try and earn your
tucker, Arthur,” he urged kindly.
A Puckish grin flickered for almost
half a second amongst Arthur’s
mahogany scowl. He .swung the chest-
nut again and hooted hoarsely over his
shoulder “Did y’ git the contrac’ f’r the
North Shore Bridge, Charlie?”
The old carpenter chose his words care-
fully as the little dust trail slowly length-
ened along the fence track. “Poor, use-
less old cow,” he drawled sadly. “No
cotnmercial value whatever!”
ARTHUR called on us most days, and
soon he and the ambling chestnut,
cruising at half speed along the road and
lanes and emitting puffs of oily smoke
like a fighting ship using her forward
guns, became part of the landscape.
Arthur smoked black plug (but not one
of the recognised brands) in a prehistoric
pipe which he had built into a church-
warden by fitting a long reed stem. The
weather had set in dry, and just about
the time of Arthur’s arrival the crops
began to wilt.
“It’s that incinerator of Arthur
Beale’s,” Charlie pointed out to a worried
farmer. “The trees’ll start to go black.”
Something ailed Charlie’s sulky, so one
Saturday afternoon they fitted his sturdy
bay pony to my trap and set off for
the village pub, Arthur reminding Jip
(the pony) as they drove away that he
had seen goats in western Queensland
with a better gait and appearance.
About twelve that night the pair were
on their way home, Arthur driving. Jip
kept boring to the right as the track
swung that way, and, by way of showing
him who was boss, Arthur drew him to
a walk and then hauled on the left rein
till the pony had stumbled completely
round a box-tree. Charlie nodded won-
dering approval of this manoeuvre, smil-
ing benevolently upon his little playmate.
But the circumnavigation somehow
upset Arthur’s computations, and a few
minutes later Jip philosophically eased
the sulky into a wide ditch-drain that
fed the town dam. Then he buckled
to and almost had them out when
the swinglebar tore out of its bracket.
Charlie’s benevolence now changed to
stern reproof. He shook his head at
Arthur and told him he \fras ashamed of
him. It took half an hour’s fumbling to
strap the bar to the floor frame.
“Now,” said Charlie, still taking a
gloomy view of this fresh evidence of
Arthur’s uselessness, “I’ll drive.”
Drink brought no gladness to Arthur's
heart. It seemed to make him, if possible,
more belligerent. His summing up of the
situation would have burnt holes in asbes-
tos. At long last he concluded with:
“I’ll walk! I’ll walk, I tell y’! ”
“Very well, Arthur,” drawled Charlie
sleepily, and he and Jip set off —Jip in
charge,
OPPOSITE the unfinished house the
pony dropped suddenly to a walk.
That woke Charlie and annoyed him. He
scolded Jip and aimed a blow at him
that involved a pythonlike technique and
tangled the reins round the step.
Jip took the hint, however. He’d had
no work for weeks, and jogging around
in the moonlight helped to pass the time
anyway. Charlie slept peacefully till they
reached a road junction four miles up.
Here there was a deep rut. Jip did his
best, but the jolt woke Charlie again.
He whoa’d the pony and studied the
position. The solution eluded him, but,
feeling something wasn’t right, decided
to turn back. He couldn’t remember
where he’d put the reins, and in descend-
ing to investigate found them round his
legs. Finally he got Jip travelling back,
heaved a sigh of achievement and slept
once more. When they reached the “turn
off” again Jip was taking no chances.
He jogged past it.
But the night air was gradually setting
Charlie up. He swayed upright and stared
ahead. Jip jogged on. Charlie swayed.
The wheels ran muffled in dust or rattled
and whistled alternately, crossing gravel
and sandy patches.
They travelled a mile before the night’s
events stopped circling dizzily through
Charlie’s head. Finally, when he saw
Murphy’s house in the moonlight he got
a groggy grip on the situation. Remorse
overwhelmed him. Tears welled up, and
through the blur he thought he saw his
iniquitous old crony.
He got his sleeve to his eyes, and, sure
enough, a dog-weary figure was faltering
across the dusty road and back. It veered
to port, and as Charlie reined in a violent
tack to starboard brought it alongside.
Dust trickled in tiny spills from its hat
and shoulders. Arthur clung to the shatt
life an exhausted mariner to an oar. He
was game still, but for once the trucu-
lence had gone out of him, and his hard-
set walnut features held a dumb entreaty.
Charlie uncoiled his legs from under
the seat. „ , ~
“Cm on, git up, ole fella! he sam
tenderly through his tears. I thought
I better come back and git y’, y’ pore ole
cow.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—M>. 3346.
Wednesday, March 29, 1944.
THEN HE GALLOPED MADLY OFF IN ALL DIRECTIONS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P• H. Prior , David Adams
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
HOW MUCH LONGER?
Australians will bet on anything, and,
according to one of those papers whose
principal subjects are professional sport.
Our Girls and the higher romance, as
represented by Moscow correspondents,
they are betting in Melbourne on the
probable duration of the war in Europe.
The wagers are all concerned with its
ending this year, and the odds are 6 to 1
against its being over by June 30, 4 to 1
September 30 and 2 to 1 December 31.
A bookmaker whose opinion was sought
(bookmakers are Most Important People
* in Sydney) confided that he had lost £lO
backing his judgment that Hitler would
be whipped last year, but professed him-
self “still an optimist; I wouldn’t be
surprised to wake up any morning and
find that peace overtures are to be made.”
Another, for once departing from the
we-always-lose attitude of the profession,
protested that the Melbourne odds were
too short. He admitted that he hadn't
“given the matter much thought.” The
only matter a 1944 bookmaker needs to
think about is the harvest he may expect
to gather during his “working” week (six
hours, settling included) from the largest
and juiciest collection of mugs on record
and what he will do with it.
There is no warrant in any pronounce-
ment of Mr. Churchill or Mr. Roose-
velt for the belief that the Germans will
be defeated this year.
In Russia they have been falling.back
since El Alamein and Stalingrad, but this
necessity was forced upon them. With
the Italians collapsing and the western-
Allies preparing for an invasion of the
Continent they could not continue to hold
nearly all Europe between the Volga and
the Pyrenees as they did in 1942. It would
be better for us if they had tried to do so.
Instead, they gave up immense tracts
of Russian territory, meanwhile redistri-
buting their, forces and summoning up
great new supplies of cannon fodder and
equipment to meet the changed situation.
Their colossal retreat must have been
costly, but it is no use denying that it was
conducted ably, and unfortunately there
is no reason to suppose that they are
“on the verge of the greatest catastrophe
in military history”—words trotted out
by some correspondent or commentator
every year. ’They have survived* a third
winter in Russia, a thing without prece-
dent since the Mongol invasion, and it
leaves them still in possession of the
Crimea, which the British and French
failed to capture in 1854-55, and parts of
the mainland. Their new lines of defence
are comparatively short and strong, es-
pecially strong in the region of the Car-
pathians, scene in the last war. of bloody
fighting unfortunate for Russia.
With the Russians in Bessarabia, as
they were in the last war. Hitler has taken
possession of Hungary and attached
Rumania more firmly to his orbit; nor
can it be expected for a moment that he
will leave Bulgaria alone. Whether he led
in Hungary from strength or weakness
only events will decide. The immediate
political reactions were unfavorable ta
him, especially in Finland ; but if he can
get his divisions out of that country a
Russo-Finnish peace will be no great
blow to Germany; neither Finland nor
Hungary has done much fighting for a
long time. Both, as it now appears,
were just pawns in an infamous
game, drawn in by fear of the mailed fist
(“Come in with us —or else”), as well as
by the hope of revenge in one case and
of loot in both. Of the countries which
were Hitler’s neighbors in 1939, .only
Sweden and Switzerland have escaped his
bloody hand, and that only because he
found it convenient to spare them, not
because there is any mercy in his heart.
Meanwhile the English-speaking world
has been learning in Italy, in a variety
of ways (though the lesson has been
wasted on clamorous non-starters to
whom other men’s blood doesn’t matter),
what invasion of the Low Countries or
the South of France or the Balkans, sepa-
rately ,or as combined operations, will
mean. With command of the sea,
supremacy in the air and generals of
proved ability, commanding the cream of
the Anglo-American armies, the forces
striking for Rome have been halted for
many weeks. A severe and prolonged
winter and a wilderness of mountains and
ravines, cunningly strengtheried and
grimly defended, have so far proved in-
superable obstacles, and' there is no way.
round. The New Zealanders were thrown
into Cassino after other troops had failed
to take it, the bombing of the monastery
notwithstanding, and though they made
some progress, in the process .extorting a
tribute from the enemy, who galled their
division one of Alexander’s best, they
had a bad time. It was at this moment
that Hanson Baldwin came out with an
apparently inspired New York “Times”
article in which he bluntly declared that
the American Army was suffering from
“poor leadership,” especially among
junior officers, and that “this weakness
must and can be removed before western
Europe is invaded.”
The Baldwin article coincided with
complaints of British and American
foreign policy which, on both sides of
the Atlantic, came thick and fast. Only
Stalin, it was said, seemed to know what
he was after ; and, without consulting his
Allies, he was throwing his weight about
in a manner most disconcerting to them
and sadly inconsistent with the Tehran
spirit. The Foreign Office, it was said in
Britain, is merely “veering to the wind
as it blows from Moscow and Washing-
ton” ; the State Department, Americans
prbtested, has done nothing to allay or
explain “the irritations which have de-
veloped since Tehran,” and people are
“beginning to wonder what has hap-
pened.”
Almost everyone believes there has been
a deterioration in the ideology of the war—
we no longer seem to be in step. Our
march is ragged ; our announcements are
ambiguous,
Mr. Cordell Hull replied by producing
17 points (three more than the customary
issue) based on his speeches during two
years. He was tartly informed that the
17 points, though they would adorn any
school copybook, nowhere specified
United States policy on Poland, Italy,
France, Finland, Yugoslavia, India or
the Middle East; and the criticism broke
out afresh.
If there is one thing this struggle has
made clear it is that unitary systems are
superior to federal systems for the waging
of war. Britain has been greatly advan-
taged by having a Parliament incontest-
ably supreme in all things, and a Gov-
ernment charged by it with the power to
make swift decisions without bothering
about provincial rights or votes. It is
unfortunate that 1944 should be a Presi-
dential and Congressional election year.
There is a suspicion that some of Hitler’s
movements in Russia have been influenced
by their bearing on politics in the U.S.A.,
where representatives of Poland and the
Baltic States ar£ active in the press and
on the platform. He must be praying
for changes in the White House and Con-
gress, as well as for an autumn stalemate
in Europe, in the hope that they will
lead to changes in American war policy,
if not to a shift to “Beat Tojo First”
strategy. Both our enemies are playing
for time, believing that time is not on
our side but on theirs.
The great Max Werner, who has
mastered the art of armchair strategy, for
which neither military training nor battle
experience is needed, predicted in Sep-
tember that Hitler would be completely
dished in three months. To Leftist writ-
ing boys Mr. Werner, who comes from
the steppes of Russia, is still a seer, but
he has found it expedient to turn from the
Atlantic to the Pacific for the indulgence
of his prophetic bent, and to eschew
being too specific in point of time. In
a “Liberty” article quoted by the Sydney
“Daily Mirror,” the Master lays it down
that “in 1945 and the first half of 1946
great events may be expected in the last
theatre of World War 11, and we can
envisage how Japan will succumb.” He
“sees the Allies proceeding from the
Chinese interior to the Chinese coast,”
junctioning there with forces landed
“from the Philippines and the Solo-
mons” ; then “the Jap Army will
be crushed by a combination of crack
Anglo-American troops and the masses
of the Chinese Army.”
Here Mr. Werner is not relying ex-
clusively on his prophetic soul or his
intuition or whatever it is he cashes in
on. He is merely expanding the views of
Admiral Nimitz, who said last month “I
do not believe we can defeat Japan from
the sea alone.” Future strategy in the
Pacific, the admiral added, consisted of
driving ahead to establish bombing bases
in China; “the plan is to get our ground
and air forces into China as early as
possible.” It cannot possibly be done early
or easily, nor does the third campaign
in Burma support a contemptuous
Werner reference to the “mediocrity of
the Japanese Army,” demonstrated, he
alleges, “in China,” though, perhaps with
a great effort and in deference to Leftist
writing boys, he abstained from dismiss-
ing the Japanese Army as “a pushover.”
General MacArthur himself has said
that the Japanese cannot be brought to
their knees until their army is defeated
on the Asian mainland. To the Ministers
and members assembled at Canberra he
repeated his oath that he would return to
the Philippines, and Australia is bound
by all considerations of honor, gratitude
and self-interest to support him there.
People and Government must see their
duty plain, even if it means, for the Gov-
ernment, the repeal of the Militia Hop-
scotch Act, whose northern boundary is
south of the Philippines, though Mr.
Forde is fond of pointing out that 80 per
cebt of the fit army men are in the A.I.F.
Australians may, if they choose, still
entertain the hope that Germany will be
bombed into surrender. But in war, as
in other matters, hopes are apt to be
cheats, and there is no solid ground for
believing that Germany will be beaten
this year, much less Japan. Into the
struggle with that country we will have to
throw every ounce of strength we possess.
We cannot be said to be doing this while
there is great and patent waste of the
sinews of war (the Auditor-General has
touched only the fringe of this subject),
while the black market has-become a
national pollution, while service men, as
well as civilians, are the prey of vile
bands of cargo-stealers and grog-
poisoners, while workers in essential
trades loaf and get away with it, and
while the •Government, as well as failing
in all these fields, panders to the carnival
spirit, especially in Sydney, and profes-
sional “sports”—many of military age,
though their time seems to be their own
—are looking forward to making more
easy money than they ever made before.
Mr. Menzies Seeks a Star.
To his already extensive repertoire as a
popular entertainer Mr. Menzies has
lately added the role of book-reviewer,
looking into Walter Lippmann’s treatise
on United States foreign policy, pronounc-
ing it good, or the goods, and taking the
occasion to air various views of his own.
As well, Mr. Menzies defends Mr. Lipp-
mann in advance against any charge of
scepticism or cynicism, likely enough to
be brought against anybody who has the
temerity to look at the world and see
something approximating what the world
really is, these being again the days of
Utopias unlimited and Utopians to match.
Mr. Lippmann’s main thesis, as con-
veniently dehydrated by Mr. Menzies, is
that “a foreign policy which does not
properly balance ends and means is
‘insolvent,’ because its liabilities exceed
its assets.” Another way of putting this
could be that no country in its foreign
policy can live by blulf alone. Or, more
explicitly, countries which enter into
foreign obligations, involve themselves in
foreign -commitments and make foreign
pledges without first ensuring that they
are fully in a position to do such rash
things with reasonable inpunity are self-
dedicated sacrificial goats headed for
slaughter, or, at least, for a severe singe-
ing with all things on earth inflammable,
from general execration and contumely
to gunpowder.
If it were not for the furious tenacity
of builders and prospective inhabitants
•of Utopias, that thesis would seem to have
long since been demonstrated as sound
beyond the necessity of any defence. It
points the very rock on which Britain
came perilously close to foundering, and
which was just as close to sending some
important but foolish parts of the Empire
to the bottom also.
To look back to that period is to see a
strange nightmare of assorted pledges
and commitments mostly made pot at
all on grounds of enlightened national
self-interest, but on the quaky grounds
of a fabulous morality. That might have
been well enough, perhaps, if there had
been means matching the pretensions.
There were next to no means. As is
always so when Utopians are the builders,
the whole shaky structure —that is, of
Britain and the Empire, and, of course,
others besides —rested on a foundation of
assumptions.
It was one of the popular assumptions
then —and it needs repeating that it was
popular—that the first essential of con-
tinued national existence, let alone the
additional means for backing up a strong
foreign policy, had ceased to be a matter
of any nation’s own Special concern. It
was popularly believed that an assort-
ment of earnest gentlemen talking all the
languages of Babel for a greater assort-
ment of amanuenses to transcribe and
translate for the befuddlement of all
represented a decided improvement on
such comparatively mean and backward
institutions as the House of Commons
and its sundry offshoots. The industrious
tongues having been duly interpreted as
pledging all countries there represented
to stsnd by each other to the last word
of -the last peroration, short of war or
suchlike reprehensible behavior, this was
popularly accepted as a magnificent ad-
vance on the old-fashioned business of
any people making its own determination
to stand up for itself to the last ditch and
the last shot in the locker.
Australia was a striking, but no more
than a typical, example of that frenzied
building on a foundation of assumptions.
Weak and vulnerable enough by reason
of its sparse population, this country
determined to stand second to none in
making a fetish of defencelessness. Even
to speak the word “defence” out loud
was to be accused of rabid militarism.
It is no invention of the humorous imagi-
nation, but a cold fact, that an Australian
Cabinet Minister at that time addressed
a gathering of normal city inhabitants on
the iniquity of allowing innocent little
children, who could know no» better, to
play with popguns and toy soldiers. The
applause was as rousing as it was solemn.
Almost to the lengths advocated by this
member, the Australian Parliament in
due course acted. The country’s defences,
decrepit enough as they stood, were made
doubly more so. Men who had had the
misjudgment to make a career of soldier-
ing with ideas of one day perhaps
heroically serving their country were dis-
missed overnight to the dole and the
fruitbarrow. The country’s defence ex-
penditure was cut till what does now for
three days then did for a year. And,
indicating the general popularity of all
this. Government after Government was
henceforth returned on no other evidence
of incipient statesmanship than frequent
reiteration of the magic formula “Col-
lective Security is the cornerstone of our
foreign policy.”
As Australia stood, so stood Britain
and the rest of the Empire. The whole
outfit was as hollow as a drum, and
made its position worse by being as
noisy. Deficient as plausible politicians
and all-too willing public parsimony
could make it in the means of ensuring
even its own continued existence, the out-
fit was never more ambitious in the pre-
tensions of foreign policy, never louder
in denunciations and warnings. Except
that he’d mislaid the old rogue’s humor,
John Bull came to resemble a sickly ver-
sion of John Falstaff after a heavy night.
What Australia came to look like beggars
description. Bemused by another magic
nostrum of the times, “Tune in with
Britain,” this country leapt eagerly back
to its former colony status at a bound.
It divested itself of all it had ever had in
the way of anything resembling an inde-
pendent co-operating foreign policy and
hastened to join the Old Man in shelter-
ing behind the most elaborate mockery
of security ever erected ; and this because
it was both the easiest and the cheapest
course to take.
A strange sequel to this strange chapter
is that it should have required actual
involvement in a war to shatter the
dream. Or is it shattered even now? Mr.
Menzies, for one, seems to have largely
recovered from his imbibing of the once-
potent nostrums, but even he can de-
claim: “I would put it to you in a
homely way by saying that the League
must be given a real backbone of
strength.” It has an ominously familiar
sound. All it calls for is the evolving
of the necessary assumption, that the
strength is in fact already there avail-
able for the purpose, and all the prospec-
tive plenipotentiaries from Iceland to
Peru will be packing their bags full of
speeches and heading for the new Super
State, late League of Nations.
Mr. Menzies is at least somewhat dubi-
ous about the assumptions. He projects
his vision splendid heavily labelled with
ifs and perhapses. The League, he
allows, “requires more than debate and
logical conviction; it requires the devel-
opment, among hundreds of nations and
many hundreds of millions of people, of
a new point of view.” Merely that. Mr.
Menzies would seem himself in some
need of a defender against charges of
cynicism and scepticism ; for if that pros :
pect suggests anything it suggests that
what the eminent book-reviewer, lifting
his head from Mr. Lippmann’s learned
treatise, sees away off in the far distance
is nothing more substantial nor desirable
than another version of the old familiar
mirage of a bedraggled mare’s nest.
That mirage has been followed once,
and it was perilously close to being once
too often. Yet, Mr. Menzies suggests,
Australia is still in need of a bright star
to steer by. What is wrong with the
bright particulaf star of belief in itself,
faith in itself, loyalty to itself? What
is the objection to consolidating the
strength of honest nationalism that it
has required a war to revive? Is the
value of that restricted to war, or cannot
it have an equal value in peace as well .
An Australia, as willing as any others in
decent co-operation, but strong in itself
and honest with itself, as it is today? is
it anyway necessary to look further for
the bright star Mr. Menzies is seeking.
Mr. Menzies suggests that as well as
need of the star the ship first needs to
be sound. The ship now seems m fair
shape. What of the helmsmen?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Poor France!
The Kharkov trial, which was held in
a theatre, to which some foreign corre-
spondents were admitted on the last day,
and which was followed by public hang-
ings, seems to have been the model for
the trials of Vichy men at Algiers.
In one, the “capitalist” Pierre Pucheux,
sometime Vichy Minister for the Interior,
was convicted and condemned to -death.
The principal witness was a Communist
Deputy of the phony-war period, and the
proceedings seem to have consisted
mostly of a shouted exchange of insults
and imprecations ; but apparently it has
been laid down that everyone who helped
in any way to carry on the machinery
of government after Petain surrendered
is a traitor. Traitor or “capitalist,”
Pucheux died game; he refused to have
his eyes bandaged and gave the firing
party the signal to shoot.
In Daladier’s time 27 Communist
Deputies from Paris were interned in
North Africa. They were released when
the Allies gained control, and, according
to the sober “Christian Science Monitor,”
they had “set up a political organisation
long before the chiefs of other French
political parties arrived.” In process of
time they were joined by other Com-
munists from France, notably the noto-
rious Marty, who came from Moscow,
though the equally notorious Thorez
“still remains in Moscow and his articles
are prominently displayed by the Algiers
Communist paper.” And the Algiers
group is “more anxious that France
should ally itself to Russia than to the
other Allied Powers.”
Recently the Communists’ Central
Committee demanded' two portfolios in
the “provisional Government of France,”
portfolios and men to be of the Central
Committee’s choosing. This De Gaulle
resisted, and possibly he objected to the
Communist demand for trials which have
so evil a suggestion of a new Terror. If
so, he has seen fit to yield.
No wonder Washington and London
hesitate to accept the National Com-
mittee of Liberation as the “provisional
Government.”
"B©u*id to Serve."
Senator Crawford’s predilection for
catching the 4.15 p.m. from Canberra
on Thursdays when Parliament is in ses-
sion was noted with complacency by the
Government in those glad spring days
when the electors gave it a vast majority
in the House for immediate use and a
substantial one in the Senate, not to take
effect till after June 30; and it has been
a source of gratification since. It didn’t
look so good when the Government came
to need the old gentleman’s vote on the
referendum measure, which he promised
to support without at first promising to
make a one-day sacrifice of his habit.
Ordinary measures require merely a
simple majority of Senators present when
vital divisions are taken ; “when the votes
are equal” (Section 23) “the question shall
pass in the negative.” But a “proposed
law for the alteration” of the Constitu-
tion has to be passed “by an absolute
majority of each House” to admit of its
being “submitted in each State,” not less
than two months nor more than six
months after passage, “to the electors
qualified to vote for the election of the
House.” That procedure is obligatory
in all cases, but in Section 128 there is
provision against obstinacy in one branch
of the Legislature:
If either House passds any such proposed
law by an absolute majority and the
other House rejects or fails to pass it,
or passes it with any amendment to which
the first-mentioned House will not agree,
and if, after an interval of three months,
the first-mentioned House in the same or
the next session again passes the proposed
law by an absolute majority with or with-
out any amendment the Governor-
General may submit the proposed law to
the electors of each State.
This may be done whether or not the
recalcitrant Chamber has rejected the
measure again or passed unacceptable
amendments. In effect. Constitutional
alterations may be initiated in either
Chamber, but an originating Senate has
no power to compel the Governor-
General to take a referendum. If his
Ministerial advisers objected he would
no doubt act on their advice. There is
a curious notion in some quarters that
because the N.S.W. and Queensland Gov-
ernments and Parliaments accepted the
Evatt plan which emerged from the Can-
berra conference the referendum would
be confined to the other four States. It
is quite wrong.
The Government found a way of mak-
ing sure of Senator Arthur, though his
disappearance on a recent occasion com-
pelled another Senator to blither to the
“Hansard”- reporters without his teeth,
and a second disappearance necessitated,
in the jargon of Moscow correspondents,
a desperate, feverish, frantic, frenzied
search. Senator Crawford was the head-
ache. Thotigh he has, as it were, become
a two-day man at Canberra, he hasn’t
violated Section 20:
The place of a Senator shall become
vacant, if for two consecutive months of
any session of the Parliament he, without
the permission of the Parliament, fails to
attend the Senate.
But, as Quick and Garrap put it in
their “Commentaries”:
It is an ancient constitutional rule that
every person elected to serve in Par-
liament is bound so to serve members
are bound to attend during the whole
time that Parliament is sitting. Several
Acts have been passed in England tq en-
force this duty, and the House of
Commons claims, and occasionally exer-
cises, the right to compel the attendance
of all its members by a call of the House.
And under Section 49 each Chamber
at Canberra has taken unto itself the
“powers, privileges and immunities” of
the Commons. Senate standing. orders
provide for a call and for an order to
an absentee to attend on a future day,
and if he still stays away or fails to give
a satisfactory explanation he may be
taken into custody by Black Rod.
This procedure wasn’t necessary in
Senator Crawford’s case. He and Senator
Arthur were present when the call was
made; and the third reading of the Evatt
bill was carried by 19 votes to 17. Both
gentlemen had assisted the Government
to bludgeon the thing through the second
reading and committee stages at an all-
night sitting. On one division, adjourn-
ment having been moved at 1.30 a.m..
Senator Gibson asked whether it was
right to take the vote of a man worse for
liquor. There was no reply.
To the measure passed by such methods
and in the House with such contempt
for the right of expression that the
Opposition walked out, the electors will
be expected to give grave and weighty
consideration. Voting will be compul-
sory. In these matters the people are
“bound to serve.”
"Ban McCormick!"
A study in freedom of expression:
Nothing much having been heard of him
since he was swept along to Canberra in the
Labor flood last August, Mr. L. C. Haylen may
have been moved by desperation when he at last
got himself into the limelight, urging Parliament
to ban in advance “a tabloid paper for distri-
bution to the American forces” which, he said,
“the millionaire owner of the isolationist
Chicago ‘Tribune,’ Colonel Robert McCor-
mick,” proposes establishing in Australia.
Thus another advocate of freedom of the
press shows up in other colors. Like any
number more of them, Mr. Haylen is all for
that freedom, with the qualification that it be
limited to what Mr. Haylen himself would
publish in a newspaper.
A lot might be said against both Col. Mc-
Cormick and his “Tribune” without adopting
Mr. Haylen’s rather too-suspect ranting on the
alleged “danger of having this Hitlerite among
us.” Both delight in the comic old sport of
pulling the Lion’s tail. They have even persuaded
themselves that the American Rhodes scholars
are in a conspiracy to take the U.S.A. back
into the Empire. Perhaps this sort of thing
helps to keep their minds off Chicago. Both,
too, merit Mr. Haylen’s descriptive epithet
“isolationist” as far as the European war is
concerned, though coming from an Australian
Parliamentarian of the party which puts a strict
limit to the extent of the militia service area,
while American conscripts based on Australia
have, of course, to serve beyond that area,
it might be considered by them, with fair justifi-
cation, as the dizzy limit in impudence.
They could well ask what has been the atti-
tude towards the European war of the party
to which Mr. Haylen belongs, especially as to
the raising of a second A.I.F. and sending if to
that war over there.
They could get a lot nastier still, touching
on “isolationism.” They could come right
home where Mr. Haylen’s party lives and ask
who were those who tried to prevent the send-
ing of Australian troops to defend even this
country’s own possessions in the Pacific. And
would they be out of court in asking ques-
tions about New Britain?
There have been some odd examples of name-
calling as between pots and kettles, but none
more odd, surely, than an Australian Labor
politician abusively calling anybody whatever
an “isolationist,” and especially in regard to
the European end of the war.
Both the colonel and his newspaper are
quite capable of defending themselves on these
lines, and no doubt will do so in their own
vituperative style. While they are about it
they will be able to inform Mr. Haylen that,
if there are other's who set limits to the waging
of war against Japan, this does not apply to
Col. McCormick and his “Tribune.” They
have advocated war to the hilt against Japan
as vigorously as anyone or any paper in or
out of America.
These matters, however, are beside the main
issue, which is simply another blatant attempt
to put a curb on the very thing which Mr.
Haylen, Mr. Chifley (who made a show of
supporting the move for a ban) and others
like them frequently profess to have dearly
at heart, so much so that they propose to put
freedom of expression in the Constitution.
It might seem odd that the attempt to have
a paper—intended for circulation among forces
of Col. McCormick’s own countrymen—banned
in advance by Australian Government action
should have been made by one who is himself
a newspaperman. In his history of what went
on in Australia during the last war the late Pro-
fessor Ernest Scott had a revealing account of
newspapermen given opportunity as newspaper-
banners. When censorship was then introduced
the first censors were newspapermen. They
had to be dispensed with because they were
too severe in suppression.
III fares the land, to hastening bills a prey,
Where forms accumulate and farms decay.


o H i?-
'V
A
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHIIP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B. G.P.0.. Sydney.
BP 4 44.
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
y :
r
0
THE ONLY
ALL - AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
PYROX PROPRIETARY LIMITED, 18 Albion Street, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
Senator Crawford didn’t catch the
4.15 at Canberra on Thursday, but “it
was presumed that the Government
would place a car at his disposal”—it has
plenty of cars, and “spend, spend, spend”
is its motto —“to get him to Sydney.”
He had provided it with its majority on
the Commonwealth Powers Bill, which
was bludgeoned through at an all-night
sitting and a “call,” with an intermission
of eight hours, in contempt of the sup-
position that the Senate is the States’
House and a House of Review. Senator
Arthur was also on hand. Neither gentle-
man spoke. Opposition Senators pegged
away till they were exhausted, and, on
resuming, they had energy enough to
inform Crawford that henceforth his
room would be preferred to his com-
pany.
The House of Commons keeps going
during Churchill’s frequent and pro-
longed absences, but, after two very brief
sessions, the 17th Parliament of the Com-
monwealth is evidently to be shut up
while Curtin is away. Any excuse for a
loaf goes down at Canberra, and per-
-1 haps the public will be told that a long
interval is required for reflection on the
powers to be delegated to professors and
lecturers when or if it grants them.
Britain’s pay-as-you-earn tax, applic-
able to all wage- and salary-earners, is
now in operation. To pay for a mythical
Jag, Australian taxpayers are to be smitten
by a “Labor” Government with a 25 p.c.
surcharge on the highest income-tax rates
ever imposed. With its own legal advisers
available, the “Labor” Government had
to fall back on a Professor of Law for
an opinion that there is a lag. The Pro-
fessor of Law (Bailey) was promptly con-
tradicted by another Professor of Law
(Stone).
Curtin, in January:
One thing at least is clear ; the Govern-
ment, having applied the law, will enforce it.
That was said in respect of the Sydney
tram and bus strike. Later, when many
young N.S.W. South Coast coal strikers
.refused to obey the order to return to
work, the Government summoned them to
the colors. They’d hardly reached camp
when it was announced that they might
leave the army and return to the mines,
and at the same time the summonses
against tram and bus strikers'were with-
drawn. On the same day the P.M.,
congratulating the latest V.C., said “Ser-
geant Derrick’s refusal to admit defeat
in the face of a seemingly impossible
situation is typical of the fighting men of
our country.” It is not typical of him
and his crowd.
Early in 1929 a man from the
“Westralian Worker,” of which Curtin
was still editor, as well as M.H.R. for
Fremantle, visited Sydney and chatted
with an acquaintance about Federal poli-
tics. It was thought in those days that
Scullin might not stay the course, and
the acquaintance suggested that Curtin
might succeed him. • “Jack! ” said the
man from the “Worker.” office, and he
laughed at the very notion. Now “Jack”
has been leader longer than any of his
predecessors, and he is also the only
Labor P.M. who has carried on into a
second Parliament. And he is going
abroad with the compliments of his oppo-
nents ringing in his ears.
Beasley, like Chifley, has taken to writ-
ing newspaper articles —in his case, on the
work of Supply, In. the first he said,
among many other things;
The* mining of tantalum, a very rare
metal, we have found and developed in
W.A. and are exporting to America, whose
use for it is a war-time secret.
In the second article he disclosed at least
part of the “secret”: “It has been used
in skull plates for wounded soldiers and
in wires to sew severed nerves, and is an
element in making one of the basic com-
ponents of synthetic rubber.” But tan-
talum has been mined in Westralia for
50 years, off and on. The Commonwealth
Year-Book, as well as State publications,
has had many references to its occurrence
there and in the N.T.
“I MURDERED HIM LAST NIGHT!”
“At the instance of Senator McLeay, Senator Crawford has been denied the use of the
Opposition party-room....Asked why he habitually leaves Canberra by the 4.15 on Thursdays,
Senator Crawford ‘explained’ that it was to avoid being murdered in an upper sleeper, as
once happened to a friend.”
MCLEAY: “We’re coming to a tunnel, Crawford.”
The inventor of the Owen gun has
received £8225 in royalties from the Com-
monwealth Government as a first instal-
ment of £12,500, and has been told the
tax on the £8225 will amount to £6,841.
A bitter Canberra jest, seeing that prizes
of £5OOO to £25,000 drawn in the lot-
teries which compete so briskly with war
loans —all lottery prizes, in fact—are free
of Commonwealth tax. Canberra has
promised to see what it can do for Owen,
but lottery prizes are still to go untaxed.
Service men will be very tired of mark-
ing ballot papers if they have to vote at
Evatt’s referendum (he has appealed to
the objecting State politicians to relieve
him of the necessity), as well as at the
Queensland, S.A. and N.S.W. State elec-
tions, all in sight. For the N.S.W. part
of the programme “service men and ser-
vice women under and over 21” who
have served outside Australia and are
serving within Australia or in the South-
west Pacific combat zone are to have the
vote. Also “any person over 21 employed
by the Allied Works Council on any
undertaking inside or outside Australia,”
whether they are on the roll or not. Of
this the union hierarchy thoroughly
approves, and Opposition objections are
futile. The purity of the rolls used to be
reckoned a great matter.
N.S.W. Labor has been getting a dose
of the pressure-group medicine which it
has so often administered to “the capi-
talists.” Nervous about its superannuation
fund since the depression Government
began dipping into it, and mindful of the
millions, obtained so easily from Can-
berra, which Labor has socked away for
other purposes, the N.S.W. Public Ser-
vice Association began agitating for pay-
ment of some of the millions into the
superannuation fund, and for a return to
an actual pound-for-pound subvention-in
all cases. McKell introduced a plan
which the public servants pronounced
only a trifling improvement on that of
“the capitalists” ; he has altered it with
his humble duty. If they turned on the
McKell mob they could deprive it of a
dozen to fifteen seats.
Food control was established last June.
Scully has admitted that the cost to
February 29 was £123,326, presumably
in wages and salaries of 378 men and 356
women. But not even Scully, the prince
of optimists, would be game to hazard a
guess at what food control has cost the
country as a whole,
“A leading manufacturer” quoted by
Sydney “Sun” asserts that “six to eight
Government inspectors” did nothing for
three months but inspect the work of two
girls, the only remaining employees in
part of a munitions annexe. It seems
incredible, but, as every wage-payer
knows, there are swarms of inspectors
about. A census of them, would be in-
teresting, 'and wage-payers might con-
sider taking one through their organisa-
tions —no Government will ever do it.
Trying to remove the impression that
State politics is as dead as a mackerel
caught last month,, McKell has published
a report of his regional planning commis-
sion, which purports to show how the
country districts can be developed, and
in an article on the Powers Bill he con-
demned the likes of Makin and Lloyd
Ross in these terms :
No sane Australian wants to see a re-
turn to the jungle law under which the
ruthless and the financially strong survive
and the weak go to the wall. But if, to
achieve the new Australia, individual free-
dom must be butchered, then the price is
too high.
Leap year? No, election year.
Curtin is sending to Canada, as one
of a delegation of three working jour-
nalists, a young man who two years ago
described the then Canadian High Com-
missioner as a wasp-waisted, Hollywood
type of soldier who was given to telling
strangers that he had fought in the South
African War. He fought in the last war
also, won command of his battalion in a
battle in which half its men, his C.O.
and his brother were lost, and came to
Australia with a double D. 5.0., fresh
from command of the division nearest
France for months after Dunkirk. Still
Canada is a very hospitable country.
“ ‘No self-respecting-Government would
be influenced by such a flagrant attempt
at intimidation as was made at the meet-
ing of public servants last night,’ the
Premier said.” McKell? Cooper? No;
Dunstan. Albert cleared his election
hurdle last year.
That inconvenient fellow Playford has
protested to Curtin against bans on inter-
state transport of livestock, kitchenware,
onions and other commodities:
It is unnecessary to emphasise how un-
desirable it would be for any of the inter-
ests affected to have to resort to action in
the High Court, but that will undoubtedly
be the ultimate result if the orders I have
mentioned are not revoked without delay.
It ought to set the Federal Attorney-
General thinking hard. Action on such
lines wouldn’t help the referendum.
The Queensland election campaign has
developed into a battle over refrigerators.
No Queenslander need imagine that he’s
going to get any of the gadgets; the row
is all about who first thought of promis-
ing them to the voters. Bruce Pie, of the
Q.P.P., alleges that it was his idea and
was pinched by Labor. Now, if only
someone can promise the electors some-
thing to put in the refrigerators he’ll
sweep the polls.
Bad bookkeeping, confused control of
stores and contracts, double payment of
accounts, loss of discounts and serious
“defalcations” are mentioned by the Com-
monwealth Auditor-General in his report
for 1942-43. The departments of the
Army, Air, Munitions and Aircraft Pro-
duction are concerned, but only Minister
Makin has seen fit to reply. The good
Makin is sure the Auditor-General can’t
be right.
Hollywood is seeing Chaplin in a new
part, that of accused in a white-slavery
charge. If he gets off he will be free to
translate his strong Second-Front senti-
ments into action on the Channel coast.
He might be joined there by another
greasepaint Second-Fronter longing to be
at ’em by television or something—
Orson Welles.


df
HOUSE-LIGHTING
YOU CAN SERVE IN H.M.A.S. “
Even though you are not there in person you can help our Navy by taking extra care of
your Exide Batteries. Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment and car or
radio battery. Consult your local Exide dealer immediately you suspect the need for re-
placement, repair or recharging. Extra care will give you months of extra service.
BATTERIES
-
A
assaar l ;
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Something will have to be done to re-
habilitate No. 13 ; it’s slipping. Sergeant
Thomas Currie Derrick must have seemed
to the Japs to have a charmed life when,
going out and hurling grenade after
grenade, he so demoralised them that they
fled, making possible the capture of Sattel-
berg (New Guinea), and ensuring him the
honor of being the thirteenth’member of
the Australia forces—A.l.F. and R.A.A.F.
—to win the V.C. The next previous
V.C. winner in New Guinea, Pte. Richard
Kelliher, for his similar splendid deeds
picked a 13th of the month.
The total V.Cs. of this war claimed for
Australians is 14, the other being the West-
ralian Edwards, the most highly deco-
rated man in the R.A.F.; but not all the
14 are Australian-born, A striking thing
about the two latest, Derrick and Kelliher,
is the typical character of their faces.
Unless it might be the Westralian Gordon
no one could have a more characteristi-
cally Australian phiz than Derrick, as
shown in the striking Department of In-
formation photograph, with the old lid
turned up at the side, as good infantry-
men mostly wear it. Derrick hails .from
North Adelaide. Similarly, there couldn’t
be a more characteristically good Irish
phiz than that of the Queenslander by
adoption Kelliher.
In this Frithiap version of his head-
piece Lt.-Col. G. E. Colvin, D. 5.0., has
the “lean and hungry look” attributed to
a very different sort of chap, and Japs
as well as Fritzes and Eyeties have had
LT.-COL. COLVIN, D.S.O.
reason for declaiming the rest of the
quotation, “He thinks too much; such
men are dangerous.” Now 42, he made
soldiering a steady hobby from when he
was old enough to start with the militia
till he got himself into this war’s A.1.F.,
going away with an infantry battalion as a
captain. His was the crowd that had the
most forward look at the Axis at El
Agheila before having to shift back again
to Tobruk, where, the ship that was due to
take them off having been dive-bombed
and sunk, they spent eight months as de-
fenders. Afterwards they had a fairly
decent time in Palestine, till El Alamein
cropped up. Within 24 hours of their
return for that show their C. 0., Lt.-Col.
Turner, was fatally wounded, and Col-
vin took over. He wears the D.S.O. for
Alamein. Since then he’s had his grand
lot of scrappers giving the Japs a taste of
their quality in New Guinea.
Australian Who’s Who can be forgiven
for having forgotten Emeritus Professor
T. Cherry, of Melbourne University,
Even those who served under him 50
years ago, when he was a keen, active,
original young research worker, probably
wouldn’t think it was the same man, who,
at 82, is a keen, active, original research
worker still. At the bacteriological labora-
tory he frightened 1 out of the Victorian
Government when bubonic plague broke
out in Sydney he is still pegging away
on his quest for the cause and cure of
cancer. Dr. Cherry joined the pathology
department in 1891 as demonstrator and
assistant lecturer. Before that he was in
charge of the School of Agriculture and
rendered yeoman service to the export
butter trade and agriculture in general.
He has been on the frail of cancer for
the last 20 years, and the brochures he
has published on the’subject are world-
known.
Awarded the Soviet Order of Alex-
ander Nevsky, Air Vice-Marshal Donald
Clifford Tyndall Bennett, D. 5.0., the
Queensland-born commander of the
R.A.F. Pathfinders, was the first man to
wear under his wings the gilt eagle which
distinguishes that appropriately named
group of airmen, whose flares, or target
indicators, make possible the intense con-
centration of bombing on German targets
in night attacks. First over the target,
the Pathfinders drop their flares to mark
out the sections to be bombed, then stay
around fighting and observing till the
bombing is finished. Bennett has other
notable “firsts’’ to his credit. He pio-
neered the Atlantic ferry service and he
was first to fly the Mayo-Mercury picka-
back ’plane. Forced down in Norway
some time back, he escaped to Sweden
and then managed to get to England
from there. . Born at Toowoomba 33
years ago, he is the youngest holder of
his high R.A.F. ranking.
Winner of the Crouch Memorial Prize
ac the Bailarat Fine Art Gallery with a
landscape, Max Ragless, of Adelaide, is
the second inter-State artist to gain that
guerdon. The judge was Charles Wheeler,
teaching master at ,the National Gallery
in Melbourne..
Col. J. M. Maughan, retired after 13
years as Chief Commissioner for Scouts
in N.S.W., could have given his Scouts
first-hand information about the sort of
country troops would have to fight over
in the Pacific War. In 1914 he was a
lieutenant commanding a company of a
naval unit that took possession of Bou-
gainville and Buka, and he became O.C.
Garrison at Kieta. Next year he was an
A.I.F. captain with the 17th Battalion at
Gallipoli, and was later wounded at
Pozieres and won the D.S.O. His place
with the Scouts has been filled by Major
E. A. Lloyd, as acting Chief Commis-
sioner.
Fate was at its unkindest when
Flying-Officer Leonard Graham Fuller
was killed at Sale (Vic.) in a collision
between a pushbike he was riding and a
motor-bus. Fuller was the young Aus-
tralian airman who* became known all
over the world for his unparalleled feat
of landing two training ’planes in a pad-
dock after they had become interlocked
in a collision only 100 ft, from the
ground. As well, he was the holder of the
D.F.M. for gallantry in the air-battling
over Sicily. A like case was the death of
the South Australian last-war V.C.-winfer
A. P. Sullivan, who, going to England as
one of the coronation guard of honor
contingent, slipped on a London pave-
ment and fractured his skull. Sullivan,
who had served with the original A.1.F.,
won his V.C. in North Russia.
Georgette, Delphine and George
Graham, aged 14, 13 and 11 respectively,
have had a certainly well-earned holiday
in Melbourne from their father’s station
at Turriff in the Mallee. They’d just
finished machine-shearing 1000 of their
father’s sheep. Graham, sen., broke his
leg, and wasn’t able to get labor. The
local parson ran the clippers over 400.
Elected Professor of Economic History
at Oxford, Professor William Keith Han-
cock is one of Melbourne University’s
most brilliant products, Rhodes scholar
in 1922, he was pursuing his studies in
England when he gained a Fellowship of
All Souls’ College—the first Australian
to do so. After 10 years in the History
Chair at Adelaide Uni., he went to Bir-
mingham Uni., where he wrote several
books on Empire subjects, the last, which
went off the slips last year, being a best-
seller. At nine Hancock won the Royal
Humane Society’s medal for rescuing
another child from drowning in the
Mitchell River (Vic.). He is 46,
Radio engineer Alfred Herman
Traeger, of S.A., designer and maker of
pedal wireless sets for the Flying Doctor
service, for which he lately got an 0.8. E.,
is carrying on with the good work. He
has now designed a new combined radio
transmitter and receiver as a further aid
to outback communication. The new in-
“PEDAL WIRELESS ” TRAEGER.
vention is operated as easily as a tele-
phone. Son of a Victorian farmer,
Traeger has been associated with the Fly-
ing Doctor service for 18 years. He also
supplies radio transceivers to Government
lighthouses.
Professor Angus, whose unorthodox
writings and utterances led to repeated
unsuccessful efforts by a section of
fellow-Presbyterians to have him ousted
from the Chair of Theology at St.
Andrew’s College, Sydney University, left
estate valued at £31,694. He bequeathed
his fine library to that college and a fifth
of his residuary estate equally to it and to
Queen’s University, Belfast, the re-
mainder qf the estate going to relatives.
As g.m, for the Blue Star Line in Aus-
tralia since 1937, executive member of
the Stevedoring Commission and other-
wise one of the leading men in war-time
shipping, S. B. Jones no doubt could tell
things about those who go down at sea
in ships that won’t be told for many a
long day yet. Born and educated in
Brisbane, he started with the A.U.S.N.,
and first went to sea on the old Wyandra.
At 17 he got into the first A.1.F., but had
to stow away on a troopship to get
abroad. At that time a bit of a fuss was
being made about “war babies” being
sent away, and the Pioneers crowd he
cleared out with passed him on to the
Eighth Battalion. He saw service •in
France, rose to the heights of lance-corp.,
and returned to join the Commonwealth
Line as purser till he finally came ashore
S. B. JONES.
in Brisbane in 1926, going to the post of
assistant g.m. with the Blue Star Line in
1934. In this war he’s had a trip abroad
to do a job in the Middle East in 1940
for the British Ministry of,War Trans-
port.
Hubert Clifford, Australian composer,
was born at Bairnsdale (Vic.) in 1904,
educated at Melbourne High School and
Albert-street Conservatorium under Fritz
Hart. He conducted his own orchestral
music in Melbourne at 20, then left for
Europe. Appointed conductor of the
Beckenham County School Orchestra, the
most famous school orchestra in Eng-
land, he conducted at various times the
London Philharmonic, the London Sym-
phony and the 8.8. C. orchestras, and
studied with Vaughan Williams, During
the blitz he finished a symphony in an
air-raid shelter, where he and Vaughan
Williams tried it out on a transferred
piano. Appointed .Empire music super-
visor for 8.8. C. last year, he has been
invited by A.B.C. to return to Aus-
tralia to adjudicate in its Australian com-
posers’ competition. Science was Clif-
ford’s original choice ; he took a degree
in it at Melbourne University in 1924.
Lately looked in on Melbourne, Rev.
Canon C. G. O’Keefe, of Queensland,
secretary of the £1,000,000 Walter and
Eliza Hall Trust, which distributes lar-
gesse to education, science and religious
bodies. Walter Hall was an unsuccessful
digger on the Ballarat goldfields who
transferred his attentions to Cobb and Co.
The money he made out of that he in-
vested in Mt. Morgan and died worth
£4,000,000, His widow Eliza left one of
tjjje millions as a benefaction, and in the
last 30 years the trust has spent a million
and a quarter solely out of interest. The
original secretary, the late Major-General
H. Finn, left his position to his daughter.
Miss Kathleen Finn, and, while head-
master of All Souls’ School, Charters
Towers, Canon O’Keefe married the sec-
retary and subsequently assumed the
secretaryship. The trust’s vast ramifica-
tiorfs include homes for the aged, kinder- ‘
gartens, hospitals, schools, bush-nursing
societies and playgrounds, but the most
famous is the Walter and Eliza Hall In-
stitute in Melbourne, which has a world-
wide reputation for research and a habit
of producing distinguished directors. Dr.
Cecil Kellaway; who pioneered investiga-
tion into snakebite venom and has since
gone to the Wellcome Laboratories in
London, was one, and Dr. Burnett, who
is inoculating the Australian Army
against influenza, is another.
Before returning to M.L. to take over
his assistant-director job in Scientific and
Industrial Research Dr. E, E. Chamber-
lain is looking over Upper and Middle
Egypt; he has been with the M.L. forces
over there since 1940. . The Egyptian
Minister of Agriculture delegated Dr.
Manon Abdul Salem, of his department,
and a scientist, Dr. Siaby, to accompany
the Maorilander. Royal, experimental
and big landowners’ farms are being
visited.
Moran and Cato, Victoria’s chain-store
grocers, both now deceased, have each a
representative in the medical profession.
Moran’s son graduated many years ago
and has practised successfully in London,
and the other day Miss Una Cato took
her degree at Melbourne University.
After 48 years with Perth City Council,
the last 44 of them as town clerk, Wil-
liam Ernest Bold has retired. Lancashire-
born, he arrived in Westralia in ’96, was
made assistant to the town clerk and four
years later succeeded his boss. He has
seen the municipal area grow from 2500
to 14,000 acres and in 1912 he advised
the council to acquire its own gas and
electricity services. After a trip to
Europe and America to study town plan-
ning he returned in 1916 to draft a Wes-
tralian Town Planning Bill and launch
the Town Planning Association. When
he wasn’t wrapped up in the city affairs
he relaxed with music, reading and gar-
dening and found time to serve as a
Rotarian.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 76, G. P. Handley, a news-
paperman born and bred, experienced in the
craft' before he came to Australia 45 years ago.
He was on papers at Broken Hill and New-
castle (N.S.W.), then roved about in 5.A.,. in
the city with the “Register” and Labor
“Herald” dailies (while they lasted), and espe-
cially the “Advocate” at Murray Bridge. He
had two sidelines, and was enthusiastic in both
—Protestant Federation and Soccer football.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Tuart”: According to his life-story,
self-told in the dock, “Woolcott Forbes”
came to Sydney from Westralia (“where
men tell the truth”), so rude and untutored
a station-boy that he was afraid to cross
tramlines —though, as Louis Brandei, fie
must have known tramlines from infancy
in Perth —and in Sydney he fell among
thieves. He certainly fell among book-
makers, and fell very heavily on mugs,’
there being so many in Sydney that rude
and untutored strangers never need to run
short, though it is reputed to be a place
where rude and untutored strangers are
skinned. Cynics are wondering why the
fellow was ever brought back, at great
expense, considering that he was under
sentence of five years in the U.S.A., with
a Canadian prosecution still hanging over
his head. It came out that when he was
still in the money he contributed £lOOO
to U.A.P. funds. If it was supposed that
there was a fruity story behind this
transaction the story was not unfolded.
"Is that the canning factoray? Tell the manajah I have to go to
Government House today, so I won't be able to do any canning .”
The thing figured on a long list of dona-
tions, one being £5OOO to send a team of
riflemen to Bisley, There was a story
behind that, and it can still raise a laugh,
though I don’t think “Woolcott Forbes’
ever saw any humor in it; but, as with the
U.A.P. kern, it was not followed up.
“Bo”: The hearts of sailormen the
world over will bleed for that grizzled
old seadog Admiral Horthy, victim of
the double-cross at the hands of a quon-
dam pal. The exploits of the admiral
(in addition to the feat.of running a
regency without a monarchy) adorn some
of the brightest pages in the long and
brilliant naval history of his country. It
was early in the century that the world
thrilled to his seamanship (he was then
only a commodore) when, battling against
waves fully 18in. high, he brought his
flagship, the 20-ton gunboat Shrdlu (pro-
nounced Prawn), nearly 100yds. across the
turbulent Drava to the wharf. What
fighting seaman’s blood could refuse to
surge at the tale of how, with Nelson-
like coolheadedness in a crisis, Horthy,
pacing the quarter-deck of his armed
cutter Czxchyz (pronounced Rats) while
patrolling the upper reaches of the Tisza,
put aside his telescope and calmly ordered
his quartermaster to ram two hostile
Ruthenian fishing dinghies, with com-
plete disregard for the risk of becoming
entangled in their whitebait nets? Known
throughout the Hungarian Navy as the
Iron-stomached Man, owing to his never
having been seasick even in the greatest
tempest on the stormy Theiss, the admiral
will surely evoke from the crews of
his ships, in this his hour of adversity,
that heroic Hungarian slogan “Horthy,
keep your tail up!”
* * * *
“Uramao”; Out of Windy Wellington
(M.L.) comes ever something quaint. A
boy had a fit in the street, was bundled
into an ambulance and rushed to hos-
pital. An elderly man, full of beer and
benevolence, volunteered to accompany
the lad. The youngster came to his senses
on the way, took alarm and seized the
opportunity presented by a traffic hold-
up to jump out and skedaddle for his life.
The sozzled one lay down on the stretcher
and went to sleep. Next thing he knew
he was in a hospital bed undergoing treat-
ment for chronic alcoholism. Next morn-
ing, after explanations, he was discharged,
sober and much shaken.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The judiciary can be relied
upon to put things tactfully. When
Judge Studdert had before him the appeal
of a Sydney taxi-driver against a 10-bob
fine for refusing a hiring to Allied ser-
vice men, ’Sonor, obviously astonished
at the nature of the charge, remarked
“The public have forgotten about taxi-
cabs long ago, relinquishing them to our
distinguished visitors.” Then he found
the offence proved but remitted the
penalty.
sfc
“Hamer”: Petty’s Hotel, taken over for
a service hostel, dates back to 1832. When
it was established its site, the Observa-
tory Hill district, was one of the swan-
kiest quarters of Sydney, and the pub
was so much a feature of the city that
an old novel with a N.S.W. setting works
j n> On its verandah, “looking down
on the spa rkling blue waters of Sydney
Harbor,” the heroine lolled, hardly notic-
*ug * sunburnt man in the Crimean
shirt and riding breeches who was walk-
mg by until with a spring he reached her
side. “Excuse me,” he said, dragging a
mass of wriggling snake from under her
lounge chair. He lost no time in making
the serpent (“a deadly whip snake whose
bite will cause death within minutes”) a
dead ’un ; and after that the introduction
was easy. The vicinity has deteriorated so-
dally, but Petty’s has maintained its pres-
tige, though it has lost that sea view. No
scandals have been associated with it, and
country folk whose great-grandparents
used it on their visits to Sydney have
continued a very satisfactory family
tradition.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; “Spokeshave” is wrong about
Chancellor Way, of Adelaide, and the
bell which rang whenever he rose to speak
at Commem, (B. 15/3/’44). I was there,
In those days, 40-odd years ago, Adelaide
Uni. had no large hall except its library,
and ail meetings wfere held there. An
oration was being given in it—not by
Sammy Way himself—when an alarm
bell started and stopped the show. Evi-
dently it was in the locked cupboards
under the bookshelves, inaccessible until
“Come, come, Nurse —merely rub the methylated spirit on the
patient's back!”
a key was hunted for and used. Peace,
apologies by the Chancellor and a re-
newal of oratory. Shortly, infernal row
in another cupboard, and more key-hunt-
ing. This happened three times, alarm
clocks having been most skilfully timed
to give the maximum trouble. It is good
to see the self-conscious smile on the
faces of some of Adelaide’s most notable
lawyers and doctors, now in their sixties,
when this incident is recalled.
* * * *
“H.G.D.”: The greatest indignity that
a noble profession has ever suffered is
almost a daily occurrence in the army.
Every trainee infantryman has to learn
to use a pick and shovel, and in their
wisdom the authorities have decreed that
trainees must swing a banjo by numbers.
The commands are “Grasp shovel. On
the word ‘One’ push, on the word ‘Two’
lift, ‘Three’ draw back, ‘Four’ throw.”
For the pick the numbers are 1, rise;
2, strike; 3, break; 4, rake. A loud
buzfing noise audible in the vicinity is
the row made by millions of old-time
navvies turning, nay spinning, in their
graves.
Sfi * * *
“Hamfat”: “Harriet,” running in New
York as part of a Beecher Stowe
renaissance which is selling tens of
thousands of copies of Uncle Tom’s
Cabin, had one night’s show upset by the
loud remark of a book-collecting member
of the audience. One scene depicts riots
outside the Stowe house by pro-slavers,
a copy of Uncle Tom, mutilated, being
hurled through the window. Just as the
courageous Harriet, against the pleading
of her relatives, was going out on the
balcony to tell the rioters off the pundit
put in his loud word: “That first edition
was in two volumes.” Similar narks in
Australia were mostly associated with
performances of “The Term of His
Natural Life” and “Robbery Under
Arms.” For years Sydney endured an
old fusspot who made a business of at-
tending theatres at which those shows
were appearing. At each he rose up
early in the piece and bellowed “Wrong!
Wrong! During the interval I will claim
the right to address the audience for the
purpose of refuting” Invariably the
ushers seized him at that word and ran
him out. Nobody ever discovered pre-
cisely what he wanted to refute.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. has had a mild scare
in a death from leprosy in Adelaide. It
was a native boy, sent down from the
N.T. at the time of the Jap raids. Dr.
Finger, superintendent of the Infectious
Hospital, says there is no reason for
worry, “long and close contact” with a
leper being required before the disease
can be developed.
* * * »
“8.P.”: During a week in a guesthouse
in the foothills I managed to learn how
the young female of the species gets over
the absence of the young male from such
places—the young male being busy else-
where these times. The seven or eight
young women present got up early every
day, tennissed, golfed, swam, rode and
walked themselves to a standstill so that,
by nightfall, they fell into bed and slept
like exhausted young animals until morn.
I was a bit puzzled at first by this despe-
rate exhibition of activity, but it dawned
on me the second night when I found
the lounge full of middle-aged and elderly
folk whose romantic days were past.
There was a time when the typist and
her friend from the haberdash used to
return from such holidays hollow-eyed
from lack of sleep, but not now.
“Avon”: There is an quality
about a little piece of Maori folklore
recently brought to light concerning the
origin of mountain-surrounded Lake
Wairarapa, which is not so many miles
away from Wellington. This fine stretch
of water, so the saga tells, was once on
the plains, centre of a marshy region
much favored by ducks. The Maoris
snared ducks now and then, and that gave
no offence to the sylvan gods who pro-
tect birds, beasts and trees, being well
within the laws of nature. But occasion
came for a great ceremonial gathering
of the tribes, and to provide provisions
the Maoris surrounded the swamps with
beaters and drove all the ducks into
snares on the central lake. This was an
outrage, and all the other birds lodged
vociferous complaint with Tane Mahuta,
their tutelary deity. Tane was angry,
and when the Maoris, in their canoes,
advanced to secure the snared ducks (the
lake was black with them) they were
astonished to see the birds rise in the air,
bearing with them the entire lake, which,
empowered and guided by Tane, they set
down in a mountain sanctuary, out of
reach of greedy humans. The moral
seems to be that of Shangri-La: “Modera-
tion in all things.”
“I SHALL RETURN.”
“Two years ago, when I landed on your soil, I
said to the people of the Philippines, whence I came,
T shall return.’ Tonight I repeat those words.”
—General MacArthur at Canberra.
They lie beneath a bestial foeman’s yoke,
Islands than which the earth has none more
fair
To show. But who may doubt the words he
spoke
Will find an echo and re-echo there?
No empty boast, no vain imagining.
Three little words, no more, that bite and burn
Like acid into metal, promising
“I shall return.”
No easy task the pathway to retrace
Through storm-tossed seas and shell-torn
shores and skies;
No corner-cutting road to any place
Wherein the flag that flew no longer flies.
But ever steadily it draws more nigh,
The day when many a stricken land will learn
How true the pledge, how sound the prophecy
“I shall return.”
And not in Oriental seas alone
But far and wide, from Europe to Cathay,
Wherever sorely tortured peoples groan
Under a pitiless invader’s sway,
And for deliverance from their, plight await
Two sister nations, Freedom’s bulwarks stern, #
They, too, may rest assured that soon or late
We shall return.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
MORE CENSORING.
“Chief Commonwealth Censor Alexander ordered the
deletion of two ‘bloodys’ in the British film ‘San
Demetrio, London.’ Films Appeal Censor Leslie
restored one ‘bloody,” but reclassified the film 'For
adult exhibition only.’ ”
So there you are! How one would like to see
Some snapshots of these conscientious birds
(Both of the Scottish race presumably)
Whose mission is prospective films to free
From risky features and improper words.
Pity you couldn’t sketch them, Frith, my friend,
As o’er their bowdlerising tasks they bend.
“Bloody!” says Alex., resolute and firm
To by-pass nothing that offence may give—
And like a bird that swoops upon a worm
Down goes his pencil blue upon the term
Yclept the Great Australian Adjective—
“ Bloody!” he snorts. “I place a flat embargo
On such a specimen of dosshouse argot.
“Bloody,” says Les., a shade more tolerant
Or not so lacking in the common touch,
“It may be pardonable once, I grant,
In times of strong excitement, but I can t
Stand for it twice. No, that’s a bit too much.
And some hereditary impulse bids
Me brand the stuff as meat too strong tor
kids.”
Brothers, how well it is we’ve chaps like these
To sit aloft and see that nothing leaks
Into the films we get from overseas
To shock refined susceptibilities
Ox raise a blush upon a curate’s cheeks,
WhoTe down on anything that’s near tne
knuckle
Enough to make the unregenerate chuckle.
I would that I could glimpse you as you pose
Over your jobs and deligently pry
Into these hunks of modern Thespian lore
In search of what may prove material tor
Your indices expurgatorii,
Alex, and Les., and make.a steady study
Of scripts for that rude word that rhymes
with ruddy.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Pip”: Even in the toughest battle
areas women’s papers form the back-
bone of camp reading and can be found
strewn all around any tent. Adventures
of a phantom fellow and a certain hyp-
notic genius give us something to live
for week by week. On all matters per-
taining to childbirth, care and weaning
of The baby, slimming exercises, painless
blackhead removal, prevention of blotchy
hands and how to taper fingers, the aver-
age jungle Dig. is a walking encyclo-
paedia. There is a post-graduate course
in application of cosmetics, scalp mas-
sage and removal of unsightly hairs. The
soldier is equipped, too, for facing all the
problems of existence. The plights of
“Innocent 19,” who has never been told
the facts of life, and “Disillusioned 20,”
who could write a book about them,
have touched him profoundly and opened |
his eyes. He has all the latest fashions
taped, and woe betide the leave-time girl
friend who turns up for a date in a 14in.-
hemmed skirt when 16in. is prescribed.
Lives and loves of the film stars are an
open book, and two to one can be had
anywhere against Dingy Dustbin’s re-
marriage within the next three months.
Some of the fellows are specialists.
“Butch” is our authority on wedding eti-
quette and “Slapsie” has teething prob-
lems completely sewn up.
j}c
“S. Gumm”: A new horror has been
introduced into the lives of the harried
wights who run -transport services-—the
intrusion of flapper-paper reporters de-
manding to know (1) how the harried
wights get over being dazzled at the
beauty of their “conductresses”; (2) o
whether they don’t consider their “con-"
ductresses” more beautiful than other
cities’ “conductresses”; and (3) what
“facilities” for an inter-city beauty com-
petition confined to “conductresses” they
are prepared to offer. I suppose this com-
petition will come, and then the little
heads of the competitors will swell un-
bearably, and we tram and bus passen-
gers will be pestered to buy votes for
“our” candidate, with the probability of
getting black looks and impudence if we
don’t. Dame Enid Lyons has been moved
to comment, very mildly, on the decline
in manners among girls beg pardon,
young ladies. For this flapper papers
are largely responsible; they and the
Hollywood slush-factories to which they
go for inspiration. This combination has
made the painted, ignorant, ill-condi-
tioned, loud-voiced brat a heroine, and
in her excruciating way she tries to act
the part. In other days she was “a young
person,” who never got her picture in the
paper and knew her place—if she didn’t
she was so sharply reminded of her un-
importance that she soon crawled back
to it.
* sfc # ♦
“Lord Luvus”: One censor thought
that two “bloodys” in a British film
dealing with the merchant navy were
too disgusting and another censor thought
that one was too many. It is gratifying
to note that, while human beings, includ-
ing seamen, are being drowned and
slaughtered in thousands all the world
over, officialdom can show such a nice
sense of discrimination.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A mysterious stone head
has made its appearance in the National
Gallery in Melbourne. It carries no label,
but it is almost certainly the head of a
Buddha from one of the temples built by
the Hindus in Java. Before the Dutch
got a conscience about them these
temples were freely looted, and most of
the big American and European museums
have collections. It was after the King
of Siam got away with six bullock-cart-
loads when he was a guest of the Dutch
Government that export was prohibited.
This head is probably the only one in an
Australian museum, and it would be in-
teresting to know how the trustees got
hold of it.
“Melbn”: One of the exhibits in the
recently reopened Historical Section of
the National Gallery in Melbourne is the
original contract made by the enterpris-
ing founder of the city with six “chiefs”
of the Dutigalla tribe, whereby these un-
sophisticated children of Nature willed
away their rights and privileges over an
area of 600,000 acres for 20 pairs of blan-
kets, 30 tomahawks, 100 knives, 30 look-
ing-glasses, 1001 b. of flour, 50 pairs of
scissors, 200 handkerchiefs (presumably
Mr. Batman thought their noses needed
blowing) and six shirts. The pompous,
pseudo-forensic language of the contract
is amusing, inasmuch as one party to it
didn’t know a word of English. Three of
the “chiefs” had the same name, Jaga-
jaga, which is Malay for “look out,” and
that would have been an appropriate
watchword for the occasion. History
records that the Colonial Office declared
the transaction null and void, not because
it was an unconscionable bargain, but
because the abos. had no title to the land.
“Schnorrer”: Sydney Jewry conse-
crated its first synagogue—it stood in
Druitt-street—a hundred years ago on
April 2. Hobart still uses a synagogue
built before that date, and Melbourne
had to wait only a few years for its
“shook” The Jews of Sydney, with a
long start, took a long time to think
about a permanent place of worship. For
20 years the congregation used to hold
its services in a private house in Bridge-
street. Having got one synagogue, how-
ever, Sydney shortly had two, for a
schism occurred and the dissenters made
their tabernacle in the bethel built by
Tawell for the Baptists in Macquarie-
street. The schism was healed when the
Great Synagogue was built.
dc * * *
“F.S.”: “Arter” is on sticky ground
(B. 15/3/’44) when he uses prices as the
criterion of the artistic worth of pictures.
The Felton Bequest paid £25,000 for the
Rembrandt self-portrait, possibly the
loveliest picture that artist ever painted,
but it is doubtful whether Rembrandt
was able to get a buyer for it. The pic-
ture hasn’t altered. Streeton got as much
as £lOOO for some of his landscapes dur-
ing his lifetime. His prices may go on
increasing on the scale of Rembrandt’s.
But if they don’t would “Arter” say that
the pictures had necessarily gone off or
that fashions had changed? In pre-war
Paris the reputations of artists were con-
stantly being made by art dealers who
bought up an artist’s output, got a few
articles into art magazines—there were
hundreds of little art magazines in Paris
which would print an artist’s appreciation
“I'm definitely in favor of White Australia !”
of his own work if he bought 100 copies
of the journal—and the artist’s reputa-
tion would be made overnight. His prices
vrould hit the ceiling for a few weeks
and then the fashion would die out. But
there have been instances of art dealers,
newspapers and critics making the repu-
tation of good artists.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: In the Army a Murphy
is naturally “Spud,” a Clark “Nobby”
and a Palmer “Pedlar” ; but it surprised
me to learn that any Jones is “The Only.”
Of course, many in the First A.I.F. knew
the original “Only Jones.” He was a
N.S.W. painter and decorator who was
a candidate at every election (until the
forfeitable deposit beat him —he was one
of the reasons for its introduction). His
highest poll was 68 ; his lowest (more
than once) three. On his first appearance
some time in the ’nineties his streamers
carried the slogan “The Only Indepen-
dent Candidate,” which, when time made
it familiar, gained him the name “The
Only.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Seven Melbourne men and
three women have had a windfall aggre-
gating £5OOO, but it isn’t anticipated that
they will spend the money recklessly. The
largesse came to them from the National
Mutual, through its chairman, Harold
Luxton, in pursuance of a decision that
all whole-life policy-holders in future
shall receive the amount of their policies,
plus bonuses, on attaining 95. When the
A.M.P. took a similar course some years
ago and sent papers to a nonagenarian it
got an indignant letter back threatening
that if there were any attempt to alter
the contract with him during his lifetime
he would see his lawyers.
* * *
“M.C.”: The Congressional Medal of
Honor, heading the rows that mark
General MacArthur the most decorated
U.S. officer, dates from 1862, when
it was presented by Lincoln to four
Union sergeants and two privates who
captured a Confederate railroad train
at Big Shanty. Subsequently It had a
somewhat sticky history, being used later
in the Civil War as a bait to prevent
desertion. It was so given to 864 mem-
bers of the Maine Volunteers who, de-
fending Washington, looked to be head-
ing for mass A.W.L. By a singular act
in retrospection, these awards were with-
drawn as illegal more than half a cen-
tury later, in 1917, when the Congres-
sional Medal was raised to its present
top place among American decorations.
Also ruled illegal in retrospect, inciden-
tally, were awards of the Medal to “Buf-
falo Bill” Cody and to Dr. Mary Walker,
a woman surgeon with the Union Army,
who achieved the extraordinary distinc-
tion of inducing Congress to pass a law
allowing her to wear pants in Washing-
ton. In the First World War after 1917,
when America came in and when the
Congressional Medal was, so to speak,
purged of its past and made the outstand-
ing decoration it has since remained, 121
Congressional Medals were awarded, and
about half that number have been
awarded in the present war, about half of
these posthumously. Other winners of
the Congressional Medal in the Pacific
section of the present war are Major-
General Doolittle, who led the bombing
raid on Tokyo in April, 1942, and had
to land in China afterwards by para-
chute ; and Lieut.-General Vandegrift,
commanding officer at the Guadalcanal
landing.
* * * ♦
“Hamer”: The Wrights, who had five
people to watch their initial flight (B.
15/3/’44) were more popular than our
own Bill Hart, who, besides his brother,
who travelled as a passenger, had only
one person to watch his takeoff for his
flight from Parramatta to Penrith. That
was a Parramatta “Argus” man who was
local correspondent for “S. M. Herald.”
* * * nr-
“Craiser”: A Melbourne citizen had
just finished reading an article by Dr.
Norman Haire on the necessity for
parents to give sex instruction to their
children when his small daughter
walked into his study and started pick-
ing out volumes from the shelves. Ob-
serving that she had become engrossed
in a work by Wood-Jones wherein the
ex-professor of anatomy at Melbourne
University develops his theory of man’s
descent, the father thought it a good op-
portunity to give his offspring her first
lesson on the Facts of Life. After listen-
ing boredly and politely for ten minutes,
the damsel remarked “ You’re telling
me ?” and walked out.
** m * *
“Cera”: That Peruvian contributor (B.
1/3/’44) who in 12 years in South
America has met only five Australians
can’t have travelled about much. I have
roamed those parts for years, and have
run into Aussies everywhere. Just two
instances: Took a job with an oil co.
in Venezuela, and on arriving at La
Giera was welcomed by a committee of
one—an Aussie. At a field hospital on
the upper Orinoco the matron was a
Sydney girl who had been over 12 years
in South America.
* * * *
“P. McM.”: The phrase “poor Phil
Garlic” (B. 15/3/’44) derives from “pil-
garlic,” of early English or Welsh extrac-
tion, meaning a fool or idiot. Webster
lists it as meaning “one who has lost his
hair; a poor forsaken wretch.” Aus-
tralians of recent generations believe it
was derived from Phil Garlick, a dirt-
track rider who was killed on the
Maroubra (N.S.W.) speedway nearly 20
years ago.
“Ear Punisher”: Lovers of the aesthetic
will be gratified to know that “Chloe” has
returned to her old nicheilat Young and
Jackson’s in Melbourne. There is no
truth in the story that the lady was ab-
ducted. Necessity for repairs after a
cruel attack was the reason why the man-
agement deprived customers of this peren-
nial source of inspiration.
* * * *
I see that Lister Lister, the
painter, who lost his life tragically in
Mosman (Sydney), left estate valued at
£2990. It reminds me of a story the fine
old man used to tell. Long ago from
Europe there came a new development in
sky presentation ; the idea was that the hue
of a clear sky is not only blue but made
up of every color of the spectrum, so a
stipple of various colors was employed—-
sometimes very effectively. Lister, willing
to try anything once, decided to paint a
landscape making use of this recipe. The
picture was sold to an old retired sea
captain, who took no little convincing
before he would buy. Some time later the
artist and the salt met in a city street, and
Lister asked the old chap how he liked
the picture. “Oh, I like it very much,”
said the mariner, “but I don’t understand
that sky of yours. I’ve never seen any-
thing like it.” “Of course you have,”
urged Lister with his tongue in his cheek.
“Look at that sky now ; don’t you see
the red and the yellow and the violet and
the green andgthe orange?” For some
time the salt fixed a steady gaze on the
azure sky, trying with all his powers to
behold the hitherto unrevealed wonders.
Finally he exploded “No, I’m darned if
I can, and you couldn’t either unless you
were blithered!”
* * * *
“P. Ater”: When cavalrymen for-
gather they still chuckle over that pre-
amble of 30 years ago: “Gentlemen of
the Light Horse —and men of other
units,” attributed to a horse-loving brass-
hat at Liverpool (N.S.W.) camp. Whether
it was true or not it raised a storm of
raillery and rivalry, continued in Egypt
when men from Maadi met those from
Mena in Cairo cafes. It was dropped
when the Light Horse volunteered to
serve as infantry on the Peninsula. Sub-
sequently the “Gentlemen” fought a
desert campaign. Those who reached
England proved a good advertisement for
Australia. Their physique was splendid
and their leggings, bandoliers and hat-
plumes won the hearts of English lasses.
Gone now are the shining black cock’s
plumes of the Twelfth, the emu feathers
of the Seventh and the possum’s-fur hat-
bands of the Sixth ; but in their heyday
their wearers were proud men.
* * * *
“P.McM.”: A League of Nations sur-
vey of expectations of life reveals that
females live longer than males, except
in India, where maternal mortality is
acute. On attaining the age of one, male
Netherlanders can expect to live to 67,
highest age of all nations. Maoriland is
a close runner-up at 66, with Australia
and Sweden next at 65. Canada, the
U.S.A. and Germany tie at 64; in
France the expected span is only 58.
Russia and Japan (51) are low on the
list, whilst in India 34 is the best that
can be promised. 1
* # ♦ *
“X.S.”: The exhibits in a case of re-
ceiving goods known to have been stolen
heard at General Sessions in Melbourne
probably constitute a record, both in
number and character of contents. They
were 1500 bottles of beer, seized in a
garage in Fitzroy.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A Sydney friend whose
curiosity was roused by mention of
Lionel Terry’s book The Yellow Peril
made an exhaustive search which led to
the conclusion that, outside the Public
Library, there is not a copy extant. Yet
the book had a large sale 40 years or so
ago. Terry took a dramatic method of
arousing public interest. He killed a
Chinaman in Little Taranaki-street, Wel-
lington, M.L., and gave himself up to the
police. A plea of insanity by his counsel
(he strenuously objecting) saved him from
the gallows, *
* * * *
“L. de Rideau”; Literary judgments
are often founded on irrational associa-
tions. A friend told me that he couldn’t
read Dickens, who he thought was a
buffoon. When I mentioned the great
European writers who had regarded the
author of Pickwick as a master, my
friend started to read Dickens and found
him enthralling. He was puzzled at his
early distaste for the great English writer
until he remembered that when he was a
boy and asked for a second serve of pud-
ding his father used to make a joking
reference to Oliver Twist, and my friend
Would, feel humiliated. After that, no
doubt, the name of Dickens would pro-
duce in him an unpleasant sensation, and
this feeling tinged his estimate of
Dickens’s works.


ABORIGINALITIES
EMPTY WORLD.
Every man should choose
Now and again
To move and breathe in a world that is not
The world of men.
Into that other world
Let him go
If only for half or a quarter of a day;
Let the time flow
Through his fingers gently
While he stands
About the man-stained fringe of the sea,
Beyond the sands
And men’s ignoble houses,
Wharves and piers,
Among the barren uninhabited isles
Where he hears
The harsh cry of the gull,
No landbird’s song,
And watches the herds of humpbacked waves
Gallop along;
The clear breezes hiss
Along the white crests.
The snake-necked shags ruffle the feathers
Upon their breasts.
That acre of yellow grass *
Where men never come f
Is, for a cloud of pirate marauders,
A sacred home;
Whether in purging sun
Or in salted mist.
For them, as for you in your hour of brief
escape,
Men don’t exist.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * # *
“No Go”: The new boss was a keen
shooter, and every night after tea would
take the .22 and set out for the creek in
search of something for the pot. His
tastes were varied, and when bunny and
duck were too elusive redbills and parrots
filled the bag. One night he arrived home
with a couple of cockatoos, which he
reckoned would be all right if hung for
a few days in the refrigerator. He asked
Nugget the best way to cook them, and
after a few minutes with pencil and paper
the little horsetailer passed him this
recipe: “Bring.equal parts of water and
sulphuric acid to the boil. Stuff the bird
with grated razor blades, metal screen-
ings and cement, mixed to a stiff paste
with spirits of salts. Oxyweld the open-
ing, or sew with copper wire. Boil
fiercely for 48 hours, then drop into a
stainless steel pan and simmer till the steel
stains. Serve with uncooked blue boiler
peas and bitumen sauce.”
* * * »
“Marmalade”: The rural man-power
problem is not confined to the cockies.
The storekeeper in a small Westralian
town, after a vain hunt for assist-
ance, put this notice in final despair in
his window: “Wanted, Shop Assistant,
whole or part time. Experienced or in-
experienced. Male or female. Alive or
dead.”
* * * *
“C.E.”: “Nothing I can do while y’re
away, Dad?” Ma inquired as she helped
him prepare for the town trip. “No,
nothin’, Ma. Just keep an eye on the
water an’ the slock,” was the reply. “I’ll
be back tomorrer night. And y’ can give
them tail-end lambs a dose if y’ got
nothin’ t’ do. Where’s me hat? Them
new ewes want inoculatin’, too, an’
brandin’. Hope they don’t find the place
where the fence is down. Open the gate,
Ma, and if y’ think of it tomorrer drive
them hill cattle V the creek for water.
S’long. Don’t forget t’ feed the horses
an’ cows, an’ see if y’ c’n catch some-
thin’ for the dogs.” When he had gone
Ma shouldered the bar and saw and
attacked the fallen tree. Two hours later
she strained the broken fence and started
the job of branding and inoculating.
Dosing kept her busy then till after dark,
and a lantern assisted the usual grind of
evening milking. From daylight next
morning there were feeding, mustering,
droving, dams to inspect and bogged
* animals to salvage. Then, sustained by a
salt-jerk sandwich, she began her quest
for dog feed. Towards evening Dad
returned, and had been in the house
barely an hour when the ’phone rang.
“Hello,” he called. “Yes. What? A
bushfire? Awright, I’ll come, but, cripes,
with no one t’ do a hand’s turn round
the joint these days the place just goes
t’ rack an’ ruin while a man’s away.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: I can assure “B. A. Ker” (B.
8/3 /’44) that his window-climbing frog
does climb trees. Three startled squarks
from the branches of a flame-tree on the
edge of a jungle scrub wheeled me under
that foliage in top gear. Twenty *feet up
a dangling, brownish snake had one of
the green hoppers suspended by a hind
leg, from which precarious position the
clamorous croaker protested. An occa-
sional feeble kick while the serpent
debated the next move revealed the white
weskit affected by this green-coated in-
truder into dwellings. I separated the
snake from his prospective snack with a
waddy. The dinner dropped to the
ground and hopped his hardest into some
handy lantana, to be warmly welcomed,
no doubt, by the tigers and adders lurk-
ing therein.
=i= * * *
“Kenwood”: In his list of plant intro-
ductions from South Africa “Botano”
has slipped on one by taking common
names at their face value (B. 8/ 3 / ’44).
“Cape gooseberry” is a native of Peru,
and is not a gooseberry. How it became
so known is a mystery, unless one recog-
nises the principle that seems to guide
the inventors of common names, viz., to
liken it to the nearest thing they know.
Silky oak, Queensland maple, native pear
and Burdekin plum have no relationship
to the second names they have been given.
Even the so-called Richmond River
“cedar” is misnamed if one recognises
the cedar of Lebanon and its allied species
from India and Morocco as the true
cedars. Some of these high-sounding
names , are given to trees for commercial
reasons. As a picture-framer once ex-
plained, “If this were called stringybark
“Never mind what you did in New Guinea. Put your shirt on and get
under the umbrella !”
or some such name no one would buy
it, but call it Tasmanian oak and every-
body is satisfied.”
* * * *
“Tasser”: At long last Tasmania has
attained to its rightful place among the
nations. “A Wool Primer,” issued by
woollen interests in Passaic, N.J. (U.S.A.),
puts it this way:
The total annual average world produc-
tion is approximately 4,250,000,000 pounds,
a great deal coming from the Southern
Hemisphere Australia, New Zealand,
Tasmania, South Africa —with an average
total production of 2,104,000,000 pounds.
Let New South Wales laugh that off!
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When “Flash” Purdy
stamped into the bar its only other occu-
pants were Bung and a sunburned youth
with spurs on his heels. “Have a drink,”
said Purdy, in a voice that was a com-
bination of arrogance and cheek. “I’m
on me out to work at Tyalla. They
tell me they got one of these flash young
jackeroo blokes runnin’ the joint. Well,
that’ll do me. I’m the bloke t’ fix up
these flamin’ upstarts. Think theirselves
somebody, but change their tune when I
get t’ work on ’em, I’m” He stopped,
surveyed the spurred youth and said
“What’s up with you, pushin’ y’r drink
back? You crook or somethin’?” The
youth partly undraped himself from the
counter. “No,” he replied. “But though
I like a drink I’m blowed if I’m going
to drink with a ruddy blowfly.” Purdy
could hardly believe his ears. Then he
turned round with a curse and let fly at
the youth. The youth wasn’t there, but
two hard fists shot at Purdy, stood him
up, swung him round and dropped him
on the floor. The youth walked out,
blowing on his knuckles. Purdy got up.
shaking his head. “Whoinell’s that?”
he demanded shakily. “Well,” said
Bung thoughtfully, “he was very nearly
your new boss. But he ain’t now. Seems
t’ me you’re out of a job.” Purdy went
fi> the door and gazed cursefully up the
road. Still cursing he turned back. Said
Bung “Y’ ought t’ be thankin’ him, not
blackguardin’ him.” Purdy looked aston-
ished. “Yair,” said Bung. “If he hadn’t
bin here y’d have had t’ travel 20-mile
out t’ get what y’ got an’ still be out o’
work.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The little Victorian town-
ship of Digger’s Rest was so named when
an American miner, one J. A. Sanger,
travelling to the Bendigo goldfields, had
his dray tipped over on him by some
drunken friends as he was sleeping and
was killed. He was buried on the spot
and a tombstone erected over his grave.
The township grew up around this tomb-
stone, which is still standing.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We camped on a hill-
side just outside St. Arnaud (Vic.). That
night there was heavy rain, and in the
morning we found a big washout at the
bottom of the hill. Mat started prospect-
ing round and gathered a few specks of
gold. “Cripes,” he said, “if we can’t find
someone t’ buy this claim I’m a Dutch-
man.” With our samples we prowled
around St. Arnaud until we discovered a
publican interested in gold. To him Mat
pitched the tale and showed the specks.
“We got no money,” he finished, “And
we ain’t miners, anyhow. We’re willin’
t’ sell the claim f’r a fair thing. That
there hill must be full of gold.” The
publican eyed the specks. “Where’s the
hill?” he asked. Mat’s derision was plain.
“Tell you!” he exclaimed. “Waddaya’
think I am?” “Look,” said the publican,
“y’ can’t expect me to buy something
I’ve neither seen nor know where it is.”
Mat cogitated. “All right,” he said, and
described the location. The publican
studied him. “What you reckon it’s
worth?” he asked. “Who knows?” came
back Mat. “But on sight I’d reckon five
hundred fair enough.” , The publican
pursed his lips. “Look,” fie said, “I’ll
give y’ a dollar. That hill y’ camped on
is a old heap of slag from the Lord Nel-
son mine. It’s been grassed over f’r years.
Every time it rains a bit of it falls into
the crick an’ somebody finds a few
specks. A dollar ought t’ get y’ enough
tucker t’ take y’ up in the wheat country
around Donald.” Twenty miles later Mat
grunted “Well, I s’pose we ought t’ be
satisfied. Think o’ the blokes who’ve
prospected f’r years an’ never made two
bob. Wonder what the cockies are payin’
this harvest.”
* * * *
“Bo”: “I’m trappin’ for skins up round
Bowenfels,” said Dan the Drawler; “it’s
August, an’ the westerlies sweepin’ across
from Wallerawang way’d freeze the
marrer in y’r bones. Early one mornin’
I leave camp to go me rounds. It’s just
after daylight, and as I’m cornin’ round
a hillock to get to me fourth trap I hear
a voice that keeps sayin’ ‘Gripes, this is
good-oh! ’ I think it’s some cow out
snavellin’ me catch, but when I gets in
sight of it damn me if I don’t see a
sulphur-crested cockatoo standin’ on a
dead bunny. It rocks me back on me
heels, I can tell y’, and before I can
move forward again the cocky ruffles his
feathers, puts up his crest, puts his scone
to one side an’ ses ‘You would corpe
round just as a blasted bird’s gettin’ his
feet warm in the fur!’ Then he gives a
couple of squawks as if he’s dead narked
and flies off.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Old Hobbs gazed round
speculatively. “Y’ know, Ma,” he mused,
“this’d be a darned good paddock if it
had water. But with that bend takin’ the
river away, and no decent catch for a
dam, this end section ain’t worth much.”
i "Couldn't you cut a race from the river?”
'suggested Ma. “Well, y’ could,” was the
reply, “but y’d have t’ go so far up it’d
be a big job. If only I c’d get help. But,
cripes, a bloke can’t even get old Charlie
since he’s got this prospectin’ craze.”
Hobbs glared thoughtfully at the lone
figure slowly making its way downstream,
trying the ledges as it came, and bitterly
lamented the labor shortage. Twenty-
four hours later Charlie entered the pad-
dock to try a likely-looking gravel patch
on a long, dry creek. Filling his dish he
carried it to the river, washed it care-
fully, then a few minutes later was dash-
ing excitedly back for more. That night
he camped on the site, and at daylight
commenced operations on a large scale.
Six weeks later Hobbs viewed with de-
light the new race that was supplying his
west paddock with water. There was no
isign of old Charlie. “There’s no doubt,
Ma,” he murmured, “these prospectors
are keen. This race’ll mean a lot to us.
an’ all it cost was them few specimens
an’ colors Uncle Ted collected the tinu
he was out on Big River.”
* JF * *
“Chisel”; “I’m workin’ for a cocky
at Skeeter Flat,” says loe, “when a bloke
comes round sellin’ wire handles foi
buckets. It’s the first time the boss had
seen ’em, so after a bit of arguin’ he
gets half a dozen for a dollar instead of
six bob. He’s so tickled at makin’ a
bargain that he takes the joker in for a
feed an’ gives me the job of puttin’ the
handles in the buckets. For the next
day or two it’s nuthin’ but handles for
this an’ handles for that from the boss,
till the sight' of ’em gets fair on me
nerves. Well, a coupla days after the
bloke’s gone he goes round the stock;
an hour or so after he starts out he rides
into the yard hell for leather an’ tells me
to get the fencin’ gear ready while he goes
over to the house. Soon as he lobs back
we makes a start, an’ as we’re crossin’
the paddock I ask him if the horses have
busted the fence again. ‘Horses be
damned!’ he roars. ‘lt’s that blasted
bloke sellin’ handles. The cow shook
about a hundred yards of me No. 8 wire,
an’ then had the flamin’ hide to charge
me a dollar for twenty feet of it! ’ ”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Expatriates which thrived
in transplanted surroundings were the fine
red deer that provided sport for Thurs-
day Islanders. Originally imported from
Java and released on Friday Island by
the Hockings, of Torres Strait pioneer
pearling days, they multiplied on a scale
almost equal to that of “Captain Cooker"
pigs, evolving into fine antlered speci-
mens. But deer-stalking in an average
winter temperature of 80 degrees is some-
thing of a paradox.
» # * *
“B. A. Ker”: At first it was only
amusing ; there is something funny about
a black goat adopting a fellow and fol-
lowing him like a dog. But when the
track reached the road it seemed time to
discourage the animal. Nanny, however,
couldn’t take a hint. My “shoos” only
awakened a flapperish tendency to en-
circle me in a series of coquettish bounds
and mock butts. When I got a switch
and adopted stern (literally) measures the
creature really got into the spirit of the
thing. I gave it up. To the merriment
of the mailman the animal followed me,
bleating for another bit of fun and
jogging my memory with an occasional
push from the rear. Then the township
loomed into view, and in desperation
I seized the persistent beast, upended it
in a bush and dashed through the scrub,
wheeling, doubling and finally making an
encircling movement to the road. Nanny
was waiting for me with the spirit of fun
positively dancing in her eyes! Then
Heaven sent a horseman, and the youth,
accepting my bribe, guaranteed to hold
the goat for ten minutes. As the tram
pulled in to the little platform a peal or
laughter from the pub verandah drew m>
attention. Down the street, complete
from scarlet nails to cigarette, minced a
fashion-plate from the guest-house ; at her
heels, bleating continuously and occa-
sionally placing a delicately light butt, a
black goat cavorted. Yes, I was hypo-
crite enough to laugh.


“8.A.”; “When the word goes round,”
said Tommy the hawker, “that the new
bloke who’s offsidin’ for old Bill Wilson
had wandered off into the ranges an’ lost'
himself everybody on the crick gets ready
to join in the search. When we gets up
as far as Bill’s place he don’t seem to take
no notice of us, so I calls out askin’ ain’t
he goin’ along. ‘Not on y’r life,’ ses he;
‘it ain’t no business o’ mine.’ ‘But, dam-
mitall,’ ses I, ‘he works for y’, don’t he?
And, anyway, it’s everybody’s business
to go out when a bloke’s lost.’ ‘Well,’
ses Bill, ‘if it was you that was lost,
Tommy, it might be, but this is a dif-
ferent case, Y’ see, when this cove comes
along last week I offers him 25 bob a
week an’ found, or two quid an’ find
himself, and he ses he’ll take the two quid,
I’ve kept my part o’ the agreement, an’
now it’s up to him to do what he con-
tracted to do an’ damn’ well find him-
self ’ ”
* * * ♦
“Caballer”: If anyone thinks that the
real Australia is not getting into the
U.S.A. papers let him take a look at the
“American Weekly,” the magazine section
of the New York “Journal,” enjoying
“the greatest circulation in the world.” A
squad of American and Australian sol-
diers “on patrol in Arnhem Land” heard
a strange barking noise. The Aussie
says: “We’re near the Mildjingi country,
The black natives here are dog-worship-
pers. We may be in for some strange
sights before the night is over.” They
were. Seven priests carrying on their
shoulders the effigy of a dog as big as
a horse, with incense-burning under it,
are followed by hundreds of worshippers
wriggling on the ground and barking like
"Look what they sent me from home! ”
dogs. After more details of the ceremony
we learn that “each year one of the men
must be bitten by a rabid dog, and,
although they know it means inevit-
able death, these black men vie for the
honor of being selected for the bite. After
the last stages of hydrophobia, when the
victim snarls and bites himself while the
natives reach the peak of idolatrous
frenzy, the lucky man is buried with the
dog.” My suburb not being adjacent 1,0
the “Mildjingi country,” I cannot pass
any opinion as to whether the minor
details of the ceremony are correct or
explain why the unfortunate dogs in the
Mildjingi are cursed with rabies while the
rest of Australia is free of the disease.
The Australian private is brought in after
the manner of a superstitious yokel who
has “heard of strange rites” and bears the
name of Elton Simpson. Elton has a
“Dwight” or “Wilbur” ring to me, but
after all, on page six in some reminis-
cences of New Guinea in the ’seventies
by Captain Gustaf Johnson, is a picture
of an Australian of this period tied up
by “gooms.” Because of his Mexican
shirt and striped red and yellow, vest, and
because he “cheated, murdered and sold
into slavery the savages,” I was going to
disclaim him as a local resident, but the
protest died on my lips when I read his
name. It was “The Dinkum Kid.”
* * *
“Walkabout”: “M.U.R.” (B. 8/3/’44)
must have been on some potent brew to
have seen a five-wire fence uncovered
by an outsize in winds shifting the sand-
hill. Once tons of sand pile up against
a fence and cover it only a scoop or
shovels will shift the sand. The posts
and wire act as binding agents, and with
the further assistance of moisture the sand
beneath the surface sets too solid for any
wind to shift. On some western N.S.W.
stations I’ve toiled on it has been found
more economical to erect another fence
on top than to scoop away the sand from
the original fence, and I know even of
one instance where new sheep yards were
erected over the sand-covered ones.
* * * *
“Graz”: I’ve seen erosion on hill-
crests in loose soils, but the trouble began
in the gullies and on the hillsides and
worked to the top of the ridges. When
it comes to burning firebreaks on sandy,
soft granite or loose friable soils, which
“Ex-C.G.” cites (B. 15/3/’44),it is a case
of whether fire or erosion will do the
most damage. Basalt or hard granite
hills will certainly not erode if the ridges
only are denuded of cover. But the argu-
ment is where best to burn breaks to
check gale-driven forest fires. What
would be the use of any “proper author-
ity” clearing gullies and hillsides when
such fires often jump from ridge to ridge?
* * * *
“Naturala”: My theory regarding the
bark of the fox, the wail of the dingo,
the roar of the lion, the snarling grunt
of the tiger, etc., is that when on the
hunt these carnivores make such sounds
with the intent to so terrify hiding prey
that such prey will lose control of its
nerves and break from cover with the
idea of seeking safety in flight. But
when the fox goes after the domestic
fowl and the dingo after yarded sheep
(B. 16/2/’44) both know well that such
potential provender is under the guardian-
ship of man, and act accordingly, stealth
and silence being the watchwords of suc-
cess. For I am one of those heretics who
believe that animals think and reason,
within the limits of their mental develop-
ment. A trapwise dingo, smelling the
iron of a concealed trap, will often defile
the spot where it is hidden. An animal
with so well-developed a sense of con-
tempt may well give tongue whilst hunt-
Ing on the open range, yet be as stealthy
as a snake while preying within range of
man’s gun and dogs,
* * * *
“Botano”: “Kenwood’ (B. 16/2/44)
suggests that ultra-prolific seeding may
be tbfi main reason for the comparatively
short life of the wattles. But isn’t it the
other way about —the wattle’s short life
has induced such seeding? Such seed, at
least, has a sporting chance to germinate.
But unless it were there in great quantity
such chance might easily be lost. For'
the wattle is but a small tree, often over-
towered by giant eucalypts. These too
throw seed, and from their height, with
the assistance of the wind, are able to
spread it over a wide area. So, unless
the wattle had hosts of seed all ready to
germinate, that particular spot in the
forest might become lost to the species,
for should the eucalypts be first off the
mark their seedings would keep the
“Get me the small crowbar, Joshua."
wattles down; on the other hand, with
crowds of wattle seeds early off the mark
they keep the eucalypts down. The
struggle for existence goes on in the
vegetable world every bit as keenly as
in the animal.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: In speaking of the lack
of stereoscopic vision in birds (B.
16/2/’44) “Nor’-west” omitted to mention
that one avian species has it—the owl.
It is this placing of the eyes in the front
of the head, as with humans, that enables
the owl to fly by night. For that again
is one of the benefits of stereoscopic
vision: note how the ordinary fowl runs
around blind at night if disturbed, but-
ting into anything and everything. The
cat tribe, night prowlers par excellence,
have their eyes well to the front of the
head. Normal humans, of course, can
see almost as well in the open night as
in the day.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Now that the Northern
Territory is being crisscrossed by roads
and tracks perhaps the Ruined City will
be rediscovered once more. Old hands
in the Territory know of it) but few have
even seen its wonders, for it lies in a
desolate area with little feed for stock
and less water. Nor does it offer much to
the miner or prospector. But those who
have ventured there have seen colonnades
and minarets and towers, etched agams
an azure sky; have wandered for miles
through limestone caverns the walls and
ceilings of which are enriched with
aboriginal carvings and drawings of un-
exampled beauty ; paintings that carry
one back to the very dawn °f hfe. Foi
what is known in the N.T. as the Ruined
City has been an abo. corroboree ground
from the day that the first native
ceremony was held in the North. It is
still a sacred and secret place tor abo.
ceremonies, and those whites who have
explored it have taken care to do so
after the boongs have gone. One cavern
alone is estimated to be at least thi ee
miles in extent; those who have seen this
great subterranean area claim it to be
superior to Jenolan and the Mammoth
Caves of Kentucky.
* „ *_ . A * U u* o
Louden ; Crouched in a hollow in a
leanmg grey-box tree beside the station 1
availed for the mail-car, A cold sou’-
westerly droned across the timbered pas-
tures, and the air round me was filled with
the hiss of continuous driving rain. Sud-
denly along the edge of the near-by creek
a prowling fox trotted into view. By
human standards there could hardly be
worse hunting weather. The fox knew,
however,! that it was in good wood-duck
country and that ducks would be on the
ground in such weather. In the lee of a
small red-earth mound in the open not
far from the creek a dozen woodies
sheltered. It seemed impossible for any
animal to get within striking distance of
them, yet when the fox sighted the birds
it circled them and, creeping stealthily
down wind, got almost to the top of the
mound, where it crouched and waited,
But the ducks, catching the telltale scent,
craned their necks and began to move
away from the mound. Presently a
stronger blow brought a heavy tall or
hail, which put the birds off their bai-
ance and seemed to bewilder them, ana
Reynard, flashing through the nan,
snapped up a bird. He was quickly lost
to view.
*** * .
“Betcha : Jim always keeps two
sheep-dogs, and their names are mv -
ably Bluey and Nigger. He s had white
Niggers, brmdle Niggers and blue Nig-
gers, while the Blueys have ranged
through the rainbow y ell °^.
black. A while back old Nigger died,
and, receiving the offer of a first-class dog
already broken, Jim rode over to collect
on trial a successor to Nigger s work and
name. “Only .thing about him, Mac
explained, “he hasn’t been broken to a
whistle. Y’H have t call him Monty,
Jim ’ s ejaculation was eloquent of dis-
gust. During the next few days he tried
to work the new Nigger, but without
success. He scratched his head, pondered
the matter deeply, then started in to give
the mong lessons on the subject of names.
even taking him into the hut at night and
persevering with a one-word monologue
till bedtime. After a fortnight of it he
returned the tripehound to his former
boss. “What’s the matter with him?”
inquired Mac. “Isn’t he a fast enough
worker?” Jim shook his head slowly,
“It ain’t his style so much,” he com-
plained, “but the pig-headed cuss is too
darned set in his ways ever to be any good.”
* * * *
“Anthropo”: The gum of the grass-
tree was used extensively by the primi-
tive abo. as a plastic cement. Its hard-
ness was desirable; its brittleness he
overcame by mixing with other native
gumSj suc h as the kino of the so-called
red m anc j the tough soft gum of the
watdes p or a mixing ladle he took a
sli htl curled sheet c f bark. Then in
ed proportions he laid down the pow-
dered g rass _tree gum, liquid kino and
the ru bbery wattle exudant. A glowing
brand soon brought all constituents to
t^e me h e d stage, when the mass could
wor bed to a dough with a stick. Nor
was una^are c f the difficulty of mak-
• dr icks without straw, for as he
wor ] ced t b e melted dough he introduced
a c j iaf j 0 £ to ugh chopped-up grass. With
SU£dl a cemerd a s tone axehead could be
n xed drm ly in the long double slither of
watde or banksia that served as a handle ;
stone barbs could be cemented into the
notc hes cut along the war head of the
dead jy wooden spear; a handgrip
mou i ded on the handle of the woomera,
or S p ear _throwing bat; while at the other
end t he small wooden tooth that fitted
j nto butt of the spear was cemented
p j ace wd h the same plastic,
5 . .
“J. Rilston”: Westralian grass-tree gum
is almost as complex, chemically, as
Dissolved crudely in methy-
, \ . . . . J , J
toted spirit it makes a good rough var-
nlsh- Before the 1914 wai large quail-
titles were exported to Germany, for the
purpose, it was said, of making picric acid ,
one of the man bases of modern explo-
sives. Subjected to distillation the gum
yields an excellent vegetable tar, not in-
ferior to Stockholm ; also various wood
stains and preservatives. The fibrous
inner core, well steeped in water, yields
a strong acetic acid. That is as far, corn-
mercially, as the process went, though
laboratory tests added considerably to
possible valuable products. The grass-
tree is a relic of a long-past botanic era ;
possibly its giant ancestors, producing
gum by the ton, gave the coal measures
then being laid down the tar from which
the modern chemist produces dyes, scents.
sugars and a host of other complex sub-
stances.
HARBOR and isles.
From town and tumult seeking peace
I turn my steps at whiles
To where a green height overlooks
The Harbor and its isles.
For there a wonder not for sale
The scene free-handed gives,
And there unspoiled by shaping change
A lasting beauty lives.
To me that beauty, loved in youth,
With strange appeal appears
As something sanctified by time
And mellowed by the years.
There once again the nor’-east wind
That blows from unseen seas
Brings back to me bright Harbor days
And boyhood memories.
For there, if I but close my eyes,
Clear-pictured I behold
Scenes lit by moons of long ago
And gilded by noons old.
Sight heeding not the things that are,
Tall racing yachts I view
With every sail a full balloon
While on the sparkling blue.
Ships moored and ships asail I see,
Brig, brigantine and barque,
And proudly rounding Bradley’s Head
The clipper Cutty Sark.
Thus ’tis with me when quitting town.
Its thronged and windowed miles,
I seek that height that overlooks
The Harbor and its isles.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


RONALDSON-TIPPETT
A SOLDIER marches —and fights—on his stomach. Fresn,
wholesome food for the fighting men plays a part as
large as dauntless courage and good equipment. Some
hundreds of these Refrigerators have been supplied to the
Forces and practically all of them were fitted with
Ronaldson-Tippett Engines.
Reliability and trouble-free running are essential features
in such a job and, with this in mind, Ronaldson-Tippett
Engines were selected to provide never-faltering power.
This tribute means as much to us as the dependability ot
the plant means to the troops.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BAJOLAKAT, Victoria.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty., I Ad.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SVDNEV.
Q’land Distributors: Konuldson Tippett (Old.) Pty., J.td.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
Savings Bonds, Cerlificalet
and Stamps I
fj For Victory—buy War
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
QUICKand DEADLY
- KILL THOSE RABBITS
CYanogaS
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fly Dressings.
“Bungaree”: During recent years the
C.S.I.R. has brought out BTB-15 and
BKB. They were tested in different com-
pounds against a standard and several
commercial dressings, both in the labora-
tory and in the field. Points on which
they were judged included (a) penetration
of wool, ( b ) general effect on maggots,
(c) percentage of maggots killed on con-
tact with dressing, ( d) irritation, (c) repel-
lency, (/) restrike, (g) cost.
In the first tests eight dressings were
used, three commercial ones, one advo-
cated by the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture and four C.S.I.R. dressings. Cam-
phor boracic emulsion gave excellent
results against restrike, but was the most
expensive of all and is now unobtainable,
as the camphor oil on which it was based
was obtained from Japan. Certain dress-
ings killed the maggots fairly quickly, but
the property which caused this also
caused irritation of the exposed tissue
and healed with a hard scab which was
frequently restruck by flies.
For all-round results BTB-15 gave the
best performance. Unfortunately, the
original prescription cannot be used com-
mercially owing to the scarcity of tar
oil. In a search for a substitute 26 mix-
tures were tested for stability, irritation
and penetration, but there was too much
variation in appearance and performance.
BTB-15 had a slow contact action on
maggots, and they left the immediate
vicinity and either burrowed into clean
wool and recommenced operations or else
dropped off to the ground, to burrow
in and emerge later as flies (every maggot
must be destroyed and should not be left
on the ground), so the C.S.I.R. sought
an improvement.
Eventually a mixture of lysol, kero-
sene and orthodichlorbenzene was found
to give excellent contact toxicity. This
was incorporated with the boracic acid,
bentonite and agral which formed the
basis of BTB, and thus the new
BKB dressing came into being. In
careful tests this dressing has caused
100 p.c. mortality on maggots within
half a minute of application with-
out irritating the exposed tissues of
the sheep. But BTB-15 is cheaper in
manufacture, packing and freight charges.
It can be put up in powder form, and
volume for volume weighs only about
20 p.c. of BKB, which has to be put up
in liquid form, in drums ready for use.
One great advantage of both is that
neither has any poisonous ingredients
and may be used with safety on the most
extensive strikes.
Zebu Cattle.
“Beefo”: Crossbred zebus were known
in North Queensland at least 25 years
before the advent of those 18 purebreds
from Texas (B. 8/3/’44). The first cross-
bred zebus I met were in the Ingham dis-
trict about 1921, and I was told that a
couple of bulls had been bought from
the Melbourne Zoo. Whatever the origin,
zebu crossbreds were well established on
a couple of stations in the district But
good Shorthorn and Hereford herds have
been established in the north for more
than 80 years, and with only 8000 cross-
“P our it back, Ma; he s puttin' 'is floats down!"
bred zebus there it seems that few north-
ern cattlemen favor them.
Zebus are good fossickers, hardy, good
travellers, mature earlier than British
breeds and are less susceptible to ticks.
But beef of the crossbred zebu is not of
a higher grade than the best of the British
breeds, nor do crossbreed zebus fatten as
solidly as most British breeds when graz-
ing under best conditions. Unless zebu
crossbreds are kept well in hand some
of them won’t fatten at all.
Cattle with zebu blood must be worked
a lot and be carefully handled, otherwise
they’ll become wild, and, being hard in
the hooves and fast gallopers, it takes a
horse with plenty of toe to wheel a mob
of them. When running with British
breeds the zebu elements tend to make
the herd as wild as they are themselves.
I’d just as soon drove a mob of Adelaide
River buffalo as a thousand or so cross-
bred zebus.
Under certain conditions zebu cross-
breds should do just as well in parts of
Australia as they have done in parts of
America, but I doubt if they’ll prove
much of a success on the big unfenced
stations of the north. In spite of their
alleged shortcomings. Shorthorns and
Herefords will do me for the north.
“Graz”: If the zebu is so difficult to
manage, how is it Indians use them so
extensively as beasts of burden? India
is the home of the zebu (or Brahma), but
quarantine regulations will not allow im-
portations.
The King ranch, Texas (U.S.A.), has
evolved a new breed named Santa Ger-
trudis, three-eighths zebu, five-eighths
British breeds. The ranch has a stud
herd of 6000. Females and steers com-
bine the conformation of British breeds
with the zebu immunity to tick and tick-
borne diseases. Early in the game a cross-
bred cow dropped an all-red bull calf
called Monkey. Monkey had the desired
characteristics, and being very prepotent
passed them on to his progeny even to
the red color. The Santa Gertrudis cattle
breed true to form.
Australia can hardly 'expect to estab-
lish a new breed with the importation of
only 19 zebus. The quickest and surest
way would seem to be a wholesale im-
portation of the Santa Gertrudis stock,
which have prepotency.
Oats for Dairy Cows.
“Myrrhee”: The natural falling-off in
milk production in autumn can be largely
offset by providing a green pick, such as
a crop of oats sown in March or early
April. Oats make more rapid growth
following autumn rains than do grasses
and clovers. If the spring is favorable
the crop could be harvested for hay or
grain by shutting out the cows from the
first week in August.
Plough and prepare the seedbed im-
mediately after the first rains, and sow
at the rate of two bushels to the acre.
Oats germinating in late March will be
ready for grazing by the end of April or
early May, i.e., when they have stooled.
If grazed before stooling they will not
recover or if beyond that stage they are
less palatable and will suffer more from
trampling.
Where the soil is clayey or pugs badly
cut the daily supply and throw it out to
the cows. If grazed judiciously oats will
come again and again right through the
winter. Allow the cows to graze until
they have had their first fill, then turn
them out and give a dry supplement at
the next feed. They will milk as
well as if getting green oats entirely, and
will certainly be more pleasant to handle
at the bail.
Dry Farming.
“Bilbul”: To say that dry farming has
not had a fair trial here (B. 1/ 3 / ’44) is
nonsense. The suggestion that we drop
English farming principles is as pertinent
as to suggest that women give up crino-
lines or the Royal Navy cut out pigtails;
it was all done before “Plane Creek” was
born. Methods best suited to Australian
conditions, but modified from time to
time as experience taught, have been
routine on Australian farms longer than
any person now living can remember.
The multiple-furrow set plough, the
stump-jump plough, strippers, winnowers,
disc ploughs, drill combines, combined
harvesters, headers and many other
machines, all Australian in conception
and manufacture, and contemporaneously
ahead of anything else of like nature in
the world, mark some of the stages by
which the Australian farmer has ad-
vanced to his present position of being
the most progressive and mechanical-
minded farmer to be found anywhere,
England, America or Russia thrown in.
Hints for the Farm.
‘Liss”: When making thistle-root
baits the roots must never at any time
be touched with the hands. All other
baits such as oats, apples, quinces and so
on may be laid by hand, but roots must
be kept free from taint. Don’t smoke
while making the baits or while laying
them, and use a pair of tongs made from
a piece of hoop-iron to drop them into
the hoe cuts. Oil of cinnamon is much
better than vanilla, and there is no need
to use oil of cummin with it; the latter
is now very scarce. Success depends
more on knowing where to run the trail
than on anything else. Watch your
bunnies for an evening or two and see
where they gather to feed; lay the baits
there. If they are plentiful make the hoe
cuts about 30in, apart, and remember
that a kill for each two baits is a very
good result, though they will continue
to take them for several nights.
“H.C.”: Use the kero.-tin and quart
measure to weigh mashes and foodstuffs
when scales are not handy. One kero.-
tin equals: Pollard, 181 b.; bran or
lucerne, 121 b. ; whole maize, 281 b.;
cracked maize, 251 b.; wheat or sorghum,
301 b. Quart measure of barley-meal,
maizemeal, meatmeal or wheatmeal
averages 11b. 8oz.; bonemeal, whole
maize or wheat, lib. 12oz. ; linseed-meal
or pollard, lib. ; fine salt, 21b.; bran,
Boz. Bushels to short ton; Maize, 35.7 ;
barley, 40 ; sorghum or wheat, 33.3 ; bran
or pollard, 100; oats, 50. Each measure
should be well filled but not pressed
down.
“Sarina”: Old garden buckets with
large holes can be made useful again if
mfclted bitumen is run over their bottoms
and canvas or cheesecloth is stretched
over it. Cover with a coat of bitumen
and allow to dry. Bitumen can be got
from discarded pots along a new road.
The empty pots filled with soil make
good seedbeds.
“Hist”: What is the record (world or
Australian) weight per bushel of wheat
grown under normal farming conditions?
F.A.Q. is nominally 601 b., and, in prac-
tice, fluctuates between 591 b. and 641 b.
A Peak Hill (N.S.W.) farmer claims a
record with Ford wheat testing 70|lb. to
the bushel, straight off the header —no
fancy cleaning or grading. Heavy weight
means a good premium for the grower.
At four bob a bushel of 601 b. the Peak
Hill man will collect an additional ten
guineas op every 100 bags he fills.


fk
.0
o
a
wn~z
k
I Si #
V
mri i
! ! l
r;
/
is wholly engaged in the
manufacture of Wireless and other equip-
ment for the Navy, Army, Air Force and the
Merchant Navy.
When Victory is ours, the Fisk Radiola will
again be available throughout Australia . . .
Until then, your local Radiola Distributor
will gladly service your present Radiola.
THE FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
PUT yOUR SAVINGS ON SERVICE—BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Here’s relief
from
For
Backache,
Rheumatism,
Joint Pains,
etc.
Take 1 or 2 GIN PILLS with a
glassful of water before meals
and on retiring.
DF SHELDON’S
GIN PILLS
Does your back ache at the end of
the day with the result that you fee!
just “all in”? If so, you should
check up on your kidneys, they may
be weak or inflamed.
GIN PILLS will assist your Kidneys
in their action. . . help them to be-
come stronger . . . more active . . .
and free from inflammation, and
once your Kidneys are working
normally again, nagging backache
is soon forgotten.
Give your Kidneys the assistance
they need by taking Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills NOW. They contain no
harmful ingredients and can be
taken by young or old alike with
absolute safety.
Don’t put up with backache any longer
—get quick relief by beginning a course
of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
DR. SHELDON'S 27 pais > V 9; so pais, 2/9.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
More Com. Twists.
(From a N.Y. “Post” article by M. W. Childs.)
Russia has placed orders with Ameri-
can firms under lend-lease for vast quan-
tities of material and machines that will
go toward the rehabilitation of the indus-
trial areas of the Soviet Union laid waste
by war.
Lend-lease is intended, of course, solely
to aid the prosecution of the war. But
there are borderline cases, such as when
the rebuilding of a permanent facility will
and the Soviets to bring the war to a
speedy conclusion. For example, a rail-
road is pushed into devastated territory
with rails and locomotiVes from the
United States supplied under lend-lease.
Conceivably the swift reconstruction of
Dnieperstroi might help toward the same
end.
Russia is going to want our help in
her colossal task of reconstruction. Such
an expert on the Soviet Union as Edgar
Snow says in the “Saturday Even-
ing Post” that our opportunity to sell
goods to Russia when the war ends and
lend-lease is no longer in force will be
strictly limited. He believes that Stalin
wants to do the job with as little outside
help as possible.
But Stalin needs and will continue to
need new machines and new skills from
America, and necessity will continue to
govern the Soviet policy. In spite of the
recent outbursts of the old Soviet rancor
—as witness the crack at Wendell Willkie,
the attack on the Pope as a Fascist and
the twisting of the lion’s tail in the
strange separate-peace story—the basic
Soviet policy is one'of co-operation with
the West. One straw in that wind is
the Sunday-school behavior of the Com-
munist party in the United States,
Earl Browder’s fantastic speech declar-
ing for private enterprise must have been
a bitter blow to the faithful. Dizzy from
following the zigzags of the Communist
line during the past five years, the
brethren were told that the revolution
was out the window. Or temporarily, at
least, since the whispering among the
dwindling flock is to the effect that the
all-out-for-capitalism programme can in
turn be junked once the Soviet fatherland
is rebuilt.
Looking back, it becomes ever clearer
that the Communist line of the past
decade—longer even —has been deter-
mined by Russian needs. What was good
for Soviet foreign policy was good for
the Communist parties all over the world.
Change Towards Finland.
( Chicago “Tribune” comment.)
Secretary Hull told Finland to sue for
peace, make terms with Russia, and get
out of the war or take the consequences.
Four years ago when Finland, having
been attacked by its big neighbor, was
forced to surrender territory, it had the
sympathy of what are called the liberty-
loving lands. Even Mr. Roosevelt,
moved by public indignation, made his
only severe remarks about Mr. Stalin,
and quickly forgot them.
Four years ago the . Soviets had
absorbed the little Baltic republics of
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The gloss
on the picture was a plebiscite such as
Hitler used to make the rape of Austria
seem a consent arrangement. Here again
it was thought in what are called the
liberty-loving lands that the rights of
peaceable small peoples had been out-
raged. Stalin had also divided Poland
with Germany, taking over his share in
agreement with Hitler.
At the time there were no mixed feel-
ings in America regarding these aggres-
sions. The American Communists
thought they were sanctified. The rest of
the people thought they were terrible.
It is a giddy change of position for
America when Mr. Hull throws Finland
to Russia. It’s a hard case, to be sure,
and the Russians in Leningrad have rea-
son to know the Finns as enemies. But
in the war the Finns made their own
hard choice and took the course they
thought would protect their freedom.
It is to be observed that we did not
offer to get bearable terms for the little
republic from our ally Russia, but,
though not at war with Finland, treated
it as if it had no excuse for its conduct.
That is a violent reversion of attitude.
Surely the principles involved have not
changed so greatly in four years. If the
Finns had a leg to stand on then they
must have at least a crutch now.
British View of French.
(From an article by the ‘‘Christian Science
Monitor’s” London correspondent.)
Officially the British Government has
never wavered from its policy that France
must be restored to her full rank among
European Powers. But the truth is—and
it should be said quite frankly—that the
British have been by no means sure
about France.
When General Smuts recently said that
“France is gone and if ever she returns
it will be a hard and long upward pull
for her to emerge again” he wasn’t
merely voicing his own isolated personal
opinion. He was putting into words —
not very tactfully, it may be, but very
exactly—what the vast majority of the
people of Great Britain have thought or
felt for a long time after the collapse of
France in June, 1940.
Perhaps one had to be in Britain at the
time in order to appreciate fully this
feeling. One must have lived through
that searing period which began with
Dunkirk and continued with the Battle
of Britain and the Blitz —that period when
every Frenchman, most Americans and
almost no Englishmen believed the British
were beaten. The plain fact is that the
British people were convinced then that
France had flagrantly failed.
But, though it wouldn’t be true to
say that today the average Englishman
believes France is a Great Power or is
going to be one when the war’s over, un-
officially there is an increasing realisation
here in London that a strong France will
be essential to the reconstruction of a
peaceful Europe. Most British people
today probably agree with General Smuts
that it will be a long time before France
regains her old place again. But the
number of those who hope it will not be
long and who warmly want to help bring
this about is growing.
Germany’s Foreign Workers.
( From a "Christian Science Monitor” report .)
Germany’s foreign workers, now re-
ported to total more than 10,000,000,
become a graver problem to the Reich
with each passing day. It may be said
that the problem becomes increasingly
serious in direct ratio to the decline in
the chances of the Reichswehr to escape
total defeat.
Viewed from an economist’s stand-
point, the motley labor army still per-
forms the duties of a strong carthorse.
Politicians and Gestapo men, however,
wonder whether the animal will not dis-
close itself as a Trojan horse.
The fact that these workers of 25 dif-
ferent nationalities, the home countries
of most of whom were conquered by the
Wehrmacht, can be enrolled in support
of Germany’s war effort more or less
successfully is a tribute to German
talent for organisation. It is also con-
vincing proof of the helplessness of the
individual workingman to maintain his
freedom in the face of superior military
might.
With few exceptions, the foreign
workers inhabit primitive barracks. There
they live 16 men to a room, with one cot
above the other. About 15 per cent, of
them are permitted to live in barracks
with their wives. They are allowed one
room a couple. As a rule, children are
not permitted to stay with their parents.
The lot of the foreign workers varies
according to their nationality. The
3,000,000 Russians and Ukrainians are
most carefully guarded and most feared
by the Germans. The Russians and
Ukrainians themselves are no less un-
easy. They live in constant fear of the
firing squad and of beatings. One can
see what they must have suffered since
they fell into German hands ; they hardly
dare open their mouth if addressed by
their superiors or strangers. Other
workers are forbidden to talk to them.
They are given just enough food to keep
them working and are segregated in the
most rigorous way.
French workers are said to number
between 2,000,000 and 3,000,000. Recent


X
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
COMMAND PERFORMANCE
WITH RECORDS AND GRAMOPHONE
Music is made of emotions. It must suit your
own mood to be fully enjoyed. That’s what
a good record library provides . . . the music
you want when you want it. But, if your
collection of records is not as complete as you
would wish it, remember our resources are
severely taxed in meeting the needs of the
Services. Soon, we hope, you’ll be able to
obtain again all the finest recordings of the
world’s greatest artists, orchestras and bands.
Meanwhile, please remember that enter-
tainment for the Services is of paramount
importance.
The Gramophone Company Ltd. (Inc. in England).
Columbia Graphophone (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
The Parlophone Company Ltd. (Inc. in England).
HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
O Al/44
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE’’-COI.UMBIA-PARLOPHONE-DECCA-KEOAL-ZONOPHONE
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
df
Save - or Slave. Pul
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5065 B
arrivals are mostly young men, from 18
to 21, who were herded together by
Vichy gendarmes and Gestapo rnen inside
France and deported to the Reich. Their
work is regarded as military service. They
are serving under a two-year contract
that will be renewable if the war should
not be over at the end of their term.
One of the largest contingents is that
of the Italians. They are said to total
1.000. but this number presumably is
increasing rapidly as more Italians are
captured daily in regions still under the
Fascist and Nazi heeL
Among the remaining groups of about
4.000. foreigners are 1,800,000 Poles,
1.000. Czechs and Croats, 700,000 Bel-
gians and about 375,000 Dutch, Scandi-
navians, Balts and Balkan nationals, with
the Dutch by far in the majority.
Prison, chain-gang and the capital
penalty are punishments imposed by the
Nazis. Penalties of from 40 to 100 days
in a chain-gang are nothing extra-
ordinary.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
“No one can say how long the war will last.
Reverses are possible that might prolong it for
years.” — Canadian Prime Minister Mackenzie
King.
* * * *
At Tehran, Mr. Churchill and Mr. Stalin are
said to have approved America’s claim to those
islands which had been held under mandate by
Japan. It is to be hoped that this report is true.
More than that, it is to be hoped that our [U.S.J
Government insists bn obtaining possession of
any other bases in any of the oceans that our
naval strategists believe we should have to secure
our communications with the Philippines, Aus-
tralia and the Asiatic mainland and to safe-
guard our continent from overseas attack. —
Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * *
Russia, by great victories, is advancing to the
frontiers it held when all moral judgment was
against it. Now the official moral judgment is
for it. Stalin four years ago was a reprobate.
Now he is a great liberal. If our moralists
would publicly confess that military necessity
goads them to surrender we’d all concede that
they are in a tough spot. Mr. Churchill has
been a changed man since the Tehran Confer-
ence, and it took more than pneumonia to do
that. Stalin smiled at the British Premier and
the American chief executive. He may have
been much amused by the position in which he
found his good friends.— Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * *
Report from inside the Reich: German people
hope they will be offered something like the
Italian terms, sometime this summer. Here’s
why: (1) The Moscow-sponsored Free Germany
Committee, which last autumn offered Ger-
many easy peace terms if it would oust Hitler,
is still going strong inside Russia, contrary
reports notwithstanding. (2) The British and
Americans, after demanding unconditional sur-
render, actually gave Italians generous terms.—
Scripps-Howard Washington report.
* * * *
There is an alliance —based on mutual eco-
nomic and political ideals affirming the free-
dom of the individual —between England and
the United States that is more profound and
higher than any written alliance. No “scrap of
paper” was necessary to bring us together for
mutual defence. When it comes to blocs and
alliances let us leave that to the European war-
moulders and particularly to Marshal Stalin,
most of whose time now seems to be taken up
with making “alliances” with smaller nations
under the covert threat of being annihilated if
they do not acquiesce. All international alliances
presuppose a master and servant. They lead
inevitably to mutual distrust. A written military
alliance between England and the United States
would do more to thrust a wedge in between
the two countries than anything else we could
imagine.— N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
When we have fought our way to China, we
shall be in a large country with a huge popula-
tion but with little military equipment of its
own and with a modest number of troops
trained for modern war. We shall be faced
with a large Japanese array which is quite near
its own bases of supply. We shall be at the
extreme end of an enormously long line of
communications in a country where we shall
have to import and then construct the installa-
tions needed for modern war. — N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” commentator Walter Lippmann.
* * *
British newspapers are in somewhat of a
quandary over what their comments shall be
with respect to the coming Presidential campaign
in the United States. One of them has already
remarked tartly that a nation which has given
the world the Four Freedoms and the Five
Senators ought to be willing to tolerate com-
ments on the American election campaign. The
newspaper in question, however, misses the
point. Nobody in America disputes the right
of the British press to say anything it pleases
about the American elections or anything else.
The real point is whether the British, who seem
to be so anxious to assure the re-election of
President Roosevelt, would be furthering that
cause by intruding their views in an American
contest. — Washington correspondent N.Y.
“Sun.”
* * * *
Half the map of Europe after the war can be
drawn now. Stalin has dictated it and the vic-
torious Russian armies will make good. To
this extent the peace conference will be simpli-
fied. Most of the vexatious questions already
have been decided by one man. We might as
well begin to take down the sales signs. Most
of the transactions have been concluded. Even
Germany may escape the peace-table discussion
by accepting what Stalin has to offer. In an
off moment Mr. Roosevelt confessed a slight
dubiety. It isn’t going to be so easy for Ameri-
can politicians to ignore the sentiments of
national groups here. Mr. Browder and his
new cultural institution will not offset the votes
of Americans attached to the countries which
the Four Freedoms missed.— Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * ♦
Reports via neutral countries indicate a bitter
wrangle between top Nazi politicos and the
Reichswehr over war policy. Hitler and his
gang insist that lines be held to the last man
(to save their own skins). German General
Staff, on the other hand, traditionally favors
surrender when defeat has become- inevitable
to save the nucleus of German army for future
tevival. Western European invasion is expected
to intensify this crisis. If it succeeds and Hitler
insists on further sacrifice of lives, generals are
expected to take matters into their own hands.
— Scripps-Howard Washington report.
$ $ * *
The British Dominions, “desiring millions of
immigrants after the war, should absorb Euro-
peans as well as persons from the United King-
dom,” Sir Alfred Beit, M.P., said in Bristol.
The Dominions should welcome “even Ger-
mans.” — London correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The Hollywood apologists for Soviet Russia
did their most ambitious propaganda job in
Joseph Davies’s “Mission to Moscow,” but the
same end has been served, and probably more
effectively, in a thousand little scenes, subtly
conveying a revolutionary message. Sam Wood,
Walt Disney, and the other men who have
organised the Motion Picture Alliance for the
Preservation of American Ideals are proposing
to do something about it. They recognise that
the motion picture industry is a great power
in influencing public opinion and they have de-
clared themselves opposed to “the effort of
Communists, Fascists and other totalitarian-
minded groups to pervert the powerful medium
into an instrument for the dissemination of un-
American ideals and beliefs.” Americans who
find their relaxation and entertainment in the
movies have had all they want of pinko movie
actors, and producers and their more
sinister Communist companions in Hollywood
wbo are turning the movie sfcreen into a Soviet
propaganda medium.. The movie audience can
hope that through this new alliance the movies
will begin to display considerably more respect
for America, her ideals, form of gov-
ernment. — Chicago “Tribune."
* * * *
Republicans are not anti-British. Many of
them distrust Soviet Russia but are normally
friendly to Great Britain with an understand-
ing wink of the right eye. In the past they
have not been as antagonistic to Britain’s policy
in India, Ireland, Persia, China and the Empire
generally as the Democrats and the so-called
liberals, who only too often regarded the British
as the devils of history. But the British, par-
ticularly when Lord Lothian was Ambassador,
adopted an attitude of antagonism toward Re-
publicans. All Republicans know of Lord
Lothian’s intervention in the Taft-Willkie situa-
tion in 1940 and resent it. Lord Lothian had
a right to express a preference but it was stupid
to do it. I can only say this in the way of what
might be called constructive advice: After what
has happened since Tehran, the British need lots
of friends in the United States, particularly
friends in a party that is likely to control the
next Congress. They will make no new enemies
by speaking freely from a strictly British stand-
point; they will lose friends by electioneering.
This is not a matter of right'; it is a matter or
judgment. —George E. Sokolsky, commenting in
N.Y. “Sum” on British hopes for Roosevelts
re-election.
* # * *
Many of the 577 children evacuated from the
United Kingdom to Australia three years ago
wish to remain in Australia. Of 200 questioned,
44 p.c. wish to return home and 30 p.c. to
remain in Australia. Another 1\ p.c. will
stay if their parents can join them, and a tew
say that they would like to go home first and
then return to Australia. Of these evacuated
children 151 are now working in the Common-
wealth and 10 have joined the forces. A number
of Australian foster-parents have declined to take
money contributed by parents towards the
children’s keep, and this money, now held m
trust for the children in their individual savings
bank accounts, totals about £3500. Ot the
children in employment, 122 are self-supporting.
—Report received by the Children s Oversea .
Reception Board in London.


Missing Friends.
MOCKE, Vivian.—WlLL the children of the afore-
named or any person knowing the whereabouts of any
of them please communicate with the undermined?
Mr. Mbcke left South Africa between 25 and 30
years ago and it is thought died in Australia. —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, UTD., Box
4172 X, General Post Office, Sydney.
CHOCOLATE
CREAM
TABLETS
Temporarily
unavailable but
how you'll enjoy
them when they are
again on sale.
FCTA/BU.
%
□
%W
tT
MACHINE
Manfg. Co. Pty.j
GE ST., VALLEY,
Established 1920 e-
T
Sale Distributing Agents for New South Wales: THOS. HERBERT & COMP AN Y PTY., LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
PR£Clslcm
A LAW.
It is the good fortune of the "Mars"'
organisation that the job assigned to
us in Australia's victory programme
is a job for which "Mars" is uniquely
fitted by experience and tradition.
For, through all the years of peace,
we had but one guiding objective—
" Craftsmanship a Creed —Precision
a Law."
* Manufacturers of
LATHES . . . MILLERS . . . SHAPERS
. . . BORING MILLS . . . PLANING
MACHINES . . . MUNITIONS AND
IMPLEMENTS OF WAR
m
■
on it
* •
BUT M STILL HERE!
K
Moblloil
It's only a dent-that's because it
is an Australian built tank, and
tough workmanship...the tough-
est in the world.
It was dunked, white-hot, into a
new Vacuum Quenching Oil that
helped to make it tougher. Slabs
of armour-plate which sheath our
warships, get the same treatment
and come out tougher, too!
Helping to make the Allies' war
products the best in the world is
a part of Vacuum Service. To our
boys in New Guinea, extra pro-
tection from enemy shells is a
very real service. Our fliers know
it, too-in the vast quantities of
the new 100 octane aviation fuel
which gives them greater speed,
power, manoeuvrability and
safety. From our laboratories are
coming new lubricants and cutting
oils that increase armament
production materials for
explosives, shatterproof glass,
synthetic rubber and other pro-
ducts invaluable to the Nation
at War.
Serving the Nation on Land\ Sea , and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
v,_43 (INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
PTY.
LTD.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Index of Treatment, by various
writers. —3450.
Information Sought.
Some biographical details of Eamon de
Valera ? •
Born New York, October 14, 1882; educated
Christian Brothers’ School, Charleville, and
Blackrock College, National University of Ire-
land; married, 1910; sentenced to death for his
part in 1916 insurrection; sentence commuted to
life imprisonment. He was later released under
the general amnesty of 1917; reimprisoned
May, 1918, but escaped February, 1919. Visited
America, 1919-20, and raised loan for Irish Re-
publican Government; President of Sinn Fein,
1917-26, and of Irish Republicans, 1919-22;
Chancellor of National University of Ireland
since 1921; President of Executive Council and
Minister of External Affairs, 1932-37; Prime
Minister and Minister for External Affairs of
Irish Free State since 1937.
- How to blue small steel parts?
If parts are not hardened and tempered they
may be blued by gently heating in the flame
of a Bunsen burner or gentle gas jet and im-
mersing in a bath of light oil. Hold metal
just above flame until oil adhering to it will
readily ignite and slowly burn off. Repeat pro-
cess until the desired color is attained. If metal
is hardened and tempered, work should be left
to an instrument- or toolmaker.
What troops make up the British Eighth
Army ?
Numbers cannot be quoted; it includes the
crack 51st Highland Division, 5th Northumber-
land Division, and English armored divisions,
brigades and artillery. Till recently the famous
Seventh Armored Division was with it, but
this is now on loan to the Fifth Army.
Some information on the Dieppe raid?
The affair was a reconnaissance in force which
apparently gained its objectives, although at a
heavy cost in men. About 7000 Allied troops
were involved (apart from naval and air forces),
consisting very largely of Canadians. There
were also some forces from Britain and a few
Texas Rangers.
How to remove paint spilt on cloth?
If paint is made with linseed oil, steep in
turpentine or eucalyptus; if cellulose paint, in
petrol; if lacquer, in methylated spirits.
Brief Answers.
B.D.: Dish is worth about £4, possibly more,
if over 50 years old....O.W.: The Australians
(7s. 6d.) and Australian Outline (6s.), from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney; other books are
out of stock... .E.P.: Stoddarts, Ltd., G.P.O.
Box 1835K, Sydney, can supply felt stiffening
solution at 4s. per pint and straw stiffening
solution at 4s. 6d. per pint E.W.: State-
ment is not correct S.C.; The first port of
call for any R.A.A.F. member returning from
overseas would be the Embarkation Depot in
the State to which he is returned... .H.CJ.:
Try J. R. Tyrrell, 281 George-street, Sydney,
or D. Raymond, 128 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
E.M.C.: A sharebroker may be able to
help you.... J.A.S.: If derris is unprocurable,
dip dogs in an arsenical solution containing
0.2 p.c. of sodium arsenide every four to seven
days. Regular combing will reduce the number
of ticks... .H.E.M.: Most effective way is to
mattock out the plants J.A.C.; (1) Cor-
rect botanical name is Gleditschis triacanthos.
(2) From five to ten years. (3) A 35in. rainfall
should be ample P.K.: Eight residents of
Australia have incomes exceeding £50,000 a
year... .J.M.; No books of that type are avail-
able M.R.: Quotation is from Sterne’s
Sentimental Journey.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
H.H.: It needs more point at the finish
£.M.T.: Can’t see Aunt Elizabeth’s ghost
L.M.: “Since that fatal night when, with a
drought-strickert crop, a dying mother and little
or no money....” Enough! Enough!....
R.D.McF.: Not far off... .G.C.W.: Needs
must say “Vale” C.J.W.: Feeble G.8.L.:
Du 11... .H.C.8.: Try it elsewhere... .E. 5.8.:
Curiously unreal N.A.M.: Belongs to a by-
gone age E.C.R.; Obvious J.W.W.:
Doesn’t make up E.G.: You’d do better to
use the material for paragraphs; try “Aborigi-
nalities” and “Society” R.S.P.: Lifeless....
8.8. N.: Send “To a Beautiful Lady” to the
beautiful lady P.H.: Try an Australian set-
ting RJ.K.: Keep at it. But - don’t describe
a kookaburra as “true” simply because you
need a rhyme for “blue” P.McK.W.: “The
Mason” and “Light” promising A.H.W.:
Pome about Billy Hughes as “a brilliant crony”
mounted on a pony is trotting home... .A.C.S.:
Only the last two lines are worthy of the theme.
. ...G.S.: The usual anthem... .R.K.M.:
Archaic... .S.J.M.: “Therein you may perceive
the intention of a Dramatic Monologue dis-
played in the form of the Romantic Heroic
Couplet.” Intention is perceptible C.G.D.:
Might make a par T.M.: Pleasant trifle
K.A.S.: Not tempted by sea-nymphs who
live in palaces of pearl and watch the heralds
of dawn the eastern gates unfold S.M.A.:
For a woman’s paper... . K.F.: It bellows....
C J.M.: Can’t be bothered with peaceable little
canaries G.R.D.; Belongs in the “Boyls
Own”... .L.H.: Nothing unusual about that
fish yarn C.E.D.: Feeble L.P.F.: Awful.
A.W.J.; It’s a long, long way away....
G.L.G.; A par., perhaps... .M.V.: Sloppily
sentimental E.Q.: Amusing but slight
D.J.H.: A travel magazine might like it....
L.G.: It left the Religious Editor shaking witn
emotion... .J.V.W.: Fed up with Father....
8.A.: Try a woman’s paper V.A.: Lifeless.


TIME & DISTANCE & COST
1
m
m
M/.
O 3
TO-MORROW’S standards of transportation will
be measured by a new yardstick. Air-travel is
increasing the value of time. Distances are being
reduced beyond belief. And the cost of moving
from one place to another will be less than ever
before.
During the past eight years, Australian National
Airways has laid the foundations for Australia’s
future airlines by establishing an efficient organisa-
tion which already spans the Continent, providing
the Nation with a service comparable with that of
any other country in the world. The post-war
period will bring the advantages of air travel to
every person in the community. So help victory
along by investing in the First Victory Loan.
/////^
m
U SIR A LI A N
tionai Airways
FIRST IN PEACE
PTY. LTD,
FIRST IN WAR
FIRST IN FUTURE
jlie
I *. flirt ZcO J
■ »
ImSlm i
»»» SKOtjj
7 «
W * N A «■
MM****
i
. V NP4
•. .. y
White shoes soil easily—to keep them white
and attractive, a good white cleaner is neces-
sary. NUGGET White is a superfine white
cleaner —and a very economical one. In the
large jar and extra large tube, you’ll find more
cleans for your money. Shoemen, repairers,
stores and grocers everywhere will sell you
XOGGET
iKe
u
1L is RIGHT
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
r Dividends ,
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 16 p.c. serves, serves.
£> £> £/ £ £,
1933.. 140,820 24,000 80,000 36,820 365,775
Reserves capitalised. £250,000 .. 115,775
12 p.c.
1934.. 223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,776
8 p.c.
1935.. 66,751 24,000 60,000 237,627
4 p.e.
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30,000 136,421 373,948
16 p.c.
1937.. 157.543 24,000 120,000 13,543 387,491
26 p.c.
1938.. 243,251 24,000 JL05,000 24,251 411,742
Additional taxation, £31,000 .. 380,742
16 p.c.
1939.. 146,303 24,000 120,000 2,303 383,045
Tax reserve brought back, £13,150.. 396,195
24 p.c.
1940.. 114,082 24,000 180,000 306,277
12 p.c.
1941.. 134,112 24,000 90,000 20,112 326,389
14.6 p.c.
1942.. 134,702 24,000 110,000 702 327,091
Tax and insurance reserve brought
back, £37,000 364,091
16 p.e.
1943.. 145,469 24,000 120,000 1,469 365,560
War brought big shifts in demand for
rubber. Expanding service requirements
ahd loss of 90 p.c. of the world’s rubber-
producing areas, following Japan’s invasion
of Malaya and the East Indies, called for
drastic curtailment of civilian consump-
tion —in which petrol rationing played a
part, too. So Federal control was estab-
lished to regulate production, distribu-
tion and consumption of rubber goods.
As a transport rationalisation measure
Goodyear was granted an increased share
of the trade in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land, but prohibited from shipping tyres
and tubes to South Australia,
Westralia and Tasmania. Still, the ship-
ping problem increased difficulty and cost
of getting cotton, sulphur and carbon-
black from overseas—zinc oxide, an acti-
vating agent, and tar distillates, used as
softening ingredients, are produced
locally. Thus far, production has run
ahead of war consumption, thanks
to the foresight of the management
in building up large stocks of crude
before the Jap invasion already re-
ferred to. If the amount of crude
available to Australian manufacturers for
1944 production requirements proves in-
sufficient it is expected that supplies of
synthetic rubber will be made available
from U.S.A.
Last year the co. began to turn out
tyres and tubes and self-sealing fuel tanks
for airplanes and installed another unit
for , production of reclaimed rubber.
Civilian trade diminished to a compara-
tive trickle, and the margin on defence
contracts remained narrow. Still, turn-
over was large enough for the board to
write net earnings £10,767 better at
£145,469. That was after providing
£95,053 (down £2685) for depreciation
and £155,700 (up £2300) for the tax-
gatherer, but leaves out of the reckoning
previous overprovisions for taxation
aggregating £37,000. The £145,469
covered the pref. div. and approx.
16.2 p.c. on the £750,000 of ord. capital
(all owned by the parent co. in U.S.A.),
compared with 14.7, 14.6, 12 and 16.3 p.c.
back to 1939. The div. was lifted from
14.6 p.c. to 16 p.c.
The co.’s rapid progress in face of keen
competition—it set up in 1926 to get be-
hind the tariff —largely reflects the effects
of a liberal depreciation policy on effi-
ciency and costs. Plant, etc., on which
£18,037 more was written off than was
spent last term, now stands in the books
at less than 25 p.c. of cost. Here are
balance-sheet figures:
1938. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Pref. capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital. . 750,0'00 750,000 750,000 760,000
Goodvear (U.S.) 64.800
Other liabs... 146,583* 558,756 96,523 77.258
Tax reserve . . 245,867 205,346 166,727
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 407,063 347,667 314,490 296,453
Stock.. .. 683,857 1,313,522 752,844 729,503
Book debts .. 298,008 474,643 230,173 449,885
Cash, etc.. . . 80,501 51,151 887,268 183,705
Java subsid.. . 197,300
* Including taxation, etc.
Outstanding movement last term was the
growth of £219,712 in debtors’ balances,
largely on Government account, and re-
duction of £203,563 in cash, etc. Stocks
were down £23,341. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,119,108) was £50,686.
The future of this and other manu-
facturers in Australia will be largely
wrapped up with the direction, duration
and extent of Government controls, in-
cluding man-power. Relaxation of petrol
rationing and tyre-purchase priorities
will release a strong civilian demand for
reshoeing, and there will be the initial
shoeing of new cars —imports will be
governed partly by available foreign
credits and the Government’s import
policy—as wejl as replacement of many
rubber goods manufacture of which has
had to give place to urgent war needs.
Huddart Parker. Ltd.
f — - Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
Doc., Profit. 0 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 73,078 30,000 5 p.c.= 37,500 5,578 767,852
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 3,240 771,092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 766,652
1936.. 91,108 30,000 7$ „ „ 56,250 4,858 771,510
1937. .116,468 30,000 11 „ „ 82,500 3,968 775,478
1938. .132,164 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 772,642
1989'. .139,216 30,000 14 „ ~105,000 4,216 776,8.38
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.f
Surplus sale investment, £6450 . . 2,028,157
1040. .128,634 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 8,634 2,036,791
Adjustment outside interests, £9980.. 2,046,777
1941. .140,213 80,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 20,213 2.066,990
To staff fund, £lO,OOO ... ..2,056,990
Adjustment outside interests, £4892 . . 2,061,882
Surplus sale assets, £5457 .. ..2,067,339
1942. .125,416 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 5,416 2,072,755
Profit liq. subsidiary, £75,376 .. 2,148,131
Adjustm’t outside infests, etc., £7244.. 2,155,375
1943. 107,956 30,000 12 p.e.= 90,000 2.143,331
* Excluding' specific reserves until 1940. t Eliminat-
ing outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
There isn’t the profit in Australian inter-
state shipping now that there was when
William the Goat butted the world into
a mess in 1914-18. This time war has
come nearer home; there have been few
passengers but plenty of cargo, mainly
service and other essential requirements,
handled on a priority basis at rates fixed
by the Government. On the other hand,
costs continued to advance, due mainly
to lifts in wage rates and prices for fuel,
stores, etc., and to strikes on the coal-
fields and delays in sailing schedules.
However, it was not long before the Gov-
ernment took over all Australian vessels
in the inter-State trade on a charter basis
—those not required by the Navy come
under the Shipping Control Board.
Management remains with the cos.,
but charter fees make no provision for
replacement of tonnage at higher cost
when the war is over. However, H.P.’s
fleet, though not the largest on the coast,
is one of the most conservatively valued,
thanks to the board’s liberal allowance
during pre-war years for replacement of
the chief earning asset. Earnings now
come from charter and management fees,
supplemented by takings from tugs,
lighters, etc., and returns from invest-
ments outside the business.
Most important of these investments
is a holding, by H.P. and its subsidiaries,
of £1,445,630 of Government securities.
This was more than one-aud-a-half
times the book value of ships, plant, etc.,
at the end of 1943, and places the organ-
isation in a very strong position when re-
placements and renewals, or perhaps
other investments, need to be made after
the war. The co.’s other outside interests
include holdings in Hebburn, Metropoli-
tan and J. and A. Brown and Abermain-
Seaham—all in the coal trade—and in
A.W.A., Melbourne Steam, Aust.
National Airways, Bay Steamers (liqui-
dated last term) and Tasmanian Steamers,
which has lately been a drag.
After providing for depreciation
(£110,140, down £6654) and taxation
(£40,915, down £36,411), and including
£1839 dropped from somewhere into re-
serves, there was a sharp contraction of
£17,460 in H.P.’s equity in group earn-
ings (£107,956) last term. That leaves
out of the reckoning a profit of £75,376
on liquidation of Bay Steamers —the Gov-
ernment acquired this subsidiary’s only
remaining vessel—and adjustment of out-
side interests, etc., amounting to £7244
net. The £107,956 was enough to pay
the parent’s pref. div. and show 10.3 p.c.
on its £750,000 of ord. capital. But the 12
p.c. div. was repeated, the parent’s re-
ceipts alone being sufficient to cover the
charge. Before charging taxation, etc.,
combined group earnings showed a con-
traction of £45,569 on trading (£32,966)
and a growth of £10,849 in receipts from
investments (£121,379).
The already strong financial position
was further strengthened:
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1939. 1942. 1943.
Huddart Parker . . £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside shares* . . 418,529 422,912 412,630
Sundry creditofsf. . 278,029 420,771 416,633
Inter-co. balances* 13,161 5,854 18,215
Freehold & leasehold 521,250 530,299 528,587
Ships, plant, etc.. . 1,156,457 963,597 860,651
Government sec. . . 1,281,935 1,386,730 1,445,630
Shares, etc. . . 764,975 803,972 877,534
Stores . . . . 77,223 80,190 93,698
Sundry debtors . . 200,485 348,022 366,933
Cash . . . . 56,60-1 126,982 135,176
Inter-co. balances* -
* Including' proportion undivided profits, f Including
taxation. * Due to variation in balance dates.
Last year’s contraction of £102,946 in
ships, plant, etc., reflects liquidation of
the subsidiary already referred to. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,606,589) was £91,290.
Assets can be taken as well worth their
book value, there being scarcely an item
that, on the board’s admission, isn’t forti-
fied with inner provisions,
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Dividends
Pref. Writ-
Dec. Profit. 7 p.e. Ordinary, ten Off. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 15,672 Nil Nil 15,317 28,675
1934.. 12,873 Nil Nil 12,025 27,827
Loss.
1935.. 16,603 Nil Nil 16,610 61,040
Profit.
1936.. 1,316 Nil Nil 10,353 70,077
1937.. 42,632 Nil Nil 10,468 37,913
6 p.c.
1938.. 10,249 15,000 Nil 10,147 52,811
4 p.c.
1939.. 21,338 10,000 Nil 10,099 51,572
10 p.c.
1940.. 56,201 25,000 Nil 10,595 30.966
1941.. 38,751 25,000 Nil 10,540 27,755
6 p.e. 6 p.c.
1942.. 31,490 15,000 4500 10,527 26,286
1943.. 33,577 15,000 4500 10,063 22,272
Statistics have been produced by Cornell
University (U.S.A.) to show that the
world prices of beef move in about 14-
year cycles. Price peaks occurred in
1885, 1899-1902, 1915-19, 1929-30 and
another now. The first, second, third and
last periods coincide with abnormal de-
mand created by the Sudan Expedition,
Boer War, Great War and the present
world conflict respectively. The general
theory is that rising prices encourage
graziers to increase herds, including
breeders. This is a slow process,
and offspring continue to come on
to the market for some years after
prices have fallen, sometimes to the
point where production becomes un-
profitable. This in turn leads to the
slaughtering of breeding herds and de-
cline in numbers, until supply falls below
demand and the cycle recommences.
The reverse side of the coin, and the
most important one for Australian
graziers, especially those outback, is the
gamble with nature. When the hot sun
dries up watercourses and leaves runs
bare the inevitable mortality of livestock,
cost of hand-feeding and agistment, and
the poor condition of surviving stock
usually bite deeply into savings, and
sometimes into capital, and cause owners
to go into debt as well. Seldom is there
a favorable combination of both seasons
and prices.
This co.’s big leasehold runs are ih far-
west Queensland and over the border in
the Territory, and it owns three coastal
freeholds —in the Gladsone, Nanango and
Kilroy districts—as well. Following the
1914-18 war the story was one of lost
markets, drought, falling prices and ris-
ing costs. To wipe out accumulated
losses £525,000 (17s. 6d. per ord. share)
of capital was jettisoned in 1932, and six
years later the prefs. agreed to forgo
£192,500 of accumulated divs. and to
reduce the rate from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c.
Last year there was a fair increase in
calves, but lambing was a failure, owing
to scanty rainfall. Still, the properties
were well stocked, prices were good and
gross earnings (£158,249) improved
£31,683. Including depreciation, shown
as written off in the table, exes. (£134,735)
took £29,138 of the increase, leaving the


FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
£l7/10/- E-S™,
Built entirely in Australia
by
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
- SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® lotaHon,
of YOUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days*
fr.ee trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept, 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
OS
&
Platid
ISES3SI2SB3I.I
Your Fountain
Pen is Precious
TAKE
CARE
of if!
• don't
ABUSE IT
• don't
ITOSE IT
nil in
E NO LAM'D
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * • «
IDEAS. —Owners of patents or smart ideas, useful
in the Indoor Game, Toy, Novelties, Building or
Plastic Industries, please write Box 8804 T, G.P.0.,
Sydney.— Advt.
♦ ♦ * •
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
CHOCOLATE
HAS SAVED MANY LIVES
i m
ax
’MW ml
/imWi
W\\
&
Thousands of heroic survivors of enemy action at
sea have owed their lives to the rations which form
part of every lifeboat's regulation equipment.
Chocolate is always included. Large quantities of
Cadbury's Energy Chocolate have been supplied to
our Merchant Navy for this purpose.
Such vitally important uses for chocolate naturally
absorb a large portion of Cadbury's output, and
make civilian supplies uncertain. Still, occasion-
ally you will see a welcome block or two of
Cadbury's Energy Chocolate or Dairy Milk Choco*
late in your confectioner's.
ECBla.l5
In New South Wales
and South Australia
we are unable to dis-
tribute Cad b u r y's
chocolate owing to
transport regulations.
A
TOMliy
MM
k * VX- <^>
% :|
M
Three Throw Hydraulic Pump;
to deliver 120 gallons per minute against a working pressure of
1,5001 b. per square inch. Finished weight 13 tons.
Two of the above Pumps were recently designed and built
by Ruwolt’s for Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
The Pump illustrated is a good example of high-grade engineering
work as produced by Ruwolt’s.
»
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries,
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately attend
to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done in the
past.
CHARLES RUWOIT PTY. HD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, iS.I
l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
net result £2545 better at £23,514. After
paying the prefs. their full contract rale
enough remained to show 14 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 10.6 p.c. and 20.1 p ; c.
for the two preceding terms. The div.
was kept at 6 p.c., the second thing of
its kind since 1920, and the £4014 that
remained reduced the amount of capital
still unrepresented by tangibles to £22,272.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital . . £325,000 £325,000 £325,000 £325,000
Liabilities . . 231,130 91,218 113,046 87,144
Freeholds .. 68,774 27,893 27,903 27,903
Leaseholds . . 154,857 132,312 129,568 125,245
Plant, etc. . . 60,569 62,022 61,849 60,763
Livestock .. 198,648 179,599 193,545 176,141
Wool. . . . 10,338 540 6,858 7,956
Debtors, cash, etc. 1,904 11,097 11,538 11,364
Last term a reduction of £17,404 in the
book value of livestock was accom-
panied by a contraction of £25,902 in the
outside debt. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£108,317) was
£9421.
What will happen to prices for wool
and meat after the war, when service and
British contracts run out, remains to be
seen. The question of subdividing
pastoral leases has been shelved by the
Queensland Government until the war
ends.
Lake View and Star
During the 12 months to June 30 last
this London-controlled co. operating in
W.A. treated 321,509 tons crudes (down
275,446 tons), averaging 5.95dwt. gold,
and 827,201 tons tailings, head value
o.B4dwt. gold. Tor a mining profit of
£389,378 (down £48,393). That was be-
fore allowing for depreciation (£31,891),
directors’ fees (£7700) and taxation on
earnings to balancing date (£280,000).
Nominal rate of div. was unchanged at
37|p.c., this time less English tax at
7s. 2d. in the £, reducing net rate
to shareholders to approx. 24 p.c.
(=- £134,742 stg.). To pay this, the
co. had to dip into the old oak chest for
£43,682. Costs (21s. 8.64 d. per ton)
were got back Is. 9.59 d. per ton, mainly
owing to restricted development, only
5868 ft., or 34,000 ft. less than normal.
Extraction was 91.48 p.c.
Labor shortage was responsible for
contraction in operating results. But the
effect was partly offset by suspension of
work in some of the deeper low-grade
levels and concentration on richer-than-
average slopes. Ore reserves are put at
4,112,000 tons, averaging 5.01dwt., a de-
crease of 87,600 tons and o.o4dwt.
respectively. In this reserve, positive and
broken ore«amounts to 3,794,000 tons,
averaging 4.9dwt, a decreaseof 35,300 tons.
To achieve last term’s satisfactory
results the co. has had to resort to selec-
tive mining and treatment and selective
boring—the aim was maximum tonnage
for minimum work rather than
systematic exploration of the lode —as
well as reduced maintenance and de-
velopment. Temporary use of these ex-
pedients without damage to the mine is
due to past policy of securing such a
strong ore position, the chairman says.
Average monthly throughput was about
47 p.c. of mill capacity. To speed up
development and plant replacement
when conditions permit, an emergency
reserve of £40,541 has been created.
When the books closed, liquids, mainly
cash and Government securities, totalled
£458,346. Tax reserve (£144,577), un-
paid divs. (£147,245) and trade creditors
(£9305) amounted to £301,127.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) estimates deficit on
working account at £50,409 for 12 weeks
to March 5, £13,307 being chalked up in
respect of the last four of them. Acute
shortage of man-power is, the main
trouble, the board says. During th 6 eight
months to February last, mine deliveries
to No. 1 mill were 70,000 tons short of
expectation, average grade ore was not
procurable because of retarded develop-
ment of the ore-reserve section of the
mine, and an unduly low proportion of
reserve ore went to the mill. After
examination of recent results with assay
plans, the board says it has no reason to
doubt the accuracy of the plans, and that
steps are being taken to arrest the drift.
Hopes are that next month’s figures will
reflect improvement.
* * * *
Burma-Malay Tin, the £150,000 (paid
capital) prospecting and holding co., with
head office at Kuala Lumpur, F.M.S., has
its main interests in Malaya and Thai-
land. Of investments totalling £139,369 at
the end of December last,, holdings in
Katu, Renong Consolidated, Sangka Dua
Development and Puket Alluvials —all
now in Jap hands —account for £110,144.
The balance is represented by Australian
gold and other interest* Cash and Com-
monwealth bonds totalled £9llB. There
was £8594 coming to creditors —£5600 in
respect of debenture guarantee and £2994
to Katu. Also there was £1516 in the
bank in Asia against a like amount of
debt there. Owing to finance and man-
power difficulties, work in Australia has
been very restricted. Only property with
which the co. is going ahead at the
moment is the Empire Lead, Emmaville
(N.S.W.), where dam building and initial
installation of gravel and nozzle-pumping
units and boxes are practically complete.
At Amosfield (N.S.W.) work was unpro-
fitable, and the holding has been let on
tribute ; the plant is expected to keep
going for another six months or so.
Other propositions in which the co. was
interested in Queensland, N.S.W., Vic.
and Tas. have either been abandoned as
unsuitable or closed down and put on a
caretaker basis. Formal claims for com-
pensation in respect of properties now in
enemy hands have been lodged with the
British Government; but the Govern-
ment is in no way committed either to
pay compensation or to secure restora-
tion of .properties concerned after the
war. Much will depend upon the terms
of settlement with Japan.
* * * *
Norseman Gold Mines’ revenue from
mining and selling of pyritic ore to the
fertiliser works is increasing. Last
month 1214 tons of ore and seven tons
of concentrates were sent away. In the
same period 7670 z. of fine gold was pro-
duced. Total revenue was 1,200.


QP
The most important war
weapons are Planes, Ships
Tanks, Guns and FOOD!
Events are moving swiftly
ment of Mr. Churchill’s prophecy
d
towards the fulfil-
that 1944 would be
“the climax year of the war.” And while Australian and
Allied fighting men are
battlefronts of the world,
fd
all out on the different
we, in the cities and towns
of Australia, must also go all out on
commercial food producers must
fd
the food front. Our
aim at absolute
«**
maximum produc-
be made to produce
in any case, and,
lion. Our backyards must
food to grow vegetables,
wherever possible to raise
fowls too. In our kitchens also we must use carefully every
ounce of precious food that
home, buy no more than is
what we have spoil, and use 4
comes into the
necessary, don’t let
up all “left-overs.” In
o
s O
fact, when we are buying, cooking and eating, let us con-
stantly bear in mind that Food is a most important weapon
of war!
f
WILL fPEED
THE FINISH
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control.
F2J.27
INHAT/Mf
BA£} for Ike Country's Finances
GOOD for the Couninfs Tyres
*
3
0
jit
Cfl
oi\
w
ll*
s°
pp
till*
C$
a*
t
Subscribe
to the
FIRST
VICTORY
ROAN.
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
w
itedl)
.ESf
INSULATED
CABLES
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
P£lV£ CAt?£FULLY~
H£iP A LIST*ALIA/
“Olympic
TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Set a Beggar om Horseback?
The campaign of the Federal Labor
Government in the seeking ,of increased
Commonwealth powers for a period of
five years after the war has been accom-
panied by misrepresentation and dis-
tortion of facts. This sort of thing has
become common. In his policy speech
Mr. Curtin was downright unfair to his
predecessors in office, in his references to
the trading banks and in other directions.
Mr. Chifley and Mr. Scullin have shown
up in no better light in the matter of pay-
as-you-go tax and the. accompanying 25
p.c. slug. The plain truth has been con-
spicuously absent.
The manner in which the pay-as-you-
go proposition has been presented sug-
gests that the pulling of wool over the
people’s eyes is the right way of going
about a straightforward job. In pay-as-
you-go this method has been far from
successful. Yet we are getting similar stuff
in talk about the need for additional Com-
monwealth powers to see the country
through the post-war reconstruction
period. There was a cock-and-bull story
about the covetous eyes private enter-
prise was casting towards the Govern-
ment’s munitions plants. The moral of
the story was, of course, “Give us powers
to use our munitions plants for any pur-
pose we choose, and you’ll still have a
good Government job when the war is
finished,” The munitions plants them-
selves were but a stalking-horse.
Mr. Chifley has said that “if regimen-
tation means a decent standard of living,
decent homes and a continuity of em-
ployment in preference to economic indi-
viduality, then I am in favor of regimen-
tation,” adding, untruthfully, “all we got
from past anti-Labor Governments, who
said that the economic system should not
be disturbed, was men on the dole of
ss. 6d. a week.” Under previous Govern-
ments, without regimentation, men had
a far higher standard of living than they
have had during the life of the Curtin
Government, and during 1938, under the
Lyons Administration, trade-union unem-
ployment throughout the Commonwealth
was as low as 8 p.c., compared with 26
p.c. during the dying days of the previ-
ous Commonwealth Labor Government
(Scullin’s). And if Mr. Chifley answers
that the present low standard of living is*
the result of the war, then it can be re-
torted that the prevailing low unemploy-
ment figure is due to the same thing. A
person is not now allowed to be unem-
ployed even if he would like to enjoy
that luxury.
There is a danger that Australians are
becoming too accustomed to shocks. The
war itself has been a thing of shocks,
especially the early part of the debacle in
the Pacific, and some of our senses have
undoubtedly bfecome deadened. But the
25 p.c. tax slug has touched a highly
sensitive, if also selfish, spot, and it is to
be hoped that from this point forward
the political nerve system of Australians
becomes more alert. The internment of
Australians without trial and their sub-
sequent release without compensation in-
volved principles which should have out-
raged the democratic feelings of all. Mis-
takes were made, and there was no Gov-
ernment hurry or generosity in rectifying
them. There have been a hundred other
cases of Government unfairness, waste,
heavy-handed and futile “regulation,”
“rationalisation” run amuck, suppression
of information on political grounds,
kowtowing to regimented trade-unionism
regardless of the general interest, and
departmental favoritism in the adminis-
tration of the National Security Act —this
last emphasised in the case of Ward
when Minister for Labor; he is also
famous for his Brisbane Lie.
In Europe prior to the present war
there was a succession of shocks. Starting
with comparatively small shocks, the
thing went on and on, and out of it all
rose totalitarianism. Regimentation had
become a thing of fact bit by bit. Aus-
tralians, whether they realise it or not,
want none of the regimentation as seen
in so many pre-war European countries.
Yet the Labor party is pledged to the
socialisation of industry.
Under the National Security Act the
present Government has tremendous
powers. These powers run out six months
after the conclusion of peace, but there
is likely to be a long interval between
armistices and peace treaties. When the
Act expires we will normally have re-
turned to us our civilian rights and liber-
ties. Many powers of control over eco-
nomic matters now possessed by the Com-
monwealth will pass away.
It is not a completely favorable pros-
pect if politics could be ignored ; but the
prospect of clothing the present Govern-
ment with compensatory powers alarms
even people who have little use for the
States in their present form. The Govern-
ment is wanting in administrative ability
and candor. The truth is not always to
be found in it. It tolerates the Com-
munist party. It possesses any amount
of ambition, but scrupulousness in
matters where fairplay is required is often
lacking, and it is rarely in a hurry to
reward merit. Its financial policy has
been based principally on wishful think-
ing and expediency. Two of the most
important acts of its economic career; —
uniform taxation and the proposal to
abolish the “lag” year—have scarcely been
“planned” by it. Its leader has expressed
a desire for more bank-credit finance
when the war is over.
Man-power has been an extraordinarily
difficult matter —ope which would have
brought furrows to the brow of any Gov-
ernment. But at the present time the man-
power position in Australia is something
of a mystery. Very few people are able
to fathom it. There are conflicting stories
of shortages and surpluses, of idleness and
extreme activity.
Commonwealth powers which would
entitle' the Government to direct the
people in their working lives for five
years after the war are something to
ponder bver. The Government’s own
selection of advisers in the matter of post-
war reconstruction and planning has had
a ponderous lean towards* the doctri-
naire and the theorist. The practical man
is conspicuously absent. The principle
on which a superannuated librarian —an
admirable librarian—became Deputy-
Director of War Organisation of Indus-
try in New South Wales is by no means
dead in the Labor party after nearly 2\
years of office. There is a distrust of any-
one who has battled in industry on his
own or who has been successful in private
enterprise. We see Dr. Coombs and Mr.
Lloyd Ross elevated to high posts in
planning for the “new order,” and we see
a good party man who confessed to no
knowledge of the inner workings of bank-
ing added to the Commonwealth Bank
board.
Socialisation of industry—whether it
be coal, banking or anything else —would
ordinarily involve compensation to
owners of the industry. The Labor Gov-
ernment’s idea of compensation has been
ventilated on more than one occasion in
the High Court. The first instance of note
was the case of a color-printing press.
The owners took the case to court, claim-
ing loss of profits as we|l as the value
of the press, and judgment was given
against the Government, it being held
unanimously that compensation must be
on “just terms.” Although Dr. Evatt at
the time welcomed the verdict as “firmly
establishing a permanent principle of jus-
tice,” it has been necessary since for a
similar compensation case to be taken to
the High Court and a verdict obtained.
Hundreds of cases of unfair compensa-
tion have never been taken to court.
Australia faces great problems even
though the threat of a Japanese invasion
seems more remote than it did a year
ago. The country has been subject to
profound economic confusion and strain,
as well as psychological unsettlement.
Even if we win the war —to use a hack-
neyed phrase—it is possible for us to lose
the peace. In order for Australia to win
the peace it will be necessary for the bulk
of its people to be intelligently in co-
operation with each other and with their
Government.
If it be true, as Lord Rosebery has
said, that “a statesman measures the
opinions and forces that surround him
and proceeds to act accordingly,” then it
is scarcely statesmanlike to misrepresent
the forces that surround him and to try
to bluff public opinion along those lines.
From Australia’s present Government we
have had misrepresentation that has
shaken confidence, arid much of the
Government’s propaganda in favor of the
referendum is in that strain. If the
facts behind the case for the referendum
are not good enough for the people, then
the proposal itself isn’t good enough.
When the war ends there will be nearly
all the requisites of what we knew in
peace-time as a “boom.” There is already
a banked-up store of public savings of
immense size, and there is a lag of at
least three years in most civil construc-
tion activity. There is a great housing
shortage, a shortage of furnishings, cloth-
ing, cars and a hundred other things,
while the overseas demand for many of
our building materials is likely to be ex-
ceptional. Provided the proper channels
of trade are reopened speedily so as to
link supply with demand, men with jobs
and money with materials, the fundamen-
tals of the post-war picture are not un-
employment, but gre'at employment. The
danger in the outlook is that of a boom,
plus possible misdirection of our efforts
towards fancies of the moment rather
tfian towards the permanent re-establish-
ment of our industries and our econo-
mics. There is also the inflation danger.
It is hard to visualise the present Gov-
ernment dealing any more effectively with
these problems, whatever its powers, than
it has done with the great but concen-
trated problems of war. The end of the
war will bring variety and confusion to
the problems.
It seems that during January and
February Australian war expenditure fell
sharply. Averaging £47 million a month
during the six months to the end of
December, the cost during January
was £37 million, during February £3B
million. At the end of December war
outgo was £16.7 million ahead of esti-
mates, borrowing providing £12.2 million
of the excess and revenue £4.5 million.
By the end of February the position had
changed greatly, outgo for the eight
months being actually £2 million less
than for the same period of the preced-
ing year. Total waf expenditure to
February 29 was £357 million —£91 mil-
lion being met from revenue and £266
million from the loan fund. For the
same portion of 1942-43 the figures were:
Total £359 million, revenue £62 million,
loan fund £297 million. Although
revenue is nearly 50 p.c. greater than in
the previous corresponding period, it
accounts for only 25 p.c. of the lower
war expenditure. An effort has been
made to get income tax in earlier this
year, and because of this and a higher
rate collections have actually been £7B
million, compared with £46 million.


Public Notices.
I, EMANUEL YIRGONA, of Italian nationality, bom
at Alicudi, Italy, and resident 18 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 178 Beamish Street, Campsie,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ALBERT SOHEINBERG, of Polish nationality,
bom at Gyor, in Hungary, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 49 Beach Road, Bondi,
New South Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.-
I, EDITH EISENSTAEDT, refugee alien, of former
German nationality, born at Berlin, Germany, and
resident five years in Australia, now residing at 29
Mona Road, Darling Point, Sydney, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-36.
I, HENRIK EPSTEIN, Doctor of Engineering,
Stateless, formerly Russian nationality, born in Buda-
pest, Hungary, and resident five years in Australia,
now residing at No. 10 Pearce Street, Coogee, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
\4 S '
the Royal Australian Air Force expanded so too did the Nation’s
demands for Lysaght’s Galvanized Corrugated Iron. Chosen for its
great strength, its economy, its ability to give complete protection
against fire and the elements—and finally the speed with which it could
be erected—this famous building sheet proved itself caoable of meeting
every emergency. This popularity among those responsible for the
construction of giant defence works has
naturally meant a severe limitation of
supplies for civilian use but the farmer,
the builder and the plumber are asked to
remember that the value of Lysaght's
Corrugated Iron to the community is an
indication of' its value to the fighting
forces and until victory has been won
national needs must come first.
LYSAGHT'S
GALVANIZED IRON
LYSAGHT'S
ZINCANNEAL
LYSAGHT'S
BLACK IRON
JOHN.LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
\«
guess
V’
It
\je
onl» s
\\
vjsv
%\tw
live
w
'J.
&
m
0
*"25?.
%
mr.
/
m
5^
m
I
ii
;;jr
:S\
$
1
Messrs. Cocksure, Complacent and Cantlose
are a menace to the war effort. They con-
fuse optimism with ostrichism. The road to
victory is long and hard. The only way to
shorten it is to stop guessing and start
doing. SPEED the Victory by investing
every pound of your savings in Australia’s
First Victory Loan.
SPEED THE VICTORY ... INVEST IN THE
FIRST VICTORY LOAN
Victory Bonds can be purchased for cash
or by instalments from any Bank, Savings
Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stock-
broker in denominations of from £lO to
£lOOO.
Every town and muni-
cipality has been set a
Victory Loan quota for
cash subscriptions and
for the number of
subscribers. Help win
premier honours for
your district. When
you subscribe, mark
your application form
in the space provided
so that your own dis-
trict will be credited
with your subscription.
V 1.19
The Loan
The First Victory Loan, of the record
amount of £l5O million, is open for sub-
scription. It will require a strong public
response to fill it. It coincides with a
time when many people will be having
inflated tax assessments to meet, settle-
ment of tax by March 31 or thereabouts
involving substantial final payments in
some cases, with deductions from wages
still going on after April 1. But even in
present circumstances public support
could be far better than on previous occa-
sions without hurting anyone. There is
still a large war-time accumulation of
money in the savings banks that could be
partly put into the loan, and there are
many whose current income, less all taxes,
would stand the strain of giving the war
effort some extra financial help. Ample
evidence of this is to be seen on the race-
courses and in lottery offices. In periods
of loan flotations all gambling facilities
should be suspended.
Five Years for Woolcott Forbes
John Woolcott Forbes was found
guilty by a jury last week of forging,
uttering and falsifying share certificates
in Producers’ and General Finance, and
he was sentenced by Judge Street to five
years’ jail. Forbes is appealing against
conviction- and sentence. After the jury
returned its verdict a juryman told his
Honor that he had been approached by a
man who had offered him £2OO to influ-
ence the jury in Forbes’s favor. -The
allegation is now being investigated by
the police.
After sentence had been passed upon
him Forbes attacked the Judge’s sum-
ming-up: “I am shocked at the bias you
used towards me, and I feel that your
summing-up will go down into history
as one of the most shocking summings-up
ever given in a British court.” Protest-
ing his bucolic innocence on his arrival
in Sydney from Westralia, Forbes said:
“I lived on the backblocks, where men
don’t tell lies ; I never felt I could hurt
anybody. I can say proudly that every
action of my life has been honorable.”
He added that one day a book would be
published on the methods used by the
Crown in its prosecution, and it would
“shock the whole of Australia and the
democratic world.” He had “come from
the justice given me in that truly great
democracy the United States to my own
country to find my wife and children
being crucified.”
Judge ’ Street told Forbes he entirely
agreed with the jury’s verdict.
You occupied a high position in a large
commercial undertaking in this city, and
used that position to enable you to commit
these offences. While it is urged that you
desired to support the company and that
your actions were prompted by considera-
tions affecting the welfare of that company
it appears rather that you procured the
fabrication of these documents and used
them for your own financial interests.
It is true that, in respect of these par-
ticular documents, no pecuniary loss has
been shown to have been suffered by any-
one, but the offence is, nevertheless,
serious. You held a responsible position,
and you enjoyed all the amenities of con- '
trolling large sums of money. Wealth and
position carry corresponding responsibili-
ties, requiring the observance of a high
standard of conduct. These obligations you
appear to have entirely disregarded.
It is of interest to recall that in De-
cember, 1936, P. and G, scrip was listed
on ’Change, with ord. dealings at 355. 6d.
Shares had previously been hawked by
Hamiltons (Australasia), Ltd., at prices
up to 475. 6d. Within a month
or so of listing a 20 p.c. div. was
paid. On August 26, 1937, wild selling
crashed the price to 10s. Within a year
ord. divs. had ceased, and this and the
puzzling nature of the co.’s
caused a further decline in the share-
market. It was then remarked here:
“Confidence went to pot when the atmo-
sphere of ballyhoo concerning div. pros-
pects came up against the hard facts of
the business’s earning power.” By,
November, 1938, reconstruction of P. and
G. was under way. A revaluation of assets
increased the intangibles in the accounts
to £400,000. The ord. shares eventually
sank to about 2s. They have lately re-
covered to 3s. 9d.
Koitaki Para Rubber, Papua, returns
to the div. list with an interim of Is. per
ord. share, the first distribution since
1941. The small pref. requirements, in-
cluding arrears, are also being attended
to. This is the first sign of real invest-
ment life in New Guinea since the Japs
walked into it. A large crop of rubber
is being taken from the Kouaki planta-
tions, probably with more regard to the
present national needs than to the future
of the trees. Young trees suffered most
from neglect during the period of mili-
tary occupation. The co.’s affairs have
been conservatively conducted in the
past, though not without progressive ex-
pansion of the rubber areas.
* * * *
It was interesting to read the news-
paper articles of Supply Minister Beas-
ley, indicating as they did some measure
of Australia’s large war production.
Taken as such they were instructive, if
incomplete ; taken as a record of “the
Guvverment’s” part in the war effort
they require rather more analysis. The case
of tantalum was not clearly presented ;
that of scheelite also deserves notice. The
big King Island deposit is the one about
which “the Commonwealth is also san-
guine.” The first Curtin Government had
been in office three months when the
chairman of King Island Scheelite
(formed in 1937) pointed out that, though
scheelite, the ore from which tungsten
is obtained, was in urgent demand in our
steel industry, every extra 20s. of profit
earned by the co. cost it 225. 9d. in taxa-
tion —principally the result of the Curtin
Government’s war-time (company) tax
scale. It indicated that this was hardly
an encouraging factor in extra output of
the metal. It was only after prolonged
representations to the Treasury that any
change was made in this state of affairs ;
afterwards, indeed, the Government,
startled by the necessity for greater pro-
duction, did go further in the matter and
provided financial assistance to accelerate
output. As to flax production, also
featured in Mr. Beasley’s articles, in the
early part of 1940 a bounty of £4 an
acre was offered by the Menzies Govern-
ment for flax cultivation, plus free seed.
And before the fall of the Fadden Gov-
ernment in 1941 it was agreed to spend
£300,000 on flax-cultivation machinery.


THE SERVICE MAN
The War Against Japan.
“Ek Dum”; The South-west Pacific
Command continued the work of putting
the finishing touches to the enemy forces
in New Guinea.
Operations included the destruction of
a convoy making its way down the New
Guinea north coast from Hollandia
(Dutch N.G.), which was sighted by
navy Catalinas at 2 a.m. on March- 18.
The Catalinas sank a 3000-ton ship and
damaged a destroyer. At 10 a.m. on
March 19 Allied bombers attacked the
convoy 70 miles n.-w. of Wewak, sank
a 6000-ton transport, a 4000-toh trans-
port and three corvettes. The Command
H.Q. estimated that 2000 troops were
drowned —large numbers were seen strug-
gling in the water. Two other convoys
were damaged during the week.
On the morning of March 20, while
widespread bombing attacks were being
made on all main enemy N.G. bases,
U.S. naval and ground forces landed on
Emirau and Elomusao islands, in the St.
Matthias group, about 85 miles north-
west of Kavieng.
Emirau is a small, flat coral island eight
miles long by five miles broad. It was
taken without opposition, though there
was a little resistance on Elomusao; a
speck off the south-eastern tip of Emirau,
which was crushed without the Allies
suffering casualties.
While the landing was going on, battle-
ships from Admiral Halsey’s South
Pacific force battered Kavieng, on the
northern tip of New Ireland, and that
island’s capital.
Emirau is the furthest north that the
South Pacific Command has operated.
It is less than 100 miles from the Equator,
the borderline beyond which Australian
militia troops may not be sent.
For all practical purposes, the Admi-
ralties are under Allied occupation,
though the U.S. occupiers had to bom-
bard Pityilu, an islet in Seeadler Harbor
east of Lorengau.
And by the week-end Australians from
over the Finisterre and Australians and
Americans from Saidor were almost in
the outskirts of Bogadjim.
The week’s bombing extended from
Rabaul to Aitape, on the north coast,
where a destroyer was sunk 22 miles at
sea on March 20, together with two small
vessels in the same region.
But Wewak, which collected 110 tons
of bombs on March 19 and 160 tons on
March 21, and Rabaul, which was several
times attacked, were the chief targets.
Maoriland’s Air H.Q., whose War-
hawks have been acting as escorts to
bombers bound for Rabaul, reported on
March 22 that enemy opposition had
dwindled there until fighter escorts were
no longer necessary.
There was more resistance at Wewak,
which in 15 days before March 21 had
collected 1500 tons of bombs. There, 89
enemy aircraft were shot down in the
same period, and a further 16 destroyed
on the ground,’ for an Allied loss of 10.
All round the Pacific, from Truk to
Sourabaya, from the Marshalls and Wake
Island to the Kuriles, off the north-
eastern tip of Japan, Allied heavies were
kloft and Japanese bases were bombed.
Along the Assam Border.
Burmese operations in the past week
divided themselves into three sections.
In the northern American-Chinese
sector of the Hukawng Valley Allied
troops continued their frontal drive and
infiltrations down the valley, while Japa-
nese rear coipmunications were being
smashed well inside Burma by the large
force carried by glider, parachute and air
transport into the enemy’s rear. In this
area the enemy has airfields, but inces-
sant bombing by Air Marshal Baldwin’s
Tactical Air Force has made them of
little use. About 70 out of more than
90 enemy aircraft found on the central
Burmese airfields in the Schwebo-Anisa-
kan-Obauk district were destroyed by the
Allies after the first attacks on their own
new foothold.
On March 20 a Chinese communique
announced that General Stilwell’s forces
had cleared the Hukawng Valley of the
Japanese in the course of four months’
attack and infiltration, killing about 4000.
The valley covers nearly 2000 square
miles. It stretches halfway across
Northern Burma towards Myitkina,
northern terminus of the Central Burma
line.
This is an important success. It
threatens all enemy road communica-
tion with the north —Delhi on March 26
reported Allied troops only 12 miles from
Mogaung—and is the first step towards
the establishment of large-scale bases in
the milder climate of North Burma, be-
sides establishing the Allies on the flank
of any possible enemy advance from Cen-
tral Burma towards India.
Still further to the north, in the Fort
Hertz region, almost on the Tibetan
border, Gurkhas and Kachin levies, who
hail from the rough country just north
of Myitkina, threw the enemy out of
several of his strongholds.
South of both those movements, about
250 miles’ crowfly from the Hukawng
. fighting area, the enemy began working
up the Manipur River Valley, at the same
time infiltrating further north from the
east, to surround Allied frontal posts near
Tiddim, a dozen miles or so inside the
Burma-India border, and penetrate Assam.
These moves extended to a front of
nearly 200 miles of wild border country
among a sea of jungle-clad hills, water-
courses and valleys of the Chin and
Lushai and the ‘southern Naga. The
main enemy probes were at the military
roadhead at Tammu, a border post just
inside the Manipur State, 80 miles s.-e.
of Imphal. The country in which the
infiltrations are going on is comparable
with the Owen Stanleys, but seeded with
greater trials to the flesh —leeches, tigers,
king cobras and spiders as big as small
soup-plates—and more diseases.
Though three or more Jap columns
which seem to have been converging to-
wards Imphal through this area have cut
some supply routes, it is not easy to envi-
sion attack on a scale to threaten India
seriously at this time of year. Tokyo
Radio, however, has boasted of the
routing” of “four Allied divisions” in the
Tiddim area alone, the surrounding of
thousands of British troops and the set-
ting up of a Free Indian Government “on
Indian soil.” It claimed that “powerful
victories” already won have “tickled the
Indian people’s hopes of independence.”
More likely their sense of humor.
The monsoon is due in a few weeks,
and to survive in it, much less advance,
the enemy will need greater mechanical
and air resources than he has shown him-
self so far to possess. It was said in New
Delhi by a South-east Asia Command
spokesman that the Japanese were em-
ploying in the Imphal area more than
the 10,500 men used in the Arakan battle
in February. The attack, therefore,
appears to be no more than a major raid
for political purposes. Casualties in ten
days have been in hundreds only.
The third sector of operations was on
the Arakan front, 600 miles from the
northern fighting area. There the clashes
were local, but hard-fought around the
tunnels on the 15-mile-long Maungdaw-
Buthidaung road. The enemy there seems
to be hanging on against the coming of
the monsoon.
Spring and Invasion.
“Ek Dum”: All the signs are present
that the invasion of western Europe by
the forces mustered in Britain is fully
prepared for, though it may not be immi-
nent ; in a speech heard in Australia on
Monday Mr. Churchill intimated that
there would be many feints, false alarms
and dress rehearsals.
The armies have been inspected by
the King and their commanders. The
assembly areas have been closed from
April 1 ; the seas south of Ireland
have been closed already. And Gen-
eral Montgomery has issued his battle-
cry, “Let God arise and let His ehemies
be scattered.” Cromwell gave it at
Dunbar.
March, as usual, “came in like a lion
and went out like a lamb.” Spring is
coming in northern Europe.
Invasion needs a perfect conjunction
of climatic and astronomical conditions
—the right moon and tides, smooth
water, a clear atmosphere and assurance
of good visibility for fighting cover and
for glider forces and parachute battalions
over a long stretch of sea and land.
The coming of spring does not assure
any of these things except perhaps in
parts of the Mediterranean. Possibly the
visit to Cairo of Sir Maitland Wilson is
connected with that fact.
It is not uncommon in May for the
air of the English Channel to consist, as
it were, of cottonwool filled with the
sound of sirens, and for ships to have
to wait for days tossed amid the shallows
off the northern French coast before they
can get into the sluice at Dunkirk.
Probably even the commanders-in-chief
invasion forces could not name the
day on which their armadas will set out.
But the first phase of the invasion
operations is in being—the bombing of
the Pas de Calais area and of French
communications and aerodrome centres
by the Tactical Air Force, now the “Allied
Expeditionary Air Force.” The usual
strategic heavy bombing of Germany
characterised the last week of March.
The culmination of ten days in which
30,000-odd tons of bombs were dropped,
and which included strong attacks by the
R.A.F. on Frankfort on the Main by
day and by night, was a new assault on
Berlin on the night of March 24. The
R.A.F., with 1000-odd Lancasters,
dropped 2500 tons of bombs on the city
and started fires six miles long, follow-
ing daylight raids over Germany by 1000
U.S. heavies. The defence was strong and
fierce, and the R.A.F. suffered its second-
heaviest loss —73 machines. It lost 79
in the raid on Leipzig on February
19. Berlin claimed 110 machines shot
down. The Air Ministry described the
nighttime defensive battle as the fiercest
ever fought.
The vigor with which the enemy still
defends himself and raid results which
are checkable (discount somewhat the
sensational accounts of damage done to
military objectives in large-scale attacks.
The attack on Cassino by bombers as
a preliminary to the assault on the town
was comparable to a major raid on a
German industrial objective—besides bom-
bardment by 80,000 shells, 1400 tons of
bombs were dropped within a square mile
in daylight; in all 3500 tons on the sector
in 8000 sorties. But bad visibility and
cloud had their effects, and “40 per
cent, of the bombs landed inside Cassino
and the remainder on adjacent fields and
slopes.” That raid was “not an unqualified
success,” and though it knocked the
enemy hff balance it did not prevent him
resisting very fiercely.
While R.A.F. raids, which are low-level
and at night, are probably as damaging
as, perhaps more so than, the high-level
American daylight raids ton for ton of
bombs, since the system of pathfinder
and beacon gives the Lancasters and
Halifaxes a better marked-out target,
the likelihood that a very great propor-
tion of vital enemy war industry is now
well underground discounts optimism
about results.
London Attacks
The heaviest barrages which London
has ever seen did not deter the enemy
from nuisance raids.
On the night of March 19 eight enemy
aircraft were destroyed when the raiders
dropped bombs on north-east coast areas
—Berlin Radio alleged that the whole
qentre of Hull had been set alight.
On the night of March 21 there was
a brief but sharp raid in which h.e. and
incendiaries were dropped on London
and in which nine raiders were shot
down. About 100 enemy machines took
part. In one suburb 100 flats were
wrecked by two heavy bombs, but only
two people were killed. Several were
killed in a London publishing house, and
a church was destroyed.
Only a few attackers reached London
the following night, and one was shot
down, and on the next evening there was
only an alert, with no bombs dropped.
A further raid, comparable to that of
March 21, kept the metropolitan barrage
roaring for over an hour. The “nave of
a famous church” and another publish-
ing house were hit. The attackers came
in three waves and mainly used incen-
diaries. They lost eight machines.
Enemy attacks, judged by their nature,
are so far experimental.
Fierce Fighting at Cassino.
“Ek Dum”: The Battle of Cassino
should settle many illusions, first of all
that one born among Moscow correspon-
dents that an artillery and bombing bar-
rage applied for two or three hours can
reduce an enemy to impotence.
Artillery of one sort and another is
probably the greatest killer in this war,
as in the last, when applied at its maxi-
mum ; but no more than at Verdun or
Messines or Arras has it yet proved itself
able to destroy strong and well organised
resistance in fortified positions. Attack
always generates a remedy. Modern
mining and delving machinery has accel-
erated defence development. Thus the
positions at Cassino, as strong as any
attacked in this war, not excluding Sevas-
topol, continue to hold out.
German Advantages
The Germans have everything that
makes for defence. They have peaks dis-
connected from the main range which are
covered from other peaks and which have
to be taken one by one. They have a
semicircular position which dominates all
approaches over the marshy floor of the
valley. They have good landing ground
for aircraft up the valley, under cover
of a second and very strong line of de-
fence across the Arce junction, where
roads from Rome and Avezzano meet.
They have both new and ancient tun-
nels and crevices through the hillsides,
which are also pitted with deep caves.
To these their men recede when the blast
hits their positions, emerging armed to
the teeth to infiltrate Allied positions.
Despite the fact that the front in Russia
is supposed to be tottering, the enemy
seems to have ample fresh reserves. His
artillery is good—heavy mortars, with a
range of 4000 yards or so, abundant
heavy machine-guns, Nehelwerfers, which
throw clouds of rocket projectiles with
an earth-splitting scream, 88’s and long
75’s on the Tiger and Mark 111 tanks,
some of them with conical bore and with
more than twice the muzzle velocity of
old 30 cals, short 75. He has heavies, of
which the mainstay is a 170 mm. —a little
short of 7in. —with an m.v. of about 3000
f.p.s. comparable with a naval gun, whose
shell arrives mixed up with its own
shriek. Across this part of the valley,
which holds the road to Rome, the
Rapido is used as a moat, covered in
the rear by a sea of mines and a maze of
high-power m.-g. nests and mortar pits.
These weapons were used with deadly
effect during the American attacks early
in February. The U.S. forces tried to do
what is now being attempted. They first
plastered the area with bombs and shells
and then sought to cut off the town from
Monastery Hill (Hill 519 —hills' are
named on military maps from their
height in metres) by taking Hill 185
(Castle Hill) just behind the town ; also
to command the fortified monastery posi-
tion by taking Hill 596, which from
behind dominates it and the Via Gasilina
to Rome.
But while four days’ fighting, backed
by continuous vicious dive-bombing and
artillery strafing, gave the U.S. men a
toehold in the town, six days of it saw
them being pushed off finger by finger or
flooded out with projectiles. The mortar
shells fell like hail. Nebelwerfers,
mechanically - thrown grenades and
bombs, 170 mm. shells from afar and
rocket ammunition from German
bazookas blanketed approach and com-
munication areas. Enemy tanks and
armored pillboxes were placed to com-
mand the narrow entry to the town area
so as to make it impossible for the Ameri-
cans to bring up tanks on any scale.
The initiative, in fact, was drowned and
the attackers were forced to retire.
Maorilanders’ Attack
The Maorilanders’ attack, which be-
gan against Castle Hill over a month
later (March 15), had more impressive
preparation. The preliminary bombard-
ment lasted four hours, including the
3500 tons of bombs dropped on a central
square mile. The mud had hardened
enough to allow the Enzeds to cross the
sodden approaches without floundering.
They had been chosen for the job
largely because, apart from their reputa-
tion for doing the impossible, the country
resembled their own.
The official Maoriland correspondent
described their battlefield:
If you imagine a battlefield spread out
across some of the steeper foothills of the
Southern [Maoriland] Alps you have
roughly a picture of the New’ Zealanders’
front below the Apennines. Jutting put in
a snow-topped wall of rock across the path
of the advance along the rich Liri valley
is a mountain ridge honeycombed with
German dugouts. Its highest peak, Mt.
Cairo, dominates the whole countryside for
at least 10 miles on our side of the line
and to a greater distance behind the Ger-
man front. Nestled against its steep foot-
hills and clustered about the Via Gasilina
are what are now the ruins of Cassino.
The Maorilanders already held a stretch
of front, some of it among battered
wrecks of suburban houses within 50
yards of the Germans, all overlooked
from the German positions in the moun-
tains. They withdrew a half mile or so
on the morning of the attack (March
15) to give the bombers and artillery
some margin. Within an hour after the
awful blast had ended they advanced
upon the wreckage.
They were heartened by the report
that Germans had been seen running.
And as they came steadily on over their
previous positions behind a tremendous
barrage with tank support they met no
resistance.
The German frontal positions were a
churned mass of wreckage. Craters, 20
feet, even 50 feet, wide, yawned, spewing
fumes. Masonry, mud, bodies, pillboxes
were thrown about in crushed disorder.
But as they came in from the north to
attack Castle Hill, the Wellington batta-
lion to whom this awesome task had been
delegated found themselves face to face
with a sheer wall of rock below the
ruined Rocca Castle, from which a hot
fire began to spout.
The attackers worked their way round
the base of the hill to the southward side.
Here a tip of detritus and rubble had
formed a slope up which many a tourist
had climbed to look down at sunset on
the narrow molten ribbon of the Rapido
and the peaceful town below. The track
up this side leads past an old nunnery,


Missing Friends.
TO GWENTHLYN MYRTLE HIBBERT formerly ol
Pyramid Hill in the State of Victoria,—TAKE
NOTICE that your husband' ARTHUR JOHN HIB-
BERT has filed a Petition in the Supreme Court
in Victoria (No. 293 of 1944) for dissolution ol
marriage on the ground of desertion. The copy
citation and sealed copy petition in this suit has
been served on your father If you desire to defend
the suit you must enter an appearance on or before
the First day of May 1944 and file an answer on oi
before the Tenth day of May 1944 at the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at Melbourne
and in default of your so doing the Petition may be
heard in your absence. —GLYDE ROGERS, LL.B., ol
31 Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN CLIFFORD MORRISEY late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN ELIZABETH LUCY
MORRISEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3103 of 1943 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on your behalf on or before the 31st May 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
,E- A. OLEARY & CO. Solicitors 56 Hunter Street
Sydney.-— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS EDWARD WELLS formerly of South
Grafton.—TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN WELLS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2542 of 1942
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Stieet Sydney on or
before the Bth of June and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from WEAVER GENTLE
& HARRISON Solicitors Faulkner Street Armidale.
—(l.s.) C, K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
which defensively commands the ap-
proaches. But by 1 p.m. this position
had been captured, while the barrage
smothered the summit of Monastery Hill
overlooking the castle.
La Rocca Castle Falk
About 1.30 p.m. a couple of friendly
mastodons appeared brushing aside the
rubble near the base of the hill. They
fired at intervals as they came, each shot
tearing down a little more of the
medieval castle. Winding their way be-
tween the craters, pushing aside the col-
lapsed houses, they came on till their
range was point-blank. Hundreds of
feet above them the Wellingtonians con-
tinued their careful and perilous climb,
racked by a deadly fire. Just after 3
p.m. the leading sections charged across
the forecourt of the castle, leaving only
mopping up to be done.
Below, in the town itself, as the sun
sank into the Tyrrhenian Sea the victors,
from their 600 ft. perch, could see more
furious fighting going on in the south
part of the town and still more on the
other crags, from which the Indians were
seeking to secure domination of Monas-
tery Hill.
A southern N.Z. battalion was bearing
the brunt of the fighting below, and that
without tank support. The condition of
the ground was such that not even a tank
could negotiate the ruins.
Darkness came down suddenly. In
the sky, hidden by the pall of smoke and
dust, no star could be seen. A bitter
gale with rain and snow sprang up and
lashed the valley with fury, but it did
not stop the advance. At midnight the
troops on the valley floor were consoli-
dating, with most of the town in their
hands, but still with terrible tasks ahead.
Many a piece of cover held a sniper,
many a building a machine-gun or mortar
nest. There was no corner round which
there might not be an armored pillbox,
a buried tank with a long muzzle point-
ing out of it, a booby trap, a mine
or a cluster of desperate Huns.
The churches, the ruins of the railway
station, the post office, the Hotel Conti-
nental —these were or had been forts.
Many of them had been silenced and
were oozing plumes of white or oily black
smoke by sunset on the second day. But
the enemy by that time was athwart com-
munications with tough parachute com-
panies, intensifying his artillery fire,
bringing up more tanks to harry the
patient men climbing and dying along the
broken slopes of the hills behind the
town, struggling for the approaches and
crossings of the Rapido moat.
By March 19 the enemy’s Gustav Line
had been penetrated in the hillside areas ;
but the Germans were counter-attacking
violently, throwing in savage counter-
barrages and infiltrating.
The Fight for Monastery Hill
The approach to Monastery Hill is
along the flattened top of a narrow range
which flings itself round in folds like the
bends of a river.
The second-highest fold, forming a
wider hilltop than the rest and named
Hangman’s Hill, is approached under
some shelter from the south by a pre-
carious slope, as well as by the road.
It is separated from the monastery
itself by a 100yds.-wide chasm, an awe-
some hole at any time. This hill had
been stormed—apparently by the Indians ;
but there was not much chance that the
monastery could be taken until the Allies
controlled the winding road itself, which
begins in Cassino, below the castle, skirts
along the southern lower shoulder of
Castle Hill, dives through some wooded
valley land and then swueps sharply up-
ward into its main climb "to the right
of the solid Church of the Crucifixion.
Every tank or mobile gun which essays
the ascent of this winding highway stands
up like a crow in Sturt’s stony desert
over the bare skyline. It must drive
straight into the fire of guns lining the
bends ahead, of those in the monastery
itself and of Hill 596 above and
behind it; of those, also, to the left
three miles across the Liri Valley, which
holds the main road and rail to Rome,
and of mortars down below on both
sides of the narrow razorback.
On March 20 the Germans in their
many counter-attacks stormed Hill 1'65,
which abuts the Castle area between
it and the Monastery road. Where the
road runs along the hill’s shoulder, it
was being held by German parachutists.
They had strong positions in the
Roman amphitheatre, south-west of Cas-
sino, whose terraced seats are set into
the slope of the hillside below the lower
levels of the Monastery road, and which
looks out over the main road to Rome
touching its southern walls, and over the’
railway line a few hundred yards further
south. Also there were a couple of groups
of enemy houses along this area covering
both town and highway,
South of the Rome road the enemy
al f held *e strong position of the ducal
palace, and the grove—or what may be
j e £ t Q £ — w hich faces the amphitheatre,
F hus he was on both sides of the only
ve j-|,j cu i ar approach to the monastery, his
danks COV ered by m.-g. posts and mine-
£ej^s
There was little or no chance of out-
flanking him . Position after position had
tQ be taken by advancing into raking fire,
p aP j ated by what supporting artillery and
£ rcraft CQ y uM do J£ d the issue of each
sorde aga j ns t the armored hillside posi-
tjons cou i d only be settled with grenade
and bayonet
Many attacks by night and by day were
beaten back. The enemy even had re-
serve ener gy to drive across the Rapidb
gouth f town and to attempt to
secure the rubble of the railway st J tions
wb j cb Maoris had held before this battle
b He had tried to loosen the grip
tenacious French A l p ine troops
north of Cassino had secured in February.
as ’ * n ,/ act ’ a f Br r irr V terrible war,
fought on the peak of ferocity which
resulted in the battle swaying at vano
P omts f° r da y s . finality,
alwa y s ha PP ens + m thls kmd ° f war > ad '
vancmg elements were cut off for days at
a time through the infiltration of the
enemy down gullies and round the bases
lllllS.
War Reaches the Car-
pathians.
“Ek Dum”: Last week opened with
the enemy pictured as rushing pell-mell,
disorganised, squealing and broken,
across the Dniester.
The impression to be derived was
that Henry Ford was right and that
within two months there would be peace,
with Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill,
some time before May Day, sitting in the
ruins of the Adlon bar in Berlin endors-
ing the terms of their Tehran partner.
The utter rout of the Germans, how-
ever, was pushed suddenly into a second
place by the news that Hitler had
taken over Hungary and established a
puppet Government in Budapest. There
was some report of Hungarians fighting
Germans and Rumanians, who sup-
posedly were forcing the noses of the
unfortunate Hungarians to the grindstone.
The truth is that the Germans have
been in all but formal control of Hun-
gary and Rumania, also Bulgaria, since
1941. Indeed, the first signs of the in-
vasion of Russia, reported two months
before June 22, 1941, consisted in the
news of large passages of German troops
through Hungary and into Rumania and
the Sofia region.
Over a year ago it was reported that
Sofia and Bucharest had been half evacu-
ated of civilians to make way for German
military organisation. Early in 1943 the
retirement of over 40 German divisions
to the Balkans for rest and refitment was
also reported. It is more likely that they
were retired thither for manoeuvres or
construction work.
The lesson of Italy was a painful one
for Hitler, and consideration for allies
he has none. In the situation in which
he found himself this month neither
Rumania nor Hungary could be left to
its own devices without extreme danger
to Germany. His most important oil
supply, the only one available, outside
some fields in Galicia and coal oil, is in
Rumania, at Ploesti. The main channel
of communications with southern Rus-
sia, and particularly with the Crimea —
now completely isolated except by sea —
is the Danube and its companion land and
canal routes. The mouth of the Danube
and several valuable ports are in
Rumania. The Danube cleaves through
the centre of Hungary, as also does its
tributary, the Tisza.
Above all, Hungary forms the main
road to the Carpathian fortress along
which the swaying last-war battles on the
eastern front were largely fought. It
was here that the Russians met their
greatest disaster in Mackensen’s Gorlice-
Tarnow break-through and the subse-
quent battles in the summer of 1915.
Tarnopol
The withdrawal from the Ukraine has
been divided into two sectors, and
proceeded on a peculiar pattern, hinging
on Tarnopol. Though it was claimed
that Tarnopol had been reached by Mar-
shal Zhukov’s troops as the result of an
overwhelming break-through, which the
Germans did not expect, all the weight
and momentum of the Russian drive did
not enable Marshal Zhukov to take this
vital centre when he could make the best
use of it. But when the retreat was
secured from inside the salient north of
Odessa and evacuation of Nikolaev was
imminent, retirement here also began,
and was in full swing along a 40-mile
front at the week-end. Tarnopol on
March 24 seemed in process of evacua-
tion. On March 26 it was reported that
Tarnopol and Kamenetz Podolsk, the end
bastion within Russia of the German
Ukrainian defence wall, were surrounded,
with “thousands” of Germans inside.
This followed the capture of Proskurov,
South-west of Tarnopol the Red Army
reached the Sered in fighting in which
20,000 German dead and 3500 prisoners
were claimed. But its break-through was
too late to cause a German disaster.
It can be accepted that the Russians
would have striven to the utmost to take
swift possession of Tarnopol when they
reached it. Had they succeeded they
probably could have blocked the way of
the Germans still holding out on the
Bug, at and elsewhere beyond the
Dniester, holding them captive. Zhu-
kov’s troops were able to continue their
drive from Luck into Poland, as far as
Kowel. But Kowel is in the Pripet Marsh
region and, strategically and tactically, is
not a nice place in the thaw season.
Across the Dniester
The break into Bessarabia to the south-
east was made, not by Marshal Zhukov’s
forces, but by those of General Konev.
Their north-western flank was at Mogilev
Podolsk —not to be confused with Mogi-
lev on the Dnieper, in the central sector.
They overran Balti, which is on a bend of
the Odessa-Lwow railway about 40 miles
from the Dniester, and reached the old
Rumanian border on the Pruth on March
25-26.
Their effective rail communication in
the south is a line which crosses the
Dniester 35 miles or so from its mouth,
and forms itself on the Rumanian side
into one of those loops so common in
Europe which are the inevitable brand
of a defence area. This system is con-
nected with the whole of the railways net-
work of the Rumanian coastal plain and
the Danube mouth.
With the retirement from the Dniester
all the territory left in enemy hands in
the Russian Ukraine was a triangle, of
which one side was along the lower
Dniester, about 100 miles to the sea ; a
second side from the inland end of the
Dniester line to the east of Nikolaev,
about 150 miles long, and the base by the
Black Sea coast. On the base are the two
important cities of Nikolaev and Odessa.
It is significant that it is the base which
is being left till last for evacuation. It
may also have significance that this tag-
end of Axis conquests in Russia was over-
run mainly in 1941 by the Fourth
Rumanian Army, There, as in the
Crimea, many of the troops are still
Rumanian, who could be left behind with-
out causing Berlin to shed a tear if
Berlin ever shed tears, except for its own
sufferings.
The Carpathians
A crisis in the war was marked by the
jubilant announcement of a Moscow en-
thusiast that “from 20 miles away the
Red Army had its first glimpse of the
Carpathians.” Actually, they may be
glimpsed in clear weather from 60 miles
away. They sweep in a great arc round
the southern Polish border to join with
the Silesian ranges on the German-Polish
bordet. Thus, a natural fortress barrier
is formed between the Axis and the Rus-
sians in which the only two breaks are
the narrow belt of plain on the Black
Sea where the Danube flows in with
several companion rivers, and the 200-
mile plain south of the Baltic.
The Carpathians are deceptive moun-
tains. The manner in which their foot-
hills rise in successive steps and plateaux
makes their height seem less; but from
the German border to within 100 miles
of the Black Sea they rise suddenly.
Before them, in the path of the Russians,
the valleys of the Pruth, Berlad and
Sered rivers lie like ditches. Then there
is a narrow ledge on the Rumanian-
Hungarian side which widens out about
270 miles inland, sweeping away north-
ward to include the Avratynsk hills, on
the Russo-Polish border, and the Lwow
plateau, below the Pripet region.
All the way along this plateau ledge,
right into Germany for perhaps 600 miles,
runs a railway which sends off many
shoots; and immediately behind this on
the Hungarian-Rumanian side rises the
main Carpathian bulk, all of it over 1700
feet, its pe&k line over 5000 ft., milch over
8000 ft.
The narrowest part of this range is
just east of the High Tatra, south-west of
Przemysl, in the Tarnow-Gorlice region.
There the range is about 20-25 miles
wide; it divides Polish Galicia from
Czechoslovakia. Further east the mass
is 50-70 miles wide.
As it reaches the Black Sea plain, north
of Bucharest, it beds itself in the Tran-
sylvanian mountains, which are divided
from the Balkan ranges by the deep
Danube gorge.
These Balkan mountains cover the
whole of the western border of Bulgaria
and throw two branches eastward. They
lie in Bulgaria in the shape of an open
crocodile mouth ; the nose reaches almost
to the Black Sea above the Turkish
border; the lower jaw, the Rhodope
mountains, joins with the mountains ol
Greece and Albania on the west; the
eastern end can be seen on a very clear
day to the right of Samothrace, across
the Maritza'mouth, beyond Dedeagatch,
from the heights of Gallipoli. The high,
rough ranges cover the whole south
coast from the Alps to the Sea of
Marmora.
Thus their first glimpse of the Car-
pathians means to the Russians that if
they propose to try to push on into enemy
territory they must now say good-bye to
the warfare of the plains.
They face a solid, formidable moun-
tain chain which runs from within 200
miles of the Baltic right across Europe
to the Mediterranean. These mountains
for the most part can be crossed by large
forces only through passes.
From the German border round the
whole arc of the Carpathians and Tran-
sylvanians, the enemy has 14 railways
piercing the ranges to join the perimeter
railway on the northern and eastward
slopes, apart from those lines which
cross the Danube from Bulgaria.
And behind the mountains, in Axis
territory, the country changes almost
miraculously. The writer has crossed all
these ranges, mainly in late February and
early March. The mountain passes in
the higher Balkan ranges are apt to be
filled with snow after a late snowfall.
On the Polish side there is a sea of
mud. But snow disappears quickly on
the high, windy plains of Hungary, some
of which remind an Australian of the
Darling Downs, some of the Monaro,
except when there is a glimpse of the
ponderous, yellow, inexorable-looking
Danube. It is “good horsebreeding
country.”
From now onwards-the gallant Russians
will face their greatest task, with climate,
communications and supply turning
against them every yard they advance.
Against this, the balance in man-power
must be'turning. On the count of enemy
forces in western Europe, there cannot
be many more than 125-150 enemy divi-
sions left in the east, out of the total of
300 divisions which Mr. Churchill esti-
mates that the enemy High Command
now possesses.


Bi
GIN
■
sgsas&sa!
M«SBS®3»SSCS^3SBSgS®
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
AUTUMN MEETING, 1944.
To be held on
RANDWICK RACECOURSE
April Bth, 10th and 15th, 1944.
First Day: April 8, 1 944.
THE DONCASTER HANDICAP, of £2500 .. • • • • one M lle
THE A.J.C. ST. LEGER, of £1500.. .. One Mile and Three-quarters
Second Day: April 10, 1944.
THE SYDNEY CUP, of £5OOO and a War Bond of £2OO .Two Miles
Third Day: April 15, 1944.
THE CHAMPAGNE STAKES, of £2OOO .. ■ • • • Jix Furlongs
THE A.J.C. PLATE, of £l5OO .. • • One Mile and Three-quarters
6 Bligh Street, Sydney.
GEO. T. ROWE, Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Most backers visited Rosehill with the
idea that winners would be easy of selec-
tion. Providence, however, looks after
bookmakers, as well as sailors, and the
winners included two rank outsiders and
two that were little fancied. The attend-
ance was at least 25,000, and the tote
turnover £57,127, a record for a subur-
ban track.
The surprise of the day was Falcon
Knight’s Rawson Stakes win. Flight went
for the lead immediately after barrier-
rise, but Bartle, on Moorland, was deter-
mined she should not get a break, and
the two raced together to the turn. Moor-
land was first to quit, and then Mayfowl
challenged Flight. He took her measure,
but was unequal to stalling off Falcon
Knight (Darke), who won by a head, and
who, only for shifting about in the
straight, would have scored more deci-
sively. As he was fourth round the turn
and the time was only a half-second out-
side the course record of 1.50, it was a
sound performance.
In making Warlock (Cook) a 2-to-l
favorite for the Railway Handicap
backers were not astray. Winnipeg,
Tahmoor and Hall Stand were the early
leaders, but though the last-mentioned
two were first to turn for home Warlock
made short work of them when he put
in his claim. He cleared right away over
the final furlong, second place going to
the outsider Easter Time, who came from
some distance back and is evidently going
to be as good as at any previous time.
In getting third Soho showed improve-
ment, and of those further back Jungle
King is worth keeping in mind.
An exciting finish saw Neta Linette
(R, Johnson) narrowly defeat the stable-
companions Veiled Threat and Wellesley
in the Autumn Handicap. As in most of
his races. Veiled Threat was at the tail-
end of the field for a long way, and Wel-
lesley was also well back. Overjoyed led
Night Parade into the straight, but, getting
to the front a furlong from, home, Neta
Linette saw it out. Wellesley suffered
slightly from a squeeze, while Prince,
after being in h. handy position at the
turn, met with slight interference and
did not run on as well as anticipated.
Night Parade was troubled by the last
quarter-mile.
In the Trial Handicap the favorite,
Mustang, completely failed to repeat his
form of the previous week. Badly placed
for the first few furlongs, he moved up
smartly at the turn, and then stopped
just as quickly. Domineer made the early
running, but Wee Laddie and Frustrate
led into the straight. At that stage Wee
Laddie looked like winning, but he was
outstayed by Cast Well (Wilson), who
had run well in previous races, though
not sufficiently so to cause him to be
fancied on this occasion. Susquehanna
and Cumberoona were nearest the place-
getters, while Alertful was prominent for
nearly a mile. The winner is by Double
Remove from Hard Steel, a half-sister
to Shadow King. Cast Well was a 100
guineas yearling.
The MacArthur Stakes found Crags-
man again wanting as a stayer. Although
No. 23 at the barrier, he quickly took
charge, and when he led into the straight
from Tea Rose, Bruena, Gay King and
Laudus a win for him appeared fairly
certain. However, he tired, and Laudus
(F. Smith), gradually making up ground,
headed him in the last few strides. Gay
King, who was prominent throughout,
was a moderate third, and Tea Rose
fourth, succeeded by Vermeil and Wheat-
land, both of whom will improve.
Trained by J. Carey, Laudus cost 375
guineas as a yearling, and is by Mid-
stream from Applause, by Constant Son
from Vivere.
Felbeam appeared to have the Three-
year-old Handicap safe halfway down
the straight, but was outstayed by High-
gate, though it was only in the last stride
he got up. Chinook, looking bright after
his let-up, showed all his pace of earlier
in the season, leading into the straight,
and though he weakened at the end it
was a promising effort. Craigie and New-
field ran well, and Rebekah Degree was
prominent to the turn, while Van Eyck,
after meeting with interference at the
start and losing ground, did not after get
near the front. It was Highgate’s first
run since last November.
It was Munro, not Grand Prodige, who
really started at 3 to 1 for the Parra-
matta Handicap. Form did not warrant
the favorite’s price, but Munro got him
away well, made full use of him in front,
and, shaking off Valiant Garde after
entering the straight, Grand Prodige
scrambled home half a length ahead of
Enthuse. Ballot disappointed, but Hari-
pur’s fourth gives him a chance over a
longer distance. The time was only a
quarter-second slower than Falcon Knight
recorded in the Rawson Stakes.
* * * *
Tea Cake, a five-year-old gelding who
had been racing fairly well in better-class
fields, won the Ascot Autumn Cup in
good style at Mentone on Saturday.
Since his Caulfield Guineas win he had
won only one race —a sprint at Mentone
—and that was 10 months ago. J. Purtell
always had Tea Cake in a forward posi-
tion and, taking the lead entering the
straight, he obtained an advantage his
opponents could not overcome. At the
finish Tea Cake had a length and a
quarter to spare from Azores, with Saint
Warden a length away third.
Saint Warden was responsible for a
splendid effort. Not well placed early, he
went wide when making a run rounding
the home turn, and he finished in the
centre of the track. The Caulfield Cup
division winner was beaten at Pakenham
the week before, but, judged on his Men-
tone run, he is near his best form. The
favorite, St. Fairy, and Pickaway and
Twovals were near enough to the leaders
in the straight but they could not quite
manage the ten and a half furlongs. By
Manitoba from Avert, Tea Cake is
trained by P. B. Quinlan, who won the
following race, the Ancaster Handicap,
with Souris, a four-year-old full brother
to Tea Cake, The race was a restricted-
class event of 13 furlon’gs, and although
Souris won well he carried only 7.7, and
the field was even weaker than usual for
this class of event.
Spanish Legend, a three-year-old son
of Great Legend, won his first race when
he defeated a field of smart sprinters in
the Devonshire Handicap. Early last
season Spanish Legend was responsible
for some brilliant track trials and
promised to be one of the fastest two-
year-olds seen for some years. However,
in races he soon petered out, and a few
placings was the best he could do. On
Saturday he quickly went to the front
and won in very convincing style.
Although the Newmarket winner Orteli
finished on strongly she found the task
of conceding Spanish Legend 411 b. too
much. Distinction started a hot favorite,
and although he did not receive a good
run it is unlikely that he would have
defeated the winner.
In the Chartwell Handicap, a race
for four- and five-year-olds, there was
a betting plunge on Taminick, a Valiant
Chief gelding that had won once —a
Maiden Plate at Albury. The field was a
good one and the support for Taminick
was surprising. Taminick missed a place,
the race going to Director, who had
been out of the winning list for some
time. A fine sustained run from the five-
furlongs post gave Duomint victory in
the Moodemere Handicap. He won by
a head from Keplerian, who started
favorite at 11 to 2 in a very open betting
race.
* * *
Rosehill results left most punters
puzzled as to the probable result of the
Doncaster and Sydney Cup. The fur-
long-shorter distance than the Rawson
Stakes may help Flight in the Doncaster,
but on 231 b. worse terms than last Satur-
day she is bound to have a lot of trouble
in turning the tables on Falcon Knight.
In order to give some of the horses she
beat in the Quality Handicap at the
Comforts meeting a chance the handi-
capper could not well avoid penalising
her, but it now seems as if her 9st, may
prove a little more than she can manage.
Then, if Falcon Knight’s chance is
particularly bright, it must be the same
with that of Versailles, who will be meet-
ing him 41b. better than when he ran
him to a half head at nine furlongs.
Falcon Knight’s win on that occasion
was not really impressive, but that of last
week came up to Doncaster and Cup
standard. Falcon Knight is not a good
beginner, but that disadvantage may be
offset in the Doncaster by his ligjit
weight. Warlock’s Railway Handicap win
was also meritorious, as, though he had
a pound less than his Doncaster weight,
he did not give any of his opponents a
look-in over the last furlong.
These included Sir Neith, who, as he
carried only his Doncaster weight, will
have to make marked improvement in
a fortnight to beat Warlock for one.
However, his form was questioned by
the stewards. Neither Hall Stand nor
War Eagle figured to advantage, and
Prince scarcely did well enough in the
Rosehill Autumn Handicap with 8.2 to
increase the number of his Doncaster
supporters.
Wellesley and Veiled Threat were the
only handicap runners at Rosehill that
did anything deserving of consideration
for the Sydney Cup. Of the two, my
preference is for the latter, though he
will meet his stable-companion only a
pound better than in the Rosehill Autumn
Handicap. Night Parade did not run
well enough to suggest he is a Cup
danger.
On figures Falcon Knight now appears
to have a decided pull- over the other
three-year-old Cup candidates. He will
meet Moorland 151 b., Flight 91b. and
Mayfowl 101 b. better than in the Raw-
son Stakes. Moorland may improve—
his next two runs should tell whether that
is so —but it is a big margin, and it is not
too much to say that Falcon Knight beat
Moorland 51b. on Saturday. Mayfowl
still counts, as racing will benefit him.
* * * *
First money for the Warwick Farm
Autumn Cup on Saturday next is certain
to be over the £750 which makes the
winner liable to be rehandicapped for
the Doncaster Handicap or Sydney Cup.
♦ * *
It is interesting to learn that L. B.
Mayer again owns Reading, whom he
sold to J. Casson at the end of 1942 for
$lO,OOO (a little over £3000). Casson
traded him back to Mayer for two
yearlings. ''
•
Miscellaneous
Twice outpointed by George Elliott in
12-rounders at Leichhardt, Tommy Col-
teaux was decidedly the better man over
the championship course. Elliott spent
about a minute on the floor, but con-
trived to put his foe down for “seven”
in the twelfth. In the thirteenth, after
Colteaux had been cautioned for kidney
punching—rthe blow landed on the ribs—
lie felled the 61b. lighter man for “seven”
with a right body punch and then
knocked him out.
Alf Weymark, a returned soldier,
shaped rather well against Archie Rash
at Sydney Stadium, and deserves another
chance. In the ninth, when leading on
points, he was sent to the mat by a left
swing. A bit dazed, he mistook the bell
checking off the count for the round’s-end
signal, staggered upright at “three” and
walked toward his comer. The referee
immediately declared Rash the winner
on a technical knockout. . The loud-
speaker announced that Weymark had
been disabled by an ankle injury, but in
the dressing-room Weymark said the
ankle was undamaged.
FOR RANDWICK.
( Before acceptances .)
By "PILOT."
Fairfield Handicap: Britannic,
1 ; Beau Monde, 2; Shannon, 3.
Cobbitty Handicap: Cordale, 1 ;
Van Eyck, 2 ; Felbeam, 3.
Chipping Norton Stakes: Moor-
land, 1; Falcon Knight, 2 ; May-
fowl, 3.
Liverpool Handicap: Versailles,
1 ; Kiaree, 2; Flying Knight or
Chinook, 3.
Warwick Farm Autumn Cup:
Wellesley, 1 ; Cream Puff, 2; Neta
Linette, 3.
Parramatta Handicap: Thrax,
1 ; Dick Whittington, 2 ; Jel Asur,
3. *


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
When a woman is seen walking out of
a city shop with a cat-that’s-eaten-a-
canary expression it may be guessed that
she has somehow come by what modern
shop assistants term foundation garments
and grandma called stays. Holding the
figure together has become a nerve-rack-
ing business these days, and no war-
time shortage is so deeply felt amongst
womankind. A bushfire victim confessed
to feeling the loss of nothing else among
her personal possessions quite so much.
A letter from London, commenting on
the difficulties of corsetry now that rubber
is war-scarce, says that designers there
have gone all gay with new fabrics and
are designing corsets in bright reds, yel-
lows and greens to shake off war-time
gloom.
Problems of burnt-out bush families
aren’t by any means all solved yet. There’s
a tendency among victims to give way to
despondency now that the excitement and
publicity are over and the job of re-
building has to be faced with most
materials requisitioned for war purposes
and only obtainable after much form-
signing, if at all. Even those who were
lucky in having all personal property as
well as their homes insured are up against
minor difficulties, for in spite of a fairly
generous coupon issue clothes can’t be
replaced with stuff of similar quality be-
cause shops have now reached the point
where pre-war fabrics have been used up
and only “austerity” cloths, not promis-
ing much in the way of endurance, are
offering.
Opportunity Clubs for boys and girls
are going ahead like a fire in a forest.
On Thursday Lady Mayoress Mrs.
Campbell gave her blessing to a luncheon
at which Mrs. J. A.' Wunderly, Mrs. H.
Goodman and Mrs. Olive Thring, with
organiser Emerald Goetze, Mrs. J. F.
Key and Miss Grace Logan, of Junior
Red, Cross, gave glowing accounts of the
work done —and waiting to be done —at
these clubs. The purpose of the gather-
ing was to make a straightout appeal to
women to work at Opportunity Clubs as
an extra war effort. The clubs have bene-
fited by many generous donations, and
will have a big legacy from Dr. Ramsay
Mailer’s estate, but ■as they succeed the
need for funds increases, so now there’s
a call for another £25,000.
Miss Emerald Goetze told mothers of
petulant small ones (who glory in not
eating the good food provided) something
that may help them in their struggle. To
make more attractive the Oslo meal
which the Opportunity Clubs provide for
their children at whatever schools these
youngsters attend, the lunch, delivered
each day by carrier, offers variety in
brown-bread sandwiches such-as to keep
the young guessing what sort it will be
each day, with the result that the young
customers always like thfeir meal, though
it is good for them
The Originality Group’s total of £l5OO
from its shop, which was open for the last
six months of 1943, is one to be proud
of. The place was of the hole-in-the-
wall sort, very tiny, and it always seemed
to be full of buyers. Mrs. Jack Kernel-
field, who did a lot to get the group
going, intends to resign her office as
president, her reason being a small son’s
arrival. Her successor in office will be
Mrs. Arthur Laver, who, with Peggy
Ayrey, was responsible for the shop’s
very cute dolls (the “quins” figured in
one set).
The British Music Society’s children’s
concerts have started with a swing, the
first one attracting a particularly good
roll-up of the young. Lorna Stirling, the
compere, is the life of these affairs, string-
ing together the various items with a
‘steady flow of bright comment on music
and composers. The children, well-
brought-up infants, don’t give the organ-
isers much guidance as to the type of
music they prefer—they applaud each
offering with equal politeness.
The success of the concerts in the
Botanic Gardens has raised a discus-
sion as to the advisability of encouraging
the assemblage of large audiences in such
a place. It is argued that destruction can
be caused there by even the most orderly
crowd. Those who take this line point
out that the Botanic Gardens contain
many rare plant specimens—a legacy
from Baron von Mueller, first curator,
whose policy was the collection of scien-
tifically interesting rather than decora-
tive plants.
Probationer nurses at Prince Henry’s
Hospital have been complaining about
their living quarters. Evidently the
younger generation of nurses has little
time for the old uncomplaining bear-
everything and say-nothing tradition of
their vocation. Prince Henry’s proba-
tioners catch the eye because they still
wear the black stockings and little winged
caps of a generation ago, and the effect
is very attractive, too, though most of
they don’t seem to think so. They’re
often to be seen snatching a cup of coffee
between shifts at spots near the hospital.
Conversation is often shop, and fellow-
coffee-sippers overhear gruesome scraps.
Lord Mayor Nettlefold’s reception for
the Dutch Cabinet Minister, Dr. Van Mook,
saw gathered together the womenfolk of
Dutch and Chinese officials here as well
as those of the local citizenry. Chinese
women, among them the wife of Chinese
Minister Wang, were the most decora-
tive, with their bright garments and
smooth, black hair. Dutch women who’ve
come among us are statuesque and mostly
fair, as one expects Hollanders to be. The
Lady Mayoress did the honors of intro-
ductions to Dr. Van Mook, standing be-
side the Lord Mayor.
Announcing their engagement on brief
leave (she’s now back in Perth and he’s
northward bound) Section Officer Coral
Clabburn, W.A.A.A.F., and Flight-Lieut.
William Bowie MacDonald, R.A.A.F.,
called friends together for a small cele-
brating party last week. Coral was one of
the first W.A.A.A.F. recruits (her number
is six), so it’s fitting that she’s betrothed
to a member of the winged service.
Flight-Lieut. MacDonald, whose home
town is Ballarat, is a medical graduate
of Melbourne Uni., where he took his
degree two years ago. The pair have
marriage plans for next leave, but add
“whenever that’s going to be.” Coral is
pictured here.
A girl who will take a lot of good
wishes with her when she leaves for Syd-
ney is Muriel Howard. Her singing at
Botanic Gardens open-air concerts (which
draw thousands) has struck popular
fancy, as she has a particularly smooth
and lilting soprano, voice. At the Boxing
Day concert the Lord Mayor was so
pleased by it that he asked for an encore.
She is going Sydneywards under contract
to the Firm, and will appear in Gilsulli-
van and (if there are any) other musical
shows. Frank Tait picked her when he
heard her on Albert-street Con.’s end-of-
term opera night. She did a full course
at the Con., and was continuing singing
studies under Clive Carey when the
chance of a stage engagement came.
Thomas Matthews and wife Eileen
Ralph have simply hypnotised Mel-
bourne. At their concerts in the Assembly
Hall every seat is taken, with society well
represented. Their interest in each other’s
music is charming to see. At Thomas’s
big concerto concert Eileen, who didn’t
play, sat at the back listening, absorbed.
When Eileen had her Rachmaninoff
night at the piano Thomas just haunted
the place. The Dutch Allies were there,
too, in rows on rows. Their great in-
terest is the chamber music of the dear,
dead days when Mozart and Bach drew
together folks who now shoot each other
on sight.
The study of mankind among local re-
search workers has been extended to
include the aborigines. Mrs. Kelly, of
Sydney, passed through this village shak-
ing her head and refusing to answer ques-
tions, but it is understood that her atten-
tion is riveted on the half-caste problem.
Miss Helen Alder, of the Church Mis-
sionary Society, has been explaining that
these people, bright and intelligent, are
hungry for education, which the church
feels it should supply. Half-castes, Miss
Alder says, are now very numerous, and
their numbers are increasing.
From Sydney
The almost complete absence of domes-
tic help is hard enough to bear for the
business or professional woman running
her own little flat. But when this scarcity
hits the expectant mother who already has
two or three small children to look after
it is time that something was done to
ease the situation. Surely in the interests
of the unborn child a woman should
know tranquillity of mind previous to
the birth. But there can be no mental
calm for the parent knowing that while
she is in hospital her children at home
may be left without adequate supervision.
Could not domestic help available be
pooled, and so regulated that the house-
hold with the greatest need should have
its SOS first attended to?
If Sydney householders have anything
left after the visit of the taxgatherer the
Red Cross is cheerfully prepared to strip
them of the remnants. Following up its
last year’s success in the china and glass
trade —it netted a clear £5OO0 —the
Special Appeals Auxiliary is going into
the same business again. Here are a few
of the treasures they would like, and that
quickly: books (but they must be valu-
able), clocks (when most of us have to
run up to the sundial in the Botanic Gar-
dens when we want the time), cutlery,
tiger and bear skins, stamp collections,
pictures (particularly oil paintings by
artists of repute), pianos, violins, chan-
deliers, chairs, sea chests, ancient and
modern jewellery, old silver and watches.
All Australia knows the splendid job
that war photographer Damien Parer has
done. But he didn’t get, nor want, a
negative from Elizabeth Marie Cotter.
After a six days’ engagement the two
were made one at St. Mary’s, North Syd-
ney, Elizabeth Marie was formerly of the
Attorney-General’s staff' in Canberra.
Damien served memorably with a photo-
graphic unit in the Middle East and in
New Guinea. Now he is with Paramount
Films. There were no bridesmaids, but
the ’groom had Ron Williams for best
man. Father Murphy, S.J., said the
Nuptial Mass, assisted by the ’groom’s
brother. The bride wore blue. Her
toque was cherry-colored.
When the Welsh hear Gwen Howard
lift her mezzo-contralto in their native
songs nearly as old as Snowden itself
they want to come up singing and cheer-
ing at the same time. Gwen learned her
songs in the principality itself, and the
language that has almost given the K.O.
to vowels runs off her tongue like silk.
The singer came to Australia from Singa-
pore (her married name is Pedlow), where
her husband was a Judge. Now
Mrs. Pedlow makes her home with us.
She has already given four recitals of
Welsh songs over national broadcasts,
and gives her services to many good
causes. On Friday, the 31st of this
month, she will sing at the Macquarie
auditorium to help the 2GB Community
Chest and military camp comforts.
“Friendly” is the word for the
committee that ran last week’s G.P.O.
art exhibition. From chairman Percy
Way, whose entrancing photographic
study of a Persian cat won first prize
by public vote one penny a time
—everybody concerned worked like
beavers. Noreen Blayney and Albert
Payne helped greatly with the success.
Bert’s recreations are water-colors and
writing humorous verse.
The exhibition was in the concert-
room in the old part of the G.P.0., and
the brass-bound stairs leading up were
draped with flags. More flags at the top
of the landing stressed the patriotic note,
a right setting for the show, which was
to aid Noreen Blayney’s pet seals —of the
Red Cross family. Deputy-Director of
Post and Telegraphs R. Hamilton made
a neat opening speech. Mrs. Nigel Smith,
who directs the seals’ progress, was there
representing Red Cross.
Water-colors by one of the P.M.G.’s
handmaidens, E. D. Stewart, hold quiet
charm and good drawing. Then there
was the modelling by Gwyneth Car-
ruthers. These are ships of war, done to
scale, tiny and feather-light and accurate
to every detail. She carves them in balsa
with a penknife. Her model of
the Ark Royal even holds three types of
’planes on its deck. The hospital ship
Oranje is a perfect miniature. Every
worker in the G.P.O. who went
in for drawing, painting, modelling or
photography sent in entries —even the
small messenger boys. Places were
awarded by votes, and all money went
to the Red Cross. Forty-five pounds in
all the three days netted.
Principal Harriet Root and other ladies
of the U.S. Library of Information were
special guests of the president and com-
mittee of the Lyceum Club last week.
Eighty or so members were there in
time for the speeches which were made
by president Mrs. John Metcalfe, Miss
Root and vice-president Mrs. A. G.
Thomas. Flowers, as usual, were radiant,
and were spoil from members’ gardens.
A pretty young singer with the Welsh
name of Mair Rhydderch sang in a fresh
mezzo-soprano voice. Lilian Frost
played the accompaniments.
The lucky-dip and sweet stall at the
coming fete in Government House
grounds will be helped by the Blue Bon-
nets, This is not akin to any colored-shirt
movement, but just part of the group of
the Edgecliff-Woollahra branch of the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital Auxi-
liary. At a recent meeting in Mrs.
Roland Foster’s home it was revealed
that lucky competitions run by these
workers would have a fruit-preserving
outfit, half a dozen of sherry, a monster
basket of groceries (to be seen in Searl's
window almost any day now) and an
outsize box of sweets among the prizes.
Mrs. C. P. Johnson, secretary of the day,
was at the meeting to help cheer things
along.
A letter from a Sydney theatre-lover
in London tells of the glittering Ivor
Novello show “Arc de Triomphe.” The
dressing of Mary Ellis, the star, must
ravish the hearts of England’s clothes-
couponpd women. There’s a billowing
and coy rose-and-white organdie, a grace-
ful and expensive-looking grey-white
number with a hibiscus-red off-the-
shoulder scarf effect, and, of course, dig-
nity in black velvet and a foaming jabot
of white lace. Paris before, during and
after the last war is the background for
the operetta, which is rich with haunting
numbers. A fancy-dress party in a barge
on the Seine is, one of the big scenes.
The Lunchtime Music Club is still serv-
ing luscious snacks of harmony between
ten minutes past one and one-fifty one
Monday a month. Last Monday Olga and
William Krasnik joined piano and viola
in sonatas by Brahms and Dittersdorf.
The next concert will be on April 17.
Pianist Joyce Greer, who, just in the
early twenties, has won much acclaim, was
married last week to painter Denes de
Holesch after a ten days’ courtship. Two
days after their first meeting they were
engaged. Joyce is a Melbourne girl, and
her father, S. L. Greer, must have been a
bit surprised to learn that his daughter,
who had left their St. Kilda home to play
her part in the Russian musical festival,
had added matrimony to her Harborside
plans. The artist is Hungarian, and came
here from Bali five years ago. Indeed, it
was a request that he be allowed to paint
her portrait that drew the two together.
The bride wore afrock of rose-white crepe.
There will certainly be a revival of the
fashion of locket-wearing by the time
the Mother-and-Child Competition is
over. The contest is open to every
mother and child in N.S.W. who care to
pair off together. For instance, the parent
of 12 can nominate each of her fledglings,
but each paust be separately named and
the forms signed by mother. There is
no entrance fee, but the winners are
those who produce the most money,
whether by straight-out donations, sale
of # votes or organising of money-raising
enterprises. The Crown-street Women’s
Hospital is looking forward to a golden
harvest from this special jubilee effort.
It’s a pretty safe bet, too, that all the
families concerned will shrine the photo-
graphic reproductions of their contes-
tants. Inquiries should be sent to G.P.O.
Box 1921, Sydney. Closing date is
Mother’s Day, May 14.
Talking of mothers and babes brings
to memory the story of a young parent
who won a turkey at a before-Christmas
party. The prize was to go to the person
who judged the bird’s weight correctly.
One mother slid her hands under the
bird and gave it a gentle lift, then
quietly marked her card. Her answer
was right to an ounce. She explained
“When I gave the turkey the little lift
I knew it was the exact weight of my
baby Johnnie.”


For Blood, Veins, and Arteries
biet 8
Ta
registered
Take It—Anil Stop Limping!
17VERY sufferer should test this wonderful new Biomedical treatment,
which brings quick relief from pain and weariness and creates within
the system a new health force, overcoming
ditions, and arousing to full activity the inherent
the body. No ailment resulting from poor or sluggish circulaUon of
the blood can resist tlje action of “Elasto.” Varicose £fins are pestered
to a healthy condition, the arteries become suppie, skin troubles clear
up, and leg wounds heal naturally. There is quick relief P i
and rheumatism in all its forms. This is not magic. J* the wjunu
result of revitalised blood and improved circulation brought about oy
"Elasto” — the tiny tablet with wonderful healing powers.
Everybody is asking—what is “Elasto”?
rpms question Is fully answered in an interesting booklet, which ex-
J- plains in simple language this amazing method of rewtiahsing me
blood. Your copy is Free, s?e offer below. Suffice it to say here that
“Elasto” is not a drug, but a vital cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus enables Nature to restore elasticity to
the broken-down and devitalised fabric of veins and arteries, and so
to re-establish normal, healthy circulation,Mitoch toere con be
no true healing. NINE TIMES OUT OP TEN THE REAL TROUBLE
IS BAD CIRCULATION.
What Users of “Elasto” say:
“No sign of varicose veins now.”
“Completely healed my varicose
UICCTS.”
“Relieved my Rheumatism and
Neuritis
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
"My doctor marvelled at my quick
recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Rlmoly send your name and address to “ELASTO,” Box 1552 E, Sydney, for your
FREE copy of the interesting “Elasto” booklet. Or, better still, get a supply of
•'Elasto” (with booklet enclosed) from your chemist today and see for yourself
what a wonderful difference “Elasto” makes. Obtainable from chemists and stores
everywhere Price 7/6. one month’s supply.
df
m
m
■r?y
■
m
There’s enterprise, ingenuity,
and long hours of plain hard work
behind the war job done by private
industry in Australia. There’s a fine
team spirit, too . . . helping each other to
get the job done well, and quickly.
Guns, shells, aircraft, bombs, food, clothing,
medical supplies and many other essentials . . .
Today practically every factory, large or small, is
contributing something to the mighty flow of Aus-
tralia’s war production.
The men and women on our production front have
done a job with which all Australians have good
reason to be satisfied. The importance to Aus-
tralia’s future of the new manufacturing ability
and facilities which have grown up under the stress
of war cannot be over-estimated,
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEO LTD.
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
BEDFORD BUICK CADILLAC CHEVROLET
G. M. C. OLDSMOBILE PONTIAC VAUXHALL
Keep on buying INar Saving*) Certificate*) and
National Savingv Bondd
C U 8 ■ 27
The
FACTORIES ARE
DOING THEIR JOB
SMOKE-OH!
“Gwen, although generally prudent, had
acquired a habit of horse-riding in shorts almost
indelicately abbreviated. ’’ — Serial.
It remains for her to ape Lady Godiva,
who seems to have had a peculiar habit,
though not one that could be worn. ,
•F *F *F *F
“My husband came home too drunk to speak,
bit me on the shoulder and went out' again for
more drink.” — Divorce evidence.
He not only ignored her, but gnawed
her.
•I- *l' »F *F
“The tiniest touch of eye shadow on the lids
will add emphasis.”— Woman’s paper.
And stress your inane look.
“It may amuse the young people of today
to learn that, as a girl, I was too shy to go
in and buy my underclothing from the local
storekeeper.”
—lnterview with an oldest inhabitant.
Even now there are flappers too shy to
go in
And buy dainty undies they’d seen
Displayed in a window, as tempting as
sin —
Too shy, though, of coupons, we mean:
F. M.
•J*
“Income-tax forms have reached the Eskimo.”
—Weekly paper.
The lag will be discovered in 30 years’
time.
•F *F *F *F
“A high officiaTin Cairo can only speak while
sitting down.” — “World’s News.”
He simply can’t stand making speeches.
Simple.
“When flies are troublesome during a meal,
place a few pieces of crushed mint on the table.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
Place some mint upon the table? Hints
like that might do for kids. But a man
who’s really able and intelligent bets
quids that a simple method’s better. So,
for comfort at a meal, you must use a
bit of strategy. It’s obvious, we feel.
Put sugar on the table! This attracts
the flies galore. Then, to eat your meal
in comfort, simply get down on the floor.
E.
“Thanks to artificial aids, a woman may
not look her age.”— “Home Journal.’'’
But she may overlook it.
Amnesia.
Ah, love! Could Thou and I with Fate
conspire
To grasp this sorry scheme of things en-
tire —
Those words are Omar’s, I at once advise,
So please don’t tell me that I plagiarise ;
Such thieving, to this poet’s way of think-
ing.
Is far more sinful than excessive drink-
ing ;
And I made use of the above quotation
Merely for purposes of illustration;
And so, as I was saying when we met —
What was I saying ? Dammit! I forget!
T. W. NATHAN.
The New Order.
The queen was in her counting-house
Adding up the shekels;
The mqid was at a beauty parlor
Getting rid of freckles;
The king was in the laundry
Boiling up the clothes.
When in flew a tax-bird
And pecked off his nose.
G.E.W.
Half-hours with the Great.
“Einstein Baffled by Income-t'ax Form.” ;
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
The great mathematician motioned me
to a seat on a broken astrolabe near his
desk, which was littered with untidy piles
of logarithms and square roots. # I told
him about my income-tax troubles. Toy-
ing absently with a second-hand quantum
theory as he spoke, the professor told me
about his own.
“This form,” he said, “appears to be
a hyperbolic function of the square root
of minus one, which as you know is an
imaginary number. 1 am in fact almost
persuaded that this is an imaginary form,
but that would be merely the easy way
out, dodging realities.”
“The papers say the tax lag is imagin-
ary,” I put in hopefully. ,
“That, of course, has now been re-
duced to its lowest terms —in this case 25
per cent, of an imaginary quantity, or
about £67 18s. 2d. in round figures,” the
great man replied. “From that I will
leave you to deduce the imaginary
number itself, taking into account Major
Douglas’s celebrated dictum, A plus B
times A minus B equals A squared minus
B squared.”
“So you can’t help me fill this in,” I
said.
“My quadratic oath I can’t!” the pro-
fessor replied. “I can’t make head or tail
of it myself. My most notorious theory
is understood by only three people in the
world. It is my opinion that the man
who designed this form is one of them,
and that he knows a good deal more
about my theory than I do.”
And, taking his income-tax form over
to a small differential calculus which
stood in the corner of the room, the pro-
fessor fed the paper into the machine,
turned the handle, inspected the resulting
papier mache with some satisfaction, and
ushered me out into his oak-panelled
time-space continuum again.
PLUM.
Too Late!
“Danger Signals from Your Feet.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
As homeward bound I trudge, dead beat,
I pick up signals from my feet.
They tell me, in effect, that I
Undoubtedly personify
Sheer asininity. But when,
My skirmishes with books and tote
I’m hurrying towards, ’tis then
/ wish they’d sound their warning note!
P.M.
With a Kick.
“A new drink evolved by the array authori-
ties in India is called Teacider. With the taste
and alcoholic content of English apple cider,
it is made from tea, sugar and yeast.”
The innovation, when adopted in the
civilian sphere, should prove most popu-
lar among boardinghouse proprietresses.
A heavy “collar” on the new-style board-
inghouse tea would effectively camouflage
the faintly-tinted hot water beneath. Also,
given in large quantities to boarders im-
mediately before the evening meal they
would be likely to mistake the Dobbin
rump for a porterhouse.
So far as new drinks for our own
troops are concerned, the research chem-
ists attached to the Army Canteen Ser-
vices have not been idle. Among the
latest discoveries the following beverages
have proved most popular:
Cocoavodka: Where as anyone taking
ordinary vodka neat has to make a quick
dive to get into an iron lung for half an
hour until he can fight to get his own
breath back it was found that if the tipple
was weakened by the addition of suffi-
cient hydrochloric acid it could then be
mixed with cocoa without causing an
explosion. After three weeks’ maturing
cocoavodka becomes so mellow that it
takes as long as ten minutes to eat the
bottom out of a service water bottle. Aftei
taking two mouthfuls an A.I.F. corporal
threw off everything but his canvas ank-
lets and, armed only with a drooping
snapdragon, chased 150 Japs out of the
Ramu Valley.
Coffeesling: This refreshing tropical
drink, made by soaking a handful of
Mocha coffee beans with a pound of
shellac in a gallon of gin, has been found
to be an excellent beverage for troops
who are slightly “troppo.” The coffee
in it won’t Ipt them sleep, and the gin
won’t let them stay awake. The conse-
quent bewilderment as to what they are
doing makes them forget all about the
other condition. The drink, owing to the
shellac, which varnishes the stomach, thus
protecting it from rust in the wet season,
can also be used to smear over the hair
and keep the hat glued on in windy
weather.
Piturimilk : Milk, so non-alcoholic that
even a baby can soak up half a gallon
without the desire to burst into “Sweet
Adeline,” has been found to combine
perfectly with the bark of the pituri, the
abo.’s grog tree, ISo potent is the
resultant concoction that half a cup of
it poured into the sea off the N.Q. coast
brought to the surface a dugong, which
immediately took on a reef eel, a shark
and an estuarine crocodile. The troops
love it.
BO.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4od. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
These Securities
Between World Wars I and II demo-
cratic politicians abroad and all the local
ones were busy selling to the electors a
commodity blessed with the name of
“Collective Security.” It required the
invasion of Czechoslovakia to make
them and the electors realise that the
commodity was merely a trance-inducing
dope. In the upshot, as all know now,
it was the dope that provoked World
War 11.
This time, nothing daunted, our own
politicians are resolved to be first in the
field with a nostrum, and have announced
a new cure for all human ills, christened
“Social Security.” They ask that we en-
trust them with more power over us and
vote them in again. Thereupon, with-
out a premature disclosure of the
prescription, so as to avoid vulgar criti-
cism, they will administer the magic
cure-all and lead us into a Promised
Land where economics cease from troub-
ling and the debtor is at rest.
Until we have national security we
should be wiser not to concern ourselves
about any lesser or debatable form of it.
This is the lesson which the world in
general and Europe in particular are being
taught even now. Judged by the activi-
ties of its politicians it is a lesson lost
upon Australia. —F. P. Evans (N.S.W.).
A Post-war Plan
An English friend writes me of a
scheme which he claims will solve at one
blow the problems of post-war unem-
ployment, migration and the restlessness
of demobilised soldiers faced with a stay-
at-home, humdrum existence.
He suggests that, when the army is
done with the troops, whole units (engi-
neers especially) should be shipped to the
Dominions, their families being sent to
join them ; and that they should under-
take the big engineering and construction
schemes which are needed in every
Dominion.
He says that army engineers who have
been working wonders in Iraq, Syria,
Nigeria and other places will not want to
settle down in England (though doubtless
there will be plenty of construction
needed there, too), and will be ideally
trained and equipped for tackling the
great schemes of water-conservation,
hydro-electric works, road, rail and
bridge-building needed to develop the
Dominions.
Finance is not mentioned, nor possible
trade-union reaction ; but despite these
difficulties the idea seems worth discuss-
ing.—J. O. (N.S.W.).
Thrift Does Pay
Margaret Don (B. 15/3/’44) has (un-
intentionally it would seem) conveyed the
opposite view about thrift to that which
she intended. The facts are all against her.
A single old-age pensioner receives 275,
weekly. The minimum taxable income
is £lO5 per annum, and the taxation rate
is negligible, being only 6d. in the £ over
£2 weekiy until a higher income is
reached. Many are on £2 weekly as a
result of superannuation payments ; thus
thrift gains them 13s. weekly. The maxi-
mum income allowable by the Pensions
Department when including the full pen-
sion of 275. is 395. 6d. weekly per person.
The superannuated person, if married,
has an income of £2 weekly estimated by
the Pension Department to be divided be-
tween himself and his wife. Then an
amount is given to each to reach 395. 6d.
weekly, a total of 395. for the two of
them, making a total income of 795. Here
thrift’s reward is about 21s. weekly, as
the taxation on 795. is only about 4s.
weekly or a lower rate if the income is
lower.
It should be noted also that only in
war-time is taxation,so high as at present
and the taxable income level so low.
Peace-time, therefore, has greater rewards
for thrift. As no income is taxed 20s. in
the £, the thrifty schoolteacher who in-
vested his money would, even if he were
a millionaire, also be better off, and more
so in peace-time.— Ajax (Vic.).
The income-tax Slug
Aren’t the opponents of pay-as-you-
earn taxation, including The Bulletin,
burying their heads in the sand?
Take the case of a man who dies on
June 30, 1944. Under the existing taxa-
tion law his executor is required to lodge
an income-tax return to the date of death,
and to pay the full amount of tax assessed
on that return. The testator’s estate is
therefore saddled with a liability for a
full year’s tax. In the case of a man with
few assets who had been earning, a high
income during his lifetime this liability
for tax is often a very onerous burden
for the widow. I know this from experi-
ence as an officer of a trustee co. which
also carries on an extensive taxation
agency business.
Why argue about the so-called “lag”
year? Whatever we call it, the fact re-
mains that under existing taxation law
the “lag” of 12 months does exist. Re-
ferring back to the 1915-16 Acts doesn’t
help when the executor gets a testator’s
assessment for the period to date of
death. }ie —or the testator’s widow—
must still find the money to pay the tax.
Payment of 25 p.c. of the “lag” year’s
tax appeals to me as an extremely favor-
able proposal. We pay the 25 p.c. now
and are thus assured against a heavy
assessment being issued against our
estates after death.
Few people would suffer hardship by
payment of the 25 p.c. now, when money
is plentiful and ways of spending it are
few, while if we lose the chance now
through our howls of wrath we will
“Where to, Soldier?”
sooner or later pay the full 100 p.c.,
which in most cases will mean that our
widows must foot, the bill after our
deaths.
Opponents of the scheme object to
paying 15 months’ tax in one year, but
isn’t it worth while, in the circumstances?
—Trust Officer (S.A.).
Why ill this howling and quibbling
about taxes? We do not hesitate to take
and enjoy the things that are provided
for our use out of their expenditure.
We live in safety from foreign inva-
sion. We have a police force to protect
us from criminals, hospitals to cure our
ills, roads on- which we may travel freely,
cheap transport, parks, gardens, libraries,
museums, art galleries, all of which the
poorest of us may enjoy to the full. We
have political squabbles to entertain us,
expert assistance to help us with our
work and to keep us free from disease.
In war-time a certain amount of the
money spent must be raised by taxation.
What does it matter how this tax is
labelled? Christen some of it a 25 p.c.
surcharge on 1942-43 or a 75 p.c. under-
charge on 1943-44 ; what does it matter?
The money must be collected anyway
and any argument about the name should
be deleted from the news by the censor as
part of the paper-saving campaign.
If people could be made to ponder
sensibly and clear their minds of preju-
dice, objections to taxation would soon
disappear, and special forms would have
to be designed for those wishing to add
large voluntary contributions to their
normal assessment. —F. M. C. (R.A.A.F.).
I offer “Navvy” (B. 22/3/’44) a little
enlightenment on his taxation-lag prob-
lem. If his son became liable for taxation
deductions on April 1, 1943, owing to the
introduction of the new scale on that
date, and his earnings for period July 1,
1942, to June 30, 1943, did not amount
to £lO4, he should have lodged an income-
tax return to June 30, 1943, and would
have received an exemption certificate
which would entitle him to his full pay
until March 31, 1944, and a refund of
any amounts, with interest, deducted for
period April 1, 1943, to date of receipt
of such certificate.
No individual wage- or salary-earner’s
income should be subject to deductions in
the first year of employment.— Taxation
Group Officer (N.S.W.).
The Complete Circle
Being older than any member of the
Federal Cabinet which cannot discipline
its own followers, let me recite some poli-
tical history as seen from Vutside the
Labor movement. The party came into
existence on the theory that Jack was as
good as his master. Followed naturally
that Jack was exhorted to stand up to the
boss —the capitalist. When that doctrine
had soaked in sufficiently the converts
began (by instruction from the leaders of
the party) to talk back to the foreman,
and didn’t mince words when they dis-
agreed with the wage-payer himself.
The first men who did that achieved
martyrdom by getting the sack. But they
stuck to their principles, and there came
the day when so many workers were
giving cheek to the boss that, in some
cases, he found he could not sack the
lot without bringing his business to a
standstill and wiping out his livelihood.
In other cases the men did not wait to
be sacked. They walked off the job, and
others followed suit —the origin of the
sympathy strike.
That is the doctrine Labor leaders
preached for nearly half a century, with
such success that the long-fought-for hap-
pened : the majority workers found them-
selves able to outvote the minority em-
ployers and put a Labor party into power.
Now Labor rules the country, and
Labor is the boss.
Quite naturally the boss is being defied
and backchatted by the men —the workers
as a whole, or, at any rate, by those
who vote for Labor. Probably the major-
ity of those who are faithfully observing
the Government’s regulations are those
politically opposed to it. Labor Min-
isters, if in the brief intervals of
listening to slack from the workers, they
have time to read “The Merchant of
Venice,” will find an apt quotation
in old Shylock’s “The villainy you teach
me I will execute.” — Time Marches On
(N.S.W.).
Co-operate or Perish
The prosperity of Australian farmers
is dependent upon their ability to co-
operate with one another and take con-
trol of the distribution and marketing
of their produce.
Government should do all in its power
to -bring about the co-operation of all
farmers within a certain radius of the
market to which they send their produce,
and help them, if necessary, to acquire a
suitable building for a produce agency
where their produce can be exhibited and
sold to the best advantage. Incorporated
in this should be a processing plant and
machinery to treat by-products, such as
the canning of fruit and vegetables and
the extracting and bottling of fruit juices.
All waste must be eliminated so that
the grower may get full reward for his
labors, which he would do if he were a
shareholder in the business.
Much would depend on getting the
right kind of men in charge, but I feel
sure they could be found among the
growers themselves.
It is quite evident that the grower is
not getting the full benefit of his labor
under the present system. I quote prices
of a few lines in Townsville, and ask the
suppliers to this market what they receive.
Plums Is. 6d. pound, peaches Is. 4d.
pound, bananas (large) 3s. dozen, smaller
2s. 6d., grapes 2s. 6d. to 3s. pound, apples
Is. pound (equivalent to 4s. a dozen). —
Bill M. (Q.).
The Booze Business
I agree that the liquor trade should be
run for the benefit of the people, but 1
suggest that, while breweries and distil-
leries should be conducted as Govern-
ment undertakings, retail trading should
be vested in municipalities, which should
he responsible for the management and
control of all licensed premises.
I also propose (1) that the alcoholic
content of beer, spirits and fortified wines
be materially reduced; (2) that bars
should be abolished from hotels and
cafes (without cubicles) substituted ;
(3) that the hours, of trading be from
noon to midnight (including Sundays
if the municipality so desires); (4)
that during trading hours hotels be com-
pelled to serve meals and light refresh-
ments, as well as non-alcoholic bever-
ages ; (5) that hotels provide sleeping ac-
commodation and the necessary adjuncts,
as required ; and (6) that bottled liquor
be sold, not at hotels, but at entirely sepa-
rate stores or depots, and only between
noon and 6 p.m.
If we Australians do not learn how to
use drink properly, and to separate the
idea of drinking frcm the idea of get-
ting “merry” or “half-shot,” we shall
deserve all that the Prohibitionists can
do to us. —N. R. W. (Vic.).
Kimberley Settlement
Opinions are given on the above topic
(B. 2/2/’44) by two contributors, one
who admittedly doesn’t know anything
about it, “J.G.,” and one who knows
all about it, Herbert Yeates, M.L.A. (Q.).
To my mind “J.G.” is the wiser.
The M.L.A. suggests that a committee
be formed to investigate the possibility
of tenanting that piece of land enclosed
by 25 lat. and 130 long., otherwise from
the Gascoyne across to the Rawlinsons
and from Rawlinson to, presumably,
Wyndham in the north.
There is no one more keen than myself
to see cities built around the Barlees and
the Ophthalmia Ranges and see lakes Dis-
appointment, Christopher, Auld, George,
Macdonald and White with seething
populations around their salt-crusted
shores.
I should like to see the Canning stock
route humming to the tune of cable trams
and the hot deserts that swallow their
6in. rainfall like blotting-paper turned
into rural Utopias. Yes, I should like
to see it populated after the war with
Hitler, Tojo and their gangs of New
Order minstrels, for this would be a far
more effective method of extinction for
these warmongers than sterilisation.
Apart from the speculative rainfall in
this region, even supposing it had a guar-
anteed fall of 20in., the country is par-
ticularly unsuited to irrigation or water
conservation. The topography lends itself
little to artificial watering and the
seasonal waterways are mostly shallow
sandbeds running through arid land re-
markably deficient in mineral content.
Very few of these waterways are suit-
able for damming, and if they were
dammed the back water would soak into
the thirsty ground faster than it would
pour through the sluices.
Assuming that this territory was the
answer to a closer-settlement crank's
dream, and that bananas, castor beans,
pineapples, pawpaws, peanuts, coconuts,
olives and (I’ll go the whole hog) tea and
rice could be grown there, what are Mje
going to do with such production? Who
wants it?
By the time these commodities are
dragged out of the interior they will be
so expensive or rotten that the consum-
ing portion of the southern population
will prefer the cheaper article from
Malaya and kindred markets.
That 1,000,000 increase in our popu-
lation allotted to us by Mr. Yeates could
be more profitably settled in the corner
within lat. 30 south and long. 120 west,
where tens of thousands of acres have
never borne the imprint of a human foot
and there is an assured rainfall of 20in.
to 40in.
Mr. Yeates need not be ashamed, how-
ever, of his optimistic view. It has pro-
vided material for newspaper articles for
the last 30 years. And a thousand years
hence ambitious politicians will still be
saying the same thing about the Kim-
berleys, and the sheep country will still
be supportihg one woolly to the 100
acres. — Cadjibutt Banshee (W.A.).


Cleanliness Makes
Happy Workers
■ •
Working Conditions
. that Please Steelmen
Shower rooms like
a first class hotel.
There’s a cubicle like
this to every five
workers on the
B.H.P. plant.
No pools of oil here, for workers to slip and hurt themselves. “A place for
everything’ is B.H.P. Cleanliness motto. Perhaps that’-s why Australia produces
steel at lower cost than anywhere else in the world.
Clothes last longer, tempers don't get frayed, and energy lasts in surroundings
like these. Australian workers are happy in clean surroundings.
One level crossing where they DON’T have accidents! The straight run for locos,
and the built-up, cleanly-swept wooden crossing prevents accidents.
The days when you could tell a steel worker by his dusty '{ ace —and
his weary step as he trudged home, are gone forever. Today’s steelmen
work just as hard as their fathers did—-production figures show that —but
they do their vital war job in surroundings where dirt and dust have
been reduced to a point which would have amazed the workers of thirty
years ago. And before they leave the works they can freshen themselves
up with a shower—a hot shower in a specially designed shower room
which would put a fashionable Club to shame.
At meal time—lunch tins and thermos flasks are opened in the spot-
lessly clean locker rooms—-away from oily machines or flying ashes.
The Broken Mill Proprietary is extremely proud of the new order
that it has pioneered in working conditions—designed to reduce tiredness
and prevent accidents through cleanliness.
And like the Safety Campaign-—an enormous success-—due to truly
wonderful co-operation between the management and workers the
Cleanliness Campaign has had the whole-hearted support of everybody
at B.H.P.
B.H.P. Cleanliness Campaign was started in 1923. It has prevented many
accidents and many suggestions by workers have gone into its working.
A meal away from dust and dirt, off a table that shines like a mirror. A real
break from the job which leaves men refreshed.
