

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65. No. 3338.
Wednesday, February 2, 1944.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
Seppelts
BEESTON CASTLE.
BEESTON CASTLE crowns a bold rocky eminence above the
village of the same name near Tarporley in Cheshire. On one
side the rock rises sheer from below, on the other it slopes more
gently. The castle stands quite detached, and its shape is that of
an irregular figure with five sides. It owes its origin to Ranulph,
Earl of Chester, and in the days before modern artillery was
deemed to be quite impregnable. The Earl began his building aftei
his return from the Crusades in 1220, to show his pilgrimage had
inspired him with goodwill to all his neighbors. It was served with
water from a draw-well of incredible depth situated in the chief
tower. In the wars of Simon de Montfort his partisans garrisoned
Beeston, and after the battle of Evesham Prince Edward, after-
wards Edward I, marched here and the garrison suriendered to him.
Richard II is said to have chosen Beeston as his treasure-house,
and gold and jewels deemed to be worth 200,000 marks were
deposited in its vaults. He trusted in vain to the loyalty of his
favorite county and the courage of the picked garrison of 100
men ; for they surrendered, without striking a blow, to the Duke
of Lancaster. We hear little of Beeston until we come to the Civil
War, when it was taken by 300 men of the Parliamentary forces,
who put it into military repair. The Royalists took it, however,
and were in turn besieged. The second siege began in the October
of 1644, and lasted for five months, when Prince Maurice and the
brilliantly reckless Prince Rupert came to its rescue. The next year
saw the final demolition of the fortress, and since then it has been
sinking gradually into decay. Though dismantled and ruined, it is
still a prominent landmark —more picturesque now, probably, thsftt
it was in the days of its greater strength.


Learn
at HOWF
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit om
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin/’ ‘
My Fame
S.B. 244
• AGE.
The Red Page
SYDNEY PICARESQUE.
Like her last novel. The Battlers, Kylie
Tennant’s Ride On, Stranger (Angus and
Robertson) is a picaresque.
Strictly, it is not a desirable form, for
the very reason that it has no form.
Ignoring the canon of Introduction,
Struggle, Suspense, Climax, Falling
Action which novels as well as plays are
bound to observe if they are to bring to
the mind that curious satisfaction that
comes from a completed work of art,
the picaresque is a rambling string of
adventures holding attention only by the
color of its events, by the interest of the
people who appear and retire as it pro-
ceeds, by the commanding interest of the
wayfarer who undergoes its adventures
and meets its people, or simply by the
gusto of the author.
Rules, it may be, were made to be
broken. And they have been trium-
phantly broken by the great picaresques:
Don Quixote, Ad oil planders, Tom Jones
and Joseph Andrews, The Pickwick
Papers and Joyce’s Ulysses. Two Aus-
tralian novels can be added to that list,
Such Is Life and The Pea Pickers.
But when one studies these mighty out-
laws it appears that they obey rules of
their own. Rule 1 is obviously that they
must entertain and continue to entertain.
And to do that, when dramatic suspense
has been discarded, there are certain other
rules, one or another or perhaps all of
which they must observe:
The adventures (usually comic and
often Rabelaisian) must be more than
ordinarily interesting ; the characters met
by the wayside must be more than
ordinarily interesting; the principal
character must be more than ordinarily
interesting; the author must have more
than ordinary gusto. By this definition
Don Quixote is the perfect picaresque.
If it is to be that novel of real excel-
lence which Kylie Tennant is always on
the verge of writing, Ride On, Stranger
has a double necessity for standing up to
comparison with Don Quixote, for it is
not only a picaresque but a satire. Be-
neath its surface jollity, it is meant to be
almost as serious an exploration of the
soul of modern man as Ulysses. Shannon
Hicks, Kylie Tennant’s leading lady, is
more than a girl having adventures with
quack doctors, showmen, religious cranks,
radio stars and Leftists in Sydney: she
is Modern Woman examining and reject-
ing all the popular remedies for the chaos
in which we —as so many before us—find
the world.
There was an opportunity here for a
really great satirical picaresque. If
Shannon or some other principal
character had, like Don Quixote, believed
in all the nonsense ; gope from disillu-
sion to disillusion with Quixote’s wistful
and indestructible credulity; seen wind-
mills and sheep as knights in armor ;
been a figure at once foolish and (because
everyone has an optimist in his soul)
intensely sympathetic, Kylie Tennant
would have written a truly memorable
book. And, very likely, that is the book
she meant to write.
But Ride On, Stranger is a Don
Quixote without Don Quixote. Shannon
is an entirely negative character. Other
people believe in faith-healers, but Shan-
non does pot; other people believe in
crank religions, radio sentimentalities and
the politics of the Left, but Shannon does
not. Other people go to jail, other
people get drunk, other people feel pas-
sion, despair and hope, but—“the deso-
lating truth about-Shannon was that she
did not care. She simply did not care
for anything on earth.”
And that truth is more desolating than
the author meant it to be. Drifting at
the end into a brusque humanism that
makes her kind to neighbors and stray
cats: —-
“There ” she said gloomily, setting the
,°^„ on fl* e floor. “Make a hog of your-
selt. Ihe cat advanced and then looked
up at her. “It’s all right,” Shannon told
her- 111 keep you. Let ’em all come.
Mothers and kids, cats and old women and
old men. Damn it! What am I for?”
Shannon is a symbol of frustration, a
born spinster. After a pale and brief
marriage her husband is dead in the
war; she has been unable to have a
child ; presumably she will greet future
lovers as she greeted those of the past —
with a grim determination to dismiss
them to the “cold, hard pavement”: there
is simply not enough life in her to carry
a reader enthusiastically to the end of a
long picaresque.
The failure to arouse interest in the
central character is probably responsible
for the lesser faults of Ride On, Stranger,
which all seem to result from overstrain-
ing. To compensate for the dullness of
Shannon every other device for sustain-
ing interest in a picaresque is worked to
and beyond its limit. Incident piled on
incident, characters teeming by the hun-
dred, gusto made a cult and a burden ;
the whole a fantastic jumble in which the
excellent descriptions of Sydney scenes
(the Show and the Markets, for instance)
and the flashes of genuine wit, humor
and satire tend to be forgotten.
Kylie Tennant has one of the greatest
virtues a novelist can possess, and one
that in Australia is all too rare —she
writes a lot, and she keeps on writing.
If Ride On, Stranger is not all it might
have been, there are still Tihuron,
Foveaux and The Battlers (all published
since 1935), and there is another -novel,
Time Enough Later, which has been pub-
lished overseas and presumably will reach
Australia before long.
Song and Folk Song .
Lex McLennan, whose ballads from
The Bulletin’s “Aboriginalities” pages
have been published by Dymock’s, Ltd.,
under the title The Spirit of the West, is
a rarity among contemporary balladists
in that he lives in the country he writes
about.
His ballads have come to this office
from Thangool, in the Callide Valley of
North Queensland, and when the Red
Page asked for biographical details to
accompany the review of his book he
wrote;
Many of my ballads are as rough as the
hills they’re written about, but they are
genuine. Many are absolute fact; some,
stories told by bushmen. From a ridge a
mile or so ’from where I’m writing you can
see the white cliffs of “Rideout’s Land”
on a clear day. The pub of “Horsemen’s
Country” [a ballad about the jockey Fred
Shean] is here in Thangool, three miles
from my place.
It’s not, of course, of fundamental im-
portance where a writer lives or how he
acquires his material. He’s just as much
at liberty to draw on memory, tradition
or imagination as on his neighboring
countryside. But in McLennan’s case his
living in the midst of his material has
given his ballads the added significance
of folk poetry.
Putting it down in words for the first
time the folk poet creates a new world.
This is McLennan’s world:
The spear-horned steers of Queensland! The
old grey drovers know
Wild tales of blood and battle, mad rides with
stars aglow;
When, crashing through the thickets on flats the
night-dew damps,
The squadrons of disaster have thundered from
the camps.
Calved to the coastal country, bred on the blue-
grass plains,
Run from the miles of mulga when white foam
creamed the reins,
Their myriad battalions have trooped the. stock
routes down
Since the Gulf was unknown country and Bris-
bane just a town.
A world “all ribbed with broken ridges”
and “endless cliffs and chasms where
cataracts have poured” ; a world of “bold
Kianga bulls whose heritage had been
The nectar of the tree-fringed pools, the
gilgais deep and green”; a world of
“springs where the wild boars wallowed
and hills where red dogs go.”
And in that world “The Last Piker”
gores horse and horseman and the tame
bulls of the stations ; a wild bull, attacked
when a yearling, becomes a hunter of
dingoes ; a dingo bitch evades all efforts
to trap her, even the rifle of “Old Joe
who sniped at Gaza” ; a bustard flees
from the settled country into “the land
where the suns go down, Lost in the
drifts of the Mitchell grasses” ; and there
are the brumbies
Who come with hot hooves spurning while still
the sunset flares;
The whistle of the stallions! The whinny of
the mares!
Men, animals tame and wild, farm-
land and the wild bush, past and present:
so the world is created. McLennan
recognises that Paterson created a world
when he put “The Man from Snowy
River” on the map—
“He hails from Snowy River!”
Still glory gilds that name,
For scores of daring riders
Who won undying fame—
and he has added a few names himself
to the national mind: “rich, red Roma"’;
the hills of Cranga ; the: road to Muswell-
brook; the Lawtons, Juandah run and-
old Taroom; the Dawson River; the
Moonie:
Beside the moaning Moonie in times that long
have fled '
The rum was mild and mellow, the wine was
rich and red,
When cattlemen sat telling the yarns of camp
and road
And bearded teamsters boasted their feats of
trip and load;
While close among the timber they heard the
wild bulls tread
Beside the moaning Moonie in nights for ever
dead.
Except for a few items such as “Bargo
River” and “Thunder Gums,” which say
something that has not been said before,
Will Lawson’s Bush Verses, also pub-
lished by Dymock’s, Ltd., does not add
anything to the national mind in the way
that McLennan’s rhymes do. His pub-
lishers might consider following this
volume with a collection of the whaling
ballads which he has recently been writ-
ing for The Bulletin, and which do
create a new and extremely lively world.
Bush Verses follows a well-worn track
into familiar country, and offers songs
rather than folk songs, all dexterously
written and with a twist of fancy that
should appeal particularly to children:
songs about “the little bush people” who
“paint the red-gum’s bark”; the rain
seen as an army of deliverance ; the wind
as a dancer; the mist as a ghostly
woman ; Nature as a painter; frost as
“The Whitewash Man.”
“Mermaid’s Pool” and “Sundown
Shanties” offer a preview of the world
of uproarious ghosts Will Lawson has
more recently been making his own:
If ever you go through the afterglow
To Sundown’s happy shores,
You’ll find it’s never chilly there,
No need for camp or billy there;
You’ll find old mates in scores,
And, “They’re on the house for your last
carouse,”
The burly barman roars.
Jungle and Desert
Robertson and Mullens have published
in attractive format Handmaids of the
Sun, by Ambrose Pratt, and Until This
Day, by Burton Graham, two sketches of
about 1000 words each, one set in the
desert of North Central Australia and the
other in the New Guinea jungle.
Until This Day, the New Guinea
sketch, is purely a war-time publication,
nicely enough written, but without the
quality to make it of lasting value. De-
scribing the death of a young soldier in
a tranquil and consolatory tone, it has
probably the same value as a message for
the times as had The White Cliffs or The
Snowgoose.
Ambrose Pratt’s essay is likely to have
a permanent life in Australian nature
anthologies. It describes “one absolutely
exquisite experience” in the Centre when
the author, droving cattle, .mistook the
radiance of yfellow everlastings across a
plain for the light of sunrise. The style
has a fine simplicity and both the
“miracle” and the droving journey which
preceded it are re-created with a moving
clarity.
" Southerly"
A note from the latest issue of
“Southerly” (magazine of the Australian
English Association, Sydney):
In the present state of the association’s
finances it will not be possible to publish
the third issue of “Southerly” for the cur-
rent year. This would be a calamity for
Australian literary culture. Is the latest
and most promising of Sydney’s literary
journals to suffer the fate of the others?
The association appeals for new mem-
bers and for donations.
The disappearance of “Southerly”
would certainly be as serious a loss to
the Australian culture as the deaths of
the London “Mercury” and T. S. Eliot’s
“Criterion” were to the English literary
world. For writers it has the same im-
portance as Brisbane “Meanjin Papers”
as a medium where experiments can be
tested out, and for the general reader it
offers two things that have always been
far too rare in Australia —reviews worth
serious attention and, contrasting with
the too-scrappy bits of criticism in
“Meanjin Papers,” the critical essay.
H. J. Oliver’s review of Alfred Hart’s
Stohie and Surreptitious Copies, “a com-
parative study of Shakspeare’s bad
quartos,” and the essay by A. J. A. Wal-
dock on C. S. Lewis’s A Preface to Para-
dise Lost are examples in the current issue
of “Southerly’s” criticism at its best:
lucid, authoritative writing that gives dig-
nity to the whole movement of culture in
Australia,
From Hutchinson and Co., 157 Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne:
The closing date of the Hutchinson literary
competition has been advanced to June 30, 1944.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A dawning dislike on the part of the
Archibald Prize judges for Sunday-suited
smugness has, in recent years, given the
award to painters who would have stood
no chance before a jury actuated by the
sentiments of a committee of subscribers.
For 1943 the arbiters fastened their
choice on the rather cruel jest perpetrated
by William Dobell at the expense of a
brother of the brush. Had J. F. Archi-
bald known a little more about art and
also about law his bequest almost un-
doubtedly would have guarded against
such a freak of fortune as a bunch of
judges who would consider “Hop” a
better portraitist than Longstaff, ,
There is no lack of good portraiture
among the year’s entries. Charles
Wheeler’s “Mrs. E. Rasmussen,” Joshua
Smith’s “Dame Mary Gilmore,” Mary
Edwards’s “Margaret Coen” and Sylvia
Davis’s “Barbara Monroe” are notable
examples of feminine portraiture ; Wil-
liam Dargie’s “Captain E. P. Harty,”
Ernest Buckmaster’s “Lieut.-General
Witham” and William Rowell’s “Air-
Commodore De La Rue” are first-class
portrayals of officers; apd such works as
the portraits of civilians by G. L. Trindal,
Violet Mclnnes, A. P. Colquhoun and
Joan Rowell and the self-portraits of
William Rowell, John Rowell, Wilson
Mawhinney and Joseph Wolinsky are a
justification of Archibald’s faith in a
future for Australian portrait-painting.
The Wynne Prize goes to Douglas
Dundas’s “The Hilltop,” a chocolate-box
pretty-pretty which doesn’t hang together.
Better work is shown by Buckmaster,
Barron, Peisley, Gallop and others.
Elaine Haxton’s rococo murals for a
cafe win the Sulman Prize. James
Cook’s tryptich, although a trifle stylised,
is a sounder pieces of design.
“MacH.”; I have this one sympathy
for- the judges who awarded the Archi-
bald Prize to a portrait that looks like
a yellow willy-willy: Dobell is one of
the only two artists in the current exhibi-
tion whose work shows a strongly indi-
vidual outlook. I don’t think it’s im-
portant to look for the origins of Dobell’s
style ; nor —if a portrait is concerned with
the “spirit” of its subject rather than with
mere photographic likeness —is the artist
to be summarily dismissed because he is
a caricaturist. Had the prize a couple
of years back gone to Dobell’s portrait
of “Scotty” Allen, I would have agreed
that that painting’s exceptional vitality
rendered it unimportant that the airman s
face is not, as a matter of historical fact,
blue. Though one would feel happier
about it if he were 25 instead of 45,
Dobell may have something fresh to con-
tribute to Australian portrait-painting.
But the prize-winning portrait not
Dobell at his best, but at his worst: con-
trasting with the masculine vigor of his
“Scotty” Allen effort, it is arty to the
point of effeminacy, and, like so many
other contemporary paintings, twists in-
dividuality into eccentricity of style on
the completely fallacious assumption that
this is the proper way to achieve origi-
nality. I suspect that the judges were
confused by “S. M. Herald’s” ceaseless
propaganda for anything un-Australian
and sufficiently freakish to have been a
symptom of the decay of France. The
other distinctively individual painter in
the current competition (consistently
ignored in “Herald” communiques) is, of
course, Mary Edwards.
At the talkies:
Robert Greenwood’s character “Mr. Bunting
typified the London suburban paterfamilias
whose twin gods are Respectability and Tra-
dition. He is brought to the screen in “Salute
John Citizen” (Sydney Lyceum). Edward Rigby,
a stopt, neckless stage comedian, takes the role,
and the director has obviously had a terrific
struggle in trying to prevent the exuberant Mr.
Rigby from indulging his natural flair for slap-
stick where straight comedy was called for.
It is nevertheless an engaging, sometimes a
moving, tale. George Robey, almost unrecog-
nisable since being shorn of the mobile hedges
oyer his eyes, is the faithful family friend-
The film has excellent domestic touches, and the
sight of the head of the house analysing the
weekly bills the while his family are planning
new ways of spending his screw will wring a
strangled cry of appreciation from any married
man.
Two new Disneys at Sydney Embassy-'
“Victory Through Air Power” and “Saludos
Amigos”—both show Disney struggling to ex-
tend his range. The first is propaganda f° r
Seversky’s views on air-power, the second 3
queer mixture of fantasy and straight travelogue,
showing Rio in carnival time, Disney beasts
in the pampas country and a baby ’plane doing
an emergency mail flight over the Andes when
its old man gets something wrong with his
cylinder head. No matter where Disney ranges,
his best effects always come from the come®
of babyhood.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY .HORDERNS’
120th Year of Service
I
m
. 10
« v tf ;iU Ta '
vonY Wor p f e-
KhaVA Prffl «-*&. «”?
Ust Qtton DnU. ttordettt s .
uoV aIV , bY A,otVv° nV 95/-.
gO*
ro^ O<V .
0° Ac\
xC V
. .yo* e v* %1 < %vC ,< *V
VVV' '>
c»o,t-
v el 4 v ’o®° V ?< vC
O^’
Fost . f
aetßS are c^t on Post
m
/
455
SB
/
All Wool Men’s Dressing Gowns,
medium weight, and carefully tailored
with silk cord and girdle. In plain shades
of Navy, Maroon, Green, Royal, Fawn
and with a contrasting shade on the collar,
cuffs and pockets. Sizes 36 to 44 ins.
p r i ce £2/16/9 and 15 coupons.
\V
&
Yj
“JUMBUK” Lightweight Natu-
ral Wool Underwear. Under-
shirts with short sleeves and
regulation cut neck. Sizes 34 to
44 ins. Price 10/3 and 5 coupons
“JUMBUK” Natural Wool Un-
derwear of light weight. Ankle
length, light summer weight un-
derpants in sizes 34 to 42 ins.
Price 12/- and 6 coupons
REPROCESSED
TENNIS BALLS
Bring your used Tennis Balls
to our Sports Department . . .
Lower Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. . . . These balls will be
reprocessed, provided the
rubber core is not perished.
. . . You will then have first
call on the new reprocessed
tennis balls.
Can be supplied in Medium
Weight Officers’ style or extra
heavy Military style, in Tan or
Black (unlined). Made in Box
Hide and have extra stout sewn
and standard screwed soles. Full
and half sizes. Price 19/11
6 Coupons.
• Men’s Shoes—Ground Floor, George Street.
ms
m
ANTHONY
Famous
’Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS'
Low Prices
Box 2712 G, G.P.0., Sydney


HOME FROM THE SEA
By S.D.B.
FRED ANDERSON walked into the
kitchen one evening when we were
all sitting at tea, I remember more
than anything the warmth of the
greeting he received from everybody,
especially old Pat, the big cattle-dog.
I had spent many school holidays with
rny grandmother at the big square house
on the cliffs, but I had never seen this
big, fair, smiling chap before. He was
rushed with eager questions as he shook
hands with the men and was introduced
to me.
He stooped to kiss my grandmother on
the forehead—l had not seen her two
sons do that —and when she made to
get up he pushed her back laughing, “I
haven’t forgotten where to get things,”
and went to the cupboard and brought
back knife, fork, spoon and plate. While
eating he did not put his implements
down, but clenched them in large, brown
fists on each side of his plate, the ends
pointing straight to the sky like the masts
of a ship.
After tea the men went out to the back
bedroom—really the end of the verandah
partitioned off. The sound of the sea
drifted through the little window, sleepy
and soft. Even the creeper which grew
thickly over the window seemed to absorb
and muffle it.
The voice of Fred Anderson, as he
sprawled across the far end of the bed,
seemed to be carried along on the sounds
like a dinghy riding a calm sea. It was
a rich voice, young and faintly husky, as
if salted with the winds of travel and
distance. The subject was the sea and
ships—sailing ships—distant ports and
strange people; fights on the canvassed
cargo hatches ; and women. I could sense
the envy of Fred’s experiences in the
voices of the other two.
I T was not until Fred was gone and I
1 was left by myself that I understood
why the name, the vivid blue eyes and
straight, slightly bleached hair were
vaguely familiar. I realised Fred was
one of the Andersens from down on the
flat —Billygoat Flat, a mile-long stretch
°| g'-ey sand, bluebush, speargrass and
pricklejacks which started from the rocks
below the house and ended in a sandy
point barely above the reach of the high
winter tides.
I found it difficult to reconcile Fred
Anderson with the Flat, and yet, down
there among the huddle of little huts, was
one, no more pretentious than the others,
in which he was born. There the whole
Anderson family his grandparent?,
uncles, cousins and their children—lived
under the lee of the point, beside a small
tidal estuary where they beached their
boats.
The old people, White and shaky, had
owned the original flock from which the
flat derived its name. Their sons, in
keeping with the modern trend to look a
little further, had been to some of the
neighboring peninsula towns. Fred’s
father, considered to be the most enter-
prising, owned a battered old truck and
did a little wheat-carting as a supplement
to fishing. For the rest, a small vegetable
plot, a few rabbit-traps and a gun were
sufficient to provide a livelihood.,
As Grandmother said, Fred w6uld
never be satisfied with that s<yt of life.
He was like a single, inspired stroke on
a drab and mediocre canvas—relevant to
the whole and yet somehow dwarfing it.
He had crossed the gulf on a wheat ketch
when only fourteen. He had been a
regular seaman on the three-masters to
Tasmania when he was eighteen, and now,
after a two-year §tay overseas after a
trip to Falmouth on a windjammer from
Port Victoria, he was back in Pine Point
awaiting a call to fresh adventure.
By now he carried books of navigation
under his arm and owned his own com-
pass. His wardrobe included a long, well-
fitting black overcoat with velvet collar
and a bowler hat.
I FOLLOWED his footsteps for two
1 wonderful weeks. We went fishing in
his father’s dinghy; shot hares in the
back paddocks, Fred walking in a long,
free stride that had me almost running.
One evening, after dark, he took me
down to the wharf. We scrambled down
the cliffs and walked along the beach m
the moonlight. The strange sucking
sounds of the sea over the reef were thrill-
ing and frightening to the imagination.
The tide was out, and the two ketches,
side by side in the mud, were ghostly and
mysterious against the distant point. A
kerosene lamp, flickering and smoking
from an untrimmed wick, only deepened
the gloom in the tiny cabin.
The faces of the sailors who were
slouched in comfortable indolence in the
bunks were touched with a glow some-
how luminous. The water of the new
tide was lifting and bumping the ketches
gently in the channel when we left, and
the night was black and very friendly as
we stumbled up the cutting to the road.
The next day Fred received a telegram
in the mail, and the rest of the holiday
seemed strange and empty.
I WAS fifteen and big enough to swing
1 a sledge-hammer in our blacksmith’s
shop when Fred came home again. He
had forsaken sail and had his First Mate’s
ticket. His ship had met with an acci-
dent and he would be home for three
months while she was docked and re-
paired. I had my own trim little dinghy
and we fished as before—running the old
patches off the same old landmarkings.
I was disappointed that he had finished
with sail, but in his new steadiness and
importance he had lost nothing in my
imagination. I thought there was less of
boyish enthusiasm for the sea in his con-
versation and suspected that the dinginess
of steam had something to do with it.
Outside the “shop” was a sleek metal
hull that took most of my spare time.
It had reached the rigging stage, and Fred
helped me prepare it for the water.
Some of the old sparkle came back
into his eyes as he lost himself in the
wizardry of splice and bend. The hands
I had joked about when we were decking-
in made me feel very clumsy whenever
he handled rope and sail.
She was ready for the water long be-
fore I expected. The wind was in the
south, blowing straight up the gulf, chop-
ping the short waves in a smother of
white caps, and I suggested we wait a
day for it to quieten, but Fred was
adamant, “She’s ready, isn’t she? Never
let the weather tell you what to do. Let’s
take her down to the point and back.
It’ll take the stiffness out of her.”
I was not too sure of her ballast, but
you could not thwart enthusiasm like
Fred’s, and the impatient excitement
warmed me, too. We pushed her down
the rollers into the sea. Fred held the
bow and laughed as the waves smashed
against his chest.
Outside the breakers we dropped the
hook and climbed aboard to set the sail.
It flurried frantically as the throat hal-
yard tightened and then rippled nervously
as the gaff pointed to the sky. Some of
our excitement flowed into her and,
with Fred holding the tiller and gathering
the mainsheets, she leaned and swept
away as soon as the headsail turned her
nose out of the wind.
We raced to the point in a few
minutes and her keel stood out of the
water with Fred’s unyielding hand on the
sheets and knee braced against the tiller.
Beating back, we both had our hands
full, and the spray smashed from her
bows and drenched us in showers. I
snatched a quick look at Fred. His eyes,
winking away the salty, beading drops,
were alight with the exhilaration felt
only by a sailor with his craft straining
to the limit of timber and tackle.
Butting in from the last leg, everything
tensed to make the lee of the rocks we
had left in such a hurry, we could see the
watchers from the house standing in a
little bunch on the cliffs. I felt the pride
of ownership surge over me and caught
Fred reading my thoughts and laughing.
About a hundred yards from the shore,
as she swept up into the wind, a faulty
shackle snapped and a sidestay twanged.
In the next minute the mast crashed and
we were struggling in the water, through
writhing canvas and tangled ropes, with
the boat on its side and wallowing.
Luckily, we were well in. She grounded
in three feet of water and we dragged
her to the beach.
I T is hard to know just what to do with
I yourself suddenly dropped down
amongst old surroundings. You no
longer feel yourself part of the atmo-
sphere. The house, the sea whispering
down over the cliffs, the she-oaks down in
the gully—you are somehow a stranger
standing outside an old and friendly
building that had once been home, tenta-
tively knocking.
I took the old track down from the
house to the rocks and stood in the sand
with my back to the red, crumbling mass.
There were still the round rock-pools
with the handful of loose smooth pebbles
in the bottom where I had once placed
small fish caught out on the reef and
watched them swim. I felt a sudden
desire to throw off my city shoes and roll
my trousers—to feel the sharp grit of wet
sand between my toes, to squelch out
through the bog to the reef and crunch
the bunches of grapeweed and see the
water squirt as the yellow skins burst.
But the tide was in, almost lapping at
my feet, and there were voices on the
beach.
Up towards the point two children
were running and shouting, and a man,
probably their father, was netting the
weed patches marked by the old, upright
sticks. I was tempted to walk along,
but somehow slipped back into my own
thoughts. A child’s voice, close at hand,
made me look up. Standing a few feet
away, with head down, smiling shyly,
knees rubbing and one big. toe poking
the sand, was a boy, fair and blue-eyed.
“Dad says do you want some fish.”
He raced back up the beach with me
following.
The fisherman had just turned his
dinghy and_ was backing her on the
beach. As I arrived he was standing in
water to his knees and one leg of his
trousers was rolled tightly over a massive
thigh. The other had slipped down and
flapped, sodden, round his leg as He
stepped ashore.
He tossed the end-weight on the net
board and turned round with a genial
smile on his face. A smile that leaped
and became personal, then died as re-
cognition struck home. It came again
awkwardly as we shook hands and
selected fish from the basket he carried
from the dinghy. We talked stupidly of
his children while he threaded a length
of thin copper wire through the eyes and
handed them to me. He would accept
no payment and laughed off my sugges-
tion. “Couldn’t charge you for fish off
these patches!”
I wanted to,get away. I sensed now
that, if he had known it was me leaning
by the rocks, he would never have sent
his son to ask me about fish. I do not
know how we broke off. A few words
and I was walking back towards the cliffs
and the house and seeing nothing except
with my mind big freckles in the
bleached thinness of his hair, the brown
smoothness of his paunch through his
torn shirt, and the puckered leathery
whiteness of his palms, softened with
fish-slime and constant salt water.
I tried to picture his wife back in the
little hut behind the bluebush; but a
ridiculous dark-eyed slave girl in silken
pantaloons danced before me on the
sand, and I laughed suddenly without
sense or feeling.
VARIOUS VERSE.
“One Section.”
At the first doorway a child with a jug held
carefully,
The cat with its back arched to a query, and
the knocker
A little too high to her hand.
At the next a girl who leant on the iron railing
In a parroty dress with eyes on the tipsy
soldiers —
Hands full of bottles and roses, buying a paper.
At the third with the curtain bellying out from
behind her
A woman waiting for something, or nothing-
in slippers,
One hand to her eyes to shade the dazzle from
distance.
Will you believe what I saw in the late after-
noon from the tramway,
Going up William-street from the Past to the
Future?
Who can deny it was Death in the final doorway?
Street, street, with the wind blowing outside
from inside,
The bulb removed from the socket under the
lampshade.
And the Vacancy notice swinging loose in the
window.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
To a Soldier.
I.
Now simple things delight the eye and heart
Of one who muttered Sophocles in Greek;
Who lived and loved the wood, who savored all
The leisured moments of a Georgian dream.
A stone projects the world to one who saw
The white swan of delight gleam in the reeds
And mistiness of some green-bounded pool;
Who watched, and heard the slow, sad faery horn
Soft-sound a swelling theme within the brake.
A pebble tossed ... and in concentric rings
The pattern trembles, shimmers, and is gone.
For you have stood alone; held in your hands
The dust and broken fragments of the past;
Have seen the ciphers of another life
Drawn up before you on a barren plain.
Now stand they firm, then to impelling strains
Of unknown harmonies perform their parts,
Jerked on their strings with wooden, stumbling
gait
To travesty a motion once was free.
Whose is the hand rendered so desolate
The sturdy edifies of yesterdays;
Bedecked each monument and chiselled stone
With seam and moss, decay and crumbling death?
The broken columns, ruined altars, weeds
Among the paving stones —are these alone
The clay of living fashioned hastily
By fear’s impatient fingers?
Can the truth
Evolve from this destruction in your heart
And sing within your loneliness a pasan
Of surging sound, upbuilding note on note
Towards the greater harmony of hope?
11.
You have cursed with soldier’s hatred,
Dreaded death and learned to know nim,
Pointing each uncharted roadway;
Reached the halt in all endeavor
When the spirit cries and parleys
With the dream that fate .has granted,
With the hope that fades and dwindles.
Death, once brown, is now bedecked in
Jungle-gieen, and tears asunder
Silent forests where no footsteps
Trod before his hurried pacing.
Dig in mud and burrow under;
Clasp the tree-trunk’s wet protection; '
Clamber up the soaring hillside,
Brain afire with heat and fever;
Ask of memory’s soft enfoldment
Shelter from your fear and frenzy . . .
You have earned your fellows’ friendship.
Sharing with the plumber, farmer,
Chemist, clerk, and undertaker
In their joy and fear and danger;
Living for each passing moment.
Hating, loving, fearing, fighting,
While the years were slowly rolling
111.
And always through your thoughts the clipped,
exact,
Swift counterpoint of pity’s vivid fugue.
On green barbaric altars you have seen
The offered sacrifice to brutal gods;
® ef n blood libations poured with fearsome song
Unlike the solemn rhythms of the past.
And in the fierce environs of this cult
You ve stood your ground, nor bowed your
weary head.
Then go your way, retaining still unspent
The peace transcending hurt and bitter loss
That finds within a bird’s bright careless song
The solace for your stolen happiness.
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.
The Bunyip.
The water down the rocky wall
Lets fall its shining stair;
The bunyip in the deep green pool
Looks up it to the air.
The kookaburra drank, he says, then shrieked
* at me with laughter,
I dragged him down in a hairy hand and ate
his thighbones after;
My head is bruised with the falling foam, the
water blinds my eye,
Yet I will climb that waterfall and walk upon
the sky.
The turpentine and stringybark,
The gleaming bloodwoods lean
And drop their shadows in the pool
With blue sky in between.
A beast am I, the bunyip says, with a voice
like a drowning cow’s,
Yet am I not a singing bird among these waving
boughs?
I raise my black and monstrous head, I cry a
bubbling cry,
For I shall climb the trunks of trees to walk
upon the sky.
Gold and red the gumtrees glow,
Yellow gleam the ferns;
The bunyip in the crimson pool
Believes the water burns.
I know the roots of rocks, he says, I know the
door of hell.
I ate the abo.’s daughter once, I know my faults
full well;
Yet sunset walks between the trees and sucks
the water dry,
And when the whole world’s burnt away I’ll
walk upon the sky.
The little frogs they call like bells,
The bunyip swims alone;
Across the pool the stars are laid
Like stone by silver stone.
What did I do before I was born, the bunyip
asks the night;
I looked at myself irt the water’s glass and I
nearly died of fright;
Condemned to haunt a pool in the bush while
a thousand years go by—
Yet I walk on the stars like stepping-stones and
I’ll climb them into the sky.
The soft white clouds are in the pool,
Then wandering in the air;
The sunlight’s golden ladder falls,
The moon lets down her hair.
The yabbie’s back is green as jade, his claws
are opal-blue,
Look for my soul, the bunyip says, for it was
a jewel too.
I bellowed with woe to the yabbie once, but
all I said was a lie,
For I’ll catch the moon by her silver hair and
dance her around the sky.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3338.
Wednesday, February 2, 1944.
IT’S HELL BEING A FRANKENSTEIN!
"Any more of this and I may have to ask you to get another leader."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
* Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
*• Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; f Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (ppp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
A STRANGE FOG.
In a “Collier’s” article Mr. R. Owen
Brewster, one of the Senators from
Washington who made “a 45,000-mile
tour of our battle fronts” that took in
Australia, said astonishing things about
the presentation of war news.
Save for frequently misrepresentative
trivia, American news is played down;
British news played up. Most of the news is
slanted; some of it slanted unfairly.
And he insinuated that this was the case
in the Commonwealth.
The gentleman was only in Australia
for a day or two. Had he stayed a month
or two he would have formed other im-
pressions. He might then have decided
that Russian news is played up, particu-
larly in respect of “traps” for vast
masses of the enemy in the Dnieper Bend,
and in the Gomel, Vitebsk and ©♦her
regions, world without end, and British
news played down. Certainly he could
not have reached the conclusion that the
Australian effort has received too much
publicity in Australia and the American
effort too little.
Going to the U.S.A. from Australia,
William Courtney, a sober and well-
informed English aviation writer with
New Guinea experience, found that
Americans knew next to nothing of the
Australian campaigns in Papua and New
Guinea, though they had heard all about
occasional brawls in cities. When in-
formed of some of the glowing facts,
they responded with generous applause,
being a generous people.
In point of fact Australians are getting
precise and detailed facts about American
ground forces fighting in the S.outh and
South-west Pacific which are not vouch-
safed to them concerning their own
officers and men in New Guinea. They
have been told who landed in Guadal-
canal, Bougainville and the Gilberts, and
after Betio, as well as during the Guadal-
canal campaign, the names of officers of
the Marines were given, colonels being
among those mentioned. Nor was any
mystery made of the fact that the landing
in New Britain was the work of part of
the Sixth United States Army under
Major-General Krueger, or of the fact
that “elements of the Sixth Army seized
Saidor, on the north coast of New
Guinea.”
“Operations at Cape Gloucester,” it
was stated in the Australian daily press,
“are being conducted under the imme-
diate supervision of General MacArthur.
The ground forces are under Lieut.-
General Walter Krueger”; and there
was an Australian Department of Infor-
mation photograph of General Krueger,
“taken before embarkation.” The naval
forces, the reports proceeded, “are com-
manded by Vice-Admiral T. C. Kincaid,
the air forces are under Lieut.-General
G. C. Kenney, while Rear-Admiral D. E.
Barbey commands the amphibious forces.
Major-General G. C, Whitehead is in
charge of the forward elements of the
air forces and Major-General W. H.
Rupertus of the marine forces.”
The commander of the U.S. Task
Force at Arawe, Brigadier-General Julian
Cunningham, was the subject of another
Australian Department of Information
photograph published in Australian news-
papers. And for the January 16 attack
near Arawe, “Red Indians representing
20 tribes, members of the 158th Regi-
ment, known as ‘Bushmasters,’ ” were
among “the men from Arizona” who
were given the credit, it being added that
they “were landed secretly to reinforce
the dismounted Texas Cavalry.”
All honor to these brave fellows and
their officers in the field and the com-
manders higher up. The pride their
country feels when it reads of what they
have done and are doing is shared in this
country. For the United States Marines
and engineers Australians have a special
admiration. But, save for reports of pro-
gress and accounts of individual resource-
fulness, daring and fortitude, they are
learning little about the grand campaign
their own men have fought and are fight-
ing in their own mandated territory, “the
worst terrain in the world,” as Mr. Curtin
says.
There is no longer any identification
of units. Though the magic word
“Digger” is still used here and there, the
magic letters “A.1.F.” have disappeared
For A.1.F., A.M.F. has been substituted
and it is varied only by use of the terms
“Australians,” “Australian infantrymen”
and “Australian forces.” Presumably
the “Australian forces” have commanders,
of battalions, brigades and divisions, but
their names are never now published,
let alone their Department of Informa-
tion photographs, if any. Of fighting
generals who returned from the Middle
East with established reputations, which
they must aspire to maintain and increase,
the only one named of recent weeks has
been Lieut.-General Lavarack, and then
only because he is going to a Washington
post.
If the present fog lasts we shall have
to wait until the end of the war to read
what our commanders have done in the
northward movement against the Japa-
nese, and then the mass of the people will
be too sick of war to bother. That was
what happened last time, when even
Monash’s book fell stillborn from the
press, and there grew up a generation to
which Monash, White, Chauvel, Glasgow,
Leane, Elliott and Murray were only
names, to the generation’s loss.
It was never thought necessary by the
War Office to hide Montgomery’s light
under a bushel or to withhold from the
Empire the composition of the glorious
Eighth Army, nor has its opposite number
ip New Zealand chosen to be mealy-
mouthed about that other gallant and in-
spiring figure Freyberg. Freyberg dis-
patches are, in fact, published regularly;
one, which appeared on December 24,
stated, among other things, that “the
Second New Zealand Division rejoined
the Eighth Army in November” and that
“our Fifth and Sixth Infantry Brigades,
under Brigadiers Kippenberger and Par-
kinson,” effected the crossing of the
Sangro River.
And when other Enzeds joined the
Americans in active operations in the
Solomons, it was not concealed from
their people (or from the Australian
people) that Major-General Barrowclough
was G.O.C. or that the Third Division
was engaged or that officers and men of
the Fourteenth Brigade landed on Vella
Lavella.
There are no doubt military reasons
for the denial to Australians of the spirit-
stirring information which Britons,
Americans and New Zealanders receive
as a matter of course. Good or bad,
they should be stated, if only to antici-
pate the inevitable. For it is certain that
the concealment policy will be questioned
at Canberra when Parliament meets.
Pacific Bases.
Quite rightly Chicago “Tribune” de-
scribed the Australia-New Zealand pro-
posals concerning a sectional defence area
in the Pacific as “ambitious.” They are
ambitious in the Antonian sense. They
are large and heroic, but they are vitally
in the national interest of the two coun-
tries jointly involved, and, allowing cer-
tain assumptions, they are not impossible.
The assumptions can be brought to-
gether into one comprehensive assump-
tion—that all that is implicit in the rela-
tive sections of the Canberra Agreement
can be taken for granted ; accepted as
jointly agreed to now and binding hence-
forth, That would include military as
well as political uniformity.
On this basis, all that has been done
is that two countries weak in man-power,
geographically isolated from related coun-
tries of the Empire and possibly friendly
foreign countries and vulnerable to attack
from Asia have belatedly but sensibly
got together, decided to pool their
resources in common defensive meas-
ures. And, as an inescapable essen-
tial of such measures, they have
agreed to act practically as one in link-
ing up their defence establishments in
such outer Pacific island bastions as they
already hold, while jointly seeking to
make common cause with the holders of
other such islands to ensure that in future
all these are defence posts in reality and
not defenceless stepping-stones inviting
southward attack from Asia.
Australia and New Zealand together
have merely accepted the inevitable. To
do otherwise than they now propose
doing would be to go on relying wholly
on others—on Britain and America—for
their future protection. Australians and
New Zealanders recognise most com-
pletely that they exist as they are today
almost wholly because the British Navy
protected their growth to whatever state
of adulthood they may be said to have
arrived at when the present war started,
and, since then, to the strength that
America has brought to bear against
Japan. Appreciating this, Australians and
New Zealanders are intensely grateful
to both their protectors. But realism must
come into the picture, too ; and both
countries, in the issue here considered,
are being no more than barely realistic.
It is being no more than barely realistic
to admit that, with the best of intentions,
Britain simply was not big and strong
enough, when this war got properly into
its stride, to hold its own place in a
shattered Europe and protect these out-
posts of the Empire at the same time. It
is only bare realism to admit that, rely-
ing wholly on Britain’s help, Australia and
New Zealand would have been conquered.
That was the Jap intention, and it would
have succeeded. There would have been
terrific fighting, but overwhelming weight
of numbers would have won.
It can no doubt be quite safely
assumed that America could not have
stood by and watched that happen. Never- 1
theless this is an assumption, and assump-
tions are no safe part of realism. Perti-
nent facts are that America —though at
heart, if not even technically, already at
war on Britain’s side practically from the
beginning—did not actually come into
the war as a belligerent uqtil it was itself
attacked at Pearl Harbor, and also that,
up till then, there was a very strong and
loudly vocal body of opinion opposed to
America’s active participation. No doubt,
as the Japs poured down on
and New Zealand, America would have"
come in, but it would have done so with
its anti-war party still a power in the
land, and it is nothing more than the
barest of realism to question whether, in
such probable circumstances, the inter-
vention would have been quite as whole-
hearted as Pearl Harbor made it, and
also whether it would have been in time.
For Australia and New Zealand not
to face up to these facts would convict
them as not worth the consideration of
anybody except prospective conquerors.
They are not the only countries to have
benefited over a very long period by the
defensive strength represented by a
powerful British Navy. That had its
point for America also. It has not been
because America has come to think any
less of the friendliness of Britain that
America has rushed the building of an
unrivalled navy of its own, and an un-
rivalled air force as well. It is simply
that bare realism has driven Ameri-
cans to appreciate that dependence on the
British Navy is not nearly enough. It is
not the feelings of the peoples concerned
but the nature of war that has changed.
Americans, like every other people, real-
ise that they now can’t sit tight inside their
own map boundaries and be safe. Except
for the diehard few, they favor some
form of international co-operation that
will tend towards ensuring not only their
own safety but peace, as far as possible,
everywhere, without which general peace
there could be safety for none.
It is quite another matter whether the
international co-operation aimed at could
be continued indefinitely, ensuring world
peace for all time. This is a hope, a
splendid hope, but it is not realism to
assume that it ever can be achieved, let
alone to accept that it has been achieved
already. Americans do not accept this.
They propose world co-operation, just as
they proposed the League of Nations, but,
for their own part, they mean to remain
strong. They mean to continue sustain-
ing after the war a navy and air force
second to none and a strong army.
Also, it is as good as taken for granted
in America that, after this war, America
will take over as protective bastions
against any possible attack from Asia all
the “mandated” islands held by Japan
north of the Equator. Judging by respon-
sible statements and publications in
America, that is not ambitious —it is the
bare minimum. Senator Russell, who was
chairman for the five-man Special Senate
Committee which last year toured the
battle fronts, has suggested that, as well
as America acquiring permanent interest
in the bases leased by Britain on a 99-
year tenure in exchange for 50 over-age
America should also “acquire
permanent title to the all but impreg-
nable fortress which American ■ armed
forces and millions of American dollars
have built” in New Caledonia.
That suggestion was made in Washing-
ton last October about three months
before the Australian and New Zealand
leaders conferring at Canberra outlined
the arc of defence bastions in which they
rightly claimed that their two countries
have a special joint interest. Therefore
Clause 16 of the Canberra Agreement
must have particular interest in America,
and is certain to be discussed there, prob-
ably not without a good deal of dust and
heat:—
The two Government's accept as a recog-
nised principle of international practice
that the construction and use in time
of war by any Power of naval, military or
air installations in any territory under the
sovereignty or control of another Power
does not in itself afford any basis for terri-
torial claims or rights of sovereignty or con-
trol after the completion of hostilities.
A point in this clause of some import-
ance to the probable controversy is in
the phrase “use in time of war,” Natu-
rally enough, much is made in America
of the millions of dollars being expended
in strengthening the various bases from
which America is waging its large part
of, the Pacific War. Not so much is made
of the important fact that all such expen-
diture is dictated by war requirements,
just as American participation in the war
at all is dictated by requirements of
American security, not from any.crusad-
ing spirit, and certainly not, as sections
of the American press have not been
above insinuating, wholly to win back for
the British Empire what the British
Empire has lost in this quarter. By the
same token, the expenditure is being
made by America and by nobody else,
and, despite any interpretations of inter-
national precedents, America is due to
have a say, and a mighty big say, in decid-
ing future arrangements for all these
, islands.
Responsible Americans will not, how-
ever, question the Canberra decisions in
this regard. Americans are not going to
sit tamely by and watch the previous
owners, who, after all, lost these proper-
ties, walk back in when American forces
have fought and won them, and just take
them over, lock, stock and barrel. But
nobody expects that, and certainly those
who met at Canberra do not. What they,
and all Australians and New Zealanders,
must expect, is that Americans will under-
stand that the future of the areas men-
tioned or envisaged in the Canberra
Agreement is of much more direct
moment to Australia and New Zealand
than to any other country whatever.
This would merely be for Americans
to understand for these two vitally con-
cerned countries what Americans readily
understand for their own country—that
is, that concepts of defence which once
held good and held countries safe enough
are now dead as the dodo ; that any
country which thinks it can remain safe
within its own map boundaries, while
depending for aid on distant lands, might
as well start writing fis own epitaph now.
What should cause great astonishment
in America, as it has done here, is not
that Australia and New Zealand should
be trying to plan in their regional area
just the same sort of outpost protection
defence scheme as Americans find vital
to America, but rather that the lead in
this merely commonsense development
should have been taken by Australian
Labor. In effect, the party which fondly
imagined that nothing of the sort could
possibly be necessary to Australia, and
which still appears to think that all that
is now aimed at can be achieved without
the slightest alteration to the world’s
clumsiest example of a disjointed mili-
tary establishment.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The "Unforeseen " Crisis.
Looking an uncommonly healthy body of
men and women, though alleged to be
prostrated by overwork and, of course,
“seething with discontent,” the Sydney
tram and bus employees spent Australia
Day in idleness, and so did their con-
geners in Newcastle. They are all in the
service of the State Labor Government;
but that Government, inert (as always)
while the situation was developing, sur-
veyed the proceedings from the fence it
mounts when Homebush slaughtermen,
also its employees, slow down or stop
work when the fit seizes them, which
is often. Mr, Curtin, however, was
appalled “appalled at this maltreat-
ment of the Australian war effort
on this Australia Day by Australian
workers,” more especially as he had
been served with an ultimatum insisting
that men should be withdrawn from the
fighting forces so that these civilians in
steady and well-paid jobs should have
holidays.
For militant unionism, which has so
large an infusion of Communists, has
come to this. It now demands, not
only the “right” to stop work when it
pleases and for as long as it pleases, in-
dustrial awards notwithstanding, and to
prevent other men from working, but
priority for its caprices and impertinences
over Government war pleasures aimed
at saving the nation from conquest by
Japanese—those Japanese whom the
sober Foreign Secretaries of Britain and
the United States have charged with the
cruellest and most frightful atrocities ever
committed on the helpless and wasted
bodies of English-speaking people.
The night before the stoppage the
Prime Minister, “in pursuance of the
powers conferred by Regulation IV of
the National Security (Mobilisation of
Services) Regulations,” ordered the mem-
bers of the union to remain at their
posts. The order was disobeyed with
expressions of defiance, followed by
threats.
The outrage committed, Mr. Curtin de-
scribed it as “lawlessness naked and un-
ashamed.” He pointed out that the Muni-
tions Department had had to make its
own transport arrangements “to get to
the plants workers without whom there
would be a slow-up of munitions sup-
plies to the front,” and that the men in
21 N.S.W. coalmines had joined in the
loaf on trumped-up pretexts, the latest
being that meat rationing and income tax
were grievances not to be borne. He
compared the lot of these Government
employees and coalminers with that of
the Australian army, “fighting in the


worst terrain in the world ” often on
short commons and With failing S g ,
though unfaltering spirit. And this while
“coal has had to be rationed to con-
sumers, because of strikes and absentee-
j ,
ism, and men who will not produce C
say they are entitled to whatever they
require of the foodstuffs of the nation.”
t- , • if , r- o
For himself and his Government,
crisis had arrived.
T . . , . , ~ . ~ ,
I have either to subordinate mte -
ests of the war to the claims of press
groups or to take the requisite steps
change this present intolerable
One thing at least is clear, that the Gov-
eminent, having applied the law, will en-
force it. If it cannot enforce it, if will
cease to be the kind of Government that
the people respect, and in that event it
should no longer be tolerated..
Brave words, but Australia has heard
the like before, and, as before, they will
u
be worse than useless without action.
In the increasingly serious circumstances
the action should be of a kind that will
bring every striker and persistent absentee
j 3 i m
and every profiteer, black-marketer ana
adulterator to book in a special Federal
Court for “helping and encouraging the
enemy.” Every charge should be laid
under a War Offences Act in those terms;
and the use of those terms would sober
men who are now led away by union
bosses and mobs. If damaging or sabo-
taging the war effort is not helping the
enemy, whom is it helping? And is it
not also encouraging the enemy by foster-
ing the impression and hope that “law-
lessness naked and unashamed” may be-
come chronic, that the kindred infection
of war-weariness may start and spread,
and that in the end victory-and for the
Japanese stalemate would be victory—
may be plucked out of the appearance of
defeat.
Australia Dav.
*
- , r- ...
Put St. 30ms m the festivities:—
It was suggested that the Sydney and New-
castle tram- and busmen should have staged
their one-day strike, not on Wednesday but on
Saturday, the implication being that since Satur-
day was a race day the State Labor Govern-
ment, which employs the strikers, and has set
up a Turf Club, would have done anything to
keep the vehicles running. To which suggestion
it was replied that probably the strikers felt
that by refusing duty on an ordinary day they
would so upset the public that said public
would be impressed with the justice of their
case.
If that was their idea, they failed, for the
citizenry—or that section of it which depended
on tram or bus for transport to work—almost
unanimously regarded the thing as a sort of
festival. The roads in affected areas—notably
the eastern suburbs—were thronged with cars,
vans, trucks and bikes going and coming, pick-
ing up all they could. The walking and waiting
crowds wore grins a yard wide, there was cheer-
ful badinage, and a Digger giving a flapper
pan Royal Sydney golf course
xhe strike happened on Australia Day, though
the official holiday wasn’t until five days later,
and the people obviously regarded the thing
as a break from the general routine of catching
the same bus or tram from the same spot,
Their attitude had it not been limited to one day
would have been different. It was pleasant
enough strolling citywards in the summer mom-
ing, alert for the car with a vacant seat, and
as tbe pr jvate vehicles crowded up the hill
P ast the big tram depot at Rushcutter Bay—
jammed with idle trams—not hoots, but cheerful
y e ji s and laughter greeted the few picket
men j n lbe m j ds t 0 f a crowd of civilian
optimists hopefully waiting in case a tram broke
] oose a nd ran up the hill from sheer force of
habit
’ , , , T -mr
, Hundreds from around the Loo, Darling-
hurst, King s Cross and points east discovered
what a joyful thing it is to walk up through
tfi® Domain in the r ?°. rn i l ? g ,j was a
grand opportunity for the Art Gallery trustees
to add to the general hilarity by displaying the
Archibald Prize winner in the open, but it was
missed. Trains were crowded—the queue system
was ex tended to booking offices—N.R.M.A.
pa trolmen had a busy morning among lame
and halted automobiles, and a solitary blonde
in the vast space of a huge Air Force truck
looked like a new threepenny-bit in an empty
butterbox
xhe only political comment Your Corre-
spondent heard was a remark by a pedestrian
that he knew the strike was still on when he
bSST'wSrt! Mr ' C " r,in * °
- :
Leigh Creek Coal.
*
. —n, or
things Thomas Playf
with h, m to the Premiers Conference m
Canberra was a determination to pm the
Federal Government down on the matter
°t lls State s coa /
« ? good one and present Canberra oppo-
i’! tlon t° lt 15 a direct revers 1 ,
tbe Government having pro
support early in the piece.
Leigh Creek is on the Quorn-Alice
Springs railway, and near enough to
Whyalla and Port Augusta. The field
is extensive and test bores have shown
more deposits. The coal can be got
by open . cut methods. S.A.’s annual
{ biu is £] ,750,000, and the State is
’ , otnfF Up.
almost constantly short of the stuff
cause of the regular stop-work festivals
on the N.S.W. fields. Leigh Creek coal
{ better than Victorian brown, but in-
* r . XT c ~ ,
fenor to N.S.W. black. Competent te
have proved its value as a fuel, given the
r jght equipment
& Anyhow the playford Government has
, ’ I . , T , _
gone ahead with its project. It claims
that deliveries can be undertaken at short
notice.
„ , rVinLprrfj nnnnsi-
On the question of Canberra opp
tion, Mr. Playford has his suspicions. In
May last year, Senator Ceilings, Minister
f tb interior wrotp •
ror me Jmenur ’ wrtne
You have no need to feel at all appre-
hensive as to the sincerity of the offer made
of 7s. Id. a ton Telford to Port Augusta
and 6s. a ton Telford to Quorn (id. per
ton mile)....Our desire is to be helpful
in every way. [The quotes are for haulage
over Commonwealth railways.]
r O + OT . A/fr Mr Plav-
Later, Mr. Curtin wrote to M • >
ford concerning transportation bottle-
necks” that precluded development of the
field ; “It appears to be obvious that
the field cannot be developed on an eco-
nomic basis, nor can it make any im-
portant contribution to requirements of
C. „ n
coai>
To which Mr. Playford replies that
there is no bottleneck, that empty trains
“more than sufficient for our require-
f ss through the field every day,
and that no adequate explanation has
been given as to why boilers for using
Leigh Creek coal couldn’t be installed in
the S.A. wheat distillery, though Supply
Minister Peadpv had said a vear aso
Minister Beasley Bad said a year ago,
that Leigh Creek coal would be used.
“I cannot but feel,” said Mr. Play-
ford, “that some outside pressure is being
exerted” If the snsmVinn in unjustified
exerted. it the suspicion ij unjusimea
it should be exploded at once.
lin ,ii * » a
Parliament Assembles.
T „ . x 1 ,
John Brennan is the reporter:
The natives squat cross-legged in a wide semi-
circle about the cleared space in front of the
courthouse. Headmen—Government appointees
for the control of native affairs in sub-districts
—are in front, Headlines—chiefs of families
behind them, and “boys” are grouped on the
outskirts. The leaf-thatched houses of the village
show here and there among the trees.
On the verandah of the courthouse a small
2“up d Xtod"it SeßcidSt ComS
colonel fifthe Protectmate Defence FotcTxhe
him * IC Away C to Urn side s / Ho nor,
composed of Native Constabulary, neat and
trim in their khaki lap-laps and proud of the
bayonets hanging from their belts, of their
polished rifles and of the war-time record of
their tiny force.
For three days the natives have been wander-
ing in from the hills behind the strip of flat
country along the island’s northern coastline,
This is the area of Lunga Point and Henderson
Field of Koli and the Tenaru and Bloody
Knoli, where were fought the bitterest of the
battles which drove the Japs from Guadalcanal,
Now it is crowded with airfields and supply
dumps, roads and encampments. The villages
have long been evacuated, but a week ago police
boys carried into the hills the word that Head-
men and Headlines were wanted for “talk ’long
Government.”
They came with their retinue of “boys.”
Small groups ’lo here, a dozen there, wandering
in along the’ trails. They were dressed in a
variety of costumes—a cutaway coat and a worn
lap-lap; long tweed trousers and a plum-colored
singlet; loincloths, shorts, odd items of dis-
carded uniforms, a comb in the hair. The
night before the meeting they gathered, and
round their cooking fires they taiked of what
they would say. Now they were so shy as to
be tongue-tied.
xhe Commissioner complimented the Head-
men on the help they had given while the work
of the Administration was disrupted by war.
Through an interpreter he told them of the
fer di * ant parts of the world from which his
officers bad come j n the Empire’s service. He
himself was from England and Africa. The Dis-
trict Officer was a New Zealander. Besides l e
Administration there were American sol iers an
flyi " g wbo had been rawn ° e
to fight the Japanese.
“This war ’e bin fightim all ’long alto-
gether place,” said the District officer. “True,
fight ’e come ’long altogether Solomon. But ’e
no stop ’long Solomon no more, ’e go all about
taj p , ° 0 . 1 ”“ h .? 0 ° t S 1 e e r r X'alwwtor bS
a „d Merika ’e fightim altogether German and
ltaban Altogether Italian ’e ffisim war, finish
now. ’Long Africa, too, British and Merika
winim all the way.
“Now this fella Japana e come tor stealim
ce and tOQ much pl belong
V notlier man. Now altogether fightim Japana
for makim savvy. ’Liang Solomon, Merika
and New Zealand ’e fightim Japana. ’Long New
Guinea altogether Australia e fightim, long
, notber s ; de more too much British e fightim
Japana; on top more, China ’e fightim. Now
Japana ’e start for losim war. First time,
fight ’e stop ’long Guadalcanal. Now ’e go back
long way little bit. Guadalcanal ’e no more
p i a f e belong fight now, ’e place belong work.
“Time fight ’e stop altogether boy helpim
British and Merika. Now altogether ’im ’e glad
too much >i ong t hi s fashion. But fight ’e stop
longtime little bit now, altogether boy catchim
spell. Now business belong boy to -
Some fella single man, business belong i
go ’long Native Labor Corps for doim
for helpim soldier, workim cargo bclo g P
and work all about for helpim army. Some
fella married man hayeim piccaninny, business
belong im for workim garden 100
"orkimte b g tim
handler this fella war finish
There were already 300 Guadalcanal boys in
the Corps working with the American forces,
the District Officer concluded, but more were
needed.
Headmen and Headlines murmured together,
each trying to persuade the man next to him
to get on his feet and “talk ’long big fella
master.” Presently one of them shuffled up
to the table and began muttering in pidgin his
pleasure in “lookim master, his determination
to send boys. He sat down smiling. Others
took courage. They came one by one. Always
there was “more something.”
After the Commissioner had gone and while
the District Officer waited they came with “more
something.” They went away to talk among
themselves and return an hour or so later-
“more something.” This man had in his vil-
lage a woman who wanted a divorce; that
man was worried about the scarcity of ivory-nut
leaf for building houses; another wanted to
resign in favor of his brother. There were their
wages as representatives of the Government to
be collected. All that day and the next they
were still finding more something to talk long
Government. .
The Guadalcanal Parliament was in session.
FROM PRECEDENT TO PRECEDENT.
“This agreement.... shall come into force as soon as both Governments have ratified [it] and have notificd each other accord ingly."
-Last clause of the Australia-N.Z. agreement signed at Canberra.


ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
I * i
Mm
mm
PYROX PROPRIETARY LIMITED, 18 Albion Street, Sydney
ft
•*<»
Mi
j
. j I
I
........... i
*
■W'
* ■
S r,
:
POLITICAL POINTS
At Moscow three months ago Eden,
Hull and Molotov issued, among other
things, a denunciation of “atrocities per-
petrated by Hitlerite forces” and a pledge
that the criminals should be brought to
justice. Last week Eden and Hull de-
nounced atrocities perpetrated by Japanese
forces, and Molotov must have been listen-
ing, though he gave no sign. So also when
Emanuel Shinwell, M.P., suggested that
the U.S.S.R. should be asked to interest
itself in the fate of the prisoners of war
remaining in Japanese hands. In the same
week the U.S.S.R.. refused Hull’s offer to
mediate in the Russo-Polish quarrel, and
published the report of a U.S.S.R. com-
mission on the atrocities in the Katyn
(Smolensk) forest. It was to the effect
that 11,000 to 15,000 Polish soldiers
(chiefly officers), previously Russian
prisoners of war, had been bulleted in the
back of the neck and buried in common
graves by “Hitlerite forces.”
Not - only correspondents but cable
editors and headline artists seem to have
“traps” on the brain. Alexander’s thrust
to the south of Rome moved the Sydney
“D.T.” to run up a “trap” headline on
the strength of an “Allied communique”
to the alleged effect that “the advance
threatens to cut off 75,000 Germans
opposing the Fifth Army 60 miles south-
east.” The communique said merely “the
thrust seriously threatens the enemy’s
lines of communications leading south-
east to the main battle line,” a very dif-
ferent thing. British war bulletins stand
high in the world’s esteem, and it is in-
famous that they should be degraded to
the catchpenny purposes of the “Trap”
tribe.
In an article written in “S. M. Herald’s”
best style a special set down the startling
fact that the Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane Governments had £35,000,000
in “available cash resources” on June 30,
1943, and may have £65,000,000 on June
30, 1944. This comes about because the
Commonwealth Government has been
excessively generous in its distribution of
income-tax revenue, and has become a
fairy godmother to State railway depart-
ments. Its own financial position is
ghastly; revenue, derived from terrific
taxation, was £400,000,000 short of com-
mitments last year. Yet when it asked
the State Governments to forgo a por-
tion of their huge Commonwealth sub-
ventions only McKell promised to take
a bit less ; Cooper and Dunstan churl-
ishly refused. Curtin muttered some-
thing about its being a mad business for
one Government to sink in a morass of
debt so that others, not concerned with
the war effort, might roll in unearned
money, but he let it go at that. And tax-
payers can only protest that it is a legal-
ised swindle of colossal dimensions.
Curtin got home on the Sydney Gov-
ernment by suggesting that it could ease
the tram- and busmen’s lot by abolishing
racing. There was a stunned silence in
Macquarie-street, but not in the news-
paper offices where Dashing Bookies and
Colorful Punters (publicans, fishmongers
and the like) are gods.
Another sitting member, Massey, of
Toowong, has joined the Queensland
Peepul’s party led by Lud Mayor Chand-
ler, also an M.L.A. That leaves only two
sitting members of the C.-N.0., and by
the way things are shaping they, too, may
find the attractions of the Peepul’s party
irresistible.
Maxie Falstein, late R.A.A.F., went
to a Coogee A.L.P. meeting—only ap-
proved people admitted—to explain why
he had transferred to the reserve. He
is reported as telling the meeting that:
He had applied for a transfer because
there was nothing for him to do in the
R.A.A.F. He had been trained to such a
stage that he had reached a bottleneck and
could go no further. He could not go
overseas because he was more than 28.
The meeting “passed a vote of confidence
in Mr. Falstein.” He has still to face the
HARROWING R.A.A.F. TRAGEDY—TOO OLD AT 29.
Randwick A.L.P. branch, where he may
or may not be asked why he joined the
R.A.A.F. if he knew he’d be over age
for overseas service after training and
whether he is willing to repeat the “more-
than-28” excuse in R.A.A.F. company.
Clive Caldwell was “more than 28” when
he went overseas.
Pleading for A.W.U. representation at
an Empire trade-union congress, be
held in Britain, W T . B. Hay, who suc-
ceeded Fallon as general secretary, ad-
vanced a champion silly-season argu-
ment —“it should be made clear that the
White Australia policy is designed to
keep living standards in other countries
high so that Australian living standards
may not be lowered.” Fallon made a
slaughtering reply. The delegates decided
against - A.W.U. representation at the
congress.
Clunies Ross, the Voluble Vet., was not
the only speaker at the Sydney meeting
which demanded unrestricted Jewish im-
migration to Palestine who left himself
wide open to ripostes. Rabbi Schenck
asserted that a fourth of Auchinleck’s
army were Palestine Jews, and that Mont-
gomery was assisted by 250,000 Palestine
Jews, 50,000 of them soldiers. This out
of a population of about 480,000 of both
sexes and all ages. While homekeeping
people were wondering whether the 51st
Division had not, after all, been recruited
in the highlands of Judea and the 50th
in the Jordan Valley, a returned Digger
broke in with a statement made “from
personal observation”:
Not more than an odd battalion or so
of Palestinian Jews ever got within cooee
of the Germans or anyone else with war-
like intentions in the Middle East campaign.
Overstatement is one of the weak points
of the Zionist agitation.
As Commonwealth Minister of Trans-
port, Ward washed his hands of the
Sydney tram-bus strike, saying “it doesn’t
come within my jurisdiction.” What
exactly comes “within” the gentleman’s
,“jurisBSction,” other than drawing his
salary?
The State Premiers were told at Can-
berra by Coal Commissioner Mighell that
production in Tasmania and Queensland
was higher in 1943 than in 1942. In
N. S. Wales it was down 700,000 tons
or so
for a week and a half ifpubiic hospital
a week to two weeks and a half in
“many big industries” three weeks in
gasworks and three to five weeks (small
coal) in the Railway Department, Curtin
admitted that unless output in N. S.
.
Wales increases very considerably, the
“whole war capacity in Australia this year
will be reduced.” That day 4169 miners
w r ere out in N. S. Wales, and produc-
tion loss for four days was reckoned at
52,000 tons. Curtin has repeated for the
hundredth time that he is not going to
stand it any longer.
Casey had a grim introduction to Cal-
cutta as Governor of Bengal. In a
House of Commons statement on the
deaths from famine and disease Amery
said it was “considered that the total for
the last five months of 1943 did not ex-
ceed a million.”
The necessity of a uniform divorce law
has been urged upon Australian poli-
ticians ever since provision for the thing
was written into the Commonwealth Con-
stitution Act, but one more discussion
by the leaders of the seven Governments
ended in the old shiftless way. Cooper
and McKell were in favor. Dunstan sug-
gested a special conference, to which
Playford and Willcock were opposed.
Noting “the inability of the Premiers to
agree,” the P.M. said “his Government
would investigate the position” and
passed on to the next subject, with ap-
parent relief. In countries with unitary
systems there is no such thing as a chaos
of divorce laws, with domicile as an
unsolved problem.
There has been another level-crossing
smash in N. S. Wales, this time at Rich-
mond: one killed and seven injured. The
affair at the Hawkesbury (16 killed, four
injured) had revived the point as to
which State authority, Main Roads
or Railways, is responsible for level cross-
ings. At a coroner’s inquest at Casino
(Sept., 1941) Commissioner Hartigan
said;
My responsibility is for the people on the
jail ways; the safety of others is not my
legal responsibility.
And the coroner asked the railways soli-
citor :
How many people have to be killed at a
crossing before something is done? —That
question should, in law, be addressed to the
road authorities.
But there is a perfectly good and safe
road there. It becomes dangerous only
when Mr. Hartigan runs his trains over it.
After the Hawkesbury smash a railway
official said no Government could bear
the expense of erecting bridges or sub-
ways at the 5000 level crossings in N.S.W.
No State can afford not to bear the
expense of making crossings safe.
Casey, a modest man, will never know
what a wonderful fellow he is till he
reads what Keith Murdoch has written
about him in the newspaper knight’s most
florid style. There Casey will find that:
In Washington he became No. 1 diplomat
in popularity and effectiveness. He went on
to Cairo... .initiating the Alexander and
Montgomery generalships, controlling the
great streams of supply, keeping Egypt
quiet and intervening in Syria and other
surrounding turbulences. Now he passes to
Calcutta.
The last five words are indisputable, and
so is the statement that “he went on to
Cairo.”
A White Australia controversy has
been raging in several States, and the
number of antis is astonishing. All the
Communists are against White Australia,
and they have infected fellow-travellers,
especially professional men and ladies
with that small measure of knowledge
which is dangerous. In the Adelaide
argument the words of a clergyman were
quoted;
I have great sympathy with Japan, who
is seeking an outlet for her population and
needs, and is.looking across the seas to great
empty spaces. I would like to see a great
English gesture in presenting Japan with that
part of Australia which we cannot colonise;
I believe it would change the whole atmo-
sphere in the East.
The date was July 7, 1933, and the
generous offer of other people’s property
was made by the Dean of Canterbury,
author of The Socialist Sixth of the
World, of which “over 200,000 copies
have been sold in Australia.”


YOUR place in a Tank Crew
mg*
m
You may not be there in person,
but you can help some tank
crew by taking more than extra
care of your Exide House-light-
ing Batteries. This saves vital
materials and man-power needed
to provide batteries for our
Fighting Forces, .who depend
upon Exide for over 100 services.
Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment. Consult
your wall chart regularly and get in touch with your Exide
distributor in your State immediately you suspect the need tor
renewals or repair.
house-lighting BATTERIES
• , -
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Hard to say when Colin Sinclair will
have the pleasure of-surveying a big crowd
at the Easter Show —there hasn’t been one
since 1941—as R.A.S. president, but
when he does he’ll be no stranger to the
country people. Sinclair’s family have
been running sheep in the N.S.W. north-
west for many years, and he had a long
stretch as Graziers’ Association vice-
president. With a B.A. and LL.B. tacked
on to his name, he won the Namoi State
seat in 1932, and was Minister for Lands
in the Stevens-Bruxner Government for
two years, giving up his portfolio to
become a director of the Bank of N.S.W.
The Namoi seat changed hands in the
1941 election. Sinclair has been a R.A.S.
councillor for nearly a decade.
John Charles Farrin Webb, appointed
manager of the National in Melbourne,
has been in banking all his working
life. Born at Toorak in 1900 and
educated at All Saints’, he joined
the Colonial at Traralgon in 1916
and went with it when it amalga-
mated with the National a couple of
years later. In 1924 he was attached to
the Victorian administrative staff for
special duty, which included secretarying
the committee which handled the fittings,
decorations and equipment of the massive
new temple of high finance in Collins-
street. Transferred to the bank’s Mel-
bourne office as accountant in 1936, he
J. C. F. WEBB.
became H.O. inspector in 1940. At his
home iii Kew he grows cabbages bigger
than a broker’s overdraft.
One of the toughest:
When Lieut.-Gen. Carton de Wiart, V.C.,
was gathered up out of the Mediterranean and
made a prisoner of war after a ’plane crash
between Malta and Cairo in 1941 photographs
showed him with a piratical black patch over
his left eye and otherwise a tough-looking cus-
tomer. He’s tough all right. He was twice
wounded in the Boer War, severely wounded in
East Africa in the first year of the 1914-18
fighting and between then and the end of that
scrap was wounded eight limes more. He
again came out of his corner fighting in 1939.
Bom in Brussels in 1880—father, Belgian;
mother, English—he got to his first war by
doing a bunk from Balliol, lopping the de
Wiart” off his moniker, getting to South
Africa and joining the Imperial Light Horse as
Trooper Carton. Wounded, and returned to
England per hospital ship after two years of
scrapping, he was commissioned by _ Edward
VII in the Dragoon Guards. It wasn’t till he
was 35 that he acquired British nationality,
having by then been a British Army officer for
15 years, the only foreign officer wearing his
Majesty’s uniform.
After India and elsewhere, De Wiart was
perched on a camel in the fighting against the
Mad Mullah’s Dervishes in 1914-15 when a
bullet took his left eye, though he got a D.S.O.
in exchange. In hand-to-hand stoushing at
Second Ypres, he stopped one that kept him
quiet for about seven months, while doctors
made up their minds about a left-hand ampu-
tation, which he accepted as a Christmas box.
Three months later he was back in France and
thereabouts as an infantry major, winning the
V.C. for some fierce personal scrapping and
splendid leadership at La Boisselle.
Time and again after that he was wounded,
several times severely, but he kept going back.
He spent much of his time in Poland between
the World Wars, and was named Chief of the
British Military Mission there in 1939. In
Warsaw for its bombing blitz, he saw the cam-
paign through with Smigly-Ridz, avoided the
Polish leader’s fate of internment in Rumania,
and was next heard of leading the attack
against Names in Norway.
Game as ever, De Wiart was off on a secret
mission, the nature of which still can’t be re-
vealed, when his ’plane crashed in the Mediter-
ranean. He and the pilot’ floated on it for
three hours, then, when it sank, swam several
miles to the Tripoli coast, where they were
nabbed, the hardy old warrior being already at
that time on the wrong side of 60. He was on
the spot to do another service for Britain in
the negotiations preceding the Italian Armistice.
And he’s still going strong, Churchill last
November having briefed him as special military
rep. with Chiang Kai-shek in Chungking.
There will be a wild rush from the
cinemas to the concert halls when Leo-
pold Anton Stanislaw Stokowski starts
wielding his baton over Australian orches-
trions next year under A.B.C. He’s known
to film-fanciers as conductor of the
scratch orchestra which played so well
in “A Hundred Men and a Girl” (girl,
Deanna Durbin), as the man who colla-
borated musically with Disney in “Fan-
tasia” and as the optimist who told his
solicitors in a telephone conversation
from Europe that he intended to marry
Greta Garbo. Greta told him she wanted
to be alone. A Pole born in London,
Stokowski studied violin, pianoforte and
organ in England, France and Germany,
became organist at St. Bartholomew’s
(N.Y.), made the concerts of the Cincin-
nati Orchestra the most exciting in U.S.
for three years and then did the same
for the Philadelphia. White-maned, he
is 62 but doesn’t look it.
From John Brennan:
Colonel Owen Cyril Noel, Resident Com-
missioner for the British Solomon Islands
Protectorate, succeeding Lt.-Col. C. E.
Bengough, who was killed when the N.Z.
Hudson in which he was flying was shot
down north of Vella Lavella some four
months ago, is an Englishman with long
and wide experience of the Empire’s
native peoples. When 19 he was com-
missioned in 1917 from Sandhurst in the
Ist King George’s Own Gurkha Rifles,
and was wounded on the Indian North-
west Frontier. After the 1914-18 war
he entered the newly-formed R.A.F. and
gained his wings in Bristol fighters in
1923. But he still had the urge for ser-
vice outside of England, and two years
later he joined the Colonial Adminis-
trative Service as a cadet assigned to
Uganda. He’d been in Uganda as Dis-
trict Officer for six years when he
received his latest appointment, which
brings with it additional duties as colonel
in the 8.5.1. P. Defence Force. Noel’s chief
administrative worry at the moment is main-
taining the flow of recruits to the Native
Labor Corps to meet the ever-increasing
demands on that body by the U.S. Service
Command in the Solomons area. His staff is
a mixed one. The cadet officers have been
drawn from England and New Zealand chiefly.
The District Officer for Guadalcanal, Captain
Frank C. Moore, is from Adelaide, though
bom in New Zealand. The naval liaison
officer is a Tasmanian, Len Nettlefold, lieu-
tenant R.A.N.V.R., Australian amateur golf
champion in 1926 and 1928 and captain of the
only Australian golf team ever to visit England.
Celebrated his 50 years as priest,
Thomas O’Shea, Archbishop of Welling-
ton and Metropolitan of N.Z. A bishop
for 30 years of the half-century, being
made coadjutor to Redwood, whom he
succeeded a few years ago, Archbishop
O’Shea was born at San Francisco, but
arrived in M.L. as a child and was edu-
cated at St, Patrick’s, Wellington, and
Meanee Seminary, Hawke’s Bay. He was
a noted half-back in the St. Pat.’s Rugby
team.
“Hamer”: The rare experience of two
brothers receiving military distinction on
the same day happened to Sydneysiders
Lieut.-Col. P. A. Cullen (D. 5.0.) and
Major G. J. Cullen (M.8.E., military).
Actually, the name would have been
Cohen but for a change made when the
brothers joined the Temple Emanuel
schism —the “reform” synagogue believes
in dropping the cult of being “a peculiar
people” and Anglicises its services to some
extent; and in the change names may
alter. The honored pair were grandsons
of George Judah Cohen (Major Cullen’s
first names are the same as his grand-
father’s) and are sons of knight Sam
Cohen.
Hit Prinz Eugen:
Lieut. R. F. (Dick) Saunders, D.S.C.,
shouldn’t cut the customary sailorman figure on
horseback when ashore —and not only because
when he lately joined H.M. Submarine Service
he was commissioned to a sub. named lallyno.
Hailing from Mosman (Sydney), he was at nrst
headed for life on the land, winding up ms edu-
cation at the Glenfield Vet. Research Station,
then spending some years learning, among other
things, how to sit a horse out on a western
N.S.W. station. Turning the land in (probably
through the pull of Sydney Harbor, where he d
done a lot of dinghy sailing), he started appren-
ticeship as mechanical engineer at Mort s Dock
and joined the R.A.N.V.R. When the war
began he went off mine-sweeping and sub.-
spotting on a trawler in the North Sea, then to
DICK SAUNDERS, D.S.C.
command of a motor patrol boat (on which one
day he picked a fellow-Sydneysider, member of
Paddy Finucane’s squadron, out of the Channel),
and, after that, command of one of those
toughest of small craft a British m.t.b.
When Scharnhorst, Gneisenau and Prinz Eugen
were sneaking through the Dover Straits, a
number of those small craft were sent out to
have a crack at them. Saunders’s boat being
a bit of a lame duck at the time, it was late
getting away, and so was going in to attack
when the others were coming out. Saunders
got in through a screen of« German destroyers
and E-boats, to miss Scharnhorst - with one tor-
pedo, but hit Prinz Eugen amidships with the
next. Saunders has been having a break back
on his native heath after about three-and-a-
half-years’ overseas service, one other lively
episode in which was an attack on a heavily-
guarded German convoy in the Channel. In
that action his boat’s hull was holed by shells
in two places, half the bridge, with the steering
gear, shot way and one engine put out of com-
mission, and he himself slightly wounded. He
got her back to Dover.
At 21, Flying-Officer Daryl Coen (here
depicted by Frith) has crowded a lively
lot of experience into a year or two.
Educated at a Sydney Catholic college,
Marist Brothers, Waverley, he enlisted in
the R.A.A.F. in 1940, went through in
ONE OF THE PATHFINDERS.
Canada as a wireless air-gunner, crossed
to England, and in 1942 got into the Path-
finders —the airmen who go on ahead of
the bombers to mark out targets and hang
around watching things and boxing-on
till the bombing is finished. In the first
thousand-bomber raid on Cologne, Coen
has had 45 operational flights with
the Pathfinders, and before he got his
commission had won the D.F.M. The
Pathfinder crew he served in included
two New Zealanders, two Canadians
and two Englishmen, with Coen as Aus-
tralian rep. Coen aims to be a journalist,
and by the look of him would make a
good one. Certainly he’d have some
vivid background to work on.
Some fellows have a queer idea of fun.
Dr. J. C. Mclnerney, a Corowa (N.S.W.)
man specially well known to Riverina
footballites, gets his climbing mountains.
He was a ship’s doctor before the war,
and, after climbing most of the Austra-
lian Alps, went up as many Oceania
heights as he could find on his travels.
With the boys iii New Guinea, he’d been
eyeing Mt. Wilhelm, in the BiSmarcks,
with a hungry eye and recently got his
chance at the 17,000 ft. pimple. He went
up with a Perth man, Pte. N. Wallace,
the two making the second white-pfeller
ascent in history. On top, they found a
cairn left by Patrol-Officer Vial, dated
August 15, 1938 —Vial died in an air-
craft accident last year —and added their
own notes to his in the cairn. They found
alpine grass and snowdrops, not to men-
tion a few tons of snow, on the height,
where their thermometer wept on strike
and sulked till warmed up again. The
snow crushed their tent in a storm that
tied them up for two days.
Walter McLean, Moderator-designate
of the Presbyterian Church of Victoria,
is a Maorilander who saw a good deal
of the 1914-18 war as padre and col-
lected an M.C. While his transport was
plugging its way homeward after the
Armistice a wireless message was re-
ceived aboard offering him the pastorate
of Columba in Oamaru. He held the job
from 1920 till 1934, when Bendigo (Vic.)
enticed him aWay. Rev. Hector Mc-
Lean, also a former ML. parson and
a 1914-18 Digger, formerly held the post
for which Rev. Walter McLean is headed.
Still going strong, comedian W, S.
Percy, who’ll be remembered by ageing
theatrical cash customers and deadheads
as a bright spot in Pollard’s Lilliputian
Opera Co. of the ’nineties. Percy
married a lass of Dunedin (M.L.), and a
letter lately received there told of him
touring as head of “Old Pop’s Party,” a
troupe doing the rounds of military
camps and hospitals in Blighty. His
daughter Patricia works at the Admiralty.
Hero of an unusual incident in the last
war, in which he served as a Digger,
Robert Crane Andrews, of the Army
Ordnance Department, has passed on at
Windsor (Vic.). A young British soldier
had been court-martialled and was await-
ing sentence. Andrews wrote a character
testimony •in the form of a letter to
Rawlinson, commanding the British
Fourth Army. The general declared the
epistle a masterpiece of letter construc-
tion, the finest he had ever read; and
it swayed the Court to pardon.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 85, great helper of boys in
need of help, William Groom, who till the end
was on the committee of the Gordon Insti-
tute. In the early ’eighties he started the Ex-
celsior Boys’ Club at Fitzroy (Vic.), which went
so well that he transferred his activities to Mel-
bourne to bring in the City newsboys. Later he
managed the Brighton Boys’ Home, taking
charge of boys committed to his care by the
Courts, and for a while he managed the William
Forster Try Boys’ Society during the founder’s
illness. In addition Groom- was a Children’s
Court magistrate and an active worker in the
interests of limbless soldiers.
Although he spent a good half of his life on
his back, Gordon Anderson, passed on at Rose-
bud (Vic.), was one of that seaside suburb’s
most popular townsmen. He fell down the
hold of his ship, the Loch Ryan, 38 years
ago and spent the next 27 years in hospital.
At Collie (W.A.), at 86, “Joe” O’Brien,- who
in the early ’eighties held practically all Aus-
tralian long-distance running records. HC’d been
accountant to the Adelaide Timber Co., of
Wilga (W.A.), for upwards of 40 years.
William H. Maddock, for years doyen'of
Victoria’s local government clerks. As a young
farmer near Yackandandah and ex-president of
that shire, he became, on a starting weekly
salary of £3, clerk to Towong Shire, then
stretching from Mitta Mitta to Corryong, near
Kosciusko. He held the job for 42 years, he
and his farmer councillors ensuring a fair spin
for 1914 Digger farmers. A while back he
was able to report that soldiers still ran the
farms with "not a penny of rates owing.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
to Melbourne. Probably it was an
especially fat meteorite.
* * * *
“Pip”: Amusements of the soldiery:
Up north we have a race meeting every two
or three months. All units in the area are given
a holiday, and the countryside is combed for
any four-legged animal remotely resembling a
horse. Semi-brumbies, light draughts and super-
annuated plough-slaves are mobilised, and the
connections of the racing steed select a rider
from the hundreds of blokes who claim to
have been professional jockeys before the war.
Some attempt is made to grade the fields, but
many a time a frisky two-year-old of aristocratic
breeding gets soundly beaten by an old grey
mare. The bookies take it all philosophically.
These gentry must have at least £lOO in their
pay-book before being allowed to lay the odds
(unnecessary, for they always win). There’s a
fote, too, run very properly. Spectators are
mostly army men, nurses, A.A.M.W.S. and
A.W.A.S., but always a few civilians turn up to
share all privileges, including that of doing their
dough. Races are over about five furlongs of
undulating paddock, finishing opposite the
makeshift canteen, where the roars of the multi-
tude have produced some amazing stampedes.
Events are topically named, but no matter
what the time or place the main event of the
day is the Melbourne Cup.
Hi * * *
“Hamfat”: As “S.T.S.” states (B.
26/1/’44), London property men were
master craftsmen of a sort not appre-
ciated on the Continent, where scenic
“Bo”: On the morning of Sydney's
one-day road transport strike she limped
into the office that employs her, flopped
into a chair and emitted an abysmal sigh
of relief. So great her distress that, in-
stead of reaching for the lippy and
powder to make good the ravages to the
complexion caused by perspiration and
agony, she kicked off her shoes and
wearily rubbed her aching feet. Then
above murmurings of compassion arose
the voice of the office’s Sensible Girl.
“Good heavens, Gwen, no wonder you’re
almost a stretcher case,” she said. “Fancy
walking on your toes for three miles in
those”—indicating the pair of stilt-heeleds
that had been discarded. “Why on earth
didn’t you wear your comfortable wed-
gies?” The compulsory hiker turned a
horrified gaze on the S.G. “Do have a
bit of common, Shirl,” she came back
frostily. “I had this new upswept perm
yesterday to go with the little navy straw.
I ask you—could a girl clop here in
wedgies and utterly ruin the effect?”
* * * *
“Pons”; A cable tells that one Sir
Cuthbert de Hoghton, being now 63, is
about to wed his secretary, a 19-year-old
damsel. There is a legend that it was
at the old gentleman’s family seat, Hogh-
ton Towers, that King James I knighted
a huge joint of beef, dubbing it “Sir
Loin.” That yarn has also been fathered
on Henry VIII and Charles 11. I’d plump
for either of the latter monarchs rather
than for that dour wowser James Stuart.
Nature and chronic ill-health prevented
him from making jokes. His life was
soured by a long list of ailments—nasal
catarrh, enlarged tonsils and adenoids, a
deformity of the lower jaw, pyorrhoea,
bow legs, intractable diarrhoea, incurable
indigestion and arthritis of such severity
that Jamie could not mount his horse
unaided. The chances are that no Tudor
or, Stuart ever knighted a piece of
butcher’s meat in his life. The old story
seems to have its origin in a mistaken
spelling—“sirloin” for “surloin.” The
latter (and correct) term is derived, of
course, from the French surlonge—
“above the loin.”
* * * *
“Craiser”: There has been plenty of
scope for the superstitious in Victoria
lately. Just after the disastrous bush-
fires a loud explosion was heard which
shook houses all over Melbourne, and
many people testified to having Seen an
object so incandescent that it was visible
in broad daylight take a tremendous dive
and disappear into the waters of Port
Phillip. A 13-year-old boy claims to
have seen an offshoot from it which
travelled parallel with the earth about
three feet from the ground, looking like
an orange ball of fire and trailing a white
smoky tail, until it burst within ten feet
of him. A woman who saw shells burst-
ing on London in the last war found a
similarity between them and the visitant
“Idiot, I said I Wanted a sable COAT!”
effects and setting details were regarded
as of subsidiary importance. R. Brinsley
Sheridan, who, besides being a playwright,
was a M.P. and proprietor of Drury Lane,
told the story of a property man who
protested when a live elephant was intro-
duced in a spectacle. “If I couldn’t make
something that looked more like an ele-
phant than a real one does I’d retire from
the boards,” he declared. And when
George Rignold produced “The Flying
Scud” (long before Bland Holt filled the
stage with live horses), he had trouble
with a property man who said that hav-
ing a live horse on the stage was “in-
artistic, that’s what it is!” The same
property man raised no objection to the
white horse Handsome George mounted
for the tableau curtain in “Henry V,”
but induced the limelight man to take
appropriate action, with such success that,
as the curtain was raised once more in
response to applause, George was heard
whispering fiercely: “Put the (beautiful)
limelight on me, you (uncertainly born
person), not on the (blessed) horse! ”
* * * *
“Clooter”: I see that Artur Rodzinski,
conductor of the New York Philhar-
monic Symphony Orchestra, has aroused
a storm by describing “boogie-woogie” as
one of the chief causes of delinquency
among American youth.” Among those
who fell on him was the crooner Frankie
( Swoon ) Sinatra, about whom flappers
go mad. Frankie’s rejoinder was that
girls of 13 and 14 went mad about
Valentino, Vallee and others, and he sup-
posed they’d - always be like that. True
enough—l’ve seen Australian flappers of
former generations kiss the ground cham-
pion footballers walked upon—but the
question is whether this adolescent un-
balance should be exploited dangerously.
During the argument Leopold Stokowski
(he’s coming to Australia next year) was
heard remarking, apropos of Rodzinski,
that “Some foreigners do not understand
how rich the United States is in folk
music.” Which reminds me of Alexander
Popopopulopolis, maestro (I suppose
that’s the word) of our fish-and-chips
joint, who, when Pataudi was running up
a score against an Australian Test team,
indignantly remarked “It eez not right.
Zeese Eengleesh should not be let have
foreigners play against us.”
“Alex.”: Maoriland Supreme Court
recently had before it a case of a young
soldier who, the day before his death (by
suicide), decided to alter his will. This
he did very simply by a letter-card ad-
dressed to the Public Trustee: “I have
decided to change my will and leave
everything I possess to my future wife.
Miss ” and a note to his fiancee: “I
have written to the Public Trust Office
and changed my will, which now leaves
you heir to everything I possess.” It was
admitted by counsel for the original
beneficiaries that these two notes consti-
tuted a valid soldier’s will, under Section
11 of the Wills Act, if the testator, in
the words of the Act, was “in actual
military service” when he made this dis-
position of his property. The Court
(Myers, C.J.) overruled a submission
that testator did not qualify because he
was not on “active service.” The soldier,
as a matter of fact, had not been able to
stand up to training, had been regraded
Class 3 by a medical board, and was in
line for return to civilian life. No matter.
He was in “actual military service” when
he made his will. The decision should be
of interest throughout the Empire, legis-
lation on this subject being very similar
in all Dominions.
* =!: * $
“Frosty”; News from London that
Pollocks (originally Skelts), the people
who provided prints from which one
could cut out miniature theatres, scenery
and cardboard characters', have gone out
of business brought sighs. It is close on
60 years since I bought for threepence
(“penny plain and twopence colored,”
the immortal Skelt slogan, didn’t apply
to the export trade) the materials for a
quite ambitious theatrical production—
a proscenium fully eight inches wide, lots
of scenery (including a castle) and 24
characters. I seem to recollect a “book
of words” of the play “Robin Hood,” but
the main fun was the cutting-out and
pasting on cardboard and the coloring.
I wondered how any child could be so
lost to his opportunities (and so wickedly
wasteful of money, foreby) as to buy the
“twopence colored” (sixpence in my lati-
tude). The Pollocks have gone out of
business, I hear, because modern children,
surfeited with cinema and radio and
suchlike marvels of science, are too blase
for such simple pleasures as the model
theatre. What a lot they miss!
& ♦ sfe
“J. 8.”: There’s a slowly-developing
sense of justice among the natives of the
Solomons. One of the headmen had
“more something” to discuss with the
District Officer for Guadalcanal: a prob-
lem of marital relationships. Before the
Japanese occupation a “boy” from his
district had been sentenced to seven years’
for murder ; he had buried his child, who
was “very sick, close up long stopim
breathe,” before it was dead. The head-
man watched the burial without interfer-
ing, and then laid the charge. While the
native languished in prison his wife took
a lover, and she is to have another infant.
After discussing the problem in all its
bearings, the headman suggested a solu-
tion which he felt certain would be just
to all parties. Why not send Lothario to
jail to finish the sentence and release the
husband to care for wife and child? The
District Officer allowed that the proposal
was worthy of a sage but saw an insuper-
able obstacle —the law.
* * * *
“Exdig”: The reason for the two-by-
twoness of Allied soldiers, noted by “Sky-
rider” (B. 5/1 / ’44), was explained to me
by a brace of them. They are given leave
in pairs, mates together usually, and a
certain responsibility is tacitly imposed
on each of the pair about the good be-
havior and due return to duty of the
other. A man returning alone would be
asked “Where’s your buddy?” and ex-
pected to explain. The system has obvi-
ous good points.
* H* :je %
“Tram Sailor”; A R.A.N.V.R. lieu-
tenant aboard H.M. cruiser Enterprise
has described the crew’s first meeting
with Hitler’s new glider bomb;
The Focke-Wulf, about three miles away
and 2000 ft. up, suddenly released a black
object, which flew below the mother-craft
for a few seconds, banked gracefully and
then hurtled towards us in a terrifically fast
shallow dive.... Our 4in. guns fired salvoes
at the mother-craft while the pompoms and
Oerlikens concentrated on the glider-bomb.
Our fire. forced the mother-craft to take
evasive action. This caused it to lose con-
trol of the glider, which, after a series of
wobbles, struck the water half a mile from
us an d blew up. The bereaved parent air-
f craft also vanished.
It was a member of Enterprise's gun
crews who first saw the glider loosed, and
his yeli was characteristic: “Blime, it’s
had a youngster!”
* * * *
“8.P.”; Addressing a crowd of farmers
in Westralia —they were objecting to the
personal-covenant clause in State Agri-
cultural Bank mortgages —a speaker at-
tacked the staid “West Australian,” say-
ing that it was controlled by Eastern
States money and a “prince of publicists”
in Keith Murdoch, and that from such a
source it was useless to expect “anything
else but condemnation of a movement to
get justice for a section of the com-
munity that through all ages has been
the victims of oppression.” The “West
Australian” coldly replied that neither
Keith Murdoch nor his organisation
owned a single share in the paper, and
that 83.31 p.c, of the shareholders were
Wcstralians.
* * * *
“Kirribilli” on Sydney’s Admiralty
House:
The old house has a long and interesting
history. Its site was originally a grant to James
Milson. In 1842 Robert Campbell, then owner,
leased five acres thereabout - to Colonel Gibbes,
the Collector of Customs, Campbell agreeing to
pay Gibbes £5OO for all improvements erected
on the land. Three years later another agree-
ment was made under which Campbell was to
pay his tenant £BOO instead of £5OO because
Gibbes had built a better house than he’d in-
tended to do. This was the first dwelling on
the site. Campbell died in ’46, and in ’49 Gibbes
bought house and land for £7OO. In 1857 he
sold the estate to J. L. Travers for £1533.
Lieut.-Col. Barney, R.E., became the owner in
the late ’fifties —the area having been reduced to
3± acres; the Government had, in 1856, re-
sumed some 9f the land to build a fort, part
of which is still there. In 1874 the section was
sold to Thomas Cadell, who rebuilt the house,
and in 1885 the N.S.W. Government bought
the place, then known as Watonga, to provide
an official residence for the admiral command-
ing the Australian station. The house was
altered and improved considerably, and 11
admirals occupied it between 1885 and 1913,
since which date it has been lent by the State
to the Commonwealth Government to provide a
Sydney home for the Governor-General. When
the Duke of Kent was coming out as G.-G.
Campbell-street, leading along the point to the
old mansion, was renamed, with the usual Syd-
ney foolishness, Kirribilli-avenue.
CURTIN’S CHAPS.
There are 19 Ministers in the Cabinet, but nearly
half of them cannot be trusted with any but the
most simple administrative duties.”
—“ S.M.H.’s” Canberra representative,'
A saying goes—and one may well believe it,
Though I forget who ’twas that first employed
That - some are born to greatness, some achieve it,
And others are unable to avoid it.
It’s simply thrust upon them, soon or late,
By the inscrutable decrees of Fate.
Some few of these may grow a trifle wanner
By haunting doubts and sore misgivings torn
Whether they’re really worthy of an honor
To which they’re conscious they were never
bom.
Not many, though. The lord of Burleigh’s wife
Belongs to fiction, not to real life.
“Pygmies are pygmies still, though perched on
Alps.”
misfit Ministers are well aware
There’s little chance of danger to their scalps
Since an indulgent Caucus placed them there.
And Caucus is unlikely to admit
What an unholy mess was made of it.
Dummies and duds, by pretty wide consent,
Yet there they are and there they’ll doubtless
stay,
If to no purpose except ornament,
Trying to look as if they earned their pay
And won the plums by politicians prized
Through shining merit rightly recognised.
A single “passenger” in many a boat,
One burly oar who fails to pull his weight - ,
Is pretty sure to get the captain’s goat
And queer the pitch of any racing eight.
But when it strikes the stroke that half his crew
Are “sugaring,” what on earth is he to do?
Grin, I suppose, and try to smother curses,
Musing the while how hopeless it appears,
The task that looks like making silken purses
From such material as porcine ears;
Or (if the figure sounds a trifle coarse)
Obtaining feathers off a frog or horse
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE PIN-UP GIRL.
In countless camps you may see her face.
And a bit —or more —of her figure,
The beau-ideal of charm and grace
Foi many a gazing Digger.
The fact that she’s unattainable
May help to make her sweeter
For those who realise all too well
They never are like to meet her.
But she’s somebody’s pet and peach and pearl,
You may safely bet, is the pin-up girl.
Be she trim brunette or alluring blonde,
Divinely tall or little,
It doesn’t matter back of beyond
(Or anywhere else) a tittle.
She stands for all that a man may prize
In many an Eveless locus,
The cynosure of a thousand eyes,
The star upon which they focus.
What lots there are who would wish to whirl
In a mazy dance with the pin-up girl!
I lift my hat to them all, to whom
There’s a well-earned tribute owing
For any gleam to lighten the gloom
On the war-worn ways we’re going,
Who can turn our thoughts from the strain and
stress
Of the bleak and stormy present
To a contemplation of comeliness—
Or anything else that’s pleasant.
And the man must needs be a graceless churl
Who would grudge a toast to the pin-up girl
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Zend Avesta”: The examination
results put me in mind of my schooldays
and of a lad who went to school with
me in England, He had a propensity for
placing drawing-pins on seats, and many
a master, besides scores of his fellow-
students, fell a victim. Came a new
master, fresh from the university, but
wise beyond his years. One morning he
left the room for a few minutes, and the
drawing-pin merchant promptly placed
an upended point on the master’s chair.
The prospective victim returned and,
after a glance around the motionless class,
instructed the joker to go to the Head’s
study and collect a book. The youngster
returned with the book, placed it on the
master’s desk, went back to his own seat
—and sat on the drawing-pin!
V # * *
“Breff H.”: Cope’s painting “The
Departure of the Pilgrim Fathers” is
not the only masterpiece to be neglected
by the Melbourne Gallery trustees. I
first saw Webb Gilbert’s exquisite piece
of sculpture “The Sun and the Earth”
(presented 4)y Mrs. Gilbert) in the vesti-
bule of the gallery in 1940. Went back
in 1943 and couldn’t find it. The atten-
dants were first politely sceptical, then
interested, then puzzled, then determined
to solve the mystery. The work was
finally (and literally) unearthed in a tiny
lumber-room, lying face downward on
a large box, and covered with dust. It
had been placed there during building
alterations and forgotten.
* * * *
“Zake”; Before the flood of Holly-
wooden Americanisms diluted our own
strong home-grown slanguage that pithy
phrase “No good to Gundy” was
common enough up and down our land ;
it is still used to express stern disapproval
in bush places. I had wondered who the
mysterious Mr. Gundy was until I put
the question to a stringy little post-
splitter from Baan Baa (N.S.W.) with a
name comprising mostly “g’s,” “y’s” and
“w’s” who made a series of strangled
noises which slightly resembled speech.
He up and made the proud claim that
“gundy” was the corruption of a Welsh
word meaning “to pilfer,” and that the
phrase denoted that the thing referred to
was virtually not worth pinching, and
therefore beneath contempt. It is the only
explanation I have heard on the subject.
* * *
“The 0.D.”: This caught my eye in a
city paper: “Sydney’s ‘iron horse,’ Lord
Neith, has raced more than seven miles
in six meetings at Randwick.” Every
time I get into an argument about horse-
racing somebody arises to assure me that,
without it, the quality of horses in the
country would fall away. Well, if a well-
fed, comfortably-housed and pampered
prad earns the title of “iron horse” be-
cause it manages to muster enough
strength to gallop a mile a week against
other pampered nags, I don’t believe it.
I—and thousands of others of my
generation—have ridden mokes from
dawn to dark six days a week for months
on end. Their feed was scrappy and
often they went short of a drink, but they
were capable of a smashing three-mile
gallop at any time, apart from the can-
tering and trotting, ambling and walking
of their daily round. I missed it myself,
but I’d like to hear what participants in
the three-day ride and final assault on
Beersheba and in the ride up the Jordan
Valley in 1917 have to say about this
“iron” moke. The horses they rode would
have sneered at Lord Neith and all his
kind and, heaven -help us, we’ll never see
their like again.
* * * *
“Melbn”: There was no lack of hero-
ism in the Victorian bushfires, but one
incident belatedly brought to light de-
serves special mention. When the pad-
docks round her home exploded like a
bomb a woman with two babies went to
a waterhole, which was the only available
shelter. The depth was too great for her
to stand in the water and support her
children, so she lay on the bank and held
the two infants under the water with
nothing but their noses showing. All
survived.
“Dianella”: Amid the stories of
miraculous escapes, such as that of the
three women and baby from Naringal
homestead who stood on the soldiers’
memorial cairn while the fire swept
around them and away, leaving them un-
harmed, there are others wherein fate
played cruel tricks. Norman Howell, of
Werneth, had abandoned his house in
the face of the flames, only to become
entangled in the barb-wire fence and
perish ; the house remained untouched.
And Harold Jolly, of Linton, attempt-
ing to escape from his truck and find
shelter elsewhere, was burnt to death,
the fire by some odd chance sweeping
under the truck, leaving it and the dog,
still in it, in safety.
“C.R.”: A man left a horse and gig
tethered to a tree at Berrybank. When
he returned after seeing the township
burned to ashes he found the horse, un-
harmed and unsinged, still tied to the
tree and the vehicle a mass of twisted
metal.
* * * *
“Plodder”: “Physh” (B. 12/l/’44)
makes me gulp when he suggests bril-
liance in mental arithmetic as evidence
of genius, and still more when he denies
that capacity for taking pains is an attri-
bute of genius. Newton, never billed as
a Figure Wizard, attributed his dis-
“Sometimes I feel We've released too many men for active service!"
coveries to patient attention. Was ever
a man so painstaking as Darwin? Milton
was an indefatigable student; so was Gib-
bon ; so was Burke. For one fruitful ex-
periment Edison made a thousand
failures. Faraday labored for years before
he invented the dynamo. Generalisations
are dangerous, but it is a pretty safe bet
that wherever genius manifests itself there
is a combination of rare native ability
and the capacity for making intense and
prolonged effort.
* * * *
“F.S.”; Premier Dunstan shows a sad
lack of courage in proposing to have
trees, no doubt with little brass plates
on them, planted in St. Kilda-road as
memorials to Australian artists, authors,
sculptors, poets and composers. I can
understand his reluctance to add more
sculptural horrors to thg official statues
which already desecrate the city, but even
a bad official statue i's better than a tree,
inasmuch as it indicates a belief that art
is of some importance.
* * * *
“Ellae”: How old is *‘lke Hollar’s”
Etonian friend whose memory goes back
to a day before cream flannels were worn
for cricket (B. 12/1/’44>? They are re-
ferred to as a matter of course in Pick-
wick Papers (match between Dingley Dell
and All-Muggleton), and Pickwick was
written in 1836.
* * * *
“Mostyn”: Perhaps there’s a silver
lining to meat-rationing. For years I’ve
“E r —Percy, do you happen to have a cigarette ?”
been plagued with a country butcher who
simply will not give correct weight. 1
have learned if I want 61b. to order 41b.
—and then perhaps I’ll get 81b. Many
a time as I’ve gazed at the quarter-carcass
which has arrived in answer to an order
for a leg of mutton have I said with
Mark Antony “O pardon me, thou bleed-
ing piece of earth, that I am meek and
gentle with these butchers! ”
jJ: % * *
“Hamer”; When two-handled pewters
were introduced in Sydney pubs half a
century ago they were promptly dubbed
“Charlie Turners,” owing to their re-
semblance to the outsticking ears of the
bowler then the public idol. Those ears
were a boon to Bulletin artists Alf Vin-
cent and “Hop” ; also to barrackers. “Tie
back your ears, Charlie; we can’t see
the batsman” was always sure of a laugh.
But Turner, secure in public affection,
could afford to grin.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: There is an air of
mystery about Lud Mayor Nettlefold’s
Committee for Morale in Melbourne,
which (according to its annual report) has
done such valuable work since its incep-
tion in 1942 that the city fathers have
decided that the council shall bear the
cost of maintenance —£450 —for a further
six months. The committee, it appears,
was created “for the purpose of establish-
ing responsible and confidential channels
for spreading approved word-of-mouth
non-political propaganda calculated to
stimulate morale throughout the com-
munity.” I wonder how it \yorks. No
dreary bore, inside or outside a pub, has
come whispering in my ear non-political
propaganda calculated to stimulate my
morale. Nor have I met anybody who
has had this strange experience. How-
ever, no doubt the committee does some-
thing to warrant an annual expenditure
of £9OO of the ratepayers’ money.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: As a writer of books for which
there is some public demand but which
can’t be given a modest new edition be-
cause of the paper shortage, I am amused
at the revelation that more than 1,500,000
booklets of many pages and with illus-
trations dealing with meat-rationing had
to be scrapped in Melbourne because,
first, they were out of date before they
were printed, and, second, because they
contained appalling bloomers. The de-
partmental opus that has thus sunk into
oblivion was entitled “Planning Meat
Ration Meals.”, Nobody asked for the
publication, and few would have read it.
Still, the taxpayer will have to foot the
bill, and the authors will no doubt draw
their salaries as usual. Ordinary writers
don’t get those conditions.
* * * *
“Farm Cove”: Frith’s brasshats argu-
ing as to whose turn it is to pin the
medal on (B. 1/12/’43) are a reminder
of an incident in Paris in which Foch and
a famous French actress figured. The
actress had been awarded a decoration
for patriotic services. As the Marshal
affixed the ribbon there came the unmis-
takable hiss of escaping air and an im-
mediate subsidence of the lady’s blouse.
Foch brought his heels together sharply
and saluted as the actress retired in some
confusion. To those standing round
it did not appear that he had noticed any-
thing amiss. But when the next recipient,
also a lady, appeared it was was observed
that he selected her coat lapel on which
to pin the decoration.
}{(«)( sfc
“Pawang”: A blow to the pretensions
of diet theorists is contained in the report
of an official London committee. A group
of children was fed on ordinary food
containing the vitamins that Nature put
there, and another group was given large
doses of synthetic vitamins. There was
no obvious difference between the two
groups at the finish. So citizens can go
back to their steak and onions, relieved
of the fear that the scientists after the
war will be feeding us on lozenges.
* * * *
“Billjim”: Visitors to S.A. and Vic-
toria, particularly, must often be dis-
comforted by our haphazard policy of
nomenclature of townships and suburbs.
The suburban districts of Melbourne and
Adelaide supply most examples. There
is a Cheltenham in each city, also a
repetition of Malvern, Victoria Park,
Brighton and Somerton. Peterborough
occurs in both States, and Melbourne and
Sydney have their Surrey Hills (albeit
the Sydney suburb is spelt without the
“e”). Armidale (N.S.W.) is often con-
fused witth Armadale (Vic.), as also are
Collingwood (Vic.) and Collinswood
(S.A.) and Koonwarra (Vic.) and Coona-
warra (S.A.). Maryborough is encoun-
tered in both Queensland and Victoria,
and Lismore in both N.S.W. and Victoria,
while a Richmond turns up in all three
States.
* * * *
“Arter”: I feel I have a right to com-
plain that I am not receiving from news-
paper art critics (B. 26 /1 / ’44) that assistance
which would enable me to appreciate and
admire certain sorts of painting which I
cannot understand. I went to a one-man
show in Sydney the other day, and came
out as wise as I went in. I just couldn’t
grasp what the painter was driving at.
Doubtless, said I to myself, the critics will
explain all this. Critic No. 1 gave me
little help. This chunk of his exposition
puzzled me as much as the paintings
did:
Such paintings as his pucy-red nudes and
heads are indeed almost banal, for they are
so self-conscious, so arbitrary, without feel-
ing, that they lose all meaning. Yet his
two best works show great and unexpected
sensitivity. They are conceived mainly as
art rather than surrealistic illustrations, and
as such have embodied the surreal in much
more eloquent a fashion.
What I particularly cannot understand is
why this critic should not have expected
sensitivity from an artist who is a
stranger to Sydney (and presumably to
the critic) exhibiting here for the first
time. And wliat is the difference (in the
eyes of those who believe surrealism is
art) between art and surrealist illustra-
tion? And what has eloquence to do
with painting? But Critic No. 2 was still
more obscure. He declared:
The synchronisation between his realisa-
tion of an idea and its execution is so com-
plete that it leaves no pause between one’s
reaction to the subject and analysis of its
method.
That seems to mean that the artist is a
quick worker, which I guessed, too, in
my timid way, but the bit about the
analysis of the method of the subject (or
is it the method of the subject of the
analysis—or the subject of the analysis
of the method—or the method of the
subject of the analysis?) set my head
awhirl.
* * * *
“W.W.”: “Two-up” and three-up ex-
perts will be interested to know that so
high an authority as Sir James Jeans, in
The Mysterious Universe, states the law
of averages about tossed coins coming
down heads or tails. He says: “If you
toss a single halfpenny into the air you
have no means of telling whether it will
come down head or tail, but if you toss
up a million tons of halfpennies 500,000
tons will come down heads and 500,000
tails ; and repeating the experiment will
give the same result.”


ABORIGINALITIES
muttered, got up and retrieved the paper.
It bore, in pencil, this message: “If you
blokes would tern on yor faces for a bit
I would like to bring my wiffe and
dawghter past here They are in my-
bote wating round the bend Sorry to
haf to truble you.”
“V.J.8.”; Well, well! If it isn’t Big
Mat himself, champion he-man and
woman-hater of the Council and paragon
among bushmen, who “carried the red-
hot coals from our fire carefully to the
foot of the upright holding the sign, ad-
justed them nicely and then, calling to
me, grabbed his swag and started up the
road.” Strongly as I am with the big
bloke on the question of roadside adver-
tising hoardings, I will be regretfully
compelled to bring his most unbushman-
like act to the notice of the Bushfire Pre-
vention Committee.
* * * *
“Flock Ram”: Several four-horned
sheep were sold recently at Cannon Flill
(Q.). Among the flocks kept by Navajo
Indians on Mexican reservations sheep of
the four-horned type are no oddity. These
flocks are direct descendants of a Spanish
line which possessed this characteristic.
In Peru among the progeny of the same
Spanish breed the four horns also appear.
According to the Mendel theory, the
progenitors would carry genes for this
recessive condition through endless breed-
ing. It is possible that these Queensland
sheep are throwbacks and have retained
“Old-timer”: I was humping the knot
in eastern Riverina when a drover gave
me a job cooking for him and his off-
sider. It was a pretty hot and dry time,
I hadn’t had a decent wash for many
days and hailed the sight of the big tank
at Cookardinia with inward joy. After
we got the sheep bedded down for the
night I made a billy o’ tea, but the boss
and his offsider sneered at it, made sig-
nificant gestures towards the pub and
invited me to accompany them, “You go
ahead,” I said. “I’ll be with you later;
I’m goin’t’ have a dip in the tank first.”
A bit startled, they left, and I made for
the tank, peeled off, grabbed a hunk of
soap and hopped in. About then an in-
dignant citizen arrived and accused me
of polluting the local water supply.
Soothed, he told me of a hole still wet
in the near-by creek, and I made for it.
Was still disporting therein when the
drover poked his head over the bank,
eyed me blearily and withdrew. I got
out, reclothed myself and made for the
pub, full of anticipation. There were
about a dozen in the bar and the boss,
grabbing me and dragging me in, an-
nounced “Boys, ’ereshish. ’Fresh the
bloke (hie) ’imshelf. Told y’—told y’ I
had cleanesh’ ruddy cook (hie) in Rir-
rerina. Mush be, mush be. Man mush
be cleanesh’ ruddy cook (hie) when he’ll
inshish’ on harrin’ a bath before drink-
in’ beer.”
* * * *
“Louden”: Pasquale and Pietro, split-
ting posts in a ’Bidgee bend, varied a
diet of fish and rabbit with native poultry.
Crowp, kookaburras, cockatoos, galahs.
Nankeen herons all went into the big pot
of stew that was always simmering on
their campfire. Both men had been
warned that the killing of native birds
on that property would not be tolerated,
but they managed to avoid detection
until one day when the owner, cyaniding
a rabbit burrow in the side of a flood-
cut, saw Pietro, gun in hand, emerge
from his tent, draw a bead on a jackass
that was rocking with laughter on a
near-by gum and grass the bird. Hasten-
ing to the Italians’ camp, the trump was
met by Pietro, who said “By da cripe I
make-a da great mistake. I shoot-a da
poor jackalaugh. I think it da chicken-
steal hawk.” I -
* » * *
“Mat’s Mate”; I forget who the
traveller was who once said that he had
met more natural courtesy and considera-
tion in the outback than could be dis-
covered in the whole of polished society
throughout Europe, but I never think of
it without remembering how Mat and I
met one whom we have always believed
to be the champion of good manners.
We were making up the Murray one
summer and, striking a lonely bend with
an attractive sandspit, promptly founded
a temporary aquatic nudist colony of
two. We were lying on the sand, gazing
up through the tracery of leaves at the
serene sky, when we became aware of a
bloke standing somewhat diffidently on
the bank. When he caught our eyes, he
shrank visibly, stuck in the bank a stick
to which was tied a piece of paper and
withdrew. “What’s bitin’ him?” Mat
“ Don't stand there like a lame duck! Remember the eyes of Curtin and
Drakeford are on you!”
the recessive condition, only now giving
evidence of it as dominant,
* * * *
“B.”: In parts of the N.S.W. coast this
summer the eucalypts are growing so
quickly that they’re shedding their bark
as cleanly as a snake sheds its skin. Most
striking are the Sydney blue gum, grey
gum and spotted gum. The boles and
branches oif these species glisten -like
cream kid and are just as smooth. Against
the dark green of the surrounding bush-
land they are poems of loveliness. In
each case the superb health of the tree
is indicated by strong, well-spread crowns
of new rich green. Best specimens are
to be seen on well-drained hillsides, where
the soil is still fertilised by an undisturbed
mat of humus.
* * * *
“Sarina”: “Botano’s” description (B.
12/1/’44) tallies with the grass-tree of
the N.Q. coastal ranges. It grows in
vast tracts on the rocky hills and wipes
out all native grasses. Though the dead
stuff on ’em burns with frightful heat
when a fire runs through, they’re throw-
ing out new shoots inside a week, wet or
dry. Sometimes, when everything else
has been incinerated, stock and wallabies
chew the tender shoots off as fast as they
emerge from the charred stumps. I
shouldn’t criticise the grass-tree, because
some 10 years ago one possibly saved
my scalp from wild pigs and dingoes.
Hunting wallabies, I had a fall among
loose rocks on a ridge and damaged an
ankle. I could glimpse the roof of my
shanty through the valley timber some
three miles off, but there was no reach-
ing it unaided. The sun was down when
I realised the possibilities of the old-man
grass-tree a few feet distant. A match
held to the dry grass near by set it blaz-
ing and gave me time to crawl on to a
bare expanse of rock before the tree
caught. It went up in an immense burst
of fire and dense clouds of smoke. Not
long after the ground fire went out, but
the grass-tree smouldered and smoked on.
And soon after dark came the searchers,
who’d seen that first roll of smoke.
% sH * *
“Old A.W.U.”: Long before that
“Rabbiters’ Ball” at Tenterfield (B.
26/1/’44) my old union had tried to
bring the trappers under its wing. It
allowed them to join the union and did
what it could to get them what it thought
were good conditions as to country, con-
cessions, accommodation, etc., and ran
weekly rabbiters’ items in the “Worker.”
But, as “Stanus” says, the bunny hunters
were a lot of solitaries and attempts to
unionise them weren’t successful.
* * * *
“Kenwood”: The boxthorn mentioned
by “Louden” (B. 19/l/’44) is a native not
of Holland but of South Africa, its
botanic name being Lycium horridum.
It is fairly common about Sydney on un-
occupied land, but the ripe, red fruits are
distributed by birds, and it is a proclaimed
noxious plant here. Not only will it
stand up to dry and tough conditions of
soil, but it is one of the very few subjects
that will thrive On the sea-front exposed
to salt spray. Wollongong (N.S.W.) used
to have some on the lighthouse head-
land. In Maoriland its popularity and
the extent to which it is used are proved
by this quotation from a N.Z. nursery
catalogue:
As a hedge plant for coastal farms box-
thorn has no equal, as is readily proved
by its extensive use as a breakwind on the
plains in South Taranaki. Price, £5 per
5000.
“Wombat Road”: All the Sydney
papers, reporting bushfires around Young
(N.S.W.), kept on referring to the village
of Marengo as “Murringo,” which is how
it appears in the Commonwealth postal
guide. But the maps make it Marengo,
and so do I, for I’ve always believed it
was so called after Napoleon’s victory
over the Austrians in 1800. He struck
a coin at Tunis to commemorate the
affair; it was called a marengo, and was
worth about 20 lire. The “Murringo”
suggests a reversal of the habit of Angli-
cising abo. names. I pity any searcher
who tries to find out what “Murringo”
means in abo. lingo.
* 5* * *
“Nepean”; The albatross that clouted
the wireless aerial and fell wounded on
deck (B. 22/12/’43) recalls one I saw
land on the hatch of a coastal steamer.
The big flier tried in vain to take off;
but, though it had the best of runways
and a strong beam wind, it never looked
like rising. And the bird kept at it
for hours until it became violently sea-
sick. Then two seamen, arrayed in gloves
and overcoats, went to the glider’s assist-
ance, but the pecking was too well
directed and penetrating—they gaye it up.
In the end many hands with brooms got
around the seasick visitor, and slowly
they manoeuvred it along a gang plank
overboard. In a minute or so the flier
took off from the rough waters and flew
away, seemingly unconcerned.
Hi * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: “Sou’-west’s” in-
genious method of catching crays (B.
29/12/’43) is only a complicated varia-
tion of the hoop-net device used in
Tassie waters. Any old hoop about
2ft. 6in. in diameter is simply fitted with
a single layer of mesh-net, together with
a bridle line, and with the exposed bait
lashed in the centre the contraption is
lowered to a likely bottom by a line on
the bridle. In clear water the crays can
be watched in the net, and as the hoop is
hauled surfacewards the crustaceans ride
the bait or meshes instead of letting go.
In the Speck thousands of crays are
caught off rocks this way, and in
the kelp hard by the anchorage in the
southern end of lonely Wineglass Bay I’ve
filled a chaff-bag in two hours. Twenty
years ago in Tassie waters, when it was
illegal to fish with cray-pots, this was
the method professional fishermen sup-
posedly used, but it was never in high
favor with them, since nets had to be
watched. As soon as the bait went the
crays did likewise.
* * *
“Old Priller”: Not far west of where
“F.L.T.’s” drill went through a charred
gum log at 250 ft. (B. 26 /1 / ’44) I assisted
to put down three shafts. That was out
west of Balranald (N.S.W.), and, though
we had to stop digging at 25ft. because
the rush of water was too strong, we’d
had time to bring up old pieces of shell.
That was 30-odd miles from a river and
a couple of hundred from a sea.
* * * *
“Botano”: Grass can be persuaded to
grow on soil carrying quite a high per-
centage of saline, despite the lack of it
on Morgan’s grave due to a bag of salt
tipped on it many years before. Boulder
City (W.A.) had a football oval without
one blade of grass. To prepare the
ground , for forthcoming matches it was
frequently watered with brine from the
near-by mines, a solution many times
saltier than the sea. John Forrest’s pipe-
line from M undaring arrived ; and with
ample fresh water at hand the city
fathers decided to put the oval under
grass. Many were the doleful prophecies
that on such a salt-saturated area not
one blade would appear. But the plough
was set going, the seed was sown and the
grass grew.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “Betcha” writes like a
horse-lover when he asks “What does a
fellow do with an old horse?” (B.
12/1/’44); therefore it gives me no
pleasure to tell him this: In districts
contaminated with racing dogs Dobbin
invariably ends up as meals for these
insults to honest canine breeds. When
beef was first restricted (mutton being in-
sufficiently nutritious for the spidery
aristocrats) horseflesh began to find a
ready market. Unfortunately the diet
was successful; the demand exceeded the
supply and horses were sacrificed so that
mongs might chase tin bunnies. At six-
pence per pound it was good business.
The mysterious disappearance of numbers
of horses in our district may have been
merely coincidence; but now that meat-
rationing is established I know one fellow
who is going to tie the dog near the
horse paddock o’ nights.
“Bill C.”: What does one do with
worn-out nags? Igo on hanging out
better grub than I give my best draughts
and watch ’em shrink gradually until
at length they wander into a shallow
waterhble in some gully bed and partly
submerge. Next I set about the task of
heaving ’em on to dry land to withdraw
cursefully after it’s become plain that
they could get up but won’t. The shot-
gun rings the curtain. It is curious the
way these decrepit nags invariably cave-
in in a steep, rocky hole close to your
house —a hole from which you can’t drag
them out.
% H*
“Nor’-west”: With a large plug of to-
bacco and a billy of cold tea I bought
Bunjii’s oldest spear. He was not unwill-
ing to trade, for he took much more
pride in his recent manufactures —spears
tipped with glass and a special hunter
with a 6in. point of fencing wire, pos-
sibly traded over hundreds of miles from
far-south localities where 50-square-mile
sheep paddocks necessarily were fenced.
But his oldest shaft did me. If was a
sample of Stone Age armament con-
structed according to scientific principles
of the world’s beginning. First, the deadly
enough spade-shaped point of quartzite.
This fitted neatly into a groove cut in
one end of a smooth shaft about 3ft.
long. Heavy wood this, and hard, the
point being held in place by bindings of
sinew well covered with melted spinifex
gum. So three feet of the, ten
feet were covered; the rest con-
sisted of light bamboo into which
the heavy head fitted, with again a
binding of sinews and gum. There were
a poise and suppleness about that old
spear; it carried the elements of a pro-
jectile: the heavy head and the light
tail shaft gave it both direction and velo-
city, and as it swooped its trend was
always downward. I could picture primi-
tive brains thousands of year agone pon-
dering the problems of its construction as
inventive brains today ponder the latest
in aeroplanes.
THE CATTLEMEN.
Mid hills that westward trended
Upon a day gone by
We camped, when dusk descended,
Bronzed cattlemen and I.
Since dawn on height and hollow
Lit sassafras and gum,
No track nor road to follow,
Miles many had we come.
From where the lowland changes
To high land we had sped,
Lost cattle in the ranges
To seek and homeward head.
No cloud above us drifting.
No mist that dims and mars,
From our high camp uplifting
Our eyes we watched the stars.
Such was their burning glory,
Though we had journeyed long,
That sleep gave place to story
And weariness to song.
Till time dooms life’s last ember
And turns it ashen-white,
That camp I shall remember.
Its gleaming fire relight.
Relight, and in its gleaming
Revision oft again,
Like one in whiles of dreaming,
Those sun-browned cattlemen.
And mooded thus, moreover,
Alert of inward ear,
And back with them, a rover,
The songs they sang I’ll hear.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Bo”: The waves of midday heat shim-
mered along Whipstick Flat’s only street
as a gangling youth on a big foam-
flecked bay tore up to the little iron-
roofed police station and rushed in to
Constable Bailey, who with an uncon-
stabulary lack of dignity was sitting at
his table stripped to the waist and desul-
torily keeping the flies off with a gum
switch. To the law’s upholder the youth
gave an urgent message. His mother
had sent him. His elder brother Tom and
his father had been having a terrible
argument. His father had gone nearly
black in the face with rage at something
Tom had said, had grabbed an axe and
had made after his son. His mother
feared Wearily Constable Bailey
heaved himself up, then got dressed,
saddled his nag and made with what
speed he could get out of his mount in
the gasping heat towards the Pawleys’
place out beyond the Tussocks. The last
three miles was tough going over basalt
outcrops, and horse and rider were
soaked in sweat as they came down the
long drive towards the house. Then a
deep voice boomed, and Bailey turned to
see Jim Pawley and his son Tom, both
holding axes, standing by a big ironbark.
He cantered across. “What the”
he began. “You can clear this up, Ted.
They reckon you’ve done a bit o’ ring-
barkin’ in y’r time,” said Pawley, senior.
“Tom here reckons the collar-cut’s the
on’y real method o’ barkin’ a tough
tree like this. I say the good old frill cut
is on its own. We’ve had quite a go in
about it. What do you say?”
* * * *
“Naturala”: “Snowy” with his query
(B. 22/12/ ’43) as to how long a bush
snake might live, barring accidents, has
the pundits just about foundered. Obser-
vation would be difficult, the snake being
of such a retiring nature. Zoo snakes
don’t as a rule live very long, though the
conditions there might be regarded as
unnatural. But there are members of the
reptilian tribe noted for longevity: the
tortoise and the crocodile, Portuguese
East Africa has tortoises which if the
dates carved on their shells are correct
have lived the best part of a century,
while Indian rivers have known muggers,
reputedly the same, said to have taken toll
of generation after generation of humans.
Giant pythons probably live the best part
of a century, their infant growth being
slow and much of their adulthood passed
in sleep. That reptilian cadavers so sel-
dom decorate the landscape is explain-
able in Joe’s love of a subterranean habi-
tation. Being a semi-hibernating creature
he spends most of the winter there, and
it is reasonable that he retires there to
die. So his life’s habitation becomes his
grave.
* * * ♦
“Herbert Dawson”: “8.4” I always find
interesting, but blast my whiskers if I
can always understand him. Returning
from a fortnight’s quartpot droving,, and
reading up my waiting Bulletins, I came
on his par. (B. 22/12/’43) dealing with
my earlier one re the bull’s way with his
family. If “B.4’s” contention that cows
made “arrangements” for calf protection
in dog-infested country was correct, the
stockowners of this locality would not
have the losses they have always been
subjected to. The plain fact as we see it
is that cattle have no system in the
matter. A cow leaves her young calf
planted under a bush and comes in to
water, perhaps with other cattle, perhaps
alone. If it is a hot day, or if she comes
in late, there is a sporting chance that she
gets back to her calf too late. Calves
with bitten loins (a favorite dingo hold)
or stumpy tails or torn ears are the ones
whose mothers were near enough to make
a rescue when the warrigals attacked.
And that is all there is to it.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Sam’s been hunting the map
for Back Pufftaloon. Wants to see if that
train of “M.B’s” (B. 5/1/’44) is dinkum.
On his own return trip from the city Sam
was draped over the luggage rack on top
of a couple more blokes. He had a
16-stoner on one knee, two brawling kids
on the other, and three suitcases, a banjo
and four overcoats on his chest —at least
that is Sam’s story. On reaching home,
first thing he did, after writing to the
R.S.P.C.A., was to cancel his order for
sheep trucks. Says that, even if he could
win the bout with his conscience, the loss
en route is too great to make trucking
worth while. Sam lost four pounds, the
old man’s wallet, a hat, four trouser
buttons and his breakfast.
* * * *
“Bo”: Old Tom Carstairs, proprietor
of the Fencers’ Arms, was the un-
crowned king of Swampgum. He was
not only in everything; he was every-
thing, from the Race Club to the Pro-
gress Association. In his capacity of J.P.
he was sitting on the Bench one morning
when the constable interrupted his de-
poning something about straying cattle to
keel over suddenly and conk out. Old
Tom, after the constable’s death had been
medically confirmed, hastily adjourned
the Court for 10 minutes, which inter-
regnum he furiously em-
ployed in jotting down the
main headings of a speech
of appreciation. Assem-
bling the Court again Tom
was pleased to note that
the little building was now-
crowded. “Ladies and
gents,” he began, “we’re
gathered together in the
’all o’ justice o’ this fair
districk of ours to —er—
pay unstintin’ tribute to a
servant o’ the people —
Constable Snoots, lately
defunct. There’ll be some
people blokes ’oo ’e’s
lumbered at times —’oo’ll
reckon ’e was a fair cow.
Perhaps ’e was a bit of a
crank. Still an’ all, ’e
served this ’ere Court faith-
fully an’ well; in fact, ’e
might be called a shinin’
light of ’is profession, an’
’e’s gone, we ’ope, to reap
a rich reward for ’is toil
on earth. So I’ll arsk y’,
ladies and gents, to be up-
standin’ an’ charge y’r”
As Tom paused on the
brink of his oratorical
chasm a voice from the
back of the courthouse
yelled: “We’ll charge 'em
if you don’t charge for ’em, Tom. It’s
damn’ near time y’ give one on the
house!” Old Tom glared with a wild
eye at the speaker and yelped: “Arrest
that coot, Constable an’ charge
’im with contempt o’ Court!”
* * * *
“Betcha”; Can’t agree with “M.B”
(B. 12/1/’44) that in coursing with dogs
“the fleeing bunny is almost invariably
picked up across the back of the neck or
across the small of the back.” I’ve always
found that the canine grabs up the rabbit
by the nearest part he can take hold of,
and this is just as likely to be a hind leg,
top of the rump or loin as anywhere else.
He hasn’t time to discriminate. Soon as
he can slacken pace he takes a killing
hold —usually round the shoulders or
ribs, though some dogs kill with a head
crush. Have a dog at present whose
favorite pick-up is the hind leg, and, still
carrying by that member, he dashes back
with the squealing catch,
* * * *
“Wippegong”: It’s a far cry from a
Murrumbidgee bend, with a clean beach
on the inner curve and old-man redgums
drooping over the deeper water on the
other side, to a pounding creek which cas-
cades down from great green mountains
and rattles through a giant hothouse
where the light is dim and huge, soft,
fleshy leaves hang motionless in the
breathless humidity. Just behind the mess
you can look down on the creek from a
hill about 10ft. high and wide enough
for an air-raid shelter to have been tun-
nelled into it, which could hardly have
been the object of the jungle fowls who
built the mound. Now it is lightly
covered with deep pink confetti, for the
topmost branches of a tree towering
above are a mass of bloom. Despite the
stillness of the spot these branches are
always moving, for honey-eaters, leather-
heads, pied butcher-birds,
parrots and other fowl I
know not are gathered for
what must be exceptional
feed even in this region of
plenty. The parrots would
stand out in any company.
Nearly as big as a galah,
but built like a lorikeet,
with crimson head and
body, blue-tipped tail and
green and yellow wings, they are as
loud in voice as in color. As an accom-
paniment to their clamor is a deep, steady
drone, coming from swarms of big black
bees, as busy as the birds—and probably
the quarry for some. Finally, silent, yet
distracting, because they draw your eye
when you’re trying to watch honey-eaters,
are butterflies with an Sin. wingspan. And
down below, scratching quietly between
the buttresses at the base of another tree,
are the mound-builders themselves —neat
little chooks, black and brown with yel-
low legs, which, when flushed, fly high
into the heavy foliage. They look as
though they would go very well in the
pot; and after a glance at the store of
tinned stuff here I’m inclined to think
their chances of reaching old age are
shrinking.
* * * *
“B. I. Ngara”: The Border collie never
left the boss’s side. Often he’d be tied up
while the boss went off to a distant pad-
dock, but the moment he was relieved
he would set off after his master. In
the bush you put such habits to good
use, so now, when the boss is working in
a distant paddock, his missus listens to
the midday news on the air, writes a
resume of it, ties the paper to the collie’s
collar and lets him go. A few minutes
later the boss is reading the news.
“As this the caretaker's office ?”
“Mid White”: With a mate who
raises pigs I was walking through a
metropolitan pig market. As we entered
the place and were forced to raise our
voices to compete with the chorus of
grunts, squeals and snorts I nudged the
mate and said “Reckon this reminds you
of home.” “Yair,” he said. Then a
drover, trying to back a reluctant porker
into a pen, let himself go. “Get in, y
blanky black blankard,” he roared.
“More like home than ever,” remarked
the mate gravely,
* * * *
“Aratta”: “Me an’ a mate had jist
struck a bush shanty at the tail end of a
120-in-the-shade day,” related Bogan
Bob. “There’s a covered wagonette
standin’ near the shanty, an’ presently we
see a little Dago bloke come runnin
round, jabberin’ t’ himself all the while
like a lunatic. Then a coupla blokes
come saunterin’ along. The little cove
jumps outa the wagonette an’ stands
wavin’ his arms about an’ yellin’ at them.
‘Right,’ we hear one of ’em shout; ‘we 11
see if we can find her for y’.’ Then the
bloke spots me an’ •me mate an’ tears
over t’ us. ‘You help-a ma find-a
he gabbles, his arms goin’ like flails an’
tears in his eyes, ‘My beautiful Marietta,
she have-a gone. Search, se&rch an’ find-a
her for me, an’ I bring-a you da gallons
of beer.’ ‘What’s she'like?’ I ask him.
‘Oh, she loverly, she beautiful,’ was all
we got out of him as he races off.
After searchin’ for- half an hour we
bumped agen the other two blokes,
who hadn’t struck any luck either.
We’re jist convergin’ towards the front
of the pub, when Bung lets out .a yell.
Next instant we hear the little Dago bloke
callin’, overjoyedlike, T have found my
beautiful, my lofely Marietta! Come an’
have da drinks I promise t’ buy you’; an’
we both look round t’ see him five yards
from us with a fifteen-foot snake draped
over his shoulders. It was midnight when
we pulled up, twelve miles away, an’ we’d
lost our thirst.”
• « * *
“Nepean”: As the quaintest sheep
station in Australia I nominate Dirk
Hartog, that finger-shaped island nearly
60 miles in length which juts out into the
Indian Ocean and forms the wtestern
shore of huge Shark Bay. The station
has a definite nautical atmosphere ; its
boundary fence is the sea, and, since sub-
divisional fences run eight to 15 miles
across the width of the scrub-covered
isle, the stock-route and road are the bay-
side beach. Paddocks are watered by
peculiar soaks right on the beaches, and,
because they give fresh water at high
tide and salt at low water, all windmills
have to be ridden and turned on or off
at half tides, 44 minutes later each day,
corresponding to the one 24-hour tide.
There are none of the usual burr, rabbit,
dingo, strange stock or passing-drover
worries, and transport to Denham, the
nearest township, 20-odd miles across
the bay, is by the station’s own cutter.
The wool from the 15,000 merinos was,
in pre-war years, boated off from the
stone woolshed beside the homestead at
the southern extremity to Singapore-
bound steamers for transhipment to
London. The only visitors to the island
are pearlers, who at low water gather
the shell on the huge shallows adjoining
the lonely station.
* * * *
“Nairda”: A new remedy for snake-
bite, purported by him to be in use
amongst the Indians of his State, was
passed on to me by a hefty Wisconsin
backwoodsman. This is his remedy. “Kill
the snake as quickly as possible, and cut
a piece about six inches long from the
snake’s body. Slice the piece so that the
raw flesh is exposed and apply it to the
wound. The piece will act as a leech and
draw out all the poison. It must, of
course, be done immediately to be effec-
tive,” My American friend assures me
he has seen it done. I’m not trying it!
FARMIN’.
Choppin’ out the Bathurst burrs,
Rootin’ out the wort,
Feedin’ of the flamin’ chooks
While the piggies snort.
Bunkin’ down at midnight
Flat upon me spine,
Up at bloomin’ sparrer-call,
Wakin’ up the kine.
Seven flamin’ days a week,
“Keep the nation fed.”
Short o’ help for harvest —
Oughter sell me bed.
Blowflies eatin’ all me sheep,
Troubles every day;
Every night the flamin’ wind
Blows me soil away.
Toilin’ in the moonlight,
Sweatin’ in the dark.
Dogs flop down beside me,
Too done up t’ bark.
Store’s got no tobaccer,
Pub’s sold out o’ beer,
“Grow more, food,” says Scully —
Wish the cow was here!
Gotta work the faller,
Gotta crutch the yoes,
Gotta grind the tractor valves,
Gotta fix the hoes.
Gotta do a million things,
“Get the C.O. to keep an eye on me. I'm gain' to have a crack for a V.C."
Got a right t’ moan,
Gotta “feed the nation”
On me flamin’ own.
N.S.W
BARELLAN BILL.


KEEP BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
SAUCE
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
MATURED LIKE OLD WINE
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
QUiCKand DEADLY
KILL THOSE RABBITS
with CYANPGAS
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shearing Zone Dates.
“Murrawong”: Some slight alterations
have been made for the coming season.
In N.S.W. boundaries of zones are not
affected, but in Victoria alteration has
been made boundaries of Zones
12 and 13, Tasmanian boundaries are as
before, but several adjustments have been
made in S.A., including, the creation of
two new zonds.
Zones 1 to 10 are in N.S.W., although
some of them extend to adjoining States ;
11 to 14 are in Victoria; Zone 15 com-
prises the whole of Tasmania, and the
balance of the zones up to 22 are in
S.A. Queensland apd W.A. aren’t
zoned.
In N.S.W. dates have been altered in
every zone. Last year in certain zones
there were two distinct periods during
which shearing was prohibited. Now
each zone has one prohibited period
only. The alteration is to allow a longer
shearing season. Earlier districts have to
complete shearing a week or two earlier
than before, while later zones start
several weeks later than last year.
The new system should give better
results. For instance, it was found that
owing to the proximity of closing dates
in earlier districts shearers tended to
dodge sheds in one particular zone so
that they could go straight into another
district where the sheep were easier.
Small holdings carrying fewer than
1000 sheep are no longer exempt from
zoning. In the past they were allowed
to shear at any time, but it was found
that some shearers preferred to stay in a
district where they could get shearing in
small sheds for many months, and thus
were not available for zoned sheds. The
Pi ah now is to concentrate all available
labor in those zones which shear in Sep-
tember apd October, the main shearing
season. Even in normal times there has
been scarcity of shearing labor in those
months. Last year the scarcity was con-
siderably aggravated by showery weather,
and schedules were practically a month
behind.
The new regulations now prohibit
shearing of lambs during prohibited
periods of any zone. Although this may
appear to be a hardship, study of the
prohibited periods shows that as a rule
there is little necessity to shear lambs
during those times except under
abnormal circumstances. In those cases
it may be possible to obtain exemption.
On the Wheat Front.
“Ben Cubbin”: That prince of opti-
mists Mr. Scully is reported as being all
set to put before Cabinet next month
proposals for an increase in Australia’s
wheat acreage.” Translated, this can only
mean that Mr. Scully intends to recom-
mend the granting of permits to wheat-
growers to sow bigger areas, though
nothing has been said about the extra
man-power, fuel and supefr. that will be
necessary.
According to I. E. Maycock, S.A.
representative on the Australian Wheat
Board, a request had come from the
“London food committee” (whatever
that may be) that Australia’s wheat
acreage should be increased by 3,500,000
acres. This, murmurs from Westralia
that its financial position would de-
teriorate unless it could grow more wheat
and a vague sort of demand for more
wheat from the N.S.W. Minister of
Agriculture seem to have inspired Mr.
Scully. It would be interesting to know
what the Australian Wheat Board thinks
about it.
Last September the Canadian Bureau
of Statistics, which usually knows what it
is talking about, said:
Canada’s carryover at the end of the
1942-43 crop year was a record of
601,500,000 bushels... .The U.S.A. surplus
of 609,000,000 was only 23,000,000 below
its 1942 record. In addition, there is a large
unsold surplus in Argentina and Aus-
tralia Very large quantities of wheat are
being earmarked for animal feed and for
fuel (power alcohol) in North and South
America but against this must be set' a
contemplated expansion of 14,000,000 acres
in the U.S.A. for the 1944 harvest and the
fact that farmers in Argentina have been
given the green light on wheat acreage ex-
pansion this year Amount of wheat
likely to be shipped to Europe during the
“Play ’ im, Ma—play ’im."
next year depends on war developments,
but ordinary export shipments in the 1943-
44 crop year do not promise to increase.
None of which encourages the idea of
expansion in Australia. And growers
ought to know more about this London
food committee which asks for increased
acreage, the normal thing being to ask
for more bushels. On Australian averages
3? million acres means about 45,000,000
bushels. All power to the London food
committee if it can use that much Aus-
tralian wheat for blending, but the re-
quest would sound better if it came from
the Ministry of Food.
And the Federal Cabinet, before it
makes any decision, ought to be reminded
that Canada closed down trading on the
Winnipeg exchange in September last
and guaranteed a fixed price of 90 cents
(about Ass.) a bushel f.o.b. terminals.
Now the Bureau of Statistics is saying
that wheat prices can no longer be main-
tained at a fixed level but must more or
less follow “war demand.”
All the same, western Canadian wheat-
growers are. said to be satisfied with the
position, though grain exchange officials
complain that the order stops a public
recording of the true value of Canadian
wheat on world markets, a point that
should be absorbed by Australian tax-
payers, who have to find the money for
the schemes of people like Mr. Scully/
Another aspect of the thing is that,
since the Cabinet is to meet next month,
any decision it may reach cannot be put
into effect this year. Mid-March to mid-
May is the sowing season in the main
Australian wheatbelt, and there’d be
little hope of getting the necessary per-
mits, seed, super., fuel and man-power
by then, to say nothing of working up
the extra seedbed.
Swede Turnips.
“Ager”: Sheepmen using them in con-
junction with improved pastures are
solving the winter feed problem. The
idea is to sow turnips for two or three
seasons, then follow with the improved
grasses.
January is the best month for sowing
turnips. To provide continuous grazing
keep on sowing small areas up to the end
of February or early March.
Ideal soil is a friable black loam, but
the lighter soils suit just as well.
Sow in rows about 2ft. apart, with seed
Hlb. to 21b. to the acre. Mix with super.
Icwt. and sow shallow through fertiliser
box. The “row” system is much better
than broadcasting. You can keep down
the weeds, essential in the early growth
of turnips, and you can loosen the soil
after rain. Keep turnips moving. Slow
growth is asking for aphis trouble. When
about six inches high thin out, leaving
the stronger plants.
The sheep are allowed on to the turnips
in the field. When they have eaten them
down to the “cup” stage, turn sheep out
and cultivate the turnip paddock to ex-
pose uneaten portions. Then let sheep
finish them off.
Put some away for winter feed. Choose
a‘well-drained site and “pit” the turnips.
Make a long triangular pile, cover with
straw and sods. Don’t forget to cut
sloping channels round the pit to carry
off water. Turnips will keep well for
months. The cows love them chopped
up and mixed with chaff. They make
the feed much more appetising and
succulent.
Some figures; A 70-acre paddock
carried 2000 sheep for eight weeks;
1400 sheep grazed for three weeks in a
50-acre field ; in a nine-acre paddock 720
sheep were grazed for five weeks with-
out eating out the crop. Turnips are
cheap to grow. Try the old champion
Purple Top swede. If you cannot obtain
super, collect all the cow manure into a
heap and keep it for months. The older
the better for a bumper crop.
_
Rye Grass and Sub. Clover.
“Hux”: As a combination on irriga-
tion areas they provide all-year-round
feed, usually need fewer waterings
than other mixtures and an annual top-
dressing of lewt. of superphosphate an
acre is enough.
Care in grading and layout saves labor
in the long run, and waterlogging and
weed spread are forestalled. Keep the
bays about 10 chains long ; shorter on
sandy soils. On land with a good
side fall space the check banks half a
chain apart; on other situations a chain
between will serve. The banks should
be 9in. high when constructed, 6in. when
settled.
Make seedbeds firm and fine, as for
lucerne. Sow in March. Plants are then
well advanced before winter and get the
benefit of water before the irrigation
season ends. Rain-induced germination
gives best results ; if rain hangs off a
light irrigation will be needed. Use
Mount ‘Barker sub.-clover seed with
equal quantity of perennial rye, and sow
51b. to 81b. to the acre, with lewt. of
super., through drill or combine. Cover
the seed lightly, and sow over the check
banks to keep them firm. If heavy winter
grazing is wanted the first year increase
the sub. clover.
Light grazing can begin eight to ten
weeks after sowing, and continued till
end of October. If grazed too closely
clover runners suffer. Ten sheep per
acre can be carried in the growing
season ; two per acre in summer months.
Rye grass and clover die off after seed-
ing in November. Watering in March
will stir up germination. If rainfall’s nor-
mal, only one other watering is needed in
the autumn and another in early spring.
Given good management, sub. clover and
perennial rye will last for years and en-
rich soil fertility.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.H.”; Eight ounces of bluestone dis-
solved in three gallons of water is the
best drench for calves with worms. Doss
as follows: Four-month calves, 30z.; six-
month, 4oz. ; nine-month, 60z.; 12-
month, Boz. Don’t go above Boz. even
for older cattle. Feeding’s half the battle
against worms in young animals; supple-
ments such as hay and ensilage help.
“B.”; For lice on pigs try the ordinary
house spray, which spreads the liquid
over the skin quickly and evenly. For
a cheap emulsion dissolve two teaspoons
washing soda or four teaspoons soap
powder in two quarts water, then stir in
one quart neatsfoot oil.
“Plane Creek”: Yellow, stunted plants
mean soil sourness or acidity. ' New soil
is often acid ; so is old soil that has
been manured frequently with nitrogen-
ous fertilisers. Few plants are at home
in acid soil. The remedy is lime given
a month or six weeks before planting, the
soil being ploughed roughly.
“P.A.”: Carrots can be successfully
transplanted even in summertime. They
progress rapidly in deep soil, finely dug,
without freshly-added manure, but fertile
through previous preparation and a ration
of No, 5 fertiliser (handful to yard run)
dug in Sin. to 6in. deep. Last autumn I
got a splendid crop from a neighbor’s
handout of seedlings which struck per-
fect roots in early spring, going through
frosts and cold.
“Sarina”; Sorry to read that “Um-
biram” (B. 15/12/’43) had trouble be-
cause his bacon factory wouldn’t accept
his body-tattooed pigs. Body tattooing is
a modern, humane method of identifying
pigs, and it has the full backing of
Queensland Agricultural Department.
Nowadays experts regard firebranding
as a cruel practice which not only gives
unnecessary pain to the pig but which
disfigures the carcass and lowers it in
market value. Firebrahded carcasses are
condemned for export.


Ruwolt
'
e*r
%
. 9*W3P :
4-:
» ms
*** •?
Rubber Calender. Approximate Weight 30 tons.
Above is illustrated a good example of the many types
of machines designed and built by Ruwolt’s for the Rubber
Industries in Australia.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immedi-
ately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
I
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
♦, , cuts out industrial fatigue
Belter illumination means greater efficiency, fewer
mistakes, less waste, increased safety. “Cold Cathode”
Fluorescent Lighting ... an entirely new principle .. .
gives perfect illumination. This cool, man-made day-
light sends its glare-free rays into every nook and
cranny . . , lights up dark corners, reduces eye strain,
lowers fatigue, costs much less, and reduces
absenteeism to a minimum.
Industrial lighting regulations are best met by
Fluorescent Lighting installa|fons. Why not test a
Fluorescent unit in your factory? There’s no cost.
And include Fluorescent Lighting in all your post-war
expansion plans to illuminate shops, offices, factories,
theatres, hospitals, ships and trains. Write or ’phone:
IDTE
LIG H T 111 G
Division of Neon Signs (A’sia) Ltd.
11-19 HARGRAVE STREET, SYDNEY - ’Phone: FL 3132
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Britain’s European Links.
(From a report by the “Christian Science
Monitor’s ” London correspondent.)
It can be said definitely that the British
Government has tacitly but finally dis-
avowed Marshal Smuts’s remarks about
France being finished as a great Power.
Britain’s policy sincerely support? the
restoration of a strong France.
Most British people today would prob-
ably still agree with Marshal Smuts that
it will be a long time before France is
a great Power again from a military
point of view; but the growth of the
resistance movement inside France of late
provides proof that France won’t remain
a weak country for long.
Marshal Smuts’s other bombshell was
his proposal of closer union between
Britain and the smaller democracies of
Western Europe. This has shaken things
up considerably under the surface in
London.
The report that Belgium might consider
joining the British Empire is a sign of
this. All that can be said so far is that
three of the smaller democracies in West-
ern Europe show keen interest in this idea
of a closer union of some sort with Great
Britain. These three are Norway, the
Netherlands and Belgium.
British official circles seem too startled
at this development to know yet just
what they do think. But a few thought-
ful leaders have been deeply impressed
with Marshal Smuts’s proposal.
It isn’t beyond the bounds of possibility
that out of if all will come some sort
of arrangement providing for closer
economic and strategic unity—though
not political unity—between Britain, Nor-
way, the Netherlands and Belgium, and
possibly later even France.
A Great Air Job.
(From an “Atlantic Monthly ” account of the
destruction by the R.A.F. of the Mohne dam,
written by Wing-Commander G. P. Gibson,
V.C., leader of the raid.)
The Air Marshal told me that I was
to form a special squadron picked out
of the best crews in the Bomber Com-
mand. It took me an hour to pick my
squadron. There was Mickey Martin
from Australia, who had done 48 trips.
There was Dingy Young from America,
who had done 65 trips. There were Dave
Shannon, Les Munroe, Joe McCarthy,
John Hopgood and many others —all in
all, they probably knew more about the
art of bombing than any other squadron
in the world.
Security measures were far-reaching
and efficient. All our telephone wires
were tapped, guards were stationed all
around the vicinity, and the barmaid in
the local pub was given three months’
holiday.
Then I went down to London, and
there I met a man of whoni I shall say
very little. He was as much, responsible
for the success of this operation as all
the pilots and air crews put together.
We met together in a small, dark
office. He pulled out a drawing and gave
me a short lecture on the science of
breaking' dams.
He said: “The Mohne Dam is a mili-
tary objective which I have been study-
ing ever since the war began. This dam”
—and he pulled out some pictures—“is
some 850 yards long, 150 feet thick, and
it is as high as it is thick.”
He went on: “We have been making
experiments and trying out the effect of
explosives on such walls for some time.
We have built down in the south a dam
the same as the Mohne Dam. The lake
is full of water and we intend to go down
at once and try out there the theories
that we have evolved with the smaller
models.”
A few days later he rang up and told
me that the experiment had proved a
success. “But we are not finished,” he
added ; “we are not nearly finished.”
At that time a certain county council
in the Midlands of England had just built
a new dam to supply their town with
water. We asked them if we could knock
down their old dam, and the scientist and
I went to work.
There followed a series of dramatic
experiments. On one cold, winter morn-
ing after another I flew over this dam and
dropped my missile, and always as I did
so this great man, the scientist, was
standing on the edge of the lake with his
shoulders hunched and his hands in the
pockets of his overcoat, watching to see
what would happen. One after another
our experiments failed.
For many days this man worked and
I flew. He modified and experimented.
Then one morning in April I flew over
and dropped one which worked. The man
on the ground danced and waved his
hands in the air. I could see him from
my cockpit as I banked around after my
run, and I waved back at him and
shouted into the noise of the engines ;
and I believe that the man on the ground
threw his hat into the air, for that was
a wonderful moment.
Then there were urgent telephone calls
and many signals written in cipher and
messengers rushing to and fro, and fac-
tories received priority orders so tljat men
and women worked throughout the day
and the night making these things which
we were to carry with us over to Ger-
many to be dropped in the Mohne Lake.
After all that I took myself back to
my squadron. Night after night, day
after day, we went flying up and down
lakes in Scotland, in the Midlands and
in Wales, practising this very special form
of attack. One of our hardest problems,
we found, was to fly at 45 feet above the
water; to fly at exactly 45 feet, not 44
feet or 46 feet, but 45 feet.
This difficulty was ultimately overcome
in a most simple manner, and, although
I should like to tell you how it was done,
I think that the Germans would like to
know even better. The method we used
was accurate to a few inches. It made us
extremely vulnerable to flak fire, but this
risk had to be taken.
After two months of continuous hard
training I considered that my squadron
was fit to undertake the operation. On
May 16 reconnaissance aircraft reported
that the water-level was just right for
the attack.
We rumbled out on to the flare-path,
in one great formation, and soon all 19
of us were en route to Germany at zero
altitude. We were flying so low that
more than once I had to pull the stick
back quickly in order to hop over a high-
tension wire or a tall tree.
We didn’t all get through. One air-
craft had already hit the sea, bounced
up, lost both its outboard engines and
flown back on the inboard two. Two
other aircraft were hit by light flak a
little later on, and I had to order them
to return to base. That left 16 aircraft
going on ; 112 men.
When we crossed the Rhine there were
barges on the river equipped with quick-
firing guns and they shot- at us as we
flew over, but we pressed on towards the
Ruhr. Time and again searchlights would
pick us up, but we were flying very low,
and, although it may sound foolish and
untrue when I say so, we avoided a great
number"of them by dodging behind the
trees.
We fought our way past Hamm, and
then as we came over the hill we saw
the Mohne Lake. And then we saw the
dam itself, and in the early light mf the
morning it looked squat and heavy and
unconquerable. A structure like a battle-
ship was shooting up flak all along it.
I spoke to my squadron: “0.K., chaps.
Come in to attack when I tell you. I’ll
attack first.”
Then I began my approach
Spam, my Australian bomb-aimer, had
his eyes glued to the bombsight in front,
his hand on the button.
We skimmed along the surface of the
lake, and as we went my gunner was
firing into the defences and the defences
fired back. Their shells whistled past us,
but for some reason we were not being
hit. Spam said “Left . . . little more left
. . . steady . . . steady . . . steady . . .
bombs gone! ” .
As we circled round I saw that we had
not broken the dam
Hoppy began his attack. I saw him
approach. I saw him drop his mines. I
saw him shot down.
Many minutes later I told No. 3 to
attack. He was all right; he got through.
It was then that I saw that the dam wall
had moved. It had moved back on its


For Australia at War . . .
QXe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING. MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
oVJAR Tq.
O
Q
O
£
D
TO'^
SLIDE RULES
“Cal” 10-inch Slide Rules carry the
following scales: A, B, C, D, Recip-
rocal of C, Sine. Tangent and Log.
Log. These rules are ‘ useful
for a wide variety of
calculations.
C P*r,
TRADE
INQUIRIES
INVITED.
CAL RULE CO., 66 King St., Sydney.
Made from selected
wood faced with
celluloid. Price, complete in case, post
paid, 25/-. Send remittance by Postal
Note, Money Order or
Cheque. Money re-
funded if not satisfied.
Book of Instructions, including fifty
practical examples. Price, 1/6.
25/-
AVAILABLE TO ESSENTIAL
COMMERCIAL USERS . . .
—and with the latest Chassis
and V 8 Engine All-steel
Cabs and Imported Bodies . . .
FORD V-8
TRUCKS
158 in. WHEELBASE
3 and 4 TONNERS
Specially Imported by the
Government to ensure effi-
cient road transport within
Australia.
. ' *
Your Ford Distributor or Dealer .
will gladly help when applying for
the necessary permit to purchase.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
SEE YOUR LOCAL
FORD DEALER
“BUY WAR BONDS WITH 5/-
NATIONAL SA VINGS STAMPS”
r
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Vic..) Reed. Office; Geelong
F 9.20. T
To keep “ fighting fit ’’
Starving people win no victories; that is why such
immense efforts are made on both sides in blockade
and counter-blockade.
The people must be fed—and well fed. It is
inevitable therefore that the House of Heinz should
come into the struggle.
Inevitable that thousands of cases of the famous
foods that stream from our kitchens should help in
keeping the gallant lads of the Services fit and tough.
This has kept the Home Front very short of Heinz
57 Varieties, but every 'effort has been and will be
made to distribute, as fairly as possible, the limited
supplies that do become available for civilian con-
sumption.
But one point remains unchanged. Quality will
not be sacrificed just to increase production—in this
sense, the flag of the 57 is nailed to the mast.
There will be no surrender of quality. Every new
package of the 57 Varieties is a renewed pledge of
faith—an unbreakable- faith.
SL
C'.
m
i
HEINZ
57
VARIETIES
i&v Jk
m
jm
H J. HEINZ CO PTY LTD.
axis, and I knew then that, if we could
only go on pushing, in the end it must
collapse. Then one after the other No. 4,
No. 5 and No. 6 went in to attack. Each
one of them dropped his missiles exactly
in the right place. I was flying up and
down watching them.
Suddenly, as the last aircraft attacked
and as I watched the mines drop in
exactly the right place, a great column
of whiteness rose up a thousand feet into
the air and the dam wall collapsed. I
saw it go, but I could not believe that it
had happened. I heard someone shout
“I think she’s gone! I think she’s gone! ”
Now there was no doubt about it.
There was a breach 100 yards across and
the water was gushing out and rolling
down into the Ruhr Valley towards the
industrial centres of Germany’s Third
Reich.
I passed the message home to ray
station. Then I looked again at the dam
and at the water. It was a sight such
as no man will ever see again. Down in
the valley we saw cars speeding along
the roads in front of this great wave of
water which was chasing them and going
faster than they could ever hope to go.
I saw their headlights burning, and I saw
the water overtake them one by one, and
then the color of the headlights under-
neath the water changed from light blue
to green, from green to dark purple, until
quietly and rather quickly there was no
longer anything except the water.
The floods raced on, carrying with
them as they went viaducts, railways,
bridges and everything that stood in their
path.
Then I felt a little remote and unreal
sitting up there in the warm cockpit of
my Lancaster, watching this mighty power
which we had unleashed ; and then I felt
glad because I knew that this was the
heart of Germany and the heart of h % er
industries, the place which itself had un-
leashed so much misery upon the whole
world.
It was the success of an ambition. The
success of achievement, made possible by
the work of ordinary boys flying ordinary
aeroplanes, but boys who had guts.
German Morale.
(From a report by N.Y. "Herald Tribune"
London correspondent .)
German morale has sunk to a low level
and the people generally are apathetic of
the war, but there is not the slightest hint
of any real crack on the Nazi home front,
according to reports from inside Ger-
many.
The morale of the German army,
which most psychological warfare experts
in London agree is the only instrument
that can produce a real anti-Nazi revolt
in Germany, is still good, and particularly
so on the Russian front, according to the
same reports.
The best information available from
many sources indicates that there is no
valid basis for any expectation of an
early collapse of Germany. It can be
emphasised that this information about
Germany is not just propaganda to dis-
courage undue optimism on the American
home front.
Almost all reports from Germany indi-
cate that air-raid morale is relatively good
—that is, that it is better than might have
been expected in view of the pounding
the German cities have been receiving
from the Royal Air Force and the Ameri-
can Eighth Air Force.
There are no indications either that the
average German has begun to doubt the
ethical merits of the causes for which he
is fighting. Although there have been
occasional smal| and insignificant strikes,
there has not been any suggestion that
an opposition movement to the Nazi
machine has been gainirig strength in
Germany.
The morale on the Russian front is
higher than on the Italian front, because
the Germans do not like to surrender to
the Russians, and do not mind so much
surrendering to the British and Ameri-
cans. The German soldier, furthermore,
hates the Russians more than he does the
British and Americans.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
A post-war United States aliance, collabora-
tion, understanding—call it what you will—
with the entire British Empire would be most
desirable, we believe. The' United States and
the British Empire, 99 chances to 1, are going
to come out of this war as the two greatest sea
and air Powers in world history. They are not
going to be surrounded, from present indi-
cations, with friends and well-wishers. Quite
the contrary, .despite .the current talk of undying
infer-Allied friendship and unity. To us, it
seems only commonsense for the English-
speaking peoples to team up after the war and
use their combined air and sea power to keep
their own peace and swing a great deal of
weight in keeping the peace of the entire world.
— “Collier’s” editorial.
* * * *
A development of the Tehran Conference
which diplomats consider especially significant
was the failure of Sfalin, Roosevelt and
Churchill to refer to unconditional surrender.
This is believed no accident. The President
and Prime Minister had stuck rigidly to it,
but Stalin made no such commitment. Russian
strategy has been to undermine the Nazis and
work toward a peace with some anti-Hitler
clique in Germany, perhaps far from uncon-
ditional surrender. The Russians used the
high-ranking German officers captured at Stalin-
grad to build up a German officers’ corps.
Broadcasts by them appealed to the Officers’
Corps in Germany, frequently stronger than the
Government. German Army chiefs might
negotiate a peace, kicking out Hitler, provided
the terms were not too harsh. But the Army,
more than Hitler, would resist unconditional
surrender.— Drew Pearson; N.Y. “Daily
Mirror.” >
* * * *
Chiang Kai-shek’s new book apparently is
not to be translated info English. Officials who
have studied its contents say that there is a
strong nationalistic and anti-foreign flavor to
some of its parts. — “United States News.”
*** * *
The Japanese have hoped to relieve their
armies in China by building up a Chinese army,
and they have recruited a large number of
puppet troops. In North China there are about
100,000 men of the well-equipped Peace Preser-
vation army and 30,000 Mongolian troops, with
a number of smaller local units. There are also
over 200,000 in police units and very large
numbers in the village self-defence corps, youth
corps, etc. — London “Times” North China
correspondent.
$ $
“We [British] should not be mealy-mouthed
in telling the United States manufacturers that
the two-way traffic of the war should be main-
tained as a two-way traffic in our joint recon-
struction programme. It is, of course, evident
that the leaders of industry in the United States
are deeply concerned on the future place which
that great country will occupy in the world
markets after the war. There is clear indi-
cation that the American manufacturer is
determined to secure a leading position in world
trade. There is no doubt that the competitive
power of the United States, if exercised with-
out recognition of mutual obligation between
the U.S.A. and the British Commonwealth,
will represent, from the British point of view,
a formidable prospect. — Sir Patrick Hannon,
M.P., addressing British manufacturers.


Personal and Missing Friends.
m
m
I
■Mi t
THE above, PATRICK .MURPHY, son of James
Murphy, of Barrack Street, Carlow, Eire, is requested
to communicate with DIBBS, GROWTH ER &
OSBORNE, S'olieitors, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney,
when he will be advised of something- accruing to his
benefit.
JOAN FLINT, niece of Minnie Amelia Benjamin
(also known as Barrington), is requested to com-
municate with the undersigned with regard to an
interest in the Estate of her late aunt. FISHER &
-MACANSH, Solicitors, 70-72 King Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
TO ELSIE GERTRUDE SHEARER wife of ARTHUR
JOSEPH SHEARER formerly of 240 McLeod Street
Cairns in the State of Queensland and whose present
address is unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that an appli-
cation will be beard by the Magistrates Court of
Queensland at Cairns at the instance of GERTRUDE
EILEEN WATSON for a declaration that you the
said ELSIE GERTRUDE SHEARER have abandoned
all that piece or parcel of land situate in the County
of Nards Parish and Town of Cairns being Resub-
division 2 of Subdivisions 17 and 18 of Suburban Allot-
ment 2 of Section 3 over which the said GERTRUDE
EILEEN WATSON is Mortgagee under Bill of Mort-
gage No. N 212276 Such application will be heard
by this Court at 10 a.m. on the Twenty-third day of
February 1944 Dated this Twelfth da,t of January
1944. — (1.5.) K, L. MOORE, Acting Stipendiary
Magistrate.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE DANIEL BROWN late of 19 Drynan Street
Paddington Brisbane in the State of Queensland
deceased. —NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed de-
ceased who died on or about the Twenty-third day
of August 1942 a.d. at Dunwich in the said State
are hereby required to forward proof of their re-
lationship to THE PUBLIC CURATOR Brisbane, on
or before the Thirteenth day of May 1944 and that
after the expiration of the lastnamed date THE
PUBLIC CURATOR will proceed to distribute the
assets of the said deceased amongst the parties en-
titled thereto having regard only to the claims of
which he shall then have had notice Information as
to the whereabouts of DANIEL FREDERICK BROWN
a son of the deceased is particularly desired Dated
this Thirteenth day of January 1944. —R. J. S.
BARNETT, Public Curator, Brisbane.
AR-TIME *
HABITS
CAN’T KEEP DAD DOWN
Dad’s found the way to deal
with illnesses caused by
war-time worries, irregular
hours and meals.
He knows that these con-
ditions often cause faulty
elimination, and thus affect
the kidneys and liver, creat-
ing favorable conditions
for rheumatism, lumbago,
sciatica and neuritis to make
life a misery—and resulting
in heaviness and lethargy.
R.U.R. gently nudges kid-
neys and liver, and gets
them on the job again.
It aids in reducing uric acid
accumulations, and keeps
bile flowing freely.
Thus, frequent causes of
faulty elimination are cor-
rected. Normal functions
are restored, and glowing
health is a speedy result.
Your chemist or store usu-
ally sells R.U.R., but if you
can’t get R.U.R. locally,
send 4/- for the smaller
size, or 7/6 for the money-
back guaranteed full treat-
ment to R.U.R., 841 George
Street, Sydney.
TMKS R.U.R. AND BIGHT YOU MRS
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
In the announcements of the Pelman Institute so far no elaboration of the service it
1 C|44 renders to Members of the Forces has been made. Now, at the beginning of 1944,
A A A we gggjj to emphasize what the Melbourne Branch of the Pelman Institute has done,
and is doing, for Members of the Forces. And so we publish the following extracts from letters written last
year. We could multiply them one hundredfold. The only special care taken in selecting the letters has
been to show as clearly as possible the different bene hcial effects that the Pelman Course produces according
to the pupil’s individual needs. ... ...
Many civilians will read these letters with interest. The same full service is given to them with simi-
lar results.
September 15, 1943.
The main benefit is that the Course in the first place forced
me to think out my major aim in life afresh; it has acted as an
incessant goad to greater efforts of observation and concentration;
it has given a useful technique for tackling problems; it has given
very many valuable little tips that lead to greater mental efficiency;
it has inspired the taking up of two new subjects which I previously
wished to understand but had not the enthusiasm to grapple with,
viz., maths, and radio. —FLIGHT-LIEUTENANT, R.A.A.F.
September 4, 1943.
Undoubtedly, self-confidence is the benefit most noticeably
derived from Pelmanism. Other benefits of major importance are:
I have learnt how to use my time to the best advantage; I can
now gather facts together and classify them into their correct
relations; I have learnt the value of controlling feeling, thought
and will; my memory is also much 'improved. —CORPORAL,
R.A.A.F.
September 6, 1943.
I have now been appointed to commissioned rank. This is a
great step towards my final aim. It will help me greatly in my
proposed career. I thank Pelmanism again.—LIEUTENANT.
August 25, 1943.
I find it easier to settle down to the less interesting tasks
and complete them ’ without further procrastination.—LlEU-
TENANT-COLONEL.
August 28, 1943.
I have clearer aims and purposes. My senses are quickened and
observation better. I have now systematic working hours, and
have eliminated bad habits. Have formed regular sleeping hours.
Personality is developed; and I have compiled a series of observa-
tion exercises for my profession.—LIEUTENANT, N.Z.E.F.I.P.
' August 23, 1943.
Not only have I developed mental and physical ability through
this Course, jbut I am growing more confident in the knowledge
that I can do whatever I set out to do. I am also now studying
Mathematics and Soil Management
SIGNALLER.
through the A.E.S.-
August 16, 1943.
As you can see by my address, I have been promoted to
Corporal and I can say that the Course contributed largely to my
first step of success. —CORPORAL.
August 31, 1943. ,
practically all those tests mentioned in Lesson 8, Section
49 (a very illuminating section). The point is, directly anyone starts
conversing with me I subconsciously am working out right away
the question “What is he leading up to?” This helps me to be
able to converse more easily and be more readily able to combat
or treat criticism in the appropriate manner.—GUNNER.
These letters emphasise clearly the value and import-
ance of fthe revisional service through which the
Student is in touch with the Institute from the
beginning of his training to the end and by means
of which very full consideration is given to the
particular circumstances and needs of each student.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind” describ-
ing the Pelman Course are sent post free.
All correspondence is confidential. We
have no outside representatives.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
i Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelrnan Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
896 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Name
Address
162
sew H
mm
\ v
m
h
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
Save - or Slave. Pul
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds,
Carreras Ltd— ls 4 Years' Reputation for Quality
5065 a
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Words of “How McDougall Topped the
Score.” —3419.
To buy any of “Banjo” Paterson’s books. —
3420.
Information Sought.
Some information about Lord Howe and
discovery of Lord Howe Island?
Earl Richard Elowe (1726-99) was a British
admiral who distinguished himself in the Seven
Years’ War and War of American Indepen-
dence. Relieved Gibraltar in 1782, was First
Lord of the Admiralty 1783-88, and in 1794
won a famous victory off Ushant—the “Glorious
First of June.” Lord Howe Island was dis-
covered on February 17, 1788, by Ft. L. Ball,
commander of H.M. tender Supply, during a
passage from Port Jackson to Norfolk Island.
Owing to lack of food and water the island was
neglected for many years, but was settled in
1834.
How to make rabbit poison with Scotch thistle
root ?
Use thistles (hat are well grown but not shot
up to flower. The roots, contained in a kero-
sene-tin holed as a colander and thoroughly
washed, are sliced info inch-long chips. A half-
cup of brown sugar is added to a gallon of pre-
pared roots; after two hours the liquid is run
off, roots are spread in the sun on a sheet of.
iron for 45 minutes, and then put in a con-
tainer. Five teaspoons of ground strychnine
are added separately, the container being shaken
thoroughly after each teaspoonful. Add one
teaspoonful of vanilla essence and six drops of
oil of cummin just before the trail is used.
Brief Answers.
R.G.S.: The word cabal comes from the
Hebrew qabbalah (traditional lore). By co-
incidence the initial letters of the surnames of
Charles IPs Committee for Foreign Affairs
(Clifford, Arlington, Buckingham, Ashley and
Lauderdale) formed the word... .C.G.M.: Use
any of the preparations on the market, such as
Blak-it.... J.E.S.; You are too late to apply,
but the scheme will probably be repeated next
year under similar conditions.
Answers to Correspondents
'Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor .
The Muse aroused :
A.E.C. :
We our paupers and lunatics
Do not with problems of eugenics -treatj '
But can we treat our politics
In a civilisation so effete?
If we our pubs and liquor greet l
With smirking condescension,
Then will our children meet
A curse of great dissension,
P.G.M., FJ.: Ghost yarns seldom haunt this
office R.W.: Slight 8.E.8.: Our private
detective is trying to discover the point of the
story... .C.T.: Might make a par T.M.M.:
Fowls anaemic P.M.: Write about characters,
not an anonymous “you” B.McN.: Had no
idea bowls could be so exhausting K.C.:
Fantasy too remote 1.P.H.: Pathological.
. ...N.D.: Not a hope G.S.: Worth a par.
if true... .J.L.A.: A whiskery boxing yarn....
C.W.McP.: The cat’s coming "'home
C.H.8.: Gruesome... .T.J.E.: Magazinish....
Weiry: For the school magazine... .R.N.D.:
Sentimental... .M.H.; South American revo-
lution intrigued the office boy 8.N.: Where’s
the story? ... .M.A.C.: Try elsewhere R.M.:
Hoary plot and verbose narrative E.S.: Off
our beat J.C.: Melodrama... .C. 1.8.: Too
many archaisms H.H.H.; Elementary
BB.: Not a hope... .D.H.P.: Try a live
brumby in prose E.H.: Both conventional.
... .F.R.C.: “I fear they are far from possess-
ing any merit.” Well, you’re a sound critic
M.D.McG.: A touch of genuine balladry.


“VICTOHT
through Air Power”
Walt, Disney’s "Victory Through Air Power." United Artists Release
y AST upon the minds of those in authority who
are directing our war effort is impressed the
thought that victory will come to the Allied Nations
as a result of overwhelming air power.
Though not engaged in the business of air-bomb-
ing the enemy from his strongholds, Australian
National Airways records contribution to Aus-
tralia’s air power by carrying troops and food
and weapons of war to the front line areas.
In this and in other essential ways, A.N.A. is
serving the Nation. The highly efficient A.N.A.
organisation, the ever dependable A.N.A. Douglas
planes, the skilled and courageous A.N.A. pilots
and the competent A.N.A. maintenance personnel
are all playing their part to bring “Victory
Through Air Power.”
Australian
National Airways
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IN PEACE ... FIRST IN WAR .. . FIRST IN FUTURE
Insure with tlie
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates,
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country T owns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Mar., Profit. 5 p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,447,895
1934.. 274,024 250,000 20,000 4,024 3,451,919
1935.. 275,591 250,000 20,000 5,591 8,457,510
5i p.c.
1936.. 294,403 262,500 30,000 1,903 3,459,413
5| p.c.
1937.. 325,627 287,500 40,000 3,457,540
6 p.c.
1938. . 347,401 800,000 50,000 3,454,941
1939.. 351,245 300,000 50,000 1,245 3,456,186
1940.. 356,096 300,000 50,000 6.096 8,462.282
1941.. 301,296 300,000 20,000 8,443,578
5i p.c.
1942.. 289,759 275,000 20,000 3,438,337
Sept., 2i p.c.
1942*. 137,290 125,000 10,000 2,290 3,440,627
5 p.c.
1943.. 282,479 250,000 25,000 7,479 3,448,106
* Six months.
While threat of invasion remained every
man was needed in the services. Now
that danger has been largely removed by
the combined Allied fighting forces,
diversion of some man-power to rural and
other production has become possible ;
this in order to meet our commitments
to Britain and provide a growing volume
of supplies to the fighting forces in the
s.-w. Pacific, In these circumstances the
monetary and financial aspect <of the war
effort, the checking of inflation and other
domestic problems now claim attention.
Total Budget expenditure for 1943-44
was estimated at £715m., of which the
war was expected to run away with
£570m., or about the same average
monthly rate as for August last. Of the
£715m., taxation is expected to yield
£282m., other receipts £3om. and public
loans £3oom. That leaves at least £103m.,
as against £lBom. last financial year, to
be provided by issue of Treasury bills.
The danger is tjiat Treasury-bill finance
builds up new purchasing power in the
hands of the public, sets up pressure on
prices,, threatens the whole costs structure
and with it the standard of living. Public
ownership of actual cash, bank deposits
and war-savings certificates has nearly
doubled since outbreak of war, while out-
put of goods, etc., for civilian use has
fallen to less than two-thirds its pre-war
physical volume. This dangerous infla-
tionary trend has been prevented from
developing into a runaway movement by
freezing the increase in bank deposits
since 1939, lifting taxes, raising volun-
tary loans, controlling capital transfer
and expenditure, rationing consumption
goods and anchoring prices by the “ceil-
ing” method.
Under these conditions banking figures,
which used to mirror faithfully the cross-
currents of trade activity, now mainly
reflect the impact of Government war-
time financial policy, as the following
comparison of the National’s balance-
sheet figures shows:
r~ March.— v , September.
1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital .. £5,000,000 £5,000,000 £5,000,000
Notes .. .. 47,531 47,515 47,507
Deposits 0 ' :: 49 I ,m9°i 4 5 9 } 355,401 66,531,797
Liquid assets.. 22,712,848 29,073,425 43,267,061
Advances .. 86,045,088 34,226,849 30,199,491
Premises, etc.. . 1,437,136 1,668,268 1,685,587
The year’s expansion of £10,176,396 in
deposits, bills, etc., and reduction of
£4,027,358 in advances was accompanied
by a growth of £14,193,636 in low-in-
terest-bearing liquids. The movements
are almost wholly a reflection of the
expansion of the credit base. Special war-
time deposit with the Common-
wealth Bank (£15,146,000) increased by
£10,027,000. When the books closed
advances were only 45.3 p.c. of deposits
and had piled to 64.6 p.c. of
liabilities to the public. A strong posi-
tion, but it means low earning power.
Including the amount struck off the
book value of premises (£25,000, shown
as written off in the table), the year’s net
result was 5.6 p.c. on the £5,000,000 of
share capital, or only 3.3 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined). It is a very modest return for
the sefvices the bank renders.
As for post-war reconstruction, the
battle lies ahead. Without cluttering the
issue with notions of “full employment”
and other “shifts in economic emphasis,”
it is plain that in a balanced economy, to
which we shall have to return after the
war, our standard of living will largely
depend upon efficiency and reduction of
costs. Anything the Government does to
retard development of trade and industry
along these lines will decrease, not in-
crease, the standard of living. The main
task of reconstruction will be transfeb of
men and materials from war employment
to civilian employment. The problem of
finance will be how best to assist these
transfers. Some relaxation of controls
as to the direction, amount and terms of
lending, now imposed on the trading
banks, will become desirable as soon as
conditions permit.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 74 p.c. Ord. Off. serves.
£• & £> £> £>
1934.. 20,527 Nil Nil Nil 8,746 67,898
1935.. 52,466 9,000 Nil Nil 8,094 103,269
1936.. 50,727 16,940 Nil Nil 7,047 130,009
Nominal
Reserves, f
Goodwill reserve, £72,378 .. .. 202,387
From internal reserves, £5732 .. 208,119
1937.. 57,868 15,000 8,622 Nil 7,477 234,888
Loss on shareholdings ( £243,348),
less £219,790 capital written
off = £23,558 211,330
Reserves capitalised, £185,148 .. 26,182
64 p.c. 3 p.c.
1938.. 68,009 18,000 19,338 12,148 7,771 36,934
>939.. 50,693 18,000 19,360 Nil 7,530 42,737
1940.. 56,061 18,000 10,360 Nil 8,274 53,164
1941.. 64,535 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,485 59,706
1942.. 62,603 18,000 19,360 12,148 •8,473 64,328
1943.. 59,388 18,000 19,860 12,148 8,884 65,824
f Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
Though war has created new industries,
stimulated old ones, lifted wages, raised
employment and swelled earnings, the in-
flation potential has been curbed by
official controls. Except for necessities,
civilian spending is severely restricted by
what virtually amounts to a second kind
of “money” —ration coupons, buying
permits, etc. These are distributed ac-
cording to need, while money in the form
of currency continues to be distributed
as earnings and payments for work, goods
and property. Private purchase requires
both kinds of money, while Government
buying requires only one.
This co. operates a big department
store in Railway-square, with branches at
Newcastle, Wollongong and Dubbo, and
owns the ords. in Bon Marche, down the
street in Broadway and still clearing up
pref. arrears. Rationing of drapery and
clothing, later extended to household linen
and furnishing drapery, cut into turnover
and added to the work of a depleted staff.
Manufacture has been prohibited of some
good-selling furniture and household
lines, while other stocks have been diffi-
cult to obtain, and mail-order and t.p.
business has been restricted. The co.’s
old premises at the corner of Pitt and
George streets was taken over as an army
hostel at a rental of £lO5 per week —
what former tenants paid isn’t known —
and its property at the corner of Moun-
tain and Smail streets, damaged by fire,
is to be taken over, too.
After allowing £8384 for depreciation,
shown as written off in the table, and
something for taxation, net earnings were
£3126 lighter at £51,004, or sufficient to
pay pref. divs. and show 3.3 p.c. on the
£404,938 of ord. capital as against 4.1,
4.5, 2.5 and 1.4 p.c. back to 1939. A
tight hold is kept upon outgoings; but
appearances are that, under present con-
ditions, it will be a struggle to maintain
the 3 p.c. distribution to the ords.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1937. 1939. 1942. 1943.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,035,895 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,00.2,786
Mortgages. . 530,360 507,769 450,524 281,481
Other debts 114,094 109,800 156,350 140,094
Freeholds .. 656,687 671,860 686,074 684,321
Plant, etc. 68,540 67,071 54,506 48,395
Stocks .. 191,117 181,360 265,805 227,240
Book debts 656,368 559.774 475,775 325,716
Shares, etc. 125,947 118,913 112,892 106,074
Cash, etc... 12,916 6,388 38,580 53,663
The year’s reduction of £38,625 in stocks
and of £150,059 in debtors’ balances re-
flects reduced turnover and increased
earnings of customers. The money that
became available was used to reduce
piortgages by £169,043, other debts by
£16,256, and add £20,083 to cash, etc.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£185,034) was £16,688.
Marcus Clark (Vic.) went into liquida-
tion in October last. Only asset was
106,000 £1 ord. shares in Miller Ander-
son (Adelaide). The Sydney co. has made
a par offer for 67,000 of them. It used
to hold the ords. in the Vic. co., but wrote
them out of the books on reconstruction
in 1937.
Samuel Allen and Sons, Ltd.
r - 1 - Dividends— >
Pref. Towards Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
&££ £ , £
Capital written off, £150,000 .. 432
Premiums on leases, £3387 .. 3,819
1934.. 15,284 Nil Nil 19,103
Premiurfrs on leases, £4209 .. .. 23,312
16.2 p.c.
1935.. 16,287 23,146* Nil 16,454
10 p.c.
1936. . 16,292 14,571 Nil 1,721 18,175
Premiums on leases, £482 ~ .. 18,657
1937. . 20,084 14,571 2i p.c. = 5,803 18,367
Premiums on leases, £1317 .. .. 19,684
1938.. 24,180 14,571 3| p.c. = 8,705 904 20,588
Premiums on leases, £2369 .. .. 22,957
6 p.c.
1989.. 22,466 8,571 3J p.c. = 8,705 5,190 28,147
Premiums on leases, £1265 .. .. 29,412
Taxation charged reserves, £6416 .. 22,996
1940.. 19,347 8,571 Nil 10,776 33,772
Premiums on leases, £1204 .. .. 34,976
1941.. 14,407 8,571 2i p.c. = 5,804 32 35,008
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 25,008
From reserves re leases, £3490 .. 21,518
1942.. 14,490 8,571 2i p.c. = 5,804 115 21,633
From reserves re leases, £lO,OOO .. 11,633
1943.. 30,586 8,571 5 p.c. = 11,607 10,407 22,040
Prom reserves re leases, £4032 .. 18,008
* Two years at 6 p.c. p.a., plus £6OOO on account
of arrears.
Profit claimed last term includes £4032
reserved against unexpired hotel leases at
June 30, 1942. Allowing for this, the
showing was still the best since 1930.
During the year the co. wound up some
of its retail store and subsidiary interests,
owing to man-power and other difficul-
ties. When the books closed, the interest
in retail stores figured at £5068 (down
£19,363) and in subsidiaries at £11,288
(down £8666). To what extent net earn-
ings benefited on this account isn’t men-
• tioned. The feap in gross earnings
(£180,039) was £34,120. Including pro-
vision of £15,000 for taxation—no specific
allowance was made for the purpose the
previous term —exes. (£149,453) took
£18,024 of the gain. That left the de-
clared net result £16,096 better at £30,586,
or enough to pay the prefs. and show 9.4
p.c. on ord, capital as against 2.5, 2.5,
4.6 and 5.9 p.c. back to 1939. The div.
was doubled, making it 5 p.c. and the
£10,407 that remained lifted the lay-by
to £lB,OOB, which is none too stout a
prop for £375,000 of capital in this class
of business —wine, spirit, produce and
general merchandise, etc.
Though latest earnings cannot be taken
as a reliable guide to the future, the busi-
ness appears to be on a better footing
than for many years past. Slump closed
the branches opened in the Eastern State
capitals during the last post-war boom,
and, to tidy up the accounts, £150,000
was lopped off capital (prefs, and ords.
alike), reducing it to its present figure in
71,428 first and a like number of second
prefs. and 232,144 ords. Preferred as to
divs. only, the prefs., which used to carry
8 p.c., are now'6 p.c. cumulative, and
participate with the ords. beyond that
rate. So far it has been a struggle to pay
the prefs. and give the ords. a modest
helping, mainly on account of bad
debts, for which £66,000-odd was written
off during the two years to the close of
accounts ip 1940. Since then war has
livened trade activity in the north, and
the co. has jettisoned interests that were
more of a hindrance than a help and
strengthened its hotel investments.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
4930. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £525,000 £375,000 £376,000 £375,000
Overdraft ~ 121,341 150,603 130,425 101,728
Sundry creditors 83,491 134,477 149,025 128,447
Properties and
plant . . 243,529 378,217 357,409 353.603
Shares, etc.*.. 14,823 59,037 46,716 18,688
Stocks .. 99,103 82,298 71,903 69,215
Book debts .. 405,175 188,022 214,009 226,450
Cash .. .. - 300 420 404
* Amount invested in retail stores.
The year’s reduction of £28,028 in shares,
etc., reflects the winding-up of interests
already referred to. The overdraft was
reduced by £28,697 and trade debts by
£20,578, and £12,441 was added to
debtors’ balances. There was a welcome
improvement of £59,012 in the more or
less liquid surplus (£65,894, excluding
shares, etc.).


INVENTORS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith. Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 11 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
« * » *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents an*i Trade Marks.—Advt.
THAT*
The
THE TASK THAT
FEW MEN WANT
If you are an Executor, this book will interest you
No one welcomes the obligations imposed by executorship, especially in
these days when exceptional conditions make financial and business rfiatters
particularly complicated. Burns Philp Trust Company Limited has produced
for the guidance of executors and administrators a special brochure entitled
"The Task that few Men Want," dealing with the Company's special service
in connection with the execution of Wills and the administration of Estates,
This is available to you on application. Write or call for your copy.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY L I M I TED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 36-43
N.Z. FOREST PRODUCTS
LIMITED.
Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of Directors, Mr. David
Henry, at the Seventh Annual General
Meeting of N.Z, Forest Products, Limited,
held on 3/12/’43, stated that:
“Accounts for year ended 31/3/’43 show that
the Company’s first full year of manufacturing
activities resulted in a net profit of £26,356.
“The accounts are presented in a form to
show the actual results achieved after charging
forest maintenance against revenue instead of
against capital as in former years. The Direc-
tors contend that such expenditure is a normal
and annually recurring charge similar to any
other operating charge and should be allowed
as a deduction in our taxation assessments.
“The taxation authorities have never accepted
this view, but the Government has promised
to grant some relief from what we regard as an
inequitable charge, and we are working con-
tinuously to this end.
“Nor do we agree that the Company should
be required to pay the greatly increased land
tax which resulted from the passing of the legis-
lation which formed the individual bondholders
into a company. This legislation was designed
to strengthen and improve the position of the
shareholders, but in this respect the opposite
result has followed.
“The Company’s financial position, stated
simply, is that, with a continuance of present
working profits, the whole undertaking can now
be viewed as a buoyant concern capable of sus-
taining itself indefinitely, providing the incidence
of taxation is levied on profits after the forests
have been maintained instead of on gross profits
as at present.
“The profits shown on the Company’s manu-
facturing activities in spite of the difficulties in-
herent in war conditions demonstrate that' the
establishment of the present mills is completely
justified. The output of all our varied pro-
ducts was immediately required for war pur-
poses both in New Zealand and overseas to a
very substantial extent. All the Company’s
activities are classified as a full war effort, and
employees have willingly worked long hours to
expedite production. The plant has fully justi-
fied the makers’ claims regarding its quality and
efficiency.
“The Company’s position today is that
£400,000 has been invested in existing mills—
many thousands more are invested in subsidiary
undertakings and a further sum of £500,000 is
available as the basis of further new develop-
ments —the huge forest asset is, of course, free
of all encumbrances.
“The Annual Report mentioned that a license
had been granted to manufacture Kraft pulp
and paper, and since then the Government has
granted a further license to manufacture Multi-
wall bags, and all matters relating to the estab-
lishment of those industries are now being in-
vestigated.
“Shareholders may rest assured that a pro-
gressive policy of manufacturing developments
is essential if the forests are to be fully utilised
in the future, and the Directors will welcome
the establishment of those new industries pro-
vided reasonable prospect's of successful opera-
tions are indicated in the plans now being pre-
pared.
“Their establishment would, however, prove
of the utmost importance to New Zealand as
well as to the Company, as it is expected that
at least 99 per cent, of the value of the output
would represent materials and labour produced
within the Dominion, while many hundreds of
male adult workers would find permanent gain-
ful employment.
“The Directors have noted with interest the
substantial increase in the value of the Com-
KifLy’s shares during recent monfts in both Aus-
t-aiian and New Zealand Stock Exchange quota-
tions, as this indicates a growing appreciation
of the Company’s operations and prospects.
It is proper, however, to remind shareholders
that forests are a long-term investment, and I
must sound a note of warning against an
early expectation of dividends or a return of
capital from the investment.
“Arrangements have now been completed
with the shareholders of N.Z. Forests Ltd. (Eng-
land), whereby our Company takes over then-
forests in exchange for shares in our Com-
pany and the payment to us of £7 per acre.”
The Chairman made feeling reference
to the death of the Rt. Hon. j. G. Coates,
in whose stead the Board appointed Mr.
James Tyler, city engineer of Auckland ;
and of Mr. S. J. McGibbon, formerly
also a director of the Australasian Fores-
try Bondholders’ Trust Co., who died in
Melbourne while on his way to attend
the annual meeting. To ensure adequate
representation of Australian shareholders
Mr. I. H. Boas, Chief of the Forest Pro-
ducts Section of the Council for Scien-
tific and Industrial Research, Melbourne,
had been appointed to the Board, and
his technical knowledge will be of great
value to the Company in its future
developments. —P.B.A,
But for the once-neglected Deborah
line Bendigo goldfield (Vic.) would be a
ghost centre —man-power diversion and
capital control are the troubles. Only
six mines are producing as against 35
three years ago. Inter-co. payments in-
cluded, div. distributions were £58,950
(down £38,318) in 1943, the dispensers
being North Deborah (£44,800), Deborah
(£9150) and Monument Hill (£5000),
Total gold recovered declined from
41,3360 z, in 1942 to 10,6220 z. in 1943.
In its short life North Deborah has re-
paid capital 13 times over, and at 80s. a
share the market is looking for a profit
of at least a quarter-million from remain-
ing known ore reserves.
¥ « * *
Kalgoorlie wound up 1943 with eight
mines—Lake View group, Gt. Boulder,
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Boulder
Perseverance, Kalgoorlie Enterprise,
South Kalgurli, North Kalgurli and
Paringa—working below, and in some
cases much below, capacity owing to
war - time labor shortage. Restricted
tonnages and yields and development
followed. Still, ore reserves showed little
alteration. In Lake View group esti-
mated ore in sight is reckoned to have a
gross value of over £A9,000,000. Great
Boulder’s measured but unextracted pay
ore is reckoned to be worth about
£A3,500,000. Additions to pay ore are
rarely published, but several new dis-
coveries are known to have been made
during 1943.
* * * »
“O.B.”: There has been a lot of dis-
cussion in the West lately as to how many
lodes have been worked on the Kai-*
goorlie-Boulder Golden Mile, which have
yielded most wealth, and which are likely
to be the biggest producers in future.
There are three lines of lodes on the
“Mile.” Going from south to north, the
western one runs through’Hannans Star,
the old Boulder main reef. Great
Boulder, Golden Horseshoe and Ivanhoe.
All except Great Boulder are now in-
cluded in the Lake View group. This
line has been the best producer of the
three, and will probably continue so: the
ore is more persistent, and on average
less refractory. The middle line goes
through Lake View South, Lake View,
Boulder Perseverance, South Kalgurli and
Hainault. The third and most easterly
line runs through Central and West
Boulder (now part of Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie’s holding), Associated, Kalgurli,
Associated Northern, North Kalgurli,
Paringa and Brownhill. A feature of the
Golden Mile is the unusual width of
reefs and quantity of telluride mixed
with the lode whenever the sulphide zone
is reached. Here telluride has a silvery
appearance, and gold and silver are mixed
with it in varying quantities. An average
analysis would probably show 40 p.c.
gold, 2 p.c. to 4 p.c. silver, balance tel-
lurium. Sometimes this mineral is found
in splashes over the face of the ore, but
usually in specks big and little,
* * * «
Belated accounts of Banz Mines (W.A.)
show a loss of £296 for 1941. Goldmining
leases were valued at £24,934. Operations
in 1942 showed a loss of £252. Debit car-
ried forward is £66,264. Co. was formed
in 1933, and three years later sold its
holdings at Ora Banda to Ora Banda
United, and other areas at Nevoria, near
Southern Cross, to N.G.M., Ltd. It re-
tained some 300 acres on an unfancied
part of the Kalgoorlie field. Here it has
found nothing of much value in recent
years.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) reports assays ranging
from 3|dwt, to in sections of the
core of a diamond drill put down at a
depressed angle of 70 degrees (easterly)
to test an area at the north end of the
Kalgoorlie field, adjoining and to the
south of the Mt. Charlotte group. The
co. says its areas here have never been
systematically tested. Another bore is
going down 200 ft. south of the one men-
tioned,
Jfc Jfc * ♦
From London: Despite present disin-
clination to find money for Westralian
goldmining, some is again being sought
for the working of Nullagine conglomer-
ates, “which have a marked resemblance
to those of the Rand.” The question
whether they are payable has been
scouted again and again by inspecting
engineers. But this is reckoned to be
of no account by capital-iseekers, because
“in the past experts have often been
proved to have been wrong.”
THE AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL ASSURANCE
ASSOCIATION LIMITED.
THIRTY-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT.
(k The Thirty-second Annual Ordinary General
Meeting of the Association was held on the
25th day of January, 1944.
r Mr. Edmund S.»Paul, Chairman of the Com-
pany, presided.
Ihe Secretary having read the notice con-
vening the meeting, the Chairman said:
Before I deal with the Annual Accounts I
wish to refer to the sudden death of our
esteemed colleague, Major J. R. Kirk. Major
Kirk took the Chair at a meeting of the Gis-
borne shareholders, held in 192?. He has been
of the greatest assistance, both to me and the
Board, in directing the affairs of the Company,
and has thus rendered yeoman service to the
Company. By his passing we have suffered a
great loss.
I presume that you are all in possession of
the printed accounts and as in past years take
them as read —agreed.
In view of the large reduction, owing to the
war, in the field staff now operating over Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, a reduction in new
business was naturally to be anticipated. The
Board are pleased to note that the new business
is only £84,428 short of that written in 1942,
and amounts to £947,136. The average policy
is £203, which is identical with 1942.
Dealing first with the debit side of the
Accounts, the outgoings paid to policy-holders
in respect of death claims, surrenders and
maturities show a decrease of £58,286. Whilst
death claims have decreased by £6OOO the
Board regret that war claims represent a very
large proportion of the total death claims. As
already stated in respect of policies issued be-
fore the outbreak of war in September, 1939,
this Association, following the practice adopted
by all the large Life Insurance Companies,
agreed to pay all such claims in full, notwith-
standing the fact that no legal or moral obli-
gation existed for our so doing in many cases.
An increased premium rate is now charged since
September, 1939, where war risks are covered.
Endowments matured are, as I reported at the
last meeting, still declining, and represent a de-
crease of £47,378 over last year.
The Board are pleased to note that surrenders
have almost ceased to appear in the Accounts.
These total £5296, or nearly half the total of
1942.
On the Income side of the Accounts, Renewal
Premiums show an increase, whilst Income from
Interest, Dividends and Rent show a slight
decrease. This is not unexpected. The nett yield
has been falling steadily year after year—due,
in a large measure, to the increased rate in
Land Tax—to which I referred at length at the
last meeting.
The Company has 35% of its Assets invested
in Government Securities. Whereas Common-
wealth Stock was returning 6% in 1930, the
effective yield is now from £2 15s. % to
£2 18s. % on a comparative basis of Federal
Income Taxation in the two periods. That is to
say, the rate of 6% in 1930 on Commonwealth
Stock and the comparative yield mentioned
above is based on the Federal Income Tax of
1930. This illustrates the rapidity in the de-
cline of interest rates, and the bottom may not
yet have been reached.
On the other side of the picture, we are glad
to again show an increase in the item of “Mort-
gage and Foreclosed Property Recoveries,”
which this year amounts to £4105. The im-
proved war position encourages- the hope that
in the near future the volume of “New Busi-
ness” written should expand, not only with the
return to normal conditions, but with the return
of our field staff.
On the question of Interest earning, it has
to be remembered that all additional funds have
to be invested in the War Loans. Investments
in Government Securities represent an increase
of £79,000 for 1943, whilst, on the other hand,
Loans on Mortgage, which yield a higher rate
of Interest, have decreased by £20,000.
POLICY-HOLDERS AND DIVIDENDS.
As indicated at the last meeting, your
Directors have had in view the strengthening of
the Actuarial Reserve. With the falling Interest
rates, to which I have already referred, the
necessity of so doing in order to maintain the
Company’s strong financial position needs no
further comment from me. To strengthen the
Actuarial Valuation basis from the 3% Nett
Premium Basis now existing p 2} % Nett Pre-
mium Basis, the Board have utilised portion
of this year’s profits and have also drawn on
the General Reserve for £28,000.
In view of War Claims, reduced Interest earn-
ings and increased Taxation, thd Directors have
not been able to restore the full bonus to
policy-holders, but have increased the rate of
bonus over that paid last year, the toal amount
allocated to policy-holders being £24,700. The
lowering of bonuses has been adopted by other
Life Assurance Offices.
In view of the improved financial position of
the Company, and following my remarks af the
last Annual Meeting, the Board have decided
to recommend to shareholders the payment of
a dividend of 2\%.
Your Directors have to admit that due to
the building up of the Company’s financial posi-
tion, including the strengthening of the Actu-
arial Reserve for policy-holders frohi the
“Lenient 4% Sprague Basis,” in force in 1927,
to the present rate of “2|% Nett Premium
Basis,” the dividends have only averaged \\%
over the last 12 years.
Whilst the policy-holders’ interest's have been,
and will be, regarded by the Board as para-
mount, there is, nevertheless, a borderline where
the shareholders should have some more ade-
quate return on their capital. To those who
have been shareholders since the inception of
the Company, I felt it my duty recently to issue
a note of warning regarding the disposal of
their shares. The Board became aware that
several of our largest and oldest shareholders
(including some of the original shareholders)
had been approached to sell their shares, at
a price based, no doubt, on the small average
dividend of l j-% paid over that long period of
12 years. The Board regretted to learn that
one shareholder’s Estate alone had suffered a
loss, between the price at which the shares
were sold and the present market price at the
Ist December last, of over £3OOO.
The fact of the Company having attained its
present strong financial position is due, in no
small measure, to the loyal support those
original shareholders have given both to me,
as Chairman of the Company, and to my col-
league Directors. Hence I felt it my duty, in
view of the efforts made to induce certain share-
holders to sell their shares at a low figure,
that I should more fully explain the position
at this meeting.
The Directors’ views on the moral equity of
the position are that shareholders should re-
ceive something more than they have had during
that long period of 12 years.
Looking at the future, one must bear in mind
the question of “Inflation.” It is not yet
manifest whether the national financial policy
is achieving much in putting a break on the
inflationary trend which is so much in evidence
today. The small number of subscribers to the
last War Loan, in comparison to the population
of the Commonwealth, speaks eloquently of the
necessity for some compulsory form of con-
tribution to War Loans based on Income Tax
paid, somewhat on the Keynes plan, which
would assist even in a small degree in con-
trolling Inflation. The wastage of paper, or
—perhaps, I should say—the unnecessary con-
sumption of paper to advertise the last Loan
must, from the circulars I. personally received,
have covered well over 1500 tons —not to men-
tion the wastage of man-power in printing and
distributing such a colossal volume of circulars
—apart from the three-, five- and ten-minufe
speeches sent for use in every town in Australia.
All this enormous loss of material and man-
power could be saved by a mere National
Security Regulation. At the same time it would
produce a salutary effect on “Inflation,” which
until the gap between Income and Expenditure
is bridged, daily becomes more ominous.
DIRECTORS.
Owing to the vacancy on the Board caused
by the death of Major Kirk, the Board are
pleased to inform shareholders that the vacancy
has been filled by the appointment of Sidney
George Holland, leader of the Opposition in
the New Zealand Parliament. To New Zealand
shareholders and policy-holders the appointment
will be particularly gratifying. It is not only
Mr. Holland’s immense knowledge of New
Zealand affairs, but his keen business ability
that will be of untold assistance to the present
Board in directing the affairs of the Company,
both here and in New Zealand.
APPRECIATION.
It is with profound regret that I have to
report that a further number of our employees
have lost their lives whilst on active service.
We acknowledge with a deep sense of pride
and gratitude the bravery and devotion to duty
shown by the .officers and men of all branches
of the Armed Forces of the Crown. We wish
all of them a speedy and safe return.
To the General Manager of the Association,
Mr. Bruce Smith; to Dr. Green, our Chief
Medical Officer; and to all those who are still
able to devote their time to the work of the
Association, our thanks are due.


HOWTOBUYA
WAR LOAN BOND
IT*S VERY SIMPLE, When a loan is open, all
you need to do is go to your Bank, Savings Bank,
Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker and sign
an application form for the amount of War Loan
Bonds or Inscribed Stock you wish to buy.
YOU MAY BUY YOUR BONDS either for
cash or by convenient instalments, for
instance, 20% deposit and the balance
spread over four months.
Q — — -o SX
make an advance
SUB'SCRiPTION TO THE
> FIRST <C
VICTORYLOAH
&
YOU CAN SUBSCRIBE IN ADVANCE.
Advance subscriptions of £lO or more
must be lodged through a Bank, Savings
Bank or Stockbroker, and the bonds
must be paid for in full. So if you
have money available, put it into the
Loan NOW.
o
IF YOU HAVE NOT ENOUGH TO BUY A BOND
OUTRIGHT.
but still wish to subscribe to the First
Victory Loan, opening soon, the best
thing to do is to buy as many 5/-
National Savings Stamps as you can. These
are on sale through all Post Offices and _ „ _
Sayings Banks. Paste them in the free National Savings StampT bo'ok
which contains 5 pages, each with space for 8 stamps. Single
sheets of 8 stamps (£2 worth) may be used to pay a deposit on a
bond when the Loan opens or an instalment at any time. Full books
(5 pages of 8 stamps) may be used at any time to pay for a £lO
Bond.
If there are any other details you require about a Victory Loan Investment, your Bank. Savings Bank
or Stockbroker will be glad to tell you all you wish to hndw. Make your enquiries early.
GET READ
FOR THE^OS’
VICTORY UM
Make an advance subscription now, or buy 5/- National Savings Stamps.
FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Business, Rollery, etc.
A Greater Australia
There is a variety of opinions as to
the carrying capacity of the Common-
wealth in the matter of white human
beings. It seems to be generally con-
ceded that the country could certainly
support 20 millions, and by the time such a
figure was reached there might be changes
in other parts of the world and develop-
ments and discoveries in this which would
add to it. All that as it may be,
the facts immediately in front of us are
that we have a population of little more
than seven millions, and, given a reason-
able time to provide for housing, feeding,
clothing, employing and transporting them,
we could comfortably accommodate as
many more provided we planned wisely
industrially, governmentally and socially.
Planning of a commonsense kind is
very necessary in Australia, We have
no rich goldfields in immediate prospect
to attract population as it was attracted
in the ’fifties. Therefore, in a country so
far lacking in visible flow oil and defi-
cient in water-power (by comparison with
the American continent) we rely greatly
on our co-operative efforts as a nation
of- people to use our brains and our ener-
gies to make our country attractive to
others by utilising to the utmost the facili-
ties at hand.
Australia is by no means poor.
No country which produces the world’s
cheapest steel, the world’s finest wool
and hard wheat, and which pos-
sesses one of the greatest known coal-
fields, could be described as poor.
But in a petroleum age a country
lacking its own developed gusher-oil
resources is at a disadvantage. In an
electrical age the absence of high moun-
tains sending strong rivers to the sea is
also a drawback. We have a few big
rivers in Eastern Australia, but we have
fewer big dams. Cheap power was one
of the secrets of Britain’s great industrial
progress prior to the 1914-18 war; coal
was king then. Cheap power is respon-
sible for much of the present industrial
ascendancy of the United States and
Canada. Each has petroleum resources
and hydro-electric power. A Canadian
Government handbook recently acknow-
ledged :
Canada is richly endowed with wafer-
power resources, the development of which
dates from the arrival of the early French
settlers at the beginning of the seventeenth
century. During the past 40 years this de-
velopment has proceeded at such a rapid
rate as to affect profoundly the entire
national economy, influencing the growth of
population, transportation systems, home
and external trade, and national income.
Water-power is so general and widespread
in its availability that more than 98 p.c.
of all electricity generated for sale is dis-
tributed from hydro-electric stations, and
all but the most isolated hamlets enjoy the
amenities of electric lighting, radio, cook-
ing and domestic appliances
In Australia most electric power is
derived from coal, even when, in the case
of South Australia, that coal has to be
shipped 1100 miles. The attraction of
cheaper hydro-electric power is evident
in the fact that zinc is taken all the way
from Broken Hill to Risdon, Tasmania,
for refining, in order to get the benefit
of the Great Lake supply. There is un-
doubtedly a great contrast between the
electric-power supplies of this country
and Canada. And the domestic angle is
highly important from a population point
of view. Cheap, widely reticulated power
would transform the dairying areas of the
Australian coast. It would help to make
the population “stick”* in most other rural
areas.
Though water-power provides Canada
with 98 p.c. of all electricity generated
for sale ,to a population of more than
11 million, it is estimated that so far
only 21 p.c. of the commercially prac-
ticable harnessing has been carried out.
The value of hydro-electric power in
Canada is here stressed to emphasise
the importance of power generally in
Australia. It may be that man can, by
artificial means, “boost up” the water-
power of strategic Australian rivers. In
this connection it is interesting to see
what Canada is doing in connection with
developed iron ore, in which she has to
date been more deficient than the Com-
monwealth is in water-power. Before
the war Canada’s steel output was little,
if anything, greater than the Common-
wealth’s.
Most Canadian iron-ore supplies come
from the diminishing deposits in Minne-
sota (U.S.A.) and from Newfoundland.
But:
Canada is reported to have a large de-
posit of high-grade hematite at Steep Rock
Lake, Ontario. The orebody lies under the
lake, which is an enlargement of the Seine
River. Plans are now under way to de-
velop this property by diverting the course
of the Seine River by means of dams and
then lowering the lake level by pumping.
It is expected that this tremendous engineer-
ing project, when completed, will place
Canada in a much stronger position with
regard to supplies of iron ore.
Australia will undoubtedly in the future
have similar “tremendous projects” to
handle if it is to make the best of its
opportunities. Vision, energy and horse-
sense can work wonders.
But as things are at the present, and
have been since the last war, we see our
coal industry, predominant source of
power supply, at the mercy of frivolous
miners’ unions. In spite of the high
quality of Australian coal we have lost
one export market after another. Such
is the industrial record of the N. S. Wales
coalminers that every other State has
done something about developing its far
inferior coal resources so that it shall not
be dependent on the unreliable and un-
necessarily costly supplies of N. S. Wales
coal. Australian shipping cos. which have
large interests in collieries have found it
better to employ oil-burning tonnage
than to use their own coal. Far too much
oil has to be imported to make up the
deficiencies of our coal industry.
In the past the miners have opposed
the mechanisation of coalmines. If
mechanisation of mines would mean
cheaper, more plentiful coal supplies, it
is clear that fewer than 20,000 coalminers
have been standing in the way of the pro-
gress of seven million people. It is a ridi-
culous position, but one which will need
to be taken seriously if coal is to remain
our chief source of power and heat and
this country is to make the progress that
seems to be warranted by its potentiali-
ties.
There are many projects for which the
war generally and its proximity to Aus-
tralia in particular may have laid the
foundations. Interior roads, air-bases,
harbor facilities, new heavy industries and
many other war-time developments may
together have a big influence on post-war
Australia. It may be that New Guinea
will eventually provide us with oil and
other vital products. But the physical
development of the nation will depend
immeasurably on the political behavior
of the people. No basic industry
can be allowed to remain or become
a vested interest of either employers or
employees. It can be seen how damaging
to the entire country has been the sec-
tional selfishness in the coal industry.
And it is unlikely that this selfishness has
really done the miners any good.
In attracting migrants and, perhaps
more important, in raising the birth-
rate, the Australian standard of living
will come into prominence. The higher
the living standard, coupled with
prospects of a future rise in that standard
for those displaying enterprise and energy,
the more favorable will the influence
be on the population. It may be
that during a period of national expan-
sion the living standard will temporarily
suffer because of the diversion of some
production towards the means of provid-
ing additional production. That is hardly
likely to discourage immigration. Pro-
vided the national expansion is obvious
and sound the right type of migrant will
be prepared to defer cashing-up his earn-
ings. Life on the goldfields was not easy,
even if money was plentiful.
We see an incredible amount of frus-
tration of opportunity in Australia aris-
ing out of political causes. Though the
basis of improved living standards rests
in greater productivity per person and
the equitable sharing of that productivity,
on many sides the doctrine of “go-slow”
is effectively in operation. We hear a
union boss unashamedly boasting that he
has “made strikes” his “business.” Even
where remuneration out of all proportion
to the job being done is handed to union-
ists, all too frequently the result is still
lower output. The political party which
now constitutes the Government of the
country has spent years in breeding an
atmosphere of class-consciousness based
mostly on untruths, humbug and arti-
ficially-created friction. *The boss” and
“the financial system” have always been
obstructions to any of Labor’s “ideals.”
Thus it is that the Prime Minister after
the war proposes to bring migrants here
by using “bank credit”! He has never
displayed more than the vaguest know-
ledge of the country’s physical resources
or its real problems.
The result of industrial friction, espe-
cially when Government finances are also
handled badly, is higher production costs.
High costs of production have defeated
many attempts to improve the Australian
standard of living and have at the same
time discouraged overseas people and
capital from coming here. High costs
have made it hard for us to sell abroad.
Accompanying high costs we have had
high taxation, the excessive part being
often the result of unnecessary State de-
partments and enterprises. Ambition and
expansion are stifled by overgovermment,
and by regimentation of wage-earners for
uneconomic and anti-social ends. During
this war trade-union demands have been
so irrational and unfair and so many
concessions have been made to “direct
action” and the like that it will be a dis-
appointment to some wage-earners when
the war ends. Yet it is as illogical and
uneconomic that wage-earners should
profiteer out of the war as it is that “big
business” should. It is tragic to think
that reason and fairplay will be displayed
by many peopte only with the coming of
hardship.
Australia’s future existence may depend
upon a doubling or trebling of the popu-
lation. In any case, it can never be an
independent nation without some such
increase. We should aim at making our
living conditions attractive not only to


STOPvoup Rupture
Worries/
CIf.HV
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL. APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Mark® location,
of YOUR RUPTURE
THIS
DUPLICATOR
i has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
£i7/ i n / WANTED cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
I/ / IV//- ALL STATES Plans. Music, etc.
But ft entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
- SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
i
m
Cl
yes: u
e y
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrangenow
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CENERAIINjURfIHCE CO LTD.
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. P JEli BINS, General Manager.
.
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
B FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
teen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
S.
7
ne^
'Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Dockland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson,
General Manager.
T. C. Reynolds,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
JVuEBRA
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Pty., Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
i m
pw
vj
7%
'
wv m
TO
&ss
% ;‘ v
w si
MSS*
%
ik
\
'
• :
■’- --V
mb
0
H
Saf?
♦ . , which, will n€V€T
cease fire 1
At Raymond Terrace (within jeep-range of Newcastle,
N.S.W.) is a battery of guns which will continue to salvo
when all the guns of war are but salvage—the "guns” of
the Masonite plant.
All through the war these guns have been firing, round after
round—blasting chips of timber into tons of fibre . . . wood
fibre . . . Masonite Boards in embryo.
And Masonite Boards, born in these "guns,” reared in
hydraulic presses, perfected in a rigid "finishing” school,
tempered and given stamina to ensure amazing longevity,
have gone forth to war.
You’ll find them fighting weather, wear and time wherever
troops assemble, wherever ships trade. In munitions plants
and camps; in Army huts, canteens and hospitals ... in
every place where durability helps war effort, you’ll find
Masonite Boards. And when "Cease Fire!” sounds around
this war-torn world, the Masonite "guns” will keep on firing
. . . blasting chips of timber into embryo Masonite.
And again Masonite Boards will go forth ... but this time
in the cause of peace ...
to build homes for the people
... to provide security,
comfort and beauty for a
nation whose dwellings are
the centres of their lives.
MASONITE PRESDWOOD ..' .
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD ‘. ||
TEMPRTILE . : . QUARTRBOARD OE LUXE
Manufactured by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.), LTD.
from wood fibre.
MA 76-43
INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
0
ourselves but to desirable migrants,
whereas, through bad political manage-
ment, unscientific taxation and trade-
union excesses, we have been standing in
our own light for decades. There has been
too great a tendency to make the people
dependent on “the Government” ; greater
efforts should be made to make them
realise their dependence on their country
in all its realities and their country’s de-
pendence upon them.
The affluence of State Governments,
largely rising out of Commonwealth use
of State railways and the Common-
wealth’s employment and high payment
of so many State citizens, drew comment
in the last report of the Commonwealth
Bank Board to the effect that the States
could now do something about retiring
their overdrafts with the central bank.
These advances by the bank, on the secu-
rity of Treasury bills, date back to the
depression, and total £53 million. Dun-
stan, of Victoria, whose State owed £5.8
million as against N. S. Wales’s £3l mil-
lion, objected to permanent redemption
of its debt when N. S. Wales had paid
off only £3 million. Victoria has actually
paid off its debt, but it retains the right
to discount again the bills it has retired.
This, Dunstan says, it may have to do in
post-war years in order to restore depre-
ciation of its railways. State Governments
are building up huge cash balances, and
N.S.W. showed its independence of the
Federal Housing Commission’s proposals
by announcing, through Premier McKell,
that it would launch an extensive housing
scheme of its own as soon as the restric-
tions under the National Security Act
were lifted. At the same time Canberra
appears to be using its own housing pro-
posals as a political lever towards obtain-
ing greater Commonwealth powers.
* * * *
According to a New York “Times”
correspondent in Chungking, a number
of factories in that area are closing down
because of the difficulty in raising long-
term credits that has arisen out of the
extreme inflation taking place in Chinese
currency. High costs of production and
inequalities of price-control measures are
traceable also to the inflation. Prices
generally are said to be 200 times above
theff937 level, while some manufactured
goods are up 500 times. Industrial pro-
duction as a whole is declining. The
Allied financial world has been watching
the Chinese economy with apprehension
for a couple of years. In mid-1943 the
National City Bank of New York wrote:
China is experiencing an inflation of run-
away proportions. Cost of living in Shang-
hai has increased several hundred per cent,
in the last few years, while in Free China
food prices have apparently risen by 30
to 40 times, although accurate indexes are
not' available. Disorganised production,
combined with inadequate and costly transt-
portation, has resulted in acute scarcity of
goods of all kinds, while war expenditures
are being financed largely through infla-
tionary issues of currency and credit. Free
China, though containing about two-thirds
of the total Chinese population, has con-
siderably less than half of the cultivated
area.
The present New York “Times” report
indicates how rapid further depreciation
of the currency has become.
* * * *
Government figures show that, of a
total Australian working population of
3.369.000 men and women, nearly
1.750.000 are in the fighting forces or
doing war work. The number of men
in the fighting forces is put at more than
842.000, while men engaged in direct or
indirect war work total 1,531,000. Only
117.000 continue to make manufactured
civilian goods. Of 840,000 occupied
women, nearly a quarter are engaged in
nursing, munitions production or other
war work. Rural industry has lost
145.000 of its 1939 total of male workers.
Factory employment, male and female,
has risen from 549,000 in 1939 to
753.000. but only 197,000 are producing
for the civilian market. The Australian
Army is at the peak of its strength,
and the net strength of the A.I.F. is
approximately double that of the Militia,
Up to the end of August the present war
had cost the Commonwealth £1194
million.
* * * *
An opinion of J. Kruttschnitt, speak-
ing from the chair at New Guinea Gold-
fields’ annual meeting:
Revolutionary restrictions and alterations
by Governmental intervention in the con-
duct of privately-owned industries do not
seem consistent with our peace-time aims.
Those who are clamoring for the nationali-
sation of both credit and industry have for-
gotten for the time being the fundamental
tenets of democracy. That there will be
some changes is inevitable, but somewhere
between pre-war industrial concepts and the
extremist’s view of post-war readjustments
must be found a code of policies and obli-
gations which will preserve the sound, basic
attributes of the country’s commercial
framework. Among other things, such a code
will provide greater economic security for
employees in industry. There are those who
go so far as to believe that the destiny
of free enterprise hangs in the balance, but
such a view appears unnecessarily revolu-
tionary. Nevertheless the posf-war con-
duct of organised industry will undoubtedly
be a cogent factor in determining the degree
of its commercial and industrial indepen-
dence. It is obvious, therefore, that the
leaders of organised business must share
substantially the responsibility of preserv-
ing free enterprise as one of the fundamen-
tals in the development and progress of a
democratic people.
Mr. Kruttschnitt said that, although the
“precise manner in which gold will func-
tion in reconstructed national and inter-
national setups is not readily predictable
at this time,” it was his opinion that, “until
a universally acceptable substitute has
been found and adopted, gold will con-
tinue to perform the same indispensable
function in the world of finance that it
has played from time immemorial.”
* * * *
Dr. Evatt has said that 50 clothing
factories are now operating in country
towns, employing thousands of country
women. It seems that at least 36 of these
have been “established by the Common-
wealth.” At Stawell, Victoria, a plant for
weaving cotton tweeds has been installed
in what was previously a munitions fac-
tory. An £ll,OOO women’s clothing fac-
tory has just been opened at Wonthaggi.
A factory at Wagga is producing rain-
coats and waterproof garments. Garages,
dance-halls, schools of arts and picture
theatres have been converted into coun-
try clothing factories,
* * * *
In spite of the logic of pay-as-you-go
taxation and the necessity for it —its
absence in years of high incomes will
have devastating effects in years of de-
clining earnings—the Government and
the Treasury appear to regard it with
apprehension and distaste. Its introduc-
tion, if ever, will be a test of Ministerial
control over the civil service and of ad-
ministration generally. Without its intro-
duction there will be further contributions
to the chaos which is growing out of Can-
berra’s inability to face up to realities and
to look into the future.
* * * *
One reason for the reduction in per
capita production in many Australian
enterprises is the exasperating difficulty in
getting officials to accept responsibility
for their demands on industry. It is hard
enough to get a decision backed up by
authority when only one department is
concerned, but where there are two or
more departments involved the business-
man becomes a bouncing-ball.


THE SERVICE MAN
Northern Successes.
“Ek Dum”; Little land fighting took
place in New Guinea last week. The
toughest of it was among the peaks and
ledges of the Finisterre# in the Upper
Faria River country, where the Austra-
lians made another small but vital move
in the battle for the ridges dominating
the way down to the Maclay coast and
Bogadjim.
Moving in from north and south of
the Shaggy Ridge positions, the Austra-
lians, after fierce air and artillery prepara-
tion, cleared the Japs from the whole of
the ridge—in some cases they were liter-
ally pushed off into space.
The result of the bitter little action
fought on great heights, one-man tracks
and pimples just large enough to hold
an m.-g. nest was that only one pocket
of the enemy was left in the vicinity—
on an elevated strongpost saddleback.
During the week this was in process of
being wiped out piecemeal with gun and
’plane, though early in the week the
enemy detachment was strong enough to
push back an attack with savage fire.
On January 31 it was announced that
an Australian party had destroyed enemy
installations at Saipa, at the end of the
Bogadjim-Daumoina motor road.
The little Ramu campaign has been a
hard one among unaccustomed heights
and mountains, fought by men whose
early training in war was mainly gained,
in the desert, with a taste of Lebanon
thrown in. The Jap paved the mist-
wreathed and slippery tracks with booby-
traps and mines, and in most phases in
which transport was concerned the cam-
paigning was exceedingly difficult.
But it might have been far worse. In
such country a couple of strongly-placed
and well-supplied enemy divisions might
have held out indefinitely, or at least
inflicted tremendous casualties on at-
tackers.
Command of sea and air, however,
made the campaign more difficult and
precarious for the enemy. He has shown
no disposition to fight a major mountain
war in the Finisterre.
United States forces advanced about
Ijr miles from Hill 660 and occupied the
enemy base of Natamo on Borgen Bay,
killing 40 Japs and smashing 20 machine-
gun posts, after the R.A.A.F. had given
the coast a thorough plastering.
At Empress Augusta Bay, with air
help and artillery cover, the perimeter
of the American beachhead was slightly
widened.
In the Ahr
The main war continued to be in the
air. It was chiefly conducted against
Rabaul from the South Pacific base,
where Rear-Admiral Carney, Admiral
Halsey’s C. 0.5., had stated very frankly
the previous week that Rabaul and
Kavieng were the next direct objectives
of drives.
Bombing operations of both the
Southern Command and General Mac-
Arthur’s South-western Command were
directed to immobilising flank bases
which could give assistance to Rabaul
in case of direct sea attack —Wewak
on the New Guinea mainland and Loren-
gau and other aerial centres in the
Admiralties,
In the several attacks on Rabaul from
January 22 till the end of the week the
Southern Pacific Command claimed a
7500-ton ship, a large tanker, two cargo
vessels, a smaller one and a number of
small craft and barges as destroyed, be-
sides putting Lakunai aerodrome out of
commission temporarily. At Kavieng
an 8000-ton vessel was blown up and
smaller units damaged.
It was also announced that in fights
over Rabaul in which as many as 70
enemy machines at a time took part 132
Japanese ’planes were shot down for cer-
tain, 21 probably, and only 27 Allied
machines lost.
Over Wewak on January 23, the com-
munique said, 33 machines for certain
and probably another 12 were destroyed
—there were 50 attackers—for a loss of
five Allied machines. In other raids, apart
from serious damage inflicted on ships,
harbor installations, dumps and aero-
dromes, another round dozen and a half
enemy machines were written off by
General MacArthur’s air staff, including
a fighter and two bombers destroyed by
the R.A.A.F. over the Arafura Sea,
An enemy communique alleged that on
Jan. 24 16 Allied ’planes for certain and
eight probably were shot down over
Rabaul when two Jap vessels were sunk.
Another 72 Allied machines were
allegedly destroyed on January 26 and
27 for a loss of 12 Jap machines.
Bombing of the Marshalls from the
Gilberts is almost a daily affair, and
Nauru has had' several damaging visits
from Liberators. The week’s operations
in this area culminated. in a great sea-
borne attack on Marshalls bases in which
at least four carriers took part. Full
. details had not been received at the time
of writing.
The point is fast approaching when the
current operations of Admiral Nimitz’s
two naval commands in the Solomons
and Gilberts and General MacArthur’s
operations will converge.
Japan in the Dock.
The, Lisbon Maru, carrying British
prisoners of war from Hong Kong, was
torpedoed by an Allied submarine in
October, 1942. Eight hundred of the
prisoners lost their lives. Their brutal
guards battened them below hatches and
abandoned the ship, which did not sink
for 24 hours. Some prisoners who dived
into the sea were fired on.
This was one of many dreadful stories
given to the world by the British and
American Foreign Secretaries. Said Mr.
Eden:
We have a growing list of cases of brutal
outrage on individuals or groups of indi-
viduals. We have repeatedly made the
strongest possible representations to Japan
through Switzerland, but such replies as we
received have been evasive, cynical and
otherwise unsatisfactory.
We have tried every representation we can
possibly devise and have put forward every
suggestion we can think of. We have asked
for neutral inspection over and over again,
only to be met with cynical refusal. We
and our Dominions and allies feel that
nothing is left but to make the facts public.
There is. no doubt that some of the post-
cards received from British prisoners univer-
sally suggesting that the writers were being
treated well and were in good health are in
terms dictated by the Japanese authori-
ties Information which has recently
reached the Government leaves no room
for doubt that the true state of affairs
is very different as far as the great majority
of prisoners in Japanese hands is concerned.
He continued that perhaps 80 to 90 per
cent; of Allied prisoners in Japanese hands
and internees were located in the southern
area, comprising the Philippines, the
Dutch East Indies, Borneo, Malaya, Siam
and Indo-China, but “we are not even
allowed to know the numbers of prisoners
nor have their names been indicated.”
Mr, Eden described the behavior of
the enemy as “unspeakable savagery,
violating international law and all the
canons of decent civilised conduct.” Mr.
Hull used even stronger terms.
There had been no comment from
Moscow up to January 31. But it is un-
thinkable that Soviet Russia will con-
tinue to maintain diplomatic and trade
relations with the Japanese after revela-
tions so terrible have been made by the
statesmen with whom the Russian leaders
have so recently been in conference, and
with whose Governments they have made
far-reaching agreements.
Berlin's "20,000 Tons."
“Ek Dum”: Germans, especially Ber-
liners, must have come to dread the end
of each month, which brings fresh spates
of heavy bombing.
Berlin on January 27 had its twelfth
major raid since November 18, apart
from the incessant stinging expeditions of
Mosquitoes, and the night of January 28
brought the thirteenth.
Actually, in an all-out blast by Allied
heavy bombers, 5000 tons of bombs were
unloaded on Germany within 40 hours
to noon on Saturday, January 29. About
2300 heavy machines, with hundreds of
fighters to escort U.S. day raiders, took
part in all the raids.
The R.A.F.’s main tasks were the two
raids on Berlin on Thursday and Friday
nights by Lancasters and Halifaxes. On
Thursday 1500 tons of bombs were
dropped in 20 minutes. A further 1500
to 2000 tons was dropped in a second
raid, bringing the total bombs dropped
on Berlin since November 18 to nearly
20,000 tons. A high wind fanned the
flames and turned whole suburbs into
roaring furnaces.
The escorted raid by 800 bombers of
the U.S. Strategic Air Force in Britain
left 1800 tons behind on industrial and
communication centres at Frankfurt-on-
the-Main on Saturday morning.
Long-range Mustangs, Thunderbolts
and other U.S. fighters and R.A.F. Spit-
fires built the strength of the Allied
armada up to more than 1500 machines.
On Jan. 30 the U.S. Air Force made
another heavy daylight raid on Bruns-
wick and Hanover.
At Frankfurt there was strong opposi-
tion, and not less at Berlin.
The German account of the raids was
that they were made in weather so cloudy
that the bombers could not see the tar-
gets and dropped their bombs “reck-
lessly.” It was claimed that 50 U.S.
bombers—mostly four-engined machines
—were shot down during the Frankfurt
raid, “making a loss of over 100 heavy
machines and 800 personnel since Thurs-
day night.”
At Berlin, the German communique
reported, cloud was also heavy, but Ger-
man fighters engaged in a heavy and
deadly battle against attackers.
The Americans admitted that their
-'losses and those of their escorts in the
Frankfurt raid were 31 bombers and
13 fighters. They claimed 102 enemy
fighters, of which 60 fell to bombers.
The R.A.F. admitted that 81 bombers
and three intruders were missing from
the two raids on Berlin and some other
operations which extended to Heligoland.
Raid on London
On the night of Jan. 29 a relay raid
headed by flare-dropping pathfinders
visited London and dropped incendiaries
and high explosives along the Thames
Estuary, causing some damage and
casualties, including a few deaths.
The raid looked like an experiment in
new techniques to test the strength of
London defences and their capacity to
deal with attacks from several directions
at once.
The strength was there. The raiders
were driven off by the heaviest barrage
yet thrown up in Britain. Minor raids
were made on towns in the south and
south-east. At least three raiders were
shot down in the London raid.
All of which presages a terrible spring,
when the northern air is clear of winter
blasts and new Allied bombing forces
begin to pit themselves against Germany’s
new equipment.
On Rome's Fringes.
“Ek Dum”: While the usual amateur
strategists moaned in London and Sydney
about the slowness of Allied progress,in
Italy, General Alexander, who led the
Anzio and Nettuno landing in person,
surveyed the situation with the serenity
which is the badge of his quality:
Everything is going wonderfully. We
have gained the advantage of complete sur-
prise. We have not only seized a beach-
head, but have built up our forces. We
are now in a position to take the initiative.
The port of Anzio had been highly prepared
for demolition, but the enemy was so sur-
prised that he did not have time to ex-
plode the charges.
The main Fifth Army did an excellent' job
by drawing the Germans from fhe Rome
area. The Germans had very little around
Rome when we landed. We were opposed
by only a few troops. We made the enemy
lower his guard, then hit him on the chin.
It was not quite a knockout but we rocked
him badly.
If the thing had been accomplished by
Russians the amateur strategists would
have pronounced it one of the most dar-
ing and successful manoeuvres in the his-
tory of amphibious war. Progress has been
fairly swift, considering that the landing
was made on the edge of a main
perimeter where, if the enemy had not
many troops at the moment, he had forti-
fications to hold many troops, large arms
dumps, command of the local adjacent
aerodromes and the means of rushing
in reinforcements on a large scale.
Within the week Allied patrols fanned
out southward and north-eastward for 15
miles or so. The beachhead, in general
terms, is several miles wide. German
counter-attacks have been beaten off.
The materials for large-scale operations
are coming ashore under naval and air
cover. And in a series of the fiercest air
battles yet fought in Italy the air umbrella
has nullified the enemy’s fighter advan-
tage due to his command of near-by
aerodromes and established supplies. In
one series of fights 28 Focke-Wulfs and
Messerschmitts were shot down.
The enemy claims destruction of and
damage to Allied shipping. He certainly
sank a hospital ship.
All round the landscape of the pros-
pective battlefield, Allied bombers and
strafers have been busy destroying rail-
ways, roads, dumps and water supplies.
This is the preparatory stage of the main
battle, which may be long.
The Eighth and Fifth
Up to the week-end the Eighth Army
on the Adriatic side was holding many
Germans as far from the Anzio beach-
head, below Rome, as was possible, wait-
ing meanwhile for the moment at which
a concerted blow at the enemy would be
timely.
On the Tyrrhenian coast side the Allied
armies had, for the time being, been split
into three.
lust across the flooded Garigliano, on
the edges of the Lepini Mountains, the
British forces which made their bold
crossings are working along the Via
Appia, or Appian Way, which skirts the
inland side of the coastal littoral plain.
The road sticks to the foothills at first,
but sweeps in to the coast at Terracina.
The troops have some difficult country
to cross in this initial area of advance,
since the foothills of the Lepini run
right down to the sea —at Terracina you
can see in the volcanic rock the cutting
120 feet deep, the excavators’ figures still
in the wall, which Trajan made to let the
Via Appia through.
Terracina is 76 miles from Rome by
rail. The 30 miles or more beyond it,
in a belt seven to ten miles wide, are filled
by the Pontine marshes. In Roman days
this was fertile, well-drained land, but
in later times it became a swamp from
which the sea was cut off by low sandhills.
In the last generation it has been re-
drained back to the state it was in when
Pompey placed his returned-soldier settle-
ments there. Australians with the Fifth
Army will feel tears coming into their
eyes when they cross it —they will smell
eucalypts, which have been planted pro-
fusely.
Towards the end of the marsh area is
Littofia, 15 miles or so south-east of
Anzio and Nettuno, where the Allies last
week formed their beachhead. Here is
one of the big airfields guarding Rome
—indeed with Allied equipment miles
of this area can be turned into a vast
airfield in no time. Allied patrols from
Nettuno had reached the outskirts of
Littoria, traversing ground trod by every
character in Roman history.
From Anzio-Nettuno by the inland and
main approach to Rome—there is an-
other along the coast to Ostia near the
mouth of the Tiber—the road traverses
about 10 miles along the junction hill
country between the northern end of the
Lepini mountains and the Alban Hills
to the old Volscian town of Velletri (the
home town of Augustus), which has a
population of 20,000 or so. It was re-
ported on January 27 that the Allies 1
had extended their beachhead to it. They
found it one large ruin.
The Road to Rome
This would bring them within 26 miles
or so of Rome. Algiers Radio said on
Monday that they had made their way
nearer to Rome past the vine-clad
Alban hillsides-—many of the London
Tommies would have drunk tawny
Albano out of squat bottles on wet nights
at Gennaros or in Soho—past Castel
Gondolfo to near Albano, away on the
right, where Septimius Severus had his
camp for the Second Legion 1700 years
ago. The route to Rome goes thence
past Frascati and across the gloomy
Roman Campagna, joining up perhaps
with the Via Gasilina, which runs down
the valley to Cassino. Cassino American
patrols entered during the week, thus
breaking across the rearward communi-
cations of the German armies down the
Sacco-Liri Valley, on the main route to
Naples. This route to Cassino, 15 to 20
miles from the western coast, is hemmed
in between the towering Apennines of
central Italy and the high twin-peaked
Lepini range, which divides the Cassino
line of advance from the coastal beach-
heads.
Within a few miles of Velletri the in-
vaders will come athwart the southing
railways and a dozen ribbons of road,
ancient and modern, converging on
Rome: Via Gasilina, a main central road
to Naples; Via Appia, the main coastal
road to the same city; Via Tuscolana,
Via Latina, Via Prenestina.
But there will be bitter fighting before
they enjoy their entry into Rome. The
Alban Hills and their approaches make
a fine semicircular defence|position. The
Sacco-Liri Valley, while from one view-
point it is a deathtrap, is also to be looked
on as a powerful fortress position so
long as the Germans can maintain a
gateway at the northern end up the Liri
Valley.
Cassino and Arce
The Americans have breached the
southern palisade of this fortress posi-
tion, which is about 60 miles long, by
breaking through the sullen gorge in
which Mignano stands and reaching Cas-
sino. Cassino itself is not much of a
defensive position. But in forward
areas beyond Cassino the advanc-
ing Americans will find strong resist-
ance. Mt. Cairo, 5476 ft., towers above
it, and like crags and mountains on
the Apennine side are the inner gate-
ways of the Liri Valley. Till these are
controlled the inner portcullis of the Liri
has not been raised. The French, fight-
ing fiercely, seemed on January 27 as if
they were about to turn the German left
flank.
Cassino is 85£ miles from Rome. A
dozen miles towards the Eternal City, at
the junction of the two rivers in the val-
ley, stands the town of Arce. Here road
and rail divide. One set of highways
and one railway make straight up the
Sacco Valley for Rome on a course
parallel roughly with the Lepini on the ■
west. The other road and railway swing


Missing Friend.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of GEORGE
JAMBS ROCHE, Farmer, whose last address was at
Cockatoo Creek, or his relatives or personal repre-
sentatives, please communicate with KRCROUSE,
OLDHAM & DARVALL, of 352 Collins Street, when
they will hear of something to their advantage ?
KRCROUSE, OLDHAM & DARVALL, Solicitors, 352
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF * NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorck.
TO CLAUDE HARRY TROLLOPE late of Sydney
New South Wales.— TAKE NOTICE that EUNICE
OLIVE TROLLOPE has filed a Petition in Divorce
No 1598 of 1943 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Thirteenth day of March next and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
FREDERICK McGUREN Solicitor of 81 Elizabeth
Street Sydney.—<(l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HENRY TYRRELL TREMLETT late
of Merrylands New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that JEAN ALEXANDER TREMLETT has filed a
Petition in Divorce No. 2582 of 1943 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Thirteenth day of
March next and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from FREDERICK McGUREN Solicitor of
81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(l.s.) O. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce. _
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ELIZABETH MARY MAUD LINNELL late of
South Kensington New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that EDWARD JAMBS ALFRED LINNELL has filed
a Notice of Motion for Decree Absolute in Suit No.
17 of 1921 and that such Motion will be heard on
the Third day of March 1944 before the Judge in
Divorce at No. 2 Equity Court Queen’s Square Sydney
If you wish to oppose the Motion you may appear
before the Court in person or by your Solicitor on
the Third day of March 1944 and you may obtain
a copy of the Notice of Motion and of the supporting
Affidavits free of charge from F. W. REILLY
Solicitor 2B Oastlereagh Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
into the Apennine up the Liri River val-
ley—the Liri is the inland half of the
Garigliano—to join the Rome-Pescara
road at Avezzano,
So long as this road is open, and one
or two others to the west, the Germans
facing the Fifth Army are in no trap.
But so soon as there are signs that either
the landing force at Anzio can scour its
way to the Pescara road round the Alban
Hills, that the Eighth Army can break
through on the east coast or that the Cas-
sino troops can reach beyond Arce, all
country south of Rome will be decidedly
unhealthy for Germans. It will be a case
of “get out or perish” for them.
Hitler’s Order
Unless the Germans are inclined to
move further northward and make their
battleground nearer home, which they
are unlikely to wish to do until spring is
advanced, the Allies are faced with one
of the most difficult and complicated
problems it is possible to conceive in
the tangle of mountain and valley which
they are assailing. The Germans have
established true fortress lines designed for
trench warfare.
German counter-attacks have every-
where been fierce and determined, though
they left a lot of prisoners behind at
Anzio. A Hitler order was read at dawn
stand-to throughout the German front
lines on January 24:
The Fuhrer commands that the Gustav
Wall positions be maintained whatever the
cost, in view of the important political
effects. The Fuhrer has confidence that
every yard of ground will be fought for
to the last gasp.
The Drama of Leningrad.
“Ek Dum”: A safe rule for every sin-
cere analyst of the Russo-German war is
never to look backwards —to the rear-
ward of history lie whole dumps and
hangais full of headaches.
The drama of Leningrad, as presented
to the outside world by correspondents
and radio uncles, illustrates this truth.
It illustrates also that reporting which
is far more fanciful than factual can do
less than justice to the sufferings of the
soldiers and people concerned, while con-
tributing to foster the impression in far-
off Australia that they are winning the
war for us, so there is no need to worry —
“sport and strikes as usual!”
From September, 1941
Leningrad was walled off from the
south by Marshal von Leeb’s 18th Army
on September 9, 1941. Von Leeb passed
the city a full 120 miles across the Volk-
hov to Tikhvin, thus cutting every rail-
way into Leningrad. Von Leeb’s 18th
Army held the country as far south as
Lake Ilmen ; his 16th Army maintained
the line to the south of this until driven
back by the Russian winter offensive.
On November 8, 1941, Hitler was on
hand with bluster: }'
I have no interest in any such city as
Leningrad, but only in the destruction of
the industrial centres of Leningrad... .Not
one German soldier’s life will be unneces-
sarily sacrificed in taking the city.
The country south of Leningrad to
Lake Ilmen, and beyond the Moscow rail-
way towards Tikhvin, is swamp and forest,
with little population, save round Lenin-
grad itself and at Novgorod, an ancient
city of 120,000 people, about 120 miles
from Leningrad. This the Germans occu-
pied in September, 1941.
It was noticeable that during most of
the frozen-in portion of the terrible
winter of 1941-42, when the enemy was
retreating in mbst other sectors, he held
his ground in the Leningrad-Novgorod
sector.
The thaw came normally in February,
1942. As it- approached at the end of
lanuary, the Germans began to fall back-
wards from Tikhvin.
On February 14, when the city had
been ostensibly besieged for 142 days,
“S. M. Herald” had a map, coinciding
with most other newspaper maps, which
showed that the Germans appar-
ently had fallen back so far that
between Tosno, 30-odd miles south
of Leningrad, and Novgorod there was a
Russian salient pointing westward far into
the German front. The whole of the
Leningrad-Moscow line was shown as
being in Russian hands, save for a few
miles in the environs of Leningrad, Chu-
dovo was set 70 miles inside the
Russian front; the battle line in the far
south of the sector was supposedly in the
suburbs of Novgorod.
This map represented the general
opinion of the lines of the front among
Moscow correspondents. No suggestion
has been made since that the invaders
reconquered territory in this area. The
fact remains that when the 1944 Russian
offensive began all the bulge 70 miles
deep which the Russians were credited
by correspondents —unofficially, but of
course “reliably,” a favorite word of the
tribe —with having made south of Lenin-
grad in early 1942 had somehow been
wiped out, Chudovo, 70 miles behind
the supposed Russian front, was in Ger-
man hands, along with most of that
portion of the Moscow-Leningrad line
north of Lake Ilmen.
“Details of the fighting reveal for the
first time that the besiegers for months
actually held the city’s outskirts ; Ligovo,
one of the places recaptured by the Rus-
sians, is only five miles from Leningrad.”
So it appeared in a naive message from
London published in Melbourne.
“Into Latvia”
By February 22, 1942, according to
Great Dailies, the German armies of
Leningrad were in a desperate plight.
London, Feb. 22: Advanced Russian
units advancing north-west from Novgorod
yesterday crossed the old Latvian border,
states the Stockholm correspondent of the
“Sunday Express.” Russian troops three
days ago began an advance against the be-
siegers of Leningrad and are now only 100
miles from Riga.
No Russian forces had come within
150 miles of where the “Sunday Express”
said they were. But the discovery of
this fact did nothing to mitigate the en-
thusiasm of chroniclers.
Two days after the publication
of the Latvian story it was dis-
covered that the German defence lines
to the west of Leningrad had been driven
back, that the Russians had destroyed
“more than 1000 fortified German posi-
tions around Leningrad” and had “begun
the annihilation of the garrison of a large
town —‘N’ —which had refused to sur-
render. It is believed that this town is
Novgorod.” By February 27 the battle
of Leningrad was “roaring towards a
climax.” Next day it was declared that
the enemy defences had been broken at
two vital points.
“No Longer Operative”
March 13 brought a Sydney “Herald”
summing-up:
The siege of Leningrad is no longer
operative. German communications have
been cut.
This was no isolated opinion. Maps in
the N. York “Times” and most other
great journals from February 5, 1942,
onwards showed that a corridor some-
where about 15 miles wide was open
south of Lake Ladoga, with the
Leningrad-Y aroslavl-Mosco w line and
the Leningrad-Vologda line in Russian
hands. The Yaroslavl line joins the direct
Leningrad-Moscow line via. Chudovo
through a junction a few miles s.-w. of
Leningrad. Hence it was apparent that
Leningrad was once more free and
served by two main railways to Mos-
cow, plus a third running to the east via
Vologda.
At this point, interest in Leningrad
lapsed. Reporters and commentators
turned their attention to Von Leeb’s
16th Army,' a curious force which
on February 24 was said to consist of
96,000 men and six divisions, and on
March 15, after its units had been wiped
out in droves every day for a fortnight,
of “19 divisions, 16 of which are infantry.”
After it had been prevented from escap-
ing and supplying itself by air (“every
’plane was shot down”) and had been
reduced to caflnibalism, according to one
reporter, it was found actually to have'
consisted of one corps of three divisions,
and to have had a 10-mile-wide com-
munication corridor open during the
whole time it was allegedly enclosed.
Siege Broken Again
And so to Jan. 19, 1943, and more
flaring headlines: “Russians Break
Leningrad Siege . ~ Eight Miles of Nazi
Lines Smashed.”
Moscow, Jan. 18: The historic siege that
Leningrad has undergone for 17 months
was broken today by a Red Army offensive
south of Lake Ladoga that shattered the
German ring. The ancient fortress of
Schlusselburg, on Lake Ladoga, east of
Leningrad, where the Germans closed the
ring in August, 1941 [sic], was recaptured
by Russian forces under Marshals Gregory
Zhukov and Klimenli Voroshilov.
Another story had Marshal Voroshilov
at Stalingrad, 2600 miles down the battle
line, at the same time.
Head offices having perhaps protested
that the siege had been raised nearly a
year before, it was explained by the cor-
respondent corps that early in 1942 when
the Neva and Lake Ladoga had frozen
over —the freeze comes in November —
the Russians had been able to cross the
ice and make their way over the frozen
swamps of the Neva, between the enemy
fronts in Finland and to the south, until
the thaw stopped the traffic.
This emphatically was not what was
represented to have happened early in
1942. The clear statement of the posi-
tion was that a corridor had been broken
south of Lake Ladoga in exactly the same
spot that it was now broken in January,
1943, and that this had been done, not
during the winter freeze, but after it
during the thaw.
On October 7 “the town and rail-
way junction of Kirishi; also the
large inhabited places of Novye Kirishi,
Lavonov Ostrov, Miryakino, Krasnovo,
Dubrovo, Druchovo and Bugry and rail-
way stations of Posadnikovo and Irsa”
fell to the Russians. The places are
on a branch main line running’n.-e. from
Chudovo in territory which from Feb-
ruary, 1942, onwards was supposedly 50
to 90 miles inside their lines. There
had been no word of their recapture by
the enemy from either Berlin or Moscow.
Really Relieved at Last
In January this year, nearly two years
since the supposed breaking of the siege
in 1942, a Russian drive began. As
in previous years, the front attained full
movement as the first signs of the thaw
were seen.
At 7.45 a.m. on January .28, Sydney
time, the 8.8. C. announced:
After its two years of siege, Leningrad
is now fully liberated.
It was true, and it was an. achievement
that thrilled the anti-Axis world. But it was
not glorious enough for correspondents.
Some of them discovered that the
enemy had been “overcome by one of the
most tremendous barrages ever consti-
tuted the greatest concentration of
artillery in the war.” They noted
according to taste —that from 250,000 to
400,000 Germans were in deadly peril:
London, Jan. 27: Fierce fighting continues
inside Chudovo as the Russians steadily
close their mighty trap around 25 German
divisions between Leningrad and Novgorod,
says Reuter’s Moscow correspondent.
Red Army tanks are driving miles into the
German rear and ambushing long columns
of German troops retreating towards Luga
from Novgorod... .At Tosno and Chudovo
the Germans are battling to hold the Rus-
sian avalanche and give the High Com-
mand time to pull back the battered enemy
divisions threatened with encirclement.
Both Tosno and Chudovo were be-
lieved to be in Russian hands after the
events early in 1942. In the area in which
the 250,000—0 r 400,000— Germans are
supposed to be in another of the many
traps which correspondents have set for
them, the Russians have 30 miles to
go to reach the point supposedly reached
in 1942.
As usual Russian communiques were
modest compared with newspaper rav-
ings. That of Jan. 26, referring to opera-
tions for 12 days, inclusive, claimed up-
wards of 40,000 Germans killed, 3000
taken prisoner (30,000 or 40,000 was one
paper’s estimate) and 619 guns, 60 tanks
and 24 armored cars.
On January 29 Berlin announced the
evacuation of Chudovo. Tosno also fell,
and the line from Leningrad to Moscow
was reported to be clear of the enemy.
Enemy in Retreat
The Germans were then making an en-
forced retirement in the south and centre
of the front between Lake Ilmen and
Leningrad over the bog and forest where
communications become precarious dur-
ing the thaw. They had previously been
forced to give up Novgorod at the
southern end of the Ilmen-Ladoga line ;
but they hold Staraya Russa, the
northern anchor of the Vitebsk-Ilmen
sector just south of Lake Ilmen.
The shape of the front is as curious as
that in the Dnieper Bend, and the Rus-
sians are engaged in a ticklish operation
at the Novgorod end of the line, with
Lake Ilmen, on which the ice might
break before long, at their backs'.
But it seems that the enemy is bent
on withdrawing to the traditional de-
fence line from Narva and Kingisepp,
south-eastward down the Luga River,
south of Lake Ilmen.
On January 30 the Russian spearhead
was only 10 miles from Kingisepp, which
holds the screen defence area of the
Narva lines —they run just behind the
Estonian border, 30 miles from the an-
nounced Russian frontal position.
Allowing for differences consequent on
variation of physical features, the retreat
formation of the enemy has the same
system and shape of salients as in the
retreat from Melitopol to the Dnieper,
on the Black Sea coast.
South of Lake Ilmen, where the Ger-
mans a week ago reported a strong Rus-
sian drive —unconfirmed from Moscow —
the Russians announced that they had
moved forward and captured Novo
Sokolniki, which stands on the isolated
low line of hills west of Velikiye Luki.
In the Dnieper Bend
Near Vinnitsa, at the key point of pres-
sure, the enemy, as Moscow has ad-
mitted, has carried out “strong infantry
and tank attacks.” The Russians, “acting
under orders from the High Command,
evacuated a number of inhabited locali-
ties and retired to stronger defence posi-
tions.” , ,
At the same time the Germans admitted
that after heavy fighting in the Cherkassy
salient, to the north-east, the “ruins ot
Smyela” had been abandoned. Thus one
of the two horn salients in the Dnieper
Bend has almost been wiped out.
The enemy’s Dnieper line now runs on
the east bank of the Dnieper along the
river about 150 miles to Nikopol. It
then makes a beeline n.-west, inclining
towards the Bug River, and based on
N ikopol-Krivoi Rog-V innitsa-Shepetovka-
Rovno across the 1939 Polish border in
the southern environs of the Pripet
Marshes.
Out of most of the Marshes the enemy
has retreated westward into Poland;
north of the Marshes he returns to the
traditional Dnieper line as far as the
Moscow-Warsaw road at Orsha, and
holds the east bank of the river.
In brief:
South Pacific Allied H.Q. reports that from
Jan. 8, 1943, to Jan. 25, 1944, 1291 enemy air-
craft were shot down in the area. Allied losses,
“though occasionally heavy,” were in general
ratio to the enemy’s of one to seven.
* * * •*
The War Office announced on January 27
that Japan had supplied a list of British war
prisoners alleged to have been drowned on
Nov. 29, 1943, when a transport carrying them
from Java was sunk. No previous word had
been said about the sinking.
* * * *
Two Jap freighters, each of 1200 tons, and a
minesweeper have been sunk off the China coast
by U.S. Mitchells. The R.A.F. sank two ships
and damaged at least 22 in the vEgean Sea.
* * * ♦
Sofia, capital of Bulgaria, which lies in an
exposed position closely huddled on an open
plain, is declared by a Swiss correspondent to
be completely paralysed, with 60 p.c. of its
built-up area devastated and cholera and typhus
rampant.
* * * *
Liberia has declared war on Germany.
Though it cannot add much man-power to the
Allied forces, it is a valuable staging-house on
Allied lines of communication. The Argentine
has broken off relations with the Axis Powers,
following the arrest of one of its Consuls in-
volved in pro-German activities in the West
Indies.
* * * ♦
After ponderously deciding that Australian
prisoners of war should not be allowed to count
their period of captivity towards their qualifi-
cation time for service chevrons, Mr. Forde pon-
derously changed his mind.' He now has the
horrible task of deciding whether he will de-
duct from the pay of returned —and so far
generally disabled—p.o.ws. the pittance issued to
them in German prison camps in accordance
with international law. Returned men have
been complaining that “debits from their
accounts for money not received while prisoners
of war have been made on their return to Aus-
tralia.” The decision should not be hard for
a Government which a few weeks ago was
boasting expansively that the average wage in
the C.C.C. was £8 a week.


'
Wi i;:" JMJ ~ ■ S-SSSS IB SI sii Si f®?
■ ■'. : :}'S ■ V
■ ; ;>•■■ -.- : ■ , .■'■..■■ •••;
iiiiii |i mmmuamamam mmmmmammm I I
¥k%w: >s•?
pp»pl?ps
SBS:
■■■', -:•••.: ■ :
pipppp
V«|!l
icßers
7 You Cannot
Buy a
Better Polish!
n
You cannot buy a better polish than NUGGET - for Nugget contains the
fine waxes that give the brilliant all-day shine.
You cannot buy a more economical polish than NUGGET- if lasts longer,
ifs blacker, its brighter and giyes a better shine for less polish fnd less effort ,
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Exclusive of service men there was an
attendance of 30,000 at Randwick on
Saturday, and a tote turnover of £101,077
15s.
• • /<
In the Australia Day Handicap Flight
further put her claim to being the best
three-year-old filly seen out for many
years beyond dispute. She led as soon
as the field settled down, with Hesione
nearest her. At the turn it seemed as if
the latter might close on Flight, but the
latter quickly disposed of that idea.
Thompson rode Flight. In the straight
Hall Stand made a sharp run, but, though
he cut Hesione (who blundered slightly
at the crossing) out of second place, he
could not trouble Flight, whose record
for 16 starts is 10 wins, two seconds,
two thirds and twice unplaced. Her earn-
ings total about £9500. Panchio, who
was fourth practically throughout, never
looked more than a possible place-getter.
The Anniversary Handicap provided a
great finish. Spear Patrol did the pace-
making most of the way, but gave place
to Moondarewa turning for home. Half
a furlong from the winning-post there
was little between Two’s Company,
Moondarewa and Lord Neith. The first-
named, after showing in front, looked as
if she would just pull through, but Grand
Fils (Shean), with a determined run on
the outside, defeated her by a head. Lord
Neith, who was a possibility a few strides
from the \yinning post, was a close third,
and very little in advance of Moon-
darewa. It might not have been against
Lord Neith if he had been a little more
freely used before reaching the turn into
the straight. Veiled Threat never worked
into a position that gave him a winning
chance, and, in running last, Main Topic
was not costly to backers.
Van Eyck was unlucky to be defeated
by Enthuse (Bartle) in the Bondi Handi-
cap. Squeezed back at the top of the
straight he lost a lot of ground, and when
he got through it was too late to overhaul
Enthuse, who won by a length. Sus-
quehanna, who was a long way back at
the half-mile, weakened into third place
after getting to the front halfway down
the straight. Annie Laurie was fourth,
after commencing slowly and being
forced to go rather wide in making up
leeway. Still, after being in a handy posi-
tion at the turn, she finished indifferently.
Kingsford, Silver Clare and Marlume, in
close company, led to the straight
entrance, and Kingsford finished fifth.
Gay King (Cook) was the early leader
in the Havilah Handicap, and drawing
away from Beltana and Ascertain turn-
ing for home won easily from Goldmine
(by Gold Rod) and Murray Stream (Mid-
stream-Hall Mark’s Sister). The field in-
cluded two nice colts in Silver Birch
(brother to Moorland) and The Artist
(Brueghel-Aulone). The latter, who is
in B. Payten’s stable, did the better of
the two, and his turn for a win may not
be long in coming.
When Great Scot shot away from Buzz
Off entering the straight in the Kurnell
Trial Handicap his chance looked a win-
ning one, but he is still a poor stayer,
and, dying away, ran fourth. Etching and
Prepare (Knox) had a great set-to over
the last three-quarters of a furlong, and
the latter, lasting longer, won by a head
in the final couple of strides. Cum-
beroona ran on well to gain third place,
and, except Great Scot, the others were
a long way back.
D.S.O. (Mulley), who had gained a
reputation as a brilliant track galloper,
but failed recently in a couple of races
for which he was fancied, made amends
in the Phillip Handicap. He was the
early leader, and did not leave the result
in doubt after being well ahead of Irish
Sea, Babillard, Sir Francis and Diadem
at the top of the straight. Silverelda,
awkwardly placed for a long way, came
home strongly, but got out too late to
have any chance of overhauling the win-
ner. St. Elmo also made a good showing,
but of those behind the winner the most
impressive effort was that of Ballot,
who finished very fasj in fourth place.
Of the others Bruegmah was doing best
at the end.
* * * ♦
Pickway, although one of the most
consistent horses in training, upset gen-
eral calculations by his 14-to-l defeat of
Two Vais and Scarlet Toi in the Ascot
Summer Cup at Mentone on Saturday.
Most backers considered the distance be-
yond him, but different tactics were
adopted, and he ran the 10? furlongs
right out. Pickway is a four-year-old entire
by Piccadilly from Decorum, and has
won two races since he was sold last year
to A. De Marco for 550gns. The latter
died several weeks ago without seeing
Pickway win in his colors, and Pickway
is now raced by his executors. Damalis
came from a hopeless position to finish
eighth, and provided he stands might
return to his good form of last spring.
Sun Bonnet, a three-year-old filly by
Gay Lothario from Sundax, overcame seri-
ous interference to beat Crown Seal and
Captivator in the Colchester Handicap.
She is engaged in the Newmarket, and
might be one of the star sprinters of the
autumn. Phoines was the medium of a
spectacular plunge, but interference settled
his chance. Sun Bonnet’s win completed
a double for trainer F. Hoysted, who had
won the Clarendon Handicap with Antos,
The latter, favorite at 5 to 2, outstayed
Valeena and Wentworth.
Labrador, from the same stable as
Pickway, and starting at 14 to 1, finished
too strongly for the odds-on favorite, Port
o’ Call, in the Sturt Handicap. Labrador
is by Manitoba from Te Huon, and had
raced only once previously. Woodoak,
16 to 1, looked lucky to beat Trainbearer
in the Iddlesleigh Handicap, while Duo-
mint, 6 to 1, outstayed the outsiders,
Jameson and Veileme, in the Dartrey
Handicap.
* * * *
Yaralla bled after a couple of morning
spins last week, and his owner, E. P.
Walker, has decided to retire him. Not
a sjayer, but a high-class horse up to a
mile and a quarter, Yaralla won 16 races,
and with the addition of place-money
earned £13,515, against the 1200gns. he
cost as a yearling. His first win was the
Breeders’ Plate at Randwick, and his last
the Challenge Stakes at the same course.
As he is by The Buzzard from Even
Keel, by Highfield (son of William the
Third) from Syconelle, breeding favors
his success as a sire.
* * * ♦
Totalisator betting in Melbourne and
Sydney has been very heavy this season.
The racing half-year ended last Satur-
day, and the following figures for 15
days at Randwick point to the probability
of at least three millions being reached
at that track for the full season:
August 21 .. .. ' .. £80.682 10 0
September 11 .. .. 82,742 10 0
October 9 .. .. 89,750 15 0
October 16 .. .. .. 155,207 10 0
October 23 .. .. .. 125,457 15 0
October 30 .. .. .. 123,515 15 0
November 20 .. .. 97,918 0 0
November 27 .. .. 92,876 15 0
December 11 .. .. 97,426 0 0
December 18 .. .. 93.536 0 0
December 27 .. .. 124,561 15 0
January 1 .. .. .. 136,951 0 0
January 15 .. .. .. 112,766 15 0
January 22 .. .. .. 97,560 5 0
January 29 .. .. .• 101,077 15 0
£1,612,031 0 0
* * * *
One thing which leaves Sydney owners
and trainers little cause for complaint
nowadays is prize-money. The distri-
bution was never more liberal, and clubs
occasionally have reason to be somewhat
disgruntled because the support received
is not all that it should be. Away from
Randwick the minor handicaps are of
greater value than was the usual thing in
the “big” races at the same tracks not so
many years ago.
* * * *
The fines imposed upon the people who
succeeded in getting Saint Warden to
Adelaide may dispose of any attempt to
transport horses to Sydney by road, and
unless something unexpected happens
Melbourne is unlikely to be represented
at the A.J.C. meeting, which commences
on April 8 against the close of the V.R.C.
fixture on March 11. Sydney owners
evidently regarded the position as hope-
less, so far as a southern trip was
concerned, and did not nominate for
Flemington,
* * * *
With the tote paying only first and
second in the Australia Day Handicap
at Randwick, backers gave preference to
straight-out betting. It was different in
connection with the Anniversary Handi-
cap, the units for win and place in that
race being as under:
Win. Place.
Two’s Company .. . 9418 9255
Veiled Threat 7747 8352
Lord Neith 6268 7128
Grand Fils .. .. ..5991 7374
Moondarewa 4496 6631
Salivant .. .. .. .. 1523 3095
Feltpal 1489 2675
Main Topic .. .. .. 1396 2280
Spear Patrol .. .. .. 1290 2901
Grand Fils returned a shade less than
5 to 1 for a win and even money for a
place.
♦ sS * *
Whirlaway, who won 32 races of the
60 in which he started in America, and
earned $561,161, commences at the stud
this year. His fee has been set at $l5OO
for a live foal, with no return privilege.
♦ * * *
Breeders with yearlings catalogued for
the autumn sales at Randwick are hope-
ful their returns will be as good as those
of breeders represented at the Wellington
(Maoriland) sales last month, when 161
lots realised 67,835gn5., an average of
a little over 421gns. The highest prices
were as under:
Gns.
Br. c., by Foxbridge-Administration .. 2000
B. c., by Robin Goodfellow-Dresden
China * .. 1850
Br. c., by Felbridge-Ann Acre .. .. 1.600
Bik. c., by Robin Goodfeliow-Sunny
Maid .. .. 1600
Br. c., by Robin Goodfellow-Falcon .. 1500
Br. c., by Ringmaster-Submission .. 1500
Br. c., by Coronach-Canvasser .. .. 1400
B. c., by Coronach-Lady Phroso .. 1400
Br. c., by Battle Song-Alma .. .. 1300
Blk. c., by Foxbridge-Ruling Spi .. 1250
B'r. c., by Battle Song-Martial Lady .. 1200
Ch. c., by Coronach-Legality .. .. 1200
Br. c., by Bulandshar-Kathbella .. 1150
Br. c., by Robin Goodfellow-Lady Fox 1100
Br. c., by Foxbridge-Lalla Quex .. 1100
Br. f., by Foxbridge-Gay Blonde .. 1050
B. c., by Battle Song-Lady Burleigh .. 1000
* * * *
S.A. racing stewards have at' last
dropped down on the modern jockey’s
fancy for “waiting” so far behind that
the mount has to give away a terrific
start in the last two furlongs, and fre-
quently after a “splendid effort” loses his
backer’s money by a length or so. In
the latest case an apprentice jockey
pleaded that he had firm instructions “not
to go to the front till he entered the
straight”—and then he couldn’t; so the
owner-trainer was severely censured
instead.
* * * *
Eight-year-old Yours Truly is still
among Tasmania’s leading horses. When
he recently won the T.A.J.C. Cup, U
mile, at the Hobart meeting, he carried
8.5, and was favorite at 6 to 4.
Miscellaneous
Matched with George Elliott for his
first main event at Leichhardt, Cliff
Bowen made a good showing. Indeed,
he should have got the decision, for the
more experienced pug was down twice
and lost the points of two rounds by
infringing the rules against “rabbit-
killers” and elbow work, Elliott got it,
and the crowd lodged the usual objection.
Glasgow-born Eddie Miller followed
up many Melbourne successes by beating
Archie Rash at the Sydney Stadium. Just
above the featherweight limit. Miller is a
bit light for Vic Patrick, but th|re is no
cleverer antagonist in sight. Snappy
straight lefts to head or body and well-
placed rights constituted the Miller
battery in the Rash engagement. He was
always doing something and was never in
danger.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
Novice Handicap: Russia, 1;
Thanks America, 2 ; Alertful, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Twice Royal,
1 ; Ascertain, 2 ; Jungle Queen or
Cold Shower, 3. .
T h r f-y ea r-. ol d Handicap: Bronze
Orchid, 1 , Sir Francis, 2 , De ,
3* . . . -I 1 c f
Flymg Handicap: Rimveil, 1 , St.
1 1
Rosehill Handicap: Cordate, 1,
Adjust, 2; Etching, 3
Carlmgford Mile: Dick Whitting-
ton, 1 ; Kimbell, 2; Nightbeam or
Pall Mall, 3.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
After being rained on, almost snowed
on and then given a baking Melbourne
is being smiled at by the weather gods,
and the last fortnight has been filled with
pleasantly warm days with a zephyr or
two thrown in. Every woman has had a
chance to wear her cheeriest summer
frock and risk her most delicate straw and
veiling models. Pessimists utter dark
warnings. Such weather, they say, breeds
dire tempests.
When their State Exs. returned from a
bushfire damage inspection tour they gave
the reporters their impressions. This
afforded an opportunity to urge the neces-
sity of efficient fire-control for the future
and to pay a compliment to the amazing
fortitude with which country people were
facing disaster and the job of rebuilding
lost farms. It is only recently that the
idea of press conferences thrust its way
into G.H. circles. The present vice-
regals are particularly approachable and
friendly to the press.
Though fires have desolated much of
the blackberrying areas there are still a
few left in country spots just out of the
city, and picnicking-cwm-berrying is
beginning. There’s a special point to it
this year because fruit for jam-making
and summer desserts is both scarce and
dear. Compared with the retailer’s boxes
at Is. or so each a large billycan for
nothing seems to many energetic folk to
be worth a day in the heat. A popular
idea is to take the whole family on the
jaunt (not possible to all these days, when
week-ends are no longer everyone’s
holidays) and so increase the picking
strength. The snake or fire risk is a
deterrent to some, but it’s agreed that the
project is worth taking a few risks for.
Meat coupons still have most house-
wives in a flutter of indecision. To keep
up a stinted daily ration or to save till
a splurge is possible is the question. The
fear of being left couponless and helpless
to provide suitable meals in some
emergency later in the week made most
people hoard their coupon issue like
misers in the first fortnight. Result was
a stampede to the butcher when the last
days of the issue were in sight. Saturday
morning found most meat shops as deso-
late as sacked Jerusalem, with but a few
legs and loins (not popular, because of
their high proportion of bone) to sell.
Butchers expect that this sort of thing
will go on for some weeks. Rabbits,
brains' and other no-coupon lines disap-
pear within an hour or two of opening.
Butchers (whimsical chaps!) call ’em
“haberdashery.”
Ruskin’s Good Woman, whose path
was strewn with the flowers that rose
behind her footsteps, has her counterpart
in this city, only in this case vegetables
arise' where she passes. She is Phyllis
Hindle, Garden Army Organiser, Now
on the eve of return to her native Maori-
land she’s leaving behind a legacy of
suburban vegetable gardens, equipped
with supervisor and gardening roster of
local citizens. The products of these
spots (which were vacant allotments) go
to troops direct and to dehydrating plants
for front-line use. Their aggregate pro-
duce is prodigious.
Many of Melbourne’s brightest and
most capable lasses are interested in the
plans for a permanent Red Cross per-
sonnel which the executives of the society
have on foot. Red Cross work will go
on after the war both in this country and
in battle- and famine-scarred areas in
other parts of the world to which Aus-
tralia will probably send its contingent
of social workers. A workable know-
ledge of the language most likely to be
useful will be part of the training scheme,
and scholarships will aid extra-promising
candidates for the course.
A highly praiseworthy recommenda-
tion of the Red Cross Conference was
that a special staff should be trained to
help blinded soldiers. Though such casu-
alties are lighter in this war than in the
last every blinded man represents a debt
which his countrymen* must repay to the
fullest possible measure by making him
happy and providing really satisfying
work and interests for him. This is a
job that requires very special training
and full-time concentration if it is to be
adequately done.
The motto “shop early and avoid the
crush” is ceasing to command public
confidence. It’s noticed that the crush
on home-going trams and trains from
four to four-thirty is tremendous, but the
bright girl who waits till just after five,
the-hour everyone’s avoiding, goes home
in comfortable elbowroom. Just then
city slaves are mostly just putting the
last few pats of powder on the nose or
taking a quick look at a shop window, so
there’s a lull. Same with shopping ; the
largest crowds are always in the “early-
bird” hours. Late risers who make the
shopping round just before lunch find
quicker service and get round in half
the time.
White cloque made Jean Simpson’s
bridal gown when she married Sergeant
Lindsay Wallis, A.1.F., at Toorak kirk
last week. The bride, the daughter of
General C. H. Simpson and Mrs. Simp-
son, finished a pharmacy course some
time ago, and has been in employment
since then. Lindsay is also a pharmacist
when not in A.I.F. uniform. Best man
was Sergeant Keith Forbes, A.I.F.
Making this town’s music a little more
lyrical is Sonia Zomina, who can put the
same lilt into Scottish ballads and Irish
melodies as into # the songs of her native
tongue, which is' Russian. She is billed
for A.B.C. microphones next month. She
has much that is interesting to tell about
Russian schools for dramatic and musical
training and the way students are
selected for them. She made tracks out
of Warsaw, her home for many years,
just before the Germans poured in.
A spirited hunt of some weeks’ dura-
tion, in which that much-desired and
seldom-achieved goal one small flat was
finally pinned down, and in a nice spot,
too, was the preliminary to “Tisha”
Knox’s wedding to Major Henry Steel.
Bridegroom is from the South Stafford-
shire Regiment and saw service in Malaya.
“Tisha,” daughter of Brigadier E. G.
Knox and Mrs. Knox, is as well known
in Sydney as in Melbourne, having spent
most of her schooldays in sight of the
Harbor. Of late she’s been an accredited
correspondent to women’s services.
Billy Davies and Pamela Hebbard
made their wedding a very quiet affair,
but good wishes were legion from their
many University friends. Both are Molli-
son Scholarship winners, the subject in
both cases being French, so they have a
major interest in common. Both are
enthusiastic supporters of the French
Club and the Fighting French cause.
Billy (William Gardiner Davies on the
class lists) has a linguistic job with the
A.B.C. Pamela has been teaching at St.
Catherine’s.
The Beethoven Festival is a magnet for
music-lovers, and holidays and week-ends
are cheerfully forgone to be at the Town
Hall for each performance. Bookings
were around the 2000 mark early last
week, so there weren’t many left for late-
comers and “casual” seat-buyers. The
First and Fifth Symphonies were played
on Saturday night, and Wednesday’s and
Saturday’s programmes include the
“Prometheus” overture and the Third,
Fourth and Eighth Symphonies,
Beading a bow with the orchestra in
the Beethoven Festival will be Joan
Haslam, who was among the Mus. Bac.
graduates at the year’s end. Still under
20, she’s one of the crop of very promis-
ing young musicians who’ve come under
notice in the last year or so. Brother
John Haslam will be with the orchestra,
too, but he’s already a veteran (albeit a
17-year-old one), as he has been play-
ing with it for over 12 months. Poppe
Olsen, another recent Con. graduate, has
been among the fiddles for some months
also, and played during the winter con-
cert season.
Dorothy Helmrich was welcomed by
her many friends when she popped back
to Melbourne on Friday. Her weeks
ahead are full of singing engagements.
She has a link with William Dobell,
winner of the Archibald Prize and with
the competition itself. Dobell painted
her portrait for the competition some
years ago, but its unusual style (as it
was considered then) disqualified it from
the award.
From Sydney
Sydney had its tram and bus strike
without any very hard feeling towards the
strikers on the part of the working man
and woman. For 24 hours from
midnight on Tuesday of last week the
toiler in city and suburbs had to
make do with whatever form of
transport came his or her way. Sydney,
with its usual good-natured acceptance
of the inevitable, voiced very little
grumble. One girl in a sweetshop said:
.“I had to walk from Folly Point this
morning. But it was so fresh and nice.
I had forgotten the early morning could
be so lovely. All the same I’ll wait for
the buses to start tonight.”
Taxis and lorries were loaded with
workers. Few car owners but gave lifts
to footsloggers by the way. In the
evening little fruit carts were loaded with
humans while uncomplaining and un-
striking Dobbin drew them on their way.
One big newspaper office dropped its
workers at the nearest newsagent’s in their
district. Bikes were out in their hundreds.
One enterprising lass rode a draught horse
to her office. Over all the city there
hung a blessed calm. Nobody had quite
realised, until they stopped, the clangor
and roar of the rushing trams.
At five this afternoon Mary K. Woods,
of this photograph, will become the bride
of Bombardier Cliff Gearin. The North
Sydney girl, who has many friends in
Melbourne, where she spent some of her
student days, is having a pictorial cere-
mony. Her own frock, long and flowing,
is of rose-white net embossed all oyer
with a design of joy bells. • Her veil, a
soft mist of tulle, will be caught against
the dark hair with a bloom or two of
stephanotis. The same waxy flower will
form her posy. Her three ’maids (firm
school friends) will trail embossed prim-
rose crepes. St. Mary’s, Ridge-street, will
give the blessing and the Australia will
supply the cocktail of congratulation.
Mrs. John Woods, frocked and hatted in
silver greys,, will hand her tall, slim
daughter over to the ’groom’s care.
Only people with a great heart and a
gift for ignoring all obstacles would have
planned a meal on the grand scale such
as that of th£ Chinese Anniversary dinner
in the Town Hall last Wednesday. In
these war-restriction times the having of
a few guests to dine in the home is an
undertaking fraught with much planning
and an arduous gathering up of essen-
tials. But the Chinese dinner for about
700 was carried out without any fuss,
and as though the words rationing and
tram strikes had never been heard. The
committee thoroughly deserved the
murmur of commendation that rustled
about the tables when the Chao Fan (a
meat, eggs, prawns and rice dish) was
served. The guests were representative
Australians; the hosts were Chinese citi-
zens and the People’s Foreign Relations
Association of China.
The gallery was draped with the Union
Jack, America’s Stars and Stripes and
all the Allied flags. Bright above
the official table hung more national
emblems, those of China and Australia
seeming to smile happily upon each other.
Long tables, each blazing with a yellow
flower centrepiece, stretched from the
guest table to almost the doorway to the
vestibule. Up and down between them
fluttered young Chinese girls, the silks of
their national dress weaving a butterfly
pattern. These girls ushered the diners
to their places, and afterwards served the
meal. There was music throughout the
night. Marie Bremner started off with
“God Save,” and Gordon Lin followed
with the Chinese national anthem.
A very young daughter of China, her
jade-green frock a background for a red
dragon that coiled from collar to hem,
sang a lament in her native tongue. It
told the story of a Chinese prisoner of
war in a Japanese camp, told of the mes-
sages he was sending to his home and his
wife. China’s Consul-General, Dr. Tuan,
as usual, was a forceful speaker. Knight
* Sam Walder, lan Clunies Ross and
Kelly, M.L.C., added their arguments as
to the reason why China and Australia
must go forward together in the matter
of Pacific welfare. Mrs. Fabian Chow
sprinkled the male addresses with charm
and some tenderness. A crystal gem, its
facets pointed with wit, humor and a
little philosophy, was tossed into the night
by the lately-arrived-in-Australia K. L.
Chau. Formerly a professor at Chung-
king, he is now director here of his
country’s Ministry of Information.
Fair-haired Phyl Magennis, youngest
of the Jeir station (Yass) sisters, went
home from the city last week all set for
her wedding at the week-end. Lucky man
is Jennings P. Bacon (one of the heads
of the American Red Cross in Australia)
His father was a doctor of Philadelphia,
U.S.A. The wedding was a family affair
at Jeir. Both Phyl’s sisters had home
weddings, too. A party for Sydney
friends is dated for early this month.
Among the Schubert, Schumann, Bach
and Strauss numbers of her recital on
February 9 in the Conservatorium, Ger-
trude Concannon has placed a song by
Melbourne musician Lesbia Dobson. This
is called “In Springtime,” and Gertrude
says it has great appeal. Towards the
end of the programme the vocalist wili
sing a lullaby, words and music composed
by herself. Part of the profits will help
C.U.S.A. ,
The Australian Comforts Fund fyas
launched its Sports Girl quest. Already
over 22 country and metropolitan centres
have entered candidates. Every sport
can put forward its nominee, and table-
tennis fans have as much chance of plac-
ing the laurels on their chosen’s head as
lawn or hard-court tennis players. There
can be racing girls, swimming girls,
hockey, bridge and gymkhana girls. The
money raised will go to making the lot
of the fighting man a little more com-
fortable, and provide him with books
and means of entertainment when he is
not in the fighting line. Waverley has
nominated 12 candidates, Canberra seven,
Goulburn six. The contest closes on
March 7. As well as awards for the 12
girls who score the highest, there is to
be a week in Sydney for the winners
and their chaperons.
American composer-conductor Leith
Stevens has twice led the Symphony
Orchestra, the first occasion being the
“American Rhapsody” concert in the
Town Hall. In the second programme,
broadcast from the A.B.C. studios,
American music again made up the entire
bill. Having introduced a batch of his
country’s compositions to Australia,
Leith feels he’d like to present Australia’s
music to America. He has roped in
Bernard Heinze as collector-in-chief, and
the hand-picked works will be sent to
the U.S.A. for performance there. Leith
is head of the radio division of U.S.
Office of War Information in our midst.
The other morning’s post brought a
naive circular concerning a popular-dog
competition. It starts: “A competition
for the most popular dog on the northern
side of the harbor (conducted on the lines
of a popular-girl competition) will be
run” After that surely no local
queen can put on “dog” before her fox-
terrier or Irish setter. The competition
is in the cause of lost, stolen or strayed
dogs, and the money collected will go
towards the building of a new dogs’
home. Votes will be Id. each, and the
two canines gaining the largest number
of votes will be given prizes. First prize
will be a large colored photograph of the
winning dog, which will hang in ’per-
petuity in the new home, and which, no
doubt, will receive a salvo of barks night
and morning. The owner will receive
a reproduction. The running-up hound
will score a silver cup. The contest
opened yesterday and will close on
April 30.
Two slim books that brought joy to
the Christmas stocking 'were A. P. Her-
bert’s Bring Back the Bells and the
cleverly absurd Beatrice the Ballerina. In
every woman’s heart the refrain of the
name poem of Mr. Herbert's book must
echo, and although this was not written
of Australia, but of England in her
darkest hour, there is not one of us but
murmurs:
Bring back the bells; for Christmas spells
So many things that sound like bells.
Beatrice brings joy to the unregenerate,
and as for the Philistine, Beatrice is
just a joy for ever. The progress of
Beatrice, child of a white Russian wolf-
hound and an English bull, is traced in
black and white right through her star-
dom on Broadway and Hollywood to the
• writing of her memoirs.


No Better Investment - Fourth Liberty Loan
9
7*9
c -V •
KODAK FILM
THE SKIES
Hundreds of keen young eyes riveted on the
screen... hundreds of air crew trainees taking
in the lecturer’s every word . . . Soon many of
these lads will be flying their own fighters.
Photography in the air plays a big part, both
in training and in the real work to come.
While most of the Kodak Films
are used on such vital operational
and training work as this, we
are still making a quantity
available for essential civil needs.
KODAK
KODAK (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD. All States.
Public Notices.
I, MAX PLESCH, Stateless, formerly of German nation-
ality, born at Magdeburg- and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 16 Carlotta Road, Double
Bay, N.S'.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ANNETTA SAMUELS, of Polish nationality, born
at Warsaw, Poland, and resident 13 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 138 Edgecliff Road, Woollahra,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, OOSMAS CAKOS, of Greek nationality, born at
Rhodes Island, iEgean Sea, and resident six years in
Australia, now residing at 25 Darley Road, Randwick,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
w.
r
mm
%
■M
L. £
NEW INDUSTRIES ARE BORN
IN THE CRUCIBLE OF WAR
In the midst of the maelstrom
of war, with destruction on all
sides, there is nevertheless the
compensating factor of new
production. To meet the
Nation’s needs, great changes
must take place in industry!
And so it has been in Australia,
the engineering ability and
inventiveness of this young
country has risen to meet the
challenge.
For instance, the modern plant
of Tecnico Limited, like so
many others, is doing work
today comparable with preci-
sion engineering carried out
anywhere in the world. Parts
are dynamically balanced, sur-
faces analysed and many intri-
cate machining jobs, such as
gear cutting and precision
grinding, are performed.
We are proud of the fact that
Tecnico is in the vanguard of
industrial development. tc.4.43
ill
V
■
111
LIMITED
formerly e.t.c. industries limited
' CNR CARRINGTON RD. & REN WICK ST., MARRICKVILLE
** N.S.W. PHONE LL 3211 «
SMOKE-OH!
“Next day, roll in icing sugar or cut' and roll
in hundreds and thousands.” — “Woman.”
Not forgetting, of course, to have a
good shower afterwards.
4* 4> 4* 4*
“Dick’s eyes were fastened on the gladioli.
— “Woman.”
He was stuck on flowers, eh?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Destroyers sink seven schooners.” — “D.T.”
No doubt they finished up half seas
over.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The arrangements are in the hands of Mrs.
, assisted by her committee, who will leave
no stone unturned to ensure a pleasant evening.”
—Suburban paper.
It will be, too, provided she concen-
trates on quartz.
4* 4* 4 4°
“Miley, now dead, played trumpet in a strange
fashion, making it growl like a tormented soul
in hell.” — “Tempo.”
But what’s strange about that?
Toujours la Politesse.
“England seems to have the world’s most
polite burglars.”
Quaite so. It’s all a question of breed-
ing.
When I was cashiered out of the army
for ratting the Y.M.C.A. collection-box
I decided to try my talents elsewhere.
Just as I was opening the wall-safe in
Sir Rawcus Fogghorne’s library the
lights went on and the *bally old bart.
himself entered. I was wearing my old
school tie, of course, and he instantly
recognised me.
jove! Eton, 1931, wasn’t it?
You knocked up a brilliant 14 against
Harrow, Jolly good show —what? Sit
down and I’ll have Meadows bring us
whiskey and sodahs.”
After discussing old times and big-
game hunting I gently reminded him I
was suffering from kleptomania and
would appreciate assistance.
“Certainlay, old boy,” said Sir Raw-
pus, “There’s a positive swag of silver
in the next room. Mother-in-law’s
wedding gifts, y’ know. Ghastly stuff—
been wanting to get rid of it for a long
time. Take the wife’s fur coat, too.
She’ll want a new one this winter. By
the way, why don’t you rob Sir Percy
Pipsqueak’s place across the moor. Can’t
stand that fellow —he always beats me at
golf, too. But don’t tell him I sent you,
old boy—it wouldn’t be cricket, y’
know.”
Petermac.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Explaining why she did not see her husband
when he called, Mrs. Brown said he refused to
go up to her flat on the third floor, insisting
that she speak to him at the front door.”
—Divorce Court report.
It would have been a come-down to
her.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Out of the Blue.
“Airmen diving into matrimony.”— “Truth:”
There is nothing like marriage to bring
you to earth. Love may burst in your
heart like a rocket, but it’s husbands who
finally give wives the air—’cause a wife
soon gets caught in a pocket.
■Yair.
“We do not know whether it is good for
animals to be periodically oiled.”
—Weekly paper.
Indeed, their drinking should be care-
fully controlled.
4* 4* 4* 4»
“Women’s Last Fight to Keep Housekeeping
Savings.”— “Mail,” Adelaide.
In these days every little scrap helps.
•£«
A gM who knows her onions should
avoid invitations to get pickled.
Elegy on a Lady.
“A Chicago woman bled to death when she
cut herself by sitting on a bottle with which
she had just struck her husband.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
Inflamed no doubt with righteous spleen
She blitzed him with a dead marine.
Which killed the blighter, nearly.
Alas, a faithless weapon, yon —
It turned upon the Amazon
And damaged her severely.
The age of chivalry is dead,
For, though the lady bled and bled,
The origin of all the mess
Went on serenely with his swound.
And lay unheeding on the ground
In callous, dumb unconsciousness.
P. M. L.
Amazon.
“She glares at her husband and says ‘Come
and have a go. I’ll murder you.’
“Farmer Buckley, to use his own words, ‘got
away quickly.’ ” —Divorce report.
When Buckley’s wife advanced on him
With whirling fists and fiery glance,
He quickly dodged the menace grim —
He knew that he had Buckley’ s’chance.
CAL.
New Angle.
A year ago I was a bidder
For that small hand: I tried in vain.
But would you care to reconsider
That offer, were it made again ?
Carnivorous folk like you are finding
This rationing of meat severe.
And — well, you shouldn’t need reminding
That I’m a vegetarian, dear !
T. W. NATHAN.
A Matter of Tactics.
“Capture by Russian troops of Gatchina cuts
three trunk railways—ho Estonia, to Latvia and
to Moscow.” — Cable.
This cutting by the Russians of the
railway to Moscow will be a great blow
to the Germans should Adolf ever get his
intuition oiled again and decide to have
another crack at the Soviet capital.
The Nazis may retaliate by cutting the
main trunk railway on their side back to
Berlin.
One of the brightest bits of unusual
military strategy goes to the credit of
General Arturo Screwi, who completely
fooled the British in Abyssinia. Strik-
ing with his reserve armies on both flanks
200 miles at the rear of his main army
retreating from the battle zone, he de-
veloped an enormous pincer movement,
the advancing jaws of which closed on his
own retreating army. He took 150,000
of his own mob prisoner, and then hastily
left with them in the general direction of
some mountains 500 miles to the rear. This
brilliant stroke so confused the British
High Command that they lost fully 12
hours in cautious patrol work before,
finding that the enemy had flown, the
British armies once again resumed the
chase. For this work the Italian mili-
tary genius was made a field-marshal
by Mussolini and given the Order of the
Raised Boot, First Class.
Tokyo Radio announces that Air Mar-
shal Onkusmota Kumagutsa has received
the personal thanks of the Emperor
for his great tactical victory in a South
Pacific area. The marshal packed 150
heavy bombers on the runways of three
airfields. American raiders smashed the
lot. This saved all the dispersal bays
and revetments from being knocked
about; and Tokyo Radio claims that the
mortification at this failure so wrought
upon the American air commander that
he cut his throat.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2 id. per line.
The Falstein Case
To dispel any doubts that may exist
in the minds of Mr. Falstein’s supporters
as to the necessity and urgency of placing
such a valuable politician on the reserve
of officers of the R.A.A.F., let me quote
from a speech by Winston Churchill
(House of Commons, 21/11/ ’40):
We were very glad indeed to hear my
hon. and gallant friend the member for
North St. Pancras (Squadron-Leader Grant-
Ferris), and I think it is gratifying to the
House that one of our fighter-pilots who
has taken part in severe actions, and will
be engaged again, should be able to take his
place here today and discharge his Parlia-
mentary duties. I entirely agree with what
has been said about the desirability of
members of Parliament serving not only
in the military forces but in all other forms
of warfare, and discharging their Parlia-
mentary duties at the same time or in
alternation. No doubt the good sense of
the and of hon. members will enable
these dual and occasionally conflicting func-
tions to be discharged... .That this House
should be a House of active, living person-
alities, engaged to the hilt in the national
struggle, each according to the full strength
that he has to give, each according to the
aptitudes which he possesses, is, I think,
one of the sources of the strength of the
Parliamentary * institution, and will carry
forward into the future the traditions that
are our heritage and the precedents that
have come down to us from the past.
Apparently some British Ms.P. find it
possible to discharge their duties to their
constituents while playing that part in
active warfare for which their age and
training qualify them. — John Maude
(N.S.W.).
Transfer to R.A.A.F.
For the efficiency of the war-effort
every man should be placed where his
ability can be most effectively used.
While the R.A.A.F. is appealing for
men suitable for air-crew training, many
army officers are withholding men
because they are considered to be an asset
to their present' unit. The men whose
release is approved are those with whom
the army can more easily dispense and
wh» will be less suitable for air training.
Many of the men who apply for trans-
fer to the Air Force are those who have
reached a dead-end in the army, especially
in specialist units, whose casualty rate (if
any) is low, and whose manning is there-
fore fairly stable, with little or no scope
for promotion or advancement.
If one army unit ought to be given
man-power priority to claim men from
other units because of its prominence in
the strategic picture, surely the R.A.A.F.
should be worthy of this priority. I
needn’t stress the importance of air power
in Pacific strategy.— -Toreador (A.1.F.).
Charity for Soldiers
An Allied service man, in Adelaide re-
cently, asked me if our disabled soldiers
had to depend on charity when discharged
from the army. The question was reason-
able, for there were collectors and badge-
sellers all over the city appealing for
money for the Totally Disabled Service
Men’s Fund.
Totally disabled men should never
need charity for anything, and we should
at least maintain them up to the standard
of ex-politicians. — Camsa (S.A.).
A Word* for the Soldier-driver
There is an attitude of mind growing
up among civilians to the effect that
whenever a military driver gets into a
collision he must be in the wrong.
It is about time it was made clear that
these men have been carefully trained
and know every point of driving. More-
over, fnilitary vehicles are fitted with
powerful brakes and efficient steering.
I have had experience with military
drivers and have found them more care-
ful and capable than most civilians. —
B. Brown (N.S.W.).
Sentenced to Disbandment
On the verge of disbandment is an old
Victorian Light Horse regiment. Every
man in it is an A.I.F. soldier, but very
few have seen active' service abroad. The
commanding officer, a permanent soldier,
has gone to another command. There is
a task for private soldiers and a few
n.c.os. in other regiments, but the re-
mainder of the officers and n.c.os. face
the bleak prospect of being thrown, into
the pool of unwanted men.
This* regiment has traditions going back
to the days of the Victorian Mounted
Rifles. At the outbreak of war its officers
and many of its n.c.os. were refused per-
mission to join the A.I.F, and the regi-
ment was given a task in the defence of
Victoria. It became a unit in an A.I.F.
armored brigade. Officers, n.c.os. and-
men felt that at last it would be their
lot to justify their existence in Australia’s
fighting forces. Their hopes were short-
lived. For months the sword of Damocles
hung overhead. And finally the edict of
disbandment has been issued.
The officers and n.c.os. who have thus
lost their opportunity for overseas service
will eventually return to* private life,
without the satisfaction of any acknow-
ledgment of their many years of service.
Some of the officers and n.c.os. have
already applied for discharge rather than
suffer the ignominy so many have to
suffer today enforced idleness in
General Details Depots, with no oppor-
tunity of studying the developments of
war. Their talents are allowed to rot.
You will see such men in every capital
city, soldiering on despite difficulties and
keeping up appearances in the hope that
one day their opportunity to get away will
present itself. These opportunities are
fast disappearing. In the welter of pro-
motions the places are filled by new men
still in the running. Occasionally one or
two get a break and are posted to New
Guinea, and hope is rekindled in the
breasts of those who remain. There are
“Here I spend an afternoon planning a strategic withdrawal and you go
and wipe out the Japs!"
men in their early twenties and others in
their thirties. Some are professional sol-
diers, but most are ex-militia officers and
n.c.os. It is not a pleasant lot.
The fate of this regiment is similar to
that of many of the country’s old militia
units. — Peter Major (A.1.F.).
Programme for Australia
I have just concluded a personal in-
spection of the mainland States in Aus-
tralia and come to the following conclu-
sions:— .
(1) Australia should have a population
of 20 millions in 20 years, allowing five
years’ grace for rehabilitation and solu-
tion of post-war problems. This can be
accomplished by immigration and an in-
creased birthrate.
(2) Distribution of the increased popu-
lation should be: Queensland, 6,350,000,
against present 1,030,000; N. S. Wales
5 800,000 (2,700,000); Victoria, 4,500,000
(1.952.000) ; S.A., 1,500,000 (610,000);
W.A., 1,500,000 (467,000); Tas., 350,000
(241.000)
(3) A committee should be set up to
investigate the possibility of inviting a
suitable nation to develop Northern Aus-
tralia north of a line joining the Tropic
of Capricorn from near Carnarvon
(W.A.), following a line easterly to the
Queensland border (longitude 138 deg.),
thence northerly to the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, approximately one million sq. miles.
(4) A policy of homes versus flats ;
zero fares for workmen’s weekly tickets ;
speedy transport up to 35 miles from
each large city and decentralisation ot
industries. Use present war hospitals and
factories for suitable industries inland.
Subdivide all large estates into living
areas. Start large irrigation projects.
Build more main roads and feeder roads.
Give improved social amenities to coun-
tryside dwellers, including cheaper elec-
tricity and refrigeration. Institute a
standard price for petrol—same price at
Alice Springs as at seaport. Encourage
a higher birthrate by co-operating with
churches, also by suitable lectures. Insist
on certificates of sound health before
marriage ; every child has a right to in-
herit a sound constitution. Finally, more
and cheaper prams. — Herbert Yeates,
M.L.A. (Q.).
Jews in the Kimberleys
While some of your readers are losing
sleep over the question of Jewish settle-
ment in the Kimberleys, I should like to
make a pertinent inquiry. Why have the
Kimberleys never been settled?
My guess is that the country is arid and
uninviting, with nothing in it to stimu-
late the imagination. —J. G. (Q.).
We Australians
So “most of us walk as if we owned the
earth” (B. 29/12/’43)? The average Aus-
tralian, male or female, doesn’t walk at
all; he or she simply struts, stalks or
slouches. In no way is this better illus-
trated beyond dispute than by observing
how they walk when asked to cross the
stage at a trial. Not one in 20 will be
found to walk properly.
Again, in speaking, why is it that most
of the younger Australians of both sexes
show such eagerness to ape the Ameri-
can, and not the educated American at
that? Listen to girls and young women
trying to imitate screen actors when talk-
ing, both in tone and delivery. This is
very conspicuous in their telephone
talks ; they rush three or four words
together as if they were one. The readi-
ness with which they pick up slang,
imagining it is “smart” or “up to date,
is another instance of how they disregard
any attempt at individuality.
Anyone who has been to the U.S.A.
will agree with me when I say that it is
only the uneducated Yank of Lower New
York City who yawps through his nose.
That brings me to the topic of “Radio
and Music.” When I was in New York
25 years ago jazz was cutting its first
teeth. It developed along with “croon-
ing.” This stuff made a appeal to
the ignorant.
When the box plans open for the per-
formances of the Gilbert-Sullivan operas
it is only necessary to notice the rush for
seats to distinguish the difference between
the classes of patrons. G. and S. have
charmed the civilised world for 60 years,
and are still on top. In effect, there are
still a great number who refuse to suffer
their ears to be polluted with what the
late Chief Justice of N. S. Wales charac-
terised as “seasick music.”
While Australians are giving such an
excellent account of themselves in the
world’s struggle it is surely poor consola-
tion to find that such a vast number of
their fellow-countrymen and women
should show a willingness to destroy
their individuality by aping the antics of
others.— Mid-Channel (Vic.).
Accent
Some people overseas don’t like our
accent for stage, screen or broadcasting,
not because it’s Australian, but because
it isn’t Australian enough. There’s a lot
in that. Many of us talk so close to
Cockney that only an Australian or a
Cockney can tell the difference. Admit-
tedly, we haven’t so much trouble with
aspirates as we used to have, but the
“bloomin’s,” “ ’smiths,” “gor’ blimeys”
and so on remain, along with some Cock-
ney vowels and mumbles.
What they’re looking for across the
water is lingo that’s unmistakably Aus-
tralian as soon as the Aussie character
opens his mouth. The dainty A.B.C.
accent (about as Australian as a pair of
spats) won’t help. Where are we going
to find the Australian accent?— Enveen
(Tas.).
Children
Parents who have succumbed to the
modern fashion of no corporal punish-
ment have failed to substitute other forms
of guidance and discipline. In a land
of plenty of fresh food, sunshine and
beaches children are brought up on
tinned foods and late nights at the
movies. No wonder that when they enter
factories and offices their work is per-
formed in an attitude of “if it’s wrong
it’s wrong ; who cares?” while they dis-
cuss the latest films and repeat a hun-
dred times a day the one line they can
remember of the trashy music of the
films. The boy fancies himself a Dead
End Kid or a Tough Guy ; the girl wants
to croon in a night club.
As an immediate remedial measure I
would like legislation to forbid any child
of from eight to 16 years of age attending
adult cinemas. Children should have
theatres of their own, separate buildings
closing about 9 p.m. We should see no
children on the streets after 10 p.m. Many
adult newsreels, animated cartoons,
travel talks and scientific subjects could
be shown at the children’s theatres, but
the main films would have to be
specially made. No Frankensteins or
Wolf Men.—D. M. W. (Tas.).
Industrial Fatigue
“Pip’s” pat on the back (B. 19/1/’44)
of war workers is all hooey. Any honest
captain of industry knows that the scratch
crews of workers today are not up to
peace-time standards. If they were urged
by the driving spirit of competition they
could do much better.
The breaks in work routine in the
U.S.A. mentioned by “Pip” seem like pan-
dering to malingerers. No genuine worker
in this or any other country needs such
aids. The plain truth is that much of this
“industrial fatigue” is not due to work
or work conditions; it is a result of
intense emotional excitement: night life
and sport. There is little proper relaxation
and rest, especially in the case of young
people. No wonder we have absentee-
ism.
Our pioneer forefathers worked up to
14 hours daily, and most of them were
healthy and fit. But they, when their
day’s work was done, went to bed and
slept.—Two Wars (N.S.W.).
Women’s Wages
I see that Judge Foster, after prolonged
study of the problem of women’s wages,
proposes equal pay for men and women,
and, to even things up for the married
men, a payment to their wives of a dole
of 30s. per week as a “repayment for
work as public servants in producing
children.”
This would malce domestic life no
more secure than it now is. Husbands
who now provide adequately for their
families would continue to do so. Those
who do not would still gamble or drink,'
and on an enlarged scale, for they would
take their wives’ allowances.
This dole-dishing idea, like the
Beveridge Plan, is a.kind of disguised
Socialism. It would be better to lower
women’s wages or make them equal to
men’s.
The first course would lessen women’s
interest in industry, leaving them more
time for their “work as public servants in
producing children.” The second course
would lessen industry’s interest in the
“less efficient” (I quote Judge Foster)
work of women. —J. G. W. (W.A.).
Control of Wool Production
No matter what developments may
come after the war, there will still be
ample scope for woollens in clothing,
blankets and rugs, etc.
With closer settlement the value of our
wool will depreciate unless provision is
made to keep flocks and studs at their
best. This can be done by breeding only
approved types in suitable districts, by
installing a master stud from which all
rams used in the area would come and
by replacing privately-owned ewes with
types conforming to the area standard.
Some regimentation would be unavoid-
able but would be of all-round benefit by
stopping the multitudinous unscientific
type-experiments at preseht going on.
In my Victorian district every type
from merino to Angora flourishes, some
flock-owners running as many as three
types of ram, mostly mongs, with their
flocks. — Gwan (Vic.).


i • ••
i«if
# *.
■■■ < fMmm • ■s&?
"'-V
v '*&'* 'sr m**.:
,
%
i*
ii
1 .V ' '■■WK, -? '
-'•r-
, * £
->v
11
m
l
T -. #y ;
i
■
? ■ ,i j
•'V
*
■ ■
i I
;w
«< p „
mhhM
Necessities and urgencies of war demand that peacetime
industry be tuned up to meet the requirements of the Navy,
the Army, and the Air Force.
Industries, therefore, that were producing almost exclusively
for the civilian population have turned their factories and mills
into production plants for wartime necessities for the Armed
Forces.
One of the outstanding examples of this wartime change-over is
YARRA FALLS LTD.,
which has produced for the Fighting Forces millions of
pounds’ weight of yarns and millions of yards of cloth, and
will continue to do so till victory is achieved.
YARRA FALLS
la
T
D
Manufacturers of Textiles and Fabrics
ABBOTSFORD, VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA.
