

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65-No. 3365
Wednesday, August 9, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
The Albert Memorial Chapel, Windsor.
A DJOINING famous and beautiful St. George's Chapel is this
edifice dedicated to the memory of Prince Albert, Consort
of Queen Victoria. The chapel was built by Henry of Richmond
and subsequently granted to Cardinal Wolsey. Since the time of
the third King George, members of the Royal family have been
interred in the vault beneath, but not until the death in 1861 of
Prince Albert was the chapel itself restored by desire of the Queen
in honour of her husband. Salviati mosaics decorate the roof, and
the walls under the windows arc imposingly beautified by pictures
in marble by Baron Triqueti. The stained-glass windows are
magnificent, and the whole effect is one of great richness, although
the chapel is only 68 feet long. The cenotaph of Prince Albert
is just before the chancel, with a recumbent effigy on top of white
Carrara marble; that in the foreground is in memory of the
Duke of Albany.


’sran
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL— ~ -Z
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to FFrita /or Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney ~B ulletin.u
My Name
My Address
S.O. 144 AGE
The Red Page
THE MOMENT OF VISION.
In the 1943 Coast to Coast (Angus and
Robertson) Alan Marshall has a story
entitled “Trees Can Speak.” Nobody
could read its first few paragraphs and
not read on to the end:
“This man never speaks,” the storekeeper
in the town three miles away had told me.
“A few people have heard him say one
word like ‘Hullo’ or something. He makes
himself understood by shaking or nodding
his head.”
“Is there something wrong with mmr l
field flsked
“No. He can talk if he wants to. Silent
Joe, they call him.”
There are two obvious reasons why
these opening sentences should imme-
ately catch the reader’s interest. In the
first place, prospectors called Silent Joe
are in the Australian tradition, descen-
dants of Lawson’s hatters. Secondly,
though the story may be a direct tran-
script from life, it promises to be bizarre,
an account of one of those occasions
when life becomes as strange as fantasy
and direct reporting as exciting as the
flights of imagination.
But a short story doesn’t have to be
about a hatter to be interesting. It may
be Australian without coming into the
Lawson tradition, and the central charac-
ter may just as well be an “ordinary”
man with the hatter in him exposed, his
differentness, his uniqueness.
There is a principle underlying the
obvious attractions of Marshall’s open-
ing, and it is this: he has introduced us
to a character and promises to give us
the full flavor of him.
The promise is fulfilled. The narrator
of the story is left alone at the foot of
Silent Joe’s mine-shaft:
In all the world only I was alive. The
darkness had texture and weight like a
blanket of black. The silence had no ex-
pectancy. I sat brooding sombrely, drained
of all sunlight and song. The world of
birds and trees and laughter was as remote
as a star.
Then he emerges from the shaft:
I suddenly burst into dazzling sunlight.
An arm reached out; a hand grasped the
handle of the bucket. There was a lift and
I felt the solidity of earth beneath me. It
was good to stand on something that didn’t
move, to feel sun on your face.
He stood watching me, his outstretched
arm bridging him to a grey box-tree that
seemed strangely like himself.
I thanked him and then sat down on the
rubble for a yarn. I told him something
about myself and something about' the
people I had met. He listened without
moving, but I felt the power of his interest
drawing words from me as dry earth
absorbs water.
“Good-bye,” I said before I left him, and
I shook his hand.
I went away, but before I reached the
trees I turned and waved to him. He was
still standing against the grey box like
a kindred tree, but he straightened quickly
and waved in return.
“Good-bye,” he called, and it was as if
a tree had spoken.
This is a slight story, but within its
limits it is perfect. In all the arts, the
true function of the artist is not just to
make a transcript of life, but to create an
image, to set down a vision of life. Tfie
art of the short story, like that of the
lyric—essentially minor but beautiful in
its singleness—is to record a moment of
vision: a character is suddenly seen in
full, at the utmost intensity of his being.
To the casual eye, Silent Joe may be just
a mad and probably dirty old prospector:
to the writer in his moment of vision he
is a tree walking.
The vision need not, of course, be as
obviously poetic as it is in “Trees Can
Speak.” In De Maupassant’s “Madame
Tellier’s Establishment,” when hysteria
sweeps the church, it is wildly comic;
Chekhov in “The Little Darling” shows a
woman’s complete empty-headedness—
the vision is tenderly satirical. What the
short-story writer has to do is to build
some drama that reveals human charac-
ter —sometimes of a group of people,
sometimes no more than a single mood
of one individual —at its utmost intensity.
Marshall does this, and so do some
but not all of the other Coast to Coast
contributors.
Frank Davison, who has edited the col-
lection, does it finely in his “The Good
Herdsman.” Reprinted from The Bulle-
tin, the story concerns an old man who,
having bought a herd of heifers for re-
sale, finds he can’t bear to part with
them. Buyers pester him to sell, but old
Isaac, who has his full share of the
human need to love something, has made
the cattle an integral part of his world.
The heifers were camped under the
leaning arms of t'he trees, on earth splashed
with shadow and shine. A few were stand-
ing, the rest lying down, all were cud-
chewing, contentment was with them. It
was deep noon, bright and warm, and the
somnolence of the hour seemed to absorb
the monotone of their swinging jaws. Above
them, sky and foliage were the green and
cobalt of a parrot’s wing. The air was
faintly scented with the smell of apples,
with the leaves of the trees, and heavily
scented with cattle breath. The occasional
sound of a deeply blown sigh and the inter-
mittent chirring of a lone cicada sounded
loud in stillness. Some of the heifers —at
Isaac’s sudden appearance—turned large
dark eyes on him; bland bovine eyes, dis-
interested, ruminative, self-absorbed.
If Isaac doesn’t destroy this world, not
only his neighbors but his own reason
will mock and torment him. If he does
destroy it, he injures his own deepest
being. His dilemma is solved when he
comes to the realisation that the heifers
are not really his to keep or to sell, but
creatures that have their own independent
life-cycle to fulfil.
The heifers were close to calving, and
by that as close to their natural destiny,
the milking-sheds, of his neighbors For
the first time since he had watched them,
as forlorn little poddies, straggling uncer-
tainly up the ridge to a night camp at the
close of their first day in his paddock, Isaac
felt himself outside their circle They
would rest as contentedly in any other
man’s paddock. They belonged to them-
selves.
Here again is the Australian tradition
to engage the reader’s interest; again the
poetry of landscape ; but again these are
not fundamentally important. It is not
fundamentally important that the descrip-
tion of the heifers happens to be a beauti-
ful piece of writing: what matters is that
Isaac’s character is caught at its utmost
intensity in the description. He and his
beasts are observed in the same moment
of vision.
Myra Morris’s “Going Home,” a
comedy about a man bringing his wife
home from a maternity hospital with her
baby, is another story that rises clearly to
the moment of vision. Joe has made the
house tidy and has polished the stove ;
Marge doesn’t notice. The fowls, to
his horror, have got into the garden;
Marge doesn’t seem to care about that
either.
Joe tiptoed out into the yard. It was
funny Marge not minding the scraping
saw —funny her not minding the scratch-
ing chooks. She had always made a row be-
fore. He looked appreciatively about him.
The afternoon light was beginning to fail.
The dead, silvery timber, the sheds, the
shaggy gum-tree, the cows down by the
bails, the white fowls pecking near the
grassy border, seemed washed with a cold
greyish-lilac, seemed melting, dissolving
into that shadowy lilac, becoming part of
it, inseparable from it. All at' once every-
thing that he saw seemed precious and sig-
nificant. He wanted to gather every detail
up and hold it fast. He could see now.
Marge in there. She was temporarily re-
moved from him, complete in herself, happy
and serene, above and beyond the little
irritations and obligations of outside life.
She was shrouded, safe in her motherhood
as in a cocoon.
“Wrapped in a dream,” he thought, as he
moved through the lilac half-light, “wrapped
in a dream.”
“Everything he saw seemed precious
and significant.” That is exactly what
the short-story writer has to catch: the
moment of significance.
The moment when the significance of
a character is revealed. Silent Joe is not
a universal type; on the contrary, Alan
Marshall set out to show us in all its
richness the uniqueness of his personality.
Isaac is not any old man, but Isaac Butts
who loves his heifers. Marge is not any
woman, nor any mother, but strongly
and distinctly herself. So, too, is the Lfl
of Elizabeth Parson’s low-life story, which,
ending too abruptly, just fails to convey
a moment of illumination the author in-
dubitably felt. As a story it does not
quite “come off” ; but Lil is a true pro-
jection of character.
There is one group of writings in
Coast to Coast which cannot truly be
classified as short stories. They are those
which attempt to convey vision without
character: Jon Cleary’s “Death Comes
Slowly,” Gene McCarthy’s “Chocolate
Soldier,” d’Arcy Niland’s “The Surreal-
ist” and-—though some traces of charac-
terisation come in to redeem, them —Belle
Atherton’s “The Rivals,” Hal Porter’s “At
Aunt Sophia’s” and Marjorie Robert-
son’s “Jennie.”
Frank Davison says in his introduc-
tion “The artist is entitled to write how
he likes of whatever has seemed to him
important enough to hold his interest.”
It’s a disarmingly tolerant definition of a
short story: but Davison, himself has nar-
rowed it elsewhere in his introduction by
excluding from serious consideration
“escapist fiction, magazine stories, pink-
sugar romances and ten-minute news-
paper stories with the verities sacrificed
to the indispensable trick endings.” The
six stories just listed are certainly worth
serious consideration—in one respect, as
stories “worth quarrelling about,” they
are the most interesting of the collection
—but, because they are impersonal
analyses of states of mind rather than
portraits of individuals, they are not short
stories as the form was defined by the great
masters, Chekhov and De Maupassant.
Hal Porter is the “discovery” of this
year’s anthology. To anyone who has
not read Joyce’s Portrait of the Artist
as a Young Man, and who has not fol-
lowed the exploration of childhood and
adolescence in the Penguin New Writing
series and in New Zealand New 'Writing,
“At Aunt. Sophia’s” will be startling in
its novelty. And even to readers who
will recognise it as an essay in a familiar
contemporary pattern, its adaptation of
contemporary methods to the author’s
own purposes and to the Australian scene
will be highly impressive: “Swagmen
logs are prone among the sheep.” Inci-
dental portraits of Aunt Sophia and a
gravedigger are richly drawn ; only his
central figure, a boy at the crisis of
adolescence, does not come to life as an
individual, but is the universal adoles-
cent out of New Writing or out of a
Freudian casebook. The adolescent —
poor innocent —is a figure of tragedy to
himself, if you like ; but to the wicked
world he is always a bit of a joke. Porter
has looked into him, *but not at him.
The other stories in this group are not
so striking. D’Arcy Niland’s “Surreal-
ist,” using “wimpleds” and “wamblings”
and “winkles” borrowed probably from
Finnegans Wake, but sounding peri-
lously like echoes of Lewis Carroll, is a
lively attempt at writing a very modem
story in which the anonymous central
character asks a series of questions about
the universe. It is promising, but too
obviously an “attempt” really to have
merited inclusion. Coast to Coast was
not originally intended to encourage the
young by premature publication, but to
set a standard to which the young might
climb.
“The Rivals” is a slight, pleasant little
piece about a small boy whose anthro-
pomorphic affection for railway trains is
replaced by affection for aeroplanes
when he sees a ’plane come near to crash-
ing. The boy is any small boy, but the
story is nicely dramatised. “Jennie” is a
portrait of the universal Little Man by
a writer who has only to forget about the
Little Man and his frustrations to take
a high rank in Australian writing.
“Death Comes Slowly” and Choco-
late Soldier” are war stories, one set in
Crete and the other in New Guinea, both
well written, but so far removed from
genuine characterisation that nobody
could tell* Cleary’s soldier from
McCarthy’s. Nor, as it happens, would
you find much to distinguish either of
them from the V.C. in Mary Lisle’s “The
Welcome Home.”
Writing stories with vision but without
character is essentially a modern fashion.
There is always the defence for them that
they widen the range of the short story:
that something new may come out of
them, as has happened with the New
Zealand New Writing group (absent from
this Coast to Coast except for an oddity
by G. R. Gilbert), and as is almost cer-
tain to happen with Hal Porter’s writing.
The opposite type of story, with character
but without vision, is always with us.
Frank Davison has included a surpris-
ingly large group of these: honest, faith-
ful stories that don’t get anywhere in par-
ticular ; slices of life without butter on
them. There is “The Welcome Home” ;
there are Xavier Herbert’s yarn of an
aboriginal song-maker and a white man
fossicking for gold—an item that should
be a comedy but which fails to be more
than a yarn because Herbert didn’t find
the right key to present it in, tending to
disapprove of his fossicker instead of see-
ing him as comic ; a conventional love-
of-the-land story by J. K. Ewers, pleasant
but falling short of poetry ; a description
of a family of evangelists by George Far-
well which could have been either a
comedy or a tragedy, but which never
rises above the commonplace ; two stories
by E. Dithmack, one a story of frus-
trated love with a good description of
a possum hunt in it, and the other an
ordinary magazine triangle ; a portrait of
an attendant in a tuberculosis sanatorium
by Robert S. Close, intended to be sar-
donically tragic but failing to be more
than disgusting; and a boxing yarn by
Stewart Howard which, like all Australian
boxing stories, evades the moment of
vision which could be found in a triumph
in the ring but which, at a point when a
defeated boxer is watching outside a block
of flats where his lady is entertaining his
rival, climbs at least to the second floor
of tragedy.
Near-misses in a different category are
Brian James’s “Baker’s Hill,” Peter
Cowan’s “Temporary Job” and Renee
Featherstone’s “King for a Night.” Brian
James offers the reflections of a son upon
the death of his successful father* one
feels the son’s indifference, or perhaps a
dull hatred. Nothing seems to matter
very much. There is a Lawson-like aridity
about this story, as there is about “Tem-
porary Job” —an aridity which is accen-
tuated in the latter case by the mono-
tone of short sentences in which it is
narrated. Cowan builds up a strong,
tense atmosphere, but for very little pur-
pose. To both his story and James’s
there is some relevance in Matthew
Arnold’s dictum that “unrelieved misery,
mere hopelessness” is not tragedy and not
a subject for art. The criticism applies
to a great deal of Lawson’s writings.
What is hardest to find in this number
of Coast to Coast is the moment of
humor. There are some near-tragic
moments ; there are the revelations of
contentment in Silent Joe, of beauty and
pathos in Isaac and his heifers, of quiet
loveliness in Marge in her reverie of
motherhood ; but only in “King for a
Night”—uncertainly here—and sketchily
in Margaret Trist’s “Else’s Third Baby”
does anybody bring us the perception of
how richly comic is the spectacle of man
on the earth.
Frank Davison says that comedy was
hard to find ; and that —comedy being
hard to write —is always likely to be the
case. Nevertheless, James Hackston could
have been included. And it seems a
pity to have represented Brian James,
who is essentially a comedy writer,
by a funeral-piece. Margaret Trist’s
is a gay little item but like most
of her early stories and unlike those
she has more recently contributed
to The Bulletin —it lacks form, reading
more like a chapter from a novel than
a properly constructed story moving in a
definite direction.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“C.R.”: The wild rush of art shows in
Melbourne continues. Alfred Coleman
(Athenaeum) is an old campaigner, and if
his comments on Nature don’t go much
beyond current gossip there is a lot of
technical facility behind his smooth,
enamelled landscapes. Alan E. Warren
and John Murphy (Velasquez) have been
looking at the school of Cezanne. Aimee
Keynes (Kozminsky’s) may have been her
own teacher —a long apprenticeship to
somebody who knows the difficulties of
the problem wouldn’t harm her. George
Arnold, an evacuee from Hong Kong,
has been hanging sketches of that famous
fortress at the Mural Hall at Myefs.
Most of them are only of topographical
interest, but some of the slighter draw-
ings of the native street life are clever.
Rupert Bunny’s paintings at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, perpetuate the
veteran artist’s impressions of the coun-
tryside in the South of France. The work
is mostly in his late style, pinks and light
greens prevailing, with everything seen
through a tremulous haze. A simple
street scene, “Sea Front, Bandol,” is more
firmly depicted, and its strength recalls
the painter’s early achievements. There
are some flower-pieces, pleasing in general
design, but a woolly, inchoate technique
pays the subjects a poor compliment.
“Curtain Raiser”: On Melbourne’s
Little Theatre’s small stage a lot of the
elegance of Southern American life and
architecture in Lillian Heilman’s “The
Little Foxes” had to be taken for granted,
which threw the onus on the actors. These
(Reg Hood, Dick Daniell, Frederick Mc-
Mahon, Sydney Conabere and Irene
Mitchell) were so good that the bitter
story of matrimonial hatreds expressing
themselves in sharp business transactions
succeeded in holding the attention.
“Curtain Raiser”: After seeing scores
of professional Princes of Denmark, both
before and after Allan Wilkie, it was a
pleasurable surprise to meet Bill Ryalfs
when Queen’s College staged “Hamlet”
at the Melbourne University Union
Theatre. How Mr. Ryall escaped imi-
tating the dreadful mannerisms which
centuries of tradition have fathered on
poor Hamlet is a mystery: but sometimes
amateurs do that. Evidently it was
because he felt the part intensely, which
few professional barnstormers ever do.
His strong feeling, expressed in action,
diction and expression, made the san-
guinary plot live and obviously helped
to galvanise the other players. It empna-
sised the shiftiness of the King of Harry
Mackay, made the plight of Ruby May s
Queen pathetic, made the bewilderment
of Deborah Newton’s Ophelia under-
standable and the silliness of her father,
admirably done by Les Young, an in-
tegral part of the picture. Even the
Ghost of Max Hargreaves was a credit-
able apparition. Keith Macartney was
responsible for the admirable production,
but he might have omitted the hnai
speech of David Mclntyre, Prince or
Norway, Qne of the few members or tne
cast who delivered his lines in that strange
way which comes from scholars w o
have been told by their schoolteacne
to put more expression in it.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
v
y
m
rfS
f
7
dH\
>0
"MEAD'S"
LACTIC ACID
MILK
Consists of fresh milk to which Lactic Acid has been
added. Used for feeding infants, and in cases of Gastro-
enteritis. 1 lb. tins 2/11
s/
•, Chemistry Dept. —
Ground Floor,
Pitt Street.
"CALCYDIC" CALCIUM
VITAMIN D. GRANULES
This chocolate flavoured food is a pleasant protection against
all forms of calcium deficiency. "Calcydic'' is particularly
suitable for children to aid the formation of healthy bones
and teeth. "Calcydic" is a boon to sufferers from Chilblains!
Price, tin . 4/6
"MEAD'S" PABLUM
A prepared food for children, expectant mothers, conval-
escents, post-operative patients, etc.
PABLUM combines Calcium, Iron, Vitamins B. and G.,
Phosphorus, Copper, etc.
PABLUM can be fed to infants, to children, or adults of
all ages. It has been very successfully used for low-
residue diets in Ulcer and Colitis cases among adults.
Available in two sizes. Boz 2/11; 16 oz. . ... 5/6
MEAD'S" PECTIN-AGAR IN DEXTRI-MALTOSL
Specially prepared for use in disturbances of normal intestinal
functions. Invaluable as a food for infants and children
suffering from bowel disturbances. 16 oz. tins only .... 4/
m
i
£$
§8
m
w
m
NASON'S DANDRUFF REMEDY AND
DESTROYER
A scientifically prepared Hairdressing to remove dandruff
and to safeguard against its recurrence, also it restores
grey hair to its original colour. 4 oz. jar 3/11
Or
V
v
//
"MEAD'S" BREWERS' YEAST TABLETS
Stimulate the appetite aid digestion correct constipation
and are used in malnutrition, also contain Phosphorus
and Iron, also Vitamins B 1 and 82. Available only in bottles
of 100 tablets. Price 7/6
A
M2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0.. Sydney


NOW THEN, UNCLE TED
By RODERICK FINLAYSON.
ONCLE TED says to himself “Guess
I’ll cut the hay down there on the
bottom paddock.”
There’s no bottom paddock.
There’s only a bit of waste land that’s
never been fenced. No one knows just
where the boundary is between Uncle
Ted’s and Mr. Coke’s unused section.
And there’s no hay—only dry, rank
growth and weeds. But once Uncle Ted
gets an idea he can make himself believe
almost anything.
So Uncle Ted laces his. boots and puts
on his old straw hat. He fills his pipe
and lights up. He takes the scythe and
the worn old whetstone, ahd off he goes
down to the bottom paddock.
He mows the rubbish, laying it care-
fully in nice even swathes, stopping now
and again to mop his face and sharpen
his blade and to admire his work. Mow-
ing the rubbish is very interesting work.
Among the weeds Uncle Ted uncovers
an old iron pot, and he nicks the scythe-
blade on a rusty old-fashioned gun barrel.
He lays these finds carefully at the foot
of a cabbage-tree.
“Might come in handy sometime,” he
says.
The weather will hold. The sky is blue
with a few white fleecy clouds, and Uncle
Ted is happy. After a long day of not-
too-strenuous work he finishes mowing
the rough little unfenced patch.
“Might as well have the bit extra feed,”
he says. “Don’t do to waste.”
Just a month before Uncle Ted had
stacked a fine crop of hay on his best
paddock, but he always has an eye for
more. There are‘fences to mend, and the
tank to clean out and a hundred and one
other jobs waiting, but a bit of scything
is grand exercise, Uncle Ted says.
The next day or two Uncle Ted has a
bout of lumbago that keeps him home
between milkings.
When the rubbishy growth has dried
he feels fine again, and he gives Hoppy
Crummer’s big boy a shilling or two to
help him put it into cocks. The follow-
ing day Uncle Ted drives down to the
bottom paddock in his spring cart.
Crummer’s boy helps, and between them
they cart in the weedy stuff and stack it
at one end of the mown patch. Uncle
Ted is chirpy as a cricket. ,
“Nothing like a bit of haymaking,” he
says. The sun shines, larks sing above
the paddock, the stack rises higher, and
Uncle Ted cuts capers.
“Silly old fool,” Crummer’s boy says
to himself.
When it’s finished Uncle Ted covers
the stack with a spread of manure bags
that he’s spent quite a few evenings on
opening and sewing together.
“Nice to have that bit of hay to fall
back on this winter,” he says.
Day after, he’s down with lumbago
again.
Somehow Uncle Ted’s prouder of this
old rubbish stack than he is of the big
stack of good hay off his best paddock.
Each morning after milking he looks
down to the bottom paddock and it
pleases him to see the neat little stack
at one end of the clean mown patch.
ONE sunny autumn morning TJncle
Ted is turning the cows out when he
looks down at his pet stack and sees
smoke pouring from one end. He begins
to run, and he runs all the half-mile to
the bottom'paddock, and he gets there
just about winded. By this time the
stack is all flames and there’s nothing
Uncle Ted can do.
But what makes him see red is Rua,
the big fat Maori from old Coke’s place,
standing there calmly leaning on a spade
watching the blaze.
“Didn’t you see it catch fire?” yells
Uncle Ted. “Couldn’t you put it out?”
“Me?” says Rua. “Put her out? I lit
her up,” he says.
Uncle Ted begins to shake.
“She’s in the way of the fence-line I
come here to make,” says Rua. “So I
burn her up.”
Uncle Ted gasps.
“She good and dry. I put in the
match. Boy, how she blaze!”
Uncle Ted lets out a roar. He grabs
a batten and makes for Rua, who rolls
his eyes and raises his spade to defend
himself. Uncle Ted lands a glancing
blow on Rua’s head.
“Eh! This what you want! ” says Rua,
and he whacks Uncle Ted with the spade
What with the weight of Uncle. Ted’s
rush and the force of the blows, both
men land sprawling near the blazing
stack, from which the wind blows singe-
ing tongues of flame. That helps them
back to their senses.
They scramble to their feet and scurry
away, patting themselves all over to make
sure they’re not on fire. As soon as he
feels safe Rua picks up his spade to
finish off Uncle Ted. Uncle Ted, who
has lost his batten, looks up at Rua more
than half scared, and then he laughs and
laughs. With one eye nearly closed and
a lump like a little horn on his temple
and his big fat face speckled over with
white ashes, Rua looks very funny to
Uncle Ted.
Perhaps Uncle Ted looks funnier to
Rua ; perhaps it’s something funny about
the whole affair. After a wild stare Rua
giggles like a schoolgirl. He downs his
spade and pulls himself together.
“Look, here, Teri,” says Rua. (All the
Maoris call Uncle Ted “Teri.”) “Look
here. Sorry if I make the trouble. But
what you reckon I do? Mr. Coke send
me make the fence. I got to run her
straight, eh?”
Uncle Ted sobers down. “You
shouldn’t burn a man’s best stack,” he
says sorrowfully.
“Look here, Teri, sorry I burn her,”
says Rua, thinking what a fuss over an
old rubbish heap. “Too bad. All your
best hay gone. Look how she burn!”
The two men look at the burning
stack —Uncle Ted dolefully, Rua with a
cheerful interest in the height of the
flames.
Suddenly Rua grabs Uncle- Ted by
the arm. “Look here, Teri,” he says.
“I see you get paid back for this, by
golly, I do. Not one more posthole
till I see you paid back.” And he strikes
his spade into the ground.
“Well, that’s all right, Rua,” says
Uncle Ted. “Won’t be the same as
having that nice little stack, though. Kind
of like the look of that little stack.”
“Oh, your head bleed, Teri,” says Rua,
changing the subject. “Here, use this.”
And he tears a bit off one arm of his
ragged shirt.
Uncle Ted waves him aside. “You
got a nasty lump yourself,” he says.
“Well, better come up to my place and
sort of cool down,” says Uncle Ted,
backing away from the glowing heap of
ashes.
“Oh, thank you,” says Rua.
T ]P at his bach Uncle Ted opens a bottle
of home-brewed hop beer. The
bulging cork is tied down with string.
Uncle Ted cuts the string and with a
loud pop the cork hits the roof. The
beer foams over the tops of the glasses.
“Here’s better luck, Teri,” says Rua.
“By George, that good stuff!”'
Soon the bottle is empty.
“Have some more,” says Uncle Ted,
opening another. “Help yourself to to-
bacco.
“Didn’t think old Coke would ever
bother about that bit of land,” continues
Uncle Ted. “Got whips of land. Lives
like a miser down the coast.”
“By cripes, he mean man,” says Rua.
He mean all right. By George, I never
work for meaner man. He take money
for food off my wages. He hold back
my wages, ehoa.”
“That’s not right,” says Uncle Ted.
“A good man’s worth his wages. You
see you get you T wages. Have some
more beer.” 1
“By golly, what I tell you? He own
three, four farm,” says Rua. “Don’t do
one stroke of work, that lazy loafer.
And now he cast the eye on your little
bit. He burn your lovely stack. Oh,
by George, I not work for that man. I
not do it.”
“That’s all right, Rua,” says Uncle
Ted. “You mustn’t put yourself out for
me. You go on now and see you get
your wages.”
“I see you get what he owe you, Teri.
I see to that,” says Rua, putting on his
potato-shaped hat carefully over the
tender lump and wiping his fat, beaming
face. “This life too sad. This life too
short and sorry. * What men fight for
I not know. Good-bye, Teri. By
George, that grand beer.”
“Here, take a bottle with you,” says
Uncle Ted, looking at the roof and
thoughtfully scratching his chin.
A FEW weeks later while Uncle Ted is
** stretched on the sofa after breakfast
smoking his pipe and wondering if hik
lumbago is coming on or going off, he
hears a clatter of wheels in the yard and
the jingle of harness and a great shout.
He goes out in time to see Rua jumping
down from the seat of a fine, big, newly-
painted wagon behind two whopping grey
horses. The wagon is piled high with
bales of hay.
“Oho!” shouts Rua. “See here, Teri.
This for you. Old Coke pay you back.
He send you the good hay for what he
burn. Pretty good, eh?”
“That’s all right,” says Uncle Ted,
looking at the hay. “Never expected so
much.”
“That all for you,” says Rua. “Where
you have it?”
They unload the hay, and Rua looks
sad. “This the sorry day,” he says.
“Seems a pretty lucky day to me,”
says Uncle Ted.
“But I never see you again, Teri,”
says Rua. “I go away for the good. I
go in this wagon with these horses to
my people down Ruatoki way.”
‘ These your horses, Rua—and your
wagon?” says Uncle Ted, surprised.
“Oh, Mr. Coke make up my back
wages,” says Rua. “By George, it hot
today.”
“Oh,” says Uncle Ted. “Well, we
better have a drink,” he adds.
“Oh, thank you,” says Rua.
In they go and out comes the hop
beer. .Over the drinks Rua becomes
quiet and sadder. Uncle Ted fidgets
with his pipe ; can’t get it to draw prop-
erly. He climbs on a chair and fumbles
in a box on a top shelf. He brings
down an old-fashioned silver watch.
“Take this, Rua,” he says. “Belonged
to Grandpop. Can’t buy one like that.
You take it to the watchmaker. Reckon
he’ll get it going again. See, I got
another, a foolproof, on the wall there.”
“Oh, Teri,” Rua beams. “Oh, by
George, what I say? You the good man,
Teri.”
Tears well up in Rua’s eyes. He flings
an arm around Uncle Ted’s shoulders.
Uncle Ted looks embarrassed. Rua gets up
and' wrings Uncle Ted’s hand. “Good-
bye, good-bye, ehoa,” he says. “I nevei
forget you with this timekeeper,”
Uncle Ted goes out with Rua and
watches him climb aboard the wagon.
“Good-bye, Rua,” he shouts.
Stamping proudly, the beautiful greys
start off. The wagon clatters down the
drive, fat Rua standing, managing some-
how to look forlorn.
“Good-bye,” yells Uncle Ted, waving
a last farewell.
With a wild “Whoa!” Rua suddenly
pulls the horses to a standstill. He flour-
ishes the reins. “No, no, I will so,” he
says. And with that he wheels the horses
about and gallops them back to Uncle Ted.
“What’s the matter?” says Uncle Ted.
Rua jumps down without a word and
unharnesses the horses. He leads them
away from the wagon. “This old wagon
yours, Teri?” he says. “No, no, no; I
not listen. I ride the horse and lead the
other. The horse all I want. The wagon
no use up the mountain down Ruatoki.
No road anywhere, ehoa.”
And he keeps talking away, not giving
Uncle Ted a chance to say no. Uncle
Ted indeed is speechless. He watches
Rua mount one of the greys, take the
other by a lead and turn away.
“Wait.” Uncle Ted says. He hurries
into his bach. There’s a sound of moving
furniture and falling boxes and a long
wait. Then Uncle Ted comes out, sweat
on his brow, with two gold sovereigns
in his hand. '
Rua looks at them and whistles. “No,
no, no,” he says.
“Take them, man!” shouts Uncle Ted
at the top of his voice.
“Oh, I the bad man,” Rua moans.
“What I do for you now?”
“Take them and get out!” shouts Uncle
Ted, nearly bursting his lungs. “Clear
out! ” He grabs the firewood-axe. “Quick,
before I kill you this time!”
Rua takes the sovereigns and rides away
slowly and sorrowfully. Uncle Ted goes
inside feeling like howling.
A UTUMN turns to winter. Uncle Ted
** begins to feed out hay to his cows.
He uses the good bales of hay from old
Coke’s place. Uncle Ted has always
wanted to be able to feed out pressed
hay. So he carts out Mr. Coke’s hay
and says he’ll keep his own stack for next
winter. He’s like a child with a new toy,
feeding out this pressed hay.
“This is good,” he says. “No cutting
with the stack-knife, no forking and load-
ing on to the sledge. Just break the wire
in the paddock and scatter the hay. This
is very good.”
One day Uncle Ted goes to the store.
He hasn’t been to the store for quite a
while ; then one day he goes there, hav-
ing run out of tobacco, and he runs into
Morris, the local policeman.
After talk of the crops and the weather
Morris says “Haven’t located Coke’s
horses and wagon yet. What, didn’t you
hear? Young Rua gets away with them
down Ruatoki way, I guess. Can’t trace
him, but I’ll get him yet.”
After a while Uncle Ted looks at his
boots and says in a little voice “Wagon
like that up at my place. Better come
and have a look at it.”
Of course, it is Mr. Coke’s wagon and
harness. Uncle Ted has to tell Constable
Morris how they come to be there. He
tells just as much as he feels like telling.
“Well, that’s all right,” says Morris.
“But where’s the horses? Thorough-
breds ; worth a mint of money.”
When the story gets back to Mr. Coke
he comes ramping and ranting, wanting
his hay. But Uncle Ted sticks at that
“No, you old sinner,” he says; “you
burnt down my good stack. Anyhow,
the cows have ate the hay.”
A day or two later Uncle Ted says to
the postmaster “Don’t suppose just
Ruatoki on a letter would find a man?
Just So-and-so, Ruatoki, writ on the
envelope?”
“Not unless he’s Somebody,” says the
postmaster.
“Well, he ain’t exactly Somebody,”
Uncle Ted says, going out.
In the end he gives up. Uncle Ted’s
no letter-writer.
“Well,” says Uncle Ted, biting his
moustache savagely, “serves him right.
He shouldn’t have done it. The hay’s
very well. Didn’t reckon, though, on the
wagon—nor the horses.”
“But if I knew his address, if I could
write a bit of a letter,” he sighs.
Emus.
My annals have it so:
A thing my mother saw
Near eighty years ago
With happiness and awe.
Along a level hill—
A clearing in wild space;
And night’s last tardy chill
Yet damp on morning’s face.
Sight never to forget:
Solemn against the sky
In stately silhouette
Ten emus stalking by.
One aft'er one they went
In line, and without haste:
On their unknown intent,
Ten emus grandly paced.
She, used to hedged-in fields,
Watched them'go filing past
Into the great bush wilds
Silent and vast.
Sudden that hour she knew
That this far place was good,
This mighty land and new,
For the soul’s hardihood;
For hearts that love the strange,
That carry wonder:
The bush, the hills, the range,
And the dark flats under.
E.
White.
In the black mood of human suicide
I thpught of white roses
Flinging quiet joy from roadside banks,
Frail created, and frajl remembered,
As youth’s first kiss.
Remembered roses brought white sails
Of yachts in follow, .a sun-drenched wind
Pushing their swallow bodies —swift,
Like children’s laughter—past to escape
The black immobile rocks,
The forbidding fathers.
And remembering made vision
White as white roses in December.
Black mood; white mood: I will coin
“White mood” as an obverse
Trick of consciousness; I will
Challenge the black dumb rocks
Of discipline with white briar roses,
Flat sun on them, gold and warm,
Bellying into white sails of yachts
Fleeing the disciplinary fathers;
And I will conjure even the wind white,
Flecked gold and green
As children’s laughter,
White as white roses in December.
No voice, no music; no will, no force;
I and all slaves of another’s will
Have need of hours where none is,
Only a white stillness, where to think
Would bruise; only to enfold
In the thick white of a magnolia
Still in full moon as frozen
As a saint’s washing flat
On a black rock, he forgetting, praying.
From the black mood of man, from the dread
red
That shoots black through,
From the accursed fathers of the tribe
In whose ego of black thunders, red lightnings,
In whose consciousness was no white,
—Only the black-red nerve-swoon—
I will think white, come white
As a little nun trimming her hawthorn hedge
with scissors;
White as no man’s world, as a child’s laughter,
White as white roses in December.
N.S.W.
BRIAN VREPONT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3365.
Wednesday, August 9, 1944.
COUPON-FREE.
“It’s not fourteen points your Ministry needs but fourteen pounds of guts.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings {opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
POWER WITHOUT GUTS.
When a problem of government arises
Federal Labor’s thoughts turn to three
expedients: (1) appointing a commission
(preferably “royal”); (2) “conciliating”
the dissatisfied party, or, if there are two
dissatisfied parties, the party which can
deliver the greater number of votes (the
preferred form of conciliation being
a grant or subsidy from the public funds);
(3) running away, after raising a smoke-
screen of brave words.
In dealing with N.S.W. coal strikers
and absentees the Curtin Administration
has tried all three, with devastating
results to its authority, as well as to in-
dustrial and private consumers of coal
and coke. And recourse to the third
expedient has involved Mr. Curtin in an
argument with Mr. Wells, the Commu-
nist president of the Miners’ Federation,
himself well shod with running shoes for
use when problems arise.
On October 14, 1943, Mr. Curtin gave
Parliament and the nation one of his
plaintive reviews of the coal position and
one of his forcible-feeble statements of
intentions. Production for the year to
September 18, he said, was 8,271,317 tons
in N. S. Wales and 10,246,235 tons alto-
gether, “2,500,000 tons short of what was
expected by the Government when the
coal code was introduced.”
In 1939, 13,400,000 tons was produced.
The general strike of 1940 [that was when
Labor’s referendum partners, the Commu-
nists, were performing against “the im-
perialist war”] caused a shrinkage to
11,700,000 tons, which rose in 1941 to
14,100,000 tons and in 1942 to 14,900,999
tons. Causes of loss of production to Sep-
tember 18, 1943, were: Absenteeism,
1,033,617 tons; strikes, 1,041,417 tons.
“As a result of inquiries I have made,”
he had formed an opinion and arrived at
a Great Resolution.
The removal of minority malcontents and
irresponsibles will go a long way towards
maintaining increased production. In the
main, the irresponsibles comprise youths of
military age and men engaged in other occu-
pations—taxi-drivers, starting-price book-
makers, billiard-room proprietors, dog-
trainers and the like —who have engaged
as miners to obtain protection and have a
record of chronic absenteeism. Generally,
they readily agree to strike, sometimes
making the first move, and thus bringing
on a general exodus: “one out, all out.” I
am directing that experienced officials shall
make a thorough investigation with a view
to identifying this element individually and
recommending its exclusion from the indus-
try. This action should have the support
of federation and lodge officers.
Promised also were prosecutions “in
every case” of “a mine worker absenting
himself without lawful excuse” (“penalty,
six months’ imprisonment or a £lOO fine
or both under summary jurisdiction ; and
imprisonment or fine or both under
indictment”); additional labor from
the services and other industries, “ap-
proximately 600”; reconsideration of
the question of Christmas-New Year
holidays; a second shift on the
South Maitland field and “the appoint-
ment of Mr. R. Jatnes, M.P., as
liaison officer.” Holidays (10 days), addi-
tional labor and liaison officer were forth-
coming, but there were no prosecutions,
no second shift and no expulsion of “mal-
contents and irresponsibles.” Strikes and
absenteeism went on, and coal-production
continued to go back. In N. S. Wales in
the last half of 1943 430,000 fewer tons
were mined than in the corresponding
period of 1942. Output for the first half
of 1944 was only 5,300,000 tons, com-
pared with 5,642,000 tons to June 30,
1943, and with 6,067,000 tons to June
30, 1942.
Seven months after the “malcontents
and irresponsibles” were to be “excluded
from the industry” Comrade Wells cast
up in Westralia, and the “West Australian”
(May 10) reported a statement he then
and there made:
In the Miners’ Union [i.e., federation]
there were some people who had come in
since the war with the purpose of shelter-
ing in the industry while the war was on,
and who would leave it when the war was
ended. These people did not want to work.
Jhey made every little grievance that
cropped up a major matter and fanned
up the feelings of the men to get them to
stop work.
Came the end of July, and with it the
umpty-umpth coal conference, a dis-
tressful P.M. presiding. “Coal stocks,”
he said, were “in a grievous condition,”
because of “a veritable state of anarchy
in the industry.” Not only were “indus-
try and essential services” threatened, but
unless there was a sudden and enduring
improvement “this country will be un-
able to carry out the Australian part of
the plan which I put to the British Prime
Minister,” and as a result of which “sub-
stantial British forces will be here very
shortly.”
Mr. Churchill would be entitled to say
to me, “You come here to ask us to do
things, to send ships of fighting character,
to base them in certain places, and you
have no coal to maintain the industrial
effort on which this fighting effort must in
the final analysis rest.”
Still there was balm in Gilead:
Mr. Wells undertook to go through, with
the Coal Commissioner, lists of men to
weed out of the industry those with bad
absentee records, particularly in the west-
ern district.
This Mr. Wells denied in a statement
to which the general secretary and senior
vice-president added their signatures:
No such undertaking was given either by
Mr. Wells or by any member of the con-
ference.
Mr. Mighell, the Coal Commissioner,
drew attention to the fact that certain mine
workers throughout N.S.W., especially in
the western district, were chronic absentees.
He indicated that these men, some of whom
did not work for six weeks and who, he
claimed, showed no inclination to work,
should be weeded out of the industry. The
miners’ representatives, through Mr. Wells,
indicated that these men might have bad
absentee records, but might have a real
reason for being absent. On the other hand,
they might have no reason.
Mr. Wells agreed on behalf of the
miners to go through the list of names with
Mr. Mighell. This was done to protect
men who had reasons for being absent. At
no time was it suggested or accepted by
the federation representatives that' any men
would be removed.
When the Wells disclaimer was pub-
lished the employees in eight coalmines
at Portland (N.S.W.), part of the western
district where “certain mine workers” are
“chronic absentees,” were idle because
the town butcher had sacked a girl clerk,
and within 24 hours they had been joined
by the employees in five coalmines at
Lithgow, one of them owned by the State
Government and another Commonwealth-
controlled. And although the strike was
in its second week and the Common-
wealth Conciliation Commissioner had
reported, after a public inquiry, that the
butcher had exercised “without victim-
isation” a right “properly” held and had
a good record as a wage-payer, there had
been no appearance of Man-power to
direct the girl into another job. Yet there
are so many other jobs that Man-power
has been taking barmaids for work in hos-
pitals for the insane, and Man-power
was tremendously active when women
employed in a Sydney munitions factory
refused to take part in a strike called by
the Communist-controlled Ironworkers’
Union or to join it—that was when a
Man-power gentleman said, not to the
strikers but to the workers (badgered at
the same time by the former Communist
secretary Garden, then Minister Ward’s
“liaison officer”), “I could send you to
Bourke if I liked.”
The Portland strike was actually in being
when Mr. Curtin closed his coal confer-
ence and began to work on his mournful
communication. That same day the S.A.
Premier issued a statement of a very
different character:
When the present Commonwealth Gov-
ernment took office in October, 1941, our
mainland stocks were 136,712 tons.
Twelve months later they had fallen to
85,575 tons —the danger level had been
fixed at 80,000 tons. By October, 1943,
stocks had been further reduced to, 57,709
tons. Eight months later we were down to
40,000 tons. On July 15 we had only 24,205
tons on hand, while this week stocks have
dwindled to 20,000 tons. We are literally
living from hand to mouth.
Then he reviewed the “policy” which
had brought about the foreseen crisis,
without having the slightest effect on “the
stoppages which continue on the N.S.W.
coalfields as a daily occurrence” for such
“unbelievable reasons” as the dismissal of
the butcher’s girl.
Endless concessions have been made to
the miners. One of their former union
secretaries and Labor Ministers has been
given powers superseding those of the Arbi-
tration Court in fixing their wages and
conditions. Cabinet Ministers wait on them
cap in hand. More men have been re-
leased to the industry. The Miners’ Federa-
tion, apparently the strongest political force
in Australia, has secured the remission of
fines imposed in lawfully constituted courts
and imposed its own penalties, and it has
obtained the release of strikers called up
for military duties.
The public is not told what is happening.
The people who do know seem blind to the
consequences of the present policy.
The Federal Parliament met for a week
and adjourned for a month. The highest
Federal authority has said that “if coal
is not mined we can’t burn it.” The
Minister who has been in charge of this
department has been mostly preoccupied
with the passing of the referendum.
If ever there was a unique example of
what will happen to Australian industry
when the Commonwealth secures the powers
it seeks, this is it. If ever there was a
glaring case of the ineptitude of Govern-
ment' interference with industry, it is sup-
plied by the coal industry. But the average
citizen is being beguiled by rosy pictures of
palatial mansions and assured employment,
while just around the corner is the stark
reality of a coal famine, with its conse-
quent dislocation of employment', industry,
transport, every other community service.
Before the war, subject to the restric-
tion of output—deliberate in the case of
the “darg,” capricious in the case of
strikes and other forms of union larrikin-
ism—Australia exported coal to New
Zealand: 100,000 tons or so annually.
The Labor Government beyond the Tas-
man would have been glad of an increase
for its transport services and war indus-
tries, and Minister after Minister has said
so in Australia itself. The result of these
representations was mentioned by Mr.
Webb, the Minister of Mines, at Invercar-
gill on July 12: “The cutting off of Aus-
tralian supplies has put a big tax on the
New Zealand coalmines.”
Britain itself would have been grateful
for coal from Australia to relieve the pres-
sure on its miners, who have been work-
ing like beavers since the beginning of
1939, and lighten the anxieties of those
responsible for the mighty production of
war materials and supplies. Not getting
it from Australia, the Old Man turned
to South Africa. And though coalmining
in South Africa is scarcely to be com-
pared with the industry controlled by the
N.S.W. Miners’ Federation, quality, seams,
extent of deposits, availability and general
working conditions and surroundings
being immeasurably inferior (two-thirds
of the coal mined in South Africa comes
from Transvaal pits, and thus has to be
carried long distances to port), he has not
turned in vain.
On the day when the Portland
miners, defying a National Security order
issued by Mr. Curtin, continued their
strike against the dismissal of the but-
cher’s girl, it came out that South Africa
had lifted its war output of coal from
18,000,000 tons in 1939 to 22,000,000 tons
in 1943, and increased its coal shipments
to Britain by 50 per cent. In point of
fact, there has been a steady annual
expansion of output from 11,528,100
tons in 1933 (South African Year-Book,
1938, page 879), whereas, in war years
and peace years alike, the Australian out-
put has seldom got beyond the 1913
figure, 12,417,800 tons.
N.S.W. production in that peace year
was 10,414,100 tons (Australian Year-
Book, 1915, page 421), considerably over
two tons per head of Australian popula-
tion, then reckoned at 4,872,000. In these
Second World War years, with Commu-
nism and larrikinism as blendihg influ-
ences, it has never approached two tons
per head of Australian population, though,
in spite of the sullen opposition of union
bosses and mobs, a third of the coal is
now cut by machinery (very little was
in 1913), and in 1940 it was little more
than a ton per head of Australian popu-
lation. Working under far harder condi-
tions and in the dreariest surroundings
(Mr. Collindridge, the miner-M.P., made
no secret of his opinion that coalmining
is a picnic in N. S. Wales compared with
what it is in the United Kingdom), the
British miner raises five tons per head
of population.
The moral of the disgraceful events of
the past fortnight is—no, there are three
morals: (1) Labor governs only those who
are willing to be governed; (2) Labor
merely multiplies problems by running
away from them; (3) Constitutional
powers without intestinal fortitude and
good faith are not only useless to
the nation but can become instruments
of vile oppression. Where “chronic”
strikers and absentees are concerned
Federal Labor has all the required
powers: it could transfer them to other
callings where they would have to work
or serve; it could disfranchise them,
freeze their bank accounts and those of
their lodges, union branches and head
offices, and have them fined and im-
prisoned. To paraphrase the old tag, it
could do anything except make a coal-
miner a woman or a butcher’s girl a man.
But' it has no guts, and lacking guts it
lacks everything.
Ending the V.D.C.
A few weeks back an ominous statement
on the V.D.C. somehow leaked out from
Canberra. It announced that the Gov-
ernment would shortly consider whether
the V.D.C., already curtailed, should be
further reduced in strength. “Federal
Ministers hold that the V.D.C. has served
its major purpose, and that there is no
justification for its continuance, even on
the present reduced scale. The cost of
units still in being is considerable.”
It was subsequently stated, though not
in print, that the announcement had not
been intended for publication. It was
published obscurely, and there was no
newspaper comment on it. There was,
however, plenty of comment An one
quarter —in the dwindled ranks of the
V.D.C., whose members accepted it as the
writing on the wall. To them it as
good as said that if they’d individually
quit it would save the Government from
having to disband them.
Early in the piece Ministerial praise
of them was almost as lavish as were
Ministerial promises to them. First Mr.
Spender, then Mr. Forde poured out
wordy jam by the tubful. About the last
heard in this vein was wheij Mr. Forde
declared that the then total strength of
the V.D.C. was 90,000. At the time Mr.
Forde was here challenged to substan-
tiate the figure. It was put to him that
he was speaking of paper strength only;
that regular parade strength was even
then less than half his figure. Mr. Forde
stayed mum.
Since then the threat to Australia has
been beaten further back, and V.D.C.
strength has correspondingly lessened.
The latest statement seems certain to
quicken the process.
The way V.D.C. men look at it is
that this as good as telling them that
they’re no longer wanted and might as
well get out is a miserable way of bring-
ing their force to an end. Though prop-
erly attested and eagerly welcomed in the
first place, V.D.C. men do not get so
much as a typewritten discharge showing
their service. Perhaps the Government,
which uses paper lavishly for all manner
of purposes, in the latest instance the
referendum, would hold that paper for
honorable discharges from the V.D.C.
would be a waste of money.
The complaint that “the cost of units
still in being is considerable” apparently
refers to the fact that V.D.C. men receive
a piffling cash payment for their services.
The payment idea came to light when the
pre-election optimism about the state of
the war in the Pacific was causing many
to leave the V.D.C. It coincided with
greatly improved issues of clothing and
equipment, of which, up to then, the
force had had a meagre share, though it
didn’t complain about it, accepting that
the need of others was greater. The
great bulk of the V.D.C. didn’t want the
pay in the first place, and they still don’t
want it. Some even now refuse- to accept
pay. They are citizens earning a living
at all manner of civilian callings; they
volunteered to do their part-time service
for nothing, and many of them had
already done over three years’ service
on that basis before the pay was thought
of. It is such a pittance, anyway, that
it could be taken away tomorrow and
very few would miss it.
In any case, whatever the pay may
now be representing in V.D.C. cost, it
is as nothing compared to what work
done earlier would have cost if paid
for. That work reached its peak when
the Japs came in and the threat came
close to Australia. In those days these
volunteers in many thousands worked at
their ordinary jobs through the week—
none of them, of course, liable for call-
up, either because of age or nature of
calling, or because of unfitness for ser-
vice—then went to defence zones to work
all Saturday afternoons and all day on
Sundays putting up barbed wire, digging
gun and mortar emplacements and the
like, and meanwhile keeping up their
military training.
They worked, as they also trained, in
their own civilian clothes, bearing all the
cost as these very quickly wore out. They
did jobs that made casualties of them,
but there was no question of compensa-
tion. Altogether in a time of great need
they did work for Australia of a kind
which showed the spirit of Australian
manhood at its best.
They were not only or merely labor
battalions. Assisted by the large sprink-
ling of Old Diggers in their ranks, they
became a well-trained fighting force. If
the Japs had got here these men would
have been front-line fighters, and they
would have given any Jap troops a tough
fight for the beaches. They were not,
by any means, all old-timers, let alone
has-beens. A fair number of them were
—and are —men in good physical shape.
Quite a lot of these are young fellows
shackled against their will to essential
jobs. Lately the shackles have been taken
off for some of these, and they got them-
selves into units like the R.A.A.F. over-
night. Here the training they have already
had is a great advantage to them, so
much so that the V.D.C., instead of
being broken up in a shabby manner,
could well be kept as an organisation for
training the many thousands of young-
sters who might yet be needed before this
war is all over.
The most ominous feature of the out-
look of Authority on the V.D.C. is that
it is characteristic of an outlook on de-
fence for which Australia has pai<j
dearly in many ways. It is all too prob-
able that after the war the arguments used
in the pronouncement that leaked out ot
Canberra will be used against defence.
Like the V.D.C.—it will be said—defence
will have “served its major purpose” ; the
“cost” will weigh heavily; there will be
“no justification for its continuance.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Communists in Schools.
In the course of a few days Mr. Hollway
and Mr. Fadden, two public men who
have never been considered alarmists or
bigots, felt impelled to express concern
at the intrusion of Communism into the
schooling of Australian youth.
The Victorian Minister of Education
had in mind the reactions of Melbourne
University students to his support for
the principal of the Teachers’ Training
College, 'who had very properly refused
to let a Communist spout there on the
referendum. Mr. Curtin’s predecessor
spoke out after he had been heckled by
schoolteachers at referendum meetings
on the N.S.W. Northern Rivers, and, be-
coming inquisitive, had been told of
schoolchildren who had repeated anti-
British sentiments, obviously of Com-
munist origin. What he had seen and
heard, he said, had convinced him of
“the danger that threatens the N.S.W.
educational system.”
It has been white-anted by Communists.
If N.S.W. schools are not to become hot-
beds of Communism, there rests upon the
State and Federal Governments a responsi-
bility to act promptly.
Mr. Fadden was answered, after a
fashion, by Mr. Heffron, the Minister of
Education, and Mr. McGuinness, presi-
dent of the Teachers’ Federation.
“Utterly wild, irresponsible and without
foundation,” said Mr. Heffron, who used
to be a bitter Left-Winger, whatever he
may be now; “a gratuitous insult. Mr.
Fadden,” said Mr. McGuinness —an asso-
ciate of Communists on a Yes referen-
dum committee —“is a chronic sufferer
from Red phobia.”
The Teachers’ Federation will not be
intimidated by Mr. Fadden’s threat nor
deterred from its plain duty to the children
to teach them to think objectively.
Very rich, coming from Mr. McGuin-
ness. An “objective” study of Russian
policy was prepared and delivered as
a Sydney University extension lecture by
a man on the staff of the Workers’ Edu-
cational Association. Not being servile
enough for the likes of Mr. McGuinness,
it was denounced by the council of his
Federation, which sends delegates to the
Communist-ridden Sydney Labor Coun-
cil, and the McGuinness mob voted for
a Labor Council boycott of the W.E.A!
Partly because the boycott was repug-
nant to fair-minded members of the
Teachers’ Federation it didn’t come off;
but, as unfortunately happens in union-
ism, the fair-minded members lapsed into
inertia, and the McGuinness mob re-
mained in control. However, in its out-
rageous intolerance and impudence it in-
volved itself in an argument with Mr.
W. M. Hughes, and got much the worse
of the exchanges. Billy’s Parthian shot
was “What the loyal people of Australia
are entitled to know is whether the
teachers to whom they entrust their
children are tarred with the Communist
brush, and, if they are not, why the
Teachers’ Federation supports a notori-
ously Communistic organisation.”
This legitimate curiosity was never
satisfied. It should now be transferred to
the events at Portland (N.S.W.) and there-
abouts which have covered the Common-
wealth Government with humiliation,
from which the nation is not exempt.
Many of the persons concerned in the
boycott of the butcher and the bus driver
and in the general contempt shown for
industrial law, the honor of Australia and
the necessities of Britain —war-worn and
suffering a renewal of its 1940-41 agony,
but generously sending “substantial
forces” to this country—are quite young,
and are by no means bad-looking types. In
the main they must be products of Gov-
ernment schools. They could scarcely
have imbibed there the spirit of apelike
malignity shown in the persecution of the
butcher and the bus driver, but they cer-
tainly didn’t carry away from school any
enduring sense of law, order, duty,
democracy and patriotism. There must
obviously have been grave deficiences in
their schooling, and it would be very use-
ful to know who taught them and what.
Gambling Preferred.
In the N.S.W. Auditor-General’s annual
report published last September it was
written that “the number of N.S.W.
Government lotteries drawn in 1942-43
was the highest in any year since their
establishment,” and that a net surplus
amounting to £894,145 had been passed
into Consolidated Revenue. In the next
annual report another “highest” will have
to be recorded in respect of 1943-44, and
if the preliminary figures pass muster
Consolidated Revenue will be shown to
have raked in £1,139,049.
The price of a ticket is ss. 3d., and a
lottery fills when 100,000 tickets are sold,
bringing in £26,250. Prizes amount to
£16,300. In 1942-43 95 lotteries were
drawn, and in 1943-44 121, total receipts
being £2,493,750 and £3,176,250 respec-
tively. Prize-money amounted respectively
to £1,548,500 and £1,972,300. The
amount of unclaimed prizes is not given,
but cost of administration was reckoned
at £51,104 in 1942-43, and it was
apparently £64,901 in 1943-44.
So the N.S.W. State Labor Government
keeps a large staff ministering to the
craze for lotteries, and, as a lottery pro-
moter, is an active competitor with war
loans. So is the State Labor Govern-
ment in Queensland, and so are the State
Labor Governments in Westralia and
Tasmania, though the lottery business in
those States is not an avowed branch of
Government “enterprise.” Considering that
all along a vast number of people have pre-
ferred gambling in lotteries to investing
in war loans and that the filling of war
loans is always a struggle, it might be
expected that the exercise of this prefer-
ence would be withdrawn from lottery
gamblers while the next war loan is on
the market. But no ; lotteries are to go
on ; it is the Red Cross, the Comforts
Fund, the Salvation Army, hospitals and
the like that are to suffer.
The “reason” given for this disgraceful
discrimination is that State Treasurers
budget for lottery profits and would be
financially embarrassed if they had to do
without them while war loans are being
floated. The “reason” doesn’t apply to
Victoria and South Australia, which don’t
run lotteries, and it is grossly false in its
application to N. S. Wales and Queens-
land. So much money is rolling into the
Treasuries in those States, especially from
the Commonwealth in income tax and pay-
ment for services, that they could dispense
with lotteries altogether. The two State
Governments are not only declaring huge
surpluses, but hoarding up mammoth
amounts for post-war expenditure.
N.S.W. surpluses have averaged over a
million a year for three years, and in
1942-43 an additional £4,909,100 was
passed into the railway reserve account.
The sickening orgy of gambling on
horse-racing also competes with war
loans, and, while punters can make
thousand-pound wagers in cash and no
questions asked, all sorts of restrictions,
among them an obligation to • in-
vest in war loans, are imposed on the man
who wants to pay the equivalent for a
house. There could be no greater stimu-
lus to war loans than a blunt announce-
ment that all forms of gambling are off
until the current war loan is in no danger
of being undersubscribed; but Labor,
having become a prey to deadly material-
ism, and being without imagination where
serving soldiers and prisoners of war are
concerned, has other views.
The dead limit of this materialism was
reached when it was announced, synchro-
nously with Mr. Churchill’s revelation of
the destruction and damage wrought by
the flying bombs in six or seven weeks—
-4735 persons killed, 14,000 injured, 17,000
houses destroyed and 800,000 damaged—
that “the opening of a fund in Sydney to
aid the victims” had been “deferred” as
“injudicious” because of “the number ®f
appeals before the public and because
of the Federal Government’s request that
no new appeal should be organised during
the loan campaign.” Injudicious —good
God!
A Premature iirth.
It is claimed by Yes-men that the
referendum proposals were agreed to by
the Constitutional Convention at Can-
berra in November, 1942. Here, accord-
ing to Noel Adams, of Adelaide “Adver-
tiser,” is what happened:
The Convention was called to discuss a
powers bill submitted by Dr. Evatt to Par-
liament in October. When it met Dr. Evatt
withdrew this bill and submitted another,
which was dropped almost at once.
Mr. Fadden, holding that a referendum
was inopportune, moved for an elected
convention. Mr. Cosgrove (Tas.) suggested
as a compromise that “agreed additional
powers should be transferred from States
to Commonwealth.” The Convention
accepted this and appointed Dr. Evatt,
W. M. Hughes and the State Premiers
as a drafting committee.
The draft bill was presented to Conven-
tion at' 2.15 p.m. on Wednesday, December 2.
By 6.15 p.m. it had been adopted: the
14 points, which none but the members of
the draft’ committee had seen, were passed in
quick succession. At 6.25 p.m. Mr. Curtin
declared the Convention closed and the
delegates caught the train that night.
And on August 19 the nation is asked
to adopt this premature child, carelessly
conceived and hurriedly delivered.
PRIORITY (?)
“It’s a cable from Sydney: ‘Robot bomb fund deferred; lotteries must go on!'”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. C. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Making
your will?
of
UNAFPt&I
mi
ssl^f
r«£
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
[For Referendum matter, J. E, Webb and
David Adams, 252 George-street North, Sydney,
are responsible.]
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Street*,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
Parliamentary hands are still wonder-
ing what was in Curtin’s mind when he
said “This is not my referendum.” It
has been remarked that he is always on
the Treasury Bench when Dr. Evatt gets
up, though extending this compliment (or
whatever it is) to no other Minister. And
he is letting the Attorney-General do
most of the platform work, his own share
being surprisingly small.
Forde, not Curtin, is speaking in the
West for the referendum. It is a wonder
they didn’t send him all round the North
to whip up the soldiers’ vote.
“Over a long period,” Playford said
on July 30, “coal stocks have been rapidly
dwindling, and our reserves are just over
one week’s supply. And this difficult posi-
tion is not confined to South Australia:
reserves in New South Wales and Vic-
toria are as precarious.” Then he revealed
that “important traffic on Commonwealth
railways would have been held up this
week if we hadn’t met the emergency out
of our meagre supplies.” At the same time
Curtin spoke severely to the N.S.W.
miners. Production loss for the ensuing
week: a trifle of 33,000 tons.
Melbourne police wasted no time in
putting into effect the weapon given them
by Parliament for squelching the “clubs”
that indulge in baccarat and other means
of separating idiots from their money.
Raids were made in city and suburbs, a
door was broken down with a sledge-
hammer and 23 men and 17 women were
taken to the watchhouse. Included in a
mixed bag were Albanians, Lebanese,
Italians, Russians and Australians.
The N. S. Welsh learned with some
astonishment that during the scare period
in 1942 an Adelaide man, Dr. Madigan,
was N.S.W. Controller of Denial of Re-
sources to the Enemy. Still, they needn’t
worry; they have plenty of home-grown
controllers of denial of resources to Aus-
tralia.
Over 4700 killed, 14,000 injured, 17,000
“houses” destroyed and 800,000 damaged
—and they weren’t all houses by any
means. That is what the English suffered
during 6i weeks of flying-bomb bar-
barism. Yet this Labor-controlled coun-
try, safe from danger of enemy attack,
enjoying good food, high pay, easy work-
ing conditions and whips of commer-
cialised sport, is not even sending 'hem
the promised quotas of butter and meat,
let alone a bit of coal.
As “S.M.H.” sees it:
The Commonwealth would do well to in-
vestigate most thoroughly the instigators
of the strike movement to ascertain
whether the people of Portland are not
being deliberately exploited by elements
whose aim is to wreck democratic govern-
ment.
The only active elements in this country
who have that aim are Communists.
Why doesn’t Granny say so? She was
not so squeamish in other days.
Heffron, the N.S.W. Minister of Educa-
tion, and McGuinness, president of the
Teachers’ Federation, bit solidly when
Fadden said the N.S.W. teaching service
was “white-anted” with Communists.
They denied it. But parents have an un-
easy feeling that Fadden hasn’t been;
answered.
Somebody ought to get a house out
of all the authorities dabbling in housing.
A rough survey revealed this list: Com-
monwealth Housing Commission, De-
partment of Post-war Reconstruction,
Department of the Interior, War Workers’
Housing Trust, Department of Labor and
National Service, State Housing Commis-
sions and shire and municipal councils,
to say nothing of various architectural
and building organisations. But men like
Dampney, with his concrete house, and
Newton, with his stainless-steel ideas,
can’t get a hearing. Neither, it seems,
can the men who wants to build a house,
for W. 0.1. and Man-power also have a
say.
Announced that an English producer
will soon start work on a film of the
cattie drive across Australia from the
Kimberleys to N.Q. It is hoped to film
a New South Wales coalminer at work to
show the difference between moving and
still-life.
“S. M. Herald” is still so kind to
Curtin that it complimented him on his
go-back-to-your-jobs National Security
order to the strikers at Portland, though
it was tardily issued and boisterously
defied. But the Packer-Theodore papers
are leaping on their late idol, and Men-
zies is watching their acrobatics with
obvious relish. He grasped the oppor-
tunity to remind them of “the most
humorous feature” of “the worthless
“THE REVOLUTION IS DEVOURING ITS CHILDREN .”
“The Germans are not happy. They are being attacked on the Eastern Front, in
Italy, in Normandy; and now, boiling up in their stomachs, comes a deadly
quarrel." — Churchill.
guarantee of freedom of religion and
speech in the referendum proposals” and
its origins:
It was inserted after a certain section
of the press had pointed out the necessity
for it. One newspaper which had advocated
the insertion was delighted when Dr. Evatt
agreed to it. A fortnight later that news-
paper was closed by the Government be-
cause of a dispute with the censorship.
All things come to a much-injured poli-
tician who waits.
The P.M. was observed watching the
Footscray-Collingwood football match in
Melbourne on Saturday. There were
two teams of 18 men, each lot with oppos-
ing ideas, yet every time things tended to
get out of hand a man blew a whistle,
all hands obeyed him and got on with the
game. It must have filled the P.M. with
envy.
Menzies is right: “There was a time in
Australia when a Government that braz-
enly took scores of thousands of pounds
out of the Treasury without Parliamentary
appropriation to use it for partisan pur-
poses in a campaign would have been
hounded out of office.” And it would
be only a step from taking the scores
of thousands out of the Treasury to debit-
ing the taxpayer with a princely present
for Haylen, M.H.R., reputed author ol
those ghastly advertisements in which
electors are bidden to visualise marching
soldiers as unemployed.
In Sydney the other day a girl of 12
was married to her “dancing partner,
more than twice her age, and there was
tremendous indignation in parsonages,
newspaper offices and other places. No
Labor politician jnentioned that the
shocking business could have been pre-
vented by recourse to legislative powers
which have been in the Commonwealth
Constitution from the beginning:
Section 51; subsection 21: Marriage.
Subsection 22: Divorce and matrimonial
causes; and in relation thereto, parental
rights and the custody and guardianship
of infants.
For fear of alienating votes, this part of
the Constitution which is alleged to be
so defective has never once been invoked.
From a dismal splurge of type in the
“new” Melbourne “Argus”:
HELP FOR AUSTRALIA-SOVIET
HOUSE.
Public response so far to the appeal for
£5OOO for materials, furnishings and equip-
ment had not fulfilled the committee’s
expectations, Mrs. Stuart Brown, secretary,
said The “Argus” will receive and
acknowledge donations.
It appeared in the same issue as a cabled
account of “one of the heaviest and most
sustained attacks yet made” by the
horrors that fly by day and night over
“southern England,” every one of which,
as has been computed from Churchill’s
grim figures, bomb-blasts “more than 150
houses,” besides the devilish destruction
caused; “six hospitals were hit or dam-
aged,” the “Argus” cable said. But there
was no statement that the “new” “Argus”
would “receive and acknowledge dona-
tions” in that pressing cause. The “old”
“Argus” would have opened a fund like
a shot and, since Victorians, though cold
to “Australia-Soviet House,” never fail
to dip generously into their purses when
their hearts are touched, subscriptions
would have streamed in.
Invited to Melbourne University to
speak on the referendum, Dedman “was
greeted with the singing of ‘Why Was He
Born So Beautiful?’” and “apple stalks,
orange peel, pennies, halfpennies and
hard-boiled eggs were pelted on the plat-
form.” A rotten way to treat any guest
speaker, let alone an old soldier. Ded-
man could have reminded the rowdies
(though he didn’t) that British boys of
are fighting in Normandy. Many older
university students, particularly in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, have not only been
exempted from military duties but are
receiving Commonwealth subsidies, and
the least they can do is to behave.
Edgar Ansel Mowrer, the Famous
Correspondent, enlightening the English-
speaking world:
Normandy and Brittany are the two most
conservative provinces in all of France.
Normandy is stodgy with good living.
Brittany is soaked with reactionary clerical-
ism.
All the same, our fellows seem to have
found the Normans and the Bretons rather
cordial. Something seems to have gone
wrong with the Mowrer intelligence
system.
Montgomery feinted with his left,
swung with his right and then launched
a two-fisted attack from which the enemy
reeled away. Meanwhile F. Ehrenfried
Baume, who when every Digger that got
away from Greece and Crete was singing
the praises of the Royal Navy objected to
British battleships being kept as “show-
pieces,” had a crack at him:
Only two London newspapers headlined
the stark truth that Montgomery had been
kicked in the tail at Caen with the loss of
fine British and Canadian lives: “Daily
Mirror” and “Sketch.” “Daily Herald”
went so far as to “deal” with the news of
the British setback in only 50 lines at the
bottom of the front page.
It’s a wonder Ehrenfried has escaped
being “kicked in the tail.”
Canberra has grown accustomed,
though not reconciled, to being criti-
cised by the Chicago “Tribune” and
Hearst papers, but it will be uneasy when
it finds Roosevelt among the critics. At
Tehran, according to a “Saturday Even-
ing Post” writer, “Mr. Roosevelt favored
the enlargement and extension of the
mandate principle into something he
called trusteeship.”
The mandate method of dealing with
areas not capable of self-government had
proved inadequate, in his opinion, because
of insufficient restraint on the mandatory
Powers. In the absence of sustained over-
sight or supervision, such Powers came in
time to regard the mandated territories as
part of their national domains. This was so
with the Australasians in Oceania and the
French in Syria.
As well, of course, as the Japs. In point
of fact, Australia gave so much con-
sideration to the League as the supervis-
ing authority that Canberra never even
thought of defending the Mandated
islands, though McNicoll and “Ek Dum”
and the settlers did.
According to Butterworth’s Income
Tax Law, Federal electorates have been
classified and members’ income-tax de-
ductions fixed accordingly. They range
from £l5O to £450 for the year as allow-
ance for “general expenses incidental to
the holding of Parliamentary positions.
For Senators the amount is £250.
Taxation on a Federal member’s full
salary of £lOOO (if he had no dependants)
would be £355 Bs. On £550, the amount re-
maining after allowing for “general ex-
penses,” £450, it is only £157 125., a
saving of nearly £2OO a year.
Nice work, when free travelling on trains,
trams and buses is chucked in.
Australia has had few more interesting
and inspiring explorers than Nelson T.
Johnson. Having formed a very high
opinion of South Westralia, the U.S.
Minister set out on a 2500-mile tour oi
the N.T. with Administrator Abbott, and
returned saying he had seen no Dead Heart
but “an awful lot of marvellous coun-
try,” with the prospect of another Omaha
or even Chicago at Newcastle Waters.
“Migrants,” he said when the word was
mentioned ; “what do you want migrants
for? It’s a job for your youth cooped
up in the cities —your youth can do what
we did in Oklahoma.” So far, the repat-
riation ideas of Labor politicians and
their economists, sophisters and calcula-
tors concern only “developments” in and
about parts of the coastal fringe.


Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
On a short-leave visit to his home town,
Melbourne, Baron J. Snider, who has
been helping Kaiser, the builder of
Liberty ships. Snider’s job is planning
for the safety of the workers. After
a special course at the University of Cali-
fornia, he was taken on by the California
Shipbuilding CQrporation, three months
later was chosen by the U.S. War Produc-
tion Board to attend a training course,
was lent by Kaiser to other war plants,
and was a special delegate to the U.S.
Maritime Commission’s conference at
Chicago on safety devices for the whole
shipbuilding industry.
“El Verdugo” classifies a rare species:
o Wood, of the Parsonage Hall, Bures,
Suffolk, England, is first of all a musician, as
witness his degree as doctor of Music (Oxon),
his former situations as Director of Music at
Tunbridge School, Precentor at Exeter Col-
lege, Oxford, and membership of the Board
of Examiners for Musical Degrees at Oxford.
WOOD WALTZING MATILDA.
Secondly, Jie is a troubadour, a fact vouched
ior by his itineraries, his F.R.J his clubs—
Athenaeum, Savile, Chelsea Arts (Hon.) and
Royal Empire Society—his publications, which
are Imperial in their scope, and his predilection
for “Waltzing Matilda,” which is the kind of
song an Imperial Troubadour might make his
staple. He has published “Forty Singing Sea-
men,” the Tunbridge School and Oxford Song
Books, the incidental music to Clemence
Dane’s “With Shakspeare” and 60 or so small
works for voice, piano, organ, wood-wind and
military and brass bands. Son of a ' master
mariner, roving was in his blood from the be-
ginning and it is Australia’s good fortune that
his wanderings brought him here, where he
discovered “Waltzing Matilda” and displayed
it to the world for what' it was. He wrote a
friendly book about us {Cobbers), was elected
specialist on Australia by the British Ministry
of Information in 1939 on the outbreak of war;
wrote another work about us (Cobbers Cam-
paigning), proceeds of which went to the Aus-
tralian Red Cross. He is now in Australia on
behalf of the British Government as an am-
bassador of goodwill and as expositor of the
British war effort. And he has made a very
good job of his mission, which, to date, has
taken him round the continent' and to New
Guinea, where his ability as a raconteur made
a hit with the troops. Last month a flying bomb
landed on the front doorstep of his home in
Suffolk, but the fifteenth-century English oak
stood the shock. He himself seems to regard
the attempt on his house as a mere trivial
incident in a troubadour’s life.
Isaac Isaacs, who reached 89 on Sunday,
was born in Elizabeth-street in the heart
of Melbourne and started in a small way
as a lad of 15 in the Vic. Education De-
partment.
When President of the Philippines
Manuel Quezon died last week in
America of t.b., Sydney had a column
of smart-aleck comment on the “playboy-
statesman’s” disease and death, with
Death figuring in a “tough pursuit” of
“the little Filipino,” who “proved as
elusive as quicksilver.” President Roose-
velt, who knew Quezon well and liked
him, commented: “His death came at a
time when the nation he loved and for
whose welfare he labored for many years
is in the hands of the Japanese invader.
We will always remember Dr. Quezon
with admiration and affection.” When
MacArthur was battling to hold the
Philippines Quezon stood to him with all
the help he could muster, and after the
fight had been lost he was for a month or
so with the American leader in Aus-
tralia, crossing to the U.S.A. to head the
Philippines Government-in-exile. First
President of the Philippines Common-
wealth, Quezon had held that post since
1935. Though a sick man for many of his
66 years, he did more than anyone else
towards securing his country the inde-
pendence which was promised by Uncle
Sam for next year, the promise holding
good for the time when the Philippines
are taken back from the Japs.
William Baragwanath, Director of Geo-
logical Survey in Victoria, goes into retire-
ment shortly, though without depriving
the State of his wealth of experience alto-
gether, since he will function in an ad-
visory capacity. The Victorian
mine he hasn’t been down a
dozen times hasn’t been dug yet,
and he has written a raft of
books and brochures on his sub-
ject. Born at Durham Head,
Ballarat, in 1878, Baragwanath
was educated at Victoria College
and the School of Mines, Bal-
larat, was a pupil of Robert
Allan, mining and land surveyor,
and has been in geological sur-
vey since 1897.
Away back in 1884 Arthur
Barltrop and Victor Drury were
together in the Easter encamp-
ment of the old No. 1 Battery,
Queensland Field Artillery. The
other Saturday they met again,
on the bowling green at Brigh-
ton, Sandgate '(Q.), as members
of the same rink in the club’s
championship fours —and won
their heat or end or whatever it
is bowlers win.
William Perry, Maoriland's
Minister of Armed Forces and
War Co-ordination, has been
made hon. life member of the
N.Z.R.S.A. for good services over many
years to returned men. He’s himself a
veteran of the 1914-18 war,'which cost
him an arm.
Another South Australian, Frank
Goldby, follows the late Professor J. H.
Gray, of Adelaide Uni., into the Chair of
Anatomy at London University. Elder
Professor of Anatomy and Histology at
Adelaide, a Fellow of Queen’s College
and former lecturer in anatomy at Cam-
bridge, Goldby is the prof, who became
widely noted for his researches into the
comparative anatomy of the brains of
Australian mammals—the four-legged
type.
MacArthur on Major Reg Leonard,
founder and editor of “Guinea Gold”:
“Your ability, industry and self-sacrifice
have contributed largely to the success of
the paper, which has become an indispen-
sable factor in maintaining the morale of
our troops.” Leonard, a Melbourne jour-
nalist who joined the R.A.A.F., estab-
lished its Public Relations Directorate
and later became a war correspondent in
the Pacific, was asked by General Blarney
to start a paper in order to keep the
troops in touch with home and the world.
“Guinea Gold” is published in editions at
Lae and Moresby, and American and
Australian troops receive it daily.
After 21 years as maths, lecturer at
Adelaide Uni., Harold William Sanders
steps up in place of the late Professor
J. R. Wilton. S.A.-born, and a collector
of scholarships, Sanders was dux of St
Peter’s College, and at Adelaide Uni. in
1912 gamed his B.A. with first-class
honors in maths, and the 1851 science re-
search bursary. After several years as
lecturer in maths, and physics at W.A.
Uni., he went to Cambridge in 1920, and
in addition to his M.A., collected a
scholarship in maths, and the Alan Bodey
prize for applied mathematics. He’s 51.
Maurice E. Goldstein, who’s been 20
years an Australian citizen, and seven-
years-resident Lagos Steiner, with whom
Goldstein has been, battling for the
N.S.W. chess championship, are old
antagonists. In the big London chess
tournament of 1923 Steiner, as champion
of Hungary, met Goldstein, representing
Britain. Steiner is graded with the
masters ; he drew with Flohr in Prague in
1931 and beat the Russian champ.
Bogolgobov in Berlin in a game in which
the Russian took two hours to think
out one move. Local-borns who match
close to Steiner and Goldstein are C. J. S.
Purdy, several times N.S.W. and once
Australian champion, and, Harry Klass.
Harry Shippe Truman, Democratic
nominee for Vice-President, was born on
a farm near Kansas City. Failing because
of weak eyesight to get to West Point,
he started work in a drugstore, trans-
ferred to the publishing room of the
Kansas City “Star,” was a bank clerk and
then went back to the land. In 1917
he was in France with the U.S. 12th Field
Artillery, was made a captain, fought
through St. Mihiel and the Argonne and
came out a major. After that war he
tried shopkeeping, then became a road
overseer, got an administrative job in the
judiciary and was elected to the Senate
in 1934. When the U.S.A. took the
gloves off to the Japs, Truman urged his
country to keep an eye on war contrac-
tors, and the Truman Committee (Senate
Committee Investigating National De-
fence) has wielded great power.
Charlie Lucas, the Hobart shipwright
whose name is associated with the Forster
Cup wins of the Tassie yacht, has cele-
brated his 80th birthday. Lucas began
building boats as a lad, and half a cen-
tury ago started his own yard at Battery
Point, building ketches and yachts. He
built the original Tassie in six weeks,
and she and her successors won 11 of the
18 Forster Cup races held between 1920
and 1939. After a Royal Yacht Club
function in his honor, Lucas went to
work in the morning on a 60ft. trawler
he is helping to build.
When he isn’t trying to “kiss kitty” on
the greens, Arthur W. Jones, new presi-
dent of N.S.W. Bowling Association, is
sales manager for Elliotts and Austra-
lian Drug Co. Jones has been a vice-
president of the bowlers and chairman
of the pennant committee for many years.
He isn’t sure whether “old age or in-
creasing piety” turned him from cricket
to bowls, but it’s certain that his work
in State cricket won’t be forgotten for a
long time. One of his monuments is the
Pratten Park oval, and as chairman of
the grade committee of N.S.W. Cricket
Association he occupied pretty much the
same position as pennant chairman for
the bowlers. On the rink he plays for
North Sydney club. He has three sons
A. W. JONES.
serving and one, Sergeant Alan Jones,
A.1.F., was a p.o.w. in Germany, where,
under the Red Cross scheme, he took
honors in French and German and an
A in English, English literature and
maths. He has since been repatriated.
F. W. Coneybeer, a former Speaker of
S.A. Assembly, has, at 84, been re-elected
president of the Cyclists’ Rifle Club. He
claims to have missed only two of its
annual meetings in 45 years.
Flying-Officer Alex. Sanders, D.F.C.,
D.F.M., is back in Adelaide after three
years in England and sporadic visits to
points east with the R.A.A.F. In his 50
air voyages over Europe were 16 calls
on Berlin, during which the crew of the
aircraft dropped mementoes. Sanders,
with his mother and brother, was raising
fat lambs at Virginia, just out of Adel-
SANDERS, D.F.C., D.F.M.
aide, before the war and made a name
for himself as an amateur rider, a tradi-
tion of the family. His late father was
Master of Adelaide Hunt Club, and be-
fore taking to the higher flights Sanders
himself had won 11 flights over steeples.
Captain R. J. M. Pescott, curator of
Melbourne’s National Museum in suc-
cession to D. J. Mahony, has returned
from service in New Guinea, where he
saw in their live and more flamboyant
state many of the beasts, birds, butterflies
and insects for which the institution is
noted. A specialist in bugs, Captain Pes-
cott belongs to the younger generation of
scientists who have come out of the State
service.
“Cauboy”: Stephen Morell (B.
12/7/’44) was an inveterate smoker. He
Was on the corner of Bourke and Swan-
ston streets one afternoon when an anti-
tobacco crank approached him. “What
did you pay for that cigar, sir?” he was
asked. * “Sixpence.’’ “How many cigars
do you smoke a day?” “Fifteen.” “And
how many years have you been smok-
ing?” “Twenty.” “Do you realise, sir,
that if you had saved all the seven-and-
sixpences you have sent up in smoke,
you might be owning that hotel?” “I
do own it,” said Morell. It was the Orient
(now Foy and Gibson’s store).
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at' 89, Francois Vanderkelen,
Consul for Belgium for 25 years, retiring from
that post in 1917. He arrived in Melbourne in
1880 as special envoy of the Belgian Govern-
ment, entered into business and stayed. A
music-lover, he was one of the committee that
sent Melba to study under Marchesi. Nephew
Rene Vanderkelen is the present Consul.
In Adelaide, Alfred Augustus Scarfe, pastor-
alist, and former captain of Royal Adelaide
golf club.
In Adelaide, at 58, Walter Davies Price, g.m.
of the Government Produce Department,
Deputy Controller df Meat Supplies and chair-
man of S.A. Meat Board. Known to old
Diggers as Wally, he won the M.C., was presi-
dent of the 43rd Battalion Club, and first presi-
dent of S.A.R.S.L. He was a son of former
S.A. Premier Tom Price (“Tell the boys to
pull together”) and a brother of Jack Price,
former M.H.R. for Boothby—both brothers died
suddenly.
In England, Alex. McConachie, organist and
choirmaster at Christ Church, St. Kilda, for
15 years.
At Wanganui (M.L.), at 89, George Maurice
Evans, leading horse-owner and trainer half a
century ago, and a brother of the late Dowager
Countess of Seafield, who lived with her hus-
band, Ogilvie Grant, in the Oamaru district.
One of Evans’s nephews, born in Oamaru, is
the present Baron Strathspey, chief of the Clan
Grant.
At 74, John Henry Howell, a schoolmaster
who left his imprint on techical education in
Maoriland. An Englishman, he studied at
British, German and Swiss universities and had
degrees in Arts and Science. He was director
first of Christchurch Technical College
(1906-19) and then at Wellington (1919-31).
He visited the U.S.A., Canada, Britain and
Australia to keep abreast of new developments.
A Quaker, he lived up to his creed, kindly,
wise and capable, to the end.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“El Madjal”: During his visit to Italy
the King is reported to have “pinned”
Victoria Crosses on three soldiers. If he
did this he is not following his dad’s
example. In fine weather during the last
war investitures took place in the open
courtyard in front of Buckingham Palace,
and gloves were worn by all parties, in-
cluding the King himself. Those sum-
moned to attend assembled in one of the
rooms of the Palace and were drafted
alphabetically and according to decora-
tions, V.Cs. being first, followed by
D.S.Os. and other awards according to
precedence. Palace attendants then affixed
small flat hooks between the tunic and
medal ribbons, if the latter were worn,
and, if not, in the seam made by the top
-of the flap of the left-hand breast pocket.
When everything was set, those concerned
went up a ramp in single file to a dais,
where the King was standing with his
equerries. On reaching the dais each
turned to the left, took a pace forward
and saluted. The award was “hung”
on to the hook on the breast by the bar
of a safety-pin brooch at the top of the
decoration ribbon. The King then shook
gloved hands with the recipient, who took
a pace back, saluted again and turned to
the right down another ramp. At the
bottom of this ramp other attendants
whisked decoration and hook off his
chest, placed the former in a morocco
case, like a jewel case, handed it to its
owner, and the ceremony was over.
* * % V
“Mnemo”: An American padre got a
laugh out of a Maoriland audience when
describing an experience of U.S. troops
in the Solomons. At a church service in
one of the villages the native choir aston-
ished the soldiers by part-singing “The
Star Spangled Banner” and getting
through the whole three verses from
memory, something, the padre said, which
was more than any American of his ac-
quaintance could do. Before joining in
the laugh, though, let’s consider how
many Britons can remember the words
of their own anthem. All I have spoken
to not only have no more than a hazy
idea on that subject, but are not prepared
to bet as to how many verses there are.
Of course, such memory lapses are com-
monplace. Most people in British com-
munities are steeped, in youth, in the
Lord’s Prayer and the Twenty-third
Psalm, but 20 years later it is rare for
any but the staunchest churchgoers to
remember accurately more than a phrase
or two of the psalm or the first few words
of the prayer. The Anglo-Saxon race is
not very attentive to its most respected
rituals.
* * * *
“Zake”: In the film “The Great Mr.
Handel” a phase of the composer’s life
featured is his rivalry in the operatic
sphere with Buononcini. Many, includ-
ing the loutish Prince of Wales, whose
withdrawal of patronage led to Handel’s
bankruptcy, preferred the Italian. The
controversy over their respective merits
was perpetuated in the lines of John
Byrom:
Some say, compared to Buononcini,
That Mynheer Handel’s but a ninny;
Others aver that he to Handel
' Is scarcely fit to hold a candle.
Strange all this difference should be
’Twixt Tweedledum and Tweedledee.
Later Buononcini found it convenient to
leave London, having failed to defend
himself against a charge of producing as
a prize-madrigal of his own a composi-
tion which proved to be by Lotti; and
for a decade Handel had a clear field in
his operatic ventures. Handel wrote 40
operas, none of which is ever played
now ; nor is any opera written by his
rival ever given an airing.
* * * *
“Petermac”: Living embodiments of
the adage “An old dog for a hard road”
are the A.l.F.’s Corps Guard battalions.
Better known as the “Olds and Bolds,”
“the toothless and ruthless, the hair-
less and fearless,” they mainly consist
of Old Diggers with a sprinkling. of
recruits over age for front-line service.
Despite all Army regulations about service
age, they were in the thick of it in Greece
and did a grand job. Duties, apart from
sporadic scrapping, consist of guarding
divisional h.q., compounds, etc. Some of
the C.G. have since seen service in New
Guinea, and their discipline is recognised
as the strictest in the A.I.F.
* * * *
“Caballer”: There is an old Gallipoli
custom that might be copied bv the bov«.
in N.G. —the name of a man’s home town
“It’s the very best spot I could find for your tent, Sergeant-major ”
printed on the front of his hat. Around
the Anzac gullies you would meet
“Coogee,” “Cairns” or “Cottesloe,” and
hundreds of Diggers got in touch with
cobbers that way. I suppose G.H.Q.
objected, but nobody minded much
in those days. With one excep-
tion —the R.S.M. took a dim view
of the custom when a bright spirit
had the happy thought to persuade
a gang of Maltese laborers on the beach
to print the R.S.M.’s home town, Booli-
gal, on the front of every hat in the gang.
* * * *
“Visitor”: Adelaide, after being with-
out horse cabs for six years, has granted
permits for three. The idea is that they
will be called on mainly by workers (or
revellers) during the after-midnight hours
when petrol-saving regulations hit the
ordinary taxi very hard. One of the
new cabbies announces his hours as
2 p.m. to 5 a.m.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Sidney Fleisher, the
U.S. Negotiator for the Authors’ League,
who was placed first on the 1943 list of
high-salaried Americans with 645,000
dollars, was misrepresented. The income-
tax office credited his income with the
money he collected on behalf of writers.
He says he would be happy if he got
10 p.c. of that figure. Literary agents
are to be commiserated with, not envied.
I have had dealings with several and
found them diligent, persistent, extrac ~di-
narily conscientious and asking little for
the bother they save you. An MS. of
mine which one agent sent the rounds
of the publishers was rejected by dozens
who said it wasn’t worth consideration.
When it was accepted by one it proved
the best seller of the season in its class.
The Way the agent maintained his hope
in my little brainchild through all these
disappointments earned my admiration,
especially as I had given it up for dead
myself and had metaphorically buried it
long since.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: A Melbourne
woman asked me where she could take
her daughter, aged six, to see a nice, excit-
ing animal picture (cinema, of course).
Having a vague memory’ of a poster, I
suggested “Captive Wild Woman” at the
Liberty Theatre. After the pair had gone
off to revel in “C.W.W.” I read a critic's
description of the film. A mad scientist
injects some substance into the veins of
a gorilla which turns it into a beautiful
woman with the normal savagery of her
sex, plus the brute strength and instincts
of her animal nature. I am still waiting
(with dread) to hear from the mother.
He * * *
“Borborygmus”: The “fairy story”—
as “Bob” (B. 26/ 7/’44) calls it —about
olive oil keeping the “fumes” of alcohol
from rising to the brain has more scien-
tific basis than he imagines. The idea of
the fumes rising directly to the brain is
a myth, as “Bob” says ; but the oil will
prevent the alcohol from getting into the
circulation quickly. It does not simply
lie on top of the mist. stim. but must
be distributed throughout the stomach, as
that organ undergoes a continuous sort
of churning action when there is any-
thing in it. “The effect of this will be to
emulsify part of the alcohol along with
the water content of the booze, and also
to spread a thin layer of the oil over the
lining of the stomach, thus slowing down
the absorption of the alcohol. This
absorption will be slowed down still more
according to the amount of other food
in the stomach. However, to give any
really marked benefit the oil would prob-
ably have to be taken volume for volume
with the drink, a prospect that does not
appeal.
* * * *
“Arter”: That very vigorous painter
William Dobell, who seems to have
achieved in Australia (on our necessarily
smaller scale) the same hotly-disputed
eminence as Jacob Epstein climbed to in
Britain through a few audacious chisel-
strokes, is a bit of a problem for the
local high priests of “modernism.” He
doesn’t regard himself as an occupant of
that galley, and, indeed, is sufficiently
competent to win compliments from
strongly anti-“modernist” critics on his
craftsmanship. I think the “S.M.H.”
critic rather squibs the issue:
Dobell stresses in order to express a
psychological conception, and if finally he
succeeds only in revealing himself it is a
tendency peculiar to all art The “sub-
ject” is always of importance in his work,
because it is through the subject that he
establishes those harmonies which others
derive from a more generalised contempla-
tion. Rather than being a pretext for his
ideas it becomes the main reason and sole
inspiration. And on occasion, through
strong feeling and characterisation, an art
of unusual veracity is born.
I take it that this means that your true
“modernist” regards the scene before him
merely as a peg on which to hang a self-
revelation, as to the veracity of which
he, as its creator, has every right to be
perfectly convinced. The painter who
like Velazquez, Rembrandt, Titian!
Michelangelo and Turner, doesn’t let his
inspiration interfere with the thing seen
appeals to a rather larger appreciative
audience, and such fellows must be put
in their places.
* * * *
“Cauboy” on the man from Phila-
delphia :
Watching Ormandy at rehearsal at the Town
Hall, Melbourne, it is easy to see how he
gets what he gets out of his orchestras. Like
every good conductor he has the power to focus
the attention of his team on the music. Those
who work under him soon come to believe that
he misses nothing, and they tell anecdotes to
prove it. During a rest on one occasion
Ormandy was engaged in an animated conver-
sation while the usual din of musicians prac-
tising their parts and tuning their instruments
was going on behind him. He suddenly turned
his head and said “That should be G sharp,
Mr. Snooks, not' G natural,” and went on with
his conversation. “And by cripes he was right,”
said the astounded musician later. Another, a
fine musician, approached the maestro after a
rehearsal and said “I’m sorry I didn’t do too
well, Mr. Ormandy. My instrument arrived by
’plane from Sydney this morning and I was
playing if for the first time.” “That’s how it
sounded,” said the conductor, walking away
without further comment. Ormandy was
genuine when he said that he would like to
take his orchestra back to U.S. but he didn’t
say it until he had done a bit of weeding.
He is in no way behind Beecham in his capa-
city for invective. “I didn’t travel 8000 miles
to conduct lethargic people,” he said, pointing
an accusing finger at a violinist. “You are
lazy.” Some of his Australian orchestrions
got such a fright that the fact that four or
five stayed away from one rehearsal on a plea
of ’flu was subsequently given a different ex-
planation—they had taken their instruments
home to practise.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: A relic of the Emden
has passed away in Melbourne —a Port
Lincoln parrot, the raider’s mascot. After
the Sydney scotched his ship at Cocos
Island he transferred to the Australian
cruiser, protesting vehemently in German.
He then took a shore job in the home of
a retired R.A.N. man, whose wife cared
for him till she died, when he went to
the Melbourne Zoo.
* * * *
“P.McM.”: Air-minded youths and
others to whom flying has become more
or less second nature will be interested
in the possibilities of Auster IV, a three-
seater monoplane which has been used
for liaison and spotting purposes by the
R.A.F. It has a four-cylinder Lycoming
engine that gives a speed of 130 m.p.h.
The ’plane’s overall length is only 22ft.,
and it weighs a mere 15cwt. —considerably
less than a heavy car. It does not require
an aerodrome ; it can leave the ground
from a standing start within 75yds.
and land at 20 m.p.h. Fuel capa-
city is 300 miles, and the ’plane does
20 miles to the gallon. Air-conditioning
and dual control are features. The type
is said to be exceptionally easy to fly and
can be mastered by the average car driver.
It can keep in the air at speeds as low as
40 m.p.h., and will probably be available
to the public after the war at the price of
a medium-sized automobile.
* * * *
“MJ.W,” unwinds some Pacific his-
tory :
The Bonin Islands, 500 miles south of the
main island of Japan, become targets for
American bombers, were originally British. On
June 14, 1827, Capt. Beechey, R.N., took pos-
session in the name of George IV. The islands
were colonised in 1930 by a group of people
from Honolulu, and the first Governor appointed
by the British was a Genoese, who died in 1848
after very ineffectual rule. The islanders then
appointed their own Governor, an American.
In 1861 the Japanese started to infiltrate and
after a year formally claimed the islands, on the
ground that they were first sighted by them
as far back as 1675 and had been in
their charts as “Buna Sima,” signifying an
island without a people.” British and Ameri-
cans were not interested, and the Japs moved
in in 1875.
* - * * *
“Binnacle” on the flags of the British
merchant marine:
The red ensign belonged first to the Navy, m
the days when the fleet was divided into three
squadrons, van, centre and rear, flying a rea,
a white and a blue flag respectively. _ the mer-
chant service had used the red ensign, under
authority, since 1674, and that authority was
confirmed in 1824, though the Navy continued
to use it till 1864. A merchant ship can fly tne
blue ensign only if her master and at lea*
seven oi her complement are members oi ui
R N.R. A tribute that thrilled the merchant
navy was paid in 1939, when the King hoisted
his standard in the liner Empress of Britain,
while the vessel flew the red ensign and not in
white ensign as always before. House nag
fly from the mainmast, and, except in a re
cases, are not flown at sea. A house flag wiu*
loads of tradition behind it is Hutchison s.
When the Moss and Hutchison fleets merge
the Hutchison , ships continued to fly tne'
old emblem—the French tricolor with a gree
thistle on the white. The Hutchison c .
rendered great service to France in the Franco
Prussian War of 1870, hence permission to
fly the French flag. Other companies were arm
larly rewarded in similar circumstances but a
a later date were requested to reverse the orut
of the stripes; Hutchison ships continued
before. As between the terms mercantile marine.
merchant service and merchant navy merchant
navy is, I believe, correct. During the last
King George V used the title “His Majesty
Merchant Navy,” and later rulers have .
by their words and actions that they r &.
merchantmen in that light also. In £
v j n tr George VI has shown that he rega.
men° of the merchant navy as on a par with til
fighting services.
FOR CARICATURISTS.
“A caricature gives the physiognomical details a
superficial exaggeration»for the purpose of ridicule.”
— “S. M. Herald’s” art critic.
A mouthful, there! Yet one would have pre-
ferred
To “ridicule” some less invidious word.
For its excision
I rise in substitution to present
“Mild and appreciative merriment”—
A thing emphatically different
From sheer derision.
Were I an artist, called upon to give
A humorous twist to some intriguing “chiv,”
What I’d be after
Would be so artfully my web to spin
That' those who viewed the work would find
therein
Material for a delighted grin,
Not scornful laughter.
To parody a poet’s tricks of trade
Is, I’ll admit, a task I’ve oft essayed
With cheerful ardor.
To parody a politician’s phiz
For ev’ryone to recognise as his
And vow how slyly, subtly like it is
May well be harder.
And yet I’d give one tip, a single tip,
To you whose forte lies in such craftsmanship:
Ere you indulge too much in crank and quip
And pencil spreeings,
Reflect that those celebrities you haul
Into the light and in cold print install,
With fearsome frames and features that appal,
Aren’t prehistoric freaks but, after all,
Just human beings.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Clooter”: About the time when the
Jap subs, invaded Sydney Harbor and
there were frequent alarms on the coast,
a V.D.C. post at Nowra caught flashes
on Bomaderry Heights and promptly
advised Sydney headquarters: “Morse
signalling on coast. Directed towards
sea.” It was midnight. Corps H.Q-
stirred up Ls. of C., which warned
Eastern Command. With military priority
clamped down on the line, the telephone
hummed:
Sydney to Nowra: Can you read the
signals?
Nowra: No.
S.: What language are they in?
N.: Don’t quite know. Man here knows
German says it isn’t that. We think it
may be Japanese.
Meantime the patrols that had been sent
out came back to report that the flashes
came from a hurricane lamp on the back
of a night cart. If you don’t believe it
read the V.D.C.’s official book On Guard.
* * * *
“Visitor”: The troubles of Max Harris,
youngest of the Angry Penguins,
didn’t end with the “Era Malley” hoax.
He wrote in the Adelaide Uni. weekly
paper an article, “East Lynne at Uncle
Tom’s Cabin,” which annoyed Patricia
Hackett, a fine amateur actress, and the
wrong sort of person to annoy. A
daughter of Winthrop Hackett, whose
name will always be associated with the
“West Australian” and the Perth Univer-
sity, and with a great deal of her father’s
talent and spirit, Miss Hackett accom-
panied her mother to Adelaide when the
widowed Hackett lady became the Moul-
den lady, and remained there as a lawyer.
She put the matter in the hands of Abbott,
K.C. When he had “settled” it Harris
was advertising his regrets for “a gross
and malicious libel... .untruthful state-
ment... .fictitious statement about
printer’s errors being responsible.....
deeply and most sincerely deplore.... .sin-
cerely and humbly apologise.. . .grateful
to her for discontinuing her action against
me and for declining to accept any dam-
ages.” Surely the most comprehensive
crawl on record,
* * * *
“Mid - Channel”: “Magister” (B.
19/7/’44) suffers “flicks on a tender
spot” very easily. The conjunction “like”
used by Churchill is much more emphatic
than the commonplace “as,” more
especially when a simile is needed. What
is infinitely more conducive to “flicks” is
the manner in which such nouns as “con-
tact” have been dragged from their purely
objective case, governed by a preposition,
and converted into transitive verbs, e.g.,
“I contacted So-and-so.” It won’t be
long before we have the noun “guest”
distorted the same way—“l guested
him.” A friend who speaks Eng-
lish, French, Dutch, Italian, Spanish and
German tells me the English language is
easily the most expressive and compre-
hensive of all, so there seems to be no
justification for such distortions.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Tell “Emmakell” (B.
28/6/’44) that in my reference to the
disinclination of the early Colonial Ad-
ministrations to call transported con-
victed persons “convicts” I referred
explicitly to Government documents;
which his ship’s cargo manifest definitely
is not. With the exception possibly of
the First Fleet, Crown prisoners were
brought to Australia almost exclusively
in vessels under charter to the authori-
ties. In such cases the manifest naturally
would be made out in the shipowner’s
name and delivered to the charge of
die captain or perhaps the supercargo if
the ship carried one, and so would have
nothing whatever to do with the Govern-
ment officials on board: the doctor, who
had charge of the welfare and discipline
of the prisoners, and the commandant
and lesser officers in charge of the neces-
sary military guard. In those days the
lash was perhaps applied overfreely to
the backs of deliquents and others ; but
nevertheless there was always a certain
restraint in all writings dealing with the
transportation, imprisonment and dis-
ciplining of such unfortunates.
$ * * *
“Curtin Raiser”: Melbourne’s city
fathers can thank the Rationing Commis-
sion and similar bodies for the extra-
ordinary tolerance and orderliness of the
longest queue in Melbourne’s history on
the Sunday when Lud Mayor Nettlefold
provided and Eugene Ormandy conducted
a free concert at the Town Hall. Mel-
bourne queueists have been so inured to
disappointment at tobacco kiosks and
other places that when it became evident
that not more than one-third of the musi-
cally-minded python, which stretched five
deep from the portals of the Town Hall
along Swanston-street, up Little Collins-
street into Russell-street and thence along
that thoroughfare to the King’s Theatre,
could be accommodated inside, it didn’t
lash itself into a fury. Nor did it resent
councillors and their womenfolk being
admitted at a side door. It quietly dis-
persed, though there were some acid com-
ments on the lack of forethought of the
promoters in not having the programme
broadcast into the streets, where the thou-
sands who couldn’t get in could have
enjoyed it in brilliant sunshine. But that
would have violated the well-established
principle that Melbourne’s Sabbath must
be steeped in gloom.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: It came out in the short
Federal session that the Department of
“Well, here's to wine, men and song!”
Information has printed 1,600,000 copies
of 11 publications since the beginning of
the year. Post-war Reconstruction De-
partment has put out 693,000 copies of
six booklets and W. 0.1. ejected 13,000
copies of a Government-planning bulletin
for trade-unions. There were also, it
seems, 80,000 “discussion group” booklets
and 13,000 copies of the first and second
reports of the Rural Reconstruction Com-
mission—in all, a vast amount of paper.
Australian poets and authors, constantly
told by local publishers that there’s no
paper for their works, can be pardoned
for gnashing their teeth when they read
this sort of thing, for it would be hard
to find a person who has ever read, let
alone remembered, any part of the Gov-
ernment effusions.
* * ¥ *
“Pip” on the Army’s versatility:
The average army unit presents a pretty
accurate cross-section of the working male com-
munity. Most shows sport a lawyer or two,
a journalist, a few accountants, bankers, clerks
and schoolteachers. A slaughterman can always
be found when some pigs have been bought to
supplement rations, arid a butcher to carve the
animals properly. Work on the new mess hut
can be put in the hands of a master builder,
“Come on, have a listen-in. Everybody's doing it now”
with skilled carpenters working under him. An
ice-chest is made for it by a cabinetmaker,
and a couple of cupboards by his offsider.
The place is drained and water laid on by a
plumber. An electrician puts the lights through.
If any watches stop, a brace of competent re-
pairers are on tap to fix them. Other fellows
are experts in mending gadgets like pencil
sharpeners, cigarette lighters, typewriters and
fountain pens. Men can always be found for
concreting floors, installing cookers, building
fireplaces or repairing radio sets distributed by
Amenities. If firewood runs short a dozen
good axemen raise the pile sky-high in a couple
of days. Many units have vegetable patches
tended by farmers and professional gardeners.
An effort that sticks in my memory was during
a locomotive breakdown. Driver, fireman ana
guard struggled manfully for an hour to effect
repairs, but finally gave it up as a bad job
and sat down to wait for the breakdown gang.
Then a burly green-clad A.1.F.-er coming down
on leave took charge. Using the train crew as
assistants he buried himself in the engine s
murky depths. Thirty minutes later we were
puffing along again.
* * * *
“Lawnston”: Politicians ought to be
compelled to take a postgraduate course
in logic. Told that Hobart, where pubs
stay open till ten o’clock, is soberer than
Melbourne, Premier Dunstan retorted
that Tasmania, with its smaller popula-
tion, could not be compared with Mel-
bourne. But London’s population is
bigger than Melbourne’s, and Hub’s
liquor laws are similar to Hobart’s, plus
the added latitude of Sunday opening.
Londoners, so far from being demoralised
by such privileges, bravely sustained the
great blitz and are reported to be carry-
ing on pretty well through the robombing.
“Em”: Tell “Looby” (B. 19/7/44) the
chemist didn’t make a mistake in selling
dog soap for a scalp wash. This is the
purest soap made. It has to be, as dogs’
skins are much more sensitive than
humans’.
* * * *
“Airscrew”: A transcript of a conver-
sation between officers of my R.A.F.
squadron in the mess:
I was weaving like stink in a squabbling
gaggle today, flying No. 2 to the Burra Sahib,
and during a screaming breakers Ho that' twerp
Sgt. Boob, who was twitching even before he
became air-borne, peeled off a quick 3000 in a
dreaded,,spin. Not content with that major
black, he lost the mob and started binding
ops over the R/T for a homing. Never heard
so much natter in all my life. C.O. was abso-
lutely livid. Tore him off a ginormous strip
and told him to pancake. He gets back to the
drome and proceeds to beat up a seaweed job
in a shagbat. Catch was, it was a 2f ringer
doing a quick stooge. Hence, black No. 2.
No trouble at all. He then proceeds to thrash
the Harbor Master, who was jeeping up the
runway, and afterwards nearly spun off a shock-
ing Upward Charlie. To finish off the whole
clueless effort he swung off the strip alter
touch-down and did a wizard prang into the
ditch. When the C.O. heard about it he took:
an incredibly dim view. Shot him smartly down
in flames and gave him 14 days’ jankers. i-
wonder what the chair-borne troops at rear
hindquarters will say about it all.
And here’s a translation:
I was working rather hard in a squadron
formation today, while flying in the No. 2 posi-
tion on the C. 0., and during a break turn bgt.
Boob, who was under-confident even before he
took off, spun out of the manoeuvre and lost
3000 feet' of height. Not content with this
grave mistake he lost the formation and began
making numerous requests over the radio tele-
phone to the Operations Room for a homing.
The C.O. lost his temper and told him to go
back and land. But he dived on to a Walrus
aircraft which was being flown by a Lieut.-
Commander of the Fleet Air Arm and com-
mitted his second grave offence. He also dived
his aircraft at a car which was being driven up
the runway by the Station Commanding Officer
and made a bad job of an upward roll starting
from ground level. Eventually he swung on
landing and crashed into a ditch. fhe C.U.
was terribly angry when he heard about it,
and after a severe dressing-down he gave the
sergeant 14 days confined to camp in the Guard
Room. I wonder what the Stafl Officers at
Air Headquarters will have to say about it.
* * * *
“Arter”: A correspondent of “5.M.H.,”
championing the cause of “modern” art,
says “there is very little hope for art in
this country if people continue to throw
up hands of horror and amazement at an
innovation they do not understand.” He
goes on to say that Van Gogh, Gauguin,
Cezanne and Degas, who now “rank
equally among the great masters of the
older schools of pure art,” suffered from
the same ignorant intolerance, and he
deems it “grossly unfair to contemporary
artists to have their work condemned
incomprehensively by people with no
knowledge of art as a subject.” The
obvious retort, of course, is that it is
the eulogies on “modern” art that are
couched in incomprehensible terms;
there is nothing vague or obscure in the
language of the few art critics who nowa-
days dare to take a stand against uglyism
and dementia. Moreover, it is silly to
describe Lionel Lindsay, who thinks
Cezanne, Gauguin et cie produced rub-
bish, and Howard Ashton, who ofttimes
hath smitten the ga-ga merchants hip
and thigh, as “people with no know-
ledge of art.” As a matter of fact, it is
almost solely the artists who hate mod-
ernismus. The layman usually pretends
he thinks it’s wonderful, because he has
read something about it he couldn’t
understand, but which sounded laudatory,
in some newspaper.
* * * *
“Visitor”: The Terminus, a very old
hotel opposite Adelaide main railway
station and a sort of humble relation of
the South Australian close by, has been
taken over by Sergt. John O’Brien, a
returned soldier, with the condition that,
though the bars will be still open to the
public, the residential part shall be re-
served for men of the services, especially
officers, who are notably uncatered for
in this line. O’Brien’s mother runs the
South Australian, and his brother the
Gresham, a little higher up the street.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Eugene Ormandy’s remark
(anent the establishing of an Australian
national orchestra) that what Philadelphia
can do Australia could do doesn’t take
into account what the Musicians’ Union
of Australia says can’t be done. The
union bars foreign artists from becoming
members, and that prevents their playing
in orchestras until they have lived in the
country five years and have become
naturalised, if they haven’t died of star-
vation in the interim, and have been able
to earn the entrance fee of £25. This
keeps the union British, but as nine-
tenths of the music it plays isn’t British
the union is far from consistent. To be
logical it ought to bar all but British
music, but then it would go out of busi-
ness very quickly because, although there
is some splendid contemporary British
music and the best music in Europe was
made in England in the time of Purcell,
there still isn’t enough to furnish one,
symphony concert season.
* * * *
“Turnbull”: “Oxmead” inquires about
descendants of Captain Cook (B. 5/7/’44).
There are many people claiming to be
such scattered about the world, the basis
of their claim being a theory that the
navigator’s eldest son, also a James, was
married (though no record has been
found of the marriage), and left a son
Robert, who also left descendants. One
of them went to Canada, and some years
ago there was a Miss Cook living in
Ontario who regarded herself as a direct
descendant. Frank Wiy, like Cook, a
Yorkshireman, claimed descent through
his mother, Annie Cook, and the cabled
report of his death in August, 1939, stated
that he was “the only remaining descen-
dant of Captain Cook.” That certainly
was not correct, as there were cousins of
Frank’s, on his mother’s side, in M.L. at
that time who had the same kind of claim,
and it is quite possible there are others
in England.


ABORINALITIES
toms and groper. In the fresh-water estu-
aries they’re catching eels, catfish and
silver perch. On sand-bars and reef-edges
they land an occasional unicorn up to
51b.; it has a blunt horn between the
eyes and flesh to delight an epicure. Blue-
tailed mullet are plentiful, and there are
diamond-scaled mullet as well. Some of
the mullet jumping have to be seen to
be believed, but they’re not in the race
with the wolf herring, which can do a
20ft. leap. One Digger swears he saw
a wolf fly clean over a lugger in full sail.
Some of the trevallies go up to 351 b., and
there’s a fish like the S.A. butterfish that
hits 301 b.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were pretty tired
the night we got into Wagga (N.S.W.),
and after a dip in the river, a feed and
a smoke we slipped into our bunks under
the bridge with sighs of pleasure. About
an hour later a trio came down from the
town with booze, wakened several others
and started a party. There was singing
to the accompaniment of a mouth-organ,
with the usual shouting and talking. We
roared to them to shut up. They roared
back at us. Mat got out, sneaked along
the bank and on to the bridge, and, sud-
denly appearing above the revellers, deep-
ened his voice and called “Police here.
Don’t move till we come and
search Two minutes later we two
were the only human beings within half
a mile, and we settled down to sleep.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Sorry, “0.D.,” that I swiped
the bridle at the wrong hoss (B. 5/7/’44).
INTENSITY.
I want to think he lived
With such intensity
That when he died, that soldier —
It was not innocently.
That all the vivid things
Young men must gather up
Came to him sudden, glowing,
One draught in one bright cup.
That some hot love was his,
Impulsive, candid, real,
That every heartbeat mattered,
And that he learnt to feel —
With every sense and sinew
As the young somehow can . ..
So, when he died, that soldier,
He went to it a man.
MAORILAND. PAULA HANGER.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Curyo” Charlie folded
up his sweat-wheel and stowed it in the
back of his buggy, benevolently watching
the crowd leaving the course. He’d had
a good run and the best part of 200 notes
was in his pocket. He drove slowly to
the Council Tank on the outskirts of the
town, unyoked his horse and was unroll-
ing his nap beside the buggy when there
came a visitor who expressed astonish-
ment. “Why,” said he, “I’d have thought
with the roll y’ won t’day y’d be stoppin’
in the best room at the pub! Y’ did all
right, didn’t y’?” “Yair,” said Charlie,
“I did all right. But rooms don’t appeal
t’ me. Can’t sleep in ’em. Feel sort o’
shut in. Gimme a bunk in the open an’
I sleep like a top.” After further talk,
mostly about the day’s events, the visitor
departed. Charlie watched him thought-
fully, then went on preparing his nap.
After a feed and a smoke he rugged his
horse and put its nosebag on, then slipped
into bunk. With the dawn he awoke, got
up and surveyed the camp. The gear had
been taken from the buggy and lay around
on the ground; his coat, boots, trousers
were in several different directions. Even
the buggy seat had been turned inside
out. Charlie dressed, then went to his
horse, retrieved his roll from the nosebag
and remarked “Prad, whenever any bloke
gets curious about me like that bloke did
last night, you can always expect t’ wear
your nosebag all night. They’d never
think of lookin’ in it.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Some of these newchums beat
us bush blokes hollow when it comes to
brainwaves in hunting methods. The last
casualty I recollect was Bert, a city cove,
who was hunting wombats; he was
treated for bruises and a couple of
cracked ribs. Bert squatted in the
entrance of a burrow to block an old
man of the tribe in its homeward dash
with the dogs in pursuit. The wombat
never hesitated or lost a stride on the
way down the burrow.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Shooting fish with an
arrow may be one way of getting a feed,
but the abo. of W.A.’s nor’-west coast
would consider it a bit slow. For ages
he used a fishing kylie, carved from the
heaviest wood he could find. More
recently he has adopted iron. Here and
there along the beaches civilisation has
dropped worn-out black iron tanks, relics
of bygone pearlers’ camps, and water
tanks discarded from schooners and lug-
gers. If any white is at hand and obliging
enough to chop out a boomerang or two
with hammer and chisel Binghi is glad
of the assistance. But, failing that, he
will work on the sheet iron with such
tools as he may possess until he wrests
out the kylie. Flung among a dense
school of mullet, the iron kylie is more
deadly than a shotgun; a dozen or more
disabled fish usually result, caught easily
as they swim or float helplessly on the
surface. Nor is the kylie lost, for though
it sinks it never buries so deeply in the
sand that the aboriginal eye cannot
quickly detect it.
* * * *
“Te Avanuther”: Wellington (M.L.)
Acclimatisation Society is intrigued with
a report from a bushwhacker that he
spotted a huia in the bush not far from
the city. The bird is believed to have
been extinct for 50 years or more, but
the observer avers there could be no mis-
taking the long, curved beak and distinc-
tive tail feathers. He claims to know
these features from days when he hunted
huias for the tail feathers, once highly
prized by Maori chiefs for headdress
decoration.
* * ♦ Ht
“P.A.”: Diggers catching them off the
Papuan coast say there are variety and
plenitude of fish there. Many are familiar
to the Australian coast —Spanish mac-
kerel, trevally, garfish, mullet, tuna, long-
“Call your big brute off, you little Wretch !”
The shindy raised by the disputants
kicked up so much dust that I couldn’t
see your brand clearly, what with mokes
whinnying for their crusts and hostlers
pulling prads back to be educated first
or smitten with a surcingle for presuming
to know that the staff was good for steeds.
* * * *
“Betcha”: The shed ratter on this
place is the most unnatural feline I’ve
struck. Reared alone with the dogs, he
has attached himself to the pack, and I
rarely walk from the shed without soon
discovering his nibs trotting along with
the tribe of mongs. He hunts at every
hole and hollow log, and as the miles pass
his jaw drops wide, and, panting, he flops
down for a spell whenever opportunity
offers. If the job on hand is sheep, puss
wanders back and forth behind the mob,
though his interest is tinged with spite
since the day when the ringing jumbucks
caught him and he became lost for quite
a while. The nag, too, somewhat dis-
gusts him. Cantering off, poor old Black-
fella is soon left hopelessly behind, but
seldom is he so discouraged as to return
home. After trailing along for a bit he
retires to cover, waiting there patiently
till we again come in sight.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Just before a light storm broke
on the ridges the mongs had treed a huge
goanna up an eight-inch bloodwood,
yelped and yapped awhile and then nosed
on. Eyeing my approach, that lizard
was circling down when a lightning bolt
struck the sapling and spiralled round in
a blinding burst of bluish flame. The go.
dropped and streaked for a handy log
into which he backed his chassis. The
log split open and two scared cats and
a porky spilled out. The big monitor
in an avalanche of grass and dust over-
took the dogs, grabbed and mounted one,
and, digging his hooks in, belted him
along with his rudder. The maddened
mong jumped a five-wire fence and, bolt-
ing for the creek, fell in over a cliff. The
go. dived off his frenzied mount in mid-
air and sought sanctuary among the sub-
merged rocks.
“Bumpkin”: “Will C.” (B. 12/7/’44)
contends that the fact that a jibbing mare
had a foal that jibbed proves that there
are such things as congenitally vicious
horses. He might as well say that the
fact that criminal fathers sometimes beget
criminal sons proves congenital criminality
in human beings. Like does tend to pro-
duce like, but why mightn’t it be a simi-
lar environment which produces similar
types of human reactions? A horse which
is vicious with one owner often ceases
to be vicious with another. A daughter
of mine took a little black stallion to a
woman who breaks in horses. When she
brought the stallion into the yard the
woman, without even asking if the animal
was quiets went straight up to it and put
one of her small children on its back.
Although it hadn’t been by any means
a quiet horse, it never twitched a muscle.
All this woman’s children are in the yard
when she is dealing with foals, but they
never get hurt.
“Fireside Rover”: As the colt was
being led away it got a bad fright,
reared, pulled away and came over,
striking its head heavily. As it seemed
on the point of death, the breaker went
to inform the owner. They both returned
in time to see the body stagger groggily
to its feet and gaze vaguely round. The
breaker suggested that a long spell would
be sound policy, but the owner thought
it would be right to start work in a week.
The horse, when put to work, at first
proved tractable enough, but on being
put to the chase after other horses it
suddenly propped, snorted explosively,
then recovered from its shock sufficiently
to throw its rider. It did this con-
sistently, and the owner could only con-
clude that the hit on the head had resulted
in amnesia, the colt completely forgetting
it had ever been broken in.
“Moyhu”: For years an old horse
driven by Bill Gaffney on the Spring-
hurst-Wahguny ah mail run drank one
gallon and a quarter of sherry daily. On
the outward run to Springhurst Bill
would pull into the old Rutherglen vine-
yard regularly each morning, empty a
quart of sherry into a bucket, break it
down with three quarters of water, and
place it in front of the moke. What was
left in the bucket wouldn’t stain a pocket
handkerchief. On the return trip, after
25 miles on the road, Bill increased the
strength of the mixture, using two gallons
of water to one of sherry. The wine-
drinking habit, persisted in over many
years, had no visible effect on the moke
except, as Bill pointed out to me, “It
did play up with his nose a bit.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Harry Boone, large and ami-
able, had picked up a scrubber he had
come upon in the thick stuff at the back
of his property. He’d have given it away
if asked for it, but Joe Sniwle claimed
the animal, and Harry knew that Joe was
thereby only running true to his usual
‘ cussedness” form. When Harry refused
to part with it Joe lost his block and
bogged in, Joseph’s net gain being a pair
of shanties of a beautiful polychromatic
effect. The following Saturday, fortified
with hops, Joe again aggressively asserted
his claim and collected another hiding.
In the next two months Joe kept coming
back, only to pick fresh places to repose
his battered form. A-t last Mrs. Harry
got fed up with taping her lord’s knuckles
which were the only part of him affected
by the now regular bi-weekly battles, and
persuaded Harry to give the scrubber to
Joe and stop him from upsetting the
family with his vociferous strife. As
Harry led the cow through Joe’s gate Joe
came around the corner of his house.
“Here’s Millie, that scrubber y’ve been
reckonin’s yours,” said Harry. “I’ve
brought her over for y’—she’s yours
now.” Joe’s face went a couple of shades
sourer. “I wouldn’t have'y’r lousy cow
if y’ paid me to take it,” he growled.
“Now take it t’ hell out of here before I
job y’!”
* * * sit
“Blime”: Old Darkie is one of those
all-purpose mongs. He’ll take on a half-
wild bull or an old sleepy lizard with
agreeable impartiality, but his outstand-
ing virtue is perseverance. The day we
put up the old duck with her brood and
she began her usual decoy tactics, Darkie
fell for the old trick and gave chase.
Across the flat they went, about a foot
separating them, till at a safe distance
the duck soared comfortably to a tree-
top and left a very disgusted mong to
squat below. A few minutes later we
arrived at the dam, to find ten little duck-
lings sailing on the water, and, recognis-
ing a connection with his recent defeat,
Darkie plunged in. His snap sounded a split
second after the quarry dived. He stared
stupidly, gulped, then attacked again and
again till every duckling had gone, to
reappear presently behind him. Grimly
Darkie renewed the offensive, while, con-
vulsed on the bank, I watched his be-
wilderment give place to a do-or-die ex-
pression interspersed with desperate con-
tortions of rage. Half an hour later an
exhausted tripe-hound crawled up the
bank, while in the centre of the dam ten
little ducklings floated unconcernedly.
Even now old Darkie never passes that
dam without pausing, head on one side,
to watch the placid water expectantly.
* * * *
“Zake”: Struck a cove in his bush
camp smearing with castor oil the wire
hook by which his meat-safe was sus-
pended to the tree branch. All his tucker
was hanging the same way, hooks all
treated with the cold-drawn stuff that
makes you shudder to smell. Apparently
the little black pests which are held up
to humanity as models of industry for the
sluggard to emulate found the stuff as
revolting, for they seemed to have
appointments elsewhere, although the
surrounding bush was alive with them.
I have since found that bushman’s trick
to be the best of all ant-beaters.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: I’ve found no difference in
tractability of bees in wild state or frame
hives (B. 12/7/’4*4), the main factors
governing their disposition being the par-
ticular strain of the bees and the condi-
tions under which they are encountered.
In fact, bees under control are more likely
to become antagonised through frequent
handling, migration and other disturb-
ances, and the inmates of a bees’ nest in
a position little disturbed may turn out
gentle as drones. I’ve robbed ’em in that
state without smoke, drumming on the
tree-trunk with the back of an axe to get
them to cluster. But I’ll admit they were
well stocked with honey.
* * * *
“Semaphore”: I note that the old De-
coy is still on the Murray (B. 5/7/’44).
When she left the Swan River (W.A.) to
cross the Bight she was in tow of the old
Bullara, to which the writer had just been
transferred. Before leaving Bunbury,
where we had loaded jarrah, our skipper
(Captain Allen, lost with the Koombana)
advised the master of the little packet to
bring his crew aboard our ship. It was
decided otherwise, but after two days of
heavy weather they gladly signalled their
wish to be taken off. The Bullara lay to
in the rough sea, and a boat with the
second mate in charge (later Captain
Burch, just retired from the Deputy-
Directorship of Navigation in Queens-
land) was manoeuvred under the lee of the
smaller vessel. The boat was brought
back at the end of a long line, and all
got safely aboard, on the accomplishment
of which our skipper thankfully gave
orders to “splice the main brace.” Its
crew kept constant watches in case the
Decoy foundered ; but Port Adelaide was
reached without mishap. My discharge
shows the trip was made in March, 1909.


“Esk D.”: The Bogans, Mick and
Bessie and their nine kids, live in a four-
roomed shack on a blackberry selection at
Rabbit Creek. A few seedy-looking
fowls, a patch of spuds, a couple of scrub
cows and plentiful bunnies provide the
bulk of the Bogan fare, while Mick gets
out on a job for a day or two when an
occasional fit of energy overtakes him.
But the strain of earning and the extrava-
gance of his wife are beginning to tell on
Mick. “Larst year,” he says indignantly,
“I made forty quid—an’ Bessie spent the
lot! ”
* * *
“Bad Australian”: When I was on the
Alpine country of n.-e. Victoria the foot-
hills were all below, not “just above,” the
snowline (B. 26/7/’44). The wild cattle
lived on the practically timberless snow-
grass country from the spring thaw until
the first heavy snowfall about the end of
April, when they descended to the tim-
bered country well below the snowline,
where the big eucalypts and dense hop
scrub and wattle afforded them shelter
from the weather and a safe refuge from
scrubber-hunters. They found fair graz-
ing on the kangaroo grass that flourished
where the ridges were lightly timbered
and free from scrub and on small flats
along the watercourses. As these animals
never wintered on the bleak, wind-swept,
snow-covered dreas they never acquired
the habit of rooting the snow away to
get at the grass, and they didn’t develop
“Go ahead, Forsyth—help yourself !”
feet like small snowshoes to enable them
to travel over the snow. Neither did they
acquire “some of the deer’s fleetness of
foot” nor the art of tobogganing down
steep snow slopes. After a week or two
under snow the so-called snowgrass rots and
becomes valueless as fodder until it shoots
afresh after the spring thaw, and the first
heavy frosts after a blizzard usually leave
the snow hard enough to carry a horse
or bullock. The wild cattle seldom mixed
with animals from the settled country;
when they did, the combined herds were
promptly run off to one of the many
trap-yards built by scrubber-hunters,
where the wild animals were divided,
marked and branded as the property of
those who took part in the drive.
* * * *
“Flight”: Of aerial stunters the hawk
tribe leads the avian world, and the
kestrel falcon is the best of the hawks.
I’ve seen- that fellow in a strong wind
motionless in the air, accommodating
himself to the strength of the wind. He
knows his own weight and what wind
friction is needed to support it. You’ll
see him altering the angle of his planes
to produce the necessary deflection as the
wind rises and falls. And from his
motionless position the kestrel can drop
like a shot; rise like an arrow ; soar, float
and speed in any direction he wishes ; and
he doesn’t make a whisper when he does
it. ,
* * * *
“Bruce Rock”: I fancy “Gip” (B.
5/7/’44) is a long way out when he says
that Queensland is the worst State for
poison plants; W.A. has long held that
unwelcome leadership. Actually, the vast
areas infested by poison were right up to
a few years ago one of the main
causes of the western State’s inability to
supply her own dairy requirements. The
wild wallflower (Gastrolobium grandi-
florum) is common practically all over
W.A.. growing even far into the desert,
where at one time it proved a fatal lure
for many camels freshly imported from
India. And there are ten other vegetable
assassins listed, with as a side entry the
fronds of the zamia palm {Macrozamia
fraseri), which, although they don’t
readily cause death, at one time had most
of the W.A. south-west crawling with
wretched bovines suffering from rickets.
Fortunately, a ready and cheap method
was discovered of eradicating Fraseri,
which, coupled with the hand-picking of
pastures to get rid of the other toxic
weeds, resulted in Westralia these days
supplying all her own butter and even
having a little for export.
*❖ 4 % #
“W. 0.2”: Our arrival at the mouth
of the Embley River, which runs into
Albatross Bay, on the western coast of
Cape York Peninsula, created panic in
what must be Australia’s most remark-
able brolga colony. In the shallows were
countless thousands of the grotesque-
looking birds dancing wildly and splash-
ing about as we emerged from the bush.
The communal nesting-grounds in the
swampy regions on both sides of the
river mouth covered several acres. The
birds and their eggs have, from time im-
memorial, formed an important item of
food in the diet of the abos. of those
parts. Annually hundreds of the birds
are speared, and great quantities of the
large, glossy-white, red-spotted eggs
stolen by the black hunters. Despite this
heavy toll, the brolgas show no signs of
dying out.
* * * #
“Muscovy”: What’s so difficult about
plucking a young goose that old Seventy-
fiver had to spend about a day and a half
over it (B. 5/7/’44)? Now, something
really difficult to defeather is a W.A. wild
duck, especially if a bit on the elderly
side. Often I was called on to denude a
dozen at a time, and when my fingers
began to give I gathered the idea that the
feathers had wire ends clenched over on
the inside. Scalding water wasn’t the easy
solution it is for most poultry, for the
duck’s feathers were so closely packed
and so thick and oily that even boiling
water failed to reach the roots. Then an
ancient abo. showed me just how it could
be done. Carting the birds to a pool he
soused them thoroughly, working the cold
water well in among the feathers with his
fingers. With the plumage thus wetted
the hot water found entrance and the
feathers almost rubbed off. Where Old
Billy learned the trick was a puzzle, since
hot water formed no part of primitive
aboriginal life, though the abo. had a
trick of letting his birds lie an hour or
so in cold water when he wanted to get
the feathers, off them.
* * * *
“Pedant”: Tell “E. and 0.E.” (B.
5/7/’44) that John Baptist’s locusts don’t
need debunking. The Law in Leviticus
xi, 22, provides that four kinds of locusts
or grasshoppers may be eaten: locust,
“Look, Peter—a Gremlin !”
bald locust, cricket and grasshopper.
They are still eaten b.y the Arabs, who
remove head, legs and wings, and fry the
body in “samn,” or clarified butter. I
have also heard of? their being dried,
pounded and made into a kind of cake.
“Strawinthehair”: Browsing around the
backblocks of Gyppoland we came to a
place where locusts had just about cleared
all the vegetation from the landscape. But
the fellaheen weren’t going to starve; in
retaliation they had somehow downed
millions of the hoppers, had dehydrated
them and with the family’s mortar and
pestle were grinding them into flour.
Locust cakes were reckoned to be dead
full of vitamins, or perhaps the Gyppo
reckoned their nourishment value in old-
fashioned calories. From Egypt to Trans-
jordan is no great way and I feel pretty
sure that way back in J. the B.’s time
they knew all about dehydrated locusts.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I don’t propose to get
into this argument as to whether a stal-
lion “whistles” or a ram “blows,” but
this I do know: most creatures resort to
some violent vocal expression under the
stimulus of fear or anger. A screaming
squeal is the only definition I can find
for the sound emitted by an enraged
buckjumper. A dog, of course, snarls
when provoked, and a cat positively
“swears” under pain, but their expressions
are mild Wesleyan language compared
with a silver-grey possum’s effort. When
caught around the waist by a badly-set
snare, the marsupial gives vent to a burst
of profanity that is a combination of
grunt, snarl, hiss and “raspberry.” I’ve
heard a carpet-snake breathe an almost
inaudible hiss —a very mild reproach com-
pared with the outburst of a lizard (presum-
ably a jewie) that a pair of kids surprised
in a burrow in the bank of a creek. Only
his eyes were visible some nine inches
back from the entrance, and as the kids
took unholy delight in prodding him
with a long and notchy stick the tortured
reptile gave his views on the matter with
a series of the most expressive, explosive,
grunting hisses imaginable. In the avian
group the white cockatoo is probably the
most vituperative. After hearing a wild
cocky that had accidentally caught its leg
in a rabbit trap voice his wrath, I began
to realise just how empty and insipid
human swearing is.
*:(•**
“Creel”: The most graceful method of
fishing I’ve seen is that used by the
women of Mer Island in Torres Strait
to catch tup, the delicious sardines that
frequent the shallows around Mer every
high tide. The round cast-nets, of finely-
woven coconut fibre, have a throwcord at
the centre. Drawstrings run from the
throwcord, which is from 50ft. to 60ft.
long, to the edge of the net, which is
weighted with stones. Long practice is
required to become proficient in using
the nets: the Mer women are experts.
Preparing for the cast, the net is grasped
by the centre and folded over the right
arm, the throwcord being held by the
left hand. The cast is made by a grace-
ful swing of the right shoulder and arm.
The net shoots out to the length of the
throwcord, opens and falls flat on the
water, the weights sinking it over the
fish. The throwcord is then pulled, bring-
ing the outside edge of the net to the
centre and imprisoning the fish. I’ve seen
up to 100 tup caught in a single cast. This
method is probably the most ancient
form of fishing. The Merites are the
only Pacific natives who have ever used
it, and how it became known to them is
a mystery.
“J. Dale”: Best fight I ever saw was
between a bantam rooster and a turkey
gobbler on a poultry farm between
Kingaroy and Eidsvold (Q.). The bantam
was so small against the turkey that he
had a job to reach the big fellow’s head
and had to be mighty nippy on the
ground to save himself from being
trampled to death. The fight moved to
a woodheap, and suddenly the bantam
sighted the wood-horse. He promptly
flew up on to it and dived on that turkey
like a Spitfire on a Heinkel, raking the
gobbler’s head with his spurs to such
effect that the heavyweight turned it up.
* * * *
“B. 4”: The myall’s ability to keep
warm during winter minus clothes and
fire was largely due to his inherited thick
hide bemg toughened by exposure. His
body was all face, in the sense of its being
insensitive to vicissitudes of weather.
Again, the boongs, like frogs and snakes,
had acquired a certain ability to lower
their bodily temperature in conformity
with dropped atmospheric conditions,
thus gaining a partial immunity to cold ;
hence the midget night fires for slumber.
Mustering cattle early one morning, we
rode on a big buck curled up fast asleep
on the edge of a lignum brake, his naked
hide covered with frost. A heavy cut
with a stockwhip and that buck bounded
into the lignum swamp with a “Yackai”
and sending mud and water flying as he
dived and splashed to safety while we
chased him. That happened before they
coddled them in mission stations.
* * # *
“Chuck”: The old man decided to
shift the seedling peach from opposite
the kitchen door to the top of the yard.
Just as he finished the job Mum came
out the back door. “Dad, I’ll never keep
the birds from that tree if you put it
there,” she called. “Shift it nearer.” Dad
dug another hole, carted more manure,
and was stamping the tree into place as
young Sam rode in. “That thing’s going
to get a bad time,” he prophesied indif-
ferently. “There ain’t nowhere t’ hitch
me nag ’cept on this gate.” The old
bloke looked worried. “Gosh, it’s a good
peach, too,” he protested. “Awright,
I’ll put it at the side o’ the house.” Half
an hour later Aunt Mary came round the
comer. “Ted, can’t you find a better
place for that tree?” -she asked primly.
“It will shade the window there. Put it
further along.” “Yair, an’ let it drop
leaves in the spouts,” reminded Grandpa.
“Not if I know it. Put it round the
front.” “If you don’t take that tree out
of my flowerbed,” shrieked Mum a bit
later, “I’ll chop it out myself. Why don’t
you put it —er —let’s see. Now, what
about here?” Dad surveyed the spot,
nodded and once more moved the young
peach. He watered it in, stacked the
tools away and was going in for tea
when suddenly a stream of his best lan-
guage cut the air. A head appeared.
“What’samatter, Dad?” “That flamin’
tree,” bellowed the old bloke savagely.
“Cripes, don’tcha see, that’s where I took
the blasted thing from!”
FORTUNE’S FAVORITES.
Time was when a child was invited to see
A model for laudable toil in the bee,
And a line from the Bible was used to implant
In indolent natures respect for the ant.
I’m not' for a moment impugning the powers
Of each for improving the sun-shining hours,
But in times such as these it assuredly looks
As if neither was in it with Bungs and with
Books.
Make hay while the sun shines, a proverb
declares,
And when was such harvest for reaping as
theirs?
What boodle they’re landing, amassing what
wads,
The slakers of thirsts and the layers of odds!
As cute opportunists, I think you’ll agree,
They’ve nothing to learn from the ant or the
bee.
When the going is good, who can climb up the
rungs
Of the ladder so fast as the Books and the
Bungs?
Do I grudge them, you ask me, their dip in the
dough,
The feathers they pluck from the oof bird?
Not so.
For I look on all such with no shadow of doubt
They are beings we never could manage without.
And I find myself hoping the bunce that they
bone
Is liker to go in a Victory loan
Than if it had never got into the hooks
And talons possessed by the Bungs and the
Books.
In peace-time it’s certain no sun ever shone
On a wicket as good as what now they are on,
The clan that dispenses the schooner and dram
And the one that’s addicted to skinning the
lamb,
The vendors of treasures that breweries yield
And the coves whose vocation is laying the field
In the sweat of their brows, at the top of their
lungs.
It’s the time of their lives for the Books and the
Bungs.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R, SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE:.A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
r TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
ERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
CYANOGAS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
s-f ■.CaJL-O*
/\JL+ Sterilised
T „ J BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35535, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool, Weights, Brands.
“Murrawong”: Some brokers fear that
if woolgrowers had the Table of Limits
they would interfere with the classers
or try classing their own clips; their in-
terpretation of a type might not agree
with that of the broker. The reply is
that these conditions exist already. They
might be accentuated to some extent by
the grazier having the Table of Limits in
his hands, but the grazier, on the other
hand, would realise just how little he
actually knows of wool and its prepara-
tion for market.
The table contains information indis-
pensable to classers, and they would do
their job more efficiently if thaf informa-
tion were in their hands. Every classer
should know the. C.W.C. definition of a
warp type for the various spinning counts,
also a half warp, and a thorough realisa-
tion of what the trade calls a tender
wool, among other things.
After the war wool is going to face
keen competition, and proper classing is
only one of the many counters that must
be adopted.
“Sheepo”: I don’t agree with “Murra-
wong” (B. 12/7/’44) that the average
weight of bales should be increased. In
some heavier-conditioned clips weights of
the lower lines could perhaps be in-
creased a few pounds per bale, but the
saving would give little gain, and might
easily mean straining a good woolpress.
In pre-war years few buyers failed to
detect lines that had been pressed too
heavily. They based their valuations
accordingly, and on overpressed lines of
stained pieces and locks growers* often
lost. Dry-country wool should be pressed
lighter, as both sand and dust penetrate
through the bale. If overpressed, dusty
wool presents a shabbier appearance
when opened up.
“Marsh”: Nobody should use brand-
ing fluids that contain elements not sol-
uble in water, there being plenty of reli-
able fluids that contain the two main
essentials remaining in the wool from
shearing to shearing and easily scoured
out without harmful effects. It would be
all the better if legislation were introduced
making it compulsory to use only those
branding fluids that pass C.S.I.R. tests.
Another cause of trouble is the use of
tar at lamb-marking time. Tar for
dressing wounds brought about by mark-
ing will not scour out, and its presence
causes loss to the manufacturer. There
are plenty of non-tar dressings.
Saving Feed.
“R.N.”: The spring and early summer
of 1943-44 were, for the most part, a
lush period, with heavy growth of grass
and green crops. Far too much of it
went to waste, or was burnt, and when
the dry autumn and cold winter this year
hit the farming community many a man
wished he’d saved some of that wasted
wealth of last year.
Now, with spring putting out exploring
fingers, nobody should fail to make some
plans for conserving fodder. Even where
labor is at a minimum something can be
saved, whether it is green stuff put into
a pit silo or a portion of the cereal crop
earmarked for hay or as storage grain.
If possible, people with grazing animals
should try to manage so as to close up
at least one small paddock on which the
grass can grow as wild as it likes, with
the idea of putting the mower into it
later on and storing away the result. Even
if the paddock is not cut it can still be
a valuable asset if kept closed until the
dry spell comes, always provided the
grass is never let get long enough to go
down and rot.
Spare parts being hard to get, it’s a
good idea now to run an eye over mower,
hay-rake, baling press and other gear,
see what can be repaired and make a list
of parts that must be obtained. Send in
the order for spare parts—-and for binder
twine and baling wire—as soon as pos-
sible and there’s a reasonable chance of
the stuff turning up in time to be of
some use.
“ That’s wot she gets fr boltin' ’er corn down whole”
A Lighting Plant.
“E. 2”: A 12-volt car generator will do
a fair job, and one, two or more lights
may be run at the same time according to
arrangement of the plant. It may be
driven from an engine while other
machinery is working, and the generated
current stored, or set up as a separate
unit with a small engine or waterwheel.
A storage battery is necessary ; 12-volt
globes and sockets are those used in car-
lighting systems. High-wattage globes
are best, and all leads should be insulated
copper wire, the heavier the better. Charg-
ing plant should be close to the lighting
-system; otherwise the battery will need
to be brought over.
Two short leads, negative and positive,
are taken from generator to battery ; then
a wire from the negative side of battery
leads to one terminal of each light socket.
The positive lead is taken from the bat-
tery through a fuse and thence to one ter-
minal of each light switch. A lead is then
taken from the other side of each switch
to complete the circuit to the light it is
intended to control.
For storage only a charging rate of five
amps, is best for the life of the battery,
but 10 or 12 amps, may be put on when
lights are used while charging—the most
satisfactory arrangement. A hydrometer
is used for battery-testing.
Sore Teats.
“L.C.”: Treat them at once. Slight
chapping at the start can quickly develop
into gaping wounds, helping mammitis
and retention of milk. Main causes of
chapping are sudden chilling of the teats
after wet milking, after the calf has
ceased sucking or by contact with stag-
nant water, filth or irritants when lying
down.
To treat, wash with warm soapy water,
dry and dress with carbolised vaseline.
For extensive sores, wash the teats with
a solution of one dram of sugar of lead
to one pint of water ; dry and apply ben-
zoated oxide ointment. A sterile teat
•siphon should be used on the cow when
the sores are deep and painful; manual
milking keeps them open. Sore-teat
trouble can usually be prevented by wash-
ing the udder and teats thoroughly when
the cow comes in, drying and then apply-
ing olive oik
A Wet Mash.
“Myrrhee”: Mix bran 301 b., wheat
pollard or crushed wheat 501 b., crushed
oats or barley 101 b., meatmeal 101 b., with
20 p.c. of chaffed green feed added.
Mix bran and meatmeal and add mois-
ture. When thoroughly moistened, add
the other meals and greenstuff, and mix
all into a crumbly mash, not a wet and
sticky mess. When cooked meat is used
in place of meatmeal mix the mash with
the soup and give about 2oz. of meat to
each bird once a week. Give as much
of the mash as the birds will eat in 20
minutes (the quantity is about 2oz. dry-
weight per bird each day).
Onions.
“H.C.”: Yields of 10 tons per acre
come from right cultural .methods;- in
S.A. over 20 tons has been got. Onions
can be grown in the same land for several
years without exhausting the soil, and
besetting diseases are rare.
Best soil is a fertile, moderately light
loam of good depth, well drained, prefer-
ably cultivated for several years. Heavy
loams produce onions with strong skins,
firm flesh but taking overlong to mature ;
sandy soils speed up growth and pro-
duce a thin-skinned bulb that doesn’t
keep well. Avoid heavy clays, hillsides
and stony land. Site should be open and
sunny, not unduly exposed.
A deep sandy soil can be ploughed
deeper than a shallow one; if using
rotted manure as a fertiliser, apply a
heavy dressing in autumn ; best artificial
fertilisers are bonedust and bone-super,
ploughed in at 3cwt. to scwt. per acre
before planting. When plants don’t thrive
spread sulphate of ammonia— lcwt. per
acre —between the rows and hoe in. Work
the soil to a fine tilth and roll to firm the
seedbed.
Use fresh seed of only the best grads
and test it by placing 100 seeds on blot-
ting paper or flannel cloth in a shallow
dish kept moistened for five days in a
temperature of about 68deg. F. Good
seed should give 90 p.c. germination;
minimum p.c. under the Seeds Act is 50.
Seed can be sown from February to
August on coast and tablelands in pre-
pared beds or direct into the fields. In
seedbeds sow at intervals of six to eight
days, an inch deep in drills, Sin. apart,
and firm down. Let seedlings reach 6in.
to Bin. before transplanting; trim back
the roots to about an inch and cut tops
down to within 3in. to 4in. of the crown.
When sowing direct into the field, drill
in inch-deep straight rows. Bin. to 10in.
apart and roll afterwards; later thin oul
to 3in. to 4in. apart. Three pounds of
seed to the acre in seedbeds, 41b. or
more for direct sowing. Brown Spanish
is the best variety.
Watch Mildew.
“P.A.”: There’s a difference in dealing
with powdery and downy mildew. It’s
the powdery that’s so prevalent on vines
(cucumber, melon, squash, etc.) in humid
weather that responds to dusting with
sulphur. Spraying them is waste of work.
On warm days any powdery mildew is
quickly controlled by dusting—but it can
be virulent if neglected. You can tell
it by the white powdery spots on under-
sides of leaves, which join up and cover the
leaf—spreading rapidly—to kill the plant.
Downy mildew is more obdurate. It
needs Bordeaux or lime-sulphur (or
colloidal sulphur) sprays. Angular yel-
lowish spots are the first indication. They
have a scanty white downy covering,
and soon spread and kill the leaves. In
winter crops cabbages, cauliflowers, let-
tuce and peas are susceptible to downy
and the last two to powdery mildew.
Attack on sight. Most of the rusts and
blights which come with some warmth
and moisture at winter's end can be
checked by Bordeaux —greatest antidote
to fungus diseases.
Hints for the Farm.
“E. 2”: When fitting an axe-handle file
away burred projections around the eye
of the head. The portion'of handle which
fits into the head should be perfectly
dry and trimmed evenly so that the head
slips on easily by tapping lightly on the
cut across the end of handle. Wedge
tightly with a hardwood wedge driven
into the slot. An occasional rub ever
with linseed oil helps to preserve the
handle. To remove when broken, saw off
near eye, bore a hole through and burn
out with a redhot bolt.
“B.”: Sow some pumpkins through
the early maize crop. Cows like them,
and they increase the milk yield for short
periods. Form hills 4in. to 6in. high and
plant six to eight seeds in each hill; thin
out to the two strongest. When they
reach 3ft. in length pinch the shoots back
to form laterals. Mulch well with rotted
stable manure.
“P.R.A.N.”: Growth of lettuce in
summer months in Queensland coastal
districts, particularly north of Capricorn,
is so difficult that many people do not
bother. Occasionally the varieties Tom
Thumb and Mignonette are grown, but
never so successfully as in cooler climes.
The Cos variety, however, does succeed
in summer months, and can be recom-
mended. Grown for many years, its
popularity waned with the improvement
of old or introduction of new varieties.
Few seedsmen now include it in their list.
For flavor and palatability, the Cos lettuce
is considered by many to be superior to
other sorts.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Flying Bomb.
(First impressions, New York “Herald Tribune ”
writer.)
It looked like an undersize airplane,
but had no human being in it. It made a
noise like a giant washing machine. It
gave off a trail of fire and smoke. Nor-
mally it flew low, at an altitude of about
two or three thousand feet. A few.
seconds after alighting in England its
bright tail and fuselage lights went out
and the whole thing blew up in a tremen-
dous explosion that scattered fire and
destruction.
The British took the thing in their
stride. Parliament voted to continue in
session even if an air alert sounded.
People went to work as usual, but wear-
ing tin hats for the first time since 1941.
(Raymond Daniell in N.Y. “Times.”)
It is not entirely unlikely that the resort
to flying bombs primarily is diversionary,
The Nazis may have figured that the
people of England, suddenly finding
themselves subjected to a new form of
attack, would demand protection in a
form that would diminish the amount of
air-power available for the support of
Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower’s invasion
forces.
But Allied attention to them has not
detracted materially from either the sup-
port of troops or the bombing of Ger-
many. Fighters being used to screen the
coast are drawn from forces allocated
long in advance of the invasion of the
Continent to the defence of this island
base.
One question that has been bothering
the amateur strategists here is why the
Germans never used their secret weapon
against the huge armada of ships of all
varieties that choked British harbors at
zero hour.
One obvious guess is that the Germans
had not perfected their preparations, but
there may be a better explanation.
A great weakness of these flying
machines is that they cannot be aimed
with any degree of accuracy. If the Nazis
had used them against comparatively
small targets, like concentrations of ship-
ping, their true value, which is a propa-
ganda one, would have been lost.
At their present stage Hitler’s “whizz-
bangs” are not effective military weapons.
But they could be. If instead of one ton
of high explosive they carried eight as
the Royal Air Force’s “blockbusters” do,
a lack of precision in their aim might not
be such a serious defect.
The British people have taken this new
attack with much the same stolid resig-
nation with which they took the blitz.
In one sense it is a little more disturbing,
because everybody within a considerable
radius can hear these things coming at
him, whereas ordinary bombs have a
more limited audience. Now that it has
become known that there is an interval
of only a few seconds between the stall-
ing of the engine in a flying bomb and
sudden death, the suspense is awful when
the droning approach of one is heard.
But there is this compensation ; these
winged bombs have a great lateral blast
but virtually no penetration, so that any-
one who sleeps under any kind of shelter
has a chance of survival.
(Comment by Walter Lippmann.)
The flying bombs are the prototypes of
the weapons of the next war, as were the
bomber and the tank in the other war,
though they made their appearance too
late to play a deciding part.
The new bombardment of London is a
reminder that our present weapons may
soon be as obsolete as the Maginot Line,
and that if we want security in the com-
ing generations we must not only achieve
victory but we must use it radically.
(Comment by Homer Metz in “Christian
Science Monitor”)
It is agreed generally that in spite of
their limited effectiveness at this time,
robot ’planes are potentially capable of
annihilating whatever slim protection dis-
tance and geography still offer to a nation.
As a result, disciples of Realpolitik, the
so-called political realists, are vigorously
repeating their contention that the secu-
rity and perhaps the very existence of a
great Power depends upon its military
dominance —de facto or de jure —over
most or all the territories surrounding it.
Such dominance, they maintain, is the
only way in which a major Power can
keep an alert watch on possibly unruly
neighbors.
In the case of Britain, it is held, the
territory that would have to be domi-
nated might well include Western Europe
from the English Channel to the Rhine
River, which former Prime Minister Stan-
ley Baldwin 10 years ago described as
the British military “frontier.” In the
case of the United States, it might be part
of Canada, and Mexico and the West
Indies. In the case of Russia, it obviously
would be all the Baltic areas and those
sections of the Karelian Isthmus to which
Moscow already has laid claim.
The Block-busters.
{From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article by
Gill Robb Wilson.)
The great six-ton bombs developed by
the R.A.F. are a result of battle experi-
ence. Between August and November,
1940, the Germans hammered London
without a let-up. Seven hundred and
twenty separate raids in force were made
by the Luftwaffe on the British capital.
I have talked at length recently with
an official who lived through 716 of them.
The tonnage of bombs never can be accu-
rately known. But there were continuous
swarms of German ’planes overhead, of
which 2400 were shot down in England
by daylight. However, in spite of the
tremendous number of German ’planes
and the fact that many of them were
based at airports less than a half-hour
from their target, London survived the
continuous ten-week rain of bombs, phy-
sically as well as spiritually.
Factories hit as many as 50 times in
one raid were working again on full
schedule in three weeks! Streets on which
fell stick after stick of explosives were
cleared in a few days. Thousands of hits
merely imposed patching jobs on plants
and docks. Total demolition was not
achieved either in pattern or in bomb
weight.
The British were quick to observe.
When their bombers counter-attacked
Germany, all stress was put on bomb
weight. The R.A.F. had few ’planes, so
could not at first achieve saturation pat-
terns, but the oversize missiles compen-
sated for lack of numbers.
Results were conclusive, so greater and
greater bombs were constructed. Today
an area hit by a 12,000-pofnd projectile
is out of the war. There is no patching
after six tons go through the roof.
To give some idea of the force of such
a bomb, the ship which drops it, when
relieved of the weight, bounces up from
500 to 1000 feet. The debris from the
blast is often thrown a mile high, and the
crew of the bomber can feel tne concus-
sion in their bodies at 10,000 feet. Pilots
who have dropped these metropolitan
torpedoes say the explosion looks like a
brilliant sunrise. No surrounding life
sustains such concussion, even though un-
touched by flying debris, for internal pres-
sures are literally sucked from bodies.
Japan’s Strategy.
( Condensed, from “United States News")
Japan, elsewhere a loser, has been
winning victories with a drive against the
Chinese. She is out to capture or control
Free China’s main railroad.
domination of that railroad would give
Japan a grip upon a large area of East
China. Air bases in the part of China
that is nearest .to Japan would become
useless to the Allies.
The Japanese have been driving for
huge stakes with small forces, but are far
stronger than indicated by mere numbers.
They are trained and are fully equipped.
China’s armies are mainly unarmed.
One man in eight or ten may have a rifle.
One in a score may have a Bren gun.
Heavy machine-guns are scarce, artillery
is scarcer and ammunition is at a pre-
mium. Many soldiers are armed only
with pistols, knives or clubs. Hunger is
so general that the armies .tend to take
root where food is available, and so to
become immobile. Spectators have said
that the Chinese look like scarecrows
going into battle.
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek lacks
power to call upon a united China in the
crisis. The Nanking puppet Government
supplies soldiers for Japan. The numer-
ous Communist forces of North China
include the strong Eighth Route Army,
but they do not respond to General
Chiang’s commands. The war lord at
Kunming has kept at home his unusually
well-equipped force. He merely has given
permission for poorly-equipped forces of
General Chiang to go through Yunnan
to fight on the Burma road. But the
forces of that war lord and some others
are not under orders of General Chiang.
Shortages of fuel, of weapons and
munitions, and those weaknesses in China,
have given the Japanese their oppor-
tunity.
American Army airmen had to aban-
don the airfield at Hengyang, and then
to bomb their own field in order to re-
duce its usefulness to the Japanese. Other
fields in East China have had to be aban-
doned. Even the Allies’ main East China
base at Kweilin has been in danger. Allied
bombing operations against Japanese
shipping obviously suffer when bases in
East China are lost. Such are the imme-
diate fruits of Japan’s victories. But she
has larger aims.
Japan is seeking to eliminate East
China as a base for Allied bombing. Evi-
dently, the Japanese expect to stand up
under naval attack and bombing from
other bases. They plan to force the war
into a form requiring big-scale opera-
tions by Allied land armies in China. This
would necessitate building up China as
a powerful Allied base. Japan’s objec-
tive is to make such a war so long and
so costly that the Allies would com-
promise.
The chances seem slim that the war will
work out as Japan wishes. Present opera-
tions point to future struggles for sea
and air bases in Formosa and on the
China coast. Those operations also indi-
cate an American drive for bases in the
Philippines, the Bonins and the Kurile
islands.
American policy evidently is to make
maximum use of sea and air power to
defeat Japan, while using only such land
force as is necessary.
In China, Japan thus far has succeeded
in making that U.S. plan much more dif-
ficult. But the plan is not knocked out.
The bases of the 829 Superfortresses
that are to blast Japan’s industry un-
doubtedly are outside the scope of
present Japanese operations in China.
Japan’s shipping, which is vital to her,
can be blasted according to plan. Once
Japan is completely blockaded, is subject
to intensive bombing, and is without hope
of victory, she may throw in the sponge
and be beaten by sea and air attack alone.
But, if big-scale land operations are
required in China, Japan’s day of win-
ning easily against weakness will be
ended. She will be up against massive
and powerfully armed American and
British forces.
Finland and Russia.
(From a letter to N.Y. “Times" by Gunnar
Leistikow.)
The Finns haven’t forgotten that the
original Russian claims on their country,
back in 1939, were only part of the first
set of demands issued within a few weeks
to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Fin-
land ; and that, as a result of this, the
three lesser countries who accepted no
longer exist today as independent nations.
Another thing which the Finns have
not forgotten is that during the very first
days of the winter war Kuusinen set up a
puppet Administration in the first two
and a half square yards of occupied Fin-
nish territory. Molotov even signed a
treaty with this “Finnish People’s Gov-
ernment” which gave the Russians all the
Helsinki Government had rejected—
friendship, alliance, garrisons in Finland,
and what will you.
This Government vanished into thin
air when Moscow made peace with Hel-
sinki after 100 days. It was never heard
of since—not even dissolved officially—
and sank into oblivion with the rest of
the world. But the Finns did not forget
it, and fear that it still sits somewhere
on a shelf in the Moscow Foreign Com-
missariat, ready to be dusted and put to
use again at some future occasion.
The high-handed manner in which the
Soviet Union seems bent to handle its
relations with Poland, which after all is
an ally, gives the Finns the jitters about
what fate a former enemy may have to
expect.
U.S. Pacific War Methods.
(From the “Atlantic Monthly.")
Japan’s resources and man-power,
social organisation and military indoc-
trination have been prepared for a type
of war which we are not going to fight.
Japan prepared for wars of aggression.
In the interval between her immediate
conquests and her proposed expansion,
she expected nothing more than weak and
desperate assaults on her island outposts
by navies constituted in the traditional
manner. When Japanese leaders claimed
that it would cost us a million men to
take the Marshall Islands, they were not
bluffing. If our knowledge of amphi-
bious tactics and the range of our battle
fleets had remained static after 1941, they
would have been right. We should have
paid the price of Tarawa at every island
beachhead without the satisfaction of
taking the islands. In this way Japan's*
theory of “bleeding operations” might
have worked.
Why are we not fighting Japan’s kind
of war? In the first place, we are inde-
pendent of naval bases. When the Wash'
ington treaties were signed, the assump-
tion was that war could not occur be-
tween Japan and the United States, be-
cause neither had bases near enough to
the other to permit their fleets to meet.
The operative range of battleships was
then around 2500 miles.
But today we have a battle fleet that
can circle the globe twice without stop-
ping at any base at all. Accompanied by
its train of varied craft ammunition
ships, tankers, tenders, hospital, supply
and repair ships—the modem fleet can
strike at long distances and keep on strik-
ing. Japan has been unable to produce
this sort of second navy upon which the
fighting craft can depend.
Tremendous technological develop-
ments make this new kind of fleet pos-
sible. New methods of construction and
new steel alloys provide increased storage
capacity and greater protection without
sacrificing speed. We have floating dry-
docks that can house battleships.
When we took Kwajalein, the smoke
of battle had hardly cleared before the
second invasion began, headed by bull-
dozers, steam shovels and floating cranes.
Along with these came everything from
refrigerated foods to prefabricated houses.
After attacking Truk, five carrier groups
refuelled at sea and proceeded on to the
Marianas. The fleet has conquered the
problem of naval bases by taking them
with it.
Battling Against Typhus.
(Condensed from a “Reader’s Digest” article
by Frederick C. Paint on.)
In October, 1943, Naples was ripe for
death. Refugees had swollen its normal
population of 800,000 to over a million.
The Germans had burned the stock piles
of winter coal, dynamited the reservoirs,
blown, up the electric light plant. There
was no heat, no water, no light. People
crowded into air-raid shelters by the
thousands, and the lice that infested most
of them found no difficulty in changing
hosts. Never was the moment better for
that scourge of war—typhus.
Born in filth, transmitted from one
human being to another by infected lice,
typhus flourishes where there is no heat,
no soap, no cleanliness. Once it has
broken out in winter—it is usually a cold-
weather epidemic—no treatment known
hitherto has checked it. Only the re-
turning warmth of spring caused it even-
tually to die out.
In that ominous month of October,
1943, 25 typhus cases were brought to
the hospital in Naples. It seems a
small number; but typhus spreads like
fire. By the end of the year 40 cases a
day were coming in. Then 60 in Janu-
ary. The gravediggers were working
overtime. Rough box coffins were being
carried through the streets of Naples.
Victims were dying in the gutters.
By all past history, Naples might yield
a quarter of a million dead before the
epidemic could be checked.
Urgent orders reached Brigadier-Gen-
eral Leon Fox, Field Director of the
American Typhus Commission in Cairo,
who has been fighting death for 25 years
from Liberia to China, from Greenland
to the Caribbean. He hopped a 'plane
for Naples.
One fact was known: the vaccinated
soldier rarely got typhus; if he did he
had only a- mild case—and there were no
deaths. But it was impossible to vac-
cinate all the Neapolitans. Fox was re-
lying on an amazing new louse powder
known as D.D.T? the abbreviation of
dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane. When
a person is dusted with it, not only are
the lice destroyed but both body and
clothes are protected for weeks against
reinfestation even if the clothing is laun-
dered. It was theoretically possible to
delouse the entire population of Naples.
“We established 43 delousing stations,”
says General Fox, “and went after every-
body. The Neapolitans loved it. They
fought to get dusted. We had to call out
the troops to keep order. In January we
dusted 1,300,000 people. Our men were
ready to drop in their tracks—-but we
dusted practically all of Naples.”
By the middle of February typhus was
under control.
“Never before in all history,” says
General Fox, “has a typhus epidemic
been arrested in midwinter. It’s not a
question of how rapidly we gained con-
trol—the important point is that we
stopped it at all.
“This has tremendous significance. In
the future, with D.D.T., we can control
typhus. Never after this war need typhus
be the scourge of the war-weary peoples


The VENUS 7 LATHE
Ideal for the Small Workshop and
Garage Serviceman
Manufactured by
MARS MACHINE TOOL
\
MANFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
Bridge St.. Valley. BRISBANE
Sole Distributing Agents for
New South Wales and Victoria:
THOMPSON & WILLIAMS
PTY. LTD.
139 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
2S Market Place, MELBOURNE
STURDY - - - QUICK
ACCURATE
Sole N.Z. Distributing Agents:
A. M. SATTERTHWAITE
& CO. LTD.
Hereford Street, CHRISTCHURCH
/s?
□
'( V
9
fc
7ifiM tfw H/luAteriHg!
Today the Masse Battery is totally at war,
Doing all the heavy jobs o’ work it’s such a tiger for.
So if it’s hard to get one there’s a hush-hush reason why. • «
But there’ll be lots, and finer, Masses in the post-war bye*
and-bye.
Now we’ve learnt what a kick a Masse gives a tank, a ’plane,
or jeep,
We’ll be using Masse Batteries for mustering post-war sheep.
And ex-servicemen and women home around the place again
Will do their bound’ry riding with a Masse and a ’plane!
There are
Masse Dealers
Everywhere
MB 1-12-43.
Masse
BATTE RIES
are tigers for work !
mm mm m . * j
j&M-
-m
55638
For Tour Threat’s Soke..
CRAVEN A
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
j|* The will to save is the will to win.
Buy War Savings Certificates.
of Europe that it was after the last.
That’s the lesson we learned in winning
this Second Battle of Naples.”
Liberal from Down Under.
[Heading and all (without portrait) are from
the New York “Post.” To be taken in appro-
priate doses by Mr. Calwell and Mr. Ward.]
Brian Penton, leading liberal editor of
Australia, has come up from down under
to take a look-see at the *U.S., find out
what’s going to happen after the war is
over and, incidentally, to gauge American
journalistic currents.
It is appropriate that he should do this.
For Penton, a friendly, medium-sized,
greying man of 39, isn’t quite sure that
his countrymen have the right picture of
the U.S., even if they are pals of the
thousands of G. I. Joes now in Australia.
The movies are responsible for the cur-
rent picture of Americans, Penton ex-
plains. If the Americans don’t fit the
movie version, then the Australians create
legends to make the Americans like the
screen heroes.
“Take MacArthur,” says Penton.
“Before he came, my countrymen visual-
ised American generals as beautiful-
profiled, tall, impressive and handsome
men, not as stubby geniuses who weren’t
good looking but had good sense.
“Then when MacArthur stepped on the
scene, every quality expected,
up shot Australian morale. It was the
dream come true.”
Other legends have grown and have
been elaborated. For example, the Ameri-
can is visualised as a go-getter, efficient
and bold man who cuts through red-tape
to get things done.
Penton is frankly interested in Aus-
tralian-American relations, now and after
the war. He admits the Aussies under-
stand the Americans better than the
British. “They look alike, talk alike,” he
says. “In fact, they get along fine.”
Trade relations between Australia and
the U.S. won’t be important, but it is im-
portant that the U.S. have bases in Aus-
tralia if it is to maintain its power and
prestige in the Pacific, he says. The bil-
lion people in the Far East will gain in
power as years pass, and if a genuine
effort is made to raise their pathetically-
low living standards they won’t become
aggressors.
Although he realises beating the Japs
won’t be easy, he is already looking to
the future. Politics and world-currents
interest him especially.
“Conservatism is in the dog-house,” he
says bluntly. “It has lost its creative
powers and really seems to be ashamed
that it cannot go ahead with the times.”
This viewpoint explains Penton’s liberal
outlook, which was the natural climax
of a career that started in Brisbane, where
he was born. His father, Reginald
Penton, was a cattleman who was also
interested in other businesses. “We were
in moderate circumstances,” Penton
remarks.
But he grew up and went to grammar
school and Queensland College. When he
was 19 he left to see more of the world,
including England, Germany and Spain.
Soon he decided to be a writer, and when
his moving book on Australian life, The
Land takers, was published he knew he
had hit his stride. It was on the choice
of the English Book-of-the-Month Club.
But Penton shuttled back and forth to
Australia. Once he was a columnist on
the Sydney “Morning Herald” for two
years, then it was back to London and
the Continent again and finally, late in
the ’thirties, he returned to Australia to
stay.
In his mind was a picture of Germany
and Spain growing reactionary and news-
paper pals saying that Hitler wouldn’t
succeed and that papers would remain
free. He saw Spain: “The impoverished
and hostile peasantry; the rich and arro-
gant aristocracy.” His sympathies were
naturally with the loyalists.
So he knew Australia needed a liberal
paper. In Sydney the “Daily Telegraph,”
once a good paper, had slumped to 95,000
Circulation. A private operating company
bought the paper and Penton was in-
stalled as editor in 1939. Associated with
him were Frank Packer, a fine business-
man, and the fabulous Edward Theodore,
one of Australia’s leading citizens, who
owned —among other things—goldmines
in the Fiji Islands.
The gold might have been needed to
keep the paper going—but it wasn’t. Pen-
ton had ideas. He made the paper liberal
in its policies, changed techniques of
news presentation, established news
bureaux all over the world, organised a
staff of 120 reporters and wrote editorials
that caught the attention of his country-
men.
Before the war the paper had 300,000
circulation as many as 80 pages
a day, full-size, although the average was
40 pages. Newsprint shortages have cut
it to 12 to 16 pages now and circulation
is restricted to 260,000.
“The Australians respond to liberal
policies,” Penton says. “They may think
they don’t like them at first, but they
come around.”
They have come around them so well
that the Conservative party is nearly in
collapse and the Labor party has taken
over. This worries Penton, for he knows
more opposition is a healthy thing in a
democracy.
In one fight after another, Penton was
a leader in the dramatic battle with the
bureau of Information and Censorship
which attracted attention around the
world. Newspapers protested that censor-
ship was being misused under clauses in
the Constitution that allowed unlimited
powers in the defence setup. American
newspaper correspondents were being
hobbled, Australia wasn’t getting infor-
mation and even the three American
Senators who visited the country were
given a distorted picture, because of cen-
sorship.
The battle lasted a long time. Papers
printed blank columns, quoted America’s
Thomas Jefferson, fought with Minister
Arthur Calwell, the censor, and finally
appealed to the High Court.
Backed by public opinion, the Court
granted a restraining injunction which
curbed the censor. Later a new code
was worked out and the papers were at
least moral victors.
Penton knows the faults of his country
as well as its virtues. One thing worries
him most —but it’s not Fascism.
“There is no Fascist movement in
Australia,” he says, “but there’s some-
thing worse —that is a tendency to go
along with the Government in whatever
it may do. People aren’t politically
aggressive.” .
But everybody eligible votes in Aus-
tralia. If they don’t, they are fined.
Penton has been living at the Hotel
Gotham. Yachting in beautiful Sydney
Harbor is his favorite sport.
But Brian Penton is an internationalist
at heart. The world —to him —is the
battleground for the fight between men-
of-goodwill and the selfish reactionaries.
He plays on the liberal side.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
One of the oldest newspapers in Normandy
is “Le Clair,” of Cherbourg. After the Ger-
man occupation it turned collaborationist.
When the Americans marched on the port
the editor fled to Paris, leaving the paper
in the hands of his brother-in-law, M. Hamel.
After the fall of Cherbourg, Algiers Regional
Commissioner Francois Coulet began to apply
a decree of the Provisional Government in
Algiers placing press, radio and films under
control. He ousted M. Hamel and appointed
Roger Pillet, a newspaperman and member pi
the resistance group, as editor. Printers and
other employees of “Le Clair” struck. They
contended that M. Hamel had never written
any collaborationist stuff; he had only managed
the property as he had done before 1940, and
throughout the occupation he had carried on
“in a spirit of friendly co-operation with the
workers.” Sub-Prefect le Viandier, a Coulet
appointee, who was called in to arbitrate, de-
cided to give the newspaper a new name, “La
Press Cherbourgeoise,” and to go on publishing
with the old staff, including M. Hamel as
managing director and M. Pillet as editor.
Throughout all this the U.S. army’s civil affairs
officers remained aloof. — W. P. Simms, in N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”
* # * *
One German headquarters was found hidden
beneath a covering of chicken wire roofed with
green-painted gunnysacks and made to look
like a golf course. German thoroughness had
even provided an assignment to some German
soldiers to dress in g6lf clothes and move
back and forth across the camouflaged roof all
day long, driving and putting imaginary golf
balls But the golfers seemed to stay on the
same fairway too long and the air patrol came
down low to investigate. Half an hour later
there was no German headquarters beneath the
ruptured gunnysacks.— Richard L. Tobin; N.Y.
“Herald Tribune."
* * * *
French children in recently liberated areas
in France are beginning to learn the t'wo-
finger V-for-Victory sign. But several tots
under four, born since the German occupation,
cheerfully gave one vigorous Fascist salute —
the only greeting they knew. — “Christian Science
Monitor.”
* * * *
Italy faced its most delicate situation in
Rome. Liberation had opened a “Fascist hunt."
Armed men had roved the streets, arresting
alleged Fascists and turning them over to the
authorities. American troops had had to inter-
fere when this hunt took the form of a siege
of police headquarters. Communist party head-
quarters had also been raided by Allied troops
during the course of disarming the “Fascist
hunters.” The dilemma was this: on the one
hand military requirements demanded an
orderly Rome; on the other sharp action
against the Partisans— : in. which Leftists are
strongly represented—might estrange democratic
elements in Rome and cost the support of Par-
tisan units operating behind the German lines.—
N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The United States will insist on giving Hong
Kong and other former Chinese possessions
back to China. When this was proposed by
President Roosevelt at Cairo, Churchill flatly
refused.—Drew Pearson; N.Y. “Daily Mirror!
* * * *
The outstanding truth for British and Ameri-
cans to realise is that none of the occupied
countries intends to let London or Washington
write the specifications of its post-war form of
government. — Negley Parson; London “Daily
Mail.”
* * *
At each place the newspaper men [in the
party travelling to the Communist areas in the
Yenan, China] were introduced to persons who
had escaped from Communist areas, or who
claimed to have first-hand knowledge through
others, and who described how the Commu-
nist's were oppressing people, growing opium
and otheiwise causing trouble. One man told
how the Red Army killed his father in 1935.
When asked why the Communists had come to
his Shensi village at that time, he replied “They
were sabotaging t'he war of resistance.” — N.Y.
“Times” correspondent with the party.
* * * *
American voters of 1944 will elect not only
a President, 33 Senators, 435 Representatives
and 34 Governors, but also between 150,000
and 175.000 officers for other State, county
and municipal positions. Also, the ballots will
probably request a vote on between 4000 and
6000 proposed laws and other measures. —
“Collier’s.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is sought as to the whereabouts of
JOHN BERTRAM BELL, son of Dorcas Bell, of
Reade Park, South Australia. The wanted person’s
last two places of residence some years ago were
Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, and Yunta, South Aus-
tralia. Any information can be communicated to
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE & AGENCY CO. OF S;A.,
LTD., 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSEASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
flsu
'm
to
.si,.
The
Tuberculosis is striking with swift deadliness at Australia’s national
life! Help stamp it out/ Give all you can to the Anti-T.B.
£50,000 Appeal to help build an up-to-date Clinic and provide
a Mobile Service for Country Districts. Send contributions to
the Honorary Treasurer, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Anti-T.B. £50,000 Appeal
ft
*i C
fiO
s•**
(fis. c
'firZS's J
m
#k
Gr~&Sir
br
i 1 Here is a gypsum finishing plaster which is
really tough ... a hardwall plaster which, used neat, gives a smooth, glossy, pure
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being free from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Concord Plaster is specially ground and processed, not only
to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to
facilitate its gauging with lime putty when less
hard surfaces are wanted. It is, of course, essential
that this work be done by expert plasterers.
Packed in Jute Bags.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. Building Materials Division
SYDNEY . . , MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . .
PERTH
P 22-44
m
mm
sm
mm
j
MOTHER!
VOTE
to keep your child endowment
Did you know that you might lose
your child endowment if you don’t
vote YES? There is a strong doubt
about the legality of child endow*
ment, and widows’ pensions .•. and
all other proposed social benefits
such as free medical attention and
hospitalisation and unemployment
insurance.
Remove the doubt. Give your
Government the powers it needs to
guarantee that all of these benefits
will continue. Vote YES.
BY
VOTING
YOU WILL
SECURE
• Full employment for all. • Eco-
nomic Security for Servicemen and
IF omen. 9 Stabilised Prices and
Markets for Primary Producers .
9 Modern, hygienic homes .
9 Family Endowment and Widows
Pensions. 9 Free Health and Hos-
pitalisation and other social ser-
vices. 9 Stabilised cost of living
by eliminating profiteers and black
markets. 9 National development
instead of economic depression.
■mu—l - ■—■ ■■ ■ w I 1
Authorised by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia
WJCB7-U
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Steele Rudd’s On Emu Creek and
Corporal Keatley.— 3499. ~ „
To buy Sprechen Sie Deutsche ? (Burkhard).
—3500.
Information Sought.
Are ex-members of the Merchant Service
eligible for the Africa Star ? If so, what qualifi-
cations are necessary, and to whom should
application for the award be made ?
Those with service in the Mediterranean area
between the Suez Canal and the Straits of Gib-
raltar and who are not eligible for the 1939-43
Star are eligible. Apply to Superintendents of
Mercantile Marine Offices in the capital ports
of the Commonwealth.
I have inherited an English legacy consist-
ing of trust funds domiciled in England and
dividends from investments there. Both are sub-
ject to British death duties. What Australian
duties and taxes must be paid if the money is
sent to Australia?
Estate duty must be paid, but the amount' of
duty paid in England is deducted from the duty
assessed in Australia. If income tax was pajd
in England the income is not liable to tax in
Australia.
In a recent High Court case one of the
counsel alleged that a witness had committed
perjury. Why was a prosecution not launched?
The mere fact that a charge is made that
perjury has been committed does not render it
incumbent on the Crown Solicitor or Attorney-
General to launch a prosecution. If a Judge in
a case suspects that perjury has been com-
mitted he may send the papers to the Crown
Solicitor for investigation, and if the Crown
Solicitor is satisfied that he can prove the
charge he may lay an information.
I have leased a house for a year; the owner
now wishes to occupy the house herself and
threatens to evict me when the lease expires.
Has she the power to do this?
Not unless suitable alternative accommodation
is immediately available for you, or, if such
accommodation is not available, it can be
proved that it would cause hardship to the
owner not to be able to occupy the premises.
Brief Answers.
H.K.H.: There is no such thing as an Aus-
tralian nationality. Children are British sub-
jects in all cases cited N.T.: Apply to your
official receiver or assignee, who will furnish
all necessary documents for signature J.1.Y.:
Apply to the Director, Waite Research Insti-
tute, Adelaide P.T.0.: Send stamped,
addressed envelope for reply A.W.C.: Can-
not trace recipe; an alternative appears on
“Man on the Land” page F.W.C.: It would
cost £lOOO to name a cot' in perpetuity at the
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children, Cam-
perdown, and £5OO to name a cot in perpetuity
at the Collaroy section S.R.: (1) Add a few
drops of liquid ammonia to hydrogen peroxide,
mix well and dab the affected parts freely
each day until color is reduced. Repeat occa-
sionally. (2) Not available in Sydney....
H.W.R.: Neither Adelina Patti nor Christine
Nilsson ever appeared in Australia. Carlotta
Patti, Adelina’s sister, appeared at Sydney’s
Theatre Royal in 1880... .D.T.: Foxes seldom
attack grown sheep, and then only when sheep
is down. Very young lambs are occasionally
taken. Effect of depredations is negligible....
N.S.F.: Murraki means “dry, stony water-
course”; Kulpinyah, “a road leading to water-
hole”; Noonamah, “plenty of game” Ele-
ment : Full details of the design of engine
would be required to answer J.D.P.: Diag-
nosis impossible from data given. Suggest you
consult a doctor... .D.D.McC.: Hoyle’s
Complete and Authoritative Book of Games,
7s. 6d., from Angus and Robertson, Sydney
F.A.A.: If pupil is sent on conditions stated
in prospectus, such conditions can be enforced.
M.G.: (1) Invariably possible after t'he
child had reached a certain stage of develop-
ment. (2) Yes, provided the blood-clot is ex-
amined before post-mortem destruction of
tissues has taken place... .A. 8.: Apply to the
Federal Housing Commission, Canberra
R.D.: Procurable at any electrical store and
at most chain stores D.McD.: (1) Cannot
recommend; suggest raw oil (|-gal.) and 141 b.
Indian red in oil. (2) United roof paint (red).
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
F.A.Y.: The first is worth trying elsewhere.
G.C.: Gate doesn’t click... .K.H., M.G.:
For a woman’s paper E.E.R.: Chopped-up
prose M.A.L.: Theme ancient, style de-
crepit C.FI.H.: Colloquialism overdone
R.S.H.: Sonnets need to be smoother than
that, but come again B.B.: No matter how
much you admire the scene you can’t rhyme
it with “beam” 8.A.C.: Featherweight
W.L.H.: That sundowner wears whiskers down
to his ankles... .0.W.: “Have you heard the
pipes of Pan a-piping?” No, but we’ve read
two million poems a-written on that “have
you” formula... J .W.C.: “Once more I don
{he poet’s garb. And while you read please
don’t be hard.” 5h00... .T.McC.: “A Poem
from Hell” should go back there M.A.8.:
Thought for an album... .W.H.S.: The
measure of its deficiencies is that you have to
use three exclamation marks at the end of
every stanza... .F.M.: There’s a dreadful same-
ness about fantasies of the future... .J.F.: Too
much like a report for your district paper —.
L.T.S.: Magazinish... .D.L.N.: Chirpy....
L. : Ben’s bees are as heavy-footed as
draught-horses... .J.W.W., D.M.8.: For' the
2754th time, no trick endings J.C.: Old-
fashioned T.J.P.: Disguised sermon
M. : Call again M.G.: Should suit a
daily M.P.: “They stood hand in hand by
the water’s edge, wrapped about by Love’s
Young Dream.” Expect them home, wrapped
about by an envelope... .N.S.G.: Off our beat.
J.F.: Radio gags R.H.P.: Airy and un-
real.


WAR
SERIES
RONALDSONTIPPETT
Buy and
hold War
Savings
Certificates!
HERE' is a Ronaldson-Tippett 3J h.p. tank-cooled Diesel
Engine direct-coupled to a 110-volt 1 \ K/W.
Australian-made Generator, complete with switchboard
for battery charging.
These sets operate approximately 8 hours per day, every
day. They ate, in effect, the “ears” of the armed forces,
for they charge batteries which supply current for
intercommunication. '
Dependability is their most notable quality the job
demands it unfailingly. As a natural sequence, there-
fore, the plant has the efficiency for wb' -h Ronaldson-
Tippett productions have long been famed.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
The ''Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
jEND for
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and n.anufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 69,911 4 p.c. = 70~000 1 _ 870 ~Q
Written off premises, £2,500 ) ’uy.vva
1935.. 72,192 4 p.c. = 70,000 ( a7a
Written off premises, £2500 ) 8 s, ‘°'
1936.. 73,648 4 p.e. = 70,000 1 . R7q
Written off premises, £2500 f 1,148 87a,8S
1937. . 77,320 4* p.c. = 74,375 1 u - 880 380
Written off premises, £2500 ) ’
1938. . 81,671 44 p.c. = 78,750 1 491 fißn sfn
Written off premises, £2500) 1 880,81
1939.. 84,692 4{f p.c. = 80,937 1 7 -- RBl
Written off premises, £3OOO j '' ’ '
1940.. 91,031 5 p.c. = 87,500 j BS9 os7
Written off premises, £3OOO ) 031 882,087
1941.. 90,835 5 p.c. = 87,500 1 o 9r , fiß9 499
Written off premises, £3OOO ) , " J '
1942.. 90,674 5 p.c. = 87,500 1 SS9
Written off premises, £3OOO ) 1 88..,596
1943 77.503 41 p.c. =, 74,375 7
Written off premises, £3OOO ) - 8
1944.. 81,850 41 p.c. c= 78,750 1 BB „ BQ4
Written off premises, £3OOO ) 10
An attempt is being made to set the
stage for bureaucracy in Australia ; and
bureaucracy means the building of “a
society in which nobody counts for any-
thing except a politician or an official,
where enterprise gains no reward and thrift
no privileges.” In the Road to Serfdom
London’s Professor Hayek more recently
declared. “the only exception to the rule
that a free society must not be subjected
to a single purpose is war and other tem-
porary disasters, when subordination of
almost everything to the immediate and
pressing needs is the price at which we
preserve our freedom in the long run....
ir is sensible temporarily to sacrifice free-
dom in order to make it more secure in
the future; but the same cannot be said
of a system proposed as a permanent
arrangement.”
Thus, as the “Wild Cat” pointed out
recently, an industrial democracy can-
not accept Government-controlled every-
thing and remain a democracy. The
emphasis in Government post-war plan-
ning in Australia is on retention of
bureaucratic controls. In Britain, S.
Africa, Canada and U.S.A. it is on free-
dom of individual enterprise and relaxa-
tion of controls. This does not mean that
we should fall into the opposite error of
no Government supervision at all. In-
deed, many of the wide and very effective
controls which have been imposed upon
the trading banks to meet the exigencies
of total war are likely to remain, in more
or less modified forms, as peace-time
measures. And the Government already
has all the powers necessary for the pur-
pose.
As a factor in credit control, custody
of portion of the trading banks’ deposits
is a right likely to be retained by the
central bank. Also, regulated thawing of
now frozen bank deposits can be ex-
pected ; and open-market buying and sell-
ing of Government securities by the trad-
ing banks might remain a regulated acti-
vity, too, because of possible effects on
interest rates. Control over the direction
in which money is spent will be a more
contentious matter, which can well be
left in the hands of the trading banks,
whose services in this and other respects
have made them a pillar of strength in
the' past. Also, earning power of the
banks ought to be given more headroom
by raising the present low “ceiling” for
their profits, the upper limit of which is
average net earnings for the three years
immediately preceding the war. This
ignores changes in the risk and cost fac-
tors altogether.
The Q.N.’s net profit last term (up
£4347) was 4.6 p.c. on share capital as
against 4.4, 5.1, 5.2, 4.8 and 4,6 p.c. back
to 1939. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) the net result was
only 3.1 p.c. The div., which dropped
from 5 p.c. to p.c. in 1943, was lifted
to 4\ p.c.
Under existing conditions banking
figures, which used to mirror faithfully
the crosscurrents of trade and industry,
reflect mainly the impact of the Govern-
ment’s war-finance policy. Here are
balance-sheet figures for the Q.N., which
does about 90 p.c. of its business in its
home State, where primary production—
mainly pastoral, agricultural and dairy-
ing—accounts for about three-quarters of
total production:— *
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
£ £ £ £
Paid
capital. .1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Interminable
stock ..2,690,133 2,665,298 2,982,627 2,963,441
Bills, etc. 384,204 425,115 ( T „ n 7f; it m ann
Deposits 9,237,965 9,462,091 ) I3 > 865 > 37 ° 1',0H,620
Liquid
assets ..4,151,337 4,598,144 9,858,737 15,023,768
Advan-
ces 10,260,491 10,051,672 8,977,472 7,572,605
Premises 573,593 578,862 588,934 580,718
Other assets 94,958 88,988
Last term a contraction of £1,404,867 in
advances was accompanied by an expan-
sion of £3,752,245 in deposits and a
growth of £5,165,031 in low-interest-
bearing liquids. Special war-time deposit
with the Commonwealth Bank was
£7,569,000, carrying only 15s. p.c. in-
terest. When the books closed, liquids
amounted to 73 p.c. of liabilities to the
public, advances to only 43 p.c. of de-
posits (111 p.c. in 1939), and the bank
was holding £7 16s. 4d‘. of the public’s
money (including deposit stock) for every
pound of its owh. It all spells strength
but low earning power.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
, Dividends
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 3} p.e. Ord. serves. Defieit.t
1934.. 2,405 4688 Nil 37,852
Depreciation reserve disappears, £28,280.. 66,132
1935.. 5,606 4688 Nil 918 65,214
7i p.c.
1936.. 10.640 9375 Nil 1265 63,949
1937.. 11,336 9375 Nil 1961 61,988
Loss.
1938.-17,360 Nil Nil 79,348
Robur Tea and Subsidiary.
From doubtful debts, £3100.. .. 84,399
1939.. 6,493 Nil Nil 90,892
From doubtful debts, £715 .. .. 90,177
Profit. 74 p.c.
1910. .11,119 9,375 Nil 1744 88,433
15 p.c.
1941. .20,000 18,750 Nil 1250 87,183
10 p.c.
1942. .11.493 12,600 Nil 88,190
174 p.c.J
1943.. 21.988.21.875 Nil 113 88,077
132 p.c.
1944.. i,,rSB Nil 15,974 72,103
Replacement reserve taken in, £5291 66,812
t Goodwill (£75,000) not treated .as an asset.
1 Less deduction of £2300 proportionate share of
war-time (company) tax.
Following loss of Javanese supplies, the
British Ministry of Food bought the 1943
and subsequent tea crops in India, Cey-
lon and East Africa on behalf of the
United Nations. Australia’s share is im-
ported by the local Tea Control Board,
which partly meets service demands
direct. Civilian distribution is made
through normal trade channels, subject to
rigid Government control as to quantity
(2oz. a week per consumer), quality
(grades are limited to two), prices and
profit margins. Also, under the cost-of-
living stabilisation plan, the retail price
of first-grade tea in capital cities was
slashed from 3s. sd. to 2s. 3d. per pound.
The retailer was allowed a profit margin
of 4fd. per pound. The loss on traders’
stocks at the time of the cut was covered
by Government subsidy. What the cost
to the taxpayer since then has been will
probably be disclosed when the Budget
is brought down at the next sitting of
Parliament.
Government importing has eliminated
traders’ risks arising from war-time ship-
ping difficulties, including fluctuations in
freight, insurance and exchange rates and
overseas prices. But whether at greater
or less cost to the country as a whole is
another question. Still, traders have been
able to work down stocks—previously
built up in anticipation of supply difficul-
ties—to the benefit of their net earnings
and cash position. For the 12 months to
the end of March last Robur and its N. S.
Wales subsidiary, the Oriental Tea Co.,
report that “large-scale production of
defence supplies was achieved offset-
ting to some degree the absence of normal
trading conditions.”
After providing for taxation and depre-
ciation, combined net earnings of the
parent and its offshoot were £11,174 better
at £33,162. That was the best showing
since the present co. took over the busi-
ness of James Service and Co. in 1928.
Of tfye £33,162, the parent contributed
£17,597 (up £2004) and the subsidiary
£15,565 (up £9170). The lot was suffi-
cient to pay a full year’s pref. div. of
p.c. and show 19 p.c. on the £125,000
of ord. capital. Actually the prefs. were
handed £17,188 (13J p.c.), thus bringing
their payments up to date. The ords.,
which have been out of the picture since
1929, were passed by, leaving £15,947 to
put on the shelf. That leaves out of the
reckoning £5291 sent to replacement and
re-establishment reserve, partly from sur-
plus of sale of the co.’s Swanston-street
(Melb.) tearooms. Together with the
year’s surplus earnings, this reserve re-
duced the amount of capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles in the books at March
31 last to £66,812.
■Here are balance-sheet figures:
1938. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 107,544 43,810 153,547 81,839
Property and
plant .. 41,869 40,660 36,008 33,167
Investments .. 53,805 15,000 20,000 75,368
Stocks .. 70,808 102,696 251,155 80,625
Book debts .. 26,494 29,792 28,097 50,200
Cash .. .. 85,219 45,875 2,086 35,042
Outstanding feature last term was a re-
duction of £170*530 in the stocks item.
It was accompanied by a reduction of
£71,708 in outside liabilities and growth
of £22,103 in debtors’ balances, £32,950
111 t-ash and £55,368 in investments, which
consist entirely of Government securities.
TUp imnrnvpmpnt in tUo tYir . ro A
,7 . , P m Ore Or
less liquid surplus (£159,396) was £11,705.
As foi the current term, operations con-
tinue to be limited by controls, which
thus far have done the co. more good
than harm. With finances in satisfactory
trimandtherisksinseparable frominter-
national trade eliminated temporarily, at
any rate, prospects for both prefs, and
ords have improved. The public is in-
terested only in the prefs.
-
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re— Re-
June> Dividends. serves, serves-.
£ £ £ £
1084.. 35,954 8 p.c. = 35,496 458 157,296
1933 .. 40,924 8 ~ 35.496 5,428 162,724
1936.. 41,006 8 „ „ 35,496 5,510 168,284
1937.. 36,911 s „ „ 35,496 415 168,649
Saf” Sm u 4 ’/, " ll’Jm s 'Hl Kuos
1940.. 42,530 oj „ „ 42,152 37s i74,45s
1942;; 27,’529 )) 159,615
mu','. 25)109 s")) 35,496 . 149)288
1944 •• 20,092 7 » » 31 > 069 “ 1^4,921
This co. enjoys a monopoly of sea-car-
riage between Sydney and the N. S. Wales
North Coast, from Newcastle to the
Queensland border, and has done so for
over half a century. These days shipping
property is much less profitable than it
used to be, owing to the incidence of
war-time controls and operation costs,
Over the last three years the co.’s net
earnings have averaged £26,463 as against
an. average of £39,672 for the quinquen-
nium immediately preceding the outbreak
of war.
In the shipping of farm and dairy pro-
duce to city markets and the backloading
of supplies for storekeepers and others—
a business largely immune from the
vagaries of inter-State manifests—the
gamble, apart from river bars, has been
mainly with seasons, which affect the
volume of production. War has intro-
duced new factors, including man-power,
following service and other call-ups. Part
of the fleet has been requisitioned for
defence purposes, and taxation, seamen s
wages, fuel, insurance and other costs
have climbed steeply during the last loui
years. Also, lor the most part, the prices
control office has frowned upon cost m-
crements being passed on through lifts
j n freight rates. So, although increases
hi these rates have been granted, they
have only partly offset the growth in out-
goings, despite deep cuts in allowances
lor depreciation £lB,ooo' (down £769
last term), as against £33,389 in 1938.
Over the last seven years allowances roi
depreciation total £170,100, or only
£8945 less than the book value of the
A ee t at June 30 last,
Since April of this year the remaining
vessels of the fleet have been under the
Shipping Control Board. This doesnt
affect the service provided by the co., but
alters the control, the co. now acting as
agent for- the board. In the inter-State
trade charter rates are insufficient to meet
overhaul (now about 100 p.c. more ex-
pensive than in 1939) and replacement
costs. After allowing lor depreciation
and providing for taxation net earnings
were £1526 better at £_6,69_. this,
second-lowest figure in the last years,
was 6 p.c. on capital as against 5.6 p.c.
f° r the year before and 9.5 p.c. for. the
1940 term, when costs and conditions
generally were less onerous. A point
was chipped oft the div., reducing it to
7 P- c -» and reserves were tapped tor
£4367 to pay it. History, however, sug-
gests that the board could have called
more of past takings net profit it it hau
wanted to.
Liquid strength is the outstanding fea-
ture of balance-sheet figures:
1939 1942 1943 1944.
Paid capital.. £443,700 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
_. , •1*4.• *. e-r* Cl7O q qp.a 01 iva, *7Q 226
Liabilities*.. 50,578 ,8,354 81.174 79,22 b
Ships.. .. 314,401 207,195 199.246 179.94“
Freeholds, etc. 16,383 14,408 14,408 18,40-
Liquids .. 357,568 417,813 478,256 490,963
* including tax provision.
Of the £490,963 of liquids, £432,798 (up


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Aovr.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Aiivt.
Mil!
MVi
V\w>S
VWS
s^*
CHARTS
For all type# of
Recording Instruments for any class
oi Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTY. I„T». BRISBANE. Q’LD.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
ACTS
LIKE THE !
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result-of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lß), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
m i
riii
IClll
th i
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
IHE WENTWORTH
ut
S,
7 7
Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Report to the Nation
£
g m
m
Mi
immM
m
m
111
§3
■■ ■■■■■■■■ ■■■■' •
'
. :■>•> ■
*'ZL
Australia to-day is building all
manner of things out of steel.
Here is a destroyer that is as
good as any in the world. It
was paid for out of loans.
Munitions have been pour-
ing out of factories like this
all over Australia. We have
given a good account of
ourselves on the home front.
The bonds you bought have
made it possible for the
home front to do its part.
So long as we have airplanes, Australia is pretty safe,
airplanes without your money, the money you paid
But we might never have
in to buy bonds with.
1
Our boys were defeated
driven back to Port Moresby.
Then munitions arrived. As
soon as we were equally armed,
we pushed the Japs over the
ranges, into the sea.
* * *
You can put in your applica-
tion now for a bond in the
Second Victory Loan. Don’t
buy the smallest bond buy
the biggest you can pay for. If
you haven’t £lO handy, step
into your money order post
office or savings bank and buy
some 5/- National Savings
Stamps. But do it to-day!
It’s to-day that your country
needs the money.
2PVI3/iti
£47,458 last term) was represented by
Commonwealth Government securities.
Outside liabilities (down £1948) include
an unspecified provision for taxation.
The more or less liquid surplus (£411,737,
up £14,655) is equal to 18s. 7d. per f.-p.
pound share. Appearances are that the
return from Government securities is pro-
viding nearly half the div. The fleet is
reported in good order and insured
against marine and war risks.
To help reduce the State’s long-stand-
ing dependence on N. S. Wales for its
coal supplies the S. Aus. Government is
developing the Leigh Creek subbitu-
minous coalfield, discovered in 1888. The
Federal Government has been asked for
financial assistance for the purpose, and
for priorities for men and materials.
Two S. Aus. engineers are to be sent to
U.S.A. to investigate the steam drying
of coal, purchase plant and obtain infor-
mation about construction of locomotives
for use of this type of fuel. The Leigh
Creek seams vary considerably in thick-
ness. The one now being opened up is
about 40ft. thick, and is covered by over-
burden of shale and loam from 15ft. to
80ft. deep. The overburden is being re-
moved by a Harman shovel, and the
coal mined by dragline excavation at the
rate of some 800 tons a day. About 250
men are employed, and no difficulty is
experienced in finding a market for the
output. During 1943 S. Aus. bought
935,000-odd tons of coal from N. S. Wales.
* * * *
Great Boulder’s shareholders have
nothing to complain about. Ore reserves
at September 22, 1942, were officially
estimated at 2,506,593 tons, averaging
s.4dwt. Fifteen months later, after treat-
ing 406,000 tons of 4.64dwt. average
grade, the estimate was 2,471,736 tons,
averaging s.sdwt. So, despite drastic cur-
tailment of development, owing to man-
power and other difficulties, reserves de-
clined by only 34,857 tons ; and average
grade improved by O.ldwt. per ton. Chair-
man Alfred Sim announced at the annual
meeting in London on July 5 that, in
order to simplify work in dealing with
registration of transfers, the board pro-
posed to convert the co.’s shares into
stock, transferable in units of 2s. each.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe, Westralia’s largest
re-treater of gold tailings, netted £7lBl
stg. for 1943 as against £BBB6 stg. for the
year before. The div. was unchanged
at 3d. per share, less U.K. income tax.
Co. commenced operations early in 1930
on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile tailings
dumps. On exhaustion of those on the
Golden Horseshoe, an agreement was
reached with Great Boulder for re-treat-
ment of its No. 1 and No. 2 dumps on a
fifty-fifty profit basis. No. 1 dump was
finished in 1941. According to Horse-
shoe’s chairman, knight Frederic Hamil-
ton, No. 2 dump will keep the co. busy
until about the end of this year. It is
then proposed to re-treat, on a similar
profit-sharing basis, a dump containing
about half a million tons belonging to
Lake View and Star. A year ago Horse-
shoe had assets (mostly cash and invest-
ments) approximating its issued capital—
£l6s,ooo stg. in 110,000 3s. shares.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia and North Kalgurli,
two London-domiciled Westralian gold-
producing cos. of credit and renown,
announce dividends in sterling for 1943
of Is. and a share respectively, sub-
ject to U.K. income tax of 10s. in the £.
Australian shareholders get approxi-
mately 625. 6d. and 395. per 100 shares
respectively in local currency. Sons of
Gwalia’s net profit for the year was
£23,953 (down £12,360). That was after
allowing for taxation (£23,000, down
£17,000) and depreciation (£5000). North
Kalgurli’s accounts are not yet available.
Consolidated Gold Areas (W.A.) is
asking those on the register for another
penny a share. On May 11 shareholders
agreed to reconstruction, owing to lack of
funds, and to pay 2d. for a new share in
exchange for every two shares previously
held. The board then said that no calls
would be made on the new shares with-
out consent of the Federal Treasurer.
* * * *
Five of S’Africa’s big goldmining cos.
have issued their latest estimate of ore
reserves and average value thereof.
Randfontein has 8,390,000 tons, aver-
aging 3.2dwt.; Government Areas,
8,190,000 tons, averaging 4.2dwt.; Robin-
son Deep, 5,128,000 tons, averaging
4.4dwt.; Simmer and Jack, 3,351,000
tons, averaging 4.2dwt.; and New State
Areas, 3,120,000 tons, averaging 4.3dwt.
Lake View and Star, largest Westralian
producer, has over 4,000,000 tons, aver-
aging about sdwt.
* * * *
New York bullion brokers Handy and
Harman estimate silver output of
the world’s four largest producing
countries for 1943 as United States
44,500,0000 z. (down 9,500,000 oz.), Canada
18,500,0000 z. (down 3,800,000 oz.), Mex-
ico 87,000,0000 z. (up 13,000,000 oz.),
Peru unchanged at 16,000,0000 z. Con-
sumption is put at about 125,000,0000 z.,
or some 10,000,0000 z. more than the
previous 1942 peak figure. The increase
is due largely to use of the white metal
as an alloy in aeroplane construction,


Don’t let them USE
YOUR
SOLDIER
You’re being told that the Govern-
ment must have more power if it is
to reinstate service men after the war.
But Governments have,been using
Full Repatriation powers without
question for the last 25 years.
Thousands of homes built, thousands
of mortgages discharged, thousands
of men settled on the land, thousands
of men taught trades, thousands of
soldiers* children educated. And so
on.
The Commonwealth has already spent
an average of more than £l,OOO per
man on soldiers of the last war. Who
now says they haven’t power.
rs
m
Li
m
Can’t you see your soldier is merely being used I
He’s the bait for the political trap I
Do you think he wants to be man-
powered ... to be ordered round and
pushed about... when he comes back ?
Like you are now ? And for good ?
Don’t you think he’d like some freedom
when he gets home ? He’s been fighting
for it... Why take it from him while
he’s away.
Do you feel the officialdom which
thought the Jzoot suit good enough for
him when he left the army is - to be
trusted with still more power over him
...and you ?
Since the Government’s present National
Security Powers last till six months after
peace is declared —don’t you think they
might have left this half-baked political
Referendum till your soldier got back ?
It concerns his whole future life—Why
not let him have a decent say in it ?
Especially as they’ve all the powers
they really need in the meantime.
★ Send your soldier the “No” literature.
And tell him that while we are sub-
scribing the money to fight the battle
for freedom at home, your money, and
everybody’s from them by
taxation is being used to put over
this new grab for power. That will be
sure to interest him.
Put your
!N
THE
Bottom Square
Authorised by John Hedge, Australian Constitutional League, Australia House, Sydney .
Phones A B 6402, MA 4502, MA 4513
INCOME TAX RETURNS
MADE EASY.
The Shipley Account Book
with Taxation Guide
(Copyright)
Specially prepared for GRAZIERS, DAIRY
FARMERS. ORCHARDISTS, AND ALL
PRIMARY PRODUCERS.
EVERY ITEM FOR TAX RETURNS
FULLY EXPLAINED. YOU CAN’T GO
WRONG. OVER 1,000 COPIES SOLD.
The large number of testimonials received
from satisfied purchasers, prove the inest-
imable value of our Taxation Guide and
Account Book.
DON’T WORRY OVER INCOME TAX
RETURNS. THE READY RECKONER
SHOWS AMOUNT OF TAX PAYABLE.
Order Now—PRICE, £1
1/- extra for Postage and Exchange,
obtainable only from
J. SHIPLEY & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
66 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
The Cost of War
Australia’s war effort is now costing
the Government less. It could cost much
less still without the effort being impaired
—by the elimination of waste and exces-
sive political and departmental spending.
The man-power position would almost
automatically improve following a de-
partmental and munition-works clean-up.
After climbing steeply in the four
preceding years, war expenditure—cover-
ing a multitude of sins as well as virtues
—for the 12 months to June 30 fell by
3 p.c. in comparison with 1942-43 outgo.
This reduction in war’s consumption of
our production may come as a surprise
to many who have found the civilian
standard of living progressively falling.
But the growing scarcity of certain foods,
clothing and services is not entirely due
to Australia’s war expenditure. Some
of it is due to administrative muddle,
some to departmental frustration of the
individual producer by red-tape, some to
the discouraging burden of costs on land
industries, some to the food and clothing
needs of Allied services, and far too
much has been caused by strikes (as in
the coal industry) and by the exalted
power of trade-union bosses.
The real burden of war is not clear
in the average mind. Many people do
not realise that the taxation of war is
not all visible money taxation, and that
the correct measure of the tax is the
amount of the nation’s man-power and
production diverted to war purposes.
This physical tax is most clearly apparent
in the reduction in our living standards
and the enforced neglect of our assets.
The tax is added to by the shortcomings
and failure of the Government adminis-
trative machine, as well as by deficiencies
of industry—wage-earner as well as wage-
payer.
Without the spur of actual, imminent
danger from the enemy, there is undoubt-
edly a tendency for some classes of
people to loaf under conditions of high
pay and high taxation. An anti-social
attitude by Communists and similar inflic-
tions has also tended to disable our full
productive resources. There has not been
a clear-cut, wholehearted national ob-
jective of full production. Fallacious
Labor-party doctrines, sectional interfer-
ence and ambition, and bureaucratic
grandiosity have all contributed to a clog-
ging of activity. And a hastily-prepared
defence organisation, especially on the
scale which Australia undertook in terms
of man-power, invariably involves waste,
muddle and delay which strains the wit
of those trying to control it.
The Treasurer, Mr. Chifley, has esti-
mated that the war cost Australia £545
million in 1943-44, £l7 million less than
in the previous year and £25 million be-
low Budget estimates. The figure includes
cost of reciprocal lend-lease aid (£llO
million) and the cost of subsidies to vari-
ous industries, including dairymen, to
stem the rising tide of inflation. The cost
of subsidies was estimated at the begin-
ning of the year at more than £24 million.
The fall of £l7 million net in total
defence costs is made up of a reduction
of £23 million in overseas expenditure
and a rise of £6 million in Australian
outgo.
Of the £545 million war expenditure in
1943-44, £470 million —a reduction of
£52.6 million —is charged to the Depart-
ments of Defence, Navy, Army, Air,
Munitions and Aircraft Production. De-
partment of Supply and Shipping spent
£2.4 million less at £7.5 million, while
Home Security’s charges dropped from
£1,996,764 to £253,930. “Interest, etc.,
and other departments” cost £62 million —
up £34 million. Much of this increase
would seem to be owing to the cost —not
separated—of subsidies. Comparing this
rise with the fall in actual defence expen-
diture mentioned at the beginning of this
paragraph, we get a very good illustration
of the trend of the Australian war-time
economy. The pressure of equipping the
fighting forces is slackening, while eco*
nomic and political pressure arising out of
trial-and-error methods of war-time ad-
ministration is increasing. In other words,
we are now paying with increasing heavi-
ness for the disorganisation caused to
industries, finance and man-power by war
and war-time political and economic
methods.
The total cost to the Commonwealth
Government of the present war and inci-
dental waste and expense has been £1651
million up to June 30. In that cost, bor-
rowing has been used to the extent of
£lll9 million. Taxation has contributed
£532 million, or 32 p.c.
Of last year’s £545 million defence
spending, £l6B million, or 31, p.c., was met
by taxation, revenue available for the de-
fence account rising from the £159 million
of the preceding year. Taxation would
have borne a bigger share but for the
man-power difficulty in assessing and col-
lecting taxes. The current year should
benefit.
Increase in the war debt last year was
£377 million, compared with £403 million
in the preceding year. A smaller propor-
tion of the debt-increase is represented by
Treasury bills (about £BO million, against
£179 million), although a great part of
the subscriptions to “public” loans was
from the savings banks and other finan-
cial institutions.
Total tax revenue received by the Com-
monwealth last year was £312 million, in-
eluding profits from the Mint, note issue,
etc., but excluding business undertakings.
That represents an increase of £46 million
over the preceding period. Cost of 1914-18
war charges and repatriation services was
£19.8 million (against £lB.B million), while
invalid and old-age pensions, plus £28.2
million contributed to the national welfare
fund (the first charge of its kind), were
chief items in “special appropriation” of
£6B million (against £40.4 million). De-
partmental administrative charges ran off
with £6.4 million, miscellaneous items
with £2.6 million.
Total income-tax collections last year
were £183.8 million, up £42.8 million.
The amount reimbursed to the States was
£32 million, against £26.4 million. Allow-
ing for the sums collected on behalf of
the States, Commonwealth income-tax
revenue has almost doubled in the past
two years. It is now on a level similar
to that prevailing in Canada for about
three years.
Nothing reveals the present Common-
wealth Government’s unrealistic view of
the war and war-time economics more
emphatically than its reluctance to tax
the inflated wages of its political ad-
herents during the deadly dangerous
period of the Japanese advance towards
Australia in 1941 and 1942. That it was
eventually forced by - circumstances to
fall roughly into line with other Allied
countries is largely the reason for the
improved financial position shown in this
year’s Government accounts. But the
effect of past errors and political pre-
occupation is still evident on all sides.
The reduced recourse to central bank
credit last year is good to see. But there
is still too much indirect investment of de-
positors’ money by the savings banks in
war loans, and far too little genuine public
support. And there has been a disgusting
waste of taxpayers’ money in endeavors
to disguise or “correct” the results of
previous administrative waste and errors,
and in trying to lead the nation up the
referendum path.
Australia is the one Allied nation, apart
from New Zealand, still Governmentally
toying with socialism. And Maoriland has
gone far enough to realise the shortcom-
ings of the system so far as finance is con-
cerned. Walter Nash has admitted that
private bankers know more about their
job than his Government ever did. Leslie
Lefeaux, ex-governor of the N.Z. Central
Reserve Bank, said towards the end of
last year that “there is not the slightest
doubt that pre-war New Zealand was
heading straight for the financial rocks,
despite favorable weather, and it was
only the war which saved the Dominion
from serious embarrassment.” Since
June 30 the Australian Federal Govern-
ment has had a majority in both Houses,
and there is some concern as to
what policy will be adopted with regard
to control of the Commonwealth Bank.
There is sure to be pressure from some
sections of the Labor party asking that
central bank policy be altered so as to
provide a short-cut to heaven (or to hell).
* * * *
Doctrine and delay are seriously enter-
ing Australia’s price-control system. It
is unfortunate that economic doctrines
appear to be entering into what
should be a straight-out matter of price
control. There has been evidence for a
long time that profits control is a function
desired by the Prices Branch; first pro-
tests were made by industry about the
time the 4 p.c.-profits policy was “aban-
doned.” The control of profits, with its
inevitable attack on efficiency, is a dif-
ferent thing entirely from the control of
prices, which aims at keeping inflation in
check. And delays in advising traders
of the prices at which they may sell new
shipments or new lines of goods are
adding to costs and wasting time and
man-power.


BRANDAIJERrS
less
&
Every point
guaranteed
do aot experiment with imitations.
<*■ BKXXDABU * CO, I*4, BISMUtaHAU. UNO
For
Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divoece.
TO ROBERT CECIL ALLEN late of Svdney.—TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY ALLEN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. ‘2300 of 1944 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance on or before the Twenty-fifth day of Sep-
tember One thousand nine hundred and forty-four
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. KALESKI & HARRIS Solici-
tors 39 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN CRESWELL COUGHRAN. TAKE
NOTICE that ELMA MAY COUGHRAN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3807 of 1943 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Second day of
October One thousand nine hundred and forty-four
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from ERNEST WILLIAM WARREN Solicitor 179
Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
ft* YuV>YiV<t*f
m
■ *
%
issaits®^
m*
ts "
...the Bedroom of 194 X
—Masonite, of course!
When Masonite is ‘demobilised’ . . . when Victory per-
mits building . . . your home can include the bedroom
you yearn for; a bedroom with walls of Masonite bevelled
and grooved in soothing symmetry and, perhaps, tinted
to match the Tempered Presdwood furniture. The floor
will be of silk-smooth, steel-strong Tempered Presdwood,
also. Your home-dreams can be interpreted more easily
in Masonite—“ The Wonder Board of 1,000 Uses”—
than in any other material. Start saving and planning
NOW for your post-war home.
%
m
MAI 6-44
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD...TEMPRTILE...UUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.
SALES DIVISION. 369 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
Reasonable supplies of Presdwood and Tempered Presdwood
obtainable at all builder’s suppliers, timber merchants and
hardware stores.
The Realities of Peace
Winston Churchill has mentioned the
possibility of peace in Europe this year.
There are others not so optimistic. But
it would appear that 1945 will see
the end of anything approaching total
mobilisation of the Allied Nations.
With the passing of the pressure of war-
time demand and the stimulant of war-
time objectives, the problems of employ-
ing man-power to the full and going
about the job of rehabilitation in
the most effective and economical way
will be agitating the minds of national
leaders. Most agitated, perhaps, will be
the minds in nations defeated militarily
on both sides. But there will also be an
excess of agitation, eventually, in coun-
tries which discover themselves economi-
cally unprepared for peace. As has been
mentioned in these pages before, it is pos-
sible for a nation militarily victorious to
suffer economic defeat. And that defeat
can come largely from internal causes.
It should impress all conscientious
minds at Canberra to know that Australia
is less prepared on the economic and
political side for the coming of peace
than any other Empire country. The
reason for this unpreparedness is that the
Federal Labor party, which holds the
reins of power, is trained more in political
manoeuvring than it is in dealing with
practical matters of government. People
are not being told the blunt truth about
many everyday things that have political
angles. The result is that the realities in
store for post-war Australia are not being
given the emphasis they deserve. Aus-
tralians, because of the Government and
bureaucratic preoccupation with doctrines
and political ambition rather than the
realities of the national outlook, seem like
being less prepared for the shocks of
peace than they were for the shocks of
war.
And Australia, politically, had a most
unrealistic outlook so far as war was con-
cerned. Compulsory military training
was abolished by a former Labor Gov-
ernment, and every defence vote was
criticised by the Labor side. There was
Eddie Ward suggesting that Australia’s
real enemies were to be found among its
own people (but not, of course, among
members of the Labor-union group), and
that “the workers of Germany, Japan and
other overseas countries are fighting for
the identical things that the Australian
workers desire.” And “to hear honorable
gentlemen opposite talking about defend-
ing this country makes me wonder just
what it is that many of the unfortunate
citizens of this country would have to
defend against any foreign aggressor.”
With that logic of which only the Labor
party is capable, Eddie Ward eventually
became a member of the War Cabinet
when Australia was in dire peril of in-
vasion by the Japanese.
The “logic” of Eddie Ward is to be
seen now in the Federal Government’s
attitude towards the post-war period.
Every few weeks we hear a Cabinet Min-
ister or an inflated bureaucrat laying it
down that economic conditions in Aus-
tralia before the war were intolerable and
that anything like them after the war is
not to be thought of. The fact that pri-
vate enterprise was far more prepared
to take up its responsibilities in supplying
war materials than the Government was
in doing its job matters nothing to the
peculiar minds to be found in the Min-
istry and the bureaucracy. The truth is
that there are many men in the Labor-
union group and its own particular circle
of bureaucratic friends who have found
that war-time conditions—apart from any
actual fighting in the war itself —suit them
eminently. There is plenty of money
about; powers under the National
Security Act are enormous ; the public’s
job is to do or die, and not to reason why,
irrespective of what waste, blunders or
injustices occur; and there are many
other hardships which patriotic citizens
are prepared to put up with so long as
the war continues.
An altogether entrancing setup for the
politician who, before the war, had nevei
lisen to Ministerial rank. An equally
beautiful setup for the “party” follower
with a bent for “secretarying” and social-
ism who finds himself to be one of the
and shining intellectuals of the
“war effort,” with salary and “priority”
- out of all keeping with his pre-war
state. And what a charming setup, too,
for the gentleman who, prior to the war,
was a minor office worker in York or
Flinders street, but, “seeing the writing
on the wall,” decided to take cover in a
Government department! For such
gentlemen the war and the totalitarian
controls that go with a war effort have
been a huge success.
The cost to the nation of men in the
wrong positions and wrong jobs at grossly
flattering salaries is not often considered
seriously by those being flattered. Many
would refuse to admit that they were
costing anybody anything, their economic
emancipation, so to speak, having come
from the new system of finance and
“control” exercised by the Labor party —
a sort of economic liberation that had
for centuries been denied by “monopo-
lists,” bankers and other capitalists.
Having found their niche or nest in the
sweetest “lurk” they ever dreamt of, a
number of Government or bureaucratic
mouthpieces are all for a continuance of
Government controls after the war. Not
that ail Government regulation of an
economic or financial nature should dis-
appear immediately the war ends ; on the
contrary, most Empire and Allied coun-
tries agree that some controls will have
to be kept going for a time. But
we do not want controls merely for
the benefit of those who exercise the
controls. And we should like to see some
evidence now that any post-war extension
of war-time powers is to be of a tem-
porary nature only. We need to see that
Government planning does indeed aim at
the preservation of private liberties and
private enterprise.
The Australian is being left in a state
of extreme doubt as to what the Gov-
ernment proposes to do with private in-
dustry after the war. All that can be said
definitely is that there is a marked ten-
dency towards socialism, with controls in
perpetuity. Where private industry goes
to Canberra with a reasoned claim for the
benefit of all industry in the period after
the war (which promises to be so hectic),
quite often industry’s representatives are
treated by bureaucrats or Ministers almost
as though they were something alien to
the Australian atmosphere.
There seems to be little doubt that most
Government planning, such as it is, is
based on a continuance of official controls
for a number of years at least after the
war. Will the people of Australia stand
for that sort of thing, and can, indeed,
the Australian economy stand it? In
Britain and Canada considerable prepara-
tions are being made for assisting private
enterprise to cope with the disorganisa-
tion of labor, industries and markets
which is likely to be found at the con-
clusion of the war. In those countries
the view is taken that the pre-war state of
things is a good basis to work upon,
especially when the war-time improve-
ments in scientific, industrial and financial
technique are applied to it. There are few
illusions that the war was fought to pro-
vide a new order, or to give us a new
heaven and a new earth simply by im-
posing upon citizens a different type of
political system.
There has been an industrial revolution
arising out of the war, and each country
will have to look deeply into the questions
of its production methods in the light of
war-time developments and into its costs
of production. A matter which the
Federal Government seems to have lost
sight of entirely is the growing costs of
production in Australia, plus the growing
cost of government. With all its great
war-time powers the Commonwealth
Government has failed to do a job nearly
as economically as it was done before the
war. And that is allowing for inflation
in costs apart from inflation created by
the Government itself.
Much of the failure that has occurred
in certain parts of Australia’s war effort
—and there has been failure in food pro-
duction, in coal production and in the
output of other goods and the provision
of other services—has found politicians
and bureaucrats helpless. The only
virtue of war-time controls is to transfer
to the war effort all those things which
are necessary to the ertort, and to see
that non-essential industries are restricted
or abolished. In the Commonwealth we
have no evidence that war-time controls
have increased output per man or reduced
costs. The “controls” have no particular
virtue except that of concentration on
war, and even that has not been ade-
quately achieved. The reduction in unem-
ployment that has occurred is the natural
result of enlistment and conscription of
man-power for the fighting services and
the stimulation of industrial activity by
the demands of war and the spending on
war, the spending nevertheless being a
direct or indirect tax on the people as
a whole eventually. We can see now, too,
that not to have some labor reserve is as
bad as not having some coal or meat re-
serve. It is liable to lead to outrageous
conduct by unionists who feel they have
the country at their mercy.
Mr. Curtin says, in endeavoring to
bolster up what has become a most em-
barrassing referendum campaign, that
“no question of socialisation or any other
fundamental alteration in the economic
system arises.” Apart from the fact that
there might be a great deal of difference
between what limits Mr. Curtin has set
upon himself and those which an altered
Constitution provide, can Mr. Curtin
explain how his Government can “plan”
any branch of our economy without
socialising the means, even if not actually
resuming the property, of the private
members of that part of the economic
setup? It may be said at present that
the trading banks are not socialised ; but
bunking is, or at least would be if present
controls were operating in peace-time
instead of in war. In any case, it will be
extremely difficult for the Government to
direct any industry forcibly in a particular
direction without control over man-
power, materials and finance. The Gov-
ernment proposes to shape industry
according to its heart’s desire in the post-
war period, prevent inflation and keep
employment at the full. Yet Mr. Curtin
now says no socialisation and no re-
straints on job-taking. “The same right
to choose an occupation” as before the
war is the way the latter has been put.
That does'not seem to cover the right to
provide an occupation. If employers are
not left free to hire as conditions suit
them the wage-earner will still be indi-
rectly restricted. You can’t control one
side of a fence without affecting those
who want to pass through it from the
other side.


THE MAN
A Year from Salamaua.
“Ek Dum”: A year ago Australians
and Americans were advancing on the
narrow perimeter of the Komiatum front,
other Americans were fighting for Munda
and Britons and Indians were carrying
on the campaign in Arakan. So much has
been done since that August, 1943, seems
half a century away.
Instead of being 4000 miles from
Japan the sea front is within 1400 miles
of the coasts of Nippon. Japan has lost
most of its conquests and annexations in
the South Pacific. What of the enemy
remain in Australasian and New Guinea
waters are hunted fugitives with no hope
of escape. The capital of the “South
Seas colonies” at Saipan is in American
hands. The Gilberts and the Marshalls
are under Allied control. And over Guam,
the first base taken from the Americans,
Old Glory flies once more.
The enemy is being beaten back from
the Assam borders into Burma. The
monsoon rains notwithstanding, British,
Americans and Chinese, by dint of the
use of the air and of caterpillar equip-
ment, have succeeded in keeping the war
in being right through the wet season —
a feat never accomplished before in Asia
on anything like an effective scale. The
capture of Myitkyina during the week
was a final blow to the enemy in North
Burma. It is the signal that in about
three months’ time he may be defending
Mandalay and that when once the Allies
force their way 150 miles or so southward
into the dry belt the enemy can look for-
ward to having to fight an armored war,
for which his equipment is not fitted.
Soon he may have his communications
with Thailand turned to other people’s
uses.
The Burma costs have not been cheap.
In the first six months of 1944 British
casualties were 5918 killed, 2594 missing
and 19,916 wounded. But the Japanese
lost at least double these numbers.
The appointment of Sir Bruce Fraser,
lately Commander-in-Chief of the British
Home Fleet, destroyer of the Germart
battleship Scharnhorst, to command in the
East Asian sphere in place of Sir James
Somerville, who has done a grand job
defending the sea lanes—and incidentally
Australia —since early in 1942, augurs
greater moves further east. Sir Bruce
Fraser knows his Eastern seas very well.
In the Marianas
The U.S. Marines have closed the story
of Tinian for the time being by the cap-
ture of the island, save for a little
mopping up. Enemy losses there were
estimated at 5000.
The advance on Guam continued mile
by mile and day by day.
After the last mad charge on the Orote
Peninsula, in which hundreds of Japanese
were slaughtered, resistance in the south
collapsed. But the Marines on August 5
had a little way to go before all the forces
in the north are dealt with.
The enemy is fighting bitterly and
selling victory dearly. American casual-
ties on Guam to July 31 were 1022 killed,
4946 wounded and 305 missing. To
August 4 8129 Japs had been buried.
Tokyo Radio asserts that U.S. Guam
losses are 18,450.
In a two-day battle off the Bonin and
Volcano Islands on August 2-3 five
freighters, each of about 4000 tons, and
four destroyers, an escort vessel and
several barges were sunk, a light cruiser
possibly sunk and many other ships
damaged.
New Landing in New Guinea
On August 1 it was announced that on
Sunday, July 30, General MacArthur’s
forces had landed unopposed on the Cape
Sansapor area in the “bird’s head”
(Beran) peninsula at the extreme west of
Dutch New Guinea, cutting off Mano-
kwari. The Command is of opinion that
this isolates another 15,000 Japanese.
They made no attempt to resist the land-
ing—one correspondent said that “to ffie
assault troops it was quieter than a train-
ing manoeuvre.” Only half a dozen Aus-
tralians took part. A few Japs gave
themselves up.
Despite the supposed presence of large
forces, there was no preliminary bombard-
ment. The troops poured ashore in
Higgins boats, and the bulldozers and
the rest of the gear followed. But the
bombers were operating all round the
horizon for hundreds of miles. They
struck at Manokwari and at the oil centre
of Boela on Ceram. Several ships were
severely damaged in various parts of the
fighting area. On August 6 the enemy
was reported in full retreat to the south
and west.
Militia Limit Reached
One striking fact about this landing
is that it brings forces in New Guinea
to the point beyond which Australian
militia cannot be sent, since it is almost
on the Equator.
They can be used in Timor, in the
southern half of the Dutch East Indies,
but their use is out of the question be-
yond the latitude which now has been
reached, even if the recapture of British
North Borneo, where some of the Eighth
Division are interned, becomes involved.
All the main portions of the Dutch
East Indies lie south of the latitude which
now has been reached, and there are step-
ping-stones on short hops all the way to
Singapore and to Formosa.
Strategic routes ahead run: To Hal-
mahera, about 300 miles; thence to
Menado (N. Celebes), 210 miles ; from
Celebes to Borneo, less than 100 miles;
from Halmahera to Davao (Philippines),
about 350 miles. Palau is 600 miles from
the Beran Peninsula. And from the
newly-captured area it will be possible to
assail Ceram, Amboina and Timor from
the north-east, as well as from the North
Australian coast.
Cleaning Up in New Guinea
In the Driniumor River area, on the
north coast of New Guinea, the trapped
Japanese, supposed to have numbered
45,000, are being wiped out piecemeal.
On August 5 G.H.Q. reported that dead
in the sector numbered 4311. That day
two enemy attacks were made on the
inland flank of the advancing Americans.
They were repulsed with heavy loss, while
bombers continued to break up the
enemy's organisation and make his
bivouac grounds untenable. On August
4 four counter-attacks —wild charges into
point-biank artillery, m.-g. and mortar
fire—were reported.
On Noemfor mopping up of remnants
added a further 249 dead and 145
prisoners, largely Koreans, to the count.
On Biak, 345 more dead were counted,
70 prisoners were taken and 78 Malays,
who had been Japanese prisoners, were
released. A fresh U.S. landing was made
on the north-east.
G.H.Q. reported that during July 11
enemy merchant ships, 29 smaller vessels
and 34 barges had been sunk in the South-
west Pacific by attack from the air, and
that 79 enemy aircraft were destroyed in
combat and 77 on the ground.
Bombing of enemy bases cut off from
home continues.
Maorilanders Over New Britain
Maoriland official sources report that
the N.Z. Air Force is playing a large part
in the blockade of Rabaul, where the
garrison is now reckoned (by the
R.N.Z.A.F.) to be 20,000 to 30,000—it
was recently placed at from 40,000 to
50,000 by S.-w. Pacific H.Q.
The R.N.Z.A.F. pilots report that,
while jetties, roads, sawmills and gun em-
placements are continually being bat-
tered, the enemy has no aircraft to
retaliate, but his flak has still to be re-
spected. Several N.Z. aircraft have been
hit in recent sorties.
Last month the Japanese established a
new supply base at Cape Lambert, on
New Britain, but it did not last long after
the Maoriland Avenger Squadron found
it. The squadron went in under fighter
cover and made a thorough job of the
attack in spite of heavy ack-ack fire.
Montgomery Breaks Out.
“Ek Dum”: The critics who had begun
to ask why General Montgomery was not
well on his way to Berlin were, as usual,
silenced by events.
These events consisted of a typical
series of Alexander-Montgomery-type
manoeuvres, very like those of the second-
last phase of the campaign in Tunisia.
In Tunisia, the British Eighth and First
Armies concentrated on the right in tough
and difficult country. The enemy was
compelled to strengthen that flank. No
sooner had he done it than the Ameri-
cans and French African troops at the
other end of the line in easier terrain
were hurled at the defences. As the Ger-
mans grappled vainly with the problem
thus presented General Anderson’s First
Army, reinforced from the right flank
by forces lent by the Eighth Army, tore
a hole in the centre, and the front went
to pieces.
In Normandy, after the initial stage of
struggle, General Montgomery had a
greater choice of manoeuvres and greater
advantage of terrain. Having taken the
Cotentin Peninsula and established his
beachhead along the Bay of the Seme,
from east of the Ome River to the sea
on the Gulf of Brittany, he was in the
happy position that he could move later-
ally along the coast in almost any strength
under naval and land artillery and air
cover. His air superiority was such that
he virtually could blind the enemy and,
at a chosen point, inhibit or disrupt his
daylight communications.
Thus, the enemy, though he had the
cover of forests and river valleys, had
difficulties in lateral transfer of troops
anywhere near the battle line. Bridges
across the gorges in which rivers ran in
their upper reaches created bottlenecks
for him. He had to move far back. The
stage had been reached where, in its
present close form, the fighting was be-
coming impossible for him in the face of
growing Allied strength. The Allies had
two aces to every German pair of sevens.
General Montgomery, while he had not
much power of tactical surprise move-
ment in so small an area, had still the
power to surprise in other ways. He was
able to develop his resources from the
sea at a speed which surprised the foe.
Within three weeks of his arrival he
was so strong in mobile heavy artillery,
in other mobile arms and in heavy tanks
that nothing but a first-class effort could
contain him even for a time.
Within five weeks from the landing he
not only had superiority but owned the
initiative. His first heavy thrusts around
Caen brought German armored divisions
scurrying from all directions to prevent
him breaking out.
They seemed able to do this for a time.
The British blows towards the Laize Val-
ley and the open country towards the
Seine, reported after the fall of Caen,
appeared to have failed, partly because
of the weather. But the doubt expressed
here last week as to whether or not the
ebb and flow of the battle was not partly
manoeuvre seemed in the face of later
events to have foundation. The general
was using his seasoned British and Cana-
dians to attract enemy strength on the
east of the line as far away as possible
from where he intended to deliver his
main stroke. He thus achieved the same
purpose as the Eighth Army in Tunisia.
He pinned down the bulk of Von Kluge’s
armor—a fourth of the number of divi-
sions used on the whole Russian front in
the advance of 1941. Caen front was
separated from the western German flank
by a broken mountain mass.
Then the British began to shift or build
up weight towards the centre of the peri-
meter further west, while the Americans
began their break-through in the St. Lo-
Lessay-Coutances triangle on the extreme
western flank.
The Enemy Moves East
It was at this point that the Germans
apparently realised what was about to
happen. The reported movement east-
ward of the Second Panzer Division to-
wards the Orne, here mentioned last
week, was easily explainable within a few
hours as the Americans scoured down
the Avranches road and, on a broad front,
across the highway which runs from
Tessy to Brehal above Granville, and
over that from Caen to Avranches, to-
wards the important junction of Vire. It
was then evident to the Germans that
what at first seemed to be a move for
the cleaning up of the St. Lo-Coutances
triangle was really part of a major attack
on the coast.
Marshal von Kluge also found British
and Canadians suddenly engaged in a
new blow halfway to Caen against the
high country of the hill spurs, roughly
bounded by Villers Bocage, St. Martin,
Beny Bocage and Aunay.
Any German units or formations north
of Avranches and south of the Caen-
Granville road and west of the Orne
seemed to have poor prospects. The
Americans were proving that their
armored battle axe could go through
anything the enemy could put into
the field on the western side —go like a
carving-knife through paper. On a
narrow coastal strip of low country, the
terrain and roads were eminently suitable
for their purpose.
Mangled tanks, overturned mobile
guns, burnt-out lorries and a procession
of German prisoners passing their dead
on the western roads proved the position
clearly.
Any German in that region west
of the Odon, on which the British
from the north-east and the Ameri-
cans from the north-west were clos-
ing with haste and weight, had either to
get out quickly or face the last round-up—
the Odon rises in the hills near St. Martin
and winds down the valley past Villers
Bocage, to join the Orne in Caen.
Domfront Line Abandoned
The natural line of defence on which
to stop an Allied advance southward was
along the Selune, below Avranches, on a
line leading up by Mortain to Norman
William’s eyrie at Domfront, on the
Varennes. There a series of positions
were available which linked very well
with defences in the rough country of
the hJorman Alps” further east and the
headwaters of the Ome. But Von Kluge
apparently realised in advance that the
concentrated armored power of the
American drive would carry it over the
Selune, and that once over the Selune
General Bradley’s tanks would be in a
countryside in which there would be no
stopping them.
Germans in Retreat
The Germans’ reaction to the break-
through was not unskilful.
Their withdrawals were made after
thorough demolitions and booby-trapping
of important strategic areas.
They succeeded in putting into play
their tactics of the Ukraine and other
fronts, taking advantage of the rough and
timbered nature of the Vire Valley and
of the hill-and-f orest ( bocage ) area
further east to hold a couple of deep
salients or pockets with bottoms north-
wards, which kept the British advanced
troops from joining with American ad-
vanced troops to the south-west at a
catastrophically early period for their
foes-—the “horns” of Nikopol and of
Brest Litovsk and Bielystok over again.
They could not, however, do more than
gain time. The British smashed flat every-
thing which lay in their path. The key
point of Villers Bocage, where their
broken tanks lay beside even more broken
German tanks as the result of the daring
foray from Caumont as early as June 13,
they beat into rubble. Its buildings were
so far obliterated that when the British
troops entered it they were unable to find
the streets. But the Germans left the
remains mined to the last yard.
As they retired across the ranges to the
Orne in the rough country on the north
side of the Normandy watershed, the
Germans left behind several groups to
the west. Many of these stayed involun-
tarily and were mopped up.
Even those which stayed deliberately
to defend Mortain and Vire were in
peril, though at the week-end they still
had outlets to escape by.
Both these centres, anchors of the
salient which kept the main south-western
(U.S.) and north-western (British) Allied
forces apart, are in strong defensive posi-
tions in wild country. Mortain is in the
gorge of the Cance, with its grand cas-
cade. At least one hill 1000 ft. high
dominates the town. Vire sits on a hill.
The rocky river winds round it, often
hidden by the forest.
Americans in Brittany
While the British and Americans
struggled for control of these areas
covering enemy withdrawals, the dyke of
the Selune had broken nearer the coast
and a powerful American armored spear-
head poured through. The war of the
closed perimeter of the Normandy beach-
head was over.
What now began to happen was what
had happened many times in Russia. It
was, also, what had happened in France
in 1940, with the difference that it was
happening to an enemy equipped for a
large-scale war of manoeuvre. 1
The U.S. spearhead drove on, meeting
resistance only designed to delay or im-
plemented by forlorn-hope communica-
tion troops or demolition gangs or rear-
guards. At first the spearhead followed
the tourist road to Brittany, which on any
summer in peace-time is packed with
cars. Its progress was almost as fast as
that of the average American tourist car
in peace-time.
On July 31 it was at Avranches, look-
ing out across the wide, sandy estuary of
the See at the fairy-tale pinnacles of Mont
St. Michel, 400 ft. up above the sands.
The U.S. van was 25 miles from
Coutances.
Next day U.S. mobile forces were
reported at Pontaubault, an important
road junction, across the Selune, with the
Domfront line outflanked and the Brest
railway cut. They had prevented the
blowing-up of the dams in the Selune
near Ducey, where the last illustrious
Montgomery of Continental Europe —he
who accidentally killed Henry II of France
in a tournament in 1559 and was be-
headed—lies buried.
Next day they had turned westward
along the coast and were at Pontorsan,
15-odd miles from Avranches, the port of
Mont St. Michel (its hotel used to be
“L’Ouest and Montgomery”). Mont St.
Michel proved to be an oasis which had
scarcely been molested.
Then the tanks were racing westward
through the countryside, so like the Eng-
lish west, with its hedgerows and
orchards and Druidic remains beyond
Dol. The turbulent port of St. Malo was
on the seaward flank, a place of fisher-
men (and once of privateers), and the
town built on an island at the end of a
small causeway round which the spring
tides sometimes rise 50ft. against a rocky
coast. Many a Newfoundland fishing
boat has been built at St. Malo. The
Germans put up some resistance there.
Rennes Falls
By 8.30 a.m. on August 5 the Ameri-
cans had swept away from the coast,
down the road past Antrain and had


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO WILLIAM CHARLES LAWSON formerly of
Drummond Street Carlton Laborer. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife JEAN FRANKLIN LAWSON has in-
stituted Divorce proceeding’s against you on the
ground of desertion Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court Melbourne on or before the 23rd day of August
1944 and file an answer on or before the Ist day of
September 1944 judgment may be given against you
with costs.
JOSEPH BARNETT, 332 Drummond Street, Carl-
ton, Solicitorforthe_Petitioner.
TO FRANK ROBERTS formerly of Malvern Road
Toorak in the State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown.'—TAKE NOTICE that your wife MAR-
GARET ROBERTS has instituted proceedings for a
Divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or
before the Twenty-eighth day of August 1944 the case
may proceed in your absence IF you intend to de-
fend this suit you must also file an answer in the
said Office on or before the Seventh day of September
1944 AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the
sealed copy Petition and copy Citation in this suit
may be inspected at the office of the Petitioner’s
solicitor.
JOAN ROSANOVE, 415 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO ENA VICTORIA HOLLAND sometimes known
as Bessie James formerly of East Melbourne in the
State of Victoria but now of whereabouts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that RUPERT SORRELL HOLLAND
usually of Third Street Black Rock in the State of
Victoria Drainer and now a member of the Civil
Construction Corps stationed at Thursday Island has
commenced proceedings in the Supreme Court of
Victoria for a Divorce from you on the ground that
since the celebration of the said marriage you with-
out just cause or excuse wilfully deserted the Peti-
tioner herein and without any such cause or excuse
have left him continuously so deserted during three
years and upwards Unless you enter an appearance
in the Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne 6n or before the Thirtieth day of
August 1944 the case may proceed in your absence
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that if you intend
to defend this suit you must cause an answer to be
filed in the said office on or before the Eleventh day
of September 1944
This advertisement is inserted by MAURICE
GOLDBERG, of No. 305 Bridge Road, Richmond,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
CD
am
entered the largest city yet captured in
France—Rennes.
Though somewhat in eclipse since the
days of the Dreyfus trial, Rennes has
about 90,000 people. It is a modem, red-
granite place with a barracks named after
Marshal MacMahon and two rivers meet-
ing within its environs.
There were, perhaps, a couple of bat-
talions of Germans in Rennes when the
columns approached. They drew out,
leaving Rennes en fete and almost un-
damaged after only a token resistance.
This easy victory was a clear advertise-
ment that the enemy was abandoning
Brittany, and probably the whole of
Western France. At this stage Berlin
declared that the Allies had 54 divisions
in Normandy, and that six U.S. armored
divisions were being used in the break-
out operations.
Biscay and Brittany Abandoned
The significance of this could scarcely
be put into words. It meant that the
days of the Atlantic U-boat campaign
were specifically past. Brest, Lorient, St.
Nazaire and Nantes, on the mouth of the
Loire, were all within grasp.
The great western ports of France
would soon be sucking in huge forces
of troops and mountains of supplies.
American columns were racing for all
of them at a pace never known even on
the plains of Russia. That which went
to Brest reached its outskirts three times
as fast as any column had travelled in the
war since the Germans themselves in-
vaded France. It covered 155 miles in
48 hours. The Americans had reached
the sea beyond Vannes—the town in
which the word “Australia” was first
printed in a French book published in
1676—thus coming to Quiberon Bay,
where Lord Hawke once smashed an
attempt to invade Britain. Strong air
forces meanwhile were bombing the Ü-
boat ports to pieces. It was also reported
on August 6 that the Americans were in
the environs of. Brest and that they had
reached the broad Loire estuary between
Nantes and the sea.
These movements were timed with a
steady widening of the Avranches-Rennes
drive. This widening was towards the
east. It engulfed Fougeres and Mayenne,
an old town of about 8000 people, with
steep, narrow streets and an ancient castle
captured by the Earl of Salisbury 518
years ago. It engulfed Laval, a cloth-
working centre, with about 30,000 inhabi-
tants and an old castle past which the
Mayenne runs 80 yards wide, north to
south, to join the Sarthe at Angers. In a
few hours the U.S. troops were 20 miles
nearer Angers.
Meanwhile, in the Caen sector, the
British and Canadians had cleared the
west bank of the Orne from the sea down
to Thury Harcourt, 17£ miles south of
Caen. This place, which the river reaches
after being crossed in its windings half
a dozen times by the railway, is where
the Norman Alps foothills begin.
From here to beyond Domfront (40-
odd miles onward), through the preci-
pices and crags and tangled timber of
Clecy and the summit of the water-
shed through which the railway tunnel
goes into the valley of the Noireau, past
Flers and Conde —towards which a drive
was in progress at the week-end from the
north-west —the country is in German
hands. The line from Thury Harcourt
to beyond Domfront forms the mouth of
the German salient: the top is at Vire.
It needs to be in German hands, for
the capture of Mayenne and Laval placed
a wall of 30 miles of American territory
south of Domfront.
Domfront in Allied hands would have
meant catastrophe for the Germans in the
Vire salient at a very early stage. Dom-
front Castle, from its 200 ft. cliff above the
Varenne, looks down on all the country
westward to Mortain. The enemy had
to keep the escape route, via Flers and
Argentan, open further north.
By the evening of August 7 the Allies
had consolidated along the Upper Orne,
on the west bank, and were pouring fresh
troops into their bridgeheads on the east
of the river round Caen.
Casualties and* Possibilities
Up to July 30 the Allies estimated that
they had killed, wounded and captured
about 200,000 of the enemy, of whom
about 50,000 had been mopped up in the
present operations since the first days of
the British preliminary stroke across the
Orne below Caen.
Allied losses to July 20 before the
present phase of operations were:
Killed. Total.
British .. .. 5,646 39,594
Canadians .. .. 919 6,545
United States .. 11,516 70,009
Totals .. .. 18,081 116,148
British-Canadian and American forces
were about equal at the beginning of the
invasion. The Americans lost more
heavily in the early stages, especially
their parachute divisions. Their numbers
now exceed those of their brothers in the
great adventure: “British and Canadian
losses together,” said Mr. Churchill,
“equal those of the larger United States
forces in proportion to the relative
strength.”
In five or six days the Germans’ prob-
lem had changed from whether it was
possible to hold the Caen perimeter to
whether the lines of the Loire, the Sarthe
and the Orne could be held ; whether
indeed they would not have to retire
beyond the Seine, sacrificing Paris and
trying to stand on the short traditional
lines of the last war. Another 30 miles
along the road from Laval would settle
the Sarthe question for the Americans.
It would bring them Le Mans, where
Sarthe and Huine join 131 miles from
Paris.
The enemy is playing for time. He is
hoping obviously to curl up in his lair on
the shortest possible lines for a winter
respite. As we learnt from him in 1940,
so he learns from us. He needs months
to benefit by his knowledge.
On the west he will have his work cut
out, for mechanisation has now reached
a point where, in such country, snow is
no barrier. The sea is no barrier either
for the next three months. The greatest
barriers are the big rivers, but amphibious
craft, such as the British-Americans
alone possess, make them crossable.
Much of the naval and air might which
was needed to back the Bay of the Seine
landings could now be used to establish
a second beachhead further north
towards the Belgian border, there to build
another attack perimeter which could
function with the Allied armies in Nor-
mandy as the Anzio men did with those
coming up from Naples.
The way for a landing in the south of
France should be clear, if Mediterranean
ports are needed.
But the need for these depends on
General Montgomery’s tractive power,
which he may prefer to use from the west.
The Bombing.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Churchill announced
in the Commons on August 2 that 4735
persons had been killed and 14,000 in-
jured in flying-bomb attacks on London
and “the surrounding counties.” The
bombs had destroyed about 17,000
houses and had damaged 800,000, three-
fourths of which had been made habitable
again. A million persons not engaged
in war business, among them 223,000
mothers with children, had been encour
aged and assisted to leave London and
evacuation of another million was begin-
ning. The deathrate had been reduced
about 30 p.c. over three weeks, as com-
pared with the previous three weeks.
The first experimental flight of bombs
was fired at England on June 13. Serious
attacks began on June 15. To July 31,
5340 bombs had been launched against
England.
Mr. Churchill’s great quality in dark
times is that he has been a convincing
optimist. He needed his optimism when
relating “this sad tale of human-sorrow,
suffering and wholesale destruction” and
pronouncing the following sentences:
We feel that our defences are gaining
in power. We ate pressing to the utmost
our counter-offensive measures.... 1 no
longer feel bound to deny that victory
may come soon.
This while taking into account the possi-
bility that “attempts will be made with
long-range rockets containing a heavier
explosive charge than the flying bomb,”
with London as “the primary target.”
Mr. Churchill gave the R.A.F.’s losses
between April 1 and June 30 as about
7000 killed and missing. This means that
the flying bombs have taken 22 more
lives per day than have been lost on an
average in the day-in, day-out battle over
Germany, France and the North Sea and
the Atlantic by all sections of the R.A.F.
Deaths from flying bombs in 48 days
were only 1200 short of the mortal casual-
ties in the British forces on all Burma
fronts in six months of 1944.
It would be idle, as well as unfair to
a greatly-enduring people, to deny that the
flying bombs are serving a military-pur-
pose, fiendish as it is. If the casualty and
damage lists were not enough to prove it,
R.A.F. statistics for July are conclusive.
In July the R.A.F. alone dropped over
57,000 tons of bombs on enemy objec-
tives. In July, 1943, it dropped 18,500
tons. But in July, 1943, the whole load
was decanted on Germany or enemy
transport or aerodromes. In July, 1944,
only 13,000 tons reached Germany. About
44,000 tons were dropped elsewhere by
British forces, a full half having been
diverted to flying-bomb bases and experi-
mental stations.
The U.S.A.F.’s total, which included
the Russian front, was 65,000 tons, and
portion of the issue went to destruction
of bomb bases. Large forces of anti-
aircraft personnel are constantly on duty
against flying bombs. Many squadrons of
fighters are involved day and night. Hun-
dreds of tons of ammunition are called
for. Work is interrupted. Rail transport
has to be requisitioned for refugees.
The bombs continue to come over, and
in increased numbers since August 2,
when they began to arrive in showers.
They come sometimes in salvos or broad-
sides. They continue to kill Englishmen,
-women and little children. They con-
tinue to deprive humble people of their
homes, keep thousands of children and
adolescents and womenfolk continuously
on the strain. The horror of the expedi-
ent has been added to by the develop-
ment of an incendiary version and of
a silent type. Hospitals seem to have a
fatal attraction for them. Seven hospitals
were hit in one day in London.
Life in Germany, however, must be
the reverse of peaceful. The average de-
livery of bombs to German industrial
centres is now over 30,000 tons a month.
The air fighting over long stretches of
country must have a moral effect almost
as great as that of flying bombs.
Before Florence.
“Ek Dum”: After his visit to Italy, the
King sent a message:
The enemy has been outgeneralled and
outfought During the past few days I
have traversed the ground from Cassino
to the present front line, a distance of
250 miles... .This brilliant campaign has
added much to the glories of the British,
Dominions and Allied armies.
As the message was being sent Maori-
landers, British Guards, Indians and
South Africans were fighting their ways
over the hillcrests which run like a wave
along the 30-mile perimeter south of
Florence. The South African armor had
joined in towards the final drive, working
with the Guards on the Greve River
crossing about five miles from the city,
while the Maorilanders’ tanks made their
final break-through.
The Maorilanders had borne the brunt
of the fighting for some days, with Indian
support. On July 27 they were at Cas-
ciano on Highway 2, eight miles from the
city, after the night attack in which they
had established two bridgeheads north of
the Pesa River —the one at Casciano, the
other on the enemy left flank further up
the stream, near where it joins the Arno,
into which it runs from Mt. San Michele
to the south-east.
The infantry waded through the stream,
which is very shallow, after a heavy bar-
rage had been laid down. Engineers fol-
lowed to prepare the way for tanks.
Next morning the bridgeheads had to
be held in the face of heavy and accu-
rate fire, preliminary to a stabilising
counter-attack, mainly thrown at the
Enzedders’ bridge across the little river
near its junction with the Arno at
Cerbaia.
The staple of the enemy’s attacking
force was a regiment of Panzer Grena-
diers, fighting with their usual strength
and ingenuity. This unit presently re-
tired, hammered by the Maoriland guns.
From then 1 onward luck turned in favor
of the New Zealanders, who had been
making heavy weather throughout the
day, cut off from support on the wrong
side of the water.
Further up the Greve, about midnight
the first mutters of’ a new Maoriland
barrage were heard, and by morning
Monte San Michele had been taken.
After daylight the towers and pinnacles
of Florence spread out before the captors
of the mountain. Their eyes could fol-
low the little Greve to its junction with
the Arno near where their own troops
lay almost in the s.-westem environs of
the city. The latter still were cut off
from them by the Arno, on which all
the bridges but the ancient Ponte Vecchio
had been destroyed by the enemy.
Flqrence was bound to fall. Germans
reported on August 6 that they had with-
drawn from the city “to spare this his-
toric town.” The Allies apparently held
most of the southern quarter, which
holds the Pitti Palace, and patrols' had
crossed the river into the main city, parts
of which were under German shellfire.
Beyond, to the right, the Maorilanders
on San Michele could see Fiesole and the
range which rises up to 5000 feet.
To the left the Amo poured down 40
miles or so to Pisa, where the Fifth Army
waited also, as yet on the wrong side
of the river.
At Bay in Poland.
“Ek Dum”: News from the Eastern
Front marched with news from the west
in its excellence and hopefulness.
The most important development was
Turkey’s breaking off relations with Ger-
many. This has the air of having been
agreed upon for some time. Probably it
was the outcome of the visit of Ismet
Inonii, the Turkish President, to Cairo
after the Tehran conference. It could
not have been more timely.
In the north of Europe a change of
Government and the acceptance of
the Presidency by Marshal Mannerheim
foreshadowed further peace discussions.
With the sudden collapse of the
western defences on the German peri-
meter in Normandy has come a consider-
ably stiffer German attitude on the
Eastern Front.
According to Moscow correspondents,
the Red Army continues to “hurtle on-
ward,” but it is hurtling at crucial points
only at the rate of hundreds of yards per
day instead of miles per hour.
With all the Baltic Sea areas north
of the Bay of Riga isolated by a drive
to Tukums, south-west of Riga, the Rus-
sians have been able to concentrate their
attacks on the Insterburg Gap, between
the forests of Rominten and Eichwalder,
along the Kovno (Kaunas)-Konigsberg
railway.
They claimed late in the week to have
reached Eydtkuhnen, 15 miles east of
Gumbinnen on this railway. Berlin later
reported a break-through at Wirballen,
south of the railway and 15 miles further
east, followed by fierce fighting.
At Warsaw the Russians were within
gun range of Praga, the suburb on the
eastern side of the Vistula, which is here
about 1| times the width of the Bris-
bane at Victoria Bridge, but they had not
succeeded in breaching the defences,
though insurgent Poles were said to be
in possession of large sections of the
main portion of the city on the German
side. The Germans claimed on August 3
to have recaptured Radzymin, 16 miles
north-east of Praga.
Lower down the river the Russians
reported having consolidated and widened
their bridgehead at Deblin and having
formed a new one, 25 miles long, at
Sandomierz, from which they had driven
to within 40 miles of Cracow.
In the extreme south they had cap-
tured Stryj, on the main Lwow-Buda-
pest railway, about 40 miles from a
Beskiden Range pass into Hungary.
The Russians hold njost of the agri-
cultural portion of Poland east of the
Vistula. They are now on the fringes of
industrial Poland. Subject to a few miles
here and a few miles there, the lines
bounded by the Vistula in the north and
the Warta and the Carpathians in the
south represent the absolute limit of
safety in movement now left to the
enemy. He cannot, without grave peril,
retreat 50 miles anywhere.
A few weeks will prove his strength or
weakness. He is at last, after 18 months
of retreat, at bay.


•• • •
Thousands have written
THESE TABLETS can help YOU,
too, to new vigorous health!
TABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS, ARTERIES. ETC.
Thousands of
grateful users have
written of the
amazing speed and
effectiveness of
Elasto in relieving
weariness and pain
resulting from
sluggish or poor
blood condition.
People suffering from rheuma-
tism, varicose veins, varicose
ulcers, piles, eczema and other
skin complaints, and even phle-
bitis, have successfully taken
Elasto tablets.
Elasto brings quick relief —the
amazing efficacy of this new
Biomedical treatment is due to
the fact that it goes to work
right at the source of the trouble
—on the blood stream.
Much unnatural weariness and
many chronic pain conditions are
due to a break-down of the blood
circulation system or a paucity
of certain elements of the blood
itself.
How ELASTO Works
Elasto is not a drug, but a
vital cell food. It restores vital
elements which combine with the
blood albumin to form organic
elastic tissue. This in turn en-
ables nature to restore elasticity
to the tired and devitalised fab-
ric of veins, arteries, etc.
Results
As a result, normal, healthy
circulation is re-established and
true natural healing follows.
Varicose veins are restored to a
healthy condition; arteries be-
come supple; skin troubles clear
up, leg wounds heal naturally,
piles and rheumatism are re-
lieved. This is explained simply
but more fully In a free booklet
offered—see below.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No signs of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers ”
“ 'Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for youi FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
££a4t<r Aave 'btnvridd /
STRONGER... LIGHTER ...LONGER - LASTING
■Mite
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manuiacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
I
6
6
How to get at the
last few drops of
BRYLCREEM
All the Brylcreem at present being made is going to the
Services. So that with Brylcreem being difficult to get.
those last few drops in your jar have become very precious
indeed. And because Brylcreem has such excellent tome
ingredients, there's a lot of good in those few drops. So
we suggest you get them out by adding a teaspoonful of
clean, cold water and shaking the jar vigorously. You II find
every drop of cream will come cleanly away from the |ar.
Save or Slave—Buy War Savings Certificates
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Reopening of Caulfield racecourse last
Saturday after four years’ occupation by
military authorities attracted a very large
but, according to officials, not a record
crowd. Tote receipts, £130,186 55.,
however, represented an all-time high for
the course, bettering by £26,214 ss. the
turnover on Caulfield Cup day, 1939.
Australian Hurdle, principal race of the
day, was a drab affair, with Benghazi
easily avenging his G.N. Hurdle defeat
by Zalmon. Latter tried to lead most of
the way, but Benghazi was always within
striking distance and was too solid at the
finish. It was a two-horse race, Cara-
gona, who defeated Anpapejo for third
money, finishing 25 lengths behind
Zalmon. Benghazi, favorite at 7 to 4
after large bets had been taken at 5 to 4,
is a six-year-old gelding by Lo Zingaro
from Lady Rush, owned in partnership
by Lieut. H. Thompson and A. Fullarton,
and trained by D. Zealley. He cost
only 75gns. as a yearling.
Lieut. Thompson, who is stationed tem-
porarily in Sydney, obtained leave to visit
Caulfield to see his horse race. He has
ridden as an amateur, and in recent weeks
has been riding work for trainer N.
McKenna at Randwick. Fullarton, who
rode Benghazi, recorded his first Mel-
bourne win since he resumed as an
“amateur” after retiring for three years.
Ace cross-country jockey before his tem-
porary retirement, and now riding only
horses which he owns or partly owns,
he retains all his skill and judgment.
Warwickshire completed a double for
trainer Zealley when, starting at 12 to 1,
he outstayed Parentena and Stromness in
a sensational race for the Watson Steeple.
The new fences proved too formidable
for most of the runners, only six of 14
completing the course. Warwickshire
gave apprentice K. Denham his first suc-
cess in four rides over jumps.
Neutron followed up his Ascot Winter
Cup success by justifying his 6-to-4
favoritism for the Balaclava Stakes. He
won from Malt Brew and the unlucky
Spearman, and is a bargain at the
1225gns. paid for him last December.
Neutron is a greatly improved galloper.
He has 7.10 in the Caulfield and 7.9
in the Melbourne Cup, as against the 8.9
he carried on Saturday. Formerly trained
by L. Robertson, he is now under the
care of T. Lewis.
Dukedom improved on his Moonee
Valley form of a week earlier by defeat-
ing Busybody and Burberry in the Moon-
dah Plate. Burberry looked like winning
when he led round the turn, but tired
under his big weight. Barncluith (20 to 1)
and Keplerian (9 to 4) won the divisions
of the Mornington Welter, and Ben Hope,
a three-year-old gelding by Caithness--
Laveuse, surprised at 15 to 1 in the
Elsternwick Stakes.
* * * *
An attendance of 21,000, a tote turn-
over of £56,649, and only one successful
favorite (probably to the satisfaction of
handicapper H. Frank) was the Ascot
record for the meeting at Rosehill.
Bruce Wood’s owner deserved his win
with that horse in the Kingsford Smith
Flying Handicap. Subsequent to win-
ning at Rosehill in May Bruce Wood had
a run of minor placings, but on Saturday
he was never further back than third,
and, settling the pacemaker, Brazier, after
entering the straight, was not after in
danger of defeat Apprentice A. Smith
was on the winner. The minor-place
getters , Jo hn Halifax and Higlt Flight,
ran we n ? without being able really to
threaten the winner, and while Brazier
had every chance he is not all that his pre-
vious win led backers to believe, or else
Rosehill did not suit him as well as the
downhill finishing run at Moorefield.
Nobleman and Grand Prodige never
s haped worse.* Main Topic’s run said a
lot for his spring prospects over longer
distances . Last at the home turn, he was
a fas t_ fin ishing fourth.
• •
Castle Frontenac, favorite for the Ascot
Turf Club Handicap, made up ground
in the straight to finish third, but in run-
ning his chance never quite looked a win-
ning one. He gave the impression of
having lightened, and will be all the
better for the short let-up it is purposed
giving him prior to spring racing. Chat-
ham’s Choice led soon after the field
settled down, but could not stall off Royal
Peer when the latter challenged him in
the straight. Royal Peer ran on well to
win, while Active Service, who outstayed
him at Moorefield the previous week,
stopped badly after running up third to
Chatham’s Choice and Orderly at the
turn. Outside the place-getters nothing
looked a possibility in the straight.
In conjunction with two recent defeats,
the fact of being ridden by E. Terrill, who
has been out of the game in the metro-
polis for some time, caused Merrimba to
start at a liberal price for the Welter
Handicap. However, commencing well, he
got up in the last few strides to beat the
pacemaker, Chinook, with Cockcrow,
who flattered his backers a furlong from
home, a very close third and then Glen-
dower and Cadger. There was some
support for Air Link, but he was never
sighted, and Royal Result also gave his
backers a poor run. Code, though only
seventh, is not far off a return to form.
Although Abydos, who cost T. W.
Trautwein 1600gns. at the sale of horses
in the estate of the late E. J. Watt, had no
recent form to recommend him, he was
heavily backed for the Novice Handicap,
and won nicely from Chatster (always
prominent) and Craigie. The last-named,
in addition to drawing an outside posi-
tion, appeared to meet with a slight check
immediately after barrier-rise. He was
probably an unlucky loser. Panstone dis-
played pace, leading into the straight, and
Peter’s Pence finished better than usual.
Vermeil (by Winooka), ridden by
F. Shean, had the Bunnerong Three-year-
old Handicap won a long way from home,
though Whistler, a fast-finishing second,
might have troubled him only for being
kicked when at the barrier. Whistler,
who is worth following, is by Brueghel
.from Veilantif, and is one of D. Lewis’s
team. Lady Barlene (by Madagascar) did
well enough to suggest she will be useful,
and that also applies to Right Royal.
Sir Francis (J. Duncan) got to the
front early in the Trial Handicap, and
hung on well to score from Paul and
Manday Son. The last-named, who was
a strong favorite, swung out at the turn,
and was not doing as well as either of the
first two at the end. Royal Janette, who
is not improving, was fourth, and the
Talking gelding Conversation did best of
the remainder. Sir Francis was a 40gns.
yearling.
Rylstone (Shean), raced by S. Camp-
bell, was not long in giving a return
of the- 500gns. he cost last April. His
race at Randwick a fortnight earlier and
subsequent work rapidly brought him
back to his old form, and in a rattling
finish for the Highweight Handicap he
was a little too good for the dead-heaters
Hauteur and Chataroi, with St. Elmo
heading the others. Burnooka, one of the
rough division, led at the turn, and Lien
finished nearly last, while Cradle Song,
after being well forward in the early part,
also tired. Kimbell was seventh, but over
a longer distance will do better.
* V * *
Form pointed to Russia as the prob-
able winner of the Newcastle Cup, and,
aided by J. Thompson, he just pulled
through. It was surprising that Lord
Neith was a better favorite, but the fact
of Munro being the latter’s rider had a
lot to do with that. In finishing a very
close fourth Lord Neith gave a good
account of himself, but in that respect
did not shine to the same extent as Shin-
ing Night, who struck trouble at the start.
Bartle was nearly thrown out of the
saddle, and Shining Night, after being
last until nearing the home turn, was
beaten only a head. E. Hush, who trains
and races Russia, also had the third-place
getter, Dewar.
Reversion to the old practice of draw-
ing for post positions at the time of
acceptance will be appreciated by course
double-backers in Sydney as well as Mel-
bourne. The late draw often gave one
or other of a backer’s selections a posi-
tion that told against its chance. Now
the backer will know better what he is
doing and will receive greater value for
his money.
* * * *
In Victoria this season country clubs
are receiving a good run from the Race-
courses’ Licenses Board. They are to have
123 meetings—4B more than last season,
* * V «
The A.J.C. received great entries for
its principal races of the spring, and
while, as usual, those nominated for the
Metropolitan include many that have
done a lot of racing without showing any-
thing suggestive of staying pretensions,
some of the Derby entrants are more sur-
prising. The Derby is only a couple of
months off, and hope (or trainers) must
have told some owners a flattering tale
to suggest that youngsters which have
been racing unsuccessfully with compara-
tively low weights in ordinary two-year-
old handicaps will develop classic form
in that short interval. Still, almost any-
thing seems possible in racing, and it gets
back to the old contention “you can take
them out, but you can’t put them in!"
Miscellaneous
The V.F.L. “four” is now in the clear
-—Richmond, Footscray, Essendon and
Carlton. Fitzroy, two points away, and
North Melbourne have rough chances of
getting into the finals. On Saturday
about. 30,000 packed the Richmond
ground to see “Tigers” and Essendon, in
the finals two years running and this
year’s tip for the “grand” final, measure
each other, and they got their money’s
worth. ’Don won, 12.15-11.17. Mean-
time Melbourne made Carlton look
cheap, 8.6-4.14. Other games resulted:-
South 10.19-7.12 v. St. Kilda, Geelong 11.20-
9.7 v. Hawthorn, Footscray 15.9-8.12 v. Col-
lingwood, Fitzroy 15.11-11.12 v. North Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
Manly on its own ground is always
formidably, and it broke even with
Randwick till near the end of a fine
match. Then ’Wick winger Paterson
broke clear and streaked down the side-
line to score the try that gave Randwick
a 12-9 victory. Superior in the loose,
North’s forwards subdued West to down
the Magpies 6-3. Randwick leads, three
points ahead of Uni., with West third and
Drummoyne fourth. Other games:
University 23, Parramatta 3; Drummoyne 12,
St. George 8; East 35, Gordon 6.
* * * *
Queensland boxing form is pretty good,
Patrick being almost the only Sydney pug
of note who has not been whipped at
Brisbane ; but Les McDonald showed at
Leichhardt that he is not one of Banana-
land’s best. Jim Fraser settled McDonald
in six rounds. Mac was down at the end
of the round, and couldn’t come up for
the seventh.
Sydney Stadium is being badly served
by boomed pugs who fall ill or become
otherwise incapacitated with annoying
frequency. In a double bill on Saturday
Joe Grant outpointed A 1 Watkins,
although many spectators disputed the
referee’s ruling, and Alan Hall drew with
Dally Moran. Hall won almost every
round, but landed low lefts in almost
every round, and these fouls lost him
points enough to make the decision a
correct one.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT.”
Trial Stakes: Cargeonel, 1;
Abydos, 2 ; Paul, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Beau
Monde, 1; Princeton, 2 ; Cordiality,
3.
Flying Handicap: Hauteur, 1;
Brazier, 2 ; Bruce Wood, 3.
St. George Handicap : St. Elmo,
1 : San Sebastian, 2; Air Link, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Phalaran,
1 ; White Feather, 2 ; Royal Peer, 3.
Rockdale Welter: Brueghelier, 1;
Rylstone, 2 ; Eastralia, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The basement of the Town Hall was
the city’s great forgathering place
all last week. Under bright electrics,
well displayed on wall and screen, is the
saga of the 1940-44 Anzac. It is a theme
that calls for the lyre of a Homer, so
great are the exploits, so superhuman the
endurance. Looking at these photographs
of man pitting his brain and strength
against such formidable foes as the Owen
Stanleys, the Finisterres, the Kokoda
Trail, the nightmarish fabric of Tobruk,
the gazer can believe in the labors of Her-
cules.
The photographs show the Australian
soldier in the Middle East, in Africa, in
Northern Australia and in New Guinea.
They show him cheery and indomitable
against jungle background, in the midst
of arid desert stretches. Here is a picture
of hundreds of him devout at church ser-
vice before going into battle, and close
by a densely-packed audience at a camp
concert. Gun and ’plane and tank and
the men to man them are all shown in
these photographs that somehow seem to
make the usually stolid solid atmosphere
of the Town Hall basement vibrate with
the passion, the courage, the heroic sacri-
fice of war.
Small boys were fascinated with the
rubber dinghy ; and listened enthralled to
the details of its expansion on striking
the water. Rubber pegs for plugging
bullet holes and the awning to spread
shade or catch any welcome rains were
accessories much admired.
Nor is the part played by Australian
women in their country’s war effort over-
looked. In a section given over to
women’s activities, the girl in the services
up north and her sister in the canning
factory, in munition works and in the
land army are portrayed earnest and hard-
working, but smiling of eye, smart in
appearance. Sydney’s Mayor Bartley
opened the very fine Department of Infor-
mation show.
It was a busy meeting of the Red
Cross headquarters branch last week in
the board room of Peapes’s in George-
street. To begin with, it was the annual
discussion of affairs, and president Mrs.
Nigel Smith (re-elected again for this
year) got down to work with the ease of
experience. She was laudatory over the
branch gaining third place in the recent
air race, thereby gaining £l5O towards its
coming year’s quota for Red Cross.
Then there was a storm of presentations.
Mrs. Nancy Bird Walton and Donald
Cameron, co-pilots in the air race, were
handed their trophies. Ivie Price, who
goes to England with Lady Gowrie,
got a travelling case. Noreen Dangar
and the Owen lady, who are off to
England for the Red Cross, also received
gifts. Susan Spencer spoke up asking for
helpers with the society’s roll-call drive.
As it is hoped to enter 95,000 hew names,
clearly many hands are needed to make
light work of filling in the forms.
With the arrival of the new Consul for
France, Robert Chaulet, the departure
of the Andre Brenacs draws nearer. As
soon as transport can be arranged they
leave for South Africa, where Capetown
will be their headquarters.
The Chaulets, mother, father and
daughter, are in Sydney, the Australia
their temporary home. Later they will
live in Canberra at the French Legation.
This also will be the headquarters »of
France’s Minister in Australia, R. Mon-
mayou. The Chaulets have spent the last
few momentous years in England, Ire-
land, Poland, Trieste, and Mrs. Chaulet
even lived with her parents in occupied
France for some months.
There are many pleasant spots in Syd-
ney, but none more pleasant or more typi-
cal of the city than the site of the
C.E.N.E.F. (Church of England National
Emergency Fund) club for women offi-
cers. This is the first club for women
officers of the auxiliary services, and
already letters of appreciation are pour-
ing in. The hall of St. Philip’s on Church
Hill, with its glimpses of the rectory
garden and the vista of green trees and
grassy slope of the little neighboring park,
has been turned into attractive quarters.
Cream and burgundy are the furnish-
ings and decorations, and the greatest
possible use has been made of the space.
Down the middle of the hall runs a cream
partition ; on one side are the cubicles
providing sleeping quarters for 26, and
on the other side are the dining-room
and the lounge. The stage has become
a well-equipped writing- and reading-
room. There are hot and cold showers
and a well-equipped kitchen, where hot
and palatable meals will be cooked.
Morning and afternoon teas will also be
served. There will be a matron-in-charge,
and the staff will be voluntary workers
of C.E.N.E.F. from the different parishes.
The opening last Friday was a gala affair,
with Lady Gowrie saying the magic
words. The Archbishop and Mrs. Mowll
also smiled upon the work. Mrs. Mowll
presented a specially-bound book of
photographs showing the C.E.N.E.F. ven-
tures to the Governor-General’s wife.
Such crowds surged into David Jones’s
gallery all last week to view the Dobell
pictures, and at the same time to help
the Kindergarten Jubilee Fund, that one
woman was heard to murmur desper-
ately: “It looks like queueing up again,
and I’ve just come from the butcher’s,
where I stood for over half an hour.”
However, with perseverance and slow
motion the visitor finally did the rounds.
One woman, attracted by the portrait of
Elaine Haxton, made straight for it, to
find she .was the only person walking in
that direction. All the other-hundreds
were obeying some natural instinct for
one-way traffic. She said it made her
"feel like facing the wrong way in a lift.
The show, which is a loan one, netted
over £lOO the first day, when Premier
McKell made the opening speech. This
was from the sale of catalogues and
silver-coin donations. The gallery, newly
decorated, is soft with lighting through
grey-blue shades. The walls of palely-
grey hessian are panelled about two feet
from the floor in richly polished walnut.
There’s a positively regal touch about
the stage. Its curtains of shimmering
gold velvet are girdled with thick gold
cord weighted with tassels that could
anchor a battle-cruiser. Former director
of the National Art Gallery Will Ashton
is in charge.
The Borovansky ballet left Sydneyflast
week for other States. Mingled with the
classic beauty of “Swan Lake” and “Syl-
phides” was the fun of “Fapade.” Indeed
there was nothing of ballet lore that the
company did not essay successfully.
Young Australia took many leading parts.
Laurel Martyn, pictured here, was one of
the principal ballerinas. Laurel, a Queens-
land girl, studied for some time in Lon-
don with Phyllis Beddells. One of her
proudest successes was the winning of
the Genee Medal.
The Travellers’ Aid Society has a
special interest in next Tuesday ; at tnree
o’clock on that date (15th) the new lodge
will be opened by Lady Wakehurst. The
address is 358 Elizabeth-street, at the
rear of the dental hospital. Pitt-street
via Goulburn-street trams are the vehicles
for those who have neither car nor petrol.
Geographically nothing could be more
topical than “Katinka.” The lady arrived
at the Royal on Saturday night complete
with carrier pigeons and all. Her story
is played against a background of Yalta,
on the Black Sea, Old Stamboul and Paris.
“Quite a Von Papen tour,” muttered one
first-nighter. Apart from the scene of
action the sense of reality fades.
“Katinka” is one of those fairy-tale musi-
cal comedies that used to keep the world’s
heart warm before 1914-18 ripped a
hole in life’s tapestry.
There are good music and lots of fun
in “Katinka.” With Gladys Moncrieff’s
voice to distil the sweetness, such numbers
as “Rackety Coo” and “One Who Will
Understand” go straight to the heart of
even the man and woman in the uniform
of World War Second. Gladys first
appears in bridal array—white satin and
a most glorious veil. Her husband is a
Russian ambassador, but her true love
is Ivan, who appears from his red boots
to be a dashing Cossack. Her going-away
(going away from her husband) raiment
is a greeny-blue suit. Then she appears
in a black-and-gold harem ensemble.
Lastly a blue frock, richly embroidered
in black, clothes her happy-ever-after
exit. The ballets in crisp, fresh frockings
bright with embroideries are a delight.
Don Nicol’s fun keeps the pot boiling.
Herbert Browne as Ivan is a convincing
sweetheart.
From Melbourne
Informality was the keynote of the
party given to Marjorie Lawrence by
Mayor Nettlefold when the singer arrived
in Melbourne. Miss Lawrence, although
confined 4o her wheel-chair, contrived to
be one of the smartest dressers present.
Her pink hat, a natty little affair of
ostrich-feathers, was worn with a long
frock of black-and-pink stripes. Husband
Dr. Thomas King replied adroitly to the
Mayor’s statement that “it would be diffi-
cult to get Miss Lawrence out of Aus-
tralia, because every man is her sweet-
heart”: “I brought her safely out of
America to Australia and she has many
sweethearts there.”
Mrs. T. J. Ryan was at the party. Her
daughter Jill and son-in-law pianist Ray-
mond Lambert were with her. Norman
Martin, who made a happy little speech,
brought his spouse along to meet Miss
Lawrence. Mrs. Martin does a good job
with her Country Leave Club, which is
open all day Sunday for the men of the
three services. ‘This club is situated in a
large park, and the men may play tennis,
golf, dance or do just what they want to
do to while away the hours of leave.
Marjorie Spry was also a guest, wearing
another of her famous hats —a pancake
affair of blue felt, with birdies, just ready
to take off, sprouting from the crown.
The Brookes lady, who was to have
been at the party, was unable to be
present. Recently she became Comman-
dant of the W.A.T.C., and she is having
a busy time winning recruits for this ser-
vice. Girls who are too young to join
the *W.A.A.A.F. are taught some useful
trade, which they will take up when they
do join this seryice.
An engagement of country interest is
that of Sub-Lieutenant Geoffrey Fair-
bairn, R.A.N., son of the late J. V. Fair-
bairn, Minister for Air, and Mrs. Fair-
bairn, of Mt. Elephant, Dcrrinallum, to
Rosamund Clifford, youngest daughter of
the Hon. L. J. Clifford, Yarra Brae,
Wonga Park, Victoria. Rosamund spent
her childhood years in Devon with her
grandfather, Lord Clifford of Chudleigh,
returned here some years ago, and was at
Clyde for some time.
Balletomanes rushed seats for the
Ballet, which opened on Saturday night
at His Majesty’s. Young Australian
dancers are fast becoming proficient in
an art which had its origin in France
many years before it was taken to Russia.
Laurel Martyn and Dorothy Stevenson
are leaders of the ballet.
Daisy Pirpitzer and Hanny Kolm, ex-
ponents of the “creative dance,” are not
afraid to tackle choreography and decor
or make their own costumes. Miss Pir-
nitzer has designed all the costumes for
their dances herself, taxing her ingenuity
to think up costumes of unrationed
materials. Musical director and com-
poser Henry Portnay is working in co-
operation with these two talented young
dancers, who will appear at the Union
Theatre early next month.
Rapidly becoming part of Melbourne’s
daily life are numerous folk of Dutch
nationality. At the Netherlands Club
may be met soldiers, sailors and civilians
of all ranks, for here is a true democracy
—a people drawn together by a common
adversity. Here may be eaten the deli-
cacies of the East Indies, such as Nasi
Goreng, a dish with a foundation of rice
upon which are placed a fried egg and
portions of meat, with a sprinkling of dry
curry, chillies and onions. A fish washed
up on the shore and gasping for breath
is in the same plight as the unwary Aus-
tralian who eats Nasi Goreng for the
first time. Recently a novel performance
was staged in the Union Theatre by
students attending Professor Lodewyck’s
Dutch language classes at the University.
Two plays were produced, very success-
fully, though some of the people in the
cast had been studying the language for
only four months. Liesel Haas and Ruth
van Gelderen were two Dutch lasses who
did a good job of acting. Those in the
audience who understood Dutch ap-
plauded vigorously.
The “Mr. Melbourne” Campaign has
died down but doings in connection with
it still live in memory. Claude Flem-
ming was an entrant, and although not
the winner was near the front at the
finish. The most successful effort of his
committee, headed by Mrs. Wallace Mit-
chell, was a “Cavalcade of Theatrical
Fashions.” Hordes of local lovelies were
co-opted, and the old wardrobe at His
Majesty’s was ransacked for gowns and
accessories which for many years had
lived on the racks with other ghosts of
bygone days.
Marjorie Spry tripped forth in a
hooped pale blue satin gown, hiding her
blonde curls under a tall white wig. As
Lady Mary Carlisle she was partnered by
Ron Turner in the apparel of Bean
Brummel. The most appreciative spec-
tator present on the last day of the Caval-
cade was Marjorie’s small son Garry,
who beamed radiantly upon his momma
as she preened and pirouetted. Pam
Forster was a breath-taking figure wear-
ing a gown the like of which this present
generation has never seen (and is never
likely to see in a coupon-haunted world)
—a gown called “Bitter Sweet” of heavy
mist-blue faille. Even the bustle and the
loops of the heavy material couldn’t
take away Pam’s figure but rather added
to its charm. Pam, by the way, won the
Pin-up Girl competition and received
a nice little cheque in recognition.
Alannah Coleman, who just had a suc-
cessful exhibition of her paintings, made
a stately little Queen. Her gown was last
worn when “The Vagabond King” was
presented in Melbourne. Another in
the parade was Bunny Parnham, in
a sedate garnet red frock with much
bustle and a poke bonnet. She looked
a typical Jane Austen heroine. Merri
Hart, in a very saucy outfit as the Belle
of New York, showed what a clever girl
can do with a parasol. Winnie Wolfe
came as Queen Elizabeth in wide satin
frock, heavy jewellery and red wig. The
effort made £lOOO clear profit for the
A.C.F.
W. P. Carr has for the last seven years
produced plays for the National Theatre.
These have included the works of Barrie,
Milne, Shaw and other leading drama-
tists. The establishment of a State-
endowed theatre is one of the ambitions
of Mr. Carr, and he is working hard try-
ing to infect the local powers that be
with his enthusiasm. Mr. Carr will pro-
duce A. A. Milne’s “The Dover Road”
on Saturday at the National Theatre,
Eastern Hill. Gertrude Johnson, with
Mr. Carr, has been responsible for bring-
ing to the light of day talents which but
for the National Theatre might have
escaped recognition.
Quite a lot of acting talent is coming
to light in this city. Irene Mitchell is
playing the part made famous by Bette
Davis in “The Little Foxes” at the Little
Theatre and is giving an excellent por-
trayal of a hard and ambitious women.
Sister Vera Torney, M.8.E., has just
said “yes” to Sergeant Brett, of the A.I.F.
News of this engagement brings back to
memory the days of the evacuation of
Singapore. Sister Torney and her friend
Sister Anderson were decorated for
bravery in saving the lives of R.A.A.F.
men when the Japanese attacked the ship
on which they were all travelling back to
Australia. The Japanese dived and
machine-gunned the Air Force lads who
were manning the ack-ack guns on the
escaping ship. As the men fell to the
deck these two sisters, members of the
A.A.N.S., went forward and shielded the
men with their bodies.
Many things will be happening in town
next Saturday night. Margaret Saker
and Eileen Mitchell will give a party for
the A.C.F. at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Cliff Martin, Brighton. Walter Lindrum
will be. there to demonstrate many of his
famous shots. On the same night, the
Originality War Funds Group will stage
a gala buffet dinner at the Australia. All
the takings are to go to the P.O.W.
Fund. Dolly Kemelfield and Betty Gadsen
are prime leaders in this group, and their
efforts on previous occasions have been
crowned with success. The invitations
for the party bring back thoughts of
pre-war days. On the cover there’s a
rooster with a long black, green and red
tail. In his foot he grasps a cocktail glass
and underneath are these words “Some-
thing to crow about.”


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kftney Tube*
►—Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching back
well and strong again—if the trouble is caused by
tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates through your
kidneys every 15 minutes to be strained of acids and
wastes. Healthy persons pass about three pints a
day and so get rid of three pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, waste and acids get back-washed into
the blood and may become poisonous. This is often
the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you up. Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS and get the same quick relief they
have been giving millions for many years. If back-
ache is bothering you due to tired kidneys, try
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS today.
WHAT IS THE REFERENDUM
ALL ABOUT?
Here is the Plain Truth
Every Parliamentary leader in the country has agreed that, as it stands,
the Australian Constitution would hamstring any Government which
attempted post-war reconstruction on a,national scale.
Since the war broke out Australia has successfully organised a total war
effort. Prices have been controlled* profiteering prevented, pensions and
child endowment improved, and security of employment assured.
True, we have had to forego many luxuries and some comforts. True, we
have had to ration many essentials. But, in the main, we haven’t suffered
much.
The prevention of soaring prices and of profiteering , the pro-
tection of savings , and the avoidance of inflation are possible
onlg because of certain temporary war-time powers pos-
sessed bg the Commonwealth Parliament . Unless gou vote
"FES” these powers will vanish when the war ends.
What would he the result? The Australian people would have to face the
most difficult period in their history with only the remotest assurance of
security and employment. The Commonwealth Parliament would be power-
less to act. Prices would soar, rents would sky-rocket, your savings or your
deferred pay would lose purchasing power, and we’d go back to control by
monopolies and combines. We’d have economic anarchy.
So the broad issue is this—plan or no plan? Plan or chaos? That is what
the Referendum is about.
Do gou want Australia to be in a position to heep its promises
to the fighting services and their dependants? You are being
asked to answer "Yes" or "No".
Do gou want to be sure that Child endowments Widows 9
Pensions and other Commonwealth allowances will be con-
tinued? Yes or No?
Do gou want to see full employment without any form of
industrial conscription for every man and woman who needs
employment? Yes or No?
You are not being asked to hand over powers to Labor, the U.A.P., or any
other political party. You are asked to provide them for the first fire
post-war years only for the Parliament elected by the people—for the
representatives chosen by you to safeguard your interests.
There is no question of “socialisation” or any powers to “push you around”.
These are mere political bogies raised by those who, in the interests of Big
Business, are attempting to confuse the issue. With every confidence,
therefore, you can go to the polling booth on August 19th and vote “YES”.
VOTE Q] YES
NO
Authorised by J. B. Chiflej. H. V. Erett. UJiJL. Perliemtut House. Cenbtrre.
46V
SMOKE-OH!
“The Englands have 17 children, 10 being
sons.” — “Sun.”
There’ll always be an England!
•J- 4* *i*
“At periods of the journey the tram gathers
a speed of 45 m.p.a.”—“ D.T:”
Miles per annum is what it feels like
sometimes.
4* 4*
“Some of the stock on the railways has not
been replaced for 40 years.”— “Sun.”
That explains the refreshment-room
scone.
“She began to suspect her husband as soon
as she met his mousy-haired typiste.”
—Divorce item.
But fancy that making her smell a rat!
“He came into her life like a bolt from the
blue.” —Magazine story.
He came like a bolt and he turned her
nut.
“Rats play at city theatre.” —“Daily Mirror.’ 1 ’
Actors’ Equity is expected to call a
strike if they don’t join the union.
•f* *J*.4*
“Indians collect for famine in Sydney.
— “Tribune.”
We didn’t know things were that bad
here.
•5* 4* 4* •i 1
“The church sexton was actually the son of
the richest man in the district, who had cut
him off and ignored his existence.” — “Sun.”
“Take an old blanket for a foundation.
— “Woman.”
Corsets must be down to bedrock.
4* *t* *2*
“Bridle gown, satin lame.”
— “S.M.H.” For Sale ad.
Kicked over the traces and getting rid
3f the harness?
“The scientist held up a phial and remarked:
‘Ten dro$S of this liquid, administered to that
tough every time he feels the homicidal urge,
would render him innocuous.’ ” —Crime story.
Ten drops! Where Law is swift and
stern,
A homicidal tough,
The rope well soaped, will duly learn
One drop is quite enough.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Comment.
When the soul’s torment, floating on a sea
Of things unknowable ; draws near the
scope
Of that vast region of complexity
Where Sorrow dances on the corpse of
Hope;
When fowls refuse to lay and social strife
Intensifies the sorrows of our lot,
Then we, pale phantoms in the drift of life,
May fondly pause and murmur “Would
it not ?”
T. W. NATHAN.
To a Politician.
Your speeches on the referendum —
However much you may defend ’em —
In me inspire
But one desire:
A fervent hope that you will end ’em!
NAT.
He told his father off and shed
His claim to living like a toff;
And yet he triumphed, be it said,
For when his dad at last was dead
Again he tolled the old man off.
H. M.
Judicial Repressions.
“A New York Supreme Court Judge allowed
a blonde girl to poke out' her tongue at an
attorney during court proceedings.”
In short, his Honor failed to take
Corrective action on the wench,
And for an ancient grudge’s sake
Forbore her fine disdain to quench —
No doubt he’d often longed to make
The selfsame gesture from the Bench.
P. M. LUSK.
Woolgathering.
“Houses built of wool are visualised by a
Sydney inventor.” —Sydney “Sun.”
Doubtless merino cottages will be in
greater demand than crossbreds, but
whatever the type chosen the necessity
for systematic spraying during the fly
season looks like a foregone conclusion.
Thoroughbred kelpies recommend them-
selves as ideal wool-house dogs; and
should home, sweet home stray during
the night you could depend on Nipper
bringing it back in the morning.
Painting’s sure to present a problem.
What with burrs catching in the hairs of
the brush every few swipes and flicking
paint in your eye and grease oozing out
of knotholes, you’ll wish the manufac-
turers had turned the skins inside out
before fabricating them into wether-
boards.
And I suppose when the wife wants to
knit herself a sweater she’ll yank a plank
off the kitchen wall and wind it into balls.
PERCIVAL.
Uncertainties of Evidence.
“A 24-year-old Alabama (U.S.A.) farmer
evaded the army call-up by hiding for 2j years
in a cave because ‘he never felt sure the country
was at war.’ ” — Cable.
At Quarter Sessions yesterday Bill
(“Slugger”) Slummer was charged with
grievous bodily harm and breaking and
entering. In a statement from the dock
“Slugger,” who had a long criminal
record, denied he had broken in or
bashed the watchman. He was not
satisfied that at the time of the alleged
crime he was not in the country some-
where painting landscapes. Moreover,
even if he had been on the premises as
alleged he couldn’t have been arrested,
for he couldn’t bring himself to believe
that the police force even existed. He
himself had not seen a policeman for a
long time; so he was not satisfied that
the Force had not been disbanded. As
to hitting the watchman with a blunt in-
strument, that was impossible, for he had
never heard of such an object, let alone
learned to use one.
The Judge said he was not convinced
that there was any place in the State
which didn’t have cells with big locks on
them, and he therefore ordered that
“Slugger” be free to spend five years in
one of them. His Honor added that as
he thought nobody ever did anything but
hard labor the prisoner would do just the
same as everybody.
Asked by his irate wife what he meant
by coming home drunk at three o’clock
that morning, Sam Gaybird asked her
to prove by logic absolute that he
had arrived home at that hour and
in that state. Mrs. G. replied that the
clock had struck three just after he had
fallen in through the front door, and
that his prime condition was made appar-
ent by his action in trying to weed with
the gardening hand-fork between the
daisies patterned on the eiderdown, after
first soaking it with a can of water to
soften the ground, necessitating her sleep-
ing in the spare room.
Sam in reply said that in the first place
nothing could convince him that’they even
owned a clock. The thing on the dining-
room mantelpiece was not a clock but a
horologe, a timekeeper. A clock was
something that if you wound it kept
going. The thing they owned didn’t
always go and in any case never struck
the hour —always banged it. Who there
fore could definitely assert it was a clock?
As to his supposed watering and weed-
ing of the garden on the eiderdown, he
had yet to have concrete evidence that
they had an eiderdown. An eiderdown
was made from the down of an eider
duck, which had its habitat only in Ice-
land. Had she ever been to Iceland and
seen an eider duck? No. How then did
she know the thing on their bed was
what she claimed it to be? He was con-
vinced, in the absence of more reliable
data, that he had come home last night
at 10 p.m. stone sober.
Asked by an interjector at a meeting
why he didn’t use the unquestioned
powers he held under the National
Security Act to discipline N. S. Wales
coalminers, Mr. Curtin said he was still
not completely convinced that the miners
were on strike. It was open to serious
question whether a miner who simply
refused point-blank to go down a pit
could be correctly said to be striking.
He might have intended to go down, yet
something impelled him not to. Surely
he had to be given certain credit for his
intentions!
If a man were said to be on strike
he must necessarily have had intention
to go on strike, in which case his lapse
would be clear, allowing disciplinary
measures to be taken. When he (the P.M.)
had evidence about which there could be
not the faintest shadow of equivocation
that the miners were openly defying his
authority then he would most certainly
take strong and prompt action to see they
did their duty by the nation. But there
could be no possible justification for act-
ing precipitately, the war being only in
its fifty-ninth month.
252 George-street,
Sydney.
S. W. KEOUGH.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4 id. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Feeding the Troops
The food experts who, after an investi-
gation into the active-service soldier’s diet,
found that the Army authorities had a
“bully-beef complex” would have been
nearer the mark had they substituted this
war’s gastronomic delight, tinned M. and
V. Bully beef is roast turkey compared
with this expensive and unpalatable con-
coction of vitamins.
Review of soldiers’ rations, long de-
layed, was no doubt speeded by the
arrival of Allied units, who showed us a.
point or two. Modelled on our Ally’s
diet scale Aussie emergency rations have
now been immensely improved to include
chocolates, nuts, etc.
Our food scientists have long claimed
that many army foods were supercharged
with vitamins, but of what use are they if
the foods lack palatability? I recall the
Sydney University professor, advocating
lucerne meal as a substitute for spinach,
admitting to a reporter “No, I haven’t
tried it, but I believe it is very tasty!”
I have yet to be convinced that the
vitamin creations are superior to the fresh
product. Even at this stage in areas in
New Guinea long vacated by the Japs,
there is a scanty supply of fruit and
vegetables for Aussie troops. Maybe
shipping space is still limited, but appar-
ently not to the extent of debarring arrival
of beer supplies.
I’m not a teetotaller, but I’ll wager
troops would prefer a constant supply of
fresh greens to the uncertain issue of a
couple of bottles of ale a week.
It seems incredible that an army from
a great primary producing country such
as Australia has not established huge
vegetable farms in suitable areas in New
Guinea. There is plenty of good land
available, and the Army is not short of
farmers and agricultural experts. Use of
Allied power machinery in these areas
would ensure sufficient greenstuffs to feed
a dozen armies. This would also alle-
viate the food position on the home front.
The Aussie soldier enjoys a reputation
for toughness and ability to live on prac-
tically nothing. Nevertheless, scrutiny of
N.G. casualties reveals a high percentage
due to sickness and disease, indirectly
attributable to poor diet. Understand-
ably, much of this was due to the scarcity
(if not complete absence) of any kind
of supplies, fresh or otherwise, in those
tense days. But there is a different face
on the position now, and still things are
not all they could be.— Gunner (A.1.F.).
Against Flats
If home life is the foundation of a
nation, Australia is in danger of being
undermined by the uncontrolled spread
of flats.
Before the war I was an estate
agent in a flat-crazy Sydney suburb.
Speculators were buying rows of houses
at inflated prices to tear them down and
run up blocks of dogbox flats which sold
quickly because they let freely at rents
high enough to return anything up to
20 p.c. a year. In a very few years such
tenements become shabby and outmoded.
Tenants move on. Rents come down. The
places become slums. Owners, the bottom
having fallen out of their investment,
cannot afford maintenance and repairs,
and the buildings become dirty, unkept
and dilapidated.
The best flats are blocks of four garden
flats, consisting of, say, two bedrooms,
sleep-out verandah, hot water, frig., gas
fires, reasonably let at 355. to 375. 6d.
per week. There are quite a few of them
about, conscientiously built and a sound
proposition at £3OOO to £3500 for the
small investor. But even in small blocks
of flats people find it hard to be good
neighbors. They are too close. Quarrels
develop over trivial things, tenants group
together into rival cliques and petty dis-
courtesies and malicious gossip exaggerate
their differences.
Children are the source of many quar-
rels. They bring in outside children to
play noisy games, which annoy tenants.
Or they run on to somebody’s special
garden plot or quarrel amongst them-
selves and call upon their parents to take
sides. Tenants often clash over matters
in which they should co-operate with each
other —sharing laundries, drying space,
garden plots and cleaning of paths, stairs
and hallways. The housework part of
it is a war-time trouble, man-power short-
age having deprived many blocks of flats
of their cleaners. If a tenant is induced
to undertake the duties for a considera-
tion other tenants i may try to disparage
the resident cleaner.
All these things are trivial and may
seem inconsequential in themselves, but
some people are very sensitive and some
very intolerant, and will not bring them-
selves to make the effort necessary to iron
out trivial differences and maintain har-
mony. Flats have their uses, even advan-
tages, for a very small minority, but for
average folk they never will make good
homes. — Toreador (A.1.F.).
Train More Teachers
What about the post-war education of
Australian youngsters? To them is be-
queathed the mess made by the half-dozen
State systems and the jealousies and war-
rings of the six units, each marking time
industriously on its lonesome.
After an address to it by Director J. A.
Seitz on Consolidated Schools the Coun-
cil of the Victorian Teachers’ Union
took stock of the exFa number of
“ Don't panic , mate —she’s one of ours!"
teachers required if a decent job is to be
done in its State. The school age will
be raised to 15 (that is a Cabinet
promise); size of grades will be reduced
from 50 to 40; the discredited student-
teacher system, abandoned already by
advanced communities, must go. At the
very lowest, 2000 additional trained
teachers must toe the line. That is a
minimum establishment and omits nur-
sery schools and kindergartens.
Multiply the whole by six, and the need
to get a move on surely is evident. It
is no use telling us we must wait till the
war is won!
England is at war. The Board of Edu-
cation, knowing that, to carry out plans
already prepared, 50,000 additional
teachers will be required, is planning
now, though bombs are falling, to secure
10,000 a year over a period of five years.
It will give them a four years’ course of
training. Omitting vacations, etc., the
course of training in Victorian’s solitary
training college extends over nine
months!
When will John Citizen wake up, as
has the Federated Council of Australian
teachers, to the fact that the training of
the Australian child should be directed
by the Federal Government, and divorced
from the slime of party politics in the six
States and in the Federal arena, too? —
T. P. (Vic.).
Drawbacks of the N.T.
“Henry” (B. 5/7/’44) and others
prompt me to give a picture of the other
side of the future of the N.T. Peace-time
conditions are vastly different from ser-
vice conditions.
The services have done most of what
has been done to develop the area. But
the roads, so much talked about that their
existence must have long since ceased to
be a military secret, do little more than
give transport from, end to end of the
territory, with a connection to the
Queensland railhead.
Some farming, with varied success, has
been indulged in by the services. Vege-
tables have been grown, but the cost
under peace-time conditions, at award
rates, would probably be prohibitive, par-
ticularly when one considers that the
main southern markets are 1500 miles
away.
Irrigation for grazing will not work.
The country north of Birdum contains
rivers which could be controlled and har-
nessed for irrigation, but the cost and
great losses through evaporation and
seepage would make this impracticable.
Those tempted to sink capital in this
vast wilderness should remember that the
Territory is essentially a grazing proposi-
tion, and that the country must be de-
veloped and improved before it becomes
productive to anywhere near its real
potential. In the past the small station-
owners have gradually gone under to
large concerns. Reasons behind this are:
(a) Insufficient capital to improve their
holdings.
( b ) High transport costs of the product
of the land to the point of consumption.
(c) High costs of bringing in stores and
tools.
These factors have, of course, played
into the hands of pastoral companies.
They are in a big enough way to carry
these costs, and, of course, by deal-
ing in thousands where the small man
deals in hundreds, they reduce overhead.
They “assist” the small man with his
marketing, but this assistance is always
the first step towards the small man’s
downfall —he has to pay too much for
the service.
War-time improvements in transport
and a possible increase in local-consumer
population will not give sufficient im-
provement to marketing conditions to
make the country profitable to any but
the man with sufficient capital to com-
pete with the existing large operators.
It should be remembered that the
southern portion of the N.T. (approxi-
mately 1000 miles square) consists mainly
of arid scrub country without benefit of
monsoonal rains, relying for its water
supply on occasional artesian bores. The
northern portion, with its monsoonal
rainfall, carries only a heavy, coarse grass
for from three to six months of the year.
I have seen this country in its peace-
time quiet and war-time bustle. It’s a
grand place and worth developing, but
development is not the job for the man
with a little capital. It will require long-
range planning and sound Government
backing. I fear that is too much to
expect. — Brig (R.A.A.F.).
Publicity for the N.T.
After spending some time in the
Northern Territory as a service man and
taking every possible opportunity of
learning all I could, I am convinced that
there is sufficient good land and water
available to carry a large population,
provided secondary industries are estab-
lished to process farm and mine products.
But it is extremely difficult to get re-
liable information about the Territory.
Despite all my efforts I can secure no
publications on its timbers, grasses, birds,
flowers and fishes.
It would pay the Government to publish
the fullest possible information regard-
ing the N.T. in compact form, with illus-
trations. Most men who are in, or have
been in, the area. would be interested
enough to buy a copy. If information is
not available experts should be immedi-
ately put on the job of collecting it.
Stanus (R.A.A.F.).
The Civil Service
We find that the personnel of this body
has increased enormously. This does not
mean just an increase of understrappers ;
it means a multitude of new departments,
with their heads, sub-heads, sub-sub-heads
and so on, all on high salaries. Also it
means more housing, more office furnish-
ing and fittings, more and more printed
forms and, of course, more red-tape.
The result is government by regula-
tion. We get about five regulations a day.
Often when they are challenged they are
adjudged invalid, but to cover the cost
of proving them so means more taxation.
All this because the Government does
not govern.
A grave danger is that the c.s. will
increase in numbers to such an extent
that with the support of its relatives
and friends it will be the deciding
factor in future elections, resulting in
the establishment of a bureaucracy. Then
good-bye freedom. —Arthur (Q.).
Penicillin Manufacture
Should not some inquiry be made as
to the advisability, or otherwise, of the
decision to restrict the manufacture of
penicillin to Government laboratories?
In the U.S.A. manufacture was turned
over to three large pharmaceutical houses,
acnd other laboratories were called in to
help in research etc. In the result
the quantity produced was increased
and other benefits were obtained which
would probably have taken very much
longer to evolve had the research and
manufacture been monopolised by one
firm or Government department. There
may be reasons for making the thing a
Government monopoly in Australia. On
the other hand, such action may result in
delays in production of the quantities
required.— Esculapius (N.S.W.).
Softer Wools
Apart from restrictions on the manu-
facture of better-class woollens (B.
12/7/’44) the prime reason why the trade
needs overhauling is “tickle.”
Generations of children have been
forced to wear woollen singlets which
scratch their skins. Many continue to
wear wool next the skin, at least in
winter, for the rest of their lives, either
case-hardened or irritable. But you can-
not tell people nowadays that to leave off
wool is to court pneumonia when syn-
thetic-silk manufacturers have given us
heavily - woven, fleecy undergarments
which wear well and are practically free
of Shrink and Tickle, the twin traitors in
the wool camp.
Some time ago it was stated that British
scientists had discovered a process of de-
tickling wool, but that it would not be
available for public use until after the
war. Have Australian manufacturers re-
ceived this process? If it is not available
for civil use it should be for men in the
forces.
Wools supplied by Red Cross and
W.V.S. for knitting for the sick and the
well are often harsh, and none gives any
indication of softening treatment. —
Beta wool (N.S.W.).
Mechanising the Cow
Having seen something of mechanised
cropping methods on dairy farms, I
cannot agree with “J.W.R.” (B. 12/ 7/ ’44).
He’d search the progressive districts in
vain for the “rustic mind” he writes of
so glibly.
Farmers the country over are rapidly
becoming specialists in their line of work,
and dairymen are not dragging their feet.
And to the specialist cow-farmer machine
cropping comes as a blessing in time and
labor saved compared by outdated
methods.
The logical application of mechanisa-
tion is by contract, co-operative or coun-
cil ownership being the most satisfactory ;
few dairy farms are in a big enough way
to run a large and expensive plant for
their own cropping alone. In this way
the farmer is free to use his skilled labor
to its best advantage on the production
side while power machines tear through
the field work.
As for the “diseases of degeneration,
I’d advise “J.W.R.” to read up a few
stud-farm records and a good book on
the ailments of stock. Dairymen in this
State take breeding, veterinary care and
production seriously.—E,2 (Vic,),


-^5
/
ft
*
,0
V,
\ x
"V;
X
'//*
<R
%
«
f\
>S!
M
S.O.S.
Afloat on the Atlantic , miles from
land 9 in a disabled ’plane
On reconnaissance, a Whitley aircraft of
the British Coastal Command ranged far
over the Atlantic. Suddenly trouble
developed in the port engine. Height was
maintained on the starboard engine for a
time, and repeated messages giving the
'plane’s position radioed to base.
Reported the pilot later: "The solder
was now running out of both engines. I
attempted to land into the wind at right
angles to the swell. I touched the swell
amidships; then the nose of the aircraft
struck it, smashing the gun turret, which
suddenly appeared through my wind-
screen.”
But help was on the way. The aircraft
sent to the rescue found the Whitley only a
few miles from the position it had last
indicated.
Another radio rescue story officially told
in the British Air Ministry’s account of the
part played by the Coastal Command in the
Battle of the Seas.
But only when this war is over can the
full story of the part played by radio
be told.
* * *
To-day, Australia is building ships, ’planes, guns
and radio. But it is radio that welds them into one
powerful striking force. As victory succeeds victory
let us think sometimes of the part played by Aus-
tralian Industry. While such equipment comes from
Australia, ive need never fear being cut off from our
sources of supply. Amalgamated Wireless (A/asia)
Ltd.
