

VINEGA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65—No» 3379
Wednesday, November 15, 1944
Price @d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE BRITISH MUSEUM.
AT Bloomsbury, in Great Russell Street, is the imposing building
which houses the priceless possessions that comprise the British
Museum. The original collection, based on material gathered
together by Sir Hans Sloane, was acquired for £20,00(h by the
British Government, and was opened to the public in Montague
House in 1759.
In 1823 the present building vyas commenced, and completed in
1847, from designs by Sir Robert Smirke, and considerable addi-
tions have been made from time to time. The grand facade, which
has two projecting wings and a noble portico, is 370 feet in length.
The impressive colonnade consists of forty-four lonic columns ;
of these, two rows of eight support the portico, over which may
be seen figures by Sir Richard Westmacott, the great English
sculptor, whose best work is probably the statue of Achilles that
stood in Hyde Park.
The right pediment of the museum sets forth the progress of the
human race, and on the left are representations of Drama, Poetry,
Music, Mathematics and National Philosophy.
The Museum is noted throughout the world for its invaluable
collection of sculptures, antiques, jewels, bronzes, rare manuscripts
and books ancient and modern.


MEANJIN
A QUARTERLY OF LITEKATUBE.
The WINTER NUMBER includes Time and Mr. T.
S. Eliot, by E. J. Stormon; Japan ’e Come! by Osmar
White; The Poet and the Modern World, by J. P.
McKinney ; Literature in the Scales, by L. A. Triebel;
“Em Malley Hoax,” by Brian Elliott and Robert
Peel. Poems by Leonard Mann, Judith Wright, Peter
Hopegood, Osoar Williams (U.S.A.) and others.
ON SALE AT LEADING BOOKSTORES.
t
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street . Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND- MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Fm
Booklet explaining how to Write \ot Profit, u
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin ”
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
"Australian Poetry, 1943."
A late but still welcome visitor, A us
tralian Poetry, 1943, has arrived from
Angus and Robertson. The selection o
28 poems was made by H. M. Green.
How - could - the-editor-leave-these-ou
Department: Both Robert FitzGeralc
and Norma Davis published verses in Th
Bulletin which were available to Mr
Green, and which in the present com
mentator’s opinion should have beei
included.
But - surely - the - editor - has - the-righ
Department: It takes a rugged ruthless
ness to omit a Robert Fitz Gerald from
an anthology, and, even if one disagree
with his judgment, Mr. Green is to b
complimented on his courage.
How-could-these-be-included Depart
ment: I. R. Maxwell’s sea-chanty, an
nouncing that good rum is his darling-o
would not rank very high among genuine
chanties written by rough, tough sailors
it follows the conventional pattern fo
imitation chanties and, though techni
cally satisfactory and lightly amusing, i
of little value as poetry.
Hugh McCrae’s “Gentleman’s Song to
His Servant”:
If you should marry, take a nfeid,
A pretty child and sweet —with pelf;
Drest out in silks and rich brocade;
A maid that I might kiss myself!
Fa la-la! La!! —
would be only an airy nothing to anyone
not prepared to make allowances for Mc-
Crae because of his reputation. McCrae
is the finest craftsman we have had, but
he has not, as Yeats did, kept his poetry
alive and moving.
It-is - very - doubtful - whether Depart
ment: A graceful little “Elegy,” by R. G
Howarth, seems no more than an exercise
in the seventeenth-century lyrical style
on which Mr. Howarth is an expert.
A poem by Gavin Greenlees, describ-
ing the life of a city, is hardly to be dis-
tinguished from prose. It is thoughtful
lively and clearly stated, but falls badly
into bathos at the end, where the city is
summed up as “A World of interest —a
colorful tale Netted with innumerable in-
teresting chapters.”
Ethel Anderson’s “Fire,” an extract
from Squatter’s Luck, seems interesting,
but is possibly so only because it’s so
strangely fiat. One of Mrs. Anderson’s
“catalogue” poems;
In dreadful burned heaps piled in the water-
holes,
Hundreds of kangaroos, wallabies, bandicoots;
Trapped in the tree-tops, phalangers, koalas;
Seared on the red-hot rocks, lizards, goannas
Yabbies, water-snakes; all die in this holo-
caust —
it seems to have sprung less from life
than from a reading of The Furred
Animals of Australia. The reflection such
a catalogue evokes is that Mrs. Anderson
has forgotten .the wombat.
Surely - these - could - have-been-better-
represented Department: Rosemary Dob-
son is represented by “In a Convex
Mirror” and “The Rider,” both good
poems, but not to be compared with tile
rich fantasy o% “The Fisherman and the
Moon.” Judith Wright, who has been
attracting attention in The Bulletin and
“Meanjin Papers” with a set of highly-
original fantasies of the Australian earth,
is represented by a war poem, well written,
but not nearly as exciting as her more
recent work. Possibly her development
into fantasy has been too recent for the
1943 anthology.
In- spite - of-these-inevitable-complaints
Departmeflt; James McAuley’s “The Blue
Horses” and Kenneth Mackenzie’s “The
Moonlit Doorway” are outstanding
poems. Both are written on essentially
the same theme, young love threatened
by life and time with the approach of
the “blue horses” of the day, and they
make an interesting comparison. Mc-
Auley’s angry starkness:
Sleep no more, for while you sleep
Our love is stolen by the cheating sun
And angry frightened men destroy
Our peace with dictat, pact and gun
The brutal and the vile are set
As watchers at the gate,
But the Blue Horses scream aloud:
A sudden movement shakes the crowd
Stampeded on the hooves of fate—
against Mackenzie’s marble eloquence:
l speak enough for both. My tongue’s uncaged,
the padlock opened by a key of passion,
the door sprung wide, the wooing moon of love
luring it out and on, across the lawns
down through the trees of your own silences
into the valley of your quiet body,
into the shadow of your lidded eyes,
between the moonlike mountains of your bosom,
through the‘whole world that’s you, until it
falls
silent, and with a sigh we almost sleep.
Through the tall moonlit doorway night looks in,
and once again the peacocks scream at us.
Betty Riddell offers an old sailor
who wants to hold an island like a green
apple in his hands ; A. D. Hope has a
witty —and very Freudian —attack on the
Freudians; Peter Hopegood draws an
analogy between a moth in a candle-flame
and the sacrifice of the traditional hero-
victim of mythology ; W. Hart-Smith has
an odd and attractive study of the sig-
nificance of the human hand; David
Campbell’s strongly Australian “Stock-
man”—“And Time took up his solar
swag”—is reprinted from The Bulletin ;
Olive Hopegood and H. F. Stewart are
lightly but pleasantly Chinese; Leonard
Mann exhibits a city-dweller who has
lost his soul in the bush —
Better It was he should have none at all
Than such a soul he’d had from youth to man,
And in the vacant space if he should please
He might set bellbirds ringing in green trees;
Shawn O’Leary has a war poem ; Muriel
Armstrong Lewis a “Pastoral” about
Australia at war, mannered, but smooth
and competent; Brian Vrepont “The
Fishers,” not recent work, but showing
him at his best; and among a flock
of anonymous contributors (Miles Frank-
lin’s protege “E” is setting a bad
example) there are a cicada from “X” —
not as deft as Roy Campbell’s cicada
which “burnt more sunlight in a single
song” than the ants could store against
the winter snow, but perhaps the stronger
for its harshness —a moving love-sonnet
by “J.R,” and two verses (including the
lovely “Lichen”) from “E.”
James Devaney’s “Winter Westerlies”
deserves a special mention because it
overcomes the most difficult problem of
nature poetry, mounting from description
to drama, from a picture of the wind to
an image of the frenzy of the gods rush-
ing into the soul of man:
The hunched cattle no longer feeding dejected
stand
With dumb endurance, tails to the flogging wind
hour after hour;
From some far frozen hell of winds a blind
and soulless power
Invades and harries all the land.
The wind! The wind! It fumbles at the
fastened panes,
Fills and possesses all, a tyranny without
control;
Ceaseless, changeless, malign, searching into
the very soul,
The rushing desolation reigns.
On - the - whole - Mr. - Green - is-to-be-
thanked Department: On the whole Mr.
Green is certainly to be thanked.
A Play That Lives,
Published by Australasian Publishing
Co,, Sydney, George Landen Dann’s
Fountains Beyond, a stage play about the
aborigines which has been broadcast in
a radio version by the A.8.C., comes very
close to being literature.
Probably it is not as easy a job for
production as Gwen Meredith’s Wives
Have Their Uses —scandaj at a golf club
—or Dorothy Blewett’s Quiet Night
—a well-made comedy dealing with
nurses in a hospital but it stands
out from these other recently-pub-
lished Australian plays because of its
intense sincerity, and because it contri-
butes something that the others do not
towards the creation of a distinctively
Australian drama.
While the others, generally speaking,
are content to toss about the cliches of
the day in a sort of light banter which,
though pleasant enough, falls short of
wit, Dann takes the pidgin-English of
the abos. and—sensibly modifying it into
a language immediately intelligible—
makes a new and vital speech out of it.
Victor, an intelligent half-caste who
has fought a losing battle against the
shire council for possession of his tribe’s
camping-ground, is talking to his wife
Peggy:—
Vic: I think, Peggy, we not go live down near
river mouth.
Peggy : What place we go then?
Vic: We get in boat and we sail some place.
Sail up coast and find new place.
Peggy: What place we find?
Vic: I dunno! We find nice place all right!
And we live there, eh?
Peggy; I not like to do that, Vic. It get
proper lonely that way—just me and you.
Vic: Then what you like to do, eh?
The wailing [of the old natives compelled
to leave their camp] commences again.
Peggy: Oh, I not care much now.
Vic (getting up; crossing to other side of
room): Peggy! S’pose we not go no other
place! S’pose me and you stay here!
Peggy; In this house?
Vic; We fight Council. We not take no
notice of Mr. Watson and what he say!
Peggy: What way you goin’ to do that?
Vic: You stay by me, Peggy, I able to do
it. And I fell other settlement people do same
thing, too.. We not move from this place—
none of us. We fight Council!
Peggy: You been do that long time now,
Vic —and it en’t no good.
Vic; We fight hard this time —like we not
do no time before. Maybe Council take heed.
Maybe we be let live on in this place.
Peggy: Huh!
Vic: You think we not able to do it, eh?
(He comes back to her and sits down again
on the sofa beside her.) Peggy! By golly, I
tell you I can do it —you help me!
Peggy: I
Vic: Why you not say you do it along with
me, eh?
Peggy: ’Cause it en’t goin’ to be no use
now we do it. I tell you, it en’t no use now!
Vic: I en’t likin’ it —hear you talk that way.
Peggy (springing up): Then don’t let us
talk no more! Don’t let us!
All this is the simplest of talk. Hardly
a word is of more than one syllable. Yet
there are rhythm and beauty in this dia-
logue, there are passion and vitality, it
is the cry from the heart. J. M. Synge,
who believed that the dramatist’s func-
tion was not merely to reproduce the
patter of the day but to purify and en-
rich the language, would thoroughly
have approved of it. And he would also
have liked the strength and melody of
the cadences of the old aboriginal Henry,
who speaks a pidgin-English only slightly
modified by the dramatist:
Him no pullem down hut belong me!
Me bin live that place long time! Him
place belonga me!
There are possibilities here for the Aus-
tralian dramatist. If the national in-
feriority complex suggests that the abos.
are over-written that is beside the point.
The Irish peasantry and fisherfolk never
spoke quite as beautifully as Synge made
them, Aboriginal-English (like Maori-
English) has been used chiefly for comedy
so far; much more can be done with it.
That Dann has not done more in Foun-
tains Beyond —though, as has been
shown, he has done well—is probably due
to the fact that he has taken Shaw or
Ibsen for his master instead of Synge.
A play, essentially, is the revelation of
character through conflict; Dann has
been to some extent misled by the notion
that his fundamental concern should be
with the correcting of social injustices.
As a result, he tends to portray his
characters in the flat instead of in the
round. The villainous Mr. Watson of the
shire council, though some attempt is
made at giving him full justice as a
human being, remains on the whole a
Villain; the noble Miss Harnett who
fights at Victor’s side, though again some
justice is done in revealing her less admir-
able characteristics, remains a Heroine.
She has little real importance in the play
—acting simply as a mechanism to start
the plot moving—and might well have
been left out of it.
The play gives the impression that
Dann couldn’t find time or space to do
full justice to his theme, which is the
three-fold tragedy of Victor: his defeat
by the whites, his betrayal by his own
people and his personal catastrophe
(partly symbolic) in Peggy’s infidelity. So
much of the action is usurped by Miss
Harnett and Mr. Watson that the be-
trayal theme can be brought in only as
a sort of afterthought.
The plot, consequently, does not move
swiftly from point to point, the curtains
are weak, and the ending, in which Victor
accidentally shoots his wife, seems melo-
dramatic. The author could have made
it both moving and convincing if he had
made the killing deliberate—as, of course,
it is—-and if he had prepared for it earlier
in the play by showing' violence in the
husband’s character and by showing more
clearly in the final speeches that the
murder is not merely a revenge for
infidelity but a protest against the whole
weight of tragedy that has fallen upon
him.
If this analysis is correct, these faults
are easily remediable. And even as it
stands the play is worth anyone’s atten-
tion. That there is a genuine playwright
in Dann is shown not only by the power
of his dialogue but by the fact that Peggy
and her lover Wally—who are not at
all socially admirable characters—are
fully and richly portrayed as human
beings, the one with grace and the other
with humor.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Buckmaster in Sydney;
Ernest Buckmaster, of Melbourne, bete noire
of all “contemporists” and “primitivists” be-
cause he persists in painting things common
people love, in a way they can understand, is
erupting a barrage of 55 canvases at David
Jones’s new gallery, Sydney. He throws at the
opposition everything in his extensive reper-
toire (including even the kitchen sink, which
appears in No. 50) and is doubtless still chuck-
ling over the reactions of the foe —one eminent
critic says “when he has recorded the visual
aspects with misinformed literalness he stops,
and fails to give it the imprint of thought or
even the organisation of intellect”; a cobber
with almost as lofty a brow remarks acidly,
“His technique suggests that of a scene-painter,
with a scene-painter’s degree of sympathetic
analysis.”
All this, being interpreted, means that Mr.
Buckmaster, being well able to draw and paint
what he sees, and believing that the artist’s
function is to reveal the beautiful in nature,
produces pictures that are universal in their
appeal, using every trick and dodge of the
schools; and achieving his effects (appa-
rently) so simply and ingenuously that ga-gaists
have every right to be angry. When Buck-
master paints the bush or a farmstead the bush-
man or the farmer leads the applause. When he
paints flowers, as he often does, cats try to smell
lorn portraits (he won the Archibald in
1932) require no explanatory notes. He is per-
tlf£tnn^ h v- t es - m - he delineation of those pic-
nVlft°rian «ver valleys—his treatment of
15 a dell ght. He can even paint a muddy
“Sf cS pf ke » c °ovincing, as in No. 35
The Silent Places. He does nudes, too, as
witness No. 52 By the River,” and his still-
htes are remarkable examples of a masterly
technique. 3
A collection of drawings by “contem-
porists and others at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, contains some sound,
but not outstanding, draughtsmanship by
James Cook, Douglas Dundas, Darvl
Lindsay, Arthur Murch, Thea Proctor
and Adelaide Perry.
The mass production of pictures con-
tinues unabated in Melbourne. Johh S.
Loxton has his second show of the year
at the Velasquez. He has the facile water-
color technique of Harold Herbert and
the same eye for a picturesque subject.
Raymond Wallis is showing oils at the
Sedon Galleries. Uncommonly skilled in
the Streeton tradition, he has, however,
a trick of swathing his landscapes in a
veil which suggests a bushfire in the
vicinity, and tends to produce a strange
ethereal effect by killing contrasts. Tom
Garrett has one of his displays of mono-
types at Kozminsky’s. Steeped in
romance and glamor and about as unlike
“contemporary” art as anything could
be, the show was pretty well sold out
before it started.
Melbourne Contemporary Artists—
easily to be confused with the Contem-
porary Society—has been holding its 1944
exhibition at the Athenaeum. It is a
mixed show. It doesn’t go as far in mal-
formation and distortion as its brothers-
in-arms or rivals of the other group, but
it goes far enough to earn the label
“modern.” Alan Sumner succeeds in
making “Street Scene, Windsor,” look
as if it had been painted on a backcloth
in a draughty theatre, and Clive Stephen
carves a nude whose material is sand-
stone and whose inspiration is Epstein,
as lain MacKinnon’s is Cezanne. Rus-
sell Drysdale’s “Airport at Night” isn’t
much more than commonplace illustra-
tion, and all is wool in Rupert Bunny’s
“Harem.” Mrs. T. L. Dickinson’s street
scenes in Fitzroy are effective.
Art shows are so frequent in Adelaide
as to find billeting difficult. At the
Myer gallery is T. H. Bone, who has de-
finitely “arrived” ; he had an uncertainly
impressionist period, but has gone back
to his former more careful style. The
John Martin gallery houses Mrs. Hud-
son Eastwood’s remarkable water-color
copies of Old Masters. They are not for
sale, but, with heavy social backing, are
raising a lot of money daily for Red
Cross. This show will move on to Syd-
ney. At the Society of Arts is Mrs. Ven-
ner’s painted china, which sells at a rate
to make other painters envious.
Gilsullivan comedians are bom, not
made, it was indicated when Ivan Menzies
because of indisposition was unable to
assume the robes of the Lord Chancellor in
“lolanthe” at His Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Stepping into his nimble shoes, Len Get-
ting, the stage director, made a fair pass
at Mr. Mepzies’s business, but he wasn’t
Mr. Menzies,
The Greatest Show on Earth has re-
turned to its old stamping ground, Olym-
pia, Melbourne, as fresh as ever and with
some modern trimmings. There is more
of vaudeville about it and less of the
untamed beasts of the jungle, but Michael
Wislang, a youth of 20, manipulates with
intense calm the “massive, beautiful
specimens of ferocious carnivora” com-
monly known as lions, while no less than
15 tons of mastodonic power are de-
ployed in the arena. Miss Gladys Wirth
demonstrates the art of equine training
with some lovely horses, and the marvel-
lous Flying Covets, the Myrons who walk
about a board balanced on a barrel as
if they were on terra firma, the Briello
trio and a lady who displays her snake-
like beauty at the top end of a rope are
additional attractions. The three Con-
tinental downs give their usual neat and
intellectual performance.


•TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
H&CTION
u'^
y
i ;
/
W,
\V\
&
HR.
; m
wathm«at«>
.r>\
Y'
m
v
***•■
✓j
Fa.
I
. .n
ii
S*
a r,
Ti
Hi 1 ,;
A
i
!j,V j *!4<P!|!?.*!o.!!.!.!9!|!
I
-r>
j?-
(BsfUuntt)
*3
rMeUlcw A wrrutol*)
Rc*owier«leJ A^,
Firsf AM
Apply N««4-
Ho*-P<mo«oos K«»lmtuit
STM K LESS . w
"TtTB«BO«- froAm&C
Hk/
v 4«”
v-see*? :
a
''•'VV*
Prices:
6-0%. bot., 2/
1 -oz. boh, lid
2-oz. bot., 6d
Genuine
TE TREE OIL
Im
Why not enclose a bottle of Te-
Tree-Oil in your next parcel to
your soldier. The uses of Te-Tree-
Oil are innumerable. It is anti-
septic and can be used freely for
washing the body and for wash-
ing clothes. It has been proved to
give wonderful healing to tropical
sores, ulcers, etc.
1!
■s-iree-Oil”
“'■«*PKc Shampoo,
W* recoMMcmleil f or
rr <=afn>«nf.f Pfl nl(ruff
DIRECTIo "s~vvwTI, l „
«(< ‘ «• **v dr,
V >k^. Peo
fJsT^c,
*® H YV *l»v
»*aaa
No matter what colour your hair
happens to be, this scientific
shampoo contains all the ele-
ments for scalp health. Restores
the brilliant lustre and promotes
growth to the hair. Large bottles
cost only ...... 2/6
Te-Tree-Oil has been thoroughly
tested pathologically, surgically
and clinically, and in practical
use in hospitals over a number of
years it has been found to give
marked satisfaction.
• Chemistry Department—Ground Floor, Pitt St,
Postage in N.S.W., 1/-; Interstate, 1/6
Do you suffer from dandruff? If
you do, get a bottle of Te-Tree-Oil
Shampoo and see how quickly
this marvellous shampoo will re-
move the dandruff. It also pre-
vents falling hair and promotes
healthy hair growth.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


After the war you want...
Above all other things a home of your own „ For you have learnt only a home of your own
can give you that sense of security so essential to your peace of mind and happiness
£
v/.
m
m
m
m
m
m
S 3
From a leading Australian architect
comes this advanced suggestion for a
post-war home. You will agree, a very
attractive and distinctive home . . . yet
a practical example of how better living
will be provided at a moderate income.
One of the most important contribu-
tions to better homes after the war will
be Structural Steel Tubing. Applied as
a complete framework or roof support
to a building, it has many unique and
outstanding advantages. . . . Weather-
boards, asbestos cement sheets, and
other covering materials can be
securely nailed to the tubular frame-
work.
Structural Steel Tubing is fireproof.
It is free from attack by white ants and
Other pests. It cannot warp or shrink.
And, it is the strongest structural shape
known. Already plans are under way for
BED ROOM
w ; :-•?;■’:•■•
K; ••
«kw^
\ VERAND
DINING
BED ROOM
/
LIVING ROOM
KITCHEN
UPB. '
m
swt ., l .:.:. s _i
b£*
BED ROOM
laundry
£<T
• r-:.; i-L
3
6ARAGE
ti 2
\r^
sJ^
imita ■ pooK
the new tomorrow, when our interests
will be mainly in Structural Steel Tub-
ing and in Piping for water, gas and
other services for your post-war home.
Stewarts and Idlayds
(Aust.) Pty . Ltd.
Sydney Newcastle Melbourne Perth Brisbane


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3379.
Wednesday, November 15, 1944.
IT NEVER RAINS BUT IT POURS.
“Tokyo Radio with honorable flash of victory equal in importance to sinking of United States Navy. Honorable Dewey elected with 99 votes,
baffled pluto-democrat Roosevelt get only 432. Banzai!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Wehb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
PLAN FOR REHABILITATION.
As it stands —pending any improvements
that ex-servicemen of other States may be
able to suggest—the plan drawn up by
the Sydney R.S.L, Sub-committee on
Rehabilitation is the ablest and soundest
so far produced. It makes what has been
put forward by or for the Commonwealth
Government look exactly what that
largely has been —vague, shuffling and
bureaucratic.
The plan defines “rehabilitation” as the
setting up of a discharged person with
reasonable prospects of continuity of em-
ployment in an occupation for wliich
he or she is fitted. The definition of “dis-
charged person” is what would be ex-
pected of men who believe in the demo-
cratic principle of universal national
obligation to serve —“a man or woman
who has been honorably discharged
from the Army, Navy or Air Force of
the Commonwealth,” extended, with the
encouragement of the best sort of immi-
grant in mind: “Australia’s most vital
need is population, and we consider that
every encouragement should be given to
English-speaking ex-servicemen to settle
in this country.”
Change is urged from “that mentality
which pictures human beings as ‘bodies,’
file numbers or pawns in a planner’s
game”—an exact description of the
bureaucratic mind, particularly in its con-
tact with average Diggers, many of them
with a first-class case but lacking the
ability to put it over. The plan stipulates
arrangements for ascertaining sympatheti-
cally each individual’s wishes in regard to
employment or for giving vocational
guidance.
The authors have no use, naturally,
for the bulking together of ex-service
personnel and civilians. They point to
the “peculiar circumstances affecting ser-
vice personnel and the obligations of the
country towards them.” It is not denied
that many in home-front civilian war
jobs also have claims to special treat-
ment, but it is rightly laid down that the
two should be kept clearly separate.
On this point there is likely to be a clash
with the present Government, leading
members of which are in favor of the
general scheme, with no special regard
for discharged personnel; if anything,
with special regard for the civilian home-
fronter.
“Man-power” as the prospective agency
for supervising rehabilitation of ex-service
personnel is roundly rejected, as having
“neither the attitude of mind nor the
experience” for that special job. Instead,
a reorganising and strengthening of Re-
pat. is asked for, with central administra-
tion housed in one building, but with the
administration decentralised as much as
possible, with local offices at important
regional centres throughout Australia.
A proposal in this section of the plan
which all Diggers who have suffered by
the bureaucratic mentality will cheer calls
for accommodation and staff adequate to
avoid hurried interviews at counters, when
the applicant’s whole future career may
be at stake, dependent, often enough, on
the condition of the liver of some official
behind the counter.
“Such interviews should be conducted
in an unhurried atmosphere in the privacy
of a separate office.” The other method —
with Repat. not free from censure —
operated largely against last-war Diggers,
and through “Manpower” and suchlike
bodies has operated against discharged
Diggers of the present war. Most impor-
tantly, the proposed plan all through lays
emphasis on the individual. Probably not
one in more than 20 discharged Diggers
has the special ability for putting his own
case. Mostly it has to be drawn out of
him, often a slow process calling for
patience and sympathy. The across-the-
counter method should have been im-
proved long ago.
Naturally, it is suggested that all
officials dealing with rehabilitation should
themselves be discharged persons, and to
have adequate, competent staffs of them
it is urged that the Government should
at once begin training suitable personnel.
Another proposal in this regard is for the
forming of local committees of citizens
to work in collaboration with Repat. and
organisations of servicemen. As far as
possible “the Government should work
in collaboration with all organisations
willing and able to assist.” With the right
Government encouragement this would
be a fine move in the decentralising of
the big job, putting it to communities
all over the country to deal rightly by
their own.
Under existing arrangements the only
appeal any discouraged or disappointed
ex-service person has is to the very ones
whose assistance he has sought. The plan
proposes a special arbitrator with the
qualification and status of a Supreme
Court Judge. The disappointed applicant
could then appeal to that independent
•arbitrator, the League delegating experts
to interview such appellants, learn the
case of each and see that it was fairly
presented. The arbitrator would be called
on to decide when, say, the absorption
capacity of any trade was in dispute or
where a permit to engage in a particular
occupation had been refused.
The plan further proposes that service
personnel awaiting rehabilitation should
meantime be retained on pay in the ser-
vice. Another thoughtful proposal is for
Government granting of one month’s
free travel, to be decided on at any time
by the discharged person. Anyone who
has had the experience knows that after
discharge from the forces there follows
for everybody an unsettled period. The
proposal would help to overcome that,
enabling the discharged person to look
around while deciding his future. That
might well lead him to a preference for
the country instead of for the congested
city in which he will have been dis-
charged.
There are proposals also for a gratuity
for returned personnel; living allowances
for all pending placement in employment
or while training; and a continued watch
over the career of everyone placed in
a job or business, any non-trier to be
considered after a year to have been well
enough treated. The Commonwealth
Government is urged to set up, in co-
operation with the States, technical, voca-
tional and rural colleges at key centres,
using unwanted munitions and similar
equipment and A.W.C. and suchlike
living accommodation; the establish-
ments to be subsequently used for giving
to school-children and youths the same
sort of practical employment training that
the ex-service personnel will have had in
them.
Existing training arrangements are con-
demned as too narrow and rigid, as
putting the requirements of the “planner”
first and the desires of the discharged
person next or nowhere; as allowing no
consideration for the man who, as a
result of being mentally broadened by
his war service, desires a change of occu-
pation ; and as precluding a victim of the
“depression” who had served his country
from having a second chance. It is not
expected that such proposed training will
be greatly rushed, which is advanced as
all the more reason for giving the earnest
ones the opportunity to profit through it.
Another important proposal is for the
advancing of loans for setting up dis-
charged persons in various enterprises.
Such a scheme has already been adopted
in America, and is there regarded as one
of the most valuable innovations in the
fair treatment of men and women who
have been in the services. The proposal
here is for loans of up to £5OO, to be
advanced to suitable individuals going
alone or going in with others in such ven-
tures as co-operative manufacturing,
trawling, farming and so forth.
Altogether a solid, sound and thought-
ful plan, one that puts squarely to this
Government (or whatever other Govern-
ment may emerge) and to Australia what
should be done for discharged personnel,
in their own interest and in the national
interest, with concrete proposals on how
to go about it.
Going into Leyte.
[Note from a courteous United States Public
Relations officer: “The manuscript of Mr.
Brennan’s article arrived from the front-line
area with large shrapnel holes appearing in it.”
He added that there was “no reason to believe
that Mr. Brennan was injured in any way.”
“Copy” (not too badly mutilated) and covering
letter reached Sydney on the day when it came
out in a Sydney “Morning Herald” dispatch
from Leyte that two American correspondents,
Mr. Bush and Mr. Dunn, had been “killed in
the bombing of Tacloban on October 25,” and
another, Mr. Roberts, wounded. Mr. Roberts
received the Purple Heart at General Mac-
Arthur’s headquarters, and the “Herald” man
quoted Colonel Diller as saying that the rate
of casualties among correspondents in the South-
west Pacific area had been higher than in any
other theatre of war.]
The most impressive feature of the in-
vasion of Leyte lay in its demonstration
of the might which the American Army
and Navy now can mount against the
enemy. No such aggregation of power
had previously been employed in the
Pacific campaigns. The operation marked
the long-expected junction of the two
Pacific forces: Admiral Nimitz’s Central
Pacific command and General Mac-
Arthur’s South-west Pacific group.
While aircraft and warships ranged up
and down the length of the Philippines
archipelago and north to Hong Kong,
hundreds of ships of all kinds were pre-
paring to land the soldiers, who were
charged with the establishing of two
beachheads, a dozen miles apart. It was
an all-army show ; this time there were
no marines. Four full divisions were
engaged. Two came from the Central
Pacific.
Leyte ranks eighth in size of the 7000-
odd islands that make up the Philippines.
It is 115 miles long and at its narrowest
15 miles wide; 2735 square miles in
all. In 1939 it supported a population
ol 915,853 natives, most of them small
farmers. There were 19,000 people in
Tacloban, on the north-eastern tip of the
island, its chief city and capital.
The landings were made on the eastern
side of the island, where the Leyte valley,
which runs diagonally across country,
comes out to the sea. There entrance
could be had to the Philippines direct
from the Pacific.
There were other advantages. Posses-
sion of Leyte would lead to the archi-
pelago’s inner sea. It would take the
American forces well to the north of
the enemy’s positions on the larger island
of Mindanao. The valley—2so square
miles in area, broad, fertile and well irri-
gated—promised easy conversion into one
tremendous airfield.
The Japanese air force had seven fields
at the valley’s eastern end, in the imme-
diate area of the landings. Bombers and
fighters from the carrier force had seen
to it that they were thoroughly attended
to before the ground forces hit the beach.
H-hour was later than the hour that
had become standard, as it were, in the
Pacific —10.00. From earliest light the
landing beaches were plastered with the
terrific bombardment which has marked
all the U.S. Navy’s operations in the
Pacific. As the battleships, cruisers and
destroyers swept their fire away from the
landing beaches up on to Catmon Hill,
which flanked the southern beachhead,
gunboats moved in to rake the coconut
groves behind the beach. The tractored
landing craft which carried the assault
waves were already on their way towards
the beach. They churned up on the sand
at 9.58.
A little way down the slope of Hill 120
a tree formation was hidden in a cloud
of smoke, like a shadowy, gigantic emu.
A hundred yards inshore there was a
road. There were traps made of coconut
logs; pillboxes, too; but it soon ap-
peared as if the enemy had only begun
the building of his defences a few days
before the Americans arrived. Holes
were dug, coconut logs to roof them over
lay alongside ; but the jobs had never
been completed.
Nowhere on all the beach was there
a single concrete strongpoint, such as had
constituted the enemy’s chief defences at
Tarawa and Saipan, Guam and Peleliu.
At Leyte it seemed he had been caught
unprepared.
Landing boats followed the tractors up
on the beach. There was no reef, and
they could lay their ramps on the sand.
Tanks, trucks, jeeps, artillery began to
roll ashore. Here, a majestic sight, was
the United States Army, with store of
heavy equipment and material —a strik-
ing contrast to the support it had been
customary to see accompanying marine-
assault waves. From Catmon Hill there
came a little sporadic mortar fire: three
or four bursts on the beach ; a lull for
three-quarters of an hour or more ; three
or four bursts again. There were some
casualties, but for the long-expected inva-
sion of the Philippines they were aston-
ishingly light.
Shortly after noon two of the landing-
craft were hit as they lay unloading on
the beach. They were the only boat losses
on all the right flank of the southern
beachhead.
Less than an hour after the first troops
had come ashore a group of natives
emerged from holes in which they had
been hiding during all the bombardment
inshore. There were some 25 of them, of
all ages; among them a dozen children,
three pathetically aged couples and one
old, old woman who was carried in a
litter. The children for the most part
were naked ; the older people were in
the skimpiest of rags.
The children showed no signs of emo-
tion. Strong, healthy-looking and with-
out sores, they seemed to have fared
much better at the hands of the Japanese
than the children of other native peoples
in the outer islands of Japan’s conquests.
But on the faces of the older people there
were written bewilderment and fear, and
their bodies showed the ravages of hunger.
They cowered and shrank from the noise,
and needed to be told to lay beside trees.
That group was the forerunner of a
hundred other groups that wandered into
our lines during the following two days.
They came in along the trails, carrying
their few belongings wrapped in rattan
mats, tied to long poles. Some of them
rode on carabou, or water buffalo, mov-
ing leisurely down towards the beach, a
man and two or three children perched
on the same beast. A few of the older
women carried umbrellas; none had
other than a few patched rags for clothes.
One thing could not be doubted from
their excited “Good morning, good morn-
ing,” to every soldier they passed: the
people of Leyte were overjoyed that
the Americans had come back to the
Philippines. They were guided to concen-
tration areas on the beach, where medi-
cal and civil administration units could
care for them.
The infantry pushed on inland. “The
broad Leyte valley,” it had been said,
“will be ideal for mechanised warfare”;
but the troops made one mile, two miles,
along its length and still were not out of
the thigh-deep swamps which crossed the
camote and cornfields every two hundred
yards or so. Tanks and trucks were
bogged down until the engineers would
be able to make crossings. Heavily-laden
infantrymen themselves were bogged
down, and companions hauled them
through the swamps with ropes tied under
their arms.
There was still little contact with the
enemy. A force of 200 or so tried a
frontal counter-attack, but it was beaten
off and the Japs faded away. The real
impediment along the valley was the ter-
rain, except that mortar fire still came
sporadically from the direction of Catmon
Hill.
Each afternoon the rain came pelting
down at four o’clock. It eased off at six
o’clock ; an hour later it had ceased.
The troops dug their holes in the thick,
black mud and lay in them through the
night. There was no shelter except that
afforded by a poncho, or rain cape, and
as the heavy fogs of early morning con-
densed they made the thing wetter on the
inside than out.
The landing ships kept moving to the
beach to unload their cargoes. Steadily
the infantry went forward on the Leyte
plain. On the third day tbev were three
miles from the beach witnout having
encountered any but the slightest resist-
ance.
The gunners had taken over the prob-
lem of Catmon Hill. No such concentra-
tion of artillery had been seen in the
Pacific before. Shells whined overhead;
you saw flashes and cascading earth along
the hillsides, and the rumble of the shell-
bursts came rolling back. There were
Japanese on Catmon, but it seemed that
the main advance from the southern
beachhead could easily by-pass them.
In the late afternoon and early morn-
ing it became usual to expect a single
Japanese search ’plane over the beach-
head. Then the red tracers from hun-
dreds of 40- and 20-millimeter anti-
aircraft guns ripped patterns across the
sky. They lit it with a red glow as they
arched slowly overhead, beautifully in-
effectual. Against low-flying attack ’planes
they could be a menacing weapon; they
had no chance of reaching up to an ob-
servation ’plane. But their morale value
was high.
No bombs were dropped on the beach-
head, but there were hit-and-run attacks
on the shipping standing off in the bay.
In daylight with the carrier-based ’planes
circling on station the enemy could not
venture into the air.
On the northern beachhead, where the
terrain was higher and firmer, the ad-
vance was even more rapid. The oppo-
sition there was no more serious. •
On the morning of the third day
General MacArthur paid a flying visit to
the southern beachhead. He had been
ashore in the north earlier. He came
in a column of half a dozen jeeps,
accompanied by generals and colonels,
newsmen and photographers: a tremen-
dously impressive figure. The words
“MacArthur is here!” spread like wild-
fire. The effect on the troops who watched
him was electric. He looked at the situa-
tion map, made a swift decision and
pointed to a spot. “Go here, ’ he said,
“and you’ve got them.” .
One of the airfields had passed into
our possession. Tacloban had been taken
and was in the rear of the advancing
troops. But there was a battle still to be
fought against the 25,000-odd Japanese
who were reckoned to be on the islan ■
The valley stretched out ahead, and the
enemy was posted on the 4000 ft. range
which forms the backbone of Leyte.
JOHN BRENNAN.


PLAIN ENGLISH
In Again.
better showing than any of Mr. Roose-
velt’s previous adversaries.
Electoral Popular
Votes. Voles.
1932
Roosevelt .. 472 22,821,857
Hoover .. 59 15,761,841
1936
Roosevelt .. 523 27,476,673
Landon .. 8 16,679,583
1940 —
Roosevelt .. 449 27,243,466
Willkie .. 82 22,304,755
Though he is too good an American
to set his personal fortunes above those
of his country, the grand recent war
developments handicapped Mr. Dewey’s
candidature. Mr. Roosevelt was also
advantaged by having Labor as an active
ally, entering the Democratic national
convention for the first time as an ac-
knowledged power, replacing Democratic
Congressmen hostile or not well-disposed
to Mr. Roosevelt with amenable candi-
dates and beating up a huge Roosevelt
vote in the trade-unions. Republicans and
not a few old-style Democrats augur ill
from this new force in American affairs,
and when a less powerful hand takes the
helm it may give trouble.
However, the elections may fairly be
Jjeld to have justified the wisdom of the
men who founded the American system,
and demonstrated once more the good
sense of the American people. They have
retained in office a leader who has proved
equal to the grave emergencies he has had
to meet since he entered the White House,
and who, by reason of his great qualities
of heart and head, is one of the hopes
of the war-wracked world, and they have
given him a Congress sufficient for all his
plans, but with an Opposition strong
enough to be a check. Foes must recoil
with dismay from the majestic picture of
American strength and purpose of which
they have been unwilling spectators.
Friends will repeat the prayer of Mr.
Dewey, that Providence will guide and
protect the President of the United States.
"I Wrote to ... Kirtley."
The Australia First inquiry has oscillated
between Sydney and Melbourne. It has
been impossible for The Bulletin to
have a reporter there all the time. On the
evidence of an official record which it
accepted as trustworthy—as it thinks
anyone would have done—it attributed
to Mr. P. R. Stephensen witness-box
statements that he had corresponded with
Mr. Curtin over a period of five years
concerning matter printed in the “Pub-
licist.”
This at the time would have been a
perfectly legitimate proceeding on both
sides. The “Publicist” was a registered
periodical, Mr. Stephensen and Mr.
Curtin were -free agents, and the latter,
as a newspaperman as well as Leader of
the Opposition, might be presumed to be
President Roosevelt has been re-
elected for a fourth term and, what is
also very important, his party will be in
control of Congress for at least the next
two years, during which, it may fairly be
expected, the war will be won and the
peace settlements entered upon. It was
perhaps the greatest tragedy of the last
war and the early post-war years that
President Wilson was not in this fortu-
nate position. Though the nation gave
the Democrats a small majority in the
Senate in 1916 (53 to 42), but not in the
House (210 to 216), their Senate majority
disappeared in 1918 and they did not re-
gain one till 1932.
From that year the President’s party
has had commanding majorities in the
Senate, and in the House also till 1942,
when the electors made the party posi-
tion too close to be comfortable for
the White House. In fact, a combination
of Republicans and anti-New-Deal Con-
gressmen has passed legislation over the
President’s veto. With the Democrats
making unexpected gains in the House,
notably at the expense of former isola-
tionists, and strengthening their hold on
the Senate, such complications can scarcely
arise during the next two critical years,
though the gap between the parties, in
the House if not in the Senate, may not
be too great to be bridged at the 1946
Congressional elections if the Adminis-
tration’s peace and “reconversion” poli-
cies fail to command general approval.
With servicemen's votes to be counted
in several States, and likely to in-
crease the President’s electoral and popu-
lar majorities, Mr. Roosevelt has carried
36 States, with 432 electoral votes to 99
and 24,184,832 popular votes to
21,180,695. Mr. Dewey failed to carry
his own State of New York —also, of
course, the President’s State —the domi-
nant New York City vote giving the Presi-
dent a majority of 769,849, On the other
hand, the Dewey-Bricker ticket is leading
in Ohio, of which Mr. Bricker is Gov-
ernor, though in 1940, 1936 and 1932
Ohio gave its electoral vote to Mr. Roose-
velt. If the lead in Ohio can be main-
tained, Mr. Bricker may reasonably look
forward to becoming the Presidential
candidate of his party in 1948.
All the same, Mr. Dewey proved him-
self a man of parts and a graceful loser,
and it seems certain that when all the
votes are counted he will have made a
interested in views on foreign affairs and
Australia s part in un-
palatable. The Bulletin knows him
pretty well (one of its men has known
him tor 27 years), and has always given
him credit for being tolerant of other
men s convictions to the point of being
ready for a friendly argument. In what
was presented as declarations which
he was at liberty to deny there was
nothing derogatory to his reputation as
writer and man of affairs.
But The Bulletin was wrong; Mr.
Curtin did not correspond with Mr.
Stephensen. Because of an official mis-
take by which the paper was misled, Mr.
Curtin’s name—it appeared in the record
three times, one line reading “Did you
write to Mr. Curtin in formal and digni-
fied terms?”—was substituted for that of
a Mr, Kirtley, a gentleman unknown to
fame, and correction was not made for
some days. The Bulletin apologises to
Mr. Curtin.
The matter was brought up in Sydney,
where a witness examined last week was
Captain Blood, formerly of Army Intel-
ligence. Referred by Mr. Cassidy, K.C.,
to the case of the returned soldier Watts,
who died not long after he was released
from internment, Captain Blood said
Watts was a member of the Australia
First executive, and that was enough to
warrant a recommendation for intern-
ment ; moreover. Watts had written
articles for the “Publicist.”
Then counsel read an article in which
Hitler was described as “a highly com-
petent, cool, well-informed functionary,
with an agreeable manner, a disarming
smile and a subtle personal magnetism,”
engendering hopes that “we may yet live
to see Herr Hitler a gentler figure in a
happier world.” “Hardly what I could
call a Churchill speech,” said Captain
Blood. “It is a Churchill speech,” said
Mr. Cassidy—“published in 1937.”
The same witness said there was a
Ministerial direction in 1942 that com-
munists, then members of an organisation
declared illegal, were not to be interned.
Mr. Cassidy was proceeding to ask how
it came about that the names of interned
Australia Firsters were published exclu-
sively in the communist “Tribune,” after
the information had been expressly with-
held from Parliament, when Mr. Shand
(for the Army) objected.
The inquiry is proceeding.
Killers from Palestine.
From a letter addressed a year ago to
the editors of the four Melbourne
dailies (actually on November 12) by
Isaac Isaacs, who crowned a career of
great distinction by becoming the first
Australian-born Governor-General; sub-
ject, an impending New Zionist meeting
in the Town Hall:
If the project for the meeting... .as
is not improbable, is to follow the peremp-
tory demand of the Australian Zionist
conference, held in Sydney last May, for
the immediate repeal of the White Paper
and the opening of the doors of Palestine
to free Jewish immigration, and that with-
out any consideration for conflicting inter-
ests, it will be playing with dynamite. In
that case 1 earnestly suggest its abandon-
ment.... not only in the interests of the
victims of Nazi barbarity but of our
Empire and of the United Nations in their
life-and-death struggle.
Quoting the assurances of four British
Ministers that “everything humanly
possible within the limits of security”
would be done “for the rescue of Hitler’s
Jewish victims,” Isaac Isaacs laid stress
on words added by the Lord Privy Seal:
“to excite controversy over Palestine at
the present juncture would be a very
heavy responsibility for anyone to
assume.” And he gave a short account
of the situation in the Holy Land:
Palestine is in a state of turmoil between
Jews and Arabs. Jewish extremists are em-
barrassing other Jewish groups and irritating
the British authorities. The British are
seeking to avoid commitments and are trying,
to keep the Arabs quiet’. (See the New
York “Times,” August 2-3.)
The Australian press (August 31 and Sep-
tember 1) has informed us of the extent
of gun-running in Palestine by both Jews
and Arabs, of the arming on both sides
in preparation for a civil war, and of the
declared objections of the representatives of
the eighty millions of our Moslem fellow-
subjects in India to unlimited Jewish immi-
gration into Palestine.
The veteran’s representations were of
no avail. At the Melbourne meeting and
at other meetings the New Zionists did
precisely what he had warned them
against, having found a congenial leader
in a comparative newcomer to Australia,
Professor Stone. And on the other side
of the Pacific half a dozen New Zionist
organisations threw their weight about,
their propaganda being often bitterly
anti-British. In the effusions of one
outfit, led by the Dutchman Pierre
van Paassen, the Nazis were rarely men-
tioned, Britain having become the Enemy.
Last month General Paget, C.-in-C. in
the Middle East, announced that “Pales-
tine has, since early in 1944, been the
scene of a series of outrages and crimes
of violence by Jewish terrorists, acting
with the deliberate intention of bringing
about by force developments favorable
to the realisation of politicial aims.” The
general had particularly in mind the
shooting up of a car carrying the retiring
British High Commissioner in Palestine,
his wife and members of his staff.
On November 6 Lord Moyne, the
Resident Minister in the Middle East,
and a Tommy driving his car were shot
dead in a Cairo street by murderers from
('Continued on page 8.)
GOING TO THE POST FOR THE CANBERRA WELTER.
“Was I dreamin [?] the crowd shout ‘Rub ’em out'?”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners'
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ShLWYN KING, Managing Director
Making
iiill
c TJD
OF
ONaffb
mi
PASSb^f
/WE
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as —
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months.
Monthly
instal.
16 8
1 13 4
2 10 0
3 6 8
4 3 4
8 6 8
may be
grancea according m .... „-.r>stances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instal ments.
Full particulars at Personal Loans Dept.,
4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
Palestine, members of the band of re-
volting ruffians known as the Stern gang.
These faithful servants of Britain and the
common cause had been stalked by the
assassins as if they were wild animals.
The crime was so atrocious that the
Cairenes who witnessed it were with diffi-
culty restrained from lynching the two
Jews —both young and named Cohen and
Salzmann —and all Lord Moyne’s col-
leagues were deeply moved. When a lady
member asked that “full publicity be
given to the fact that the Jewish Agency
and all responsible Zionists and Jewish
bodies throughout the world deeply de-
plore the activities of the Stern ‘group,’”
Mr. Eden replied that publicity could be
taken for granted: “what we hope from
these organisations is not only state-
ments but active co-operation.”
And not only Lord Moyne and the
Tommy were murdered by Cohen and
Salzmann. They shot to pieces also the
egregious Lord Strabolgi’s proposal for a
Jewish Dominion of Palestine and the
plan for a Jewish colony in North West-
ralia —New Guinea has of late been hope-
fully added.
POLITICAL POINTS
With Curtin unable to attend the pre-
Christmas session, “solidarity” is the word
for the factions that were so obviously
forming last month. The idea of the
“moderates” will be to do nothing in
particular, and do it as well as can be
expected. But it will be hard to restrain
the wild men, and impossible to prevent
the Opposition from speaking out on a
number of things. There ought to be
a secret sitting (promised by the P.M.)
and a debate on foreign affairs, though
the indications are that there will be
neither.
Curtin’s condition produced another
sentimental outbreak from “S. M.
Herald’s” Canberra man:
Those who have been closest to him since
he became Prime Minister consider that
the illness will not be without it's benefits
if some Labor members who have been
helped in their electorate by Mr. Curtin’s
prestige realised that their recent behavior
contributed greatly to the overstrain from
which he is now suffering. «
An outright attack would have been less
damaging to the subject than that kind
of defence.
To the intense indignation of a Mr.
J. J. Cahill, the N.S.W. Leg. Council
heaved out bills postponing the municipal
elections in the County of Cumberland
at Mr, J. J. Cahill’s pleasure and applying
compulsory voting to municipal elections
beyond the County of Cumberland.
Other people, recognising local govern-
ment as the only kind of government stiff
reasonably free from political and union
bossism, were delighted at Mr. J. J.
Cahill’s discomfiture. Mr. J. J. Cahill is
Minister of Local Government, a post
unknown in other States, and in N, S.
Wales merely an expensive nuisance.
Though it has more money than it
knows what to do with, the Queensland
Government has astounded an industry
which is. far from being in that position
by cutting the grant to the Bureau of
Sugar Experiment Stations from £7OOO a
year to £5664. Asked for an explanation,
the Minister of Agriculture quoted a pro-
vision of the Financial Emergency Act,
1931, under which such grants may be
reduced by 20 p.c. The only possible
excuse for the cut would be that since
the Director, Acting-Director and other
officers have been away on Common-
wealth war work the bureau has not to
pay so much in salaries; but the differ-
ence could be well spent on actual ex-
periments, Sugar is to Queensland what
wheat is to Westralia, apples to Tasmania
and wool to N.S.W., and the bureau has
done excellent work.
In England last week: — ,
The Prime Minister speaks at the Mansion
House. In matter and manner the speech is
grave, and sometimes the lord of language is
oddly at a loss for words. He says “it will take
every grain of strength the three Great’ Powers
can give to crush the Germans.” He calls for
a national effort mightier than ever; that put
forth, “no one can be blamed for hoping that
victory and peace may come in Europe in
1945.” In the House of Commons he reveals
what the enemy is exultantly proclaiming that
rocket-bombs, as well as flying-bombs, con-
taining the same quantities of h.e. and hurtling
through the stratosphere at a speed that “out-
strips sound,” have “for some weeks” been
falling on England, though “damage and casual-
ties have not been heavy.” With this new call
on its splendid fortitude the nation learns that
the fighting for the Antwerp passage has been
costly. From Moscow come reports of a
Stalin speech in a new and welcome tone: the
Marshal refers to Japan as an aggressor and
promises that in the near future the hammer-and-
sickle flag will be raised in Berlin. But there
has been an unexplained hold-up in Hungary,
as well as in East Prussia and Poland.
In Australia last week;
The Prime Minister, worn out by home-front
selfishness and anarchy, goes into hospital for
two months. His deputy decides on the nine-
and-ninetieth conference with the world’s
worst workstopping outfit —there has been an-
other huge production-loss of coal. Pig-
slaughtermen at the N.S.W. Government abat-
toirs strike; sheep-slaughtermen go slow. It
is revealed that a Sydney waterfront stopwork
meeting was prevented from flaring into a
strike by the “policy” of “giving the men every-
thing they ask for”; it is expected that the
“policy” will be extended to the maritime
unions, who are laying up ships because their
war bonuses have been reduced. These bonuses
are charged up to the taxpayers, like the drought-
relief payments in ar least three States. Though
one certain effect of the drought, if not food
shortages, will be a stunning fall in income-tax
revenue, politicians are proceeding with blithe
plans for raising their salaries (victoria and
S.A.) and allowances (Canberra), and the
A.C.T.U. with its happy proposal for a “pros-
perity” loading of 6s. a week for every union-
ist. It is announced that the Second Victory
Loan, £20,000,000 short two days before it was
to have closed, has been filled, and that betting
and lottery gambling during the Melbourne Cup
period was the vastest on record. And it is
learned from the Philippines that the Japs, so
far from having had their sea-power smashed,
have landed 35,000 men in Leyte.
Life in a fools’ paradise can’t be idyllic
all the time.
After he and some of his colleagues
had viewed a film —a very good one —
showing Riverina under drought and the
effects of erosion, Premier McKell said it
should be screened in all theatres to
spread knowledge of his Government’s
efforts to conserve the soil, forests and
\V° Whnt efforts?
THE UNHIDDEN HAND .
“No Minister could possibly handle work such as that now entrusted to Mr. Forde. Either
Ministers are completely overloaded or their portfolios are only a pretence and we are
being governed by other people.”
“Hey, Sandow, you’ve got your feet off the ground,”
Dunstan is a wonder at winning by-
elections. His man, Mibus, held Lowan,
the late Lieut. Lamb’s seat, for the U.C.P.,
and Bulla-Dalhousie looks like being held
also; there is to be a by-election on
November 25. That will give Dunstan
26 of the 65 Assembly seats; labor has
23, the U.A.P. 13, Independents two, and
one Ind. Labor. Labor protests that it
represents far more electors than the
Dunstanites do, and the U.A.P, used
to raise the same objection on its own
account, but it has applied the soft pedal
since it was admitted to the Ministry.
British Labor’s clumsiest politician is
Lord Strabolgi, and for bad timing his
Lordship is in a class of his own. He
attacked British generalship in an Ameri-
can magazine article—so venomously that
Lord Lovat promised him a ducking if
he spoke in the same strain to commando
men—just when Alexander and Mont-
gomery were entering upon the series of
victories which knocked Italy out of the
war. Last week the Labor baron com-
placently announced the formation of a
Jewish Dominion of Palestine League,
with a programme—unrestricted Jewish
immigration and Jewish supremacy over
the Arabs —which would start another
war immediately. At that very moment
Lord Moyne and the soldier who drove
his car were lying dead, shot in cold
blood by Jewish terrorists from Palestine.
An embarrassment from which Curtin's
sickness has saved him for a time is the
presentation of a memorial from the
“guests” at Gorman House, Canberra,
complaining that they are ill-fed and un-
comfortably housed —in effect, because
“waitresses and housemaids dictate the
policy of the management.” The “guests”
are nearly all girls employed in Govern-
ment departments. Surely the young
women ought to know that the waitresses
and housemaids are unionists, and that
unionists —especially coalminers, wharf-
laborers, sea-cooks, slaughtermen and the
like—dictate the policy of the Govern-
ment.
Set on running everythiing in sight, sub-
ject to union despotism, the Sydney Gov-
ernment demands “a greater voice in the
control of the University.V It had control
enough to bring about two unnecessary
appointments to the Law School at a time
when that seminary was about to lose
three-fourths of its students to the ser-
vices, and when servicemen with good
credentials could not be personally exam-
ined. heinc overseas—the aonointees. both
strangers in the mid-thirties, were not
servicemen. One of them has proved
an outsize in New Zionist politicians.
Nervous U.S. Democrats must have
shuddered when a translation of Stalin's
“27th anniversary” speech came over the
air as they were about to vote. The Mar-
shal referred to “our alliance with Britain
and the United States.” There is an alliance
with Britain, accepted by the Dominions,
though none of them is actually a party
to it; but there is no alliance with the
United States. What exists is as good
as an alliance, being an arrangement with
the Washington Administration, sup-
ported by Congress. Alliance in the strict
sense of the word there can be none until
a treaty is entered into and the Senate
ratifies it by the requisite majority—
two-thirds of those present.
Calwell, imbued with the touring spirit,
cast up in Tasmania the other day, com-
pared it with other States and described
it as a land flowing with milk and honey.
He is expected to insist on both being
nationalised” immediately.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” expects that
Queensland Premier Cooper will resign
alter the April session or after the one in
August, and that Treasurer Hanlon will
be his successor. Hanlon is No, 2 in
order of precedence; Walsh, the fighting
Minister of Transport, is No. 8.
The election argument in the U.S.A.
had ferocious features, at least on the
Republican side. A remark attributed to
a Democratic lady of world-wide celebrity
was “I have more daughters-in-law than
more sons-in-law than daugh-
ters.” Though no matron would say
such a thing, it came out in a book pub-
lished during the campaign and was
eagerly quoted by Republican newspaper-
men. Comparatively mild was a Chicago
“Tribune’s” jibe at the President on the
score of his Leftist supporters: “Sydney
Hillman is the man behind Roosevelt,
an d.tb e man behind Hillman is Browder,
Stalin’s No. 1 agent, draft-dodger, felon,
convicted liar and forger.”
“Spasebo” goes to a show;
. f* l best borjoice traditions was the open-
ing or Australia-Soviet House, Melbourne. It
was a drizzly morning, and it was perhaps sym-
bolic that the opening was done from the pave-
ment and a soapbox. Flinders-lane was blocked
with vans, trucks, beer wagons, lorries and blas-
phemous drivers, Lud Mayor Nettlefold being
the chief offender against his own traffic regu-
lations. The crowd was so cosmopolitan that
the present writer was taken for a Russian
by an old refugee from three anti-Czarist revo-
lutions who knew Dostoieffsky and Tolstoy and
was a fellow-student of Chekhov; he vouch-
safed the sinister information that there were
enough members of the old regime present to
stage a counter-revolution. The new addition
to Melbourne’s social and political landscape
is an old tobacco warehouse which has been
equipped with a hall, cafe, rest homes and
etceteras, all chromium-plated, linoleumed and
glassed out of recognition in the latest fashion
and adorned with the counterfeit presentments
of Mr. Roosevelt, Mr. Churchill and Marshal
Stalin, all smiling. A great deal is mentioned
about fostering cultural relationships, but a bad
start was made in spoiling a nice-looking ware-
house.
On the eminent authority of Sydney
“D.T.” Australia-Soviet House was the
scene of a Russia Day dinner which bore
no distant resemblance to a Moscow
banquet:
It was attended by more than 100 repre-
sentatives of political, ecclesiastical, pro-
fessional, academic, cultural and commer-
cial life. Toasts were drunk in champagne,
with a glass of vodka at the end for those
who cared to try it. Others had a choice
of English food, Russian tea and Caucasian
coffee. The menu included whiting it la
Parisienne, with Golden Wonder la
Russe; royal turkey with mushrooms; tart
and meringue Allied Victory.
Readers licking their lips were at liberty
to conclude, if they chose, that the meal
was the standard dinner for four times
the population of Britain.


(yOondo
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Justice Roper’s judgment in the Archi-
bald Prize case was no surprise to the
N.S.W. Bar. It was, in effect, though
Dobell’s prize-winning effort was “charac-
terised by some startling exaggeration
and distortion,” this was “clearly in-
tended by the artist, his technique being
too brilliant to admit of any other con-
clusion,” and the picture was “a portrait
within the meaning of the words in the
will.” The testator was described in the
reports as “Mr. John Archibald.” He
was John Feltham Archibald really,
though he liked to be known as Jules
Francois. Artists Mary Edwards and
Joseph Wolinski, as movers against the
award to Dobell, were left with a stiff
bill on their hands, total costs being esti-
mated round £l5OO.
“Kaloa” on a pioneer:
Albert English is the oldest living Anglo-
Papuan, and a fine advertisement he is, on the
brink of 80, for the climate and conditions.
He drifted there in 1883, when there were fewer
British in the island than fingers on a hand.
He had been a collector of museum specimens.
William MacGregor made him an R.M. As
one of his first jobs English went with an army
of about half a dozen under MacGregor to
capture some murderers at Rigo. The party
was met on the beach —it is all in MacGregor’s
reports—by about 10,000 savages howling like
a welshed race crowd and waving 15 kinds of
spear. Albert walked into the crowd, surveyed
the spears with interest and dragged out the
murderers. Feeling that Rigo quiet suited his
temperament, he became permanent R.M. there.
His almost forgotten reports make fascinating
reading on their yellow paper in the libraries —
PAPUAN. PIONEER.
they form a complete history of the civilising of
a district by a man who loved his job. There
are naive touches which add a sort of grim
humor to the official facts —as when once it
is recorded that Albert visited a certain wild
chieftain in the hills because the chieftain had
sworn to kill him on sight. They became firm
friends, as one would have expected of such a
pair. English saw the flag hoisted three times
in New Guinea —the last time when Australia
took over. He served the Government till
after that time. He helped to pioneer rubber
and agriculture and has built himself up a nice
little trading business. He was exported to Aus-
tralia when the war broke out, like the rest of
the residents, if being beyond comprehension of
the official mind that a man who spoke Motuan
like a second mother tongue and who knew
Papua like the palm of his hand could possibly
be of use in war. Just now some of the new-
fangled bureaucrats refuse to allow him to re-
turn to his plantations, though the enemy is
hundreds of miles away. One of their excuses
is said to be that he is too old to be risked
in the awful Papuan climate.
Great public benefactions are a tradi-
tion in the firm of Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, chemists, of Melbourne.
Alfred Felton, founder, was the man who
made a half-million bequest to the
National Gallery for the purchase of pic-
tures. A present director, Russell Grim-
wade, gave Melbourne Captain Cook’s
cottage; with his brothers, he presented
the original home of the family in East
St. Kilda to Melbourne Grammar as a
prep, school ; his frequent gifts to Mel-
bourne University include £5OOO for a
forest products school, and now £50,000
for a school of bio-chemistry. The gum-
tree is a passion with him. He is the
author of An Anthology of Eucalyptus,
and he sowed the seed and waited 10
years for the subject of one of the photo-
graphic illustrations.
“E. and 0.E.”; “El V.” was not quite
up to date in his interesting account of
the achievements of Melbourne Medical
School graduates (B. 25/10/’44). Knight
John Ramsay, of Tasmania, died last
February. Touching on his great achieve-
ment (in 1906) in restoring life to a
patient, after clinical death, and the much-
advertised operation lately hailed as a
Soviet scientific marvel, Dr. Ramsay was
himself a visitor to the U.S.S.R, in the
early 1930’5.
Like that other outstanding fighter
“Bluey” Truscott, Squadron - Leader
R. G. Foskett, D.F.C., lost his life, after
long fighting service, through his ’plane
crashing into the sea. Getting into the
R.A.A.F, in 1940, when he was 23, Fos-
kett trained in Rhodesia, and was in the
early fighting in Greece and in all the
desert campaigns, winning his decoration
at Alamein. He was again in the fighting
for Greece at the end.
Four times elected:
A quick run back through the U.S. Presidents
to Lincoln makes Franklin D. Roosevelt’s
extraordinary achievement seem well-nigh in-
credible. Till he came along to make his record
run his party (.Democrat') had been far more
often out than in. Immediately before him there
were three Republican Presidents in succession—
going backwards, Hoover, Coolidge and Hard-
ing. Then a Democrat, Wilson, had two terms.
Before Wilson there were the Republicans
Taft, the first Roosevelt and McKinley: four
terms. Before McKinley Cleveland (Democrat)
had his second taste of office. Before that the
Republican Harrison had his term; then it was
Cleveland’s first term; and before that it was
Garfield, Hayes Grant and Lincoln; in
that stretch Republicans had six terms, hold-
ing office from 1860 to 1884. Whatever the
final figures may give this time, F. D. Roosevelt
easily holds the highest electoral-college record.
In 1936 his percentage was 98.5, the only
other President' ever to top 4 90 p.c. being Lin-
coln, who for his second term scored 91. As
far back as Lincoln only three other Presidents
have ever topped 80 p.c., and before the current
election F. D. Roosevelt had done that at each
of his three attempts. A journalist who has
had close associations with the record-breaker
has written of him: “He dearly loves a joke,
and if it’s spiced with a touch of double en-
tendre that’s 0.K.; but he won’t stand lor dirt.
He loves a game of poker; he'll take a cocktail
before dinner and a highball afterwards if he
is a guest, but at Che White House only native
wines or beer are served. He goes to church,
knows the Episcopalian Prayer-book by rote,
and can improvise a very earnest and moving
prayer himself. He has an amazing fund of
general information.”
Roosevelt still has some distance to
go; knight Gilbert Dyett, re-elected Dig-
gers’ Federal president at the R.S.L. Con-
gress in Adelaide, is now in his 26th term!
Dyett has an eagle eye for a flaw in an
argument or proposal, a knack of cleav-
ing through tangled issues of policy and
procedure to the vital kernel of the
matter, and a rare executive ability. A
Gallipoli Digger, wounded and invalided
out, he was born at Bendigo (Vic.) and
educated at Marist Bros.’ College there.
Ever since the last war he’s been active in
a host of Digger shows apart from the
R.S.L., and has found time also to be a
member of the Victorian Racecourse
Licensing Board as well as a racing-club
secretary.
Like many another in the British lists
of Lords, Lord Moyne, killed by Jewish
assassins’ bullets in Cairo, was a good
soldier. In the Boer War he was men-
tioned in dispatches and wounded, and
in 1914-18 he commanded a battalion
as brigade-major, winning the D. 5.0.,
being thrice mentioned, and then win-
ning a bar to his decoration. An Irish-
man, born at Dublin in 1880, he inherited
the brewery Guinness name and wealth,
and did Britain notable service apart from
his soldiering. Among other Ministerial
posts, he was an Under-Secretary of State
for War, Financial Secretary to the Trea-
sury and Minister of Agriculture. Also,
he headed a financial mission to Kenya
and took the chair for a host of com-
missions. In 1935 he briefly visited Aus-
tralia, dropping in aboard the yacht
Rosaura on a world tour. He took over
the post of British Resident Minister in
the Middle East from R. G. Casey.
Herewith Queenslander Goss Lane, one
of the best-known doctors in the R.A.N.
Leaving Brisbane Grammar to join the
First A.1.F., he finished that bout of
soldiering as a bombardier, graduated in
medicine gt Melbourne Uni. and became
ship’s surgeon in the Nieu Holland on
the Java run. After a while with Repat.,
DR. G. J. K. LANE, R.A.N.
he joined the Navy in 1934, and is still
serving, having been M.O. in the
Manoora and Hobart.
“S.U.R.”; Major N. A. Vickery (B.
20/9/’44) was trained in the Sydney Uni-
versity Regiment, which at the outbreak
of war consisted of an infantry battalion
and a field battery, where both Vickery
and Cutler, V.C., learned their gunnery.
Originally raised as the Sydney Univer-
sity Scouts, it became the S.U.R. in the
’twenties. Among many other senior
commanders in the present war the
S.U.R can claim Brigadier H. B. Taylor,
who commanded a brigade in Malaya ;
J W. Crawford, D.S.O. (killed in an air
accident in ’43); I. N. Dougherty, D.S.O.
and bar; W. J. V. Windeyer, D.S;O. and
bar; F. O, Chilton, D. 5.0.; and Lt.-Cols.
R. W, N Turner (killed at El Alamein),
C. H. Grace, D. 5.0., and J. R. Broad-
bent, D.S.O.
On a Buna airstrip on Boxing Day,
1942, Corporal Tim Hughes, under fire
from five different quarters, dragged a
wounded officer to safety ; then, with a
Bren, attacked a Jap pillbox, killed its
occupants and captured a gun, and next
day was wounded in the left arm by a
grenade which he threw into another
occupied Jap pillbox. Corporal Tim got
the M.M. for his bravery, the first of
aboriginal stock to be decorated in the
current war. Born at Port Pearce (S.A.),
and now 25, Corporal Tim was into the
war within two months of its start. He
left in 1940 with the 2/10 Battalion, saw
service in Palestine, Syria and Egypt, re-
turned in 1942 and the same year was up
in the New Guinea fighting. A hefty
CPL. TIM HUGHES, M.M.
chap—sft. lOin.; 16.2—he plays a willing
game of cricket and football (he has won
an army competition for hoofing the
ball), is a tidy high-jumper, does a bit
of boxing, and figured as a platform
speaker helping the last war loan in Adel-
aide.
Major Andrew Gordon Sloane is Acting
City Building Surveyor to Perth (W.A.)
Council. He replaces Me I. Green, City
Architect, who has succeeded W. E. Bold
to the Town Clerkship. When he en-
listed in 1940 —he’d just got into the Old
A.I.F. when the Armistice arrived —
Major Sloane was on the P.W.D. staff,
with a B.C.E. degree from Melbourne
Uni., and he’d designed and supervised
the erection of the new Perth Hospital.
He’s 44.
S.A. acquires a most experienced Col-
lector of Customs in T. D. Carroll. A
Tasmanian of 60, he has held responsible
posts at, in turn, Hobart, Newcastle,
Perth and, latterly, Melbourne.
Brigadier James Thomas Burrows,
D. 5.0., who has become rector of Wai-
taki (M.L.) Boys’ High School, at 40,
succeeded Brigadier Kippenberger as com-
mander of the N.Z. Fifth Brigade in
Italy, when Kippenberger lost both legs
in a mine explosion. Before that
Burrows fought in Crete, Greece, North
Africa and Sicily and Italy. He has also
a great record in Rugby ; toured South
Africa in 1928 with the All-Blacks, and
managed and coached the All-Blacks in
the three 1937 Tests against the touring
Springboks.
From John Brennan:
Three Australian soldiers made the southern
beachhead on J-eyte with the American forces —
Owen O’Brien (Brisbane), Ken Collins (Mel-
bourne) and K. S. Hall (S.A.), assigned to
observe the amphibious operation. O’Brien and
Hall had been together in Africa with the 2nd/
31st lor a couple of years from May of 1940. Hall
went ashore at Leyte riding with the first wave
of Sherman tanks. They pushed inland a little,
bogged down in the first line of swamps (as did
every other vehicle to come ashore the first
day); then Hall’s tank tangled with a shell
from a Jap 40-millimetre langing down from
Catmon Hill. It knocked the tank out and
wounded the four crew members—none of them
seriously—but Hall climbed out without a
scratch. That little encounter excepted, the
Australians’ chief difficulty during the four days
they remained on the island was in finding any
action to observe.
“King’s Pawn”; R, M. Weldon, a
former Commissioner for Taxation, who
lately passed on at 80, was one of three
players— two surviving—who took part in
inter-State chess matches before the
present century dawned. The others are
Watson and Esling, who both held at
various times the Victorian champion-
ships.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 74, T. H. Prince, who put in
half a century as an accountant in a Govern-
ment department; and afterwards, having always
been a prominent singer and elocutionist, in
his last lew years of leisure delivered some
1000 broadcasts as Cheers for the Sick.
At 61, A. G. Saunders; born in Adelaide,
studied in the U.S.A., Church-of-Christ mis-
sionary in the Philippines for two long terms,
married in China, a preacher in Melbourne,
Subiacp (W.A.) and Taree (N.S.W.), where he
has died.
At Clare (S.A.), at 73, R. H. Tilbrook, pro-
prietor and editor for over half a century of
the “Northern Argus,” founded by his father,
and for a time head of the Provincial Press
Association of Australia.
At Glen Innes (N.S.W.), at 79, Ernest Welsh,
who was in the chorus when J.C.W. introduced
“H.M.S. Pinafore” and later in the Australian
premiere of “The Mikado,” in which Nellie
Stewart was Yum Yum.
In Melbourne, at 42, Eric Lyall, Standford
X-Ray Co. manager and a pioneer of X-ray
equipment for the services. He did a lot to
provide X-ray equipment for fighting t.b.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 76, Robert Angus,
who, prior to Government-escorted tours of
Maoriland, piloted many famous men through
the country, including Rudyard Kipling. Angus
was for 40 years manager for Cook’s tours.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 73, John Dunlop,
who was with the U.S.S. Co. for 43 years and
skippered many of the fleet'. He went to Britain
to help supervise the building of the Niagara,
and returned with her on her maiden voyage.
Among his experiences was being torpedoed
in June, 1917, on the Avenger.
In Townsville (Q.), at 61, William Edward
Hawley, a noted cyclist in Victoria’s boom days.
A Maorilander, he won the 1905 Dunlop road
race over the Warrnambool course, and the Aus-
tralian Blue Riband for the fastest time.
In Sydney, on the same day, union leaders,
David P. Whittaker (44), president of the
N.S.W. trammies and ’busmen, and John Hastie
(61), secretary of the Federated Enginedrivers
and Firemen.
In Sydney ; at 51, leading composer Roy
Ewing Agnew. Largely self-taught, he was sent
by Sydney citizens to London in 1923 for
further study and, after returning in 1928, was
back in England again in 1930 giving recitals
of his own compositions. He composed the
winning work for the N.S.W. Sesquicentenary
competition.
In Perth, at 49, P. G. J. Foley, A.B.C. vice-
chairman and one of the most energetic of W.A.
timber-workers’ secretaries. He piloted many a
log through the Arbitration Court with success.
In Sydney, at 51, Dr. P. W. Francis, ear,
nose and throat specialist. A Digger of the
last war, enlisting immediately after graduation
at Sydney University in 1916, he had been con-
sulting oral surgeon at the Prince of Wales
Hospital Randwick, since 1925.


7 f igM (w Hunting !
The day will soon come when our gallant young chaps
Will have hunted and fished and shot out all the Japs.
And hack home when they itch for some huntin’ to do
They’ll hop on their jeeps and go shootin’ up Voo.
Then, whether it’s huntin’ an’ fishin’ for fun —
Or whether a heck of a job to be done,
The battery most coves, from Hedland to Bourke,
Will choose is the Masse —a tiger for work!
There are
Masse Dealers
Everywhere
MB 3-12-43
Masse
B ATT ERIE S
are tigers for work !
YOUR FAMILY’S FUTURE
|J OWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
" under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many. •
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desired to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trustee with the
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility; that can guarantee
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 59 years’ experience.
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the Company s
service and what it costs.
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen 0. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others, Admimstra or, e
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £63,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Banker Speaks Out
L. J. McConnan, chief manager of the
National Bank of Australasia, has
sounded the alarm to warn those with
deposits in or overdrafts from the Aus-
tralian banking system that the proposal
to hand over control of the entire bank-
ing system in peace-time to politicians is
loaded with extraordinary dangers. Mc-
Connan stresses that the banks have will-
ingly put up with Treasury control dur-
ing war-time because of the peculiar
necessities of war. He says “this bank
does not advocate the immediate removal
of all controls after the war,” But he
adds that the bank “does deem it to be
its duty to emphasise that permanent poli-
tical regimentation of the people’s money
in the banks does mean a permanent regi-
mentation of business and of the indi-
vidual,”
In these pages since the referendum it
has been pointed out how the Canberra
Government has been setting out to
achieve some of its “economic” objectives
in spite of the people’s vote. McConnan
says;—
The public generally are advised that
permanent rigid Government control over
the banking system, which means control
over the people’s money, would perma-
nently give the Government vast powers
over industry and vast powers over the in-
dividual. In such an event, if any indus-
trial concern, primary, producer or indi-
vidual desires to borrow in post-war days
with the object of developing production
or business, or for any other legitimate
purpose, the fate of each proposal would
depend entirely upon the decision of the
Government or its nominee. Clearly, this
would place in the Government’s hands a
powerful control not only over industry as a
whole, but over the economic and financial
ambitions of every individual.
McConnan’s concern arises from what
has been going on in Labor circles in
many parts of Australia in connection
with banking. There have been the state-
ments of Ward, Lazzarini and others,
and there have been the resolutions
passed at Labor conferences from
time to time. More definitely there
has been the policy of the Govern-
ment of replacing retiring members of
the Commonwealth Bank board with
“party” men rather than bankers or in-
dustrialists. A move to replace war-time
banking regulations by peace-time legis-
lation is now afoot in Canberra,
The manager of the National Bank
prefaces his remarks by reference to “per-
sistent press reports of probable early
legislation designed to bring the banks
permanently under political control.” He
says emphatically that “permanent Gov-
ernment .control of the banks simply
means permanent political control of the
money placed in the banks by the
people ,” and that “no Government can
claim that it has a mandate from deposi-
tors to assume control of their money
in peace-time.” Further, “each borrower
on overdraft is advised that that perma-
nent rigid control of the banks may mean
that never again could a borrower obtain
a loan from a bank unless the Govern-
ment or its nominee investigated each
proposal to borrow and gave its appro-
val.”
The warning from Mr. McConnan is
entirely justified in the present alarming
state of Federal politics. The wild men
are loose again, and some of the ordi-
narily less-wild men appear to be present-
ing no impediment to wild-cat economic
proposals. That the present Labor Gov-
ernment would deal with banking control
any more impartially than it dealt with
the censorship dispute, the newspaper and
a hundred other strikes, the referendum
campaign or the case of the Portland
butcher is entirely unlikely. It has a great
failing for doctrines and for favorites.
Post-war New Zealand
Speaking at a luncheon given by the
Wanganui Chamber of Commerce, Leslie
Lefeaux, former, governor of the Reserve
Bank of New Zealand, said, apropos of
living standards when the exceptional
trading conditions created by the war
ended: —
1 imagine the Dominion will be con-
fronted with large shortages of capital goods
required for maintenance, replacements and
renovations, as well as abnormally low
stocks in the hands of importers and mer-
chants generally of most kinds of consump-
tion goods. On top of these potential de-
mands there is likely to be a large, un-
satisfied current demand for consumption
goods resulting from the vast amount of
money put into circulation, combined with
the financing of war expenditure by the use
of temporarily idle business capital instead
of out of savings from current incomes.
Assuming that the country is not - going
to live on charity—that is, by gifts from
others —all imports will have to be paid for
out of the proceeds of exports. Borrowing
overseas in any form may, I think, be
ruled out of the question for some time,
apart, of course, from any facilities which
may become available under the proposed
international monetary fund arrangement.
Addressing the Canterbury Chamber of
Commerce, Mr. Lefeaux said:
I am often amazed at the easy confidence
displayed by some who, without' ever having
successfully conducted any business under-
taking, assume that they can successfully
control and conduct the trade of a country.
For the fundamental conditions governing
the two are the same, though it is often
possible to go much further in the wrong
direction in the case of a country without
being brought to a violent halt, especially
if provision is made for inflation. I believe
that the trade of a country is most likely
to prosper if left as far as is practicable
in the hands of those who have had actual
experience in conducting industries profit-
ably and successfully.
It was Mr. Lefeaux who, about this time
last year, gave the opinion that “there
is not the slightest doubt that pre-war
New Zealand was heading straight for
the financial rocks, despite favorable
weather, and it was only the war which
saved the Dominion from serious em-
barrassment.” Many people agree with
this opinion. And, although a new gentry
has been arising in Maoriland during the
long period of Labor rule, there is a
growing belief that the new “prosperity”
leaves much to be desired. Undoubtedly
there has been more economic realism in
the country’s war-time management than
there was during Savage’s early years,
but when lend-lease, mutual aid and war-
time contracts with Britain finish realities
may be harder to face.
Earlier this year, according to the
National City Bank of New York, United
States troops were spending “something
like $2OO million a year in Australia for
goods and services over and above recip-
rocal lend-lease aid received from the Com-
monwealth.” That sum is the equivalent
of £6O million Australian a year, which —
believe it or not —is dashed near the sum
which the wool industry is providing each
clip. The New York authority’s figure
may be subject to correction, but in any
case it indicates what an influence Ameri-
can spending has been in places like
Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne for the
past couple of years. Many vendors of
goods and “services” will place sad em-
phasis on “past.” The strain imposed by
this spending in a country where so many
things have been in short civilian supply
has been great. The strain has been
moral as well as economic. It is not
entirely clear at present as to what effect
this U.S.-soldier spending has had on
Australia’s dollar funds.
♦ * * ♦
Britain’s indebtedness to India, to South
American countries and to other former
or present neutrals as a result of this war
is huge. It is tipped in New York that
the British overseas debt arising out of the
conflict will reach £2OOO million sterling
by the end of this year, and Lord Keynes
has said that £3OOO million will be more
like the final figure, * Wherever these
debts lie it is likely that Britain will ask
for trading priorities after the war in order
to liquidate the liabilities or meet the in-
terest charges. These “blocked sterling
balances” received special consideration
in the international money talks at Bret-
ton Woods a few months back.
* * * *
A warning that the international cur-
rency fund proposed at the Bretton
Woods conference is bound to fail, and
could “easily throw international currency
relationships into chaos, for which the
whole world might suffer for years to
come,” is. made by the Guaranty Trust
Co. of New York. In a survey it says
that “the quickest and most effective way
to bring about exchange stability in post-
war period would be for the principal
commercial nations to replace their cur-
rencies on the gold standard at the earliest
possible moment.” Some smaller nations
would follow suit, and others could attach
their currencies to gold-standard curren-
cies. The chief weakness of the Bretton
Woods plan, continues the survey, is the
dependency on the control of exchange
values without the control of internal
factors in countries affecting the rates,
such as budget balances, tariffs and credit
policies.
* * * *
Up to Wednesday of last week there
had been received on behalf of the
Second Victory Loan the amount of
£ll3 million in cash, according to
Treasurer Chifley. That was half a mil-
lion more than asked for, apart from
what is needed to pay off unconverted
maturing stock. “It is estimated,” said
Mr. Chifley, “that the final number of
subscribers for new cash will be about
410,000. This is somewhat below what
was hoped for.” He added that “the loan
has been successfully filled without re-
course to subscription from the central
bank or trading banks.” But he did not
say to what extent the savings banks
were called upon to contribute. In the
recent past they have had to shoulder
that part of the loan not filled from other
sources —in 1943-44 the Commonwealth
Savings Bank put in something like £BO
million. The worst feature of our war
loans has been the lack of direct popular
support. In the two preceding loans there
were 567,700 and 452,916 subscribers
respectively. Though better than what
|he Treasurer expects from the present
operation, the totals were far from good.
* * * *
Colonial Sugar has reduced its interim
div. to 8 p.c. p.a., against the usual
8| p.c. Shortage of wheat and coal has
deferred production at the Common-
wealth grain distillery in Victoria, which
is under G.S.R. management. The coal
and man-power shortage have generally
interfered with C.S.R. activities. It took
the co, 11 months to get Government
permission to erect a gypsum wallboard
factory at Concord (Sydney). Eight
departments had their say in the matter.
« * * 9
Britain and the United States, as well
as Russia, have begun to talk again in
terms of post-war commerce; Australia
may not be long in attempting to revive
its goldmining industry, which before the
war held third or fourth place among
onr export activities. Perhaps New
Guinea will be given first consideration,
though the restoration of damaged or
destroyed machinery in military areas
may be difficult in the post-war competi-
tion for plant of all kinds in industry.
Production costs and labor supplies will
be aggravated problems which mainland
mines will have to face when peace-time
pursuits become important again.
* * * ♦
Commenting on the fact that the Com-
monwealth Government is going on with
its merchant shipbuilding scheme, the
chairman of Adelaide Steam said, “We
feel that care should be exercised to en-
sure that the type of vessels adopted will
be suitable for the post-war Australian
coastal trade.” It is the opinion of many
in the shipping trade that a number of
the cargo vessels now being built are too
small for inter-State services and too
large for the N. S. Wales north or south
coast traffic. Millions and millions are
being spent on Government shipbuilding.
It was suggested here some time back
that the Shipping Board should be over-
hauled.
* * * *
Australians will do well to remember
that, although the Government has be-
come heavily indebted to a number of
them in its war-time borrowing opera-
tions, such indebtedness does not mean
that the Government is likely to become
any more the servant of the people on
that account. A large debt means heavy
taxation to pay interest thereon, and, as
a heavy national debt is frequently a
factor in economic depression. Govern-
ment indebtedness often goes hand in
hand with increased Government control
—emergency controls, etc,, clapped on to
“rehabilitate” the country. A good
example of the effect of an inflated debt
has been seen in Australia in respect of
transport. The State railways, over-
burdened with debt, were the reason for
the introduction of the various restric-
tions on road transport; it was felt that
railways would never be able to meet
their interest and other charges if motor
transport was not curbed. In any case,
Government borrowing in peace-time
usually means more public “works,” and
such “works” mean more civil servants.
• * * *
Shareholders approved the alteration
in the articles of association of the
Mutual Life and Citizens’ (B. 8/11/ ’44)
whereby policyholders may now share in
up to 95 p.c. of the actuarial profits in
both the ordinary and industrial depart-
ments.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:'
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
jolders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
* ... ,
if
There's only one "Caterpillar"
The name "Caterpillar" is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria. Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
Catei
**:
• «-
R
. -j
V for Victory
with Timber
* ’
m
wm\
z>--
See that significant “V” east by tbe
sun on the exhaust pipe of that
giant Caterpillar. With Hyster arch
yarding, it is making short work of
hauling out two giant logs. In the
mountains ami the valleys Caterpillar
seeks them and vanks them mil ,lo build the hangars and the
factories that provide the wherewithal, to win the war. It’s this giant
power, safe tread and unrivalled economy that makes Caterpillar the
first choice of lumbermen in Australia, and which will have so much
to do with the future development of the Commonwealth.
CATERPILLAR D/ESSi.
•MTG. U.B. PAT. Off.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
ŧ
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St, Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St,, South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
'Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St,,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St. . Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
Fight, Work, Buy Wa r Savings
Certificates
CT4-33-44
Social Security
Some of the implications of “social
security” are not understood by the
people generally, especially in Australia,
where there has for so long been a poli-
tical school which has taught that “the
other fellow” can be made to pay for it
all. Not only must all of those of us
who are fit provide our own social secu-
rity—some of us undoubtedly providing
a greater or lesser degree than others
blit we have to be certain that what we
pass on are real national assets created
during our working lives to provide for
the periods when we are too ill or too
old to work.
The passing on of a money fund
alone may be deceptive; it is be-
coming all too clear that inflation
can make a money fund ultimately some-
thing very different from what was visual-
ised when its establishment began. The
Australian National Welfare Fund at the
present time is being spent on war, and
our production and assets position is
really one of deterioration and decline
rather than accumulation for the future.
Nevertheless, the liability to pay out bene-
fits from the fund goes forward, thus,
later on, imposing burdens upon the
working population in respect of the non-
workers without there having been any
previous compensatory reserve built up.
It is not right that posterity should
pay for all improvident parents, even
though it may have been ill-conceived
political planning which prevented the
parents from being really provident.
In order to keep a national provident
fund a true inheritance of reserved pro-
duction, service or science it should
be a partly contributory fund. It is also
obvious that if a man now works eight
hours a day and, with his family, now
consumes a full eight hours’ production
and service a day, he is not really pass-
ing on any value towards the time when
he will be unable to work any hours a
day. And this is so irrespective of what
money juggling may go on to make it
appear that the Government has set aside
something for him in a fund.
It is difficult, on the other hand,
to decide exactly how the present
generation can pass on to posterity
the millions of pounds’ worth of
national assets necessary to compen-
sate for the drain on the national
production pool when tens of thousands
of ageing citizens cease to work but con-
tinue to spend and consume. It will not
be good enough to pass on “public
works” that are loaded with debt and yet
fail to do an efficient job. Provided the
contributory aspect of a national provi-
dent scheme is kept in mind and an at-
tempt made to establish real investments,
the problem of the drain on future pro-
duction should largely solve itself. But
the non-monetary realities underlying the
thing should never be overlooked. For
instance, it is hardly likely that any real
future social security can be built up by
working fewer hours now.
New Zealand considers its flax indus-
try to have most precarious post-war
prospects. Britain even now is not ask-
ing for any more supplies from Maori-
land, those available from other sources,
including Northern Ireland, being in ex-
cess of the demand. Britain, however, is
taking all N.Z. production this year
(there are about 15,000 acres planted),
and is meeting most of the production
costs. Capital costs in the establishment
of the industry will be discussed after the
war. Losses on production were £96,000
for the year to June 30, 1942, £158,000
in 1943 and £BO,OOO in 1944. The linen
flax industry was established in Maori-
land and Australia during 1940, when the
war with Germany closed the Baltic to
Britain —much of Britain’s flax imports
came from Estonia and Latvia, and linen
was important in the aircraft industry.
A bounty of £2 an acre on grassland
ploughed and sown with flax was offered
in Great Britain, and in Australia £4
an acre, plus free seed, was offered by the
Federal Government. In 1942 the Aus-
tralian acreage rose to about 57,000. The
crop for that season was about 48,000
tons, compared with 66,000 tons in 1941.
In his last report the Commonwealth
Auditor-General said:
On March 30, 1943, Cabinet approved
that flaxgrowers who had suffered a com-
plete or partial failure from the 1942 sowing
should be paid compensation on the fol-
lowing basis: £5 per acre for each acre
of flax sown, harvested and delivered in
accordance with the “Agreement to Grow
Flax”; (b) £3 10s. per acre for each acre
sown under contract with the Common-
wealth, but not harvested; (c) the gross
value of the total straw delivered to be de-
ducted from the sum of the amounts ascer-
tained under (a) and ( b ) for the purpose
of determining the amount, if any, of com-
pensation to be paid. Payments under this
approval approximated £63,000.
Agreement has been reached with the
British Government whereby profits or
losses in connection with flax production
in Australia are to be shared by the British
and Australian Governments. Operating
profits or losses will be shared in propor-
tion to the value of fibre sold to United
Kingdom and Australian spinners respec-
tively, but the exact terms of sharing capital
losses have not yet been determined.
During 1942-43 capital outlay by the
Federal Government on machinery,
buildings, etc., totalled £199,865.
Tableland Tin, operating at Return
Creek, North Queensland, is now turning
tin into Australian currency at a rate
which suggests a payment of a div. on
the pref shares by the end of the present
are cleaned up and the overdraft is
attended to the prospects of the ords.
should be hopeful, provided present re-
coveries and prices continue. A world
of difference in the finances has taken
place since the Prattens became interested
in the management. The directors expect
to reduce the overdraft by £20,000 a
quarter. Recovery of tin concentrates
during the first three months of 1944-45
was 286 tons, valued at £65,780. Ord.
shares (£1) are at the limit price of
18s. 6d. in the market. The deferreds
are in demand at 12s. and the prefs. at
20s. 6d.—both limit prices.
* * * *
The Labor Governments of Australia
have ever been ones to thunder about
the necessity for improved living stapd-
ards. The present Federal Labor Gov-
ernment appears to have no really prac-
tical ideas about living standards at all.
Man-power problems loom over it like a
threatening giant, and, bankrupt of .prac-
tical ideas in the way of effectively msing
man-power, there is widespread waste of
“this precious asset. There are too many
men doing little or nothing and being
paid for it, too many in responsible jobs
with little else in their heads other than
the idea of building a nice cosy nest for
themselves and staff, and too many able
persons overlooked, deliberately pushed
aside or put on work far beneath their
ability. Man-power is the basis of living
standards—man-power in the past has
raised Australia from a country fit only
to support savages to a country fit to
support the most civilised of peoples.
But even the blackfellows exhibited more
intelligence in their man-power problems
than do some Federal Ministers. King
Billy would know better than to keep
bodies of trade-unionists on the public
when there is insufficient for them
to do. It is one of those things that play hell
with living standards. Heaven help Aus-
tralians as well as Australian living stand-'
ards when their own initiative is taken
away and replaced by remote Ministerial
and bureaucratic control! It is proposed
to keep taxation up after the war in
order to pay for this sort of incompet-
ence and “politics.” With incomes re-
duced by taxation where are the better
housing, higher living standards to come
from? Australians who really take an
interest in what is going to happen to
them and their families later on had
better prod themselves with a sharp pin.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS
“Tuart”: A Central Court hearing of an
abortion charge against a much-discussed
Sydney doctor with odd acquaintances —
he was a ship’s doctor a few years ago —
was interrupted by the accused’s being
“taken for a ride.” The papers rose to
the occasion, somewhat to the detriment
of the war news, though the Melbourne
Cup preliminaries and the exploits of
Dashing Bookmakers and Colorful
Punters in no way suffered. It so hap-
pened that Commodore Collins was under
treatment for honorable wounds, suffered
in the tragedy that befell so many ot his
fellow-officers and other ranks in
H.M.A.S. Australia. My family paper
gave an inch and a half of type, with
one headline, to an account of the com-
modore’s condition ; four inches of type,
with two headlines, to a progress report
on the Sydney doctor. In journalism—
Sydney journalism, anyway —you must
Give the Public What It Wants.
* * * *
“XNX” with an item of Australian
military history:
The first complete unit of the Australian
(Ist) Armored Division to leave this country
was the 2nd/92nd L.A.D., then attached to
the 2nd/6th Aust. Armored Regiment. This
unit embarked at Brisbane on Sept. 20, 1942,
for Port Moresby, then menaced by Jap pene-
tration over the Owen Stanleys. The unit,
coupled with a squadron of the parent regiment,
formed a small but formidable tank force,
which on arrival was charged with the protection
of Port,, Moresby’s airfields. In the Battle of
Buna the 92nd, flown from Moresby, with such
equipment as could be carried in five Dakotas,
did a fine job. Not only the work of a mechani-
cal first-aid party but that of field workshop
and tank-recovery unit fell to its share. Men
of the L.A.D. whilst recovering bogged or
helpless tanks several times came under small-
arms fire from forward Japanese posts. The
extraordinarily light mechanical casualties of
the 6th Armored Regiment at Buna and later
at Sanananda were in no small degree due
to the keenness of the L.A.D. in improvising
equipment and carrying out renewals and re-
pairs. After the fighting in that sector ceased
the L.A.D. remained in the Buna and Dobadura
areas until the remnants of original two-and-
twenty were flown to Moresby in May, 1943.
From its inception in November, 1941, until
April, 1943, the 92nd L.A.D. was commanded
by a Westralian, and included -amongst the o.rs.
representatives of every mainland State.
* * * *
“Dek”: In the 6.45 a.m. 8.8. C. news
that comes over our national stations the
place where Charlemagne was crowned
and buried is called “Aiks-la-Chapelle.”
In the A.B.C. news an hour later it be-
comes “Ahken.” The difference must
puzzle people who try to follow the war
reporting intelligently without boasting
much knowledge of history or geography.
Aix-la-Chapelle, now no more, used to
“contain the magnificent coronation hall
of the emperors (143 ft. by 61ft.) in which
35 German kings and 11 queens” (absence
of 24 ladies unaccounted for) “banqueted
in the coronation ceremony in the
cathedral.” In 1939 it was a large, well-
modernised town, high in the hills in an
amphitheatre. A railway left the city over
a long aqueduct and plunged into hills.
All along the line towards Cologne were
dumps and tips of slag, poppet-heads and
chimneys—all the residue of mining and
heavy industries. At Eschweiler and Stol-
berg, joined to Aix-la-Chapelle by a short
branch line at the first river (Inde) valley
reached, there were .the great Rhenen
blast furnaces and the greater Concordia
chemical works. Then more hills and in-
dustry until the Roer Valley was reached,
the river running through Dtiren and
Julich. Here there was another type of hill
country and of population, for this area
was used by the rich burghers of the great
Rhine industrial towns as their Bowral
or Katoomba. Because of Hitler, it will
be a long time before they take their
pleasure there again.
m * •
“Pip” on vaccination in the army:
Nobody gets used to inoculations. The
needles are almost painless and the after-effects
negligible, but after four years of being punc-
tured like a pin-cushion the soldier still dreads
inoculation parade. Many a ouny ..no
will take bruises and knocks, and even bullets,
without a murmur keels over at the sight of
the medico’s syringe. Usual custom is to stick
him while he’s down; then his cobbers take him
away to bring him round. First day in the
army was the worst time for it. No sooner had
“ I still say sheilahs look crook in army rig!”
the soldier been issued with a shapeless uni-
form and an oversize in boots than needle
parade was on. Inside the doorway of the
R.A.P. a bored orderly punctured the ear-lobe
and squeezed out a few drops for blood-group-
ing. Shirts off then, and more orderlies got
fo work on the upper arms, sterilising them with
ether. A medico rubbed on smallpox vaccine
and pricked it in with a big needle. Further
down the corridor two more doctors sat on
chairs facing each other. “Hands on your
hips” was the order, and the bloke on the left
plunged in the anti-tetanus while his mate did
the honors with anti-typhoid. The rookie stag-
gered outside stinging and bleeding and
thoroughly cowed. These days there are only
refresher doses to be given, and the plunging
of the needle is done more gently.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: What do word-lovers —those'
who are not Scotch —think of the modern
run on the verb “lift”? The Scots have
long talked of “lifting” a collection in
church; and their Border raiders were
cattle-lifters. But to the rest of us it has
meant just to raise, and probably put down
again, a weight or a patient in bed. The
noun lift, for elevator, certainly implies
only raising in the air, and the diction-
aries even suggest that air is the original
roof of the word. So'why do newspapers
use it for “remove,” as to discontinue a
ban or tax?
* ♦ * ♦
“Bo”: A Sydney businessman’s secre-
tary has a habit of reading her shorthand
notes out aloud as she types them. One
sweltering day she came in to the office
in a dirndl skirt and flimsy georgette
blouse. By knock-off time the tempera-
ture had dropped 40 degrees, and a cold
southerly was blowing. Next morning
the first letter the boss picked up for
signature read;
Dear Badab,
With refereds to your goblaidt thad a
dubber of artigles were hissing whed the
garder delivered your esteebed order, we
hasted to exblaid thad this defectiod
was udavoidable owig do depletiod of
sdogs, due to badbower broblebs. As sood
as reblacebedt is evvegded frob the badu-
facturers the balads of your order will be
brobt’ly exeguded.
We rebaid,
Yours faithfully,
“Zake”: The gum-chewing blonde and
her swain were drifting, fingers inter-
locked, through Woolworths. The blonde
halted, picked an article from one
of the trays and held *it up. “This
is wunna them things they use for shapin’
scones, ain’t it?” she grated in a thin
nasal voice. The implement was a
serrated fish-scaler. What a domestic
treasure she’s going to be!
* * * *
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Whenever I hear
about the German lack of humor (cer-
tainly true of Hitler and his gang) I
wonder why it is Gilbert and Sullivan
operas are, or were, so popular in Ger-
many. Fritz adopted them just as he
adopted the plays of Shakspeare, pro-
duced# in Germany more frequently than
in Britain, let alone Australia, where it
would be safe to wager—if a census
could be taken —that not 5 p.c, of the
population has ever seen one. A lot of
Gilbert’s jesting, especially when it de-
pends on a play upon words, must be lost
in translation, so it must be the paradoxi-
cal situations worked into every play that
amuse Hans and Gretchen. Melbourne-
born Harry Hilling, a theatrical agent with
international experience, told me that the
best productions of G. and S. he had
seen anywhere were in Germany, and that
the shows were crowded to capacity every
night.
“Hamfat”: Grove’s prophecy that the
G. and S. operas would prove “more
fugitive than comedy in general” (B.
25/10/’44) is just one more illustration of
4he well-known theatrical axiom that
nobody can say what will make an en-
during hit or why. Take the two most
reliable standbys the stage has ever
seen, “The Silver King” and “The Sign
of the Cross.” Both were condemned
on their first appearance, one critic of
eminence remarking that the appearance
of the Deity as a flash of lightning in the
Wilson Barrett opus was outrageous
enough to kill the whole play. Bellow-
dramas that had a universally good recep-
tion and for which long life was pro-
phesied, such as “The Lights of London”
and “A Million of Money,” had their
little day but are long forgotten.
* * * *
“Pookie”: Reference to a Maori offi-
cer’s complaint of color discrimination
in his own land (B. 1/11/ ’44) recalled
a Cairo memory. We were drinking in
the Africa bar, a not-too-exclusive ren-
dezvous, when a dozen uniformed negroes
made a noisy entry. One of the party
hailed a Maori in our party with “Get
out of my way, you black blankard!”
The subsequent brawl lived up to the
best Middle East traditions. After the
tumult and shouting had died the pro*
prietor, a Sudanese, viewed the wreckage
tearfully, and wailed “Them black man
no good.” >
* * * *
“Lissard” on the Irish soldiery:
Tell “Ulster” (B. 25/10/ ’44) that there never
was an Irish regiment (“Terrier” or otherwise)
called the West Cork Volunteers. The 4th
Battalions of the old Dubs., Munsters and Con-
naughts were militia battalions, and in the case
of the Munsters there were two: the 4th
Battn., North Cork militia, and the sth Battn.,
South Cork militia. Both saw service in the
Boer War. The South Irish Horse was origi-
nally known as the South of Ireland Imperial
Yeomanry, and it also saw service (for the first
time) in the Boer War, in company with its
sister battalion, the City of London Imperial
Volunteers.
♦ * * *
“Bumpkin”: This “Save the Trees”
movement in Sydney recalls an address
delivered by C. E. Isaac to the
Melbourne Rotary Club in support
of the “Save the Forests” campaign, of
which he was the founder. He deplored
the public apathy on the subject, and
urged that the education of adults as well
as of school children was necessary I
would say that all that is necessary is to
educate the grown-ups. The children will
follow; but if the adults don’t respect
trees all the teaching in the world won’t
make children respect them, because
you can t teach by precept—only by
example. As a case in point, some mag-
nificent pine-trees planted in a country
graveyard were lately sold to be chopped
down and made into packing cases by
the grown-up trustees of the cemetery.
Despite the almost unanimous opposition
of residents and appeals to such authori-
ties as the Chief Secretary, the Health
Commission and the district’s Parliamen-
of whom deplored the vandal-
ism, the trustees were not to be deflected
form their purpose. Their legal right to
destroy trees, apparently, is unassailable.
• * * »
“Petermac”: Hollywood will have to
do something about this Alfred Hitch-
cock person. After having witnessed his
latest production, “Lifeboat,” a superb
film, though the setting is mostly an ordi-
nary ship’s boat that could be hired for
10 dahlars, I couldn’t help remembering
how Hollywood extravaganzas allegedly
costing millions of dahlars bored me
stiff. If the Hitchcock virus should spread
the “Moving Picture Industry” will have
frugality forced upon it.
-* * * * *
“Arter” on the jargon of the artistic
literati:
In one of George Ade’s Fables in Slang two
coons meet. They are members of the same
friendly society and must exchange
the passwords. Says one to the
other “What are the objects of
our society, Brother Otis?” And
Otis responds; “Benevolence,
colqsforousness and polotomy.”
Which reminds me of “contem-
porary” art criticism. One of its
practitioners recently discovered
in the works of a “contemporary”
painter a “rich feeling for the
sap of the dark earth.” The
pictures, the critic went on to say,
“are sonorous, and the element of
sadness is ‘of that sweet flavor
which the strong love for a
country may call forth.” Sap runs
in trees, not in earth, and sono-
rousness is not a quality of pic-
tures unless they are painted on
bells or trombones. Flailing a
painter found guilty of being able
to draw and paint, this erudite
authority says “When he has re-
corded the visual aspects he stops
and fails to give it (sic) the imprint
of thought or even the organisa-
tion of intellect.” The process of
giving a visual aspect an organi-
sation of intellect calls for a Heath
Robinson illustration. The able-to-
draw-and-paint offender is also
castigated for “the stifling fluency
of his shapes,” “which depict
without absorbing or slate with-
out genuine sympathy.” “Misin-
formed literalness” is another
crime laid at the door of this
artist, who is finally informed that
his works “for their lack of poetic
conception do not attain the
realms of art.” To which I object
that fluency cannot stifle, that literalness cannot
be the product of misinformation, and that if
a painter can be condemned because he isn't
a poet a poet can be condemned because he
isn’t a painter—or a plumber because he can’t
make, omelettes.
* * * *
“Visitor”: The new pipeline that takes
Murray water from Morgan (S.A.) to
Whyalla, on Spencer’s Gulf, has now been
tapped midway to reticulate the Spalding
district. Mclntosh, C.P.W., mentioned in
opening the scheme that the offshoot was
85 miles from Morgan and nearly 1000
feet above it, and that the river water
comes originally from a catchment area
whose borders are within 60 miles each
of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Also
that S.A., with a population of something
over 600,000, has spent £23,000,000 on
water supply.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Corroboration of
“Thugine’s” theory (B. 25/10/’44) that
the deepest mysteries have the simplest
explanations;
In an Adelaide seaside suburb a boy sent on
a message disappeared. He had been seen at
the little shop to which he had been sent, and
his return home should not have taken five
minutes; but nobody had seen him subse-
quently. Searches were made, but no clue
to the mystery was found until the work ot
making an esplanade was put in hand. Buried
in the sand was found the skeleton of a boy,
with the rags of his clothes clinging to his
bones. Larking on his way home, he had
jumped into a pit in the sand and the sand o
one side, loosened, had rolled in on top of him,
burying and suffocating him and leavmg no
trace. *
*** * .
“Spokeshave”: Education Week in
Melbourne was declared to be a nop by
no less a person than the University s
Professor of Education, G. b. Browne,
who remarked that people in general are
tired of meetings anb being bombarded
by appeals. They are, especially the
appeal that stresses desperate neces-
sity for the education of adults. In one
of the efforts to teach the grown-ups a
lecturer, delivering an addres i°° ou I
hoven, called him Napoleon throughout
his discourse.
MORE PAY.
“Advocating an Increase of pay for State members
of Parliament, the Lord Mayor of Melbourne said
that he* had yet to find one of them who was not
the equal of the average Federal member in brains
and capacity."
Strike for your dues, you lightweight legislators!
Spring off your tails and take the obvious steps
To squelch the fallacy you’re small pertaters
When balanced against Senators and Reps.
The more you garner in remuneration
At Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Hobart,
Perth
And Adelaide, the higher estimation
You’ll place upon your worth.
Why should they touch the full four figures
yearly
While you, with just as much of strain and
stress.
Albeit In all that counts their equals clearly,
Must struggle on with infinitely less?
Within your ranks there may be just as many
Gladstones in posse, Pitts in embryo,
Incipient Deakins, Reids-to-be as any
That Canberra can show.
\
You have to fight as hard and sometimes harder
For all that party rivalry denotes,
For prizes in the tart-shop and the larder.
For changeable constituencies’ voles.
You have to show yourself as spry and subtle,
Though but an M.L.A. or M.L.C.,
At vicious charge or withering rebuttal
And stinging repartee.
You legislative lights whose- prepossessions
Are strictly limited to State affairs,
I well believe you hold more frequent sessions
Than Menzics’ mob or Curtin’s legionnaires.
You’ve just as much of eloquence and learning,
Wisdom and wit and strength of jaw as they.
No wonder that it irks you to be earning
A lot less ample pay.
Hearts up I The remedy that needs applying
Lies in your own strong hands. Why should
you wait?
The difference you find so mortifying
I tip you’ll soon be wiping off the slate.
Though fractious politicians upon plenty
Of other topics hold conflicting views,
They’ll pass in nineteen cases out of twenty
A measure nemine dissentiente
For raising members’ screws,
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“South Brisbane”: Mild was the repri-
mand administered to Queensland Trans-
port Minister Walsh and Aikens, the
very unhermite - like Laborite from
Hermit Park, for their brawl in the
lobby (B. 8/11/’44) compared with what
Maher, C.P., had to undergo in 1932. For
crossing the floor and making a swing at
Llewelyn, then member for Toowomba.
Maher was suspended for tfie session and
afterwards summoned to the Bar of the
House for a heaped-up dish of humble
pie. Forgan Smith asserted that Maher
had hit Llewelyn. After a curious inter-
val, that gentleman said:
I recognise that considerable blame
attaches to myself. While I reserve the
right to resent the implication made, I
candidly admit to this House that my
words were ill-chosen.
One particular member separated both
disputants Walter Beresford James
Gordon Sparkes, from Aubigny. He
took delivery of a punch on the neck in
the second affair.
* * ♦ •
“A Major”: An article in “S. M.
Herald” by Bernard Heinze outlining
his 20 years’ experience with chil-
dren’s concerts concludes with a claim
(which I think most music-lovers will
agree is well justified) that during
that period the average age of Aus-
tralian symphony concert audiences
has been reduced from 50 to 30.
The success of Prof. Heinze in this field
is an example of what can be accom-
plished by the born teacher —for teachers
are born, not made. The born teacher
loves his subject and wishes to reveal to
everybody else its wonders and beauties.
His wish translates itself into intelligent
approach, and the result is the creation
of a host of enthusiasts, some of whom
will have the qualities necessary to carry
on the torch. Very few of the educational
governing bodies with which Thave been
acquainted seem to have mastered the
principle that a school is not essentially
walls, roofs, seats, blackboards and a
syllabus, but a burning enthusiasm for
instruction. '
* * * *
“Gunner”: Always relished by troops
“up north,” Tokyo Rose excelled herself
in the way of unconscious humor during
the preliminary bombardment of the
Philippines. Rose, broadcasting from
Saigon, interrupted a swing band record
to announce that Jap ’planes had
sunk 19 aircraft-carriers. “We con-
tinue the musical programme,” said Rose,
“with a recording of the popular hit ‘With
My Eyes Wide Open I’m Dreaming.’ ”
* * * *
“Hamer”: A par. of mine last May,
referring to Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs
Debating Society, mentioned solicitor
Platt Hepworth as one of the few
surviving members. Platt Hepworth
has passed on ; a word to that effect
(for which I am grateful) from Arch-
dale Parkhill (also mentioned) says
“Therefore you and 1 are now the
only surviving members.” We were asso-
ciated in a way before the debating
society started. Archdale and his brother
used to open the innings of the Little
Coogee Cricket Club —Clovelly was then
Little Coogee, and I, then a kid on the
edge of his teens, was sometimes given
a place n the tail, with a fielding
position a* long-stop. I always esteemed
Archdale as a cricketer. In later years he
gave some real style to Parliamentary
cricket matches. The brightest cricket
I have seen in any such match was sup-
plied by a surprise packet—William
Morris Hughes. He was included as a
joke, and was an old man at the time,
but the way he socked ’em about for a
sparkling 25 (1 think it was 25) was a treat.
“S.T.S.”: It is only a trifle, perhaps,
but I was sorry to read (B. 18/10/’44)
of “Ayer’s Rock” in Centralia. Henry
Ayers was a respected politician in S.A.
and citizen of Adelaide about 60 years
back, and the great rock landmark was
named as a compliment to him. Possibly
the clumsiness of “Ayers’s Rock” is re-
sponsible for the corruption.
“Come on, COME on—how do you expect to grow up a big , strong man
like daddy if you don't eat?"
“Uramao”: Discovering that a fiver
and three singles were missing from his
pocket, a Wanganui (M.L.) man dashed
to a cleaner’s, where he had deposited a
suit of clothes, thinking he might hqve
left the money in a pocket. The cleaner
said the suit had been placed in the
cylinder which sucked out fluff and blew
it up the chimney. All the pockets were
empty; and that, it seemed, was that.
But some weeks later, when the roof of
a shed adjacent to the chimney was being
cleaned, a pound note was discovered.
Further search brought to light two single
pound notes and a fiver. The claimant
was able to establish ownership through
a habit of folding his notes in an unusual
way and keeping them loose in his
pockets.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”; An argument as to
whether liquor is or is not a poison, which
has been dragging on for months in Mel-
bourne, might, I think, be referred with
some advantage to the shade of Captain
Cook. The amount of drinking that went
on aboard the Endeavor was colossal,
and makes modern efforts look sissy. Ac-
cording to the diaries of officers and men
it was the commonest thing for them to
go to bed dead drunk, and brawls were
so frequent that their narration becomes
monotonous. Would Cook suggest that
he would have got on better if he had
had a crew of teetotallers or members of
the Local Option League to work his
vessel instead of the tough crowd he did
have? On the contrary, he remarks on
the magnificent fortitude, endurance and
skill displayed by all and sundry in such
crises as when the ship ran on a reef in
North Queensland.
“Glassy”: Those weeping willows
which fringe the Molonglo at Canberra
have a history. In 1823 a ship bound for
Australia called at St. Helena, and one
of the passengers cut several slips from
the willow tree that overshadows Napo-
leon’s grave. A few years later Elijah E.
Bainbridge brought four of those slips to
what is now A.C.T., but only two lived,
one at Duntroon and the other on the
Glebe Farm, Canberra. In 1845 Bain-
bridge took a farm on the river bank
near Acton. There, on both sides of the
river, he planted slips from the trees
which had flourished. The weeping
willows that fringe the Avon in Christ-
church, M.L., are also said to have grown
from slips taken from the tree over
Napoleon’s grave, and so are others on
the banks of the Vasse, South Westralia.
~ * J}; »
“X.S.”: For the first time in its history
Victoria has a child, a boy of nine, await-
ing trial for murder. The victim was an-
other boy aged B£, At the inquest it was
stated that a “penny dreadful” was found
in the room where the younger boy was
shot, depicting on the front pages a
bandit pressing a tommy-gun against the
chest of another man. According to the
unfortunate older boy’s statement, he and
his playmate almost exactly reproduced
the situation in the picture.
* * * «
“Ad Rem”: The yarn about the
slender cash resources of Boulia’s bank
(B. 11/10/’44) calls to mind an experi-
ence of the early days in North Wes-
tralia. The business firms of the town-
ships up there, currency being scarce,
issued coupons which were accepted as
legal tender. A traveller passing through
tried to buy a few as curios, and olfered
to pay a sovereign for coupons of equiva-
lent value. The old chap to whom the
offer wag made had never seen a
sovereign and was suspicious. The
traveller attempted to play on his patriot-
ism by showing him the head of the King.
The local turned the coin over and over
doubtfully, then said: “S’pose that’s the
King orright, but who’s the naked bloke
on die other side rasslin’ the goanna?”
* * * *
“Thistlebrook”: Few of Melbourne’s
parklands were originally reserved as such.
The Botanic Gardens, Albert Park and
Caulfield racecourse were once swamps,
and to an extent still are, although the
worst parts have been transformed into
“lakes.” Kooyong tennis courts and the
numerous other sports grounds along
Kooyongkoot Creek wouldn’t be there if
the land had been usable for building
purposes. Fitzroy Gardens, one of the
city’s proudest possessions, was sub-
divided into building allotments in 1847
by Hoddle, the Surveyor-General; but
buyers wouldn’t bite because of the
swampy creek, and the land was reserved as
a public park in 1873. Yarra Park and the
land surrounding the M.C.G. are part of
an area reserved by Superintendent La
Trobe as a paddock for police horses.
An area of 50 acres on Batman’s Hill
was set aside in 1847 for a botanic
gardens, but apart from this no reason-
ably-sized area of land was reserved as a
park in Melbourne’s first surveys.
* t * * ♦
“Eureka”: If whaling is revived at Two-
fold Bay (N.S.W.) the residents may yet
see a light in the lighthouse that has been
dark ever since it was erected. Known as
“Boyd’s tower,” it was built nearly 100
years ago. It is a four-sided structure
of Pyrmont sandstone, 75ft, high. Ben
Boyd intended to light it when his ships
were expected in port, but the navigation
authorities considered such a light would
be dangerous to general navigation, so
Boyd was refused permission to illumi-
nate his tower.
* * * •
“Lucretia”: “Sakabona’s” statement
(B. 1/11/ ’44) that a knowledge of Taal
was acquired from reading bi-lingual
columns of the Bloemfontein “Friend”
reminds me of a cartoon published
by the same paper some years
later. Afrikaans had by then become
more or less standardised; and the pub-
lication of all Governmental matter in
the two languages had become compul-
sory. The cartoon depicted two be-
whiskered Boers regarding the signboard
on a railway station duly labelled in the
two languages, the Afrikaans equivalent
for platform having been fixed as
“perron.” Farmer No. 1 asks his mate
(in Taal) the meaning of the word
“perron.” The reply to which (in Eng-
lish) was “Dunno —I expect it’s the Eng-
lish for platform.”
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Shakspeare may not have
made a bloomer when he gave Bohemia
a sea coast (B. 1/11/ ’44). In the tenth
century King Ottokar II expanded
Bohemia into an empire which stretched
from Silesia to the Adriatic. Which is not
to say that the Bard bothered much about
details of that sort, or that they are of
any importance in the realm of dramatic
poetry.
♦ * * *
“Craiser”: A Victorian country medico
now knows what surgeons must have felt
beforp Simpson introduced choloroform.
Hauled out of bed in the middle of the
night, the doctor found a bullock-driver
in his surgery with three of his fingers
nearly severed. After surveying the gory
mess the medico remarked that he would
have to use an anaesthetic. “That’s all
right, doc.. I’ve brought some with me,”
said the teamster, producing two bottles
of whisky. Ail the doctor’s expostula-
tions failed to shake his patient’s devo-
tion to the notion that whisky deadens
pain better than anything; so he waded in.
The bullocky, with as much whisky inside
as he could hold, never batted an eyelid,
and when it was all over told the doctor
he had felt absolutely nothing.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The rumpus over a Norman
Lindsay nude in the N.S.W. National' Art
Gallery’s travelling exhibition reminds
me of the time I took my grandchildren
to the gallery. We did not go far.
“Grandfather, those pictures are rude\"
my four-year-old granddaughter said,
indicating a representation of satyrs
and nymphs. She was so plainly scanda-
lised that I retreated with the little
Philistine, to her great relief.
* sH * ♦
“P.McM.”: Shoe-shine boys at Syd-
ney’s American Centre have been installed
in premises befitting their income. An
alcove, fitted as a lounge, has been
allotted to them, and the design of a
livery is receiving consideration.
* * * *
“Derwent” on a picturesque martinet:
“Mad” Tom Davey, Lieutenant-Governor of
Van Diemen's Land from 1813 to 1817, was a
colorful character —a Marine officer who had
fought at Trafalgar and who was utterly un-
fettered by convention. He walked ashore in
his shirt-sleeves on his arrival in the colony,
to the great scandal of officialdom, calling at
the first house he came to for a drink, which
ruffled his understrappers still further. Seem-
ing to regard the province as some sort of
a camp, he administered rough justice during
his working hours and boisterously relaxed when
off duty. Bushranging was his principal
trouble and eventually led to his resignation.
The convicts in the island were “old hands”
retransported from the mainland, and when
they escaped from the working gangs and took
to outlawry they became perhaps the most
brutal banditti that have ever existed. Their
vile ruffianism made them an insupportable
terror to settlers, and many farms in the dis-
tricts they most infested were abandoned.
Davey, in despair, put the whole island under
martial law. Macquarie, as Governor-in-Chief,
cancelled the proclamation, whereupon the
harassed Lieut.-Governor gave up his job. His
successor, Colonel Sorrell, had better luck in
keeping the bushrangers within bounds.
TEACHERS AND POLITICS.
“The N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation is being hotly
attacked for trying to make - its members political
party propagandists.”
An admirable task beyond dispute
“To train the young idea how to shoot”;
Delightful, too, the poet dared opine
To whom we owe that often-quoted line.
Still there are subjects, most will freely own,
The gentle dominie should leave alone:
Contentious topics never meant to come
Within the scope of his curriculum.
From the Three R’s he’ll travel, an he please,
To mathematical intricacies.
No bounds exist to what he may impart
Into his charges touching science, art.
And ’ologies and 'onomies galore
And tongues, including some employed no
more.
But decency forbids that he should mix
His pedagoguery with politics.
Though he may be, like many a worthy man,
A dour, uncompromising partisan,
He isn’t in his calling to, diffuse
Through tender minds his individual views.
To boost his politics, whale’er they be,
Is but abusing his authority,
And being guilty of the gross offence
That the Law labels “undue influence.”
Along the paths of knowledge ’tis but meet
The dominie should shepherd youthful feet,
But adolescence no instruction needs
In party platforms, shibboleths and creeds.
The field wherein illusions Pickwick viewed
“No inconsiderable magnitude”
May well be left untrodden until youth
Grows shy of taking all it’s told for truth.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; Old Ben Toomey, moun-
tain farmer, bought a 300-acre farm
across the valley. To get to it from his
own place by road meant a seven-mile
journey through the hills ; Ben, who never
wasted anything if he could help it,
found an old track and realised that he
could get across in about three miles.
So one morning Ben and his hand began
loading up the two-horse wagon with
farm gear, packed lunches and set off on
the short route. There was a pretty stiff
and winding climb over the last mile,
and the old track led them to a gate in
the back fence of the new property. But
that gate was bound with wire and plough
chains, a set of double-harrows had been
upended and laced into it and several
sheets of corrugated iron were bound to
it. Ben decided to lunch first and go for
that gate afterwards. Three hours later,
after both he and his man had shed reams
of skin from barked knuckles, had cursed
and grunted and sweated themselves into
a fury, most of the conglomeration was
still there. Ben stood back. “Whatinell
are we doin’?” he roared. “Wastin’ time
on the flamin’ thing. I don’t intend to
use it again. Back up the wagon,
George.” They backed the wagon in,
hooked on to that gate and pulled it and
one of the strainers out holus bolus. Then
a whiskered individual appeared and
howled for the police. It was his gate.
Ben’s new farm was a half-mile further
on.
* * * *
“Stanus”: In the Northern Territory
black-and-white geese in hundreds can
be seen perched in the tips of the paper-
barks surrounding the swamps. Despite
their size and ponderous flight these birds
have not the slightest difficulty either in
alighting on the tree-tops or remaining
there in apparent comfort.
# * * *
“C.E.”: As soon as the sale was over
Dad hitched the pair and drove round
to the pub, where he was to pick up
Simpkins. “Must be inside, Ma,” he re-
marked, looking impatiently towards the
bar. He whistled, waited a couple of
minutes, then began to fidget. “Gripes,
he’s got a neck,” he grumbled resentfully.
“Here; hold the reins, Ma. Bet I’ll
shift him.” Dad strode into the bar.
“ ’Day, Dad,” he was greeted on all
sides. “How’d the sale go?” “Have a
drink.” “What’s y’r new dog like?” Dad
look round the mob. “Thanks, Ted,” he
grinned. “Make it whisky. Sale? Why,
seen such prices. Take Murphy’s
now.” An hour later Simpkins touched
his arm for the third time, saying “Hey,
Dad, what about goin’ home?” “Yair ;
won’t be a minute,” agreed the old man.
“Here, Larry, fill ’em again, will y’? Gettin’
any rabbits, Mick?” Another half-hour
passed, and again Simpkins interrupted.
“Yair, righto,” Dad nodded once more.
“Just wait till I see Bradley. Won’t be
long.” Eventually the pair straggled out-
side. It was pitch-dark and drizzling rain.
“Here we are, Ma,” called Dad cheer-
fully, striding round to where Ma
struggled miserably With a cold and rest-
less mare. “Takes me to make a bloke
get a move on.”
°** * * ,
“Cism”: It is usually obvious where
“Shortys,” “Blueys,” “Tubbys,” “Cur-
leys,” “Banjos” (not the “Banjo, of
course), “Loftys” and “Dustys” get their
nicknames; but when I heard a bloke
being called “Solly” when he neither had
a Jewish name nor looked Semitic I be-
came curious. On a march in the early
days from Ingleburn to Bathurst (N.S.W.)
our unit had a day’s leave in Katoomba.
Jack and two of his mates picked up with
two girls who set about showing the boys
the sights. At Echo Point, when all five
sat down on a grassy patch for a spell,
Jack sat some distance apart from his
pals and the two girls and gazed out ovei
the clouded Jamieson. “Come and sit
with us,” invited his mates. “Don’t stay
over there.” “I’m all right,’’replied Jack ,
“I like a little solitude sometimes with
Nature.”' After that Jack was called
“Little Solitude,” then “Spl,” and eventu-
ally “Solly.” Today “Solly” shares the
blazing solitude of the Western Desert
with other Australian heroes near El
Alamein.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Sam and I had almost com-
pleted the clearing contract, and he left
me to finish it off while he took a job on a
dairy farm. A week later he was back
with his blankets. “No go?” I asked.
“Couldn’t stick it,” Sam said. “Over
there the cows come first, the pigs second
and the fam’ly third. After the horses, I
reckon the hands an’ the dawgs just about
break even f’r fifth. I didn’t like to take
chances on me priority when 1 heard ol
Hardcashe was puttin’ on a herd of goats
t’ deal with the blackberries.” ,
* * * *
“8.A.”: I camped in the Cape Otway
Ranges (Vic.) on a small peat-impreg-
nated rivulet, which was the color of
“Come, come, Miss Dobbs — don't he difficult!”
strong tea, and, ticed of the menu of salt
junk, spuds and damper, it struck me
that the stream might contain something
edible. I baited a fishing line with small
wood grubs. In less than an hour 1
landed 161 b. of blackfish, several of them
weighing over Hlb. These fish are much
larger than the blackfish found in t e
Murray and its tributaries, the latter
rarely exceeding ilb. in weight. A timber-
getter who had been camped on the main
creek for about two years, and with whom
.1 shared my catch, assured me -that 1 was
the first to discover the existence of suen
fine fish in “that drain.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: As an aid to navigation on a
dark night there is nothing handier or
simpler to manufacture than a “miners
lantern.” Requirements are a shiny fruit-
tin and a candle; two slits in the shape
of a cross are put in the side of the tin
and the points bent inwards to hold the
candle securely when pushed through
from the outside. Held with the candle
upright, the beam is directional and
brighter than an ordinary lantern, and it
won’t blow out easily.
**, * *
“Ned”: “Fm doin’ a bit of incubator-
engineering and odd jobs once on a
chicken-farm,” Lanky Bob told us, when
I noticed that every time me and the
coop-cleaner left our breakfast cutlet only
slightly hacked about the c.c. would soon
come to light with a plump young bird
that had somehow smashed a leg or jinked
its neck. The woman that was boss o’
the roost never said anything, but as she
eyed the next meal I spotted an ugly
gleam in her lamps, and expected her to
start ructions. She didn’t; but next time a
fat hen strangled herself tryin’ to swallow
the cutlet I’d abandoned she accompanies
me to town to collect the liver for the
chooks. I’ve just shovelled the shivery
ruby inter the bag when she goes for the
shophand about the tough chops. He
was one o’ them dungaree d£on»J».
that bloke. ’I know, missus 1 k "° w ’ h “
savs • and then he tells her the boss
is out at the abattoirs right then makin
sure they don’t ring in any more lamb
instead o’ the crossbred wethers the shop
always sold. Next day it was me that
swung the rake that put two young
cockerels in the pot.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: I have seen most
of our alpine country, which is treeless
except for scattered areas of stunted
snow-gum. Our large eucalypts, such as
blue-gum, blackbutt, messmate, moun-
tain ash and peppermint, do not appear
at a greater altitude than 5000 ft. above
sea level. It is difficult to understand
why the big timber has not spread over
the higher areas, seeing that soil and rain-
fall are practically the same as those ot
the adjacent heavily timbered country.
The absence of the larger eucalypts from
our alpine areas is generally attributed to
the effects of altitude. I was inclined
to accept this view until I saw planta-
tions of eucalypts, chiefly blue-gums,
flourishing at various localities on, the
great Andean plateau, at altitudes vary-
ing from 8000 ft. to 12,000 ft; above sea
level. ‘ .
* * * *
. “Old Camp”: Mention having been
made of altruists circulating around vari-
ous landscapes planting acorns and
asparagus, let us recall that when Dave
Lindsay conducted the Elder exploration
parties across Centralia he took with
him ample supplies of melon and other
likely seeds and religiously planted the
same at every oasis or favorable water-
hole that he came to. But 1 have never
heard of any traveller finding that such
vegetables fructified. There are, though,
vast areas in the north of W.A. where the
common jam melon grows in abundance
after even an imitation of wet season.
More one thirst-crazed wanderer has
found succor in dropping on a patch of
those gourds which, braving the blazing
sun for months on end, carry enough juice
to save a man’s life, not to mention the
food value of pulp and seeds.
« * * •
“Bughouse”: Was interested in read-
ing “B.A.K.’s” account of neighbor
Robbo’s bird-scarer, which was ineffec-
tive, since each explosion blew out the
candle (B. 11/10/’44). Hadn’t “8.A.K.,”
his parent or Robbo ever heard of a slow
match, such as the musketeers of old used
for firing their guns and the Navy for
the igniting of cannon fuses? Just
a length of tightly screwed cotton or linen
rag, or eVen paper, well soaked in a solu-
tion of nitre or saltpetre and then dried.
It will burn slowly for hours, and could
easily have been fed into Robbo’s appa-
ratus so as to light each successive
cracker without danger of being blown
out.
* * * * -
“Patrol Leader”: Arriving at Booby
Island, a barren 250-acre rock 30 miles
north-west of Cape York, we all agreed
that Captain Cook, who landed there on
August 23, 1770, could not have given
the place a more appropriate name. The
cave-riddled speck teemed with the biros
which, 17 years after Cook, helped to
save Bligh and his companions from
starvation when journeying from Tahiti
to Timor after being cast adrift by
the mutineers. Unaware that Cook had
discovered and named the island, Bligh
recorded his discovery of the speck and
also named it Booby. Most of our leisure
was spent exploring the gloomy caves
with which the island is riddled, and
where a rich treasure is alleged to have
been hidden by early-day pirates who
plundered Spanish vessels voyaging by
way of Torres Strait during trading
cruises among the East Indies. No hidden
loot was discovered, but a lad picked
up among the rocks in a cave on the
south-eastern comer of the island a gold
coin, worn thin and smooth, about the
size of a penny. No markings were dis-
tinguishable on the coin, which an old-
timer at Thursday Island said was simi-
lar to several other Spanish gold coins
found on Booby. In Post Office Cave
a food depot and post office for seamen
were established in the 1830’s. Food
and water were sent from Sydney every
half-year to the depot, which succoured
many a castaway. The walls of the old
cave are carved with hundreds of names
of old ships, among them H.M.S. Fly,
H.M.S. Bramble and H.M.S. Rattlesnake.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Finding a big iron drum
half-full of wheat had been invaded by
rats, I planted four spring traps, each
fitted with a touch plate so that the
slightest pressure released for a kill. Next
morning I found one rat caught. But
though ten more nights have passed the
wheat drum has been devoid of rodent
patronage, though some cabbages laid
out as test pieces have been eaten. Obvi-
ously word has been passed around that
Brother Joe came to a sticky end in the
depths of that wheat drum and it was
well to avoid it —which means another
point to those who argue that animals
are capable of reasoning.
* * * *
“Dinkum”: Tom and old Westie were
bringing a mob of bailies down from the
back run when darkness overtook them.
The cattle were wild, the night pitch-black
and drizzling, and there still remained
some miles of heavy bush country to be
got through. “No good, Tom,” called
Westie, after a bit. “Can’t see whether
I’ve lorst any or not. They’re all the
time tryin’ t’ break. Have t’ leave ’em
till mornin’.” They rode a couple of
miles to a sheltered camp, but at day-
light were held up by a broken hobble
and a missing nag. “We’ll save time by
cuttin’ straight over the top,” Westie
decided when the nag was recaptured ;
“take a slope each, an’ meet on the far
side ’bout mid-day.” At mid-day neither
had seen any cattle. “Blue must ha
follered you, too,” grumbled Westie,
looking round wearily, “1 ain t seen the
useless mong all mornin’.” Tom shook
his head: “He ain’t been with me.
Growling loud and long, Westie turned
back to look for Blue, searching for
the cattle as he went. They rode
ridges and raked scrub patches, and to-
wards evening hit the gully where they d
left the mob the night before. You bet
old Blue was glad to see them. He d
been holding those mad-headed bailies in
heavy scrub for nearly 24 hours.
“Stanus”; Unlike “Canni” (B.
11/10/’44), I am not looking forward to
post-war pictures of kookaburras on tins
of fish. I hope that manufacturers will
have enough nous to label tins of fish
with pictures of fish, and tins of fruit
with reproductions of the fruit. One
Asian market was lost by labelling tins
of fruit and jams with an ibis. It is
a sacred bird in the country in which
the market was sought, and the inhabi-
tants weren’t going to risk eternal dam-
nation by eating the pet of the gods. They
were scared to such an extent tne>
couldn’t be induced even to open the tins
to see what was inside.
* * *
“Herbie”: The wireless had just
finished telling us about somebody s idea
to give the bush the amenities of life
when Steve spoke up. “I’m on a farm
once,” he said, “and me and the family
enjoyed the amenity o’ good feedm on
account of the missus livin up t her
reputation o’ havin’ stitched all-comers
in the Progress Association s damper,
dumplin’ and gingerbread contest. But
after another o’ these amemties ha
operated f’r a fortnight the old bloke,
me and the kids was hvm so meanly
that we’re openly stewin’ ?^ ed ® tu f
and bandicoots down behind the bam.
A couple of city judys ’ P®
missus inter takin’ on
supervision o’ the circulai _.»
bein’ a woman, she natui
milate the whole box o n
she could think o’ dishir
us. One wet night me ar
was weakly tellin’ the ki
of the symptoms o’ Ban
effects on the human syst .”
a bit shirty when the onl
the missus gives us is a
literary hash. ‘You dc ■
litr’ature, Dad,’ she said
don’t read books.’ That
bloke. ‘No,’ he roared. “
laid an egg, but I’m a flan*
of a pancake than any (
Wyandottes you’ve got '
corn.’ Next mornin’ we
and cocky’s joy f’r break
FOLLOW THE WIND!
When I stepped out from my door today
A wind from the sea was blowing.
And, knowing not whither my feet should stray,
Said I to my mind, “G 9 follow the wind,
Wherever it may be going.”
Agleam were the leaves in the early dew,
Ashine was the cloudless weather,
As naught to stay them, and naught to rue,
Away and away and away they tiew,
My mind and the wind together.
Far over the coastal lands they raced
And the mountains, ridged and gullied,
Now tossing the trees in their headlong haste,
Now speeding on high in the azure sky
That never a cloud-shape sullied.
Still galloping, galloping free of reins
Exultant, and distance
They came anon to the saltbush plains,
With drover and herd and flock and bird
Astir in the golden morning.
On, on they journeyed through realms of light
O’er spaces that westward wended,
Companions twain in a joyous flight,
Till my mind turned back on a homeward track
And its bright wayfaring ended;
When life seems dull as a dead-end street
And you stand at a loss, not knowing
What way, good fellow, to turn your feet.
Then order your mind to follow the wind,
Wherever it may be going.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Bo”: It was after he had been washed
out of his southern-aspect cave by a
cyclone which blew almost horizontal rain
into it for three days that Paddy the
Whistler decided to put up a hut. A
month later he had the four corner posts
up. Six weeks after that he had hacked
out of slabs with his ancient, chipped
adze, his only tool, the floor, which was
raised two feet above ground level. His
walls formed a crazy pattern of flattened-
out treacle tins, broken pieces of fibro
he’d salvaged somewhere in the town-
ship, butter-box lids and a cow’s hide.
Four months after he started the 6ft.-by-
-Bft. kipsey he finished putting the bark
slabs on the roof. That night he dossed
in the hut for the first time. In the early
morning there came a whir of wings,
and a few seconds later Paddy dis-
appeared in a flurry of bark and flat-
tened tins. As he fought his way up he
caught sight of the disappearing form
of the cause of the disaster, shook his
fist and roared; “For, six blanky munce
a man’s seen nothin’ but mickies, crows,
jackos an’ butcher-birds, an’ now the on'y
blasted pelican this side o’ the Dividin’
Range must pick my flamin’ new ’ouse
to lob on!”
♦ * * *
“Salama”; The bush mechanic is cer-
tainly a world-beater for improvisation.
From some remote source Bill had un-
earthed an ancient continental car of
doubtful vintage, for which spare parts
were quite unheard of. He chugged
around in it until a distributor cap broke.
The position looked hopeless, for they
are manufactured by an elaborate pro-
cess from a synthetic resin plastic. But
Bill was not beaten. Using the original
as a pattern, he made up a clay mould,
dried it out and cast a new cap from
melted phonograph records. A lot of
fitting occupied several wet days, but it
worked.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: X enjoyed reading T.
Hungerford’s story “Going Back” (B.
18/10/’44), but if Jack had gone a little
closer when his mates!’ caught that rabbit
I think he would have found that some
other method than smoking finally
evicted the fugitive out of the hollow log.
Smoke will often persuade a ferret that
sit-down strikes don’t pay; but a fright-
ened bunny, in my experience, would
suffocate in its hide-up rather than run
the gauntlet through its tormentors. The
“This morning I'm giving you boys a lecture on bushcraft.”
blocking-up of “all the outlets except
one” recalled an incident in my innocent
(more or less) youth: Not having suffi-
cient nets to cover all the popholes in
the big warren on the hillside, we blocked
the rest with big slabs of ironstone, leav-
ing one hole each to be picketed. Shortly
after the ferret had entered a rumbling
warned me that a bunny was on his way.
I raised my stick, fixed my eye on the
hole, and at the critical moment swung,
The rabbit escaped by a little over a yard,
the pursuing ferret missed death by a
quarter of an inch. After the initial
shock it returned to duty. Then, with
a tattoo like a galloping draught horse, a
rabbit struck head-on a covering stone
weighing eight or nine pounds. As the
dazed bunny rolled with the stone down
the slope three kids dived simultaneously.
The scene fades with three boys rubbing
the bumps where their heads collided,
and watching the hardest-skulled rabbit
in Australia beat a mong to the sanctuary
of the dense thicket of blackthorns on
the hilltop.
* * * * *
“M.U.R.”: It was a still, clear evening
and the Murray waters whispered invit-
ingly as they lapped the golden sandspit.
The three girls, after a careful reconnais-
sance up and down the river, stripped off
and dived in sans costume of any sort.
Presently, in a lull in their frolic, came
the sound of male voices, apparently just
round the bend. The nymphs shot out
of the water and into the blessed sanctu-
ary of a gum§ucker clump, where they
lay and palpitated, anxious eyes watch-
ing. The voices came and faded, came
and faded, and the fugitives remained
hidden. Evening waned to dusk and dusk
to the velvet night. Only then did they
creep forth, recover their garments and
depart. Later judicious inquiry revealed
that the males had been two miles up the
river, and now those girls know how
sound carries over a full-bosomed and
wide river when the sun is down and the
air still.
♦ * * *
“Zake”: Resolve this, you scientists
of the Council. 1 merely state the facts.
One scorching day out from Aberdeen
(N.S.W.) we struck an old-timer by the
roadside. From his billy he produced
water which by all the rules of the game
should have been tepid, but was delight-
fully cool. The secret, he averred, was
that instead of putting the lid on the
usual way, he reversed it and filled it with
water. Why the thusness?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mats”: Shy of women himself,
the big fellow seldom worried about my
attentions to the sex, but when he dis-
covered that my interest in the waitress
at the bush pub temporarily honored by
our presence was likely to hold up our
departure for a fencing job he got to
work on me with allegations that she
was (a) married, ( b) if not, then certainly
engaged; (c) her fiance could fight like a
threshing machine, (d) he’d heard her
father was looking' for me with a gun.
All of which merely drew mocking sneers
from me, because the girl was nice and
I was pretty certain that my alley was
good. Suddenly the lass went cold and
stayed that way, so we pulled out for the
job, myself puzzled but unable to get her
aside for a talk. Out on the job, I was
still puzzled, and said so, and then I
caught a suspicious look in his eye.
“What you bin up to?” I roared. “No-
thin’,” he answered. “She asked me what
religion y’ was an’ I told her, that’s all.”
“Gripes,” I said, “she didn’t seem one o’
the church-goin' sort.” Months later and
300 miles away we were talking about it
and something hit me. “Hey, what reli-
gion did y’ tell her I was?” 1 demanded.
“Mormon,” he answered. “She’d never
heard of it, an’ I told her t’ look it up
in a dictionary. She went 15 miles on
horseback t’ borrow one. By cripes, she
meant business, all right; but she must’ve
got a shock when she found them Mor-
mens don’t eat meat.”
.** * ■ *
“Betcha” : Started for the saleyards
recently with a bunch of sluggish bul-
locks, and a mong as fat and lazy as the
beasts. Having lent my whip to the mob
in front, I urged my own animals along
by suddenly flapping my oiler and yelling
loudly. It helped, and we’d progressed
several miles when I noticed one of the
leaders start hurriedly and career to the
opposite side of the road. The trouble, 1
found, was a plover, and it proved a most
persistent member of the family. As each
beast neared the spot the bird rose and
scared it to a safe distance. When my
turn came it tried the same tactics, and
quite a lot of boot-heel encouragement
was needed to prevent my nag failing for
“Great day, Dig.! How about a little peep at the ole leave pass ?”
the trick. I investigated. The plover was
standing with wings spread protectingly
over the back of another of its species
crouched on the ground, and the plan of
attack was to rise with startling sudden-
ness, flap its wings indignantly and
scream threats. As I closed in the pair
turned on a whole battery of abomin-
able language and retired, giving me an
opportunity to note the four eggs that
were the cause of all the fuss. Clever
strategy, yes; but what gets me is how
a blinkin plover came to think of that.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had done
odd jobs satisfactorily for young Rob-
son’s missus, and when he was detained
in town recently the lady decided she d
treat him to a few real dingdong meals,
and invited him over. Stolidly the old
bloke put himself outside devilled kid-
neys, splashed his way through soups,
rounded in a few fancy pies and
paddled deep into cream ices. Two
days later he connected with his new
mob, politely told the lady he was
“ ’bliged” to her kindness and drifted off.
It was the night he bedded the cattle on
Fainting Range that I caught him up.
His nag nibbled*round in the outer fringe
of firelight, his mong wagged a greeting,
and Seventyfiver sprawled comfortably by
the billy, a dry-looking salt shank in one
fist and a lump of half-cooked damper
in the other. “Well, yes,” he answered
me presently, “town’s right enough f’r
them that’s used to it.” He waved in-
vitingly to the billy, and broke me off a
bunk of damper. “An’ the folks ain’t
bad, but”—he heaved a hearty sigh—
“but, cripes, it’s good t’ git back to a bit
o’ decent tucker again.”
* * * *
“Patrol Leader” While erecting a tern-
porary shelter on Warrior Island (Torres
Strait) we unearthed an ancient skull
which our M.O. declared to be that of
a middle-aged Papuan male, probably a
member of the colony established on
Warrior (then known as Tute) by the
famous chief Kebisu, in the 1780’s. The
colony comprised picked men, all daring
fighters and expert seamen, from the Fiy
River (Papua); they manned a fleet of
28 huge canoes and made an easy living
by raiding native trading vessels. Their
60ft.-long outrigger canoes, each hoi-
lowed from a single log, with planked gun-
wales sewn and pegged on to heighten
the freeboard, were fitted with big mat
sails, and each carrie'd a crew of 40 or so
warriors, armed with Bft. bows capable
of shooting 4ft. arrows a quarter of a
mile, stone-headed clubs that would fell
a bullock and razor-sharp bamboo knives,
The fleet’s most daring attack took place
op September 11, 1791. H.M.S. Provi-
dence and H.M.S. Assistant, under com-
mand of Captain Bligh, were feeling their
way cautiously through the reefs from
the eastward when the fleet of canoes
came flying towards them in ordered
fashion of attack, launching clouds
of arrows as they came within range.
Musketry fire failed to check the war-
riors ; several sailors were wounded by
arrows, and when Kebisu massed his
canoes to windward intent on boarding.
Bligh brought a cannon into action. The
first and only shot blew a canoe to pieces
and the natives retreated. As a result of
that encounter Bligh named the speck
Warrior. With the coming of the pearlers
Kebisu’s colony disbanded ; the old chief
went to live on Yam, where he died at
100 or so. His favorite weapon, an im-
mense spiked club, is treasured by his
descendants on Yam. The skull was the
only relic of the colony we found on the
now uninhabited island,
*** * *
“Aratta”: “A mate an’ meself on a
dam-sinkin’ job one time,” said Bogan
Bob, “wus camped a coupler hundred
yards from a farmhouse where an ole
German an’ his missus lived. The couple
B a( j frequent rows, which gen’rally
ended in ole Karl threatenin’ t’ drown
himself in the underground tank, or shoot
himself, or cut his throat. Mrs.
j^ ar j would rush, after him an’ pull him
f rom fa e edge of the tank or struggle fer
possession of the lethal weppings, as the
pqj ce ca q ’ em Then peace would reign
t jp they had their next bust-up. One
Sunday mornin’ we wus woke up be
loud an ; angry voices at the house. Karl
wus standin’ on a box under a tree, one
end of a rope tied to a branch an’ the
other end ’round his. neck, an’ shoutin’.
Mrs. Karl appeared, an’ with a shriek
rushed t’ward him, failin’ over a snoozin’
dog. The dog bumped inter the box
Karl wus standin’ on an’ knocked
it from under his feet, an’ he wus
left swingin’ an’ clutchin’ at the rope
above his head t’ keep himself from
chokin’. Mrs, Karl picked herself up,
rushed inside an’ came out with a carvin’
knife an’ cut the rope. Ole Karl picked
himself up, grabs a stick and flew after
the yelpin’ tyke, yellin’ ‘Y’ clumsy blank,
I break y’r back, so I vill. Y’ vos nearly
make me go andt kill mineself! ’ ”
* * * *
“J.W.R.”: Like “Law Jik” (B.
25/10/’44) I’m agin the loose use of the
Irish brogue, but I think he overlooks the
fact that in Ireland there are four distinct
brogues. In Dublin city, Cork (town and
county), the Midlands, as far west as
Galway, and Ulster people speak with
different accents. The vowel “i,” for
instance, which “Law JTik” insists is
never pronounced oi, is, in fact, so
spoken—as though with closed nasal
passages—by a section of the Dublin
proletariat. In proof whereof let me
summon from the Hibernian a
dialogue every student of the Irish
brogues will recognise as true to Dublin
loife. The scene is a carriage of a train
bound from Dublin to the west,, and the
actors are a young Irish mother, an
adenoidal little son with a bad and
an elderly gentleman behind his “Irish
Times.” A silence which otherwise would
have lasted to Mullingar is suddenly
broken by the catarrhal child: “Ba, ba.
there’s a floy on the bald bad’s head.”
Ensued agonised and angry whispering
by the flustered mother. Five minutes
later: “Ba, ba, one floy, two floys, three
floys, ba, there’s foive floys on the bald
bad’s head!”
COOL CHANGE.
Six days without a change the sun has set
Blood-hot and solid in a smouldering haze
Of smoke and desert dust; and the scorched
Turn as they might, still bore that fixed,
fierce gaze.
But today its bleached ghost peers from flying
mists
And the cold south-easter rushes salty strong
Over the shining roofs and shining streets.
Roaring above the storm-filled gutters song.
And black on that watery radiance, straight and
high, ... ,
A palm-tree thrusts, with it's torn leaves
streaming free, . •
Lashed but exultant, the mast of a ship that
drives
Clean from a fever-port to the open sea.
N.S.W.
Nan McDonald.


The World follows Britain's lead
wm
WMWm
WM.
■■■ •..*■
■ ■■
■A
s
t&y,
m
'
w
-; ri I
aes?*
irtS(S
WARFARE
MECHANISED
IN the last world war. Britain evolved the Tank out-’
standing military weapon of the period and forerunner
of mechanised warfare. Despite their ingenuity in forging
new weapons for battle, the British peoples have con-
tributed more to peace than to war Prominent amongst
the benefits Britain has bestowed upon the world is the
development, by Courtaulds. of rayon and the lovely
fabrics made from it.
Courtaulds foresaw the potentialities of rayon and
brought it to perfection. Within a generation they had
established vast new industries in Britain, the United
States, Canada and elsewhere. Probably no siflgle
achievement has secured a more widespread improvement
in standards of living everywhere.
The war has restricted the amount of Courtaulds rayons
at present available Research and development con-
tinue, assiduously, and still lovelier rayon fabrics will
reappear when victory ts won. Courtaulds will demon-
strate once again that a British firm can lead the world
with new products and ideas destined to benefit all mankind.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics distributed
overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd
Major-General
SIR ERNEST
SWINTON,
K.8.E.,C.8.,D.5.0..R.E.
The originator of The
Tank, raised and
commanded the
H.S.M.G.C.in 1916 The
lank was first used as a
new weapon in the battle
of the Somme in 1915,
criir-
’dJ&SSEsa
BSst ' i *^sß£mm
<t*%
m&as&V* —~ ;.vc v «&»;
<f Sfflffl
-■■' IP**
a •*==
r ‘1
m :
Tfce Vickers-bupermarme spttfire (Rolls-Royce Merlin engine) shared honours with
the Hawker Hu ricane in ** clawing down ” the enemy in the Batt.eof Britain. La’*?
versions, armed with cannon, exceed 400 m.p.h. and can climb to air combat eight
mhes above the earth
FASTER-FASTER-FASTER
After five years of war British fighters are still masters of
the air wherever they operate.
The supremacy of Royal Air Force Squadrons first in defence
over Britain ; then over the fringes of enemy territory ; and
to-day in all-out offensive in every theatre of war is a direct
result of the foresight and continuous research of the British
aircraft industry during a long period of years.
Success in the International Schneider Trophy contests,
which Great Britain won outright in 1931 after three successive
wins, pointed the way to development of the slim-lined fighters
which won the sterner contest over the garden of England
in 1940.
Demonstrating endurance with speed, a British entrant
in 1934 beat all comers in the England-Austraha race flying
nearly half-way round the world in less than three days. Direct
descendants of that twin-engined monoplane range hostile
countries at will, their far superior speed providing defence
against the best the enemy can put into the air.
The war proceeds ; research and development go on. The
programme which British aircraft and engine designers set
themselves years ago is unfolded day by day in official an-
nouncements.
An equally ambitious programme, pursued with similar
determination, will provide for the needs of peace.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Petals Last Days in Vichy.
(From a report by the US. United Press war
correspondent in France.)
Aged Marshal Henri Philippe Petain
wanted to surrender to an agent of Gen.
Charles de Gaulle on August 21, just be-
fore the fall of Paris. He had a violent
quarrel with Adolf Hitler’s agent - and
called him a liar. But at the last moment
he gave in to a German threat to shoot
100 Frenchmen, and was carted off to
•Germany—a prisoner.
The regional commissioner of Gen. De
Gaulle, Henry Ingrand, a former Paris
Maquis in*e Massif cZtXTZ £
a bllf ye a rs .njd ™ the story o£ Mar-
a^ a srige out of
drive °oT a pam%rhaVpLin 8 opened
negotiations with Dr. Ingrand with the
view of surrendering himself to the
French Patriots.
“If Petain had not been made a
prisoner by the Germans on August 20
I am sure he would have surrendered to
me the next day,” Dr. Ingrand told me.
“I was still with the Maquis near Mont-
Dore when Swiss Minister Walter Stucks
came to me with Petain’s proposals.
“I learned that on the night of August
19 German Ambassador Dr. Cecil von
Renthe-Finck called on Petain and in-
sisted that he leave for an unnamed city
in the east, where he said Pierre Laval
wanted him to form a new French
Government
“Petain had asked Stucks and me to be
present to witness the pressure he was
under.
“At that moment an emissary whom
Petain had sent to contact Laval the day
before returned with a letter from Laval
stating he had constituted himself a
prisoner of the Germans after refusing
to form a Government anywhere.
“Petain called Renthe-Finck a liar, and
refused to leave Vichy.
“About 6 a.m. the next day S.S. troops
forced the door of Petain’s hotel and de-
manded to see the marshal. T#ld he was
asleep and coul I see no one,. the troops
broke into Petain’s room and found him
awake and fully dressed. He refused to
leave.
“Renthe-Finck* was called back, and
hef intimated violent reprisals.
finally gave in.”
From other sources I heard that the
Germans threatened to shoot 100 hostages
and bomb Vichy if Petain did not leave
with them.
Towards a Sane Peace
(As visualised by the “Saturday Evening Post")
It is unfortunate that so much emphasis
is placed on the details of policing the
world after the war and so little on work-
ing out political and economic arrange-
ments which would make less frequent
the temptation to run out in the street
with a gun.
It is, of course, altogether imperative
that the nations arrive at some sort of
arrangement respecting the use of force
when peace is threatened by a nation
which refuses to use peaceful means of
settling its disputes. But order on the
international scene will last longer if the
necessary policing is accompanied by a
disposition to extend the privileges of
the Atlantic Charter to all nations.
One current propaganda item centres
about the notion that the principal mis-
take after the last war was a failure to
implement the League of Nations and the
Treaty of Versailles by force. Actually
the real error of 1919 was the failure
to establish workable economic condi-
tions in Europe. Lord Runciman said
once that the Paris peace conference de-
stroyed the Austro-Hungarian Empire,
leaving to Europe the problem of how
to put it together again. The result of
failure to put Europe together was a
hotch-potch of politically independent
nations cut off from their markets and
their raw materials by trade barriers, and
condemned inevitably to become the satel-
lites of strong nations in search of allies.
Another piece of propaganda which
rivets our eyes on the police force rather
than on the community the police should
be designed to protect is the fiction that
Germany under Hitler armed in seciet
when other innocent nations were unable
to do anything to prevent it. The fact
is, as Dorothy Thompson has ably
pointed out, that Hitler rearmed Ger-
many openly and boastfully, and with
considerable co-operation from his neig *
bors. Nobody attempted to prevent er-
many from rearming because it was
change *“ 10 “
That change of attitude by Germany’s
enemies, rather than theories involving
the incurably aggressive nature of the
German people from the days of Tacitus
to Vansittart, should concern people who
are again interested in an organisation
to preserve peace. Necessary restraint of
aggressors must remain on the agenda,
but the real job of the peace-makers is
to liberate the productive forces of the
ft
&h ha mv£g S 3 tSLS£S
ducers and scientists must suffer because
of the political immaturity which deliv-
ered them to Hitler. Nevertheless, the
long-term need is for a stable inter-
national society—with Germany included,
As Sir Alexander Cadogan, British repre-
sentative at Dumbarton Oaks, put it, “No
world system can endure unless it permits
of growth and tends to promote the well-
being of humanity as a whole.”
We may set up some sort of inter-
national police force, but unless we also
“establish justice” our last estate will be
worse than our first. No police force
will amount to shucks if the people of
the world decide that the international
community isn’t worth defending. In
such circumstances, a danger far greater
than the revival of crushed Germany and
Japan would be a new conflict among the
heavily-armed protectors of a peace that
none believed in. .
Germans Outgeneralled.
( Condensed from “United States News.”)
The stor y G f Germany’s defeat
on w estern Front now can be told,
trut h j s that Hitler blundered. He
m j s j uc jg e< j the quality of Allied leader-
He did not credit Allied leaders
w ith the imagination to conceive, or the
strate gj c knowledge to plan, or the organ-
to out a gra „d-scale
offensive in Western Europe. He ntislook
misTudglm Sre rfU. foes
gave the Allies an opening for a senes
of deceptions.
The Germans were hoodwinked as to
the Allies’ landing place. They were
misled into believing that success in in-
yasion would depend on the quick cap-
jure 0 f a p ort Allied publicity helped
to fixed that m i sap prehension in the Ger-
man mind Publication was allowed of
numbers of trucks
itiJT H p ow -as
“I
“oi7acm.L7 p
The misconception that Allied invasion
would strike first at a great port became
basic with the Germans. They founded
their defence system on the assumption
that if Western Europe s big ports were
made impregnable to sea-borne attacK
invasion would fail. Therefore, they con-
centrated defences within 15 miles oi
the big harbors. Men, guns, pillboxes
were massed there. Elsewhere thin
defence lines were manned by impressed
toreigners.
Suddenly, on June 6, the Allies landed,
not at any port, but on the open beaches
of Normandy. Anglo-American sea and
air power, which earlier had defeated
Germany’s attempt to cut off supplies to
England, now defeated Germany a §
by opening a supply line to a beachhead
in Europe. Using great fleets of landing
craft, amphibious tanks and specially-
built beach equipment, the Allies poured


WE CARRY OR-'
THANKS TO THE PLANTERS OF CEYLON,
INDIA AND NEW GUINEA AND THE INDUS-
TRIAL CHEMISTS OF U.S.A.
The Japanese still hold about 90% of the world’s rubber-
bearing areas.
But the rubber planters of Ceylon, India and Netv Guinea have
responded nobly , increasing production of crude rubber note to
be used with synthetic that magnificent achievement of a
number of U.S. industries.
Australia is getting her share of this crude rubber
to use with the synthetic which will be used here, and
soon OLYMPIC and other tyres made in Australia will
contain a percentage of synthetic.
Olympic tyres
Production ot
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
) FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA |
Buy
5/-
National
Savings
Stamps
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
INSULATED
CABLES
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BACK THE BOYS —Buy War Savings Certificates.
1 ♦ v kViM
■\*'<> 4 4 t 4 4
; x^:Kv
MigSls
ii
♦ ♦ M
' ♦ ♦
>l\\
mm
mm
* - ■
VV* t J
v* * *V
•y.’xv
HI
v ♦ s«H1;:
'♦« *A
VA + A*
\ t ■♦• •+
v.**v
/
* ♦ -
4 4
*■ >
*4*
V/.
♦•V’ ♦ + * *
■♦*** ♦ ♦ » *
♦'«♦♦ V * * ''
* * 4 4 -4 4,4 S
♦ ♦ * •*• 4 4 • 4
' >
*4#
♦ :*
'♦ ♦ # 4 % 4S*;.,
S / j* * * * >
AV *' *v.
fe'gS#
AV A
* «
I
Agents; M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY.
W.S. 168
men and supplies over the beaches. In-
stead of checking the invasion, the for-
midable German forces massed around
the port of Cherbourg were attacked from
the rear.
The Germans were kept in a stew of
doubt as to whether the Normandy in-
vasion was the real thing or, instead,
merely a diversion. Allied naval activity
encouraged them to expect a big landing
on the coast of northern France, Bel-
gium or the Netherlands.
So the Germans were fooled into hold-
ing back the bulk of their defence forces
to meet the threat farther north that
never materialised. Nazi troops were
moved into action in Normandy only
piecemeal. A crushing German counter-
offensive never came. The stage now
was set to put over another hoax on the
Germans.
The Germans were deluded as to the
numerical strength that would be needed
to defeat the Allies. They continued to
discount Allied ability to bring in men,
pending the opening for heavy traffic of
the Cherbourg port. Complete Allied
air superiority deprived the Germans of
aerial eyes to see how big were the forces
the Allies were building up against them.
They under-estimated Allied numerical
strength in Normandy by fully 40 per
cent. The Nazis had no adequate stra-
tegic reserves in interior France or Ger-
many to call upon in a great emergency.
The Allies prepared to precipitate such
an emergency by building up forces far
more overwhelming than the Germans
suspected. Then came the final decep-
tion.
Right up to the moment of springing
the American blitz in late July the Ger-
mans seemingly had no complete grasp
of the unprecedented mobility of the
Allied war machine that was set to strike
them. The Germans’ own forces, being
tied to stationary defence of ports, were
relatively not highly mobile. The Ger-
mans relied on Allied inability to solve
vast technical problems of supply on
natural obstacles, on such things as;
(1) Hedgerows to slow troops and
tanks. But American ingenuity had in-
vented the tank-dozer to open holes
in those hedgerows. (2) Rubble in
ruined towns to make roads im-
passable and to snarl traffic. But
U.S. engineers built eight-lane high-
ways to by-pass such towns and to
keep supply trucks on the move. (3)
Gasoline shortages to slow Allied tanks
and ’planes. But U.S. engineers, ready
with pipes having special joints that could
be put together quickly, laid gasoline
pipe lines toward the front at a rate of
70 miles a day. (4) Shortages of trucks.
But once, when the Americans tempor-
arily were short, the British lent them
1000 lorries. (5) Blasted bridges. But
the British devised, and the Americans
turned out, a prefabricated bridge that
could be thrown across a stream in a
hurry.
The Allies, although their troops at
times did seriously outrun supplies, in
the main solved the problem of supply-
ing troops on the move. The Allied war
machine proved itself far superior to
the Germans in mobility. Allied units
covered as much as 100 miles in one day.
The Germans were surprised and were
smashed.
Small Powers in the League.
(Condensed from a report by the N.Y. “Times”
Washington correspondent.)
The United States, Britain and Soviet
Russia have all emphasised that the
authority of the various countries in the
new League must be in proportion to their
ability to prevent or repel aggression, but
the conversations at Dumbarton Oaks
proved that the three delegations do not
define the responsibilities of the smaller
Powers in precisely the same way.
The Russian delegation appears to have
taken the .view that the effectiveness of
the proposed League will be impaired by
giving much authority to the smaller
Powers, whereas the American and British
delegations argued that the effectiveness
of the League would be greatly impaired
if the rights and the susceptibilities of
the smaller Powers were ignored.
All three delegations accepted the prin-
ciple that all countries, regardless of size
or power, are equal in their right to jus-
tice. At the same time, all three delega-
tions rejected the Wilsonian conception
that in the new League there should be
“equality of functions” for all States and
that the “principle of unanimity” must
prevail.
But differences arose over how much
authority should be given to the States
other than the big four; the United
States, Britain, Soviet Russia and China,
and particularly over the functions of the
“middle States,” Brazil, the Netherlands,
and some of the British Dominions,
whose contributions in preventing aggres-
sion are generally recognised as being far
greater than the capacities of many of the
much smaller States.
The Russians proposed a less important
role in the Executive Council for the
smaller Powers than either the United
States or Britain was prepared to give
them. Under the American plan, which
the British are understood to have sup-
ported throughout the discussions, not
only each of the four permanent mem-
bers would have a veto over any proposed
action, but the smaller Powers, acting in
unison, could impose a veto. It is under-
stood that the Soviet delegation did not
want to give the smaller Powers a veto
over any plan approved by all members
of the Big Four.
It was pointed out to the Soviet dele-
gation that it was very unlikely the
smaller Powers would wish to combine to
stop action against a potential aggressor
if all four of the big Powers approved of
it. Moreover, the American and British
delegations are understood to have argued
that they could not very well demand the
right of veto for each permanent mem-
ber of the Council and at the same time
refuse to grant a single veto to all the
rest of the members of the Council.
Reparations Fallacies.
(Condensed from a New York “Times”
editorial.)
There is widespread opinion that we
should not call upon Germany for re-
parations after the war. It is feafbd (1)
that reparations would hurt the indus-
tries of the nations to \yhich they were
being paid, and (2) that the payment of
reparations would “strengthen” industry
in Germany, either by itself causing in-
dustry there to expand or by forcing us
In this war there are likely to be
two armistice days, one when the
last German army surrenders and
one when the Japanese lay down
their arms. There are two ways
to celebrate the first of these
occasions, which will be bought,
as the second one will be, by
wounds, death and sorrow. One
way is to riot in the streets, throw-
ing confetti, breaking windows and
getting drunk. The other way is to
observe a few minutes of silence,
to attend meetings in the churches,
to express with dignity and sobriety
the relief we will feel because one
costly phase of the great war is
over. There will be no call for a
childish and barbaric joy. Too
many will have fallen. Too many
will still be in danger. The kind of
celebration we or our fathers had
in November, 1918, would be an
affront to those who are in deep'
grief and those in anxiety for their
loved ones. — N.Y. “Times.”
to make German industry strong in order
that it might pay the reparations.
These fears rest on fallacies. It does
not make an individual richer or stronger
to be forced to pay a heavy debt or
tribute. If it did, one way to enrich,
strengthen and encourage our own
industry would be to increase instead of
reduce the present drastic taxes on both
personal incomes and corporations.
The problem is somewhat simplified
in the case of Russia, where plans exist
to put German labor battalions to work
on Russian reconstruction. Questions
may be raised concerning the wisdom of
such plans, but at least no one supposes
that the effect of them would be to make
Germany industrially richer or stronger.
Why, then, should it make Germany
richer or stronger if the German labor
is permitted to remain within Germany
but is forced to turn over part of its pro-
duct to other countries as reparations?
At this point it is often replied that
German reparations would be all right
in “goods,” but not in “money.” But
reparations must always ultimately be
paid in goods. The money transactions
are merely the shadow of the goods
transactions. To pay the reparations
Germany would have to increase the
taxes on its citizens. The proceeds of
this increase would then be turned pver
to the German Government. The
Government would have to deposit them
in German banks to the credit of the
countries to which reparations were being
paid. With these deposits these countries
could buy German goods. Instead of
getting specific goods which they might
not want, they would be getting the
money to buy whatever German goods
they wanted.
This would not hurt the industry of
the receiving nations. If America was
one of them, for example, the U.S.
Treasury could sell the German deposits
to American importers. The funds re-
ceived could pay part of the expenses
of running the Government, and so re-
duce the tax burden on the American


vii
u
hi
&
9
N
CO
s#*
*r-
W'%
£
fi»
7,
I
Here is a gypsum finishing piaster which i*
really tough ... a hardwall plaster which used neat, gives a smooth, glossy pure
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being free from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Concord Plaster is specially ground and processed, not only
to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to
facilitate its gauging with lime, putty when less
hard surfaces are wanted. It is, of course, essential
that this work be done by expert plasterers.
Packed in Jute Bogs.
C S R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. Building Materials Division
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . RERIH
P 22-44
0*
s t
■tW*
J
K
g-r
&
it
sm
»«*
#*
m
r s*
IS IN THE
FACTORIES of TODAY!
Jl
When the peace whistles blow, Australia will
enter a new era of industrial accomplish-
ment made possible only by the
lessons learned and problems mastered
in the factories of today. New s methods
have been evolved, new machines and tools have
come into operation. Men and women, too, have
acquired new skills which will be put to good
account in the service of Australia. In the six great
factories of GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
which have produced
thousands of other
planes, as well as big
vehicles, and torpedo
be laid whereby the full resources of the organisa-
tion will be devoted to the furtherance of Aus-
ţ
tralia’s advancement in the days of peace.
The same unity of purpose, the same
efficiency which has been the hallmark
of a free enterprise serving Australia in
the critical days of war, will be available
meet the needs of an expanding, virile nation.
GENERAL HOTORS IIOLDEN S LTD.
BRISBANE SYDJMEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
Keep on buying War Savings 'Certificates and Si-
National Savings Stamps.
BEDFORD • BUICK • CHEVROLET • G.M.C. . OLBSMOBILE • PONTIAC • VAUXHALt
C 792-22
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONUS.
engines, wings, and
parts for aero-
guns, transport
sections, plans will
ť
public. With these extra funds allowed
to remain in their pockets, American
citizens could buy either more German
or other foreign goods or more Ameri-
can goods. In the latter case, with the
same American production we should
need to export that much less. Ger-
many, in other words, would not only
send the goods but the extra money to
pay for them.
If it is a confusion of thought to be-
lieve that reparations hurt the nations
that take them, so it is a confusion of
thought to believe that they strengthen
the industries of the nations that are
forced to pay them. The payment of
reparations would, of course, necessarily
involve an increase in Germany’s net ex-
port balance. This increase might, how-
ever, be achieved even more by a forced
contraction of German imports —a,
national tightening of the belt, or reduc-
tion in living standards —than by an in-
crease in German exports. But even if
German exports did increase it would be
because there was less purchasing power
at home to buy German goods, and they,
therefore, had to be sold abroad. There
might be a forced change in the structure
of German industry—so that it produced
more for the export and less for the home
market—but not an enlargement. On
the contrary, the necessary heavy taxa-
tion to pay reparations would tend to
weaken German industry.
Communist Conspiracy.
[Condensed from a “Reader’s Digest” article
by Alexander Barmine, a former high official
of the Soviet Government. In 1937, when he
was charge d’affaires in Athens, he broke with
the Soviet regime, subsequently gbt to the
U.S.A., joined the U.S. Army and became an
American citizen.]
The communist danger has nevef been
greater than it is today. As one who
worked 20 years under the communist
dictatorship in close association with the
Soviet leaders, I feel it is my duty to
warn against this insidiously growing
menace to free institutions.
The present situation is a curious para-
dox. The United States is waging a
deadly against Nazi totalitarian-
ism: All its energies, labor, wealth,
thousands of its lives are being sacrificed
to destroy this enemy of democracy. Yet,
at the same time, in the press, on the
radio, in the Government and among
liberal circles supposed to represent the
vigilant conscience of the nation, there is
in process a moral and psychological dis-
armament before another totalitarian con-
spiracy 4 of the communists —which
threatens democracy even more seriously.
It is dismaying to see how Left intel-
ligentsia, swayed by subtle communist
propaganda, have transformed the tri-
umph of superhuman fighting will of the
Russian people into a triumph of the
totalitarian communist regime. The
Russians had no choice but to fight under
whatever regime they had, and they
rightly decided that foreign tyranny would
be worse than native. But what shall we
say of those who, instead of praising the
Russian people and hoping they may reap
the reward of freedom, praise the regime
that oppresses them and compare it fav-
orably with their own democratic way
of life?
The unspeakable tragedy of the Rus-
sian people is that they are compelled to
fight the foreign aggressor without any
rights or liberties of their own. Every
second family of these Russian fighting
men has lost someone in a purge, or to
one of the concentration camps, in which
at least ten million victims of the dic-
tatorship are still enduring a living death.
Under cover of this undiscriminating
praise of “Russia,” the totalitarian com-
munist habit of thought is penetrating
insidiously into the body of democracy.
The credit which was passed from the
Russian people to the totalitarian
regime is being further handed along to
the communists —those rabid isolation-
ists during the Stalin-Hitler pact and
“patriots” only since Hitler attacked
Russia. But for the happy accident that
Hitler made his attack on Russia before
instead of after Pearl Harbor these com-
munists would now be in jail with the
Nazis.
The “dissolution” of the Communist
party, which set so many naive minds at
rest, marked the beginning of a com-
munist conspiracy in the United States,
which is vastly more dangerous than the
original party ever was to established in-
stitutions. To anyone familiar with com-
munism this manoeuvre was not a new
one. , From its foundation by Lenin in
1903 the Russian Bolshevik movement
always had two organisations, one
“legal” and one “underground.” The
function of the legal party was to set the
stage for a seizure of power by the con-
trolling underground group. To “liqui-
date” the legal party altogether in cer-
cain situations was a recognised, fre-
quently discussed manoeuvre. The Ameri-
can communists have now executed that
manoeuvre. Unless you understand this
you will never find your way in the pre-
sent maze of Left-wing politics.
For many years the Communist party
functioned, with a frank programme of
overthrow by violence, as an open revo-
lutionary party. The result was com-
plete failure. The American people repu-
diated this overt attack on democracy,
and the party remained a small isolated
group. In all these years it never elected
one Representative or Senator, and at
Presidential elections never polled much
more than 200,000 votes. The sole pro-
communist elected, Representative Marc-
antonio', of New York, campaigned as a
representative of democratic organisa-
tions. But Marcantonio’s success was
significant, and it taught the communists
a lesson. They began to tone down their
extreme programme, and to penetrate
established political institutions in dis-
guise.
It was not, however, until the Soviet
Union was attacked by Hitler, and
needed vastly increased help from Ameri-
can capitalism, that the communists
started going through the motions of sui-
cide. This began in February, 1943, when
the party published in full-page ads. in
16 newspapers throughout the country a
speech of its general secretary, Earl
Browder, entitled “Hitler’s Secret Weapon
—the Bogey of Communism.” Browder
laughed at democratic Americans for
taking seriously the communist threat.
“American democracy,” he said, “must
grow up and stop believing in ghosts and
witches.”
Probably nothing like that had ever
happened before —a political party spend-
ing $56,000 (the estimated cost) to hold
its own programme up to ridicule as a
bogey.
oat stranger things were to come.
On May 22 the dissolution of the Com-
munist International was announced
m Moscow, and Browder promptly wrote
a letter to the press offering “to respon-
sible groups and leaders in American
public life” the assistance of the Com-
munist party in “a co-operate effort to lay
the spectre of communism.” And in
January, 1944, at an immense mass meet-
ing in New York’s Madison Square Gar-
den, Browder “recommended” that the
Communist party go out of business! It
was to be replaced by a “Communist
political association.” But this associa-
tion would “oppose all strikes” and
champion capitalism, the “big bour-
geoisie,” the programme of the National
While Allied armies are advancing into
Germany, public opinion is in a state of
extreme confusion as to what they intend
to do there —aside from destroying Ger-
man military power as it exists at present.
And if press stories are true Allied Gov-
ernments are equally at sea. It may be
that better progress has been made in
planning for the day of victory than such
reports indicate. If so, the public does
not know it; is incapable, because of the
secrecy with which all negotiations have
been wrapped, of expressing an intelligent
opinion on the course of events, and hence
is almost completely unprepared for what-
ever programme may emerge from the
councils of its representatives. A more
insecure basis on which to erect a struc-
ture which will entail far-reaching conse-
quences and the assumption of grave re-
sponsibilities could hardly be devised. —
N.Y, ‘‘Herald Tribune.”
Association of Manufacturers—every-
thing to which communism is diametri-
cally opposed.
The nation’s .bewilderment at this volte-
face was typified by a New York news-
paper, which called it “the most amazing
episode in the history of American
communism,” and asked, “What is left
of communism?”
What is left of communism is exactly
what existed at the beginning—an astute
and unscrupulous conspiracy to lay the
groundwork for eventually seizing pohti-
cal power in the United States and trans-
forming the country into a totalitarian
communist dictatorship. The reason many
are bewildered is that they cannot under-
stand totalitarian methods. They
imagine that a group aiming to transform
this country from capitalism to com-
munism must necessarily advocate com-
munism. But totalitarian conspirators do
not care what they advocate. All tne>
want is to get their accomplices into key
positions. All they care about is power,
Ideas, faiths, programmes, parties, politi-
cal associations—to them, all these things
are merely tricks and implements tor the
seizure of power. ..
The reader may find it hard to b- ie
that the Communist Political Association
really hopes, within a reasonable future,
to seize the State power in America. Bu
he must remember that, besides their
“maximum” revolutionary programme
total abolition of democracy and prj va e
enterprise—the communists have a pr ■
gramme minimum” that must precede in
“maximum” programme—weaken aem-
cratic capitalist America to such an ex-


A< Vie COLDS a *Qy
Smash them 3 ways
with
Double D
SucaUffttuA fixPiact
Get rid of your cold as quickly
as possible—fight 3 ways with
Double “D” Eucalyptus and drive
your cold out in record time.
3 drops of Double
“D” on sugar,
chest and back with
Double “D.”
15 drops of Double
“D” in hot water.
This special treatment with Double “D
quickly helps clear your head; break up con-
gestion; and destroy cold germs in nose,
throat and bronchial tubes. Double “D”
Eucalyptus is pure, strong and a'ways re-
liable. Insist on genuine Double “D” Euca-
lyptus.
Enormous Sales-
t jfccL and 1/4
TAHW
nm
rnmiw
In the Philippines the
natives stain their teeth black
and bleach their hair for
beauty! But we admire that
sparkling Kolynos Smile!'
Kolynos is made from tnej
formula of world-famous den-|
tal surgeon, Dr. N. S. Jenkins.
That’s why Kolynos takes such
extra good care of your teeth.
know?
//
(4
k\
/,
&
&
s
bS=
mmM
a
sin
®S?J
W
4iC C «
i
t-fr/rjcv
■m
on
n
a»
If you’re interested in trying new ideas, try Kolynos in powder form. All
of the special properties of Kolynos that give your teeth that famous
Kolynos polish and sparkle are contained in Kolynos Tooth Powder,
Mayan Beauties of South
America led the fashion
to have teeth inlaid with
precious stones. The den-
tists of those days were
oral jewellers of great
artistry and skill. You can
help to keep your teeth,
shining brightly by twice
daily brushing with Koly-
nos Dental Cream. Kolynos
polishes your teeth enamel
to its natural whiteness.
Wood Struck by lightning was
a favourite ancient Greek charm
against toothache. Kolynos swirls
right through crevices where your
toothbrush can’t reach and floats
away dangerous food particles.
Hindus clean their teeth with
a fresh twig every day, except on
certain religious days when they
must not brush the teeth on pain
of hell. Kolynos has been
awarded the Gold Seal of the
London Institute of Hygiene for
constant purity and quality.
ALL OUT TO WIN—BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
tent that she will serious rival to
totalitarian communist Russia.
The simplest way to achieve this ob-
jective is to create disunity—to provoke
racial and social conflicts, epidemics or
hatred, suspicion, intolerance and politi-
cal demoralisation, until the situation
borders on civil war. In short, to trans-
form the United States into a country
similar to France in the epoch of the
Popular Front of 1939 and 1940.
Versus the Robots.
(From a report by the London correspondent of
the “Christian Science Monitor.”)
Eighteen ninths ago London received
its first Intelligence reports concerning a
huge experimental establishment which
had been set up by the Germans at
Peenemunde. Reconnaissance ’planes
photographed it repeatedly. Finally
photo-scanners noted on the prints a tiny
blurred speck which, on closer examina-
tion, proved to be a small airplane
mounted on inclined rails. The back-
ground around the rails was blurred as-
hy explosions.
It was deduced that this was a pilot-
less, jet-propelled ’plane. But was it an
offensive weapon? All doubt was re-
moved when November, 1943, reconnais-
sance along the Calais coast showed simi-
lar launching platforms. Then the
sinister discovery was made that all these
platforms, numbering 100, pointed in the
direction of London.
In December, British and American
air forces began attacking installations
until, in early spring, every one had been
destroyed. This upset the Nazis’ time-
table. It compelled them to begin anew.
This time the Germans constructed
highly camouflaged, easily built, less sub-
stantial ramps, requiring six weeks to put
up. The Allies were unable to find most
of these until they actually had fired
missiles.
By the end of 1943 Intelligence reports
were sufficiently detailed for the British
to begin detailed defences. These were
divided into a gun belt, balloon barrage
and fighter-’plane zones.
British natural scientists had calculated
the robots’ speed rather accurately—at
between 300 and 400 miles an hour.
Chief defence problems were presented
by the speed of the flying-bombs, the fact
that the Germans often sent them over
in salvos of 200 in 24 hours, and the
height at which they travelled —too low
for heavy ack-ack, too high for the light.
Nevertheless, defence improvements
were speedily introduced. Extra cables
were hung from the balloons. The entire
gun-belt was moved from near London
to the coast, so as to give better aiming
and allow ack-ack the first crack at the
missiles, a tremendous step, requiring the
re-establishing of 600 heavy and 500
Bofors guns, but accomplished in two
days.
These guns, steadily improving in per-
formance, shot down 17 per cent, in the
first week, 40 per cent, in the fourth
week, and in the final week had the
highly encouraging score of 74 per cent.
Meanwhile, fighters began by shooting
down 30 per cent, of the flying-bombs
reaching their areas. Greatest difficulty
for the fighters was the speed of the pro-
jectiles, necessitating use of the fastest
Tempest ’planes; Spitfires had to dive
on the bombs to equal their speed. But
the Air Force destroyed 1900 of the
8000 bombs sent over. This news would
disappoint Hitler, because, in Baltic
trials, a German ace, flying a captured
Spitfire, attempted to shoot down flying-
bombs, and “demonstrated” to the
Fuhrer’s satisfaction that the R.A.F.
could not possibly touch them.
It should be remembered, however,
that the V-l was not conquered without
great sacrifices, British and American
air forces lost nearly 450 aircraft, in-
cluding many heavy bombers, and 2900
airmen in attacks on the flying-bomb
sites, storage depots, experimental stations
and transport. But if Hitler, by this
terror weapon, forced the Allies to
divert valuable ’planes, anti-aircraft
crews and great effort, he expended vast
quantities of German materials and man-
power which could have gone into ’planes
and equipment for meeting the west front
invasion.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
One big problem in restoring Europe to eco-
nomic health is Germany. Before this war
two-thirds of the foreign trade of European
countries was among themselves, and half of
that was between Germany and her neighbors.
The question now is what to do with Ger-
many’s industries. One suggestion is that the
industrial region of the Ruhr and the Saar
be internationalised. Another is to have it
controlled jointly by France, Belgium and the
Netherlands. —“United States News.”
* * * *
In the campaign in France millions of leaflets,
worded to convince the Germans of the hope-
lessness of their cause and urging them to sur-
render, were dropped behind enemy lines by
’planes or fired into enemy lines in artillery
shells. It was- estimated in late July that
some 40 p.c. of all prisoners taken by the
American First Army had had one or more
of these leaflets in their possession, despite
the tact that it is against" German military
regulations to keep them. — Hanson W. Bald-
win; N.Y. “ Times. v
* * * *
Once an American noose has tightened around
the Philippines they will be transformed into
a barrier between Japan and all her possessions
t'o the south. American ’planes and warships
will patrol the sea to the coast of China. Heavy
shipping will stop between Japan and the
Philippines, Borneo, the Celebes, Java, Sumatra,
Burma, Thailand, Indo-China, Malaya and
South China. Only sneak traffic will get
through. The ultimate stake is Japan’s chance
to remain a formidable military power. For
it she loses her island empire Japan loses
80 p.c. of her oil and sources of important
supplies of rubber, rice, cotton, iron ore, hemp,
tin, tungsten and aluminium and sources ot
some coal. Thus, in the Philippines, She can
lose the sinews with which to carry on a long
war. — “United States News.’’
* * * *
Large numbers of Spanish communist refu-
gees remained under cover in France, and an
important part of Moscow’s price in support-
ing Gen. de Gaulle is reported to involve his
co-operation with them, and with communist
elements still in Spain, for the overthrow of
the Franco regime. Here, Gen. de Gaulle is
pressed between Russia and Britain. British
policy can hardly be expected to welcome a
Russian-dominated Mediterranean, stretching
from the Dardanelles to the Atlantic. Spain, at
the back of Gibraltar and at the outlet" to the
sea, is a key piete in this British puzzle. If
Russia controls Spain, Russia controls the
bottleneck on the British sphere of influence
in the Middle East and Britain’s lifeline to
India. — Washington correspondent N.Y. “ World-
Telegram
* * . * *
There are not many examples in modern his-
tory of settlements that have ; in fact, been en-
forced. Those that have lasted a reasonable
time —pre-eminently the settlement of Vienna
in 1815, which did not undergo a general re-
vision for a whole century —-have been those
that woe self-maintaining; those that required
enforcement, such as Versailles, have been short-
lived. — London “Economist.”
!)C * * *
Since the end of June, the War Production
Board reports, the U.S. aviation industry has
been turning out 1500 heavy bombers a month;
in the last 1 1 months it has produced 15,000
such emit. Originally it was hoped that" by
June of this year the U.S. aircraft plants
would be able to complete 1000 four-motored
bombers a month, but that goal was passed
nine months ahead of time, and in January
1300 heavy ’planes were made. This showing
is called remarkable by the W.P.8., which says
that when, in 1941, the President issued a direc-
tive calling for 500 bombers a month some said
that an impossible mark had been set. In
August this year 7939 aircraft of all types
were made, a slight drop from the 8000 de-
livered in July.— N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
Put this down as certain, for the source is
one of the highest" officials in the Allied Gov-
ernments: When the war is over three things
will be verboten in defeated Germany. (1).
Germany will not be permitted to have any
’planes nor will Germans be permitted to learn
how to fly ’planes. (2) Germans will be for-
bidden to wear any kind of uniforms. (3) Ger-
mans will be forbidden to do any marching,
“ihese two last —no uniforms, no marching,”
said the high official, “will make them miser-
able.” — N.Y, "Post.”
* * * •
One of a war prisoner’s most terrifying
moments is when he is first brought before a
German officer tor interrogation. Every soldier
knows that regulations forbid him to give any
military information other than his rank, name,
numoer and home address, but under examina-
tion lasting possibly an hour it is a little
difficult to observe the poise attributed to one
legendary English officer, who is reputed to have
given the same answer, “1 am Capt. Thomas
Atkins, No. 12345,” in reply to every question
designed to start a conversation, including Are
you being treated properly?” “Would you
like a cigarette?” and “What do you think of
our Fuhrer’s secret weapons?”—From a N.Y.
“Sun” report by Gault MacGowan, who has
had the experience of being questioned as a
P °- W ’ *
Long accused of collaborating with the Ger-
mans, leading French businessmen now have
been cleared by their own Government. Among
those arrested and released are Gen. and Mme.
Adlebert de Chambrun. He was formerly head
of the National City Bank in Pans. Even more
important was the clean bill of health given
the heads ol -thc Schneider munitions works.
While they were forced to work for the Ger-
mans, they slowed down production 75 p.c.,
risking their lives to do so. — N.Y. World-
Telegram” financial writer.
* * * *
One Sunday afternoon after I had crossed
Lambeth Bridge in the rain I found a row of
workers’ houses demolished by a robot-bomb.
Men were bringing what personal possessions
tni-y could und into an archway under a
Southern Railway viaduct. It was a scene
from Dickens. Four or five burly Cockney
workers with ’kerchiefs round bare throats were
bringing in useless, dented personal objects.
They were being thanked by a mild, stooped,
threadbare man who was obviously the survivor
of a bombed-out family. The men would go
out in the rain across the way, dig awhile in
the bricks, and bring back what they found to
the archway. The pile told its own story: a
battered clock, a mattress or two, bent kitchen
utensils, a child’s “A BC” book. I didn t
dare ask about the child. The man was trying
to be matter-of-fact and courteous. Each time
they brought something in he thanked them.
The salvaged articles were quite preposterous.
One iar oi white substance 1 thought was sugar
turned out to be Epsom salts. It got later and
later and there didn’t seem to be anything more
to in. The mild man tried to show his
gratitude, and said he would take them all out
to a cup of tea. That was just too much.
One of them said gruffly to forget the tea. He
tried to say something more but couldn t, and
then they all went out of the archway into the
rain, and I went, too. There really wasn t
anything more you could do. London cone-
spondent ti Christian Science Monitor.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager tor Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES. TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS. ,
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGOA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
%
m
m
PC
M
X
m®
Owing to the disruption in transport, and shortages of
manpower, refrigeration is playing an increasingly
important part in the foodstuffs industry, from the
primary producer to the finished goods.
ZEROHEAT Low Pressure Refrigerators, either auto-
matic, electric or engine driven, are made for walk-in
cool rooms, food storage cabinets, milk cooling and
storage, or mobile units.
There is a ZEROHEAT Refrigerator Unit suitable
for every use.
Agents:
HENRY BERRY & CO.
(A’ASIA), LIMITED.
ECKERSLEY & SONS PIL LTD.
SOUTH MELBOURNE .... VICTORIA
CERTAIN DEATH
>
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
.
(Regd.)
SAVES'
MANPOWER
GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORY
SERIES
WAR
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
• For Victory ...
invest every penny you can in War Bonds, Certificates, Stamps t
Wl*
TTERE is a 4| B.H.P. Ronaldson-Tippett type “NA" air*
cooled, vertical Petrol Engine, V-belt driving a special
pump, which is used principally at aircraft repair and main*
tenance depots.
When engines are lifted out for overhaul in the workshop,
this portable pump is taken into the aircraft to pump oil
through the hydraulic system which operates the retracting
gear of the landing wheels, and also, as in the case of some
bombers, the wing flaps and other gear. Vital equipment is
tested without waiting for the return of the engine, time is
saved and the slogan “Keep ’em Flying’’ is made a reality.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’laad Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qid.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS,”
Feed for Evenness.
“K.Mc.”; To the advice “half the
breeding goes down the neck” may be
added feed for even growth of wool. The
wether portion of our young sheep was
sold off-shears in 1943. During the last
twelvemonth feed was scarce, and the
wool recently shorn by the new owner
was so uneven he reckoned (wrongly) we
had pushed cull wethers on to him.
The ewe portion on our property had
a better spin. The same classer did up
both clips and reported the ewes’ wool
in every way superior to the wethers’,
bulkier, more even, better staple and more
character.
Eight years ago a departmental wool
instructor selected 14 medium wool rams.
On delivery these were shorn and ihe
wool was even. They were put out with
the ewes, feed wa,s short and for several
months prior to shearing the rams were
poor. This time there were three distinct
classes of wool, varying from bold 64’s
to 72’s, the variation in staple being
equally great.
N.S.W departmental experiments have
shown that wool grown on improved pas-
tures is only a fraction stronger than wool
grown on natural pastures. But I’m satis-
fied that sheep inadequately fed for two-
thirds of the growing period will produce
markedly uneven wool.
Bloat in Cattle.
“Myrrhee”; Stock shouldn’t be put on
growing, lush pastures while hungry or
in the early morning when the grass is
cold and water-soaked. Keep an eye on
them for the first few days, even when
allowed on the pastures for short periods
only. Risk is reduced if the stock are
given a feed of chaff or meadow hay
before being put out to graze.
Mild cases may be treated by medi-
cine. Any of the following will help in
removing gas: Sodium hyposulphite, 2oz.
to soz. in one pint of water; two drams
of formalin in a pint of water ; 2oz. of
pure turps with 15 to 20 drops of oil o
peppermint in one pint of raw linseed oil.
For advanced cases use the trocar and
cannula. Clip the hair over the left flank,
disinfect the skin with tincture of iodine
and 4 incise with a knife at 4 the highest
point of the distended flank. Insert trocar
and cannula in a downward and forward
direction with sufficient force to pene-
trate at one operation the abdominal wall
and the wall of the paunch. The can-
nula or tube is then held in position while
the trocar is withdrawn to allow escape
of the gases.
Cattle Tick.
“Outback”: In his annual report
Queensland Director of Veterinary Ser-
vices (Dr, J. Legg) said it appeared that
increased resistance of cattle ticks to the
arsenic dip is becoming marked. One
mob of cattle, exposed for only a week
in tick country, were treated twice before
release, yet were found to be heavily in-
fested a short time after reaching clean
country. Other mobs have been held up
at clearing points for as many as six treat-
ments at weekly intervals before move-
ment was allowed.
The problem is likely to become a very
serious one in this State, because many
of the cattle bred in the tick-infested areas
find a market in the fattening areas which
are well outside. This flow of cattle
reaches considerable proportions at cer-
tain times of the year. Unless the cattle
can go out clean the flow will have to
stop,
A Drench Antidote.
“P.R.A.N.”: Sudan grass seed, which
is the result of cross pollination with a
sweet sorghum, may cause trouble. So
will a crop grown on soil rich in nitrogen,
as when following a legume. There is a
decided danger of poisoning if fed off
before the flowering stage. A proven and
inexpensive remedy for prussic acid (sorg-
hum) poisoning: In a pint of water dis-
solve an ounce of washing soda. Dis-
solve in another pint of water half ounce
of sulphate of iron. Mix the solutions
together immediately before drenching,
but not before, as efficacy is impaired if
not neutralised by allowing the mixture
to stand. Concentrated solutions of each
can be kept on hand, preferably in
colored glass or earthenware containers.
They should then be used in a two-to-one
proportion (loz. to £oz.), with water
added to make up to two pints for the
drench.
It is always advisable when feeding off
any kind of sorghum to turn in one or
two animals. If no trouble develops
within a couple of hours it is reasonably
safe to turn the rest of the herd in.
Summer Vegetables.
“Pat Ater”: They should be established
in their permanent rows before the full
blast of summer heat arrives. Well-
rooted plants can stand a lot if they have
sufficient moisture to carry them along.
Regular watering, interspersed with soil
tillage, is important.
Melons, sweet potatoes, rhubarb,
cucumbers, marrows, celery, pumpkins,
sweet corn, silver beet and tomatoes are
the summer yielders. Follow-on plantings
of beans, lettuce, beet, mustard and cress
for salads shouldn’t be neglected.
Try some of the lesser-known
appetisers like okra and salsify. Okra
had a great vogue in the U.S.A. It is a
member of the hibiscus family, and the
part eaten is the long tubular seed-head.
It has something of an asparagus flavor,
and when cooked can be eaten similarly.
Mostly it’s used in soups and stews for
flavor or as an ordinary hot vegetable.
Sow the seed in light soil and transplant
when 3in. or 4in. high in open rows of
rich soil. Allow 1 Sin. of spacing and 3ft.
between rows. A few dozen plants will
do.
Salsify or “vegetable oyster,” with the
flavor of the mollusc it simulates, can be
grown exactly as parsnips—in deeply-
broken, fine soil, fertile from previous
manuring, with the addition of some
deep-mixed fertiliser. Sow in rows 9in.
apart, covering seed with soft, manure-
impregnated soil and keep moist till ger-
mination. Thinning and ’tween-row cul-
tivation with regular watering bring suc-
cess. In soups or straight, with butter,
salsify will repay the effort.
Save Our Soil.
Outback : When the Commonwealth
Director-General of Agriculture (F. W.
Bulcock), then Queensland Minister for
Agriculture, returned from a visit to
South Africa and America in 1939 he
said: “If we do not face up to the prob-
lem of soil erosion we will find ourselves
in a few years in the same position as
South Africa, which is having to spend
huge sums of money to reclaim land and
prevent further erosion. Huge sums are
also being spent in the U.S.A. to reclaim
eroded land. Thousands of farms in
America have been abandoned through
soil erosion. The land is being reclaimed,
but it is a long and expensive process,
and unless we do something Australia in
50 years’ time may be in the same posi-
tion as America and South Africa.”
The war will, of course, be blamed for
the fact that nothing has been done in
Queensland, but it is a question which
has never received the consideration it
deserves. The State Bureau of Investi-
gation is to look into it; but the few
pounds provided in the Budget for soil
conservation is sufficient indication that
there is no intention to tackle the problem
seriously.
Scientists state that it is not a question
needing any research work on their part.
All that requires to be known about con-
trol measures is already available. What
is needed is an army of experts to con-
vey information on necessary control
measures to farmers concerned.
The seriousness of erosion is realised
by Queensland graziers and farmers, and
also by a Government official who has
a series of lantern slides showing the
disastrous result of erosion in the U.S.A.,
but the problem is too big for farmers
to tackle with their limited resources.
The Governments, both Federal and
State, must treat the matter as a national
one, and the work should be in the fore-
front of all post-war projects.
“Save the Trees.”
“B.”: A conference on the subject,
first of its kind to be held in Sydney,
had 30 organisations represented. It re-
sulted in a Forestry Advisory Council
to carry on the good work.
As a conference it was good in parts.
No representatives of farming or pastoral
industries were on the committee. In
a State where devastation of forests
threatens the prosperity of the people,
where treeless plains are a national re-
proach, whose Forestry Commission has


Your Dog
Are You Watching
His Health?
If your dog’s coat is dull, loose or ragged—if he
is listless, won’t eat or is out of sorts —he may
be suffering from digestive disorders. Start him
on a course of BARKO Condition Powders.
Constant scratching is often a sign of Eczema.
Give him BARKO Condition Powdersand apply
BARKO Skin Lotion to the affected parts. Wash
your dog always with BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
Buy them from
all Chemists
BARKO
Give him
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION • - - 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP - 9d.
c
i m
La
ma
x
...the Bedroom of 194 X
—Masonite, of course!
When Masonite Is ‘demobilised’ . . . when Victory per*
mils building ... your home can include the bedroom
you yearn for; a bedroom with walls of Masonite bevelled
and grooved in soothing symmetry and, perhaps, tinted
to match the Tempered Presdwood furniture. The floor
will be of silk-smooth, steel-strong Tempered Presdwood,
also. Your home-dreams can be interpreted more easily
in Masonite—“ The Wonder Board of 1,000 Uses”—
than in any other material. Start saving and planning
NOW for your post-war home.
MAI 6-44
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD...TEMPRTTLE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.
SALES DIVISION. 369 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
Reasonable supplies of Presdwood and Tempered Presdwood
obtainable at ail builder’s suppliers, timber merchants and
hardware stores.
{lTsacThtt^
4 •
PPOOf
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
S I ' ' ' ‘
■ ■» '*■ . , ■■ ||' ■ ':
?*" -» *H
gl •' .
J2*
>< v >
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17*19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "IYSASHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
a name for inaction, where farmers
need all the inducements possible to get
them to plant trees and all the education
available to help them to get the trees to
orow, they should have had the mast
to say.
If the movement has its wits about it
it will seek to elect rural leaders to its
council. These are the men directly in
touch with the farmers and those areas
where trees are most vital to the welfare
of the State. The truth is that it was
a city outfit. It should be praised rather
than condemned for that, and its organ-
isers deserve thanks, but until the rural
voice is heard it will remain a city and
suburban affair.
Growing Wattles.
“E. 2”: Our native acacias are not
grown to the extent they deserve. Most
kinds have an extensive root system,
which is binding against erosion ; as bee
flora, apiarists could use a great deal
more in the large tracts of yellow box
and ironbark country where shortage of
pollen is generally a problem ; and plan-
tations of blackwoods, now becoming
scarce, would keep up supplies of highly-
valuable timber for cabinet-making and
panelling. As ornamental trees wattles
are evergreen and give a long succession
of blooms if a careful selection is made
of varieties.
Seeds germinate quickly if boiled or
roasted' before sowing, and best results
are obtained by sowing where the plants
are to remain. Transplanting is a bit
tricky, but plants shifted in cool, wet
weather may do well. August is the best
month for sowing the seeds,
Blackwoods faVor the alluvial flats of
cool mountain country and should re-
spond well to plantation methods. A
clump or two on the farm would become
pretty valuable after a few years. Silver,
golden and Cootamundra wattles are
among the best for bee flora, although
most varieties have their uses. Nearly
all kinds are useful for ornamental pur-
poses, and range from low-growing
shrubs to trees of 60 feet high or more.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jiff”: For a flood-proof permanent
well in a creek bed, use 4ft. concrete
piping. The well is quickly dug by work-
ing inside the upright piping. As each
length goes down place the next in posi-
tion on the flange of the first. To pre-
vent debris clogging it, fit a round slab
of concrete fitting into the flange on top.
“H.C.”: Tree lucerne as a fodder
plant, breakwind or hedge thrives well
in most districts, and leaf growth is dense
and vigorous after pruning. If planting
it for fodder let it grow at random for
the first three years then cut back to
three feet. Animals shy clear of it at
first, then go for it. Small windbreaks
are thick and effective.
“Hux”: The separator that doesn’t re-
ceive the correct flow of oil from the
lubricator wears quickly in the spindle.
Ten drops of oil per minute are needed.
When separating’s finished cut the lubri-
cator off to prevent oil dropping into the
machine. Once a month clean the work-
ing parts that have to be oiled. Take
off the back cover. Drain out the oil.
Pour in a cup of kerosene or petrol and
give the machine a good turn so that all
moving parts are thoroughly cleansed.
Drain off the kerosene or petrol in the
same way as the oil. Replace with clean,
fresh oil. Turn the machine again to
distribute the oil over the parts. Drain
off.
“Billjim”: To measure the distance of
a drain, paddock or fence line, tie a piece
of white rag round the rim of the wheel
of a vehicle, drive along the proposed line
and count the number of revolutions of
the wheel as you go. Measure the cir-
cumference or the distance covered by
one complete turn of the wheel on the
ground. Multiply the result by the number
of the revolutions already counted.
“Portergaff”; To recondition the dray
burn and scrape off the old paint, then
apply one coat of red lead and raw lin-
seed oil, brushing well into cracks. When
dry stop up holes and cracks with oil
putty, level with blunt knife and sand-
paper clean. Two coats of finishing color
should suffice. Bolts holering iron work
should be removed and greased before
replacing. Iron work, if badly rusted,
will require attention with file and emery
paper; finish off with an oiled rag.
“Myrrhee”: On small plants the pump-
kin beetle can be controlled by dusting
with either hydrated lime or a mixture of
equal parts of lime and tobacco dust at
regular intervals. Older plants need regu-
lar dusting with a 25 p.c. lead arsenate
dust or a spray of lib. of arsenate of
lead paste to 16 gallons of water.
“Portergaff”: A- dry, well-ventilated
and -lit tool store is an acquisition. A
Sin. layer of concrete makes the ideal
floor. Reserve at least one wall for a
long-handled implement rack; work-
bench and vyce under the window, A
deep drawer for small tools keeps the
bench clear. Space could be found for a
drum of oil, but remember this is a tool
store, don’t let it become a harbor for a
lot of junk.
“Noben”: “Ben” (B. 18/10/’44) does
not state what proportionate quantities
would be a good dilution of poultry
manure. I have seen it used fresh from
the poultry houses as a mulch (over an
inch thick!) on onion and potato beds.
What it did get in the way of “dilution”
was plenty of water by means of an over-
head sprinkler. The resulting vegetables,
especially the onions, were the biggest 1
have ever seen.
“Farmer Bill”: To test a saw, take the
handle in one hand, the tip in the other
and bend the tip around to the handle.
If it’s hard to get them to meet, the saw’s
too stiff; if it’s too easy and a buckle
appears in the saw, it’s too limp. A good
saw comes round fairly stiffly and springs
back straight without leaving a buckle.
“C.H.”: In painting, use the brush suit-
able, A 3-4 in. flat wall brush gets over
wide surfaces quickly, a l|in. flat varnish
brush makes a neater job of mouldings.
Soak the new brush in water for a few
hours to tighten up the bristles in their
binding. Dry well before using for paint-
ing. Don’t leave brushes in water or tur-
pentine for long periods; it robs the
bristles, of their elasticity. Bore a Jiole
through the handle, pass a piece of wire
through it and suspend the brush in
equal parts of linseed oil and turps. After
use, wash thoroughly in turpentine, soap
and water.
“B.”: Old pre-war files are of better
steel than present-day products and
worth cleaning. Particles of wood draw
moisture and cause rust, immerse in boil-
ing water for a few minutes and they drop
out. Metal filings must be scraped out.
Never drag a file on the return stroke.
Have the surface clean. Using the older
file for the first work on hard surfaces,
saves the sharp one for the major job.
Don’t throw the file into the tool box.
Store it separately.
“Walkabout”: A trapped dingo, in an
effort to get free, often bites the im-
prisoned leg through. Dingo-stiffeners
add a dash of cyanide to the rag placed
round the jaws of the trap. The rag
prevents the sharp trap jaws from cutting
into the leg, whilst the cyanide fixes the
dingo when he tries to bite through the
leg.
“C.G.”; J. N. Whittet, N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Agrostologist, is asking landmen
to grow and harvest as much grass seed
as possible. Most wanted are Wimmera
rye, Phalaris tuberosa, paspalum, Rhodes,
cocksfoot, Sudan, lucerne and clovers.
Local agricultural officers can supply in-
formation.
Wool Classing.
The new edition of Wool Classing and
Shed Management, by J. J. Hardie, re-
tains all the useful information of the
first edition on the preparation of the clip
for market, and, in addition, has been
revised to give the very latest informa-
tion on the subject under appraisement
conditions. This book was written par-
ticularly for the benefit of those growers
whose clip is too small to obtain the
services of a professional woolclasser. It
covers every phase of shed work, the
preparation of merino and crossbred
fleece and skirtings and shed accounts.
There is an up-to-date chapter on shear-
ing mach.nery. Every woolgrower should
have a copy. Price 3s, 6d. post free.


W
»
CfflH
(M
"/A
SHELL MOTOR OIL
Ht*6 Dba&-f\ee
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
nicotmmi ii Emin)
Into Action. Man-power for blades is strictly
limited. Therefore you must take even greater care
of your Gillette “ Standard ” than you did of
the Blue Gillette or the 7 o’clock blades they have
replaced. Do this and they will give you the best
shave you can buy. If you find them a little
difficult to get, don’t blame your retailer —remember
the restricted output.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
SMOKE-OH!
“Housekeeper, 45 fo 50, wanted, farmer,
Griffiths line, one man, own mistress, wages
£l.” —Morning paper.
No opportunity for advancement here,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mystery Painter Sets Two Puzzles.”
Headline, evening paper.
This puts him one ahead of Dobell.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“For sale. —Two prams (1 twin) as new,
reasonable.”—“ S.M.H.” advt.
So they decided to keep the other twin!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Crossbred Settings, 10s. 6d. for 14 eggs, very
hardy and splendid layers.”
— “Clarion” Willoughby ( N.S.W. ).
Precocious!
The Love Nest.
He passed along the spacious hall
where lovers lurk by night. Discreetly
suave, he opened Flat Eighteen, His lady,
who was waiting there, looked anything
but bright.
“You rat I” she spurted. “I know where
you’ve been!”
A vase went singing through the air.
With neat, evasive art, he made it miss
and shatter on the wall. The kitten
dozing on the bed awakened with a start.
stood up with arching back and gave a
squall.
“You lying cheat!” she ranted on a
shrill falsetto note. “You’ve been to that
infernal woman’s place—that blonde with
hairy legs! I know! I found this on
your coat!” And she waved a piece of
bristle in his face.
Loud music from a radio came roaring
from a flat and suitably accom-
panied her voice: “I might have known
that you would have the morals of a
louse! Go back to that low creature of
your choice!”
“Me false!” he cried indignantly. "Me
cheating! I like that! Have you for-
gotten all the Yanks you know? And
what about those airmen you had visiting
the flat when I was ill? Miss Nickie told
me so.” His ears were twitching. “YouTe
the one who’s cheating! All you say is
only lousy lies!” he yelled with rage. The
love-birds in the window of the flat
across the way fled cowering to a corner
of their cage.
“I’ll go back to my husband!” she
exploded. “And, what’s more. I’ll stay
for the remainder of my life.”
“Go back to him!” he told her, strid-
ing fiercely to the door. “And I’ll go
back,” he added, “to my wife!”
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Unassailable at Law.
Husband Has Right to Pick Wife’s Pocket.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Correctly interpreted, a legal friend
assures me, this means that I’m entitled
to filch on Saturday morning the hard-
earned I handed the wife on Friday night.
Further, the 19s. 4d. hoarded in the
jam-jar on the kitchen shelf is, in law,
my property, and may be lost at
poker and/or Murrumbidgee without
consent of the strife, provided, of course,
she doesn’t beat me to it and buy a hat
with it.
In short, though a wife may think she is
privileged to search the 10 or 11 pockets
in each of her husband’s one and a half
suits in the hope (frequently vain) of
scraping together an easy Is. 7d., the hus-
band’s the real owner of any loose lucre
about the house. If Tommy’s moneybox
contains the price of two schooners on
a hot Saturday, for instance, finding the
box under the bench in the shed in a
condition suggesting that it has been hur-
riedly opened with an axe or garden fork
is not evidence of larceny.
In fine, a husband’s propensity for
laying hands on anything looking like
cash under his own roof is grounded in
common law. That’s why they put locks
on slot meters.
Percy.
“When driving, be kind; a swish in the air
instead of a hit is usually as effective.”
— Animal-lover, in letter to the press.
At golf, when I would drive a ball,
I rarely slat it on the ribs;
Instead, I swish the air, that’s all —
In spite of this the darn thing jibs.
Brian Bureau.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lost during strong wind Thursday, small
girl’s check frock.” —Suburban paper.
She did get the breeze up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The average man knows that his wife never
goes on strike.” — “Women's Weekly. v
But she does sometimes lock him out.
+ +
“Vacuum Cleaners repaired, all makes; ser-
viceman calls daily.” —Suburban paper.
A.W.L., surely.
+ 4* 4*
Showing Hollywood.
“Final scene of a Jap co-prosperity propa-
ganda lilm captured at Leyte shows, according
to the Jap captions in English, ‘a broken-hearted
Chinese girl, K.wei Lan, on the river bank,
about to throw herself in because she thinks
her shining lover, Second-class Pilot Hase, has
been killed by a barbaric American.’ Then he
calls her from the opposite bank. The poster
says: ‘They run into each other’s arms to re-
sume the ecstasy marred by an agonising inter-
lude.’ Another poster depicts Jap women
parachutists ‘flying about in the sky like merry
birds.’ ”
The scene immediately before the final
fade-out as they rush' across, or under,
the river into each other’s arms, and while
the Jap lady warriors are flying around
like birds in their parachutes—obviously
a new type whose secret is unknown to
the Western Powers is graphically
described in perfect English during the
running commentary, an extract from
which follows:
“Huzza! Huzza! Forth strides, with
perfect equanimity, the shadow of a reck-
less gaiety cast on his bright features, our
hero-god. Second-class Pilot Asamura
Hase, scourge of the feeble-minded
Yankees from up-under.
“Behold him ascending with giant
strides into his powerful sky machine;
with a scintillatingly lugubrious laugh he
calls to the undyingly envious ones who
are earthbound to wind up the insensate
machine, which under our hero’s almost
divine hand will tear the Americans’
poor machines apart like a row of nine-
pins.
. “As the quartet of engines purr softly
into palpitating life, fed by the spirit
which is the gracious and gladly-given
gift of the Javanese, who have come to
love the Japanese deeply, the vibrant
voice of Second-class Pilot Hase rings out
a message of hope and sublime confi-
dence, the tones rushing into the happy
ears of the waiting Kwei Lan.
“The beautiful Chinese girl is now in
a pure, ecstatic sixth purgatory of
sheer delight. She has forgotten her
father, whose once-revered head had de-
parted from his neck because he was mis-
guided enough to question the Greater
East Asia Co-prosperity Scheme. Gone,
too, is the memory of her mother, who
foolishly tried to bend a brave Nipponese
bayonet with her stomach because she
would not appreciate that the men of
General Suetsago’s Kwantung army were
really her dearest friends. She has also
put aside the memory of her eight
brothers, who with a misguided sense of
what they thought was a patriotic gesture,
implored the kindly Jap soldiery to rope
them asunder, rub petrol over them and
treat the affected parts with a bright
lucifer. She knows now only that her
simple, unspoiled hatred for the Japanese
has turned to an unquestioning, un-
squashed love.
“With one last large, undefinable grin
of heroic joy to his much beloved, our
hero-god tosses forward with blithe,
chaste hands the stick of joy, and the
terrible Japanese war-bird leaps quiver-
ing into the collar like a sleek ferret. As
it meanders terrifically across the drome
Second-class Pilot Hase flings a last gay
wave to beautiful Kwei Lan, whose one
clever thought is that her knightly Jap
protector will heave his American ad-
versaries out of the cerulean sky in one
fell toss.
“As he rushes up the air see our hero-
god bow 17 times towards the spirits of
his ancestors. Now he is delivering a
prayer for the nuts and bolts that hold
his trusty war-bird together,
“Here is a large flight of Super-
fortresses coming—yes, there are 344 of
them. Although slightly outnumbered,
our hero-god girds up his pants and
ambles with shattering swiftness, cutting
the atmosphere like a hammer. There,
he presses the firing button! One burst
and 84 Superfortresses are conflagrated,
moving earthwards. Another burst and
Hase gets 214. Before he can swing them
into his sights again the remainder turn
and beat it with hot feet akimbo. They
are soundly licked.
“And here comes hero-god Hase, push-
ing through the wind to refuel and claim
his shining-eared beloved. He has sur-
vived the awful ordeal. As the Ameri-
can Milton said, when east meets west
there’s only one in it. Banzai!”
80.
Rough Surgery.
“A naval rating is alleged to have bitten off
a piece of a woman’s ear, measuring two and
a half inches by a quarter of an inch.”
—“Daily Telegraph . v
The ’groom, in Neolithic days.
Who led his sweetheart to the altar
With half a tree would first assault her;
But nowadays a bloke- displays
Affection in a milder fashion.
And if not carried to-excess
A playful nibble might express
The same intensity of passion.
Well, though the girl-friend may complain
Your action’s somewhat inhumane
If, bending to her cheek to kiss it,
You change your mind, and souvenir
A tidy portion of her ear —
Some ears I’ve seen would scarcely
miss it.
P. M. LUSK.
The Test.
Of milk and beer and which is best.
They argued till the sun was low.
But failed to reach a verdict, so
Let me suggest a simple test.
To find the favorite for thirst.
Just leave two bottles on the mat.
One milk, one beer; and after that
Watch through the keyhole which goes
first.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Esoteric.
Life is a mass of garbled undertones
Poured upwards by the possibilities
That bound the Absolute. Our rotting
bones
Can hear the silent challenge of the
seas
That fly by night, while spirit megaphones
Bawl ribald mirth along the centuries.
No doubt this verse is far from under-
stood
By any reader. Hence, it must be good.
T. W. Nathan.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO OLIVER VICTOR TUCKWELL formerly of Syd-
ney in the Stole of New South Wales. TAEL
NOTICE that GLADYS MAY TUCKWELL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1679 of 1944 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
vou may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Fourth
day of December 1944 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from A. R. DeCOEK Solicitor
107 Liverpool Street Sydney.—(t.s.) 0. K. BODY,
Registrar.
Public Notice.
I, MAURICE FINKELSTEIN, of Palestinian nation-
ality, born at Saffad, Palestine, and resident five
years in Australia, now serving in Commonwealth
Military Forces, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Our Daily Bread
m ■
m
m
*
Si;
:
;:<■
msm.
smmms
fmm
ssMsSsssss
m
JN this hour of peril prayers for our daily bread acquire a new intensity. We are
reminded more acutely than before of our dependence on a Higher Power for
our loaves and cakes, our pearl barley, our breakfast porridge and cereals. We
recognise more readily too the debt we owe to the farmers and farm-workers who
grow the corn at home and the merchant seamen who bring it from overseas.
It does not occur to us that to the chemist is due his meed of praise. Yet housewives
as well as bakers can see his contribution in baking powder,and bicarbonate of soda,
and grain merchants in the fumigants used to protect stored flour or grain from
insect pests. These are small things in comparison with what the chemist has done
to enable the grower to harvest every ounce from every acre. To ensure healthy
crops, he has provided mercurial dusts which prevent the diseases carried by the
seeds. To check weeds he has provided sprays for their destruction in growing corn.
To increase the yield from the soil he has provided fertilizers. A single pound’s
weight of sulphate of ammonia can, if properly applied, provide enough extra grain
to make a quartern loaf of wheat bread or fifteen plates of oatmeal porridge! In the
science and practice of soil fertilization Britain has always been in the van.
Cavendish, between 1781 and 1784, was the first man to "fix” nitrogen from the
air. Basic slag was a British discovery and Lawes discovered superphosphate, the first
chemical fertilizer to be made on a commercial scale. A century ago
Lawes and Gilbert gave the world its first agricultural research
station —at Rothamsted in Hertfordshire.
No. 15 in the "Services of an Industry” series
issued by.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD.
c
>v
I
»«*
55658
years’ reputation for quality
CRAVEN I
10 FOR 1/1
20 FOR 2/2
Save your money to save your Freedom.
Invest in War Savings Certificates.
Our Service Department.
Wants.
To buy programmes of magicians and illu-
sionists’ appearances in Australia. 3537.
To buy False and Other Tales .by J. M.
Conroy, published in Melbourne in 1871.—3538.
To buy complete edition of Henry Lawson’s
verse. —3539.
Serviceman, soon to be discharged, wants
position as caretaker of a seaside house. 3540.
To buy Somerset Maughan’s The Casuarina
Tree. —3541.
To buy a thoroughbrace wagon, any con-
dition, for use in film production. 3542.
Information Sought.
Is the R.A.N.R. still accepting recruits ?
Vacancies exist for men between the ages of
17 and 30 for entry into the R.A.N.R. as sea-
men, stokers, writers, etc. The term ot en-
gagement - is for three years or the duration or
the war and six months after, whichever is the
greater. Candidates showing outstanding olticer-
like qualities are given the opportunity ot
entering the Officers’ Training School. lh e
Naval Recruiting Officer, 18 Loftus-street, Syd-
ney, can supply further particulars.
* * * *
Are there restrictions on the dispatch of
photographs from Australia?
A permit must be obtained from a Post and
Telegraph Censorship authority lor all photo-
graphs, sketches, maps, etc., sent abroad. No
photographs may contain inlormation ot a
secret or confidential nature, or likely to be
useful to the enemy or prejudicial to the public
safety. The dispatch of photographs to prisoners
of war is subject to special regulations.
* * * *
Cause of derhiatitis ?
There are numerous causes, a notable one
being the application to the body surlaces ol
chemical irritants, either while working at
industrial processes or during self-treatment ot
some skin complaint. Tinea is often accom-
panied by intense dermatitis, aggravated by the
over-use of strong antiseptics.
* ♦ * *
Treatment for a cat suffering from eczema?
Mix one grain per pound weight ot cat ot
areca nut with a little butter; starve the cat
for 24 hours, administer mixture and follow
after an hour or so with a dessertspoon to a
tablespoon of castor oil. If the animal is in-
clined to resist, damage from claws can be
avoided by laying cat on a blanket and rolling
animal up in it.
* * ♦ *
Difference between the three sizes of six-ply
car tyres 6.00-16, 6.50-16 and 7.00-16?
Each tyre is designed to carry a maximum
load under given air pressure when fitted on a
standard rim, as follows:
, Air Pressure (Lbs.)
26. 28. 30. 32. 34. 36.
600-16 6-ply.. 875 915 955 990 1030 1055
6.50-16: 6-ply 1005 1050 1095 1135 1175 1215
7.00-16,6-ply.. 1145 1195 1245 1295 1345 1395
To determine the required inflation each wheel
should be weighed under loads.
The recommended rims for each size tyre are
as under; —
Recom- .
Type 1 mended - Permissible Rims '
Size. Rim. Conventional. Wide Base.
6.00 4.00 E 4.25 E, 4.50 E 5-K
6.50 4.50 E 5.00 E, 5.00 F 5?-K,, 6-L
7.00 5.00 F 4.50 E, 5.00 E, 5.50 F 6-L, 6^-L
Brief Answers.
G.D.R.: Stephen, Jaques and Stephen, Elec-
tra House, 12 Spring-street, Sydney.... M.L :
Knight George Fairbairn died in October, 1943.
A.J.J.: (1) Cannot be seriously regarded as
a method of treating disease. (2) Treatment
should always be carried out under medical
supervision....J.O.A.: (1) A bituminous pre-
paration would be suitable if obtainable; other-
wise tar ’(obtainable from gasworks) or paint
would do. (2) Gordon and Gofch, Barrack-
street, Sydney, could help H.A.S.: No books
on subject available M.F.D.: The Official
Journal of Patents is published weekly; it may
be purchased from the Commissioner of Patents,
Canberra, at 3s. per single copy or £3 10s. per
year 8.J.M.0.: Dangar, Gedye and Malloch,
Ltd., G.P.O. Box 509aa, Sjdney, are agents
and distributors for Lister sheep-shearing
machinery. All Lister parts are interchange-
able with Wolseley’s.
Answer to Correspondents
>ame. and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volnntanly
submitted; ana, no MS. will be returned unless
slumps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
R.Y.: Genuine feeling, but laborious
K.K.: Good idea, if you’d worked it into
poetry... .C.G.8.: Vigorous sentiments often
make surpiisingly feeble verse... .S.R.H.
“Murrumbidgee Melody” is watery....J.8.8.;
jh e nearest vet SAM ■ At least there’s
something original about the wary wombat who
whorls and wheeses... .C.T.: Flat... .E.T.D.:
Read “Banjo” Paterson E.L.: Conventional
description... .E.M.W.: Pleasant featherweight.
P.G.: “Not in Vain” was quite in vain.
A.A.1.: Take more care over them and
come again.


Also Special Mild
and Full Strength
It’* your fight—your money is needed now .
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/* National Savings Stamps.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
A BOY NEXT TIME
By MARGARET TRIST.
IN the grey half-light of very early
morning two planks that formed a
path over the weeds in what should
have been Mrs. Patterson’s garden lay
in dark, drunken succession from the
front gale to the verandah steps.
Mercy picked her way along them
swiftly, bounded to the bare boards of
the verandah, and tapped ipnperiously on
the window of Mrs. Patterson’s bedroom.
The window was slightly raised and held
in position by a hairbrush. There was
no answer. She raised the window,
“Mrs. Patterson, can you come over?
Mother says”
Mrs. Patterson sat up. “Who’s that?”
she demanded.
“It’s Mercy. Mother says”
“I’ll be right over.” Mrs. Patterson
hurried out of bed. “Is she bad?”
“Oh, yes. Dad’s hollering like mad.”
Mrs. Patterson grunted. She shook her
still snoring spouse. “Get up,” she
ordered.
“What for?” dlmanded Mr. Patterson
sleepily.
“You get the truck out. We’ve got to
go to town.”
“But”
“Stop talking and do as you’re told.”
Mercy sped towards her own home,
her cotton nightdress voluminous about
her thin thirteen-year-old form, her
scraggy, fair plaits dancing on her back.
“She’s coming,” she cried importantly as
she burst through the front dooi'.
“Who’s coming?” demanded her father
aggressively.
“Mrs. Patterson.”
“Mrs. Patterson!” he snorted. “You
go back and tell her to keep out of here.
Tell her I can mind my own affairs and
she can look to hers. Tell her”
“Oh, don’t be silly, Jim,” said Mrs.
Matheson placidly. “Sybil’s a good soul.
It’s just you don’t take each other right.
Anyhow, Ted’s driving me to town.”
“Town!” cried Mr! Matheson incredu-
lously.
“Don’t take on. I’ve been telling you
all along.”
“It’s not right. It’s not natural.”
“Fiddlesticks! Where did I put those
safety-pins? I should have had this suit-
case packed ready.”
“Why have you got to run off to town?
You never had to before.”
“I’ve had my mind set on a bit of a
holiday for years.”
“Now I’m upset.” He sank into a
chair, a large lugubrious figure in striped
flannelette pyjamas, his dark hair dis-
hevelled above his brick-red face. “Who'll
see to my meals?”
“Mercy.”
“And whb’s to look after the kids?”
“Mercy.”
“You’re making a slave of the girl.”
“I’ve got everything in hand for her.
You can manage, can’t you, Mercy?”
Mercy nodded.
“I’ll be let in for things, I can feel it
in my bones. What’ll 1 do if anything
goes wrong?”
“Just do.”
“Say one of the kids falls in the creek.”
“Now, Jim, don’t get me flustered.”
There was a knock on the door,
“Come in,” called Mrs. Matheson.
Mrs. Patterson bustled in, a tall figure
in a starched print frock. The lamplight
gleamed on her glasses. “Everything
set?” she inquired.
“He’s taking on.” Mrs. Matheson,
petulant, pointed towards her husband.
“He would,” snapped Mrs. Patterson,
darting him a poisonous glance. “Take
no notice, dear.” >~
Mr. Matheson rose. “You get out of
this house and stop out. I never had
any bother till you started poking your
frame *in. Getting her upset about going
off to hospital when she could settle com-
fortably in her own bed.”
“Comfortably,” sneered Mrs. Patter-
son. “You should be ashamed of your-
self, Jim Matheson. I wish”
“Now, now,” interposed Mrs. Mathe-
son. “Don’t go wishing things on Jim,
Sybil. It’s better this way.”
“He’s so soft he’d pass out if he got
a pain in his big toe. And he wouldn’t
be missed!”
“Have I got to listen to this kind of
talk in my own house?”
“If you were a man you wouldn’t.”
“I guess that’s about all,” Mrs. Mathe-
son interposed pacifically.
“You sure you’ve got everything?”
“Yes, No, wait. There’s the dressing-
jacket that Ede sent me. It’s got swans-
down round the sleeves. Mercy, open
the bottom drawer and you’ll find it.”
“Swansdown! Who ever heard of
women your age in swansdown?” expos-
tulated Mr. Matheson.
“She’s not as old as she looks,” snapped
Mrs. Patterson.
“1 always wanted a dressing-jacket with
swansdown. That’s a good girl, Mercy.
Isn’t it sweet?”
“It’s real pretty,” nodded Mrs. Patter-
son. “Come along. There’s the truck,”
“Ruby! Ruby!” cried Mr. Matheson
agitatedly. “Ybu’re not going and leav-
ing me like this? You can’t do it. Ruby.
I’ll be scared out of my wits, alone here,
waiting. I told you before that I don’t
trust hospitals. They’re full of germs.”
“Now, Jim”
“I don’t want any kid of mine opening
its eyes in a strange bed,”
“Please, Jim”
“You’ll die in there all alone. What
am I to do without you?”
Mrs. Matheson looked uncertainly
towards Mrs. Patterson. “Perhaps I
oughtn’t” she began.
“Come on, hurry now. Ted’s getting
impatient.”
Jim moaned hollowly. “I feel awful
bad,” he said.
Mrs. Patterson grasped the handle of
of the suitcase and marched through the
front door, “Come along,” she ordered
“I’m coming. Calm yourself, Jim.
There’s nothing to fret over. I’ll be home
again in a fortnight.”
“And say you’re not, what am I to
do?”
Outside the horn of the truck hooted.
“I’ve got to go,” said Mrs. Matheson.
“Mercy, you keep your eye on things for
me. Good-bye, Jim.”
“I don’t feel so good.”
“Oh, dear!”
“Whatever’s the matter now?” de-
manded Mrs. Patterson irritably from the
front steps,
“Jim’s taking it bad,” called Mrs.
Matheson. “1 think he’s working up for
a turn,”
“Well, you haven’t time to worry about
that. Ted’s getting mad.”
Mrs. Matheson followed Mrs. Patter-
son dejectedly. “Funny, but things never
work out as you figure them, I pictured
us going off with everyone laughing and
waving and calling good-byes. I don t
kno\y if Jim’s not right. It might have
been better to have stayed home, after
all. Isn’t it terrible when your husband’s
so fond of you he can’t bear you out of
his sight?”
“Hmm,” murmured Mrs, Patterson,
and lifted the suitcase into the back of
the truck.
AMONG Mother’s explicit instruc-
tions to Mercy about, the care of the
house and the management of her five
younger sisters there had been no men-
tion of what to do if Father had a turn.
For half an hour he sal silently slumped
in the only easy chair in the house, an
old wicker one draped with a blanket to
cover broken strands and jutting nails.
He pulled it close to the cold kitchen
stove and sat shivering, his big red hands
locked together, his hair pathetically dis-
arrayed on his forehead.
Mercy tiptoed forlornly around him.
She fanned him energetically; she took
a wet rag and laid it on his brow. But
he did not respond to these ministrations.
In a moment of insight she went inside
and, diving behind Mother’s wardrobe,
found the brandy bottle. There was a
small quantity in it, and she poured it
all into their only tumbler. He drank it
as a map in a dream and let the glass
slip from his nerveless hand. Before her
startled eyes it shattered on the concrete
in front of the stove.
He continued to sit and shiver, and
now and again he moaned, a terrible,
heart-rending sound that rumbled its way
upward from his stomach to escape
through his parted lips and echo round
the silent kitchen; it shook the neatly-
stacked plates on the dresser, the cups
moved gloomily on their hooks, the cruet,
standing on its neat white d’oyley, clinked
despondently. Every time it happened
Mercy burst into tears.
The dawn broke with irritating
splendor.
At last he rallied sufficiently to speak.
“Make me a cup of tea, Mercy, girl,”
he said.
She felt his eyes upon her as she awk-
wardly laid the fire in the stove. The
too-tightly crumpled paper was sulky and
caught slowly, and when the pine and
bark took light it poured smoke into the
room. Her father coughed weakly. She
felt his hand on her tousled head.
“You’re all I’ve got left,” he said
hollowly.
It surprised her, and she wanted to
point out that there were Mother gone
off in the lorry with Mr. and Mrs.
Patterson ; Eily and Bridie asleep in the
second bedroom; Tessie and Kathie and
Melda asprawl in their disordered beds
under the advancing sunlight of the front
verandah. But she realised that he would
resent it, and, merging her sex down the
centuries, she let him play out his part.
For a long time she knelt by the fire.
At last the kettle boiled. She sprang to
her feet with alacrity, and was busily
officious making the tea. He drank three
cups before he came to life.
“Now,” he said authoritatively, “you
go for Aunt Katie.”
“But Mother” she began.
“What did Mother say?” he demanded.
He paced up and down the room, his
tattered dressing-gown revealing the gay
stripes of his threadbare pyjamas.
He did not wail for her answer, but
spread his hands demonstratively, “Your
Mother is against my family,” he said.
“They mustn’t pry, into her business;
they mustn’t come here and see the poor
way in which we live, the way our chil-
dren, the children of love, mark you, are
fitted to face their Maker. My family
are poor vulgarians”
But Mercy had fled. Without an audi-
ence, he sank dolefully into the chair and
went into a stupor against the time when
porridge would have to be made and eggs
poached with soul-withering care.
MEANWHILE, Mercy skimmed lightly
through the awakening town, night-
gown clad, tangled plaits dancing on her
back. The grass was dew-wet under her
feet.
The sawmill whistle blared harshly into
her ears, but it could not dim the loveli-
ness of fresh sunlight poking inquisitive
fingers along the rooftops of boxlike
houses, the pungent smell of smoke as it
curled from narrow chimneys, the sound
of milk squirting into pails. She tumbled
breathlessly into the small house by the
railway line where Aunt Katie and her
grandmother lived. Aunt Kate was


EYE LOT ON
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Pty_ Ltd.. Kinq Street. Sydney.
RUPTURE
i. NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARR ERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day tor
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.SlJ), 243 ELIZABETH ST.> SYDNEY
ACTS
LIKE THE HRIID
NOSE for a bargain!
Bomb-noses are among the almost in-
numerable munitions of war made from Cold-
Drawn Precision Seamless Steel Tubes. And
look what this saves Australia! If solid blanks
were used, twice the machining time and more
than twice the material would be needed to
make each nose! The vast savings that Steel Tubes
are effecting for the war effort can, and will, be
extended to the peacetime pro-
duction of greater, more
economical quantities of civilian
amenities.
lillilOF
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOAPIER —24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced m
many new friendships, for instance.
TEACHER —22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.
CLERK —7th April, ’42; “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. 1 can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency 1 have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER —17th May, ’42; “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, whieh have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42; “I took the
Pelman Course in September, 35. it proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part....l have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a halt
years I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE — 12th May, ’42; “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
1 applied for the- Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER—Ist May, ’42; “1 undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and 1 made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which,l am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established la
Melbourne under the game direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of hi% individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.’*
Name ,
Addreat •••*•
167
already up and neatly dressed and busy.
Her grandmother looked at her inquir-
ingly from her bed.
"What, again?” demanded Aunt Katie,
and began packing her box with irntat-
in “Throw C( a coat oyer the girl,” said
Grandmother. “She’s too big to
running around half naked. You
one afternoon and I’ll teach you how
crochet. A girl your age needs some-
thing to keep her settled. ’
“She’s got plenty to keep her settled
at home,” Aunt Katie answered tor her.
She tossed Mercy an old brown coat
which would have gone round her twice
and which reached to her ankles. She
nodded briskly to her mother. 11l let
you know what’s what. Come along,
Mercy.”
Mercy followed obediently in her
wake, trudging through the town close on
Aunt Katie’s heels; Aunt Katie s hatpin,
sticking through the crown of her black
straw hat, pointing at her forehead, the
determined swagger of Aunt Katie’s
grimly-corseted figure before her down-
cast eyes. Freedom had vanished as the
dew from the grass. As they came into
the kitchen her father opened his eyes
cautiously.
“Ah, it’s you, Kate,” he said feebly,
“It is,” replied Kate acidly, “Even
though I did threaten never to darken
your door after the few words Ruby and
I had last Christmas, But seeing you’re
in trouble again”
He sighed heavily and examined his
fingernails.
“.She’s not making any noise,” she said,
listening intently.
“She’s not here,” he answered care-
fully.
“Not here?”
“She’s gone to town to the hospital.”
He was apologetic, looking at her through
his hair.
“Oh, indeed! Then I wash my hands
of the whole affair.”
“You can’t do that,” he remonstrated.
“I’ve got no one to do anything for me,
and I’m not the kind of man who can
eat any kind of food. It has to be cooked
and served up the right way or my
stomach turns over. Here 1 am left with
six babies on my hands!”
Aunt Katie took off her hat. “Oh,
well, don’t blame me for what happens
at the hospital is all I ask. What use
does she think it’ll be her going to the
hospital? All the women are flying there
because of the flash new doctor.”
“I could do with some breakfast,” he
muttered weakly.
“You could do with a wash, too,” she
retorted. “And a shave wouldn’t go
amiss, and put on your clothes before
your innocent children see you.”
He looked at her woundedly, but rose
heavily and tottered out of the kitchen.
Katie compressed her lips. “Now we’ll
get down to things. The place is like a
pigsty, and I daresay there’s nothing
cooked in the cupboard.”
MRS. PATTERSON, coming to the
back of the place two hours later
was met by swirls of dust. Aunt Katie,
brandishing a broom, eyed her grimly
from the back verandah. Mercy came
to the kitchen door, an undried plate and
tea-towel in her hands. Mrs. Patterson
ignored Aunt Katie and spoke to Mercy.
“Where’s your father?” she asked.
. “He’s sleeping' after his bad night,”
answered Mercy.
Aunt Katie and Mrs. Patterson snorted
together. “What is it?” demanded Aunt
Katie.
“A lovely baby girl,” replied Mrs.
Patterson.
There was a roar from the inner bed-
room.
“Father’s taking another x turn,” cried
Mercy, rushing in to him. He caught
her hands frenziedly.
“Another girl! Did that old sinner
say another girl?”
Mercy nodded.
He squeezed her hands hard and
gritted his teeth in rage. In his anger
his face grew redder and the veins in his
neck swelled. But it passed quickly, and
in another moment he was smiling gaily
at her, “Never mind,” he said, “it’ll be
a boy next time.”
“Next time?” answered Mercy blankly.
But he was already asleep. She turned
and tiptoed quietly from the room.
Old Age.
Time fell down on my billy goat and covered him
over with snow, .
His coat is white and his beard is white and Ins
gait is crooked and slow.
I tied him up in a blackberry patch and fed him
on weeds and thorns, .
And if anyone comes and looks at him he sighs
and he shakes his horns.
Who will remember now the days when I took
him between my knees ...
And rode him about the mountain tops with his
beard spread out like a sneeze?
Who will remember now the nights when I
gripped him between my knees
And we galloped and jumped in the midnight
sky with his beard like the foam of the seas?
His head was high and his eye was bright and
it seemed that he stepped on fire,
His favorite food was a tough old boot or a
coil of old barbed-wire.
His pace was as swift as a railway train and
his bleat was loud as the whistle,
And he waltzed to his love with a wild white
grin and behind his ear a thistle.
You feared no enemy then, old goat, when you
roved the world at large;
Whether they stood or turned their backs you’d
lower your head and charge.
Billy, I come to your blackbery patch and I
see you stamp your hoof,
It would hardly shake a dandelion now though
once it would raise the roof.
I’d feed you on coke or petrol cans if they
could make you go;
I know that you’d like to charge and die, but
how can you charge the snow?
Munch away at your bramble leaf and quietly
freeze in the sun.
At least we galloped on top of the world be-
fore our day was done.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


What is
PROBATE ?
In a word. Probate is the official
proof of a will, and the document
issued to the executor as his authority
to administer the estate.
To be effective, a will must comply
with certain legal formalities before
its directions can be carried out.
As a matter of procedure, the Will,
together with evidence of its validity,
is lodged in the Supreme Court and
if this evidence is satisfactory, a copy
of the Will bearing the Seal of the
Court, is issued to the Executor and
this document is called the Probate.
Some wills, however well-intentioned,
for want of knowledge and care fail
to achieve their object.
In other cases, incompetent Executors
are appointed, involving difficulty and
needless expense.
Owing to the responsibilities involved
in obtaining probate, and in the sub-
sequent administration of the estate,
many persons nowadays adopt the
prudent course of naming a Trustee
Company to act as Executor.
For over half-a-century the well-
known Union Trustee Company has
faithfully discharged all duties apper-
taining to estates; it combines
knowledge, experience, permanence,
security, and complete impartiality.
It is therefore the ideal Executor and
Trustee.
For further information consult
The Union Trustes
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMATEk
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman)
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager : Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager : John Larni
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector ; H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET; SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairm r
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C. Wilson
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); I. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, m.c., f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., b.c.e".:
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.fj.a., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.1.3.
, TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager)
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager)
Pastoral inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P.'C. Neville.
HO
WIMINb
ho
wCKIHe
HO
%%
an
S £ H
r\Hil
A,‘»r
0
DURING 1 HE SUMMER 1 HE “THERMIT” THREE
BURiNER RANGE is a necessity in your Kitchen. Ask
your retailer to give you particulars oI
U "’rf/uw» al
if * COOKING /
BLUE FLAME
APPLIANCES
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
United Provisions. Ltd.
, ——Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 35,652 8 p.c. Nil 36,000 244
Transferred from taxation reserve, £830.. 1074
1935.. 67,812 11* p.c. 2 p.c. 68,500 386
1936.. 55,326 8 „ 2 „ 55,000 326 712
1937.. 36,087 8 „ Nil 36,000 87 799
Tax refund. £467 1266
1938.. 70,853 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 6,353 7619
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref.- Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1939.. 57,490 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 164,875
1940.. 55,185 8 „ li „ 47,875 7310 172,183
1941. .142,589 8 „ 4 „ 74,000 68,589 240,774
1942.. 71,756 8 „ 3 „ 64,500 7256 248,030
1943. .136,024 8 „ 4 „ 74,000 62.024. 310,054
1944. .142,683 8 „ 4 „ 83,500 59,183 369,237
* Including 3 p.c. arrears, t Subject to intangibles
of £641,632.
This is the holding co. that welded the
interests of J. C. Hutton and Foggitt
Jones in 1927, The business, which em-
braces the curing of hams and bacon,
manufacture of smallgoods and canned
foods, etc., is the largest of its kind in
Australasia. The two operating cos. con-
trol 10 factories scattered throughout the
Commonwealth and three in Maoriland,
and there are warehouses in all the im-
portant commercial centres in both coun-
tries. With the onset of depression in the
early 1930’s came destructive competi-
tion, both on the buying and selling sides
of die business, and the path since has
been slippery, despite expanding trade
connections with Southern and Eastern
Asia, the N.E.1., Pacific Islands and
Britain. Five out of the nine years to
the close of accounts in 1939 were dry
ones for the ords., whose average div. for
the period was 1.1 p.c. p.a.
Though war eliminated some of the
old troubles, it created a host of new
ones. Still, earnings have been much
steadier than the figures in the table
suggest. The big leap in the 1941 profit
was due mainly to a change in the method
of treating taxation, and only partly to
larger turnover. Since then each year’s
earnings have been charged with the
previous year’s tax bill, no specific pro-
vision being made to meet the next bill
when it arrives. Meanwhile the Jap
drive south deprived the co. of wide and
growing connections it had built up with
south-east Asia and the islands. But
new service and British demands filled
the gap.
Last term the spring in sales was
£301,000 —they stepped up 13 p.c. to just
under the £5-million mark in the previous
year. The services, together with ship-
ments to Britain, the Middle East and
India, took the bulk of output. About
76 p.c. of ham and bacon from the co. s
Queensland factory went to the forces.
Thus civilian supplies have had to be
severely curtailed, and since most of the
co.’s lines are coupon-free demand for
them has increased, the more so since the
trouble in the Sydney butchering trade
began. The co.’s buying and selling prices
are both fixed by Government agency.
After handing the taxgatherer £89,846
(up £37,505), and allowing £30,409 for
depreciation, combined net earnings of
the group were £6659 better at £142,683.
That was enough to cover the pref. div.
and show 11.2 p.c. on the £950,000 of
ord. capital, as against 10.5 p.c. for the
previous year. The div. was lifted a point,
making it 5 p.c., and the £59,183 that
remained raised nominal reserves to
£369,237, subject to intangibles (£641,632)
and tax (estimated at £101,000) on last
term’s earnings.
The financial position improved:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £1,400,000 £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Bank overdraft .. 60,034 155,486 233,824
Other creditors .. 144,413 212,151 210,857
Tax reserve .. 29,358
Suspense account.. 1,895 915
Freeholds .. 395,909 380,656 376,108
Plant, etc. .. 168,204 161,220 159,823
Stock .. .. 371,801 559,552 645,925
Debtors .. .. 236,021 361,598 389,263
Cash, etc. .. 37,344 40,929 68,021
Intangibles* .. 641,807 641,632 641,632
Suspense account.. 4,094
* Mainly difference between book value and par
value of inter co. shareholdings.
To carry an extra £86,373 of stocki, add
£37,665 to debtors’ balances and £27,092
to cash, etc., the board went to its bankers
for an extra £78,338. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£658,528) was £70,086.
As for prospects, the co. is well able
to take care of post-war demand. Much
will depend upon the level of costs and
the course of competition. One way in
which the Government can and should
help is by providing export credit facili-
ties. Financial conditions are likely to
force China, Thailand and others to buy
on best-credit .rather than best-price basis.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 84,262 73 21,750 12,512 123,468
1935.. 23,218 7*,, ~ 21,750 1,468 124,936
1936.. 29,381 10 „ „ 29,000 381 125,317
Contingencies reserve disclosed,
£36.716 162,033
1937.. 42,674 12* p.C~ 36.250 ) 2 ,424 164,457
Pension fund. £4OOO j
1938.. 29,404 10 p.c. = 29,000 404 164.861
1939.. 29,628 10 „ „ 29,000 628 165,489
To staff funds, £3OOO ~. .. 102,489
1940.. 31,863 10 p.c. = 29,000 2,863 165.352
To staff funds, £2850 .. .. 162,502
1941.. 35,021 10 p.c. = 29,000 6,021 168,523
To staff funds, £6OOO .. .. 162,523
1942.. 29,899 10 p.c. = 29,000 899 163.422
To staff funds, £3769 .. .. 159,653
1943.. 24,042 8 p.c. = 23,200 842 160,495
To staff funds, £3BOO .. .. 156,695
1944.. 26,975 8 p.c. = 23,200 3,775 160,470
To staff funds, £3OOO .. .. 157,470
This stoutly-ribbed co., which has an
excellent history, is in the wool-and-
produce-broking, pastoral finance and
stock- and station-agency business in
N. S. Wales. Since auctions ceased at the
outbreak of war the British wool con-
tract, which runs for the duration and
one wool year after the struggle with
Germany and/or Japan ends, has been
the sheet anchor of the trade. A flat rate
of 13.4 d. per pound *was paid until mid-
-1942, when the figure was lifted to 15.4 d.
to help offset rising costs. Also, the
British meat deal, together with require-
ments of the forces in the s.-w. Pacific,
has kept demand and prices for livestock
at satisfactory levels.
And, for the-most part, Nature has
been kind, as the following table, show-
ing sheep, cattle and pig population of
N. S. Wales at dates mentioned, indi-
cates :
March 31,
Jan. 1, f A —\
1939. 1943. 1944.
Sheep .. 48,876,663 56,043,598 56,837,300
Cattle .. 2,811,884 3,030,546 3,102,295
Pigs ~ 377,844 486,960 561,294
Although the total number of sheep pas-
tured increased over the last 12 months,
the number of breeding ewes decreased,
and so did the number of lambs marked.
Seasonal conditions grew worse as 1944
advanced. Parts of the State have bene-
fited by recent rains, but more falls are
needed to relieve the position generally.
The co. handled an extra 3499 bales of
wool at its Sydney and Newcastle stores
last .term:
Year to Wool
June 30, Bales. Sheep. Cattle Pigs.
1940.. 134,253 317,177 32,522
1941.. 141,507 375.530 19.551
1942.. 141,704 411.000 24,690 7609
1943.. 125.317 411,000 24,690 7609
1944.. 128,816 381,624 23,067 5239
In the fat-stock market it disposed of
29,376 fewer sheep, 1623 fewer cattle and
2370 fewer pigs.
Still, after setting aside an extra £5750
for the taxgatherer (£14,000) and paying
a bonus to the staff, the year’s net earn-
ings were £2933 stronger at £26,975. That
was 9.3 p.c. on capital as against 8, 10.2,
11.9, 10.9, 10, 10.1 and 14.7 p.c. back to
1937. The div., from which a couple of
points were chipped in the previous term,
was kept at 8 p.c., and £3OOO was sent
to staff funds.
Finances are snug:
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £290,000 £290,000 £290.000 £290,000
Overdraft .. 230.435 207,695 152,154 114,974
Creditors* .. 32,611 41,636 39,564 70,324
Freeholds .. 154,421 236.126 236,353 235.604
Advances, etc. 282,480 247,778 189,010 207,890
Liquid assets 301,103 249,113 239,181 220,546
* Including tax reserve.
Most heartening feature last term was
arrest of the downward trend in ad-
vances, which began in 1940. The year’s
net growth in the item was £lB,BBO. And
the co. is well equipped to further assist
clients as and when the need arises.
Owing to shortage of labor and materials,
outlay on milch-needed maintenance and
improvement to properties had to be
deferred. Belated Government recogni-
tion of this fact is now expressed in the
permission granted to owners of income-
earning assets to make interest-free de-
posits with the Treasury equal to esti-
mated cost of maintenance to June 30
next. In the final wash-up only actual
expenditure on repairs and maintenance
will be allowed as deductions.
Immediate outlook is for a lighter
clip. The new contract with Britain for
purchase of Australia’s export mutton,
lamb and beef for the next four years
should mean much to graziers. The
two big problems facing wool post-
war are ( a ) surplus stocks and (6)
competition from synthetic fibres. Recog-
nising the fight ahead for textile
supremacy, the Government proposes to
subsidise wool research and publicity to
the extent of 2s. a bale of the Australian
clip (about £300,000 p.a.), provided
graziers contribute a similar amount. A
wool consulative council is to be set up
for the purpose within the Ministry of
Post-war Reconstruction.
Australian Knitting Mills (Melb.)
f Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934 .. 59,445 7J p.C. 7} p.c. 41,312 18,133 185,761
1935 .. 39,894 73 „ 7 „ 38,550 1,344 187.105
1936 .. 28,054 7| „ 7 „ 32,583 182,578
Unexplained addition, £l7OB .. .. 184,284
1937 .. 19,070 74 p.c. 7i p.c. 14,906 4,164 188,448
1938 .. 18,848 73 „ 7i „ 14,906 3,942 192,390
1939 .. 17,656 73 „ 7| „ 14,906 2,750 195,140
1940 .. 28,736 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,111 203,251
1941 .. 29,018 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,393 211,644
To staff fund, £2OOO 209,644
1942 .. 28,435 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 7,810 217,454
To staff fund, £2OOO 215,454
1943 ~ 29,122 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 8,497 223,951
To staff fund, £7OOO 216,951
1944 .. 33,250 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 12,625 229,576
It used to be the Yarra Falls-A.K.M.
textile group. In 1936 A.K.M. distributed,
as return of capital, its holding of 308,000
Yarra Falls ords., 25,000 Austral Silk
and Cotton shares and £10,750 in cash.
That reduced capital to its present figure
(£206,250), and left earnings dependent
upon output and sales of the co.’s own
factory products —fine-knitted woollen
and artificial silk underwear and outer-
wear and full-fashioned hosiery, etc.
Shareholders have since enjoyed a higher
rate of div., as a glance at the table shows.
Still, considering the more than pound-
for-pound swag of reserves, earnings
have been moderate.
War demands, including those of Allied
forces, increased the volume and altered
the character of turnover. All plant suit-
able for the purpose —much of it wasn’t —
was switched to defence work. This and
shortage of yarns brought severe ration-
ing in civilian trade, where fashion
hosiery was one of the lines hardest hit,
and short-sighted W. 0.1. “rationalisation”
measures killed much of the market for
circular hose. However, despite smaller
margins on defence compared with
civilian sales and the effect upon produc-
tion and costs of a high rate of absentee-
ism among female labor, the co. gathered
more on the swings than it lost on the
roundabouts.
Turnover for the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts was the best in the
co.’s history. Demands for defence pur-
poses continued to taper, thus enabling
a bit more attention to be given to pro-
duction of essential civilian needs. The
new cotton-spinning plant only came into


Position Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited and will be received by
Norseman Gold Mines N.L. on or before SATURDAY,
18th November, 1944 for the position of
MANAGER
OP THE COMPANY’S MINES AT NORSEMAN, W.A.
Applications stating age, experience, including both
jold and sulphide ores and salary required to be
addressed to
No. 799 NATIONAL SERVICE OFFICE,
53 Martin Place, Sydney.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All mens-wear shops
'and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
I has all th© finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. Th© “National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
&nli entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
.l SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ' '
£l7/10/-
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
CUTHRIDGE
GEORGES!
CAMPEROOWN
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
w Cost Accountancy A
THINK of the thousands of factories
that have sprung up during the
war—they will have to turn to
peace-time production of much needed
commodities after the war, and this
means that thousands of trained Cost
Accountants will be required to
ascertain the exact cost of Production.
Cost Accountants are even now required
by the hundreds in Government
Departments, and they will be increas-
ingly needed after the war.
Think, therefore, of the opportunities
that open up for the ambitious young
Australian who studies, trains and
qualifies NOW. At present there are
27,000 factories in Australia and less
than 600 qualified Cost Accountants.
The NEW H. & R. Course in Cost
Accountancy and Factory Organization
will not only quickly enable you to
pass the Examinations (some students
already qualified in Accountancy have
done so in from 3-5 MONTHS), but
it will also train you thoroughly in
Costing principles and practice. This
H. Sl R. Training will enable you to
secure and hold any position of Cost
Accountant.
Why not call, write or phone
in for full particulars which will
be gladly supplied.
\
Specialist Coaches in Business
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
(founded ond Owned by Heating way & Robertson Pty. bdj
Profesxional Tutors
24 Bank House. Bank Place, Melbourne
24 Chain Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
Please send me FREE copy ojF your
96 p. “Guide to Careers in Business.
Name Age.. ——
Address -
Careg^ntereste^in.
Public Notice
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LIMITED.
(Dividend No. 55.)
NOTICE is hereby given that the Board of
Directors has decided to recommend at the
Annual Meeting of the Company, to be held
on the 30th November, 1944, payment of a
final dividend of 25 p.c. (1/- per share) in re-
spect of the year ended 30th June, 1944, less
United Kingdom income tax at 10/- in the £
(6d. per share), the net amount of dividend
being 6d. per share sterling. This dividend
makes a total distribution of 3p.c. for the
year ended 30th June, 1944. Subject to confir-
mation by the shareholders, the dividend will be
payable on 30th December, 1944, to all per-
sons registered as holders of shares on the Aus-
tralian register on 18th November, 1944. The
transfer books will be closed from 20th to 22nd
November (both days inclusive).
For Lake View and Star, Limited.
WM. THOMAS, Local Secretary.
Kalgoorlie, 10th November, 1944.
BKANDALfkA
rm
:
wv
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BEABOADBK * Oft. IML. lIIMBBBIM. KNO
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big.. King & Castlereagh Sts..
Sydney
Phones: MA 6007/8
and at all branches
Tuberculosis strikes at the very vitals of our nation. But its spread
can be checkedl The Anti-T.B. Association provides Clinical
treatment, but needs your help in building a Modern Clinic and
providing Mobile Service to Country Districts. Support their
£50,000 Appeal send donations now to the Honorary Treasurer,
Anti-T.B, Appeal, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
The I Anti-T.B. £50,000 Appeal
® _ R v
fotedtoday*
VJ .. . 16 ’ tt , „ ta od VaAlS '
6 ol»b le '“oication*- tte t
Co® 13 * 1 c ocatty . pe ace
» '» isto f y t ibe iic ' pir * \osW a *
of se^ 1 ® Airway 9 ’ A a
a cc« 0 ttta9 fctn?* Op etatots
a od Q J Cor»cr° 0
Ovcts®* 9 n ta*» ve9 °* ato £ #t S e
r r edHedW c - teady , 8 cbaio
Ub Govetr^ 60 ’ t«*« e
*ea»» U . folks *»
o«r Aviauoa.
nat oTa^ ?a |||-f^
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
SYDNEY : MELBOURNE : BRISBANE
*
TOWNSVILLE
ALL OUT TO WIN-BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES,
full production toward the close of *
counts. Its performances are reported
“up to expectations.” The worsted-spin-
ning plant has arrived and is being
erected, and, provided the necessary
skilled labor can be obtained, portion ot
it will go into production “in a very
short time.” These two spinning plants,
which mean much so far as supplies ot
suitable yarns, and therefore fabrics, are
concerned, should strengthen the co. s
competitive power post-war.
After setting aside an extra £7OOO lor
the taxgatherer (£32,000) and allowing
an additional £1729 for depreciation
(£20,367, including £5OOO to cover in-
creased landed cost of new plant), net
earnings were £4128 better at £33,250.
That was 16.1 p.c. on capital as against
14.1 p.c. for the previous term. An all-
round 10 p.c. div. was distributed again,
and the £12,625 that remained lifted re-
serves £23,326 in excess of paid capital
at the end of July last.
The installation of new equipment
already referred to is reflected in a net
addition of £33,977 to plant; etc.:
1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £206,250 £206,250 £206.250 £206,250
Liabilities .. ' 36,114 36,081 40,505 34,743
Tax reserve . . 15,919 30,713 27,259 87,795
Freeholds .. 108,008 139,139 137,939 133,872
Plant etc. .. 74,530 68,303 84,448 118,425
Stocks . ■ 191,449 143,029 144,774 138,904
Book debts . . 62,102 31,288 65,739 65,582
Cash, etc. . . 47,572 119,873 72,299 65,315
Shares ..
To meet the outlay and reduced liabili-
ties by £5762 cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £6984 and stock reduced by £5870.
Surplus earnings, together with allow-
ances for depreciation, etc., provided the
balance. The year’s contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£197,263) was
£17,285. Since plant additions have been
financed mainly from surplus earnings,
the board’s original intention of asking
shareholders to contribute has now been
abandoned.
The biggest problem in the textile and
other manufacturing industries today is
shortage of skilled labor, aggravated by
a high degree of absenteeism. Many em-
ployees do not yet realise that, in the
long run, only those benefits that are
earned can be enjoyed. No Government
can guarantee its people economic and
social security; the people have to earn
these things by their own achievements.
According to a U.S. Bureau of Mines
report, the diamond trade reached a new
peak of prosperity in 1943, owing to the
unprecedented demand for industrial
stones and heavy inquiry for gem
diamonds created by high wages and fear
of inflation. The Diamond Trading Co.,
which pre-war handled about 95 p.c. of
the world’s output, sold approximately
£20,000,000 worth of rough in 1943, as
against £10,694,671 worth in 1942. The
report adds that since 1939 the price of
fine large rough has increased at least
70 p.c. As for cut stones, melee under
one-quarter carat has more than tripled
in value over the same period, while the
price of one-carat stones has risen be-
tween 67 p.c, and 100 p.c., and large
stones progressively less. The increases
include American excise tax, 10 p.c.
1943 and 20 p.c. 1944. What prices will
be post-war remains to be seen.
He * * *
Though small compensation for the
body-blow dealt Westralia’s gold indus-
try, mining of the State’s strategic
minerals has made a useful contribution
to the war economy. Chief production
details are:
f Calendar Year (
Mineral 1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Antimony . . 10,180 12,539 60,237 41,987
Arsenic . . . . 59,977 70,938 57,267 47,943
Asbestos . . . . 14,534 2,968 5,788 12,975
Beryl . . .. 16 7 16,009
Felspar .. . . 7,010 12,190 9,734 6,924
Glauconite , . 4,823 8,888 6,500 2,450
Gypsum .. . . 14,082 10,245 3,136 880
Pyrites . . 607 19,078
Red ochre . . 2,384 2,870 1,360 3,866
Tungsten . . .. 2,171 101 473 2,682
Tantalite .. . . 7,811 471 6,338
Tin . . . . 5,174 1,874 4,634 1,833
Vermiculite .. 757 962 1,070 2,117
Activity at Norseman pyrites, Westonia
tungsten, Wodgina tantalite and Campion
alunite has increased substantially since
the end of 1943. In many deposits under
Commonwealth control, however, the
policy of gouging the greatest amount of
richest mineral in the shortest possible
time is jeopardising peace-time survival
prospects.
* # ♦ #
Edna May Amalgamated’s new 200-
ton-a-day treatment plant for recovery of
tungsten minerals from over 52,000 tons
of dump material at Westonia (W.A.)
began production in December, 1943.
Adjustments took several weeks, since
when the plant has been running at or
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Basse! and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain CoimnonweaJth and foreign patents.—Auvt.
* * ♦ *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Auvt.
near capacity, and is turning out better-
grade concentrate than laboratory tests
first indicated. For the period to the end
of June last it treated 15,050 tons mate-
rial, which yielded 23.95 tons concen-
trates, containing 1555.74 units W. 0.3 for
a profit of £3185. This reduced the net
loss on mining operations to £9979.
* * * *
Since the outbreak of war the old Rejoice
claim, about 14 miles south-south-west
of Ravenswood (Q.), has attracted the
attention of gougers again. The auri-
ferous vein, Sin. to 1 Sin. wide, was ex-
posed to a shallow depth over a length of
about 700 ft. some 30 years ago. Recently
ore assaying 10y p.c. copper, £oz. gold
and loz. silver was exposed at the bottom
of a 34ft. shaft. Nevertheless, the poten-
tial value of the vein, which is of the fis-
sure type, is more likely to depend on its
gold than its copper content, enrichment
of which is to be expected in the oxi-
dised zone. Nothing has happened so
far to suggest that the claim is a source
of other than small supplies of copper
ore.
* * * *
The old Ashton copper mine, at the
junction of Branker and Treverton
creeks, some 45 miles west-nor’-v. est of
Stanthorpe (Q.), has been examined by
the Mines Department at the instance
of P. J. R. Hilton, M.L.A. The lode was
discovered more than 50 years ago by a
man named Burton, A syndicate, in-
cluding local landowners, was formed to
develop the show and erect a smelter;
but owing to early disagreement little was
done, and the project was abandoned.
There is no record of any further mining
having been done since. The old work-
ings—costeens, pits and shafts opened to
as much as 100 ft. deep—suggest that the
shoot is short, the outcropping remnants
of the lode are of only moderate size,
and there appears little probability of ore
reserves of much commercial import-
ance being opened up.
* * * *
Recent Government examination of the
iceland spar deposit about 10 miles nor’-
west of Mungana, Chillagoe field (Q.),
disclosed a concentration of nodular
lumps of calcite up to 201 b, and more in
weight over a strip of ground two chains
long and from sft. to 10ft. wide. Samples
examined by the Geological Survey
laboratory were found to be defective in
transparency and seriously marred by per-
sistent clevage planes and by twinning.
In the absence of better material, indica-
tions of which are absent to date, the
deposit is not a worth-while commercial
proposition for production of iceland
spar for optical purposes.


Streamlining
Australia’s
War Industries
"Steelbilt” production lines are working
at capacity pace turning out storage
equipment for Australia’s defence indus-
tries and armed forces. "Steelbilt” equip-
ment guards costly machine tools , . .
"Steelbilt” shelving keeps Ordnance
Supplies ready to hand, and saves priceless
storage space. In almost every department
of Australia’s Defence industries "Steel-
bilt” shelving, Storage Equipment, Lockers,
and Cupboards are on duty. Already, big
advantages in "Steelbilt” design and con-
struction have been made ... and after the
war, when civilian supplies will be avail-
able again, you, Mr. Business Man, will
get the benefit of these valuable improve-
ments.
say
-y WBF MWm* v /fa),
-
irm , Miy
£ 8
-: :i-
W-v:
~
I mmmmm
m
OflBJ i
5 '—
mm JH
? : 3-«
» ,
m
•x 2
mm
\
ml
m
XX**
■vx<^#
:
m m
mm
»#?v?>3SJSSP:; tW:'
I
V
■- J:
•••• ■••;>
'-W< :
<a
i
.
(
■r
m
• •-■ • •. ■
■
jwxx-.v:
•t ?:
mm
K
m
I
i r.vfj
B
vxxx-xx xx
Xm :•
X
...
:■;■• ; .xX‘
n
M WATERLOO” DOOR TRACK AND HANGERS
for doors weighing 100 lbs. to 1,500 lbs.
are now available through your hardware
dealer. bangor door hangers having
been called up for the duration, will not
now be available.
*
ff
STORAGE EQUIPMENT
Manufactured by WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W .)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
The Mid-Pacitic Campaign.
“Ek Dum”: Signs are not wanting
that the Burmese and Philippines offen-
sives are forerunners of fires which will
set the whole Pacific front ablaze.
The collapse of the U-boat campaign
has enabled the diversion of more sub.-
hunting units to the Pacific and Indian
Oceans than otherwise would have been
possible. And the submarine is as im-
portant to Japan as it was to Germany.
Underwater craft are the supply ships
which keep the breath of life in garrisons
otherwise isolated.
The defeat of the Japanese Fleet in the
Leyte Gulf and Luzon battles must have
a tremendous effect. There seems to be
no doubt from the accounts of witnesses
on the spot that the loss of and damage
to Japanese warships were huge if not
crippling, though the newest and most
powerful battleships of the Yamato class
seem to have escaped, even if directly
and heavily hit.
There has been great curiosity about
the Yamatos. Estimates of their size
and gun-power range anywhere from
35,000 tons with 14-inch guns to 60,000
tons with 18-inch guns. The one photo-
graph which so far has emerged from the
battle shows a very broad-beamed, tough T
looking customer, with three-gun turrets
of what look more like long-calibre 15-
or 16-inchers than anything else, though
it is hard to judge.
The situation developed by the engage-
ment led Admiral Sir Andrew Cunning-
ham to remark that the greater the sea
and air superiority in the Pacific the
sooner we were likely to crush the inner
shell of the Japanese defences. The First
Sea Lord praised the U.S. Navy, which
had “conducted the Pacific war on its
own, with the assistance of Australian
and New Zealand ships,” and added that
it was “right strategy to send our fleet
to the Pacific as early as possible to work
with Admiral Nimitz’s fleets, since it was
imperative to defeat Japan quickly.”
There are, of course, large British naval
squadrons based on Ceylon, where
General Leese, as C.-in-C. Land Forces
S.E. Asia, has established the H.Q. of
the 11th Army Group. Powerful U.S.
forces will shortly be in operation in
North Burma.
The Burmese rainy season campaign is
in its last throes. With the sth Indian
Division and the African troops operat-
ing against Fort White, after a pur-
suit of 140-odd miles down the Tiddim
Road, the British Military Administration
in Burma remarked that “we” were
“about to drive the enemy from Burma.”
In North Burma, it would seem, the
Japs will not need much driving. The
facility with which General Sun and his
Chinese troops have moved forward and
across the natural defence barrier of the
broad Irrawaddy and occupied Schwego
while fanning out towards Bhamo sug-
gests that until the south is reached the
enemy will be in retreat. His communi-
cations in the open country of Central
Burma are being torn to pieces, and he
has not the organisation in Burma to
achieve the protection of dumps, stores
and routes against heavy bombing, which
is possible in intensively-organised Ger-
many. Allied naval superiority already
has placed Burma almost in a state of
siege, and before long the investment
should be complete.
Indeed, in the not very distant future
the enemy will find himself assailed inside
Burma from at least three directions—
from the Manipur Road ; down the central
railway, where the 36th British-operated
division is making steady progress 140
miles north of Mandalay, and from Ara-
kan; perhaps, also, on the Malayan side.
December 7, 1944, will see a very different
atmosphere in Tokyo from that of De-
cember 7, 1941. But there is hard fight-
ing ahead in Further India.
On Leyte
The experience of Leyte shows that
the enemy cannot be treated lightly. On
November 3 it was reported in a South-
west H.Q. Pacific communique that “the
final remnants of the enemy garrison are
being driven into the small Ormoc sector,
where they are enveloped on three sides by
our land forces... the end of the Leyte-
Samar campaign is in sight.” Enemy
losses were estimated in the communique
at 30,000, and elements of the U.S.
Twenty-fourth Division were said to have
crossed the enemy’s final delaying Tosi-
tions. , ,
On November 7 it was announced that
the Americans were still making “steady
progress,” and had advanced four miles
south from Carigara on their drive to
block off the Ormoc Valley. Again, on
November 8, it was officially stated that
the fight in Leyte was nearing its end
and that the Jap remnants in the north
were digging-in as a last resource, beaten
to shreds by U.S. fighters and bombers
and artillery. Operations were being de-
layed, by rain and gales.
Three days later it was reported that
General Yamashita, commander of the
Japanese army victorious in Malaya, was
in command on Leyte, Although the
Twenty-fourth Division had made sub-
stantial gains, it was admitted that enemy
reinforcements had reached Leyte from
Cebu and Mindoro, and were constantly
being despatched towards the scene of
action where the Thirty-fifth Japanese
Army was being deployed.
The enemy is obviously preparing to
fight a large-scale delaying action on
Leyte, regardless of cost. Two of his big
convoys suffered on November 9 and 10,
the Americans in dashing actions striking
off his list seven large cargo transports,
13 destroyers and at least 35 aircraft,
plus “probably about 8000 men.” But,
severe as these blows were, 5000 to
10.000 troops got ashore. There are at
least 35,000, and possibly 50,000, Japs in
the Ormoc positions, and the. sea
approaches are of such a nature that it
will be very difficult to prevent the in-
gress of men in a useful stream. It
seems that Leyte may prove another
Buna-Gona, but on a tougher scale.
The Japanese themselves alleged at
the week-end that they had temporarily
broken the U.S. attacks and “virtually
annihilated” the Twenty-fourth U.S.
Division, but events have a way of
making such allegations ridiculous.
By Sea and Air
A tremendous sea and air blitz is being
kept up in the Pacific, and some parts of
the enemy-held area between the Solo-
mons and Japan proper are under attack
almost every hour of the day. The Japa-
nese have been pouring aircraft into the
Philippines—this was the objective of the
powerfully guarded carrier-force which
Admiral Halsey’s Third Fleet intercepted
during the Philippines naval battle. There
is sometimes vigorous air resistance.
The biggest operations of carrier-borne
aircraft in the past few days were those
over Luzon, and particularly over Manila
Bay, on November 4 and 5, during which
113 aircraft were shot down, 327 de-
stroyed on the ground, four cargo ships
and a tanker sunk, one destroyer prob-
ably sunk and 26 other warships of
various small sizes sunk or damaged for
negligible cost.
Fortresses penetrated Japan, and some
flew right inside Tokyo defences. The
Japanese on November 12 claimed to
have heavily attacked the Admiralty
Islands, among other Allied bases, and
destroyed 30 Allied aircraft.
Tokyo announced the capture of
Kweilin on November 9. This had not
been officially confirmed from Chungking
up to November 13, but the capture
seemed likely. The Japanese are obvi-
ously throwing large forces into the area
to threaten Nanning and establish direct
land connection with their troops in Indo-
China.
Australia's Ships
H.M.A.S. Shropshire and Arunta, the
first of our Tribal destroyers, played a
proud part in the Surigao Strait battle
on October 25.
Arunta (Commander E. A. Buchanan)
fired torpedoes at close range into enemy
battleships, and several shots almost
point-blank into a large cruiser or battle-
ship, before she was ordered to retire.
Shropshire (Capt. A. G. Nicholls, R.N.)
blazed away at a Yamashiro-class battle-
ship, which carried 10 14-inch guns, and
gave her several hits before being ordered
to retire. The R.A.N.’s share in the de-
struction was more than fair revenge for
Australia, Canberra and Perth.
Up to the Starting Line.
“Ek Dum”: Results of Mr. Churchill’s
visit to Paris may have a greater bearing
on the ultimate outcome of the war than
anything in last week’s fighting. The
admission of the French to the European
Advisory Commission marks the restora-
tion of France to the position of a Great
Power, a development the more signifi-
cant in view of General De Gaulle’s
avowal that it was Britain’s magnificent
courage and extraordinary determination
to gain victory which saved the world’s
liberty.
France is still recovering from her
wounds. Hundreds of thousands of her
soldiers remain in German prison camps.
Communists of the resistance movement
have begun to worry the De Gaulle
Government, being apparently more in-
terested in fighting Spaniards and baiting
collaborationists than in fighting the Ger-
mans, with whom they made a very
curious truce in Paris before the city was
actually freed. There were shouts of rage
and threats when the Government said
it wanted their arms. And there are other
difficulties and complications resulting
from the German occupation.
Nevertheless, France is still one of the
Great Nations, capable of developing a
powerful war potential even under pre-
sent conditions. The sooner she is re-
stored the better for the progress of the
war apd the security of the peace in
western Europe.
The fighting in Holland having died
down with the submission of the last
Germans in Walcheren —or what is left
of it, for in process of capture nine-
tenths of the island was submerged—
another phase of the Netherlands cam-
paign ended.
The British and Canadian armies, with
their attached American units, began the
task of refitting and reforming for the
drive into the Fortress of Holland.
As the crow flies, their long-range guns
are virtually within reach of the fringes
of Rotterdam and Dordrecht. But be-
tween them lie hundreds of acres of con-
crete, the Maas and other channels and
the broad expanse of the Hollandsch
Diep. The great Moerdyk bridge over
this expanse of water has been destroyed.
Wind, sleet and rain, mists at night and
generally terrible flying conditions add
to the difficulties of advance.
It is unlikely that General Montgomery
intends to attempt an attack on the
Fortress of Holland till he can find
the resources to hamper its communi-
cations and perhaps cut its main routes
across the Ysel, north of Arnhem.
The enemy at midnight on November 12
reported powerful British forces in action
north of Nijmegen in this sector.
Dunkirk and the Biscayan enclaves
still are in enemy hands—the Germans on
November 12 reported hard fighting at
L’Orient, after a surrender demand by the
Allies—and it was something of a para-
dox to hear of thousands of Frenchmen,
with these islands of Germans still in
their part of France, devoting their
energies to threatening Spain, with which
their country is not at war. The Germans
are making much play in their propa-
ganda with the time gained by the holding
out of these isolated ports.
General Patton’s Drive
Offensive operations on the 350 miles
of the western battlefront —where the
enemy must be much more intensively
arrayed than in the east, if Marshal
Stalin’s estimate that 75 divisions are
being held there and in Italy is just—
were limited to General Patton’s front.
The enemy alleges that this is a major
offensive, but it is difficult to believe that
it has more than limited objectives at this
stage, when winter is closing down and
the countryside for the next few weeks is
likely to be a sea of mud under sheets of
autumn rain.
The likely goal seems to be to secure
a firm perch on the chief routes to Stras-
bourg and the Saar, beyond the main
ridge of the Vosges, before winter sets in
properly. In other words, the Allies are
moving up to the starting line from which
they would begin their battle to break
the main Rhine defences. At the same
time they would clear the way through
Metz —a powerfully fortified area, and
the key to the defence of Lorraine—or at
least completely isolate it, and rob the
Germans of several divisions and large
/resources which would be needed to
defend it in a siege.
The main American progress has been
made across the tributaries of the
Moselle, south of Metz. There, on a
front of about 30 miles, the Americans,
with heavy tank and artillery support
and huge air power, succeeded in blast-
ing their way to the Metz-Sarrebourg rail-
way and main road, which form the main
line of communications from Paris, via
Rheims and Chalons and Metz, to Stras-
bourg,
The country ip which the fighting
is going on is very much broken by
watercourses, along which red earthen
roads run (or used to run a few years
ago), almost sneaking down the sides of
creek valleys under cover of the fringes
of the woods with an air of using all
available cover and of being ready to
dive for a hollow log at the sound of a
rifle shot. In fact, the whole of this land-
scape, even in the peaceful middle years
between the present and the last war,
gives the appearance of having been laid
out by man for the purposes of war. And
so it had been, for this was the great for-
ward pivot of German defence and
offence, -of which Metz was the capital,
before and during 1914-18.
The effect of the southern advance of
about 12-14 miles so far has been to cut
the Strasbourg-Metz direct communica-
tions and to put another large section of
the Nancy-Luneville-Strasbourg road in
the jaws of two forces, of which the
southern one is that French army which
pushed forward a week earlier than
General Patton’s move and captured Bac-
carat.
Immediately north of Metz the U.S.
troops, moving inch by inch, had blasted
their way to within four miles of the
perimeter north-east of the high plateau
on which lies the battlefield of Grave-
lotte, but beyond the Moselle. This is a
heartening advance, doing much to
threaten the communications of Metz
with the Saar and the Kaiserslauten Gap.
There is about 15 miles between the U.S.
flanks north and south of the city. But
even if Metz were evacuated, which in
certain circumstances it might de-
fenders have not been using its batteries
of heavy guns—it would not be cause
for undue optimism, since it is a main
outpost and not a main defence bastion
of Germany, The U.S. forces have not
yet reached the main French frontal de-
fences of 1940, much less the German
border defences, which here lie more than
40 miles eastward on the other side of the
Rhine.
Further north they have driven far
beyond Thionville (Diedenhofen) on one
of the main military routes in and out of
Germany, via Saarlouis. On November
12 they were only 2\ miles from the Ger-
man border, but not quite level with the
frontal positions from which the High-
landers of the 51st Scottish Division some
distance along the line used to watch
the enemy 1500 yards away early in 1940.
The Germans, more concerned with
this advance than with that in the south,
threw strong tank counter-attacks at it
near Koenigsmacker and drove a wedge
two miles deep into the Seille bridge-
heads, which up to November 13 were
still holding—claiming on November
12 to have destroyed 79 U.S. tanks. But
on the south the enemy was slowly giv-
ing way—he said “breaking contact.”
Rain all along 70 miles of front was keep-
ing the rivers running a-banker.
In the Hurtgen Forest area further
north, south-east of Aachen, the terrible,
slow process of clearing pillboxes went
on and the Americans claimed little in the
way of gains. The Germans claimed to
have driven U.S. forces off the eastern
forest fringe and surrounded a group of
troops which were “facing annihilation.”
At the week-end it was still raining
over virtually the whole of the fronts in
the west.
South of Metz the taking of 3000
prisoners was reported, including the
types found in strong German screen
frontal lines —parachutists and fanatical
boys. _________________
Second Terror Weapon.
“Ek Dum”; For days it had been
evident that something unusual was hap-
pening in Britain, the key of which
seemed to be the sudden air of jubila-
tion on enemy radio stations. Benin
reported that V2 —the “V” is not tor
“Victory” but for Vergeltung, retaliation
—was “wrecking” London.
High Command communiques were
more restrained. They did not endorse
a radio claim that Euston station had been
reduced to an ash-heap. At midnight on
November 12 all that a communique
“from the Fiihrer’s Headquarters” had to


m
K
//
/,
V...
\ T" /.
\\\\\
i, m
It
\\
A
r
Churchill
has proved that
It takes an old dog
for a hard
road
In other words, experience counts, and you get it in full
measure in Top Dog Men’s Wear! That is why it wears so
much longer, keeps its shape and smartness, and gives such
satisfactory service. In cut, fabric and finish Top Dog gives
fuller value for every shilling of its cost. So bring the day
nearer when civilian supplies will be unrestricted by investing
in National Savings Bonds and War Savings Certificates.
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
to
1/0
pyjydut
KatiBP«™
toasmffll
say was “Retaliation attacks against Lon-
don were again carried on.”
From Britain there were signs that there
was a grain of truth in German claims.
No mention was made of the new mis-
siles, but there seemed to be a sudden
interest in evacuation and an air of un-
easiness when flying bombs were men-
tioned, as they were occasionally. The
enemy claimed to be disorganising the
reconstruction of Antwerp with V 2.
Bits of Mr. Churchill’s speech at the
Mansion House on November 9 sounded
as if the stout old Prime Minister had a
problem on his mind, hfext day he re-
vealed it, but it was an apt comment on
the effects of V 2 that it had not seemed
worth while to the city fathers to aban-
don their historic banquet and avoid the
risk of a stratospheric missile falling into
the turtle soup.
Speaking in the Commons, Mr.
Churchill discussed the new weapon, and
said there was no need to exaggerate the
danger; the scale and effects of the attack
so far were not significant; casualties and
damage had not been heavy. But the
P.M. made no secret of the fact that the
enemy was using a weapon more nerve-
wracking than the flying-bomb, even if
there was no greater quantity of ex-
plosive in its warhead.
Tabulation of the facts about the flying-
bomb for counter-measures revealed
some encouraging things. It was not too
speedy for pursuit by fast fighter ’planes.
It flew at altitudes at which it was acces-
sible to ack-ack fire without difficulty.
Its approach could be heard and seen.
Towns could be warned of its direction
minutes before it arrived. It presented
no great problems either to the detection
systems or to the agencies set up for its
destruction.
But reports of the V 2 were that it
travelled faster than sound or than a
low-velocity bullet. According to the
Prime Minister, it shot through the strato-
sphere 60 to 70 miles up and at least 50
miles beyond the range of the highest-
flying fighter; more beyond the range of
the highest anti-aircraft fire. Even when
detected no fighter pilot had a chance
of seeing it, much less chasing it.
The fact that the horror penetrates
only “rather deeper” into the soil than
the flying-bomb, whose engine cuts out,
causing it to lose considerable speed,
seemed to suggest that at the end of its
eerie journey it had no speed left; and
this gave a chance. But even if it fell
straight down aircraft would be faced
with a problem similar to that of chasing
one of their own bombers’ bombs
to earth, a matter not very easy if they
started neck and neck. A bomb falling
20,000 feet from a 250 m.p.h. bomber
plunges to earth in about 47 seconds,
and reaches a terminal velocity of about
600 m.p.h.
Facts About V 2
One or two people claim to have seen
the missile near landing point. “Rocket”
was Mr. Churchill’s word for it. The
Germans in quoting him say “what he
calls a rocket.” It travels at more than
760 m.p.h.—it is unlikely that it goes
much faster. Rockets normally travel at
a relatively slow speed, and can, in fact,
be photographed with ease when in the
air. In any case, there would be little
advantage and many disadvantages in
higher speeds.
Some V2s have been fired from Wal-
cheren, which is over 100 miles from the
nearest point on the English coast. The
Prime Minister believes that areas from
which it is still being fired will “be ovei-
run by our forces.” But the Germans say
the firing is taking place from behind
the Siegfried defences, which would
mean that the range is at least 350 miles.
There is no certain knowledge as to
the destructiveness of the frightful things
—the British know and won’t tell the
enemy, and the enemy doesn’t know and
trusts to his inventive powers, which out-
strip even his ferocity. It has been re-
vealed that hospitals, schools, churches
and many homes have been wrecked. It
is not known to what extent detection
systems are useful against such a weapon.
But a few things can be deduced. If
V 2 is a true rocket, though its hitting
power declines in ratio to the distance
of its target, it is a force to be reckoned
with. Even the small projectiles carried
under the wings of Beaufighters were
destructive enough to sink a 51,000-ton
liner in the Adriatic within the past few
weeks. Moreover, a rocket can be fired
with very little paraphernalia—it needs
a frame to rest it on and that is all. If
the Germans have developed a strato-
spheric fuel their worst difficulties are
over. Alcohol has been suggested, and
some form of it would seem to be most
suitable for the fiendish business. Alco-
hol has not the touchy explosive qualities
of petrols—alcohol will burn where petrol
Will blow up —and it has a wonderfully
high efficiency even if it has not the
mileage economy of petrol.
Generally speaking, a rocket is easily
made, but a rocket which carries a
20001 b. warhead must be a large affair,
stoutly built to withstand the strains of
very high speeds and the vacuums and
near-vacuums of higher altitudes. It has
been reckoned that these rockets weigh
14 tons. This factor and other factors of
accuracy reduce it at present to the
category of devices designed to wreck
nerves rather than defence systems.
If the thing is really fired at targets
400 miles away it must be subject to two
changes of which the enemy can scarcely,
without extensive actual experience, cal-
culate the exact effect on accuracy be-
cause of the varying conditions of the
atmosphere—the change when it leaves
the heavier atmosphere for the strato-
sphere and the one when it comes out of
the upper vacuums into the terrestrial
atmosphere once more.
And at 400 miles range a deflection
from its desired course of one-tenth of
one per cent, would mean an error of
two fifths of a mile. Flying-bombs have
a radio course indicator followed by the
enemy’s radar, the data later being used
for adjustment.
If it takes ten tons of rocket to carry
one ton of warhead, it will need
1,000,000 tons of rockets to launch
100,000 one-ton bombs, and that without
any guarantee of accuracy comparable
with aircraft bombing. The R.A.F. can
return 100,000 tons of bombs, much more
highly efficient than any far-flung strato-
spheric rocket and right on the target,
with the use of only one-tenth of the pro-
jectile material. And any one of the
R.A.F.’s 12,0001 b. bombs will have more
effect on the ultimate outcome of the
war than 50 of Hitler’s contraptions—
at their present stages.
Rocket Limitations
It is certain that unless the thing can
be developed to monstrous proportions
and deadly accuracy over long distances
it can never wipe out industrial cities; it
can never reach deep emplacements ; it
can never win the war, even if Germany
could hold out for two or three years to
develop it to its zenith of destructiveness
and could find materials for its whole-
sale use. One fleet of 1000 Lancasters,
or 1000 Typhoons, each armed with four
or eight rockets of the hitting power of
a six-inch naval gun at short range, can
wreak more damage in Germany in 25
minutes than the enemy can hope to
achieve in a month with rockets fired
from hundreds of miles away.
Last month the combined air forces
dropped on German objectives outside
the firing line more than 100,000 tons of
bombs. That has been going on for
months, and though a million tons of
bombs must by now have been dropped
on German objectives since 1939 it has not
reduced Germany to impotence or even
near-impotence. Germany, in attacking
Britain from the air, has a very huge lee-
way to make up before it can bring that
country to anything near the mangled
condition of the Reich.
Scientific Barbarism
This does not mean that the rocket is
not a terrible weapon. It is the worst
terror weapon yet devised. It is as silent
as an arrow. The impossibility of ren-
dering it exactly accurate in aim—even
short-range rockets have their limits in
this respect —means that it is a reckless
killer. Thus, until its full range and pos-
sibilities are known, no man, woman or
child in southern England in the areas
in which the dreadful missiles have fallen
can be sure that at any second in the day
or night he or she may not be blown to
pieces by something which has given no
warning save a slight sizzling sound a
second or so before impact. Nothing can
be done about it short of destroying the
means of producing and launching it, and
if its range is as great as suggested it
has a wide arc from which it can be
operated.
At the same time it will not terrorise
the British people. Its main effect will
be to make the Allies redouble their
efforts to stop the savagery at its source.
Said a Briton now in Australia to the
writer: “The flying-bomb was Germany’s
worst blunder. It assured that the battle
of Normandy became a personal family
fight with every British soldier in it. And
at home it made every one-and-tuppence


The 54 Common Errors
in English.
by E. H. Welford, Director of the Pelman
Institute (O / seas) —First issued 1938.
A habit-forming method by which
common errors of speech are corrected.
The undivided attention of the pupil is
directed to one error at a time, and in
one; two or three minutes, according to
the nature of the error, the correct form
sinks into the subconscious and the pupil
uses it thereafter without hesitation or
self-consciousness. The pupil is shown,
too, how to find the proper pitch of his
voice, and how to improve intonation,
resonance and accent.
A full tuitional service is given by post.
The study material consists of .two books
in open type and flexible covers. Weight
with test papers, 5oz.
The fee for the complete Course, includ-
ing material, instructional service and
postages to the pupil, is £2.
Fees and Inquiries should be addressed
to —
E. H. Welford, The Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.
Public Notices.
I, HANS KARL MAX DUWELL, known as Duewell,
of German nationality, born at Gilstrow, Germany,
and resident over six years in Australia, now residing *
at Flat 5, No. 38 Blair Street, Bondi, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, HEINZ DUWELL, known as Duewell, of German
nationality, born at Offenbach a. M., Germany, and
resident over six years in Australia, now residing at
Flat 5, No. 38 Blair Street, Bondi, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, HANS STIASNY, Stateless, born at Vienna,
Austria, and resident five years in Australia, now
residing at 36 Clarke Street, Earlwood, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
Missing Friend.
QUENTIN BRITT born at Stanthox-pe Queensland on
the 14th July 1922 and last heard of at Charters
Towers in September 1939 is requested to communi-
cate with J. GREGG Solicitor Bowman House Ade-
laide Street Brisbane and he will hear something
to his advantage.—J. GREGG, Solicitor, Brisbane.
On the South Gippsland Road . • .
■ ..
m
Wr* 1 mmrmFW Tim mm
*- m 3, mm >? -
H
m ■ ,
mmm
m&st&
\, ■
H
'• ; ■ ;•:
■
m ■
W
- ■ |
3
H
—, • .
■
B
: i :
<5; :
"BA
£b/.V?Rv : ->..? ■
M » -
I I
B ■
An ARMCO Multi-plate
4-Arch Culvert
Here is an extension to an existing bridge, constructed
with Armco Multi-Plate. Armco Multi-Plate structures
offer strength, speed, and economy in construction. The
first cost of Multi-Plate is low, and no maintenance is
involved. Armco Multi-Plate can replace existing culverts
without interruption to traffic. Write for full particulars
of Armco Multi-Plate Structures for Culverts and small
Bridges.
w
ARM CO
ARM CO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY r MELBOURNE . BRISBANE . ADELAIDE
worth of steak worth two-and-fourpence
in industrial energy.” ...
If Germany could hope to bomb Britain
with aircraft it would not use so uncer-
tain a weapon as a stratosphere rocket.
And its bombing-aircraft campaign has
been reduced to zero, like the campaign
of the U-boats, the building of which
was announced to have ceased after Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt had stated
that in October U-boat results were the
lowest of the war.
The rocket campaign is not the expedi-
ent of a combatant who hopes to win
by it —Berlin has admitted as much. It is
like the kick with which a vicious
criminal on the scaffold sometimes maims
the person nearest to him before the bolt
is pulled.
At the same time it must be remem-
bered that the pilotless air-attack prepara-
tions of the Reich were largely crippled
before they began by the blasting of their
experimental and storage plants at Peene-
munde on the Baltic coast, and by the
overrunning of the bomb-launching sites
in France. The Germans apparently had
planned to hit London with 200 f.bs. a
day.
Also the pilotless weapons are capable
of enormous development, particularly
the flying-bomb, which is a jet-propelled
pilotless carrier aircraft—so simple that it
could be mass-produced on a large scale at
the cost of a heavy shell. Its range is sus-
ceptible to great extension ; it can be-
come bloated and carry tons of explo-
sives. Its speed during the short time it
was in use was stepped up about 50
m.p.h. to over 415 m.p.h. And its accu-
racy from ground launching sites was
improving. Also it can be launched
from aircraft. It represents a technique
which is only in its infancy.
Forli Falls.
Forli fell to the Eighth Army during
the week, but on November 12 was under
heavy German shellfire. The Italian
front is not free from the bitter rain
and the gales which afflict all European
fronts at the onset of winter, and the
advances from the hill country in the
Fifth Army sectors to the west, where
Indians captured a notable height, were
hampered as much as those of the units
of the Eighth which have broken across
the substantial water barrier of the Mon-
tone River —it runs to the Adriatic just
south of Ravenna. However, the frontal
defence positions of the northern plain
have been breached, and the struggle for
industrial Italy is about to begin.
The Eastern Front.
“Ek Dum”: Marshal Stalin in a speech
on November 6 joined the other Allied
leaders in their conviction that the war
against Germany was in its last phase.
He added that as the result of concerted
Allied offensives the Soviet flag before
very long would float in Berlin.
Statistics of the summer fighting were
included. According to the marshal, 120
German and satellite divisions had been
knocked out; in White Russia three Ger-
man armies and on the southern front
250,000 of the enemy had been killed or
captured.
These figures are far more modest than
those issued in the official Russian army
communiques, which, in respect of the
southern drive to the Bulgarian border
alone, claimed more than 200,000 killed,
and 208,000 prisoners.
Casualty lists are a puzzling feature
of this war. Including Italy, the number
of enemies killed and captured in six
months on all fronts —not counting those
lost recently in the battles for Hungary,
Latvia and Holland—totalled 1,580,000,
or somewhere about the total for three
years of the last war. At least a million
wounded must be added. Yet Germany is
supposed by Moscow —and British
authorities agree—to have over 300 com-
bat divisions. On available reports there
are more German tank divisions than in
1941, and that with heavier metal and
more heavily manned. And on every
front wherever a main gate to inner
Germany has been attacked it has thus
far been held.
Against the 171 divisions with which
Germany launched the Russian war in
1941 there are 204 enemy divisions on
the eastern front, of which 180 are Ger-
man. On the west. Marshal Stalin said,
75 divisions are pinned down.
The prodigality with which Germany
appears to have been able to man the
eastern front is shown by the Marshal’s
statement that 30 German divisions are
blocked off in one corner of Latvia alone,
and are being annihilated. The enemy
asserts that this force has been able to
hold its ground, and that last week the
operations against it were reduced to
patrol actions.
Enemy Claims
Concerning the summer and autumn
fighting on the eastern front the enemy
has made claims which may be thus sum-
• ~
man-ea •
(1) On the East Prussian border he has fought
to a standstill the strongest - Russian force ever
thrown into a battle, thrown it back in places,
“cut off” part of it in the hill region of Goldap.
This after staving oft three previous attacks
against the eastern frontier.
(2) He has maintained strength enough to in-
hibit strenuous Russian efforts on the Narew
River against the southern defences of East
Prussia, the main defence lines of which in that
region, he asserts, the Russians have not yet
been able to approach.
(3) Made it impossible for the Russians to
break through at Warsaw, the impending fall
of which was announced by correspondents on
July 31, and “sealed up” an attempted break
across the Vistula to Kielce from Deblin.
(4) Prevented a pincer movement on the
Silesian flank through Cracow from developing,
by stopping Russian offensives through Przemysl
from Lwow and from the Sandomiercz bridge-
jj ea( j
tsi Held the Dnkla Pass in the west Carna-
thians against four major attempts to open it
-though Rumanian support collapsed on his
eastern flank, and chaos existed for a time on
his western flank through the defection of
Slovakia—and re-established a line of defence
in this region.
(6) Arrested the Russian advance in the
Balkans which was aided by Marshal Tito’s
forces, whatever they may amount to, so as to
get out the main body of German forces in
Greece, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia before the
Allies could organise a full-scale invasion,
(7) Brought tremendous tank power into play
at Debreczen, Hungary, in an area unsuited to
fortification, even if there had been time to
fortify it, and held up the Russians long enough
to concert plans for the defence of the Danube
and the frontiers farther back.
, T j , . . ~ ~ „ „, ;11
No doubt, in time the So e fl g
float m Berlin as the resul of concerted
Allied pressure, but not be
front.ers of Germany and some broad
belts inside it have become dark and
bloody ground.
A Review of Operations
The reviewer is Major General Fuller,
one of the best of the British military
critics ; _he wrote at the end of Sep-
ernDer '
In the west on June 6 Normandy was in-
varied-; on July 31 Avranches was occupied,
and on September 11 it was announced that
Allied troops were fighting on German soil.
In the east on June 23 the Russian
summer offensive opened; on July 31 it had
flooded into the suburbs of Warsaw; on
Sept'. 10 Moscow announced that “Russian
troops” had “ceased operations in Bul-
garia.”
To Rip van winkle j ust awakened it
would seem that two wars are in progress;
the Anglo-American war against Germany
an d a Russian war in the Balkans. But
we know there is only one war. How
comes it that since July 31 Allied'forces
have bored past Aachen, whereas the
Russians are still in the suburbs of War-
saw? The collapse of Ihe Germans
in the west is easily understandable
they miscalculated the revolution intro-
duced by special landing craft they were
surprised by the stupendous machine power
which the Allies were able to unleash
Their resistance in the east is less clear.
Should it be due to superior strength, then
it is difficult to understand why the Rus-
sians have not as yet attempted to turn
the Warsaw-East Prussia line to the south,
that is b Y wa Y of Cracow-Breslau. Should
• b ® tbat understand how
abk to penetraS sodeeply
have been able to penetrate so aeepiy
mto tae Balkans.
In Hungary
Hungary shared in the general down-
pour which heralded winter all over fight-
f._ _ .
mg Europe, except in East Prussia, where
there was light snow and sleet.
T < _ tll i nn Rudanest was
actual anve on JJUCiapesc was
halted, but the Russians were busy north-
eask an( j south-east of the twin cities,
• tnwarrk tho Danube and
converging towards the Jjanuoe ana
bringing supplies over their newly-won
crossing places on the Tisza. The enemy
was strongly resisting their advances from
these dire b ? ons In | eedjhe was rcported
to be bringing up strong reinforcements,
ticularl b c b £ » nd at the begin .
JJ ing Qf (h * week the ’ a , tack on the outer
defences of Pest had not gone far beyond
the sta S e o£ a preliminary probing of its
offensive activity on the Hungarian
js not on Army’s side,
Qn November 10 the Russians kported
that they had stopped a serious effort by
a large enemy f orce to break round to
° c r» - • a it mi*
th® f eai 9 Russian flank, killing 1000
ot the raiders and capturing 1000 more.


The Science of being
“BROKE”
The only dividends you get from spend-as-
you-go are down-trodden, heels and frayed
trouser cuffs. Thrift may be an old-fashioned
virtue but it still keeps a man (or a woman)
“on top of the world". By the simple invest-
ment of even a few shillings a week in a
Commonwealth Savings Bank account you
can lift yourself out of the rut; and put your-
self in a position to assure your future
prosperity by the easy purchase of War
Bonds or War Savings Certificates. Make a
start out of this week's pay envelope.
WITH THE
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
CBM
More than three-quarters of a million Australian men and
women are serving in the fighting and auxiliary forces. So
someone has to prepare two million meals a day, and
efficient cooking has become a national service.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is playing its part in fulfilling this vast requirement. AGA
Cookers have been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air
Force, for unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of your
AGA Cooker is not made with normal promptness, please
bear in mind the urgent needs of the fighting men and
the auxiliary services.
Whether in military or civilian use, the AGA Cooker burns
continuously; cooks fast or slow as desired; conserves food
flavours, and is almost unbelievably economical.
A demonstration will be gladly given if you call. Or
write for illustrated catalogue^
AGA
REG 0. TRADE MARK
The Original Heat Storage
COOKER
made in BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
£s t. 15 52 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer S Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
[=
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
A crowd estimated at between 103,000
and 105,000 saw Sirius, favorite at 3 to 1,
defeat Peter (12 to 1) and Cellini (66 to
1) in the Melbourne Cup last Saturday.
Attendance was not a record, but tote
takings, £210,018 155., represented an all-
time high for Australia.
Sydney jockey D. Munro reduced 71b.
to ride Sirius, who was reported lame on
the eve of the race. Scare stories, how-
ever, are inseparable from Melbourne
Cups, and there was never anything amiss
with Sirius, according to his trainer,
Elwood Fisher. Betting confirmed
Fisher’s statement. “Lame” horses gener-
ally ease in the market, but Sirius firmed
from his overnight price of 9 to 2 and
4to 1 to 3 to 1 on the course. He was
never farther back than third, hit the
front rounding the turn, and, ridden right
out in typical Munro fashion, won by
half a length. A four-year-old entire by
Enfield-North Star, and a brother to the
Oaks winner. East End, Sirius was bred
by his owner, R. Turnbull, chairman
of the V.R.C. Mr. Turnbull has the dis-
tinction of being the first sitting V.R.C.
chairman to own a Melbourne Cup win-
ner.
Sirius’s success was not unpalatable to
doubles bookmakers, for the horse
was in no great demand until after
the Caulfield Cup had been run,. He
was at approximately 14 to 1 before his
success in the Hotham Handicap last
Saturday week, then firmed to sixes, and,
following Lawrence’s withdrawal on the
eve of Melbourne Cup day, touched 4 to
1. Had Peter won, instead of finishing
second, he would have represented a pay-
out of about £150,000 for doubles book-
makers. Course fielders, however, ex-
perienced one of their worst Cup results
for many years.
Sensations characterised the Cup. San
Martin, winner of the Victoria Derby,
broke a leg comparatively early in the
race, and was destroyed. Rider W. Cook
informed the stewards that his mount did
not meet with interference, and that no
blame was attachable to any other rider.
Another stir was caused when a protest
was entered on behalf of Claudette, who
finished fourth, against the third horse,
Cellini. Third prize of £750 was a good
incentive, but, although there was slight
interference nearing the finish, it was
not sufficient to make any difference to
the minor placing.
H. McCloud, rider of the runner-up,
Peter, had a bad-luck story to tell after
the race. He contended that a horse
falling back on him near the five furlongs
made the difference between success and
defeat. McCloud added that his mount
was struck over the head by Munro’s
whip near the finish, but as it was Peter’s
own fault he did not lodge a protest.
Grand Fils did best of the four Sydney-
trained runners, but he finished only
ninth.
Provoke, a filly by Manitoba from
Defiant, improved on her Wakeful Stakes
f orm to defeat Rain bird and Delina in
the Oaks Stakes. Good riding by H.
Badger was a contributing factor to the
success of Provoke, who started at 12 to
but the slow pace was hardly to Rain-
bird’s liking. Delina’s rider, W. William-
S on, was not seen to advantage.
■ ■ ‘ *
About 300 male and female employees
of Goold and Porter, who make boots
and shoes in North Fitzroy, shared
in St. Fairy’s win in the Final Handicap,
O, Porter, a principal of the firm and
owner of St. Fairy, always lays his em-
ployees something to nothing about his
horses. St. Fairy, who was sold recently
because his ex-owner-trai.ner was not
granted a trainer’s permit by the V.R.C.,
was racing for the second time in his new
colors, and won from the faster-finishing
Three Wheeler and Fur Trader.
Antares (Solar Bear-Lagune) recorded
his first win in the Batman Con-
nections had intended starting him for
the Derby a week earlier, but decided to
reserve him for Saturday’s race, when
conditions were more in his favor,
Minanalaes, backed from 25 to 1 down to
14 to 1, defeated Chatfield and Solon in
the Railway Highweight, and Apropos
(John James-Belle Spin) was too good for
Destination and Felstar in the Byron
Moore Stakes
Moore Stakes. * * *
Lagoon’s 71b. apprentice allowance did
not benefit him as much as anticipated in
the Flying Handicap at Moorefield.
Though after shaking off Brazier
Lagoon was first round the turn,
Bruce Wood (Smith), who was always
prominent, had his measure soon after
entering the straight, and War Effort
cut him out of second money. Bruce
Wood did a lot of racing last season, and
as this was his eighth race since the be-
ginning of August there is no doubt as
to his toughness. Of the unplaced lot
only Mintage and Allan Veil gave
promise for the immediate future.
F . • • • • •
Precise had every chance in the Vic-
toria Park Handicap at Moorefield, but
he did not prove himself all that his easy
win at Rosehill led most of us to believe.
He was going easily at the head of affairs
after covering half a mile, but at the
home turn Craigie was alongside him,
and then. Haripur, with a good finishing
run, settled both. When Craigie was so
well placed it looked as if he would see
it out but the last bit troubled him more
than Haripur, with whom hard racing evi-
dently agrees. The latter did not have
the best of luck in the early part, but
finished very solidly. He ran in 24 races
last season, and this was his seventh
start during the current one. On Satur-
day he was ridden by G. Moore.
Both two-year-old races at Moorefield
were won in easy fashion, that of
Northern Pearl (Moore) in the fillies’
division particularly so, though her time
was half a second slower than that re-
corded by Gold Cascade (Coutts) in the
colts and geldings’ division. Gold Cas-
cade, who cost 300 gns. as a yearling, is
by Midstream from Wannadale (Rossen-
dale-Lakawanna), and Northern Pearl
(200 gns. yearling) is by Beaupartir (son
of Beau Pere) from Western Pearl
(Moabite-Berylacre). Most of the runners
in both races shaped so indifferently as
to suggest that it is due to extreme opti-
mism on the part of either owners or
trainers that they are in work.
Moorefield winners in Beltana (Coutts)
and Davinia (Moore) should not be long
before they again score, though in Bel-
tana’s race Wheatland was so hopelessly
left at barrier-rise that he did well to run
fifth, and will probably again be a
favorite when he next runs in similar
company. Princeton, though well in the
market in the Three-year-old Handicap,
never raised the hopes of his backers.
* * * *
Excuses for beaten horses are rarely
profitable, and this was further empha-
sised in the Melbourne Cup. Grain
Trader and Martial Law were, by many
Melbourne racing men, considered un-
lucky not to have gone closer to success
in the Hotham Handicap, but in the Cup
they were further behind Sirius and Peter
at the finish than they were in that race.
Occasionally a horse is palpably so un-
lucky that excuse is warranted, but, as
a rule, it pays best to take the result of
a race at its face value. After the way
he raced- at Randwick the support ac-
corded Mayfowl was difficult to under-
stand, and he did no better in the Cup
than in the Metropolitan.
* * * •
The Metropolitan Racing Clubs and
the S.T.C. are not in agreement as to the
terms on which the latter should take over
WILLIAMSTOWN CUP SELECTIONS.
(Before acceptances .)
By Our Melbourne Representative.
Martial Law 1
Huntingdale 2
Tranquil Star 3
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Novice Handicap: Lance, 1;
Man o’ War, 2 ; Debenture, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: Huamight,
1 ; Toulon, 2 ; Courtship, 3.
Horsley Handicap; Silverelda,
1; Star Gold, 2; Bahtheon, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Strath-
darr, 1 ; Liberality, 2; Invictus or
Princess Annabel, 3.
Milperra Handicap: Streamford,
1; Royal Peer, 2 ; Craigie, 3.
Leumeah Handicap: Silent, 1;
Bestow, 2 ; Betza, 3.


Legal Notice.
TO PATRICK BARRETT HALF-BROTHER OF THE
UNDERMENTIONED THOMAS BARRETT AND
ANY CHILD OF THE SAID PATRICK BARRETT
AND ANY PERSON CLAIMING THROUGH ANY
OF THEM.—Pursuant to an order of the Supreme
Court you are required to send to the undersigned
before the 31st May 1945 your claim to share in the
estate of THOMAS BARRETT late of Waimate
Fanner who died on or about the Bth May 1941
failing which such estate will be distributed disre-
garding your claim. —THE SOLICITOR, Public
Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHRISTINA JEAN HOLDEN late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that EDWARD HOLDEN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3759 of 1944 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the First day
of December One thousand nine hundred and forty-
four and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from C. P. WHITE & CO. Solicitors 160 Castlereagh
Street Sydney.— (n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
[This 013 Treatment Often Rringi
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
three pints a day and so get rid of three pounds
of waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent
or scanty passages with smarting and burning
are further evidence that something is wrong
witih the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS...
used successfully the world over by millions of
people suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
STRONGER... LIGHTER ... LONGER-LASTING
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
CAS E S
30®
Si ols
V
■so®.
it
30®
%
vrs
m//
&
E
A.T.L. offers you without obli-
gation constructive advice in
connection with any post-war
production problem involving
tools, gauges, instruments or com-
ponents which must be engineered
to limits of super-accuracy.
s
m
*8
as**
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS. TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY > i » * MELBOURNE * , , , PERTH i • > • BRISBANE
AH4-E
some Sydney courses. Premier McKell is
on the side of the S.T.C., but the latter
has enough obstacles in the way of im-
proving racing and racecourses to make
it a pity that the whole matter cannot be
left in abeyance until we get through
with the war. Apart from Randwick and
Hawkesbury, next year’s fixtures are held
up.
* * * *
Three of the last five Williamstown
Cups were won by horses previously
placed in the Melbourne Cup of the same
year. They were Maikai, Phocion and
Claudette, A similar result is possible
this year. Peter, second in the Cup, is
up 31b., Cellini (third) 61b., Claudette
(fourth) 91b. and Huntingdale (fifth) 71b.
LiberaLKnight, again carrying 7.2, shaped
sufficiently well in the Cup to make him
a possibility, likewise Martial Law, who
drops 61b. Tranquil Star, 9.3, is bound
to run well, and another with a chance
may be Fairway Freddy, who was not a
Cup runner, but has 51b. less than he was
weighted at for that race. However,
form points so strongly to Peter that he
seems sure to be a hot favorite. I am
writing before the declaration of accept-
ances,
.** * ♦
Following the remarkable sale of year-
lings at Keeneland (Lexington) at the
end of July and beginning of August
there was another at Meadow Brook
(Westbury, Long Island) less than a fort-
night later, when 115 youngsters aver-
aged nearly £1145 (not dollars). Mrs.
E. Graham, who was also a big buyer at
Keeneland, paid $19,900 for a filly by
English-bred Euston (son of Dark Legend).
It was the highest price of the sale, but
W. Helis was not far behind with $18,500
for a filly and $lB,OOO for a colt. At
Keeneland he paid $76,200 for seven year-
lings, and at Meadow Brook $71,200 for
a similar number. One of his recent pur-
chasers was the stallion Valdina Orphan
for $lOO,OOO, for his stud, and the
‘Thoroughbred Record” credits him with
having expended $750,000 on bloodstock
during the past year. Such a buyer
would be appreciated by Australian
breeders.
» * * *
So far this season there has been no
exceptional development of class among
the horses racing in Sydney. Flight has
retained her earlier form and that is good
enough to place her first of the older
division at weight-for-age, even though
she did not escape defeat. The mares also
hold premier positions in the younger
divisions. Tea Rose proved her superior-
ity over the three-year-olds, and Civic
Pride’s decisive win in the Gimcrack
Stakes entitles her to be rated the
best two-year old, despite Magnificent’s
Breeder’s Plate win and Courtship’s bril-
liant form at Rosehill, Modulation and
Versailles are among the older horses
likely to make further improvement, and
that will be necessary in order to reach
w.f.a. standard. Kiaree has also made
excellent progress.
* K ft V
When By Jiminy won the American
Derby, of the total value of $80,200, at
Washington Park (Chicago) on August 27
he increased his three-year-old earnings
to $148,830, about £A45,250.
* «• sf ♦
Even the most valuable handicaps in
America do not attract fields nearly so
large as those to which we are accus-
tomed in Australia. The Saratoga meet-
ing was again held at Belmont Park
(New York) in August, and there were
only seven runners for the Saratoga Han-
dicap, which carried $50,000 added
money, about £A 15,200. It was won by
a 17-to-l chance, Paterboy (7.7), who led
throughout and ran the mile and a
quarter ip 2.2^.
* * * *
There were 40 entries for the New
Zealand Cup to be run at Riccarton on
November 25. Although Kindergarten
was expected to go bn to Christchurch
after the Wellington meeting, he was not
one of the number. Evidently his owner
is now quite satisfied with w.f.a. races.
* * * *
India has one exceptionally good ama-
teur rider—F. D, Farmer. At the four
days’ Tollygunge Monsoon meeting in
August he won 16 of the 23 races in
which he rode, and on each of two days
was on five winners.
* * * *
Lack of coal is hitting racing transport
in Maoriland. A couple of days before
the Wellington R.C. meeting at the end
° f last . th tf *I*7.S'SKS'
announced that because of the shortage
mere woJd be no special race trams t
Irentham.
Phar Lap’s sister Nea Lap. is being
well advertised m America as a brood
mare by her four-year-old son Four Free-
doms. His latest victory of account was
the Brooklyn Handicap in July at a New
York meeting, first money being $39,800
approximately £A12,155. Starting at 6
to 1, he beat eight others, and with 8.4
ran the mile and a quarter in 2.2 f, second
best for the race. He has been very con-
sistent, his earnings since he first raced
being about $lOO,OOO. He was bred by
Col. J. M. Whitney, who, before he went
to the wars, gave Four Freedoms and
others of his horses to his mother. There
was a breeders’ premium of $l5OO
attached to the race. Four Freedom’s
sire, Peace Shot, is by Peace Chance, a
son of Fair Play.
Miscellaneous
On past performances Hockey Bennell
is , aps ahead of Max Cameron y as boxer
anc | L | ancc[ - t b ut he had one of his “off”
nights at Leichhardt on Thursday, and
to t^BelSV£
B u seldom attempted to retaliate
S'he ninth” tiTTproSs “
customers prompted him F , O put some
energ y into b j s exhibition. Even so, it
was a show ,
•
Fuller and Fletcher are pretty good
lightweights, and their Sydney Stadium
scrap was interesting throughout. Fuller’s
better boxing won him a narrow points
decision. For most of the journey he
was without the services of his left eye, a
swelling which soon closed being started
by one of the first blows delivered; and
Fletcher’s left eyebrow bled in the tenth,
The young man then began to weaken,
and Fuller’s superiority in the last three
rounds decided the issue.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Armistice Day with its memories, the
ceremony and the solemn piling-up of
flowers about the Cenotaph, was the cele-
bration of Saturday, For two minutes
the city was silent, but thought was
clamorous. Bush tracks and country
towns and city ways were once again
peopled by the shades of the lads of two
wars, and Australia cannot forget. This
State remembered in a practical way,
and bought £25,000 worth of poppies.
That was a record amount to hand over
to the various soldier organisations.
The much-publicised Archibald Prize
Fight languished to a finish last week,
with the decision of the trustees of the
Gallery upheld. Mary Edwards and
Joseph Wolinski, the protestors, were in
court for the decision, which they took
on the chin. William Dobell was not in
court. He was staying with friends up
Canberra way. Whatever side one backed
during the hearing, there can be nothing
but admiration for the courage of the
two Sydney artists who, having nothing
to gain, fought for a principle.
Died during the week-end one of Aus-
tralia’s most notable composers, Roy
Agnew, Long before the war Roy had
caught the attention of London publishers
by the originality of his works. For Aus-
tralians his music writings carry a par-
ticular appeal because about many of
them there clings the true atmosphere of
this land. “The Breaking of the Drought,”
for orchestra, has been performed many
times. His four piano sonatas, “Fan-
tasie,” “Ballade,” “Legend” and “Poeme,”
have power and imagination. Probably
there was no more popular couple in
music circles than the Roy Agnews, and
a wave of sympathy goes out to his
widow.
Tomorrow night and also Saturday
night are booked at the Conservatorium
for Offenbach’s “Tales of Hoffmann.”
The opera commenced last Saturday after-
noon, and has had crowded houses. The
work of the cast is pleasing, and the
scenic effects by Amie Kingston are to
be praised. Lovers of ballet, too, are
catered for in the dance arranged by the
Bodenwieser school, Nita Maughan sang
well, and clothed her enchantress act in
a dazzling frock of hand-painted satin.
The production won a compliment from
Bernard Heinze, who was in the audi-
ence. Jean Hatton as the doll was charm-
ing. Reginald Willoughby makes a dash-
ing Hoffmann.
Bernard Heinze, almost entirely sur-
rounded by orchids, was the guest of the
women’s committee of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra last Thursday. The
orchids had been brought in by Mrs.
Robert Dixson from her famed garden
crop at Castle Hill. They adorned studio
210 at Broadcast House, and gave all
present a feeling of social uplift. The
professor, who has been associated with
the A.B.C. for 20 of its 21 years (2BL
comes of age this year), was welcomed
and congratulated on his splendid work
by the Alexander Gordon lady, further
eulogisgd by the A.B.C.’s Mr. Bearup and
applauded by all.
In his speech Bernard threw bouquets
at visiting conductors for the impetus
they had given to orchestral music, and
to the women’s committee for its untiring
support. He forgot to mention what was
in everybody’s mind, and that was the
part Bernard Heinze himself has played
in training the schoolgirl and -boy’s ap-
preciation of orchestral music. Concert
audiences of the future will be largely
packed with his young disciples of to-
day and yesterday. Great numbers of
the city’s music-minded sipped dark-
brown sherry or a fruit drink flavored
with mint. Mrs. Hamilton Kirkland, Mrs.
Robert Dixson, Margaret Gillespie, Mrs.
Walter Burfitt, the Walter Swinsons,
Mrs, Rupert Scammell and Mrs. Hope
Gibson were among the many.
If all film directors are as entertain-
ing as Harry Watt then life for the film
actor must be one hey merry, merry!
The man who has come out from Ealing
studios to make a “documentary film” of
Australia (and that description of it
is about as inspiring as milk toast)
was in great form at the British
Drama League’s do in his honor last
week. This was a five-to-seven at the
Lyceum Club, and penned in the en-
closure of the lounge reception room of
that centre of the arts were all the Syd-
neyites who are enthusiasts about the
drama.
Harry Watt, after the sherry had circu-
lated, and hostesses Evelyn Tildeslcy,
Mrs. John Metcalfe and Mrs. A. G.
Thomas had cleverly got everybody in
conversational holts, was induced to make
bfeiyto
be heard. Ihe term is just a name tor a
P icture based on happenings in real life,
'***■ pictures had the
P° s n l “ '‘l
l0n ; The sociological idea of that seems
to have been save your pennies, and
, „„n »
tbey eventuab y W 1 sa e tbe Woldd -
Mr. Watt prefers the man in the street
or the amateur actor to the stage actor,
He has many reasons for this, and he un-
burdened his soul to the B.D.L about it
Tb e Scotsman in his Nine Men, now
showln S >“ Sydney.was an amateur. The
group he had played with was the Ardros-
and Saltcoats players. They have won
*?. , Sc ° ttlsb championship with The
® ld S . ho " s H. er ,, Medals and had
beel \ s,m P*y terrific. They came
London and won the championship of
g reat Britain with the same play Then
fe we , m t 0 New and had further
bn U>a nt .success. When Mr. Watt was
makm ? Nin® Men he remembered the
actor m that company who had most
taken his fancy, a Scotsman. He searched
f or b i m in Scotland, but learned that he
was now j n t h e army. Mr. Watt searched
tbe British Army, and finally ran his man,
now a ma j or , to earth. The film of Aus-
tralia which Harry Watt is making for
Ealing, London, is called “The Over-
landers,” and deals with the droving of
catt l e from the Kimberleys to Queens-
iand
This photograph of Ra da Penfold
Hyland was taken last week by Norton
Trevaire . Rada has a prett y face and a
pleasing manne and she is the only
s aught J r of the Frank Penfold Hylands,
of Toft Monks, Elizabeth Bay. Her
engagement to Captain Stuart Shierlaw,
sth Battalion (Napiers), 6th Rajputana
Rifles, has - recently been announced. Cap-
tain Shierlaw’s father fs A. M. Shierlaw,
of Edinburgh.
When the first bomb fell on the back
lawn of No. 25, Admiral of the Fleet Lord
Keyes and his household weren’t very
perturbed. It was only a 500-pounder,
and it didn’t explode, anyway. That was
in the early days of the blitz before the
sinister ways of the unexploded bomb
were quite so well known. After that
two oil bombs burst in the vicinity of
No, 25. One tore a hole in some win-
dows, heaved up the dining-room floor
and spattered the newly-done-up walls
with oil, and generally behaved in a
brutish manner. As Lady Keyes put it
to a company of Victoria Leaguers last
Thursday afternoon, “That was a* bit of
a nuisance.”
The other managed to burn a hole in
a neighbor’s roof before it was finally got
under with stirrup pumps, Lady Keyes
helping to man one of them. From No.
25 the Keyes family moved to No. 17.
But still the bombs came —120 incen-
diaries in the district during the awful
period of England’s trial. Then a land
mine dropped in the grounds. But it
was another slug of unexploded mines
that caused authority to move the family
out. They went to their home in the
country. Here, like every other house-
holder of the village (usual population
400), they put up evacuee women and
children from London. Back in London
when the blitz eased off, a robot bomb,
160 yards away, knocked out the newly-
put-in-windows which replaced the
cellophane and beaver boards of earlier
days: “The cellophane shrank and it
was rather draughty.”
Lady Keyes only talked about bombs
by request. “In England if you talk about
bombs you are called a bomb bore.” The
whole talk was easy, informal, and tinged
with humorous under-statement. Miss
Mary Fairfax presided, and the recep-
tion room of the Women’s Club was
filled with ardent Victoria Leaguers.
From Melbourne
The Melbourne Cup, 1944, was run
under ideal weather conditions. But as
the day dawned with showers and clouds,
as it so often does, women racegoers
were undecided as to the clothes that
would have an airing at Flemington.
Women who came early wore heavy coats
and furs, which later in the afternoon
proved hot and cumbersome. With a
record crowd and the presence of a party
from Government House, a trace of the
pre-war atmosphere could be imagined,
but dressing was motley,
Acting-Governor Mann and his lady
made an impressive entrance, and later
entertained a large party to luncheon.
Guests included Admiral Royle and Lady
Royle, the latter smart in black with a
small white fancy straw hat. Sir Ronald
Cross was there with Lady Cross, who
chose navy-blue with a small navy-blue
moire chapeau. Their daughter Angela,
in lime-green, pinned a coronet of lime-
green chiffon in her hair. Mrs. Everard
Baillieu was a striking figure in egg-shell
blue crepe with a fisher cap, the long
tail of which fell on to the right shoulder
and was finished with a tassel. This
original model was made in sapphire-
blue velvet, and and velvet gloves in the
same rich shade completed the picture.
Lud Mayor Nettlefold and Lady
Mayoress Campbell were also guests, she
wearing a smart black outfit with small
black hat finished with a cyclamen veil.
Whatever the frock, the hat is the crown
ing glory. Mrs, Arthur Laver, with a
small chapeau of burgundy straw, finished
with a crown smothered in pink roses,
proved this fact. Her friend Mrs. Ronnie
Nott wore a frock which had a skirt
of navy spotted in white and a top of
red and white spots. Her small head-
gear was of navy-blue straw, and was
trimmed with red, white and blue rib-
bons. Colored jackets worn with dark
skirts had a day out; cyclamen was worn
with navy, chartreuse with brown or
black skirts. Bolero suits seem also to
have staged a comeback, and these were
most attractive in fine checks. Two
American Red Cross workers, Virginia
Harding and Irma Bradford, in their trim
uniforms, had great fun viewing their
first Melbourne Cup.
Mrs. Harold Wootton made a picture
in dusty pink, her tailored jacket finished
with a collar of beige fox. With her was
Mrs. B. J. O’Donnell, also wearing a
dusty pink suit with flower-trimmed hat.
Vaire Wilkinson chose a beige straw
Dutch bonnet to wear with her beige
frock and was with her father. Col.
Wilkinson. Mrs. W. Horsfall wore laven-
der blue, and the short sleeves of her
long coat, worn over a matching frock,
were trimmed with beige fox. Her large
brown baku straw hat was massed with
blue flowers and finished with a lacy
beige veil. With her was Mrs. J. Watts,
smart in black, with an off-the-face hat
swathed in veiling. Daughter Shirley
wore a mist-blue spectator sports coat
and went hatless. Mrs. and Miss Metzler,
who hail from Batavia, were a tailored
pair in beige suits and brown accessories.
One of this city’s smartest dressers, Lyn-
ette Dickenson, favored a check jacket
in grey and cyclamen, and wore with it
a plain grey skirt. Her small pancake
hat was of grey felt.
Among the many uniforms seen at
the Cup meeting that of the Scottish
Borderers with its plaid trousers, khaki
tunic and gay Scots bonnet, as worn by
Major Keith Knox, attracted attention.
Mrs. lan Jacoby (Elsa Stenning) wore
aquamarine blue, white hat and acces-
sories. Paddy McKenzie, wife of Lieut.-
Col, Don McKenzie, back from Dun-
troon, was busy being welcomed by
friends. She wore a simple black frock
and hat, and pinned two gardenias in
her frock. Mrs. James Dalziell, formerly
of Hong Kong, chose a white linen suit
banded in blue. With it went a large
navy-blue bangkok straw hat.
White was a popular choice for the
meeting, and the question on all lips was
“where have all these sheer silk stockings
come from?” Some said they had been
preserving them in pickle jars, but per-
haps the hosiery experts have been able
at last to produce rayon that gives the
impression of pure silk.
The Knox lady, one of this city’s most
esteemed hostesses, was in her element
at the party which she arranged for the
Lud Mayor’s Hospital Appeal. Miss
Patterson lent her lovely home Gros-
venor, in Toorak, for the occasion, and
the gowns worn by the guests were pro-
back 8 ro ™i- The
hostess received her guests m a stunning
gown of silver lame and a white fox coat
Kn o r Mrs r 1 husba " d .
Knox. Mrs. C. A. Cornwall, in beiee
\ l al / 1 th . e Seat of EvefJ
guest had paid two guineas for a ticket
of run wil the / remier event
of Cup Week, and most of those well
known in the social register had come
along Sir Ronald and Lady Cross
danced. Lady Cross wearing sapphire-
blue tulle. Rosemary Knox covered her
ecru lace gown with a lynx cape. Mrs
Simon Fraser’s pale pink ostrich-feather
boa contrasted with her black taffetta
gown. Mary Guy Smith was outstanding
in a shrimp-pink gown lavishly em-
broidered in crystal beads; Rosemary
Lyons clad her svelte figure in ice-blue
satin. The supper-rooms were ablaze
with flowers. Carnations and stocks were
massed together in bowls, and these
flowers were also on the supper table.
As almost 200 tickets were sold, the Hos-
pital Appeal Fund should be considerably
increased by this effort.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell has so trained
her Younger Set that in her absence they
can carry on and do a good job. At the
Ansett Airways Ball held recently for the
Red Cross these young people worked
valiantly all night, selling tickets for
lucky chances. Gertrude Cottrell was
treasurer and Pamela Forster, pictured
here by Ritter-Jeppesen, organised the
young saleswomen. Her stunning gown
was of black-and-silver-striped satin.
Marjorie Spry, as usual attractive in
black, held a long conversation with Mrs.
George Jones, wife of Air Vice Marshal
Jones, on the method of bottling aspara-
gus, and Betty Leggo, Louise Everett and
Linda Myers were active the whole night
and so busy with their good work that
they did not desert their posts to dance,
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell covered her frock
with a Red Cross fox cape. She left the
girls in charge of proceedings at an early
hour.
Masses of flowers were displayed on
a stall in the foyer of the Union Theatre
when the members of the Clyde Old
Girls’ Association presented “Quiet Wed-
ding” in aid of the Red Cross. As the
heroine of the piece, Noela Shannon on
her first appearance wore a tailored red
jacket over a black skirt, and with these
went black accessories. An attractive
candy-striped jacket blouse went with a
long black crepe skirt, and the waist was
defined with a scarlet sash. As a bride
she left every sentimental heart sighing
for past romance. Behind stage Margaret
Horne and Sadie Hancock did a good
job with the props, and effects. The
front of the house was staffed with some
of Melbourne’s prettiest maidens and
young matrons, among them Elizabeth
Noall, looking her best in pale-pink
taffeta, over which she wore a long
sweeping tailored coat of tea-rose pink
taffeta. Mrs. Geoffrey Haggard wore one
of the new short dinner frocks in black
crepe and over it a long fur coat.
Barbara Hayden Smith chose dusty-pink
for her outfit, plus a black coat.
In the smartly dressed audience Mrs.
Essiqgton Lewis was a distinguished
figure in black, with an ermine bolero.
Mrs. Spencer Macdonald, who was with
her husband, pinned a gardenia in her
hair and one on the shoulder of her black
frock. Pat Hoogveld wore one of th'
snappy hats for which she is noted, th
one a Dutch bonnet in silk straw. Vale ie
Paling, as the dithery Aunt Florenc, in
“Quiet Wedding,” Kathleen BagnaP, who
played the part of the mother of the
heroine, and Lewis Tegart, as the father,
shaped well. Production was in the
hands of Peter Randall, who after some
years of service in the army is now back
in the theatrical world. He learned his
art at the feet of his father, Brett Ran-
dall, founder of the Little Theatre in
Melbourne.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed hrst is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2 id. per line.
Social Panaceas
Nationalisation is no remedy. In P iac ~
tically every case where State fish shops,
meat shops, all manner of mines, steam-
-ship and ferry services, brickworks, agri-
cultural-machinery factories, sawmills,
cattle stations, railways and tramways
have been tried in Australia we have
had a record of failure: generally long
and continuous failure, with insolvency
right through. Scores of these under-
takings have been closed because the drain
of keeping them open has been too great.
Someone remarks “What about the
post office?” The post office, originally
a public service, has become a taxing
machine. To penny postage a tax of
lid. has been added. That and other
impositions happen, even in normal times,
because there is a post and telegraph and
telephone monopoly. Any appearance of
competition is killed before it rears its
head.
Another panacea is communism. The
communism that Australians hear of
from people who describe themselves as
“communists” is not practised in Russia.
Russia has left far behind the old equality
of every man, and equal pay for every
man. Equal pay received its quietus when
the tenor in the St. Petersburg Opera
House stated that he would prefer to sell
programmes, as they paid equally for that
service. “Arrangements” were made.
Stakanhov produced 700 tons of coal in
a week and received bonuses and decora-
tions as well as being lauded on the plat-
form and in the press—he still is. So all
men are not equal. Were they so Stalin
would not be the Commander-in-Chief;
he would be a private with 6,000,000
others.
State ownership of all property in
Russia was cased in its coffin when it was
decreed that every man might own prop-
erty up to £3OOO in value, plpts a cow, plus
transport. Another peculiar happening
was when about £290,000,000 was sub-
scribed for war purposes in a day. The
State was said to own everything, yet
private citizens subscribed this amount.
It may be necessary to teach Australian
communists that their theories are about
19 years behind Russian actions. —
Xylophone (W.A.).
In Praise of Private Enterprise
Whilst the Government of Britain is
planning for the rehabilitation of industry
by encouraging private enterprise the
Australian Government and its trade-
union bosses are interested in no post-
war developmental measures unless these
will provide well-paid Government jobs.
In this country private enterprise, in-
stead of being encouraged, has been
hampered, harassed, abused at every
turn of the road, Queensland has led the
way with costly failures in State trading
ventures. The three State-owned coal-
mines showed a loss of over £50,000 for
the last financial year, and enterprises
started in 1915 and sold by the Moore
Government in 1930 involved the citizens
of Bananaland in a loss, including un-
charged interest, of £4,447,216.
Private enterprise is the powerful
driving rod which keeps the wheels of
industry turning—the force which will
make Australian dreams of prosperity a
reality.— William Clark (Q.).
High Wages and Industrial Peace
High wages have contributed not to
peace and good order but to absenteeism
and strikes.
Miners, wharf-laborers and slaughter-
men cire about the highest-paid em-
ployees at present, yet there is more
industrial trouble in these three industries
than in lower-paid industries. In war-
time, when it is quite reasonable to ex-
pect us all to work a bit harder and a
hit longer, slaughtermen rarely work more
than 32 hours a week. It is the same
with the wharf-laborers and the miners.
The pay of all these workers is so high
that they can go on strike or absent
themselves from work half the time and
still collect enough to live quite com-
fortably.
It would be far better for everybody
concerned if the money now used to pay
more than average wages were set
aside to provide pensions for wharlies,
miners and slaughtermen when they are
too old to work. Pensions schemes are
very desirable, not only from the point
of view of those who receive the pension
from these funds, but also for the tax-
payer. Every worker whose employer
provides a pensions fund for his em-
ployees is one less potential Government
pensioner.
Employers’ pension funds could also
be used to preserve industrial peace by
the inclusion of a provision in the rules
of the fund that in the event of a strike
the loss of profit suffered by the em-
ployer must be made good by a levy on
each striker’s credit in the pensions fund.
Pensions funds and superannuation funds
are far more likely to be conducive to
peace in industry than high wages will
ever be.—A. E. (N.S.W.).
Service Chevrons
Why is there not some uniformity in
the services regarding the wearing of
chevrons? Air Force personnel wear a
red chevron to denote every year of ser-
vice, whether it be overseas or in Aus-
tralia, while A.I.F. personnel wear a blue
chevron to denote every year of service
overseas.
A misleading and unjust comparison is
thus presented. As an example, I am
a member of the A.I.F. with service in
the Western Desert, Greece, Crete, Syria,
N. Australia and Dutch New Guinea.
I wear three blue chevrons, but a friend
who joined the R.A.A.F. administrative
staff at the same time, but has never left
Melbourne, wears five red chevrons.
Had the services’ heads used a little
commonsense they would have issued a
blue stripe for every year of service over-
“Well caught, Sir!”
seas and a red for every year of service
in Australia.—L. T. (A.1.F.).
Tommy and His Civvies
There are some things they do better
in England. When a soldier gets his dis-
charge he goes to a new depot at Olympia,
London, which surpasses any West End
store. There he chooses his suit. There
are two thousand of them, of a hundred
designs, in blues, greys and browns, all
non-utility and worth £8 each. Then
Tommy is fitted out with a raincoat,
shirt, two collars, tie, cuff links and studs,
two pairs of socks, shoes and hat. The
value of the complete outfit is £2O.
Perhaps this will prompt the Australian
Government to revise its issue of
civilian clothes on demobilisation to a
sufficient and wearable outfit. Pac
(England).
Discharge Certificates
“Upagum” (B. 25/10/’44) is astray
regarding Army discharge certificates
being the same for good Diggers and bad.
That has been attended to.
In the body of the revised certificate
the total effective period of days served
is shown, and this figure is subdivided
into active service outside and inside
Australia. At the bottom of the docu-
ment there is a notation stating that
“effective period” means total period of
service, less any consecutive 21 days or
more for which the soldier was not en-
titled to pay; so that any prospective
employer reading a discharge certificate
would only need to calculate from the
date of enlistment to date of discharge
to arrive at the soldier’s service. If this
sum did not agree with the total effective
period of service embodied in the certi-
ficate it would be obvious that the appli-
cant had not been a good boy during his
service.
In fairness to all hands, I should like
to add that even if a soldier has not been
crimed, the total of active service inside
and outside Australia may not add up to
his total effective service, as active ser-
vice inside Australia is not computed
earlier than April 14, 1942. For a soldier
enlisted in May, 1941, and discharged in
May, 1942, the total effective period of
service would be between these dates,
but active service in Australia would only
be a few weeks.
Apart from all this, why penalise a
man for life by issuing a disciplinarian
discharge? Many men were crimed for
trivial offences by (in plenty of cases)
very young commanding officers who
lacked experience of human nature.
Yallah (Q.).
Canada’s Repat.
Canada has instituted a plan for
bonuses for servicemen in accordance
with the period and nature of their ser-
vice. A grant is made of dollars for
each month of service in Canada and 15
dollars for each month overseas. Bene-
fits are effective from the date of enlist-
ment and are limited to volunteer per-
sonnel, corresponding to our R.A.N.,
A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
Under this scheme a serviceman who
enlisted at the time of Pearl Harbor and
spent one year in Canada and two years
overseas would receive 450 dollars, or
nearly £l2B in Australian money. An
Australian serviceman with similar ser-
vice would receive £72 as deferred pay,
or very little more than half the amount
paid in Canada. The Canadian Govern-
ment proposes to pay these gratuities not
in a lump sura, but in instalments, to
prevent rash spending.
In addition, there is an elaborate sys-
tem of free and assisted University and
Technical College education for all ser-
vicemen desiring to take advantage of
opportunities to qualify for the profes-
sions or the skilled trades.
Australia again compares unfavorably.
Australian servicemen in England who
desire to use their spare time to complete
broken University studies find that Aus-
tralian Universities will not recognise
work done even at London University.
London is somewhat diffident about ac-
cepting Australian standards, but it is ten
times more generous in this regard than
are Australian Universities. Appeals
have been made to the Australian Gov-
ernment to establish some sort of recipro-
city, but nothing has been done. — Justice
(N.S.W.).
Conscription of Labor
Admiral Keyes’s opinion that all men
should be conscripted to work or fight
needs little defending, but it will not be
subscribed to by many good Australians,
for the simple reason that conscription
of labor has been a farce. How farcical
can be seen any day around any Allied
Works project or Government workshop.
Decent workmen, willing enough to
hop in and do their bit, soon get fed
up when it becomes evident that they
are continually carrying the baby while
a workmate does little but boss-dodging.
Many are fed up with their working
conditions and with those in control.
It is unfortunate that so many of our
best are in the armed forces, and that we
who are left behind have to come under
influences so tragically in opposition to
our natural bent. —Wirebuster (N.S.W.).
The Church and Youth
“Twenty-four” (B. 1/11/ ’44) suggests
that the churches should attract youth by
providing Saturday-night dances and
Sunday sport and hikes. What does he
think a church is? An amusement palace
or a social club?
Certainly the churches should, and
do, supply recreation for young mem-
bers, but can they attract by means
of pleasure young people into com-
munion and fellowship? Such un-
spiritual recruiting methods have not only
been a dismal failure in the past (I write
from personal experience), but a distinct
loss of prestige to churches which have
adopted them. —R. S. Hartnell (N.S.W.).
Gallup Polls
A Gallup poll is a useful guide only
when taken on a subject on which every-
body is well informed, and in such a case
there is no need for a straw vote, since
everybody knows the answer.
A recent “cross-section” inquiry
yielded a majority in favor of build-
ing complete cars and trucks in Aus-
tralia even if they cost more than
imported. This is supposed to repre-
sent Australian public opinion on the
question. Even if it does, the public, in-
dividually, would soon change its mind
after the war when it found that it was
paying more than double the price for
which better cars were being sold in Eng-
land and America.
The general public has no conception
of the problems to be met, nor of the
consequences if the views expressed were
put into practice. A recent British M.P.
visitor said that if Australia went the
whole hog in industrial production after
the war it might meet difficulties iq find-
in overseas markets for its primary pro-
duce.—J. Campbell (S.A.).
Jail or the Sea
To anyone who has the welfare of sea-
farers at heart the letter of A. B.
Williams (B. 18/10/’44) made sickening
reading.
There’s nothing new in the idea of
giving delinquent youth the choice of
either going to sea or going to jail. For
hundreds of years this alternative offered
to British criminals has been a blight on
maritime history. Only this year I read
in an English newspaper that the Officers’
Guild was protesting strongly because
some magistrate had given a youthful
delinquent this option.
As a part of the “new deal” promised
to the merchant service everyone hopes
that the sea as a career will be made
attractive enough to encourage the best
type of youth instead of being the
alternative to imprisonment.
From my experience I know that there
is hardly a ship on our coast which has
not some decent, honest lad in the fore-
castle saving his money to buy a boat to
go fishing after the war. Navy men tell
me it is the same in their service. Let the
magistrates give the delinquents a choice
of becoming coalminers or poets or
magistrates, but, for a change, leave the
merchant service and the fisheries to those
of us who like fishing or going to sea. —
Matros (W.A.).
Judges and Juries
It seems to be a growing habit of
Judges to criticise jury verdicts. Ad-
mittedly, some of these verdicts may seem
to be wrong in equity and/or wrong in
law, but then, so are some directions to
the jury, as witness retrials ordered by
appeal courts.
Should a juryman criticise a Judge’s
direction he would risk being committed
for contempt of court. As the jury is as
much a constituent of the court as the
Judge, is not the Judge in contempt when
he criticises the considered verdict of the
jury? Anyway, whatever the Judge may
think or say about it, the verdict closes
the case, and it is fruitless to attack it. —
Long Un (Vic.).
Degenerative Disease
Optimists to the contrary, it is true
that degenerative disease both in man and
domesticated animals is an obstacle loom-
ing large, and certain to loom larger, in
the path of our civilisation.
Dr. I. Harris, director of a medical
research institute in Liverpool, England,
is reputed to know as much as any-
one else in Britain about diseases of
the heart. He says that in 10 years, 1927
to 1937, deaths from heart disease in
Britain increased by about 70 p.c., and
other degenerative diseases, such as dia-
betes, showed a similar catastrophic trend.
It appears that this new disease threat
to British national life applies mainly to
the middle class, and particularly to doc-
tors themselves.
Contemporary causes of untimely
death among “the workers,” which are
mostly bacterial or accidental, are being
rapidly eliminated, but degenerative
diseases affecting the middle class cannot
be controlled short of changing that
class’s entire way of life.
The sociological implications are mani-
fold : hygienic considerations may in
time compel that which neither religion
nor philosophy could ever accomplish—
the humble recognition of human insig-
nificance in relation to the incalculable
forces of Nature. —J. W. R. (Tas.).


OTHER FAMOUS PRODUCTS INCLUDE
CREME de MENTHE . . . CHERRY BRANDY
ADVOCAAT ORANGE Sc WHITE
CURACAO CREME de CACAO
GILBEDENE .... ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY . . RUM . . GIN SLING
BRONX AND MARTINI COCKTAIL . . SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH AND GAUNTLET WHISKY
W. & A. 6ILDEY LIMITED
ROSSLYN ST, WEST MELBOURNE REGENT STREET, SYDNEY
Telegrams&Cables;"Gilbeys”Melbourne Telegrams & Cables: "Gilbeys” Sydney
