

GRAPE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 65.—N0. 3348 j
Wednesday, April 12, 1944
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
Seppelts
HOLYROOD PALACE, EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
AT the other extremity of Edinburgh from that which holds its
famous Castle is Holyrood Palace, the residence of Mary Queen
of Scots. It is a gloomy building in appearance, whose cold grey
walls seem to have little in harmony with the fair Queen who once
resided there. Her memory so completely haunts the place that,
though this edifice has stood here for nearly 400 years, and though
kings and queens have lived within its walls, the apartments of
Queen Mary are all that the traveller usually cares to see. Their
contents are, however, slowly crumbling into dust, for the frail
memorials of that unhappy lady have stood thus for 300 years.
There are not many portraits of Mary here ; but wherever they are
hung they attract the attention of even the most careless tourist. Of
all the thousands who have for centuries passed before them, prob-
ably not one has failed to pause and think with pity of thei lovely
woman whom they represent. Here also we may see the room in
which Mary’s secretary, the Italian Rizzio, was murdered by her
jealous husband, Darnley ; and certain stains are still pointed out
as having been made by his blood. The ruined structure on the
left of the palace is old Holyrood Chapel, where Rizzio was buried,
and the imposing mountain rising in the background is called'
“Arthur’s Seat.”


IM\
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovl obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.'’
My Name
My Addret’.
S.B. 244 - ....AGE
The Red Page
SONGS OF EASTER.
The Christian Church in all its
branches sings some 400,000 hymns in
200 languages. Of the English hymns
250 at least, many of them pertaining to
Christmas or Easter, are common to all
denominations.
The one striking difference between
Easter and other hymns is that nearly
every one begins and ends with “Alleluia. ’
“Alleluia” is a Hebrew word like “Amen”
and “Hosanna” taken over into Christian
worship without translation. It means
“Praise the Lord.” From its earliest be-
ginnings the Christian Church has used
it in its worship. St. John in the Book
of Revelation says that the angels use it
in heaven. St. Jerome tells us how in
his day, 1000 years ago, the ploughmen
used to sing it at their work.
There is a story told of our British
forefathers who in the year 429 put the
Piets and Scots to flight by using “Alle-
luia” as a battle-cry. That year the
ancient British Church was much worried
by a heresy (the Pelagian heresy invented
by a Welsh monk of the name of
Morgan), and they invited two French
bishops, St. Germanus and St. Lupus, to
come over and help to stamp it out.
They were successful not only in getting
rid of the false doctrine but in bringing
about a great religious revival.
Whilst they were in Wales the Piets
and Scots descended on the land. The
British soldiers were mostly still heathen,
but on Easter eve St. Lupus and St. Ger-
manus baptised nearly the whole army.
While the soldier-converts were still
wearing their white baptismal robes the
enemy swooped down on them. The
Britons rose with a mighty shout of
“Alleluia!” ana the Piets and Scots fled
in terror. That was the famous bloodless
“Alleluia Victory.”
“Alleluia” still wins its victories. After
a quarter of a century of atheistic propa-
ganda in the U.S.S.R. the old Orthodox
greeting “Alleluia, the Lord is risen” can
now be and is given boldly on Easter
day.
Now to consider some of the Easter
hymns in which “Alleluia” is used. The
first is “Jesus Christ Is Risen Today”—
the most popular of all. Partly trans-
lated 200 years ago from a Latin hymn
“Surrexit Christas Hodie,” nobody
knows who wrote it, who translated it or
who composed the tune. That tune is at
least 200 years old, too.
Like other popular hymns it has been
much altered, chiefly to its improvement;
the second verse used to open:
Haste ye females from your fright; .
Take to Galilee your flight.
The hymn and its tune first appeared in
English in “Lyra Davidica, a collection
of Divine Songs and Hymns, partly new
composed and partly translated from the
High German and the Latin, and set to
easy and pleasant tunes. London. J.
Walsh. 1708.” Nothing more is known
of this collection or its compiler.
4 Next in order of popularity probably
comes
Jesus lives. Thy terrors now
Can, O Death, no more appal us.
This is from the German of C. F.
Gellert, its date about 1757. It was trans-
lated by a Miss Cox in 1841. Gellert
was a Lutheran pastor who had such a
bad memory that he had to read every
word of his sermons. But this was, and
still is, prohibited in the Lutheran
Church. He had to give up his ministry,
became a university professor and wrote
a number of famous hymns. The tune
is by H. J. Gauntlett, who lived from
1805 to 1876, He became organist of
Olney at the age of nine, and was a
great musician who did much to improve
the standard of church music.
“The Strife Is O’er, the Battle Won” is
another translation from the Latin, The
oldest version known appeared in Mun-
ster in 1753, but Dr. J. M. Neale ascribed
it to the twelfth centuay, The tune to
which it is sung is by Palestrina, choir-
master at the Vatican, who lived from
1525 to 1594. It appears in nearly all
collections in England and America.
“Ye Sons and Daughters of the King”
is a translation from the French
Franciscan friar, Jean Tisserand, who
died in Paris in the year 1494. The tune
to which it is commonly sung is at least
as old as the hymn and possibly earlier
still.
“Christ, the Lord Is Risen Again” is a
translation by Miss Winkworth from the
German of Michael Weiss (Weisse,
Wiss, Wegs, Weys and Weyss are
other spellings of his name). He
was a monk of Breslau who was
born about 1480. He left the monas-
tery to become one of the German
reformers with Martin Luther. He wrote
156 hymns. The tune to which this one
is sung is called “Wirtemburg,” and was
written by W. H. Monk, who based it on
an old German air dating from 1694.
There are two hymns which begin with
the same line, “Christ, the Lord Is Risen
Today.” One is by Charles Wesley, yet,
curiously, it was omitted by John Wesley
from the Wesleyan hymnbook until the
supplement was published in 1830. The
other hymn with the same first line is by
Miss Jane E. Leeson. She wrote hymns
which appear in Roman Catholic publi-
cations, the Irvingite hymnbook, Angli-
can hymnals and among Scottish para-
phrases. Nothing is known of her per l
sonal history. She was born in 1807 and
died in 1882. Her most popular hymn is
“Loving Shepherd of the Sheep.”
The remaining Easter hymns in com-
mon use can only be noted very briefly.
“Ye Choirs of New Jerusalem” is a
translation from St. Fulbert of Chartres,
who lived before the Norman Conquest.
Three translations from St. John Damas-
cene, who died at the age of 100, about
a.d. 780, are well known. They are
“Come, Ye Faithful, Raise the Strain,”
“The Day of Resurrection” and “Thou
Hallowed Chosen Morn of Praise.”
Charles Wesley wrote “Love’s Redeem-
ing Work Is Done.” The Rev. Thos.
Kelly (1769-1854), who seceded from the
Anglicans to preach in Irish chapels of
his own erection, wrote “The Lord Is
Risen Indeed.” Good as that hymn is, he
is better known for his “The Head That
Once Was Crowned with Thorns” and
“We Sing the Praise of Them Who
Died.”
Baring-Gould’s “On the Resurrection
Morning” is one of the best-known
modem hymns. He, of course, was the
author of “Onward, Christian Soldiers,”
“Now the Day Is Over” and “Through
the Night of Doubt and Sorrow.”
Most of these Easter hymns have lived
for generations. Dean Inge said he pre-
ferred a slight flavor of archaism in pub-
lic worship, and the verdict of the
ordinary man is with him.
RANSOME T. WYATT.
Historical Plays .
Two Australian historical plays were
published last year, Dymphna Cusack’s
Red Sky at Morning and Katherine Shep-
herd’s Daybreak, both about the convict
days. The A.B.C. has broadcast several
others, including one on Wainewright the
poisoner. Mulga Publications, Box 43*17,
G.P.O., Sydney, has added another con-
tribution —George Landen Dann’s Caro-
line Chisholm —to what may become a
movement of real importance.
A great or a good work of art evades
all generalisations, but the historical novel
is probably played out in Australia.
Especially on the pioneer theme, we have
had too many of them. But the historical
play seems to be just beginning. People
may have grown a bit weary of reading
about our ancestors, but they have not
yet had even a chance of seeing them,
except in the little repertory theatres.
It seems likely enough that the drama
will establish itself in Australia just as
the novel did: it will re-create the people
and the scenes of Australian history and,
because this is what the public wants, it
will force its way on to the stage despite
all opposition from theatres needlessly
nervous about the box-office.
Neither Red Sky at Morning nor Day-
break was a great or even a very good
play. Their literary interest was slight.
Nor, though it is better than the others,
is Caroline Chisholm great or very good.
Yet, when it seems probable that both
Australian playgoers and our American
visitors would rush any theatre that
offered them living Australian history, no
one with a prophetic eye on the box-
office and a knowledge of the rise to
popularity of the historical novel could
afford to dismiss them lightly.
Caroline Chisholm is about the woman
who fought for a home for im-
migrant girls in early Sydney, to save
them from the streets. Since there is no
strong dramatic conflict in it, some mild
opposition from Governor Gipps not-
withstanding, it is a dramatised biography
rather than a play; a series of episodes.
Moreover, the principal characters
—especially Caroline Chisholm’s hus-
band when she “forgets” to meet
his ship after a five years’ sepa-
ration behave with excessive no-
bility. Yet plays of this type have suc-
ceeded, both on the stage and as talkies ;
the Florence Nightingale play, for in-
stance. Audiences are interested in the
principal character and in the historical
background and forgive or are not aware
of the faults of construction. Since no-
body has ever seen them and everybody
would like to, Australian audiences would
find even the period costumes of Caro-
line Chisholm a compensation. It could
certainly serve as the basis for a splendid
historical film.
Xnd then, if the central drama is re-
grettably uplifting, the natural wicked-
ness of audiences would find compen-
sation in the charming little story of the
girl who has gone “bad” and the Irish-
man who wants to marry her which Dann
has been wise enough to weave into the
piece. These two people are alive in a
way that the central characters are not.
Whether or not this play is a proposi-
tion for the commercial stage —it has been
performed in Brisbane —Dann is worth
watching. Judging from Caroline Chis-
holm and his (unpublished) radio play
“Fountains Beyond” he may have been
misled by the propagandists who believe
that all plays should be about some noble-
minded person reforming the world —the
world which, in its past and present un-
regenerate state, offers so many excellent
themes for the dramatist. He does not
write propaganda, but he seems to tend
that way. People don’t go to the theatre
to come out “better men” ; they would
probably prefer to come out slightly worse
men. The playwright’s task, is to send
them home richer men.
Promising Newcomer .
Without knowing that Paula Hanger’s
verses began to appear in The Bulletin
and N.Z. “Best Poems” a couple of years
ago or that Three Fronts of War (Hand-
craft Press, Wellington) is her first book,
it would be easy enough to deduce that
she is a very young writer. She responds
to storm and winter and war with an
equal exultation:
Friend, in this hour of mountain rage and might
It would be good to die.
Death under tempest, death in spate of snow,
Without one prayer or quivering plaint to go!
Our flesh at last indomitably kin
Of the wild soul within.
Hers is a violent, ragged poetry, rich
with promise. Because real strength in
the arts lies in form rather than in un-
controlled vigor—one can hit harder and
truer with a hammer than with a stone —
she will have to smooth her verse into
better shape later on. But already, in
such a poem as “Reduce Speed,” she has
attained a form of her own. The power
is controlled and directed here, the
language nearly always natural, the
technique sure and the image—the ship
in the fog, of course, is the human soul
—both strong and clear:
The ship ran into fog,
Bells rang, ther,e was an eerie whispering surge
Of whiteness down the decks, and out at sea
The choking silence stirred imponderably
As if the drowned were moving in their
ocean.
And all most lonely, like a hollow world
That has a memory of life, no more . . .
The captain stared through glass, the engines
turned
In cautious revolutions like the beat
Of some half-strangled heart. . . The dark
ship heaved
In gulfs of gloom, by unimagined reefs
Known never to a chart, nor any man . . .
The fog rolled in
Creeping through hatchways, close into the
soul
Of crew and vessel, and the sailors trod
Dumbly as if bereft of wit's and tongue . ..
But steadily
The siren wept across the waste for friends
That were not there.
This is the young writer seeing the
world like mountains through a fog.
What is most hopeful for her future is
that Paula Hanger does see the moun-
tains, both literally and figuratively:
most of the poems in this book are in
praise of the heroism of men in war.
“Gun Crew” for example;—-
We are beyond the territories of fear,
All but our exultation is forgotten:
One with the sable-snouted weapon now,
One with its iron bowels and insolent thunder.
We are in love with life as never before!
It takes courage to write that sort of
thing these days.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
It really begins to look as if flesh-and-
blood is coming to its own again in Syd-
ney. A professional grand opera season
is to open at the Con. on July 1, and
between May 8 and July 2? —three weeks
to each play—Whitehall Productions is
to celebrate its third anniversary by
putting on at the Minerva “Pyg-
malion,” Robert Morley’s “Oscar Wilde,”
Priestley’s “They Came to a City,”
and “Romeo and Juliet.” Not only
are these good plays, but they have
every chance of being popular; White-
hall was probably wise in selecting a
Shaw and a Shakspeare that have been
successful as talkies. It is a notable step
forward in a policy of tempting the pub-
lic back to the legitimate theatre. Edwin
Styles is certain to draw full houses to the
Shaw play; Campbell Gray, who is to
take the title role in “Oscar Wilde,” did
promising work in “Rope” recently ; Hal
Thompson, to lead in the Priestley play, is
very much alive in the current “Boy
Meets Girl” ; Leonard Bullen and Myra
Morton in “Romeo and Juliet” will have
the benefit of production by Lawrence
H. Cecil, until recently of the A.8.C.,
and William Constable’s sets and cos-
tumes. A second “festival” is promised
later in the year. If—and only if—satis-
factory plays can be found, one would
like to see Australian writers given a
chance either at the second or a subse-
quent festival.
It’s perhaps a good omen for White-
hall’s anniversary that the current
show —the last before the festival
opens —is an outstandingly pleasant
comedy. A light satire on Holly-
wood, “Boy Meets Girl” is one of
those pieces that have to be played at
fever-pitch, in a frenzy of hilarity. It’s
easy for the talkies to do this, but hard
work for the stage. Nevertheless, Hal
Thompson, Barrett Fleming, Lawrence
H. Cecil and Don McNiven never let it
flag for a minute. Pat McDonald inter-
prets the role of a sweetly brainless young
mother—whose baby becomes a “star”
with both accuracy and charm. St. John
Finlay and Dick Randolph are likeable
in minor parts, though Randolph seems
to be out of character —Isn’t he meant
to be the Wodehouse Ass type?
At the talkies:
“Jungle Patrol” is one of the best films of the
A.I.F. yet* done by the D. 0.1. Showing what
a small patrol faced in the fight for Shaggy
Ridge, the photography is splendid.
Of the many high-class musical extravaganzas
made by M.-G.-M., “Thousands Cheer” (Syd-
ney St. James) easily caps the lot. Ranging
from operatic excerpts by Kathryn Grayson, now
a first-water coloratura soprano and a charm-
ing actress, to comic singing by poker-faced
Virginia O’Brien, from pianoforte-playing by
J6se Iturbi, one of the world’s great exponents
of Mozart, to stirring music by massed mili-
tary bands, the film is sprinkled with up-
roarious comedy sketches by Frank Morgan,
Red Skelton and a host of other top-liners.
High-class vaudeville is represented by The
Flying Corbinos, a troupe of aerialists who
put on a real thriller. And—wonder of
wonders! —there is a musical comedy lead —
Gene Kelly—who can act; also he is a splendid
dancer, and he talks like a he-man. Color gives
the show its final touch of lavishness.
In “Holy Matrintony” (Mayfair) Nunnally
Johnson has made an excellent job of Arnold
Bennett’s comedy about “England’s greatest
painter,” Priam Farll, who, after watching
with mixed emotions, his own valet interred in
the Abbey in the presence of Edward VII,
carries the comedy of errors to its logical con-
clusion by marrying the Putney woman who,
through a matrimonial agency, had expected
to marry Farll’s valet. Monty Woolley (as
Farll) is a delight. A feature is Gracie Fields’s
successful emergence as a “straight” actress.
A reversal of the usual “singing-find” film
is achieved by Warners in “Always in My
Heart” (Tatler). Instead of the story being a
borer-riddled peg to hang some songs on, this
film concentrates first on the story. True, the
basic plot of the released convict befriended
by his own children who are unaware of his
identity isn’t new, but it is given some new
twists, and is capably interpreted by Walter
Huston and Kay Francis. The new singer,
whose soprano holds promise of better things,
is Gloria Warren, billed as aged 15.
Max Ragless, the Adelaide painter who
is steadily getting into all the Australian
galleries, sold about £220 worth of his
powerful paintings, oils and water-colors,
in his recent show at Adelaide Society of
Arts Gallery, as well as winning the
Crouch prize of £lOO awarded by the
Ballarat Gallery.
Sydney Macquarie Galleries, the only
place of the kind in the city, is staging
a mixed show in which the names of
many noted Australian painters, past and
present, are catalogued. Conrad Martens,
at his best in aquarelles and tinted
sketches, is represented by two of these,
“Farm Cove” and a delightful little
album sketch, “Landscape with Tree."
Tom Roberts’s small oils “The Path” and
“The Cloud” acknowledge their author-
ship unmistakably. George Lambert
painted the water-color “Fern Gully” on
one of his off days. Percy Leason (a
much better landscapist than is generally
realised) is at his best in the sun-splashed
“The Bathers”; Norman Lindsay's
“Honey” (water-color) is charming.
Gruner, Hilder, Percy Lindsay, A. H-
Fulwood, John Eldershaw, Will Ashton,
Mimi Auld, Rah Fizelle, Harold Herbert,
Blamire Young, Walter Withers, R. W.
Sturgess, Margaret Preston and Roi de
Mestre (the last-named in his best decora-
tive vein) are also in the show. And
there’s a fair-sized Conder, “The Tea
Party,” exhibiting instructively that mix-
ture of naivete and audacity that enabled
Charles to cash in on the post-impres-
sionist boom.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
THE SENIOR STORE’-
SSSSSS
•iff:
mmi
c. ... to' a " Who
err is the Victory Stos -
iKEEP Victory nearer, day by
ate brmg'og weather months, t e
T. K-P f “
“• sw ' , " ! * o .«*'* "’ k ** “ •
keep y° u an
m
m
X
rr. rnmm
■I/
<*._
mt.
r
t
X
mz.
m
mm
m
m
■sm-M
•'■ >ik ■ •'
■ j/> h
<' i- ' '..:// J
M •:
* f V A"?
¥
i
,***
|v i
~.--V
't/v V
X~
m
; £S3D
ISii
Yk
M
.V
n
ae a combing' 0 " of
ensured by Hal,b ° r and oran ge W iee
u,\\but Liver
Allen & Hanburys Qne teaspoo ntu
w u,..oa.
s ,6..a»'"r*' w " ■
0. M m
The nicest way of taking
Halibut-Liver Oil
A combination of
Allenburys Halibut-Liver Oil
with additional Vitamin D and
Ailenbur/s Orange Juke.
C«nt*l*» »*♦ frawtfc-
Viljmin A. 114 l*t inlifJOUlK
Vit.en.r* 0. wlHl »ht 9OoWty
Vitamin C.
0m *eJ>poom/ul •/ MaUhorofit*
is fou*r#lmf »• rnC X
hj 009 t**nf>'*f*4*fl <4 Co /’y ,v 3
Oil tw'rA teasfoonful* *7
/.n A Oreattf fcr.
, />r*A Orange Jutte.
f«r *rn»ow «* fc*»l •
btfc jal
ItfimOelu -ed in fna'o id by
Allen & Hanburys lid
London. E 2
# «*•
¥ *
\ K i
Vi:; /
/.X7X
1
w
m
IJI i
*^»w.
ii
m
ii
: M ' >t;i
jf' Z/'/
r- m m. ' t
y VI
*v" >{
V»
111
V
C>
pR ' CES
yr
/¥
••••. vv
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Nfght)
Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney
ptdfECT HEALTH
for (


"I Had Five Thousand Steers"
By E. GOLLSCHEWSKY.
PA had decided to dip on the Satur-
day his own cattle and his brother s,
which ran together in the Reserve.
So Friday saw him pottering
around the dip, testing and stirring, wiring
a few rails where the older patching had
rusted away, inserting sheets of tin where
the slopes from the dip walls had sub-
mitted to the demands of time and
usage.
He spent the whole day around the
dip. His old straw hat well down over
the thatch of white hair, the open neck
of his “grey Ipswich” disclosing wrinkled
skin the color of claret; little, wiry,
stooped, bowlegged, he hammered and
swore at the crumbling structure till sun-
down.
We followed him round, catching fasci-
nating snatches of the unceasing conver-
sation he held with himself. We knew
the “bloody Hereford mongrels” were his
brother’s cattle ; we gathered it was they
who wrecked his fences, fouled his dip,
overcrowded his drying yards. Appar-
ently it was different in the old days.
A man could muster and dip five hun-
dred of his own beasts in a day and not
a shred of damage done to the place.
But when a man got in debt to his rela-
tions that was the time! He spent the
rest of his time paying ’em back.
“Did you useter have five hundred
steers then?”
“I had five thousand steers,” he
answered in his raspy, dogmatic voice. “I
owned Bucca them days. My poor old
dad left me that —and what did I do with
it? I dunno. It went with everything
else. Your great-grandfather was a
powerful man in these parts.”
He sucked on his pipe for a short
second. “Remind me to give you
Southern Saga to read one day—it men-
tions him there, and, what’s more, it tells
you plain how many sheep he had and
what blacks he worked ’em with. They
were the first sheep to come into these
parts, and he druv ’em from Gayndah
to Bundaberg on his own.”
“You useter go droving with him
sometimes?”
‘.‘Only cattle—never sheep. Never
could breathe near a sheep. We used
to muster big them days. Days and
nights in the saddle, the dogs pad-sore,
horses tired and us living on the smell
of a kangaroo’s tail and a gritty damper.
But somehow you were always ready to
eat it —dry as the tucker was. Daytimes
the dust and flies druv you mad, and
the smell of yarded cattle enough to
knock you flat. But somehow”
He looked round him—at the sagging
yard fences, the tired-looking grey house
that never seemed to get the paint it
screamed for, the pigs rooting round the
K-wire that enclosed the lucerne patch, the
speckled hens scratching in the dirt under
the wild apple-tree. It wasn’t regret in
his eyes ; he loves Boanyoo as much as
I do—that, too, was part of his inheri-
tance, the only part he managed to keep
free of debt and mortgage.
But Boanyoo has grown tame with the
passing years. There are no buckjumper
contests now in the high-fenced stock-
yards. Pa’s boys have grown up. One
of them grows sugarcane on the flat
where Pa rode Cyclone to glorious vic-
tory in a race against allcomers. Stock-
men, long, lean and brown as any that
might have stepped from Lawson’s books,
do not line the top rails of the breaking-
in yard now to watch Pa doing his stuff
with an outlaw brumby.
The kangaroo dogs have gone with the
stockmen and the brumbies. Riding like
a demon on Pa’s shoulders once, I fol-
lowed Bluey and Ranger over the moun-
tains ; caught the first sight of the ’roos
as they paused in their mad flight; heard
the baying bark of the skeleton dogs;
sighted the dove-grey coat over the steady
barrel of a Winchester; and I’ve brought
the hides in, salted and pegged ’em and
sent ’em away; felt the bitterness Pa
knew when he got the returns a few
weeks later.
44 1 ’VE got to fetch a load of water for
I the dip.”
He saddled up the draught horse that
was no good for anything else, and
backed him into the shafts of the decrepit
old dray.
Then the small, rusty tank was put
up, a few bags flung over the hole in the
top to stop overflow, and we moved off
across the paddock to where the wind-
mill creaked and groaned its endless
protest.
“Flaming crows in the corn again,” Pa
commented, screwing up his faded eyes.
“Wish I had my gun handy.” And we
didn’t remind him that he couldn’t hit
the side of a battleship now, for hadn’t
he won the Cockatoo Shoot in ’94?
Hadn’t he knelt in the face of a charging
scrub bull and shots its kneecap through
when he was fifty, sixty years younger?
“One time this was bush,” he said idly,
pointing at the rolling grassed paddock.
“And your mother and I built our first
house here. At night we used to lie in
bed and listen to the boats going up the
river, loaded with Kanakas from the
islands. You could hear them singing
and yelling and wailing, and before they
knew it they were put to work on the
sugar plantations. Sometimes they’d
escape from the boats and swim to shore,
but they were always caught.”
In my mind I saw a black wraith slip
behind a gnarled bloodwood. I heard
the lamentations of the kidnapped blacks.
“Now the Burnett carries sugar on
her waterways! ” he grunted. “And they’ll
never know.”
At seventy-four Pa was energetic, tire-
less, tough as greenhide; but he was also
an old man, afraid of his “weakest link,”
not quite sure how much he could still
do, not quite certain of the strength to
be called frojm his bony frame. So he
usually found courage in nips from a
bottle of rum on dipping days.
This day he must have swamped too
much early in the piece, because when
we brought his horse round with ours
he came out of the dairy, a ferocious
figure with blazing white hair and red-
dened eyes to swear and curse at us till
his breath caught in his throat.
“Get Prince in,” he roared, waving
his arms round his head. “Do you think
a bloody man’s a derelict? To hell with
that old bag of bones! ”
We consulted Pa’s son, who promptly
forbade us to run Prince in. The horse
was net safe for Pa.
Pa had come up behind, and made a
swing at his son. He was all for blood
at any price, and in the resulting storm
we slipped away and caught Prince. We
know Pa always won an argument.
We rode away into the crisp morning,
Pa on Prince and a pony each side of
him. His long, worn stockwhip was
gripped in one hand.
44 1 T’S a fine thing, rounding up cattle,”
I he said thoughtfully. “There’s noth-
ing like a muster to put a man oh his
mettle.”
We knew he was living in the glory of
old dipping days. We rode with him to
round up the bare handful of steers that
were all that was left to him.
The Reserve was not big, and we
soon had them rounded up—fifty, sixty,
seventy, a hundred and thirty. Not all
steers, either. Some were dry cows,
some aged bulls that nobody had the
heart to shoot. We gathered the motley
collection together and headed towards
home. It was fairly clear country, and
Prince was active. Pa was half-full of
rum and ready for anything.
He was the first to see an escaping
steer, and sent Prince racing through
the trees to head it back. His dog stayed
beside him, at Prince’s heels, snaking out
at the crack of a whip to heel a lazy
cow or a straying calf.
All the time his voice, half-coaxing,
half-commanding, rang out in the
familiar “Ya-ah! Yah!” as Prince
wheeled and propped or raced to head
off a leader. Seventy-four, and he sat
his horse as easily, as pliantly as a boy,
only he showed more skill, better judg-
ment than any boy.
We rode slowly along behind the mob,
content to let him have his day, re-creat-
ing in his mind and ours the daring
rider and expert cattleman he had been.
Nearing home, we bunched the cattle
and let them go. We thought they’d
flow into the dip paddock, but the white-
faced leader with long, spear-sharp
horns was off at a tangent, followed by
a stream of cattle making a dash for
freedom. By an oversight, the rails of
the paddock were not down, and Pa’s
voice, shouting abuse and threats on our
heads, seemed to send the leaves of the
wattle and ti-trees dancing.
We rode up to the rails and let them
down. The whole morning’s work had
been upset by this accident. If the cattle
escaped into the timbered swampland—
but they didn’t.
I looked up as a ringing “ya-ah-yah!”
rang out above the thunder of flying
hooves, barking dogs and bellowing
cattle. Pa was riding Prince along the
ridge to cut off the white-faced steer.
The horse’s head was out, his tail flying
in a line with his back, and he was into
the* gallop of his life.
Pa was crouched on his back, his hat
gone, his white hair ragged and wild,
and a string of epithets drifted slowly
down to us as he flung them to
the wind. He is against the
vivid blue sky for me till I die.
The steer reached the swamp country,
but Pa was there, with Prince darting,
swerving in and out between gum trunks,
and then the whole straggling line of
steers wheeled and began to race back,
with heaving sides now, nostrils trailing
threads of slime and eyes staring.
Pa’s stockwhip rang again, his dog
barked and he kept coming, rounding up
the stragglers, tireless in his activity. My
heart began to swell, and every sound
about me merged into a scrap of verse
that seemed to have been written for
him: “A better rider never held the
reins.”
“Come on, you b s,” he bellowed as
we cantered up. “Round up those milk-
ing cows and we’ll put them through,
too.”
HE was exhausted when the day was
done, as we’d known he would be.
He let Prince, weary too, and dark with
sweat, into the stall for a feed, and then
he went up to his room, one foot scarcely
able to rise above the other. His son’s
wife called him to tea, and he went in,
but he was silent through the meal, and
went straight to bed.
“It’s too much for him, really,” said
his son, staring anxiously at the closed
door of Pa’s room. “But he loves to
do it.” We crept away, and crawled
through the window into Pa’s room.
“Are we going to brand tomorrow,
Pa?”
“Brand?” He looked at us, and a grin
started in the bright blue eyes, spread
to his toothless mouth.
In this room was the fascinating, pene-
trating odor of new leather, horse sweat,
disinfectant and axle grease. Spurs and
broken bridles hung on string, old photo-
graphs of Newhaven and Carbine lined
the walls.
We sprawled at the foot of his bed.
“Time was,” Pa said, “when branding
meant all the blokes for miles round
turned up to lend a hand, and you never
knew what to expect. There was the time
your great-grandfather dropped the S
brand on O’Toole’s arm and it left the
mark for ever. Some said it was the
brand of Satan, because O’Toole was a
devil —but you should’ve seen the fight!”
He settled back comfortably, pipe in
one hand, and we curled up at his feet
to hear the long tale to its close.
THE FIRE
By EDGAR J. THOMSON.
■“7" HE afternoon of the fire I was over
S at Kelly’s and the two Kelly
y boys and myself were perched on
the branches of a great bush
lemon, peeling the half-inch skin off the
fruit and eating them, juicy and pleas-
antly sour.
Suddenly Bill, the younger of the two,
yelled excitedly across, loud enough for
me to hear if I’d been in the next pad-
dock and not right beside him. “Hey,
what’s all that smoke coming from down
there near your place?”
I looked over in the direction of our
house hidden by the tall ironbarks and
gums, and sure enough there was a dark,
quickly-rising column of smoke. Just for
a moment I felt a qualm, but nothing
could be seriously wrong; Dad was at
home.
“Dad’s just burning some rubbish, I
suppose,” I answered, trying to keep my
voice controlled, casual.
“Well, it’s pretty big,” came from the
bigger Kelly boy.
“Forget it,” I said, returning to the eat-
ing of the lemon.
Just about half a minute later there
came a yell, splitting the shimmering heat
and dust, and there was Ma Kelly out-
side the back door waving at us. Feet
thrust into unlaced sandshoes, calico dress
unironed, hair blowing wildly, arms ges-
ticulating, she made a picture I knew I’d
be a long time forgetting.
“What’s Mum ravin’ about?” asked
Bill.
“Shut up, and we’ll all be able to
hear,” said John the elder, frecklefaced
and thirteen.
Then like a flash we made sense of the
words Ma was throwing at us.
“Grey’s house is on fire!”
Scrambling down, dropping the last
half-dozen feet, touching the ground, our
bare toes dug in and we were sprinting
the half-mile to our place.
IT was a breathless day, but the heat
1 reflected from the ground was carry-
ing the thick black smoke, wreathing,
eddying a little, almost straight into the
air. Great tongues of lurid flame were
knifing through, spreading over the house.
It was only an old weatherboard place
set low on the ground, and somehow at
first I didn’t mind seeing it burn.
Quite a crowd had gathered already.
The neighbors had come racing, some in
cars, some on horseback. They stood
around, watching the fire, helpless. It
was a couple of hundred yards to the
dam, and a bucket brigade would have
been powerless. We three boys were ven-
turing in close when Dad’s voice stopped
us: “You boys keep back away from
that fire.” We slunk back, our feet draw-
ing circles in the sand—not talking much,
just watching.
Outside the front door stood a pile of
junk hastily dragged from the house —a
few suitcases, some of Mum’s frocks, a
couple of tables, a pile of books; all
strewn over the ground.
Suddenly I remembered something of
great importance: “Mum, what about my
birds’ eggs and books and the Daisy air
rifle —how about them?” I shouted across
to where my mother stood in the midst
of a group of women, and then I felt
ashamed when I saw her looking so
worried, next door to crying.
Some of Dad’s thirty-two bullets and
shotgun cartridges began going off, kick-
ing up a racket like I thought a machine-
gun must make. I was watching a stream
of paint running down the side of the
wall when suddenly two partitions caved
in and the place began to collapse.
The sun shone down, tawny, hot, seep-
ing into us. It was stifling, and the smoke
made breathing difficult.
AFTERWARDS, when it was over, the
whole crowd of us, some riding,
some motoring—we three standing on the
running board of a car clinging on to the
hood —went sailing up to Ma Kelly’s for
afternoon tea. The elders went into the
lounge to talk, and the three of us, fear-
ful of being hunted out, sat on the floor
against the wall with our mugs of tea.
Soon they passed from the sympa-
thetic to the practical.. Ma Kelly said:
“Mrs. Gray, your lad can stay here. He’ll
be welcome.”
“Won’t he be too much trouble, Mrs.
Kelly?” my mother asked.
“Not a bit, m’dear.”
The elder Kelly dug me in the ribs:
“How do you like that?”
“Not bad,” I told him.
We began talking amongst ourselves
for a while ; then I heard old man Nichol-
son from the Four Mile start in, his
shrill, querulous voice reaching every-
where. “If only old Bob Nash had been
here, somehow that fire would’ve been
stopped.”
“Do you think so?” my father said,
and for the first time I noticed how
drawn his face was. It was then I think
I first began to appreciate our losses.
“Yes, old Bob” he continued.
“To hell with old Bob,” I interrupted.
“He couldn’t have done a damn’ thing.”
My father looked across at me, and
for a moment I thought he was going to
give me a backhander. Instead, when
he did speak it was more of a compli-
ment than I’d received for many a day.
“I think the boy’s right—nobody could
have done anything.”
LONG after, when we’d built a bigger,
better house, and the novelty of look-
ing for molten drops of brass and silver
among the ashes had worn off, we still
spoke of the day of the great fire.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3348.
Wednesday, April 12, 1944.
“LOCK UP YOUR HOUSES AND SIT ON THE KEY!”
“I haven’t forgotten what the mob did to poor old Scullin!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings C opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
COLONY CHORUS.
How far Australia had slipped—and
been pushed—back to its former colony
status till war enforced some national
thinking and acting can be seen in criti-
cism launched at the Australia-New Zea-
land Agreement, signed at Canberra on
January 21.
Mr. Keith Murdoch attacks the Agree-
ment for its “pretentiousness, unilateral
claims and offensiveness.” That is, it is
pretentious and offensive for these peoples
to agree that they have joint interests in
the Pacific and point out what those
interests are. Instead of daring to hint
anything of the kind they should, Mr.
Murdoch suggests, be willing to aban-
don New Britain. It might well be
doubted if there is any limit to what, in
Mr. Murdoch’s view, they should give
away. Presumably, they should adopt
the role of mendicants, grateful for any.
crumbs that others may care to leave
them, and too conscious of their own
inferiority to complain if they get none.
Senator Mcßride is shocked to the soul
that “we should flaunt to the world our
puny ideas of independence.” It is “pure
effrontery for Australia to attempt to lay
down what is to be done in certain direc-
tions.” It provides “the spectacle of the
two less populous Dominions setting out
.... to decide the policy which they hope
will be discussed and adopted at the Peace
Conference.” So, in this view, it is pre-
sumption even to dare to hope!
Senator Spicer is “conscious of the fact
that Australia and New Zealand do not
represent a very big force in international
affairs.” Therefore, apparently, they
should not dare to risk the frown of J.
Bull or Uncle Sam by “entering into a
quite unnecessary Agreement which lays
down a number of principles” with which
J.B. and U.S. “may not be in entire agree-
ment or to some of which they may be
opposed.” Senator Spicer’s attitude is a
variation of the great Australian crawl,
demonstrated by a succession of pre-war
Governments to the slogan “Tune in!”
The right way. Senator Spicer suggests,
is that the Governments of Australia and
New Zealand should approach, with all
due humility, the Governments of Britain
and America, “suggesting that they might
call a conference, if a conference be desir-
able.” That, the Senator feels, “would
be more likely to lead to success than the
adoption of a presumptuous attitude
by Governments representing 7,000,000
people in Australia and 1,000,000 people
in New Zealand [taking the combined
population the gentleman is 900,000 out]
by announcing that they intended to call
the great nations together to discuss
Pacific problems.” It is, in the Spicer
view, an impertinence to “put into an
agreement of this kind a number of pre-
tentious claims” and to go “flaunting
those claims to the world.” As in the
Murdoch view, Australia and New Zea-
land should be neither seen nor heard,
even though it be their feet that are
nearest the snake.
Senator McLeay belongs to the same
stable. To this Senator ; the ‘'most
amazing and most offensive” pro-
vision in the agreement is “the blunt
declaration of intention to resume con-
trol of our island possessions,” for the
regaining of which “it is doubtful if we
have paid most of the price in men and
material, and on some of which few, if
any, of our men have ever appeared.”
This carries a bit further the Murdoch
concept of Australians and New Zea-
landers as properly mendicant peoples,
who should be happy to say “Thank you
kindly” for anything or nothing. As
well. Senator McLeay accepts a gibe at
Australia quoted by Senator Mcßride as
from the Chicago “Tribune”:
Instead of carping about the pay of
American soldiers, Australians had better '
get into the Pacific war themselves. There
is still no sanction for the use of troops
beyond the area of Australia’s direct inter-
ests, from which the Japanese are rapidly
being pushed out.
If the “Tribune” had said that it would
still have been a ridiculous statement for
Australian Senators to accept and quote.
They know very well that the only
“troops” thus limited are the militia
forces; that the A.I.F. is enlisted to fight
anywhere. Certainly, the Senators, or
anybody else, might be excused for being
hazy about the part the A.I.F. took in
the toughtest New Guinea fighting,
A.I.F. doings there having been for so
long blanketed ; but anyone who accepts
that Australians had a secondary part up
there had better not say so out loud in
A.I.F. hearing. In any case the quotation
was a considerable distortion. What the
“Tribune” said (after the first sentence
quoted) was;
They (Australians] still retain their severe
restrictions against sending drafted troops
beyond the area of Australia’s direct in-
terests. The Japanese are rapidly being
pushed out of the area in which Australia
will permit its conscripted troops to serve.
While the American Army and Navy saved
Australia from Japanese invasion, Austra-
lian law at present will not permit their
drafted men to help us regain the Philip-
pines.
Many have, of course, wondered at
the non-use of the A.I.F. in New Britain.
While the wisdom or otherwise of that
non-use must be left till the full reasons
for it are known, the suggestion made
by Senator McLeay (and others) that
because Australians have not been en-
gaged in winning back this and other
former Australian property this country’s
rights are lost indicates a singular mess
of confused thinking. The inference to
be drawn is that in the view of Senator
McLeay and those who have harped on
this particular point this is a war of
takers-keepers. If that were so, Britain
would already be entitled to a new empire
in North Africa, Russia will be entitled
to every inch of Europe it can conquer,
and, as for Uncle Sam, the Stars and
Stripes will be floating over more frag-
ments of the earth than can be counted.
A more pertinent consideration over-
looked by Senator McLeay and those who
think like him on the matter is the
amount of service that Australians (and,
of course. New Zealanders) had per-
formed on other battlefields of this
world war long before it had become a
world war to some of its present partici-
pants. It is possible to consider the
militia-service restrictions a mistake with-
out having to accept that Australians
have not done their share in this war
right up to this present moment. The
lull just now is no sign that their fine part
has been finally played. For the very
decisive reason that Australian troops are
second to none in the world as fighters,
the A.I.F. is highly unlikely to be left idle
when the going again gets tough. But
Australia’s right to a “sympathetic hear-
ing” has already been clinched, at El
Alamein and in a score of other grim
battles, including the worst of New
Guinea, just as that of New Zealand had
been clinched long before the switch-
over of New Zealanders to Cassino,
where, as their country was sadly warned,
their casualties “were not light.”
A member of the U.S. Army in Aus-
tralia has suggested to those who belittle
the Australian fighting part that they
should “compare the ratio of men and
women in the services of America and
Australia with the total population of
each country, and then please find out
the percentages of men of those services
who have seen front-line action.” There
is, too, the share being contributed by
Australian and New Zealand airmen and
seamen, which cannot be left out of such
accounting. It should be said that
praise and proper appreciation of the
Australian effort is most generous in
America. It compares with the general
Australian appreciation of and gratitude
for America’s part.
Mr. Menzies joins the chorus to suggest
that it is “astonishing, blatant and crude”
that Australia and New Zealand should
have put forward their views as they did
in the Agreement signed at Canberra.
Dr, Evatt, the chief author of the Agree-
ment, has fairly retorted that that “was
the attitude of Downing-street 50 years
ago.” It was the attitude of Australian
political leaders, Mr. Menzies among
them, much more recently than that.
What is astonishing about them is that
the war, and what nearly happened to
Australia, should have taught them
nothing.
It seems to be inferred by those at-
tacking the Agreement that America
—the American nation —is eager to peg
out claims on New Britain and other
former Australian and New Zealand
holdings. Actually, one of the strongest
reasons for New Zealand and Australia
getting together is the possibility that
America, by the time this war is over,
may be reluctant to take a continued
active hand in making peace permanently
secure at this distance from its own
shores. If the Peace should result in
America taking over even the Jap Man-
dates both Australia and New Zealand
will have reason to thank once again their
always lucky stars. But that would still
be no reason for their continuing to be as
unmindful of their own security as they
were in the past.
Carried through, the Agreement would
break from that past. And that would
seem to point precisely to the whole
trouble with its attackers. They are
rooted in the past, a past which is dead.
Trade-union Rackets.
In the U.S.A. there is a newspaperman,
Westbrook Pegler, who is waging a one-
man war on trade-union gangsterism and
racketeering.
One of the reasons why the New Deal
has fallen into such disfavor that the
Piesident himself has disowned the term
and thing is that it made union bosses
privileged under United States law. While
exempting them from any obligation to
publish balance sheets, it empowered
them to levy private taxes in the form of
fees and levies, without specified Unfits,
and compelled employers to deduct these
private taxes from pay-envelopes and
hand them over to the union bosses. The
same thing goes on in Australia with the
sanction of Labor Governments.
Of these privileges and others, tyrants
and rascals, as Pegler has shown, have
taken every advantage. In spite of threats
of violence and union-mob demonstra-
tions, he has uncovered scandal after
scandal and had some of the rascals sent
to jail. In one case union gangsters were
sentenced to long terms for extorting im-
mense sums from Hollywood film mag-
nates, mostly boys of the Second-Front
breed, who were too yellow to fight the
extortioners ; and other prosecutions have
been launched.
Pegler has shown also that there has
been wholesale looting of union funds
within the New Deal law by way of
gifts of mansions, princely salaries and
pensions, compulsory insurance of union
members in concerns which pay fat com-
missions to the right party and, of course,
Communist propaganda. His account of
“another disgraceful racket in the smelly
hypocrisy of the American Federation of
Labor” is here subjoined.
Harold Franklin, the son of gopd old
Joe Franklin, president of the Boilermakers’
Union, receives $lOO,OOO a year in commis-
sions on premiums paid by union members,
who must keep in good standing in the
union or forfeit their jobs. One of the in-
surance companies defaulted, and as one of
its reasons for its inability to pay claims to
the rank and file explained that the com-
missions to young Franklin used up too
much money.
Horny-handed old-time union boiler-
makers came to Kansas City in February
to resume their fight against old Franklin’s
political machine and were ground to ham-
burgher in the gears. One of the old-timers
was not even allowed to take his seat as an
elected delegate from Winnipeg. He was
turned down by the Credentials Committee,
which anticipated his protest' against the
insurance racket and the pensions grab.
The convention by a voice vote awarded
old Franklin a life pension of $12,500 a
year, $5OOO more than he had received as
legitimate pay as president. There was no
roll-call, and the best the honest men of
the rebel group could do was to record
their disapproval of the handout, which they
did amid the boos of the Franklin mob.
To make sure that old man Franklin’s
pension would be secure for life at $12,500
a year the machine stipulated in the resolu-
tion that it should equal the president’s
salary; then it raised the president’s salary
and provided that the incoming officers
should sign a life contract with him at
that figure. The assistant president’s pay
and that of the secretary-treasurer were
boosted $5OOO a year; the vice-presidents
were raised from $375 to $7OO a month,
and even the editor of the little monthly
journal was hopped from $5lOO to $B6OO.
Largely through Pegler’s exertions, all
labor unions are now required to furnish
annual financial statements to the United
States Treasury. This provision was in-
cluded in the Tax Bill passed by Congress
over the President’s veto. It means, not
that union income will be taxed —that is
not intended—but that the bosses will
have to render proper accounts of their
financial stewardship in documents avail-
able for private inspection, official record
and newspaper publication.
There is no such salutary requirement
in this country. Some union executives
publish balance sheets; others don’t.
All are nominally bound to send state-
ments of income, expenditure, funds and
membership to industrial registrars and
the like, but in N. S. Wales, at least, they
may please themselves, and those who
keep the information to themselves are
never punished. Many unions have
branches in more than one State, but the
Commonwealth Year-Book, though it has
a trade-union chapter, and though union
income considerably exceeds the tax-
revenue of the State of Tasmania, is barren
of information about trade-union finance.
There is no Australian union without
a Communist fringe, and, though no-
where in an actual majority, Communists
are in the ascendant in important organ-
isations and groups. Control of finance,
“Leninist” discipline and larrikin
methods, aided by newspaper and radio
accounts of the war on the steppes in
which, unlike the fumbling Tommies and
their dunces of generals, the Russians
never lose a fight, enable them not only
to hold but to extend their power. To
stand up against them, except as a unit
in a demonstrably bigger group, is to
invite all sorts of pains and penalties,
from foul abuse and actual assault and
battery to expulsion from the union ; and
that means expulsion from the job, with
no chance of getting another like it. And
to the organisation of a bigger group
there are obstacles often insuperable
inertia, the mateship feeling, indisposition
to break up the union, aversion from
being called and treated as a “scab,”
hopeless inferiority in point of finance
and industrial laws so full of holes that
they permit Communist gangs to get
away with almost anything.
The most notorious Communist-led
union is the Federated Ironworkers’
Association or Red Racket, run by
a thankless and ill-conditioned English
immigrant named Thornton. Called
“Balance Sheet Thornton” because he
has never published a balance sheet,
though from time to time he has
perforce produced imitations concealing
essential facts, such as expenditure on
Communist and Second-Front propa-
ganda, Thornton and his mob control a
union income which many a business
concern in good standing would envy,
and, his mob helping and the law permit-
ting, put down revolts with a facility
which the Rocks Push would have
admired.
In 1943 Thornton and a parcel of
fellow-Communists and fellow-travellers
“arranged” an amalgamation of the Iron-
workers and the Munition Workers with-
out troubling to take votes of union mem-
bers, This led to the most serious revolt
with which the Thornton gang has had
to deal. The Arbitration Court was asked
to take a hand, and it did, greatly to the
annoyance of the gang. But it now ap-
pears that the Court has relented or some-
thing, or that its attitude has become im-
material to the gang and to other gangs
with similar ambitions; anyway, this is
now the position as stated in the “Tri-
bune,” “Official Organ of the Central
Committee Australian Communist Party
(with which is amalgamated the State
Labor party, N.5.W.).”
The Arbitration Court has approved the
legal formula for amalgamation of unions
worked out by the Amalgamated Iron-
workers-Munition Workers’ Union. This
amalgamation has been a fact for over a
year now, but the Court has not given its
legal blessing yet in the form of registra-
tion. Even the judgment of J udge O’Mara
which sanctions the formula as legally
right still does not register the amalgama-
tion, but ties a string to that approval.
This string is Judge O’Mara’s reservation
to himselt of the right to see that the
carrying out in practice of the legal formula
is approved by him as being bona fide
protection of the rights of the members of
the union.
A very proper “reservation,” and one
which will have to be stoutly maintained
through the years if Australian unionists
are not to become serfs, as so many mil-
lions of Russians were before 1863. But
to the “Tribune” “this is a further in-
stance of how thoroughly unhelpful the
Arbitration Court has been throughout
the fight for registration.” “Unhelpful,”
not to “the members of the union,” but
to Communists and fellow-travellers.
However, that is just one of many
slurs that have been spread since the amal-
gamation became a fact and only has nui-
sance value. What is important is that the
legal formula that has Court approval for
this amalgamation has Court approval for
all amalgamations. Thus the Communist
leadership of the Ironworkers has pioneered
the way, through a maze of legal difficul-
ties, for enormous strengthening of the
working class by union amalgamations, and
the path is now open for militant rank-and-
file unionists to start the agitation within
their unions for amalgamations.
“Militant rank-and-file unionists” are,
of course, all Communists and fellow-,
travellers, and the beauty of the “agi-
tation” is that it can be charged up to the
men and women to be brought under
Communist despotism.
It is a daring programme. So daring and
so dangerous that Federal Labor may
be sorry that it decided to shut up Par-
liament for six months, especially as the
Communists are pressing hard for “amal-
gamation” with the A.L.P. and are boast-
ing that some Labor politicians and many
A.L.P. branches are willing. They are
so numerous on metrppolitan Trades and
Labor Councils and the A.C.T.U., to
which those concerns send all the dele-
gates, that they have had Thornton ap-
pointed “to represent the Australian
trade-union movement” at a world con-
ference in London, and what the
A.C.T.U. says today the A.L.P. says to-
morrow. Thornton was actually beaten
in a Sydney Labor Council ballot to
decide two N.S.W. nominations, and the
returning officer, a Labor M.L.C., so
reported, declaring a Mr. Anderson and
a Mr. Austin the choice of the majority
voting. But the Communists and fellow-
travellers asserted that he had counted
wrong or hadn’t followed Queensland
rules or those of the late Rafferty; and,
having the numbers, they put Thornton
in Austin’s place.
No one seems to have objected that it
would be an insult to “the trade-union
movement” and to Australia to send to
London a rabid anti-Australian Commu-
nist who, just before the war became
holy, was agitating for peace-by-back-
down with Hitler, and boasting of Jhe
war strikes his mob had worked up; “we
made strikes our business.” If Lang
Right, one of the overriding majority, a
delegate from the Sydney branch of the
Journalists’ Association, “declared that
he supported Thornton because he
thought that Thornton, better than any
other Labor leader, could
Churchill to open a Second Front,”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Diggers' Protest.
N. S. Wales Diggers protested in vain—
nothing new, of course —against the Com-
monwealth Government decision, an-
nounced by Mr. Curtin, to use Anzac
Day as an excuse for shutting all hotels
and the like against them. Two years ago
they abandoned their Anzac Day cere-
monies in deference to the same Prime
Minister (“it is desired that marches of
returned men and other outside gather-
ings at memorial services should not be
organised”), only to find the May Day
crowd performing as usual, with Min-
ister Ward among the marchers.
The Digger point of view was stated
last week by Mr. J. R. Lewis, N.S.W. sec-
retary of the R.S.L,:
The policy of the League in New South
Wales had always been that sacred com-
memorations should be held on the morn-
ing of Anzac Day, and that after midday
it should be possible for unit reunions and
convivial gatherings to be held. We wish
to revert to the conditions existing before
1941. We do not see how any question of
national security is now involved.
For answer the Diggers read the an-
nouncement that the regulations enforc-
ing prohibition for their day against their
wishes had been issued.
While it was on the job the Govern-
ment, Mr. Curtin leading, made Easter
Monday a general holiday, with open
pubs, race meetings, football and every-
thing else necessary for celebrating their
good luck in not being Diggers that the
always, favored home-fronters could desire.
“An open go for sports and Commu-
nists, and the Diggers be damned!”
Law in Kid Gloves.
It was recently announced that the five
N.S.W. jails had been filled to capacity,
capacity being 2000-odd. Many of the
inmates are bad boys and girls demoral-
ised by war conditions; and they, of
course, will not stay long. Indeed, only
lifers and habituals seem to stay long in
N.S.W. jails, and for them wireless,
cigarettes and other mod. cons, are laid
on. And there is always the chance that
a sympathetic politician can be interested
in a claim, backed by an impressive
number of votes, that the prisoner is as
innocent as a babe unborn.
Unusual as it is to have a prison popu-
lation of 2000-odd, the total is less than
half the number of offences against the
person, with violence, reported last year.
Of these very serious cases there were
4572 in 1942 and 5161 in 1943. Arrests
were comparatively few, and on the evi-
dence sentences, taken by and large, erred
on the side of leniency. It is on record
that garrotting can be literally flogged
out of the criminal class, but to sentimen-
tal politicians flogging is more abomin-
able than garrotting.
There has been a great increase also
in cargo pilfering, not even front line
supplies and the effects of dead service
men being spared. And a Cabinet Min-
ister himself has said that adulteration,
even poisoning, of grog intended particu-
larly for service men is rife. But a wharf
robber taken with the goods rarely gets
more than three months, with a return
to the scene of his crime, union ticket
and all, assured, and the vilest specimen
of black-marketeer, if caught (these ruf-
fians rarely are), has no reason to fear
more than a three-years’ sentence, less
nine months taken off for good conduct.
In Lismore recently two policemen,
one the officer in charge of a distant
station and the other a detective from a
Sydney suburb, were convicted of con-
spiracy to defraud foreigners by the pre-
tence that they could save from Civil
Construction Corps service persons alleged
to have been called up. Because of their
calling, the foulness of the crime and the
necessity to discourage others, this surely
was a case requiring the utmost rigor
of the law. But the jury saw fit to recom-
mend leniency, and the Judge passed sen-
tence of 18 months —with good-conduct
remission I»3£ months —ordering restitu-
tion as well. On another charge of
“misappropriating” £52 10s. raised for
the Australian Comforts Fund, the district
officer was ordered another 12 months —
i.e., nine months, A man who would
steal from the A.C.F. is not fit to have
his liberty this side of the next war.
Sydney is polluted with ruffians who
make service men their special prey. They
won’t be put down, nor will the crime
wave recede, until severe sentences are
imposed as a regular thing. Fear of jus-
tice, swift and ruthless, is the only thing
that can make an impression on garrot-
ters, black-marketeers and the like; but,
as things are, fear is not felt.
April State Elections.
To judge by their general attitude, electors
in the affected States wouldn’t care a darn
if they never came off. State Parliaments
and Governments in the past four years
and a half, with the nation involved in a
world war, some of its outports bombed
and its greatest harbor raided by midget
subs., though it was spared the horrors
of Asiatic invasion, have been exposed
for what they are in the mass —encum-
brances, whose principal outfits are pro-
fiteering shamelessly at the expense of
war funds.
The Queensland poll is set down for
April 15. Mr. Cooper’s Labor party has
been in power for 29 years (with one
break of two years), and though it rather
suggests that if it is beaten the war will
be lost or something, Queenslanders
aren’t appalled at the prospect. Nor can
it be said that Queenslanders view the
claims of Mr. Nicklin’s C.-N.O. or Mr.
Chandler’s Q.P.P. with enthusiasm. Even
the press makes only passing reference
to the election campaign, and the only
thing pertinent to it on the radio is poli-
tical advertising on commercial stations.
The people should be weary of Mr.
Cooper’s crowd, and resentful of the
abolition of preferential voting, of high
State taxes (iq spite of thumping surpluses,
fruits of easy Commonwealth money) and
the hint that electorates that don’t vote
Labor won’t benefit from Labor’s post-
war policy to the same extent as Labor
electorates; but if inertia prevails Mr.
Cooper’s crowd will go in again.
South Australians seem a bit more inter-
ested in their election on April 29. Their
Playford is the only Digger Premier, and
he has a pretty good record as State Pre-
miers go. Without Queensland’s advan-
tages, his State has become highly indus-
trialised since the war, and it has had few
labor troubles other than those for which
union bosses and mobs in other States have
been responsible. Mr. Playford has two
recent achievements to his Government’s
credit, a great water scheme and the
opening of the Leigh Creek coalfield.
Labor’s Mr, Richards may and may not
be helped by a concentration of Federal
Labor’s big guns and popguns. If
Federal voting is repeated, he will become
Premier again, but a lot of water has
run under the bridge since August 21.
The Way of Revolutions.
For over quarter of a century ruffians
have talked revolution in Australia, and
fools have listened. France had a “great”
Revolution, Middle - class dreamers
started it; the Paris mob took control;
there were frightful massacres in the
prisons, civil wars, famine, foreign wars,
victories as dazzling as those of Hin-
denburg and Ludendorff and as useless,
all with so frightful a destruction of man-
hood that France lost for all time the first
position in Europe.
When the “great” Revolution began
there were as many Frenchmen as Ger-
mans. Out of its wars and those of
Napoleon came the aggrandisement ol
Russia and Prussia and the unification
of Germany, the defeats of 1870, 1914
and 1917 and the crowning disaster of
1940. Except in patriotic moments, the
nation has never ceased to be divided. If
it is still incapable of unity, if, with the
prospect of redemption, Frenchmen re-
turn to destroying Frenchmen as in 1871
and 1793 and succeeding years, under
forms of law or with new refinements of
mob cruelty, it will be a very long time
before France rises again, as Smuts has
said.
War Correspondents.
Back in Sydney, Mr. F. Ehrenfried
Baume, the Famous War Correspondent,
lost no time in letting his public into one
of the secrets he bore back with him
over the waste of waters:
Why have the German Air Force failed
to send up fighters over Berlin? Answer: ■
They haven’t got the fighters.
Possibly these pregnant words were
communicated to Sir Archibald Sinclair,
the British Air Minister, who, being
Scotch, is cautious. Anyway, Sir Archi-
bald said in the Commons three days
later that “the fighter force at the enemy’s
disposal in western Europe is still formid-
able, and undoubtedly many hard battles
lie ahead.”
Events answered the Famous War
Correspondent more shatteringly than any
Scotch Minister could do. In the very issue
in which the Famous War Correspon-
dent laid it down that they “haven’t got
the fighters,” it was recorded that 73
R.A.F. ’planes had been lost in a raid
over Berlin. Five days afterwards 94
more were brought down in an attack
on Nuremberg. Taken together, a most
serious loss of grand ’planes and grand
men ; and “the fighters they haven’t got”
were responsible for nearly all of it,
Ehrenfried retired, and another Famous
War Correspondent, Mr. Jimmy Ald-
ridge, came into the picture. As a boy-
reporter Mr. Aldridge saw something of
the Russo-Finnish war. Going to Nor-
way he was appalled at the losses suffered
by the British, which somehow the official
reporters failed to record. In Egypt he
formed the opinion that the Tommy was
failing because he hadn’t been taught to
“hate Fascism.” That was a few weeks
before El Alamein. At El Alamein Mr.
Aldridge was not present, nor did he
attend the subsequent proceedings which
ended in Tunisia with the rounding up
of 267,000 Axis prisoners and all the
equipment and supplies they hadn’t man-
aged to destroy.
Mr. Aldridge had gone to Iran. In
that country, and in neighboring parts,
he saw a bit of the Red Army, and con-
tracted Russomania in a virulent form.
Now a Moscow correspondent, he has
had a far-off vie\y of one of the cam-
paigns, and, forgetful or contemptuous
of Alexander and Montgomery and his
Eighth Army, he dashed off this insult-
ing comparison which Sydney “Sun” did
not scruple to print.
Never letting the Germans rest ftpr a
minute, never giving them time to initiate
their own manoeuvres and battle positions,
the Red Army has succeeded where we
have always failed.
There are war correspondents, and not
a few, who have done capital work at
personal risk —men true to the traditions
established by Russell, Archibald Forbes,
G. W. Steevens, Bennett Burleigh, Beach
Thomas and Philip Gibbs. Some have
died on the job. There are others who,
with little knowledge though with any
amount of assurance, set up as oracles
and, worse still, as campaign critics and
authorities on strategy and tactics, ex-
tolling foreign generals and armies and
running down our own ; and there are
commentators of the same order. The
effect of this output of pap and poison on
a nation which must needs address itself
to the sternest of tasks without cherishing
false and dangerous illusions is altogether
bad.
With Scully's Compliments.
Personnel of the Commonwealth Food
Control G.H.Q. before Mr. G. J. Evatt
was added as N.S.W. Deputy Controller
of Food: —
Controller-General of Food (Mr.
Murphy), £1750; Administrative Assistant
to Controller-General (Mr. Carney), £624;
Executive Officer to Deputy Controller-
General of Food (Mr. L. Moroney), £672;
Assistant Controller-General of Food (Mr.
Crit'chley), £1500; Director-General of Agri-
culture (Mr. Bulcock), £1750; Chief Execu-
tive Officer, Directorate of Agriculture (Mr.
J. Moroney), £816; Director of Finance
(Mr. Hewson), £908; Director of Civil Sup-
plies (Mr. Came), £720; Director of Public
Relations (Mr. Mills), £l4 a week; Execu-
tive Officer to Director of Food Manufac-
ture (Mr. H. Menzies), £672; Director of
Service Foodstuffs (Mr. Richards), £888;
Chief Technologist (Dr. Kerr), £1100; Eco-
nomic Adviser (Dr. I. Butler), £720; Deputy
Controller-General of Food (Mr. Massey),
£1412; Legal Adviser (Dr. Woinowski),
£750; Deputy Director of Food Manufac-
ture, £l2OO.
Which of these eminent gentlemen has
ever had any practical experience in the
production, processing or distribution of
foodstuffs?
WITH BALALAIKA ACCOMPANIMENT.
Lay that pistol down, Ad.,
Lay that pistol down!
Pistol-packin’ Adolf,
Lay that pistol down!


TKMt*
Tj l £ *
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars. j
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong • Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COM PANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0.. Sydney.
BP 9-44.
■
■
POLITICAL POINTS
After thinking it over for six weeks
Hughes is going back to the Advisory
War Council, from which he resigned
with his leader. It may mean that he
will have to form another party —his
sixth ; if so, Billy will presumably lead
in the House and Tom Crawford in the
Senate, Thursdays excepted. Billy will
be 80 on September 25 and Tom is in
the seventies, so youth will call to youth.
Lang had an Easter conference with
170 delegates of his new group—No. 4 in
point of time—which has 70 branches
and is to run 30 N.S.W. Assembly candi-
dates. It is getting support from people
who hate Communists and see the Corns,
forcing affiliation on the A.L.P. “moder
ates,” there being precious little fight in
“moderates.”
No defeated candidate for the Presi-
dency has ever received another nomina-
tion, and the tradition is not to be broken
in Wendell Willkie’s case. Though he
had been campaigning for months and
had press support which was fliought to
be powerful, he came such a thud in the
Wisconsin primary that he at once de-
clared himself out of the contest. Wis-
consin sends 24 delegates to the Republi-
can Convention ; 18 are for Dewey, three
for MacArthur and three for Stassen,
also serving in the Pacific —as a lieutenant-
commander. There are 47 other States,
and the general may still have a chance,
but Dewey looks a certainty if he decides
to stand. The strange thing is that he
has never said he will.
Watts, leader of the Westralian Oppo-
sition, has worked it out that Labor, with
30 Assembly seats, represents 118,838
votes ; whereas non-Labor won only 20
seats with 113,503 votes. Electoral boun-
daries and election arrangements being
as they are, or will be, things as strange
or stranger can happen in other Labor
States, particularly Queensland and N. S.
Wales.
Premier Playford of S.A. injected a
note of cold reality into his policy
speech at Gumeracha, though he might
have expressed it more pithily:
Many post-war proposals are being put
forward designed to provide economic
security, adequate employment and improve-
ment of social services. I am convinced
that many are incapable of fulfilment be-
cause they ignore important economic con-
siderations.
It was meant, not only for Canberra's
Department of Post-war Reconstruction,
but as a reminder to those willing to be-
lieve that Labor is capable of outdoing
Dante the Great and all the other greater
and lesser magicians.
The “Pravda” attack on Britain and
Moscow’s recognition of the Badoglio
Government were forgotten when Molo-
tov announced that the Red Army’s entry
into Rumania was “dictated solely by
military reasons” and was “in no way
aimed at the integrity of Rumanian terri-
tory or the existing social order.”
Churchill and Cordell Hull intimated that
they had been consulted and warmly
approve. If Poles, Letts, Estonians and
Lithuanians protested that they had re-
ceived similar assurances, followed in
each case by irreconcilable deeds, they
were not heard. But«when the chorus
of congratulations was at its height the
careful New York “Times” came out
with a “remarkable statement by Victor
Kravchenko, an official of the Soviet
Purchasing Commission in Washington
and a captain in the Red Army,” which
was to the effect that, as he could no
longer support Moscow’s “double-faced”
policy, which, under the pretence of
collaboration and support for national-
ism, had the same old aims, he was re-
signing. At the inquest it will be deposed
that the traitor Kravchenko in a fit of
remorse shot himself in 17 places, be-
ginning with the back of the neck.
“Cautious observers in London con-
tinue to emphasise that the Germans are
resisting fiercely on the Russian front and
discount suggestions of a German col-
lapse.” That is from the Melbourne
VHerald,” and it doesn’t tally with the
excited stuff printed in the Sydney
THE HORSE LAUGH.
“At Mr. Curtin’s invitation Mr. Hughes is returning to the Advisory War Council, and he
is not attending the U.A.P. meeting.”
“Sold to the gentleman in the boxer hat!”
dailies; but then the “Herald’s” war
summaries rarely do. It was here stated
nearly two years ago that “Australia can-
not be saved on the steppes of Russia.”
Now the “Daily Mail,” commenting on
the futility of thinking that the war will
be won on the Russian front (the
“Herald” quotes it), says “No more
dangerous mistake could be made.”
From Vaucluse:
I see our ex-mayor, R. J. Bartley, now Lud
Mayor of Sydney, is to have a crack at Vernon
Treatt’s Woollahra Assembly seat. Our ex-
mayor believes “we must turn our attention
to finding new men with better ways of appeal-
ing to the electorate for the right to govern
in the interests of all classes.” Which suggests
that our ex-mayor likes himself. Actually he’s
rather a shy chap, chiefly remembered in our
subbub for the day he arrived at the local
school with a earful of quart's to relieve the
sunburned, sweating, dusty, blistered citizenry
there gathered to dig air-raid trenches that,
thank God, were never used.
De Gaulle is now supreme among the
fighting French at Algiers, head of the
armed forces as well as president of the
Committee of Liberation, with two Com-
munists on it. In a broadcast addressed
to the French, but meant also for Lon-
don and Washington, he laid down the
law according to De Gaulle in most posi-
tive terms.
No matter what happens or wherever
Frenchmen may be, they must obey only
the orders received from this Government
as soon as the enemy ceases to have con-
trol over them. No action must be taken
in the name of France except on the Gov-
ernment’s authority. No international obli-
gations other than those sanctioned by
the Government will be recognised.
Pretty cool, considering what De Gaulle
and his supporters owe to and expect
from Britain and America.
There is only a handful of Trotskyists
in Australia, and there can’t be many in
Britain, but the British followers of Leon,
deceased, are blamed for the queer and
most disturbing rash of strikes in coal-
mines and other places. It is more likely
a case of the chickens hatched out by the
much larger Communist faction coming
home to roost at a most awkward time.
To vary the poultry-yard metaphor,
minds scrambled by many years of revo-
lutionary agitation, scornful of religion,
love of country and respect for institu-
tions and the rights of other people, can’t
be unscrambled just because the revolu-
tionary agitators choose to twist. We have
seen the same influences at work in this
country, with the same evil results.
It was thought that N.S.W. coalies had
thought of the ultimate in fantastic ex-
cuses for striking; but no. Miners at a
colliery producing 1800 tons of coal a
day—at least, now and then —struck be-
cause one of their mates, owner of a
house, got an eviction order against
another of their mates who lived in it.
When the vast new sick bay on the
Pig Market site in Melbourne was pro-
jected, it was confidently assumed that
the old Royal Melbourne would be
demolished, and there were suggestions
of making the site alongside the National
Gallery into a “cultural” centre. Now
that the new building has been handed
back Dunstan announces that the Gov-
ernment has no intention of permitting
the sale of the old hospital at present.
It probably never will permit it. With
the Federal Government making medi-
cine free and talking of “nationalising”
doctors, Melbourne will want more hos-
pitals than ever.
A Mr. Alec Masel, an opponent of
Isaac Isaacs on the Zionist claims, has
been discussing the emigration of
European Jews to countries other than
Palestine. Strangely enough, he doesn’t
mention Dr. Hewlett Johnson’s “Socialist
Sixth of the World,” though it has a
spacious Jewish settlement to which, for
some unexplained reason, Jews won’t
go. He mentions Alaska, and Alaska is
certainly a very large, rich and empty
country; but admission to Alaska would
carry the right “to move freely and settle
in all parts of United States territory,”
and that “would not be acceptable to the
American Government.” So Mr. Masel
“unreservedly” supports “the bringing to
this country of as many fellow-Jews as
possible,” and is “sure the Australian
Government will agree.”
All military critics make mistakes, and
the Anzac George Fielding Eliot has
made his share. But he was right when
he warned the American public against
a too-easy belief in Moscow correspon-
dents’ traps. He was right again on
December 10, when he predicted that the
enemy, when attacked in the north, would
“swing back his left flank along the Bal-
tic coast, but hold on to the hinge,
Vitebsk, with determination.
“The strong defence of this point and of
Orsha and Mogilev indicates that the Ger-
mans are not yet thinking of pulling back
this part of their line towards the Polish
frontier.”
They were still hanging on to Vitebsk,
Orsha and Mogilev last week.
Fallon, the Queensland A.W.U. boss,
is putting his name to Labor election
advertisements. One avers that “The
War Effort and Post-war Reconstruction
Demand Solid, Well-organised, Courage-
ous, Efficient Government: Nothing Else
Will Suffice.” It may be interpreted as
an invitation to vote against Fallon’s
crowd.
The Dunstan Government is consider-
ing a plan to stamp out t.b. in Victoria
within 25 years. Existing bed accom-
modation will be doubled, eight sani-
tariums and branch bureaus will be built
in country centres, there will be a
travelling X-ray clinic and a central
laboratory for sputum examination. Vic-
toria has fallen so far behind in this field
that sufferers from t.b. are scattered all
over the country unable to get treatment.
Part of the plan is that the Common-
wealth Government shall be asked to sub-
sidise the scheme out of its prodigious
deficit, though State finances in Vic-
toria as well as Queensland and N. S.
Wales are in such an unwontedly obese
condition that the Governments don’t
know what to do with their easy money.
Says S.A.’s L.V.A.: “The interests of
the community in Australia would be
better served by the complete elimination
of liquor rationing.” No, they would be
better served if the Trade set about re-
forming itself.
Asked by the Brisbane Labor Council
to permit City Council employees to
march in the May Day procession, Lud
Mayor Chandler said it would be
granted conditionally on Churchill’s por-
trait being carried in the van.
“ The portrait of Stalin preceded that’ of
Churchill in last year’s procession. Aus-
tralia is part of the British Empire, and,
while Australia admires Russia’s part in the
war, it is not fitting that Britain’s leader
should give way to the leader of another
country.
Chandler’s portrait will not be carried in
the procession.


TO JO LIKES YOU TO WASTE MATERIALS
Careless use of your Exide Batteries helps the enemy. It wastes vital materials needed' by
our Armed Forces who depend upon Exide for over 100 services. Take no chances with
your house-lighting equipment and car and radio batteries. Immediately you suspect the
need for repair, replacement or recharging, consult your Exide dealer. Remember ex ra
care of your Exide means months of extra service.
house-lighting BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
mi
r. .;•:
\ I Wut\>aAv^ e ' aJ
PERSONAL ITEMS
An odd thing about Prime Minister
Curtin’s public life has been his aversion
against flying while at the same time
being one of the most persistent of all
advocates of military aviation for de-
fence. The only times he has flown have
been once in 1940 and once in 1943 to
catch up with election schedules. It’s a
fair bet that he won’t do any more flying
overseas than circumstances make essen-
tial. All there is to it is that he just
doesn’t like flying, though his son is in
the R.A.A.F. This will be the P.M.’s
second time outside Australia ; he went
to Geneva in 1924 as a delegate to the
1.L.0., had a quick look at London and
came home around South Africa. One
thing he’ll probably have to adjust him-
self to will be some kind of a bodyguard.
In Australia he potters around where and
as he likes, walking alone to his office,
sitting among the crowd at football
matches.
Rep. for Ex-Imperial Sailors, Soldiers
and Airmen on the N.S.W. State Council
of the R.S.L., W. A. Foster is an Eng-
lishman of the 1890 vintage who landed
in Australia in 1906, after having already
seen a fair slice of the world. Full of
boyhood notions about life before the
mast, he joined a sailing ship of the
W. A. FOSTER.
Richard Green Co., and so to South
America. That was enough for him of
Richard or anyone else using sails. He
bolted at Rio de Janeiro, made his way
back to his native Rye (Sussex), and when
he tried the sea again it was under steam.
For the last war he also returned to his
native heath, arriving there in time to
enlist in November, 1914. He saw ser-
vice with the R.A. in siege and trench-
mortar batteries, was wounded and
gassed (British gas), and won the M.M. at
Passchendaele. He ranked as sergeant,
and had three and a half years of France.
Among other ex-service interests Foster
manages their club for the Ex-Imperials,
and is one of the directors of the War
Veterans’ Home at Narrabeen.
Dr. Edwin Sherbon Hills, selected from
scores of applications from all over the
world for the Chair of Geology at Mel-
bourne University, graduated at that uni.
in 1928, and next year won the 1851 Ex-
hibition Scholarship, which took him to
the Imperial College of Science and Tech-
nology, London. Returning in 1932 with
the college diploma and the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy of London Univer-
sity, he became geology lecturer at his
Alma Mater. Geology plays a bigger part
in war than most people imagine, and
Hills has covered a wide field in the army
in that department. He has two publica-
tions to his credit, Physiography of Vic-
toria and Outlines of Geography. He’s
37.
Sydney University has handed the first
D.Litt. granted in its Faculty of Arts to
Attorney-General and Acting Minister for
Supply and Shipping Dr. Evatt. It makes
him a double doc. of the Uni., where he
collected an M.A. in 1917, and was made
a Doctor of Laws in 1924. The D.Litt. is
for his Rum Rebellion study of Bligh’s
times and his biography of Holman.
G. V. Evatt, appointed Deputy Con-
troller of Food for N.S.W., is a brother
of Dr. Evatt. His new job should give
him a chance to push the urgency of irri-
gation as part of post-war national works;
he has been N.S.W. Commissioner for
Irrigation and Water Conservation since
1921.
The irregular situation created by the
absence of Maoriland’s Finance Minister
Walter Nash in Washington as Minister
to the U.S.A. is to be remedied by the
appointment of Carl August Berendsen to
the job. The new Minister-plenipotentiary
is well known and liked in Sydney, where
he was born. His place as M.L. Minister
in Australia is to be filled by James
Gillespie Barclay, erstwhile Minister of
Agriculture. Barclay, a farmer, 62, has
had nine years in Parliament as a Labor
member.
Maurice Blackburn (B. 5/4/’44) will
be much missed by two sections of the
Melbourne community second-hand
booksellers and journalists. He was prob-
ably the most familiar figure in all the
bookshops of the city, and, no matter
how costly any tome he picked up there,
he would think nothing of handing it
over if it contained the information
sought by any one of the many scribes
who regularly counted on him to know
all about this, that or the other.
Last September the “S. M. Herald” ran
a story from a war correspondent on
Lieut. Duncan Campbell Menzies, of the
2nd Black Watch, who, with Wingate's
first infiltration expedition in Burma,
used to “have The Bulletin regularly
dropped by parachute for him with the
rations.” From another source, which
adds “It was the most popular paper in
the column,” The Bulletin now learns
that Lieut. Menzies, who had been made
prisoner by the Japs earlier in 1943 and
bound hand and foot and shot by them,
was subsequently awarded the M.C.
Among other things, the citation states:
At Hintha on March 28, 1943, he re-
mained for half an hour in an exposed
position by himself, keeping the enemy off
with grenades and calling back accurate in-
formation about their movements with a
fine disregard of danger. Throughout the
campaign he set a fine example of effi-
ciency, cheerfulness and devotion to duty.
Of great physical powers of endurance,
his energy never flagged; and at the end
of the most frying march he was tireless,
and possessed an extraordinary reserve of
strength. He was easily the most skilful
jungle navigator of the column, which he
would lead for hours without relief, cutting
a track as he went. Utterly fearless in
action and an unbending disciplinarian,
who exacted his own high standards from
everybody, he commanded the confidence
and affection of every man in column.
A South Australian, born at Clare in
1919, Lieut. Menzies was his State’s
Rhodes scholar for 1939. At Oxford
when the war started, he was with the
Black Watch in some of the fiercest fight-
ing round about Tobruk before going to
Burma.
Ninety not out this year, Sydney
Y.M.C.A. has over 80 welfare officers
with the services. Three of its wel-
fare men are p.o.w. B. Monfries,
captured with other Australians in Libya ;
Alan MacLachlan, captured likewise in
Greece; George McNeilly, ditto in
Malaya. Another, A. McDonald, was
killed a little time back in an air crash
in North Queensland. R. de V. Kidson,
gen. sec., is with the Second Australian
Army, and Y.M. staff man Alec Symonds
and Neale Cartwright, of the board of
directors, are in New Guinea. Others
up that way include Harry Black (the
youngest of the reps.), Eric Clucas, Bill
Fuller (an Old Digger), John Williams
(R.A.A.F.), Bill Higgs, Max Wharton
and Eric Wootten. In the last war Frank
Grose, of 2GB, became known to Diggers
as “the Rough Y.M. Bloke.” In the
present scrap Diggers of the Kokoda
Track affectionately dubbed Y.M. rep.
Ferd Hoepper “the Bloke with the Con-
certina.”
Judge Hugh Fraser Ayson, Resident
Commissioner and Chief Justice of
Maoriland’s Cook Islands, is retiring after
some 28 years’ acquaintance with the
tropics, save for a couple of brief terms
in M.L. as Judge of the Native Land
Court. Born in the Clutha 60 years ago.
Judge Ayson finished off his education
at Wellington Victoria College, then
launched out on a legal career. He used
to be a crack rifle shot,
A Sydney Grammar and Sydney Uni.
product, Engineer-Captain L. J. P. Carr
has been to sea in a grand lot of ships
—Psyche, Encounter and Warrego in the
1914-18 war, and Perth, Canberra and
Australia in the present scrap. Like
ENGINEER-CAPTAIN CARR.
fellow-navyman Ackland-Horman (B.
5/4/’44), he wields a fair stick at golf,
and is also no mutt at tennis. R.A.N.
golf champ, in 1938, he at present holds
the Randall-Ford Cup. At tennis he won
his first championship as a schoolboy in
1910, and he was R.A.N. singles and
doubles champ, for many years.
Gone from 30-odd years’ banking in
Sydney to manage the S.A. branch of the
E., S. andr A., Harry Rainsford Gledhill
was a sarge in the old 53rd Battalion,
which in the other big war got itself
dubbed the Whale-oil Guards, because
those detailed for a special guard inspec-
tion achieved a particularly striking effect
by polishing their tin lids with whale oil
issued for prevention of trench feet. Gled-
hill was wounded and gassed in France in
1917, but recovered sufficiently to bag
an M.M. the following year. Two of his
H. R. GLEDHILL.
brothers are also well known in Sydney
—Rev. R. N. Gledhill and Major W. C.
Gledhill, who is serving with the Eighth
Army in Italy.
“C.H.R.”: Fremantle Building Society’s
three directors over 80 (B. 22 /3 / ’44) have
some distance to go to beat Melbourne
T. and G.’s first board. Starting from
the Rechabites in 1876 (hence the Tem-
perance for abstainers, with the General
for others), the five all lived to be over
90. They were Henry Meeks (iron mer-
chant), Andrew Stewart (printer), James
Ballantyne (building valuer), William Bell
(1.0. R. secretary) and Thomas Smith
(hatter). They all died around 1920.
Henry Meeks’s brother, Alfred W., was
A.M.P. chairman ; Henry was T. and G.
chairman for close on 50 years.
The selection of Claude Barnard,
M.H.R., to go to the 1.L.0. conference at
Philadelphia as second-string to Beasley
gives an old trusty some sort of recogni-
tion. A loco, man (like Ben Chifley and
Arthur Drakeford), Barnard won Bass
(Tasmania) in 1934, and has kept it ever
since. In Opposition he adopted Can-
berra as a kind of “local member,” in
addition to looking after Bass, and could
always be relied on to air ’Berra woes.
He was tipped as a likely Minister for the
Interior in 1941. Recently he’s been chair-
man of the Social Services Committee.
Barnard can look and talk his part, and
should help Beasley over some of the
sticky ground, though it is familiar ground
to Beasley; he was a delegate to the
1.L.0. in 1926.
Hare Hongi of M.L.:
Harry Stowell (Hare Hongi), last of the
M.L. literary Bohemians, who has died at 84,
had to thank Sir George Grey for his Euro-
pean education and his royal Maori blood for
his Maori knowledge, which was considerable.
Although a quarter-caste. Hare was confided
in by the tohungas. His writings found their
way into the “Polynesian Journal” and other
papers of standing and in 1911 his only book
was published, Maori English Tutor and Vade
Mecum. James Cowan, who married one of
Hare’s six daughters, thought this book the
finest of its kind published in M.L. It is now a
rarity. Hare Hongi’s most elaborate work, The
Strange Maori, has not been published. Robert
Stout described it as a “great book” that “might
well be divided into five books,” but other
critics held that it needed sub-editing. As well
as being a writer, the picturesque Hare was
also surveyor, native interpreter, tutor of Maori,
a versifier, a violinist and an athlete.
A good mixing of business and mili-
tary life seems to have agreed with Lieut-
Col. G. B. Appleton, who has passed his
94th milestone at Brighton Beach (Vic.).
He joined a school cadet corps at Rich-
mond in 1860 and the Victorian Gat ri-
sen Artillery in 1884, and, though turned
down for the 1914-18 war, was appointed
to duties in England after C.0.-ing a
troopship to Egypt. On the business side
he opened the Geelong wool sales in 1875,
and in 1886 became chief auctioneer of
Goldsbrough, Mort. He landed in Aus-
tralia from Yorkshire in the sailing ship
Lightning in 1859.
Into the silence :
In England, Alexander Moir, former paper
supplier on a big scale to the Sydney press,
and one of the best friends The Bulletin, for
one, ever had. A canny Scot, he foresaw paper
shortages ahead when the last war was looming
up, went to Canada and bought up the huge
supply that practically saw The Bulletin
through that war.
In England, Rev. P. J. Simpson, for many
years precentor of St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
Sydney.
In Sydney, F. J, Coleman, one of the best-
known of Sydney journalists. A son, Captain
F. V. Coleman, is with the A.I.F.
At Aimidale (N.S.W.), Mrs. Margaret Colmer,
whose life had reached back to 1843, through
over a century of Australia’s development.
Eight children survive, the oldest 79 and the
youngest 60, and there are 37 grandchildren, 65
great-grand and five great-great-grand.
At 84, Edward Howard Bakewell, while
travelling by train in S.A. Director of many
concerns, he was a notable figure in the pastoral,
commercial and industrial development of his
State. His many interest's included the manag-
ing directorship of Willowie Land and Pastoral
Association, While president of the Pastoralists"
Assoc, he formed the first Stockowners’ Co-
operative Shearing Co. in Australia.
In Adelaide, at 74, Roderick McKenzie
Gollan, former Chief Commonwealth Officer
of Excise, Chief Inspector of Excise, and Sub-
collector of Customs in S.A. A Victorian, he
was appointed by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment in 1904 to bring S.A.’s Excise Department
into line with the Federal system. Since re-
tiring in ’32, he had been a director of Mc-
Williams Wines.
In Adelaide, W. G. Johnston, of the brew-
ing family which used to own the present Onka-
paringa (S.A.) racecourse, and lent a brewery
wagon to serve as a judge’s box at the first
Easter Monday picnic meeting in 1876. John-
ston was one of the club’s founders, became
its chairman, was made a life member, and has
a race named after him.
At Rochester (Vic.), at 69, Hubert William
Raleigh, a onetime brilliant legal light of Mel-
bourne. Graduating with distinction from Mel-
bourne University and Cambridge, he was for
some years with Blake and Riggall, Melbourne,
then bought a practice at Rochester, but
changed over to farming and became a leading
exponent of pasture improvement. A son is
p.o.w. in Thailand.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
S. : I see that the good Mr. Baddeley
has banned “Tobacco Road” in New-
castle (N.S.W.), and this after it had been
allowed to run without molestation when
Doris Fitton’s Independents staged it at
Sydney Minerva. My only objection to
the play is that it is “bottom-dog” stuff
of the depression period; but on the
whole J object to my objection, because
the Jeeter Lesters do exist and are a legi-
timate subject for drama; because the
play is beautifully worked out and be-
cause it is written with admirable detach-
ment, satirising while it sympathises.
Give it an Australian setting instead of
the American and it is oddly like Steele
Rudd’s “Dad and Dave” writings, even
like Jolliffe’s sketches of “Andy,”,with
the difference that there is an atmosphere
of tragic hopelessness about it. Mr.
Baddeley must have been informed that
it is a wicked play; but it is exactly the
sort of thing a Labor politician especially
should thoroughly approve of; a sym-
pathetic study of the very poor and an
analysis of the social conditions which—
in conjunction with their own shiftless-
ness—have brought them so low. And, in
any case, how on earth can anybody
justify allowing it in Sydney and banning
it in Newcastle?
* ♦ ♦ *
“Geebung”: “Lao-dah” (B. 22/3/’44)
misreports Joseph Smith in saying he
“declared polygamy lawful for the
“Now, are you certain that's not horse meat?"
Saints.” Polygamy is forbidden by the
Book of Mormon (Jacob ii, 36) and was
Brigham Young’s innovation to recoup
losses of young men who died on the
trek from Nauvoo, Illinois, to Utah. At
Smith’s death the church was split in
two. That section which stayed with
Smith’s widow and children never prac-
tised or countenanced polygamy. Joseph
Smith was not lynched, but killed by a
sneak shot as he stood talking to the
sheriff at the Carthage jail, whither he
and his brother Hyram had gone at the
request of the authorities in an effort to
stop disturbances. The cause of resent-
ment was more political than religious.
The Latter Day Saints, shrewd and indus-
trious farmers and tradesmen, combining
in a system of bloc voting, were swaying
the State Legislature to their advantage
and were working to get Federal power
also. There’s this to be said for the Mor-
mons —they were the only section of the
U.S.A. population that managed to keep
their members off Government relief in
the depression.
* * * *
“Kayem”: In operational areas “up
north” both ’plane pilots and the humbler
transport drivers seem to have a senti-
mental attachment to their charges.
Almost every ’plane, jeep, truck or other
vehicle boasts a pet name. Some refer,
evidently, to the girl back home, such as
“Darling Elva.” Often a sketch, some-
times crude, sometimes astonishingly well
drawn, illustrates the name. The ’plane
christened Stepping Out displays a young
woman gracefully withdrawing from step-
ins. Slap-happy Pappy is also illustrated
in eye-arresting style.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”; What a curious tradition
it is that insists on theatrical Frenchmen,
even when they are supposed to be speak-
ing their native tongue to one another,
gabbling in broken English. I listened
to an A.B.C. version of an A. E.
W. Mason thriller in which the detec-
tive is French, the principal charac-
ters, including the corpse, are French,
and the action takes place in France.
Strict realism, consequently, would de-
mand that they speak French. By
a necessary stage convention, they are
allowed to speak English; but why
it should be broken English, especially
when the jargon is almost impossible to
follow in radio production, has got me
beat. Shakspeare might as well have
had Mark Antony saying “Friends-a,
Romans-a, countrymen, I come-a to bury
da Caesar, not-a to praise heem.”
* * * *
“Zake”: With the Sydney grade
cricket premiership over (the tightest
finish for many years and Marrickville
flies the pennant) some of the clubs
indulge in charity matches to wind up
the season. Mosman opposes the V.D.C.
Last season it played a ladies’ team. It
was arranged that the men would bat and
bowl left-handed (natural left-handers
contra). They were dismissed for a
small score. After a couple of the girls
had been disposed of, loudspeakers
announced that the team had found
a place for Mrs. Fowler, “champion lady
bat of the Riverina,” who happened to
be in Sydney on a visit. The Murray-
side champ, minced to the wicket, her
eyes, under a rather large hat, coyly
averted from the curious gaze of
“Hammy” Love behind the stumps. The
first ball was a lollypop. The lady stepped
smartly into her wicket, opened her shoul-
ders, laid her ears back and sent the
ball sailing over the leg boundary,
In quick succession followed delicate leg
glances, full-blooded pulls, lusty cover-
drives and some glorious late cuts that
had the crowd cheering madly. Then as
another ball was picked off her toes and
a few seconds later rebounded from the
pickets there came a chuckle from behind
the sticks and a murmured “You old
impostor! The ‘Governor-General’s’ pet
shot, eh?” Yes, it was Charlie Mac-
artney !
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” on a Chinese political
matter;
“Sao Tang Pao,” the Chinese Army paper,
is urging the return of Hong Kong to China
after the war, the treaty ports and extra-
territoriality in general having already been
abolished. The suggestion shows a sad lack of
historical perspective. If it hadn’t been for
areas of foreign jurisdiction like Hong Kong,
Shanghai, Tientsin and Hankow, the Manchus
would still be sitting on the Peacock Throne,
and the Chinese Revolution would probably
never have happened. It was as a medical
assistant in a Hong Kong mission that Sun
Yat-sen, the founder orf the Republic, earned
“Nice bit of camouflage. Rip!"
the leisure to study and work out his famous
three-point doctrine. It was in the International
Settlement of Shanghai that he kept me awake
at night printing his paper “Republican” in
an adjacent building. Hong Kong and Shang-
hai served as convenient havens again and
again for Sun’s lieutenant, Chiang Kai-shek, and
most of China’s present leaders, and rebel
generals kept their accounts in foreign banks so
that, in the event of an unfortunate end to their
military operations, they could step across the
border, withdraw their balance and do a bunk
to Japan until a more propitious moment. Out
of sheer gratitude, not to mention horse-sense,
the Flowery Republic’s politicians ought to
keep these places as foreign pales, as they are
largely responsible for the fact that they still
have heads on their shoulders. The Manchus
had a much more rational idea about it. When
court officials complained to the Empress-
Dowager that Chinese newspapers in the foreign
settlements were saying dreadful things about
her local representatives, that terrible old lady
remarked that she had read the alleged libels —
and believed ’em!
“T.C.”; “Bo” (B. 29/3/’44) isn’t quite
fair to Admiral Horthy. He did have
some sea training. He came to Mel-
bourne in the Austrian training ship Saida
some 50 years ago. He was taken up
to baronet William Clarke’s property
Rupertswood, in company with other
officers of the ship, and given a good horse
to ride, Hungarians are notably good
horsemen, and he showed us that day
horsemanship which would have delighted
the hearts of The Bulletin’s bushmen
contributors.
* * * *
“Hamer”; The fuss made about the
beer shortage in these days is evidence
of a marked change in the drinking
habits of the populace. In the days when
there was a sharp social difference be-
tween the “private” sixpenny and the
“public” threepenny bars, not one drinker
in ten in the more expensive quarters
would be drinking beer; if it was beer
it would be bottled stuff. The popularity
of the amber fluid grew, but for
many years if saloon customers wanted
draught beer the stuff had to be
brought in from the public bar. Now
there is no difference between the two
bars except that in the saloon a schooner
is a shilling whilst in the public the bar-
maid expects the drinker to pass back the
penny change as her tip.
“Ken”: “Whiskers” (B*. 23/2/’44) him-
self will probably be among the fooled if
ever he shaves off his beard. Most naval
men sport a “set” at one time or another,
and many a sailor has experienced the
shock of discovering, after shaving off,
that his face bears little resemblance to
its appearance in previous beardless days.
It isn’t an illusion, either; the skin has
stretched taut and seemingly all facial
fat has gone into nourishment for the
foliage. The worst feature of it is that
the shrunken chin gives a weak-natured
appearance to many who, bearded, were
awesome personalities.
* * * *
“Senex”: I recently came across a copy
of the poems of John Cash (“Jawbone”)
Nield in a second-hand shop, and was
reminded of an illustrated Bulletin
review of the volume in the ’nineties. One
of the lines selected for illustration was
“Eftsoons a nocent waterspout arose” ;
also there sticks in the memory a quota-
tion from a poem “On the Sea”:
The sea, the sea, the beautiful sea,
How many the poets that rave of thee!
Their poems pain me to the quick
For when I’m on the sea I’m sick.
Nield, in his preface, excuses his poetry
as the product of “what might otherwise
have been idle moments.” The mob
didn’t kill him for his bad verses; he
was an original Senator, and he was re-
elected at the head of the poll in 1903.
“Orthos”: I hope, now that the de-
visers of Basic English have given a fresh
fillip to lingual refdrm, that something
will be done about that word “with.”
Every now and then in my perusal of
the news I come across some such state-
ment as “The troops of General
Mihailovich are reported to be fighting
with Marshal Broz-Tito’s partisans,” or
“Three divisions of Polish troops are
now fighting with the Russians in Bessa-
rabia” or “French naval units are in
action with the Allies off the coast of
Italy.” I have to guess whether the
parties mentioned are in co-operation or
conflict. The statements, quite grammati-
cal, are also quite ambiguous. 1 suggest
that, in cable messages anyhow, the word
“with” should be boycotted. It is by no
means essential to any form of expres-
sion.
STARSHINE.
“This Astrological Diary is presented as a matter
of interest, without responsibility being accepted
for the statements contained in it.” —Footnote to
“As I Bead the Stars” in a woman's paper.
“Only the stars are neutral” one has heard.
And those who read them, too, must not be
tied,
I think that it may fairly be inferred
From the foregoing cautionary word,
Too unmistakably to either side.
Behind these fancy forecasts must be viewed
A firmly non-committal attitude.
Well, and why not? Suppose, some dismal
morn,
You found yourself confronted by a mob
Of chaps who’d been ’neath Sagittarius born,
Cancer or Scorpio or Capricorn,
Grumbling they’d done their brass or lost'
a job
Because of something that your paper said,
Wouldn’t you feel a bit discomfited?
Some seers are better treated. When a horse
Loudly acclaimed by all the tipster corps
Comes home incontinently down the course,
You can’t conceive a disappointed force
Of punters howling for a paper’s gore.
From long experience they know too well
The shrewdest brain is not infallible.
“Only the stars are neutral.” But when you
Read rigmaroles of astrologic hash,
Or just as much as you can struggle through,
Bear it in mind they’re strictly neutral, too,
Who send abroad this clotted balderdash.
They won’t, they tell you straight, not for a
minute
Be held responsible for what is in it.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
FORDE’S TROUBLES.
“Mr. Forde, in one of his first official utterances
as Deputy Prime Minister, complained bitterly of
‘violent and intemperate comment’ by Mr. Faduen.”
How lovely and refreshing it would be
If public men would only voice their views
On other gents with whom they disagree,
No more in whirling words that burn and
bruise,
But in such cultured phraseology
As Sunday-school instructors always use,
Or such amenities as hnd expression
From bishops when their synods are in session.
Why must they, even when they’re justly riled
And righteous wrath the better of them gets,
Stoop to invective coarse and rude and wild,
Vulgar abuse and vitriolic threats
When the sweet “well of English undefiled”
With far more pleasant-sounding epithets
(And just as stinging ones) provides extensive
Material for a courteous offensive?
If politicians ceased to leap with rage
And daub antagonists with mud and grime,
Think of the bitterness it would assuage
’Mong those to power and place and pay who
climb!
How chaps would wonder if the Golden Age
Hadn’t arrived a bit before its time
Whene’er they heard the Parliamentary forum
Claimed for a bright example of decorum!
Ah! What a wholesome change it sure would be
For those with feet on legislative rungs
If they could leave derisive repartee
To shearers’ huts and bars of backblocks
Bungs,
If navvies’ camps had a monopoly
Of loose-lipped lingo and unbridled tongues,
And cops reported singularly few up-
Heavals of vocal bile —except at two-up!
I hold him in respect who seeks to halt
The torrent of opprobrium you’d call
A violent and intemperate assault
On him, or anybody else at all.
So, for a worthy start and in default
Of some more comprehensive overhaul.
To show you’re quite impartial, Mr. Forde,
Couldn’t you clap a muzzle upon Ward?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Wodgil”: A Sydney paper of the
Legs-and-Leftism school has broken out
in a fresh place. Twice in recent weeks
it has attacked a woman at the point of
her livelihood. One of the ladies is
a painter and the other is a writer, and
over the years their work has given
pleasure to thousands. But they are not
keen on the prevailing fashions in jour-
nalism and art, they are no longer young
and are presumably without protectors,
so they can be attacked with impunity.
I suppose this sort of thing will go on ;
but some day the paper may make a bad
choice of targets and discover, while still
exultant, a tall, two-fisted, infuriated
young man, brother or son, bearing down
on the premises. Then it will be neces-
sary to sweep scraps and fragments of
Leftist writing boy into the gutter.
“Lao-dah”: An Auckland (M.L.)
man, using a system of divine arith-
metic, has prophesied the Second
Coming of the Lord on July 17,
1944, heavenly messages having since
confirmed him in his calculations. Prog-
nostications of this sort have caused
a lot of trouble. A young missionary in
a Chinese province announced the end
of the world and the Second Coming
and supplied the date. Whereupon peas-
ants started taking the property of land-
lords, city-dwellers decided to share other
people’s goods in common, and as the
fatal hour drew near the Celestial Govern-
ment had to send an army to restore
order. In the meantime the prophet had
decamped to the security of the British
pale at Shanghai, where he continued to
issue his warnings with such conviction
that at least one bishop drew crowded
congregations by announcing that there
might be something in it. The day came
and went in brilliant sunshine and the
prophet with it. In the seventeenth cen-
tury in Russia there was an epidemic of
these anriohncements, and whole villages
built bonfires and threw themselves in
them.
* * * *
“B-gar”: “P. Ater” (B. 29/3/’44) has
got his Light Horse regiments and their
hat decorations mixed. I was in the same
brigade as the sixlh and seventh regi-
ments, both from N.S.W., and although
the sixth wore hat bands of possum
and/or rabbit fur it must have been a
very late lot of reinforcements to the
seventh who sported emu feathers in their
hats. The third regiment in the Second
Light Horse Brigade (the fifth, from
Queensland) wore emu feathers, as also
did the two other Queensland regiments,
the second and eleventh. It was the first
regiment, not the twelfth, that sported
black cock’s plumes. The twelfth had
another claim on memory. It had so
many well-to-do troopers in its ranks
that when the regiment was serving on
Gallipoli a wag in the ranks remarked
“If my mob can’t take Achi Baba they’ll
buy it.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A “quiz” candidate on the
air lately defined Pandemonium as “a
native of Tasmania.” Slightly deaf or a
humorist? Anyway, he lost a ten-bob
prize by it.
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: Australians in South
America (B. 29/3/’44)? During a stay of
14 years there I met many Australians
mining and railroad engineers, sheep and
cattle experts, a couple of journalists and
various others, including thfe remnant of
Billy Lane’s Paraguayan colony and a few
plain wanderers. Anyone looking for
Aussies could always find them at the
Deux Mondes and the old Provence,
Buenos Aires. There were a few in Punta
Arenas, and on the wheat and sheep
country around Bahia Blanca there were
so many that they ran a club of their
own. In Chile they forgathered at the
Bar Pacifico, at Jimmy Brady’s bar and
restaurant in Valparaiso, and at Jack
Burrell’s in Antofagasta, the jumping-off
place for the Bolivian mining fields. I
met them in Callao, Cuzco, Arequipa
(Peru), Oruru, Cochabamba and La Paz
(Bolivia), the Argentine Gran Chaco,
Rio and Santos, and Iquitos on the Upper
Amazon. The pair I met in Iquitos had
just come off a gruelling trip from Lima
across the Cordillera and down the great
river. They were starving, and their feet
were in such a bad state through almost
constant immersion in water that several
weeks’ rest and medical attention were
required before they were able to resume
their journey.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: • “Phil Garlick” has
a local application (B. 29/3/’44). The
brothers John and Philip Garlick were
contractors when the Sydney muni-
cipal services used to be run under
contract. Phil, who looked after, the
garbage removal, was perpetually com-
plaining to the council about the un-
tidiness of the citizens, who used any
sort of container, including wraps of
paper, to put out their waste. The con-
tainers were frequently spilt oyef the
pavements, which entailed extra work,
“and poor old Phil Garlick has to stand
the cost,” as the contractor put it. He
wrote letters to the press and was given the
opportunity of appearing before the coun-
cil and stating his views. That “poor old
Phil Garlick” phrase recurred often in
his pleadings. Whether he knew that the
tag was an old one or not is obscure.
* * * *
“Caballer”; Conan Doyle on his first
visit to Sydney was loud in praise of the
old-world air that hung about the dark-
ened corridors of Petty’s Hotel • (B.
29/3/’44). It was Murdoch, then man-
ager of Petty’s, who urged the novelist
to visit Manly beach and saw him to the
ferry to make sure he got there. A couple
of hours later Sir Arthur was back. He
didn’t think much of the famous beach.
Pretty poor show, if you asked him. “So
disappointed that I didn’t get off the
ferry.” It was a strip of the harbor
beach that he had seen and thought he
was looking at the ocean beach.
* * * *
“Meridian”: I suppose there’s some-
thing to be said for “daylight saving,’
but the return to the time-honored rela-
tionship between sun and clock is as
welcome to temperaments like mine as
the homecoming from foreign parts of
an old friend. The milestones of the
day —nine o’clock; eleven o’clock
(though “elevenses” are precarious in
war-time); one o’clock; five o’clock
bear once more their old familiar aspect.
Most especially five o’clock, when in late
“Give a good reason for being here or call at the Man-poWer office
eight o'clock tomorrow morning."
March the shadows should be long to
mark the shading of summer into autumn,
otherwise so imperceptible in a land so
sparsely stocked with deciduous trees.
And in addition to these considerations,
more fanciful than practical perhaps,
there is the solid boon of being able to
shave by daylight in the morning.
* * * *
“Exile,” from Ottawa:
We found Canada interested in one John
Prosper Ralston, sometime actor, musician, miner
and showman, but chiefly wanderer, now living
in Montreal. He is reputed to own “more than
a million Australian opals, including the famous
Pandora, largest black opal in the world. He
has also been called The Man with the Harp.
As the story is told, the young Ralston grew
discontented with the humdrum existence of his
native Canadian town. Complete with harp, he
stowed away on an Alaska-bound freighter, anc
roamed the seas until severa! . years later he
turned up as a wandering musician in Australia.
He played with such little success that he was
forced to pawn his beloved instrument, and wi
this money as a stake he turned to prospecting.
He led a hand-to-mouth existence, depending
on the uncertain charity of the stations, while
he searched for opals. At night he would
write stories, based on his adventures, an
these he sent to various journals, but they
always came back. One day, however, he
managed to buy another harp, old, battered and
without strings. It was a symbol of good tor
tune. Lady Luck, so long elusive, stopped and
smiled on Ralston. His stones began to click.
Shortly after he stumbled upon a fabulous de-
posit of opals (think of that, you Lightning
Ridge gougers!). Very soon he was rich. He
traced and repurchased his original harp, and
went right on buying harps. From then until the
present B day Ralston has bought more and more
harps pulling them to pieces, reassembling
them,’ searching always to improve and vary
the delicacy of their tone. He seeks the per-
fect harp. Any Australian remember Jum /
“Lionel”: “Spokeshave” (B. 15/3/’44)
tells his story of Manet and Meissomer
all wrong. Manet became a staff officer
(not a corporal) in the National Guard
in 1870 and carried dispatches under fire
at Champigny. Meissonier, as his
colonel, was formally polite, but avoided
any approach to friendliness. He even
appeared to be ignorant that Manet was
a painter. Manet, extremely sensitive,
was very hurt. It was years afterwards
that Meissonier exhibited “La Charge des
Cuirassiers” (not “1814,” which Spoke-
shave” calls “Retreat from Moscow ).
Manet commented politely (he did not
bellow) “It is very good, really very good.
Everything is steel —except the cuirasses.
It was not an impertinence. Manet was
not young with a rising reputation. He
was over 40 and at the height of his
career. His criticism of the hard and
elaborate detail of Meissonier s painting
is akin to that of Whistler concerning
another work; “Tin, my dear Menpes,
tin. If you tapped it, it would tinkle.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Duplication of place-names
(B. 8/3/’44) can be confusing. A North
Adelaide woman wrote a brief note,
“Can’t come to your party. Just leaving
for Melbourne,” and addressed it to
Kensington Gardens. She forgot to post
it till in Melbourne, where, with no
State mentioned, it went straight oft
to London. However, Kensington
Gardens there is just an extension
of Hyde Park, and has no inhabitants
except Peter Pan, and the letter, repudi-
ated, came back to Victoria. Sydney
was then allowed a chance at it, but
dently was puzzled by the “Gardens.
The postmarks show that back in Mel-
bourne it was desperately queried as a
possible mistake for “Flemington. Still
no good. Then someone had a brain-
wave, “Try Adelaide”; and the six-
months old wanderer was home next
day. Kensington, by the is about
Adelaide’s oldest suburb, but has since
sprouted out a more fashionable “Ken-
sington Park” and “Kensington Gar-
dens.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg”: Oswald Barnett, of the
Victorian Housing Commission, has
suggested that one church in each com-
munity centre should be used in rotation
by all denominations. It would be diffi-
cult in more ways than one, and this was
pointed out to Barnett with some
asperity; but, as it happens the
Government Statist recognises only 29
denominations in Victoria, and eight of
these embrace more than 82 p.c. of the
people. Four of the others are
branches of the Lutheran Church, and
the remaining 17 constitute less than 1
p.c. of the population. Of course, there
are the myriads of sects which advertise
their spiritual wares in the dailies, from
the Dispensationalists to Father Divine’s
Angels, but a lot of these can’t get the
wherewithal from the faithful to do more
than hire a back room in a city building.
* * * *
“P. Ater”: Those postcards of London
stage beauties which caused “Si Anu’s”
lovelorn Java companions so much heart-
burn (B. 15/3/’44) were splendid pro-
ductions. In comparison with them
the “pin-up” pictures of today seem pale.
There were smiling studies of the Dare
sisters, Maud Jeffries (she married
an Australian pastoralist), Marie Stud-
holme and the immortal Sara, with
raised and embossed outlines to ac-
centuate their curves and charms.
Others were tinselled and tinted, sell-
ing at sixpence each (extravagance in
those days). As schoolkids in a Queens-
land town we mortgaged pocket money in
advance to indulge in our favorites. A
friend with histrionic leanings who led
me into this passion actually wrote to his
idolised Maud Jeffries, getting a polite and
daintily-worded reply. Unlike “Si Anu’s”
cobber, he became a successful enter-
tainer, went to Hollywood and turned
cynic and celibate.
* * * *
Marjorie Quinn has a word for a for-
gotten “Song of the Commonwealth”;
From time to time a wordy battle is waged
about our National Anthem, but when the
smoke clears and the dust subsides “Advance,
Australia Fair” is still tum-ti-tumming its way
along the road to victory. Other tunes and
words that marched hopefully into sight have
fallen by the wayside. Some of them, with-
out doubt, deserve to be choked by neglect,
but there are others which might repay resurrec-
tion. One song, well known in its day, has
long been shelved. This is “The Song of the
Commonwealth” —words by P. E. Quinn
(brother of poet Roderic), music by J. A.
Delany. It was written and composed for the
Commonwealth celebrations and was sung by
5000 schoolchildren outside St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral as Royalty approached. It used to be sung
in the schools, and I remember my father (P. E.
Quinn) telling me that he was* once invited
down to Fort-street school to hear the pupils
sing it. Just one stanza:
Last of the Powers of earth are we,
Youngest and fairest born;
We shall lord it over a mighty sea,
And many an Isle of Morn.
Ours is the future, ours to reap
The crops that the South makes sweet,
No path of glory, or fame, too steep
For the tramp of our Nation’s feet.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: Australian girls who
meet Allied service men socially praise
their general good manners and strict
observance of etiquette. Noticeable differ-
ences from our own are that they always
stand when anyone enters a theatre row
and in company always light their own
cigarette first. The latter custom is ob-
served so that the unpleasant odor which
arises when a match is first ignited is
suffered by the striker.
* * * *
“Geist”: “I disapprove of what you
say, but I will defend to the death your
right to say it,” often ascribed to Vol-
taire, is less than 40 years old. Under
the heading “Voltaire Never Said It,” a
writer in “Modern Language Notes
quotes a letter from S. G. Tallentyre
(Miss Evelyn Beatrice Hall) to the effect
that she was responsible for the expres-
sion in her book The Friends of Voh (lire,
published in 1906. The eleventh edition
of Bartlett’s Familiar Quotations (1937)
gives the famous saying as “a paraphrase”
of Voltaire’s words in the “Essay on
Tolerance”: “Think for yourselves and
let others enjoy the privilege to do so,
too.”
* * * *
“E.L.”: Reports show that the most
decorated unit of the A.I.F. in this war
is a S.A. battalion belonging to the Ninth
Division. Excluding awards to men
drafted to the battalion from other States,
this unit claims the two V.Cs. won
by South Australians—Sgt. W. H. Ktbby
(awarded posthumously) and Sgt. L G.
Derrick. One D. 5.0., six M.Cs., nine
D.C.Ms. and 12 M.Ms. were also awarded
to officers and men —some have more
than one decoration.
* * * *
“Hamer” remembers a famous speech
against water:
Wanganui has a lovely river and other attrac-
tions, but my sweetest memory of it is ot one
of the most crushing debacles ever suffered by
the apostles of Cold Tea. The town harbored a
bibulous pressman who had so often been
•sacked by one paper for drunkenness and re-
engaged by the other on his promise ot amend-
ment (usually kept for a month) that he was
never quite sure which paper he was working
for. But he was a town notable, and when
(having been sacked by both papers within 24
hours) he signed the pledge the Prohibitionists
rejoiced exceedingly and organised a rally at
which he was to be the star speaker. The hall
was packed to the doors with the godly and the
unvegenerate when, with a lateness that had
begun to alarm the committee, the brand from
the burning reeled in and made for the platform,
a bodyguard with him seeing that those who
tried to block the way were thrust aside. The
brand started to orate without waiting tor the
chairman’s introduction. He had been asked,
he said, to speak on the relative merits of water
and beer, and he intended to do so. During a
hangover, when not in a fit state to decide any-
thing, he had been cajoled into signing the
pledge but he didn’t regard 'a pledge so foully
extorted as binding. He’d start with water, and
see what light the Bible threw on it What killed
all the people of the earth save Noah and his
family 9 Cold water. What stonkered Pharaoh
and his troops when they were pursuing Moses?
Cold water. What was the undoing of the
prophets of Baal when the rain fell on the sacri-
fices? Cold water. What had to be miracu-
lously turned into wine before it was drink-
able at Cana? Cold water. The brand waited
for the applause of the unregenerate to subside
before he went on impressively: “In the whole
Bible I could find but one man who asked tor
water, and that was Dives. And,” he con-
concluded emphatically, “he was in hell!” It
is a legend in Wanganui that it was over a
year before the Cold Tea-ites plucked up heart
to hold another rally.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Enveen”: Old Charley' was noted for
his care at lambing and his weakness for
hanging on to old ewes. Last season he
lambed down only about a hundred, and
he gave them extra attention, spending
half the night out with a lantern. A
neighbor remarked: “You’ve had these
ewes so long, Charley, bet you know them
by their first names now.” Charley eyed
him impassively and sucked at his pipe.
“Know ’em? Why, son, after they’re
shorn I’ve got to point ’em out to their
lambs.”
sj: sfc jfc
“B. A. Ker”: Happy’s young brother
returned from battling Japs and jungle,
and the occasion called for something
outstanding in celebrations. It got it.
Nobody expected to see Happy at work
next day, but, a trifle late and still under
the weather, he arrived —after having
driven the ancient sulky four miles with
the bit resting on the old moke’s nose,
spectacles fashion. The boss contrived
not to notice the erratic axemanship of
his best cutter; and after smoke-oh
Happy was beginning to see things as
singular and place two cuts in the same
scarf. Starting lunch the sobered cele-
brant suddenly spluttered and looked
sick. “Hangover, Hap?” asked a sympa-
thiser. “I dunno. Try one of these sand-
wiches,” requested Happy, looking some-
what worried. The boss took a sand-
wich, bit into it, promptly spat ou the
mouthful and ejaculated “Soap!” A
sheepish grin spread over Happy’s face.
“Well,, that explains why the soap
wouldn’t lather this morning,” he said.
“I must have been washing with cheese.”
He * * *
“Naturala”: “The 0.D.” asks me an
easy one regarding the use of the rabbit’s
bobbing white tail at night (B. 8/3/’44).
Well, it was only yesternight when we
dumb humans were advised to wear a
patch of white so as to give some chance
of being seen during the blackout. More,
Bunny probably can see quite clearly in
the night above ground, for the blackest
night there cannot compare with the dark-
ness of his long underground burrows.
The white tail is even more than an alarm
signal; it acts also as a guide. For, with
so prolific a breeder as the rabbit, many
young must continually tend to be born
somewhat deficient in the sense of loca-
tion, but with Pa’s and Ma’s tails making
for the burrow entrance they follow suit.
Without such a guidance they might run
around blindly and fall an easy prey.
“lan J.”: Tell “Sartor” (B. 15/3/’44)
that his entry for the bunny longevity
stakes is disqualified if he has no further
evidence of its age to offer than the state
of its front teeth. The rabbit is a rodent,
and the front teeth grow continuously
throughout its life. In normal cir-
cumstances the upper teeth meet the
lower pair exactly, and the continual wear
just balances the growth. Occasionally,
through accident or malformation, these
teeth do not meet, and, as they grow
longer and longer, the unfortunate ani-
mal slowly starves in the midst of plenty.
Cases have been known where the teeth
have killed the owner by penetrating the
brain.
sfc * *
“Boxer”: I had been waiting at the
tank for a few nights for Toos to come
in to water. Each time they would thump
around the batter of the tank and make
off again. It was Quartpot, the abo.
horsetailer, who put me wise. “Keep your
eyes shut while waiting,” he said; “a
white man’s eyes shine in the dark.” I
followed his advice with gratifying
results.
**# 1 *
“Bo”: Hodge, of Claypan, was quite
frank with his cronies in the township
whenever he appeared with a shanty
hung on his eye—and that was not sel-
dom. Never did he attribute it to an
upflung bit of firewood or a slipped
fence-strainer. “It’s that missus o’ mine,”
he would say. “She’s uncanny for a
woman —whenever she aims at me lamp
she always hits it.” The domestic ruc-
tions continued for years to be a source
of mild amusement to Claypanites, and
then the miracle happened—Mrs. Hodge
ran away with Breckenridge, a 16-stone
post-splitter who liked his women tough.
For a week after he read the note which
she left informing him of her decision
Hodge remained on a beautiful bender,
“And get me a Jap two-handed sword, pearl-handled for preference."
and in the weeks and months that fol-
lowed he entered the door of his house
at night fearful that she might have
repented and returned. But as the
months stretched into years Hodge
became his pre-marital, carefree self,
Then one day he lobbed into the
pub, and as be imbibed whisky after
whisky he exuded curses, the object of
them being, of all persons, Breckenridge.
“But what have y’ got against /z/m?”
asked Barker, the mailman, impatiently,
“He did y\ the best turn any bloke
could’ve done y’.” Hodge turned a bleary
eye on Barker, dived a hand into his
pocket, produced a letter and waved it
around. ‘‘Did he?” he said solemnly,
“The cow dished me outa twenty-five quid
—thash what ol’ Alf Carstairs, her uncle,
left her when he wriggled out last month!”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: As to the homicidal nature
of the elm-tree (B. 22/3/’44), Kipling has
put it neatly in a Sussex ballad praising
oak and ash and thorn ; whereas
The ellum, she hateth
Mankind, and waiteth
Till every gust be laid
To drop a limb
On the head of him
That anywise trusts her shade.
But surely our own native trees are not
innocent in this matter? I remember a
big gum near Adelaide that decanted
about a ton of firewood on to a Sun-
day-school picnic that had decided to
“trust its shade.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: I’m willing to bet that
all the stories of canine sagacity pale be-
side this; The main street in Cowra
(N.S.W.) slopes down towards the river,
A cove droye a spring-cart up the street
and pulled in alongside a store. It was
fairly warm and his dog, a blue heeler,
dropped into the shade under the cart,
The horse dropped into a doze. The
pull of the slope caused a slow tug on the
hames and the horse, flopping at the
flies, eased back a step. Presently it
eased back again. After a while the
shadow of the cart left the dog, who got
up, moved back and dropped down again.
The cart kept moving ever so slowly
back ; so did the horse. Again the dog
got up and moved back. Within ten
minutes he had to move again. At the
fifth move the hound shook himself,
looked thoughtfully at the store, trotted
across the footpath and took a closer
look. Then he came back, smelt the
near-side wheel, appeared to cogitate,
then went to the offside of the horse and
touched the neddy’s forehoof. The horse
stepped sideways, the dog made as though
to nip, the horse moved again. When the
turnout had made a half-turn, with the
horse facing across the street and the
wheels against the kerb, that dog gave
me a pleased grin and went and flopped
down in the shadow of the cart.
* * * *
“Bill the Blacksmith”: When “Bert the
Carpenter’s” old saw-doctor “dished”
those circular saws (B. 15/3/’44), he let
himself in for a job that most men,
equally expert, wouldn’t have contem-
plated either for the love of money or
the gratification of spite. Once on a day
when handling big thin-gauge sheets for
light black-iron smith work we nearly
always found them buckled, dished in the
centre. The remedy for this was a long
series of hammer blows around the edges,
resulting in the margins stretching and
so releasing the tension which caused the
belly in the centre. But, besides the
tediousness of it, a few badly judged
blows would start the buckle in another
direction, so that one sometimes ended by
having two bellies in the sheet where in
the beginning there was only one. And
so that expert would have to take the
saucers out of those maltreated saws by
hammering around just inside the cir-
cumference of the teeth, a job that no
one would envy him. Referring again to
steel sheets, I often look with admiration
on the modern product, a pile of them
so flat and true that they lie like sheets
of paper.
* * * *
“Wester”; The branch line that runs
south from Forbes to join the southern
system in N.S.W. is something over 100
miles long, with 14 stations and sidings.
Every one of them has a good bush name:
Red Bend, Grawlin Plains, Garema,
Wirrinya, Pullabooka, Caragabal, Beren-
debba, Quandialla, Eurabba, Bribbaree,
Weedallion,Tubbul Road, Milvale, Stock-
inbingal. The branch ought to be treas-
ured ; it’s about the only line in the
country not suffering from the blight of
a politician’s moniker or a transposed
English name.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Red Jack had been on
his holding only a fortnight when the
travelling parson dropped in. “ ’Course,”
drawled Jack as he filled the pannikins,
“I like t’ have a yarn to y’, padre, but
jus’ the same I’m a strict Mohammedan.
I don’t gen’lly say much about religion,
but I found it suits me —real practical
sort o’ stuff, an’, anyway, ol’ Mohammed’s
idea of heaven seems to be the real Mac-
kay.” Three weeks later a Baluch horse-
dealer dropped in, was very friendly,
stayed four days and permitted his stock-
in-trade to eat out the feed round Jack’s
soak. A few days later Jack got home
to find “Tin” Khan, the hawker, at home
in the hut and hoeing into a leg of mut-
ton the selector had cooked that morning.
To Jack’s first irate words the old repro-
bate replied “Ah, yes, Mr. Jack, but you
are of the faithful; I can eat the sheep
you keel, and you are bound to give me
your hospitality, eh?” In the next month
the selection saw a procession of
visitors, all turbaned. The climax came
when Jack got up one morning to find
his saddle horses had cleared out of a
horse-paddock in which he found ten
mangy camels and two ’Ghans, Jack
caught a saddle horse and got a stock-
whip before the oont conductors could
depart; then he set out on a 50-mile ride
to find the parson. Now they reckon that,
for a bushman. Jack’s a pretty good
churchgoer.
* * * ♦
“Caballer”: Leeches (B. 15/3/’44) are
worse in the jungle than in the scrub. I
use the term jungle in its correct sense —
scrub growing among forest trees. Within
a couple of miles of Atherton (N.Q.)
on the summit of Bally Top I have seen
leeches in such herds, droves, mobs or
flocks that hardened bushmen shrank
from going near. I strolled through them
unharmed like unto Shadrach and his
cobbers in the burning fiery furnace. The
reason was that the tops of my socks
had been soaked in brine and worn over
the cuffs of my pants. The leech shies
at salt as if it were red hot. But what
puzzles me is what a leech lives on and
for how long when no victim turns up.
“Eureka”; To catch leeches, Murray
River abos. place flat boards on the water
and then stir the mud up with their feet.
The leeches rise to the surface and fasten
to the under surface of the boards, which
are then turned over quickly and the
leeches removed.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: While dissecting a num-
ber of sheep heads I came on a few
fat white grubs right up in the marrow
of the horns, on which they had obvi-
ously been feeding. About |in. long and
iin. through, these parasites had two tiny
black spots that seemingly were eyes, for
they blinked somewhat at the intruding
sunlight. Strange illustration of the blind
mercilessness of Nature and the constant
pressure of life against its boundaries.
For what blinder existence could be im-
agined than life inside a sheep’s horn?
And how unpleasant such lodgers must
be to their host! *
$ # $ $
“8.A.”; “Botano’s” theory (B.
29 /3 / ’44) that if the eucalypts were first
off the mark with their seedlings they
would keep wattles down while con-
versely early-starting wattles would
smother the eucalypts does not appear
convincing. As a matter of fact, eucalypts
and wattles get along remarkably well
together. In the big timber country of
Gippsland, the Cape Otway forest and
north-east Victoria I’ve noticed that the
eucalypts are invariably associated with
a dense undergrowth of wattle.
* * * *
“Zake”; From the top of the hill we
could see a thin spiral of smoke rising
from somewhere in the dense scrub.
There was no sign of any habitation
within miles, and we made towards it.
We followed a track which led to a clear-
ing. Outside a one-roomed bark hut
with a hessian window stood an old man.
Up his back, its forelegs clinging to his
bare head, was a 4ft. “football guernsey”
goanna. Sitting on a near-by tree-stump
was a cockatoo. As the go. clung there
motionless the old fellow glared at the
cockatoo on the stump. “There! Now
can y’ see?” At the sight of us the go.
turned round, scampered down and dis-
appeared into the hut, while the cockatoo
started squawking madly. The old man
evinced not the slightest surprise as he
saw us. “It’s that blasted bird o’ mine,’’
he said. “Takes fistfuls o’ me hair when
he gets on top o’ me head. I’ve bin gettin’
Billy, me pet go., to show him how to
hang on gentle like, but the bird ain’t no
good at lessons. Yet you’ll hear mugs
talkin’ about clever people bein’ able to
pick up things ‘parrot fashion’.” A
goanna’s got more sense any day!”
# * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It had been a scorcher
of a day and Mat and I were glad to
pull in beside the little creek in the hills
out of Stawell (Vic.). We peeled off,
had a dip and then, as the flaming sun
dipped into the west, dressed ourselves
and made a camp for the night. Just as
Mat arrived with an armful of twigs to
start a fire, a little breeze came out of the
south like the cool breath of a fan. It
moved Mat and he became lyrical. “Feel
it?” he said. “Like cool fingers on y’r
cheek. It’s playing round me ears an’
the hair on me neck. Y’ know, that’s
one of the beauties of this country, it
gives y’ all it’s got. ' Y’ suffer through
a blazin’ day like this an’ then, just when
y’re about fed up, along comes this gentle
little breeze an’ y’ feel like singin’.”
Humming lowly, he bent to the twigs.
Next minute he shot up and burst into
profanity, cursing the country, the
weather and everything. “Burn y’rself?”
I asked, grinning. “No,” he roared, “but
that blasted, lousy, ruddy wind has blown
out our only match.”
YOU AND YOUR MATES.
I remember.quite well the parting words
And the brave last look you gave to me.
When bright were the flowers and blithe the
birds
On the hills and glens of our Heath Countree.
’Neath skies that burned with autumnal red,
Though young and a lover of life you were —■
“Oh, rich and fair is our land,” you said,
“And I’m off tomorrow to fight for her!”
I’m standing now ’mid the ferns and flowers
That you loved so mueh to scent and see,
While you are spending your youthful hours
In a prison camp in Germany.
They took your freedom, but this I know:
Some things are yours that they cannot take,
Sweet songs and visions that come and go
In whiles of slumber or whiles awake.
I recall on that day when you sailed away
How richly red were the autumn skies,
Though often since then I’ve seen them grey
And lonesome as grief in a mourner’s eyes.
Three years have passed from the world since
then,
Years tense with trial and tragedy,
And autumn is queening it once again
With shadow and shine o’er the Heath
Countree.
Her feet on the hills and slopes fall soft,
Her sunrays soothe like a fond caress,
And when day is done and the stars aloft
Oh, rich is the spell of her loveliness!
Down leafy ways by the breezes stirred,
And sent on the scene from swelling throats,
I hear her thrush and her butcher-bird
In joyance airing their liquid notes.
Though brave are the letters you send to me
And good the comfort their words impart,
Oh, friend, in your camp in Germany,
I think somehow you are lone of heart.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“S.G.”; It was an outback pub and
the bar was packed. When Mrs. Bung
noticed the time she began to cry
“Time, please, gentlemen. Everybody
out, please.” Nobody moved, all being
eager to get “one for the road.” Bung,
who’d been on the front door stopping
the late-comers, came into the bar
and asked his missus why she hadn’t
cleared the bar. “They won’t go,” she
answered. “Won’t they! ” said Bung and
roared “Come on, outside, all you b
b s! ” Immediately they made for
the door, all except one quiet-looking
bloke. Bung stared at him. “Gripes,”
said the lone survivor, “y’ wouldn’t have
thought they were all b -s, would y’?”.
Then he downed his drink and strolled
casually through the door.
* * ❖ #
“D.R.H.”: That “spirit of co-opera-
tion” which has vanished from the
Mallee (B. 15/3/ ”44) is just the pioneer-
ing spirit. I can vouch that it still exists
in S.A. at least. In recently cut-up dis-
tricts on Eyre Peninsula the cockies,
clearing the stubborn scrub and battling
to improve their land, feel that they are
against a common enemy. Such districts
are alive: everyone seems to be on an
equal footing; everyone is working to
put up the local hall or a couple of tennis
courts. After a generation or two life may
become, as in older districts, a strictly
competitive business, peppered with local
feuds. Or it may not. The motor-car
has brought wider horizons to the Mallee.
“The mere presence of water is no excuse for not giving your tent a
thorough sweeping out!”
“Esk D.”: The man who coined the
phrase “the busy bee” must have been
observing an apiary nearing the end of
a good season. Here in the Victorian
bush, with a steady source of pollen, the
colonies have bred to their utmost
capacity, and as the morning warms the
bees come tumbling out in swarms to the
manna and candlebark gums close by.
In the fleecy blossoms of the tall tops all
is commotion ; the steady hum of insects
at business on the exceptional fodder can
be heard up and down the gullies for
miles around. Humidity in the forest
keeps the nectar thin for quick gathering,
with the result that the combs are glutted
with new honey at a time when ripening
is slow. Hives have to be tiered up then
to three and four storeys, and the job of
extracting from all the hives comes on
with a sudden rush.
* * * *
“Propalong”: It’s a score of years
since Uncle John left the bush, but his
shoulders still square off with the old,
aggressive swing, and it wouldn’t pay a
man to call him a “cocky.” Nephew
from Adelaide came recently to stay on
the farm, and Uncle opened up about
the good old days. “Y’
don’t know anything about
Australia unless y’ know
the bush,” he rumbled.
“Different sort o’ blokes
—not like these farmers.
Look at old Butterfat, me
neighbor; milkin’ machine
goes wrong, an’ what does
he do? Drives eight mile
into the township to bring
the garage bloke out to
fix it. They’re all the
same. Young Ryan, the
other day, wants a clamp
for the pump-rod on his
mill; I could’ve made one
in half an hour. But off
he goes to town. In the
bush the town was 80
mile away. A man had to
do things for himself. And
it didn’t hurt him. I’ve
had to break a colt one
day, weld a car spring the
next, take a Lister engine
to bits the next and finish
up the week counterlinin’ pack-saddles.”
The homily was interrupted when Nephew
yawned and said “What’re you doing
tomorrow, Uncle?” “Well, we’ll go
out an’ have a look at them wethers
in the afternoon, Jack; but in-* the
mornin’ I got t’ take me mare to town
to get her shod.”
* * * *
“Pelarie”: “You cockies have got
me beat,” said “Springdallah” Jimmy,
“always growling about the price of
wool; why, you haven’t enough brains
to support your own industry! Last place
I was shearing at the boss walked up
and down the board wearing a suit made
out of wood fibre. But it wasn’t much
good to him. After he’d been wearing it
for three months he had to employ a
couple of blokes knocking the suckers
off!”
* * * *
“Aratta”: Dooley, leaning over the
bar of his pub talking to the brewery
traveller, saw “Mournful” Mick getting
out of his jinker just outside. “Here
comes one of the best-off cockies in the
district,” he said. “But you just listen to
him.” The mournful one entered the
bar-room. “Good mornin’, Mick,”
greeted Dooley. “Y* think so,” replied
“Mournful,” ordering a whisky ; “fer me-
self I don’t.” “No?” queried Dooley.
“Why, what’s wrong with it? Quite a
nice nip in the air, I thought.” “It’s
that nice nip, as y’ call it, that’s wrong
with it,” growled the other; “it’s bad fer
me sciatica.” Dooley winked at the
traveller. “They tell me y’ve had a wun-
nerful crop of spuds, Mick,” he said ;
“ten bags t’ the acre better than anyone
round here.” “Yes,” agreed “Mourn-
ful” unenthusiastically, “but it cost me
more fer bags than them.” “But two
trucks extra than the best of ’em,”
argued Dooley with another wink at the
amused traveller. “Surely that was some-
thing t’ be pleased about.” “Why?”
growled his customer “It
meant extry freight payment, didn’t it?”
“Yes,” persisted Dooley, “but y’r sales
cheque would be far bigger. Yes,
agreed Mick, draining his glass and mak-
ing for the door, “an’ so will me income
tax be.” “Half a tick, Mick, called
Dooley ; “y* 'didn’t pay fer that dnn c
“I’m sorry, I fergot,” said “Mournful
dredging a coin from his pocket and
placing it on the counter. Another
sprat, Mick,” said Dooley pleasantly.
“Y’ had a whisky instead of y’r usual
beer, y’ know.” Mumbling into his
whiskers and glaring savagely at the beer
traveller, he produced the coin. “Jest
as well I got them few extry bags of
spuds,” he said sourly and stalked out.
“Well be right for a drink. Here comes the sergeant's mess"
“Drover”: Bushmen, please note:
when the blades of a pocketknife be-
come rusted and are hard to open wrap
a handkerchief tightly around the knife
and by gripping the loose end of the
handkerchief firmly in the hand throw the
knife sharply towards the ground. In-
variably it will be found that one or more
blades will open with the first throw, but
if not close the blades and repeat the per-
formance. By using this method the most
rusted blades will loosen. I’ve opened in
this manner blades that a pair of pliers
wouldn’t* shift.
* * * *
“Tatong”: Fred Murray ran a few
head of cattle on the dense, swampy
Ovens flats near Porepunkah (Vic.). A
deluge lasting a week followed a hot, dry
season, and Fred’s summer-long fears of
fire were dispelled. When the weather
cleared he made a break for town, return-
ing home some days later in time to see
his swamp paddock blazing. A fire lit by
some of the town kids had got a hold
among the rushes, which, owing to the
gaseous nature of the sap, will burn even
when wet.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: Tell “Gumsucker” (B.
15/3/ ’44) that those pale, “sightless fish”
are’ prevalent in the hot waters in the
drains of some S.A. artesian bores. That
they originated in some vast underground
cavity is supported by the evidence of
old “Cleanskin” Bill. “Cleanskin” was
camped at the Long Plains bore-head
when he distinctly saw animals which,
from his description, we later identified
as pterodactyls issue from the casing.
Subsequent inquiries, however, made it
doubtful that these interesting Mesozoic
survivals had anything to do with water.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: One of the queerest
faculties of the primitive aboriginal was
his ability as a mimic. In 1829 Captain
Freemantle, of H.M.S. Challenger, doing
a little exploring along the upper waters
of the Canning, a tributary of the Swan,
was surprised to hear shouted at him
from a thicket “Come on, you cripples.
Put a leg forward,” delivered in perfect
English. Investigation showed no one
but half a dozen grinning blacks. Ex-
planation was that a couple of weeks
earlier a party from the ship had passed
that way, and those were the words used
by the lieutenant to urge his footsore fol-
lowers along. Settlers heading up the
Swan a few months later encountered the
same thing ; the blacks would repeat with
utmost accuracy practically everything
that was said to them without, of course,
comprehending anything of its meaning.
Later, when they began to learn Eng-
lish, which they did with astonishing
rapidity, this trick passed from them.
But as late as 1917 a party on the
schooner Culwalla, exploring islands off
the coast of north Kimberley, found the
primitive abos. there doing the same
thing, repeating the white man’s words,
laughing when he laughed and imitating
his gestures, all apparently done in a
childlike simplicity.
• * * * *
“Taylor Ville”: He was a little sawn-
off bloke with a manner that suggested
he was pervaded with pernicious
anaemia, and he was wandering up a gully
in the Adelaide hills in the lead of a mob
of pimply and bespectacled adolescents.
Presently he became aware of a long
native in dungaree trousers and striped
cotton shirt who seemed to have attached
himself to the party. This rural person,
despite the axe on his shoulder, seemed
almost inoffensive, so the little bloke went
on with his personally-conducted tour or
the local vegetables. However, after he
had verbally dissected a patch of moss,
preached a sermon about a yacca and
practically taken the bark off a golden
wattle he began to find the intentness of
the rustic gaze rather disconcerting. So,
arrived before a shrinking clump of
maidenhair fern, he rolled up his locu-
tionary sleeves and attacked. “You will
observe,” he demanded, “that here in the
crenatures of the pinnule the sori are
distinct, covered, of course, by the margi-
nal reniform indusium.” As he paused
for breath the rustic spoke up; “Please,
Mister, can I ask a question?” De-
lighted, the little bloke put on his most
condescending manner. “Certainly, if
you wish.” “Well,” said the long cove,
“why the devil didn’t you just say that
those little brown scales were the cover-
ings of the spore cases?” And a sad
procession of spectacles wended its way
down the gully.
* * ♦ *
“Edjudina”: What I admire about the
black ant is its ability as a tight-rope
walker. I, too, have used the inverted-
bottle device in the effort to protect camp
eatables from the marauders; and as
often I have found the hanging cupboard
invaded. But my experience was that the
ants walked across the surface of the
water, on the film of dust that was bound
sooner or later to settle there. I have
found them, too, crossing on a hair
dropped by the wind so as to form a sus-
pension bridge. And at times when
through neglect the water had been
allowed to run low and soupy I’ve seen
them crossing on that.
* * * *
“Bill C”: Don’t know about withered
vines affecting the optic nerves of nags,
but if they graze on grass on which
mould has gathered it spells trouble —
and in the humid conditions of the N.Q.
coast this is no uncommon thing. Mould
poisons react on brain and nerves; a
common symptom is paralysis of the
throat. Forage poisoning breaks out
when horses eat native and imported
weeds, and symptoms vary greatly. Some
go raving mad and smash themselves up
against trees and fences; others stay in
a sleepy condition.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Was mooching silently over
the ridge when the terrified cry of a rab-
bit reached me from the gorge below.
Presently I located the bunch of scrub it
came from, and, guessing there was a
squealer at work, I slid behind a stump
to watch results. In a few minutes a fox
appeared from a bracken patch and
trotted rapidly towards the sound.
Twenty yards, 15 yards, 10... I waited
for the report. At five yards there was a
sudden bellow, and old Scottie jumped
from the bushes pelting stones madly at
the fox and sooling on a broken-down
sheep-dog that chased off the quarry with
more enthusiasm than speed. “Gripes,”
I laughed as I joined him, “you’ll never
get one like that. Anyway, I thought
you favored poisoning or trapping to this
game.” “So I do,” growled Scottie, “but
the silly cows round here start squealin’
a bit earlier every year so they’ll beat
each other to the skins. By winter, when
they’d fetch a decent price, there ain’t
none left.” “Well,” I remarked, “you’ve
certainly got in first this time.” Scottie
nodded as he whistled the limping mong.
“Yair; an’ there goes another Johnny
Knox that won’t come t’ no squealer a
second time,” he grinned. “That makes
14 of ’em I’ve edjicated t’day.”
SALAMAUA CAMPAIGN.
This land is sprawling, savage, gaunt, depress-
Even^hensea-washed sands are colored black;
Mangroves ooze to the sagos and steaming
kunai.
The jumbled mountains are giant and razor-
back;
Razor-back: and the trails run atop on the
backbone, . .
Then down, like a broken snake, m a jagged
r 011...
Where mouldering forests, of green that deeps
to blackness.
Banish the light from earth and eyes and soul.
Assigned to war, it adds for soldier’s portion
Forced marches, pressed attacks, Death’s view-
less sting. ..
All sweating . . . drenching . . . straining . . .
caching . . . stenching—
Demon at strife with Chaos to be King.
Dread and dark as the Pit, so is New Guinea,
Cradled and kept in prehistoric wild —
Yet it will fling, in wise or offhand moments,
Delights that win like the sudden gifts of a
child.
For the glum forest has its rare, free raptures:
White butterflies flicking the grim profundity;
In the valley’s gloom an ethereal sunray gleam-
ing;
From a tree on a mountain a view of the gates
of the sea.
Then the fine firefly, with minutest searchlight
streaming
—Sole traveller in the impenetrable night;
Or the live cigarette, snatched from the drench
and the teeming,
Under a waterproof is a fierce delight.
So to the men who toil without hope or boast-
ing
These brooding hills, to rest at the end of
days—
The meagre fare beside the struggling campfire
Fulfils hard wants; the dark most care allays:
Then, to be out and abroad with the A.1.F.,
Hating, as only the hungry hater can;
Eyes leading and immediate trigger-finger —
Man elemental hunting hostile man.
A.I.F.
SITREP.


CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
gf
TOe safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
mcnscc.
out an nl the W rabbhs CalTy maximum number of sheep is to clear
(Regd.) -^k..
‘IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS
SAVES
MANPOWER
THEM”
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1803)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE. BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE
GENERAL
CO. CTD
LYS
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
i j||||
■
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barked Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Industry.
“R.N.”: In what it calls “a review
of the past as an aid to the study
of the future,” the New Zealand
Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. has
made a timely contribution to the
current discussion on the future of
this country’s greatest industry. The
co. holds that some people are exag-
gerating the possible competition of rayon
with wool, but points out that artificial
fibre production is rapidly increasing, its
quality is improving and its prices rela-
tively low, three factors that must affect
wool economics in the long run.
Production of “rayon staple fibre,”
quoted from The Wool Year-Book :
1934, 53,600,0001 b.; 1935, HO,700,0001b.;
1936, 304,400,0001 b.; 1937, 639,850,0001 b.;
1938, 925,000,0001 b.; 1939, 1,082,000,0001 b.;
1940, 1,350,000,0001 b. The last figure is
not far short of the world’s clip of apparel
wool on a clean scoured basis, and it is
certain that further increase has occurred
since 1940. *
N.Z.L. and M.A. reminds growers that
before the war more than half the world’s
textile machinery was located in what are
now enemy or enemy-occupied countries.
Offsets to these lost markets;-
The British purchase scheme and a
probable consumption in the U.K. in 1940-
41 of around 900,000,0001 b. per annum as
compared with the U.K. consumption of.
694.000. in 1938. Britain had, in
1940-41, an urgent need for export trade to
pay for imports of essentials, but lend-
lease reduced this need and added to that,
was rationing of civilian clothing. It
could be assumed that by 1943 production
of Wool textiles in the U.K. had dropped
by 50 p.c. on the pre-war average. On the
other hand, consumption in the U.S.A.
leapt from an average (pre-war) of about
578.000. to 1,127,000,0001 b. in 1942.
Further, there has been expansion in wool
manufactures in places like Argentina,
Brazil and Uruguay to meet demands for-
merly satisfied from Europe. Latest figures
suggest that consumption by Argentine
mills has increased by 80 p.c., by Uru-
guayan mills 100 p.c., with big increases in
Canadian, Australasian and South African
mill consumption.
This suggests that, generally, the war
has resulted in increased consumption ;
all the same, accumulations of stocks will
probably be 3,500,000,0001 b. by the end
of the 1944-45 season, of which
1,800,000,0001 b. may be in Australia.
Getting rid of these in reasonable time
and at reasonable prices after the war
will be perhaps one of Australia’s first
problems.
When Bawra took over in 1921 it
had to get rid of about 800,000,0001 b. of
carry-over and new clips. It took 34
years to do it, though Italy and Japan
were then allies and a large part of
France was free of enemy control.
N.Z.L. and M.A. sees hope in the fact
that all Europe and a lot of Asia will
be empty of wool when this war ends,
Britain will need a quick expansion of
her export trade, millions of demobi-
lised men and women will need new
clothing.
What they will be prepared to pay for
it, what their economic condition will be
and what both the British and U.S. Gov-
ernments will do about releasing their
“strategic” stocks of wool remain to be
seen, but price stability will be depen-
dent on those and other factors, and for
this reason “most people agree that some
measure of control, national or inter-
national, will be desk-able” in at least the
immediate post-war years.
Nevertheless, wool interests
can’t afford to sit down arid wait for this
“controlled” sunshine to dawn. Tre-
mendously powerful organisations ' are
behind the rayon industry, and their
methods are coldly, ruthlessly and
appallingly efficient. They must be taken
on at their own game, which is based
"She's beginning t' find out Ma's just as determined as she is."
chiefly on astute publicity and constant
improvements in the article they sell.
Wool, properly made up and properly
advertised, has no rival as a wearing ap-
parel. There will be a tremendous world
market for it after the war, for the world
has never used wool to any great extent.
And essential to all and every scheme
for wool advancement is a law demand-
ing that any product claiming to con-
tain wool shall clearly state how much
wool is contains, and wool of sheep at
that.
When is Land Poor?
“Enveen”: After looking at some of it
in three States I’m of the opinion that
poor land exists only for the crop-farmer.
So far as the sheep-farmer is concerned
it’s what he pays for it that matters. If
£3 worth of land is needed to carry a
sheep, for instance, that land is just as
good whether it is one acre or 20.
In parts of south-west W.A. land is
poor if it carries 200 sheep to the thou-
sand acres, but in northern S.A., where
a square mile may be needed to carry-
ten sheep or less, that 200 sheep to the
thousand acres looks like rich country.
In Tasmania, land is regarded as worth-
less if it won’t run one sheep to four
acres, and is not held in high regard when
it does. Bracken and heath country, with
a fair quantity of useful wild-oat, it
deserves more serious consideration.
Like the spinifex and saltbush country,
the feed grows without attention, but
there is the advantage of a fairly reliable
rainfall. Anyway, if droughts show in
the cultivation, they seldom do in the
despised “fern,” and then not sufficiently
to cause serious losses. Except in very
wet seasons, when the sheep may need
shifting for a short time to dry out, it is
exceptionally healthy country.
Old-timers got rich on this sort of
bush when, as third-class land, the
Government sold it for ss. an acre. It
got its bad name through being cut up
into blocks too small, but four- to six-
thousand-acre blocks would be living
areas.
Red Spider.
“Hux”: Rapid development is the
reason for sudden swarms of them. From
egg to full maturity is only eight days ;
from maturity to end of life cycle, two
weeks; and from 70 to 100 eggs are laid
by each female. Weeds as well as vege-
tables suffer. The saw-teeth of the mites
cut the tissue of plants and the sap is
sucked up.
When infestations are light leaves are
mottled ; in heavy attacks they bleach or
shrivel up. Dry conditions help the spider
population, good waterings reduce it.
Best control is lime-sulphur at one part
to 100 for delicate or one part to 60 for
strong plants. For kerosene emulsion
dissolve +lb. of soap in Igal. hot water
and add 2gal. kerosene slowly, stirring
well. To use, break down at rate of one
part to from eight to 14 of warm water.
Boiled flour paste is effective if made with
11b. flour and Igal. water, broken down
at rate of one part to nine of water and
applied with strong spray pump.
Trees on the Farm.
“Liss”; The wilga (B. 9/2/’44) is a
magnificent native for paddock planting,
especially in clumps, but don’t be sur-
prised if stock refuse to eat it. East of
the Bogan and up along the Barwon,
about Collarenebri, sheep are particularly
fond of wilgas and keep them trimmed
level as high as they can reach, *but west
of the Bogan they won’t touch them and
the branches trail to the ground. This
is due, probably, to some difference in
the soil composition.
Tell “A.H.8.,” too, that kurrajongs
may be transplanted at any size, pro-
vided they are cut back heavily, the
operation is done in September, and
moist conditions prevail. In my experi-
ence honey locusts are such slow growers
that kurrajongs, themselves comparatively
slow, win in a canter.
They have a further advantage in'that
they are evergreen and can be lopped in
winter. Also kurrajongs and wilgas are the
only trees I know on which lambing and
in-lamb ewes may be fed without harm.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”; Scours in pigs is generally
caused by unsuitable food, but change-
able weather is sometimes responsible.
Careful feeding, draught-proof shelters
and plenty of bedding straw help. Keep
the pens clean and allow for good drain-
age. Feeding utensils and troughs should
be washed daily in boiling water and
soda. Never leave in the sty sweet potato
vines, sugarcane, etc., that the pigs leave.
They may not eat the tucker until
it has been polluted. Best remedy
is a wineglassful of castor oil from a
blue bottle for each big pig and farrow-
ing sow. They’ll take it readily in skim-
milk. Light, strengthening food contain-
ing a good proportion of bran and milk
should be given for a few days. Suck-
ing pigs should be given half a teaspoon-
ful of castor oil apiece.
“N.H.”: To prevent iron vessels, walls
and roofs of farm buildings from rusting
give them a coat of linseed oil and whit-
ing, mixed together to form a fairly thick
paint. It preserves for years and is easily
removed if desired. For tools of steel or
iron immerse them in a solution of wash-
ing soda and warm water for a few
minutes and they will not rust.
“Plane Creek”: Transplanting of fruit-
trees is seldom done without seriously
checking the seedlings. Most trees hop
along and bear somewhat earlier when
they come up naturally from scattered
seeds and are undisturbed. It’s a good
plan to decide on the positions you want
the grown trees to occupy and plant two
or three seeds in each hole. Unwanted
seedlings can be weeded out later if neces-
sary. If protection is necessary fence the
ground in against stock and cover the
seedlings with upturned glass-jars until
they’re too large to interest birds.
“Enveen”: After three days on the
handle of a mattock I’ll welcome mecha-
nisation of the farm. I’m thinking of the
machines the boys have in New Guinea
and elsewhere, which make light of a
12in. tree. We need something with the
weight and inexorability of a tank. Few
could afford such a mechanical giant for
their own property, but the work could
be done on contract. There’s no reason
why we can’t have a machine that will
crush and rip up scrub almost as easily
as a plough rips up stubble. In Tas-
mania particularly there is good land it
will never pay to clear by hand labor.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course
Approved by the War Office,
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to tune
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER —34th April, '42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism lias
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.
TEACHER — 32nd May, '42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew oyer them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year's Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially m
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER — 17th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.P. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the P elm an principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“L find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
case, but quickly saw the wisdom pf your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’42; “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and 1 made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully awaie of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz :
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone efse, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Peltnan Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelmau
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Peltnan Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.:’
Name
Address
157
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
uwiU’^efiutaUim/
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds,
JO 6 5 e
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Called “Isolationist.”
[Urging an Australian Government ban on
a paper proposed to be established here for U.S.
troops by Col. McCormick, owner of Chicago
“Tribune*” Mr. Leslie Haylen, M.H.R. (Lab.),
described the “Tribune” as “isolationist.” Here
is an f.a.q. sample of its “isolationism” re-
garding the Pacific War.]
The American people knew instinctively
on the day of Pearl Harbor that the
Japanese are our first, most bitter and
most dangerous enemy. Nothing has
occurred since to change that feeling. It
is deep in our hearts. The diversion of
our principal forces to other theatres of
war and against other enemies has not
changed this feeling.
Our forces in the South-west Pacific
have started the march back, but their
gallantry cannot compensate wholly for
their lack of numbers. The grand
strategy that Pacific warfare shall be con-
fined to holding actions until there is no
further use for our troops in Europe has
not been changed.
The American people have of necessity
submitted to this decision, and they have
never for a moment let it slacken their
ardor for the prosecution of the war on
all fronts, but they know that the fight
for which the nation is eager has barely
been opened.
We face in the future the task of deal-
ing not merely with Hitler and his gang-
sters but with a race of Hitlers who have
made gangsterism their State religion.
We are going back to Bataan and from
there to Tokyo. Our debt to the Ameri-
cans and Filipinos who fought so vali-
antly and hopelessly there, and are still,
if they survive, subjected to the most
fiendish treatment that a vicious enemy
can devise, will not be discharged until
a righteous sentence, writ in burnished
steel, is pronounced at the heart of the
Japanese empire. Hirohito and the sub-
devils who execute his policy must be
left hanging for the crows to pick in
some sacred Japanese grove. The Ameri-
can people are impatient for the real war
to begin.
British Self-abasement.
(From a London “Times” report .)
Sir James Grigg, Secretary of State for
War, addressing the Oxford University
Conservative Association, deprecated the
British habit of self-abasement. One
instance of “our terrible habit of self-
abasement,” he said, was that of belittling
the Army.
For the first two and a half years of
this war the soldier reflected with great
bitterness that he had entered upon the
war ill-trained and ill-equipped. When
the inevitable happened and we were
thrown out of France, defeated in Egypt,
ejected from Greece and Crete, forced to
surrender in Hong Kong and Singapore,
forced to abandon Burma —very few
people took into account the previous
neglect, and a great many began to
accuse the Army and the War Office
of incompetence, blindness and even
cowardice. These accusations acquired
great currency even among our allies,
and certainly the Japanese propagandists
did their best to spread them.
But the German High Command did
not believe them. From time to time
we had captured extracts from their
intelligence summaries and training
manuals, and there was no trace in these
of belittlement of the British soldier.
Time had shown that the German High
Command was right.
For the last 18 months, except for the
disagreeable but not vitally important
instance of the Arakan campaign and
the minor mishap of Cos, the British
Army had a record of unbroken success.
Bombing Targets in Japan.
(From an article in the “American” by former
N.Y. “Herald Tribune” Tokyo correspondent
Joseph Newman.)
Japan's six key centres are Tokyo,
Osaka, Nagoya, Kyoto, Yokohama and
Kobe. I have had a good look at all of
them—the industrial Ruhr of Japan—-and
I was often impressed by the thought of
how quickly Japan could be snuffed out
as a world Power by igniting the huge,
sprawling firetraps from the air.
In Nagoya, Kyoto, Kobe and Osaka
conditions are similar to those of Tokyo
and Yokohama. The downtown business
areas are full of concrete and steel, but
the larger sections of the cities, where
most of the homes and many of the fac-
tories are located, are covered with a
forest of wooden boxes, which millions
call home. So that even the fireproof
structures are trapped in the forests of
wood and paper houses which, when
touched off by bombs, will turn into
infernos.
The heavy concentration of industry
and other military objectives in the six
leading cities of Japan provides some-
thing of a bomber’s dream. Here are
f th(=> thinps our bombers will find;
‘ If they come In from the east and fly
westward over the main island of Honshu
toward China, as the Doolittle raiders
did, the first target they will find in their
bombsights will be Yokohama. Here the
principal targets are the harbor, one of
the two largest in the country, shipbuild-
ing yards, warehouses, metal, machine-
tool and chemical plants, textile and
rubber mills, and an automobile factory.
ln recent years the Japanese Govern-
ment has minimised the industrial import-
ance of Yokohama, but at one time it
reported in the city 509
T« Sworks cheLS S :
husiness^centreTneat the
harbor, which lies'between two hUI dis-
tricts to the north-west and the south,
In this valley is the big dockyard of the
Mitsubishi interests, one of the four oli-
garchies controlling a large part of the
country’s economic life. Here also are
important railroad terminals and power
plants
A trip by bombers to Yokosuka, 12
miles south of Yokohama, should pay
great dividends. Here is the princgal
navy base in eastern Japan, ft ,
yards, a naval arsenal, engineering school
and torpedo headquarters,
The 18-mile strip between Yokohama
and Tokyo is packed solid with industries
turning out machines and machine tools,
They are concentrated at towns called
j£ ana g aW a, where the Japan Steel Tube
Company has a plant, Tsurumi and
K awasa ki, where the Fuji Steel Works
and a r£ .finery of the Hayama Oil Com-
pany are located,
. g bri the visitors to Tokyo, the
. . . a coun try with a popu-
V than The in-
dustrial targets are plants turning out
ships, metals, machinery, machine tools
clwmicals, dtetriral
textiles. The city a
three large sections for bomb ng.
The first is directly off the northern tip
of Tokyo Bay and lies between the
Sumida River on the west and the N aka-
gawa River on the east. Here are the im-
portant Ishikawajima Dockyard, the
Asano Cement Company’s plant, gas,
chemical, fertiliser and textile plants, the


FlYMfr
IS OUR BUSINESS
Statistics issued by the
Civil Aviation Department
show that Australian civil
airlines flew 7,516,740 miles
during the year ending
30/9/43 . . . 4,042,520 of these miles, or 53.7%, were
Flown by the planes of Australian National Airways.
A.N.A. has established the largest network of internal
airlines operated by any company in the world. Such
proven leadership justifies Australia's participation with
any other Nation in the great future of post-war aviation.
m
m
INVEST IN THE FIRST VICTORY LOAN
U SIR A LI A N
TIONAL AIRWAYS
FIRST IN PEACE . .
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IN WAR FIRST IN FUTURE
pirl«
aibvvavs
NATIONfII
traiWN
fIUS
’ mm
I
sr
M>-
F reedom
To be free to think, to act, to worship as we
will ... to voice our opinions openly ...
to elect our parliaments ... to frame the
very laws which govern this great land. That
is the measure of an Australian ... a birth-
right worth defending to the last man and
the last shilling.
Inserted in the National Interest by
the Manufacturers of
FELTEX
Speed the Victory-—BUY VICTORY BONDS
f n. 34.16
Oshima Steel Works and the Hitachi
machine factory.
The second section lies west of Tokyo
Bay and south of the emperor’s palace.
This contains strategic railroad yards,
textile and powder plants, the great
Shibaura machine works, textile, electric,
gas and power plants. The third area is
about four miles northward, on the other
side of the palace. Here is a concentra-
tion of army and navy powder plants and
supply depots, as well as plants turning
out tanks, ’planes, machine-guns and
locomotives.
Flying west across the main island of
Honshu, the visiting bombers might do
well to unload some of their cargo at
Nagoya, about 230 miles from Tokyo.
This is the big aircraft centre of the
country and the home of Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries, Ltd., which turns out
the famous Zero fighters as well as
bombers, torpedo ’planes, flying-boats
and transports. It is also the home of the
Nakajima Aircraft Works, which manu-
factures fighters, bombers, etc. Both
companies turn out the country’s best
airplane engines.
Other worth-while objectives are
located here. There is an important
harbor with anchoring space for 38 ships
of 10,000 tons each ; a railway network
which is the centre of the country’s lines ;
locomotive and automobile works;
powder plants, machinery and tool indus-
tries, textile and chemical factories.
From Nagoya it’s only another 100
miles to Kyoto, the ancient and beautiful
capital of Japan, which is now busily
engaged in turning out materials of war
to further Japanese aggression in Asia
and the Pacific area. Kyoto has at least
185 plants manufacturing machinery, 133
producing metal products and 70 making
chemicals.
More important than Kyoto, however,
is Osaka, only a few miles to the south-
west. Osaka is the great industrial centre
of the country and the second largest city,
with a population of more than 3,000,000.
The smokestacks towering over Osaka
blacken the sky for miles around. They
belong to 9683 factories producing
machine tools, 5918 turning out metal
products arid 2257 making chemicals ; or
a total of almost 18,000 plants engaged
in war production. Osaka accounts for
20.9 per cent, of the nation’s metal pro-
ducts, 16.2 per cent, of its machine tools
and 11.5 per cent, of its chemicals. In
addition, there are a harbor, important
dockyards, iron and steelworks, machin-
ery plants and textile industries.
The 20-mile strip westward to Kobe
is similar to that between Yokohama and
Tokyo. It is jammed with industrial ob-
jectives. At Kobe can be found some of
the country’s biggest dockyards. This
port, which stretches along the coast for
a distance of five miles and is pinned
against the sea by a range of mountains,
is where the Mitsubishi and Kawasaki
dockyards must be feverishly turning out
warships and merchant vessels in a des-
perate effort to replace the serious losses
inflicted by American ships and ’planes.
Kobe also has steel, rubber, chemical and
machinery plants.
Just before leaving Japan at the western
end, the bombers might do well to call
on the Yawata plant of the Japan Iron
and Steel Manufacturing Company, the
giant. Government-controlled firm which
turns out over 90 per cent, of Japan’s
pig-iron and is the backbone of Japan’s
war effort. The plant covers the entire
city of Yawata, on the northern tip of
Kyushu, the last main island in the west.
Several trips by hundreds of Flying
Fortresses over the itinerary just outlined
will likely do more than just make Gen-
eral Tojo unhappy. It may convince him
that it is time to join his ancestors above.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
A series of bases like those in the Marshalls,
each planned to support the others, is very
strong so long as it is linked together with sea
and air power;, when that goes, each base is
isolated and helpless; the strength of the whole
evaporates. The demonstration of that' fact in
the central Pacific is likely soon to be re-
peated in places much nearer the main centres
of Japanese power.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* . * * *
“It would cost twenty times the number of*
casualties to accomplish in other ways what
our boys are doing in the air over Germany.”
—Lord Trenchard.
» » Ht *
“The term Fascism has never been defined
except by Communists. By it, they mean any-
thing that is anti-Communist. As a matter of
fact, there are no essential differences in ideology
between Communism, Fascism and Nazism.
All three absorb the individual info collectivity
—the collectivity of the class; the collectivity of
the nation and the collectivity of the race ; with
violence associated with all three. Fascism is
really Communism in its dotage. That is,
Communism hampered or distorted in some
way by its contact with Western civilisation.
Communism is Fascism in its Asiatic form.”
—Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, described by
N.Y. “ Journal-American” as “the distinguished
Catholic educator and radio speaker:”
* * * *
“We must assure to all countries (except the
Axis) a free and fair stake in this new means
of transportation. It will be our aim to make
civil aviation a guarantee of international soli-
darity.”—Lord Beaverbrook, in charge of
Britain’s post-war aviation programme.
* * * *
England’s plans for post-war construction are
so vast that “Europe may turn out to be the
new world and America the old world,”
Spencer Miller, State Highway Commissioner
of New Jersey, said at a luncheon of the
Citizens’ Housing Council of New York.
Recently returned from a trip to Great Britain,
he said that England plans to spend about
$40,000,000,000 in a “bold and courageous”
post-war programme which calls for construc-
tion of 4,000,000 new homes in a ten-year
period after the war. The plan calls for the
building of 250,000 houses the first year, to be
stepped up to 500,000 a year. “Britain is
planning not only for after the war, but because
of the war. In England, one out of every five
houses has been either damaged or destroyed.”
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Military experts and civilian observers esti-
mate the total Allied and enemy casualties of
the current war in excess of 25,000,000. — Balti-
more “Sun.”
* * * *
Japanese man-power resources are great, the
morale of both the armed forces and the
civilian population is excellent and geographic
factors give her a defensive position that adds
tremendous strength. The Japanese are in a
strong position today and their power in many
respects is increasing, and the longer we leave
them in virtual control of Eastern Asia the
more difficult the eventual struggle will be.—
Statement issued by U.S. Army Intelligence,
based on Maj.-Gen. George V. Strong’s testi-
mony before secret sessions of the U.S. House
and Senate.
* * *■ *
Russia will cling to eastern Poland, and
Britain and U.S. probably will induce Poland
to accept East Prussia and other German ter-
ritory as “compensation.” But for future refer-
ence: U.S. and Britain will rue the day, be-
cause they will be morally bound to go to
Poland’s aid when Germans stage a “war of
liberation” 25 years or more hence. — Scripps-
Howard Washington staff report.
* * * *
There can be no settlement in Europe so
lopsided as to justify American withdrawal
from effective collaboration in world order
after this war. This is a basic fact of national
security which no American can afford to mini-
mise. The United States is going to collabor-
ate with other nations not simply as a bene-
factor but as a country that knows its own
interests are vitally served by collaboration
and may be fatally disserved by any other
course. The less Americans like the post-war
arrangements the more necessary it will be, for
their own sakes as for the sake of others, for
the United States to take part in world
machinery which will ensure order and provide
for long-term peaceful readjustments of any
peace settlement. — “Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
Today it seems clear Spain would resist in-
vasion. It would fight Hitler not because of
any special love for the Allies but because
Spain is still Spanish—proud, aloof, almost
anti-foreign. And the Germans, with their
inimitable knack for making themselves un-
popular, are the least liked among the foreign-
ers by the people. Above all, Spain is con-
vinced that Hitler has lost the war, and Spain
cannot afford to be on the losing side. As the
Spaniards themselves joke: “The biggest Span-
ish politicians are Eisenhower and Mont-
gomery.” There is hope, supported by the
developments in Spain itself, that an Allied
victory and the extermination of the Nazi-
Fascist regimes will also bring about a change
in the totalitarian Franco regime. Such a
change will not only lie welcomed, but will
have to be encouraged, if only for the effect on
totalitarian tendencies in Latin America. How
far direct Falangist influences have been re-
sponsible for the developments in Argentina is
still unclear. The weight of evidence points to
Nazi influences, Nazi agents and Nazi finance
as the principal underground forces behind the
totalitarian movements in this hemisphere,
which gives point to the one-time Nazi boast
that Germany would conquer the United States
through South America. But there can be little
doubt that Falangist ideology paved the way
for the Axis spearhead, and in the long run the
elimination of Falangism is as much a require-
ment of American security as the destruction of
Nazism and Fascism and Japan’s special brand
of “divine” totalitarianism. — N.Y. “Times:”
* * V
Peak of United States employment, it is
now estimated, may come in July, 1944, when
there will be 11,100,000 in the armed forces and
10,100,000 in munitions industries. — N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”
* * * *
“Unshakable aircraft carrier” may rightly be
the new nickname for Britain with its quarter-
million acres of land converted into R.A.F.-
U.S.A.A.F. airdromes. This is a fine achieve-
ment of which the Air Ministry may well be
proud, but it cost almost $2500 million and poses
an almost insoluble post-war problem. The
airdrome sites are mainly far from towns and
therefore unsuitable for relieving the housing
shortage. To make them fit for agriculture
again would be a prodigious task. Some people
are already suggesting it’s a pity these “car-
riers” are unsinkable. — “Wall-street Journal”
London correspondent.
* * * *
Mr. Herbert Morrison, in a message to his
constituents of South Hackney, on the case for
the suspension of Sir Oswald Mosley’s deten-
tion; “Supposing I had acted otherwise? I
should have established (if the Courts had not
upset my decision) that the State had the right
to penalise opinion and unpopularity. Such
a doctrine might well have had a nasty come-
back some day on the progressive forces, on
you and me and all of us who do not accept
the capitalist order of things—that is why I
believe I acted not only as a conscientious
Home Secretary, but' also as an intelligent,
forward-looking democrat.”— London “Times.”


Public Notices.
I, ALFRED GEORGE CHARLES WILKINS, State-
less, born at Lourenco Marques, East Africa, and
resident seven years in Australia, now residing at
6 Ada Avenue, Warrawee, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, HERBERT EUGEN WOLFF, now knowi| as
MERRIMAN, of German nationality, born in Berlin,
Germany, and resident nine years in Australia, now
residing" C/o Allied Works Council at Oamsoweal,
Queensland, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO JOHN GUMMING INGRAM formerly of Bulla in
the State of Victoria but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife IRENE INGRAM
has instituted proceedings against you for divorce
on the ground of three years’ desertion Unless you
enter into an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court Melbourne in the said
State on or before the Fifth day of May 1944 the
case may proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.
RYLAH & ANDERSON, 349 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IF FLORRIE KEAN, a niece of GEORGE PURVEY
GELLEY, late of Buckland, in Tasmania, Farmer,
deceased, will communicate with the undersigned,
she will learn of something to her advantage.—
TINNING, PROPSTING, MASTERS & SOLOMON,
158 Collins Street, Hobart, Tasmania, Solicitors to
the estate of the said deceased.
FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
the
petrol ration
PETROL RATIO"
PETROL RATIOI
saving,
Tetrol
rAI Don’t drive over 30
l/'J miles per hour.
FBI Don t make i er ky
L D J starts.
rpi Don’t let your car
become a “smoker!”
Smoke means trouble and wasted petrol,.,
Change to CALTEX Motor Oil. It is still the
best lubricating oil on the market, ft is the
best protection against excessive engine wear
and represents true economy.
CALTEX LIMITED
Serving the Nation
IMPORTERS OF CALTEX MOTOR SPIRIT, KEROSENE and LUBRICATING OILS
■»X
sasifcsS
LEND NOW SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
m
W i
95
11
$
«r
h
I
fU
Zt
i
-3
1
■2
of
\Ot*
ii min
■,i4
d L
yVvvVv
O',
.I*-*
O'
V
so
j£fi " \\
/Him
rO
On the table of the conference
room, and the bench of the work-
room, post-war refrigeration is
now being planned to give Australian industry the
advantages of war-time experience and up-to-date
knowledge.
In war plants, army installations, and novo! ships,
Werner Refrigeration is being tested under
extreme conditions, the meeting of which will
enable Werners to supply you with post-war re-
frigeration of amaxing worth.
Keep YOUR mind on Werner Refrigeration to serve
YOUR needs. Information gladly mailed on request.
3ES
m
W 3/27
industries
SERVED BY
WERNER
REFRIGERATION
0 Abattoirs, Bakers
§ Breweries, Botchers
§ Butter Factories, Cafes
0 Confectioners, Councils
0 Dairy Produce Shops
Dairies. Fishmongers
0 Fruit Storages, Grocers
0 Guest Houses. Hospitals
0 Hotels, Ice Manufacturers
0 Ice Cream Factories
0 Markets, Ships.
R. WERNE
& Co. PTY. LTD.
Burnley Street, Richmond.
REFRIGERATION for INDUSTRY
g
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy a recent edition of Encyclopedia
Britannica or similar encyclopaedia. 3451.
To buy Sinclair Lewis’s Elmer Gantry. 3452.
Information Sought.
On what occasions have Australian troops
been sent overseas, and how many were there in
each contingent?
In 1885 the N.S.W. Government s ent a con-
tingent of 734 to the Sudan; from 1899 to
June, 1902, 16,175 men from all States went to
S. Africa for the Boer War; 330,000 of the
First A.I.F. were sent overseas. In the present
wai troops have been leaving Australia since
January, 1940.
* * *
Before the war, when were British merchant
ships compelled (1) to disclose their identity,
and (2) to hoist their colors ? .
(1) When signalled by one of H.M. ships or
any vessel under the command of a British
naval officer on full pay. (2) When entering
or leaving any foreign port, and, if of 50 tons or
over, on entering or leaving any British port.
* * * *
Simple method of reducing small quantities of
75 p.c. 'tin ore to pure tin?
Grind concentrates finely, and mix with about
half their own weight of powdered charcoal
in a fireclay crucible. Heat the crucible to a
bright yellow heat in a furnace or forge ; 21b.
or 31b. of concentrates can be reduced in an
hour. It is also possible to reduce by heating
with sodium or potassium cyanide, which does
not require so much heat. If an ordinary forge
is all that is available for heating, it is inad-
visable to deal with more than i-lb. of ore at
a time.
* * * *
Biographical details about Robert Officer ?
Born Scotland, November 3, 1800; educated
at St. Andrews, Edinburgh; migrated to Tas-
mania in 1821, where he was appointed medical
officer for New Norfolk, building up a con-
siderable private practice. He gave up medical
work in 1853, when elected for Buckingham
to the Legislative Council. When responsible
government came, he sat in the new Assembly
as a member for Glenorchy (1856). He became
Chairman of Committees, and later, in 1861,
Speaker, a post he held until 1877. Mainly
by his influence, a vote for acclimatising trout
and salmon found a regular place in the Budget.
He retired from public life in 1877, dying at
New Norfolk on July 8 two years later. He
was knighted just before.
* * * *
(1) In what Test matches v. England did
Charlie Turner and Jack Ferris bowl unchanged
throughout the innings, and their figures? (2)
The same bowlers’ figures with the 1888 Aus-
tralian team in England?
(1) *At Sydney, January 28-31, 1887; t at
Lord’s, England, July 16-17, 1888. Their figures
were:
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets.
* Turner ..18 11 15 6
* Ferris ..17.3 7 27 4
t Turner ..24 8 36 5
t Ferris ..23 11 26 5
(2)
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wkts. Av.
Turner.. 2589.3 v 1222 3492 314 11.12
Ferris .. 2222.2 998 3103 220 14.10
Brief Answers.
H.A.S.: Price-fixing regulations empower the
Commissioner to fix different maximum prices
for different parts of Australia or in different
proclaimed areas, and the High Court has held
these regulations to be valid... .N.M.: A collec-
tion of “Old-timer’s” verses entitled The Warrum-
bungle Mare is available at Dymock’s, Sydney,
3s L. 8.5.; (1) You are entitled to the benefit
of the moratorium during the period after dis-
charge equal to the length of war service or
six months thereafter (whichever is the less).
(2) Not without leave of the appropriate Court.
(3) Application could be made to reopen the
transaction on the ground that it was unduly
onerous, but the interest rate does not seem
to be unreasonable.. ..R.W.; Prime Minister
and other Ministers are paid from vote of
£22,750; separate details are not available.,.,
J.M.: Pop. of Perth is approx. 230,000.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted ; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor,
J.R.: Epic poem in approximately 10,000 lines
about a Scot at a football match would occupy
about four pages and then nobody would know
what it was all about....W.F.: It might amuse
a jeep... .N.R.Y.: Thin... .R.L.8.: “Do your
worst.” Hope you’ve done yours... .0.C.M.;
Only an outline C.E.R.: “Then suddenly
with loud heigh-ho’s, an outlaw mad on its
way it goes.” Precisely... .A.H.W.: “To suc-
ceed did I ever aspire.” How far, alas, is
realisation from aspiration... .G.G.; Conven-
tional D.F.: “My Cat” should be shown
to a nice, large, savage dog K.L.: See it
the ’hoppers would clean up your supply ot
writing paper, too P.D.: June may be all
you say, but she doesn’t rhyme with “zoom.
S.A.C.; Unable to tell from your hand-
writing whether you write in Sanscrit or
Chinese 1.L.P.: For very young and very
tolerant children... .S.D.: It bumps..
P.G.R.: No wonder she tosses her golden curls
when you persist in opening your conversation
with “Prithee, gentle maiden.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.L.H.: Linework resembles (racks of a
demented camel... .R. 5.8.; You can’t even
draw a clothesprop Bert C.: A microscopic
brace of silhouettes and an archaic wheeze....
L.M.: And they’re women I. . . .P.N.L.: Why
not realise your obvious ambition and make a
drawing on the back of a tram ticket?....
C.L.T.: Don’t’ know whether you’ve given the
flapper wrinkled stockings or corrugated-iron
legs E.E.S.: That burglar will never break
into print... .Jack P.; If dentists look like that
the holes can stop in our teeth D.J.M.:
Every time you think of the inventor of the
eraser you should respectfully lift your hat.


Ruwolt
kj
*M
3
W rw
*
mm s
; '.y ■'■•'-• ;
Rubber Calender. Approximate Weight 30 tons.
Above is illustrated a good example of the many types
of machines designed and built by Ruwolt’s for the Rubber
Industries in Australia.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immedi-
ately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee,
\Y/HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
w satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate wull be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen O. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income, Claims. Expenses.* to Funds.
1933.. 4,662,815 3,043,709 404,216 7
Trans. Invest. Res., £153,145 )
Added to Investment Reserve, £14,615.
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,607,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,101.
1935.. 5,018,296 2,924,349 474,689 1,619,258
Added to Investment Reserve, £8446.
1936.. 5,237,786 2,995,222 520,563 1,722,001
Added to Investment Reserve, £6981.
1937.. 5,605,733 3,126,050 568,675 1,911,008
To staff fund, £15,000 . . 1 rfia
1938.. 6,740,376 3,589,587 567,186 ] I>jo 1 > j08 > OUo
Written off properties, £lOO,OOO.
1939.. 5,931,144 3,448,244 550,359 1,932.541
1940.. 6,076,026 3,626,703 529,996 1,919,328
Unexplained addition Invest. Res., £13,958.
To staff fund, £20,000 .. \ 01QK0 „„
1941.. 6,339,456 3,610,362 523,701 ) ■ i . 1 «5,390
Unexplained reduction Invest. Res., £1419.
1942.. 6,301,785 3,690,127 523,701 2,087,957
Unexplained addition Invest. Res, £18,777
1943.. 6,552,288 3,619,596 528,1331
Written off premises, £lOO,OOO i 2,104,559
Written off other assets, £200,000 ]
* Excluding income tax and rates.
The contingencies of war and changing
economic conditions and outlook and
the provisions made to meet them are the
chief factors affecting the accounts of
life offices over the last few years. Higher
war-time mortality, which is more or less
passing in its incidence, and the upward
surge of taxation and fall in interest rates,
which are likely to be more lasting, have
created new actuarial, investment and
other problems.
Policy risks of the 74-year-old National
—second largest of Australia’s five big
mutual life offices —cover a wide field.
Premiums are gathered in Australia,
Britain, Ireland, S. Africa, Maoriland,
India (where the writing of new "business
ceased about five years ago), and in the
Straits Settlements and Hong Kong (or
were until these two last-mentioned places
fell into enemy hands). The amount at
risk at these two centres, uncovered by
policy reserves, is less than £lOO,OOO.
For the three years to September 30
last death claims due to war amounted to
£733,000, against which £210,000 of policy
reserves had accumulated. The loss was
therefore £523,000, or more than twice
the amount (£250,000) reserved for the
purpose in 1940. The amount allowed for
excess war mortality in valuing policies
at September 30 last was £300,000. The
effect of war on mortality rates is likely
to be felt, in diminishing form, for some
years after hostilities cease. Also, the fall
in interest rates —public policy aims at
low rates in the future—-has reduced the
margin available for division among
policyholders from this source, and
looks like continuing to do so for some
time. Further, the taxgatherer is taking
a much deeper bite out of takings, and is
likely to continue to do so.
The effect of all this upon the surplus
available for division among policy-
holders, and steps taken by the manage-
ment to preserve the long-range bonus-
paying capacity of the business are seen
in the following table:
, Date of Valuation—,,
Stept. 30, Sept. 30,
1940'. 1943.
Total surplus triennium ~£4,068,428 £3,339,736
Appropriation of surplus:—
Bonuses to policyholders 2,674,205 1,571,052
Reserve for contingencies,
etc 94,222 1,618,684
Staff superannuation fund 20,000 150,000
Actuarial reserve special
addition .. .. 515,001
Excess mortality provision 250,000
Average gross rate of interest realised on
the mean assurance fund eased from
£4 9s. lid. p.c. for 1938 to £4 Bs. 6d. p.c.
last term. After deducting taxes the
average net rate of interest for corre-
sponding periods fell sharply from
£4 3s. 3d. p.c. to £3 18s. sd. p.c. respec-
tively. This and loss in respect of excess
war mortality and the amount sent to
inner reserves (£300,000 was written off
book value of assets last term) were
mainly responsible for the contraction of
£728,692 in the last triennial surplus.
Of the £1,618,684 of the latest surplus
reserved for contingencies £1,300,000 is
specially earmarked as an actuarial
reserve to cover reduction of the
rate of interest assumed in valuing liabili-
ties under policies to an all-round p.c.
“should present conditions persist.” In
1940 the basis of valuation of whole-life
participating policies was lowered from
3 p.c. to 2\ p.c,—other policies continue
to be valued at 3 p.c. —and £515,000 of
the surpffis for the period was sent to
actuarial reserves for the purpose. Al-
though the immediate amount available
for distribution among policyholders as
bonuses has been thus reduced, discern-
ing policyholders will not quarrel with
such a policy, which greatly enhances both
their security and prospects.
At September 30 last the assurance
fund (£52,778,881) had the support and
assistance of the contingencies reserve,
etc. (£1,881,316), to which £1,618,684 is
to be added. And earnings of the con-
tingency fund belong to policyholders—
there are no shareholders. The business
is handled at low cost, the year’s exes,
being 8.15 p.c. of total net income as
against 8.31 p.c. in 1942. That leaves
out of the reckoning single premiums,
taxes (£269,929, up £23,732), and outlay
on war precautions, etc. The amount of
new business written during the year
(£8,588,303, up £904,401) and the net in-
crease in amount assured under policies
in force (£124,457,995, up £3,690,622) also
reflect the co.’s continued progress.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the invest-
ment portfolio:—■
, 1942 , , 1943 v
P.c. P.c.
Freeholds .. .. £1,655,186 3.1 £1,555,568 2.7
Public securities . . 30,843,718 56.2 34,439,777 60.4
Mortgages . . . . 10,984,073 20.0 10,055,507 17.6
Foreclosures .. 181,501 0.3 171.621 0.3
Loans on policies .. 5,087.821 9.3 4,551,690 8.0
Other assets .. 6,084,743 11.1 6,182,099 11.0
The reduction of £928,566 in mortgages
and of £536,131 in loans on policies re-
flects the effects of Government controls
and economic conditions. The money
that thus became available, together with
the year’s surplus takings, went
mainly into Government securities (up
£3,596,059) in Australia, Maoriland,
Britain and South Africa —a handsome
contribution to the war effort.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves,
£> £ £ £
1933.. 38,111 5 p.c. 38,016 95 291,556
1934.. 43,411 Bi „ „ 41,821 1,590 293,110
1935.. 80,286 10 ~ „ 76,043 4,243 297,389
Profit on sale assets, £1426.. .. 298,815
1936.. 84,984 10 p.c. = 76,043 8,941 307,756
1937.. 83,845 10 „ „ 76,043 7,802 315,558
Reserves disappear, £11,150.. .. 304,408
1938.. 99,109 124 p.c. 95,054 4,055 308,463
1939.. 98,753 124 „ „ 95,054 3,699 312,162
1940.. 97,359 12J „ ~ 95,054 2,305 314,467
1941.. 96,076 12J „ „ 95,054 1,022 315,489
1942.. 95,431 Hi „ ~85,549 9,882 325,371
1943.. 66,378 8 „ ~60,835 5,543 330,914
This co. (paid capital £760,433) and
Kandos (paid capital £673,862) are equal
partners in Australian Portland Cement
Pty. (paid capital £2,000,000), and have
been since 1930, when, seeing trouble
ahead in the industry, they decided to
get into double harness. The partnership
has been a satisfactory one. Slump out of
the way, enough was earned to enable
each of the holding cos. to pay 10 p.c.
again, and then a run of 12{ p.c. divs.
until current developments slowed up
earnings.
The operating co.’s two plants have a
combined capacity of some 500,000 tons
of cement p.a. The one at Kandos
(N.S.W.), which can turn out up to
200,000 tons p.a., shares the overcrowded
market in its own State with four other
produced. The other at Fyansford
(Vic.) has a rated capacity of 300,000
tons p.a., and makes high-grade potash
as well. This potash, made from hitherto
waste material, has replaced imported
supplies of the stuff and thus become a
welcome addition to Australia’s activi-
ties in production of war goods. The
Fyansford works, modern and efficient,
are nowadays responsible for most of the
profit. Their only serious competitor is
Goliath (capacity 100,000 tons p.a.), a
low-cost producer at Railton (Tas.), and
there is little competition under present
conditions.
Private building, both in Victoria and
N.S.W., has dwindled almost to vanish-
ing point—the Standard co.’s plant at
Charbon (N.S.W.) ceased production be-
fore the end of 1942 as a rationalisation
measure. Also, Government require-
ments, which now account for the bulk of
cement sales, have begun to taper. Last
term the operating co. passed on £60,022
(down £29,984) in divs. to this holding
co., which also gathered £11,839 in com-
missions, interest, etc. The net result
(down £20,053) was 8.7 p.c. on capital as
against an average of over 12i p.c. for
the four preceding years. The div., low-
ered from 12| p.c. to p.c. for the
previous term, was dropped to 8 p.c., and
might recede a bit further before it begins
to rise again.
The holding co.’s balance-sheet figures
don’t tell much: —
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £760,433 £760,433 £760,433 £760,433
Svmdry creditors 76 76 828 120
Shares in other
cos. .. 1,003,750-1,003,750 1,003,750 1,003,750
Book debts .. 110 110 110 110
Consols & cash 122,886 124,664 126,945 122,931
Everything depends upon the position in
the operating co., over whose figures the
curtain remains drawn. After the war
housing and public works promise to
create a strong demand for cement, for
a while at any rate. The Fowler system
of concrete-dwelling construction has
been adopted by the Victorian Housing
Commission.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1935.. 28,954 15 p.c. = 23,255 1 fi1QQ
Staff fund, £500 .. .. f 5 > 199 176,567
Inner reserves capitalised, £37,800.. 176,567
1936.. 32,865 15 p.c. = 28,986 1 „ , 7Q 170 qir
Staff fund, £500 .. ..) 3 > d ' 9 1,9,90
Tax reserve, etc., taken in, £20,000.. 199,946
1937.. 35,765 17i p.c. = 83,886 ) 1 o70 9rtl s2 5
Staff fund, £500 .. ..j 1>o79 ’
1938.. 34,306 16i p.c. = 31,528 j „ 00 3 608
Staff fund, £500 .. ..j lOd,ous
1939.. 30,768 15 p.c. = 29,100 )
Staff fund, £500 .. .. 1 — 203,276
Extra tax prov., £1500 ..J
J940. . 31,593 15 p.c. - 29,100)
Staff fund, £500 .. — 202,269
Extra tax prov., £3000 .. J
Inner reserve struck off shares, £5444.
1941.. 31,075 15 p.c. = 29,100 )
Staff fund, £500 .. .. ) — 200.744
Extra tax prov., £8000 .. J
1942.. 19,045 10 p.e. = 19,400 — 200,889
To staff fund. £500 .. .. 199,889
From tax reserve, £3247.. .. 203,136
1943.. 16,410 134 p.c. = 19,400 1
To staff fund, £500 .. | ~ 199.04b
Hedging-in of trade activity and profit-
earning by war-time controls and restric-
tions, especially for vendors of consumer
credit, left this prosperous cash-order,
furnishing and furnishing-drapery busi-
ness with more money than it knew what
to do with. And nobody knows exactly
what effect political notions of security
in an insecure world will have on earn-
ings of traders after the war.
So, early in the last term, the co.
returned quarter (£48,500) of its share
capital, reducing the figure to £145,500
in f.p. 15s. shares. When slump
reduced capital requirements in the
early 1930’s £174,833 of the then
£329,667 of share capital was re-
turned, which was more than share-
holders had put up in cash. From the
beginning (in 1903) to the end of 1930
£222,400 of bonus scrip had been
scattered, and another one-for-four gift
issue (£37,800) was handed out in 1935.
Divs. averaged 13.9 p.c. for the decade
to the close of accounts in 1942.
Return of capital last term had little
effect on earning power. The slip (£2635)
in profit was the result of “a consider-
able fall in turnover,” brought about
mainjiy by Government restrictions. In
the *cash-order section, which used to
account for a large slice of takings, can-
vassing is prohibited, advertising re-
stricted, advances limited to £10 each
outstanding, the Treasury can arbitrarily
restrict the volume of business, and
“premiums” and discounts on the orders
are fixed at levels lower than used to be
obtained. As for other lines, the price
ceiling applies and spending is restricted
by short supplies and by what is virtually
a second kind of money—ration coupons,
buying permits, etc. These are distributed
according to need, while money in the
form of currency is handed out as wages,
etc. Private purchases require both kinds
of money, Government buying only one.
Allowing for taxation, depreciation and
a small adjustment in reserves, the board


STOPvoupßupture
Worries/
111 HI
Mark® loeafion,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
11l
Ja
m
I.
Established 1808 in Reign ol George ni.
STABILITY
The “Atlas" has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
• E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia A New Zealand.
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Musi First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny
land filters. Every three minutes all the blood
In your body passes through these tubes to ba
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
(Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
blogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
bess. Frequent or scanty passages with
Smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have bad quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN’S
sEtACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
PATKKT&. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
♦ • • *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street. Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
Han and overseas Patents and Trade Marks, -Advt,
v\
6
6
i How to get at the
last few drops of
BRYLCREEM
All the Brylcreem at present being made Is going to the
Services. So that with Brylcreem being difficult to get,
those last few drops in your jar have become very precious
indeed. And because Brylcreem has such excellent tonic
ingredients, there's a lot of good in those tew drops. So
we suggest you get them out by adding a teaspoonful of
clean, cold water and shaking the jar vigorously. You'll find
every drop of cream will come cleanly away from the jar.
Victory is in your pocket—subscribe to the First Victory Loan.
M
n c
rS G® (W V rVtv gU '
®&4 & v o4t^’
<^G*
L V> c G g G \jv G'* r
- V^*f c uet? vets ° X I Gv» G^X\c^ e 1
v f\ &v r\n VC V^ e^ etS uets ‘
"WM&s Gvo G Va %
e^e^G^ etS VV^SdSgL^
M\CVJ
;S \ GVp "
G*»
G
_ A
% J
?\y
5*
%
"^\fi
X 3 f~ OH
%m
iSSSfg
j\#
sy S>
\
“W^
’^Jfisoo
&
"\3^
5\310C
■f) fteep Unto
Uout i/ictoty -flame
If you're a good Australian, you're saving now, investing in
War Savings Certificates, contributing to the Government
Loans. But the money you lend is still YOUR MONEY.
Are you one of the thousands who will use that money to
buy a home?
If so, you are interested in materials and you should investigate
the advantages of SISALKRAFT which will protect ceilings
from roof drips and ensure that the walls are damp-proof in
all weathers.
SISALKRAFT is doing a war job today but after Victory it
will play an important part in post-war building plans.
SIS4LKMFT
mrnmmr
F. W. WILLIAMS & CO. PTY. LTD.. 16 Loftus Street. Sydney
{‘Phone B 6415)
wrote profit at £16,410, or 11.2 p.c. on
capital as it now stands. Shareholders
were handed the same amount (£19,400)
as for the previous term, which lifted the
rate of div. from 10 p.c. to 13| p.c. The
extra funds required to pay the higher
rate, and a bit more, were provided by
transfer of £3247 from previous over-
provision for taxation. With reserves
still £54,146 in excess of paid capital the
two combined need now turn in only
5.6 p.c. to show 13| p.c. on capital alone.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:—
1959. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £194,000 £194,000 £194,000 £145,500
Sundry cred.* 63,105 87,294 52,835 43,042
Overdraft . . 10,513
Property and
plant, etc. 114,247 109,656 107,264 106,610
Stock.. .. 36,074 52,938 36,832 21,747
Hire agreements 119,372 138,432 106,107 35,609
Book debts .. 74,861 63,800 31,719 22,981
Shares, deben-
tures, etc... 50,935 46,515 46,515 46,455
Mortgages .. 7,986 7,777 5,503 6,443
Cover nment
securities .. 76,817 80,817 84,817 88,817
Cash, etc. .. 13,882 7,571 45,844 76,183
* Including taxation.
Last term’s reductions of £70,498 in
hire agreements, £15,085 in stocks and
£8738 in book debts were accompanied by
a growth of £30,339 in cash, of £4OOO in
Government securities and the return of
capital. The more or less liquid surplus
(£253,593 = approx. 265. per share) was
£50,909 less than at the previous balance.
American interests foreshadow a pros-
perous time for the diamond industry,
for a while at any rate. During the last
decade diamonds have passed from a
purely luxury to a luxury-utility trade.
“.Working” diamonds are an essential
part of present-day industrial equipment,
and likely to remain so during the busy
years of post-war reconstruction and
after. The new factor in the outlook is
demand from U.S.A. for both industrial
and investment gems. In 1942 U.S.A. was
the largest buyer of cut diamonds, and
used some 4,500,000 carats of an esti-
mated world production of 7,500,000
carats of industrial stones. The Cin-
derella of the diamond family, the in-
dustrial stone now occupies the centre of
the industry’s stage. Most of the indus-
trial stones now come from the Belgian
Congo, and to a less extent from the
Gold Coast, Sierra Leone and Angola,
and a few are recovered in N. S.
Wales. Investment buying has been
stimulated by the high level of in-
comes generally and increase in mar-
riages, Also, owing to the concentration
of great value in small compass and
prohibition on the possession of gold, dia-
monds are being hoarded.
♦ ♦ • *
The Federal Government has now
guaranteed Mt. Isa an outlet for the co.’s
copper production until the end of 1944,
when the position will be reviewed. At
the instigation of the Government the
co. turned attention to development of
its copper lodes, and installed suitable
treatment plant at a total cost of nearly
£250,000. Production of silver-lead bul-
lion and zinc concentrates ceased in April,
1943, when the first pour of blister copper
was made. Estimated reserves of copper
ore at June 30, 1943, were 2,442,700 tons,
of which 2,422,600 tons sulphides assayed
3.2 p.c. and the balance 6.2 p.c. copper.
Of the lot 1,073,700 tons ore is classed
as developed and the rest prospective. At
the end of June last there were 989 names
on the payroll. In addition many gougers
bring ore to the co. for treatment.
* * * *
Cuthbert’s Misima, Misima Island,
about 150 miles due east of Milne Bay,
paid divs. aggregating 11s, 6d. per 10s.
share, plus £lO,OOO to the promoter as
his reward, during the six years before the
place had to be evacuated early in 1942,
following Japan’s invasion of the s.-w.
Pacific. No mining has been done since,
but a surface maintenance party, under
W. Henley, former underground manager,
is now back on the spot, dealing with
plant renovation, undergrowth, roads,
etc. Retimbering, etc., underground will
follow, within capacity of labor and sup-
plies available. Doubtless the Ham-
bridge-Rutledge policy, which has proved
very successful so far, will be continued
when war conditions permit resumption
of full-scale operations. At the end of
1940 it was reckoned there was over 1\
years’ work ahead in the measured oxides
in the southern sector, where a lot more
pay-ore is known to exist. The northern
sector, where little work has been done,
is also expected to prove a valuable asset.
Meanwhile, the co. has lived within its
means, and there is £27,252 in Govern-
ment loans and in the bank to kick off
with when a start can be made. Creditors
and provision for taxation together figure
at £BO5B.
* * * *
After a lean spin for a couple of years,
Deborah G.M., Bendigo (Vic.), hopes for
a change of fortune, following the cut-
ting of a system of bedded spurs north
of the shaft above the 915 ft. level. Last
two fortnightly crushings have yielded up
to 9£dwt. a ton, as against a recent aver-
age of sdwt. Since less than a third of
the material crushed was drawn from the
new formation, ore broken therefrom so
far appears to be approaching the ounce-
to-the-ton class. Development to test the
extent of the find is going ahead as fast
as labor available permits. Normal com-
plement is 80; mine strength below and
above ground is down to 35, and the
absence of young blood for heavy manual
work is a further handicap,
* * * *
Leonora Corp. (London) showed a loss
of £529 last year, increasing the total
debit balance to £25,982. Co. was formed
in London in February, 1934, to acquire
from Sons of Gwalia all interests held
by that co. outside Westralia, chiefly
holdings in Tanami Gold Mining Syndi-
cate and in Cornish Kaolin, Ltd. The Corp.
also holds large interests in South Africa.
It paid 1\ p.c. and 5 p.c. in 1935 and
1936 respectively, but nothing since.


/
/
■
■
W
- - ,
WM§moMm
m
Si
Wmmmm
wmm
D,
Al
s/»
avv
'Ps,
e *>i,
seg
SP
v:
a• t « „’>»'v as v aI? 4 -
*°*t .' ' ca t f l 7i Ps
s «fe. * * *hi/ lc toty*?*r ... >k
e »r e -
Pennants fly
for Loan Success .
Every town and municipality throughout
Australia has been given a loan quota to
fill. Pennants are awarded to each com-
munity that reaches its quota either in
amount of money or number of subscribers,
with special awards to the leading districts.
Mark your application form so that your
subscription is credited to your community.
llpFill the ships with everything our fighting men
to win. Send them storming to smash the
Japs, armed to the teeth—equipped and sup-
plied by your Victory Bond purchases. They’ll
sweep all before them—move the hour of Vic-
tory ahead. Then the homecoming! Can’t you
see it? That’s what you are asked to invest in—
a speedy Victory, a speedy, triumphant return.
★ Make your application at any Bank, Savings Bank ,
Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker. Interest,
2\% for 5-year subscriptions, 3£% for 16-year invest-
ments. Repayment at maturity guaranteed by the
Commonwealth. All bonds saleable in emergency for
full market value.
V. 6.19
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford '" r -
Telephone lIVVI9 icularn
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Back to the Convict System?
The majority of Australians are look-
ing forward to the day when the war
will be over and they will be able to
express their individuality in their work-
ing hours and in their homes, in recrea-
tion and in travel. This is so even
though a proportion of the popu-
lation are on higher wages than they
have ever previously received, and not-
withstanding that many politicians and
bureaucrats have never before had such
opportunities to - spread themselves and
strut their stuff. Regimentation, “ration-
alisation” and rationing, however neces-
sary the prime motive may be in war-
time, become extremely burdensome as
war years roll by and as repeated evi-
dence of administrative failure comes to
light. War taxes, even where paid will-
ingly, are often paid with the feeling that
the best is not being got for the money.
In the Civil Construction Corps, where
labor has been regimented for special
construction purposes, it has been revealed
that, though average wages have not been
low, the removal from each man of his
right of individual enterprise and self-
preservation has not been adequately
compensated by official regard for Ms
welfare. There has been disturbing evi-
dence of lack of proper medical facili-
ties in the Allied Works Council, particu-
larly with respect to operations in North
Australia. And at the inquiry held under
the chairmanship of knight Harry Brown
last year it was claimed that medically
unfit men had been passed for service in
the C.C.C.
Faults, failures and downright injus-
tices are inevitable in regimentation, even
in the armed services, which have first
priority in most things. It is quite
evident that there has been waste
and incompetence on a wide scale in
Australia’s war effort, with a Govern-
ment which appears to be at least sym-
pathetic to post-war regimentation—each
member is pledged to further the “cause”
of socialisation of industry— not scrupu-
lous in its sharing-out of rewards, wel-
fare requirements, costs and responsibili-
ties among the war-time regimented popu-
lation. The liberty of the subject has been
partly taken away under the National
Security Act, and the Government into
the hands of which these rights and liber-
ties have passed has not shown itself to
be a fully responsible custodian.
War-time controls are necessary in
varying degrees, and in this total war the
degree has been exceptional. But where
civil rights are handed from the indivi-
dual to the State, it is a sacrifice on the
part of the civilian that deserves full
appreciation and respect by the Govern-
ment and bureaucracy to which they are
entrusted. Further, there is an obliga-
tion on these custodians to show com-
petence in the exercise of their powers.
In Australia’s case, every now and then
we are treated to some startling spectacle
of the muddled and tortuous methods of
W. 0.1. Minister Dedman and his staff.
The case of “standard cloth” is now be-
fore the public eye, after ventilation in
Parliament and elsewhere. The Bulletin
had previously published comment on
this shoddy and wasteful material.
The aim of W. 0.1. is to save yarn,
but it has been demonstrated that
the life of standard single-weft cloth
is so short that it saves nothing.
The normal Australian worsted is of
high quality, and before the war the
weaving industry enjoyed an increasing
reputation. Production of worsteds is
now being bludgeoned by “rationalisa-
tion.”
There have been hundreds of cases
of similar administrative faults and
mistakes. There have been hundreds of
cases of waste of money and man-power,
some small, some major. There have
been so many, in fact, that there is a real
danger of these things coming to be ac-
cepted as inevitable. So long as waste
and mistakes are accepted as inevitable,
so long will this country drift towards
a position where rehabilitation will be
weary, confusing and strife-creating. The
likelihood of a post-war boom should
not mislead us. After the 1914-18
war there was a boom, then a slump,
then a delay of several years before the
worst depression the world has ever seen
hit us.
Our aim should therefore be to keep
our enterprises efficient, our reputation
high, our costs as low as possible while
giving full regard to living standards, and.
our minds clear to the real problems
which will corffront us after the war. If
we achieve the last, then we are well on
the way to achieving the others.
Apart from the financial inflation, the
confusion and in some cases demoralisation
that have accompanied Australia’s war
effort, we have had a good deal of Com-
munist propaganda, as well as an earful
of radical Labor-party doctrines. The
liquefaction and concentration of war-
time public thinking has been availed
of by political propagandists to make
it flow in a direction to suit the
propagandists. Lack of variety in our
regimented mode of living is inclined to
constrict the breadth of political thinking,
and may leave us further confused when
war-time regulations cease six months
after the conclusion of peace.
The economic problems which will
have to be met when peace descends
upon us will be far more involved than
those confronting us during this war.
Sacrifices which have been suffered with-
out complaint by the backbone of the
country will not be put up with when no
good reason for such sacrifices exists
any longer. With over half the national
income to spend upon war the present
Australian Government has been able
partly to cover up mistakes, waste and
political favoritism by means of the huge
common fund placed at its disposal.
When the war is finished people will
very rightly buck if the Government
shows an intention of continuing taxa-
tion at anything like present rates. The
politician is making a mistake who thinks
that those people who have contributed
without protest—though they have re-
ceived no monetary return —to the colos-
sal cost of this war will contribute with
equal willingness to any post-war project
in which the Government has the spend-
ing of their money, even if some kind of
return is promised.
The Department of Post-war Recon-
struction is promising bureaucrats,
“planning” and higher-than-pre-war taxa-
tion when peace comes. There are sug-
gestions that job-giving and job-taking
will be no longer left to the discretion
of employer and employee. Mr. Chifley
has said that “if regimentation means
a decent standard of living, decent homes
and a continuity of employment in
preference to economic individuality,
then I am in favor of regimentation.”
The Bulletin believes that if the
Department of Post-war Reconstruction
is now preoccupied with a post-war
economic policy that is based upon regi-
mentation, additional socialisation and
inflated post-war Government spending
and taxation, its preoccupation repre-
sents a grievous and dangerous waste of
time, as well as actual obstruction to
a prompt return to a dynamic post-war
economy for the Commonwealth. It has
been remarked by many, unthinkingly,
that the pre-war world would have to be
changed radically for the benefit of the
underdog, and we have the echo of such
sentiments in the remarks of Mr. Chifley.
The years immediately preceding the
war were particularly prosperous for
Australia, their worst feature being the
Government’s handling of finance and
unemployment problems. Under the
Labor Government’s regime during the
present war the handling of finance has
rapidly deteriorated, and, while unem-
ployment is said to be practically
nothing, that is only so if we treat some-
thing like a million men and women in
the fighting forces as being employed in
an industrial sense.
We can, if we try the right way, im-
prove a great deal on the conditions
under which we lived before the war.
But we shall never achieve anything of
the kind if we rely upon schemes of
regimentation and socialisation to do it
for us. The same old gang which have
muddled through the war organisation
will be foundation members of the gang
which want to design the new order
“we” have been fighting for. Let
us tell ourselves, now, emphatically, that,
except for any necessary period of tran-
sition, regimentation is bound to fail in
peace-time Australia. The socialisation
of industry would be the thin end of a
wedge aiming at complete regimentation.
Regimentation! Shades of our bush
poets, pioneers, sundowners and gold-
seekers! Regimentation except in time
of war went out of fashion in Australia
as soon as the chains were struck off the
convicts.
By an agreement dated February 18,
1942, the Commonwealth has agreed to
pay Colonial Sugar 2 p.c. of the actual
cost of erecting four power-alcohol dis-
tilleries, with a maximum of £25,000.
C.S.R. will also receive a farthing a gallon
of alcohol produced, subject to a maxi-
mum of £3125 p.a. and a minimum of
£2OOO per producing distillery. If pro-
duction is stopped by the Government
the co. is to get £lOOO a year in respect
of each non-productive distillery. These
remunerations cover “erection, equip-
ment and operation.” Total expenditure
to June 30, 1943, was £665,035. Accord-
ing to Supply Minister Beasley, the first
distillery is now producing pure alcohol
at the rate of 3,000,000 gallons a year
at Cowra (N.S.W.), and before the end
of 1944 the other three are tipped to
be in production. The power alcohol is
being used to eke out civilian petrol re-
quirements,
* * * *
The Commonwealth Marine War Risks
Insurance Board offers cover against war
risks connected with shipping in Austra-
lian waters. From February 27, 1941,
to June 30, 1943, the board received pre-
miums totalling £2,740,261 and paid out
£1,517,854. Of the outgo, only £49,284
represented administrative expenses, while
£54,795 was refund of premiums. Looses
figured for £1,413,774. The surplus shown
so far (£1,222,407) has been substantial.


WWARS' I
Uf cannot be fought without m
I food!
THE control of food is a powerful weapon in modern war.
Hitler and Tojo are deliberately using under-nourishment
as a means of keeping conquered peoples in subjection. One
of the reasons why Hitler attacked Russia was to gain the rich
food-producing lands of the Ukraine.
Because Australia is one of the great food-producing countries
of the world, she has an all-important part to play in the Allies*
victory programme. What we can produce
on farms and in backyards; what we
can help others to produce; what we can
save in the kitchens—all adds to the fight-
ing strength of the United Nations. The
food front is one front on which all Aus-
tralian citizens must do their bit.
Produce! Save! Conserve!
MAKE THIS YEAR THE VICTORY
YEAR BY HELPING ON THE FOOD h
ďf
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control
■■ .*7
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors : THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury; Sydney Sampson.
K. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone (three lines.); 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
SPEED THE VICTORY Buy First Victory Bonds
u:!h
. ...
/
STS' -5- '
5 . .-C ..
SsT
■ ■ ■
ss
THE FLYING V-8
Of all the jobs the Ford V-8 engine has been
called upon to do, surely none is more remark-
able than this.
The picture shows a Wellington bomber fitted
with a “hoop,” used for exploding the German
magnetic mines. As the aircraft flew ahead of a
convoy, an electric current was passed through
the hoop, the power coming from a Ford V-8
engine mounted in the aircraft. The magnetic
field set up exploded the mines when the aircraft
passed 6ver them.
The basic design of the Ford V-8 engine is so
sound it can be adapted to many other uses. The
war has proved Ford engines to be even better
than millions of owners believed.
Ford 7-8 Cars,
Trucks and
Utilities
Mercury Cars.
Prefect 10 h.p.
Cars and
Utilities
Anglia 8 h.p.
BUY VICTORY BOND?
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong. Vic.
“For £lOO I Expect £1000.”
Contents of a “private and confiden-
tial” letter, dated March last year, sent
to a Brisbane resident by G. D. Wharton,
“Member Sydney Stock Exchange”:
I am able to offer you at the minute a small
share at par in what I consider to be the best
money-making proposition with which 1 have
ever been associated.
A small syndicate of friends of myself are
in the fortunate position of owning the bulk
of Australia’s only secondary industry export
to America. We recently financed the produc-
tion of a motion-picture feature titled “A Yank
in Australia,” and sent the completed film to
the United States for world distribution. It
has now arrived safely and is scheduled for
immediate release, having been estimated to
return to us about £40,000.
Production of a second feature, “Red Sky
at Morning,” has already been commenced.
Syndicate terms are along the same lines as the
first feature and are:—
1. Hartney Arthur to produce the motion
picture “Red Sky at Morning” for a con-
tract price of £6OOO and to be responsible
for any expenditure in excess of this
amount.
2. The film and all receipts from it be-
long to the syndicate until the money put
up by members is paid back in full.
3. Receipts then go 60 p.c. to syndicate
and 40 p.c. to producer.
4. None of the backers is liable for addi-
tional money in any circumstances.
As you see from the above, its guaranteed
completed cost is £6OOO, and it is estimated to
return to us from Australia alone £25,000, and
will be screened in Sydney on Easter Saturday,
April 24, next [1943].
It is impossible for me to make an accurate
forecast regarding receipts from the exhibition
in overseas countries, but on the best available
and most reliable estimates I have been able
to get it should return an additional £75,000,
so that for an investment of £lOO I expect
to receive approximately £lOOO.
You will appreciate that immediately returns
commence being received by the syndicate for
the first feature, the chances of obtaining an
interest in the industry at par will be nil, as
subscribers to these two features must be pro-
tected for all future productions should they so
desire.
It is a wonderful opportunity to make
some substantial profits for a very small outlay,
and if you would like a £25, £5O or maximum
£lOO interest in it, please let me know as soon
as possible.
Thanking you for past favors, etc.,
(Signed) Gordon Wharton.
Now, a year later, subscribers who put
up money to help finance the filming of
both “A Yank in Australia” and “Red
Sky at Morning” are still awaiting the
happy ending, which seems —believe it
or not —to have been delayed.
In a special Commonwealth Court last
week the case of the two building
breaches brought up in the Federal
House by Morgan, Labor M.P. for Reid,
were dealt with. Although the defendant
was represented by his own counsel (Bar-
wick, K.C.) the Crown Prosecutor (Watt,
K.C.), said that, “in view of political ex-
aggeration and publicity in the press,” he
felt bound to make an explanation to the
Court. In regard to one offence, the
Crown claimed that permission had been
given to re-erect a building, but that the
cost was not to exceed £lOO. The build-
ing actually erected was estimated by
the prosecution to have cost £1154, It
had been stated in the press that the cost
exceeded “£2OOO or £3000.” In the
second case the Crown estimated that the
cost of a garage was £123 10s. This ex-
ceeded the £25 above which permission
was necessary. Raymond Fitzpatrick,
contractor, who pleaded guilty, was fined
£5O on the first charge and £25 on the
second. Costs totalled £ll 6s. There
are a number of Australians, harassed as
to housing, who would not mind paying
a £5O fine in order to build themselves a
£ll5O house, especially if some of the
materials used could be obtained, as the
Crown alleged in Fitzpatrick’s case, “on
some lend or lease agreement.”
* * , * *
The fixing of Stock Exchange “ceiling”
prices at the level of quotations ruling in
September, 1941, has been modified by
the Treasury in a few cases. British
Tobacco ords. have had their ceiling
lifted from 475. 6d. to 48s. 9d., “Herald”
and “Weekly Times” from 555. 6d, to 635.,
Gordon and Gotch from 445. to 555. 3d.,
Goldsbrough Mort from 28s. 6d. to
3 Is. 9d., Younghusband from 255. 9d. to
31s. 6d,, North Broken Hill from 465. 6d.
to 565. 6d. and Mt. Lyell from 295, to
33 s. 6d. The chairman of Sydney Stock
Exchange said that when share-price ceil-
ings were introduced in November, 1942,
the Treasurer stated that he realised the
arbitrary fixing of ceiling prices at those
ruling in September, 1941, would create
some injustices. He promised to recon-
sider the ceiling of individual shares if it
could be proved that 1941 ceilings were
unjust. Last week’s revisions were in
accordance with that promise. It has
struck some people as peculiar that all the
stocks concerned are of Melbourne domi-
cile. New Zealand quotations show the
ceiling prices to be most unfair in the
case of Morris Hedstrom, Bums Philp,
Bank of N. S. Wales, N.Z. Insurance,
Queensland Insurance and Huddart
Parker. Another stock much undervalued
in the Commonwealth is Bradford Cotton
at 425. 6d.
* * * *
Dr. H. C. Coombs, Director of Post-
war Reconstruction, has given his views
on the pattern Australia’s, post-war
economy should take. He visualises a
shortage of labor, and as a result says it
will be necessary “to accept in a greater
measure the authority of workmen and
their organisations in the day-to-day
affairs of the businesses for which they
are working.” Taxation, in his opinion,
will have to be higher than pre-war.
Though there are many gaps remaining
to be filled in in the newspaper outlines
of Dr. Coombs’s picture of his post-war
Australia, it is clear that he visualises a
State at least partly regimented ; “there
mqst be some modification of the com-
plete freedom for producers, and accept-
ance of the guidance of Governments,
perhaps, as to the main lines of develop-
ment.” Dr. Coombs’s address follows
that of his offsider Dr. Lloyd Ross, who
said that full employment after the war
could be achieved “only by some form
of Governmental activity, which means
bureaucrats and planning.”
♦ 4* ♦
Cost of the Prices Branch in 1942-43
was £173,682, compared with £84,401 in
the previous year. The later figure is
made up of salaries £150,112, general
expenses £23,570. The prices ceiling
came into force during the latter part' of
the period.


THE SERVICE MAN
Moving On.
“Ek Dum”: The main objectives of
the South-west Pacific air forces last week
were along the north coast of New
Guinea.
Hollandia, the enemy’s main base just
inside the Dutch border, was thrice
heavily attacked. On April 3 there was
a heavy raid ; on April 5 a heavier one
—250 machines dropped 320 tons of
bombs and fired 250,000 rounds in straf-
ing runs. There was no interception from
the air, and many buildings and gun
positions were destroyed; on April 8
another 152 tons fell on the township,
Aitape also was visited, and on the pre-
vious day (April 4) 208 tons of incendiaries
and high explosives had been dropped on
Wewak. Late in the week bombers
struck with 29 tons of bombs at Wakde
in Dutch N.G., 110 miles west of Hol-
landia.
Rabaul and other New Guinea and
Bismarck centres were attacked. And there
was considerable strafing of positions in
the Madang area.
On April 7 Australian troops had
passed Aiyau, only six miles from
Bogadjim. They met only weak
enemy resistance after moving up
past Kwato, while the Ramu force was
out of Buak Plain, equidistant from the
immediate goal. The Ramu men have
now completely crossed the. inland base
of the Huon Peninsula.
The more important operations were
those which pushed the Allied offensives
into new fields. The R.A.A.F., with
Dutch Mitchells, continued the blasting
of objectives from the Kai Islands to
Timor. R.A.A.F. Beaufighters on April
5 destroyed a 2000-ton tanker and five
barges off Timor,
Heavy U.S. machines stabbed persis-
tently at Truk, intensifying the damage
done by the heavy naval raid early in
February,
The Caroline Toll
At the week-end Admiral Nimitz’s
H.Q, at Pearl Harbor announced results
of the raids by the U.S. Navy and naval
air forces on Palau-Woleai and Yap
(March 29-31), It was stated that the
force used against Palau was the most
powerful yet assembled by the Allies in
the Pacific. At its approach many ships
in the Palau anchorage left hurriedly, in-
cluding a battleship which was torpedoed
by a U.S. submarine and badly damaged,
but escaped.
At least 25 ships, including two
destroyers and an unidentified warship,
were reported sunk and 21 ships were
damaged, among them the battleship and
a destroyer. And 214 ’planes were de-
stroyed or damaged, including 93 shot
down, 39 destroyed on the ground or on
the water, and 49 probably shot down or
destroyed at Palau, Much damage was
done to shore installations at all the ports
attacked.
In the Solomons the Japanese who had
been pressing in on the Augusta Bay
perimeter retired, and a number of their
positions were destroyed. Allied air forces
operating from Augusta Bay and other
South Pacific bases were active round the
whole of Bougainville and Buka and
along the east coast of New Ireland.
The New Guinea campaign is on the
eve of its final stages.
Advance Against Kohima.
“Ek Dum”: What a time boo-boo
boys who report the war in Burma would
have had with Wellington as he rolled
back into Portugal in 1809-10, past
Busaco to the Lines of Torres Vedras!
They would have rejoiced in their fashion
at the ill-conceived and expensive rear-
guard actions of Craufurd, so costly in
men but so productive of “good stories” ;
they would have scolded the “laxity”
which allowed the blowing up of the
magazine at Almeida; they would have
accused the C.-in-C. of having a “Delhi
mind,” “compounded of complacency
and woeful underestimation of the
enemy,” and quoted Napoleon, who
called him “a Sepoy general”; they
would have shouted about the repercus-
sions on Europe of Massena’s advance
into Portugal and reproved the com-
mander for his thoughts:
I could lick these fellows any day, but
it would cost me 10,000 men They won’t
draw me from my cautious system. I’ll
fight them only when I’m pretty sure of
success.
Burma is not the crucial theatre of south-
east Asian operations. It is doubtful if
it ever will be. The main drives against
Japan will be naval from both the east
and west, with the south-west Pacific
forces pushing up the bottom of the bag.
And the main attacks will not come till
they can be made at the crucial area of
Malaya from three directions at one and
the same time, and until German strength
against invasion in the west has been
fully tested.
Admiral Nimitz still has his unfinished
bases in the Marshalls, 3000 miles from
Malaya. The Dutch East Indies, a valu-
able steppingstone from the south and
worth a hundred Burmas in war re-
sources, are not even yet on the verge of
attack, and the invasion of western
Europe has not begun.
Until it begins the Allies cannot risk
any resource from the Atlantic. If large-
scale invasion failed with disaster in the
west it would matter little to the Allies
whether Burma was in their hands or not
or whether even Singapore and the
Philippines had been reconquered, for all
over the world they would be desperately
on the defensive once more.
In the Hukawng Valley
The campaign in North Burma is, at
the present stage, no more than a fight
for communications across the country
along which it will be possible to tide the
hard-pressed Chinese through the inter-
regnum before the main onslaught be-
gins.
With this object in view a Chinese-
American force under the American
General Stilwell is opening a route from
Ledo, the , branch railhead on the line
from Calcutta, down the Hukawng
Valley to the central Burmese railway
line.
East of, them, more than halfway
across Burma, is the British force para-
chuted and landed by glider in the Katha
region, within 70 miles of Bhamo and of
the Chinese border. This force has been
there since early March, and has estab-
lished a grip on 30 miles or so of the
central Burma railway. The Japanese
have tried hard to interfere with its opera-
tions, but have not succeeded. Indeed,
on April 7 an air-force spokesman re-
ported a second landing behind the enemy
lines.
The enemy has also done his level best
to block General Stilwell’s drive, but his
troops have continued it for 100 miles,
with the bulldozers steadily laying down
a military road in their rear. The
Japanese Eighteenth Division, the spear-
head division in the attack on Singapore,
was cut to ribbons for its pains in
attempting to stop the advance by U.S.
raider forces which are laying down air-
strips between the Chindwin and Irra-
waddy,
Political reactions have been men-
tioned. None of the critics seems to
notice the chance of any political reac-
tions from the failure of the Japanese to
stop the Allied operations or to destroy
the comparatively small forces which have
bored a hole deep into their northern
vitals or perched on their rear.
They are daring, adventurous opera-
tions of which Tokyo howls rather than
speaks, as if somebody had just trodden
on Tokyo’s pet bunion with a number
11 hobnail. And all Asiatics, particularly
Chinese and Burmese, are watching.
“Invasion” of India
In their attempts to counter these
operations, the Japanese conceived a plan
for the “invasion of India” and the
“establishment of an Indian National
Government at Imphal after the deposi-
tion of the British Government.” Apart
from anything else involved, Imphal is
not in British territory. It is in a native
State.
The enemy’s drives are being made
from three directions along a 200-mile
front in the border ranges east of Mani-
pur, through eight or nine channels, it
being intended to debouch into the Mani-
pur plains from south, east and north,
and to drive to the Calcutta-Ledo rail-
way which serves General Stilwell in the
north, and the Imphal bases if possible.'
On a 200-mile front along rough moun-
tain and jungle country inhabited only
by backward tribes, wild animals, snakes
and insect pests, the defences of both the
frontal and the immediate main rear
bases must be on the box system, self-
contained, on much the same basis as
the Arakan front, only with supplies
ready in advance on the spot.
The divisions deployed along the front
between Manipur Valley and the border
range and the Chindwin were little more
than frontal outposts. Major-Gene, al
Cowan’s Seventeenth Indian Division,
which was in the Tiddim area, 100 to
160 miles down the river from Imphal in
the Tiddim region, for instance, held a
60-mile front 37 miles deep with commu-
nication linps reaching back 60 miles or
so. Disposed in parties and boxes in
ravines, on saddlebacks and on peaks, the
highest of which was 8000 ft., to which
the guns were taken up, the division had
a couple of thousand motor transport
vehicles and 4000 pack mules.
Naturally, in country so sparsely held,
along a line of road 160 miles long, the
enemy coming in from the flank of the
highway which ran parallel to his own
territory was able to establish road
blocks. And naturally the game of the
division was to retire to a point of con-
centration, Imphal. If. there is one thing
which the British have learnt and have
taught the fighting world in this war, it
is the value of maximum concentration of
all available forces before giving battle.
Concentration was the Watchword which
won El Alamein and Tunisia,,
So the division moved in on Imphal,
surrounding Japanese blocks across the
road, destroying infiltration forces, mak-
ing its movements ip plenty of time, wast-
ing as few men as possible and killing
a powerful lot of Japanese, who were
estimated in the end to have lost 2000
dead during the battles of retirement.
Many of the British posts possibly would
have been evacuated in any case with the
coming of the rains next month.
Week-end Delhi communiques showed
no anxiety. They did not confirm the
capture of Kohima—it is, or was a few
years ago, a rough village sliding off a
mountainside which Tokyo claimed,
and which correspondents seemed to con-
fuse with Calcutta. The official reports
admitted a small infiltration, met by effec-
tive counter-measures and continued pres-
sure on the town outskirts.
They mentioned, however, that heavy
casualties continued to be inflicted on
the Japanese.
Some Japanese forces were within a
few miles of Imphal and involved in
fierce clashes.
Imphal and the Railway
The situation cannot be estimated with-
out knowing the force available to the
Allied command and to the enemy and
without knowing the Allied strategy,
which General Auchinleck would prob-
ably as soon tell to the Japs as to some
sections of the press. Kohima or Imphal
could be lost for the moment without
world-shaking effects on the eastern situa-
tion, but the defence of Imphal will prob-
ably prove to be one test of the real
nature pf the situation.
The other and more important one is
whether the enemy can cut the railway to
Ledo and take Dimapur, and more par-
ticularly Lumding, to the south-east of
it, and 80 miles crowfly from Imphal,
where the Dacca railway, via Shillong
from the south, and the Cooch-Behar
railway, from across the Brahmaputra,
junction to feed the “metre gauge” which
goes northward.
Infiltration to the rear need not mean
anything at this stage —the enemy infil-
trated well to the rear of General Christi-
son’s troops in Arakan in February, and
was almost wiped out for his pains.
But papers which hailed the retreat
of the Russians over 1000 miles of their
own scorched earth and devastated cities
as a series of glorious manifestations of
the greatness of Russian generalship are
prepared to damn any British general
who makes a strategic withdrawal of so
much as a mile.
Large-scale operations are not likely
to last long. The rains which begin next
month make the rains of New Guinea
seem like an April shower. The rainfall
of Cherrapungi, about 80 miles south-
west of Lumding and 150 miles s.-w. of
Imphal, averages about 100 inches a
month from now on till the winter. To
the immediate west, however, in the
Brahmaputra Valley the country is much
drier.
In any case, the enemy will need much
more than half a dozen divisions to make
any serious invasion of India, And a
German correspondent’s suggestion that
invasion by sea to supplement attacks by
land is in train in Tokyo must make the
tongues of Admiral Mountbatten and
Nimitz and of the Air Commands hang
out in anticipation.
There is enough naval and air force
within reach to fight a decisive battle
with the Japanese on more than equal
terms.
On the Arakan front fighting is nearly
at an end. On April 7 an English bat-
talion captured an important village line
of defences south of Buthidaung, with
heavy casualties to the enemy. And
Indian troops drove off fierce counter-
attacks south of Maungdaw.
On April 8 the railway marshalling
yards at Mandalay, were beavily^bombed.
Lull In Italy.
“Ek Dum”: All Europe was restive
through the Easter week-end. Flooding
of Holland’s defence areas, it was said,
had begun, and gardens and parks in
Paris had beep fenced in to form
concentration camps into which all the
males of Paris would be pitched the
moment a landing-barge was seen off the
French coast.
April 9—Easter Sunday—was the
fourth anniversary of the invasion of
Denmark and Norway, a day to raise the
guilty fears of Hitler and his satellites;
but the British Official Wireless report,
“Fog in the Channel,” on April 7
seemed to destroy the chance that any in-
vasion forces would land during the holi-
days—incidentally, none were proclaimed
in a Britain which has closed two-thirds
of the English coastal belt.
The fighting in Italy had died down to
the artillery duel. On April 9 the Ger-
mans declared that north-west of Cassino
Allied units were still isolated on hills
and being supplied by air.
At the week-end fierce German thrusts
at the Anzio perimeter were reported ;
and the battle of Italy seemed to be
approaching a new round.
Bombing Nears Fortissimo.
“Ek Dum”; March was the first month
in the war in which the United States
Air Force dropped more bombs on
enemy-held territory than the R.A.F.:
Tons.
U.S.A.F 30,172
R.A.F 28,000
Total 58,172
The R.A.F. has a start in all-out totals —
it had dropped nearly 200,000 tons before
the U.S.A.F. came seriously into the
European war.
In March on 21 nights more than 8000
R.A.F. bombers were at work, and in
four raids over 1000 heavy machines were
used. A fair comparison with land fight-
ing would be a battle in which five heavy
tank divisions —one-sixth of the whole
force with which Germany originally
attacked Russia on all parts of the front
—were used. What were considered
major raids early in the war are now in-
cidental sorties.
The U.S.A.F. claimed 1081 enemy air-
craft destroyed in March, including 317
over Berlin, for a loss of 140 bombers
and 63 fighters. Sorties were made by
12,501 individual bombers and 16,515
fighters, but, in view of their lighter load
capacity and the necessity of protective
armament for daylight raiding, it takes
many more U.S. heavy bombers to drop
the same load as a force of Lancasters;
and U.S. bombers carry heavier crews
than the British machines.
Thus, it is estimated that 141,525
Americans were over German - held
Europe on the various flights, though
many flights would be made by the same
men returning more than once.
The aircrews used by the R.A.F. and
U.S.A.F. together during the month
would have numbered at least 200,000.
With ground and supply organisations
over 1,000,000 personnel must have been
involved, and the damage inflicted must
have been immense.
Bomb Damage
Whether it is as crucial as is often
reported only time can tell. Onlookers
in Italy have been amazed at the manner
in which the walls of ancient buildings,
such as the Castle Ja Rocca and the Cas-
sino Monastery, have stood up to the
heaviest kind of bombing. A Swedish
officer expressed astonishment at finding
that, three months after the heavy series
of R.A.F. raids on the Ruhr, Essen’s
greatest industrial damage had been re-
paired and Krupp’s main works were
going full blast.
Also, the evidence of an Australian
prisoner of war, Sergeant G. A. Johnson,
who, as a member of a medical unit, was
allowed seven hours’ weekly leave from
Neukoln, in the southern Berlin suburbs,
was that “up to last August the city
proper” had “not been touched,” and the
raids which began to take place later —
the R.A.F. has made 22 major ones, in-
volving the use of 500 to 2500 tons since
early in the war —were prepared for by
earlier evacuation from Berlin.
So it seems that reports of irreparable
damage need to be accepted with reserve,
especially after the known inaccuracy of
the daylight aerial attack on Cassino and
after the Schaffhausen incident.
The Tirpitz Hit
The most important raid of the week
was that on the German battleship Tir-
pitz, skulking in Alten Fiord, Norway.
The attack was made by the Fleet Air
Arm on April 3, and photographs showed
that 24 hits were scored, chiefly on the
bridge and fore turrets and their surround-
ing area. It was a very daring adventure
in the closed-in fiord —almost as daring
as the previous attack by midget subs.
Germany was raided many times
last week, and Mustang long-distance
fighters struck at airfields round Ber-
lin ahd Munich. Much of the effort
was directed against invasion areas
of northern and Biscayan France.
Toulouse, one of the largest industrial
centres of the south-west, 70 miles from
the Spanish border and 100 miles from


Public Notices.
I, HILDA LEWIN, Stateless, born at Berlin, Ger-
many, and resident five years in Australia, now re-
siding at 38 Bay Street, Double Bay, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
I ALFRED KURT PESOHKE, of German nation-
ality, born at Arnsdorf Province, Silesia, Ger-
many, and resident 11} years in Australia, now re-
siding at 21 Thurlow Street, Eedfern, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD OOWIE late of Bogan Gate New
South Wales and also of All Pass Parade Sandgate
Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE that ANN SABINA
MAY GOWIE has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
652 of 1944 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Twenty-ninth day of- June One
thousand nine hundred and forty-four and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from MES-
SIEURS HUNT & HUNT Solicitors of 15 Bligh
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
Missing Friends.
TO EDWARD LESLIE OOLLINS formerly of St.
Vincent’s Place Albert Park in the State of Victoria
Carpenter but now of parts unknown. TAKE NOTICE
that your wife ADA OOLLINS has instituted pro-
ceedings for a divorce on the ground of desertion
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the Office of
the Prothonotaiy of the Supreme Court at Mel-
bourne on or before the 19th day of May 1944 the
case may proceed in your absence IF you intend
to defend this suit you must also file an answer
in the said Office on or before the 29th day of
April 1944 AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
the sealed copy Petition and copy Citation m this
suit may I)6°°inspected at the office of the petitioner s
solicitor.—JOAN ROSANOVE. 415 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the petitioner.
FORD, FREDERICK CHARLES, Fanner, formerly
of Benalla, last heard of there approximately 10
years ago.—Would the above person, or any person
knowing his whereabouts, or having any information
reo-ardine him, please communicate with HAMILTON
cfARKE CLARKE & McNIOOL, Solicitors, Benalla,
PERPETUAL EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., 100 Queen
Street, Melbourne?
Sfyyteitd fflbifal ffiujil# Shm
the Mediterranean, suffered the heaviest
attack were made on any city in the region.
With an improvement in the weather
over the week-end, U.S. Fortresses and
Liberators ranged as far afield as Marien-
burg (E. Prussia), Posen and Warne-
miinde, on the Baltic. And 650 U.S.
heavies, escorted by 500 R.A.F. and
U.S.A.F. fighters, attacked two Messer-
schmitt factories at Brunswick and five
aerodromes in north-west Germany.
Thirty-four U.S. bombers and 24 fighters
did not return ; 148 enemy aircraft were
claimed,
On the Russian Front.
“Ek Dura”: The Moscow correspon-
dent’s serial story of German disaster con-
tinues, with all the exciting features which
the Australian public, particularly the
Sydney public, is supposed to expect,
thobgh in Sydney the Pyjama Girl case
has been a powerful counter-attraction.
Last week, though London “Daily
Mail” was provoked into declaring that
anyone who believed that the war would
be decided on the Russian front was a
mental c v ase, Germans “staggered back-
wards,” leaving a trail of wreckage which
clogged the roads but over which the
hurtling columns of pursuing artillery
and tanks must have leapfrogged.
There was one account of Marshal
Koniev’s troops dashing along hard on
the heels of the “panicking Germans,”
into whom “S.S. men, with the aid of
guns and tanks, attempted to introduce
some order, hastily forming them into
scratch companies and driving them
northward to defend the approaches to
a river crossing.” All unavailing,
“Seizing anything that would float, the
Russians threw themselves across the
Pruth”—at points, as it happened, where
at the beginning of their passage the river
was 600 yards wide and a riot of flood-
waters, and where the commanding posi-
tions were held by the enemy. How-
ever, they “seized the shallow bridge-
heads on the Rumanian side and con-
solidated them.” Afterwards, “the banks
of the river were littered with German
and Rumanian dead and abandoned
enemy material, testifying to the dash
and impetus of the advance.”
At the same time, the Russians, with
all their fine spirit and energy, had not
been able to break southwards and
cut off the deep salient out of which the
Germans were retreating from east of
Odessa, or to take Tarnopol, Kowel and
Brody, key points of great importance to
further movement against the strategical
features that really matter, such as
Lwow (Lemberg) and Przemysl.
They had not succeeded either in break-
ing through south of Pskov nor in the
Vitebsk and Narva areas in the centre and
north, where the Germans for the moment
cannot afford to give way a yard without
great danger to their whole system of
defence. So long as they hold Narva and
the neighboring region they can either
help or overawe the Finns.
Official Versions
On April 10 Marshal Stalin in an Order
of the Day announced that the Red Army
routing the enemy in the foothills had
reached the Soviet frontier along 132
miles of the Czechoslovak and Rumanian
borders, and that a second break-through
further south had reached the Sereth
River on a 53-mile front, 50 miles inside
the Rumanian frontier, and taken the
town of Sereth.
A call to arms was issued to the Czechs
by their Defence Minister in London,
who pointed out that the Czech flag had
been hoisted on the Carpathians and that
all means must be used to help the Allied
armies.
The enemy version of what was hap-
pening early in the week was that a very
heavy snowfall along the Pruth had held
up all but sparse fighting, and that
wedges which had been driven into Pruth
defences had been sealed off. It was
claimed by Berlin Radio that “our with-
drawal on the eastern front was a pre-
conceived plan, the full meaning of which
will not become comprehensible to the
public until a much later date.”
On April 6 a German headquarters
spokesman elaborated previous stories:
The Russians during the past fortnight
have made considerable gains on the
southern wing of the eastern front, and
have succeeded in driving two wedges
across the Dniester to the Central Pruth
and to the Carpathian foothills. There were
moments of tension, even of crisis. But
these are over and German counter-opera-
tions are working successfully.
Strengthened and reinforced, the German
defence has brought the Russian advance
to an end. Attacks by German and
Rumanian troops have held the Russian
drive against Jassy, and German and Hun-
garian counter-blows in the Cernauti region
have put bounds to the Red Army advance
on Stanislawow. Thus the Russians have
failed to fuse their two offensive wedges.
An admission followed:
It must be admitted that the March
offensive of the Russians gained for the
enemy important ground. But, as before,
they have failed to secure the strategical
'advantages of their gains. It will be exciting
to follow the progress of German counter-
measures.
On April 7 came a reference to
reserves (“jealously hoarded” in the
words of sober American critics):
The German High Command has hurled
many fresh divisions into the main battle
lines of the eastern front, and it seems that
the line now has been stabilised.—This is
the first time the German command has
thrown important strategic reserves into the
Russian fighting. They have been specially
mobilised and trained for the eastern front.
Hot one German division has been switched
from western to southern Europe.
Later there was mention —for what it
is worth —of a German advance on a
point south-east of Tarnopol— i.e., in the
area of Skala.
The Black Sea Retreat
* The Odessa salient gradually nar-
rowed as the Germans retreated west-
ward. Three weeks before Easter it
consisted of a corridor along the Black
Sea, 120 to 150 miles deep, north and
south, and 200 miles long, east to west.
The north-south depth has been main-
tained approximately throughout the re-
tirement since that time, but the enemy
in one week pulled in his rear 70 miles
and in the next nearly as much.
He has been retreating into the south
of an area in which the German armies
were represented as having been scat-
tered like chaff to the wind, reduced to
a frightened, running mob while the
Russian soldiery (“a shell under each
arm”) chased and mowed his forces down.
Marshal Zhukov’s army group, at the
gate of the retreat gap and poised on the
northern flank of the retreat, was credited
with having, between March 4 and
March 31, inflicted on the enemy one of
the most devastating defeats in all his-
tory. The dead counted on his battle-
fields in that period were reckoned at
183.000 and prisoners at 24,900. This,
with wounded, means casualties of some-
thing like 600,000 in three weeks.
The Russians, it was declared, were able
to split Mannstein’s armies in two by the
capture of Cernauti. They were able to
capture 57 towns, 11 railway junctions,
64 large and 3081 other inhabited places,
and to rout 13 infantry divisions, nine
tank divisions, a Galician S.S. division,
the Bth Rumanian division, a Polish
group and an Alpine division. Seven
infantry divisions, seven tank divisions
and one motorised division round
200.000 men at full strength—were, it
was said,'surrounded in the Skala area
north-west of Cernauti, and within a
week “the pocket” had been “practically
liquidated.... the remnants have been
split up into groups, subjected to merci-
less non-stop artillery pounding and
attacks by dive-bombers and bombers
.... Skala and other towns have been
taken, and in one place south of the
pocket 4650 dead were counted and a
further 1250 prisoners taken.”
Captured or destroyed in the 27 days
were 2287 tanks and self-propelled guns,
with over 8000 machine-guns, 22,519
motor vehicles, 31,468 lorries, 416 loco-
motives, 6315 railway trucks, 7,500,000
shells and 461 dumps of war material.
On top of this came news that another
five or six enemy divisions —41 in recent
weeks —were corralled 35 miles north-
west of Odessa. The news arrived on
April 7 ; on April 9 it was reported that
by the previous night the liquidation of
the force was completed, and that 3200
Germans had been taken prisoner and
7000 enemy dead counted on the battlefield.
Bucharest and Ploesti Bombed.
The week’s eastern-front operations in-
cluded attacks by Allied aircraft on
Budapest, the Hungarian capital, Bucha-
rest and the Ploesti oilfields. These were
made both by American heavies in day-
light and by R.A.F. Wellingtons and
Liberators. The American squadrons
attacked under fighter escort and reported
that, apart from heavy damage, particu-
larly to railway facilities and oil refineries
and oilfield equipment, 178 enemy air-
craft were shot down for a loss of 38
Allied aircraft. A thousand machines
were used in the attack on Budapest.
The Germans claimed that the forces
used were small, bombloads light and
damage slight, and that 49 machines,
mostly four-engined bombers, were shot
down over Ploesti, “a third of the Ameri-
can strength.”
On the evening of April 10 the Ger-
mans announced that Odessa had been
evacuated after “all military and port
installations and stores and facilities of
use to the enemy had destroyed.”
Some hours later the Russians announced
that it had been captured by force of
arms. The Russians announced the open-
ing of a new attack on the Pereicop en-
trance to the Crimea.
Necessity will oblige the enemy to make
a stand on the Rumania-Lwow section
of the front.
War Losses.
“Ek Dum”: At the beginning of June
last year Mr. Curtin presented the sub-
joined statement of Australian casualties
for all services as at March 31, 1943;
Killed 10,253
Missing .. .. .. 21,914
Wounded and injured .. 24,303
Prisoners of vyar .. 10,721
Total .. .. .. 67,191
In January, 1944, the Department of
Information issued a list giving casualties
to November 30 —seven months after Mr.
Curtin’s March 31 list — as Army 54,994, Air
Force 7764 and Navy 2386 made up thus:
Killed 15,709
Wounded .. .. .. 16,792
Prisoners .. .. . • 26,438
Missing .. ■ .. .. 6,205
Total 65,144
Thus the dead were shown as 5456
more than at March 31, but the total
casualties as 2047 fewer.
On February 9, 1944, Mr. Curtin said
in Parliament (“Hansard” No. 1, 1944 ;
page 17): —
The total casualties of the three services
since the outbreak of war in 1939 to the
end of 1943 were 66,390, of whom 16,480
were killed.
On April 4 Mr. Curtin issued another
statement giving British Empire losses to
September 3 last year—four months less
than the period for which he gave the
figures on February 9 in Parliament:
Australia.
Killed 12,298
Missing .. .. .. 11,887
Wounded .. .. .. 29,393
Prisoners .. .. .. 20,760
Total 74,338
Thus these figures to September 3 show
losses 9000 greater than those shown by
the Department of Information to
November 30 and 7948 more than the
figure for the period to December 31
given by Mr. Curtin to Parliament on
February 9. At the same time they
showed 3411 fewer killed than in the De-
partment of Information’s November list
and 4182 fewer killed than in Mr. Cur-
tin’s December 31 list.
There may be a perfectly good explan-
ation, though in February, when Dr.
Earle Page commented on the discrep-
ancies in Parliament, none was offered.
Just when it was being suggested
that some of the" professors, economists,
D.Litts., B.Sc.Ags. and others of the
horde now employed by the Government
might be able to make the position deal,
Mr. Forde came out on Sunday with a
list of casualties in the three services to
March 31, 1944, choosing to state them at
a State Labor conference in Ivjelbourne:
Dead 16,650
Wounded 18,092
Missing .. .. .. 7,140
Prisoners .. .. .. 26,915
Total 68,797
Figures for the respective services are
given:
Deaths (all causes): R.A.N., 335;
A.M.F., 11,502; R.A.A.F., 4813.
Wounded: R.A.N., 2230; A.M.F., 15,685;
RAAF 2177
Missing: R.A.N., 1541; A.M.F., 3654;
R.A.A.F. 1972.
Prisoners: R.A.N., 343; A.M.F., 25,837;
R.A.A.F., 735.
Once more there are discrepancies; but Mr.
Forde’s audience was not hypercritical.
British Empire Losses
On the basis of last week’s statement
and the comparable statement last year
British and Australian casualties in the
four years of war ended September 3,
1943, were as under, the figures in
brackets being losses from 3/9/’42 to
3/9/’43:
United Kingdom: Killed, 120,958
(47,481); missing and prisoners, 173,416
(21,712); wounded, 93,622 (43,459); total,
387,996 (112,652). These did not include
109,000 civilian casualties; 46,000 dead.
Australia: Killed, 12,298 (6106); missing
and prisoners, 32,647 (580); wounded,
29,393 (13,693); total, 74,338 (20,379).
Comparative figures for Maoriland
forces for three and four years were:
To Sept. 3, To Sept. 3, Year,
1942. 1943. 1942-43.
Killed .. 3,219 5,622 2403
Missing .. 2,860 884
Wounded .. 7,178 11,315 4137
Prisoners .. 6,088 7,896
Totals .. 19,345 25,717 6372
In proportion to population, Maoriland
has suffered more than any other part of
the Empire. The Maordanders had 2449
killed and 4629 wounded in their Libyan-
Tunisian campaign to the beginning of
June last, plus 496 naval and 2622 air
casualties —25,372. So that the figures
issued last week are only 345 greater than
those issued promptly by the N.Z.
authorities to the end of May, 1943.
South Africa’s casualties also were
heavy in proportion to white population
—3107 killed, 279 missing, 6473 wounded
and 13,966 prisoners, total 23,825. The
prisoners include the division captured
in Tobruk. And India’s loss of 5912
killed, 17,810 missing, 13,230 wounded
and 72,848 prisoners—prisoners mostly in
the Malayan-Burma campaigns—is indi-
cative of the heavy fighting in which a
very few divisions have been engaged.
Canada’s figure is the least in proportion
to population —9209 killed, 2745 missing,
3383 wounded, 4360 prisoners, total
19,697.
Not Great
Between September 3, 1942, and Sep-
tember 3, 1943, British Empire losses
increased by 152,646 to 667,159—the
colonies have had 25,786 killed,
wounded, missing and taken prisoner.
A serious matter of course, but in the
last war a much greater price was
paid. And the grand fellows who
have suffered helped nobly to strip
Mussolini of the whole of his African
empire and bring him crashing down ;
to restore freedom to French Africa and
Syria and the Lebanon; to gain the
Battle of Britain and establish air
supremacy in Western Europe; to de-
feat the U-boats and re-establish control
of the seas; to turn Malta from a
heavily besieged base into an offensive
fortress, freed from the menace of
Sicily and Sardinia; to force the sur-
render of the Italian Fleet; to achieve
the delivery of millions of tons of
urgently needed war materials to the hard-
pressed Russians, and to redeem Papua
and regain large sections of New Guinea
in the process of freeing Australia from
the deadly threat of Asiatic invasion.
In brief: *
The men of the “famous Australian brigade”
—anonymous, of course —that’ took Shaggy
Ridge on the Ramu were paraded by their
anonymous brigadier at the week-end and
thanked for their amazing feat. Their leader
declared that “the job was as difficult as any
given to an Australian brigade.” It was, actu-
ally, as difficult as any ever given to a military
force of any nation, and it was done superbly.
It is to be hoped that later the brigade will
be paraded nearer home so that Australians can
break through the veil of anonymity and see
just who did the job.
# * * *
Allied air forces in Italy gave strong support
to Yugoslav Partisans last week in an effort
to keep enemy divisions pinned down. The air-
field at Zagreb, the German-controlled Croatian
capital, and many other objectives were bombed
and strafed. •


Accur
acy
to the
vrs* )
IR
mm
V:
.. .
M ;K; ■«:';■ S
degree
The demands of modern warfare have brought an amazing
degree of accuracy to precision engineering . . . accuracy within
microscopic limits. The manufacture of tools, gauges, optical
munitions, aircraft components, etc., demands skill of the highest
order. A.T.L.'s thirty years of experience in this type of work
is now at the service of Australia's war effort, supplying precision
tools and scientific equipment to limits as fine as 1/10,000 of
an inch.
When you think of precision engineering . . . think of A.T.L.
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
PRECISION ENGINEERS . TOOL & GAUGE MAKERS . TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDN EY MELBOURNE PERTH BRISBANE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
1
(ill!
Hi
Hi
uni
ill
ill
111
ill
Modern high-clfss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
Water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates—
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
"METROPOLE.” Sydney .
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT”)
Randwick’s record attendance of 92,300
was not reached on Derby Day, but
82,500 gave a tote turnover of £161,683,
which was a record for the course. As
the winners included one at 15 to 1 and
another at 10 to 1, and the favorite was
beaten in the Doncaster, results were
satisfactory for the books on a heavy bet-
ting day. Some bookmakers’ returns for
1943-44 will set the Taxation Department
an interesting task.
The extra 51b. for her Quality Handi-
cap win at the Australian Comforts Fund
meeting cost Flight the Doncaster Handi-
cap. Never further back than fourth, she
followed Hall Stand, Warlock and Tah-
moor into the straight, led half a furlong
from home and then was beaten on the
post by Goose Boy (Shean). There was
only a half-head in it, and Easter Time,
who finished strongly on the rails, was
a similar distance further off.
Lord Neith and Falcon Knight were
conspicuous as the whippers-in for the
first three furlongs, and then finished
fourth and fifth respectively. Horses
poorly placed in the early part of a short
race generally strike their share of bad
luck, and Lord Neith was no exception.
He was hampered in the straight, and did
well to finish so far forward. The early
pace was too fast for Marcondis, but he
ran well. Kiaree was never a possibility,
while Babillard, though a little out of his
class, ran fairly. No excuse was possible
for Warlock. He had a clear run to
the turn, but tired after entering the
straight. Coutts said that Lord Neith
would not gallop in the early part of the
race.
The St. Leger was not an interesting
race. It rarely is worth the added money
it carries. Moorland and Mustang led
at a slow pace early in the piece, but
though they were first into the straight
Mayfowl (Munro) fairly ran over them,
scoring a three-lengths’ win. Mayfowl
has probably improved since the spring,
but it would now seem certain that Moor-
land has deteriorated. MacArthur’s
run put him in a poor light, and even
in a handicap he will need to drop con-
siderably on his present weight to score
a win.
On recent form Katanga (Munro)
looked a certainty for the Autumn Stakes.
After Bachelor Clare had raced with
him to the turn, and Main Topic chal-
lenged him at the top of the straight, he
scpred in very easy fashion from the
latter. The pace was very slow in the
early part, but Katanga cut out the last
three furlongs in 37J-, which was actually
faster than that recorded for the con-
cluding portion of the Doncaster.
Cragsman made the running in the
Sires’ Produce Stakes, and then, after
leading into the straight, hung out, caus-
ing interference with Gay King, who in
turn went over on Victory Lad. Bartle
was jolted off Gay King, and Shannon
(Shean), who was always prominent and
escaped trouble, went on to win from Tea
Rose. Half a furlong from home
Tea Rose looked like overhauling Shan-
non, but the task was slightly beyond
her. Bravo, who was third, has no
penalty in the Champagne Stakes
next Saturday, Scaur Pel, after get-
ting away badfy, ran fourth, but she
has 71b. penalty in the Champagne Stakes
and Shannon 101 b. Beau Monde again
showed that, though a good handicap
youngster, he is as yet below top form.
Kimbell (Shean), who shines under
welter weights, had an easy win in the
Vaucluse Handicap. Aquatic’s most
recent previous run did not warrant the
strong support accorded him, and, though
he led into the straight from Brueghelier
and Gigli, he weakened into fourth posi-
tion in the run home. Brueghelier came
home well in second place, while, though
Riverton’s third was an indifferent one,
he ran into a lot of trouble in the
straight. Hauteur shaped fairly, and
Guild Hall and St. Elmo, after being
prominent for a few furlongs, dropped
right out at the end.
Chatham’s Choice (Foley) upset City
Handicap calculations. He led through-
out, and squeezed home by a head from
Shining Night, who did not have the best
of luck in the straight. Prince was a
good third, and then Nightbeam, whose
favoritism was more due to Thompson
being his rider than to any recent form.
He had a clear run, but was not good
enough, and Thrax, who made a forward
move rounding the turn, evidently cannot
get a mile and a quarter.
Though beaten in the Wentworth Han-
dicap (two-year-olds) at Randwick on
Monday the Golden Sovereign filly Miss
Sovereign put up a sterling performance.
Winner at her previous three starts, she
carried 9.7, shared the pacemaking with
Strathdarr and King Step, and went down
by only a neck to Vermeil, a chestnut
colt by Winooka. Once more Strathdarr
was found wanting in a hard finish,
weakening into third place after having
had a good advantage at the start.
Leading to the leger in the C. W.
Cropper Handicap, Trimmer was there
collared by D. 5.0., and dropped right out
to finish last. D. 5.0., winner at his previ-
ous three starts, also failed in this better
company. The winner was the lightly-
weighted Silverelda (7.4), who appeared
hopelessly placed for a sprint event when
running last in the early stages. She
finished too strongly for Riverton and
Industry, who dead-heated for the places.
There were only three runners in the
mile w.f.a. All-Aged Stakes Katanga,
Flight and Main Topic—and they finished
in that order, making a hat-trick in
w.f.a. events for the winner this time up.
Flight led to the leger, but never by
more than a length, and over the last bit
Katanga went on to win quite comfort-
ably by a length and a half. No doubt
Flight’s fine attempt to win the Doncaster
under 9st. had its effect.
One of the very few of the 13 starters
in the 1944 Sydney Cup that hadn’t to
be taken wholly on trust over two miles
was the winner of two years ago, Veiled
Threat. Ridden by D, Munro, who had
taken the mount in preference to riding
Mayfowl, on whom he won the St. Leger
on Saturday, Veiled Threat just beat that
younger horse in an excellent finish, with
Grand Fils coming from well back to be
a close third. Shining Night and Roger
made the running till nearing the straight,
with Cumberoona, Wellesley, Spear
Patrol, Veiled Threat, Mayfowl and Fal-
con Knight all well placed. Cumberoona
momentarily had charge in the run home,
but was headed by Mayfowl, the winner
then coming on with a rattling finishing
burst.
* * * *
Vestige, a brown colt by Flight’s sire,
Royal Step, had to prove the quality of
his breeding to win the six-furlongs
Canterbury Handicap for two-year-olds
at the Ascot Easter Cup meeting at Men-
tone on Saturday. Winner on the same
course at his previous start, Vestige
carried 9st. and beat Vanika (7.6) a head.
It was a good performance, for, though
Vanika was a shade unlucky to be
carried wide at the turn, Vestige at that
stage was badly placed, overhauling
Vanika and Miss Dorothy right on the
post.
The Ascot Easter Cup resulted much as
punters anticipated, the favorite, Azores,
winning from the third favorite. Brother
Bill, with Tea Cake, second favorite, in
third place. Azores was a fair way back
early in the running, but followed Brother
Bill through at the turn and went on to
win well. Weight beat Tea Cake. Prince
Ronald, after opening up a long lead with
Calgara, ran a good race until well into
the straight. Australian Cup and Grand
National Hurdle winner Saul ran best of
the beaten lot to finish fourth after losing
ground at the start, where his fractious-
ness led to his being subsequently banned
from Melbourne metropolitan area rac-
ing. It was not Saul’s first offence, A
couple of weeks back he stood at the
post in the Flemington Handicap.
The Winchester Handicap was as much
a victory for H. Badger as for David’s
Last. Badger rode one of his best races
to hold off the former Sydney performer
Reception in a very hard-ridden finish
over practically the last three of the six
furlongs.
Saul’s owner, Mrs. J. Falkiner, had
consolation of sorts when another of her
string, the four-year-old Friasdale mare
Zara, beat Cape Hero and Topmast in
the Bristol Handicap, However, both
the winner and the second horse are from
the same stable, trained by D, Mcßae,
and, while Cape Hero was heavily backed,
there was little money for Zara, with 25
to 1 offering.
* * * *
In the last ten years the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes and Champagne Stakes
have been won twice by the same
horses —Young Idea and Ajax. Sires’
Produce Stakes winners Nuffield, Read-
ing and Lucrative were respectively
beaten by Pandava, High Caste and
John in the Champagne Stakes. Last
year Moorland started favorite for both
races and did not get a place in either.
As history has a habit of repeating itself
in racing as in other things, a surprise in
the Champagne Stakes is quite possible
this year.
* * * *
It is to be hoped that plucky buyers
of high-priced yearlings at the Randwick
sales get the return they deserve. Sixty
guineas Flight has proved the best young-
ster sold in Sydney in 1942, and, while
this season’s crack two-year-old, Shannon,
realised 425gn5., two other topnotchers
in Tea Rose and Bravo were not offered
at auction. Some years ago an inter-
state buyer used to work on the principle
that five yearlings averaging 200gns. each
gave you a better chance of a profitable
return than one at lOOOgns., and his
reasoning generally worked out correctly.
* * * *
The S.A. mare Mating Call, who won
in Melbourne, is being walked back from
that city to Adelaide for the Adelaide
Cup meeting in May. The Cup carrier
£l6OO this year,
* * * *
Canterbury J.C., Christchurch (Maori-
land), is going in for the encouragement
of stayers. For the coming autumn meet-
ing the distance of several races has been
extended as compared with the corre-
sponding fixture last year.
• ♦ * »
Flight’s failure in the Rosehill Raw-
son Stakes recalled that of Valicare in the
A.J.C. All-Aged Stakes a year after she
won the Doncaster Handicap and All-
Aged Stakes. Valicare was favorite, and
Wade, owner of Top Gallant, decided
that the best way of beating her would
be to take her on from barrier-rise.* As
soon as the field settled down Top Gallant
led from Valicare, and that was the order
for over five furlongs. Then Fuji San
moved up, and tackling Top Gallant in
the straight beat him a couple of lengths.
Valicare tired, and Amounis ran third.
The time was 1.38 J.
* * * *
It would have reflected on the fitness
of the stipendiary stewards for their posi-
tions if the A.J.C. committee had upheld
the appeals of the trainer and rider of
Sir Neith, It exonerated part-owner Hill,
but Morrisby, Parsons and the horse will
have to do their twelve months.
* * * *
Last year the most successful sire
of two-year-olds on American tracks
was Bull Dog (Teddy-Plucky Liege),
whose progeny earned $138,365 (nearly
£A43,000) first money. Bull Dog’s son
Bull Lea was second with $75,781.
* * * *
On February 5, when the Maharaja
of Kashmir’s rank outsider Desert Sun-
rise (by Solario) won India’s richest
stake, the Eclipse Stakes, at Bombay,
there was a remarkable return on the
treble tote. Only six backers selected the
right three, and each received a dividend
of £3487.
Miscellaneous
With experience and weight in his favor
Bobby Clark gave Stan Wilkes a great
argument at Leichhardt, until the younger
man’s superiority in punching power told.
The deciding wallop came in the ninth.
Wilkes waited until the other pug, still
aggressive, had his chin in the requisite
position ; then with a swift and sure right
Stanley dropped Robert for more than
10 seconds.
Against the negro Hoffman, who has a
good record in the U.S.A., Jackie Wilson,
from Westralia, shaped like the next
featherweight champion. He ran into
trouble when Hoffman’s right floored him
for “eight” in the fourth round, but
quickly recovered, and afterwards was
always Hoffman’s master. The affair was
one of two Sydney Stadium 12-rounders.
In the other Jack" Day outpointed Steve
Norrish.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Easter dawned fair and chilly, as Mel-
bourne Easters have a habit of doing.
But there were no holiday crowds about,
and no Easter wedding groups outside
photographers’ studios in the city streets.
It would seem that so much marrying
has gone on all through the year that
there is no accumulation of brides wait-
ing. The photographers, too, ply their
art with less regard to seasons. But the
holiday rush to the hills and sea and the
picture houses has been as lively as ever.
Total of £lOO for an afternoon’s garden
party at the J. F. Barneses’ Doncaster
garden was quite a surprise to the Barnes
family and the local patriotic association
which was running the affair. Every
year they make a substantial amount and
always are surprised about it, for, as they
say, there’s nothing but the garden to
see and a few vegetables to buy. Last
year’s do was dubbed “Blossom Time,”
as by all the calculations known the fruit-
trees that cover the surrounding country-
side should have been full of blossoms.
Nature forgot the time, however, and
nary a blossom came out. This didn’t
lessen public enthusiasm for the annual
garden outing, however, and the same
busfuls arrived.
St. Peter’s Hall, harborage of the
National Theatre movement, seethes with
plots and plans. Immediate interest is
the Australian play “Red Sky in the
Morning,” which will be showing in
about two weeks’ time. Verna Treloar,
who has made a radio name for herself,
wall be the star. Lately she’s been taking
the lead in bridal ceremonies, becoming
Mrs. Ray Chapman. Ray is also con-
nected with radio. Another scheme afoot
is one to raise funds for a bigger and
better theatre building. The present house
is reckoned to be too small and the stage
too cramped.
Eurydice, the movement’s cat, so
named because she arrived during
“Orpheus and Eurydice” rehearsals, is
celebrating a successful season of “Pyg-
malion” with a family of her own and
causing almost as much excitement
among members as the show’s full houses.
She’s the constant companion during
theatre hours of Jean Alexander, decor
specialist of the N.T.M., so there’s not
much she doesn’t know about theatricals,
and she’s all hospitable tail-wavings when
visitors look over the theatre.
A Chapel Musick was a popular even-
ing entertainment in the reign of Charles
11, and it bids fair to be a fixture for
Holy Week in Melbourne. The small
but architecturally satisfying Chapel of
St. Peter, otherwise known as Melbourne
Grammar School chapel, was last week
a rendezvous for lovers of sacred music
when the school choir and sundry
soloists gave excerpts from Handel’s
“Messiah” garnished with a Bach viola
solo. The ushering off and on of the viola
soloist, Nelson Oliver, was done beauti-
fully by a grave lad in a surplice. The
repose of a chapel, the absence of
applause and the unity of the programme
were very gratifying after the musical
melanges so often the fare at Melbourne
concerts.
Raising funds for war work and phil-
anthropic causes seems to be a pastime
for the wife of Brigadier Eugene Gor-
man. Her latest effort was to run a stall
at A.I.F. Women’s Association Market
Fair in the Town Hall, and she easily
popped the list of money-makers there.
In previous years she has raked in the
shekels for Fighting French and other
worthy activities. The Eugene Gormans
were married just after the Great War,
theirs being one of the Australian-French
romances. Husband, in civil life a K.C.,
besides being a gallant soldier, wrote the
’ history of his 22nd Battalion’s doings.
He won the M.C. and is interested in
racing.
The question whether the Duke and
( Duchess of Gloucester are to have a Mel-
bourne residence is being widely debated.
Behind drawing-room doors the discus-
sion goes on merrily. Quite a few, claim-
ing inside knowledge, say the Royal pair
would like a quiet country life after the
blitz on Britain, and that a home here
as well as in Sydney would mean constant
entertaining for them. On the other hand,
the new-poor, who nowadays haven’t the
means to travel up and down to Can-
berra or to maintain a residence there, are
bewailing the possible relegation of this
city to the outer social pale. Meanwhile,
the huge Government House in Mel-
bourne, with its many small rooms
( and inadequate plumbing, is obviously
* due for an overhaul. Given such a reno-
vating it might do for a Federal Govern-
merit House while the State vice-regals
move into more modern, if smaller,
premises.
“Join the A.A.M.W.S. and get married”
might very justly be that service’s recruit-
ing cry. All members of a party of
A.A.M.W.S. just returned from a spell
in New Guinea —every service girl’s am-
bition-have become engaged to service
men. Two members of the group have
Africa Star ribbons.
The Unnamed Players’ performance of
“Children in Uniform” kept the audi- v
ence’s interest in a firm grasp, and earned
good marks from newspaper critics. There
are those, of course, who feel that this
sort of drama, typified also by “Young
Woodley” and “The Children’s Hour,”
presenting a view of school life strange
to most teachers and pupils and likely to
terrify credulous parents, should be
allowed to fade out, having had its little
vogue.
The next “Tin Alley” players’ show
will be “They Came to a City,” J. B.
Priestley’s idea of the form the “New
Order” will take (if it ever arrives).
Pictured here is Marjorie Dyson, quite
an old trouper with the Tin Alley group,
who will have a good part in the Priestley
opus. Joy Youlden will be another
member of the cast, undertaking her nrst
“straight” acting role —to date she’s
always been soubrette or panto, dame.
Desmond O’Connor will do stage settings
and backdrops.
The play is running at the moment in
London, a rather unusual coincidence,
since as a rule plays never get here until
the rest of the world has been sick of
them for a decade. Ruby May will take
the part Ada Reeve has in London, both
on the stage and in a film version of the
drama.
The death of Mrs. Emily Gertrude
Johnson removes a well-known figure
from this city’s life. Mrs. Johnson was
the mother of Gertrude Johnson, of the
National Theatre movement, and an en-
thusiastic supporter of all N.T. doings
always the centre of fun and laughter at
backstage parties and the like. She was
a link with much of Melbourne’s past,
being widow of George Johnson, a well-
known barrister of bygone days, and
daughter of a London barrister, Charles
Pridham, who did war-corresponding for
the “Times” in the Franco-Prussian
struggle. He was also for a while a gold-
fields correspondent of the “Argus.”
Dr. Doris Officer has been giving a
few words of warning as to complications
that may arise from a policy of prefer-
ence to returned army nurses. In respect
to infant-welfare nursing the question is
whether the army service training is to be
considered equal to training in special
institutions devoted to the care of the
young or whether committees are to be
free to chose the nurses they think best
qualified, taking army service into con-
sideration only when other qualifications
are equal.
Edith Harrhy is hatching plans for a
recital in aid of Red Cross funds on May
17. Spot will be the Assembly Hall, and
Dorcas Maclean, Etta Bernard and Des-
mond Worthington will be among the
performers. Edith’s opera “Allaya” has
recently been put over the A.8.C., and
she has just finished three new songs, so
she has been having a busy time of late.
Her two daughters, Patricia and Honor,
inherit her musical flair, but have not
sought musical careers. Patricia, the
elder, is at Geelong Grammar in charge
of the kindergarten for children of tbe
school staff. Honor, though still in her
teens, is at A.8.C., and puts her hand to
quite a variety of its activities.
From Sydney
Those who weren’t minded to be up
with the lark could turn on the radio
and listen to the early Easter morning
service which was held at the gates ot
Government House. Hundreds and hun-
dreds of Allied service men arrived by
special bus and tram for the prayers and
the hymns. Hundreds and hundreds ot
Sydneyites turned out to this first out-
of-doors Easter thanksgiving- Unusual
feature of the morning was the double
quartet of negro service men. With their
great talent for harmonised singing, their
hymns had the sweetness and the smooth-
ness of some dewy, sun-flecked lawn. The
churches, as ever, flinging aside the
sombre purples and blacks of Lent, burst
into their glad glorias at an early hour
while still the electric lights competed
with bright tapers and the rich coloring
of fragrant flowers.
Eighty-two thousand persistent, push-
ing and sometimes polite punters went
to Randwick last Saturday to keep
autumn rendezvous with Goose Boy,
Katanga, Gay King, Easter Time and all
the other horses mentioned in the
A.J.C.’s book of notabilities. The
crowds swarmed, jostled, pushed. Just
as a few thousand thought they would
like to get to the ring a few thousand de-
cided to push along to the paying-out
windows or to the tote in the grounds or
to their place in the stands. It was per-
petual motion, and when the humans were
still the horses got busy. From roof to
ground floor the stands were packed, but
the day was no' dress parade.
Summer had slipped a day into the
Easter calendar, and silk frocks and white
shoes were more prevalent than suits and
furs. On the whole, millinery was a mess.
Snoods and tufts and flowery bits
many were nonsense and no line. Pleasant
exceptions were Mrs. Tom Bateman s
Suggestion of Mexico, its tasselled brim
worn off-face. Her tailored frock was
black and her necklet was amber. With
her was doctor husband, down from
New Guinea. Mrs. Lionel Dare flashed
cornelian in the sun. Her neat head-
wear was a toque of red. Mrs. Dick
Osborne’s white silk was patterned like a
poster for Hawaii; the girls, the swim
suits and the palms were all in black.
Grey with yellow touches was worn by
Mrs. Tony Hordern. Velvet, which reared
its head in many hats, was worn in a
toque of softest blue by Eve Playfair.
Irish hopsack in hyacinth-pink made Mrs.
S. E. Parsons’s suit, “Come along, Pos-
sum,” said a tall service man to his com-
panion. Possum was small, lithe and wore
a grey velvet hat and a grey frock. And
the soldier sportsman in New Guinea
who sent a wreath to Phar Lap s memory
would have been cheered to see the gaze
of thousands of racegoers rest upon it
in appreciation.
Audrey Barrow was seated at her con-
cert grand when this photograph was
taken. She is remembered still for her
sympathetic and fluent playing for Dutch
dancers Edmee Monod and Darya Col-
lins at their Conservatorium perform-
ances. On the 12th of this month Audrey
will give her own recital at the Conser-
vatorium. Works by an impressive list
of composers are on the programme, and
Dutch patriotic funds will benefit.
A show of photographs dealing with
the war work of women, in McDowell’s
concert hall, was arranged by the Coun-
cil for Women in War Work. It was
opened by Mayoress Bartley, and the
Consuls or their representatives of the
various countries came to applaud. Lady
Cross, wife of Britain’s High Commis-
sioner Ronald Cross, slim and tawny-
haired, was an attractive figure. Nenda
Cohen, president of the council, did the
honors.
The pictures have been arranged with
good effect. The cameras have clicked at
the picturesque as well as at the forceful
moment. There’s a vivid snap of three
Waves walking under the cherry blossom
in Washington. Maoriland land girls are
seen driving tractors, hair wind-blown,
and imagination can paint the rosy
cheeks; or, again, riding silhouetted
against a sky that looks like one of the
best Queenstown can produce. Here are
Australia’s own girls in small-arms and
munition factories, at work on the land,
one looking like the spirit of spring but
actually feeding the pigs when the
photographer caught her in the act. Uni-
formed girls in New Guinea are helping
the sick and the wounded or being
coached in the throwing of native spears
by an expert.
There is certainly a slight variation in
the style of the cap and the beret; maybe
a trifle here and there in tunic as be-
tween one country and another. Only a
man in the forces would discern it, a
woman’s eye picks it at once. But the
big point is that all the women in the
photographs are in uniform, and the
photographs come from Britain, America,
Russia, India, Canada, Maoriland, China
and Palestine, as well as from all over
Australia. The concert hall seems to
vibrate to the martial tread of thousands
of women, armies of them, busily tramp-
ing along to factory, to shipbuilding
yard, to airfield, to man anti-aircraft
guns. If this display tells nothing new
about women in war work it at least con-
veys the massed effect.
It’s really quite easy to sell a bale
of wool for a few thousand at
auction. First of all you hire or
borrow a ballroom with shining floor
and indirect lighting. To tables spread
with a sufficiency of bottles and thin
sandwiches you bid men and women
belonging to every branch of the wool
trade. Then mention is made that the
bale of wool is being auctioned for the
War Veterans’ Home, and that the few
hundreds over the sum wanted for W.V.H.
will go to the Legacy Club, and the thou-
sands are as good as in your pocket. This
year’s party surrounding the sale was
timed for four o’clock, but things didn’t
start to move till five-thirty. By that
time everybody had hobnobbed with
friends, had a drink or two and the auc-
tioneers had gargled their throats, as
careful to be in good voice as opera
tenors.
The cameras had departed. Importants
of the War Veterans’ Home and
Legacy, with organiser Madeleine Withall,
had posed for the press; speeches had
been made. Then the bidding started,
the one-hundred-pounders having first
say. Then fifties, twenty-fives, tens, fives
and lastly modest guineas and half-
guineas. The smaller bids were from the
women. By six o’clock auctioneer Lumby
closed the first round at one thousand
and thirty-nine pounds. The State ball-
room was crowded. Its tables bloomed
with zinnias, arid there was a spray of
frangipanni for each woman guest.
Chairman G. Dewez and his wife were
the afternoon’s host and hostess.
Five hundred delegates have already
declared their intention of being at the
C.W.A. conference this year. For the
last two years, owing to war conditions,
the annual meeting of this good Australian
organisation has had a rather whittled-
away look, but this month much of the
old-time glory will be restored,. The
Assembly Hall in Margaret-street will
resound to the direct discussions on the
problems of the far and not-so-far out-
back. The conference will last three
days, and will be opened on the 19th by
Lady Wakehurst. On the 21st the inter-
esting subject under consideration will be
post-war reconstruction. The Red Cross
is looked to for some valuable sugges-
tions. George Patterson, chairman of the
Social Service Committee, Mollie Carr
and Susan Spencer will represent the
society.
Forty thousand of the boys and girls
who stayed in the city went out to the
Rodeo at the Showground on Saturday.
Many citizens who went abroad on
Thursday and Friday without first book-
ing bed and board returned by early
trains the morning after. Walking
about all night in the shrewd air isnt
fun and games. The by-now-usual scenes
took place on Central when crowds far
beyond the capacity of the outgoing
trains surged along trying to board them.
Even in pre-war days there was always a
feverish impulse to escape from the city
for Easter. Since the war the fever seems
to have become delirium. Even having
a ticket this time didn’t mean that there
was accommodation for the holder in th
trains A few hundred, disillusioned and
disheartened, handed in the tickets they
hadn’t been able to use and collected
their money back. Perhaps the poet
wasn’t so far wrong when he wrote
“Home-keeping hearts are happiest.


For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
POLISH PV
4U
'oe s Jj. i
INVITATION
TO COMFORT. «
J 3
g &■
iiililii
HI
Jil
-ii
if
i
r
//
✓
/. . s
INSULA 11 ON
Cl
J-RT E
The restful beauty of modern wall and ceil-
ing treatments is important ... and the
attractive finish of Cane-ite, whether in its
natural state or coloured to your taste, assures
this. But Cane-ite does more than this. Cane-
ite insulates against heat and against external
noise giving you comfort all the year round.
When you plan your post-war home .. . use
Cane-ite Insulating Board.
PUT YOUR SAVINGS INTO WAR BONDS
FOR YOUR POST-WAR CAN INSULATED HOME
Manufactured and Distributed by ,
COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Motorlols Division)
MARKETING: CANE-ITE • G.S.R. SLAGWOOL • PLASTER
PRODUCTS * MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTER
SMOKE-OH!
“She did not realise that, in lighting love in
Olimpio, she struck sparks within herself.”
— Story, woman’s paper.
Perhaps that set him thundering and
storming.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Every morning, stand before an open win-
dow, in the raw.” — Woman’s mag.
You’ll get so much more attention
from tradesmen.
4* 4* 4* 4>
“Can you please tell me whether a lady
should rise to shake hands with a gentleman?”
—lnquirer in weekly paper.
Yes, and he can then stay seated.
Vicious Circle.
“From Aspirin to Alcohol.” — “S. M. Herald.”
When I’ve a dull pain in my head I
seldom suffer long. Instead I take an
aspirin quick as a wink the
throbbings Bcrforce it is that I, elate,
go to the pub tv c.'.cbrate ; and as its
virtues I extol I fin myself with alcohol.
Aiks! in time I feel that pain pulsating
in my head again. So I take that on
which I pin my faith —another aspirin.
Percival.
“Don’t Re-boil James and Jellies.”
—“New Idea.”
Lucky Jim.
❖ 4* 4*
Finale.
“Young man, musical, wishes to meet yng.
Lady, pianist, vw. mat.” —
After the wedding the duo settled
down in A flat, and at first things went
harmoniously. But they became short of
brass, and were forced to soft-ptdal so as
to augment their notes. Lively passages
occurred because, having a strong element
of caprice in her composition, she would
stave off the butcher one day and waltz
home with a new hat the next.
Further discord crept in when she real-
ised, from his growing habit of coming
in late, that his forte was pausing too
long in certain bars. But it wasn’t until
he found himself playing second fiddle that
things really reached a crescendo. They
got on each other’s G string so much
that for both of them the coda couldn’t
come quickly enough. The pronunciation
of his final decree was music in his ears.
Cal.
•J*
“What is the difference between libel and
slander?”— Radio quiz question.
Note for Nibblers.
“A new lipstick is stated to be proof even
against biting the lips.”
The ancient Britons had a brew,
A tincture blue of striking hue.
Which kept its color brightly.
The Islander in his canoe
Finds the traditional tattoo
Enduring, though unsightly.
Now, armed with stouter lip-shampoo,
A nostrum new that clings like glue,
A girl no longer flinches
Nor coyly turns her face askew
Before the type of fellow who
Is known to bite in clinches.
P. M. LUSK.
Strategy.
Whenever I desire to sleep,
I don’t resort to counting sheep.
The best results accrue to me
By tricking Fate’s perversity.
For well I know, with faith serene,
That sleep will swiftly supervene
If I with wily cunning make
A firm resolve to stay awake.
T. W. NATHAN.
Though I rarely pay heed to these tribal
Amusements, it seems to this gander
If you publish a slander it’s libel ;
If you utter a libel it’s slander.
F. M.
Day in the Life of a Lolly-pig
Inspector.
(After reading of the dither in Mr. Dedman’s
W. 0.1. Department over the banning of pink
sugar pigs and the stripes in bull’s-eyes.)
9 a.m. —General conference of inspec-
tors at head office. Direction given that
the name “liquorice allsorts” be altered
to “liquorice somesorts,” the “all” giving
manufacturers too wide a license. Oblong
sorts only allowed. Inspector Muzzle, the
all-day-sucker inspector, taken otf field
work for the day to try out experimental
sucker in baby-pink instead of red, which
is expected to save soz. of cochineal a
month in N.S.W. alone.
10 a.m.—Left in limousine to tour
SSE. area (map D).
10.30 a.m. —Arrived at McGoogan’s
factory, which, under W. 0.1. orders, has
been manufacturing only lolly pigs, bull’s-
eyes, humbugs and lolly walking-sticks
(standard design only permitted, with
crook of stick eliminated to conserve
man-power).
11 a.m. —Found in looking around that
the pigs’ tails were |in. long. Pointed
out that dept, allowed only 5/16in. tails.
Ordered they be cut by l/16in. Mc-
Googan protested that tails would then
have blunt ends. It not being W. 0.1.
policy to harass manufacturers, told him
I’d think it over.
12.30. p.m.—Have thought it over con-
stantly since 11 a.m. Suggested trouble
could be overcome by installing carbor-
undum-wheel and whittling l/16in. off.
McGoogan said he had no wheel. Rang
W. 0.1., Dept, of Supply, Man-power, Im-
port Procurement and Labor and In-
dustry. Think carborundum-wheels not
allowed in lolly manufacture. Then sug-
gested he eliminate curl in pig’s tail. He
said straight tails wouldn’t look like pigs,
and his customers wouldn’t buy them,
Told him W. 0.1. had power to make his
customers buy them. Still seemed disin-
clined to make straight-tailed pigs, so ad-
vised him, after further deep thought, he
could stick to |in. tails if he took l-16in.
off snout. Argued till lunch.
2 p.m—McGoogan said he had been
ordered to make humbugs with vertical
stripes instead of horizontal. Complained
that it would be costly. Told him Sternly
that cost had nothing to do with W. 0.1.,
which was concerned only with conserv-
ing man-poWer and materials. Also ad-
vised him humbugs were a matter purely
for the humbug inspector, on whose
province it would be unethical for me to
encroach. Don’t think McGoogan wishes
to co-operate with W. 0.1.
4 p.m. Ordered McGoogan, on
’phoned instructions from bull’s-eye in-
spector, to make bull’s-eyes flatter on top
to prevent their rolling and perhaps be-
coming lost, and to untwist barley sugar
to conform with straight style gazetted
under new regulations,
4.10 p.m.—Ring from A.D.D.W.0.1.
that manufacturers of lolly pigs must
switch to jube manufacture and that my
new j°b wiU be Inspector of Tubes
(Soft). Another inspector is to be
appointed to cover Tubes (Hard),
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Farmhouse Architecture
While there’s talk of housing, why
doesn’t some Australian architect design
an Australian farmhouse? There may
be an Australian type emerging, but it
isn’t very noticeable. From the time of
the old brick or stone double-storey-and-
attic built in the style of my lord’s
mansion in England to the present
wobbly, nondescript structure of wood,
cement sheet or iron, we’ve had nothing
that suited the Australian landscape or
looked as if it belonged there.
Too many houses have been built on
the afterthought basis —one shack stuck
in front of another, and a lean-to or so
besides. The stable, barn and other
buildings generally look as if they’ve been
thrown up wherever the timber happened
to be unloaded. A lot of iron, inci-
dentally, is wasted on high-pitched roofs
both in houses and outbuildings; an
almost flat roof suits a country where
there’s no snow for rafters to support,
and looks better on a level landscape.
Gables are as out of place without moun-
tains or poplars or firs as a suburban villa
is away from its pavement and lawn. —•
Enveen (Tas.).
Westralia’s Leg. Council
This allegedly obstructionist body has
been the valued friend of W.A.’s long
succession of Labor Governments. Acting
as a scapegoat it has enabled talk-valiant
Labor Ministers to put most drastic
“reforms” through the Lower House,
measures that they would never have the
courage to implement should such be-
come law.
Thus succeeding generations of Labor
careerists have been able to build up
reputations as “friends of the worker,”
while the Leg. Council earned only blasts,
of contumely.
Proof of this is shown in that not once
has the Labor majority in the Leg. As-
sembly put up a fight and forced the
Upper House to pass any of its really
drastic “reforms.” It merely swallows
rejections, hinting darkly that some day
the Council will be abolished and then
the downtrodden worker will enter into
his kingdom.
If the W.A. Parliamentary Labor party
were really in earnest about abolishing
the Upper House it could force the
issue and eliminate the alleged obstruc-
tion as easily as was done in Queensland.
But who would be so unkind to one’s
best friend? — Hobnails (W.A.).
Tommies in Australia
The Victoria League, one of whose
activities, in war as in peace, is Empire
hospitality, was asked officially to arrange
personal hospitality for British soldiers.
Working in conjunction with the British
Ex-Service Legion, it has been able to
send a number of a.-a. gunners to stay
in country homes, and to be received by
Sydney families for lunch, dinner or
supper, hospitality which seems to have
given great pleasure to hosts and guests
alike, and which it is hoped to extend as
the numbers increase.
As for hostels, buffets, etc., surely all
those available for the A.I.F. are open to
the B.E.F.! — Beulah A. Bolton, Secre-
tary Victoria League in N.S.W.
Who’s a Profiteer?
National Security regulations have
been rigorously enforced (and justly so)
in cases where prices in excess of regu-
lation have been charged. But more
could be done. Melbourne “Herald”
recently reported;
At Ainslie (A.C.T.) Government Hostel
for Public Service girls the tariff varies
according to salary. Those getting more
than £350 a year pay 50s. a week, those
with less pay 365. But the 50s. boarder
gets no more privacy or consideration than
the other.
1 f it is not profiteering or black-market-
ing to charge 50s. for a 365. commodity,
then what is the definition of those
offences? — Fair Play (Vic.).
Better Bush Libraries
Among criticisms of and schemes for
enlarging the field of education published
recently, there is no mention of the
need for the establishment of a wide-
spread library system to contain some-
thing more than light fiction. There is
no greater necessity in Queensland at the
moment than a library scheme for out-
back centres based, if need be, on the
exchange system in vogue in the N.T.
There Carnegie Bequest libraries are
established at even the most Godforsaken-
looking centres, and the books, issued at
Canberra, are moved to the next town-
ship periodically. We in the Queensland
bush are dependent on the kindness of
missioners who distribute literature of a
very mixed character—very welcome
some of it, but not the sort of stuff I
have in mind. —J. G. (Q.).
That Centralian Canal
Opponents of the proposal to flood
Lake Eyre invariably put forward what
they regard as the clinching argument —
that evaporation on the inland sea would
after a period reduce it to a bed of solid
salt. Whether the canal could be cut or
the lake flooded is a matter for engineers
to decide. But whether the resultant in-
land sea would fill with salt must depend
on the height of the tidal rise and fall in
St. Vincent’s Gulf.
The flooded Lake Eyre, being con-
nected with the sea, would become tidal.
". ...And please do something about the Egg Board, the Milk Board,
the Meat Board, the Apple and Pear Board and Mr. Chifley."
And if the tidal rise and fall were suffi-
cient the canal would rapidly scour
wider, perhaps deeper, while the inflow
and outflow of sea water would effectu-
ally prevent the concentration of brine
necessary to bring about a deposit of
salt crystals.—W. C. C. (W.A.).
These Freedoms
I am interested in the new clause to
be inserted in the Constitution guaran-
teeing freedom of speech and expression.
It reminds me of Sec. 92 of the Con-
stitution, which guarantees freedom of
trade, commerce and intercourse among
the States.
That section has been tested in 44 High
Court cases in the last 40 years, in the
course of which the High Court has con-
tradicted itself more than once, and has
decided, among other things, that any
State can corner all the eggs or apples or
anything else produced in that State, and
prevent their export to any other State;
and that it may prevent commercial
vehicles from another State from coming
within its borders.
Even funnier things are likely to
happen under the new section. Suppose,
for instance, that I am a leader-writer
on the “S. M. Herald” and express the
view that Curtin is not the most extra-
ordinarily gifted leader of the nation that
ever graced Canberra. And supposing
Mr. Fairfax sends for me and says “Fitz-
william, freedom of speech and expres-
sion are guaranteed by our Constitution,
but you can draw your time when you
pass the accountant’s office, and don’t let
me see you here again.” And suppose
further that I bring an action for wrong-
ful dismissal, and my mouthpiece speaks
to the Court for a week. When he sends
me his bill I say “Not so, old man ; all
speech is free in this country.”— Fitz-
WILLIAM (N.S.W.).
Publishing in Australia
Everything in the Australian literary
garden may not be as lovely as “Pat
Ater” (B, 8/3/’44) would have us believe.
The point which should be stressed is that
the sales of Australian-published books
by local writers could be doubled and
trebled
Two'cases will illustrate this conten-
tion ; one, a book by a well-known jour-
nalist on he New Guinea campaign, and
another on the Malayan debacle could
have sold editions more than double those
published. In each case the limitation
was attributed to paper rationing. But
while books by Australians on topical
questions cannot be published in editions
S’ safety the public demand, fiction by
overseas writers is being published in
substantial editions. It if desirable that
overseas books should be published here
in ever-increasing quantities, but not at
, u „„„ i„„„i nnthor
Tbe pimtlng of textbooks is another
matter Sailing for attention. I know of
one school which placed an order early
in 1942 for four works to be used in its
1944 curriculum The books are still
awaited and the work ot about 200 pupils
is being held up because ot paper ration-
ing and delays in printing and binding,
Lnd because in the interval the Austra-
lian firm which has the matter in hand
has published other books which could
have well waited. One remedy is a high
priority for educational texts, and an-
other the curtailment of less necessary
nrintinc
Pubhshers are handicapped by having
to place their orders with whatever printer
happens to have paper. Some attempt
should be made to see that publishers
snouia oe nictuc f
and printers who know their job should
be assured of priority in supplies.
Obelist (Tas.).
Government—Master or Servant?
“SJ.” (B. 22/ 3 / ’44) deplores the fact
that “the people are becoming servants
of the Government instead of the
Government being the servant of the
people.” Also he wants “service to the
nation before service to self.”
Restated, “SJ.” wants us to place ser-
vice to the Government before service to
self, since the Government is supposed
to represent the nation. But since he is
a member of “the people” he claims the
Government should be his servant.
From this the only logical conclusion
that can be drawn is that if “SJ.” is to
play the game at all he must be the
Government. In plain words, he sees
himself as dictator of Australia. This is
rather borne out by his reference to the
Parliament-constituted Government as “a
sickening democracy.”— Arjayem (Q.).
Gold Passes
Why not wipe out the ridiculous system
of presenting free transport to Parlia-
mentarians? Members of the armed
services travelling in the course of duty
are issued with free passes or dockets to
procure them tickets for specific journeys.
There is no reason why such conditions
should not apply to members of Parlia-
ment. What is good enough for the
A.1.F., the R.A.A.F. and the R.A.N.
should be good enough for politicians.—
Mudlark (N.S.W.). S.
Australia for Australians
A large-scale immigration plan de-
signed to bring our population to a
strength that could reasonably be
expected to keep this country safe for
Australians might, in fact, have any-
thing but the required effect.
Britain’s own needs will prevent suit-
able immigrants being drawn from that,
source, so alien countries must supply
them. Should considerable numbers of
non-British people settle in Australia,
with higher fecundity than our own, they
would eventually become predominant
and Australians born of British stock
an ever-diminishing minority. Thus,
while we may share the honor of win-
ning the war, our country in the not-far-
distant future would pass by peaceful
transition to other control.
Self-preservation demands a greatei
natural increase in those best of all immi-
grants —the Australian-bom. To this end
let us make earlier marriages possible by
security of employment and the provision
of furnished homes on easy terms for
couples to live in, with backyards for
laughing children to play in. Bright,
healthy Aussie girls from 18 to 21 and
men 21 to 25 have all the qualifications
for happy married lives, and to be the
proud parents of larger families than
their older and more sophisticated
brothers and sisters seem disposed to give
to the nation. — One of Ten (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Saving
Agitation for compulsory saving seems
to have died out, it being pointed out
that the few million so raised would be
but a drop in the ocean of war-time ex-
penditure.
But is there not another aspect to the
question? Since goods produced for
civilian requirements have been limited
and since wage returns have never been
so high, there is inevitably a strong ten-
dency towards inflation, which compul-
sory saving would reduce.
Also as a result of compulsory saving
the unscrupulous trader or black market-
eer would have less scope for business. —
M. W. S. (Q.).
“The Banks”
Labor policy is to continue the present
controls and convert the existing regula-
tions into law. To do so would be the
surest way of bringing about socialism.
Karl Marx envisaged a society with a
few large monopolies lording it over the
great mass of the proletariat, who would
be without hope of ever bettering their
position. Things did not work out quite
that way. Although big enterprises did
develop, there was a constant rising of
small businesses. In fact, these small
entities were able to maintain themselves
by giving better service than their big
competitors.
This process has been going on con-
tinually, and gives that measure of hope
to the individual which has brought real
vitality to the present economic system.
If, however, a business is to grow, it
must have increased capital, and this gen-
erally comes by not distributing all the
profits and keeping some to provide this
capital, or by obtaining overdrafts from a
bank, which temporarily provides the
capital until further profit has been made
and the overdraft liquidated. Heavy rates
of taxation, which are also levied on un-
distributed profits, leave very little scope
for additional capital to come out of
profits.
The control of the private banks in
respect to their right to grant overdrafts
limits most severely the chance of any
small enterprise obtaining assistance in
that way, so the opportunities for new
concerns to develop will be small indeed.
The large entities in existence already
possessed of ample funds of their own
will remain and become more than ever
predominant, and thus bring about the
very situation Karl Marx predicted as
being the prelude to socialism.
Private banks should not be controlled
in this way in regard to giving overdrafts,
and undistributed profits should be taxed
lightly, if at all. A proper measure would
place taxation on the actual income of
each individual. — Egypt (N.S.W.).
France
Many people are tired of hearing
Allied leaders and would-be leaders
assert that the restoration of France to
a leading Power is a major war aim.
We know that France suffered cruelly
in the last war; the “wearing-down”
strategy did not help to shorten it. Between
wars France flirted with Communism,
the public life became more and more cor-
rupt and defence was relegated to a place
approximating that which it occupied
in Australian Labor circles. When
the acid test came not even a French
Churchill could have saved France. The
handing-over of Indo-China was a direct
prelude to the Jap conquest of Malaya.
If it is to be argued that the French
masses were not to blame, then it can
be argued that the German masses were
not responsible for Hitlerism.
Smuts says France is finished as a
great Power. We can accept that and still
retain sympathy for France, which sym-
pathy can be given practical expression
at the proper time. But the idea that we
should fight tooth and claw against friend
and foe to restore the French Empire
which went so close to dragging us down
in its own disaster —this is too much, even
for Australians. There will be ample
scope for all the energy and resources we
possess in our own reconstruction period.
—Jack Point (Q.).


' vvsa
MB
My'
l j
v ,„-„ P
mmm
'*. i
• l i
( --,
-'Si
fe
■ ■■■ - ?,
‘ 111 1 111
■
Y,^o
mm
m
WW!
I > W‘ <
:.. '■-
-
mm
■
S : S
I
*s j
■
i
am
:
Si
m
H
na
;
: : -;. > :
w
I
iMi
■ ■ s ’
Si
«SS^-SSts:'i , S
"■» s.
i
■ : ■
H
■■•■i"'s.. Vsiis-
; ■
"As Ye Sow”, by Gwen Eichler. This is the fifth of a series of paintings symbolising Australia’s coming peace
time prosperity and happiness, commissioned by Stewarts and Lloyds (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. of Australian artists.
. . .
Take any Australian soldier "up there”. Study him
for a moment. What’s he thinking? He’s thinking of
the day when the war will be over. Back at his job . . .
living his life in the new world he helped create.
This is the great task Australian Industry has set
itself. To fight on and win the peace for him.
Australian Industry will find a job for every Aus-
tralian man and woman who needs it.
Australians to-day are seeing their country in a new
light . . . getting a new conception of its tremendous
potentialities.
Let your mind roam back a little. In the ten years
preceding the commencement of the war in 1939, the
, total value of all Australian production, both primary
and secondary, averaged £384,000,000 per annum, of
which 69 per cent, was used within the Commonwealth,
and the remaining 31 per cent, exported. When one
visualises the millions of people of the East and
Europe who will have to be fed, clothed-and housed
after this war it needs little imagination to realise to
what heights these figures may reach. And these
exports will not only take in our primary products.
The day is coming when Australian manufactured
goods will take their share in the markets of the world.
Everything we produce to-day is for war. But our
plans are ready for the greater to-morrow.
* * *
Water and Gas Pipe Replacements. We can only provide
such replacements when the request is supported by a certificate
from the local authority . . . Since every length used for such
replacements means one length less available to fill the hundreds
of defence orders on our books, we ask users and authorities to
co-operate with a view to asking for and authorising replacements
only in essential cases where repair is impossible and standards of
health may suffer.
Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd,
