

GRAPE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/ 1 VoL 65—No, 3374
Wednesday, October 11, 1944
Price 6d
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
THE GREAT PALM HOUSE, KEW GARDENS.
A FAVORITE residence of George 111, Kew is now best known
as the site of one of the finest botanical gardens and museums
in the world. It is, at the same time, a lovely pleasure resort,
and is normally open to the public every afternoon, the morn-
ings being reserved for students. The gardens proper cover about
75 acres, and the pleasure grounds 240 acres ; and here almost
every known tree and plant can be seen growing. The great Palm
House, built in 1848 by Decimus Euitoa, is a hothouse or con-
servatory 60 feet high, and there is another building, known as
the Temperate House, of the same height and covering nearly
three-quarters of an acre. A singular discovery was made many
years ago at Kew Gardens, in the great tank which sometimes
contained the Victoria Regia, of a small freshwater jellyfish
previously quite unknown. The great founder of Kew Gardens,
which have rendered great services to civilisation, was Princess
Augusta, mother of George, 111,


IMJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
liooklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 244 ..AGE
The Red Page
The Empty Valley.
Yeats could not walk in the disarming
field without
Feeling at elbow spirit or devil.
Nor hear an idle shout
But he proclaimed a shred of ghostly
revel.
If but the countryman, he said.
Had the keen ear and eagle sight
Of Swedenborg he would hear the noise
Of swords in the empty valley. Shall we
go at the side
Of the poet and mingle
With marches of spirit, or stand
With the countryman who sees as single
The abundant land?
This beauty shall be my love; I shall
not ask
If Nature be an ineffectual mask
Through which death-chastened eyes
Are the persuasions of the wise.
I shall not look to left or right
For a cold companion nor suspect the
night,
Nor regard the rally
Of irrelevant swords —
What so replete as the empty valley ?
M.L.
J. R. HERVEY.
Popularising Paul.
When he signed himself “Wm. Bris-
bane,” before going to Britain to be
Bishop of Bath and Wells, the author of
The New Testament Letters, Prefaced
and Paraphrased (Oxford University
Press), deplored “the decay of the habit
of Bible-reading” and produced this
volume as “a humble effort to restore”
that habit.
He aimed to encourage not only Bible-
reading but a “different kind of Bible-
reading”—giving a knowledge of whole
books, a grasp of complete arguments,
doctrines, schemes of salvation, rather
than close familiarity with favorite pass-
ages, choice aphorisms or comforting
texts. The Epistles he thought well suited
to his purpose:
Actually, they are made more difficult
than they need to be when read in the
official English versions. For older readers
the language, whether Authorised or Re-
vised, fails to “bite” because it is already
so familiar, while the young are repelled by
its archaisms. For both it. bears a specially
refined and sacred aura not easily pene-
trable by the ordinary reader’s intelligence,
nourished mostly, as if is, on the English
of the cheaper newspapers.
Bishop Wand, no doubt, could have
named other reasons, or excuses, for the
decline in Bible-reading, One is, for
these days of good printing, the micro-
scopical print in close double-column,
which makes the average Bible forbid-
ding. One mild complainer has called
it “injurious to the eyesight” ; another,
“the worst-printed book in the world.”
As well as the “sacred aura” which
Bishop Wand lists as an obstacle, there
is a pulpit aura, also not easily penetrable
-—that which makes it an effort for almost
anybody, and impossible for many, to
read the Bible without mentally intoning
in the worst parsonical manner.
Yet another Bishop Wand has touched
on, but more could be said about it —
the difference between archaic and current
English,
Seeking a defence, Bishop Wand could
hardly do better than quote the passage
from Paul’s first letter to the Christians
in Corinth, which he translates:
Take the case of such inanimate things
as produce sounds, like a flute or a harp,
if it makes no difference between its various
sounds how can the flautist or harpist make
his tunes understood? If when a trumpet
is blown no one can recognise the call
who will ever leap to arms? So with your-
selves, if you speak indistinctly how can
what you say be understood? You will
be speaking to the air. It so happens that
there are in existence many different kinds
of language, and everything has its own
characteristic mode of expression. But if
1 don’t understand the significance of the
sound made I shall be a barbarian to the
speaker and the speaker a barbarian to me.
His “the case of” and “things like
a flute or a harp” proclaim that Bishop
Wand is himself not altogether above
the language “of the cheaper news-
papers” ; but the passage suggests that,
whatever may be complained against the
translation, it will not be found lacking
in clarity (which, perhaps, might also be
said for newspapers). Another thing
shown in this passage—as frequently in
the volume as a whole—is that Bishop
Wand, in his own words, does “not shrink
here and there from inserting an explana-
tory phrase or occasionally even a sen-
tence.” This is warranted by the main
aim, clarity, and certainly nothing could
be clearer or easier to read and under-
stand at once than this presentation of
the Epistles.
“I shall have failed in my effort,” says
Bishop Wand, “if S. Paul and his col-
leagues do not stand out from their own
pages more human figures, and if their
devotion to their Master and their highly
individual presentations of His doctrine
do not take on a clearer outline both for
the general reader and for the young
student.” Allowing certain reservations,
Bishop Wand, in those aims, has suc-
ceeded remarkably. The rub comes from
a condition he set for his own guidance:
“I have tried to put the Epistles into the
kind of language a bishop might use in
writing a monthly letter for his diocesan
magazine, which, provided one’s style is
neither too stiff nor too colloquial, should
offer a medium very like that of the dfcigi-
nal.” There is a pitfall here, and in read-
ing the volume some will think the bishop
falls headlong into it. It is that, though
we will have a clear and human figure,
will this be the reality? This is particu-
larly important in letters long regarded
as “the most remarkable known to his-
tory,” judged not merely “by the influ-
ence they have exerted, but also as a
revelation of their author’s personality.”
Perhaps the figure in Bishop Wand’s
rendering of the Pauline Epistles may be
acceptable as the original Paul, but if so
—and this can be heavily underlined by
taking isolated examples—then Paul was
amazingly like a good modern bishop, or
curate, for that matter. The Authorised
Version has Paul writing to Corinth:
“Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you
the gospel which I preached unto
y0u.... ” Bishop Wand makes it: “May
I remind you, brothers, of the precise
nature of the ‘good news’ I proclaimed
to you.”
One other example—-very many could
be given—bearing on Paul, in Bishop
Wand’s version, appearing in gaiters:
“My dear, faithful fellow-Christians, I
must begin by reminding you of my
credentials ” Unless Bishop Wand
found a good deal more in the Greek
than the official translators found there,
he-here (as elsewhere) puts many words
into Paul’s mouth, and when those words
are in the very tone and style of the aver-
age diocesan circular Bishop Wand obvi-
ously takes on a considerable responsi-
bility. It is a question of whether Paul
is being translated or transformed.
For the one there is every warrant
when the result is as clear and lively
as this translation is throughout. As
for the other, it is like having Pepys go
to bed with “Good-night, folks. Cheerio.”
In the main the translation has not only
liveliness and clarity but also dignity.
Still, there are expressions that seem
remarkable in Paul and might seem so
even in an average diocesan circular.
The Authorised Version rounds off Paul’s
suggestion to the Thessalonians to do a
bit of honest work with that, thereby,
“ye may walk honestly toward them that
are without, and that ye may have lack
of nothing.” Bishop Wand reads: “That
would ensure that your conduct would
appear correct in the eyes of non-
Christians and would prevent any neces-
sity for sponging on one another.”
Possibly that is a good interpretation
of what Paul wrote ; but what is to be
said of this? ;
Authorised Version: “O ye Corinthians,
our mouth is open unto you, our heart is
enlarged. Ye are not straitened in us, but
ye are straitened in your own bowels. Now
for a recompense in the same (I speak as
unto my children), be ye also enlarged.”
Bishop Wand’s version: “You know, I .
am talking much too freely to you Corinth-
ians, but my feelings carry me away.
Certainly if there is any constraint in our
mutual relations it is not on my side but
on yours. ‘Fair do’s,’ as the children say.
You should let your feelings towards me
carry you away, too.”
Whenever Paul changes his metaphor
Bishop Wand allows him to be aware of
it and write “To change the metaphor.”
“A teacher of babes” becomes “a teacher
of the kindergarten.” “God forbid” be-
comes “certainly not.” And “as one born
out of due time” becomes “your poor
little runt of an apostle,” which in the
edition published by the Melbourne
branch of the Oxford University Press
has itself suffered inky change into some-
thing not so much rich as strange by the
misprint “pool” for “poor.”
Bishop Wand carries his pursuit of
clarity to what might not over-rashly be
called the extreme point not only of
correcting that grammarian’s delight “For
the wages of sin is death” (“For the
wage earned by sin is death”) and of
rendering “And now abideth faith, hope,
charity, these three ; but the greatest of
these is charity” as “so then there re-
main these three gifts, faith, hope and
love, and the best of all is love,” but
also of differing in such a passage as
“Behold, I shew you a mystery....”
Here it may be questioned whether Bishop
Wand’s “I will explain the mystery” is
such an improvement in clarity as to ex-
cuse the rest of the change, or any
change, from what is already both clear
and wonderful. It should be said that
Bishop Wand is not translating or para-
phrasing the Authorised Version; he
made his own translation from the Greek,
and so has every right, apart from his
main aim, to render it as he finds it.
Therefore, giving “at the last trump” as
“at the last trumpet call” and the great
“shalls” as impotent “wills” cannot rightly
be called literary sacrilege, however
Bishop Wand’s version may appear to
fare by comparison.
It is, however, not in the prose but in
the verse renderings that Bishop Wand
comes off least well; occasionally disas-
trously. Compare
Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard,
Neither have entered into the heart of man,
The things which God hath prepared for them
that love him.
with the rhymed hymn rendering:
What eye has not seen and ear has not heard,
And surpasses the desire of the heart,
God alone has discerned and in secret prepared
For the joy of His lovers apart.
And that, which is typical of the verse
renderings, may be considered good in
comparison with the rendering of that
which the Authorised Version gives as
“For who hath known the mind of the
Lord? or who hath been his counsellor?
Or who hath first given to him, and it
shall be recompensed unto him again?”
which may need clearing up, though
hardly in these terms:
The mind of God who yet hath known
Or counsel given to Him?
Who dared to furnish Him supplies
And offer Him a bill?
After which it needs repeating that
Bishop Wand’s version of the New Testa-
ment letters really makes the letters read
like living documents. Compare
Authorised Version: “Now I will come
unto you, when I shall pass through Mace-
donia; for I do pass through Macedonia.”
Bishop Wand’s version; “I will come to
you when I have completed my tour through
Macedonia.”
But Bishop Wand’s version is best read
—as no doubt it will be very largely—
without the comparison. Taken that way
—and just skipping the verse —it is
excellent. And it’s very clearly printed.
Six One-acters.
Continuing its series of Australian
plays, Mulga Publications has brought out
a volume of Six Australian One-Act
Plays, opening with Louis Esson’s “The
Drovers.”
Kathleen Carrolk’s “Office Interlude”
has an up-to-date setting and theme, deal-
ing with the love affairs of bosses, and
their secretaries, Charles Porter’s “Nellie
Lacey and the Bushranger,” reading very
much like a J. H. M. Abbott story, con-
cerns one “Captain Midnight” who steps
into a settler’s hut and tries in vain to
run off with the settler’s wife, Lionel
Shave’s “That’s Murder” is a detective
comedy, Catherine Shepherd’s “Delphini-
ums” a study of pathos of old age in
cheap lodgings, Leslie Rees’s “Mother’s
Day” a domestic comedy on a basis of
sentiment.
The plays are all practical stage-pieces,
suitable for Little Theatres, but of little
literary interest. “Nellie Lacey” (it would
surely be better without its prologue and
epilogue) has one nice moment of irony
when the weakling settler, mistakenly
believing that fifty guineas given by Mid-
night to his wife is a payment for her infi-
delity, “forgives” her for the sake of the
money.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Once a tradition has been built up
talent seems to become as plentiful as
blackberries in season, and hence Mel-
bourne and its environs can produce
accomplished young musicians as naturally
as Australia can batsmen. The eight
finalists who played with the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra at the fifth annual
Concerto Festival at the Town Hail didn’t
look like ordinary executants, and didn’t
sound like them either. Violinists Joan
Haslam and Beryl Kimber played with
remarkable confidence and vigor, and
Douglas Gamley, Manfred Clynes, Ber-
nice Lehmann and Halinka de Tarc-
zynska—she is a daughter of one of Mel-
bourne’s best-kqown violinists—were their
equals on the piano. Elsie Morison and
Wilma Whitney were the singers. A
packed Town Hall followed the contest
with breathless interest. One of its best
features is that there is nothing competi-
tive about the fixture, which was one of
Professor Bernard Heinze’s brain waves,
so nobody gets hurt by being declared a
winner.
“The instinctive striving towards the
clarification of perceptions, the urge to
reach an intuition of things through
creative expression, is an important aspect
of human endeavor.” Thus the foreword
to the catalogue of “works of self-
expression” by students of the practical
painting classes conducted by the Uni-
versity Extension Board and the Workers’
Educational Association, and displayed
at the State Electricity Commissions
showrooms in Melbourne. With few
exceptions, the badly-hung sketches on
odd bits of paper might earn a rude men-
tion in “Answers to Correspondents.”
The University Extension Board ought to
go out of the creative effort business until
it realises that, before a student can ex-
press himself, he must first learn a
language.
Herbert R. Gallop’s one-man show at
the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney—mostly
landscapes in oils and water-color—is
cheerful in atmosphere and evidences in-
creasing mastery of both, mediums. There
is nice management of composition and
color in such canvases as “The Valley,
Burragorang,” and “Robertson Farm-
lands,” and a graceful touch in various
flower pieces. Best of the water-colors
is “At Terrigal,” piquant in effect, but
marred by a sky as heavy as the earth
beneath. A couple of dry-points empha-
sise Mr. Gallop’s soundness as a draughts-
man.
David Strachan, who exhibits at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, is a “con-
temporist” who specialises in what one
of the newspaper writers who understands
such things calls “seal-like figures.” There
are also impressions of figures, presum-
ably human, and landscapes, presumably
terrestrial.
At the Independent Theatre, North
Sydney, amplifiers help a well-selected
cast to make itself intelligible in Ferenc
Molnar’s cleverly-constructed comedy
“The Play’s the Thing.” F. Stewart Jarbo,
as Sandor Turai, “famous dramatist,” is
a stout buttress at all times, easy, natural,
sympathetic. Thelma Grigg and Adrian
Borzell (he is producer, too) contribute
ably to a rollicking third act. Staging
is fair.
At the talkies:
In “Madame Curie” (Sydney Liberty)
M.-G.-M. captures the spirit of the Eve Curie
biography on which the film is based—the
selfless, noble characters of the co-discoverers
of radium. Great stress is naturally laid on
the early hardships, which determination over-
came, the apathy of the Sorbonne and suchlike
setbacks on the way to success. Pierre Curie’s
death was tragic, and the producer can scarcely
be blamed for making of it a most dramatic
denouement. Walter Pidgeon’s portrayal of
Pierre is an alternating between worldliness
and dreamy abstraction, and Greer Garson also
does a good job of work as Marie. Sir Aubrey
Smith as Lord Kelvin, the British scientist, and
Henry Travers and Dame May Whitty as
Pierre’s parents, turn in.fine cameos.
Done in the best British style, “The Man
In Grey” (Embassy), the film version of the
Lady Eleanor Smith novel of the Regency
period, presents a fascinating study of W>
women of opposing character, and how the
staunch friendship of one is repaid in treachery
by the other, one a reluctant wife and the other
a willing mistress, with a cynical unscrupulous
husband ever concerned with his “honor.” Two
fine actresses, Phyllis Calvert and Margaret
Lockwood, make the film excellent, James
Mason giving firm support.
Dorothy B. Hughes’s story “The
Sparrow” (Mayfair) is an adventure in fear. A
continuation of the mental torture inflicted by
the Nazis on a member of the International
Brigade in Spain when he returns to the Li-
stings the victim (John Garfield) into retaliatory
measures, which keep tension taut until he comes
face to face with his arch-enemy, played witn
subtlety and ease by Walter Slezak. Climax
is a spine-tingler. Maureen O’Hara is tfl
woman in the case.
What happened to the eight captured airm®
of the Doolittle raid on Tokio prior to me
execution is pure conjecture, but in In
Purple Heart” (Plaza) horror is heaped on a>
the torture theme develops. Much is ®j-
also of the alleged hatred between the AH
navy and army, and, of course, no Hchyw,
war film would be complete without the spe
on demahcracy, this time delivered by W;-
Andrews, spokesman for the eight, immediat .
before their deaths.
There is one awful moment in “Tampico
(Civic) when it looks as if diminutive
tough tanker captain Edward G. R°^ n ~
will make his threat good and knock -
block off his gigantic first mate ( Vlc ' or J j t
Laglan), but perhaps the director pondered
the last moment as to how hed make sb
thing convincing. Stereotyped Nazi-spy
set in the Mexican Gulf, the plot is as w y
ing as the statement that you can buy bom
beer in any Sydney pub at the fixed puce.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
‘THE SENIOR STORE”
NFECTION
Prices:
6-oz. bot., 2/-
1 -oz. bot., 11 d
2-oz. bot., 6d
*
i
i ;
m*
j
&
1 .-****
Bathu^ts
m
m
m
JA
X
...
ft,
* '*•*■<«.. .*;■ T**'
«•«£»**»/£!•••**
sr fllNtE S1 ‘ ,N »
—utr-T.TT'"-
\u
a wui
■
y
IF
I
s'
*****
s
rrrs
g >
..r • .r 1
Jd-
A
(Bot Ku rsttj
mm
{ MeUlc»co AKrr-xf olm.)
ftecowicpdei Jfll Aif
First AH Rd*'e*C*fi
Apply Ncoi
Hon-Poi»o«ous Hta-lmfant
STMKLESS
"TS-TBBC 0»t" fi'oioO*
fJ
Why not enclose a bottle of Te-
Tree-Oil in your next parcel to
your soldier. The uses of Te-Tree-
Oil are innumerable. It is anti-
septic and can be used freely for
washing the body and for wash-
ing clothes. It has been proved to
give wonderful healing to tropical
sores, ulcers, etc.
Te-Tree-Oil has been thoroughly
tested pathologically, surgically
and clinically, and in practical
use in hospitals over a number of
years it has been found to give
marked satisfaction.
c V)
'a
' i ' ■■'/ /v///vW
’< ’iwmn
-in ’// // A/ss,
'\\V\
CA
LL 0
Vw
\-
\\V \\
v
vJ
a
vVV
¥/,
V
1?*=?
v
-M
GENUINE
*b
If* J ew Tree-(Ji| w
ut’ S,pflC ShQn >pooJ
ii.
OTF* re ““*«-d«d for
l '««tm enfof p an()ruff
j. D 'KEa,ON S T~^.
" ,r. r I.
|| . INr *«
II '«IUr
'w,,.
Sft
y
mm
m
w.
■ y
y.
/
A
. .\
s
A\\'
H w*...
M w *«i.
M ‘«N|
ft*BS3 # ,
>9
No matter what colour your hair
happens to be, this scientific
shampoo contains all the ele-
ments for scalp health. Restores
the brilliant lustre and promotes
growth to the hair. Large bottles
cost only 2/6
• Chemistry Department —
Ground Floor , Pitt St.
Postage in N.S.W., 1/-; Interstate, 1/6
Do you suffer from dandruff? If
you do, get a bottle of Te-Treb-Oil
Shampoo and see how quickly
this marvellous shampoo will re-
move the dandruff. It also pre-
vents falling hair and promotes
healthy hair growth.
ANTHONY HORDE HNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
p HONE: M 2401 (Day and Night) BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


THE DRY GOSPELLER
By HAROLD THIRKELL.
IF the grasshoppers had not cut across
the valley on a narrow front and
stripped the crop on Wilson’s farm
young Jack Wilson would not have
gone to work for Stephen Mathewson.
The Wilsons, in Stephen’s view, were
godless. Old Tom Wilson did not wor-
ship ; he swore alike at his dogs, his
children and his wife ; he drank beer and
had sometimes to be helped into his car
after an afternoon in the township, especi-
ally on sale days. And he was alleged
to make money by betting.
Stephen considered that Nature was
in an unusually perspicacious mood when
she loosed the grasshoppers on the wicked
and spared the pious.
Stephen had “got religion” as a young
man. He had a patriarchal bent which
he put into practice after his marriage;
he ruled his household austerely.
Music (excepting hymns), dancing, play-
acting and popular literature were instru-
ments of the devil. No work could be
done on the Sabbath. Any hired hand
who said “damn” was certain of a repri-
mand ; any coarser word brought dis-
missal.
Moreover, Stephen was the founder
and High Elder of the Dry Gospellers.
The Gospellers were Dry because they
practised baptism without water. Stephen
claimed authority from Holy Writ, by
some obscure misinterpretation of his
own ; but there were old folk, wise in the
lore of the district (but not “Dry”), who
declared that it was no more than a mani-
festation of his personal fear of open
water, which dated back to the Great
Flood of the ’nineties.
They told how “old” Stephen Mathew-
son had delayed overlong in moving his
family to safety, because he was loath to
expose his wife unnecessarily to a rough
trip in a dray, she being near her time
for the second child. The water had
never before reached his house.
At dusk, however, with the water still
rising, he laid a mattress in the dray and
set his wife comfortably on it with two-
year-old Stephen in her arms.
They should have come easily to safety,
for the water was no more than two feet
deep over the track they had to follow;
but in the darkness, with the flooded land-
scape looking strange and inimical, old
Stephen guided the dray into a small
waterhole.
The dray was not submerged for more
than a few moments, but the mattress
with its passengers floated clear. The
horse plunged its way across and, being
old and quiet, stood waiting once its feet
were on firm ground. Old Stephen, floun-
dering and splashing, steered the mattress-
raft to the shallows and lifted his family
back on to the dray. They were scarcely
wet; Mary was composed; but young
Stephen was screaming with terror.
He grew up with an unreasoning fear
of water.
“Like as not,” the old folk added, “hell
to him is full of water instead of fire.”
IF, then, a desperate shortage of labor
1 for the harvest, coupled perhaps with
a touch of patronage toward the deplor-
able Wilsons, had not made Stephen take
on young Jack, Jack would never have
been thrown into the company of Ellen
Mathewson; and the couple would not
have fallen in love.
When someone pointed out to Stephen
what was afoot he acted promptly in the
tradition of domestic despots ; he forbade
the courtship, sent Jack about his busi-
ness and considered the matter at an end.
It never occurred to him that Ellen
might rebel. She was his daughter, quiet,
obedient, content to bake and sew in her
father’s house. Heaven in its good time
would send a proper mate for her; but
not'a Wilson.
In a measure he was right. There were
no tears or sulks; there were all the
appearances of dutiful resignation. She
had, by inheritance, a strong faith in a
watchful Deity, but, whereas her father’s
was stern and fanatical, hers was kind.
For a while, at least, she would wait
quietly on events.
At the same time, without the least
qualm of conscience, she contrived a
meeting with her lover.
He found her not merely unperturbed
but imperturbable. It was almost irritat-
ing to have his impassioned diatribes met
with assurances that “Everything will
turn out all right”; to be reminded
calmly that “We’re young yet.”
“But, my God, Ellie” he began to
expostulate, and discovered that she had
her father’s ideas on blasphemy. The
sternness with which she silenced him was
reminiscent of Stephen.
Then she swept away all his doubts,
set his blood coursing and made his im-
patience well-nigh unendurable by the
warmth of her parting caress.
FULL of young anger but determined
to be firmly courteous, he went to
beard Stephen again. Privately he
doubted his ability to keep his temper
and not “tell the old swine off.”
Instead he found himself so abashed
by Stephen’s presence that he had no
answer even for the final unqualified
declaration:
“You are not a suitable match for my
daughter. I would never permit it. You’d
better go away.”
Old Wilson, paunchy and red-faced,
only made matters worse when he
decided to “fix the business up.” He
approached Stephen as one father to
another to discuss with mock good humor
the trouble between “my boy and your
girl.” He could have won as much
response out of a block of granite.
Stephen said bluntly;
“I don’t want anything to do with you
or your family.”
It was too much for old Wilson’s pre-
carious self-control. “Bible-banging old
b was the note on which he retired.
THE spring rains faded out in Novem-
ber that year, and once the harvest
was over people began to watch for the
summer storms which fill tanks and
dams ; but the summer was hot and dry,
with heat-wave after heat-wave. By mid-
February the dusty roads began to see
water-carts trailing to the river from
outlying farms. Water-carting became
general. The weatherwise began talking
about fain in April—or June.
Because he had men to send, there was
no need for Stephen to cart water him-
self ; nevertheless, the old folk made a
point of the fact. It reinforced their
story of his fear of water.
Stephen himself was ashamed of his
avoidance of the job. His antipathy to
water was childish, or heathenish; con-
trary to his conception of himself as a
man of Faith. The spirit should be able
to control the flesh; it shamed him that
he could not exorcise his fear.
Self-discipline commanded that he
sometime put himself to the test. He
would go to the river in the early morn-
ings, when there was little chance of
meeting neighbors, to meet his devil
alone.
TACK, stealthily skirting the river in
U search of wild duck, came unseen to
the brink of the sunken track leading
down to the river bed.
Stephen, alone, was leading a dray
loaded with a 100-gallon tank down on
to the shingle bank. The river curved
here and, was shallow on the inner bend,
but deep where it had swept under the
bank on the far side.
He watched Stephen wheel the dray
round on the shingle and back it into
shallow water. Then the elder man’s
reluctance to get on with the job, to step
into the stream with bare feet and legs
and bucket the water up into the tank,
was so evident that Jack was reminded
of the story of his fear of water. Stephen
fiddled unnecessarily with the dray har-
ness, stood irresolutely staring at the
water, the bucket dangling from his hand.
“Like a scared kid!” thought Jack. A
man ought to go down and tip him in.
There followed an idea so melodramatic
that he grinned to himself. He had no
very clear motive for descending the
river bank and intruding on the scene.
He ignored Stephen’s hostile silence and
remarked “That’s an awkward job for
a man on his own. I’ll give you a hand.
Going to the horse’s head, he added
“Climb on to the dray, Mr. Mathewson ,
I’ll pass the buckets up to you.”
Stephen ejaculated a reluctant Thank
you” which clearly emphasised how much
he wished the young man elsewhere.
Nevertheless, he climbed on to the dray.
Jack took off his boots and tucked up
begin 0 th S e e bucfe’t workTtasttaVhewen°t
dray deHteratel* deeped i Atwater!
, . tWf*” he
“It’s much deeper o ’
remarked. ct Pn hen
waf g dppi„ S gT
both clenched hands an 4 re ™
fear, unmistakable fear, in his face.
the old tales we . himself
He hTh/knewTo a* nicety how far
STgravel shelf extended before it dipped
abruptly into deep water. He had swum
in this hole many a time. He kept the
dray slowly backing.
Protest half command, half plea, was
wrung from
“Stop* What are you doing? Pull the
dray out at once. You’ll drown me and
have death on your hands.”
He had no patriarchal dignity left; he
had crumpled into a frightened man.
Jack held the dray on the brink of deep
water and put his plan to the test. It was
psychological blackmail.
“Listen, ML Mathewson, I want to
talk about Ellen. If you won’t talk
there’s two things I can do, tip you into
deep water and marry an orphan or pull
the dray out and send you home without
water and tell everybody about this morn-
ing. They’ll laugh the way I’ll tell it.”
before he received any
- ? What do you want?” asked Stephen
unsteadily.
“j wa nt you to swear on”—Jack sought
in his mind for a bindin 8 oath—“on the
BMe e ,hat you’ll let Ellen and nte ge,
He felt self-consciously foolish as he
sounded so
theatrical.
Again a threatening backward shift of
the dray was needed before Stephen made
any response. He said at last, almost
maudibly, I promise.
I ACK watched the dray, with its load
of water and the solitary man leiwiing
the horse, slowly mount the track from
the river and disappear over the crest,
He did not doubt that the promise
wou id be kept, yet he felt no elation; he
f e h curiously shamed.
It came to him that Ellen and he
would not be able to remain in the dis-
trict; it would not be decent to force
her father even to a pretence of tolerat-
ing him after this. Out of some recess
in his mind came a phrase with a Biblical
flavor and somehow apt m association
with Stephen.«
“Not now that I have seen him in his
nakedness,” he mused.
BOMBARDMENT
By JOHN BRENNAN.
THE naval bombardment which imme-
diately preceded the Marine landing
on Peleliu, in the Palau group, on
September 15 was admirably
executed as to timing and awful in its
intensity and concentration.
A carrier task force and its attendant
surface craft had paid Peleliu a visit the
week before. The invasion force bom-
bardment group had been off the island
for three days prior to the landing.
For two hours before H Hour at 0830
all the power of all its guns was concen-
trated on the landing beaches.
The rate of fire was increased, the
volume intensified. The shattering roar
of the guns was continuous. Up and
down, down and up the line of warships
which stood in along the reef ahead of
the transports there came the flash
of flame from their gun muzzles, pierc-
ing the sulphurous clouds of smoke which
clung to the water and wreathed their
hulls.
At either end of the line the battleships
held to their positions like floating gun-
platforms, the thunder of their broadsides
a monotonous undertone to all the roar-
ing noise. Cruisers and destroyers, small
gunboats, and submarine chasers moved
slowly along the length of the beaches to
hurl their quota of destruction shore-
wards.
Peleliu is low-lying and tiny; nowhere
over 250 feet above sea-level; no more
than five and a half miles in length. The
sun came up behind it, shining dimly
through the thick dust-grey pall of smoke
which stood above the island, rising
thousands of feet.
As the bombardment continued the
greyness was pierced with the strong
black columns from exploding oil dumps,
streaked with the feathered whiteness
of phosphorous shells. Gradually the
black and white faded and all was grey
again.
There was no wind. The smoke hung
still above the land. Only the line of the
beach could be dimly seen. Here and
there was a brief flash of flame as trees
burned behind the beach. They were
quickly smothered and obscured by the
smoke.
Above the greyness observation float-
planes from battleships and cruisers
circled slowly, searching for targets of
opportunity. Dive- and torpedo-bombers
from the carriers which had escorted the
invasion force over the long miles of
ocean from its staging point followed,
one behind the other, in sweeping, head-
long procession. Into the obscurity of
the smoke they disappeared; then we
could see them climbing beyond it to
circle and chase on down again. Their
strafing rattled like a legion of kettle-
drums above the noise of the bombard-
ment. One ’plane was lost in the smoke.
Suddenly it flamed and fell, a long trail
of fire raining on the earth.
There was no Japanese ’plane in the
sky that day. During the bombardment
no answering fire came from the island,
nor any other sign of enemy activity.
Behind the line of the warships the
transports lowered a thousand personnel
boats to the water. They circled, a wild
confusion of orderliness, each in its place.
The squat, ugly, tractored landing
vehicles that alone could negotiate the
reef, 700 yards wide, guarding the
beaches rolled clumsily down the ramps
of the L.S.Ts., carrying the assault troops,
formed in wave lines, and churned
towards the beach. Destroyers and
cruisers were moving slowly away to
either side. Rocket-firing gunboats
headed inshore, the tractored craft on
either side.
The roar of the guns and the whine of
the shells gave way to the swishing rush
of rockets through the air. They flashed,
thousands of them, in the smoke above
the beach. Gunboats and landing vehicles
raked the shore line with automatic fire.
The tracer bullets were pinpoints of
light slashing at the smoke haze. Like
gleaming, phosphorescent pingpong balls,
they ricochetted from the surface of the
water, hurtling inshore. Then the tractor
treads were crunching on the edge of the
reef. The bombardment was over.
The pall of smoke lifted just a little
from the torn trees. As it lifted, while
the strange assault craft lurched across
the reef, bursts of Japanese mortar and
artillery fire flowered in cascading water
among them.
The bombardment of Peleliu was the
most intensive ever delivered in the
Pacific. It was beautiful and awe-inspir-
ing and awful. It showed once more the
might of the American Navy that can be
thrown against the enemy.
But no bombardment can prevent coun-
terfire when the assault is made. It can
destroy installations, dumps, airfields, but
it cannot kill an enemy well entrenched
in dugouts and willing to remain there.
This was proven on Guam. It was proven
again on Peleliu, where the area was
smaller, where the bombardment was
heavier, but where there was nowhere
for the enemy to retreat.
He remained in the area behind the
landing beaches. He endured the bom-
bardment. The number of his dead was
small.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3374.
Wednesday, October 11, 1944.
CHARGE, SANCHO, CHARGE!
(Appropriate air: “The Donkey’s Serenade.”)
“In flat contempt of the doctrine of Cabinet responsibility. Minister Lazzarini has repeated his demand for the abolition of the private banks.”
“I didn’t exactly give him the order, but I wouldn’t think of restraining him.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathans Buildings {opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
LAST THINGS FIRST.
Almost the first “business” in the N. S.
Wales Assembly when it resumed after
the referendum was a question about
the disqualification of a jockey, and a
Labor member, J. L. Geraghty (North
Svdnev), delivered an impassioned speech
about it, with another, W. M. Gollan
(Randwick), nodding approval. To the
question Premier M'cKell replied that
he had “long held the view that irrespec-
tive of proceedings before stipendiary
stewards or before any racing club, there
should be some authority of a judicial or
quasi-judicial character which persons in-
terested might approach as a final Court
of Appeal.”
Expanding the congenial theme m a
special article, the “Daily Mirror” de-
clared that “a Judge should sit as chair-
man on such tribunal, and its deli-
berations must be open to the public.’
It has not been suggested that a Supreme
Court or High Court Justice should sit
on appeals from servicemen dealt with at
courts-martial; but to some papers, some
politicians and many people racing men
are much more important than service-
men. .
Mr. McKell’s profession of faith in ‘ a
final Court of Appeal” coincided almost
to the hour with the speech in which
General Blarney warned the nation that
it would require hundreds of thousands
of fighting men, and behind them “an
even larger army,” to beat the Asiatic
enemy. He employed other energetic
language, which prompted “S. M. Herald
to question whether “illusions about the
nature of Japanese resistance are quite
so prevalent as General Blarney imagines.
Are there really people who “seem to
think that all we have to do is to supply a
few thousand men to take part in a victory
march to Tokyo”?
Two days before this appeared the
“Herald” recorded that a Sydney book-
maker had “laid £3OOO to £2OOO in cash
to a backer of Katanga,” who lost
heavily on Flight and Katanga at other
meetings,” and that the same bookmaker
had laid the odds on other horses to £6OO,
£5OO (twice), £4OO, £3OO and £2OO. It
would be useless to try to persuade the
general that the parties to such trans-
actions have no illusions about the war
against the Japanese and their share in it.
It is not to be supposed that betting in
big money is restricted to the racecourse
(in Sydney there is a black market, and
papers publish the black-market odds) or
confined to Sydney. Melbourne has
bookmakers and punters whose wagers
are recorded with gushing admiration.
One owner was reported to have put
£BOOO to £lO,OOO on his horse for a
particular race. But Melbourne’s Jubilee
Plunger is held to be a Polish Jew who
rejoices in a name made illustrious by
the greatest of all Secretaries of State and
a Prime Minister —not the one who was
charged with being “a lineal descendant
of the impenitent thief.”
Another Jew whose fancy runs to the
Turf, “a well-known clothing manufac-
turer,” is described in the “Courier-Mail ’
as having been “Brisbane’s most spec-
tacular racing figure for some months
past.” This most spectacular person
“spent 10,000 guineas on horseflesh” in
one hand, and, falling foul of the Queens-
land Turf Club, and being unable to take
it to the High Court or the Privy Council,
he called an auction sale. At this he
“received 10,665 guineas for 11 horses,”
9100 guineas being for unnamed young
fry (one was sold for 3500 guineas to a
Sydney owner-punter in the dinner-dance
business), and “ringsiders were astonished
when he refused 5950 guineas for two
other unnamed colts. Incidentally, fancy
prices were paid for yearlings at. the
autumn sales, and it was remarked that
an unusual number of buyers were “new”
men, though not all were Jews.
“Brisbane’s most spectacular racing
figure” met his match not only in the
Q.T.C. but in a Sydney pawnbroker, etc.,
of his own persuasion, from whom, after
a great deal of tribal chaffering, he bought
a diamond ring, paying £l4OO. Discover-
ing that the pawnbroker, etc., had got
the better of him, and failing to recover
the £l4OO, he communicated with the
police, and, after an initial success, the
pawnbroker, etc., was convicted on a
false-pretences charge and sentenced to
twelve months’ imprisonment. From
Long Bay he launched an appeal and
applied for bail, claiming to be suffering
from a complication of diseases, and a
parcel of State Labor members, headed
by the Minister who crawls to the Home-
bush slaughtermen and the mob which
has vowed to ruin the Portland butcher
he is member for the district —came for r
ward to testify that he was a combina-
tion of the Cheeryble brothers and Moses
Montefiore. Having ascertained that the
victim of the variety of disorders had not
applied for admission to or treatment in
the well-equipped Long Bay hospital, the
Judge— not the one who imposed the
sentence —refused bail.
But this is getting away from the matter
in hand, and those modest, shrinking
creatures who take huge bundles of bank-
notes into the betting ring (and no doubt
into the black market) and leave them
there or bear away their winnings
in cash call for attention. Though
some of the operations of these
worthies are noted by racing reporters,
none of them is ever called upon to
account for the possession of his portable
wealth, much less put some of it in war
loans, nor are other big-money punters
and bookmakers subjected to official
inquisition and requirements. Such things
are reserved for would-be purchasers
of house property —they have to sub-
scribe 20 per cent, to 100 per cent,
to war loans before the Commonwealth
Treasury will sanction the sale —and
actual war-loan investors. These people,
J. P. Abbott, M.H.R., protested in the
House before it retired for one of its
frequent spells, are pursued by “the
bloodhounds of the Taxation Depart-
ment. If you subscribe to a war loan
you are suspected of being a criminal, a
thief.” And the member for New Eng-
land gave a specific case, preserved in
correspondence:
Deputy Commissioner of Taxation to
taxpayer.—“ Referring to your return of
income for the year ended June 30,- 1943,
you are advised that it is noticed that the
capital invested in Commonwealth loans
has increased from £4720 during the years
1940 to 1942 to £5720 during 1943. It will
be appreciated if you will state (1) from
what source this additional capital was
derived; (2) the manner in which it was
previously invested; (3) what income re-
sulted from such investment.”
Taxpayer to Deputy Commissioner. —“In
response to the many appeals to save and
invest, my wife and I reduced our spending
essentials, and our savings were invested
in war-loan stock at the lower rate of in-
terest. This answers all your questions.
Apparently, to try to help the war effort by
reducing expenditure renders one suspect.”
Meanwhile, the spring meetings have
come round again, and Randwick book-
makers, anticipating “a record turnover,”
equipped themselves with unprecedented
supplies of betting tickets, in no wise
abashed at the sworn evidence of Louis
Brandei, alias Woolcott Forbes, that
£3OOO had been subscribed by book-
makers for his defence, in amounts rang-
ing from £2O to £5OO. It would be stretch-
ing fact too far to call this conscience
money; the profession is never vexa-
tiously curious as to how and from whom
its” clients get their “banks.” And the
Minister of Information was heard from,
though not apropos of the betting orgy
or the lot’ry craze and the hectic com-
petition of both with war loans:
To combat what it regards as the de-
clining public interest in the Pacific War,
the Government is planning publication of
a number of booklets emphasising the ex-
treme importance of intensifying the
struggle against Japan. Mr. Calwell sain
that this is being done at the Prune
Minister’s request. The widest publicity
will be given to the warning, which is
wholeheartedly supported by the Govern-
ment.
The Second Victory Loan? So far, in
spite of the frenzy of gambling, it is
going pretty well, thanks very largely to
the subscriptions of the life-assurance
societies, those Ward-threatened reposi-
tories of the savings of the thrifty but
vanishing middle class.
Diggers Were ignored.
Mr. Curtin’s recent announcement that
the militia will not be used beyond the
prescribed limits, taken with the now
loan-daily warnings of Mr. Forde and
other Ministers about the heavy fighting
ahead and General Blarney’s much more
convincing statement on the same theme,
perpetuates a division which is as shame-
ful as it is undemocratic. But it is the
“policy,” based on the “principles,” of
this Labor Government, composed for
the most part of leftovers from the anti-
conscription agitation.
Veterans of many campaigns, men who
have been wounded and sick and are now
fit again, with the willing others will fight,
Fighting-fit footballers will keep that way
for next winter’s campaigns on the ovals.
Pugilists—some wearing uniforms but m
safe possies—will do their stuff with
gloves on in the rings. Sturdy fellows in
the racing game will go on making easy
money —more than they ever made
before. Others, not quite so fortunate
but as unwilling, will have the part of
wearing uniforms in all particulars but
one identical with those of the A.I.F,
The worst examples will remain in deten-
tion camps.
Naturally, this division there are
plenty other aspects of it —will be fore-
most in mind when the R.S.L. Diggers
come to consider the future of their
League at their Federal Congress. Already
moves have been made at State Con-
gresses to open membership to returned
militia and to all volunteers. Carried
through, and provided the change did not
alter the unity which, on all larger issues,
has characterised the League from its in-
ception, this would make the League one
of the very strongest post-war organisa-
tions in Australia.
It would mean that no political party,
however hostile in itself or in individual
members, would dare to ignore League
representations, either for the welfare of
the Diggers or the country. This could
not possibly suit.the book of any political
party which, for election results, relies on
an already standing organised section of
the community. It would mean the pre-
sence of an organised body without party
political allegiance that could decide
elections.
Hence, if Mr. Curtin’s militia an-
nouncement has the effect —as it could
of influencing Digger Federal Congress
delegates against the wider membership
proposals, politicians who do not hold
Diggers entitled to any special treatment
for their services, or who could not carry
through what the Diggers consider right
for the country’s future without offend-
ing supporters, would be highly delighted.
Any weakening of the Diggers’ post-
war position must be approved by those
gentry. What the Diggers eventually de-
cide on the matter is entirely their own
affair. If they prefer to remain what
they have hitherto been in their League
an organisation of returned volunteers—
no one lacking the brazen front and loud
mouth of a Calwell will rise up to con-
demn them. They have at least earned
the right to that much, however little it
may be that politicians intend to
allow them as against favored home-
frenters. Still, their rights will not alter
what their position may be. It will be
fairly strong, anyway; perhaps even
strong enough to ensure a fair deal for
those who will need something more than
pats on the back and compliments. The
choice is rather one of being strong
enough or otherwise to influence the
national welfare.
That will require much greater strength
than will the ensuring of a fair deal for
ex-servicemen. In this there will be —in the
immediate post-war period, at any rate —a
sufficient favorable body of public opinion
backing the Diggers’ own strength. That
body is made up of all the fighting sec-
tion’s own people and all other Australia-
minded people besides. It is already tak-
ing note of the present Government’s
persistent reluctance to come out with an
honest, open undertaking, in concrete
terms, to deal with all ex-servicemen in
the light of an obligation to them that
hardly anything can ever fully repay.
When the Diggers get back—the long-
suffering Jap-held prisoners of war among
them—it will be a sorry lookout for any
set of politicians that fails to recognise
that all those who had the fighting part
will have not only a case for decent treat-
ment but a special case.
Whatever may be intended by any-
body, the ex-servicemen’s welfare will be
looked after. It is a big item in League
affairs, and the League will' play its part
well in it, as it always has done. And,
whatever is decided about League mem-
bership, the League will be quite strong
enough to do so. The national welfare is
another matter. Here the Diggers will have
no ready-made supporting body of public
opinion. They will themselves have to
make it. That they will require very con-
siderable strength to do so the past amply
shows.
Between the wars it was a first plank
of League policy that Australia should
be as adequately defended, as well pre-
pared to take a necessary part in possible
war, as its man-power and other resources
allowed. Year after year the Diggers
proclaimed this sound national policy.
With what result? ’ They were both poli-
tically and nationally ignored. The
nation permitted it, and the politicians,
with that permission, contrived to keep
the country without defences. It has now
become the fashion to blame only a sec-
tion vaguely described as “the Pacifists.
Mr. Forde, declaring at Duntroon last
December that Australia must henceforth
“maintain adequate defences”—does his
party agree?—added that Pacifism after
the last war led the democracies, includ-
ing Australia, to the very brink of dis-
aster.” When the guilty face those who
aided and abetted their guilt it is handy
for all to be able to conjure up scape-
goats, even such vague scapegoats as “the
Pacifists.”
The fact is that it was not “the Paci-
fists” or any suchlike agency that decided
the issue. The no-defence “policy” was
the easy way out, and for that reason, and
from no other cause, it was taken. It had
the decisive dual appeal of at once
suiting politicians’ ends and people’s
pockets. The Old Diggers, wise in their
experience and inspired for the country’s
welfare, demanded and demanded, urged
and pleaded. They were ignored for the
one simple reason —they were not strong
enough to decide the issue. For all
the influence they had, they were just
another of those talking organisations
that get together regularly and enthusi-
astically pass resolutions of which nobody
ever takes the slightest notice.
There is, in possible reaction to Mr.
Curtin’s latest militia pronouncement, the
chance of that being continued. This
will be as good as settled if reaction goes
to the point of continued exclusion not
only of members of the militia who have
been in the heavy fighting, but also
actual volunteers for the A.1.F., R.A.A.F.
and R.A.N. where these, from any cause,
are not returned men. As well as this
meaning that the League would not be as
strong as it could be, it would certainly
lead to the formation of other service-
men’s organisations of not inconsiderable
strength. It would then be the aim of
interested parties to make the different
organisations rivals, and even without
such help there would almost certainly be
natural differences. In such circum-
stances the League would be no more
effectual on matters of vital national im-
portance than it was in the past. It could
suggest and demand as much as it liked.
There would be no political risk in ignor-
ing it.
The Diggers’ record between the wars
is no more a secret than their record in
the wars, and in its way it is just as good.
Despite all obstacles, they have fitted back
into the community as good citizens. And
in their League they never yet agreed to a
national line of policy that would not
have been to the country’s advantage to
adopt. But the fact stands that nation-
ally they were ignored. And that will
happen again unless they make their
League so strong that no section or party
or chance majority will dare to ignore it.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Caught Unprepared.
In normal seasons this country can grow
enough conservable fodder to feed 20
times its normal stock population. In one
normal year it could, if it chose, grow
enough surplus fodder to keep its stock
alive for five bad years. It is a country
subject to fairly frequent and variable
droughts. Ever since it was settled these
droughts have inflicted heavy losses in
stock, production and money. Every
drought increases the rate of soil-loss
through erosion.
Now once more the grim old story is
being repeated, and that at the worst pos-
sible time.
As a war expedient there was set up m
Canberra a Commonwealth Ministry of
Agriculture with a full-blown Director
(an elderly politician), and all the trim-
mings. There was an Australian Agricul-
tural Council, consisting of the six State
Ministers of Agriculture and their oft-
siders ; there were controllers of almost
everything and there were agricultural
committees everywhere.
The spring of 1943 was a lush one.
There were heavy crops of cereals as well
as grass. But, largely because the land
industries had been denuded of man-
power, and were short of machinery,
machine duplicates and oil fuel, most ot
that splendid surplus of feed went to
waste. ,
The following summer and autumn
were dry. Dairy production fell steeply
and meat supplies became scarce.
In Britain and New Zealand when
crops and grass were prolific troops were
sent to the harvest. In Australia, though
the British and New Zealand methods
were known, scores of thousands ot
troops were kept in their camps doing
the same things over and over again,
while the precious fodder went to was •
All the agricultural officials, from M •
Scully down, haven’t been able to sa
a single sheep or store a bale of y-
Because of a man-made shortage of cat
there occurred a shortage of ra >
trucks for the carriage of fodder an
stock. Neither in irrigation nor m
drought-free districts was any organised
attempt made to grow and stores fodd
against drought. And d car^
In Canberra on Thursday Mr. Scull}
said it had arrived at a time wh
country’s agricultural resources corn-
strained to the utmost to meet huge com
mitments to the United Nations. . »
a meeting of the A.A.A.
to consider problems arising
drought. A mocking retort comes from
the throats of gorging crows.


A Rash of Stoppages.
“We made strikes our business,” boasted
the Communist boss of the Federated
Ironworkers, referring to the period before
the war changed in a night from being
accursed to holy; and sudden stoppages,
ordered and carried out in contempt of
written agreements, industrial awards,
war pledges (in the U.S.A. anyway) and
National Security regulations, are part of
the technique.
In Australia they have a way of hap-
pening, though the coincidence may be
fortuitous, when Communists are throw-
ing their weight about on the other side
of the world.
There have been one-day stoppages of
S.A. trains (twice), Sydney, Melbourne
and Perth trams and buses. In Sydney at
the week-end from the same cause there
were no issues of the Saturday “Sun” or
the three Sunday papers, and the four
papers combined on Monday to issue a
skeleton sheet.
In all these cases and others the great
majority of the unionists concerned are
not Communists or fellow-travellers, nor
are there many without sons or brothers
in the services. But the arbitration laws
do not make strike ballots obligatory, and
that and the general weakness of trade-
union law and the pandering to mobs
practised at Canberra and Sydney—in the
latter city at the expense of the little
authority the Industrial Court had over
Government slaughtermen and the like
—have left steady-going unionists and
officials without armor against rebellious
elements. These fellows don’t even have
to cry “The union, right or wrong!” or
“Don’t scab on your mates!” to bring
about their infamous stoppages, although
such appeals, if unspoken, are always
implied. In effect, bad unionists, in the
real sense of the term, largely of the
Johnnie-come-lately type, are privileged
to coerce good unionists by exploiting
the fine feeling of mateship for purposes
not only harmful to the community but
perilous to unionism itself.
"Peace Reigns in Warsaw."
[Ghastly expression in which a Czarist general
announced the merciless suppression of a Polish
rising.] •
In press dispatches published throughout
the English-speaking world on August
2-3 it was declared that on August 1
“Russian troops, in a sensational 32-mile
breakthrough, reached the Baltic 25 miles
west of Riga, trapping 200,000 to 300,000
German troopS.”
The trap, one of the war’s greatest, was
closed as Moscow reported that Warsaw
was in flames, indicating that the Germans
had put the torch to the Polish capital as
Soviet tanks, cavalry and artillery stormed
the city’s eastern suburbs.
In each case there was a puzzling delay,
still operating, in gathering the fruits of
the proclaimed victory, and one guess
may be as good as another. But it is
true that the Russians reached the Vis-
tula opposite Warsaw; and the Polish
Government in London, to which the
Poles fighting in the armies of Generals
Alexander and Montgomery and in the
R.A.F. and the R.N. give a sturdy allegi-
ance, authorised a rising in Warsaw
which had been planned long in advance.
The Polish Government was, of course,
acquainted with the situation developing
grandly in France and Italy, and with
General Eisenhower’s instructions to
patriots in occupied countries, which
were that Maquis and the rest should fake
up arms wherever they could. And the
Varsovians were urged to rise by Com-
munist Poles addressing them from a
radio station in Russia.
One look at the map is sufficient to
indicate that the insurrection was a great
and heroic enterprise, on a scale far more
massive, and, in the changed military cir-
cumstances, giving far more promise of
success than a previous struggle of ghetto
Jews in Warsaw. This was extolled in
Communist and fellow-traveller prints
everywhere ; and beyond question those
poor Jews were game. But from August
3, when the fighting began, Moscow re-
actions were hostile, and the leader, then
called General “Bor,” like General
Mihailovich became a target for the
abuse of the Communist press. When the
inevitable need for supplies and weapons
arose the R.A.F. had to be taken from
its other duties to furnish them, which it
did at cruel cost. Even Americans en-
gaged in shuttle-bombing between Italy
and Russia were at first refused facilities
for dropping supplies to the patriots. Not
until the position became desperate did
Moscow agree to let General “Bor” have
an infinitesimal fraction of what the Rus-
sians have received in vast quantities from
U.S.A. and Britain. Presently the claim
was made by the president of a so-called
Polish Commitee of National Liberation
in Moscow that only what the Russians
had dropped had fallen into General
“Bor’s” lines, the R.A.F.’s contributions
having for the most part been scattered
in enemy-held country remote from
Warsaw,
The Poles’ marvellous fight lasted 63
days. Then, having suffered losses so
frightful that the disclosure has staggered
humanity, they had to give in. They were
without food, water, ammunition and
medical supplies, and their city was a
ruin—“completely destroyed” the enemy
said. But the enemy was not more stony-
hearted than the Polish “Committee of
National Liberation” in Moscow, which
from that safe distance hurled impreca-
tions at General “Bor,” alleging that he
had never been in Warsaw (the Germans
claim him as a prisoner), and that
“Colonel Monter,” the real leader, had
“rejected the idea of breaking through
across the Vistula to liberated territory
or retiring west to join forces fighting in
the German rear” —as if either resource
was possible when the Russians, with their
immense man-power and equipment,
have been halted for two months.
“Colonel Monter” is Brigadier-General
Chrusciol, deputy commander of the War-
saw Corps. General “Bor” is Lieut.-
General Tadeusz Komerowski, Com-
mander of the Polish Home Army. One
of his offences is that he is a native of
Lwow (Lemberg), a city which, though
part of the 45 per cent, of Poland marked
out for Russification, has never, except
for 21 months of 1939-41, been Russian,
though nearly 700 years old.
Admiration and pity for men fighting
in a great cause against odds are inborn
in English-speaking people who value
their traditions and institutions. In the
case of the Poles these qualities will en-
dure and exercise their influence how-
ever formidable the shape taken by the
instinct and policy of kicking the brave
when they are down.
Mud—Second Instalment.
Melbourne was again the venue of the
Australia-First inquiry last week, and a
young woman was put in the witness box.
Her name was withheld. She said that
for several months of 1939 she had been
employed as secretary in the office of
“Die Bruecke,” the German newspaper
then published in Sydney, and had been
associated not only with Von Skerst, the
editor, but with other leading Sydney
Nazis. And knowing German, though
the Nazis did not realise it, she listened
to conversations and became possessed
of information which she afterwards
passed on to Security before becoming
employed by Military Intelligence.
In one of the conversations it was said
that “Mr. Fairfax, of the Sydney ‘Morn-
ing Herald,’ was giving quite a lot of
trouble,” being “conservative and un-
approachable,” and The Bulletin was
mentioned as being “open to influence.”
No other papers: “I only heard The
Bulletin, the ‘Publicist’ and the Sydney
‘Morning Herald’ discussed.”
The knowledge of German claimed by
the young woman was not tested by an
official interpreter or any other person
whose German is unchallengeable. Neither
was she asked about her political lean-
ings or associations, if any. Her memory,
so clear about the alleged references to
The Bulletin, the “Publicist” and the
Sydney “Morning Herald,” failed her as
to the lineaments of “a man named
Miles,” founder and financier of the
“Publicist,” since dead. Though she not
only heard his name mentioned but saw
him in Skerst’s office “about once or
twice a week,” the Miles image and form
had faded out of her recollection—she
couldn’t even remember whether he was
clean-shaven or not.
The young woman did not say, and
nobody could say without committing flat
perjury, that The Bulletin ever had
a man in the “Die Bruecke” office
being exposed to “influence” or ever
had the remotest association with
the crowd in it or the crowd in
the German Consulate. Its only rela-
tions with the “Publicist” were hostile as
regards one of the principals, who had
sued it for libel on grounds which ren-
dered reconciliation impossible, and
mildly amusing in respect of another
gentleman, stricken in years, from whom
it periodically received condemnatory
letters, always ending with the intima-
tion that he would never read the paper
again. But it was astonished when it
learned that this peppery old gentleman
had been interned as a dangerous con-
spirator, and it took up his case and those
of his alleged associates in infamy, with
particular reference to two returned
soldiers—one was a Gallipoli veteran with
poetic leanings, the other a martyr to
German gas—when all its contemporaries
played safe.
In article after article it urged that
these men should be brought to trial, as
was promised by the Prime Minister and
the Minister of the Army—by that gentle-
man more than once —or released and
vindicated, with compensation for their
loss of liberty, reputation, income and
savings spent in hiring legal defenders.
And it pegged away, still without any press
assistance, although protesting voices
were raised on both sides of the House,
until tardy liberation was offered, in no
magnanimous spirit, and was accepted in
every case but that of the party to the
libel suit, whose proceedings are his own
concern, though he is entitled to the pro-
tection of the laws. Liberation came too
late for the gassed returned soldier, who
died in a military hospital a broken man.
The Bulletin’s only regrets are for
the victims of arbitrary arrest and deten-
tion, Though not a party to the present
proceedings, it expected that mud would
be thrown at it in the course of them,
and is prepared for'more. And it has a
pretty good idea as to the source.
CHIP OFF THE OLD BLOCK.
“Glad to see you, Tommy; but, mind you, I still think Larwood was over the odds.”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. C. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
The “VENUS”
STURDY
QUICK
ACCURATE
Built in Australia to
Schlesinger Standards
of Accuracy.
7-inch LATHE
Dynamically
Balanced
sdfs
Manufactured by
MARS Machine Tool Manufacturing Hi. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Dist. Agents for N.S.W.: THOS. HERBERT & Co. Ply. Ltd., Clarence
St. Sydney; for Victoria: THOMPSON & WILLIAMS Pty. Ltd., 28 Market
St., Melbourne: Stockists; GOODALL & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months-
Monthly
Instal.
16 8
1 13 4
2 10 0
3 6 8
4 3 4
8 6 8
epay may be
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Full particulars at Personal Loans Dept.,
4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
Instal.
7 9
15 5
I 3 I
I 10 10
I 18 6
3 17 0
POLITICAL POINTS
An article in Lang’s “Century” should
assist the efforts of Menzies to form one
democratic organisation out of the many
that cumber the ground against the day
when Federal Labor goes to pieces.
It gives the inside story of the Curtin
group’s discomfiture in the matter of the
committee appointed to inquire into the
woes of private members. Curtin, Forde,
Evatt and Beasley were absent from Cau-
cus, being at an Advisory War Council
meeting, but Chifley was sent along to
ask for the election of himself, Forde,
Arnold and Fraser. The voting was Don
Cameron 63, Calwell 50, Chifley 26,
Forde 13 ; and “Fraser and Arnold polled
smaller totals than Forde and Chifley.”
All the Curtin nominees were defeated,
A 1 Smith preceded the second Roose-
velt as Governor of New York and as
Democratic candidate for the Presidency.
Wendell Willkie was the President’s last
Republican opponent. Strange and sad
that these two fine Americans should
have died in the compass of four days.
Said Lord Cranborne, Anthony Eden’s
offsider:
Without a solution of the Polish ques-
tion we can have no certain guarantee that
Britain, the United States and Russia will
be able to work together.
Frank, if devilish disconcerting.
“These days of crisis call for states-
manlike qualities in Premiers’ confer-
ences,” said the “Age,” heralding the
latest of the litter. Sydney “Sun’s” post-
mortem was that the conference had
“disagreed on everything of any import-
ance.” It wasn’t quite as bad as that;
agreement was reached on soldier-settle-
ment and drought relief (ominous con-
junction) on terms favorable to the State
Governments. That is always the way
at Premiers’ conferences.
The Sydney Minister of Lands threatens
legislation to prevent overstocking of pas-
toral country. Nature is doing more in
that line than a mountain of legislation
could effect.
Substance of the Canberra agreement
on soldier-settlement:
All honorably-discharged men with six
or more months’ service to be eligible. No
rent or interest to be paid in the first year.
Settlement to be determined by opportuni-
ties for production. Settlers to be suitable
men and to get reasonably profitable areas;
lack of capital not to be a barrier where
suitability is demonstrated. N.S.W., Vic.
and Queensland to be principals with the
Commonwealth, the other States to be
Commonwealth agents.
Sound enough in principle if practice is
up to snuff.
Badly and Beasley have fallen out. One
Davies alleged in the N.S.W. Assembly
that State mine inspectors had ignored
Badly and sent their reports to Common-
wealth Coal Commissioner Mighell.
Beasley replied that Davies (and, by im-
plication, Badly) was talking through his
hat. Badly, hitting at Beasley, announced
that he would have “no professors or
bureaucrats” around him. Beasley re-
torted that there were no profs, or buros.
in the picture, Badly’s grievance is that
he went to inspect a mine and was told
that an inspection had been made and the.
report sent to Mighell.
I then left. It is the first time I have
been treated like that. I told Mr. Mighell
there was a principle involved and that I
was not going to allow a Minister to be
treated like that or be told what I could do.
Wouldn't it?
Communists are not only arrogant and
humorless (did anyone ever see a Com-
munist spouter smile?), but are without
a shred of chivalry and sportsmanship.
The fate of the Poles in Warsaw and of
the splendid fellows of the R.A.F. and
the U.S.A.F. who sacrificed themselves
carrying supplies and weapons to them,
having to travel 1500 miles because the
Russians, with immense Anglo-American
materials at their disposal and within sight
and sound of the tragedy, refused to help,
was enough to draw tears from a graven
image. The “Tribune” reacted with a
savage attack on the “Right Wing
leaders” and the captured commanders
(“they bear the same traitor’s brand as
Mihailovich ; they deserve the same pun-
ishment as all other pro-Nazi quislings
and collaborators”), and with the vicious
sneer that “British and American airmen
lost their lives parachuting equipment
and food that landed as far away as 30
miles from Warsaw.” A previous out-
break in this vein drew an indignant pro-
test from the “Labor Standard.” The
“Standard” editor is now a marked man.
Three million is to be divided among
wheatgrowers in the drought-stricken
States (Westralia’s situatioh is to be “re-
viewed”) by the Commonwealth and
State Governments, half and half. The
COUNTER-OFFENSIVE FROM THE GEELONG LINE.
“Which of those border-hoppers did that?”
Premiers, all of whom had surpluses, had
the face to ask the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to bear the whole burden out of
its immense deficit. This when three of
them have £20,000,000 or so socked
away, practically all found by the
Commonwealth,
The Sydney Government is to spend
£600,000 on the improvement of prisons
after the war. One way of solving the
housing problem.
Bellemore, the N.S.W. Deputy Direc-
tor-General of Man-power, is threatening
“young countrymen” with Army call-ups
or “diversion to other essential work.”
“Young countrymen” were “approached”
to work at metropolitan abattoirs, but
Bellemore is “disappointed” with the
result. He expected that, because of the
drought, men would be available. Doesn’t
he know that when drought arrives the
countryman’s work is doubled? He has
to hand-feed and nurse stock, watch
the water supply, do a hundred and one
extra jobs.
J. E. Duggan, M.L.A. for Toowoomba
(Q.), is a very unusual Labor member and
not only because he is a returned soldier
of this war. He has come out strong
for immigration, especially of persons
“with academic and scientific qualifica-
tions who can contribute something to our
culture,” and for an overhaul of the pub-
lic service, with promotion by examina-
tion, a university course in public admini-
stration and “definite prospects of higher
reward.” On these and other subjects the
young man has been so refreshingly frank
in his criticism that he seems sure to fall
foul of the machine.
Only Melbourne “Herald” came out
with a full report of Churchill’s latest
speech, and it had this reference to the
Quebec conference:
I took the occasion to associate the Can-
adian, Australian and New Zealand repre-
sentatives with our work, and with the
Chiefs of Staffs attended a meeting of the
Canadian Cabinet. I also have been in
very full correspondence, as I often am,
with General Smuts and Mr. Fraser.
One name missing—as it was when
Brendan Bracken defended Churchill’s
descents on Normandy on the ground
that it was the duty of a P.M., recog-
nised by Smuts and Fraser, to visit the
fighting men in forward areas.
A record-breaker: —
Curtin has been receiving congratulations
on the completion of his ninth year as Federal
Labor leader, which places him a long way
ahead of Fisher and Scullin, as well as Watson,
Hughes, Tudor and Charlton. He had already,
on August 21, 1943, made party history by be-
coming the only Labor M.P. to survive a general
election as such. On Saturday he completed
his third year of office without a break, and
he has only to go on to December 3 to take
another record from Fisher, who was P.M. from
April 29, 1910, to June 24, 1913. Curiously
enough, this most successful of Federal Labor
leaders in two respects —and barring accidents,
certain of a third —is the only one of the seven
who ever failed of election as candidate for a
seat. Hughes (when Labor), Scullin, Tudor and
Charlton had soft snaps always, and Watson,
though not so welj served, won the three elec-
tions he contested. Curtin was defeated for
three separate constituencies, Balaclava (1914),
Perth (1919) and Fremantle (1925), before he
got in -for Fremantle in 1928, and he was un-
seated by Bill Watson, his 1925 conqueror, in
1931. It was a fortunate day for him when
Watson, who did not stand in 1928 or 1929
(another Watson, not related, did on both
elected in 1934 to make his second
reti .ment from politics permanent. It used to be
sa : . in Fremantle, and in despondent moments-
Curtin agreed, that Bill Watson could always
beat him. And then, of course, the man who
was to become Premier on October 7, 1941, had
a very narrow squeak on September 21, 1940.
Indeed, for some days he gave up hope, and at
least two members of the Federal A.L.P.
executive received urgent wires—though not
from Curtin —asking them to come to Canberra
to discuss the appointment of a successor.
In the debate on the radio-station
rumpus it came out that ten K.Cs.
briefed by the Government have in
two years drawn over £30,000 in fees
and expenses. Dr. Evatt admitted
that “aggregate fees” were “large,” but
declared that “the work performed was
extensive „in scope and character, and
often important to the war effort.” Still,
having revealed so much, hg should tell
the nation how much it has had to pay
in this field since the Government took
office. It is common talk among men of
law that two K.Cs. have appeared for
Canberra in cases of no consequence.
This Government doesn’t agree with the
U.S. critic that every nickel spent un-
necessarily now will have to be paid for
later.
Beasley’s department has issued a
pamphlet asking car-drivers to go easy
on rubber and petrol. This was men-
tioned when Ward was fulminating
against the Geelong Grammar boys and
their parents, and Tommy White came
in with a smart counter-offensive;
White: Since the Minister has raised this
matter of preferential travel, I suggest that
he apply it to himself and not use ears for
inter-State travel when he can go by train.
Ward: I do.
White: Didn’t you travel by car from
Mildura to Manly?
Ward: That is not inter-State. '
It happened just after Calwell complained
that constitutional history wasn’t taught
in the schools.
Keane, Minister of Trade and Customs,
on 28/9/’44:
An alarming position has been reached
in regard to meat. We have not succeeded
in saving the meat we expected by rationing.
Rationing has saved 50,000 tons less than
expected.
Scully, Minister of Commerce and
Agriculture, three days later:
Meat production in Australia has now ex-
ceeded all previous records. This year’s out-
put is estimated at 35,000 tons above the
target. Rationing and record production
have enabled Australia to fill a remarkably
high scale of food commitments.
Who said there was wisdom in a multi-
tude of counsellors?
Victorians get a great deal of instruc-
tion from Keith Murdoch, with tongue
as well as pen, and those who read the
Parliamentary reports must be wonder-
ing why the gentleman has chosen not to
reply to a statement made by Cremean
in the Assembly over two months ago:
In a broadcast last year leaders of trade-
unions who belong to the Communist party
were having their sins exploited through the
radio. Did the Communists reply in a
normal fashion? Not on your life! They
rushed to S’Keith Murdoch and asked him
to ban the whole series of broadcasts, and
that gentleman obligingly did so.
Nothing unusual, of course. Corns, gel
a wonderful spin from “capitalist”-
owned radio stations and newspapers.
Britain has announced compulsory
cadet service for all youths after the war.
There will be Army and Navy cadets at
14 and R.A.F. cadets at 15, and at 18
youngsters will enter upon more strenu-
ous service. Australia has heard nothing
from its Government about post-war
defence. Possibly the Government hopes
to win the next war with the C.C.C.
Ceylon ran out of rice some time ago
and a request to our P.M. brought this
reply, “Our mills work to capacity—we
will not let you down.” “Our mills, mines,
wharves and Government abattoirs
would have been better; but perhaps John
was caught in one of the moods in which
he is “the Strong Man struggling with
adversity,” as Menzies says.
More than a year ago, when France
looked to be down and out, one of those
sober and well-informed English month-
lies predicted that of all the occupied
countries it would, make the quickest
recovery after the war. Two U.N.R.R.A.
men from America are evidently of the
same opinion. One, Lithgow Osborne,
U.N.R.R.A.’s deputy director-general,
said in Melbourne that France, Belgium,
the Netherlands and Norway are going
to do their own rehabilitation job with-
out any help, except perhaps as to then-
refugees. The other, Rolf Nugent,
pointed out that the French have “large
foreign exchange holdings,” Both agreed
that Poland and Russia will require the
greatest measure of assistance.


YOU CAN SERVE IN H.M.A.S. “
Even though you are not there in person you can help our Navy by taking extra care of
your Exide Batteries. Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment and car or
radio battery. Consult your local Exide dealer immediately you suspect the need for re-
placement, repair or recharging. Extra care will give you months of extra service.
Hxibc
HOUSE-LIGHTING
BATTERIES
*55
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Brigadier R. N. L. Hopkins, Duntroon
graduate and ex-6th Light Horseman, is
the first A.I.F. man to be awarded the
American Legion of Merit. He got it
for outstanding services to the U.S. forces
as liaison officer in amphibious opera-
tions. A Stawell (Vic.) native, Brigadier
Hopkins went from Melbourne Grammar
to Duntroon and from Duntroon to the
Sixth Light Horse in 1917 in time for the
Palestine campaign. In 1940 he was given
command of the Seventh Aus. Divvy’s
Cavalry Regiment and in 1941, as senior
staff officer, organised the Australian
Armored Division after spending two
months with the British Seventh Armored
Division in Libya. After serving in
the Owen Stanleys and at Buna,
he was appointed liaison officer to Rear-
Admiral Barbey’s U.S. Amphibious
Forces in 1943, since when he has been
in 11 amphibious operations from Wood-
lark Island to Morotai. He is 47.
About the time his book There and
Back was published The Bulletin saw
a good deal of R. E. Lording, and what
a game chap it found him! Badly
wounded with the old 30th Battalion—a
burst of machine-gun bullets across the
body—he had already undergone numer-
ous operations. Before he passed on last
week he had undergone 59 in all! They
cost him six ribs and an arm. Yet, after
getting back, he studied accountancy,
frankly set down his war and other ex-
periences in his book, became a good
swimmer and whenever he could worked
hard for the Limbless Soldiers’ Associa-
tion. He was only 45 at the end, having
enlisted in the First A.I.F. at 16.
New president of the Maoriland
National party is W. J. Sim, son of a
former Judge, born in Dunedin 54 years
ago and educated at Otago Boys’ High
School, Wanganui College and Victoria
College, Wellington. In 1914 Sim went
with the N.Z. force that occupied Samoa,
where he was Commissioner of Police and
Crown Prosecutor. Relinquishing these
posts after a year, he was commissioned
in the,Argyll and Sutherland Highland
Regiment, serving till 1919 and winning
the M.C. and the French Medallion
d’Honneur. He became a K.C. in 1939.
Wendell Willkie:
What Wendell Willkie was good at',” the
author of a “Harper’s” article wrote of him,
"was the negotiating of deals for clients around
the conference table... .Though he argued
Court cases from time to time he was more
at home —and his brand of persuasiveness was
more effective —in the informal air of a con-
lerence room or a commission hearing than in
the calculated stiffness of a Court.” Willkie’s
whole career, the writer implied, was one of
words. Hardly anything, he insisted, could be
pointed to as having been done by Willkie.
"Even One World, for all its astronomical sales
figures, was a triumph of words alone; it has
not perceptibly affected official or popular
sentiment about the place of the East in the
post-war world.” Willkie was the son of a
lawyer father and a lawyer mother, brought up
a talker practically from the cradle, in a home
in which “if the discussion was hot enough the
food could get cold.” He was a noted talker in
schools and colleges, became a teacher of de-
bating, then finally switched to the “talker’s pro-
lession,” the law. Born at Elwood, Indiana, and
of German descent—the family’s original name
was Willcke—he saw something of the Germans
in the other war, in which he served with the
U.S. Army. “Even war could not force him
to let his forensic talents go to rust,” de-
clared the “Harper’s” writer. “He returned
from overseas with a captaincy, won in part at
least by the considerable skill with which he de-
fended, before courts-martial, soldiers who had
gone a.w.1.” Not many men would have the
bigness to do what Willkie did when defeated
by Roosevelt at the last Presidential election.
Willkie not only took the defeat with a sports-
manship that made those who voted for and
against him think all the higher of him, but he
at once took up the stand that, as a President
had been elected, it was his duty as a citizen to
support that President to the greatest of his
ability. That, of course, doomed any chance
he might have had of being again chosen as a
Presidential candidate. However, he-had the
optimism to try, and, discarded, again took it
like a sportsman. He died in his sleep, after
heart attacks; aged 52.
Dr. Keith Rodney Miles, appointed
Assistant Government Geologist in S.A.,
is a Westralian who gained his B.Sc, at
Perth Uni. at 20 and an honors
degree in geology a year later. D.Sc. in
1942, he is a Fellow of the Geological
Society of London, and an Associate
of the Australian Institute of Mining arid
Metallurgy. He’s 29.
“Hamer”: The youngest Canadian
brigadier is an Australian —John Mere-
dith Rockingham, who was born in Syd-
ney 33 years ago, rowed for Melbourne
Grammar and had been jackerooing in
W.A. before a family reshuffling took
him to Canada. He went with the Cana-
dian forces to England three years ago,
and has lately been winning distinction
and rapid promotion. A brother with
the Australian Air Force was killed a
couple of months ago.
Reported back in Bl%hty a month or
two ago after two and a half years in the
Pacific, the Indian Ocean and other seas,
Captain Henry Jackson has set up what
British Ministry of War Transport
officials hold to be a record. During the
present war he has steamed 240,000 miles.
It takes nothing from the performance
that he has done it all in tankers, and
that “Chinese” Jackson, as the sea knows
him, is 68 and has been at sea for over
half a century. When one ship he com-
manded was torpedoed his response was
to clap on full speed, but another got the
ship and broke her back. Another vessel
he commanded was showered with in-
cendiary bombs as she lay in port. He
led his men in an onslaught on the bombs
and saved his ship.
Sighted in Pitt-street, Sydney, Ted
Broomhead, a retyrned p.o.w. A
Methodist parson from South Aus., with
M.A. attached, he joined up as a private
to see the real thing. Bagged with others in
one of the desert clashes early in the war,
he spent over two years behind the
barbed wire in German and Italian
prison camps. He was with 400 others
in a p.o.w. labor company, and he com-
pares feelingly the Nazi bullies 900 miles
behind the fighting line to Rommel’s
very different desert soldiers. His out-
standing impression is the unbreakable
spirit of the British ps.o.w.—almost un-
believable the elaborate educational
courses and the first-class shows they
organise among themselves. Broomhead,
who pays a special tribute to the Red
Cross, without whose parcels ps.o.w.
could hardly have survived, is a padre
now. He’ll make a great one.
The elfish-looking naval officer with
the non-service beard is Maorilander lan
Rhodes, who at Geelong Grammar made
the First 18 in 1928-29, held the heavy-
weight championship for those years, was
in the 1929 crew and, as well, was a
LIEUT. IAN RHODES, C.G.M.
scratch golfer at 16. Back in M.L., he
pu t i n a couple of years with shearing
XT ~ J , 0 ~ T i j
touring North and South Islands.
In Australia once more, he won the Vic-
toria Golf Club championship, and was
Australian foursome championship part-
ner with Dick Payne in 1938, when a
time record for one round was made. To
get into the war Rhodes took passage as
a civilian to England, and entered the
R.N.R. as an ordinary seaman. He’s
been a fervent supporter of Lord Louis
Mountbatten since Fifth Flotilla days out
from Plymouth and later from Malta,
when the Mediterranean was at its worst.
For his outstanding bravery when H.M.S.
Kashmir was sinking, Rhodes won the
C.G.M. After that he joined H.M.S.
Sheffield, and was in 11 convoys to Mur-
mansk, with a surface action on New
Year’s Day, 1943, when the Nazis lost
two destroyers. He came back here in
H.M.A.S. Shropshire.
“El V.” introduces an Adelaidean:
Frith’s version of Harry Alderman, K.C.,
complete with wig, shows him in an unfamiliar
guise to most of an Australian-wide circle of
acquaintances, for he is a man who eschews
wigs and fuss when possible. In the vast
amount of negotiation which he carries through
as arbitrator of claims on the army for assets
taken over in military areas, and as a member
of the Naval Charter Board, he favors the arm-
chair type of discussion. Some of his board
meetings look like tea parties, but participants
often discover that they are not. Harry Aider-
man’s career has been largely made up of
negotiations. He arranged the details of the
sale of the Adelaide dailies to the Melbourne
“Herald” group, and he was mentioned as
ALDERMAN, K.C.
representative of the vendors in the radio-station
transactions discussed in Parliament. His
large practice at the Adelaide Bar has extended
to the Courts of Sydney and Melbourne. In
his native State he has a reputation as a very
sound advocate who keeps up the standards
of Paris Nesbitt, K.C., of whom he was a
favorite pupil, and Villeneuve Smith, K.C.,
whose partner he was for a decade or more.
Alderman is 49, has a son in the R.A.N. and
a daughter in the. army.
Spotting a tall sapper in a British divi-
sion, an Australian correspondent in
France found him to be Bob Dawson,
of Coorparoo (Q.). Bob left Queensland
in 1939, when he was 14, to satisfy his
father’s wish that he should join the
British Army. Father is Capt. Clarence
Dawson, a native Queenslander now serv-
ing in a British engineering unit, and
Bob’s brother Clarence is an R.A.F. ser-
geant. Captain Dawson went to the last
war with the N.Z.E.F., transferred to the
West Kent Yeomanry and “soldiered on”
in India after the peace.
Knows his grapes:
When the Tariff Board in Melbourne was
taking evidence on the Australian wine trade
one merchant, touching on the shortage of
spirit for fortifying ports and sherries, urged
the use of cane sugar in sauterne, on the
ground that Australia’s palate for light dry
wines was immature. Up rose Francois de
Castella. He contended that the best’ wine must
be made from the pure juice of the grape and
that _ Australia should be jealous of her wine-
making reputation. Probably few Australians
are more jealous of that than De Castella him-
self, or know more about it. His father, Hubert
de Castella, came from Switzerland in 1852 and
set up a vineyard at Lilydale—Melba’s country
—which became famous for the quality of its
vintages. His son combined practical know-
ledge with the science side; and, after studying
natural science at Lausanne and vine-growing
and wine-making in many celebrated French
vineyards, returned to manage his father’s vine-
yard. Francois de Castella became a viticulturist
in the Victorian Department of Agriculture in
1886, purchased Tongala vineyard near Echuca,
managed Chateau Dookie for the Bank of Vic-
toria and was commissioned by the Victorian
Government to tour France, £pain, Portugal
and Switzerland to study modern methods and
the phylloxera pest, then steadily wiping out
Victorian vineyards. Now 77, his chief interest
is the Wine and Food Society, of which he is
president and whose dinners he graces with a
varied discourse on the advantages of wine and
good cooking for human happiness, longevity
and friendliness. He lives in one of Melbourne’s
fine old homesteads on the Charteris estate at
Heidelberg, near where Tom Roberts, Streeton,
Blamire Young, the Lindsays and other artists
established the Eaglemont school. They., were
frequent visitors to his cellars.
Salvation Army Brigadier Stanley A.
Harris succeeds Lieut.-Col S. A. Church
as editor of the “War Cry” in Wellington
(M.L.). He spent 12 years at inter-
national H.Q., London, 20 years on
editorial work in Sydney and five years
at Melbourne and Adelaide.
L. C. Webb, at one time on Christ-
church “Press” editorial staff, a lecturer
on political science at Canterbury Uni-
versity and author of two works on that
abstruse subject, has been appointed
Maoriland’s Director of Stabilisation,
succeeding S. A. Chisholm, who goes to
London as M.L. Meat Producers’ board
manager. Born in Leicester (Eng.)
40 years ago, Webb was educated in
M.L. and at Cambridge, hopping over
to the School of International Studies
at Geneva for further enlightenment in
economics,
“H.”; Holding chess an aid to strategic
thinking, Australian Army authorities
asked Cecil J. S. Purdy to write a text-
book on the game. He was able to tell
them that a new 25,000-edition of Chess
Made Easy, compiled by himself and
Koshnitsky some years ago, was being
printed, whereupon they ordered the first
ten thousand copies. Twice Australian
champ., Purdy is editor of the “Austra-
lian Chess Review,” which has now be-
come simply “Check!”
Recently reported missing in' an
operational flight in North Westralia,
Squadron - Leader Wilbur ' Lawrence
Wackett, son of Commonwealth Aircraft
Corporation’s general manager, was miss-
ing earlier in the war. That was in the
New Guinea fighting in 1942, when he
crash-landed between Lae and Salamaua
and had to swim for nearly nine hours
before reaching land. Natives helped him
to get back to Port Moresby. Missing
m the same W.A. flight is Pilot-Officer
Keith Eric William Noble, of Manly,
Sydney, Wackett’s navigator.
With the Pacific War moving on, C. H.
Gamble, Vacuum Oil’s managing director,
has flown to the U.S.A. to keep up with
it in his capacity of High Commissioner
of the American Red Cross in the
Southern Pacific. He’ll be away about
three months, finalising plans for extend-
ing the Red Cross services into the new
areas.
“H.W.M.”: Sir William Mulock,
father of the Empire penny postage rate,
has died in Canada, aged 100. Yet an-
other demonstration of the general
longevity of legal men, he held what was
reputed to be an Empire record: he was
still on the Bench when well into the
nineties. Another Canadian Judge, Fitz-
patrick, reached the nineties. Many Vic-
torian Judges have been octogenarians,
but I can’t recall one who got into the
nineties, although nonagenarian Judges
have been common in England.
Sq.-Leader David J. Shannon, of S.A.,
has* won his fourth decoration in this
war, a bar for his D.S.O. His others
are the D.F.C. and bar. The citation
for his latest mentions “courage and forti-
tude of the highest order.” Sq.-Leader
Mickey Martin, of Sydney, holds similar
awards.
Into the silence:
At Stanthorpe (Q.), noted cattle-breeder and
authpr on cattle-breeding Daniel J. Sheahan.
A pioneer of the Granite Belt, a shareholder
ot the company that built the original Wallan-
garra abattoir?, pioneer of the Stamford Downs
station on the Flinders, he was also some years
"With the Department of Agriculture and Stock.
Dr. John Lockhart Gibson, one of Brisbane’s
oldest and best-known medical men. Born at
Ipswich (Q.), in 1860, he graduated with first-
class honors in medicine and surgery at Edin-
burgh University, .and did post-graduate work
at Vienna, Berlin and London before returning
to specialise in opthalmology, in which he was
consultant to the Children’s Hospital and Re-
pat. He was chairman of the scientific and
medical advisory committee of the Queensland
Cancer Trust, a member of University’s Senate,
foundation member and chairman of Emmanuel
University College and for years chairman of
Brisbane Grammar trustees. In the last war he
was at the Australian garrison hospital at Lem-
nos and Abassia.
At 65, Professor Berriedale Keith, authority
on the British Empire, author of various books
on its political make-up and editor of the Oxford
Press publication on the most far-reaching
change made in it —that brought about by the
Statute of Westminster. Also a Sanskrit
scholar, he was Regius Professor of Sanskrit
and Comparative Philology at Edinburgh Uni-
versity.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“8.P.”: A long train carrying Diggers
on leave stopped on an overhead bridge.
It was about midnight, and the “Ho, ho,
ho-ing” and other noises from the troops
brought forth the citizenry, who gathered
in the roadway below the train and
swapped badinage with the Diggers. Then
two local lasses, dressed in white and
glamorised by the moonlight, walked
clear of the bridge shadows into the road.
A silence fell on that train for fully half
a minute ; then a stentorian voice roared
“Hey, come on. Get this ruddy train
goin’ an’ let a man get home to his
missus! ” The roar of appreciation almost
drowned the engine’s whistle as she jerked
into motion.
* * * *
“Clooter”: I cannot help a sort of
bellicose curiosity about some fees paid
to legal gentlemen by the Federal Gov-
ernment for work done in connection
with tlie bombing of Darwin and other
more or less related war incidents. Dr.
Evatt told Parliament that one l.g. got
20 guineas a day “for all days spent in
operational and bombed areas as counsel
in the inquiry,” and £l7 ss. a day for the
same work in Sydney and Melbourne.
Other l.gs. with Canberra briefs drew
£1938 Is. 10d., £424, £2950 19s. 6d.,
£5106, £3978, £3052, £2963, £1995 and
£l9Bl since 1942. I’m no nark, but 1
shall never rest content until I find out
what that one and tenpence was for.
* * * *
“Avon”: It is 40 years since I first set
• foot in the “Bellamy’s” of the M.L. Par-
liament. If struck me as a dingy, depress-
ing sort of place, well below the aver-
age of other Wellington hostelries. The
liquor was good; the meals just so-so ;
but the member who took me in and
others whom I encountered there seemed
so proud of the place and of its traditions
that I kept my misgivings about it to
myself. And so far as I know, the real
opinion of the members was never ex-
pressed, in the House, at all events, till
a few weeks ago, when, the old building
having been pulled down, a new one had
been opened. The little bill came before
a Parliament united in joy, and the vote
was passed nem con. Public Works Min-
ister Semple spoke the most vigorous
epitaph on the old “Bellamy’s.” “The
place was not fit for human habitation;
on a wet day you had to take an um-
brella because of leaks in the roof. It
was a rat-den, and if we dodged the cats
we had to dodge the rats.” Priminister
Fraser dryly remarked that the main
reason the old “Bellamy’s” had to go was
that the Health Department condemned
it, and the staff threatened to walk out
unless improvements were made,
« « * «
“Harap”: When England’s war history
is written one of the most interesting
chapters will deal with civilian reactions
to the robot bomb. The remark of the
dear old lady who “much preferred the
old type” should become classic, A sur-
vey of newspapers published whilst the
bomb was doing its worst may cause the
historian to wonder whether they really
were produced during a period of dire
peril. Glancing through June-July copies
of “Nature,” I found a letter from a con-
tributor deploring the fact that he had
once robbed a redstart’s nest; a chatty
article on “Reproduction of the Wood-
louse” {Armadillum vulgare ) and a
learned disquisition on “the Biology of
the Prawn Leander.” What hope had
Hitler of terrorising a people capable of
such sublime detachment?
* * * *
“Balander”: Hubert Peter Lazzarini’s
dream of giving the Commonwealth
Bank a monopoly by outlawing private
banks, and what he calls inflation-
ary “cheque-pounds,” could become
a nightmare in the outback. Into
Birdsville (W.Q.) came George Dev-
ries, M.L.A. for Gregory, to unveil the
Sturt memorial. He decided to return
via Boulia and sought the local branch
of the Commonwealth Bank to draw
some cash. He found the branch at the
police station and asked for a tenner.
“Haven’t a penny in the kitty,” said the
policeman. “Haven’t had a deposit for
months.” When Devries pointed out that
it was a branch of the bank in which
he had a balance, and that he needed
that tenner, the policeman promised to
see what he could do. Next morning
the tenner was available, the policeman
having persuaded somebody in the town
to deposit that amount.
“When you've finished muckin' about we'll go and see the lions."
“Caballer” • The rumpus about ribbons
and chevrons for service in various
theatres of war reminds me of the closing
years of World War I. The men of the
original battalions wore a red stripe for
service abroad in 1914 and a blue one for
each succeeding year. Some bright
spirit among the later arrivals spread a
rumour among French civilians that the
red stripe denoted a wife, and each blue
one a child. This was regarded by old
tog l in° ha h AT d tendeTto“ramp n thet?'Ttyfe
mg, in mat it tended to cramp ineir sty
with the girls. It continued to handicap
them until the wearers had the wit to draw
nointorl attention tn thp fact that most of
pointed attention to me raci mat most or
the scandalmongers wore at least one
blue stripe, and in some cases three, with-
out the red chevron
out me rea cnevron. /
* * * *
“Exdig” ; I’m told that many Allied
soldiers are receiving from mothers and
sweethearts Heart Shield Bibles with
the saving power of the Word reinforced
with steel covers. Actually paper
(especially in a many-paged book like the
Bible) has a good stopping quality, especi-
ally when a bullet is losing the force of
its propulsion or strikes from an angle ;
but although every war produces Its
ctnrioe of Rihlp that kent a bullet
stones of the Bible that Kept a ouiiei
from the heart, my money, mere
any betting, will go on the paybook as
the most likely heart shield—even a pay-
Imok filled with red-ink entriesindicating
the sinful life of its holder, bomewnere
about the heart is the natural region for
the soldier to carry his paybook ; a Bible
. „ r- f „ Uroact nnnVpf
doesn t fit SO well in a breast p .
* * * *
“Bo”: Apropos of these new U.S.
Army regulations bearing on the way
of a Doughboy With a maid, an Allied
serviceman was having a smoke in the
foyer of a cinema theatre when the
manager bumped into him. After
an exchange of apologies the manager
conversationally asked if the visitor was
enjoying the show. “Sure,” said the
soldier; “the pictures are okay, but 1
guess the seats could be a bit better.
“Well, of course,” replied the manager,
•“the best ones naturally go to those who
book them. Perhaps you” “Oh, I
could see the screen well enough, I guess.
No trouble with that. It’s just the seat
itself.” “But surely it can’t be that you
find them hard,” pursued the now nettled
manager. “Why, they’re of sponge
rubber, the arms heavily padded and
the” “No, no, you’ve gaht me all
rahng,” explained the warrior. “Sure the
seats are mighty comfortable. But, say,
ain’t you never had any re-marks about
those dog-gone siats before? Why,
there’s only enough room in them for
one!”
* * * *
“Petermac” visits Sydney’s Riverview
Observatory:
It is a picturesque setting on the slope of a
hill, and the main building is half-underground.
This is to preserve an even temperature for the
delicate instruments inside. The earth’s con-
tinuous vibrations are magnified about 500 times
and recorded by seismographic needles on
smoked paper rolls and then photographed.
Here and there among the tiny zig-zag record-
ings a tremor causes larger zig-zags to appear
—one in the New Hebrides two years ago nearly
burnt the paper. The seismometers, of Rus-
sian design, were made and insulated in Aus-
tralia. Three huge telescopes with photo-
graphic apparatus attached are separately housed
in what look like Arabian minarets. These are
for photographing the celestial regions, includ-
ing sun-spots, and for measuring of double
stars. The laboratory is a mass of intricate
paraphernalia, and contains a library of hun-
dreds of weighty tomes. There are also stacks
of photographic plates carefully filed. To the
naked eye these plates appear unmarked, but
under a microscope thousands of tiny dots can
be seen—stars. Before you leave you can set
&™ tc £ e Xhere-the Free’plndlSmClo*
invented by the Australian scientist Father
O’Leary, who also made possible the discovery
of variable stars with his astronomical blink
£™ p c a 0 ? 0 “ r ;
n i s hing valuable technical information. It was
founded in 1908. Present director is Dr. E). J.
O’Connell, M.Sc., a vice-president of the British
Astronomical Society. #
„ FS „. Melbourne - s city fatherSj who
a cou P'f o£ ycars ago . made an e ; m,lion , al
a pp ea [ f or citizens to keep the place tidy,
are f ace d with 3. rat plague. Their five rat-
t h f f the e
® atC , S ’ lOur .° r mem Wim Go §s’ nave
een {brown into a campaign of exter-
mination but tbe ir record of 14 000
• ’ f vears doesn’t look imn’res-
kifled m lour years doesn t look impies-
S ive against the Melbourne rat s capacity
for reproduction. Suburban councils
asked the c j ty dads to send delegates
, 0 a conference on , he mattel% but the
d jg n jty 0 f the Queen City of the South
W ouldn’t tolerate that sort of thing, and
none tumed up
* * * *
“Arter” reflects on an injustice to his
childhood: —
It is more years than I care to think about
since I received my first lessons in pictorial art,
an< 3 for a very long while now I have been
aware my * first p ß recentor , s methods (judged
h y latter-day canons of criticism) were not only
stupid but brutal. Well do I remember the day
when I presented to his gaze my effort to por-
and I failed to achieve dull, mechanical
symmetry. My instructor defaced my design
with, a fat blue pencil and said “Do it again;
that looks more like a deformed potato than a
piece of Q rec i an pottery.” How different would
be the reception accorded to this early evidence
of my genius by the enlightened contemporary
“structori
-My de y ar A r t er ? the delightful awkwardness of
the shapes you envision, your supreme in-
genuity in escaping certain technical difficulties,
above all your passionate sense of color-
proved by the fact that you haven’t used any—
mark you out for high distinction!” En-
couraged thus, how could I have failed to reach
the very summit of Parnassus?
* * * *
“Lao-dah” recalls a Parisian interlude:
The shooting match in Notre Dame during
the thanksgiving service that De Gaulle attended
—a film is now being shown in Australia—
did not surprise me much. I was in Paris on
the first May Day after the last war. In
Hyde Park, London, 100,000 people were listen-
ing to Communist and other speakers, shep-
herded by a couple of policemen. Paris had
been an armed camp for days beforehand, and
every courtyard was stuffed with soldiers and
machine-guns. Half of them wearing red
geraniums for the Revolution and the other half
wearing white lilies-of-the-valley for the other
side of the argument, the citizens swarmed to
the Place de la Republique. Aeroplanes roared
overhead, armored cars packed with soldiers
tore down the boulevards, and the gendarmes
slapped the legs of the citizens with the flats
of their swords when the mob became too press-
ing. Everybody appeared to be on strike
except some university students, who were
acting as strike-breakers by driving buses, and
only one newspaper was selling on the streets—
a Socialist journal, with a leader written by
Anatole France in his most biting vein of irony
and satire. A deputy who got up on a soapbox
to harangue the populace was cut down by a
policeman’s sabre, and the mob started pulling
up the iron gratings round the street trees and
using them as weapons. Then passions de-
clined as suddenly as they had arisen, and
everybody went home —to read in the next
morning’s papers that casualties had been a
mere 700. Paris dined that night as fastidiously
as ever.
* * * *
“Nakh”; Deference to overseas opinion
is ingrained even in the most authorita-
tive of Australian institutions. Faced
with the problem of deciding between two
aspirants to a vacant Chair, a university
referred the question to a most important
British board for decision. The board dis-
cussed the matter, but as none of its mem-
bers knew either candidate, and qualifica-
tions w.ere equal, it was at a dead-
lock till a member leaped up joy-
fully to announce: “Oh, now I
remember Bonk (one of the candi-
dates) is the son of the old chap
we had dinner with last year when
he visited England. He was a nice
fellah.” Bonk was recommended.
* * * *
“Mid- Channel”: “Curtain
Raiser” (B. 28/9/’44) “enters a pro-
test again Gilbert” and lets Sullivan
alone. But the partnership won’t
bear separation. Gilbert came first,
for it was his lyrics and his librettos
that created Sullivan. Gilbert as a
librettist had no equal and no suc-
cessor or even decent imitator. It
is 59 years since “The Mikado” was
first produced at the Savoy Theatre,
London ; “The Pirates of Penzance”
and “lolanthe” go even further
back, and they are as alive as
ever. The “Gilbertian” situation
has found its way into the diction-
ary. G. and S. may not deserve all
the credit for rescuing the stage
from the condition it was in in the
’sixties and ’seventies, but they
were heralds of a brighter order.
They gave heartiness where there
had been dullness, refinement where
there had been crudeness, a waft
of intelligence where there had
been sheer banality.
“Petermac”: With reference to green
jackets worn by South African soldiers
(B. 27/9/’44), the uniform of the Ist Bat-
talion of the N. S. Wales Army Corps
was a green tunic with black facings.
The historic association of the Ist Bat-
talion has been maintained to some extent
by the oblong green and black color
patches of the Ist Battalions of the A.I.F.
in this war and the last. Both have
superb fighting records.
SOME OFFICIAL INFORMATION.
“Australians are great drinkers of their rather
heavy beers, of somewhat higher alcoholic content
than those of Britain or the U.S.A. There are
good breweries in all States, and inter-State rivalry
is keen on their respective merits.”-— Extract from
“Know Australia/’ a booklet issued by Mr. Colwell’s
Information Department,
’Tis not alone in sporting recreations
And arts of peace our pride is to excel:
We’re credited with solid reputations
In homelier accomplishments as well.
’Mid other facts and figures briefly quoted
To make Australia’s attractions clear
You’ll find—in this official pamphlet noted —
Our high regard for beer.
Some people think our modesty intense is
And carried much too far; that we’re remiss
In not proclaiming all the excellences
In such a favored spot of earth as this.
Wool, gold and wheat are cited for the triple
Crown of our nationhood and surest props.
But Mr. Calwell would include the tipple
That’s made from malt and hops.
We view the amber brew with deep affection,
He tells the world, and sink a goodly stock
(A fact demonstrable from the collection
Round any bar at close on six o’clock).
But when he’d have us think the brand of
swanky
Wherein the thirsty Aussie dips his snout
Is stronger than the British or the Yankee,
I feel a shade of doubt.
Big cricket’s off, it seems, for the duration,
With all the arguments it used to yield";
There’s little scope for noisy disputation
Without a contest for the Sheffield Shield.
So when you hear discussion, strained and
screwy,
It’s likely that a controversy’s on
Which holds most stingo—Carlton beer or
Toohey,
Richmond or Tooth or Swan?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
McKELL'S BRIGHT IDEA.
“People who are disqualified by stipendiary
stewards and racing committees should have an out-
side judicial authority to which they could appeal-
—N.S.lV. Premier UcKell.
Another job for courts which hear appealing*,
To sit in solemn conclave and decide
If jockeys, carpeted for crooked dealings,
Really deserve to be disqualified;
Of it blutf trainers, wily metallicians,
Rubbed out for turf offences now and then,
Aren’t victims of entirely wrong decisions
By quite unlearned men.
Such courts’ activities might be extended
To hearing and pronouncing on the P lea j ,
Of pugs whose hopes of winning fights were end
By ignorant or biased referees.
And greyhound trainers, bent upon disproving
Charges of doping, with their ugly slurs,
Might come to this tribunal for removing
Stains on their characters.
What novel problems would confront the judges,
What avenues untrod they would explore,
Things inaccessible to him who trudges
Along the usual paths of legal lore;
Things such as Blackstone, Coke and their sue
cessors , , . „
Might never dream of, and one feels a
If even university professors
Have much idea about.
Forward, McKell! You’ll face some criticism
Doubtless, but you need never let it vex
Your soul, that hackneyed law-book aphor
That states De minimis non curat lex-
For even if the Law be held disdainful
Of trifles, there are lots like you who
At the bare notion that a term so pamtu
Could be applied to sport.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Schnorrer”: The fact that a Lieut.
Cohen and a Sergeant Isaacs were named
as honors recipients in a Highland regi-
ment was a subject* for joking comment
in a London paper recently. It’s not as
funny as it seems. In Glasgow there is
a Jewish Lads’ Brigade attached for train-
ing purposes to the Seventh Cameramans;
its members wear the kilt and have a
pipe band. Over a hundred ex-members
of the brigade are now serving with the
father regiment.' Aberdeen has a some-
what similar organisation, without the
pipes. There is an old josh that no Jew
can live in Aberdeen ; actually there is
one of the most important Hebrew con-
gregations of Britain there. At present
in Sydney is a man with one of the
broadest Scottish accents 1 have heard.
His name is Levi, and he is full Jewish,
one of a family that has lived for many
generations in Scotland.
* * * £
"Wodgil”: The turn of events is en-
abling sellers of sheet music to lighten
their stocks of “We’ll Hang Out Our
Washing on the Siegfried Line” ; and I
daresay their congeners beyond the
Rhine are trying to work up a trade in
unsold copies of Lissauer’s “Hymn of
Hate.” The Siegfried composition is
mere doggerel, but the opening lines of
the Hymn were included by Wavell in
his recently-published and highly success-
ful anthology, though not in the best-
known translation, which goes this way:
French and Russian, they matter not,
Tis blow for blow and shot for shot:
We hold the Vosges and the Weichsel gate.
You we will hate with a lasting hate,
England!
Strange that after five years the Allies
should be attacking; tho Siegfried Line, and
that after 30 years the enemy should be
standing on the Vosges and at the Weich-
sel (Vistula) gate. Stranger still, perhaps,
was Lissauer’s fate. He was a Jew, and
he lived long enough to share the perse-
cution of his people and to repent bit-
terly of having written the Hymn.
*
“Nix”: Even if “vomit” isn’t heard
now in Bellevue Hill or Toorak (B.
30/8/’44), it may be when the warriors
return. The Army has no use for such
euphemisms as “strawberry box,” and the
Aussie soldier is handed “Bags, vomit, 3”
as part of his equipment when he climbs
into a landing-craft and turns temporary
sailor during amphibious ops. He gets
an air-sickness preventive and barley
sugar as well, but defence in depth is an
important principle. D-Day invaders car-
ried vomit-bags across the choppy
Channel —and used them, too.
* * * «
“Lucretia” on camouflaged uniforms:
As a wearer of the rifle-green in a volunteer
battalion of the “Royal Americans” (60flh
Rifles) so far back as 1895, plus a close associa-
tion with the Ist (Regular) Battalion of the
* regiment prior to the S’African brawl in
o ;ir 9 ,9r,’,. a110w me to assure “El Madjal”
'd. 44) that the chevrons worn by the
n.c.os. were black mohair braid on a red back-
ground The chevrons worn by n.c.os. of the
Rifle Brigade were also black braid, but backed
with green, as were those of the now defunct
Royal Irish Rifles, who also wore green piping
above the jacket cuff. The dress most favored
by the early American (then British) pioneers,
and the scouts for their settlement's, was the
"Are you quite sure your husband isn't suspicious?"
neutral-tinted deerskin suit. This was also
favored by the American revolutionary army
before it became uniformed in blue. The adop-
tion of green as the color of the uniform of the
“Royal Americans” was, therefore, probably
fortuitous rather than of design, and in order
to distinguish a “Loyalist Colonial” auxiliary
formation from the red-coated British regulars
and the Hessians hired to serve in the War of
Liberation. That argument is strengthened by
the fact that no attempt was made to evolve
a field-service dress for those regular and hired
troops. Little attention was paid by the greatest
general of his time, Napoleon, to anything in
the nature of blending uniforms with the ter-
rain. Less attention is likely to have been paid
by the then British Army. It is, moreover,
difficult to see how green would have blended
with the central areas of Spain, even if the
cork and other forests of the Sierras were also
in the area of operations.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The extraordinary ease with
which sytists, good, bad and awful, can
sell their pictures these war days
makes me wonder why nobody thinks
of reviving the notion, founded on
the circulating library, which occurred
to a Melbourne man in pre-war
days, when most artists who held
exhibitions didn’t make out-of-pocket ex-
penses. Wishing to help some painter
friends he collected a gallery of their
works and let them out to subscribers at
a small weekly rental. If a picture grew
upon the hirer so much that he wanted
to keep it, he could buy it on t.-p. The
scheme was no great success, one reason
being that the inventor could never bring
himself to hound down people who
treated pictures like books and forgot
to return them. But conditions are
different now,
* * * *
“Hamer”; I have just heard of the
death of a very hard trier for literary
honors, who never got further than
“Answers to Correspondents,” but fre-
quently had a couple of his lines there.
Sometimes he went close to acceptance—
his verses were sent back on a few occa-
sions with suggestions for amendment—
but his alterations were usually worse
than the originals. One of his efforts
began with a fair promise as a lament:
No more shall J sail on the river,
No more shall I swim in the stream;
But the bard could make no better finisl
of it than:
The doc says I’m gone in the liver,
And must keep off .all rich foods and cream.
A covering letter explained the nature of
his inspiration. The poet said that it was
very pathetic for a man to learn that his
liver was all wrong “But nobody has
written a poem about it yet.”
* * * *
“Nakh”; It is so difficult to get odd
jobs done these days that anybody who
sets up a small industry in Melbourne
gains notoriety. An elderly man in our
suburb announced that he was prepared
to receive safety razor blades for sharp-
ening. He was rushed with clients and
credited with having an extensive plant
and a mysterious pull with Man-power.
Actually all he. has is an ordinary glass
tumbler, round which he rubs the blades
with his fingers.
* * * *
“Si Anu” meets a traveller:
The unusual sight of an Indonesian sailor in
the uniform of the Dutch Navy sitting in the
organ loft at the Melbourne Town Hall listen-
ing to the Concerto Festival moved me to
romantic speculations on how wars spread cul-
ture. What had brought this shy island lad into
the proximity of Beethoven, Bach and other
masters of European music? Probably an in-
stinctive, intuitive love of beauty. When he got
back to his own kampong how dissatisfied he
would'be with the primitive melodies of the
gamelang and the alang-alang, after hearing
the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra in full blast
under Professor Heinze's baton! In the interval
I found myself standing next to the Indonesian
tar in the foyer, and, knowing something of
his language, I engaged him in conversation,
He came from Bamyumas, in Java, had left
a wife and family behind him and was lonely
without them. I remarked that art spoke a
universal language, and he agreed that it did —
that was why I found him at the concert. He
had stepped into the Town Hall, mistaking it
for a moving picture theatre. We exchanged the
customary salutations, and with a “remain in
peace” he made for the exit to spend the rest
of the evening communing with Ginger Rogers.
“Two Seven”: Eric Johnson (B.
27/9/*44) expressed the feeling that
strikes the average Australian when
he gets away from home. I. have
received a number of letters from
Australians abroad on service, and almost
invariably they contain the phrase
“You've got to leave Aussie to find out
what a bonzer place it is,” or a variation
on the same theme. This, of course, is
merely an expansion of the sentiment felt
by the average man when he leaves one
town for another, but its educational and
patriotic value is high. I am optimist
enough to believe that many of our fight-
"Wot's the 'oldup, Bill? Plenty o’ room this side!"
ing men will come back determined not
only to denounce the home-staying narks
who belittle their country but to do what
they can to make a good country better.
* * * *
“Boghi”: “Tiki’s” retired admiral with
the acorns (B. 13/9/”44) had an imitator
in Mildura. In that city’s early days
its leading medico, Dr. Abramowski,
a vegetarian, carried on his pro-
fessional visits about the district supplies
of asparagus seed which he broadcast
over the earthern banks of the irrigation
channels. Carried by the flowing water
and germinating quickly in the warm,
sandy soil, the asparagus spread and flour-
ished along the channel routes and in
the vineyards, where it soon became a
pest. Fifteen years ago piles of dugout
roots could be seen in parts of the settle-
ment ; but high prices and the speed of
modern transport have changed the dis-
trict’s outlook. Today the asparagus beds
along the waterways provide an industry
said to be worth as much as £2O per week
to some gatherers. Gourmets organise
excursions to favorite spots, the positions
of which are secrets as jealously guarded
as any treasure chart of the Spanish
Main.
* * * *
“G.M.M.”: The reference to “Tarara-
boomdeay” by “Hamfat” (B. 13/9/’44)
brings back memories of a voyage to
England in 1893 (bank-smash year). The
natives at the ports of call after Australia
invariably sang this song. At Colombo
it was “Me a Scotchman! Me Jock
MacPherson! Tararaboomdeay! ” and at
Naples this song vied with “Funiculi
Funicula,” which the Italians sang from
the small boats alongside the steamer.
On my return to Australia in 1901 it was
still being sung at these ports of call.
Vessels calling at the lone island of
Tristan da Cunha were met with “Tarara-
boomdeay.” I saw Lottie Collins, the
original singer, at a music hall in London.
She accompanied the song with a tremen-
dous amount of exertion, dancing all over
the [stage displaying voluminous frilly
pantaloons and petticoats—the correct
apparel for skirt dancers in those days.
I remember a cartoon showing Henry
Irving as Hamlet careering around the
stage reciting:
Imperious Cssar, dead and turned to clay,
May stop a' hole to keep “Tarara-
Boomdeay” away.
♦ * * *
“X.S.”: An unusual wedding took
place in a Melbourne suburban church.
The church’s next-door neighbor is the
lock-up, and in the lock-up was a young
man awaiting trial on a charge of theft.
He had engaged himself to marry
a 22-year-old girl, and the date coin-
cided with his confinement. The police
took a kindly view of the situation,
and at the appointed hour the vicar was
waiting at the altar, two detectives con-
voyed the bridegroom, the bride arrived,
the ceremony was performed, the register
w'as signed with the detectives’ signatures
beneath those of the happy couple, the
’groom affectionately saluted the bride,
the detectives gallantly looked the other
way, and there was a tearful parting at
the church door.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Conan Doyle will probably
enjoy a new boom on the strength of his
biography by Pearson, present-day repre-
sentative of the magazine publishing
house that was Doyle’s first and main
supporter. The book of his I most en-
joyed, The Stark-Munro Letters, will
probably be neglected. Doyle perfected
the art of writing sequence short stories,
and was one of the pioneers of the syndi-
cation system which enabled some Aus-
tralasian editors to say that, since they
could get story supplies from overseas at
from five bob a time, they couldn’t afford
to buy the products of local writers at
any price. An Australian purveyor of
supplement matter took five of the Sher-
lock Holmes yarns when first Pearsons
started putting them round, a bit doubt-
ful about paying the £lO for the lot,
which was mord than was usually charged
for that sort of thing. Supplement
readers asked for more, and the distribu-
tor, ordering another relay, was told that
another five would cost him £lO5. Baulk-
ing at that he found himself compelled
by the demand to reopen negotiations
later, to find the price had hopped up
another £9O. But Conan Doyle was
eclipsed by many others in the syndicate
prices he commanded. Tom Gallon was
for a long time ranked as the highest-paid
short-story writer in Britain. Nowadays
his works have dropped right out of favor,
* * * *
“X.S.”: The will of an 82-year-old
Bendigonian has been upset by Justice
Macfarlan in Melbourne on the ground
that the testator had “obsessions.” He
believed that the ,Second Coming was not
far off, and that the saints would be
caught up to meet the Lord in mid air,
whence they would be transported to the
realms of heavenly bliss. In giving his
judgment, ’Sonah said that while it was
not to be taken as laying down the
proposition that because a man had ex-
treme religious views he must be insane,
it was clear that religious obsessions
had gradually occupied the testator s
mind, preventing him from giving proper
regard to the claims of his relatives to
his bounty. The Bendigonian believed
himself to be one of the saints.
* * * *
“M’fundishi” discourses on malaria:
After over half a lifetime spent in countries
where malaria is the ever-present menace 1
have arrived at the conclusion that there is no
freedom from infection. It is possible, however,
to acquire a degree of “tolerance.” The per-
centage of rejects for labor in the Rand mines
amongst native volunteers from the Nyasas,
British and Portuguese ran as high as 40 for
enlarged spleens, one result of malaria. The
infantile death-rate from malaria was very high.
On the other hand, the incidence of malaria
among European children born in malaria-
infested countries, who enjoy good housing and
living conditions, with ready medical services, is
remarkably low. The same applies to the
parents. Yet the microscope will probably re-
veal malaria parasites in the blood of both.
During an incumbency of six months at the
British Consulate at Chinde, P.E.A. (a noto-
riously fever-stricken station at the mouth of
the Zambesi), a child remained seemingly in
good health. Removal to the “healthy” shire
highlands brought out the malaria in the blood-
stream immediately. The cooler atmosphere
of these highlands tended to activate the
malarial spores in the blood to such an extent
that Government medical officers' prohibited
cold baths or swimming pools. When I served
in German and Portuguese East Africa in
World War I cases of blackwater (described
as “malaria gone 1 ' wrong,” and usually fatal)
were brought on by sudden chills after heavy
rainstorms. Transfer to higher elevations, sup-
posedly healthier, and actually so if malaria
parasites are not in the bloodstream, invariably
brought on an attack of fever. Moreover, native
troops, with a high degree of tolerance in their
native lands, brought from West to East Africa,
soon began to suffer almost as badly as the un-
acclimatised men of European units.


ABORIGINALITIES
AT BARADINE.
When October comes to Baradine
The days are warm and long,
And blossoms star the standing scrub;
It is a time of song.
But wheat-heads tall, they look their last
On sun and hills and sky;
Then bow them to the hungry knife
And rank on rank they die.
For October, out at Baradine,
Is when the hay is made,
And wheat along the binder tracks
Goes dawn before the blade.
The clatter of the beater bars,
The whirling pitman rod,
Bring forth the sheaves of sacrifice
To please the harvest god.
In October, up at Baradine,
The busy groundlarks run
Along the aisles by stubble marked
Sharp in the noonday sun.
And southward in the afternoon
The Warrumbungles stand,
Their broken peaks all sheathed in blue
Above the green-clothed land.
It’s October now at Baradine:
All through the sun-drenched day,
From Dinbi down to Bugaldi
And on the Castlereagh,
The waggons roll from stock to stock,
The long forks flash and play
As, sheaf by sheaf, and load by load,
They’re getting in the hay.
n.s.w. Old-timer.
* * * *
“Bo”: The sun flamed down behind the
low hills as a dusty rider jogged up to
the homestead. As he dismounted and
, hitched the reins over a rail a woman
came out of the kitchen door. The horse-
man waved. “Hey, Em!” he called. The
woman looked up with quizzical eyes,
and then recognition dawned. “Why, it’s
Joe!” she exclaimed in surprise. The
horseman came over, dragged his old felt
hat off and started twisting it round in his
hands. “Yair, it’s me,” he drawled. “Sur-
prised to see me, are y’? Well, I reckoned
I’d be back one day to claim y’, remem-
ber, an’ you said you’d be waitin’ for me
—well, here I an). An’ we can get spliced
now —I got nearly 50 quid saved up.”
“But it’s over six years since you
left on that long droving trip, Joe, and
you never wrote, and I” “Well,”
broke in Joe, “you know how crook I
always was at writin’ letters” “And
I thought you’d forgotten, so about three
years ago I started going out with Tim
Irvine from over Bingiewalla. We were
married last February. He’s share-farm-
ing here with Dad.” Joe’s hat ceased
gyrating and his eyes popped out. Half
a minute later he gulped and stammered
out: “Gripes, I thought y’d ’a’ waited for
a cove.” Another pause, then: “All the
same, I think y’ made a bloomer, Em.
These hasty marriages are never any
good. Y’ on’y kicked round with Irvine
for, three years— y' couldn’t know any-
thing about him !’’
“Fancar”: Tell “M.U.R.” (B. 6/9/’44)
that the type of boat he pushes around
the Murray comes from the venerable
Scowegian. The Danes have “pram,”
the Dutch “praam” and the Icelander
“Prami.” The general meaning is barge
or lighter.
* * * *
“Edjudina”; I once had a mate who,
like “Jemalong J.” (B. 6/9/’44), believed
that he had found a sovereign way of
beating the cold by dossing with one
ground-sheet beneath and another on
top. It ended in his contracting
pneumonia, 150 miles from the nearest
doctor ; and didn’t we have a job plaster-
ing him with clay poultices, the nearest
we could get to antiphlogistine! How
he caught the nearly-fatal chill was
simply that, although he felt nice and
warm between his rubberised sheets, he
was in a state of hot moistness when he
emerged into the chill morning air of the
desert. Rubberised cloth of any kind
confines and condenses the moisture that
is constantly being passed out through
the pores of the human skin. That is
why rubber boots worn in dry, cold con-
dition will induce cold feet far beyond
anything encased in leather —and why no
one yet has evolved the rubber sleeping-
bag.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”: The kookaburras of
N.Q. give yeoman service in helping to
keep down the white-ant population.
They nearly always nest by digging into
a white-ant “bed” on a dead gum and
hollowing out the middle. Any ants that
are uncovered during the Work of excava-
tion are scoffed, and the brooding kooka
digs ’em out as she feels inclined during
the incubation period. But termites alone
don’t satisfy the daily-increasing appe-
tites of the offspring, which keep the
parents hunting better tucker from dawn
to dusk. Infant goburras are slow in
learning how to fly, but when they do
depart their fond parents abandon the
nest. Then the surviving termites, which
have been patiently awaiting the with-
drawal of the interlopers, swiftly wall up
their nest.
“V.G.”: When pine-felling on the
Upper Brisbane I worked alone for
several months except for the company
of a kookaburra who followed me round
and came in for plenty of tucker when
the trees crashed. When I had to bark
the logs there was nothing for him, and
his remarks were then rather pointed. To
shut him up I chopped grubs out of a
rotten cudgeree log. His limit was a
dozen and they’re not small. The good
news spread. Within a week I had eight
birds crowding me like an eleven-o’clock
Brisbane beer rush. The original cadger
lost his manners to such an extent that
on seyeral occasions he narrowly missed
decapitation in the rush to the log. Finally
I quit, as it was either their livelihood or
mine. The gang cleared out, leaving the
pioneer to his former occupation.
“Carm?’: I await the end of the war
for a return of Kookaburra-brand tinned
fish. The pictured jackass was true to
type as to beak and coloring, but his legs
and stance were those of a magpie. I
often wondered where the label artist saw
jackasses with a lower leg-joint of at
least four inches in length.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: Landing on Lizard
Island (N.Q.) we climbed its 1200 ft. high
summit and stood, where Captain Cook
had stood over 173 years before. From
“We used to keep our pants up with those in New Guinea."
that vantage point may be viewed such
a panorama of coral seas as exists no-
where else in the world. Away on the
southern horizon commences a faint
shimmering white line which grows,
broadens and sweeps past the island a
mile to the east as a spouting, glistening
turmoil, then swings westward to fade
away over the northern horizon as a dim
silver thread. It is the surf upon the
outer edge of the Great Barrier, the long,
white line signalling eternally the defeat
of the mightiest of all oceans. The only
break in the line discernible from Lizard
is the narrow gap (now known as Cook’s
Passage) discovered by the explorer and
through which he took the Endeavor. It
is a difficult passage to navigate in a
small craft, for the tide swirls in and out
like a mill-race. The waters thereabouts
teem with fish, our biggest catch being a
giant “Chinaman,” which, however, had
to be dumped, the month being August.
For three months (June to August) the
“Chinaman” (a member of the snapper
family) is poisonous to eat, whereas for
the rest of the year it is delicious. One
N.Q. medico told us that the fish became
poisonous during that period through eat-
ing a noxious variety of seaweed. Our
camp on the island was alongside the
remains of the home of Mary Watson,
the trepanger’s wife whose journey to sea
in a ship’s tank with her baby and a
wounded Chinaman to escape from hos-
tile blacks in the ’sixties remains one of
the epics of the north. Lizards were
numerous, as in the days «of Cook, who
named the island because of their pre-
valence, and in a thick forest in the in-
terior of the granite island was an im-
mense flying-fox camp, from which clouds
of the bats flew nightly to the mainland.
* * * *
“Creel”: Mention of the Darnley
Islanders’ method of poisoning fish with
Sardi-root (B. 27/9/’44) recalls that Cape
York Peninsula abos. achieve the same
results with bark of the handsome foam-
tree (Jagera pseudorhus), which contains
a strong saponin, and when swished about
in a waterhole brings the stupefied fish
to the surface. I have never seen or heard
of a buck using this method of fishing;
it seems to be practised exclusively by the
lubras, who invariably cook the catch as
soon as they land it. Some years ago an
attempt was made to establish an industry
in the collection of the bark as a substi-
tute for Quillaja bark, imported for head-
ing ales and stouts. Trees were too
scattered and too hard to get at to make
the game worth while.
* * * *
“Cowsense”: While watching a grass-
fire race across paddocks, taking fences
and hedges in its stride, I noticed a group
of five cows standing close by a hedge
the other end of which was ablaze. As
I started to move in their direction, won-
dering why they made no move, the
owner, noticing their plight, remembered
that one of them was still tethered to the
hedge. He went over and freed it, the
fire meanwhile having reached to within
a few yards. As soon as the cow was re-
leased all five lumbered off to safety, I
figured it out that the four cows had
stood by their tethered companion hoping
by their number to attract attention.
* * * *
“Zake”; Our country has produced
confidence tricksters who have held a
reputation for slickness second to none,
and I rejoice to announce that an Aus-
tralian, by the latest effort in the line, has
created a world’s record. As usual, a
foreign visitor was the victim. It hap-
pened in the garden of a Manly (Sydney)
naturalist when a cuckoo deposited an
egg in the nest of an Indian crested bul-
bul and hopefully departed. The gent,
and his missus from Gandhiland aston-
ished the avian world by proclaiming
themselves mugs, for they fell heavily for
the old trick. Now they are working a
15-hour day trying to satisfy the Gargan-
tuan appetite and Pop Bul-bul gazes with
a puzzled and somewhat suspicious look
at his spouse. Ma Cuckoo mightn’t be
able to unleash a full-throated laugh like
another bush denizen, but she must be
wearing a cynical grin at this feather in
her cap.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: In a Blue Mountain
(N.S.W.) gully, just as I came within
sight of a lyre-bird’s nest of sticks, some
9ft. above ground and water level and
right over a rocky pool, I spotted a fox
cautiously feeling a way in by the rear
approach. The hen, though out of Rey-
nard’s' sight, could apparently smell her
enemy, and was twisting and turning
anxiously. Suddenly the marauder over-
reached and toppled right into the pool.
Half-dazed, he jumped away downstream
as I got a shot in with a stone. That
disturbed Mrs. Menura,-who volplaned
cleanly in a half-flight and disappeared in
the opposite direction from that taken
by the fox. Later I saw a chick in the
nest, it remained silent while ma put on
a trailing-wing performance for the fox’s
and my own benefit. This was strange
because a baby lyre-bird so abandoned is
often shrilly vociferous. A mound across
the creek showed where Mr. Menura
had serenaded his wife while nesting, but
there was no sign of the mastersinger
himself.
* * * *
Rooster : Does “8.4” contend that
the silver eels await the floods before they
migrate to their distant breeding grounds
(B. 13/9/ ’44). The life-cycle of the eel
entirely precludes the idea that weather
conditions influence their mass move-
ment. The tiny “glass” larvae are hatched
in ocean abysses. Those distributed along
our eastern seaboard hail from the Sar-
gasso Sea. It takes three years to attain
the elver stage and another three to cross
the South Pacific. If it’s adverse weather
when they reach the river estuaries they
don’t wait but, like the salmon, battle
their way upstream against the flood. If
it’s the middle of a drought they still go
on, threading along through water-weed
and moss, even across dry paddocks, till
they reach the highest mountain lakes
and streams. There they stay, on an
average, eight to ten years, when the
wanderlust urges them back to their birth-
place. Neither drought nor flood will
stop them. Silver eels, by the way, are
not a distinct species. They’re naturally
black, the silvery coat being a special
adaptable bridal dress for the pilgrimage.
* * * *
“E. 2”: Apropos strychnine-poisoning
(B. 20/9/’44), dog-stiffeners say the bait is
more effective if baking soda is added in
equal quantity. Reason given is that soda
renders the poison more soluble and pre-
vents the victim from carrying the bait
too far. One case cited was that of a
fox found 50 yards from where a bait
was laid, the poisoned liver still in its
mouth.
# $ $ $
“Esk D.”: Old George has led a hat-
ter’s life at Alluvial Creek for years. 1
drop in occasionally for a yarn when
bush work takes me out that way, and
he tolerates these visits if not too fre-
quent. On my last trip there I found a
skeleton of poles where the hut had been,
and the old chap was lifting the last of
the plants in the vegetable patch.
“Shifted?” I asked. “Yair,” replied
George. “There’s another cove pitched
camp about a mile down. He was up
larst Sendee- an’ the Sundee before, an’
reckoned he’d be up agen t’morrer. I’m
at the big gully near the head o’ the crick
now. A bloke might git a bit o’ privacy
there!”
* * * *
“C.E.”; Old Andrews had finished his
half of the dividing fence between the
two homesteads, and after many re-
minders and numerous hints Weary at last
started his section. With the row of holes
down, he eyed the big half-dry box that
leaned drunkenly over the line. He shook
his head perplexedly, glanced up at the
sound of an approaching whistle, then
with a grin grabbed a bar and was pot-
tering round when Andrews arrived.
“Why don’t y’ fall that dead tree first?”
asked the old chap. “It’ll fall on the
fence.” “I would,” said Weary gently,
looking up at the twisted-grained old
giant, “only there’s a big family of
possums living ih it.” “Possums ?” Old
Andrews’ voice rose to a screech. “D’ja
see what them damn’ things done t’ me
apple crop an’ the shoots on me new
peaches? Gripes, I’ll give ’em possums,
the destructive, thievin’ pests. Yair, an’
I wouldn’t be s’prised if this here’s where
they come from.” Weary gazed at the
tree speculatively and decided it was
very likely. The following morning busi-
ness called him into town, and by the
time he’d dropped in to see if Bung had
received his new ration all right, and
waited to give his opinion of the income
tax, it was too late to do any work. Next
day when he went back to the fence,
the tree was down.
* * * ♦
“Adelaide”: A domestic novelty in the
sale of stock was seen at an auction of
racehorses here. A mare had been adver-
tised “with yearling filly by Baccha Sakao
and in foal to the same sire.” But then
Nature took a hand, and at the sale ring
a jolly little colt, one day pld, arrived
with his mother and big sister, and the
three were sold together.
* * * *
“Carnie”: The district’s swimming
champion was practising backstroke at
the favorite hole along the creek when
the Boland kids passed by. The swim-
mer took no notice of their flight across
country but, on returning home, his
mother told him how a trio of kids, im-
portant in the bringing of bad tidings,
had breathlessly informed her that her
“Bill” had gone mad. He was down at
the Cedar Hole swimming “upside down
backwards.”


TUSSOCK.
How should my eye fondle these fulvous grasses
Mv eye that fed on emerald in my youth
Or gloat upon these cobweb-colored masses
Of grisly rocks; my eye that loved the smooth
Unbroken turf of comely English downs.
How should it revel now m sober greys
Or muted harmonies of fawns and . b^°wns?
She does, she does, she glories and gives thanks
When in the witching close of summer days,
The gold of latter sunlight floods their flanks.
There the hills lie, like lions in repose,
While, to relieve the tussock all ablaze,
Each little shadowed valley brooding shows
The trail of restless waters in her shape.
Washed in with glowing purple of the grape.
M L Arnold Wall.
$ # H?
“Julia Creek”: Accepting “Betcha’s”
challenge (B. 6/9/’44) to beat the hound
that trailed a motor-car about 30 miles.
Some years ago I visited an out-station
of the property on which I worked. Hav-
ing left my dog at the homestead, I
wasn’t pleased to hear that I was expected
to shift over 2000 weaners on my own
next day, until I remembered that the
out-station had the ’phone on. Ringing
the homestead, about 25 miles away, I
asked the bookkeeper to hold the receiver
to old Rusty’s ear, then blew a piercing
whistle, Rusty’s command to come to
heel. Rusty arrived at the outstation just
before sunrise next morning not much the
worse for his 25 miles’ ramble in the dark.
• * * *
“Old-timer”: This is “Curyo” Charlie’s
own yarn: “There was a big crowd at
the Chillingolla sports an’ plenty o’ money
about. The John is sweet, so I open me
joint an get goin’. The mob is anxious
t’ play the wheel an’ they’re cornin’ at it
in two-bobs, dollars an’ half-notes.
Presently I see Harry Williams open up
his wheel near me, but that don’t worry
me, ’cos I got a good crowd an’ they
know me wheel is fair. Well, suddenly I
sees a young bloke put a trey-bit on the
four. Fours don’t come up that spin, so he
switches t’ another number, which shows
he’s a mug, because if a sweat wheel is fair
y’ got t’ stick t’ one number. Apart from
his trey I wouldn’t ha’ taken much
notice only he looks worried. After a
bit he turns it up an’ nicks off. The
big race of the day comes on an’ the
crowd goes t’ watch it, so I close the
wheel for a bit an’ goes f’r a drink. Near
the bar I spots me trey-bit bettor lookin’
as miserable as a wormy sheep, so I asks
him to have a drink. He don’t drink.
Then I get it out of him. Seems he’s one
o’ them cockies’ sons, an’ was given ten
bob t’ go t’ the sports. He wants t’
take some girl t’ the tent-show that night,
an’ when he sees me wheel he thinks it’s
a benev’lent society or somethin’ an’ does
his Oscar. He’s ruddy near cryin’ about
it; so I thinks, ‘What the ’ell,’ gives him
his half-nicker back an’ tell him t’ keep
clear o’ sweat-wheels till he grows up.
He does a bunk an’ I go back t’ business.
That night, when me an’ Harry Williams
is decidin’ where t’ pitch our joints in the
town, we got opposition. Yair, that kid
had made himself an under-and-over
seven board, an’ he rakes ’em in because
"It's not the MAN you salute. Smith — it's the UNIFORM!”
he’s a local an’ they’re all out t’ beat him.
Williams an’ me barely took a quid. Just
shows y’!”
* * * *
“Croweater”: S.A. has discovered at
Mt. Painter, a spot in the Flinders Range
400 miles north of Adelaide, a place that
may yield useful mineral wealth and also
become a tourist resort. The mineral
wealth has yet to be proved, but there is
no doubt about the tourist attractions.
Rugged mountains, cliffs, timber, bird
life, hot springs and endless color are
there. A good road is being pushed in
and Tom Playford, the Premier, seems to
think the place a winner, because he’s
talking about building a chalet and publi-
cising it. Farther north, only about 12
miles from Mt. Searle homestead, is
another wonderland, according to A. G.
Greenwood, who owns the station. He
says that when he tried to explore it he
was stopped by unscalable cliffs and sheer
waterfalls. One day somebody will
really discover Australia.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Just on dark we sighted
a shed across the paddock and made for
it. It wasn’t in good condition, but it was
shelter, so I cleared a corner for our naps
while Mat boiled the billy outside. We
were in mid-meal when a horseman came
out of the night and said, “You men
clear out of this at once. I won’t have
fellows camping here. Liable to burn
the place down. Last man camped here
kept me awake all night, worrying about
him. Don’t mind giving shelter to men
on the track, but trouble is I’m always
worried about fire. You men will have
to go. Can’t stand the thought of fire.
Couldn’t sleep and”.... “You got this
shed insured?” Mat asked. “No, Why?”
Mat stood up. “Then y’ better insure it,”
he snapped; “then you’ll be able t’ sleep
at night instead of ridin’ round the
country doin’ yourself out o’ sleep and
keepin’ blokes like us awake. Cripes,
some of you farmers have got a hide,
ownin’ sheds an’ not insurin’ ’em an’ then
disturbin’ blokes like us because y’r too
tight or too lazy t’ do so. I’ve a good
mind t’ ” but by that time the dumb-
founded shed-owner had ridden away.
Mat was still muttering indignantly when
he turned in.
* * * *
“Mrs. Slumpjump”; During the winter
Skinflint’s best cow was poisoned, and, no
vet, being available, S. consulted Mrs.
Dash, an ex-nurse. As the exact nature of
the poison was unknown, Mrs. Dash pre-
scribed a drench followed by a liberal
dose of raw eggs to soothe inflamed
stomach tissues. For a while Strawberry
seemed to improve, so the Skinflints per-
severed with the eggs, using, in all, over
six dozen. Then the cow suddenly col-
lapsed and died. “I’d have thought
twice about prescribing eggs at 2s.
6d. a dozen for a cow of mine,”
Mrs. Dash related; “but I remem-
bered that the Skinflints only cook for
our summer dances.” And that’s a fact.
At dances for Red Cross, ambulances,
etc., admission rates are gents, half a
crown; ladies. Is. 6d. or refreshments.
Thus the canny pay at the door when
egg prices soar, and stalwarts like Mrs.
Dash and fools like me are committed
to baking a double issue of cakes lest the
ball should get the reputation of being
the lousiest place on earth for eats.
Somehow, the thought of that cow getting
15 bobs’ worth of eggs does me good.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Necessity may be the
mother of invention, but exasperation
can be the father. In my youth practi-
cally every little place in the district had
a couple of grape-vinps trailing over a
trellis or wire fence. During the season
the birds invited all their distant
(in both senses) relations to the feast.
Hence the exasperation and invention. It
was common to see, supplementing the
traditional and ineffective scarecrow,
blown-up paper bags, corks riddled with
feathers, strips of varicolored tin and
small mirrors dangling on strings around
the vines. Some favored small, gaudy-
colored windmills ; a few bright brains
evolved “rattlers” by using the wind-
mills as motive power to revolve tins
containing a couple of marbles. District
science had reached no farther when
intermittent reports from Robbo’s place
indicated that our neighbor was “up
to something.” In due course he pro-
duced the invention —a round cake-tin,
slotted to hold a dozen crackers with
wicks pointed inwards. An alarm clock
slowly revolved the tin so that every 20
minutes (the time he’d calculated it took
birds to return after a scare) a wick con-
tacted a candle flame and fired the
cracker. Dad viewed the brain-child and
callously pointed out: “Every time a
cracker goes off it blows the candle out.”
“Yes,” admitted the inventor; “I haven’t
been able to overcome that. Still, I’d
have 20 minutes to light it again.” “Well,
while you’re doing that svery 20 minutes
couldn’t you let a cracker off with the
match?” demanded Dad. I remember
how deeply wounded Robbo sounded
when he informed me later “I’m afraid
that your father allows his practical
nature to stunt his vision.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: A little concerned over the
feed shortage on my own slopes, I entered
the new settler’s rails to find that one
could flog a flea over any of his pad-
“ Wot’ll you do. Cabby, when the Yanks go?"
“ Wot'll YOU do, sister?"
docks. Carcasses disfigured the landscape,
and in the shelter of a wattle clump the
remnants of his flock stood hungry-eyed
and hollow. I rode on to his hut.
“Dropped in to tell you there’s a stock
sale in town next week,” I said, “and as
it’s too late to get much feed now, even
if it does rain, I’ll help you down to the
yards with your ewes if you like.” The
newchum looked surprised. “Oh, cripes,
I ain’t thinkin’ o’ sellin’,” he said hastily.
“With so many of ’em dead I’d never get
me money back.” “No,” I agreed. “But
what’re you going to do with them then?”
He thought it out for a bit. “Well,” he
decided finally, “seein’ stores ain’t worth
so much lately I think p’raps me best
plan’ll be t’ fatten ’em.”
* * * *
“Julia Creek”: Our city-bred pastoral-
ist has been having trouble with dingoes
along the back of his sheep run. Traps
and baits having failed, he approached
the stock agent. His requirements,
he said, were “about a thousand strong,
pugnacious wethers, with their horns
pointing down, so when they are
attacked they can gore the dingoes.” The
district is wondering who got to his ear.
* * * *
“Water of Leith”; I hadn’t time
to look through a tier of boxes at the
beginning of the swarming season, so I
stood off and flashed a mirror into the
entrance of the hive to see what might
be doing, and there was the queen on
the centre of the mirror! She was the
pin-up girl of the hive and knew it.
So while some attendants were polish-
ing her sienna-colored toenails and
others were putting a satin finish on her
beautiful abdomen, I quickly walked to a
prepared body full of new foundation,
tapped the edge of the mirror on the
alighting board and stood aside from the
rush of 18,000 to 20,000 golden beauties
intent on a housewarming for the pin-up
girl. I never had the least trouble with
a swarm last year. The Mirror Swarm
Controller with radio crooner attach-
ment, with provision for a television
thunderstorm gadget, queen-cell size, is
my patent remedy for overcoming restive-
ness in the queen.
“Colonial Cove”: Here’s my entry for
the earliest of Australia’s recognised
police blacktrackers. In November,
1834 Superintendent Norcott of the W.A.
Mounted Police (just formed) had under
his command Munday and Migo, Perth
natives. From his father’s house in what
is now Mandurah young Shakespere
Hall, aged six, wandered away and was
lost for two days. Norcott, with Munday
and Migo, arrived, and at once the blacks
took up the search. For 20 miles up the
coast they tracked the youngster over
sand dunes, through coastal thickets,
along the edge of swamps, back again
to the beach, all the devious ways that a
lost child might take. Finally they found
him, dead beat, where he had collapsed
right on the rim of the sea. An account
of this tracking, then considered quite
wonderful, was forwarded to London in
one of Governor Stirling’s dispatches,
From then on W.A. authorities never
hesitated in employing the blacks in any
case where a white might be lost or a
crime followed up.
* „ * ~ * , *
Fancar : An old Desert-Columnist
whose mules waxed fat on the carob
heans ot the Holy Land (B. 20/9/ 44)
always speculated whether the husks the
swine did eat” in the Prodigal Son parable
were those of the bean. He considered
that the seeds and honey-sweet pods were
the only likely husks to provide the sus-
taining diet necessary, both for the Prodi-
gal’s long trek home and his immediate
participation in feast, dancing and fatted
calf provided by his indulgent dad.
“Rooster”: “Wester’s” lachrymose out-
burst re the “certain” end of canine
snake-hunters leaves me dry-eyed (B.
13/9/’45). If human or animal ceased
hunting to consider the possible shorten-
ing of the life-span the balance con-
trolling the struggle for existence would
weigh heavily in favor of their deadliest
enemies, vertebrate or invertebrate. Any-
how, at what age does a dog “acquire
sense” over and above that with which
it systematically deals with reptiles and
rodents?
“Hakim”: Some dogs of my circle
give a good imitation of thought pro-
cesses, even though reason is said to be
denied them. When I first met Nig—a
black Barb, and a good sheep-wrastler—
the mere sight of a gun or the sound of a
shot would send him to his favorite
shelter under the car until such time as
he judged the “all clear” to have gone.
This, I was informed, was because
he had once seen a dog shot. I used to
go out after bunnies at dusk, and usually
brought him back one. You could see
the glimmer in that tyke’s eye as he began
to form a new association of ideas. Soon
he began to overcome his fears to the
extent of accompanying me, at a cautious
50 yards astern, ever ready for a rapid
bolt for home, but, nevertheless, taking
an intelligent interest in the proceedings.
After about three months he completely
forgot his gun-shyness and displayed a
lively and joyful interest when he saw
me getting ready, and even, to my
astonishment, developed a flair for point-
ing a squatting rabbit that would have
done a trained pointer credit.
“Betcha”: You can’t tell me a mong
doesn’t soon learn the peculiarities of
his boss and act accordingly. Take Andy.
Many a promising pup has been spoilt
through Andy’s vile temper, and Blue is
about the only dog he’s had for any
length of time. Even Blue had daylight
nearly belted out of him several times
before he woke up, but he understands
all right now. Only a few days ago I
came upon Andy and Blue trying to take
sheep somewhere. Heaven knows how
long they’d been in that one place. Andy,
I found, was hopping mad and coursing
Blue to wreak vengeance, but the old dog
shrewdly kept the mob of woollies be-
tween them. Several times Andy tried to
charge through the bunch, but Blue skil-
fully collected the jumbucks and again
swung them into a strong defensive posi-
tion. “G-glad y’ve c-corpe,” panted Andy
as I rode up. “Y-you go that way an’
we’ll get him between us.” I shook my
head. “It’s not my row,” I told him.
“Anyway, if you don’t stop you’ll have
apoplexy. The doc, warned you.” Andy
turned a purple face. “I know,” he
gasped, “but”— —catching sight of Blue
he pointed accusingly, “it’s his fault.
Serve him right, too,” he added with dia-
bolic satisfaction. “I hope the cow has
it on his conscience all his life.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK.
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES. TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGQA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
COULD HARDLY WALK!
Now Works, Senbs sod Polishes
R.U.R. BRINGS SWIFT BENEFIT
TG VICTORIAN MOTHER...
There are many people still who have
not obtained the benefits which R.U.R.
brings so swiftly. R.U.R. is famed for
its five-fold action as a laxative, liver
stimulant, kidney cleanser, blood puri-
fier and acid corrective.
It creates energy, charm, personality,
radiant living, and in cases of rheu-
matism, neuritis, sciatica and the like
it quickly gets them under control,
stops the pain and makes life worth-
while again. Mrs. Lillian Anderson, of
21 Lansdowne Street, Pascoe Vale,
proves this when she writes as follows:
“1 have been that bad that I could
hardly walk, I was in hospital, but
it did no good. After I came home
from the hospital I said to my chil-
dren, T am going to give R.U.R. a
go and see what it does to me.’ So
I started to take it and now here I
am. I can go back to work, scrub
and polish with the best of them. I
walk a mile and a half twice a day
and home again, and up till last
September was looking after my sick
husband. I don’t mind if you put
my letter through the paper, every
word is true, thanks to R.U.R.”
m
Take R.U.R. yourself when you are
feeling run-down or suffering from
joint or muscle pains. In no time you
will feel better and the dreary outlook
of a pain-fllled life will have vanished.
Take R.U.R. regularly for a while.
Smaller size, 4/-; the money-back
guaranteed full treatment, 7/6.
Obtainable at chemists and stores
everywhere.
TAKE R.U.R.' RND SIGHT YOU RRE
EGELABRA MERINOS
Four times winners of the Stonehaven Cup. Winners of Ist and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram and
Ewe, Sydney Sheep Show, 1940.
Orders are now being booked for the
rams dropped in April, 1943, and shorn
in April, 1944.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gns. per head.
H. E. KATER & SON - Egelabra, Warren, N.S.W.
Telephone: Warren 10
.. r
J
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
SAVES
MANPOWER
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7*ll MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep Drenches.
“Bungaree”: In B. 30/7/’44 “Porter-
gaff” recommended a solution of 2oz.
bluestone and 2 fl. oz. nicotine to Igal.
water, but left out the dose rate. “Jock”
made up for the omission (B. 20/9/’44),
but the dose—2 fl. oz. per grown sheep—
explains why it failed to kill the worms.
One gallon of that mixture at that dose
rate would give 80 doses. According to
C.S.I.R. and N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture the amount of bluestone and
nicotine quoted is sufficient for only 50
doses. If the 2oz. dose is preferred the
total volume of the drench should be
five pints (100 oz.), not Igal. (160 oz.), but
it is better to keep the dose down to 1 fl.
oz. So to get results make 2oz. bluestone
plus 2oz. nicotine up to 2% pints with
water and give the loz. dose.
Most people who have used the new
phenothiazine (not “phenylhydrazine”)
drench will agree that in spite of its cost
it is the more effective, and, therefore,
the cheaper drench in the long run. Pre-
sent-day cost is much lower than the
figures quoted, however, particularly if it
is bought in large lots to cut down
freight. Phenothiazine costs 6s. Bd. per
lb. (in 71b, bags f.o.r. capital cities),
and 11b. pheno. will drench 25 grown
sheep or 30 weaners (8-12 months) or 50
Jambs (under eight months); cost per
head is, therefore, grown sheep 3.2 d.,
weaners 2.6 d, lambs 1.6 d., excluding
freight.
Few properties wifi find it possible to
follow that pasture-rotation scheme of
shifting sheep to a fresh paddock once
every six days, and thus using one pad-
dock out of eight at a time. The theory
is fairly sound, however, and it will cer-
tainly kill most of the worms and give
some control of parasites, but complete
eradication is practically impossible.
Several of the most important species of
sheep-worm parasites’ eggs will survive
over 12 months on pasture.
Pink-eye.
“Myrrhee”: First symptom usually is
a slight watery discharge from the inner
corner of the eye. Sometimes there is a
discharge from the nostrils. The disease
starts with inflammation of the outer
membrane covering the eyeball, and in
about 24 hours a film begins to form.
In severe cases the animal is blinded
from four days to as many weeks, accord-
ing to the severity of the attack. All
breeds and ages are susceptible.
Use the lotion: Zinc sulphate, one
heaped teaspoon ; boracic acid, two
heaped teaspoons; boiling water, one
point. Dissolve zinc and boracic in boil-
ing water, allow to cool and then instil
a few drops into each eye with an eye-
dropper two or three times a day. Keep
sufferers in a shed during the day ; allow
them to graze at night. Hand-feed blind
sheep. Other animals .may be treated as
above.
Tomatoes and Beans.
“Pat Ater”: Perhaps the worst tomato
pests are spotted, or bronze, wilt and
canker (diseases) ; tomato mite and borer
(insects). These affect outdoor-grown
tomatoes. Late in a wet season Irish
“Y’ve always got time t ’ do ’is things, but when it comes t ’ doin' a bit
o' sewin 'for ME”
blight may do great damage unless
checked with Bordeaux spray.
Spotted wilt makes itself known by a
brown or bronzy patch on the upper
leaves, and affected plants must be pulled
up and burnt. Leaving them while try-
ing to effect a cure is the sure way of
spreading the disease. Only at the end
of a season, when ripening fruit might
be left to mature, should wilt-affected
plants be retained. It’s too late then for
further damage.
Spraying with a tartar emetic solution,
if done systematically from seedbed to
maturity, has given much immunity. The
spray kills the carriers of disease —the
thrips. They are worst in very dry
seasons. Canker is usually started
through unclean seed. Buy certified seed
—or from known sources. Treating with
copper-oxychloride dust may help.
Tomato mites, extremely small, attack
leaves, stems and fruit, silvering them.
Eventually leaves wilt and die. Spray
with lime-sulphur (one in 100) j pint to
3gals. of water or dust with fine sulphur
and hydrated lime (equal parts).
Stem borer attacks young plants. It’s
a greyish-green caterpillar and bores into
main stems. When about 2ft. high they
wilt and die —or when second or third
fruit clusters have set. Spray with
arsenate of lead, 2oz. in a gallon of water,
to beat ’em. Use it early. Clean culti-
vation helps.
Worst trouble of beans is “halo,” or
bacterial blight. It is virulent. Leaf-
spotting and defoliation, pod-splitting and
wilting and death of plants occur. There’s
no control. Clean seed is first essential
and varieties, which are less susceptible
to attack. Burn any affected plants and
don’t grow beans on a once-diseased
area for a few years.
To combat anthracnose, another po'd-
spoiler and plant-killer, grow resistant
kinds such as Tweed Wonder. Where it’s
about avoid Staley’s Surprise ; Canadian
Wonder is also susceptible. Beans like
a lot of water on hot, dry days, and
a good soil to begin with for succulent
pods to form. Begin hilling as they get
top heavy to hold them against squally
and drying summer winds.
The Jack Bean.
“P.R.A.N.”: In districts where the
French bean fly is a constant menace an
excellent substitute for other beans is
the jack bean (Canavalia eusifornus).
which is not attacked by the fly. The
jack bean, sometimes wrongly called the
sword bean, is of climbing habit, and
has a large, red seed with a dark hilum.
Single seeds should be sown at 10ft.
intervals, and the vines trained on trellis
or fence. Sown when danger of frost is
past a crop can be expected in January
or before, and from then on to May or
June. Where frosts are light or do not
occur the vine will last at least two years,
cropping perhaps better in the second
year. The beans grow to around a foot
in length and up to broad.
In preparation for cooking the beans,
picked young when the seeds are hardly
fonneo are strung like. French beans
They should then be split open and the
whrte hnmg of the seed cavity scraped
off, then shredded and boiled hard in a
similar manner to French beans If the
white lining is not removed the cooked
beans will be darker in color and carrv
'd slight flavor somewhat like that of a
mushroom, a flavor which appeals to
some palates.
Hydatids.
FI.C. . Its the tapeworm that infects
the dog when its eats infected offal that
starts the trouble. Swallowed, the worms
liberate heads that attach themselves to
the wall oi the bowel and form into tape-
worms. When mature pieces containing
eggs bleak off and pass out of the dog
pastures, water or green vegetables are
fouled. Eggs swallowed by the right host
hatch in the intestines, bore through the
intestinal wall, enter the blood stream,
are carried to various organs and develop
into hydatids.
I o control, prevent worm infestation
by burning or boiling suspected parts
and exclude dogs from slaughter yards.
Tapeworms in dogs drag them down in
health, lower their resistance to disease
and affect their value as workers.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”; Give calves whole milk
for the first two weeks. During the next
three weeks the new milk can be reduced
and replaced by whey. An added ilb.
of linseed meal or a mixture of linseed
meal and pollard to each gallon of whey
will help. Quantities: First fortnight,
whole milk up to 121 b.; third week, whole
milk, 91b.; whey, 51b. to 101 b.; fourth,
61b., 101 b. to 151 b.; fifth, 31b., 151 b. to
201 b.; sixth, no whole milk, 201 b. to 301 b.
whey.
“L.C.”: It pays to grind wheat for
)pigs; fed whole, it passes through the
pig undigested. Soaking isn’t nearly as
good as grinding and lowers feed value.
Moistening finely-ground grain, to pre-
vent it being blown out of troughs or
scattered too widely for the pigs to pick
up, can be done at feeding time without
affecting the nutritive content.
“Ludo”; Last year it was suggested in
M.O.L. that debris be cleared from
around posts in order to save them from
a bush- or grass-fire. The hint saved
Austen Bros., of Tarana (N.S.W.) some
miles of fencing when their country got
alight. Now is a good time to do the job.
Leather beaters are useful weapons to
have ready for fire-fighting.
“P.A.”: As the warm days arrive, with
drying winds, onions need plenty of water
to keep them growing. Any prolonged
check to the moisture supply at this time
stops formation of bulbs and inclines
the foliage to fibre and stiffness. That is
why long necks occur instead of juicy
bulbs.
“Plane Creek”: Surprising the amount
of dung that accumulates around yards
and stables. Rake it into firm heaps, not
larger than 6ft. by 6ft. and encourage
decomposition by keeping it damp, but
protect from heavy rain. It is particularly
valuable as a manure when age has turned
it black and loamy. Besides its high
nitrogen content, which is increased when
there is much urine mixed with it, the
dung is also fairly well provided with
potash.
“Jondun”: To cut glass, lay a piece of
felt or flannel material on the work-bench
and place a wooden straight-edge along
the cutting line. Hold glass cutter firmly
and run along line, using an even pres-
sure. Move glass over so that line is level
with edge of bench. Gently tap along
the underneath of line. Then with slight
pressure downwards glass will break
clean.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Why “Pravda” Attacked
Bullitt.
[I ast month cables reported an attack
launched at American diplomat William c •
Bullitt by “pravda,” official organ of the Com-
munist party in Russia. It was an even moie
\ imperative attack than the earlier one on
Wendell Wilkie, but cables gave very scanty
information on what provoked it. More details
are given in the following extract from N.Y.
•■Times.”]
Mr. Bullitt’s article assailed by
“Pravda” was written after a visit to
Rome, and purported to give a summary
of Roman opinion on the future of
Europe, with special reference to Mos-
cow’s war aims and post-war diplomacy.
The dominant question in the minds of
Italians, Mr. Bullitt reports, was “Will the
result of this war be the subjugation of
Europe by Moscow instead of by Berlin?”
According to Mr. Bullitt, Italians place
their hope of averting such an eventu-
ality upon Great Britain, but they do not
believe Great Britain could do this with-
out the aid of the United States.
Italians hope that the vital interests of
the United States “will compel our sup-
port of Great Britain and the other demo-
cratic States of Western Europe” against
“Soviet imperialism,” but they are by
no means sure that “we recognise our own
interests or what should be done to im-
plement them.”
In this connection, Mr. Bullitt reports
that Italians are puzzled by President
Roosevelt’s failure to exact a promise of
good conduct with respect to other
nations from Russia in return for our
lend-lease.
According to Mr. Bullitt, the Italians
fear that the withdrawal of American
and British forces from Europe “will
leave them at the mercy of the Soviet
Union. And they judge the quality of
that mercy by the Russians’ treatment of
the Poles.”
The Italians, according to Mr. Bullitt,
“expect the Soviet Union to dominate
Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania,
Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria, Hungary and
Czechoslovakia,” to establish a puppet
Government in Poland and eventually to
dominate Germany, too, through politi-
cal machinations.
Mr. Bullitt reports a “sad joke going
the rounds of Rome”:
“What is an optimist? A man who be-
lieves that the third World War will begin
in about 15 years between the Soviet
Union and western Europe, backed by
Great Britain and the United States.
What is a pessimist? A man who believes
that western Europe, Great Britain and
the United States will not dare to fight.
That is as far as optimism dares to go,
since the Italians feel that failure of the
United States and Great Britain to stand
strongly for independence for all the
States of Europe has made certain a new
world war.”
The Letter on India.
[Cables dated September 26 reported British
Secretary for India Amery making a biting
attack on the U.S. columnist Drew Pearson for
“libels regarding India produced as quotations
from a letter alleged to have been written by
Mr. Phillips, at one time President Roosevelt’s
representative at Delhi.” The complete text
of Ambassador William Phillips’s letter is here
given from N.Y. “Times,” which published it
after it had been made public by Senator
Chandler, one of the five U.S. Senators who
were in Australia last year on their tour of
the war fronts. The letter is interesting as
reflecting views by no means confined (in
America) to Mr. Phillips. The whole of it, and
particularly the reference to Britain giving no
more than “token assistance,” should be read
in comparison with Mr. Churchill’s September
28 speech, giving the grim facts of the British
part in Burma and elsewhere.]
Dear Mr. President:
May I add a few words to what I said
to you on Tuesday afternoon, when I had
the pleasure of giving you an oral report
on my impressions of the Indian situa-
tion.
Assuming that India is known to be an
important base for our future operations
against Burma and Japan, it would seem
to be of highest importance that we
should have around us a sympathetic
India rather than an indifferent, and pos-
sibly a hostile, India. It would appear
that we will have the prime responsibility
in the conduct of the war .against Japan.
There is no evidence that the British in-
tend to do more than give token assist-
ance. If that is so, then the conditions
surrounding our base in India become of
vital importance.
At present the Indian people are at war
only in a legal sense, as for various rea-
sons the British Government declared
India in the conflict without the formality
of consulting Indian leaders or even the
Indian Legislature. Indians feel they have
no voice in the Government, and, there-
fore, no responsibility in the conduct of
the war. They feel that they have noth-
ing to fight for, as they are convinced
that the professed war aims of the United
Nations do not apply to them.
The British Prime Minister, in fact,
has stated that the provisions of the
Atlantic Charter are not applicable to
India, and it is not unnatural, therefore,
that Indian leaders are beginning to
wonder whether the Charter is only for
the benefit of white races. The present
Indian Army is purely mercenary, and
only that part of it which is drawn from
the martial races has been tried in actual
warfare, and these martial soldiers repre-
sent only 33 per cent of the army.
General Stillwell has expressed his con-
cern over the situation, and in particular
in regard to the poor morale of the Indian
officers.
The attitude of the general public to-
ward the war is even worse. Lassitude
and indifference and bitterness have in-
creased as a result of the famine condi-
tions, the growing high cost of living and
continued political deadlock.
While India is broken politically into
various parties and groups, all have one
object in common—eventual freedom and
independence from British domination.
There would seem to be only one
remedy to this highly unsatisfactory situ-
ation, in which we are unfortunately but,
nevertheless, seriously involved, and that
is to change the attitude of the people of
India toward the war, make them feel
that we want them to assume responsi-
bilities to the United Nations and are
prepared to give them facilities for doing
so, and that the voice of India will play
an important part in the reconstruction
of the world. The present political con-
ditions do not permit of any improve-
ment in this respect.
Even though the British should fail
again, it is high time that they should
make an effort to improve conditions and
re-establish confidence among the Indian
people that their future independence is
to be granted. Words are of no avail.
They only aggravate the present situa-
tion.
It is time for the British to act. This
they can do by a solemn declaration from
the King-Emperor that India will achieve
her independence at a specific date after
the war, and as a guarantee of good faith
in this respect a provisional representative
coalition Government will be re-estab-
lished at the centre and limited powers
transferred to it.
I feel strongly, Mr. President, that in
view of our military position in India
we should have a voice in these matters.
It is not right for the British to say this
is none of your business when we alone
presumably will have the major part to
play in the struggle with Japan.
If we do nothing and merely accept the
British point of view that conditions in
India are none of our business, then we
must be prepared for the various serious
consequences in the internal situation in
India which may develop as a result of
the despair and misery and anti-white
sentiments of hundreds of millions of
subject people.
The peoples of Asia —and I- am sup-
ported in the, opinion by other diplo-
. matic and military observers —cynically
regard this war as one between fascist
and imperialist Powers.
A generous British gesture to India
would change this undesirable political
atmosphere, India itself might then be
expected more positively to support our
war effort against Japan. China, which
regards the Anglo-American bloc with
misgivings and mistrust, might then be
assured that we are in truth fighting for
a better world.
And the colonial people conquered by
the Japanese might hopefully feel that
they have something better to look for-
ward to than simply a return to their old
masters.
Such a gesture, Mr. President, will
produce not only a tremendous psycho-
logical stimulus to flagging morale
through Asia and facilitate our military
operations in that theatre, but it will also
be proof positive to all peoples—our own
and the British included—that this is not
a war of power politics, but a war for all
we say it is.
Sincerely yours,
WILLIAM PHILLIPS.
“Underground” Jobs.
(From a N.Y. “Times” account by Andre
Lebord, one of the leaders of the “Under-
ground” movement in France.)
In the past three years the French re-
sistance became one of the greatest and
most efficient intelligence services any-
where in the world. We were the behind-
the-lines intelligence, first for the British,
then for the British and Americans —
especially for their air forces.
Here are some of our functions: sig-
nalling the passage of all German troop
trains; reporting how many Germans
were stationed in each department of
France ; indicating what food, wood and
other materials the Boches were sending
to Germany; reporting the production
in French factories ; stealing plans of fac-
tories and of the weapons that they pro-
duced, and sending them to London. Fif-
teen days after one plant had begun mak-
ing a certain cannon we had its descrip-
tion and dimensions in London.
We had agents in every town. There
was someone to make the rounds in each
sector and collect information in the two
weeks before the full moon, when the
Royal Air Force ’planes would come.
The most urgent information was sent
from hidden, radios —very dangerous
work, because the Gestapo used rambling
radio-detection cars and squads of pocket
radio men to find our emission posts.
Any captured post operator was executed
immediately by the Germans. We lost
many posts, so much of our information
had to go by ’plane.
At first we wrote reports on edible
paper. It was hard to write on. Then
the British supplied us with explosive
paper. You carried it wadded in your
gloves, and always smoked a cigarette.
If the Germans stopped you you touched
your cigarette to the paper. It blew up
into nothing. But if you had to do this
the Boches were sure to torture you.
Even so, we always had volunteers for
this most dangerous work.
Industrial Australia.
(As reported on by David G. Wittels in a
“Saturday Evening Post” article here con-
densed.)
There is a sizable grain of truth in a
boasting editorial in the “Australasian
Manufacturer”: “Australia has won for
herself an honored position among the
great industrial nations of the world.”
One example of how we [America] con-
tributed to this, and what our contribu-
tion implies for the future, lies in a fac-
tory now operating in N. S. Wales. The
factory was built by Australians, from
American specifications. It cans Aus-
tralian beans, grown American
seed to suit American tastes, and Aus-
tralian tomatoes and fruit juices for the
American Army in the South-west
Pacific. The work is done by Australian
labor, directed by American experts, on
American machines. The cans are made
of Australian iron, covered with tin from
America by a new American plating pro-
cess. It is a beautiful example of co-
operation and of lend-lease working both
ways. But the point here is that the
machines will remain in Australia after
the war. So will the know-how of effi-
cient, mass-production canning.
We have poured many kinds of special-
ised machinery and blueprints into Aus-
tralia, and so have the British, perhaps
to an even greater degree. We and the
British sent experts in many industrial
crafts. They have taught Australians
tricks of techniques it took many years
to develop.
Now Australia has mass production in
industries that did not even exist five
years ago. A country which had never
built an automobile is now making tanks,
fighter and bomber ’planes, including
most of the engines, armored cars, de-
stroyers, corvettes, artillery*, fifty-three
types of radios, huge searchlights, seventy-
five types of ammunition and every main
type of arms needed. Within four years
of the time it was importing perhaps 90
per cent, of its machine tools Australia
was supplying machine tools to the
American and Australian armed forces,
and to India, New Zealand and the East
Indies.
Articles in the trade papers enthuse
over a new Australian-made cloth-cutting
machine; over how Australia is now
making cranes, thermometers, heavy-duty
drilling machines, bearings, lathes, taper-
measuring machines, electric water
heaters, precision tools, air compressors,
snubbers, power presses, pumps, stack-
ing machines, blowtorches, electrodes,
thirteen-feet gears, blowers, telephones,
rubber belting, electric hoists, tacho-
metres, riveted pipes, grinding machines,
high-pressure valves, electric motors, fire
engines, ships, trams, locomotives.
A Government booklet points with
pride to the newly-established optical
industry. Until this war Australia im-
ported even the frames for spectacles.
Now all types of optical instruments are
in mass production, with some being
shipped abroad. The booklet boasts that
the glass Australia is making for the
lenses, previously “produced by only
eight firms in the world,” “is as fine as
any glass ever made by the eight firms,
and cheaper.”
The Government publications are care-
ful, however, not to stir up any possible
American jealousies or fears of competi-
tion. An example is furnished by two
versions of a booklet, entitled “The Job
Australia is doing,” put out by the
Department of Information. After listing
Australia’s spectacular war-time produc-
tion accomplishments, both versions em-
phasise the picture by pointing out that
Australia has never built a motor-car.
The version for home consumption adds
proudly: “But for a country that has
built tanks and aero engines cars will
present no difficulty when the time
comes.” This pregnant sentence is
omitted in the version distributed in the
United States.
This deletion probably was merely the
result of over-zealousness by a minor offi-
cial, but it serves to bring up the ques-
tion of where all the capital required for
Australia’s large-scale industrialisation
There must be French signatures
to the charters and treaties that
are to be the law of Europe, and
the more certain we make it that
Frenchmen have taken part in
writing the law of Europe the more
valid will be the French signatures.
The three Powers cannot keep Ger-
many disarmed, cannot occupy
Germany, cannot enforce terms upon
Germany over a period of years
unless they are certain that France
is with them and is one of them.
Any German settlement would
break down if France was against
it, and we may be certain that the
views of France will be shared in
very large measure by the Nether-
lands and Belgium, that they will
have great influence in Czecho-
slovakia and Poland and Yugoslavia,
and also Italy.—Walter Lippmann ;
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
dreams is to come from. Some Austra-
lian leaders claim that little, if any, out-
side capital will be required, but that
doesn’t sound logical. Foreign private
capital played a large role in the
early industrialisation of the United
States. Today the pattern seems to be
toward loans of public funds, arranged
between Governments. Whether Australia
will seek such a loan from the U.S.A.
Government or England is not yet clear,
and probably not yet decided.
As for private capital, it is doubtful
that English financiers, with commitments
elsewhere, will be willing to finance poten-
tial competition. At least, such has been
the attitude of English financial interests
in the past, though there is a newer school
of thought which holds that industrialisa-
tion often results not in hurtful competi-
tion, but in customers with bigger purses.
Will American private capital be
tempted in? That is possible, especially
in the same somewhat indirect way that
a good bit of it entered Australia before
the war. Several American corporations,
finding the Australian tariff walls against
their finished products impossible to sur-
mount for successful competition with
preferentially treated or duty-free British
products, set up assembly plants in Aus-
tralia. Among these were General Motors
and Ford. Others, such as General Elec-
tric, Heinz and Westinghouse, got around
the high walls by creating or licensing
companies in Australia which pay royal-
ties for use of their names, trade-marks
and patents.
Australia's favorable treatment of
British and Empire goods is not favorit-
ism, but pragmatic business. The British
Empire, and particularly the United
Kingdom, is overwhelmingly Australia’s
biggest customer. The Empire bought
about $275,000,000 worth of Austra-
lia’s total of $395,000,000 exports
in 1938-39, the latest period for
which relevant figures are available. In
return, Australia bought $230,000,000 of
its $390,000,000 imports from the Empire
countries. By contrast, though Australia
bought nearly $60,000,000 worth of goods
from the U.S. during that’period, we
bought from Australia —exclusive of gold
for burying in Fort Knox —less than
$12,000,000 worth. There is little we
want to buy from Australia outside of
sausage casings and rabbit-skins; and
against her chief export woo] we have
set up a 34-cents-a-pound tariff. It is
obvious that Australia’s close economic
ties with the Empire will continue at least
until Australia becomes big, with other
markets for its surpluses, and an indus-
trial empire of its own.
Australia thinks it can see 130,000,000
potential customers. The East Indies
alone have 70,000,000, with 40,000,000
swarming on Java. Australia hopes,


T¥3
n
-r-
m
% -- -- -
Another Epic
War Transport
Feat by “Qantas
To re-forge the link between Australia, India,
Burma, Middle East and Great Britain a regular
air service has been established across the Indian
Ocean. “Qantas” personnel fly high priority pas-
sengers, freight and airgraph mails on the world’s
longest regular non-stop service, in-
volving a single flight of over 3,500 miles.
m
k
EMPIRE AIRWAYS
am
SYDNEY : MELBOURNE : BRISBANE : TOWNSVILLE
TROJAN SEA HORSE...
r jpiIESE mighty engines of war “ dock ” where there are no
docks. They just push up to the shore and unload their
troops and tanks, reminiscent of the Trojan horse of Greek
mythology.
Unfaltering performance from engines is required in such
war service. To. get such performance, Caltex Lubricants
are universally used.
Caltex engineers and laboratory chemists have rendered
Caltex lubrication unfailingly reliable. Insist on Caltex ~ •
There is the correct grade of oil for every purpose.
CALTEX LIMITED
Serving the Natict
Importers of Caltex Motor Spirit. Kerosene and Lubricating OiL
too, to capture some of the markets
Japan will lose as a result of the war.
It looks to China, to Thailand, to
Burma, India, French Indo-China, Africa,
the western side of South America, and
even to the Middle East.
There are many obstacles in the way.
Most of the people in the nearest poten-
tial markets do not now have the pur-
chasing power to be real customers.
China and India are themselves hitting
the industrialisation trail. England and
America will be seeking increased
markets in the Far East. But there’s no
reason why Australia should stop dream-
ing. Australia may be wearing long pants
yet.
Empire and Uncle Sam.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by
Demaree Bess, one of that paper’s board of
editors .)
That the directors of the British Empire
have never been more independent does
not mean that British leaders are indis-
posed to work smoothly with us [U.S.A.]
in creating a satisfactory post-war order.
They have wholeheartedly approved
President Roosevelt’s conception of a
Three-Power world as the foundation
upon which some kind of society of
nations can be created. They have sup-
ported the American view that an inde-
pendent China must be the basis for a
satisfactory post-war order in the Far
East. But British leaders have devised
means for achieving full and equal part-
nership in a Three-Power world or in any
other type of world organisation which
may prove acceptable to the victors in
this war.
In recent visits to American troops
stationed in England I have encountered
frequently expressed perplexity about
what the United States is going to get
out of this war. The American soldiers
here are not satisfied with the obvious
answer that we are getting victory over
Germany and Japan. Nor does our vague
partnership in a Three-Power world
appeal to our soldiers as an adequate war
aim. They can see that Britain and
Russia are 'getting very specific gains,
in addition to victory, and they have a
feeling that Americans are missing the
boat.
Well, what are we getting? The answer
to this question, it seems to me, depends
entirely upon us. We are in a position
to get almost anything we want. If we
want world-wide bases and concessions
then the other great Powers will share
them with us. If we want a permanent
voice in European and Asiatic affairs we
can have that, too.
We can even have “splendid isolation,”
if that is what we want. Our British and
Russian Allies are arranging matters right
now to protect themselves against the
possibility that Americans may choose to
return to isolation, as we did after the
last World War.
One thing, however, which we cannot
get is an Anglo-American partnership in
which the British Empire will accept a
subordinate role.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
I am convinced that whether Roosevelt or
Dewey is elected, whether the Republicans or
Democrats control Congress, whether this
country goes nationalist or internationalist,
America will aid Great Britain first of all, and
afterwards France and even Germany. Apart
from any sentimentality, there are sufficient
economic reasons to make that certain. — N.Y.
“Suri” columnist George E. Sokolsky.
« * * *
Russia is organised along totalitarian lines,
and millions of Europeans are more distrustful
than ever of totalitarianism in any form. Their
recent experiences with German and Italian
models have disposed them to fight shy of
any similar systems. This is the common testi-
mony of refugees who reach England from
occupied countries, especially from Western and
Northern Europe.— Demaree Bess; “Saturday
Evening Past.”
v * * *
In Europe before 1939 Germany had the
largest cohesive population; she had the largest
industrial plant; she possessed at least half
of Europe’s total “worth” in people and plant.
Since 1939 she has increased that proportion.
From the point of view of population, she has
killed at least one non-German for every
German who has been killed; she has trans-
ported hundreds of thousands more; and she
has undoubtedly won among the conquered
peoples many converts. By Using to the break-
down point the industries of conquered coun-
tries, by transporting to Germany or by destroy-
ing what she could not use, by making the con-
quered countries tributary feeders to Germany’s
industrial needs, her industrial predominance
in Europe is greater now than it was before
1939. Only an honest recognition of this fact
can make possible the framing of a peace which
will deprive her of victory.— Ben Ames Wil-
liams; N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
No one suggests that Britain can or should
do less than justice to the important new links
which have been forged, during this war, with
America, Russia and China. But this associa-
tion is not enough upon which to build a lasting
peace. If peace is to be a reality, Europe must
be one of its pillars. Europe can be an active
partner in peace only if it finds some form of
unity, and it can find that unity only if Britain
shows the way. For at the end of this war
Britain will be the only fully intact European
Power, and the only one with working relation-
ships with the other great Powers. — London
“Observer.”
* * * *
The British Government will keep control of
the factories which it built during the war,
Hugh Dalton, President of the Board of Trade,
told the House of Commons. The majority of
the factories will be leased, giving the Govern-
ment power to decide what industries should
be encouraged to operate in different localities.
This is part of a plan to secure a balanced dis-
tribution of industry and local employment.
The Labor party is disappointed that the Gov-
ernment doesn’t intend to embark on a
programme of State trading, and would also
like to see surplus goods distributed on a profit-
free basis, but it realises such methods can’t be
achieved under the coalition Government. —
London correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
When I was ip England I saw that already
many of our plants have been switched over
to the production of special equipment against
the time when you and we turn our full strength
on to the Japanese.— British Ambassador Lord
Halifax, broadcasting in America.
* * * *
As yet the people of the United States have
not been asked to give the Government any
such broad powers as Mr. Curtin requested in
the Australian referendum. And it is hard to
believe that they may be asked for such
powers. Asa matter of fact, there is no little
pressure here to drop most of the extraordinary
war-time powers of the President as rapidly as
possible. N.Y. “World-Telegram” financial
editor Ralph Hendershot.
* * +
- , „
f m fi /? iay a ? ve noed references m letters
t wJ e ™ Ce A m f n r to f °PP° rt « nities they
think they see m Australia lor Yank go-getters.
Roxanne Pollock, j Philadelphia newspaper-
woman serving with the American Red Cross
in Australia, reports that an astonishing num-
her, G.l.’s and officers alike bring up that
subject. David G. Wittels; Saturday Evening
“°st. #
Canadian exports are expected to run to ap-
pioximately $3,000,000,000 this year, and to
maintain at least a proportion of that business
and ayoid a sudden slump after the war the
Canadian Parliament has passed a measure of
Export Credit Insurance. Roughly speaking,
the Bill provides- for the setting-up of a cor-
poration with an advisory council, operating on
a self-sustaining basis, with an authorised capital
of $5,000,000 and a reserve fund of the same
amount, with power to issue insurance con-
tracts to a total limited to ten times the capital
and reserve or $100,000,000. The corporation
will be essentially non-profitmaking, and any
profits that may accrue will be invested by the
corporation to strengthen its financial position,
Participation in this insurance will be entirely
voluntary. The second part of the Bill gives
the Government authority to guarantee the obli-
gations of other countries to which exports may
be made, to make loans to such countries and
to purchase or guarantee the securities of such
countries to facilitate and develop Canadian
trade. The Government may make guarantees
up to $200,000,000 or outright loans amounting
to $100,000,000. — Ottawa correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Strange as it may seem, there is a possibility
that Labor may yet prove to be the most
effective defender of private enterprise. I think
that many laborers and some Labor leaders
must be reflecting that “social planning” in
practice means Government planning and
bureaucracy. They must be realising that “over-
all controls” mean coercion of individuals, and
depriving them of their freedom.— New York
University Professor of Economics Lewis Haney.
* * * *
Five years ago the European continent was
dominated by three powers—Germany, Italy
and France—with Russia and Britain hovering
on the outskirts. Now, as a result of this war,
two of these European powers have been
crushed and Germany inexorably rides towards
defeat. It may take generations for them to
recover. The smaller countries of Europe, too,
are less disposed to insist upon absolute inde-
pendence than they were before the war. Their
experiences have created a disposition to attach
themselves firmly to some great Power which
can assure them protection against aggression,
And many of them are selecting Britain as their
best bet. — Demaree Bess; “Saturday Evening
Post.”
* * * *
China’s- recuperative power is beyond com-
putation. In the revolution of 1911 the whole
of the great city of Hankow was burnt to the
ground, scarcely a house remained. Yet within
two years all traces of the disaster had disap-
peared and life buzzed through its crowded
streets as of yore. It is safe to prophesy that
China will be the first of the countries to re-
cover from the war. A Chinese who wants a
house will not wait while half a dozen perman-
®nt departments wrangle over what kind ot
Hoiase He rs to have, where it is to be built and
w h° , s hall build it. He will run up a bamboo
jnatshed, and when times improve will build
himself something better. That is but one
example of how Chinese industriousness and
tde f. habit of doing things for themselves in-
°' will g help t 0 a auick nat S°al re-
°^ aucra £ y u "
covery .-O. M. Green, London Fortnightly.
■, * . , , . ... .
We have a right to be encouraged. We who
ar f not m the fighting do not have a right to
relax. Ihe battle on Saipan was just a
hard as that on Guadalcanal. The troops
Europe have had it no easier than those m
North Africa and Sicily. A grim fraction ot
our fliers in all areas are still failing to return.
g ubmar j nes and bigger ships are still being
lost Jndeed) we £fve had victories because
tb bard nature of this war has never been
underrated by those who had to fight it for us.
Y “Times v
‘‘* * *
The planners plan much better for themselves
than t £ ey do for the peo ple. The payroll
proves it. — Indianapolis (U.S.A.) “News.”
Both tbe Republican keynote and the Repub-
jjcap platform put great emphasis on the swift
refum of American troops when the fighting
ends Xhe keyno te said: “This is our job—to
get our boys back home victorious and with
all speed ’> The platform said; “At the earliest
possible time after the cessation of hostilities
we wd i bring home all members of our armed
f orces w ho do not have unexpired enlistments
and wbo do not volunteer for overseas duty.”
N.Y. “Times.”
* * * ♦
Estimated on the rate of construction and
s i nk i n gs of American ships since Pearl Harbor,
tbe tonnage of the merchant fleet of the United
states is expected to be equivalent, by the end
G f 1944, to two-thirds of the pre-war merchant
tonnage of the entire world.—' “Collier’s.”
* * * *
Desolate and doomed stands Rabaul, a
monument to the art of encirclement in war.
xhe Japanese planned to make it a great pivotal
base' for their conquest of Australia and the
Solomons. Cut off by sea and abandoned by
its own air force, the garrison at Rabaul is a
target for Allied bombers whenever they choose
to hit it. The enemy dare not send any of his
precious shipping into the harbor; few fighters
remain on the numerous airfields he built in his
days of high hope. Rabaul is dead. So is every
other base the Japanese ever had in the islands
to the north-east of Australia. For any signifi-
cant action in the Pacific in the future we must
look far beyond them, in the direction of Japan,
— London “Times” correspondent in New
Guinea.


FOR SALE
COMPLETE ELECTRIC
GENERATING PLANT
comprising:—
Wolf Compound Condensing Superheated
Horizontal Steam Engine, 275 b.h.p. with
Boiler Pressure of 2251b5. Generator made
by the Lancashire Dynamo Co., A.C., Belt
driven.
The above plant is not working at present, but is in
good condition, having been fully maintained whilst
idle. Full particulars on application in writing to
BAKEWELL BROTHERS PTY., LIMITED,
Box 1 P. 0., Newtown, N.S.W.
Public Notice*.
I, ANNA EM ELIA LARSON, of Swedish nationality,
horn at Amal, Dalsland, and resident 30 years in
Australia, now residing at 27 Glenview Street, Pad-
dington, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, PETER FEOFANOY, of Estonian nationality, born
at Pamu, Estonia, and resident 17 years in Australia,
now residing at 18 Hydrae Street, Revesby, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
__ Legal Notice.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE CONSTANCE MARY JANE MADELEY late of
Glenora Street Wynnum Brisbane in the State of
Queensland.-—NOTICE is hereby given that EDWARD
GEORGE MADELEY usually known as “Ted” Made-
ley Wood Carver last heard of in Sydney in the State
of New South Wales or any person having knowledge
of his whereabouts and all persons claiming by or
through him to be entitled to share in the estate of
the abovenamed Constance Mary Jane Madeley late
of Glenora Street Wynnum Brisbane in the State of
Queensland who died on or about the ninth day of
November 1940 at Glenora Street Wynnum Brisbane
in the said State are hereby required to communicate
with THE PUBLIC CURATOR of Queensland Bris-
bane on or before the Thirtieth day of November
1944 and that after the expiration of the last men-
tioned date The Public Curator will proceed to
distribute the assets of the said deceased amongst the
parties entitled thereto having regard only to the
claims of which he shall' then have had notice.
Dated this Twenty-second day of September, 1944.
PUBLIC CURATOR,
Brisbane.
STOPyour Rupture
wi
Mark ® location
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dept. 27), D Martin Place, Syaney.
Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
r
w
r
k
'9
'■
%
v,
'V
Doesn’t anybody care
about the man on the land
Too right we do —at Eveready. “Oh, yes?”—
says the man on the land. “Well, why was I
done out of the invasion news? And all our
favourite radio programmes, too, because we
couldn’t get a new set of batteries at any price?”
That’s been giving us at Eveready more than
a few grey hairs, because your goodwill is going
to be all-important to us after the war. It only
stands to reason that we’d do all in our power
to keep that goodwill, doesn’t it?
But, war orders poured in on us. We’ve
been making batteries for everything from
walkie-talkies to mine-detectors.
Now, here's the good news!
We’re catching up on the
terrific pressure of war
orders, but we’re not slop-
ping for breath. We’re con-
tinuing flat-out to try and
catch up on civilian needs ...
and we know that the civilian
battery that is most urgently
needed is the radio battery
for the man on the land.
But, don’t forget that even
after the batteries leave our
factory there may be delays
in transport, and that’s some-
thing over which we have no
control.
Believe us—we’re going flat-
out!
eVEREADy
TRADE-MARK
EVEREADY (AUST.I PTY. LTD.
MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
*
Thrift is a weapon that
defeats the enemy—save
and invest all you can.
CRAVEN I
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
mm
Mf
A
L
55648
ZS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Flying Foxes and Drifting Sands
(Ratcliffe), Australian Forestry (Hutching), Laud
Utilisation in Australia (Wadham and Wood),
Towards Industrial Peace in Australia (Foeander)
and Eggleston’s State Socialism in Victoria
3519.
To buy the Australian Encyclopedia. —3520.
To buy Lord Dunsany’s Gods of Pegana and
Fifty-one Tales, and M. G. Lewis’s The Monk.
-3521.
Information Sought.
(1) Number of cattle in Great Britain, Aus-
tralia, N.S.W. and Q’land in 1938 ? (2) Butter
production of Great Britain and,Australia in
the same year ?
(1) Great Britain, 8,029,992; Australia,
12,861,781; N.S.W., 2,811,884; Q’land,
6,097,089. (2) Estimated British production of
butter was about 100,000,0001 b.; Australia in
1938-39 produced 455,834,3291 b.
* % * * *
Tonic or condition powder that would improve
the coat and skin of a two-year-old colt ?
Give following powder mixture in the feed
each day for a week: Exsiccated iron sulphate,
Idrm.; soda bicarbonate, 3drms.; powdered nux
vomica, idrm.; powdered gentian root, Idrm.
* * * *
How to tan and dye a sheepskin for making
a mat?
Dissolve ilb. household soap in hot water
and add enough cold water to cover the skin.
Leave for 12 hours, remove skin and squeeze,
place in second bath made with fresh soap and
water and rinse well after another 12 hours’
immersion. Melt 11b. eacb of alum and salt in
hot water, add cold water to cover and soak skin
12 hours longer. Take out, squeeze and drain.
Boil two packets dye in a little water, add
cold water to cover and leave for six hours or
more, working it in occasionally. Drain and
dry, but while damp rub in a 50-50 mixture
of alum and saltpetre till skin is soft. Comb
out wool when dry.
* * * ♦
List of the 20 highest-priced English sedans ?
Following is compiled from prices advertised
late in 1939: Alta, £575; Aston Martin, £775;
Austin, £700; A.C., £525 ; Alvis, £995; Bentley,
£1820; Crossley, £365; Daimler, £1550; Fraser
Nash, £750; Humber, £1095 ; Lanchester, £525 ;
Lea Francis, £395; Lagonda, £1850; M.G.,
£442; Railton, £5BB ; Riley, £410; Rover, £425;
Rolls Royce, £2670; S.S., £445; Talbot, £795.
* * * *
Recipe for rose hip syrup?
Drop lib. minced rose hips into three pints
boiling water and boil for five_ minutes. Strain
through fine cloth. Boil residue in 1 \ pints
of water for 10 minutes,' and strain. Add 11b.
of sugar to all the juice, and boil again for
five minutes. Keep tightly corked.
* * * *
(1) Are there any records of men of 38 and
over winning important golf championships ?
(2) Is golf a young man’s game?
(1) The Hon. Michael Scott, born in 1878,
•after winning many Australian amateur cham-
pionships, returned to England and won the
West of England Championship in 1913, 1919,
1922 and 1934 and the Amateur Championship
at Hoylake in 1933. Chas. Hutchings won the
Amateur Championship at Hoylake in 1902 at
the age of 53. (2) Although championship golf
may be said to be a young man’s game, players
can perform well long past the age when other
sports have to be discontinued.
» * * *
Particulars of starting-time, batting-time of
each side, intervals and cessation of play in
Sydney grade cricket last season ?
Under “daylight-saving” conditions last year
one-day matches began at 1.45 p.m., stumps
were drawn at 6.25 p.m. The batting-time
(less 10 minutes interval) was evenly divided,
thus allowing each side 2hr. 15min. One-day
matches certainly hurried the game, and pro-
duced more vigorous cricket. This season two-
day matches will be played, time varying accord-
ing to hour of sunset in months available.
v- Sf Sf tf.
Where and when did Harold Hardwick fight
Les Darcy, and how long did the contest last?
At Sydney Stadium on February 18, 1916.
Darcy defeated Hardwick in the seventh round.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
(1) To whom did Jack Johnson lose the world’s
heavyweight boxing championship, where and
when? (2) Name boxers who held heavyweight
championship after Johnson, and where and
when the title changed hands.
(I) Jess Willard won championship from John-
son at Havana on April 5, 1915. (2) Jack
Dempsey beat Willard at Toledo, Ohio, July 4,
1919; Gene Tunney outpointed Dempsey at
Philadelphia, September 23, 1926; Tunney re-
tired, and Max Schmeling was recognised as
world heavyweight champion when he won from
Jack Sharkey (foul, four rounds), New York
City, June 12, 1930; Sharkey outpointed
Schmeling (15 rounds), Long Island City, N.Y.,
June 21, 1932; Primo Camera knocked out
Sharkey, Long Island City, June 29, 1933; Max
Baer stopped Camera (11th round), Long
Island City, June 14, 1934; James J. Braddock
outpointed Baer at Long Island City, June 13,
1935; Joe Louis knocked out Braddock
(eighth round) at Chicago, June 22, 1937.
Louis is still champion.
* * * *
Did the Australian boxer George Cook fight
Primo Camera ? Is Cook still alive ?
Camera knocked out Cook in the fourth
round at London in 1932. Cook died at Sur-
biton, Surrey, on October 8, 1543.
Brief Answers*
P.S.: The Q’land representative of S.T.C. will
handle the matter... .W.A. and J.M.C.: No
books on subject available J.C.: Coin is
worth no more than face value D.M.Y.: (1)
Murningulpa. (2) Wildoona means “sunset seen
through trees”... .E.L.A.: Not at present....
A.D.: Party was on its way from Brisbane to
Sydney T.H.: (1) Yes. (2) Master Tanners’
Association. (3) Hydrogen peroxide with a few
drops of liquid ammonia added should do.
Rinse after treatment,.,. J.M.: Should be quite
reliable T.T.: Rubber should be vulcanised
on F.G.W.: Teachers’ Central Registry, 44
Margaref-street, Sydney, and Associated
Teachers’ Agency, 343 Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne E.M.M.: Write to Department of
Agriculture and Stock, Brisbane.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
G.McK.: “He yelled as he felt her icy fingers
grip his warm throat. He looked for a brief
moment into those brown, staring eyes before
he fell to the floor for ever.” He will be
found, still accompanied by his victim’s ghost,
deep in the w.p.b.. .E.C.8.: Mechanical....
J.A.P.: Nothing unusual about that crime yarn.
P.L.P.: We keep a razor for talkative
barbers H.S.: Pointless and beery
V.W.S:. “I wiped my eyes and saw a young
man pass to confinement' without a friend,
without a relative, already set on a life of
crime.” Sobbing bitterly, the office boy turned
him from the door R.A.: The clerk who
works 40 years for the one firm is as frequent
a caller as the swaggie who dies of thirst in
the arms of his faithful blue-cattle-dog
M. “I was just a poor lowly drudge he
classed with worms and other pitiful things.”
Nobody talks like that M.D.P.: Might score
elsewhere... .W.F.: Monotonous, but there’s
a genuine feeling for character G.S.: There
must be three thousand deserted bush huts in
N. S. Wales; every one of them is haunted,
and every ghost has called at this office....
E.T.: Halfway between a story and a sermon.
J.G.: Magazinish M.T7.K.: Keep at it.
J.A.G.; Dull and lifeless V.J.: If you
really do know a newsboy who speaks Cockney
and has a wife called Aggie tell him to jump
under a tram.


STILL HAS FIRST CLAIM
ON YOUB MONEY
UNTIL THE LAST BATTLE OF THIS WAR
HAS BEEN WON THERE CAN BE NO
LESSENING OF THE WILL TO DEDICATE
OUR LIVES, WORK, AND MONEY TO
THE SERVICE OF THE NATION.
If you hold Commonwealfh securities that mature
on 15th October, 1944, put away any thought of realis-
ing on your holding for a personal advantage. It is
supremely important that you . . .
CONVERT
YOUR MATURING SECURITIES INTO THE
SECOND VICTORY LOAN
Applications for conversion may be
• lodged through any Bank, Savings Bank,
Money Order Post Office, or member of a
recognised Stock Exchange.
CL4-26
that*
'v
&
A
V
£tt£
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS— James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE; B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP *•«.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 209,154 5 p.c.= 100,000 20,000 2,383,712
1935. . 228,458 5.8„ „ 116,667 20,000 2,340,809
1936.. 234,481 5.8,116,667 25,000 2,348,929
1937.. 247,435 6.6„ „ 133,333 25,000 2.353,337
1938.. 262,384 7.1„ „ 141,667 30,000 2,359,360
1939.-262,910 7.1„ „ 141,667 30,000 2,865,909
1940.. 264,157 7.1„ „ 141,667 35,000 2,368,705
1941.. 258,110 7.1„ ~ 141,667 36,000 2,365,454
1942.. 241,813 6.6., ~133,333 25,000 2,364.240
1943.. 241,553 6.6,, „ 133,333 25,000 2,362,766
1944.. 247,025 6.6„ „ 133,333 25,000 2,366,764
* Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
Control of banking is being discussed
again. The Government proposes to
bring down legislation on the subject in
1945 ; meanwhile, Labor members are to
be given an opportunity of airing their
views in Caucus. Matters under con-
sideration include continuation of war-
time controls over the trading banks,
extension of trading activities of the Com-
monwealth Bank and greater use of
national credit post-war than pre-war.
With a big public works, housing and
other reconstruction, as well as social
services programme to finance post-war,
some members of the Government doijbt
whether taxation and voluntary loans will
provide enough to meet the bill. Hence
the suggested use of central bank credit.
It is argued that as this method has been
used to help meet war expenditure it can
be used also to improve the lot of the
country generally in peace. Let it be
agreed that there need be no insuperable
difficulty about getting the money. The
fallacy lies in the fact that the suggestion
presents only one-half of the picture, the
pleasing half. It ignores the vital ques-
tion of what are the consequences of this
kind of finance.
To help mitigate its evil effects
upon prices, costs and the standard
of living the Government has already
found it necessary to impose all manner
of restrictions and controls. In bringing
dowm his 1944-45 Budget the Federal
Treasurer said “Any further increase in
spending power will add to our post-war
difficulties and postpone the time when
we shall be able to match spending power
by a corresponding supply of goods and
services.” Judicious use of central bank
credit is now part of the technique of
currency management; but it needs to
be removed from, and kept free of, poli-
tical control if depreciation of the value
of the currency, and with it the standard
of living, is to be avoided.
If past experience can be taken as a
guide, further extension of existing trad-
ing activities of the Commonwealth Bank
offers no advantage to traders and others
not already enjoyed, and this with greater
measure of sympathetic service, from the
trading banks. The lead recently given
by the big British trading banks might
with advantage be followed here. That
is, in evolving a policy for making ad-
vances, repayable by instalments over a
number of years, for the purpose of re-
establishing small traders whose busi-
nesses have been virtually closed down
owing to war conditions.
The set-up favored by the majority of
the 1936 Banking Commission was that
of a Government-owned central bank as
the credit-regulating pivot in an other-
wise independent banking system. And
such should be the limit of centralised
control. Although the banks were first
among traders to be regimented under
National Security Regulations, most of
the restrictions imposed had already been
put into practice voluntarily. The prin-
cipal control likely to be retained is cus-
tody of portion of the trading banks’
deposits by the central bank, as a means
of regulating the volume of credit. Open-
market buying and selling of Government
securities by the trading banks might be
subject to regulation, too, because of pos-
sible effects on interest rates. Super-
vision by the central bank of trading-
bank advances, or the direction in which
money is spent, should be cast into the
limbo of the repealed as soon as possible.
And earning power of the banks should
be given more headroom by removing
the present low “ceiling”' for their profits,
upper limit of which is average net earn-
ings f<*r the three years to 1939, This
■ignores lifts in costs (including taxation)
and changes in the risk factor altogether.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts C.B.A.’s gross earnings
(£1,330,943) improved £23,568. Including
taxation (£228,484, up £20,188), exes.
(£1,083,918) took £18,096 of the increase.
The net result (£247,025, up £5472) was
no more than 3.8 p.c. on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined).
The div. was kept at 6.6 p.c., worth only
half that rate on most of the ord. capital,
which was issued at 100 p.c. premium.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the effects
of Government financial policy and war-
time controls:
1941. 1943. 1944.
Notos.. .. £6,184 £6,181 £6,175
Bills, etc. .. 1,606,203)
Free deposits. . 17,861,800 ) 53,470,372 62,949,33-
Fixed deposits 17,857,925 )
Liquid assets.. 15,502,597 35,741,457 4i,026*100
Advances .. 27,141,333 23,069,776 21,230,423
Premises .. 1,313,001 1,254,450 1,292,106
Last term a contraction of £1,839,153 in
advances was accompanied by a growth
of £9,478,960 in deposits and an expan-
sion of £11,284,648 in low-interest-bearing
liquids. These include the special war-
time deposit with the Commonwealth
Bank of £23,297,000. When the books
closed, liquids amounted to 74.7 p.c. of
liabilities to the public, advances were
only 33.7 p.c. of deposits, and the bank
was holding £9 14s, of the public’s money
for every pound of its own. The co. is in
an excellent position to assist trade and
industry, and, therefore, reconstruction,
as soon as opportunity offers.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends , Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.!
£ £ £ £
1934 .. 27,855 1980 6 p.c. = 23,350 167,317
1935 .. 28,614 1980 64 „ „ 25,296 168,655
1936 .. 29,318 1980 64 „ ~ 25,296 170,697
Earmarked for depreciation, £19,650.. 151,047
1937 .. 29,548' 1980 7 p.c. = 27,242 151,373
1938 . . 40,019 1980 8 „ „ 36,338 153,074
1939 .. 35,802 1980 7 „ ~ 32,690 154,206
1940 , . 35,080 1980 7 „ ~ 32,690 154,616
1941 .. 37,497 1980 74,, „ 35,025 155,108
1942 .. 37,008 1980 74 „ ~35,025 155,111
1943 . . 40,852 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 165,623
1944 . . 59,637 3980 S ~ „ 37,360 185,920
t Subject to goodwill ( £25,000) and excluding
depreciation reserve ( £90,000).
A heartening result, but it cannot be
accepted as a reliable guide to the future.
The spring of £9785 of the year’s net
earnings was largely the outcome of a
heavy influx of temporary war-time
population and liberal spending, of which
the Australia and other hotels got their
full share. Also, the Government stabi-
lisation plan, brought into operation in
April, 1943, helped to steady kitchen
costs and thus ease pressure on the ceil-
ing for austerity meals. So, despite beer
rationing and the crop of difficulties that
grew up with the spread of controls, all
of which tended to limit the high standard
of comfort and service the co. provided
for its patrons pre-war, the management
was able to show the additional profit
mentioned.
But the “Wild Cat” won’t swear that
the whole of the £59,637 shown in the
last line of the table is genuine profit. It
was written after providing an extra £5OOO
for taxation (£49,000) and an additional
£1172 for depreciation (£10,000), but in-
cludes £20,000 (up £10,000) specifically
earmarked for renewals. Since actual
expenditure on renewals, etc. —always a
hungry animal in a fashionable hotel—
is limited by Government regulation and
by materials and man-power available,
outlay on this item is certain to be sub-
stantial at a later date. The board, there-
fore, kept the div. at 8 p.c., although the
£59,637 was enough to meet pref. require-
ments and show 12.3 p.c. on the £467,003
of ord. capital, as against 10.2, 7.5, 7.6, 7,
1.2 and 8.2 p.c. back to 1938. The
£21,297 that remained lifted the lay-by
to £187,920, which includes £30,000 ear-
marked for renewals, but excludes pro-
vision for depreciation (£90,000), and is
subject to £25,000 of intangibles—the
figure at which goodwill appears' in the
books.
The immediate outlook suggests that the
volume of spending, and, therefore, of
earnings, has reached- its peak, for the
time being at any rate. But there is still
plenty of money about, and likely to be
for some time. And until present con-
trols are relaxed the management can
do little to lift the standard of the co.’s
service to its old level again.« In this and
other respects much will depend upon
what controls are released first and to
what extent.
The strengthening of the cash holding,
etc. (up £21,520 last term) suggests that
the board is preparing for an early start
on renewals and renovations immediately
it is able to go ahead:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Stock .. £8,499 £23,172 £8,945 £5,394
Book debts,
etc. . . 6,399 5,982 4,870 6,050
Cash, etc. . . 22,663 15,626 *81,150 102,670
Liquid assets £37,561 £44,780 £94,965 £114,114
Mortgage .. 275,000 250,000 250,000 225,00(1
Creditors* .. 28,584 37,517 67,188 81,040
Excess
liabilities . £263,973 £242,737 £222,223 £191,926
Property and
equipment. 962,517 962,517 962,517 962,517
Paid capital. 500,003 500,003 500,003 500,003
* Including tax provision.
During the year £25,000 was snipped off
the mortgage, which is a reminder of the
co.’s extension into Martin-place, fol-
lowing purchase of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Savings Bank’s old premises about
15 years ago. The amount coming
to trade creditors (up £13,852) in-
cludes an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion. The improvement in the financial
position was £30,297, liabilities exceed-
ing more or less liquids by £191,926 when
the books closed. The property item
remains unchanged.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 63,168 7 p.c. = 35,000 28,168 259,750
1935. . 65,123 8 „ „ 40,000 25,123 ,284,873
1936.. 72,364 9 „ „ 45,000 27,364 312,237
1937.. 57,569 9 „ ~ 45,000 12,569 324,806
1938- . 59,437 11 ~ ~ 55,000 4,437 329,243
1989.. 62,640 11 ~ „ 55,00 0 7,640 336,883
1940.. 65,420 11 „ „ 55,000 10,420 347,303
1941.. 62,168 11 „ „ 55,000 7,168 354,471
1942.. 63,162 11 „ „ 55,0 0 0 8,162 362.633
1943.. 60,144 11 „ „ 55,00 0 5,14 4 367,777
1944.. 61,964 11 „ „ 55,000 6,964 374,741
Shortage of skilled labor, fertiliser,
mechanical and other farm appliances
and transport problems, together with
seasonal conditions, combined to bring
about persistent shrinkage in Aus-
tralia’s sugar production over the last
five years. Last season's out-tufn of raws
was 505,000 tons, which compared with
627.000. 721,000, 783,000 and 901,000
tons back to the peak in 1939. The effect
of this upon unit production costs was
aggravated by wage lifts and increases in
taxation and the price of supplies. The
compensating factor was a rise in the
average price received for raws —£21 Is.
3d. last season as against £l9 Is. for the
preceding one and £l6 19s. 7d. in 1939.
The rise in price was due mainly
to a contraction in tonnage ex-
ported. Since production exceeds local
consumption, the price of raws in
the home market is fixed at a figure
higher than world parity in order
to soften the blow from loss on exports,
and thus ensure a fair average return to
the producer. In 1939 over half the total
output was sold abroad, whereas last
season little more than one quarter was
so disposed of; apd that under contract
to Britain at a price better than the previ-
ous season’s and far in advance of the
pre-war open market figure.
Though milling, both on its own and
other growers’ account, is the backbone
of Millaquin’s earnings, profits from the


MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’s
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Maneease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
HARTS
Circular Charts lor all types ot
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specially.
Accuracy guaranteed. Gel our quotation*
JACK SOW & O’SCLLIVAft
OUEEN STREET PTY. LTD. BRISBANE. OTO.
LET
r ATLAS )
CARRY THE
BURDEN i
W
So
'S
Established 1808 In Helen of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD
( England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPUING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W,
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand
LEONAUU PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Giiffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collin*
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Position Vacant.
MARINE BOARD OF LAUNCESTON,
TASMANIA.
Applications are invited for the position of Harbor
and Works Engineer to the above Board for a mini-
mum period of five (5) years.
Applicant to have thorough knowledge of Harbor
development and maintenance, concrete and wooden
wharves, training walls, and hydrographic surveys,
etc., and must furnish particulars of qualifications
and previous experience, together with age, and
military service if any.
Salary at the rate of £lOOO per annum, rising by
yearly increments of £5O to £l2OO per annum.
Applications addressed to the Secretary, and en-
dorsed “Harbor Engineer’’ must reach the Board’s
office, Esplanade, Launceston, Tasmania, not later
than noon on the 15th February, 1945.
GEO. S. MEREDITH,
Secretary.
Distance
I
SI
' , -fi.
-'WZi.
has
vanished!
London calls Vladivoslock with the ease of a housewife 'phoning her grocer:
lighter plane chats with bomber: Washington confers with Whitehall: and
Admiralty with ships at sea . . . thanks to the magic of valves.
The perfection of the radio valve . . . the annihilation of distances ... is largely
a PHILIPS achievement . . . the outcome of research and organisation which,
in peace and war, are dedicated to civilisation and the preservation of all that
civilisation means,
PHILIPS
Lamps Discharge Lighting Lighting Equipment . Radio
Receivers . Radio Transmitters Radio Parts . Valves
and Thermionic Devices . Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment
Electrical Measuring Instruments . Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTV. LIMITED
!Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
PHILIPS
4
Money for your baby’s
FUTURE
A WORD to the mothers of the ten thousand babies who
are born in Australia every month: Start planning your
baby’s financial future now.
There are many ways of planning, and the Society wants
you to know about them. Many a child has lost his (or her)
chance of going to the University, or of a higher education for
some specialized training, because his parents didn’t know about
the various A.M.P. plans for making the money available when
it would be needed.
The A.M.P. can help you smooth the Road of Life for your
boy or girl. Ask that a representative of the Society call on
you and explain how little needs to be invested each year to
bestow benefits on your children far beyond the cost to you.
If you prefer, ask that booklets describing the plans be
sent to you. Write to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Eeq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
refinery and returns from a wad of in-
vestments (£501,917) outside the business
put a lot of stiffening into the co. s own
final profit figure. The investments; con-
sist of Government securities (£436,5 U,
up £20,000 last term), shares in the Bun-
daberg Distillery (valued in the books at
£64 959, or 60 p.c. of their face value)
and a handful of scrip in other cos.
(£394). Last term output of the refinery,
which treats the small portion of Aus-
tralian raws not handled by the big
C.S.R., increased, owing to service
demands of our own and Allied forces,
and sales of the Distillery co., over whose
figures the curtain is kept drawn, were
maintained. The improvement of £IB2O
in Millaquin’s net earnings from all
sources mainly resulted from a contrac-
tion of £1147 in the allowance for depre-
ciation (£17,138). The div. was kept at
11 p.c., and there is nothing in sight at
the moment to suggest that it is likely to
be interfered with. Crushing in the
Bundaberg district for the current season
is expected to approximate last season’s
figure.
The co.’s already solid financial struc-
ture was further .strengthened:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Creditors* .. 104,617 156,515 177,876 201,675
Freeholds, re-
finery, etc. 329,360 338,786 326,963 317,963
Plantation, etc. 58,181 35,980 35,541 34,965
Railways, etc. 32,542 35,514 34,920 .82,894
Stocks . . 89,143 96,872 125,018 45,723
Book debts . . 10,085 19,016 44,007 28,108
Investments .. 396,562 454,946 481,917 501,917
Cash .. .. 63,127 67,372 34,787 105,601
* Including taxation.
Last term’s addition of £23,799 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes unspecified provision for
taxation, and reduction of £79,295 in
stocks and £15,899 in debtors’ balances,
enabled £20,000 to be added to Govern-
ment securities and £70,814 to the cash
holding. Not too much notice, therefore,,
need be taken of the contraction of
£28,179 in the more or less liquid surplus
(£507,853).
What the future holds for the sugar
industry is difficult to say at the moment.
Much will depend upon the level of costs
and export prices, and whether the pre-
war international sugar agreement is
renewed, and upon what terms. Under
the old agreement Britain took some
400,000 tons of Australian raws annually.
But war-time multiplication of producing
centres threatens to complicate the over-
production problem.
Maoriland’s mercury mines at Puhi-
pohi, first worked about 20 years ago,
are now producing more than the
Dominion’s requirements of the stuff.
The broken nature of the deposit, how-
ever, makes an accurate estimate of the
quantity of cinabar ore available difficult
to arrive at. After abandonment of the
original project, English capital became
interested, but missed the continuation
of the ore-body and soon gave up. An
Auckland syndicate acquired the leases
shortly before war broke out. With help
from the Mines Department difficulties
in obtaining plant, etc., were partly over-
come, and mercury has been produced
over the last two years. The cinabar
deposit, associated with formations of
varying hardness, is covered by about
130 ft. of overburden, and varies in thick-
ness from lin. to 14ft. After drying and
crushing, the stuff is treated in oil-fired
rotary furnaces.
* * if *
London-controlled Sons of Gwalia,
operating on the North Coolgardie field
(W.A.), treated 84,868 tons ore for 24,002
fine ounces gold, which realised £186,279,
during 1943, Corresponding figures for
the previous year were 110,884 tons,
31,135 fine ounces and £242,744 respec-
tively. Shortage of labor was the main
trouble. Average working costs, exclud-
ing development, were 2s. lOd. higher at
275. lid. per ton. The profit figure was
£31,865 lighter at £51,953. The div. was
halved, reducing it to Is. per share, equal
10 p.c. In addition to allowing £5OOO
for depreciation, £15,000 has been ear-
marked for development, including sink-
ing an internal shaft from the 30th level
to work the deeper ground. Ore reserves
are put at 760,238 tons, averaging s.Bdwt.,
or about five years’ work for the mill at
full production. Work on the 31st level
(only a limited amount was possible)
suggests no change in geological features,
and continuance of pay-ore to greater
depth. When fully developed, this level
is expected to provide substantial addi-
tions to ore reserves.
* * * *
This month South Kalgurli (W.A.) pays
a first and final div. of Is. 3d. stg. (un-
changed) for the 12 months to the end
of March last. Ore reserves, blocked out
and probable, then totalled 355,800 tons,
equal to nearly five years’ feed for the
mill at present rate of throughput. Pro-
gress reports are not issued by the co.
nowadays, but the fact that the estimate
of pay-ore available is 34,000 tops higher
than the previous one is not a bad omen.
* * * *
Mining Trust, Ltd. (London), which is
heavily interested in Mt. Isa and New
Guinea Goldfields, Ltd., and has a 5 p.c.
interest in the Big Bell goldmine (W.A.)
shows a contraction of £15,000 in revenue
(£119,000) for 1943. This was due to
smaller fees, commissions, etc., and
absence of a div. from New Guinea Gold-
fields. Taxation took £53,300; the
balance of revenue reduced accumulated
deficit to £57,000. The Board is conserv-
ing the co.’s resources, now £623,000,
mainly cash, in the hope of finding some-
thing attractive post-war.
* * * *
New Milano (W.A.) reports that a trial
crushing from its No. 3 mine (the Inver-
ness) at Mt. Monger has been delayed
owing to transport difficulties. It also
advises that samples of ore from last
firing in the drive assayed 35dwt., making
average to date 27dwt. a ton. But the
only average that counts is that shown by
the mill. Co.’s No. 1 and No. 2 shows,
New Milano and Leslie, are still idle
owing to shortage of labor and supplies.
Hitherto progress reports from Blue
Spec (W.A.) have been rare. Now an
optimistic circular to shareholders has
been followed by glowing accounts of
developments and high-grade ore. The
market tsn t impressed.
* * * *
B.H.P. has secured a magnesite deposit
in the Flinders Ranges, west of Quorn
and about 15 miles from Port Augusta
(S. Aus.). Knight Douglas Morson, who
had a look at the occurrence, said that a
fine field existed which warranted further
examination.
**, * .
Gandhi ‘ L thp
“ “ b 9 st “duty reduces the
p r ° ce re y ceived b y the Indian producer to
£9 9s. sjd., less 5 p.c. royalty. Since
when the duty was imposed, the
price received by producers there for the
yellow metal has increased by 19 p.c.,
while cost of winning it has jumped
41 p.c.


FOUR NOTABLE BOOKS
A TREASURY OF SCIENCE. This I DICTIONARY OF WORLD LITERA-
magnificent new book is an over-all
picture of modern science through the
eyes of the greatest scientific writers
who ever lived. Edited by Harlow
Shapley, Director of the Harvard Col-
lege Observatory. 726 pages. 25/-
(post 5d.). Some of the contributors:
Curie, Jeans, Hogben, Eddington, Ein-
stein, Huxley, Haldane and many
others. On sale at all booksellers.
WHY SINGAPORE FELL. By Lt.-Gen.
H. Gordon Bennett. An illuminating
historical record of the first importance.
Illustrated. 12/- (post 4d.).
TURE. Edited by J. T. Shipley. A
one-volume encyclopaedia covering defi-
nitions relating to literature, literary
matters, schools of literary thought, as
well as technique, forms and methods
of all branches of literature, including
the theatre. 648 pages. 56/6 (post 1/-).
THE CURTAIN RISES. New book by
Quentin Reynolds, author of “Only the
Stars are Neutral.” In this best-seller
the author tells his story *of Russia,
North Africa, Sicily and the Battle of
Salerno. 10/6 (post 5d.).
ANGUS &
1, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. HANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street,
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Post-war Plan
The Institute of Public Affairs (Vic-
toria) has published Looking Forward,
a 72-page booklet dealing with post-war
policy for Australian industries (problems
of men on the land excluded). It is by
far the most comprehensive and intelli-
gent set of inquiries and recommenda-
tions concerning post-war problems that
has yet been published by any similar
body or Government department in the
Commonwealth. The investigations which
form the basis of the recommendations
were undertaken long before anything
was known in this part of the world of
Nuffield Institute’s effort or the British
White Paper on similar problems.
Throughout the booklet emphasis is
laid upon the need for evolutionary de-
velopment in economic matters —“ordered
progress whilst retaining freedom to act
and encouraging the enterprise and self-
reliance of the individual.” Problems are
to be solved “not in terms of political
‘isms,’ but through observance of hard
economic experience and fact and with
due regard to the traditions and methods
of British democracy.”
But the outlook adopted is a liberal,
up-to-date one. A maximum return from
industry to wage-earners commensurate
with a full, willing and co-operative effort
from them, and with a return to the em-
ployer in proportion to his enterprise,
risk-taking and capital, is implied
throughout. National insurance against
ill-health, unemployment and old-age,
on Beveridge (contributory) lines, is
recommended. “Control of the volume
of currency and credit should remain
with the Commonwealth Bank, and in
vital matters of monetary policy this insti-
tution should enjoy a measure of auto-
nomy from all save the will of the people
as expressed by Act of Federal Parlia-
ment.” But “trading banks of the exist-
ing type should continue to act as dis-
tributors of credit to industry in con-
formity with the broad terms of the credit
policy established by the central bank,”
The recommendations of the Institute
are based on freedom of enterprise, with
the Commonwealth Government, plus the
central bank, exercising considerable
sway over the investment and spend-
ing position. “Budgets should be so
constructed that, when necessary, Gov-
ernments are enabled in any par-
ticular year to spend more than they
receive from revenue and public loans
in the interest of maintaining employ-
ment. Conversely, in times of great eco-
nomic prosperity Governments should
accumulate surpluses to cover deficits in-
curred under the policy just advanced.”
It is suggested that a permanent Eco-
nomic Advisory Council be set up, and
that it should consist of nominees of the
Commonwealth and State Treasuries, the
Commonwealth Bank, the Co-ordinator
General of Works and members drawn
from private industry and finance. The
council should have expert advisers, and
it should be “responsible for devising in
broad outline the general economic and
investment plans necessary for a con-
tinued high level of employment for the
consideration of the various Governments
concerned. It should advise on the co-
ordination of total public and private in-
vestment to meet the requirements of full
employment.” And, “while in the ulti-
mate post-war period this body would
have no direct authority over the volume
or use to be made of funds invested in
private industry, it would be in a posi-
tion to exert considerable influence of an
indirect nature on the investment plans
of private business.” It is contended
that sufficient regulation of total invest-
ment, both public and private, can be
achieved through the credit and Bud-
getary policies of the Governments so
long as Governments prepare in advance
and grade their public works to enable
the volume of public investment to be
adjusted dexterously to fluctuations in
private investment.
Other proposals are:
Governments and business should work in
close collaboration. Goods and services pro-
duced should be, in the main, in response to
public demand. Certain Government controls,
progressively relaxing, should be used in the
immediate post-war period. But “the detailed
and minute interference in the day-to-day opera-
tions of industry which has arisen during the
war would be intolerable under conditions of
peace.” The civil service—particularly those
sections concerned with economic and industrial
matters —requires to be strengthened, and should
include men with a broad knowledge of busi-
ness and with proved practical attainments, as
well as men of high academic qualifications.
Taxation of businesses should be adjusted
to provide the fullest incentive. , Taxes on
private incomes should be reduced as soon as
practicable for similar reasons. Taxation law
should be simplified to encourage incentive,
production and population. Trading _ banks
should make assistance of the small business a
special responsibility.
Monopolies and monopolistic practices should
be the subject of legislation and in-
vestigation, with a Court of Inquiry set up.
Restrictive practices of trade-unions should be
similarly controlled. The trade-union movement
should strengthen its democratic character, and
abandon its claims to compulsory unionism.
Trade-unions and employers’ organisations
should turn propagandist activities to construc-
tive education. The standard of school educa-
tion should be raised.
The principle'of equal pay for women should
be rejected as being incompatible with the
strengthening of the home and family life.
Systems based on the principle of “payment by
results” should be introduced, payments under
these systems to be over and above award basic
wages. Profit-sharing schemes should operate
wherever practicable. There should be a fort-
night’s holiday a year to all, on full pay.
The power of dismissal should be returned to
the employer as soon as possible after the war.
Social-security schemes should provide penalties
for employees who refuse to accept the just re-
sponsibilities of citizenship.
The I.P.A. in Victoria agrees with Pro-
fessor Hayek—whose book, The Road to
Serfdom, was reviewed here in July—
that a Governmentally-planned economy,
with an excess of arbitrary controls, leads
to totalitarianism. It is also awake to
the dangers expressed in these pages more
recently in regard to excessive taxation
in peace-time. The booklet says:-
Current rates of taxation on individual
incomes will need to be reduced considerably
as soon as possible after the war if men and
women are to be permitted again to enjoy the
fruits of their work and ability. It would be
disastrous to maintain a level of taxation which
would result inevitably in the restriction of
enterprise and the destruction of the spirit of
adventure throughout the entire range of eco-
nomic activity. Nor would the public benefit
from the retention in peace of a great army
of civil servants in unproductive occupations,
which could only be sustained through heavy
taxes on the incomes of those engaged in the
production and exchange of tangible articles and
services.
Dealing with our inheritance of war-
time controls and burdens generally;
The argument is often heard that if controls
have been successful for the purpose of total
war they should, therefore, be equally successful
in times of peace. From such a view the signa-
tories of this document sharply dissent. The de-
duction is baseless because the analogy is false.
A war economy is the absolute antithesis of a
peace economy. A peace economy should aim
at plenty and leisure —that is, at the greatest
possible output of the goods and services
of all kinds which minister to the physical
and cultural well-being of the population. So
long as the overriding needs for full employ-
ment and social security are satisfied, such an
aim is best achieved under a system which leads
to the maximum efficiency in the production
and distribution of goods and services. Maxi-
mum efficiency in this sense means production
at the lowest real cost in terms of human
effort and labor. This efficiency is most effec-
tively promoted under a system founded in
competitive free enterprise which holds out to
all its participants—employers, employees or
managers—incentives to give of their best.
There is a timely warning on a subject
often stressed here —the danger of spend-
ing money on “public works” merely for
the sake of spending:
It is entirely in the interests of the com-
munity that the Government should, within
reason, undertake important national works
to further the public welfare and to conserve
and to increase the efficiency of the nation’s
resources. There are, however, strict limitations
to the extent to which a programme of public
works involving an extra-rapid rate of develop-
ment is economically desirable and, in a
democracy, politically practicable. Except, per-
haps, in times of under-employment, most
Government development projects need to be
rigorously examined from (he standpoint of their
probable economic returns. Apart from those
with clear social advantages, public works can
be justified only insofar as they result in a
higher real national income—that is, in higher
standards of consumption by the people than
would have been the case had the resources de-
voted to them been used for other purposes.
Our Co-ordinator-General of Public
Works, knight Harry Brown, recently
found it necessary to point out that only
about a third of a programme of pro-
jected “public works” expenditure had
been fully planned. There is, indeed, a
great danger of politicians committing
the country to huge expenditure on under-
takings which are out of place, out of
season or out of reason so far as cost
compares with probable economic returns.
The inquiries and conclusions of the
I.P.A. cover a wide field. Considering
the number of men on the council of
the Institute who may be regarded as
representing “employer” interests, the
proposals put forward are, as already im-
plied, decidedly liberal. There is a great
area of common ground on which the
longsighted employer can meet the union-*
ist who is not militant merely for the
sake of militancy.
If the proposals be taken in their en-
tirety, a Commonwealth Government of
much higher standard than at present in
office will be required to see the thing
through. It is impossible for The Bulle-
tin to visualise the present Ministry ad-
ministering what is really visualised as a
“compensatory economy”—that is, put-
ting away surpluses, and possibly increas-
ing taxation for this purpose, during
potential boom times in order to have
a reserve of spending or investing power
during potential slump periods.
The National City Bank of New York,
commenting on the idea of a compensa-
tory economy, said earlier this year:
If we are unable or unwilling to tax ade-
quately in war-fime, when the need is so clear
and when there is a spirit of patriotism to help,
what chance would there be in ordinary times
of raising taxes on large masses of people to
cut off a perfectly good boom which everyone
was enjoying and would doubtless like to see
continue indefinitely?
The I.P.A. itself is aware, however, of
the “strictest care” needed in Govern-
ment financing of the type it advocates'-;
it says “the balancing of Government
Budgets should be a long-term rather than
an annual objective, but should be so
administered as to guard against the
danger of inflation.” And whilst, indeed,
we may be forced to regard political
abuse of finance as being inherent in the
nature of the Curtin Government, we are
likely also to be forced, sooner or later, to
the conclusion that the country cannot
for ever survive economic administration
of the type now in vogue, and that the
need for a far more responsible Govern-
ment is urgent on many counts. In other
words, it would be wrong to decry an eco-
nomic programme possessing much merit
simply because the Government of the
day lacks equal merit. The time is fast
approaching when dire necessity will de-
mand that Australia have a better Gov-
ernment.
The clumsy injustice of economic “con-
trols” which serve no purpose but a poli-
tical one is seen in the working of the
Stock Exchange price-ceiling. Last week
the Treasurer permited the upward ad-
justment of prices in the case of 82 shares.
The basis of the new ceilings was the
average market values for the three pre-
war years, but, in accordance with the
Treasurer’s stipulation, no ceiling price
could be increased by more than 10 p.c.
or 10s., whichever was the less. By this
ruling the ceiling for Morris Hedstrom
shares was permitted to rise to 255. 3d.,
against 235. previously, whereas this stock
is changing hands at 48s. 6d. in New
Zealand. In the Commonwealth the new
ceiling for Bank of N. S. Wales shares
is £2B, while the N.Z. market is around
£35 10s. Buyers offer 655. across the
Tasman for Burns Philp shares, although
the Australian ceiling is 565. There is
about as much justice and reason in the
Commonwealth Treasury’s “control” of
Stock, Exchange prices as there is in the
suggestion of Minister Lazzarini that
trading banks providing cheque facilities
should be charged with counterfeiting the
coinage.
* * * *
From October 2 persons owning homes
or vacant land acquired before the out-
break of war may buy another home site
or farm area without having to comply
with the rule demanding proportionate
subscription to war loans. A Treasury
spokesman said that a purchaser would
not necessarily be restricted to one lot of
land, but wholesale speculation would be
prevented. Treasury consent to any sale,
apparently, will still be necessary. Such
consent at present is often so long in
arriving that Treasury “reasons” them-
selves have become a matter for specula-
tion. Controls over values will, of course,
still be exercised in any property transac-
tions. Such controls are sound enough
provided other Government behavior
isn’t bound to defeat their object.
* * * *
Last year New Zealanders paid £12.8
million into revenue through the flat-rate
tax of Is. in tho £ on all income, levied
to provide social security of various kinds.
Expenditure on social security totalled
£17.6 million, other taxation sources
looking after the outgo in excess of the
proceeds of the shilling tax. Although
taxation is primarily used to pay for
social services in Maoriland, the fact that
it is a flat-rate tax ensures that all ulti-
mate recipients of benefits have paid
something towards the cost. In Australia,
under the present National Welfare pro-
visions, there is nothing to prevent “the
rich” being called upon to pay for all the
benefits to be handed to the multitude.
That is to say, there is nothing except
remorseless economic consequences to
prevent it. Unless science is able to invent
some sort of economic penicillin our
Labor Government seems bound to suffer
from remorseless economic consequences
to the end of its days.
# * * H*
Dealing with the strain imposed on
Australian civilians by the diversion to
war of “resources which would be nor-
mally used for the satisfaction of human
needs,” Treasurer Chifley, in his prepared
Budget speech, said:
The Budget war expenditure does not
exactly measure the amount of Australian
resources used for war purposes. First,
it includes expenditure on pensions, interest
and subsidies which are transfer pay-
ments and not direct payments for goods
and services. Secondly, it includes Gov-
ernment expenditure abroad which makes
no immediate demand on Australian pro-
duction. Conversely, Budget expenditure
does not include expenditure by other
Governments in Australia, and that ex-
penditure makes a direct demand on goods
and services in Australia. This last item is
important. It includes all personal expendi-
ture made by Allied troops out of their pay
as well as expenditure on munitions supplied
to the United Kingdom and other Dominion
Governments for other theatres of war.
When adjustments for those factors have
been made we find that the amount of
Australian resources used for war pur-
poses was £558 million last year, as com-
pared with £530 million in the previous year
—an increase of £2B million and not a de-
crease of £l7 million as shown by the
Budget figures. As prices have been
practically stable since early in 1943, there
has been a real increase in the drain on
our physical resources and man-power.
It is not possible to give valid estimates for
the current year because it depends in
large part on the expenditure of other
Governments in Australia.
“This increased absorption of goods and
services for war purposes,” said Mr.
Chifley, “ —whether by this Govern-
ment or by other Governments —means
increased incomes and increased spend-
ing power to the people, while, in
many categories, the goods and ser-
vices available for civilian use are be-
coming less. In other words, the danger
of price inflation has not lessened but has
increased.”
* * * *
Emergency stores of food put away in
various strategic centres in the Common-
wealth during the period of threatened
invasion (grocers were also prevailed upon'
to keep reserves) are now being “dis-
persed through recognised trade channels
for civilian use.” It has come as a sur-
prise to some people.to learn that the
Government knows where its strategic
stores were put in 1942. There were
critics prepared to take bets that once
these stocks were cached in a “strategic
position they would be “found” again m
time for consumption only by accident.
Among the lines now being released are
biscuits, according to press reports.


Public Notice.
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
OF SECRETARIES
(Incorporated in Victoria; Founded 1932)
Designation of Members; Fellows, F.I.C.S.
Associates, A.I.C.S. Licentiates, L.I.C.S.
Write for full particulars:
H. C. BRIERLEY, F.1.C.5.,
10 O’Connell St., Sydney. Phone: 8W7295
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
Bui You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS)
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that therd
Is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes!
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to ba
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
Smarting and burning also show there la
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it Is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does—take DOAN'S
BACKACHE KIDNEY " •
The ECONOMY SAUCE
!>
-T v*
v.
m
'*J
Jl
7?;
/Eqyptian monarchs had
I people beaten to qet money
oul'offfiem.lVeane'fiqKHncj
fbra democracy where this
can not be done. Are you buy-
inq bonds to Help in this ftohr.
J£ t
Incase
of need.HOur
Bonds are saleable
before tbeq
mature
r>
5 ' r v «.(<?>
■- v
o • <"V»
i/O
e r* J °
o
Jj
In 1453 Corsica was ceded to Hie
Genoese bank called toe Casa di
SanGiofqio. Let your Australia n
government beyoor bank. Boy
bonds in Ihe SKOMO
VICTORY LOAN
&
C/
■f
Befbre’ihis TOO late goto goor banl<*
posl* office .or broker Siqn an application
rbrHie biqqest bond gou can possiblg
nope to pag frr -
In chapter 25 of the
Gospel of StMolthew is the oF
the‘'slothful and unprofifebieservant
who hid Ihe one talent- f-G5O)-toai-
his master qave him. Australians
are hoardinq about£
And your qovernmenl’ needs Hast
v money on loan.
r
o
v."!-
•ZU
avio-ife.
H. P. Lazzarini, who charges the trading
banks with being “at least ‘technically
guilty of counterfeit coinage” because
they issue cheques, and who has spoken
of their cheque operations as the issue
of “illegal cheque pounds,” has been re-
minded by Menzies that the issue of
cheques is perfectly legal under the Bills
of Exchange Act, a law passed by the
Commonwealth Parliament. The Men-
zies description of “clotted nonsense”
applies particularly well to the Lazzarini
outburst, but it fits the contentions of
many other people with almost equal
point. Already there is a rush of press
correspondence insisting that “banks
create money out of nothing,” and quot-
ing all sorts of people, from deceased
bankers to live archbishops, to this effect.
Even if this contention were true it is
not of any more value to economic
thought than the assertion (in medical
science) that life goes on until the heart
ceases beating. There are so many fac-
tors which operate to make the heart
cease beating eventually, and so many
factors operating to prevent the banks
“creating” unlimited amounts of money
that will retain its value. Where banks
“create” credit they also create an equal
debt upon themselves. When the wind-
ing-up of their affairs comes they have
nothing left except their paid-up capital
and the profits they have accumulated
over the years, less their losses and bad
debts. Their profits are represented
by the margin between the interest
they receive on what they lend and that
which they pay on what they borrow,
plus exchange and similar earnings, less
management expenses. The clotted
nonsense of the critics surrounds the
belief that by “creating” credit they
directly create the same amount of profit.
No; every credit creates a debit, and,
whatever intermediate fancies are enter-
tained, that rule is the ultimate and in-
evitable one. It is true that banks often
have large sums on deposit on which
they pay no interest; these “current
accounts” are nevertheless debts, repay-
able by the bank far more quickly, as a
rule, than interest-bearing deposits.
» * * ♦
The steadily rising market for shares
in M.L. for over two years received its
fhst setback early in August, when a
number of leaders which had touched
record high levels encountered a slacker
demand. Starting with insurance scrip,
the movement spread to banks and then
affected several industrials, including
Australians, such as B.H.P. and British
Tobacco. But the undertone, on the
whole, remained firm, even though the
slackness continued during September.
That the irregular tendencies were quite
unconnected with political or economic
factors seemed apparent from the fact
that they coincided with the Government
announcement of the trade agreement be-
tween M.L. and the Mother Country, in-
volving retrospective lump-sum payments
and higher dairy-produce prices in the
future. Any easing in the share-
market, therefore, was obviously un-
related /to the trade outlook which, in
the immediate future, is bright. After a
period of recession Colonial Sugars
recently recovered to £6O on the Auck-
land Exchange—the highest level for
many years—then dropped back to £5B
10s.; while another Australian industrial
to attract attention was Tooths Brewery,
which hit £3 Is. 6d., comparing with £2
19s. in May last and the ceiling price
in Sydney of £2 16s.
In their report, the directors of the
Reserve Bank of New Zealand state;
The quantities of goods available for civilian
consumption have been considerably reduced,
and the expansion of spending-power has in
New Zealand, as on other countries, created
problems of price stabilisation. When the time
arrives that a wider range of commercial
imports becomes more readily available some
of the expanded spending-power will presumably
be absorbed.
No doubt, also, productive resources will make
possible larger supplies of locally-produced
goods for civilian consumption when the de-
mands of war have ceased. Nevertheless the
greatly expanded volume of money in circula-
tion is a factor to be taken into account in con-
sidering any plans for the full use of material
and human resources during the remainder of
the war period and in the preservation of eco-
nomic and financial stability in the post-war
period.
It is essential in the interests of maintaining
economic stability that as far as possible war
expenses should be defrayed from the proceeds
of taxation, which should be as high as prac-
ticable, and from loans derived from genuine
savings, thus minimising the danger of expansion
of credit which is common to countries at war
and is in practice unavoidable.
Wholehearted support by every member of
the community of every measure which is de-
signed to utilise the money which is already in
existence for all necessary war and civil purposes
will bring its reward in a measure of financial
and economic stability which will thoroughly
justify any immediate sacrifice involved.
The board estimates that the available
spending power of the country has in-
creased by £75 million in four years.


THE SERVICE MAN
Raids in the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: By October 8 the cam-
paign on Peleliu, in the Palau group, had
been brought virtually to a close with
over 11,000 Japanese killed and nearly
200 prisoners taken. Already 1128 dead
had been counted on Angaur, where a
military Government has been estab-
lished by the U.S. Command. U.S. casual-
ties from September 25 to October 5
were 336 killed and 1707 wounded on
Angaur and Peleliu.
There was a little livelier fighing on
Morotai, and 29 Japanese were killed.
The number brought enemy losses since
the landing to 70.
The main activity in the mid and
southern Pacific was in the air. Raids
were thrown at the enemy all the way
from the Arus to the Volcano and Bonin
Islands, targets including Kendari, in the
Celebes, and Truk.
The greatest was on Balik Papan,
the great oil centre of Borneo, on
October 3. Swarms of fighters were en-
countered and a hot battle was fought,
seven Liberators being lost and 19 enemy
fighters shot down.
General MacArthur has congratulated
Catalina crews on sinking 100,000 tons
of enemy shipping between September 16
and September 30, including several
vessels from 8000 to 10,000 tons.
Raiding of shipping round the south of
the Philippines continued, and seven
vessels ranging up to 3000 tons were sunk,
some of them in Zamboanga Harbor,
some round the fringes of the Sulu Sea.
At the week-end Sorong —one of the last
points held by the enemy in the Vogel-
kopf Peninsula of Dutch New Guinea —
and targets in the Moluccas, Zamboanga,
Babo, Ambon, Truk and Wotje were
attacked, and it was reported that
, 200 machines, the largest force used for
months, had blasted Rabaul, damaging a
lot of Japanese repair work and sinking
a considerable force of troops in barges.
On October 8 G.H.Q. in the south-
west Pacific announced that in mopping-
up operations in New Guinea 599 more
Japanese had been killed and 153
prisoners taken ; also, 253 more friendly
nationals had been liberated. The fight-
ing included all areas in the north N.G.
zone, including Biak Island, where the
enemy casualties were heavy.
In Asia
The most serious developments on all
the Pacific fronts occurred in China,
where Chiang Kai-shek’s forces are in
serious danger of losing the port of Foo-
chow as well as Kweilin. The last of
the effective U.S. offensive airbases is also
in danger.
Meanwhile the British and Indian
forces in Burma continued to press for-
ward, along with the Chinese and Ameri-
cans to whom they are joined in the
north Burma operations.
The rains are coming near their end,
and there are evidently very large forces
operating, probably much greater by now
than the 250,000 mentioned by Mr.
Churchill in the House of Commons as
being in the Fourteenth Army.
Of the three Burma fronts the Arakan
and Chindwin areas are manned entirely
by British and Indian ground troops. It
is in these districts that 80 per cent, of
the fighting has taken place.
General Stilwell’s column advancing
down the Irrawaddy railway, which will
presently meet the British forces of Mani-
pur, thus isolating a large section of
Japanese-held Burma, is about half
British and half Chinese. It is spear-
headed by the British Thirty-sixth Divi-
sion and the Chindits, who are mainly
men from the north of England, brigaded
with Gurkhas.
In the Burma armies it is known that
32 British, one West African and 31
Indian regiments are involved. Divisions
of the Indian Army are one-third to one-
half British.
Of the British regiments, five are
Scottish, including the Black Watch. The
Royal Welch are there, and the remain-
ing 26 are English county regiments.
Some of the transport movements make
the onlooker gasp. The Fifth Indian
Division —largely British in composition
—though it had had no airborne training,
was moved 1000 miles into Manipur on
three days’ notice within 10 days, with all
its pack animals, light motor transport
and divisional artillery. Nothing like
that has been done previously in any war
on any front.
The lull in the Pacific area should break
within the two months. Conferences be-
tween President Roosevelt and his com-
manders, and between the Japanese Com-
mand and Government, and the recent
presence of Lord Louis Mountbatten in
London seem to presage major action
before very long.
Fighting Towards the Rhine.
“Ek Dum”: With days shortening
rapidly, with rain pouring down in
sheets right across Europe and counter-
attacks by the Germans as frequent as
attacks by the Allies along the Western
Front, the validity of the warnings here
issued when the Siegfried Line was re-
ported mangled into a ruin is now obvious.
At every point where defence counts
there is no sign of any decline in the
enemy’s weapons and technique, fortifi-
cations and tactics. His resistance every-
where is fierce.
Correspondents continue to report that
prisoners taken are physical wrecks and
foreigners. There is no reason to dis-
believe these reports. But their sum total
suggests a presumption that brigaded-with
these miserable fellows are highly-trained
combat troops who live to fight again.
The break-in on the north of Aachen,
towards Dusseldorf, by the American
First Army was a fine military per-
formance, but the first main defence
line west of the Rhine was still to be
reached. In fact, the advance left the
Americans in the screen area between the
first outpost line and the shield positions
of the main primary line.
The Supreme Command has discounted
the claim that there has been any com-
plete breakthrough. It has no illusions
about the strategy of German defence
methods. The enemy’s defence lines are
not intended at this stage to keep attackers
out. They are specifically framed to
allow them to pass through, but at a
pace and in a condition which will make
the invaders ripe for mangling by armor
and artillery when they have
through frontal defences.
Thus far this policy is only in its/initial
stages. It is five to one that, because
of the Allies’ abundance of men
and materials and the proved ability of
their commanders, and because of the
distractions of the Eastern Front, the
scheme will be wrecked and that the enemy
will have to try something else —if he can.
The Aachen Drive
The drive north of Aachen began in
normal battle fashion. Bombers and
fighter-bombers plastered the ground in
front till it seemed that nothing could
live on it, the moment having been
chosen when General Montgomery’s
magnet had drawn very powerful Ger-
man forces to the Nijmegen area. For
the operations in Holland are co-ordinated
with those of Aachen in pursuance of a
common strategic purpose.
The enemy took this bombing lying
down. Not a single fighter was observed
in his sky other than those of the Allies,
even when large formations swept across
the Rhine and plastered Hamm and other
railway junctions and yards feeding the
front. However, he did not take the
subsequent artillery blast with massed
guns without some reprisal.
On October 3 it was announced that
the American troops between Aachen and
Geilenkirchen had begun advancing across
the Dutch border and had penetrated
about 2\ miles, while meeting with strong
and increasing resistance. The Americans
had crossed the little river Wurm with
the help of their thunderous artillery bar-
rage, and had pushed to the small village
of Übach, three miles south of Geilen-
kirchen, while aiming also at two other
points—Sittard, just inside the border,
20-odd miles north-west of Aachen and
50 miles from the Rhine, and a point
further north near the fringes of the
Reichswald (State forest), which ranges
up on the German side of the Meuse to
the north-east of Nijmegen.
As the troops went forward they found
themselves in a maze of pillboxes and
foxholes, with infantry laced through
the interstices between static defences and
backed by massed mortars and plenty of
artillery in the rear.
On October 4 the two frontier villages
of Übach and Palenber had been occu-
pied and the U.S. troops had pushed for-
ward on a narrow front north of Aachen
for four miles. They then were working
behind the first line of strong German
outpost defences.
Counter-attacks Begin
The Germans began to throw in
counter-attacks. One was in the wooded
country on the southern wing, near Stol-
berg. Another, further to the north, was
launched at dawn with a cold ferocity
which plastered the rush of the enemy
upon the American defences so that it
broke up largely by virtue of its own
force hitting against steel.
Tanks now were thrown in the
breach which had been made. Despite
powerful opposition by German armor,
which appeared for the first time, the
salient on October 7 was six miles deep
and six miles wide, the incessant scene
of attack and counter-attack, advance
and retreat.
Very little has been written descriptive
of the country into which the advance is
being made. It is mountainous and diffi-
cult, highly industrialised and heavily
populated. Dams are thrown across many
of its valleys, forming little lakes which
provide the water for its industries.
It is unlikely that the attack is a main
effort as yet. That will come when
General Montgomery’s men have com-
pleted their difficult and intricate task of
mopping up the defences of Holland,
where, as in the area north of Aachen,
torrents of rain fell last week, and the
low-lying lands along the Netherlands
canals had become sloughs.
The American advances are a good
start, bitterly disputed. On October 7
there had to be stalled off the heaviest
counter-attacks yet made. The capture
of Basweiler and the Beggendorf concen-
tration area for troops was promising.
U.S. forces at this point were 35 miles
from the Rhine. And after a month in
the approaches Aachen was nearly sur-
rounded on October 7 as the result of
a new advance through Hiirtgen forest
on the south.
Dunkirk and Antwerp
The British and Canadian fronts in
France, Belgium and Holland cover a
field in which great regularising move-
ments are having the effect of uniting the
strategy, the process resembling the fitting
of the pieces of a jigsaw puzzle together.
The ports of Dunkirk and Antwerp
are two important sections of the pattern
which have to be put into their places
in the Allied supply lines, American as
well as Britain. At the week-end this
had not been accomplished, though Dun-
kirk cannot hold out for long.
Its port will not be of much use when
the artillery and the demolitiorr squads
have finished with it; but the beaches,
which run for miles up the coast to the
north, under the shelter of many banks,
will be and possibly already are service-
able for landing supplies and stores from
barges and other craft.
Antwerp was in a different position.
Save for a pocket which originally
included about 1000 Germans, it is clear
of the enemy and intact. And last week,
when the Canadians captured Pule, 10
miles due north, it receded out of range
of enemy shellfire.
But its entrances through the Schelde
are still German-controlled, despite des-
perate fighting to reach the river banks
from the south-west and to outflank the
Germans on the north bank and in the
islands of Beveland and Walcheren, which
divide the wide Schelde estuary into its
eastern and western branches.
In the south, on the Belgian side of
the river, the enemy established strong
defences along the Leopold Canal, across
which the Canadians made a fierce attack
north of Melegem at dawn on October 6.
With gun, mortar and flame-thrower they
forced their way over the canal, estab-
lished assault bridges and moved on
towards the Schelde.
West of Antwerp, holding nine miles
of both sides of the river, the Canadians
had pushed on across the Dutch border
in the direction of Bergen-op-Zoom and
Breda, towards which the British also are
converging in the Tilburg area to the
north-east. The British were almost in
Tilburg on October 7,
The Canadians’ progress, with their
attendant Poles, resisted though it was,
augured badly for the Germans in the
island areas of Walcheren and Beveland,
joined by causeways to each other and
the Dutch mainland.
For the R.A.F. had breached the dyke
of Walcheren, from which the sea has to
be held out, and by October 6 half the
fever-stricken island, on which the sol-
diers of Chatham’s ill-fated expedition
died like flies in 1809, was eight feet
under water with the sea pouring in
through an ever-widening gap. The two
principal towns, Flushing and Middel-
burg, which each hold roughly 20,000
people, were threatened.
Why the R.A.F. took such drastic
action, so disastrous to thousands of
Netherlanders, is not quite clear. Per-
haps the forces of Germans were so large
there or the supply problems linked with
Antwerp so urgent that the flooding in-
volved the saving of thousands of British
and Canadian lives. Flooded land can
be reclaimed; young lives once lost can-
not be.
The Nijmegen Salient
From Antwerp eastward and north-
ward the British-Canadian American
forces held all the area up to the Dutch
border, where the Canadians and Poles
had crossed the Tumhout Canal, which
links with the Escaut Canal just to the
north-east of Gheel. This area forms
one buttress of the great British salient,
of which the flank passes within three
miles of Tilburg on the German side and
slightly to the east of Hertogenbosch
(Bois le Due), thence across the Waal, 18
miles from Nijmegen, and up to the Lek
bridge below Arnhem.
Most of the country east of this to the
Meuse and the German border was in
Allied hands —the Germans declare that
between the Waal and the lower Rhine
the British are operating on the west and
the Americans on the east. In drenching
rain the enemy was doing his best to
prevent them from holding it or from
pushing the northern part of the penetra-
tion across the Lek to the Yssel or to
Amsterdam.
The Northern Strategy
A bloody struggle developed. The
Germans are desperately holding the
Meuse wall of the Netherlands salient.
With the advances of the American
First Army it is a vital matter to the
enemy to prevent a bag of Germans being
formed between Aachen and the Meuse,
near Venlo and Roermond, as is threat-
ened, and a solid front, served by ports,
rivers and canals, being established. The
clearing of the weather added to his diffi-
culties in doing this at the week-end.
The cleaning up of this small area, with
the British across the Rhine (Lek) at
Arnhem in force and over the Yssel be-
yond, would be the most serious misfor-
tune which could happen to the Ger-
mans anywhere. It would force the
enemy out of Holland, or bottle him up
there, and threaten the northern flank of
the West Wall defences with a fatal
mangling. It would put the Ruhr in
jeopardy and would place the whole of
The German defences in great danger.
It is in the light of these facts that the
American First Army’s advances are im-
portant ; and it is in relation to these
movements that German counter-attacks
are important.
The British were reported by Berlin on
October 6 to have created a new bridge-
head across the Lek, 11 miles nearer the
sea than Arnhem, at Wegeningen. The
Germans said the bridgehead had been
strengthened with parachute troops and
established, but British communiques had
nothing to say about it. If it is true, it
means that General Montgomery’s men
have reached the face of the main defence
lines in the Geld Valley which cover the
Fortress of Holland and all the great ports
and population centres of the Nether-
lands. On the southern side of the Lek
the Allies are even further westward.
It also means that at this point they
are only 14 miles or so from the Zuyder
Zee, near Eems. And this 14 miles of
country represents the mouth of a bag in
which all the Germans who cannot get
away by sea are immured in the pro-
vince of Zeeland, North and South Hol-
land and Utrecht, which constitute every-
thing of the Netherlands that matters.
The Canadians on October 9 had appar-
ently closed the causeway to Walcheren
and Beveland.
Most of the Zuyder Zee has been re-
claimed, but the Polder is cut off from
the mainland by a channel, and in any
case much of the reclaimed area is be-
lieved to have been flooded by the enemy.
The German Command has been un-
remitting in its attempts to smash the
northern end of the British salient. It
has thrown in at times some of its
new jet-propelled, fighters, but, as in
Aachen, the weather improvement has
allowed the Allies to nullify air attacks
and use their bombing and strafing squad-
rons as instruments of ground warfare.
The enemy has employed abundance
of tanks. Though he is in retreat in the
Netherlands and under great pressure he
has been so far in control of his move-
ments once they begin, and has not been
anywhere routed. Both sides were gird-
ing their loins for a new large-scale battle
on October 7-8.
On the Moselle
Southward along the Moselle and on
the Luxembourg front it is the same story.
The fringe defences covering Metz have
been further penetrated but not smashed.
The Belfort Gap has been threatened
but not assaulted. The Germans re-
ported recapture of fort areas north ot
Epinal. German artillery fire and de-
fences generally reach crescendo so soon
as the American advance comes within
40 to 50 miles of the Rhine. Wherever
there is a move forward it is only made
after pillboxes have been flattened and
machine-gun and foxhole posts, snipers
and mortar crews, have been piciced
patiently out of a landscape ideal for de-
fence, like ticks out of a dog’s hide.
Great Air Operations
Attention riveted on the few miles of
the Siegfried Line has distracted the
minds of observers to some extent from
the growing power of the air assault.
This manifested itself in a great senes
of shattering raids, in which about n


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JAMES KEMBER formerly of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE EDITH KEMBER
has filed a Petition for Bivorce No. 1184 of 1944 on
the grounds of desertion without just Cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you desire to
defend the case you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the Bth December 1944 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from JOHN
BARNETT GREAVES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
no Allied correspondents have been
Public Notices.
I, ANTHONY ZIMBOUNELLIS, of Greek nationality,
born at Athens, Greece, and resident seven years in
Australia, now residing at 42 Palace Street, Ashfleld,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, JOSEPH SELLAN, of Italian nationality, bom at
Azzano X, Italy, and resident 20 years in Australia, now
residing at 410 Bourke Street, Darlinghurst, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, VIGGO CHRISTIANSEN, of Danish nationality,
born at Elsinore, Denmark, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 7 Blenheim Road, Lind-
field, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, NAZZARENO DORIA, of Italian nationality, born
at Porto Oivitanova, Province of Macerata, Italy,
and resident 18 years in Australia, now residing at
11 Brand Street, Artarmon, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, N 212135 Pte. HANS GUNSBERGER, of Stateless
nationality, bom at Vienna, Austria, and resident
five years in Australia,- now residing at 2 Aust. Emp.
Coy. Det., att. H.Q. 2 Aust. Adv. Amn. Depot, N.S.W.
L. of O. Area, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, MOSES ABRAHAM BACH, of Stateless nationality,
born at Harbin, China, and resident five years in
Australia, now serving with the Australian military
force, intend to apply for naturalisatipn under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
CD
am
heavy machines took part and dropped
30,000 tons of bombs in 60 hours.
The week’s raids immobilised the Weser
Canal in Westphalia along the main
routes from the Ruhr—an important bit
of work, with the effects exaggerated in
the telling —the destruction of the Kembs
flow-control dams on the Rhine-Rhone
Canal near the Swiss border; the wiping
out of a H.Q. in the Reichswald by
eight Rocket Typhoons (led by Flight-Lt.
Phil Strong, of Sydney); the bursting of
the Walcheren dyke the concentrated
heavy raids every day; where weather
allowed, on road and rail traffic and on
great German marshalling yards ; the U.S.
and R.A.F. doing over the oil refineries
throughout the Reich ; the vigilant attacks
on shipping and ports of the North Sea
and on the few flying bombs which came
in over southern England from the
east and south-east. The attacks cul-
minated at the week-end in the use of
5000 machines, of which 3700 came from
Britain, 3000 being heavies.
Losses in these raids had not been fully
enumerated when this was written. An
American communique (Oct. 7) claimed
11 enemy machines destroyed by
bombers, 22 by fighters (including four
Me 262 jet-planes) and 16 on the ground
for a loss of 51 bombers and 15 fighters.
The Germans claimed 121 Allied
machines, including 75 four-engined
bombers, apart from eight U.S. bombers
which crashed or made forced landings.
Greece Invaded.
“Ek Dum”: Conditions in Greece,
discovered when the British effected a
landing in the north-west of the Morea,
confirmed the suggestion here made a
fortnight ago that the - Germans were
evacuating the Balkan Peninsula.
The landings, like those on the Dalma-
tian coast further north, seem aimed at
hampering the withdrawals which Mar-
shal Tito has been powerless to prevent
or, at any rate, does not seem to have
attempted to prevent. Without molesta-
tion from Tito the Bulgarians remain in
control of' the southern portion of Ser-
bian Macedonia and the Varda Valley,
through which the retreat would mainly
have passed.
The landings in the Morea were not
on the grand scale. They were effected
quietly under the command of Air Vice-
Marshal William Elliott. The Combined
Operations forces were led by young
Lieut.-Colonel Earl Jellicoe.
Some days before any announcement
was made parachute troops were thrown
in along the strip of coast near Patras to
capture an aerodrome area, which they
found virtually demolished and aban-
doned. They then found a landing
ground, a difficult enough matter in the
mountainous and swampy little peninsula,
and the aircraft supply squadrons built
up dumps in preparation for the landing
by seaborne troops, which followed in
heavy rain similar to that which has been
hampering operations all over Europe.
The first troops came ashore at Kata-
kolon, on the west coast, about 60 miles
by sea from Patras. They found few Ger-
mans, the main troops being Greek
“security” battalions trained by the enemy
and left behind. They offered little re-
sistance.
British officers were already in control
of one or two t main towns in the heart
of the Morea, which they had reached by
parachute, including Tripolis.
The Morea is a natural Gibraltar cut
off from the mainland by the Gulf of
Patras and the Gulf of Corinth, which is
like a long, inland lake, and finally by
the Corinth Canal, which looks to be
about the biggest tank obstacle in his-
tory. It severs the eastern side of the
Morea from the Megara Peninsula and
joins the waters of the Gulf of Corinth
to those of the Gulf of Aegina.
The Germans are said to have
blocked the canal, but even at that ships
can steam into the Gulf of Corinth to
within about 50 miles of Athens.
Only Slight Resistance
Patras, soon in British hands, at a
cost of three slightly-wounded men, is the
largest port on the western Greek coast.
It lies on an immense sheltered harbor,
in which the world’s fleets could be
anchored, looking north across a broad
expanse of water to the mountains of
Lepanto and the bay on which stands
Byron’s Missolonghi. It was found in
pretty good order and condition, though
charges had been laid for demolition.
They had not been fired.
The Germans and their Greek
“security” battalions resisted for a time,
but 1500 Greeks soon surrendered. The
only Germans who remained were an
isolated force, which held out for four
days until the night of October 3, when
the British burst into Patras and took
final possession of the port, the last
opposition having been broken by mor-
tar batteries. These neutralised the de-
fences of Radio Hill, which commands a
large part of the city, and its guns were
soon turned on their former owners, who
had embarked for an attempt to escape
through the Gulf of Corinth.
The British quickly moved eastward to
the narrows opposite Lepanto, which
form the entrance to the Gulf of Corinth,
and soon took Rhion, which com-
mands the strait.
The forces on the Albanian coast
further north, whose objective is to harass
the coastal roads and the highway which
leads from Trikkala and Larissa over
the Metsovo Pass through Janina, have
been immobilised to some extent by the
heavy rain. But they have cut off the
island of Corfu, 130 miles from Patras.
There seems to have been consider-
able activity round the island of
Brae, just off the Yugoslav mainland
near Spalato. Spalato is a useful naval
port between the sea and the Dinaric
Alps, through which the coastal commu-
nications from Albania pass to Zara, and
through Krin to the Una Valley and the
escape outlets of Croatia.
Greece Being Evacuated
Ankara Radio at the week-end reported
that the Germans were evacuating Athens,
as well they might with the Morea under
British control. Also, they were leaving
the AEgean, where the R.A.F. was busy
making a hell for their scattered retiring
units.
On Chios the Greek Administration
was reported on October 4 to have moved
in. All the way from the aerodrome
area of Athens to within sight of the
Turkish coast Allied guns barked
throughout last week.
The Maleme airfield on Crete was bom-
barded by the British cruiser Aurora-
no doubt with relish, for those were the
waters in which the great battle of the
AEgean was fought in June, 1941.
Escort carriers blasted Levita, north of
Kos, one of the Sporades group of
islands, in sight of Asia Minor. Porto-
largo and Portolaki, on Leros, were
bombed and strafed by naval aircraft,
which set one ship on fire and damaged
others. On the night of October 3 Royal
Navy destroyers sank six enemy assault
ships off Piscopi, north-west of Rhodes.
The Germans entered Greek waters in
a blaze of triumph. They are going out
in misery and dejection.
N.Z. Over the Rubicon.
“Ek Dum”; Blinding rain, bitter sleety
winds off the Alps and rivers running
“bankers” have held up the Eighth Army
advance along the Adriatic coast, but the
Fifth Army late last week captured
Loiana, on the main Bologna highway,
and cleared Monzuno of the enemy. On
October 6 the spearheads of the advance
were only 13 miles by crow-fly from
Bologna, though much further by road,
Vignola was in Allied hands. It is about
10 miles from the main road to Milan,
and its capture threatens both Bologna
and Modena.
The Eighth Army’s only gain, made in
a torrential downpour, was a little high
ground west of Rimini.
The Maorilanders continue to bear
much of the brunt of the spearhead drive.
It was they who crossed the Rubicon,
which, as in Caesar’s case, presented no
great difficulty, though their troops were
delayed for a few hours in front of strong
bridgeheads supported by armor still held
by the enemy on the northern bank.
They seem to have made two initial
crossings, one over a steel girder bridge,
damaged but still negotiable, across the
mouth of the river; another on the left
flank of the advance.
Near the sea the Maorilanders are
fighting on the typical Adriatic coastal
country of the porth. The houses along
the coast are solid, many of them holiday
villas gutted by the retreating enemy.
Sometimes a street of dwellings lines the
roadsides, a potential gauntlet of resist-
ance to be run. The land is criss-crossed
with ditches and water barriers, over
which the bridges have been destroyed,
and there are embankments which pro-
vide shelter for delaying units, consider-
able timber and maize fields which give
cover to defenders.
In the advanced positions towards the
Fiumincino River, over which a bridge-
head on high ground has been secured,
conditions are even more dreary and diffi-
cult. The Maorilanders fight their way
into the bitterness of an Italian winter
whose impact is about to fall upon them,
though there was a temporary improve-
ment on October 1, when the enemy was
counter-attacking, and there was heavy
shelling on both sides.
The Peculiar Eastern Front.
“Ek Dum”; News from the Eastern
front was for the most part puzzling and
nowhere conclusive, except in one un-
happy case. The Russians were facing a
fierce resistance on the forest and swamp-
sown outskirts of Riga, though they
appear to have occupied the island of
Dago, and there was fierce fighting with
large forces towards the Niemen mouth,
between Windau and Memel. And the
gallant Poles in Warsaw had been forced
to surrender.
Berlin Radio said that General Bor and
his staff were prisoners. More than 50,000
Varsovians had been killed, and the city
(population, in normal times, about a mil-
lion) had been so badly damaged that
scarcely a building was fit to be occu-
pied. It was found necessary to evacuate
250,000 people. Five hundred thousand
killed, wounded and missing in six
weeks, 50 p.c. of the buildings destroyed,
35 p.c. uninhabitable —such was the ter-
rible Polish account.
General von Denbach, the German
commander on the Warsaw front, said:
“It was a grim battle. We cannot deny
that our losses were very heavy.” He an-
nounced that the captured Poles would
be treated as soldiers and not as guerrillas.
Said Mr. Churchill:
When final victory is achieved the epic
of Warsaw will not be forgotten. It will
remain a deathless memory for Poland and
for the friends of freedom all over the
world.... The resistance of Warsaw’s gal-
lant citizens against overwhelming odds and
under inconceivable conditions of hard-
ship ended after a fight which lasted 63
days. Despite the efforts of the Soviet
Army, the strong German positions on the
Vistula could not be taken and relief could
not come in time.
British, American, Polish and Russian
airmen did what they could to succor the
Poles, but, although this sustained the
Polish resistance beyond what had seemed
possible, it could not turn the tide.
“Izvestia,” official organ of the Krem-
lin, struck a very different note;
President Raczkiewics and his reactionary
clique (i.e. the Government accepted by all
the Poles fighting under Alexander, Mont-
gomery, Cunningham and Tedder, and re-
cognised by the British and U.S. Govern-
ments) are now shedding crocodile tears.
They are responsible for this tragedy. War-
saw lost many of her and daughters.
Such is the only result of the criminal ad-
venture launched by the clique of Sosnkow-
ski, Bor and others of the same kidney.
Bulgaria and Yugoslavia
Bulgaria was negotiating peace with
Britain and America, with which coun-
tries it was at war. Russia, not at war
with Bulgaria, was made aware of the
negotiations. Suddenly it declared war
on Bulgaria, thus cutting short the nego-
tiations, and invaded Bulgaria. The Bul-
garians agreed at once to co-operate with
the Russians. The Allies agreed to preli-
minary terms, one of which was that Bul-
garia should at once evacuate the large
slices of Greece and Yugoslavia which
had been handed over as the price of
Sofia’s adhesion to the Axis. •
Russia was left to implement the agree-
ments. Weeks afterwards it was reported
from Ankara, and not denied, that the
Russians and Bulgarians were form-
ing Communist government centres in the
Thracian strip of Greece which Bulgaria
was supposed to be evacuating.
Mr. Cordell Hull was constrained to
remark on October 2 that he could not
help noticing “the lack of speed” with
which Bulgaria was pulling out of Greece
and Yugoslavia. He pointed out that
withdrawal of Bulgarian troops from
those countries was one of the terms of
the armistice, which also required Bul-
garia to retire to her 1939 boundaries.
But there was more to come. A brief
Bulgarian communique was issued on
October 4.
Bulgarian troops have advanced con-
siderably in the Bela Palanka sector of
Yugoslavia.
This means that Bulgarian troops
are actually advancing on Yugoslavia,
towards Belgrade, along the main road
from the jealously-guarded border line at
the Dragoman Pass, in complete defiance
of their agreement with the Anglo-Ameri-
cans, but with the consent and approval
of the Russians. The presence of these
troops is likely to have profound reactions
on the Serbs.
Meanwhile, the officers of the Anglo-
American Mission, which had been in
Sofia in connection with the armistice
negotiations, were thrown out of Bul-
garia by the Russian Command. The
British were sent across the border in
box cars. The Americans fared somewhat
better.
Mr. Cordell Hull, nearly a tortmgnr
after this event, said that the ejection or
the mission was “due to a misunderstan
ing. The matter involved only local ques-
tions of no special importance, which ha
since been straightened out.” Moscow
Radio did not admit that there had been
any mistake. It said the officers were
allowed to remain a week although they
were not an official mission. .
While these events were reaching their
conclusion the Russians and the army
of Marshal Tito were advancing towards
Belgrade and western Yugoslavia. They
were meeting resistance between the
Danube and the Morava rivers as they
drove towards Nish. But on the dreary
plains north of the Danube the Russians,
it was reported on October 4, were within
10 miles of Belgrade. Then news of their
progress, of which a mile-by-mile account
had been given, mysteriously ceased.
Fighting was proceeding on the Hun-
garian fringes, particularly for Szged—-a
crucial point in the Hungarian border
defence —along a line from Novirecej.
north of Belgrade, to the plains of Gyula,
in south-east Hungary, and north of the
Carpathians in southern Poland, though
results were nebulous.
Marshal Tito’s Sea-change
Marshal Tito, like the “Poles” in
Moscow, sports a National Liberation
Committee, which assumed the right to
grant permission to the Red Army to
enter Yugoslavia. It has not said whether
it Jhas granted the British and Americans
permission to be in Yugoslavia along the
Adriatic. Tito denied angrily at one stage
that there had been any landing.
It was reported last week that the
committee “rebuked the Western Powers
for claiming that they had rendered sub-
stantial assistance to Marshal Tito s
forces.” The broadcast which contained
this statement came from Tiffis, in
Russia, and declared that Tito’s armies
had “begun alone the struggle to liberate
Yugoslavia and would finish it that way.”
It is not so long since Tito was
supposed to have sufficient resources to
keep in check a greater German force
than that opposed to General Alexander s
armies in Italy. Those resources, if they
existed, could have come only from the
British and Americans. And Marshal
Tito did not begin his struggle till a year
after others had begun. His statement
that he is continuing the struggle alone
must be qualified by the fact that the Rus-
sians, with a few divisions at the end of
long communication lines, have done in
a few days ten times as much as he suc-
ceeded in doing in two years, and that,
apart from the Russians, his “aloneness”
is mitigated by the fact that he is being
aided by the oppressors of the Yugoslav
people, the filchers of large sections of
Serbian territory, the Bulgarians.
It looks as if the Russians have de-
clared the Balkans a Communist preserve.
The same, apparently, applies to Finland,
where, according to Swedish newspapers,
allowed into Helsinki. There are sporadic
accounts of fighting between Finns and
Germans at Tornea, at the head of the
Gulf of Bothnia,


ilii
I
.
a
■
msM
mm
.
ciH
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BUY SECOND VICTORY LOAN BONDS.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Randwick attendance on the opening
day of the AJ.C. spring meeting was
below expectations. Including service-
men, it was not much over 55,000, and
approximately the tote turnover was
£139,969. The racing was excellent, with
results against favorite backers.
Craigie, a little unlucky in a couple
of his previous races, finished strongly to
win the Trial Stakes, his run being good
enough to again bring him into notice
as one of the lightly-weighted Metropoli-
tan possibilities. Right Royal, second,
was prominent throughout, but Prince
Buzzard, though third, was never a win-
ning possibility, and does not look as if he
is likely to improve sufficiently to be a
Metropolitan danger. Betza ran fairly,
but neither Abydos nor Cumberoona did
sufficiently well to suggest success in the
Metropolitan.
Despite the lamentations concerning the
alleged poor class of horses we are now
breeding, there were a number of good-
looking two-year-olds in the Breeders’
Plate field. The winner turned up in the
stoutly-built Magnificent (Delaney), who
is trained by A. S. Croall. When Mag-
nificent swerved out half a furlong from
home his defeat by Don Giovanni seemed
probable, but when his rider straightened
him he again went away. Tamaroa and
Bobnic, who headed the remainder,
finished strongly, and will be improved
by racing, the latter in particular. The
winner is by Ajax (the first of that sire’s
progeny to race in Australia) from Com-
plete, by Bonnement from We Two, a
daughter of Trois, the last-named being a
sister to Thrice and Three.
In a finish so close that the hoisting of
a dead-heat would not have surprised,
Winnipeg atoned for recent failures by
getting up in the last few strides to beat
Nobleman, whom he met on 131 b. better
than Epsom terms. Nobleman continues
to improve and, as compared with Modu-
lation (third), who came home well, will
be 61b. better off in the Epsom. Soho
was again slow in finding his legs, and
did not give his supporters a look in,
while Van Eyck’s backward position
from an early stage was said to be due
to being bumped on to the rails. Tribal
again finished indifferently after being
prominent in the straight entrance; and
though Queenslander Bahtheon led im-
mediately after barrier-rise his stay in
a good position finished at the turn.
Tea Rose, Mayfowl and Grand Fils
lost a little ground at barrier-rise in the
Craven Plate, but the first-named, quickly
making up her leeway, led along the back
stretch with Victory Lad. The field was
fairly bunched at the turn, but a little
further on Tea Rose drew away from
Victory Lad, and was a sure winner
shortly after starting upon the last fur-
long. Mayfowl and Flight had a good
race for second place, and though the
former did not act up. to expectations
over the final furlong he just beat the
mare. Katanga, who is getting a some-
what “oid-mannish” appearance, looked
bright, but moved a trifle stiffly in his
preliminary, and though in a handy posi-
tion at the top of the straight did not
run on j n hi s old style.
Removal’s form in the Rosehill
Guineas did not prepare backers for his
all-the-way win in the Clibborn Stakes.
He was going comfortably in front along
the back, and when some of his followers
closed on him at the straight entrance he
was able to go away again. Removal’s
win disposed of any idea that Murray
Stream, Accession and Beau Monde were
out of the ordinary. Prince Verity, who
looked particularly well, was left at the
post, taking no part in the race, and it
was the same with Scaur Fel, whose
owners must be getting tired of racing her.
Several horses credited with Metropoli-
tan chances ran much below expectations
in the Squatters’ Handicap. It was ask-
ing a lot of Veiled Threat to succeed
with 9.9, and though he made a dash
inside the last furlong he was losing
ground at the winning post. Chatham’s
Choice greatly assisted in Gauntlet’s win.
He set a solid pace, with the latter going
comfortably in second or third place most
of the time. When the straight was
reached Gauntlet dashed to the front and
established a lead which stood to him
in the run home, though he had to be
ridden right out to narrowly beat Castle
Frontenac, who was a long way back in
the early part, and still second-last at the
half-mile. Falcon Knight’s form was not
suggestive of a Metropolitan win, nor
was that of Lord Neith, Orderly, Two’s
Company or Mustang, though it might be
unwise to rule any of that lot out because
of Saturday’s failure.
♦ * * *
Counsel ousted Lawrence from Caul-
field Cup favoritism after his defeat
of that horse and Tranquil Star in the
Melbourne Stakes at Flemington last
Saturday, He won by only a head, but
met Lawrence 31b. worse than Cup terms.
Counsel has been solidly backed for the
first leg of the Cups double, and, accord-
ing to trainer R, Webster, he will be
ridden by A. Breasley in that race.
Breasley had previously been named as
rider of Tea Cake. Little excuse was
possible for Lawrence or Tranquil Star,
and, although David’s Last finished fourth
after leading until about a furlong from
home, he is a doubtful stayer. Regal
Coin, a Derby candidate, disappointed
his backers, but be struck the running rail
soon after the start.
Delina, 11-to-8 on favorite for the
Edward Manifold Stakes for three-year-
old fillies, won decisively from Whizbeau
and Big Sister, Apparently she is return-
ing to her outstanding form of last
autumn, but she still has the job ahead to
win the Victoria Derby, The Oaks may
afford her a better opportunity.
Three O Three (Enfield-Little Sister)
enhanced his Derby and Cup prospects
by defeating New Yorker and San Mar-
tin in the October Handicap, 10 furlongs.
He carried only 7,9, against New Yorker’s
8.7 and San Martin’s 9.1, but impresses
as certain to improve. He will miss the
Caulfield Guineas next Saturday and have
his next race in w.f.a. company at
Moonee Valley. San Martin failed to
stay, and his Derby stocks have slumped.
The mile of the Caulfield Guineas will
be more to his liking, but Silver Rocks
looks like winning that race from Delina
and San Martin.
First two-year-old races of the season
—the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes divisions
—were won by Apropos, backed from
33 to 1 down to 6 to 1, and Nestor,
33 to 1. Apropos, a filly by John James
from Belle op in, cost 350gns. as a year-
ling, and Nestor, a colt by Caithness from
Consultant, 1200gns.
Field Balloon, 50 to 1, upset calcula-
tions by beating his stable mate. Grain
Trader, 12 to 1, in the Stand Handicap.
Tahitian and Peter dead-heated for third,
but the latter, who started favorite, did
not have the best of luck in running.
Field Balloon has 7.2 in the Caulfield
Cup, and cannot be penalised for Satur-
day’s success.
* * * *
Tea Rose’s easy defeat of our best
older w.f.a. horses in the Craven Plate
points to her as the winner of the Derby.
“Can she carry the weight?” is a question
often asked, but as Bst. did not trouble
her in the Rosehill Guineas, at nine fur-
longs, there is now no sound reason for
supposing that 8.5 will stop her at a
mile and a half. She certainly looks
better up to her weight than the lightly-
framed Murray Stream does to 8.10. In
the Clibborn Stakes the latter made a
forward move at the turn, but the way he
came home under 8.2 did not uphold the
good opinion formed of him as a poten-
tial stayer. Of course, one of Saturday’s
non-runners. Shannon, has still to be
taken into account.
Removal raced like again beating
those that finished behind him in the
Clibborn Stakes. The odds seem against
Beau Monde or Accession turning the
tables, but it may be as well to regard
Prince Verity with some respect. He
won well at Rosehill at a mile and a
quarter, and his condition is all that
could be desired. Of Derby horses that
ran on Saturday it is difficult to go be-
yond Tea Rose.
There was nothing in the running of
Modulation, Tribal, Soho or Van Eyck
in the Shorts to strengthen their posi-
tions in the Epsom betting quotations.
A drop of 21b. does not read like greatly
helping Modulation, and on figures
Nobleman has a pull over the horses he
beat last week, even though he was out-
stayed by Winnipeg. A mile may be
every bit as far as Nobleman likes
though in that respect he will be no
worse off than some of his fancied oppo-
nents. Versailles is one, but he has done
so well since he last raced, and has such
a handy weight, that his chance is as
good now as at any previous time. May-
fowl’s backers are now dubious as to
whether he will commence smartly
enough for an Epsom, and Lord Neith
did not display any dash in the Squatters'
Handicap. Abbeville, Kiaree, Easter Time
and Prince have continued to work well
at Randwick, and more than one place-
getter may come from Versailles, Abbe-
ville, Prince and Nobleman,
* * * *
Added money at the A.J.C. summer
meeting will be £11,600 or £1350 more
than last year. At the Anniversary meet-
ing the Challenge Stakes is to be £1250
against £looo last season.
* * * *
Veiled Threat’s downfall in the Squat-
ters’ Handicap does not put him out of
Metropolitan reckoning. A drop from
9.9 to 9.3 is likely to make a big differ-
ence, and, as winner of a Sydney Cup
with 8.13, there should be little fear
about him at a mile and five furlongs.
Castle Frontenac will meet him 61b.
worse, and though the latter made up a
great amount of ground in the last half-
mile of the Squatters’ Handicap it is no
certainty that the extra three furlongs
will be quite to his liking. He again has
7.11, On Craven Plate running there can
be little between Mayfowl and Flight, with
the possibility of the latter being slightly
better than last week. Cream Puff and
Kiaree continue to make good progress,
and Shining Night is quite himself.
* * * ♦
Saturday’s racing did not affect Epsom
quotations to a marked extent. If any-
thing, Nobleman’s form in the Shorts
strengthened Abbeville’s position, and
while Mayfowl is slightly weaker, Easter
Time, Nobleman, Prince and Kiaree re-
tain their admirers. Nobleman’s two
runs since he was defeated by Abbeville
make the latter’s prospects as bright as
at any previous time, and figures still say
a lot for Versailles, even though there is
a chance of the last half furlong finding
him out.
* * * *
At the New Zealand Cup meeting
there will be a £3OO race each day for
maidens before the ordinary programme
commences. As the totalisator will not
operate on them they will be non-betting
races, which will not be altogether pleas-
ing to all owners. Every race at the Cup
meeting will carry a fourth prize.
Miscellaneous
Tony Villa, a Filipino middleweight,
was too full of fight for Cliff Bowen when
they met at Leichhardt, Bowen began
promisingly with a weighty right to the
head in the first round, but after that
Villa seldom missed with solid left
swings. He got the decision, and deserved it.
An effusive campaign in favor of
matching Archie Rash with yic Patrick
was brought to a sudden end in the Syd-
ney Stadium ring by one Eddie Miller,
who is not in Patrick’s class. Rash simply
couldn’t hit Miller, whereas Miller hit
him hard and often, generally with
snappy lefts to head or body. In the
third round he floored Rash twice.
Some seconds elapsed before Archibald
fell from the effects of the last blow, and
many thought he had been disqualified
for going down without being struck.
The official announcement was that
Miller had Won on a technical knockout.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT.”
Gimcrack Stakes: Civic Pride, 1 ;
Thalia, 2; Vilna or Questing, 3,
Colin Stephen Stakes: Flight, 1 ;
Veiled Threat, 2 ; Katanga, 3.
AJ.C. Derby: Tea Rose, 1 ;
Shannon, 2 ; Removal, 3.
Epsom Handicap: Versailles, 1 ;
Abbeville, 2 ; Prince or Nobleman,
3,
Sydney Handicap: Craigie, 1 ;
Royal Peer, 2; Prince Buzzard, or
Gauntlet, 3.
Kensington Handicap: Cockcrow,
1; Streamford, 2 ; Thrax, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourtie is proud of Lud Mayor
Nettlefold. He has raised a tremendous
sum of money for charitable and war
organisations, and his latest appeal on
behalf of hospitals is expected to bring
in £lOO,OOO. Women have also worked
very hard. One well-known resident of
this city, Mrs. James, is on many com-
mittees, and has personally sold over
£lOOO worth of raffle tickets.
Latest art show, opened by Prof.
Osborne, is an exhibition of paintings by
Nonie Gude and her husband, Sergt.
Laurence Pendlebury. Sergt. Pendlebury
painted two of the pictures in the show in
New Guinea under active-service con-
ditions. Nonie showed a self-portrait, a
few flower studies and studies of a babe
asleep. Laurence is now home from New
Guinea, and, as he is stationed at a camp
dose to Melbourne, was present on the
opening day. An eruption of red seals
showed that the pictures hit the popular
taste.
The name of Nellie Stewart is becom-
ing well known in literary circles. Since
graduation Miss Stewart, who is a teacher
at Ivanhoe G.G.S., has given lectures on
the public platform and over the air. A
series on “The Novel and the Film”
given to W.E.A. students was followed by
“Great Writers —Past and Present.”
A wedding of interest to the Dutch
community of this city had as its setting
St. John’s, Toorak. The bride, for some
time pupil at St. Hilary’s School, Perth,
was Christine Elizabeth Maria, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. D. Jansen,
Batavia, Netherlands East Indies, and a
member of the Dutch Women’s Auxiliary
Corps. For her marriage to Lieut. Jan
Egens van Iterson, Ist Light Cavalry,
Netherlands Army, and only son of Mr.
and Mrs. C. J. A. van Iterson, Leiden,
Holland, the bride wore a gown of white
romaine that featured a high neckline,
with intricate shirring on the bodice and
matching bands from (he shoulders to
the waist, and was allied to a full sweep-
ing skirt. A long tulle veil was attached
to a Juliet cap embroidered with pearls.
The veil was lent by Joan Freedman, who
wore it when she was wedded early this
year to Captain Ralph Freedman, A.I.F.
A bouquet of white orchids and stepha-
notis completed the picture.
Janneke, youthful sister of the bride,
led the bridal party into the church, and
her long frock was of embossed satin.
She wore a Juliet cap embroidered with
pearls, and carried deep-red roses. The
other bridesmaids. Private Jola Assel-
bergs, D.W.A.C., and Sue Thompson, of
Melbourne, wore white romaine frocks,
Juliet caps, and also carried deep-red
roses. Willem Fokers, an old. family
friend who was to give the bride away,
was unable to be present, so the bride
entered the church on the arm of Col.
S. H. Spoor. The Netherlands Navy had
a hand in the proceedings for Sub.-Lieut.
J. M. S. Kamminga was best man. The
Netherlands Army was represented by
Lieut. W. L. van Leeuwin. The bride left
a bower of flowers sent by her friends who
said their good wishes with lovely blooms.
The bride’s father, who was Chief of
Shipping in Java, is now a p.o.w. in
Batavia, and so that he might see how his
daughter looked on this all-important
day a movie was taken of the bridal
retinue. Mrs. D. Jansen, who wore a
charming ensemble of beige and added a
note of color with her small hat of parma
violets, was assisted at the reception by
Eileen O’Sullivan, who wore a floral
frock and wide black hat. Among the
guests were Rear-Admiral Koenraan and
Commander Kommer. The Consul for
the Netherlands, Col. Wright, Was also
present accompanied by Mrs. Wright.
Rarely has there been a more generous
response to a war appeal than that given
tto the Limbless Soldiers’ Fund, which has
just closed in this city. The variety gala
performance at the Tivoli brought in
£2OOO for seats alone. Through the gener-
osity of local sportsmen, who paid as
much as £lOO for seats, servicemen and
-women and nurses from the Heidelberg
and Caulfield Military hospitals were
guests. The Lady Mayoress, who was
accompanied by her daughter Margaret
and Mayor Nettlefold, was presented on
;her arrival with a bouquet of gardenias
and lily-of-the-valley by members of the
Younger Set. Lucky programmes, raffles
for a case of whisky and an imported gun
dog and a lucky wheel added to the bustle
in the foyer, and brought the net total
of the takings for the night up to £2500.
Mrs. Eric Cottrell, wearing an attrac-
tive gown of white crepe embroidered in
gold, sat at the seat of customs and hap-
pily received the money as it poured in.
Alice Wyatt, who never seems to tire
forking for a good cause, was as busy
as usual on the wheel. Her co-worker,
the lovely Evelyn Clarke, distinguished in
a black gown and small Spanish hat, with
much veil, allowed none to pass her with-
out buying tickets. Back from her honey-
moon, Gloria Myslis was enjoying the
show with her husband, Lt.-Col. Harold
Myslis. Other helpers were Sylvia Green,
attractive in black but a little nervous as
she walked on to the stage carrying the
dog as it waited to be claimed by its new
owner. Betty Leggo was busy disposing
of lucky programmes, and David Martin,
managing director of the Tivoli, and his
wife were among those who greeted the
official party. This entertainment was the
final effort for the Limbless Soldiers’
appeal, which has exceeded its objective
by about £20,000.
A party given by John levers Bourke
and his wife at their home in
Moonga-road, Toorak, was chiefly in
honor of the cast, producer Doha Ribush
and author Douglas. Stewart of the play
“Ned Kelly.” Douglas listened modestly
to the compliments heaped upon his
brain-child and made an effective speech
of thanks. In the gathering were Brett
Randall, doyen of amateur theatricals in
this city, and Irene Mitchell, who is hap-
piest when producing at the Little
Theatre. Rex Rienits, whose play “Light-
ning Strikes Twice” will soon be seen
in this city, was with, wife Jo, who has
often been seen on the stage. She was
bemoaning the* fact that there was no
part for her in her husband’s play. How-
ever, she has been entrusted with the
stage decor. Dr. John Heath and wife
Eileen, having tucked their sons up for
the night, were at the party, and when
last seen were busy discussing art with
Vance Palmer and Mrs. Doha Ribush.
Arthur Phillips, who takes the part ot
Parson Gribble in the play, was enjoying
the fun..
Inez Lillies hostessed a luncheon party
in honor of Vera Bradford, Austra-
lian pianist (pictured here by Athol
Shmith). Eileen Heath, Vi Dunn and Beth
Mclnnes were among the guests who
helped the gathering on its merry way.
The guest of honor has had an interest-
ing career. After graduating from Melb.
Uni. Con, she went to America, and for
some years lived in Chicago. It was in
Chicago that she studied the method of
the Hungarian master Alexander Raab,
and to this technique she now gives
allegiance. At the luncheon Miss Brad-
ford waxed lyrical on the beauty of
Chicago and of the Boulevard which runs
along the shores of Lake Michigan. She
lived there at Injernational House, which
cost three million dollars to build and
was founded by Rockefeller as a cultural
centre, and she represented Australia at
its opening. One of Miss Bradford’s
memorable appearances was as soloist
with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra
at the new Civic Opera House.
Miss Bradford says that the Americans
have a very high standard of musical
appreciation, as proved by the interna-
tional reputation of the Philadelphia and
Boston Symphony Orchestras. “What
America has done, Australia can do” is
Miss Bradford’s slogan, and she pictures
a future with leading musicians from
other countries living here for some years
and giving our young musicians a solid
background. It pleased her when on
meeting people in America they said “Oh,
you come from Melba’s country.” Miss
Bradford numbers Sydney audiences as
among the most appreciative she has had.
One of the items in Miss Bradford's
next recital in Melbourne at the end of
this month is the dramatic Liszt B Minor
Sonata, which brought such a storm
about the composer’s head when it was
first performed.
From Sydney
The aerial display of Beaufighters,
Kingfishers, Mosquitoes, Boomerangs,
Oxfords and Catalinas during last Fri-
day’s Victory Loan march was dazzling,
but it was to the young servicemen strid-
ing along that the eyes of the watchers
turned again and yet again. The amazing
progress up in the clear air, so close
against the sky, seemed a little remote.
The uniformed lads came surging along
like some irresistible tide. Many in the
march were veterans of many and wide-
flung battle fronts. Who could wonder,
seeing them, why “Advance, Australia
Fair” is still the favorite national song?
Lord Wakehurst took the salute at the
Town Hall. Later the hospitable Mayoral
Bartleys gave a mornilng-tea party.
Among the guests was Lady Keyes.
Mayor Bartley and his Mayoress will
attend the piano recital to be given
by Dorothy White at the Conservatorium
tonight. Since her return from England
(where she studied at the Royal College
of Music) Dorothy has added a number
of war-time activities to her normal pro-
fessional work. The Army Education
Service scheme interests her very much,
and since its inception she has visited
camps and hospitals in the Sydney area
playing for the men and girls in uniform.
Their tastes vary enormously, but Schu-
bert (whose Sonata in A figures on to-
night’s programme) is a favorite with
everyone.
Embossed in bright colors on the day,
Randwick glittered in the October sun,
and the A.J.C., no doubt, breathed con-
tentedly over another successful opening
to still another spring meeting. The
green lawns? flirted with gay-skirted ranun-
culi. The stands echoed to the tramp of
boots, shoes and heel-less sandals. Track-
ing ranged from suits and furs to the
pastoral coolness of Mrs. Tom Bateman’s
needle-run green linen. A shady white
chip hat, its crown banded with a green
ribbon, completed one of the day’s attrac-
tive decorations. Very loo,
was Mrs. Robert Ashton’s navy-blufc suit
with while revers.
Hats, on the whole, were snoods and
moods. The moods ran from carefree
folds of tulle, ribbon or bands of gros-
giain across the crown of the head,
cauglft with rose or daisy above each ear,
to the half-hat. This is sometimes an eye-
shield sort of arrangement in straw, or
sometimes just a band of straw without
benefit of brim. They all looked very
dashing. Some girls, however, flitted
about hatless. It was a very young meet-
ing. Crowds and crowds of debs, or just-
about-to-be-debs. fluttered in the sun.
Not unnoticed was Margaret Salengers
air force blue suit that went in company
with a berry-red straw half-hat, which
had a soft swathe of red net across Hie
back and over each ear.
Mrs. Charles Parsons was with her
husband. Her suit was yellow, her
velvet hat which fitted snugly to the back
of her head was chestnut-brown. Mrs.
W. Kendall and Margaret and Ailsa
Maxwell were there. Yvonne Nelson’s
white frock was a background for
a crop of tulips. Doreen Gedge,
in red and white, looked cool.
Pastel flowers that looked straight from
pre-war France decked Mrs. Arthur
Salenger’s burnt straw hat. Mrs. Ren-
nick (her suit was grey, her tiny
hat palely cyclamen) was admired.
Lorraine See had a lilac ribbon threaded
through the neck of her printed silk frock.
Mrs. F. J. Matthews, with her beflowered
frock, wore a scrap of primrose-green
straw banked with blooms on her head.
Mrs. V. J. Flynn, in royal blue ; Mrs.
Bill Campbell, in navy and white spots,
her hat a bandeau of exotic straw;
Eileen White, Mrs. Bill Adams, Judy
Sayers, Mrs. Dennis Allen, powder-blue
frock topped by a white full-sjze straw ;
Mrs. Russell Catts, another devotee of
pale blue and white ; Mrs. Ernest Watt,
Mrs. Fielding-Jones were others whose
dress could be labelled “smart.” The
Leslie Stuarts from Jerilderie were there.
Margaret Longwprth’s red and white chip
straw hat had an air of cool distinction.
Mrs. C. J. Blarney’s hat of tiny white
frills wore a red bow at the back. Honor-
able mention for Mrs. E. Salepger’s black
and white composition. Under a tailored
black coat her frock was of white and
blacked flowered silk. Her white Bangkok
hat was banded in black. Peggy Fraser,
from Melbourne, Sadie Budge and Mrs.
R. Duval were others in the thousands.
Everybody in Australia has heard the
war-time broadcasts of William Winter,
San Francisco commentator. Now some
of Australia is having a chance to meet
the flesh and blood habitation of the voice
that has breathed over the Pacific for so
long. William, sitting by a high-up win-
dow in America’s War Information De-
partment, glancing out over Sydney, said
he had to keep on pinching himself to
realise he wasn’t in his own but in a
foreign city. Then he corrected himself:
“Not foreign, of course. People are only
foreign when they think differently.” The
secret of that quick, fluent but distinct
enunciation was revealed when he told of
having been for a time an actor on Broad-
way. In fact, it was on the stage he met
his wife. They were playing the parts
of husband and wife and found the play-
acting so agreeable they decided to make
it come real. Now Mr. Winter’s profes-
sion is that of attorney-at-law, but he says
it is quite natural for the one to lead to
the other —a lawyer just has to be a good
actor. He likes American poetry, from
that of Archibald MacLeish to that ol
Longfellow. He wasn’t tested out further
back. But then, Mr. Winter seems a bit
of a poet at heart himself. He looks for-
ward to the millennium when tariffs and
passports shall be abolished.
Mr. Winter is dark-haired, wears his
uniform with great neatness, is probably
a shade over medium height, has a
pleasant, easy way with him, and is avid
to learn about Australia because of his
own and America’s liking for our soldiers.
When Wagner wrote his music he must
have had in mind a voice like Marjorie
Lawrence’s for the profound and heroic
emotions he calls on his heroines to ex-
press. Marjorie’s singing in a Wagner
programme at the Town Hall last Satur-
day against a full orchestral background
(Brunnhilde’s Immolation Scene and the
Liebestod from “Tristan and Isolde”)
brought glory to the Town Hall., She is
not only a great singer, she is a great
actress who brings intellect dnd charm to
her work. Saturday’s concert was still
another triumph, and the singer in her
flowing marquisette frock with its fir-tree
border (it suggests a white Christmas)
leaves a vivid memory on the minds of
her Sydney audiences.
As pretty a bride as ever entered St.
Andrew’s Church, Roseville, was Beatrice
Royes Metcalfe. Last Thursday afternoon
she put on her white satin and tulle frock,
caught her tulle veil to her dark hair with
knots of orange blossom and, by benefit
of Canon Tugwell, became the wife of
Squadron-Leader Anthony Bowman Jay,
R.A.A.F., of Adelaide. Bride’s mother
is popular Mrs. A. Royes Metcalfe, of
Roseville, and the ’groom’s father and
mother are Major and Mrs. H. M.
Jay. They came over from Adelaide
for the big moment. Warrawee home of
brjde’s aunt, Mrs. L. A. Denison, re-
sounded to toasts and congratulations.
Not the first bride ship to enter Port
Jackson —that would have entered the
Heads with all sails flying sometime in
the beginning of things—but the first
British bride ship of this war made stately
progress up the harbor ways in brilliant
morning sunshine last week. The berth-
ing of the ship was a sort of ecstasy for
the girls whose husbands are Sydney men
and a foretaste of joy for the wives whose
husbands will meet them at other ports.
These English, Irish and Scots girls are
splendid types, with glowing skin and
bright hair, in spite of years of rationing
and steady devotion to duty as munition
workers, nurses and so on. The girls
did not come empty - handed. They
brought with them to Australia a splen-
did dowry —healthy children.
It should not be forgotten that it is
Games Night tomorrow at the Town
Hall. This is a special effort of Mayoress
Bartley to help the Australian Comforts
Fund.
All royalties from* the published kin-
dergarten session stories collected by
Anne Dreyer under the title The Little
Coal Truck will be devoted by the author
to the Free Kindergarten holiday home
at'Forest Hill. This homd provides child-
ren from the industrial areas with a holi-
day. - The stories in this publication arc
favorites that have been retold by Anne
Dreyer in A.B.C.’s “Kindergarten of the
Air.” Charming color plates illustrate
the characters in the stories.


m
1
WITH A VIEW
WHY NOT BUILT ON?
A lovely view but —the area is unsewered. If YOU own a block of land in an
unsewered area you can start planning your home NOW and let the HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR take care of your sewerage problems.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a completely self-contained sanitary system.
Simple in operation ... REQUIRES NO WATER SUPPLY ... no emptying. Sewage
material is chemically transformed into a sterile solution that drains away into the
soil. Unhealthy odors, flies, disease germs are all banished. Approved by the Board
of Health; any handyman can instal one. Thousands in use in homes, offices, military
hospitals, etc., throughout Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVE NATOR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone, 81052.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pam-
phlet on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
Name
Address
8TN.1.44.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 81052.
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SOARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO. PTY., LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores. Pastoral
Firms, etc.
* 3
INVITATION
TO COMFORT...
a
iol yj
MNSVLATION WtTH
CSHE-ITE
INSULATING BOARD
The restful beauty of modern wall and ceil-
ing treatments is important . . . and the
attractive finish of Cane-ite, whether in its
natural state or coloured to your taste,
assures this. But Cane-ite does more than
this. Cane-ite insulates against heat and
against external noise giving you comfort all
the year round. When you plan your post-
war home ... use Cane-ite Insulating Board*
C E
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. Building Material* Diviiio*
ARKETING; CANE-ITE • SLAGWOOt'
LASTER PRODUCTS • ASBESTOS FIBRE
OA26-4L
SMOKE-OH!
“A woman who winks in public is commit-
ting a punishable offence in Falca, Alabama
(U.S.A.).” — “World’s News.”
No woman can perpetrate this crime
with her eyes open.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The trooper followed him for 10 miles over
the plain, removing most of his clothes be-
cause of the burning heat.” — Detective story.
He was certainly hot on the trail,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She darted into a bedroom like the inside
jf a creamy shell. Venetian blinds softened the
. unlight. A bathroom peeked round a door.”
— Women’s paper.
But after one look it tactfully withdrew.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Omission.
“It concerns us that a cultured woman should
write of things no lady would formerly mention
—things one would expect to find scrawled only
on hell’s pavements.”
—Church paper book review.
When Doctor Johnson thundered: “Sir,
You'll find hell paved with good inten-
tions,”
He quite omitted to infer
{Or Boswell slipped) those pavements
were
Scrawled o’er with things no lady
mentions.
Brian Bureau.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Change of Face.
“Pamper your face a bit, it’s worth it.”
— Women’s paper.
I dispute that, after the trouble I got
into last Saturday.
As it was the thirty-third birthday of
the said clock, I decided to do the right
thing by it, so, after knocking off work
at midday, I took it over to Flannery’s
and poured seven or eight schooners into
it, topping off with several o.p. rums
when the beer went off. Unfortunately,
my impulsive dial became involved in a
heated argument with the one next to
it and blows were exchanged. Immedi-
ately sides were taken, and in the Donny-
brook that followed the last thing I re-
member is my face stopping a king hit
before I, too, was rendered hors de com-
bat by a flying soda syphon.
Except for some isolated and nebulotts
fragments, my memory of the next few
hours remains a blank. I dimly recollect
being in a strange flat with a gang of
rowdy drinkers and soothing my bruised
and fevered countenance against the
cool cheek of a goodlooking brunette.
Then another melee . . . and the stark
whitewash of the cell ceiling . . . But I
do remember —vividly—the backhander
the missus gave me in the lane after she’d
bailed me out that night. And that was
nothing to what she handed out when
we got home and she noticed the lipstick
on my cheek. Don’t talk to me about
pampering the face!
Cal.
4 1 + +
Contradiction.
“Crime does not pay.” We don't agree.
In stories and in plays,
When crime is featured vividly,
It nearly always pays.
F. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Brownie tunic, girl 10 years, also iron
fender.”— “Great Northern” For Sale ad.
Shouldn’t this be reported to the Child
Welfare Department?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hitler ' breaks his silence.” — Paper heading.
Perhaps he mistook it for a promise.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Eighteen-years-old dog saved from ocean.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
An old sea dog!
Diagnosis.
“Could any reader please tell me the feeling
one experiences when in love, and how do you
know it is the real thing?”— “D.T.” letter.
If you should lie awake at night
And wonder why your appetite
Has unaccountably declined.
Then, looking in the mirror, find
Your features haggard, drawn and ashen,
Don’t lay upon the tender passion
The blame far your decrepit state —
It may be something that you ate.
But when the symptoms, growing worse.
Assume the form of writing verse.
In which you rhyme the woman’s eyes
With things like “deep, cerulean skies,”
And burble of the “moon above,”
Take it from me, lad, this is Love.
P. M. LUSK.
Lament.
Oh, what a glorious day in spring!
Outside the birds in rapture sing.
The trees are decked with tender green,
And flowers beautify the scene
Beneath a sky of perfect blue :
’Tis like a poet's dream come true!
So let us weep to think we're here
Inside this pub and guzzling beer;
But, ere we shed the silent tear,
Please fill them up again, my dear!
T. W. NATHAN.
Balkans Boloney.
“There is excitement in partnering these Par-
tisan girls of the wild Balkans mountains, tor
they dance with hand grenades dangling from
their belts.” — ‘‘Daily Mirror” cable.
It was high on the mountains that the
Great Balkans Figure had his H.Q., and
there camped the force of fierce fighters
known as the He-Girl Guerrillas, personal
bodyguard to the great Leader.
Ilyitya Tchkosksh, the blonde, square-
jawed lieutenant, had just put away the
oxy-acetylene torch with which she had
been thinning out her eyebrows and was
gargling with some T.N.T. Her deputy,
Pristina Dzcp, whose shock of red hair
was decorated with detonators and held
off her face by fuse wire, was march-
ing around with an eighLinch howit-
zer shell under each arm as part of
her morning jerks. Paula Slivovitz, the
forbidding-looking sar’-major, had just
finished lathering up with a nail-brush
and sandsoap and was stropping her
razor on a slab of granite. Another Girl
Guerrilla was sitting on the frozen ground
testing bayonets by trying to snap them
across her knee.
Suddenly a G.G. who had been fill-
ing the magazine of her Tommy-gun
stood up and let go with a burst. Bullets
spattered off the surrounding rocks, but
none of her companions even bothered
to look up. The Tommy-gunner, bored,
threw down her weapon. “When are we
going to be allowed to shoot some Ger-
mans?” she asked.
Ilyitya looked up and scowled. “Shame
on you, Blitza,” she croaked. “Time
enough for the Boche when the cursed
Mihailovichers are all bumped off. Well,
girls, hurry up —we’ve got an escort job
today of vital importance,”
“An Allied general coming to H.Q.?”
asked Paula.
“No—someone far more important. If
his mission is successful our Leader will
demand that he be recognised as one of
the Big Five.”
An hour later the Vital Visitor, bavin*
been led blindfold by the He-Girls along
the secret trail to H.Q., had set up his
movie camera. Then out stepped the
G.8.F., magnificently clad in scarlet
jacket with purple facings and gold frogs,
and wearing 18 orders, including the 17
he had awarded himself, jodhpurs and
spurs and carrying a riding crop. An-
other Horseless Horseman, he took up
a pose beside the jeep, which is his invari-
able mode of transport and immediately
turned half-face on to the camera. The
G.B.F. knew from vast experience his
best “taking” angle.
As his staff looked on admiringly at the
splendid martial figure which so reminded
them of the entry of the* gallant Count
Jinsoka in the third act of “The Luri-
tanian Romance” Pristina whispered to
her lieutenant: “Isn’t that the uniform he
bought from that picture-show commis-
sionaire last year?”—and instantly had
her foot stamped on by her superior’s
No. 12’s,
When the last shot had been fired by
the visiting ace cameraman and the Great
Balkans Figure had retired to his cave
after his exhausting ordeal, the He-Girls
trooped back to their quarters. As they
entered the redhead gave a cry.
“Our full-length mirror—it’s gone!”
she exclaimed.
“It’s been taken, by the Leader’s orders,
to his quarters,” said Ilyitya surlily. “He
says he’s got more use for it than we
have.” Bo


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2%d. per line.
They Won’t be Soldiers
As a result of medical down-grading 1
have been given a temporary job as
'Officer taking Summaries of Evidence at
a guard compound, with the result that
after associating with some of the finest
men Australia can produce I am now
meeting some of the worst.
Most of the charges are for desertion
or lengthy periods of A.W.L.; most of
the men have records of previous
offences; many have spent most of their
time in detention. The majority of them
are young, 19 to 25, and were called up
for service up to two years ago ; about 50
p.c. have volunteered as A.I.F.
They all have one thing in common—
they don’t intend to be soldiers ; they
would rather' spend the war in detention
camps than be posted to front-line units.
The excuse, if any is offered, is generally
to the effect that the defaulter doesn’t
like soldiering or that the training was too
tough for him. I haven’t struck any who
claimed conscientious objection.
Sometimes there is a plea of domestic
troubles, wife’s illness and so on. These
cases are investigated and if a genuine
doctor’s certificate can be produced
(which is seldom) the case is given a sym-
pathetic hearing.
A lad who said he went A.W.L. be-
cause the sergeants at his training camp
kept picking on him for being slow
at learning—a fine-looking lad but almost
illiterate —has been told that he must be
punished for his offence, but afterwards
he will be allotted to another unit and
given special coaching. This chap is pre-
pared to accept that arrangement with
thanks and to soldier on.
Nearly five years’ service in the ranks
and as an officer have shown me that,
although there are occasional cases of
misplacement and mistreatment, the army
gives its men a pretty fair deal. I have
visited a detention camp and am satisfied
that every effort is made to encourage
men to soldier on after completing their
sentences.
But this doesn’t succeed with many of
these men, who keep going A.W.L. until
finally discharged—the army’s admission
of failure. For political reasons their dis-
charge paper is as clean as that of the man
who struggled over the New Guinea hills.
I’ve handled over the equivalent of a
rifle company strength of these men in
less than a fortnight. The numbers are
too great to pass over as just the aver-
age misfits and social mishaps in any
community. The only causes of the mass
production of such types that I can see
are that they are of the same selfish breed
and have come under the same influences
as chronic strikers and absentees. When
mated with the uniform-chasing flappers
of our- capital cities they will breed a
large proportion of Australia’s coming
generations after the same pattern.
I cannot suggest a remedy ; I can only
report the facts.—C. R. (A.1.F.).
Why Pick on the Army?
Wry is the Army continually singled
out for public critisism? Army Minister
Forde has been in the limelight and a
butt for sarcastic writers ever since he
took office. What about Makin .and
Drakeford?- Don’t they ever make mis-
takes?
The man in khaki is alss fed up with
the fact that results of Army district
courts martial are always published in the
press, but there is rarely a word about
disciplinary action taken against mem-
bers of the R.A.N. or R.A.A.F. Publicity
isn’t the grievance ; just discrimination.
The way things are now the Digger
feels that if he’s seen coming out of an
hotel he’ll be looked upon as “another
drunken soldier” or if he’s about when a
brawl starts people will regard him as
a troublemaker. Staff - Sergeant
(A.1.F.).
Teachers and Their Politics
I have no doubt that there are Com-
munist teachers, but there are also Labor
teachers, Lang Labor teachers, U.A.P.,
Liberal Democrat, Social Credit, Catho-
lic, Church of England, Baptist, Metho-
dist. English, Irish, Scots and Welsh
teachers.
And consciously or unconsciously the
teacher infuses his point of view into his
teaching.
I should not like my children to
be taught exclusively by Communist
teachers, but then I shouldn’t like them
to be taught exclusively by any other
brand either. The best idea \yould be
for the staff to represent several points
of view.
At the time when a child begins to take
an interest in politics he is entering high
school, and has at least four teachers. If
more than one is a Communist it must
show that Commos. must be better edu-
cated or more oncoming or something,
which is an occasion for other “ists” to
get into the race, not yell “unfair” behind
the. barrier. — Pharma (N.S.W.).
Australasian Motor-cars
Modern mass-production methods,
which have placed motor-cars and many
other inventions within the reach of the
man of average means, require a tremen-
dous rate of consumption. This is where
Australia, with her relatively small popu-
lation, is handicapped. Maoriland is in
an even worse position.
A motor-car is not built all in one
piece, like a native’s canoe, but is an
assembly of a number of separate units —
chassis, engine, radiator, tyres, electrical
items, etc. Even the engine is built up
of cylinder-case, pistons, valves, etc,, each
manufactured separately. So why could
not Australia and M.L. unite and share
the manufacturing of cars (and other
things as well) for the combined markets
of the two countries?
Agreement could be come to as to
what items should be exclusively manu-
factured by each for the whole. By this
means Australia would gain an added
" You 're run down, that's all—I recommend a long sea trip!”
market with a population about equal
to that of Victoria, and M.L. would be
enabled to embark upon manufacturing
in a volume otherwise impossible.
If ever the world’s problems are to be
solved it will be by the stronger sharing
with the weaker, and such a union might
well prove an object lesson to the rest of
the world. Australia and M.L. have
shared the problems of war ; why not
those of peace, and so help to perpetuate
the tradition of Anzac? — H. C. Price
(N.S.W.).
Does “Auto” (B. 20/9/ ’44) realise that
the war has altered conditions in Aus-
tralia? That we are now a manufactur-
ing country, and that that status has been
paid for in blood, sweat and agony?
“Auto” does not seem to be aware
that a great number of men have been
trained as mechanics, and that they are
doing fine work in factories which turn
out " munitions, ’planes, motor-vehicle
bodies, etc. The Army, Navy and Air
Force have trained hundreds of motor
mechanics.
When we have won the wa~ are we
to lose the peace by turning these people
adrift? Shall we give them work as un-
skilled laborers and so lose the benefit of
their training? Are our boys fighting
on sea, land and air just to become wood-
and ,water-joeys for people of other coun-
tries* whose people are certainly no better,
if perhaps no worse, than we are?
Certainly the Government should allow
private enterprise to manufacture motor
parts in what are now munitions factories.
As we have the men, money, plant and
knowledge, there is no reason why in
Australia we should build not only motor
bodies and chasses but engines as well
“Auto” need not worry overmuch
about his English M.P, and the selling
of wheat, wine, wool and fruit. If our
producers turn out quality the demand
will follow. — Sergeant A. (N.S.W.).
Safety in the Air
The buying of a large fleet of big pas-
senger-carrying ’planes from the U.S.A.
has been criticised from the standpoint
that the transaction should be deferred
until British manufacturers are in a posi-
tion to supply.
A more important reason for delay is
that present aeroplane building is based
on designs for war purposes. Speed is
the first factor studied. The use of highly
inflammable fuel is, perhaps, a primary
cause of many of the accidents that so
frequently occur —1 read that 27,400
U.S. Army ’planes have been lost in acci-
dents since Pearl Harbor.
For the requirements of civil pas-
sengers and commercial use safety should
be the very first factor, even although
speed is less. Before the war some de-
velopments had proceeded far enough to
indicate that engines of the Diesel type
can be successfully installed in aero-
planes, with the desirable effect that
heavier and far less inflammable liquid
fuel could be used. This means a very
considerable reduction in the hazard of
fire either in the air or in the event of a
crash landing. It might also result in
more mileage per ton of fuel and lower
cost of operation.
Companies engaged in air travel can
well afford to wait, especially if by so
doing they can provide their passengers
with safer transportation.—B. L. (N.S.W.).
Prisoners of War
We all hope the time will not be long
before Australians now prisoners of war
are back home; but are we prepared to
receive and care for these men over the
repatriation period?
They have had a bad break. There
must be a general feeling of desertion and
frustration. Care will have to be taken
that these men are not rushed back be-
fore they are conditioned to meet their
relatives and friends.
They should not be discharged from
the services until fit to carry on their nor-
mal civilian activities, and then without
unnecessary routine. It is after this period
the various, organisations throughout the
country will have to get together to do
their part. The R.S.L. is moving in this,
but it calls for everyone’s help. In each
town or hamlet a selected representative
must be prepared to give advice or assist-
ance if required.
The time to organise is now, so that
we shall be ready when the time comes.
Psychiatrists may be necessary in many
cases, but it will be general understand-
ing and the human touch that will help
these men back to normal life. —J. J.
Collingwood (ex-A.1.F.).
Hospital Defects
Despite the defeat of its referendum
proposals, can’t the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment do something for the really
unfortunate sick?
Queensland especially is woefully lack-
ing in provision for T.B. sufferers, with
one small institution, situated in, the
zone of coastal humidity. Many sufferers
cannot gain admittance. This is also true
of N.S.W.
And take our mental institutions. Are
they anything more than mass detention
houses? It is not so much the fault of
the separate institutions as th 6 general
system of herding the mentally sick to-
gether that is to blame.— Algebra (Q.).
He Framed the Letter
A farmer on the Lakes (S.A.), who fed
off all his crop this year and does not
expect to recover his seed, received a
letter from the Wheat Board. It advises
him that last year he planted 30 acres
over his allotted quota and that therefore
he must destroy the grain or hay reaped
from this area.
The farmer had just paid his couple
of men their harvest award wages (which
are more than that earned by a doctor
doing locum tenens work), and wondered
if he could alford to get this letter framed.
He read it again and decided he’d have
to. — Jock (S.A.).
Settle Southern Westralia
Why seek to develop problematical
areas in Westralia, such as the Kimber-
leys, while there is so much unoccupied
Crown land within the 20-40 in. rainfall
belt still awaiting settlement?
In what is known as the Lower Great
Southern Belt there are more than a mil-
lion acres of unoccupied Crown lands,
which now produce, in isolated patches,
a wealth and variety of products similar
to those produced in Victoria under simi-
lar rainfall conditions and on much
cheaper land. This land has been, I
believe still is, available at an average of
about 10s. an acre under 20-30 years’
purchase, with a practically free home-
stea'd farm of 160 acres—all within a
maximum air flight of 70 miles from the
port of Albany, and much less from the
numerous potential ports on the adjacent
coast.
How many of the land-hungry farmers’
sons in the east know of this Cinderella
of the west awaiting conquest? A supine
State Government and a lethargic Can-
berra are responsible for deplorable
inertia in land-settlement activities in the
West.—W.H.C. (W.A.).
German Orphans as Immigrants
After the European war is over there
will be at least a million German orphans
under 12. Under international agree-
ment Australia could take these children
and raise them up as Australians.
As an old Digger, I have no more time
for the German nation than Vansittart
has, but our very necessary destruction
of German cities by bombing in saving
the lives of at least a million Allied sol-
diers will have created as many orphans.
It would be an act of Christian charity
and the gesture of a great nation to take
these orphans. They could be brought up
under a mixture of Church and State
supervision and in proportion to the
various religious denominations and
absorbed slowly into the community year
by year.
It is said that each individual is worth
£5OOO to the nation, so we should be
taking over an asset worfh £5,000,000,000.
Where are we to get immigrants other-
wise? From Italy or the Balkans, or
from Asia? No nation ever had such an
opportunity. These German orphans can
have no future in their Fatherland. We
can offer them living room, if not of the
sort Hitler dreamed about. — J. R. Lewis
(Q-).
More Parliamentarians
Curtin says we should have more mem-
bers in the House of Representatives, bas-
ing his argument on an old fallacy—
representation of sheer numerical weight
rather than according to local needs.
This truckling to city population has
been the bane of Australia, and country
areas have suffered accordingly. If the
Prime Minister suggests that we should
have representation based on local re-
quirements, with particular regard to
country areas, well and good. He can
easily redress the balance by cutting
down the overrepresentation of cities.
No doubt the P.M. will secure support
from both sides of the House: Parlia-
mentarians are always ready to add to
their numbers and salaries. He does not
state what means are to be invoked to
secure the increased membership. Will
he put his case at the next election or will
he run another referendum? Or just “put
it across”? — Obelist (Tas.).
Queensland is Different
Here in Labor Queensland the Univer-
sity Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and
Deputy Chancellor, recently appointed,
hold no earned university degrees. The
Deputy was Premier of the State and has
an honorary degree—LL.D.
There are separate examinations for
barristers and solicitors. In Queensland
a solicitor of five years’ standing can be-
come a barrister without further examina-
tion. Two laymen are Judges of the
Industrial Court, with salaries of £2OOO
a year each. When that Court has a legal
problem a Judge of the Supreme Court
has to lend a hand. There is no magis-
trate in the State who has qualified as
either a barrister or a solicitor. A magis-
trate may receive £lOOO a year. Legal
gentlemen appear in the Magistrates’
Courts to argue intricate points of law
before the non-legai magistrate.
And, to cap all, Queensland’s Attorney-
General is neither a .barrister nor a
solicitor.— Junior Bar (Q.).


i
&
i
THE EYES
OF AM
AEROFLAME
are its aircraft
instruments
fs
An aviator alone cannot cope with the prob-
lems of super-speed, high altitude, murk and
instability. Only instruments can give him
eyes that can see through zero visibility, or an
accurate awareness of the presence of unseen
earth, or a knowledge of whether course is true
or the aircraft is on an even keel.
Twenty-two types of aircraft instruments, in-
cluding directional gyros, gyro, horizons and
jaltimeters, are manufactured by A.W.A.
Every instrument tells the pilot some vital item
of information.
When Victory is ours, the Fisk Radiola, incor-
porating many wartime techniques, will again
be available for your radio enjoyment.
THE FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
INVEST IN THE SECOND VICTORY LOAN
