

ƒ
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 65.—N0. 3361
Wednesday, July 12, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LOVELY EVESHAM, IN WORCESTERSHIRE.
Britain has no more pictuiesque setting for the famous
relics of her storied past than this beautiful Worcester valley
wherein stands Evesham. The two churches now there were both
built in one churchyard, in which are remains of the old abbey,
some of Norman date. Of all England’s abbeys none has a more
interesting foundation stoiy than Evesham. The saintly bishop of
Worcester who founded the abbey here was the type of man round
whom chroniclers loved to weave a halo of miracle and legend.
One such story, left for us by the Prior Dominic in the Chronicle
of Evesham, concerns the iron fetters with which the bishop bound
ins feet, and the key of which he had thrown into the Avon River
near by. In Rome, years later, the same key is said to have been
found in the body of a fish. Nowadays, only ruins stand to recall
the brave days of Evesham’s glory, but, even when the ruins are
no more, the memory of its abbey’s builder will remain treasured
in the heart of Englishmen.
In the immediate neighborhood of August 4, 1265, Prince Edward,
afterwards King Edward I, allied with the Red Earl of Gloucester,
decisively defeated the barons under Simon de Montfort. And
Evesham was stormed by the Parliamentary forces in the wars of
the Revolution. One of the interesting birthplaces of English
tradition is this gentle vale of Worcestershire, Evesham.


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S i?. 1U AGE
The Red Page
MEN OF ACTION.
“The motives which we find men urging for
their enterprises seem often insufficient to have
prompted them to so large a daring. They
did what they did from the great unrest in them
which made them do it ”
For the Drakes, the Gilberts, the Gren-
villes Froude had a personal inspiration —
Elizabeth.
She honored her people, and her people
loved her; and the result was that, with
no cost to the Government, she saw them
scattering the fleets of the Spaniards, plant-
ing America with colonies, and exploring
the most distant seas.
There is no hint of any parallel to this
in W. G. Burchett’s incomplete though
realistic story of the men who struck
into Burma early in 1943 and for a
month or two harassed the Japs, killed
many of them, blew up railways, and
generally played Old Harry on the lines of
boys’ dreams of glory. Wingate Adven-
ture (Cheshire Pty., Melbourne) has, in-
stead, an Order of the Day issued by the
commander from which Burchett notes
“the absence of any exhortation to
courage, duty and sacrifice.” There is also
no Elizabeth. Nothing but generalised
symbols: for motive, a “desire to serve
our day and generation in the way that
seems nearest to our hand”; for aim, to
“make possible a government of this
world in which all men can live at peace.”
Burchett accepts that, reading this
Order, “the men felt that they belonged
to something worth while ; it gave a fillip
to their self-respect.” That, however,
might have come from other passages:
It is always a minority that occupies the
front line. It is a still smaller minority
that accepts with good heart tasks like this
that we have chosen to carry out We
have all bad the opportunity of withdraw-
ing and we are here because we have
chosen to be here; that is, we have chosen
to bear the heat and burden of the day.
Men who make this choice are above the
average of courage.
A warming message for morale, true in
every word of it. But the expedition
was then on the way. The fearfully hard
jungle training was over. With their
pack mules, their carrier pigeons, their
wireless sets and their vanguard of
elephants, they were volunteers who had
made their decision, and they were there,
headed for Burma,
Why?
They were heading into seas of jungle
no less forbidding than the seas into
which Drake and the rest headed out.
A purely experimental adventure
thought up by Wingate and urged by
him on a reluctant higher command—it
was to take them (not as a strong fighting
body, but in separate, small, elusive par-
ties) into incredibly difficult and inimical
jungle country where the Japs had hitherto
been all-conquering and seemingly un-
beatable and were still in possession in
force which made their own total (some
3000 men and 1000 animals at first), let
alone the insignificant little separate
parties, seem absurdly weak.
They had to depend for supplies on
what they could get off the country or
arrange by radio to have dropped from
the air—they were to starve for days on
end, eat their mules (only one animal, a
mule sweetly called Mabel, got back to
India), cook grass and eat that, and watch
their flesh shrink to the bone.
One party of them were to go for 36
hours on end stumbling and wading
through water, sometimes up to their
shoulders, till their boots fell to pieces,
and they had to drag themselves along
with bleeding hands and feet and torn
fingernails.
They had to rely for success and sur-
vival on the friendliness of the people—
seemingly extremely doubtful, though it
turned out well; the Burmese, when not
scared stiff at the sight of such hairy
wildmen, were friendly, wanting to know
“when government would be back.”
Above all, they knew in advance, every
one of them, that anyone who fell sick
by the way or was wounded would have
to be left where he fell.
Yet they faced all this, and went
through with it —those who got through.
Against what they went through, what
they achieved, at the highest practical
reckoning, seems small. The measure for
them is the greatness of their daring.
They added fresh chapters to the endless
saga of the heroic.
The truth would seem to be that men
like these, as Wingate himself accepted,
are always a small minority, even in
times like these, when the urge to action
is in all men who have anything but
water in their veins, and when whole mil-
lions bear the semblance of men of
action, and, up to a point, are such.
These others, however —the small minor-
ity—seem more. And still more again the
smaller minority who are the leaders.
Of the assorted rank and file—some
from a North of England regiment;
Gurkhas; a British commando com-
pany ; a unit of Burma Rifles ; an R.A.F.
section of officers who had volunteered
for “special duty” without knowing
more; some signallers and a mule trans-
port company—of these, some, as a
matter of course, performed individual
deeds as heroic as any. Ope or two of
them rose in terrible circumstances to as
terrible greatness.
It may be literally true enough that, as
Froude also declaimed, “We no longer
have kings or princes for chief actors, to
whom the heroism, like the dominion, of
the world had in time past been con-
fined,” but we would seem to have their
counterparts, kings and princes of action,
in leaders such as these men had. In
face of the widespread fallacy of putting
all on a common level, the merging of
the individual in the herd, it seems to
call for emphasis. It had some in the
training of the expedition’s personnel.
Within three weeks of the start of
the training 30 per cent, of the troops
were either in hospital or trying to get
there. A month later the figures had gone
up to 70 per cent. The leaders then
stepped in. Attending sick parade with-
out good cause was made a punishable
offence. The doctors could attend to only
really ill or seriously injured men.
Drastic; but leadership, and effective.
By the end of the training sick parades
were down to 3 per cent. “Most of them
cursed the brigadier [Wingate] and the
column commanders as hard-hearted, cal-
lous monsters.” It would seem that the
leader has to find his own inspiration else-
where ; that the rest can find in him a
large part of their inspiration even for
such seemingly foredoomed enterprises as
this one, however much in their own great
moments their prodigies of valor would
come up from their own character alone.
There are factors to the point both in
Wingate the man and Wingate the inspi-
ration. As Burchett saw him:
If one hadn’t seen him before, and came
across him standing in the jungle, in a
favorite pose, hands clasped together on
the top of a long stick, his head hunched
forward and resting on his hands staring
broodingly into space, one would take him
for a scholar, a philosopher, an artist, a
religious recluse, rather than a soldier. Ana
one would not be far wrong. In any
other age he would have been.
The portraiture is effective '; one might
question the conclusion. It is belied by
Wingate’s whole career, nonetheless
bedded in action because it was salted
with scholarship, or because, say, Bur-
chett was to find him savagely annotating
a book of commentary on Emily Bronte
with his own acid comments on the com-
mentator, nor yet again because, when
men of his part of the column were in
hiding, with Jap patrols beating up and
down the countryside hunting for them,
they were in “a sort of Robin Hood’s
hide-out discussing English and Ameri-
can literature” (and the respective merits
of horse and mule flesh), Wingate pos-
sessing “a copy of Socrates” and the
works of Mark Twain; Jeffries the com-
plete works of Bernard Shaw, which he
had arranged to have dropped with the
last lot of supplies ; and Major Anderson
Palgrave’s Golden Treasury.
Wingate’s life was, above all else,
action. It was so in Palestine, where he
was keeping order when the riots were
on; again in Abyssinia, before Burma.
At one time in the training for the
Burma expedition:
The rain pelted down inches in an hour.
A man could hardly stand against it.
Rivers rose and water crept round the
tent sites. One column was actually flooded
out and a whole company Spent a night
sleeping up trees, with Wingate, stark-
naked except for his famous coal-scuttle-
shaped topee, swimming around through
• brushwood and teak trees, checking up on
their whereabouts.
The case against Wingate’s being, in
any sort of age whatever, other than a
man of action would seem fairly sub-
stantial. So it would seem, too, for the
other leaders in this fantastic adventure.
As to the ordinary hardness of it, witness
the rules laid down by Fergusson when
rations were running out;
Rations will be shared equally; anyone
infringing laws against the community,
helping himself to another person’s rations,
taking food without payment from villages,
or stealing from a comrade, will be shot.
Anybody who loses his rifle or equipment
without good and sufficient reason will be
turned out of the party.
The last part of that order occasioned
not only by normal fighting necessity but
because Fergusson “had no intention of
leading a lot of unarmed stragglers back
into India”! These being soldiers (in a
soldier’s sense of the word) as well as
men of action at large, another of them,
Calvert, breaking up his ragged group
into small parties to find their own sepa-
rate ways back to India from the wrong
side of the Irrawaddy, laid down “ten
commandments,” including:
When you come in [to India] don’t look
like a defeated army. It’s most important
to show the highest morale, drill and discip-
line when we have to face front-line troops.
The spirit was good, but the actuality
was that practically every man who took
part in the expedition and survived went
to hospital on return for two months.
Brethren of the “great unrest,” these
leaders are anything but stock models:
Fergusson used to be —and still is, in
fact—the delight of American troops around
Delhi. To them he’s the screen version of
an inane “huntin’, shootin’ and fishin’ ”
type of Englishman. With a fierce, wide,
bushy blonde moustache, a carriage so erect
that the back of his head, neck and spine
seems to continue in one straight line, Fer-
gusson caps everything else off by sporting
a monocle firmly screwed in his left eye.
'He “delights in quoting from and dis-
cussing the classics.” Also:
There were four people squatting on
their haunches round the fire, and Fergus-
son, adopting the correct Wingate fraternal
attitude when approaching villagers, politely
swept off his hat with a flourish and bow,
and, mustering up his best Burmese and
most affable smile, asked “What is the name
of this village?”
They glanced at him and stared in mixed
horror and amazement. And well they
might. He must have looked something of
an apparition. Standing there in the moon-
light, wide-brimmed hat in one hand, and
the other still fondling a hand-grenade,
terrific mane of hair sweeping back from
his head on to his shoulders, great curling
beard and moustachios, and the moonlight
winking in the monocle firmly screwed in
his left eye.
A Burma rifleman came up at that
moment. The lower jaws of the four “vil-
lagers” had dropped and they were near to
shaking with horror. Jameson, the rifleman,
whispered “Japs,” and the thought struck
Fergusson at the same time. The four
Japs still seemed incapable of movement.
While they were staring... .their eyes never
leaving his face, Fergusson wrested the pin
out of his hand-grenade and neatly lobbed
it in the centre of the fire, smartly stepping
behind a tree at the same moment. There
was an enormous bang. The four Japs
half-rose on their haunches and folded
backwards They never moved again.
In one encounter a Jap machine-
gunner killed four and wounded four
more of Fergusson’s men. None of the
wounded could walk;
Fergusson had the wounded carried to
water, gave them plenty of rations, includ-
ing fruit and cigarettes, and left them there.
Here comes out the quality of the led
and the lesser leaders, rising to the
greater heights;
None of them complained or uttered a
word of reproach. The subaltern said
“Don’t worry about us, sir. We all knew
this was likely to happen. We were lucky
to get so far.”
The platoon sergeant tried to muster up
a cheerful grin; “No more bloody march-
ing for me, anyhow.” A little Liverpool
Irishman whispered “See you make a nice
mess of that bridge.”
They were going to blow the bridge up ;
such destruction was something they
did do, apart from such large claims
as that the tactics of their dispersal over
a vast amount of country, their ghostly
appearances and disappearances, threw
the whole enemy strategy against India
out of gear.
On these and other occasions sub-
leaders and the rank and file stand in a
shining light of their own individual
moments of greatness. As when a ranker,
trying to help a company sergeant-major
whose knee has been shot away, is
ordered by the c.s.-m., as his “superior,”
to desist and leave him, for the sake of
the others, and has to do so, though the
state of the wounded man is such that,
having ordered his own lonely tragedy,
he must needs ask for “anaether shot a
that morphia before ye go.”
Nothing surpasses these moments as
such; but the leaders still stand as the
dramatis personae of the expedition by
virtue of the dominant, sometimes fierce,
sometimes exultant expression all
the time of the “great unrest” within
them. One of these who did not get back
was another of the scholar band, Duncan
Menzies, the South Australian Rhodes
scholar, whose father of the same names
died in Adelaide only a little time back.
According to Standish in the “S. M.
Herald,” Duncan Menzies had The Bul-
letin dropped regularly with his supplies
while on the expedition. He and another,
overcome in a fierce encounter with Japs,
were dressed by their captors in Jap uni-
forms, then bound, their heads shaved
and Jap helmets put on them before they
were shot. What these Oriental trap-
pings for death may have meant seems
uncertain. To the working of the Jap
mind they may have meant either an in-
dignity or an honor. At first —finding
him still alive —his mates thought that
Menzies was a badly-wounded Jap.
In contrast to these, who have some-
thing of the scholar underlying their
nature of men of action, Petersen and
Calvert are wholly men of action ; in
their element only in a fight or in blow-
ing up bridges. Of Petersen “ ‘Fighting
Dane’ inscribed in red letters on
his shoulders describes him well.”
He “had been carrying on a private
war with the Japs ever since the
Nankan battle.” Arriving with his men
just when an attack by Gilkes was com-
mencing, he “begged to be allowed to
take part.” The Fighting Dane saw the
expedition through, with a bullet hole
in his head.
Calvert trained commandos in Aus-
tralia and England. He fought with
the British commandos in Norway.
On the Burma expedition he had
the same unholy glee about setting
“booby traps” (“planting tulips”) or
blowing down the walls of a huge cutting
to block a railway line for months as
Petersen had in getting in amongst a
party of Japs with his automatic. Cal-
vert had “time charges placed in all the
animals’ packs, even including the ele-
phants’, so that stores and animals could
be blown literally to mincemeat in case
they had to be abandoned.”
One more of them, Gilkes the “de-
vout” ; so much so that, using his wireless
set one night when he was undecided
about the route to take back to India, he
picked up a sermon being given in Lon-
don to the text “I will lift mine eyes unto
the hills from whence cometh thy help,”
and on that guidance led his men, the
Fighting Dane beside him, not back to
India, but right on through the hills into
China.
Burchett makes no pretence that his
book is complete, even as to the
actual happenings. At least it gives
the general view, sketches the episodes
and outlines the characters, and these
are enough to go on with, leaving it for
somebody of greater gifts to uncover in
the characters —or is it invent for them
and invest them with? —the motives and
aspirations commensurate with their
great daring, their incredible endurance
and their high heroism. Perhaps the
“unrest in them” is a large part, if not
the whole, of the answer, always was and
always will be, with or without an Eliza-
beth for a good excuse.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The sixth annual exhibition of the Con-
temporary Art Society, in the Education
Department’s Galleries, Sydney, seems to
be exactly the same kind of affair as the
last one of its kind in the same city. Here
and there are pictures—there is one by
Noel Counihan, bought by the N. S.
Wales Gallery, one by Maorilander James
Cook, several by D. Orban, designs based
on Polynesian life by Imre Szigeti, a
clever nocturne by Frank Medworth and
a graceful drawing by Rah Fizelle —which
can be understood and appreciated by
ordinary people. Others—designs without
balance or coherence, human bodies with
hambones for heads, drawings that defy
perspective and some which seem to be
the result of a determination to insult
Mother Nature by falsifying that lady’s
ideas of color and form —are apparently
intended to be admired by people who
most respect what they least understand.
A pleasing feature about Sydney Tiv.’s
well-trained ballet is that it dances as
often to a graceful piece by Brahms or
Weber as to the strains of Tin Pan Alley.
In “Leap Year Crazy Show” its many
numbers, brightly costumed, are done
with disciplined snap. Crazy the whole
show certainly is, with unexpected asini-
nities popping, from the gent, in the audi-
ence’s box discovered calmly strangling
his lady to Jim Gerald potting off his
nagging missus, a gem of a sketch.
Specialty turns are excellent.
At the talkies:
Gorgeous girls are trotted forth in large
quantities in “Cover Girl” (Sydney State), and
color helps show ’em off. The lightweight story
enables Otto Kruger as a millionaire publisher-
cwm-female face-fancier to be suave and
polished, with Gene Kelly well suited by 8
strong but not-so-silent he-man role, and he
dances superbly. America certainly has plenty
of beauteous magazine-cover models, but wh)
not give them some solid feeding to round
out their angles?
Contrary to the usual when a popular singer
is the star, “Hers to Hold” (Lyceum) has 8
story which doesn’t need to be propped up 8
every wobbly joint with a song. Such songs as
Deanna Durbin sings—ranging from a
“Carmen” aria to ballads—come m natural!)'
and they’re nicely sung. Joseph Gotten is tnc
feminine-heart fluttered
Cant and' humbug are socked for a sixer m
producer Ernst Lubitsch in “Heaven Can Wait
(Century). With a plunge into a slashing seen
in Hell’s ante-chamber, where an old row
(Don 4meche), expectant of admission, tells «»
story of his life to the delightfully polite Devil
office manager (Laird Cregar) the film start
off on a high note which holds to the eno-
Charles Coburn’s version of a grandfather ww*
disappointed in the wowsensm of his son.
revels in the better material for gaiety of W
grandson, is rich m subtle humor. Bug
Pallette, Marjorie Mam and Allyn Jossljm a
the well-rounded comedy, and Gene Tierne)
shows a long-overdue improvement. ,


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
-CioiA. (Own, ..
'VI ttv"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
m
Ir-N
V
1
I
h
m
r^k
%
V
w
*1
zy
U
Of*
?tH ,Cl Kr
Sou
r Q
mm
in
Ate
m
life
sis
mi
A
W5TtV\ij
A h
tg>"TG
?.ovw
gSi
'^on
3££a*,
Fire Fly Hand Garden Plough.
A very useful implement for
gardeners who have a large
area to cultivate. • Opens a
furrow up to 6 inches wide
and 3 inches deep. Cam-
bridge 40/-
Utilise the winter months in preparing for your Spring
Garden for a harvest of Blooms, Vegetables and Fruit.
BOOKS TO STUDY
Obtainable in our Book Department. Second Floor, Pitt Street.
Yates’ Garden Guide for the
Home Gardener, 1/-, Post. 2£d.
Fruit Tree and Grape Vine Prun-
ing, by George Quinn .... 5/-
Postage 3^d.
Grow Your Own Vegetables, by
"Waratah" ... 2/-, Postage 2^d.
The A to Z of Australian Fruit
Growing, by Herbert J. Rumsey.
Price 2/3, Postage 3jd.
Pruning, issued by the Depart-
•ment of Agriculture of N.S.W.
Price 3/-, Postage 4|d.
The New A.B.C. of Australian
Vegetable Growing, by Herbert
J. Rumsey ... 2/9, Postage 2£d.
Water Gardening, by Francis
Perry 25/-, Postage 10|d.
No. 16 Hand Cultivator. This machine
does all the work in the garden
oi ploughing, furrowing, hilling and
cultivating. 'Equipment consists of one
plough, three cultivator tynes, one pair
weeding hoes and one three and one
five tooth rake. Mintern 68/6
Cambridge 80/-
Np. 17 Hand Cultivator. The same
as No. 16, only without the rake.
Mintern 61/6
Two Important Methods of Preparation for Spring
I.—THE RIGHT TOOLS
a 9-
1.‘ —SPADES, Star Brand,
for Ladies. Forged steel.
Price 9/3
Full, si?e. Pressed Steel.
Price 7/11
■ 2.—SPADES, Samson
Brand (English make), 14/9
3.—CHIP HOES, Elwells
No. 00, 4/9 No. 1, 5/3
Handles to suit, sft. length.
Price, each 2/9
4. —MATTOCKS, Pick End.
Price .. ’ fl/-
5. MATTOCKS, Axe End.
Price 9/3
Handles ..... 2/2
6. —PRONG HOES, 9/9
Handles, sft. length, 2/9
7. THREE-PRONG HAY
FORKS, 6ft. Handles, in
American Ash .... 11/-
B.—EZI CUT PRUNING
SHEARS 6/6
9. SEYMOUR SMITH
PRUNING SHEARS, Ameri-
can make (same design).
Price 11/6
10. SCYTHE BLADES,
Tyzacks Elephant Brand,
36 in., riveted 17/6
v
11. SCYTHE HANDLES.
Continental Pattern, 17/6
i
2.—THE RIGHT FERTILISERS
We stock fertilizers for all purposes,
including Shirleys Mixtures, Blood
and Bone, Sulphate Ammonia,
Nitrate of Soda, etc. Also "Poultry
Humoss", a scientific blending of
Poultry Manure and Humus Mate-
rial, making a safe and efficient
manure for all garden purposes.
71b 141 b 281 b 561 b 1 cwf.
1/6 2/11 4/9 9/- 15/6
And Vitaraold, the all-humus material
for improving the soil, a plant food
and moisture retainer. It is ideal for
seed boxes, pot plants, fruit trees,
vegetables, etc.
50-lb. bags 10/-
100-lb. bags 18/6
• Gardening and Agricultural Dept.,
Fourth Floor.
WHO DOES NOT ENJOY A DELI-
CIOUS DISH OF HOMEGROWN
MUSHROOMS?
We stock Hearns Brick Mushroom,
Spawn, the most successful and
economical method of Mushroom
growing. This spawn has been
tested and approved by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture of N.S.W. Full
instructions supplied with each
brick. Price, 1/6; Postage extra.
• Mushroom Spawn obtainable
from Flower and Seeds Dept. Pitt
Street, Ground Floor.
ƒ
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone; M 2401 (Day and Night) Telegraphic Address; Hordernia, Sydney Sox 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


I
■H
*
■■
MM
iiiiii
H
■
»s
r
mm
;
<
S- v,l
.
H
Viyi'.'i-:'
v: :i
v- : v':
m
■n
# ft>
I*
- ■ ■
Bll: «
ftl ’ •~W t :
Itlf r lit l
iIUWnHI M
V> ... •:
V.
; •••■::
1
1
s r *
z
- j
f..
r • vi, %
iv:
• -• \ \l|k
i
h P im m % m
I v. .
V
&
r
w
■ .'■■■ :■•;.• : '
,
•; <■
&r.
msStSh : i
■ :
ft
mM
msmm
1 Wmmsk I
WSmmM
mm
mm
mm
Wf
Ml §WMIK
mm/
■ tt
Our S7th year
breaks ai^ 7 previous
records!
6RINNELL
RE RECORD
Ist January—3l st December, 1943
In 1943 eighty fires in Australia and New
Zealand were controlled by "GrinneU”.
Total amount of damage paid by the
Insurance Companies (covering fire, water,
smoke, etc.) amounted to only £7,367/19/1
for fires originating in protected buildings.
Average loss per fire
for the eighty “SAVES”
in 1943—£92'2'0
*
Fifty-three of these eighty fires were extin-
guished by just one "GrinneU” -head. In
thirty-one of these fires the damage was nil
or so slight that no claim was made on
Insurance Companies. Concrete proof of
Grinnell’s ability to strike instantly at the
very heart of the fire.
The "GrinneU” record of "saves” over
the years in Australia and New Zealand are
due to far more than an always-effective
sprinkler system. Behind each installation
is the Wormald service ... a service that
carries with it the accumulated knowledge
of more than half a century’s experience in
fire protection. It is a guarantee that
"GrinneU” is on duty twenty-four hours
every day of the year.
"CRINNELL"
Automatic Sprinkler Systems
•
WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD.
(Incorp. in N.S.W.)
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand.


The Bulletin
Vol. 6S—No. 3361.
Wednesday, July 12, 1944.
“DADDY!”
“The referendum is no longer my referendum.”— Mr. Curtin.
“‘Daddy,’ my foot—you’re the dead spit of Bert Evatt!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-240 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
A HOLLOW SHAM.
“The referendum is no longer my referen-
dum,” Mr. Curtin pleaded in his first
reference to the subject. The plea
was uttered eight days after his return
to Australia and 24 hours after he had
agreed (or been baited by newspapers
into agreeing) to have a few pre-referen-
dum sittings of the Parliament elected on
August 21, 1943, which, possessing
supreme war-time powers, has been occu-
pied in the legislative halls for nearly six
days in the Senate (30 sittings) and nearly
10 days in the House (37 sittings). There
is no reason to suppose that this Parlia-
ment, now under full Labor control, or
the one to come after it, if under Labor
control—as it will be in the Senate—will
loaf any less shamefully or be any more
critical of the outrages and imperti-
nences of swarming officials or any more
mindful of the rights of minorities and
individuals than has been the case since
August 21.
Mr. Curtin was trying to fix the blame
for the referendum on his opponents, par-
ticularly “the State Premiers and Leaders
of the Opposition,” but it won’t come
off. The responsibility for the referen-
dum rests wholly on the Labor Caucus
and Government, and in the main
on himself. He alone among the war
leaders is taking a course which is divid-
ing the nation and setting class against
class when unity is the prime need.
It is hoped to carry the referendum by
playing upon the fears of service men for
their future in civil life. These fears
could not only be allayed but removed,
but they are in actual fact being exploited
in the most feckless and dishonest fashion.
Full powers to care for war victims
have always been possessed by the Com-
monwealth Parliament, and have been
exercised since almost the beginning of
the last war, mainly through the Repat-
riation Commission. The building, pur-
chase, allotment and maintenance of
war-service homes have never been
adversely affected in any way by lack of
Commonwealth powers, which are full
and ample for this necessary purpose.
After the last war the Commonwealth
Government built war-service homes
itself, and so did the Commonwealth
Bank, and the War-service Homes Com-
mission is a continuous entity, like
“Repat.” What is hindering it now is not
lack of Commonwealth powers, but the
refusal of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to give it the go-ahead signal and
provide finance, labor and materials—a
“policy” carried to such an extreme that
returned men in a position to supply all
these requisites themselves have been
refused permission to build.
As for jobs after the war, great num-
bers of those who enlisted or were called
up have copper-bottomed guarantees
that they will get them if they are spared.
That goes for all those who have gone
into the services from Government and
“semi”-Government departments, local-
government bodies and the like. It goes
also for all those who were in private
employment, for the most part the most
energetic and ambitious young members
of staffs whom any employer, from selfish
motives —the only motives which ever
sway wage-payers according to Labor
politicians and their Communist allies —
would be glad to have back again.
In point of fact, this part of reconstruc-
tion has been working ever since men
began to be honorably discharged from
the forces. In a statement issued at Wash-
ington when he was there, being necessi-
tated by Mr. Forde’s clumsy reference
to the reduction of army strength by
90,000, Mr. Curtin said that “since the
war broke out more than 870,000 men
have been in the armed forces, and after
casualties and discharges the present
[April 24] strength is about 630,000.”
Casualties he gave as 74,338, so it may
be taken for granted that by Anzac Day
at least 150,000 men able to work had
been honorably discharged. Those who
had jobs before enlistment or call-up got
them back. This is a legal obligation on
employers, and it has been faithfully ob-
served. Cases in which enforcement has
been called for, > special circumstances
being alleged, could be counted on the
fingers of one hand.
The law on the subject is embodied in
National Security (Reinstatement in Civil
Employment) Regulations. As it stands,
“amended in certain respects,” it is
quoted in the June issue of the “Printer,”
organ of a union—the N.S.W. Jbranch of
the Printing Industry Employees —which
presumably supports the referendum;
and pertinent extracts are appended:
Where any person who has completed
a period of war service or within
14 days before completion applies for re-
instatement by the employer or by the pre-
decessor by whom he was employed [for
upwards of 30 days] immediately prior to
the date upon which he volunteered or was
called up, the employer shall immediately
reinstate him under conditions not less favor-
able to him than those which would have
been applicable to him had he remained
in the employment. “Conditions not less
favorable” include “any increase of re-
muneration to which tire ‘person’ would
become entitled,” and continuity, unbroken
by war service, in respect of “annual, sick
and long-service leave, or pay in lieu
thereof, including pay to dependants.”
In any proceedings for contravention the
onus shall be on the employer to prove
that he has reasonable cause for terminat-
■ ing or varying the employment in any
case where the employment was terminated
or varied within six months of reinstate-
ment. Where a Court imposes a fine it may
order that an amount equal to 12 weeks’
remuneration shall be paid to the em-
ployee or former employee.
We are hearing nothing about these
measures from Dr. Evatt or Dr. Coombs
or Dr. Ross or any other referendum
doctor or departmental doctrinaire and
nothing about the great amount of labor
that will be required in the land indus-
tries and the motor trade. Nor are we
hearing anything about careers for ser-
vice men in the armed forces after the
war, althpugh this is a live question in
the United Kingdom and Canada, or
about the numbers that will be needed to
man garrisons, bases and army-air-force
posts and provide against possible even-
tualities until peace returns. On these
important matters Ministers and their
legions of officials, so many of whom
make statements of policy, are mum. But
we are getting a great deal in the class-
war vein from Labor and its Communist
allies, and Dr. Evatt himself has not been
above inflaming hatred of wage-payers.
Addressing about 500 railwayraen at
Midland Junction (W.A.), Dr. Evatt said
“vehemently”—according to a “West Aus-
tralian” report, uncontroverted —that “the
right to ‘fire’ is characteristic of the social
system against which the Labor move-
ment must fight and win.” And again:
“Powerful interests in the Eastern States
are spending a lot of money in W.A.
because they want a reserve of unem-
ployed in Australia after the war, so that
the standards of the workers can be kept
down —without a reserve of unemployed
where will they be?” It is astonishing
that so clqyer a man should be capable
of such dangerous claptrap.
Nor did he stop there. Speaking in
Mr. Curtin’s electorate of Fremantle, and
“mentioning only some of the problems
that will confront the nation at the end
of the war,” he placed first “the finding
and securing of employment for nearly
1.500.000 men and women of the services
and in war work.” Nearly 1,500,000!
A quarter of a million more than, the
number of service men, service women
and munition workers given by Mr.
Curtin in his Washington summary, and
175.000 more than the number of Aus-
tralians in private employment in July,
1939 {Summary of Australian Statistics,
March, 1944). If such a position arose, if
it really became necessary to find and
secure employment for “nearly 1,500,000
men and women of the services and in
war work” by Labor-socialist devices,
it would be necessary to implore God in
His infinite mercy to protect them.
In the same Fremantle speech the
Attorney-General alleged that “during the
depression there were 750,000 unem-
ployed in Australia,” and —here evidently
with a memory of Mr. Calwell and his
“economic conscripts in the A.I.F.” —
“there were 250,000 unemployed even
in 1939.” Where did he get these
figures, if not from Communists or
from the recesses of his imagination?
With unionists reckoned as unemployed
if they were “out of work for three days
or more during a specified week in each
quarter,” and annual figures presented as
the average for the four quarters, the
greatest number of union unemployed
recorded in any depression year was
120,454, and union-unemployed figures
for the four quarters of 1939, calculated
in the same way, were 45,545 in the first,
45,183 in the second, 48,888 in the third
and 44,253 in the fourth.
The powers now possessed by the Com-
monwealth and tremblingly
invoked but never exercised at the expense
of striking coalminers and slaughtermen,
will remain until the end df the war has
been definitely pronounced. When will
that be? No one knows; but G. C.
Ligertwood, K.C., an Adelaide lawyer
of eminence, has stated the Constitutional
position, and to his statement there has
been no reply:
The suggestion is that there will be chaos
because the provisions of the National
Security Act will cease to exist six months
after the Arm.ist.ice. The Act will cease
to operate six months after the end of the
war, which means six months after a pro-
clamation is signed that the Allies are
no longer at war. How long the
period between the Armistice and that pro-
clamation will be no one can say. After
the last war it was six years, and the
National Security regulations may therefore
remain in force for 10 years after the Armis-
tice. Under those regulations, the Common-
wealth will have ample powers to carry out
its post-war reconstruction plans. If the
referendum proposals are agreed to the
Commonwealth will be able to pursue a
policy to change the whole economic system
and nationalise all the means of production
distribution and exchange.
To that policy Dr. Evatt and all the
members of his Government and party
are committed. When he stepped down
from the High Court Bench, on which
he was told by the majority of his
learned brethren on a memorable occa-
sion that the Commonwealth had greater
powers than he thought it had, he signed
this undertaking:
I pledge myself to actively support and
advocate at all times the party’s objective,
the Socialisation of Industry, Production,
Distribution and Exchange.
That is what the referendum is for
(that, and as a provision against election
defeats: “You have given us these powers;
now give us time to enforce them”); and
that is why the Communists are sup-
porting it and have been accepted as
Labor’s allies. It is their objective also.
War Takes Toll.
Perhaps—though it might seem flatter-
ing to think so in view of what goes on
—things might be different in Australia
if all that the war is doing elsewhere
could really be felt here. Felt, that is,
by everybody as a personal matter —alike
by strikers and by those in authority who
coddle them ; alike by black marketeers
and by those who, at some time or an-
other, in one Way and another, buy from
the black market; also by those whom
this latter category leaves out.
A report has come out of Greece on
the way ships are unloaded there. The
ships are those carrying the war-relief sup-
plies to that stricken country, including
the wheat which Canada, whose magni-
ficent generosity to its partners is one
of the few bright features of the war,
furnishes free of charge. It’s a little
different from some other ship-unloading
that need not be specified. To the Greeks
the cargoes mean life itself. They un-
load them, the report states, with despe-
rate eagerness. “When they have carried
out the wheat, loose cargo, people come
in with brushes and dustpans, and even
pick up the last grains with their fingers.”
In Greece they have what Australians
at large lack, the close, personal feel of
war. This same report declares that,
even in a world filled with appalling
tragedies, that of Greece is unparalleled ;
“it has seldom been equalled in the his-
tory of famine.” The looting of the coun-
try’s food stocks after the Germans
marched in is said to have had the effect
that in six months more than 1,000,000
of the country’s 7,200,000 people were
dead of starvation. In February, 1942,
it was estimated that only one out of
every 10 babies born that month sur-
vived the first week of its life. Even with
the supplies that now get through, the
average daily ration is declared to be a
bowl of soup and five slices of bread.
This has been going on for about three
years, and it is estimated that a large
majority of children under 12 are now
suffering from rickets and malnutrition.
Half the people are without coats and
shoes, and tuberculosis is claiming vic-
tims at an enormous rate.
That is only one of the countries where
they know war. On 31/3/ ’44 the Lon-
don “Times” ran a two-column article
under the heading “Europe’s Lost Gen-
eration.” Its figures for “indirect war
losses” were staggering ; yet, as it pointed
out, quoting the International Labor
Office, any figures will already be “out-
stripped by the fact, for information is
hard to obtain and travels slowly.”
“Indirect war losses” cover the unborn
who would have been born but for the war;
war-time increases in infant mortality;
civilians who died as a result of war-time
epidemics or war-time increase in the
general deathrate. Beginning with the
unborn, the “Times” pointed out
that in the two years 1940 and 1941 the
birthrate in France was 10 per cent,
below the already low rate of 1938-39 ;
“this meant 120,000 unborn children in
two years.” The “Nation,” U.S.A., states
that of France’s pre-war population of
40,000,000 one in seven has been up-
rooted, one in 10 deported to Germany.
And 850,000 Frenchmen are still held as
prisoners of war.
Belgian casualties in unborn children
the “Times” statistics put at 50,000 in
two years; Rumania, 70,000 unborn in
1941 alone ; Germany itself in three years
(1940-42), 600,000 unborn. “The total of
Europe’s unborn children must by now
number several millions.”
To all these have to be added infant
deathrates —children who fail to survive
their first year—“a universal war-time
increase throughout the area.” Germany’s
loss in this category is put at 6 per cent.,
over 10,000 in the two war years 1940-41,
although one of the things Germany has
made a point of doing all through has
been taking from the occupied countries
enough to feed German mothers and
babies well. The Belgian rate is
reckoned at 13 per cent, over three
years, or* 3000 extra deaths for the
period. After one winter of occu-
pation deaths from tuberculosis in Bel-
gium “increased by 57 per cent., and the
great majority of the new victims are
children,” In Finland infant mortality
in 1940 was almost 30 per cent, higher
than in preceding years. In France, for
the three-year period 1940-42, the rate
was up over 20 per cent.; that is, “24,000
more French children died.”
The 1.L.0. is quoted as reporting that
“nearly all the skin tests carried out on
Paris children showed definite signs of
tuberculosis,” and a Vichy order of 1943
laid it down that “no children may attend
school unless a doctor certifies that they
are not suffering from open tuberculosis.”
French children as a whole are reported
to be “one year behind children of nor-
mal development,” with “80 per cent, of
French babies suffering from rickets.”
Holland, which in some other respects
is reported to have suffered less than
others, had a 20 per cent, higher infant
deathrate in 1940-42 than in 1939. Italy's
infant mortality in 1941 —up 18 per cent,
on 1939—accounted for almost 20,000
extra infant deaths in that one year alone.
And these countries —Greece excepted,
but including Norway, where such an
item as shortage of shoes prevents
children from attending school through-
out the bitter winter —are described in
the “Times” report as no .more than “the
ante-chambers of hell.” The worst places
include Poland, “ravaged with typhus,”
its people subsisting on “less than a
quarter of the minimum requirements of
food,” and occupied Russia, where imme-
diate relief does not automatically follow
the Red Army advances, since most of
European Russia, despite all that America
has sent and Britain has spared to send
also, has long been listed as seriously
short of food.
All this is without, considering the suf-
fering and losses of the kind that have
already been caused and will continue
directly from the fighting. The longer
the war lasts—and the one determination
left with the Germans would seem to be
to make it last —the worse all this must
become. It will have a strong influence
on much that will happen in Europe after
Germany’s defeat, and even before.
Already it must have bred up such bitter-
ness and hatred in the hearts of millions
as the world has never before known. It
is likely to have terrible effects once Ger-
many begins to go. The war, anyway,
was entered on everywhere grimly
enough, and for some time the post-war
looks likely to continue as grim. “It is,”
says the “Times” report, “on this deci-
mated, enfeebled generation that the re-
construction of Europe will depend”;
and it would seem well on the
cards that the opposite of recon-
struction might in many ways and
many places come first. There have been
ugly enough signs already, even in such
a country as Greece, where the condi-
tions are so desperate that it must call
for incredibly violent feelings to make
them war amongst themselves.
Contrasted to all this even the most
vivid Australian concept must, from sheer
remoteness, fall short, let alone what
would appear—from what goes on —the
general concept. Very largely it is prob-
ably a matter of information, and driv-
ing the information home. To a very
large extent the war is presented here as
a spectacle on a vast scale —the frequent
“trapping” of hundreds and thousands
of the enemy; the more factual vast
armadas moving in for invasion; the
clashes of tank armies; the general din
and fury. They even have sporting terms
for it: the Gong Sounds; Another
Round. The grim background is too
uninteresting, too dull, though in the long
run it may be far the more significant.
Americans, it seems, are better served
in this respect. Europe’s spectre of star-
vation, with its present and future effects,
has all through been a live topic there.
As one result, the June issue of the U.S.
“Free World” could report a Research
Centre as finding that 82 out of every
100 Americans “are willing to stay on a
rationing system for five years after the
war to help feed starving people in the
war-torn countries” ; that 64 out of every
100 “would agree to pay more taxes for
a few years” to much the same end. What
would those on strike here today or
arranging ■ strikes for tomorrow say to
that? The answer is no doubt too easy.
Then what would all others say to it, not
in an offhand way, but in, say, voting
for a political party which came out
standing on such a platform?


PLAIN ENGLISH
A National Pollution.
From that Englishman’s home, and from
the House of Commons, where the in-
domitable old Prime Minister counselled
“every man and woman” to “seek the
safest shelter they can find” from the new
terror that flies by day and night, and
“people who have no essential” work to
leave London, it is humiliating to turn
to a special Commonwealth Court in
Sydney, where 50 people caught with
forged petrol tickets in their possession
were brought up for punishment or what
passes for punishment, especially in Syd-
ney and Brisbane.
Everybody knows that petrol is vital to
the war effort. Everybody knows that
it is brought to Australia at great risk,
and that many a grand man has lost his
life in the perilous traffic. But these con-
siderations and others in the same cate-
gory, relating particularly to the rubber
position, concerning which a grave warn-
ing has been issued, don’t seem to matter
to an amazingly large number of people
who owe everything to the men of the
services.
It came out in these Sydney cases that
special paper had been stolen for for-
geries, some “even before it reached the
Commonwealth Bank note-printing de-
partment.” “A skilful, reckless and dar-
ing gang of forgers is operating in a
widespread way,” said Bradley, K.C. The
50 charged—all pleaded guilty—were
consumers, not distributors, of petrol or
tickets. One fellow named Jack Gold-
berg, fined £6O and costs, had airily said
he didn’t mind, since what he paid in fines
he wouldn’t have to pay in taxes. An-
other, found with 10 forged two-gallon
tickets, got two months. The others were
all fined—£s to £3O.
Instead of dividing the nation on an
unnecessary referendum issue, the Gov-
ernment would be better occupied in
tackling the black market, which has
become a national pollution. Fines and
short terms of imprisonment (rarely im-
posed) are worse than useless. Greatly
increased vigilance and really drastic pun-
ishment are called for. There are more
than enough policemen in the country to
stamp out the black market if really stiff
sentences are provided for and no dis-
cretion is left to the sort of magistrate
with whom fining has become an obses-
sion.
In Australia men are fined for what
in other countries they would be haled
before a firing party.
"Look, It's Peter!"
On all the fronts where New Zealand
soldiers have fought in this war, the
Middle East, the South Pacific and Italy,
there has been seen the honest Scots face
of their Labor Prime Minister, Peter
Fraser.
After the Prime Ministers’ conference
in London, Mr. Fraser flew to Italy,
where, “less than 24 hours after his
arrival, he stood on the ruins of the
Monte Cassino Monastery and surveyed
the scene of one of the greatest baffles in
the history of the New Zealand Division”
(Official War Correspondent). “Many
tanks still lay where mines, shells or the
treacherous terrain had stopped them” ;
and not only tanks: there were unburied
bodies of German and Polish ttoops “on
the rocky slopes.”
Sometimes riding in “bouncing jeeps,”
sometimes in an armored car, sometimes
walking and climbing, the P.M. spent
“five strenuous days” renewing his ac-
quaintance with the soldiers and seeing
for himself what they had done. There
is one pleasant picture of a visit to “the
little town of Sora, which had been oc-
cupied by Maoris and their supporting
tanks only at midday.”
On the way the armored car bearing the
P.M. and General preyberg passed and was
passed by New Zealanders driving to and
from the front. The men sat up in sur-
prise. Then they grinned and waved and
yelled “Look, it’s Peter Fraser! Good
day, Peter!” Mr. Fraser, the dust thick
as powder on his sun-browned face and his
clothes, waved smilingly back.
The P.M. and Generals Freyberg and
Puttick got out of the cars to speak to
Maori soldiers.
They heard the whistle and crump of
German shells, and saw them bursting
within only a few hundred yards, some
close ■ enough to make him take shelter.
The Maoris were obviously pleased at the un-
expected visit. So were three escaped British
prisoners met near Atina, whence Mr. Fraser
looked down a long valley, at whose end
Maori and white New Zealand troops were
advancing behind fire from New Zealand
guns. The escaped prisoners were odd-
looking figures in a mixture of army and
old civilian clothes. When Mr. Fraser said
he was pleased to meet them, one replied
“Not half as pleased as we are to be able
to meet you.”
Another pleasant picture;
The Prime Minister is likely to meet
almost every unit c * the division before
he ends his visit to the forward areas..
Each unit is advised in advance of .his visit,
and he arrives to find the officers and men
assembled to meet him. After speaking to
many of them personally, he has them
brought round him in a circle and tells them
of New Zealand’s pride in the reputation
they have earned for themselves on the
battlefield. He explains the man-power
situation and the adjustments that have
been made necessary by the urgent demand
for increased food production, and invites
the men to ask questions. They have
shown particular interest in the working
of the furlough scheme and rehabilitation.
From Italy Mr. Fraser went to Egypt
for three days to meet “a large number
of officers and men of reinforcement and
base units of the N.Z.E.F. and have dis-
cussions with British and Allied officials.”
While there he “renewed personal con-
tacts” with the King and Government of
Egypt and with Greek leaders, among
them King George and the new Premier.
Then back to Italy, at General Alex-
ander’s invitation, “to see the Allied forces
in Rome, and trace the strategy and
tactics which led to the fall of the Eternal
City.” And so on to London again, when
the robot ’planes were falling. At a Bank
of New Zealand luncheon, Mr. Fraser
said “Nothing could be finer than the
attitude of the people at a time when
these pilotless ’planes are doing such dam-
age to their homes and causing such loss
of life” ; and, as for the invasion, “the
preparations at the ports, which I had
the privilege of seeing, were almost
beyond belief.”
Now, no nasty comparisons, please.
More Uncontrolled Control.
The Queensland Royal Commission on
fruit and vegetables has issued an interim
report showing that excessive profits have
been made, and that, under the Common-
wealth subsidy system, excessive profits
have been paid for by taxpayers.
Some of the rises in retail prices of
fruit and vegetables between 1939 and
1943 discovered by the Commission:
Tomatoes, 288 p.c.; pears, 277 p.c.;
oranges, 161 p.c.; apples, 118 p.c.
Metropolitan returns to growers in 1942-
43 were 359 p.c. more for tomatoes than
in 1939-40 and 324 p.c. more for lettuce.
Rises in country districts were 225 p.c.,
97 p.c. and 174 p.c.
The Commission found the causes to
be Australian and Allied services’ buy-
ing, with consequent shortages for civi-
lians, and increased buying-power coupled
with restrictions on many other avenues
of spending. Evidence had shown that
price-fixing was not being enforced.
Average net profits of 61 of the 65
agents operating in Brisbane markets rose
by 314 p.c. between 1938-39 and 1942-43 ;
returns of agents in Bundaberg, Cairns,
Ipswich, Rockhampton, Toowoomba and
Townsville showed an average increase
of 442 p.c. The Commission, finding that
it could not place much reliance on statis-
tics obtained from the “Price Fixing
Branch or any other authority,” put two
detectives to work.
The section of the report dealing with
potatoes is an eye-opener:
Serious loss to some growers through
no fault of their own... .excessive profit
to a group of agents at growers’ ex-
pense by accident or design, the Com-
monwealth avoided legal liability for
losses Commissions and part of profits
received by agents were illegal and prob-
ably recoverable
About October, 1942, the Deputy Potato
Controller made an arrangement, not in
writing, with 14 agents, which apparently
was to the effect that they form a partner-
ship known as the Central Potato Distribu-
tion Committee. The Railways Commis-
sioner was directed to rail all Queensland-
grown potatoes to the C.P.D.C. or its
receiving agents. The 14 C.P.D.C. agents
appointed three of themselves at salaries
as a sub-committee and also a manager.
The 14 supplied capital to finance growers
but ran no business risk, that remaining
with the growers
They did other things which caused
the Commission to remark that “it seemed
that each of them, since each was a party
to the breaches of trust,” was liable to
account to growers for profits made on
sales without the growers’ consent.
More was said, and more remains to
be said. It seems improbable that this
preliminary report or the ampler report
to come will be published by the Com-
monwealth Government as an argument
for the referendum.
THE LEPROUS-RAT PLAGUE.
An Englishman's Home.
“Mrs. Martha Jackson and her youngest son,
Denis (18), the last of four, were killed by a
flying bomb. Their bodies were found be-
neath the broken furniture of their wrecked
home, where the family had lived for 20 years.
The father was killed in his war factory in an
air raid, his son Teddy (19) when his ship was
torpedoed, Sidney during the fall of Singapore
and Richard, in the Middle East fighting.
Rescue workers found among the wreckage a
roughly-made frame containing a reprint of Mr.
Churchill’s words ‘We shall defend our island,
whatever the cost may be.’ ”
Only a home —one more
Of thousands, cottage or hall
Shattered from roof to floor.
Riven from wall to wall!
Only a mother and son,
Last of the six that were
Of them and with them, gone.
But oh! what a tale was there
Writ in the message scanned
Where wreckage aside was tossed!
“We shall defend our land.
Whatsoever the cost.
Near and afar they sleep,
Father and mother and sons:
One in the trackless deep,
Two beneath tropic suns.
Life upon life the price,
One after one, they paid;
Ever the sacrifice
Until the last was made.
Taking alike their stand,
Home or when seas were crossed:
“We shall defend our land,
Whatsoever the cost.”
Whelmed in war’s raging flood,
Doomed in a few fell years
Of toil and travail and blood.
Blood and travail and tears —
•To death where the bullet flies
Or the shrapnel scatters free,
Death that screams from the skies
Or death that sneaks from the sea.
They echoed that bold demand
Alike till the last was lost.
That phrase from a master-hand:
“We shall defend
Whatsoever the cost.”
T. the R.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House,
'.solders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
i -—1 . J
Budge Refrigeration
Equipment
FOR EVERY ESSENTIAL INDUSTRIAL
APPLICATION
Pictured on the left is' a twin-cylinder, pressure-lubricated
ammonia compressor which we manufacture in eight
sizes up to 60 tons capacity. Plants for air-conditioning,
ice-making, cold storage, etc.
lustiatcd on the right is a Budge Evaporative Coaler —a self-contained,
oiced-draught evaporative spray tower, (modified cooling tower). Its
field of application includes air after-cooling, de-humidifying, com*
piessor and engine-jacket water cooling—in fact, all types of water-
cooled industrial processes.
JAMES BUDGE PTY.. LTD.
Refrigeration Engineers,
McEVOY STREET, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W. ’PHONES: LA5034-5-6
0
Established 1890. Agents and Service Mechanics in all States of the Commonwealth.
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin is going to report to Parliament,
after all. But “sittings will be brief, be-
ginning on Monday, July 17, and ending
probably on Friday.” Which may mean
that the seventeenth Parliament’s actua
working time in its first year after elc
tion will amount to about 160 hours
the Senate and 260 or so in the House.
Said Melbourne’s Lord Mayor Nettle
fold:
I cannot understand the inconsistency
of the Federal Treasurer in approving the
continuance of lotteries while desiring the
discontinuance of patriotic and charitable
appeals during war loan campaigns.
It is certainly a ghastly development o
Labor politics, but inconsistency :
not the word for it. It is consistent wit
the deadly materialism which has settle
on Chifley’s party. After all, comfort
for service men and prisoners of war con
cem only a minority of the votes tha
Lab<jp- goes after. Thousand-pounc
punters and State Government letter
gamblers for ever!
“Advocates of either side of the referen
dum will not be allowed to enter defenc
establishments to address service person
nel, the Acting Prime Minister said.
That’s how it appeared in the news
papers ; and straightway this notice wa
pinned up at an R.A.A.F. establishment
Very soon you will have to vote in a
Commonwealth-wide referendum. Do you
Know enough about it to be able to vote
intelligently? We have on this station
one of the men who was instrumental in
having the bill introduced. Come along
and hear P.O. Falstein give an outline of
the 14 points, put before the public what
the Commonwealth wants to achieve with
these new powers, their effect on post-
war reconstruction, the points which have
been raised against them, etc.
The Yes-party is losing no bets.
While the Russian offensive was in ful
blast and Moscow correspondents were
in full blow, the three heads of the U.S
armed services, fearing the effect on pro-
duction of war materials, issued a warn-
ing that “the war is not yet won ; there
is still a tough fight, entailing heavy losses
ahead.” Then the Sydney “D.T.,” in flat
contempt of the achievements of Cun-
ningham, Alexander, Tedder and Mont-
gomery—in knocking the Axis out oi
Africa and Italy out of the Mediterranean
and out of the war and precipitating Hit-
ler’s retreat from Russia and his hasty
redistribution of forces throughout
Europe—burbled of the brief events in
White Russia: “This is the greatest
triumph of the war, the greatest defeat
the arrogant German Army has suffered”
and “probably the greatest defeat in his-
tory.” And the “Sun” said it was “the
greatest victory of the war.” Their
troubles about the effect on N.S.W. coal-
miners and the like!
Assertion attributed to Peron, the
Argentine Minister for War;
It makes no difference to Argentina
who wins the war.
An attitude which seems to find an echo
on N.S.W. coalfields.
Tjp gamest man in Melbourne is one
F - C. Paice, who put the “No” case at a
referendum meeting at the Heidelberg
Town Hall. Gamest, because he is a
member of the Ironworkers’ Union. His
Communist boss, Thornton, is somewhere
in the U.S.A., having gone there when
the .London Trade-union Conference, to
which he was to have been “an Austra-
lian” delegate, was called off becauss of
the impending invasion. This Com-
munist was to have been toted to and
from the conference at the Australian
taxpayers’ expense, and whether the
change in his plans made any difference
in this respect has not been explained. So
much public money is being wasted in a
thousand ways-—at the moment referen-
dum propaganda is the most brazen—
that a little thing like that wouldn’t
worry Canberra.
Sir John Anderson’s first Budget was
received with universal applause, and is
icckoned one of the greatest ever deliv-
ered by a Chancellor of the Exchequer.
One thing he said is of particular Aus-
tralian interest; it was that pay-as-you-
earn, applicable to 12,000,000 taxpayers,
and 'with no 25 p.c. slug attached, had
ceen introduced with no more than the
expected administrative difficulties and
had been welcomed by all concerned.
From both sides of the House came
cheers.
Teller won the Avon (W.A.) by-election,
consequence of a successful appeal.’
lelters general-election majority was 15,
and it was shown that many more than
that number of postal and soldiers’ votes
for Labor had been taken and counted
illegally. At the by-election, with a hun-
dred or so soldiers’ votes outstanding,
Telfer’s poll was 1458 and Boyle’s 1166.
Dr. Evatt and friends are delighted, for
it is argued that the referendum was
made an issue. But it is much more
likely that Boyle’s support fell away be-
"Oh, Grandma Evatt, what are those fourteen great big teeth for ?"
“I'll tell you after the nineteenth of August, darling .”
cause worried farmers objected to hav-
ing to vote again and feared being de-
prived of what is going.
With help from increased revenue (up
half a million or so), Playford was able
to announce a S.A. surplus of £16,000,
creditable seeing that he feared a
deficit of £422,000. Among the achieve-
ments of the year were completion of the
Morgan-Whyalla pipeline and the open-
ing of Leigh Creek coalfield —the latter
likely to show its effect next year, since
S.A. has had to pay heavily for N.S.W.
coal.
When the Co-operative Commonwealth
Federation won the provincial election in
Saskatchewan, Canada, Left-Wing writers
in these parts explained that the party
was “j'ist like Australian Labor.” Before
taking office, the Premier-elect, Douglas,
announced that salaries of Ministers will
be cut £3OO a year. That’s not like Aus-
tralian Labor.
The politicians have been allotted
16,000 gallons of petrol for their referen-
dum spouting, and the Government run-
ning the referendum is authorising (1)
the V.A.T.C. to complete Caulfield race-
course works, and (2) the S.T.C, to
finance the purchase of two Sydney race-
courses. Politicians and racehorses are
apparently rated on the same scale of
national importance.
“Australian Communist party leaders
will tour the continent in support of the
referendum.” So it is announced in the
Corns.’ “Tribune,” and some tourist-notes
are given: —
ihe general secretary, Mr. J. B. Miles,
will leave Sydney for Victoria, South Aus-
tralia and Western Australia on July 10.
The general president, Mr. L. L. Sharkey,
who has been in South Australia, will leave
Sydney for North Queensland on July 17.
Miss Freda Lewis,, well-known [Sydney]
speaker, will address meetings in South and
Western ■ Australia.
At the largest meeting which Broken Hill
has seen for many years Miss Bella Weiner
opened the A.C.P.’s Yes campaign there.
Miss Weinpr addressed meetings at the
Housewives' Association and the Yugoslav
Napredak Club....The Jewish community
organised a welcome and contributed to the
expenses of her tour.
Rail priorities, eh? Not service men or
service men’s womenfolk, are you? Then
you may have as many as you want!
Ihe soberest of Sydney dailies turned a
special writer loose in the black market,
and this is his general conclusion: —
. T!?® grayest development is the increase
in illicit liquor trade and the dominance
m this field of a criminal element.
Still the special needn’t worry, forGeraghty,
the publican-member for North Sydney’
is On the Trail, Before the election
Geraghty was devoured with indignation
at what fellow-Buncs were doing in the
way of watering grog and getting rid of
their bottle-beer allowances, and he had
a Plan ready. Now that he has been
triumphantly returned by the toiling
masses, the Government he supports is
sure to place all its legislative and police
powers (it has nearly 4000 police) at the
service of the Plan.
Dead in Prince of Wales Military Hos-
pital, Randwick (Sydney), N. F. Watts
M.M., badly gassed and wounded in the
First World War, and rewarded by his
Labor-controlled country by being in-
terned for several months behind barbed
W l rC ’ e . Was on ser i° u sly-ill list
when Justice Clyne opened his inquiry
into the Australia First internments,
so he did not have the small consolation
of being present when Dovey, K.C., the
Government’s counsel, admitted that he
seemed a very decent man” whose
loyalty, honesty and truthfulness” there
was no reason to doubt. Non-starters in
the last war, urged on by non-starters in
this war, did what the enemy could not
do—broke a brave Australian.
The discovery of so many Russian sol-
diers among the Hitlerites in Normandy
suggests other unexplained mysteries.
Though shuttle-bombing has Jbeen estab-
lished, there is still no mention of Anglo-
American military attaches being present
at Red Army operations, nor has
there been any independent and authori-
tative report on the internal situation in
Russia. This is never discussed by the
corps of correspondents, and it may, of
course, be as sound as a bell. The vogue
of wStalin may, in fact, be as great as it
is said to be. But he is an old man, bear-
ing an immense burden, and in a few
years someone will succeed him. Who
will it be? A civilian or a successful
general? And will Stalin’s successor
follow Stalin’s present policies? These
questions don’t bother English-speaking
Communists and fellow-travellers, but no
Government can ignore them.
Chamberlain, though by no means an
ineffective speaker, was not eloquent, as
Churchill is, but he was a better picker.
Churchill has employed, and ip some
cases promoted, the best of Chamberlain s
men, Anderson, Woolton, Halifax, Hoare
and the late Kingsley Wood, and he may
have had cause to regret dropping the
war-wise Hankey and Chatfield. Each
might have served him better than Beaver-
brook, Arnery, Duff Cooper, Lyttelton
or Sinclair, all of whom have come in
for very hostile criticism. Of the Min-
isters he took from the Labor party, only
Bevin and Morrison have made good.
Greenwood he put in the War Cabinet
and then put out of the Ministry.
Movements of the mind of a Great
Daily which turned on its old pals and is
turning on its new pals:
The attempt of some of Mr. Calwell’s
partisans to represent the newspapers’ re-
sistance to this type of censorship as an
eft ort to discredit the Labor Government
and defeat the Powers referendum is utterly
dishonest and contemptible. The [S..M.J
"Herald” has given general support to the
Government and, together with most of the
other journals concerned, has approved of
an of Federal powers.— April 22.
The eyes of the people have been open
to the monstrous abuses that can occur
when power goes to the heads of those en-
trusted with it. Unless their apprehensions
be effectively allayed, they will not take
risks with a ‘‘Yes” vote on August 19. —
June 24.
Mr. _ Curtin may find the referendum
campa.gn a regrettable intrusion. While
a Yes” vote would add nothing whatso-
ever to the nation’s war-waging resources,
majorities for No would weaken the Gov-
ernment’s prestige. —July 2.
The electors, before' they vote on the
wide new powers asked for, have a right
to know the precise form the Govern-
ment s planning is taking A people
aware of Federal abuses of the old free-
doms will look very critically at any re-
quest for vastly extended powers.-— July 5.
Now Curtin is wondering gloomily
whether “most of the other journals con-
cerned” won’t also twist, like Granny.
Out of Moscow has come a yarn that
“torpedoes and new explosive bodies
resembling robot ’planes” have been or
are being manufactured or “developed”
in Spain. Though obviously belonging to
the same litter as the “Pravda” lie (“two
highly-placed British officials” unnamed
met Ribbentrop in Spain to discuss a
separate peace), it was taken up by
Russia-Is-Always-Right politicians and
rags, from the “Daily Worker” (London)
to the “Telegraph” (Sydney). Churchill
ignored it in his statement on the flying
bombs and rockets, in which he revealed
that the main experimental station had
been located at Peenemunde, Pomerania,
and there attended to by the R.A.F
Russia-ls-Always-Right politicians chose
to tackle Eden, who replied coldly “I am
satisfied that these reports are without
foundation,” and refused to communicate
with Moscow, which “has made no com-
plaints to us on the matter at all.” But
“Reynold’s News,” which once discoveied
that the Pope was about to take refuge
in Australia, insists that “the Govern-
ment cannot ignore the charges,” and the
“Telegraph” seems about to call upon
somebody to rise up and do something
about them.


(Vil atuv*
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
In London in April Bishop P. N. W.
Strong of New Guinea —the diocese is
more properly Papua—told the press
lhat, though nine members of his mis-
sion lost their lives and seven of these
(men and women) were “undoubtedly
murdered by the Japanese,” there have
been “examples of Japanese chivalry” in
the South-west Pacific. Bishop Strong
said that in particular the Japs have “re-
spected the Red Cross ; they were careful
not to hit the hospital ship in the harbor
during their regular bombardments of
Milne Bay, and they did not sink any
hospital ship in the area.” He also
stated that “a Japanese airman flew
through the ack-ack fire to drop mail
from British internees on Port Moresby.”
As well as being a successful publican
.and brewery owner, Stephen Morell, who
passed on in Melbourne last week, was a
scholar, a noted oarsman, an alderman
and councillor for 43 years, Lud Mayor
of Melbourne for three years and one of
the breeziest and most popular figures in
local history. Born at Carlton, Morell
was taken to Spain by his Spanish father
as a three-year-old, but returned to be
educated at Scotch College. Later he be-
came Spanish Consul. He founded the
Abbotsford Brewery, and subsequently
played a leading role in the negotiations
which merged that concern with Carlton
and United. His interest in rowing is
perpetuated in the Anderson-street
Bridge, which was renamed after him. He
was the civic host of the present King
and Queen during their visit to Mel-
bourne. t
“ ’Ungry ’Arry”; When Stephen
Morell ran his hostelry, the Orient
(now the site of Foy and Gibson),
he vied with another city host in
putting on sumptuous counter
lunches. Even teetotallers flocked
to his pub and bought a 3d. soft
drink to get the lavish counter
lunch, with a special carver presid-
ing at the buffet. Morell and his
rival having set the pace, others
had to follow suit to keep their
patrons together, but at last the
going got so hot that the whole
business was stopped in the
interests of the publicans.
The retirement of Frank McClelland
Mitchell from the secretaryship of the
B.H.P. ends a long reign through the
most exciting period of Australian indus-
trial history. Mitchell was 53 years with
8.H.P., joining in Melbourne in 1891.
General manager’s secretary in 1894, he
went to Broken Hill and didn’t leave it
till 1912, when he moved to Melbourne.
Thence to Newcastle, to become acting
works manager in 1921. As assistant
manager he toured England and U.S.A.
to investigate developments in iron and
steel production, and in 1922 became
secretary to 8.H.P., with h.q. in Mel-
bourne. He held that post for 21 years.
Thus he saw almost the first beginnings
of the concern which was to grow from
mining silver, lead and zinc deposits into
the Commonwealth’s biggest steel pro-
ducer, with strong sidelines in shipbuild-
ing, goldmining and aircraft production.
Born in Ceylon’s emerald isle in 1873,
Mitchell was educated at Toorak College,
Melbourne.
R. G. Newton, who steps into the
shoes of F. M. Mitchell as secretary of
8.H.P., has been with that vast concern
since 1918, when he joined the Newcastle
works as a clerk, progressing rapidly
upwards. With his present job goes the
secretaryship of Australian Iron and
Steel, Rylands Bros., B.H.P. By-Products
and Wellington Alluvials.
Awarded the 1944 David Syme Re-
search Prize of £125 in Melbourne, Dr,
F. N. Lahey, Senior Lecturer in Organic
Chemistry at the University of Mel-
bourne, and G. Baker, of the Geology
Department. Dr. Lahey is the savant who
recently discovered that the Queensland
tree Evodia littorolis contained a sub-
stance which has valuable insecticidal
properties and is sudden death to house
flies. His colleague has been conducting
geological researches into heavy minerals
in Victorian deposits, including phos-
phates on the Gellibrand River.
The late Professor James Moffatt,
noted for his original translation of the
Bible, had affiliations with Australia —a
daughter-in-law in Melbourne and a son
who is p.o.w. in Malaya, A Scot who
went to U.S.A. and became Washburn
Professor of Church History at Union
Seminary, Professor Moffatt visited Mel-
bourne in 1934. His version of Holy
Writ has already run into 73 editions and
is often quoted from pulpits because of
its clarity and directness.
Head of the C. 1.8. in Sydney since
early this year, Detective-Superintendent
T. Wickham (with whose massive frame,
phiz —avec flor de cabbage —and tools of
trade Frith here takes fearsome risks)
started out to earn a crust at marsupial
skin classing. Whether or not that sug-
gested it to him isn’t clear, but in 1910 the
21-year-old Wickham got out of it and into
the Force. And that time his hobby was,
of all things, hiking! A Harbors’der by
birth, he’s now been with the C. 1.8. for
20 years, in which time he’s had a part
TOP SYDNEY SLEUTH.
in elucidating many of the State’s most
baffling crimes. Also, he’s been partner
in a remarkable mateship record, he and
Inspector Thompson having been team
mates for over 13 years. Among their
joint performances was being with the
Drug Bureau for seven years from its
inception ; when they were through, the
biggest and worst part of what was build-
ing up into an illicit drug traffic of huge
proportions had been well and truly
stonkered. Wickham’s service has spread
over much of N.S.W., including New-
castle and Parkes, at which latter spot he
was in control of Western Districts for
18 months. He’d be a tough proposi-
tion to get into holds with. There’s
some 6ft. 2in. and 18st. of him.
Australians in Normandy:
Doing a good job attached to the British
forces in France, as he’d previously done in
Burma and India, “S. M. Herald” war corre-
spondent H. A. Standish sent an interesting
account on July 4 of Australians he’d come
across doing a variety of jobs in the Normandy
fight. The first batch of British nurses to step
ashore included a number of nurses from here.
Earle Page’s son Captain Iven Page is a sur-
geon at a casualty clearing station, as his father
was in the last war. Major Charles Salisbury
and Captain Hugh Pearson are two other
medicoes with the British Army there. Others
include Major H. B. Gullett, who came
down from New Guinea to give Coles a close
run for Henty. After his fine A.I.F.’ service,
Gullett is these days an air observer. Standish
reported that Gullett “landed on D-Day with
a British unit, and soon found himself not
observing but commanding first a composite
independent company and then a regular com-
pany whose commander was killed in the early
fighting.” Standish also met Major Tim Vin-
cent, of Perth (a signals expert), and Captain
Leslie Coleman, of Melbourne (a tankman),
and heard word of Captain W. Tracery and
Majors Wilfred Lees, Paul Woodie and lan
Haywood. The current A.J.A. “Journalist”
runs a front-page story from former Bulletin
staff man Lachie McDonald giving names
of Australian scribes covering the invasion
from ground or air. The remarkably long list
includes Jack Hetherington (Melbourne
“Herald,” Sydney “Sun”), Ron Monson (Aus.
Consolidated Press), Henry Bateman (Sydney
“Mirror”), Alan Moorehead and Noel Monks
(London “Daily Express” and “Daily Mail”),
with Geoff Hutton (Melbourne “Argus”) head-
ing to join them. The list of those at General
Eisenhower’s headquarters includes Gordon Gil-
mour (Sydney “Sun”), the only 1914-18 Aus-.
tralian war correspondent again accredited over
there.
Major Gullett, mentioned in the fore-
going par., had some striking things to
say to Hetherington in an interview in
Normandy. Of the Geordies to whom
he was then attached, Gullett said that
“they are small men physically.... but
their hearts are big enough for giants.”
He had an equally good word for the
French farmers and other civilians, “in-
credibly brave, friendly and kind since
the moment we arrived.” But the most
striking remarks in the interview were
these on Gullett’s' British troops and their
prisoners:
These men [the Tommies] seem incapable
of malice or meanness. Their homes have
been smashed up by German bombs, they
have been beaten up by the Germans in
North Africa and Sicily, but they hold no
spark of resentment. German prisoners
are no sooner brought in than you see
Tommies sitting down with them yarning
away like old pals and giving them food,
cigarettes and cognac.
Probably completely beyond the compre-
hensions of almost all civilians who have
never been soldiers, yet so widely true of
actual fighting troops that ex-soldiers will
see nothing at all out of the way in it.
If another licensing referen-
dum is held in Victoria a Liston
will once more direct the cohorts
of the liquor interests. He is J.
E. Liston, son of the late J. J.
Liston, the hearty former secre-
tary of the Federal Liquor
Trades Defence Union of Aus-
tralia and director of the Vic-
torian Liquor Trades Defence
Union. The son also steps into
his father’s shoes as president of
the Victorian Soccer Association.
Reported missing in air opera-
tions over Europe, Group-Cap-
tain John Raeburn Balmer,
0.8. E., D.F.C., of Bendigo
(Vic.), commander of an R.A.A.F. Lan-
caster squadron and previously com-
mander of a Beaufort torpedo squadron
which made history in New Guinea.
Balmer led the Beauforts in their first
strike in the S.-w. Pacific, when a Japa-
nese freighter making for Lae was sunk.
Intended for the law, he joined the Air
Force in 1932. As a racing* motorist he
lowered the Darwin-Adelaide record in
1936 by nine hours.
On July 1 William Wilson completed
25 years as Council Clerk of Lilydale
(Tas.) municipality. An Old Digger, he
has been local treasurer of the R.S.L.
since its inception in 1920, and is secre-
tary of the Municipal Association of Tas-
mania. Leslie Procter, M.L.C., M.8.E.,
the president of the association, is
Warden of Lilydale.
Old Digger and Bulletin scribe A. E.
Yarra, these days up in New England
(N.S.W.), would have got a special kick
out of a show put on in London a few
months back —an exhibition of news-
papers written for soldiers by soldiers,
produced at or near the front. One that
Yarra started couldn’t be in it. Aboard
the Nizam heading from Egypt for the
Gallipoli Landing in 1915, Gunner Yarra
wrote out his “newspaper” and pasted it
on a post in what passed for the troops
“quarters” in that wallowing tub. The
Bulletin staff member writing the
present par. joined in with Alf, and the
“paper,” though its circulation figures
necessarily totalled only one issue per
day, had the whole mob for readers. Sub-
sequent issues were pasted over the pre-
ceding ones, with fig jam—or what they
called fig jam—for paste. The show put
on in London went back to the Mafe-
: king Mail” and the “Ladysmith Lyre,”
; and one noble old link with Anzac
. attended—General Sir lan Hamilton, 91,
i and smoking a large cigar,
j George E. Dickenson, the Melbourne
i accountant who has parted with his con-
trolling interest in Tivoli Theatres to a
i syndicate headed by David N, Martin,
i of Sydney, has handled many very suc-
; cessful ventures. As a legal manager he
: has been fortunate in the payable mines
: which were managed in his office, and
has hardly ever been without a dividend-
paying concern. His daughter Lynette is
almost as widely known in theatrical
circles as Geo. E. is in the mining field.
Had an 85th birthday in Adelaide and
still going strong, Brigadier-General
George Henry Dean, who was a lieu-
tenant in the S.A, Mounted Rifles as long
ago as 1880. Rifle-shooting always his
great interest, he took the Australian
team of 1913 to Bisley, where it did well.
He was on Gallipoli in 1915. In that war
his five sons (and son-in-law, Duncan
Hughes, the Federal politician) all earned
commissions. In this war numerous
grandsons have seen service on various
fronts.
“Flanneletted Fool”: Not many
cricketers of the vintage of the ’eighties
remain on deck, but Fred Searle’ living
at Randwick at a hale 85 years, is one.
Searle was N.S.W. wicketkeeper in the
days when the Aunt Sally was expected
to stand up to the wickets even with the
fastest bowling, as Blackham did. In the
’nineties Searle opened what was prob-
ably the first exclusively sports-goods
shop in Australia. It stood at the corner
of Imperial Arcade in George-street.
Searle the sculler was a connection of the
cricket veteran.
An Old Digger of the 21st Batt. who
survived the torpedoing of the Southland,
served on Gallipoli and later with Law-
rence in Arabia, Brigadier G. F. Langley
has been appointed commissioner to
take over the Australian Red Cross
Society’s unit in Britain. He came out
of the 1914-18 war with the Serbian
Order of the White Eagle and has had a
hand in the present show, latterly in com-
mand of an infantry brigade. His new
job will have a lot to do with looking
after repatriated prisoners of war on their
way through London to home.
Australias Sharp, of Melbourne, who
was director of the big John Sharp timber
business, cut up for £480,769. Relatives,
employees and friends share legacies with
various institutions, including the Presby-
terian Church and Scotch College.
Into the silence;
In Melbourne, Mrs. Rose Anna Williams,
whose father. Sergeant Michael Kennedy, was
killed by the Kelly Gang when, he was attempt-
ing to capture them.
In Sydney, at 79, architect and consulting
engineer James Vicars, brother of knights Wil-
liam and John. A Queenslander (b. Rockhamp-
ton),- he was educated at Sydney Grammar
and Uni.
Lieut. G. F. Hart, one of the greatest Rugby
three-quarters Maoriland has produced, has
died of wounds in the Middle East. He played
four games against the British touring team in
1930, was in the All Black 15 that toured Britain
in 1935, and selected the N.Z. Army team that
was unbeaten in all its matches in the Middle
East. Lieut Hart went overseas with an early
draft of the N.Z.E.F.
At 84, Henry Robert Disher, of one of the
oldest of Gippsland families and descendant of
a Huguenot family which fled to Scotland;
former N.S.W. Governor Dudley de Chair came
from another branch of the same family. A
son of H. R. Disher, Dr. H. C. Disher, of
Camberwell, is an A.A.M.C. brigadier.
In Melbourne, the widow of William
Mcßeath, K.8.E., the Flinders-lane merchant
who was chairman of the Royal Commission
which inquired into the business administration
of the Navy and Defence departments after the
last war. She was mayoress of Camberwell for
27 years.
In Adelaide, Lilian, widow of Dr. Barry
Swift, mother of Dr. Brian Swift and daughter
of the leading last-century citizen Caleb Pea-
cock.
In Adelaide, Ben Thomson, a pioneer of the
local Dental Board, and also of the difficult
early Adelaide-to-Melbourne motoring run,
there being at that time no definite road.
Thomson owned some good horses, but a local
Leger was the highest he got'.
In Melbourne, Rev. W. Macdermid, oldest
Presbyterian clergyman in Victoria. Born at
Kilmarnock (Scotland), he was a young man
when the doctors ordered him to seek a warmer
climate. A pioneer of religious instruction in
State schools, he was active in that cause until
his death at 94.


The greatest
POST-WAR PROBLEM
CTRANGE as it may seem, the greatest of all problems in raising
our standard of living is how to persuade men to use the
abundant means available to them for raising it. How to make
people seize their opportunities! That is the greatest problem
to-day: it -will be the greatest post-war problem.
When the war ends we shall have the means of establishing
a high standard of living: knowledge, labour, mechanical and
electric power—we shall have them in ample measure. What
will be needed to raise it is a decision to co-operate with each
other in making the effort to produce the necessary volume of
goods and services.
That is a sthmdtaing thought: it should have a tonic effect
on those who seize on it.
Take the question of financial security. For 95 years it
has been open to any man (or woman) in good health to arrange,
within his means, with the A.M.P. Society for whatever volume
of security he needed. Members of the Society are at present
protected by 1,793,000 policies to the amount of £428,000,000.
There is no reason why the amount slxndd not be doubled
and the number of people benefiting doubled, too.
If you, reader, are in search of Security, come and talk the
matter over with officers of the Society.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation .
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
IHon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, twt,
Dr. S. A. Smfci, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A.. General Manager and Actuary,
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buitiield, Manager for New South Wales,
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
ƒ
CCuvic/ 7t£££&l4d taec^At
USE O
f
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Where Do We Go from Here?
There is talk that the end of the war is
in sight. There has been mention of the
bringing to an end of lend-lease arrange-
ments, and already in South Africa this
has happened. The British Chancellor
of the Exchequer, when presenting his
last Budget, discussed very seriously the
prospects of British post-war trade. Lord
Woolton has been taken from the Minis-
try of Food and put on the task of post-
war reconstruction, and has already pre-
sented tentative plans. The president of
the United States Chamber of Com-
merce, Eric A. Johnston, has been to
Latin America, Great Britain and the
Soviet giving and receiving post-war trade
information, and has incidentally revealed
himself as a striking personality. In the
United States representatives of various
nations have lately been deliberating the
matter of an international money fund to
operate when present lend-lease and
similar arrangements run out.
Earlier in the war an Atlantic Charter
was signed; it promised, among other
things, to nations of the world, “great
and small, victor and vanquished, access,
on equal terms, to the trade and to the
raw materials of the world which are
needed for their economic prosperity.”
Then there has been the promise of the
“four freedoms” —freedom from fear and
want, and of speech and religion. But
Mr. Eric Johnston, speaking to British
representatives last year, said “Ameri-
cans overwhelmingly have no inclination
to try to revise your economic methods
or your political methods in the inter-
national field. On the other hand, they
do not intend to revise theirs Only
our extreme and unrepresentative theor-
ists in the United States want to start off
with a new heaven and a new earth.”
In Australia it would appear that many
Ministers and departmental heads are in
the class of the “extreme and unrepre-
sentative theorists in the United States.”
They want a new heaven and a new
earth. This is not only evident in Aus-
tralian planning and referendum cam-
paigning. It was obvious also from Mr.
Beasley’s attitude at the International
Labor Conference. But it would seem
that the Australian Government’s plans
for a new earth, at least, are inadequate,
even if the earth inside and outside Aus-
tralia is capable of improvement.
In doubt is the attitude which will be
adopted, inside and outside Australia,
towards war-time inflation when peace
comes. Will there be any planned defla-
tion? Will there be a modified form of
“deflation” —an expenditure on national
capital goods out of Government
revenue for a time (instead of out of
loans) so as to correct some of the
“wrong” but expedient finance of the
war period? Or will there be an in-
ebriated return to bank-credit finance
and excessive borrowing in the relaxa-
tion that is likely when the war is over?
It is of some significance that in Australia
those who are wedded to the doctrine of
strict post-war controls over industrial
freedom, spending and investment are not
nearly so strict in their ideas about Gov-
ernment finance. The bank-credit boys
are those who want controls over
everything but credit. Possibly it works
out this way: Bank-credit use breeds
inflation, inflation begets controls, and
controls create bureaucrats. It is of
significance also that a prominent sec-
tion of those in favor of regimenting the
Australian people fcave never been
notable in their enthusiasm for national
service when any other power but them-
selves was in office.
The manner of dealing with war-time
inflation in various countries will be of
outstanding consequence. In Britain there
has been talk of the need to preserve the
purchasing power of those who put up
money to finance the war at its most dif-
ficult stage. In the United States, M. S.
Eccles, chairman of the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System,
has strongly advocated a return to bal-
anced Budgets when the war is over, the
idea again being, among other things,
the preservation of the value of money
lent to the U.S. war effort and an encour-
agement to retain bonds on the part of
those who lent the money, Mr. Eccles
advocates the continuance of high taxa-
tion after the war for the purpose of bal-
ancing Budgets, not merely for the pur-
pose of keeping bureaucrats in jobs that
were better done away with.
The attitude to be adopted towards
war-time inflation and post-war financial
policy by the proposed world bank will
affect the policy of every country dealing
through it. Where an international body
fixes the value of a country’s money exter-
nally there will have to be co-operation on
the part of the country affected in order to
maintain that fixed value. And one pur-
pose of the proposed fund is to eliminate
fluctuating exchange rates. Whatever Aus-
tralia’s post-war financial policy may
happen to be it is certain to be influenced
by external factors.
Poor countries and wealthy countries
look like still being problems as between
themselves when victor and vanquished,
lend-lessor and lend-lessee set up in ordi-
nary business again. The right to “access,
on equal terms, to the trade and to the
raw materials of the world” is a right
that cuts across so many other rights.
Present rights include those of countries
possessing raw materials to sell them
only if they want to, and only to trade
with countries subject to tariff barriers
on perhaps both sides. Even a purely
“legal” equality in the matter of enter-
ing into world trade involves the elimina-
tion or levelling of tariffs and the wiping-
out of preferences. Economic equality is
out of the question. Production costs
and the cost of raw materials do not co-
incide in any two nations.
In any matter of world co-operation
the United States remains a country which,
in spite of its wealth and power, has to
be babied along because of its political
problems. It has its poor industries as
well as its powerful ones, and it has tariff
protection even on its wool and lead-
mining industries, to name only two in
which Australian producers are inter-
ested. In its tariff policy the United
States differs from Britain when Britain
was the strongest manufacturing nation
in the world. In those days, when the
Old Country was also the world’s biggest
creditor, Britain was Freetrade. Perhaps
Britain was so politically stable that it
was able to see its agricultural and pas-
toral industries go under without a qualm.
The United States shows no intention of
following that example. Sectional inter-
ests still want to sell without buying.
It is an attitude charged with danger
to the future welfare of the world,
although the necessity for lend-lease aid
in fighting this world war may be educat-
ing the American people in the realities
of'world trade, with the possibility of a
beneficial reaction in post-war years.
Another question that is no mere
theorist’s problem is that of interest rates.
It is a question specially important to
the Commonwealth, The poor response
to our war loans shows that prevail-
ing interest rates are not attractive
to Australians in the mass, though
some of the reluctance to invest may
be the result of the anti-investment
attitude fostered by the Labor party
until very recent years. It would seem
that -interest rates in Britain, Canada
and the U.S.A., though lower than in the
Commonwealth, are nearer to what open-
market rates would be if there was such
a thing as an open market. Interest rates
in the future are undoubtedly going to
have an effect on the market price of
Government loans, on industrial shares
and on life-policy bonuses. They will also
affect industrial earnings. It seems that
efforts will be made to keep interest rates
low. In order to keep them low returns
from other investments must not go too
high.
On September 26 the Commonwealth
will offer the Second Victory Loan of
£l6O million, of which £47.5 million will
be conversion and £112.5 million new
money. Interest rates will be unchanged.
* * * »
It would appear that the United States,
Great Britain, Russia, China and France
are the countries likely to have the largest
quotas in the proposed international cur-
rency stabilisation fund. These five
largest-quota countries would each have
a representative on the executive com-
mittee of at least nine members. A gov-
erning board would be representative of
each contributing country, but active con-
duct of the fund’s affairs would be dele-
gated to the executive committee. Pro-
gress of the conference at Bretton Woods
(New Hampshire) last week was slowed
down owing, say reports, to the demand
by Russia of the right to contribute a
larger quota to the fund and thus to have
a larger proportion of the voting power,
and to a number of other clashes of in-
terests, including some over the time to be
allowed for individual post-war readjust-
ment and the manner of dealing with
sums owed externally by Britain which
have been “blocked” during the war.
Lord Keynes said the world must
accept the currency plan. Answering
U.S. banking criticism he added: “If
the fund is not established a world-wide
crisis is bound to arise because of in-
ability of the rest of the world to pay
for imports from America. The fund
would provide a breathing spell when
trouble is brewing, in which the United
States might decide to restore the situa-
tion by increasing her imports from
abroad, thus relieving the scarcity of
dollars. If the fund is rejected Britain
may have to resort to bilateral trade
agreements, and might consider prolong-
ing or even increasing war-time controls.”
The modified form of the gold standard
provided by the plan was not inconsistent
with his denunciation of the gold standard
as a “barbaric relic.” All currencies,
though linked to gold, would be flexible
enough to permit orderly changes of
exchange rates.
Economic opinion offered by Ameri-
can banking circles last September empha-
sised that stable money is possible only
with stable economies. The first requisite
toward world currency stability was a
stable dollar, then a stable pound sterling.
The United States would have to balance
its Budget and check inflationary prin-
ciples if it was to stabilise the dollar;
and the United States would have to
assist in the “re-establishment of the
British monetary and trade position
on a sound basis,” Also, “confidence in
the dollar would be further enhanced by
a clear-cut policy making the dollar re-
deemable in gold, in foreign trade, with
no deviation from the present value.”
* * * *
Champions of the request for increased
Commonwealth powers after the war
are insistent that these greater powers
are needed to prevent an economic col-
lapse. If an economic collapse is inevit-
able in Australia unless Government regu-
lation and regimentation are increased,
then an economic collapse is inevitable
anyway. Where you have unsound finan-
cial methods, where political hangers-on
take the place of experts, where waste and
. delay slow down the productive machine,
and where only those willing to be gov-
erned are governed, then controls and
“regulations” can at best only disguise
the country’s economic illness, and while
it remains disguised the illness is bound
to get worse under unchanged and un-
corrected economic treatment. Dr. Evatt’s
continued talk about post-war depression
is really an admission of his Govern-
ment’s war-time administrative failure.
* * * *
The Australian national debt. Com-
monwealth and State, at March 31 was
£2299 million, and the interest bill was
£67.7 million a year. The average cost
of the domestic debt (£1723 million) is
£2 16s. per cent.
* * * V • '
The Commonwealth basic wage is
steadying at £4 16s. a week under the
“prices ceiling” plan. The maximum old-
age pension rate remains at 545. a fort-
night irrespective of falls in the cost of
living. The present Government tied the
0.-a.p. rate to the cost-of-living index
only to untie it when the truth of its
cost-of-living index; was doubted.
* * * *
At the end of 1938 the number of
trade-unionists in Australia was 885,158.
At the end of 1942 it was 1,182,417. The
number of separate unions rose from 366
to 377 over the same period, allowing for
inter-State duplication.


5
m
FOR YOUR POST-WAR
PLANNING & PRODUCTION
o>
ig
&
AR
RE
CHEMICAL PLANTS
SHOP FRONTS
HOSPITALS
DAIRY PRODUCTS
When the war ends, Australian industry will turn to new fields—
to new products, new materials.
Now —before that day comes—is the time to plan your produc-
tion and processes; to consider, among other things, the almost
unlimited possibilities of Comsteel Stainless Steels.
In aircraft and ships, in hospitals and surgical equipment; in
chemical and explosives plants, textile and food-factories; in
scores of other wartime applications, these steels have proved
their quality in actual service.
They can be used to equip the modern hospital, or a home kitchen;
in architecture, engineering, food-packing, chemical processes,
restaurants, transport, in hotels, shops and offices; the list is
almost endless. So are the opportunities.
Our knowledge of all that Comsteel Stainless JSteels can do is at
your disposal. We suggest, that you avail yourself of it now —
discuss these steels and stainless steel products with our Technical
Staff—so that both you and' we are ready when the time comes.
COMSTEEL
STAINLESS AND
HEAT-RESISTING STEELS
FOR ALL MANUFACTURING. CONSTRUCTIONAL «S ENGINEERING
REQUIREMENT^
HIHN
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY LIMITED * - - HEAD OFFICE & WORKS: WARATAH. N.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perfh
SS/I.
The Growing Debt
Up to the present, by a variety of
means, Australia has found all the money
required to pay for its war commitments.
There appears to have been little or no
restriction of our effort from shortage
of finance. Rather have our limitations
been seen in matters of man-power,
materials of some kinds and production
facilities. Not that tjie people as a whole
have been willing givers of money to pay
for the war. On the contrary, it is evident
that the response to public borrowings
has not been creditable, especially in
view of the closeness of the war to Aus-
tralia and the number of its sons in-
volved in deadly combat. But by some
means, whether economically healthy or
not, the Treasury has always been able
to foot the bill so far as suppliers of the
various requirements of war have been
concerned. With the cost of war running
into colossal figures the fact that the bill
has been somehow met has given rise to
theories that a new financial technique
has been developed which will provide
the means for unlimited expansion when
the war is over, and that what debt
burden we find ourselves carrying won’t
matter, because we will owe it to our-
selves. The Prime Minister himself has
spoken of attracting population after the
war by national development financed by
bank credit.
The magnitude and type of our
national debt should be enough to cause
even these theorists and optimists to take
a more sober view of things. Since the
war began (up to the end of March)
the debt incurred as a result of the war
was £1026 million in a total cost of £l5lB
million. Of the debt, about £605 million
has been provided by public boi rowing
and war-savings certificates, about £403
million has been met by the use of
central-bank and other bank borrowing
in the shape of Treasury bills, and the
rest has been obtained from internal
funds. Most of the public borrowing
has been done at rates ranging from 3?
p.c. to 2\ p.c. Treasury-bill borrowing
has mostly cost from \\ p.c. to 1i p.c.,
the present rate. These undoubtedly are
rates far lower than those to which we
have been accustomed in peace-time, and,
since the chief burden of debt is the in-
terest bill, for the present the burden is
not so great as the increase in the debt
would signify. But there are two matters
which should not be overlooked. The
2\ p.c, borrowing is of a short-term
nature, and it may have to be converted
when the national credit is not so highly
valued as it appears to be in a total-war
economy. Also, it may not be possible
to fund the Treasury-bill debt even at
the prevailing cost of public borrowing.
The financial tragedy for Australia in
this war is that we have been able to
pay so little of the cost in taxation as
we have gone along. The progressixe
proportion has been 33 p.c. In spite of
the inadequate taxation touch by the
Commonwealth (caused, admittedly, to a
large extent by State Government exac-
tions) and the great growth in savings,
the public response to war loans, as
already shown, has been short of a fair
thing. The fact that the Treasury has
been able to make up the gap in receipts
from the people by impersonal borrow-
ing through the Commonwealth Bank and
the trading banks has led to an even more
revolutionary idea among some of those
who say that debt doesn’t matter when
we owe it to ourselves. There is a section
which says that bank-credit debt is not
owed to anyone really—that the Gov-
ernment owes it to a Government bank,
so it cancels itself out.
In the it-doesn’t-matter-we-owe-it-to-
ourselves philosophy we have a state of
mind which is extremely dangerous in
a stage of civilisation where we can retain
our position only if the people are suffi-
ciently enlightened and educated to carry
the responsibility of self-government.
Self-government must fail wholly or par-
tially where the economic system breaks
down, and ignorance about the impli-
cations of debt that might lead to. the
carefree piling-up of an overwhelming
national burden could be a great danger
to the smooth progress of self-govern-
ment.
Even though a national debt is owed
internally, it is not owed equally. Not
everyone chooses to support war or other
Commonwealth loans, and not all are in
a position to do so. The result is that,
in paying interest on the debt to bond-
holders, taxation has to be levied on
bondholders and non-bondholders alike,
which means a redistribution of the
national income that may have a
P r °f°und effect on the “distribution of
wealth” where the interest bill is large
and the taxation levied to meet it is in
corresponding proportion. A large debt
—especially a war debt —usually means
high taxation, and taxation is a politi-
cal as well as an economic problem,
A national debt is sometimes incurred
because of political reluctance to tax the
voting majority to provide funds for
national works or national obligations,
1 axation to pay for interest on the debt
1S a similar problem. It may be levied
Wlth more regard to politics than to
economics, thus compounding the diffi-
pities arising out of the initial creation
oi excessive debt.
An American writer has pointed out
* ba b carried to its logical conclusion, the
we-owe-it-to-ourselves theory adds up to
thls .’ i{ doesn’t matter how high the
national debt goes. But, if we accept
tbis fallacy as the truth, then it is clear
mat we should not borrow at all; for if
a d e bt which we owe to ourselves is no
nurden, then by the same token taxes
wbich we pay to ourselves are no burden
cither and so we should be able to pay
f or all Government expenditure out of
taxatlon without feeling any pinch as a
resi i} t - Going a step further along this
P ar hcular line of reasoning, when we
' iave borrowed it should be possible to
canc , e j th P deb without harm, since we
would, after all, only be cancelling it to
ourselves Altogether, that is pretty clear
treatment of a fallacy that has been grow-
-11?8 PoP u brity in the United States and
ab out which smoothly-written books have
De £? puDiisned.
. T j> e *° taxat !°” beln S
burden, seeing that we pay it to ourselves.
while on all fours with the parallel case
of debt, will bring home to war-time tax-
payers particularly the monstrous inanity
of the proposition
The danger of excessive debt in war-
time arises especially from the fact that
J c
the nation receives so little of a repro-
ductive value for the outlay. In peace-
time public works may be revenue-pro-
ducmg, even if not to the extent of the
debt charge, and to the value of their
revenue they reduce interest charged back
to taxpayers ; though to this contention
must be added the qualification that where
it becomes necessary to protect Govern-
ment undertakings from competition from
private enterprise by imposing restrictions
on that enterprise the taxpayer may be
actually subject to double tax.
During war the person who lends his
money to the Government cannot at the
same time spend it. On the other hand,
the person who does not lend his
money may spend it during the war or
shortly afterwards, possibly to the em-
barrassment of the war effort or post-
war reconstruction. In the fullness of
time the position will arise that the person
who has saved his money and lent it to
the Government will have both the value
of his securities and the income there-
from, even though he has to pay income
tax. The person who spent his war-time
earnings will have no securities or in-
come therefrom, only his ordinary earn-
nigs, on which he will have to pay taxes
to meet tbe interes t payable to the man
wh ° ea iji? r money to the Govern-
™, nt : f “ “"'l'■? "" d J lsht ’
but it does create economic problems,
and disposes of the idea that national debt
j s a mere nothing
It is necessary ‘to deal with financial
f a p ac i es a j i en gth, because they are be-
]jeved b y so m any. Accompanying the
don’t-worry-we-owe-it-to-ourselves idea is
th e proposition that money wasted causes
no one harm—the money goes on ch-
cuiating whether it be spent wisely or
foolishly. It is not hard to see that public
money wasted adds either to our debt or
our ( ax b ill 5 or both, and that such waste
brings additions to economic burdens.
As to the Government use of bank
credit, we can readily establish the
fact that a person or a Government
cannot borrow from himself or itself to
any advantage. It follows that the use
of bank credit to bridge the shortage
of direct public contributions to the
cost of the war has an inevitable relation-
ship with the people as well. The
danger in the use of bank credit is this :
Where a nation thereby avoids a debt
burden its people suffer inflation of their
currency. Where they avoid inflation the
nation incurs a debt burden.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mac Scot”: Though it was recently
announced that beer would shortly be
made available to troops in New Guinea,
that does not mean that the island has
been altogether desert-dry. An occasional
case of liquor has found its way in. In
this land of unquenchable thirsts its dis-
posal is very easy, and some high prices
have been paid, particularly by Allied
service men. One night recently a visit-
ing officer, having left for his unit, re-
turned to the mess. “Sa-ay, boys, some-
one has gotten away with mah bottle of
gin.” We were all stunned. In the
first place at his having a bottle, and,
second, because the honor of the mess
was at stake. Not entirely without
ulterior motives, we questioned him, “Was
it a full bottle?” “Yes, sah, a bottle never
bin opened.” “Where did you have it?”
“I left it under the seat of mah jeep when
I called here half-hour ago.” “Well,
where’s the jeep?” “Oh, the goddam jeep
went, too!”
* * * *
“Petermac”: Little is heard of the part
the Biscuit Bomber Boys—army air crews
—have played in the campaigns up north ;
they load transport ’planes (“biscuit
bombers”) and fly with them to drop
everything from guns to butter as sup-
plies for troops in the front line. The un-
armed transports are flown by R.A.A.F. or
U.S.A.A.F. pilots, who skim low to avoid
Zeros, except, of course, when mountain
ranges have to be crossed and thick mists
rise to render visibility zero-zero. The
’plane circles once over the target, and
then the pilot in the control cabin presses
a button: Red—get ready. Green —un-
load. When the red light shows the 8.8.
boys are poised with the load near the
door, and as the green appears they skil-
fully time the drop to avoid catching the
attached parachute in the transport’s tail.
Despite enemy ack-ack fire the perform-
ance is repeated until unloading of cargo
is completed. Occasionally supplies have
to be dropped to isolated patrols or com-
mando units, and a guide is taken to
direct the pilot. Despite the difficult
mountainous terrain as seen from the air,
the ’plane is directed unerringly to the
hidden position.
* * * *
“Nakh”: A Melbourne engineer, F. H.
Ronaldson, claims that he submitted sug-
gestions for a flying bomb to the Aus-
tralian Inventions Board in 1940. It was
to be a glider with a bomb attached, to
be released from an aeroplane flying at
a high altitude and fitted with a timing
device which at a given time would cause
it to go into a vertical glide. The official
reply was “not interested, on account of
involving indiscriminate bombing.”
* * * *
“A.H.”: Tell “B. A. Ker” (B. 17/5/’44)
that “transportation N.S.” in old Aus-
tralian court records means that the
prisoner was consigned to a penal settle-
ment, designated by those initials, estab-
lished on the Brisbane River. To this
settlement the worst and most dangerous
criminals amongst the convicts were com-
mitted, These had been previously sent
to Tasmania, but a new isolation camp
was deemed advisable, according to the
records of the time, because some of the
prisoners had been spreading “Chartist
principles” among their fellows in misery.
Another phrase that puzzles “B. A. Ker,”
“Stealing in an A.G.E. House,” refers to a
new type of penitentiaries established by
Macquarie, known as Accredited Govern-
ment Establishments. At such institutions
the better-disposed prisoners were given
an opportunity by the humanitarian Gov-
ernor to prove themselves worthy of
tickets of leave.
* * ♦ *
“Hamer”: Nobody noticed the cen-
tenary of the death of poet Thomas
Campbell, who died on June 15, 1844 ;
yet he was so popular that in his old age
he enjoyed royalties of £lOOO a year from
his publications, and after his demise in
Boulogne his remains were brought back
to England by a man-o’-war to be given
a central niche in Westminster Abbey’s
Poets’ Comer. His “Hohenlinden” and
“Mariners of England” are still found in
anthologies of patriotic verse. He edited
the “New Monthly Magazine” for Col-
bourne, and, leaving it, started the
“Metropolitan” himself. Some recollec-
tion of him is appropriate, for he was a
leading interventionist of his day. It was
aid for Poland he wanted:
ls it England mocks you with her grief
That hates, but dare not chide, the Imperial
Thief?
France with her soul beneath a Bourbon’s thrall,
And Germany that has no soul at all, —
States quailing at the giant overgrown,
Whom dauntless Poland grapples with alone.
Campbell in a footnote to “Lines on
“Come on, jump to it!”
“ I'm on leave, sir!”
Poland,” one of his numerous effusions
on the theme, claimed that “the fact
ought to be universally known that
France was indebted to Poland for not
being invaded by Russia.” The Germans,
he said, would not have interfered;
Campbell chided them as non-fighters,
“the spirit of the bookworm in each
breast.” We live and leam.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Twins who stick together?
Two Melbourne examples are Warrant-
Officer John E. Payne, of Hampton, and
his brother, Warrant-Officer Alfred
Payne. They joined the R.A.A.F. three
years ago together, and were separated
when John was sent to serve with a Spit-
fire squadron at a forward area in Burma.
He was shot down in a dogfight with
Zeros and landed wounded in a tree
several miles inside the Jap lines. He
scrambled out, of the jungle just in time
to meet Alfred, who in the meantime had
been posted to the same unit.
* * * *
“A.M.C.’s” war-time vignette:
Perhaps, down south, you haven’t seen those
sturdy, squat fighter ’planes that pack such a
punch. There are plenty up here. The other
day we watched four of them cutting capers
over the bay. As we watched one of them
lagged a bit, then peeled off. Round he came
over our launch plugging slowly along inside
the reef. About 300 ft. up he looked grand
... so graceful.. so fast... so quiet. So
quiet! Something was wrong. The roar of
his engine should have been deafening at that
distance. We swung our launch round in the
’plane’s direction and gave her the works.
Those fighters have a pretty high landing speed,
but this chap came down in a perfect three-
pointer a couple of hundred yards away. Steam
and foam obscured everything for a moment,
then the tail rose and slipped into the mael-
strom. Out of the foam something orange-
colored showed up with a black blob that was
the pilot’s head. We picked him up—the
coolest customer we’d ever met. “My engine
went wrong,” he explained, “and I knew I
couldn’t make the ‘strip,’ so I just put her
down.” He wanted to join our party, but a
“crash” boat came tearing up and took him oft.
* * * *
“El Madjal”: As a sidelight on the
slouched-hat controversy, I should like to
remark that the City of London Imperial
Volunteers went to the South African
War; there were none in the 1914-18
scrap. When the first British regulars
went to South Africa they sweltered con-
spicuously in red tunics and white
helmets, but these were discarded in favor
of khaki uniforms, with helmets or hats
to match. The Australian contingents
adopted the hat to conform with British
and other “colonial” troops; also the
then universal legging with the spiral
strap, which was again worn by mounted
units of the A.I.F. in the 1914-18 war.
In 1914 the British Army had outgrown
the felt hat and the spiral legging, and
its n.c.os. wore stripes on both arms,
instead of on the right only as in 1900.
When the Second A.I.F. arrived in Pales-
tine in 1940 it found a species of Jewish
militia wearing a very stiff and formal
edition of the Digger hat.
“Piemajor”: Swords were carried by
Light Horse officers until Gallipoli. Foot-
sloggers left them behind in Australia. A
L.H. officer in Wandsworth Hospital,
London, was caught for several quid
freight on his base trunk, sent through
Cook’s from Cairo, containing the
officers’ swords of his regiment, which,
being a careful man, he had arranged
should be packed in his trunk and lodged
at Cook’s store. Cook’s watched the hos-
pital lists and sent our belongings on to
us. As a P. 8.1. subaltern, I caused a sen-
sation by attending without a sword a
court-martial at the inner shrine of Wool-
wich barracks. Fortunately just at that
time the War Office, which had heard of
many such experiences, issued a special
order that “colonial” officers need not
wear swords on ceremonial occasions
during the war.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: I was waiting for it
to happen. “The time has come,” writes
a correspondent of Melbourne “Herald,”
“when houses should be built like motor-
cars with a fixed life of 50 to 60 years,
and then scrapped for new houses incor-
porating all the, latest styles and facili-
ties.” And, of course, the time will come
when wifey will say to hubby “I’m so
unhappy. The Browns next door have
ordered a 1990 model, although they’ve
only lived in their old one for ten years.
We’ve lived in this frightful 1975 sar-
cophagus for 15 years. What are you
going to do about it?” Really fashionable
people will change their models yearly,
as motor-users did before the war. The
cost will be terrific, so a salary of at
least £5OOO p.a. will be' obligatory on
every self-respecting husband and father.
A Melbourne man told me years ago that
keeping up with automobile fashions ran
away with £lOOO of his income yearly.
* * * *
“E. Sop”: The Deputy-Director of the
Division for the Control of Standardisa-
tion of Marbles (round; Children, for the
use of) wore a puzzled frown as he
studied the form in his hand. Then he
sent for the Under-Controller, pushed the
form at him and said “This applicant
doesn’t make himself very clear. He
admits that he sold 300 dozen marbles in
the quota year and says that he now has
650 dozen in stock, owing to discovering
a forgotten bag of the things in a dark
corner of his cellar. He asks permission
to sell p.c. of his quota year sales,
but omits to state whether or not the
marbles in hand conform with the stand-
ards this department has laid down.” The
Under-Controller, with an air of gloomy
thought, took the form, asked for a day’s
time and retired. Next day he had the
answer “You see, sir, he probably omitted
that statement because our standard
wasn’t laid down until between the pur-
chase of the 650 dozen and the fixing of
the quota.” The chief took the form,
initialled it, sent for a messenger, handed
him the form and said “Take this to Mr.
McPuce, the deputy-architect of designs,
and tell him to deal with it, with parti-
cular attention to the date of the amend-
ment of the covering regulation.” The
messenger departed and D.D. and U.C.
fell into a discussion on what O. Henry
terms the “whicheverness of the absolute.”
* * * *
An early land transaction:
W. C. Wentworth —not the present “Young
Bill,” but his ancestor —had as magnificent
ideas about acquiring cheap land in Maoriland
as ever Cecil Rhodes had about South Africa.
But for Governor Gipps he would have been
the biggest land-grabber of all time in the
British Empire. In 1840 he “bought” from
seven Maori chiefs some 20,000,000 acres of
their country at a price, as Gipps scathingly
remarked, equivalent to “100 acres for a far-
thing.” At that, the transaction was possibly
more excusable than John Batman’s attempted
deal with the Port Phillip natives. Though
he didn’t get his 600,000 acres, Batman and
his partners were ultimately compensated by
the Government. All Wentworth got was a
flea in the ear from Downing-street.
“Simon”: The art of
shaving without a mirror
mentioned by “Exdig” (B.
14/6/’44) is practised by a
barber friend of mine who
never deigns to look in the
mirror when shaving him-
self. No more difficult than
feeding yourself, he con-
tends, since all facial features
are as easily located as the
mouth. This barber fre-
quently changes the razor
to his left hand to save
walking round the chair.
Once travelled with him oh
the narrow-gauge Brisbane
line, and he shaved himself
in the car, changing from
one foot to the other round-
ing curves. A cattleman,
fellow-passenger, said “I
wish you’d give me a
shave.” The barber with a
grin said “If you’re game,
I am.” And he wired in,
first right hand, then left,
while the train rocked and
clattered. At the finish the
cattleman said “What a
barber you’d make if you
were trained!”
* * *
“Craiser”; It is a curi-
ous fact that foreigners,
even Russians, seem to find
the Melbourne winter more
trying than the indigenous
population does. Of course,
there’s a reason. I have been
in Vladivostok, Irkutsk and Moscow, which
touch degrees of frost never approached
by Melbourne, but I have never felt
as cold there as I have in the Aus-
tralian city. If you haven’t got a house
to go to, you can go to any railway
station waiting-room and find a huge
stove blazing, an unthinkable luxury on
the Victorian railway system. Melbourne
has such a relatively mild winter that it
doesn’t prepare for it, as do most Euro-
pean cities. A refugee European artist
of some distinction and years of practice
told me the other day that he had joined
up as a student at a technical school.
“That’s rather a compliment to the stand-
ard of teaching in our art institutions,” I
said. “Not exactly,” he said. “I thought
I would be warm there.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: I see that Minister for
Customs Keane has decided to permit the
free importation of the following classes
of books: Technical and scientific, refer-
ence (including standard dictionaries of
better class), economic and questions of
the day (not including fiction) and reli-
gious. Why this ban on fiction? Some
writers of fiction deal with questions of
the day, and the best of them deal with
them far more capably than the dull
bores who write textbooks. Shakspeare’s
“Richard the Third,” Tolstoy’s War and
Peace, Lord Lytton’s Last of the Barons,
Scott’s magnificent chain of novels and
Sienkiewicz’s Quo Vadis? are worth all
the history books ever written, in my
opinion. Writers like Scott and Lytton
absorbed the atmosphere of the periods
they : dealt with and relived them in their
books; and if we want to know what
Nero was like we’ll find out much more
about him from a page of Quo Vadis ?
than from ten volumes of Gibbon.
PROSE AND WORSE.
Try prose.” »
—Answers to Correspondents, B. 21/6/’i- J.
How often, as I face the worn routine
Of marketable jingle to compose,
Conviction comes upon me sharp and keen
Of how much easier it would have been
To dress my stuff in prose.
My message (if I’ve one) I might unload
In English plain and unadorned as well
As in a form set to some metric mode,
Whether it be a sonnet or an ode,
Ballade or vitlanelle.
My meanings, if I hadn’t to explore
A badly-thumbed thesaurus through and
' thrpugh
Or loot a rhyming dictionary’s store,
Might, I occasionally muse, be more
Intelligible, too.
Fancies and thoughts, whate’er their merit be,
Can be transferred to paper any time
A lot more readily and rapidly.
It’s clear, in periods entirely free
From metre and from rhyme.
Why then, you ask me, should I still coerce
My pen to poesy? Well, to disperse
Your puzzlement, the reason I’ll disclose.
It’s simply because editors disburse
Near twice as much for all accepted verse,
Real or alleged, on “Bellerive” lines or
worse,
As what they pay for prose.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Pip”; The gunners were having their
daily dip in the river, in the raw, as usual,
when the new Land Army gal from the
near-by farm came past shooing half a
dozen cows in front of her. Blokes went
in all directions. Some plunged into the
creek and stayed on the bottom ; others
went face down into the scrub ; the rest
tried to efface themselves behind minute
hunks of rock. Everybody bar the lady
blushed furiously. For a moment she
looked startled; then the reason for the
scatter dawned on her. With a scornful
toss of her head she proclaimed acidly to
all and sundry “I’ve got a husband and
11 brothers,” Unconcernedly she swished
a laggard Daisy and continued on her
way.
* * *
“Tuart”; The human side of trade-
unionism is its strongest and most
enduring side. There is a non-poli-
tical union of Government railway-
men which, being square and game,
has survived all the attacks of poli-
ticals, venomous in the case of Corns.
While sternly exacting dues from “bad
pays,” it is always on hand when death
or sickness smites a member’s home, or
when he strikes trouble with the depart-
ment. But sometimes it conducts an
appeal which is too much for it. A case
in point is mentioned in the union paper :
A fettler who had been a ganger and
had been dismissed for being under the
influence on duty was restored as fettler on
appeal. He was again an appellant on
same charge as formerly. Appellant did
not arrive at the Appeals Board until late,
and had then been given up by his advo-
cate. He was not in a fit state to plead
and his appeal was dismissed.
So he will go “snake-charming” no more.
* * ♦ *
“C. Ma”: The discovery by Austra-
lians operating from a captured Italian
air-force station of an ancient flying-boat
labelled “R.A.A.F., Point Cook,” is one
of the coincidences of this war. The
’plane was used by De Pincdo when he
flew from Rome to Australia, and I re-
member watching it skipping the waves
on his arrival in Sydney Harbor in 1925.
Eight years later I was watching a short
at the Capitol Theatre in Melbourne of
a ’plane which crashed in flames on Floyd
Bennett Aerodrome, New York, when
taking off for a non-stop flight to Bagh-
dad. A figure was rising and falling in
the flames, which were too fierce for the
firemen to effect a rescue. Suddenly I
and the rest of the audience felt a thrill
of horror and a woman beside me fainted.
We were watching De Pinedo burning.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: Caen (B. 21/6/ ’44) is not
Kahng but Kong—or as near as dammit
—in the mouths of Frenchmen, but it is
sheer pedantry for radio announcers to
use anything but “Ca-en,” the traditional
English mispronunciation. It would be
the same as saying “Paree” for Paris, or,
to go farther afield, to insist on “Young-
zerjung” as the correct pronunciation of
the name of China’s leading river.
* * ♦ *
“Wodgil”; I wish these Moscow corre-
spondents would take the trouble to learn
elementary facts of military history. If
there is one who hasn’t assured
us that “Napoleon lost his army
on the Beresina in 1812” I should
"It’s a short cut, sir—cuts off a couple of miles!”
like to meet him and greet him as
a curiosity among Moscow correspon-
dents. Napoleon didn’t lose his army on
the Beresina. There was little left of the
army when he reached the river, and the
Russians were in superior force on both
banks; nevertheless, the emperor forced
a passage of the Beresina, and what
was still called the Grand Army con-
tinued on to Posen. The office his-
tory says “the Russians’ pursuit prac-
tically ceased at the Niemen, for they
also had suffered terrible and a
period of rest had become an absolute
necessity.” The bridging of the Beresina,
in the icy waters of which “General
Eble’s pioneers worked all through one
terrible day” (November 26), is a proud
memory to Frenchmen, as also is the sav-
ing of the rearguard by Ney, who, per-
force left behind near Krasnoi When
Napoleon brushed aside a column that
tried to envelop the army, cut his way
through and rejoined the main force with
800 men —all he had left out of 6000.
Ney was at the crossing; indeed “at
8 a.m. on November 28, when the Rus-
sian commanders Tschitschagov and
Wittgenstein moved forward on both
banks to the attack, they were held off
by the splendid self-sacrifice of the
soldiers under Ney, Oudinot and Victor
until, about 1 p.m., the last body of
regular troops passed over the bridges
and only a few thousand stragglers re-
mained beyond the river.”
% » * *
“F.S.”: Owing to war-time restrictions
on sending money out of the country the
Felton Bequest in Melbourne now has
accumulated funds of over £130,000,
and this hoard is growing all the time. A
Melbourne critic, commenting on the fact
that many artists of the last century now
recognised as the best of their era are
unrepresented in the Australian national
collection, has been wondering why works
of these painters weren’t bought years
ago. He quotes Cezanne as an example
of a great artist who is inadequately
represented, and whose works should and
might have been bought before they
reached their present high valuation. But
Cdzanne wasn’t recognised as a great
painter in his lifetime, and as we don’t
see our high art authorities championing
the obscure, even today, it is futile to
blame them for past omissions.
* * * *
“Sixenate”; An ad. for a room brought
replies from Sydney’s once-exclusive
Macleay-street. How old-time Macleayans
would have groaned if they could have
seen them! In my young days in a
legal office I engrossed many a trans-
fer of property in that street of
stately mansions in which the pur-
chaser was expressly banned from allow-
ing any boarding-house or apartment
house, any shop pr any sort of trade to
be conducted on premises on any part
of the land. The tie-up remained until
people who wanted to build and run a
posh boarding-house tested the right of
the “dead hand” to say what use the
land should be put to. Property-owners
and trustees fought the issue to the last
ditch, but the decision was that public con-
venience must be served. Macleay-street
is still gracious and dignified in its way,
but some of its features would have
shocked its old-time inhabitants.
* * * «
“W.S.”: Forty-two members of Mel-
bourne’s Bread and Cheese Club went
into uniform, and, correspondents among
them, have been in every theatre of war.
Some have returned to civil life. So
far not one has been killed, nor has any
received a wound of any consequence.
The club is in almost weekly communi-
cation with all those still on active ser-
vice, except one, who is a prisoner of war,
» ♦ " * !f
“Spokeshave”: No true-blue “modern-
ist” will be perturbed at the announce-
ment that a nude at the Contemporary
Art Society’s exhibition in Sydney was
hung for two days upside down before
the predicament of the lady was dis-
covered. At a similar show in Melbourne
a “modernist” was showing round a
visitor, and paused in front of a picture.
“What do you think that is?” he asked
him. “Looks like a motor-car to me,”
said his companion. “No, it’s not. It’s
a human figure.” “Well, it looks like
a lot of machinery to me,” insisted the
visitor. “It’s a beautiful nude woman,”
repeated the artist. “I know, because I
painted it,”
“S.T.S.”: A correspondent is con-
demned (B. 21/6/’44) for trying to rhyme
“saga” with “Armada.” I am not de-
fending the attempt; but does rhyming
really matter nowadays? A mere indica-
tion of similar sounds seems to be ac-
cepted by the “moderns.” To come close
home, in a single recent number of The
Bulletin one finds these pairings printed,
and accepted without challenge: forms-
arms, lurk-dark, plastics-statistics, Marx-
crux, remember-timber, creature-nature,
“This is my first trip, sir. Congrats. on your ’andlin' of the boat.”
nest-ablest. Of course there’s a case for
latitude. “Lead, Kindly Light” is not
damned because Newman found it con-
venient to set down “home” as a rhyme
for “gloom”; and one of the most famous
verses in the language pairs “loved and
lost” with “most.”
He * * *
On a Prophet and the Press:
H. G. Wells in his latest spate of prophecy
foresees that newspapers will soon be as dead
as the. dodo. To leam what has happened
the citizen of the future will dial “News” on
his radio-telephone and listen in to a sum-
mary which, presumably, will have been re-
corded. Possibly he will, but the method is
not important. What is important is the kind
of intellectual pabulum which will salute his ear-
drums. It was Voltaire who started the idea
of universal education, but he naturally thought
that the educators of the future would be Vol-
taires; he never imagined that they would be
daily newspaper magnates. Wells himself is
one of the more distinguished writers who have
cashed in on the universal education racket.
In one of the wretched little seminaries in which
he began as a teacher there was a pupil named
Harmsworth. Harmsworth started the new
education with a modest publication called
“Answers” and in a short time was dishing
out scraps of information to millions of readers.
Not long after he and his brothers were owners
of a chain of newspapers with stupendous cir-
culations, and not long after that Harmsworth
was Lord Northcliffe, unofficially directing the
affairs of the nation. Wells accepted the more
humble role of a freelance writer, gave up
writing scientific brochures and took to mixing
science and prophecy with fiction. His success
was on a par with Harmworth’s —soon editors
were falling over one another to get his copy.
It is possible, though not probable, that radio
will oust newspapers, but if it does the Wellses
and the Harmsworths will be in command of
the new dispensation.
* * * •
“Mudgee”; George Henry Cohen, of
the Mudgee “Mail,” first publisher of
Henry Lawson’s verses, was also
the “finder” of A. G. Taylor.
A clever, erratic chap, Taylor
was editor of Cohen’s paper the
“Independent” when elected
M.L.A. for Mudgee. He got into
conflict with Edmund Barton,
then Speaker, who had him re-
moved. A. G. Taylor invoked
the law on the Speaker and,
losing, took the case to the Privy
Council, working his passage
across to England. Taylor was
only a layman, but he pleaded
his own case successfully and got
the verdict. On his return he
refused a thousand pounds
offered him by the Government,
saying that it would come out
of the pockets of the taxpayers.
What he did take, however, was
the father of all torchlight pro-
cessions, still remembered by old
Mudgee hands after sixty years.
Taylor was the first editor of
Sydney “Truth,” founded by
that notable pair W. P. Crick and W. N.
Willis.
* * * *
“R.H.P.”: Providence helped the Hobart
City Council to come to a sudden deci-
sion. The citizens of a suburb had been
urging that something be done about a
dangerous bend in a road, and the H.C.C.,
very wary in dealing with such requests,
decided to see for itself before dipping
into the <Svic coffers. The chariot of
Bumbledom, driven decorously to the
alleged danger spot, skidded, capsized,
and deposited its human cargo into*the
ditch. The cargo scrambled and sorted
itself out, and passed a resolution to
straighten out the bend without further
delay.
* * » ♦
“Cauboy”; Its promoters say that a
site “well known to older theatregoers
outside the city proper, where formerly
both stage and screen shows have been
successfully given,” has been selected for
Melbourne’s post-war Minerva Theatre.
This answers the description of the old
Garrick, subsequently the Playhppse and
now the home of a paper-manufacturing
project, just across the Yarra in South
Melbourne, except that this transpontine
theatre was never more than precariously
successful. It was the death of more for-
lorn hopes than even the Princess, also
a bit outside the traditional theatre cir-
cuit. Gregan McMahon had some suc-
cessful seasons in it with his very special-
ised public ; an obscure Sydney pianist
worked a fake there by appearing under
an assumed name as a foreign virtuoso,
only to be detected by the more com-
petent critics of the dailies, and a cinema
firm engaged it for a run of pictures to
educate the public on birth control, V.D.
and other social problems. Millions
stream past it annually on their way to
the city, and there is no reason why a
first-class modern theatre, staging worth-
while plays, should not do well there.
* * ♦ *
“Pitt St.”; A crowd was struggling
about a tobacco kiosk. As usual, it con-
sisted mostly of members of the sex once
regarded as gentle, which, since it has
taken to smoking, has developed more
than the strength and combativeness
necessary to get a share of what’s going.
This probably upset the long individual
at the back who, desperately shoving his
way forward* could see over the forest of
millinery that the supply of smokes on
view was likely to vanish before he got
there and appealed in a loud voice to
the kiosk owner: “F’r the Lord’s sake.
Bill, put a packet aside!” Quick as a
flash a lady with a jutting chin turned
and snapped “What’re y’ cornin’ at? He
don’t smoke.”
* * * *
“Avon”: The “unwritten law” seems to
have played a part in recent Maoriland
murder trials. In an Auckland case a
young man described by his counsel as.
a “trusted and conscientious workman
with a reputation as a quiet, reserved
and sober man and a good husband and
father” confessed that he “went mad”
and killed his wife with a hammer when
she said she loved an Allied soldier and
intended to go to him. Although the
Judge warned the jury not to be “misled
by sympathy” the verdict was a flat “not
guilty.” The following day at Wanganui
a young woman who had thrown her
baby off a tram —she said the father was
an Allied service man—was acquitted,
though her defence, temporary (puer-
peral) insanity, was opposed by the
Dominion’s leading alienist.
♦ * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Ormandy is reputed
to read a score as easily as he reads a book
and to be able to memorise a symphony
in a couple of days. But those who regard
this as the hallmark of a great conductor
ought to be told that he himself depre-
cates his legendary memory and points
out that conducting without a score
means very little, some of the world’s
greatest musicians having had poor musi-
cal memories. This is confirmed by one
of Australia’s leading pianists, whose
knowledge of musical literature isn’t
equalled by many. He plays with the
score even in public performances, though
when he was an infant prodigy he played
the same pieces from memory and got a
lot of kudos for so doing.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Zake”: The comatose midday silence
in which the only street in Jabbagabbie
had been wrapped was broken by the
barking and scuffling of hounds in
battle. Within five seconds of the
opening snap of the first round seven
men had debouched eagerly from the pub
and another three from the post office-
cum-store. Within another ten seconds
the entire male population was either at
or on its way to the one event which com-
mands instant outback attention. By the
time the butcher from the far end of the
straggling street had arrived all bets were
on, and the barracking vociferous. For five
minutes the contest was fairly even ; then
the half-bred Irish terrier got a side-neck
grip on the cattle-dog and was working
its way round in short snaps to the
throat when a man came rushing down
the road, grabbed Irish by a front paw
and squeezed hard. As the dog released
the grip to howl he swung it round,
planted a boot heavily in its ribs, said
“Come on, Blue!” peremptorily to the
cattle-dog and strode off. “All bets orf!”
said someone. “The flamin’ nark!” re-
marked someone else. They all drifted
away. In another minute Jabbagabbie s
only street had resumed its slumbers.
*’* * *
“Butcher-bird”; The eagle-hawk has
taken up a new game down in s.-w. W.A.
A farmer, having had six piglets dis-
appear, and keeping vigil, saw one of
these big outlaws zip down and carry
away its seventh victim.
“The 0.D.”: “Lik Lik Liar” (B.
28 /6 / ’44) is getting pedantic. He says
he never heard a stallion blow (my term
for the snort of alarm), but he’s heard
’em give out a sharp, defiant whistle,
which, I put to the Council, proves my
original claim that a stallion does give
an alarm. “L.L.L.’s” experience of rams
must be confined to the pampered dar-
lings of the show rings if he believes a
ram’s whistle of alarm is merely a “ner-
vous sniff.” Still, as with the stallion, I
claim the point again proved. Let us turn
to poor old “Sur Cingle,” floundering
about in a morass of terminology. He’s
trying to stick to his first claim that horses
won’t eat bread and sugar unless taught
to do so; then he claims that putting
bread and sugar out in a paddock is
teaching ’em. He might as well claim
that putting fried sausages out would
teach ’em to eat the snorks. And he
needn’t drag in those million-acre S.A.
paddocks of his; a horse is still a horse,
whether in a “Sur Cingle” wilderness or
a Territory backyard, and no horse is so
lacking in intelligence that it has to be
taught to eat anything worth eating.
“Old-timer”: Since I’m too old either
to fight or run, I generally keep clear
of these Aboliar disputes, but I can’t
suppress this evidence in the case of
“Sur Cingle” v, “The 0.D.” and others on
the point that horses have to be trained
to eat man-made foods. Long ago my
mother made two huge plumduffs, one
for Christmas, the other for New Year.
The New Year one, heavily charged with
spice, fruit and trey-bits, was cooked and
then hung in its rag to the rafters of the
skillion at the back of our humpy. We
returned from a visit on the following
Sunday to find the door of the skillion
awry, bits of pudding cloth and sundry
equine signs about the floor. In the house
paddock was a stray chestnut colt
with a guilty look. No, Father didn’t
impound the stray at once —at my earnest
entreaty he kept him in the paddock until
my diligence had been rewarded by
recovery of all but one of the trey-bits.
That colt had strayed from a farm three
miles away, and his owner swore that it
had never even smelt plumduff before.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: “Them torkin’ animals
what strayed into The Bulleteen remind
me,” said old Dan. “A mob of us went
campin’ f’r a coupla days in a Murray
bend, an’ when the nine-gallon cuts out
we settle down to a bit of serious anglin’.
I’m on me own, fishin’ orf a ledge, an’ I
get plenty of nibbles which keep takin’
me bait, but I can’t hook a fish. An
hour or so later I get fed up an’ start
to roll up me line, when suddenly a big
cod pokes its head outa the water. ‘Hey,’
it ses, a squeamish look on its dial, ‘y’
might’ve gutted them frogs, ol’ man!”
* * * *
“Blime”: The city kid was sent cut-
ting thistles with Jim, and would have
enjoyed the company more had he been
sure the old hand wasn’t pulling his leg
% . %
“Sorry, sir; there’s only the billiard-room left!"
half the time. At noon a jackass in a
near-by gum began his usual midday
clatter, “Twelve o’clock,” announced
Jim, propping his tools and making for
the house. “Dinnertime.” The kid
stared at the bird. “How does he know?”
he asked admiringly. “By the sun,”
answered Jim. The kid digested the in-
formation for a few minutes. “Gain,
what about cloudy days?” he challenged.
Jim looked surprised at such ignorance.
“Why, cloudy days he just laughs at the
same time he did the day before,” he
explained easily. The kid wasn’t satis-
fied, and for two days kept his eye in-
quiringly on the jackass. The third day
he contemptuously ignored the whole
thing and walked home in a dignified
silence. “Thinks he’s putting one over
me with his silly jackass,” he confided to
Sam during dinner; “but I woke up.
He hangs his vest with his watch in it
under the tree where the jackass is every
morning before he starts work! ”
* * * *
“Stanus”: Bush calls? During a spell
of sleeper-cutting in the Pilliga Scrub
(N.S.W.) I found that the almost standard
call from camp to bush to say that tucker
was ready was made by blowing through
the barrel of a 12-gauge, The same call
was used by a shooter bushed and seek-
ing camp. The sound has the penetrat-
ing effect of an air-raid siren.
“Bonny Betsy”: Read to my husband
“Edjudina’s” par. (B. 21/6/’44) about the
lost W.A. woman being guided to safety
by the sound of bagpipes. He was in-
terested, but puzzled. What he could not
understand, he said, was how the woman
came to walk towards the bagpipes.
HC * * *
“Betcha”; Some outbackers, trying to
outdo the weather experts, pin their faith
to the set of the new moon, to a ring
round it, to falling stars, to three frosts,
three hot days, the shape of the clouds
or the color of the morning or evening
sky as distinct from the usual alleged bird-
and insect-pointers. Old Tommy is the
only chap I’ve struck who is visited by
weather spirits. These obligingly inform
him not only of the date of the next
downpour, but will even estimate its
quantity weeks or months ahead. Un-
fortunately for Tommy, their calculations
are ruinously faulty. Then, again, Dan
scoffk at barometers and bureau forecasts,
and solemnly takes his oiler when on a
still day a third limb falls _ from a tree.
One, he claims, means nothing ; two may
be an accident; but three is notice of an
impending shower. It seems that the
success of any of the theories depends
on not mentioning the occurrence till
after the rain arrives. That animals some-
times know a change is coming I readily
admit. When an old cow gets a hunch it
is going to snow and moves down to
warmer country, it snows. When a bloke
gets the same feeling that it is going to
rain and hurriedly puts in his crop it
doesn’t. Why?
“Rooster”: “Zake” (B. 21/6/’44) dis-
misses the bee as a “meteorological
dunderhead” far too easily. Of course
artificial thunderstorms will make them
settle. So would an artificial air raid
send humans scattering for cover. Bees
obey community laws in much the same
way. A domesticated hive will naturally
be more tractable than a wild one.
Wild hives are usually formed where
honey can be most easily procured. And
bees are good barometers. One can be
certain that if they’re not out foraging
then a weather change is imminent. Each
highly-sensitised feeler of the bee has
many thousands of tractable hairs and
“smell” hollows; the slightest atmo-
spheric change is thus easily sensed. It’s
only a question of giving the bee credit
for reacting sensibly to its highly-
developed perceptibilities. Wish mine
were equally well developed.
* * * *
“Wester”: Next time I’m bushed well
out in the whipstick mallee I’ll take
“lamsur Veya’s” advice (B. 28/6/’44) and
drum on a dead tree with the back of my
axe in order to call attention. The only
difficulty will be to find a dead tree
thicker than my wrist in that country ;
still, I can get over that by carting one
out on the dray with me.
».* * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’ve found the nervous-
ness induced by working at heights to be
largely psychological (B. 21/6/’44).
Working on a chimney stack only 50ft.
high is far more nerve-straining to an
ordinary bricklayer (steeplejacks aren't
ordinary men) than being on a much
higher scaffold on a building. The only
reason I can submit is that in the latter
case there are surroundings often of an
equal or greater height—a roof, even
although it be a storey lower and far
beyond leaping distance, is a wonderful
nerve-steadier —but in the former instance
there is nothing to attract the eye, distract
from the height and remove the feeling
of isolated altitude. A fall down the
flue shaft would almost certainly be fatal,
but strangely the black void is not at all
frightening. The psychological effect of
putting a guard rail around a scaffold,
even if it is only a flimsy batten that
would break at a bump or a strand of
string, has to be felt to be realised. Many
tradesmen are nervous if put to work
on a strange high building, yet know no
nervousness whatever if they’ve “risen
up with the job.” I’ve always been ner-
vous for the first 15 or 20 minutes after
the scaffold has been raised “a lift” ; once
the work is in full swing again the mind
is occupied and nerves vanish. But to
drop down a couple of lifts is like work-
ing on the ground. A cobber of mine
suffered a raging toothache while work-
ing on a high stack. When he went to
have the tooth pulled the dentist pro-
nounced his teeth to be in perfect order.
While that job lasted his teeth ached.
When the last brick was laid and the
scaffold pulled down the toothache van-
ished and has never returned. Obviously
“altitude” nerves were the trouble.
* ♦ * *
“Lawnston”: A woman of Bellerive,
Hobart, was disbelieved when she said she
had fallen over a sea-lion on the footpath.
A few days later, however, she and many
others saw the creature basking in the
sun on the river bank. Seals and sea-
lions sometimes use the Derwent as a
thoroughfare for a distance of 30 miles
inland, fish being the attraction.
*** * J
“Cuffer”: Playwrights are ingenious
and ingenuous blokes. One of ’em, who
constructs mystery thrillers for A.8.C.,
worked out what he undoubtedly believed
to be a snorter. It had to do with a
murder, said murder, in the denouement,
having been performed by dropping a
little snake venom into the water in
which the victim soaked his false tats
overnight. Two minutes after popping
the teeth into his mouth he was dead, and
the usual doctor discovered traces of
venom in his stomach. ,All very thrilling
and plausible, except for the fact that
snake venom is a blood poison. If
A.B.C. repeats the thing the best way
out is to suggest that the victim bit him-
self with the impregnated crockery—even
then two minutes would still be a record
of which any self-respecting tiger snake
would be envious.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”: That bovine of “Pilliga
Pete’s” (B. 7/6/’44) didn’t run true to
the species. No self-respecting N.Q. bul-
lock would fail to charge its rescuer on
being dragged out of a bog or rescued
from a barbed-wire fence. The more
they’re petted in youth, the more savage
they prove to be in old age.
* * * *
“B. 4”: “Caballer’s” cockies (B.
21/6/ ’44) must have been put wise by the
local crows, as counting is an old game
of Kelly’s. Calculating beyond three, on
the manoeuvres outlined by “C.,” appears
to give them a headache, as they depart
with derisive croaks. Recently when
rounding up the horses I left some chops
in the pan to heat. A deafening, clamor-
ous scrap round the fire dissolved as I
raced back to discover a raided pan.
Grabbing the rifle, I followed the sable
marauders to the creek. Sneaking up, I
was astounded to discover four of them
sitting on a snag busily engaged in swirl-
ing and washing the chops. Across the
creek others had grabbed some feeding
magpies by their tails, and, rinsing com-
pleted, these were forced to eat some of
the suspected grub before the careful
Kellys began their repast on my stolen
victuals.
% % # *
“Bumpk”: The latest multiple birth to
excite world-wide interest is that of two
joeys to a kangaroo in the Philadelphia
(U.S.A.) Zoo. The toughest member, it
is reported, ejected the other from their
mother’s pouch and survived ; the ejected
one perished. No similar case of twins
in the strict sense has ever been reported
in Australia, though kangas have been
known to bear a second baby while there
is still a half-grown one in the pouch.
Apparently to provide for such an emer-
gency Nature has equipped the creature
with a pair of nipples. But ’roos are
curious animals and can delay birth for
as long as a year after impregnation,
though this is by no means a record.
Some varieties of bats can do it for seven
years. \
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: It was a pretty bleak spot
on the plains somewhere north .of Adel-
aide, and the wind, cutting down from
the Gumbowies, was a freezer. Came a
horseman from the east and another from
the south. “ ’Day,” called the easterner.
“Pretty cold wind, ain’t it? Goes right
through y’.” “Yair,” drawled the south;
erner; “too flamin’ lazy t’ go round.
And on they jogged.
* * * *
“A.E.D.”; Watched an old Murray
River black hunting for witchetty grubs.
His gear consisted of an old shovel and a
thin willow stick with a strong, fine wire
hook attached. He selected an old, live
water gum. From the eastern side he
shovelled three or four inches of soil, ex-
posing the top of the grub]s hole. He
then inserted the willow stick carefully
down past where he could feel the grub.
Turning the hook to engage with the soft
part just below the head, he hauled
gently up so as not to pull the head on.
He snared quite a number in quick time.
When using a large grub as bait for coo
he tied two pieces of cotton tightly round
its middle, about a quarter of an inch
apart» A swift cut with a sharp knue
turned the fat juicy grub into two baits.
SONG OF HUSKS.
The prodigal went to the pack one day—
To the husks and the swine, poor kid!
I used to wonder what made him stay
Till I went myself the prodigal’s way,
And now I know why he did.
€
They’re free and gay, those folk of the sty,
They love and laugh and_ say,
When they’ve wined and dined and the fun is
high,
“Maybe tomorrow we’ll have to die,
So make this a happy day.”
They have no cares, they never shrink
From the perils tomorrow brings .. .
An old hog said, with a kind old wink
“We have more fun than they ever think,
We’re happier folk than kings.”
The prodigal went to his home at last
And was feted and fed on calf.
And when this news to his mates was passed,
The jest to them was rich and vast—
It made them laugh and laugh!
I went from the swine-folk, too, away
On a lonely road and long;
And every milestone seemed to say,
As I watched the dawns come up each day,
“You’re wrong, old man, you’re wrong!”
For what is the use of the gold I win
If all I can do is save?
Far better to make the glad hours spin,
Living where pity and joy begin
And nobody talks of the grave.
And now, sometimes, when I pass by
The gullies the swine-folk love.
Where the sunlight shines from a windy sky,
I wish from my heart and soul that I
Were one of their merry drove.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“A.R.”: The Mandated Territory
native is slowly but surely becoming
civilised. My houseboy Mark informed
me that his wife Erik “wanted to catchem
dis someting all time white feller misses
putem long sue sue belong ’im.” She
wanted a brassiere!
* * * *
“Barwon”; In a W.A. outback hos-
pital I saw an old abo. whose hair, which
hung down to his shoulders, had been
pinned back with bobby pins by the nurses.
Remarking on the queer sight, I learned
that 16 years before another boong had
told him that he would never go blind
if he never cut his hair. For the sake
of hygiene a doctor ordered that his hair
be cropped. He recovered from his
illness and returned to the scrub. Seven
months later the old man had gone stone
blind!
* * * ♦
“Kenwood”: Our railway station is 30ft.
down in a cutting of shale and clay, yet
there are hundreds of wattle seedlings
growing well on the banks, without bene-
fit of bushfire and with a hopeless pros-
pect of soil improvement. Whilst the
covering of the wattle seed is admittedly
hard, it is by no means impervious to the
effect of what may be called soil acidity,
which, as every plumber knows, plays
havoc with the galvanising of under-
ground water pipes. The reason why a
thick plantation of wattle seedlings will
suddenly appear is not necessarily due
either to bushfires or soil recuperation.
It is simply the result of the more or less
constant action of the two factors noted,
culminating in the penetration of mois-
ture to the enclosed seed, with conse-
quent expansion, rupture of the seed
cover and germination.
* * * *
“Sari”: Running poultry on free range
in N.Q. scrub country doesn’t pay. It
isn’t a matter of missing the eggs alone,
for the hens go wild and prospect the
hillside scrubs better than the bush fowls.
There is always the risk of getting a
shower of hen eggs from 20ft, up when-
ever you strike the axe into a bushy tree
in the scrub. When hens nest on the
ground—a rare occurrence —it is invari-
ably under a thick stinging bush. They
gallop like greased lightning on the
ground, and go by like a blur in the air.
Even aided by clear-nosed dogs, the gun-
hunter might just as well try to > bring
down the moon. Unpenned ducks also
take readily to the swamps, and they hide
their nests with uncanny skill.
* * * *
“Will C.”; Here’s support for “Sur
Cingle’s” dictum (B, 14/6/’44) that the
vicious horse is born as well as allowed to
become that way. Years ago I acquired
a black sulky mare, a confirmed jib. A
bush dodge that rarely fails is to leave
the rogue where it jibs and go home. It
didn’t work with this one, who remained
stubborn after three hours in a shade
temperature of 106. I hooked a draught
nag to her, meaning to tow her and the
cart home. She promptly made a dive at
the draught and me. Another murderous
rush followed a second attempt t 6 tow,
and the incident ended with both shafts
of the sulky fractured. Her foal was a
waster from the start. The first time I
tried working it with two other nags,
it went up in the air and tried to elbow
its companions into a deep, narrow gully.
To turn your back on it in the paddock
was to be rushed. No dog could bark
near it. One day its sire looked over a
fence at it and received a kick in the
forehead that sent him spinning. Father
died a week later and we got rid of
the murderer.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: “Zake’s” yarn about
the chestnut horse and the auctioneer’s
amateur offsider (B. 31/5/’44) reminds
me of a far-off day when the strays at the
town’s pound were being auctioned. A
regular equine lantern was under the
hammer and the offsider, a Cockney,
thought as a joke to mount him. A few
seconds later the Cockney sustained sev-
eral broken ribs from landing, after a
brief aerial glide, on the near-by
post-and-rail. Following that show of
spirit the lantern fetched the sur-
prising price of 30 bob, the buyer
getting the horse laugh from by-
standers. A few months later, brought
to condition by good fodder, that horse
pulled off the Miners’ Handicap of
50 guineas, besides hitting the books at
20 to 1. That was the start of quite a
lawsuit, for a Murrumbidgee squatter
“ Remember , drink more water and you won't get so stiff in the joints!”
“But, Doctor , the joints I go to don't serve water!”
who happened to be present claimed the
nag as his, and also demanded the prize-
money, which the registered owner at the
time of the start of the race refused to
hand over. But how that bit of good
blood got all the way from the ’Bidgee
to the Ballarat pound was a mystery
never solved.
* * * ♦
“Sarina”: Grassfires couldn’t bum
through N.Q. scrub belts 20 years back ;
they made fine fire-checks, being too
green and damp to burn. Then the pink
lantana appeared. In the humus-rich
scrub soil it grew beyond belief, with
sad results to the natural undergrowth;
only the major trees and creepers sur-
vived, Then the great clumps, so tangled
with dead stuff that you could scramble
over ’em when penetration at ground
level wasn’t possible, became highly in-
flammable and the fires tore through
them last summer. I’ve seen lantana-
burns that sterilised the soil for ten years
and more. ’
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Back in the roaring
days of the Boulder Block Don Alberto,
proprietor of a busy eating house, was
reputed to be a man who mistrusted
banks, it having been noted that invari-
ably he paid his bills or gave change in
“ Quick — it's either you or the mosquitoes."
notes, never in gold. This naturally made
him a mark for the numerous freebooters
thereabouts. But though his restaurant
was entered thrice at night and himself
held up in bed on two occasions, the in-
truders, save for a few oddments of silver,
departed empty-handed. Years later I
again met Alberto. By then the Boulder
Block had fallen into decay, as also had
the Don. He was standing on the broken
footpath gazing wistfully into the cavern-
ous ruin that once had resounded with
the champing teeth of a hundred diners,
the shouts of busy waiters and the giggles
of the tea girls. Everything was gone,
except right at the rear the burnt shell of
the big stove half showed through a cas-
cade of broken bricks. That, he con-
fessed, had been his safe deposit. Each
night he slid open the small damper at
the back of the firebox and dropped the
gold in. Whenever required he simply
raked it out of the ash door at the
bottom with a scraper.
# * * *
“C.E.”: The two old hands were yarn-
ing on the ridge when Paddy nodded
towards a small mob of bailies passing
along the valley road. “Who’s the bloke,
Bill?” he asked curiously. Bill squinted
at the drover tailing the bunch. “Dunno,”
he puzzled ; “only it’s Johnson’s chestnut.
Yair-, an’ that’s Sam Reilly’s heeler. John-
son wouldn’t lend that hack t’ nobody
’less he couldn’t help it; wouldn’t be sur-
prised if it’s his wife’s old man up on
holidays again. Said he wasn’t cornin’
up no more.” “Wonder where he’s takin’
the steers,” Paddy mused presently.
“Look a bit like the ones Mac bought
three or four weeks back, don’t they?
only maybe they’re a bit smaller.” “Yair ;
an’ Mac wouldn’t be sellin’ ’em again
already,” remarked Bill. “P’raps he’s
grassin’ ’em somewhere. Gripes, there
ain’t much feed around. Scrubby Creek’s
about the only place I know with any
grass. Well, s’long.” Bill took the short
cut ahead and was helping Sandy strain
a loose panel when the bailies once more
strung into sight. “Who’s the bloke.
Bill?” inquired Sandy, staring at the
mob. The old hand cocked an eye in-
differently. “Aw, that’s young Johnson’s
pa-in-law,” he replied confidently. “Bor-
rered an outfit here an’ there, an’ is pick-
in’ up a few bob drovin’ during his holi-
days. They’re Mac’s steers he’s got. Takin’
’em out t’ Scrubby Creek t’ grass ’em till
it rains.”
* * * • *
“Bo”: “Some cockies,” said Bob the
Blower, “think a cove can put up with
anything. I’m workin’ for a bloke
out from Breeza, in the Liverpool Plains
country, mostly ploughin’ an’ fallowin’,
with odd jobs here and there. I’m rabbit-
hutched in a tumbledown barn about
nine by seven with a low iron skillion
roof that still kept the temperachure
around the cenchery even at four o’clock
of a mornin’, which is about the time I
start yakka. The fireplace is an old
ship’s tank, mostly holes, held to-
gether with junks of rusty iron. When
I lit it in wintertime I useter have
to crawl around on me stummick. I
stood up once, and by the time I groped
me way to the door I was just on suffer-
cated. We had cold, greasy mutton flaps
from the sorlt cask seven days a week,
with the night meal mostly around nine
o’clock, after we’d finished an hour’s
corn huskin’, as a sort o’ finarley for the
day. Me kipsy’s under a big gum and
possums used to be jumpin’ round on me
roof all night, an’ neally every night the
cocky, a restless sort o’ bloke, ’d be out
takin’ pot shots at possums, yowlin’ bush
cats, foxes and dingoes. And I’d often
wake up with the rats sniffin’ me dial. I
slung it up last week.” “Well, if you had
to put up with all those hardships you
were certainly justified,” I remarked.
“Hell, I didn't leave just because o’
them” said Bob. “But the cocky useter
always be suckin’ his teeth, an’ that’s a
blasted habit that gets my goat!”
# S»C 5p
“Nor’-west”; When old Peter an-
nounced that he was going to “crack that
blister,” I was as interested as he was.
For nearly 30 years Peter had treasured
that shell, nearly as large as a dinner-
plate, and both he and I were well ac-
quainted with tales of men who had simi-
larly treasured blisters, finally cracking
them, to find therein a pearl fit for a
queen’s necklace. But Peter had resisted.
“Pity to spoil a good shell; I’ve known
dozens to hold only mud,” he used to
say. But now —well, we must do the job
skilfully. Most blister-crackers merely
went round the junction of the bulge with
the shell, punching a circle of small holes
with a sharp-pointed tool. Peter did
his with a drill, very carefully. Then
came the moment when with a pointed
punch and a sharp blow he snapped the
blister off. There was nothing but
dried mud, not even a seed pearl. But
the piece of baroque, as it now was, was
beautiful. Gold for a setting was not to
be had, but Peter could do wonders with
silver, a piece of baroque and a few seed
pearls. Probably that brooch will become
an heirloom in the family of the Ameri-
can marine who thought £lO an absurdly
small price to pay for such handicraft.
* * * #
“M.U.R.”: Whether or not the oxygen
content of the air doesn’t change after
dark (B. 21/6/’44) most of us Murray
blokes still believe fires burn better at
night, and we’re also convinced that in-
ternal-combustion and steam engines
both run better at night, particularly on
clear nights, the one because the petrol-
air mixture is keener, the other because
the fire burns better in the boiler. One
reason why bush- or grassfires are easier
to handle at night is that every spark
and little flame can be quickly spotted ;
by day, smoke, heavy air and sunlight
obscure them.
* * * • *
“Mat’s Mate”: With a plump rabbit,
onions, potatoes and flour for thickening,
we soon had a pretty pleasing stew bub-
bling. Just as we took the billy off and
stood it to cool, three hungry and hefty
blokes arrived, dropped their swags,
sniffed, eyed us and got into strategic
positions as one of them said “That’s a
decent sort of stew y’ve got there, pal.
Reckon y’ won’t mind if we join y’.” He
picked up the billy and was about to help
himself when Mat said “Sure. Help
y’rself. Me an’ me mate here was just
wonderin’ whether t’ give it a go or not.
Y’ see, we only had potatoes an’ onions
when me mate found the rabbit lyin’
down there. Didn’t look as though it
had been dead long, an’ we was meat-
hungry, so we thought if we stewed it
well it might be all right. It’s just as well
you blokes” But our guest had put
the billy down suddenly, picked up his
swag and said “Come on, you blokes.
We ain’t down t’ eatin’ rotten bunny
yet.” They left. That night we struck
’em up the town. The leader said with
a grin “Y’ know, you blokes might finish,
in the ’ospital. Findin’ dead rabbits an
eatin’ ’em is pretty risky. It might ve
bin poisoned or had hydatids or some-
thin’.” “Aw,” said Mat, “we took a
risk. Y’ see, we seen it die.” They
looked blank. “Yair,” said Mat, it died
right after me mate here clouted it with
a stick. Lucky shot, wasn’t it?”
FOGGY AFTERNOON.
The old familiar hills have melted in mist
And this road I have followed so often, this
well-known
Red road through the valley, is strange as a
road in a dream.
Its ending hidden. The distances have grown
Remotely menacing, the pruned-back vines
Are curved brown claws, predatory and grim.
1 hurry with beating heart through the winter
dusk
While trees lean down to leer at me, and dim
Shapes form among the furrows, and the grass
Moves stealthily behind me as I pass.
So the tired brain, made suddenly aware,
Feels Nature’s latent hostility, and sees
Faces in clouds, goblins in gum-tree stumps,
Menace in stones, and enemies in trees;
Forgetting the days of sun, and the warm smile
Of earth in her good moods; seeing only the
twist
Of evil about her lips, even though the hills
Lie close and friendly still behind the mist.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


V
-V
w*
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes in a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Crate & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
10^
HAIR RESTORER
Making
Op
TIME
mi
By
m
PA
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a
slowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a degree,
if passage is frequent and scanty, accompanied
by burning and smarting, Nature may be warn-
ing that there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking
the excess acids and waste out of the blood.
Most people pass about 3 pints a day or about
3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood,
when due to funtional kidney disorders, may
be the cause of nagging backache, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting
up nights, swelling, puffiness under the eyes,
headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years. They
give happy relief and will help the 15 miles of
kidney tubes flush out poisonous waste from
your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a special
remedy for the kidneys and will give quick and
lasting benefit. Old and young alike can take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS with
perfect safety.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Hot News at White House!
(Leslie Gould, N.Y. “Journal-American” finan-
cial editor, tells of wild excitement.)
This is a story of “My Day,” or why
we were an hour late for the wife’s birth-
day dinner.
Late in the afternoon the White House
informed all the press associations and
newspaper correspondents in Washington
there would be an announcement at 6
p.m. There was no amplification—just
the bald statement that there would be
an announcement.
Wall-street heard about it, as did Main-
street,
From one end of the country to the
other the word passed. The White House is
making an announcement at six o’clock!
The White House is making an an-
nouncement at six o’clock!
The White House is making an an-
nouncement at six o’clock!
Long-distance calls were immediately
put into the capital from all over the
country as to a possible lead on what it
might be.
Rumors flew even faster. It could be
anything. But not a leak as to what it
was all about could be obtained, so there
was nothing to do but to wait until six.
As the hour approached, the air began
to become tense. An office boy dashed
back into the financial department and
panted: “Is your news ticker still run-
ning?”
Without waiting for a reply his tongue
raced on: “There’s going to be an im-
portant announcement from the White
House.”
A column had been written for the
next day, but a White House announce-
ment like that meant a change in plans.
In these times a White House announce-
ment might be any of several big world-
or nation-shattering things.
Well, six o’clock rolled around. The
last edition in theory had gone to press,
but men were kept overtime to handle the
“big news” when it broke.
In all about 50 in the mechanical de-
partments were standing by—pressmen,
stereotypers and printers, plus men in the
circulation and editorial departments.
News printers were left turned on.
The circulation manager and his assist-
ant drifted into the wire room. The news
editor, the head of the copy desk,
two or three from the city desk, the
sports editor and the financial editor, plus
an excited office boy or two.
One wise guy, turning to us, said;
“F.D.R.’s probably going to close the
markets.”
That started the serious guessing.
Our idea was that it would either be
announcement of President Roosevelt’s
return from his vacation in the South or
an order seizing Montgomery Ward and
Cos. The mail-order company had just
politely but firmly told the White House
where to head in. Go fly a kite, as it
were.
Someone else thought it might be
Roosevelt won’t run again.
“You’d gladly run that bit of copy
out,” the head of the copy desk said, turn-
ing to us.
“Yeah,” we yeahed, “but we would
rather see him run and be beaten.”
Someone else hazarded that maybe the
Germans were suing for peace.
Our view that it would be either his
return from the South or the Ward case
brought a challenge from the news editor.
A bet. A fifty-cent cigar, the general idea
being either one would be too trivial or
small for the way this was being handled.
As the clock moved ahead and the
hour for our dinner with the little woman
passed, the taker of our bet commented :
“This looks like something really big
is breaking. The way they handle import-
ant things is lock the boys in the room
until everyone has the announcement.
Nearly a half-hour has gone by and no
word. You’ll lose your bet.”
Then over the A.P. wire came a mes-
sage : —
“Washington announcement expected
momentarily.”
The clock continued to move. By 6.30
it was too late to do anything for the
day’s papers, so the men were released to
go home to late and cold dinners. But
plans for the next day would have to be
made, so a few stuck around.
Then at 6.41 over the A.P. wire came
this; —
The White House announced tonight that
President Roosevelt had entertained Prime
Minister John Curtin, of Australia, and
President-elect Teodoro Picado at luncheon
at his vacation residence in the South.
Gripes and other things stronger were
murmured, and then the printer started
up again: —
The two official visitors to this country
were accompanied to the luncheon by their
wives. Mrs. Roosevelt also was present.
After the luncheon the Prime Minister and
Mrs. Curtin and Senor Picado, Senora de
Picado and Mrs, Roosevelt returned to
Washington. The First Lady is entertaining
the Curtins at a White House dinner to-
night.
There it was. The first time probably
in its history the great A.P. ever sent out
as “bulletin” matter a social item. Later
the A.P. had to send out a message that
this was the White House announcement
everyone had been waiting for.
When we arrived late at dinner every-
one asked what was the announcement.
“You guess,” and then took a poll.
The wife of a friend came closest: —
“Fala [the President’s Scotch terrier]
had a tummy ache.”
(Mrs. Roosevelt’s report of the lunch, in her
“World-Telegram” column "My Day.” The
report is given in its entirety .)
I did not mention yesterday that the
Prime Minister of Australia and Mrs.
Curtin, President-elect and Senora de
Picado and I had lunch with the Presi-
dent at my husband’s vacation residence
in the South. I was extremely glad to
have the opportunity to meet that man
who will be at the head of the Costa
Rican Government in the near future,
and I am sorry that his stay in this coun-
try will be so short.
I look forward, however, to the chance
to talk with him further when he and
his charming wife come to tea tomorrow.
Senora de Picado speaks only Spanish,
but I was glad to find that I could under-
stand her when she said a few to
me. I doubt if I shall ever have courage
enough to launch forth in Spanish my-
self. It needs the assurance of youth,
I think, to become fluent or even to speak
hesitatingly in a new language.
Uneasy Britain.
(From an article written in London by William
Philip Simms, of N.Y. "World-Telegram.")
Britain is uneasy over her own and the
Empire’s future security. But, when it
comes to her post-war economic position
she is downright frightened, and with
reason. International trade made her
what she was for more than a century —
the richest, most powerful nation on
earth. Now she sees her position slipping
—in coal, steel and shipping, in manufac-
turing, merchandising and banking, in
world trade generally. Only a world code
of good conduct and fair dealing will
save her. Much, therefore, depends on
the attitude of the United States.
Alf Landon was widely quoted and
approved here in Britain when he said
high tariffs, artificial control of curren-
cies exchange, and other trade barriers
must go. For, as most Britons see it, the
first principle of post-war prosperity is
good neighborliness, manifested by the
freest market and monetary agreement to
prevent violent price fluctuations, and a
new world organisation to enforce the
code. On the surface it would appear
that all this would be easy to bring about.
Britain, America and most of the United
Nations already have pledged themselves
to these principles. They are set forth in
Article Seven of “the master agreements”
of lend-lease. It commits all concerned,
first, to expansion of production and em-
ployment, exchange and consumption of
goods ; second, to elimination of all forms
of discriminatory treatment in interna-
tional commerce ; third, to reduction of
tariffs and other barriers to trade.
Nevertheless, all signs indicate that the
post-war political and security problems
will be easy compared to the economic
problems. The debate will centre about
international trade as far as Britain is
concerned, for to her international trade
is life itself.
Shipping, of course, is tied in with
foreign trade. In this respect, as in others,
Britain has her eyes on the United States.
After the war the U.S. will have the
mightiest fleet of ships, war and mer-
chant, ever seen. Also- a shipbuilding
capacity greater than the rest of the
world combined. If the ships built in
war-time are unfit for peace-time use
there can be whipped together a new
streamlined armada as big as wished and
in almost no time at all.’ Britain is aware
of this and is wondering.
A somewhat similar situation must be
faced in the air. As soon as the firing
ceases the United States will be prepared
to build the biggest, fastest and finest
trans-ocean airliners in the world, and in
the quickest time. Moreover, it will have
more pilots and navigators with vast ex-
perience along the world’s air lanes than
all other countries together.
When U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
Adolf Berle was in London talking with
Lord Beaverbrook the principle was
recognised that each nation would be en-
titled to as much international airways
business as it generated. That principle
may be applied to surface shipping as
well.
Some sort of monetary agreement is
imperative and steps may be taken soon.
But, whatever happens, goldless Britain
seems determined that the 20-odd billions
of dollars’ worth of yellow metal now in
Uncle Sam’s possession shall not be used
to put the world back on the gold stand-
ard. Borrowing from William Jennings
Bryan, Lord Beaverbrook’s “Sunday
Express” exclaimed that Britain shall not
“be crucified on a cross of gold.”
Pax Britannica.
(A view somewhat different from that of the
foregoing article is here expressed by the editor
of London "Nineteenth Century.")
It is asserted that because the con-
ditions of England’s rise to greatness no
longer exist—seeing that she is rivalled
or outrivalled in trade, finance and in-
dustrial production—her greatness is of
the past. That is not so. Her greatness
is of the future, as well as of the past and
present, if it be her will.
She was never stronger than she is to-
day. She may have been greater, for
there is a big difference between strength
and greatness. If the war continues to
follow its favorable course she will be
able to renew her national and imperial
greatness and endow it with unprece-
dented powers of endurance by promot-
ing the integration of Europe, and by
establishing the Pax Britannica and the
Pax Europcea as one organic whole.
Distance has set a limit upon the im-
mense power of the United States. The
Pax Americana is confined to the Western
Hemisphere. It is in the highest interest
of the United States always to support
the Pax Britannica, just as it is the high-
est interest of the British Empire to sup-
port the Pax Americana. But the Ameri-
can mentality is alien to the British, and
is becoming more so. In the last war
the Americans did not seem to differ
greatly from Australians and Canadians,
but today Australians and Canadians, as
well as Europeans, belong to one world
with the British, while the Americans be-
long to another —a world not as remote
as the Russian, but remoter than the
European-
The Wilsonian idea was unsuited to
Europe. The League of Nations helped
to bring on the Second World War.
American political ideas today are more
unsuited to Europe than they were
before. It will be disastrous if, out of
deference to the United States, American
political ideas are adopted by England
and by Europe. Even English political
ideas are different from those of the
European mainland. But not so different
as to exclude beneficent interaction.
The Americans display in the affairs
of their own continent a realism which
they do not always show in the affairs
of continents other than their own.
Russia is near and her power is im-
mense. She is the strongest Power in
Europe, but she is not as strong as
Europe. Her power is impaired by the
dread she inspires. When she is on the
defensive, Europe will be divided be-
tween those who are for and against her
—and more will be for her than against.
But when she is on the offensive, Europe
will always tend to unite against her. This
tendency will prevail and create a united
Europe, hostile to Russia, if her defen-
sive is transformed into conquest.
Russia is in Europe, but not of
Europe. The difference between her and
Europe has become immense. Russia
cannot dominate Europe any more than
Germany can. If she attempt to do so,
it will be to her own undoing, as it is
Germany’s.
England is of Europe, but not in
Europe, She and Europe are one. With-
out her Europe cannot be. Without
Europe she cannot be.
Germany and Russia are Europe’s
dread. Both Germany and Russia are
feared, in varying degree, by all their
neighbors. England is Europe s hope.
She inspires no dread, save the dread, so
little felt by herself and so much by
others, that she have not the faith in her-
self that others have in her. This dread is
upon Europe even now and has begun to
dim the brightness of prospective victory.
U.S. Subs. v. Jap Ships.
(The [?]ally as computed by, “United States
News.")
Japan definitely is losing the battle of
shipping. Since her whole war effort is
based on the movement of supplies in
ships, this means Japan is losing the war.
The adventures, the scientific devices, the
methods being used by U.S. commanders
and crews will remain a secret until fight-
ing ends. “When the full story can be
told,” says Admiral Ernest J. King, “it
will constitute one of the most stirring
chapters in the annals of naval warfare.”
The known facts of this hidden story
show the rise in the losses that have been


®k
o
i i
1
m
a
0
m sii »
r
i rant's
It I
1
! rP
r;
/
//
is wholly engaged in the
manufacture of Wireless and other equip-
ment for the Navy, Army, Air Force and the
Merchant Navy.
When Victory is ours, the Fisk Radiola will
again be available throughout Australia . , •
Until then, your local Radiola Distributor
will gladly service your present Radiola.
The FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
A usf rali o's National Wireless Organisation
PUT VOUR SAVINGS ON SERVICE—BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
f
■
m
mm
'■ \s -,i
t
mrm
„' m |
Hydraulic
Press.
Capacity
1200 tons.
Finished
Weight
v 20 tons.
Above is illustrated a good example of a Hydraulic Press,
Kuwolt’s have designed and built many types and sizes of
Hydraulic Presses, to give up to a pressure of 2000 tons or
more.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immedi-
ately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
inflicted on Japan’s non-combatant ship-
ping. The background is the weakness of
Japan’s cargo fleet, whose pre-war size
was estimated at only about 7,500,000
tons, with a shipbuilding capacity of
only about 500,000 tons a year. Here is
what the U.S. submarines are doing to
that fleet: —
In the first 18 months, up to June 15,
1943, U.S. submarines sank or damaged
192 Japanese non-combatant ships, about
650.000 tons. In the next six months, to
last Dec. 15, they increased the total sunk
or damaged to 461 ships, or about
1.500.000 tons. In the last four months,
to May, sinkings increased to 617 non-
combatant ships, or well over 2,000,000
tons, not including 66 torpedoed warships.
All told, more than one-third of Japan’s
merchant fleet has been destroyed. U.S.
submarines are winning brilliantly against
Japan the same battle that Germany’s Ü-
boats failed to win in the Atlantic.
America has lost 20 submarines in Pacific
operations, or one for each 34 enemy
ships torpedoed, while Germany now is
losing more than one for each Allied ship
lost.
The result for Japan is a series of
dilemmas. She cut down on food im-
ports to import more bauxite for air-
planes. Now she hasn’t even ships for
bauxite. Hence her airplane output sags.
Her ships get less air cover. She lacks
fleet tankers. Her outposts begin to run
short of supplies, of reinforcements, of
naval and air support.
Meanwhile, America is expanding sub-
marine tonnage to exceed that of Ger-
many. And, with each new advance,
bases for U.S. submarines move closer to
Japan. Thus, the submarine blockade is
closing in upon the Japanese.
Commo Face-lift.
(From N.Y. “World-Telegram.")
By a miracle of adroit plastic surgery
the former Communist party of the
United States now presents the new and
benign face of a “Communist Political
Assn.” whose transmuted president, Earl
Browder, yearrjs only for complete war
co-operation, deplores “political partisan-
ship,” cajoles manufacturers and capital-
ists with bright pictures of post-war trade
pacts and is deeply pained by “divisive
political and ideological agitations that
infest our country.” Long live pure un-
agitated Americanism!
Amid these placative and reassuring
professions it must have been slightly em-
barrassing to the recent Communist con-
vention in New York to hear read aloud
a congratulatory cable from Harry Pol-
litt, secretary of the Communist party of
Great Britain, which contained the fol-
lowing :
We know that the decisions of your con-
vention will constitute the further great
advance in the Marxist political leadership
of the United States and that whatever the
C.P.U.S.A. may decide to call itself there
will be an enlightened core of men and
women embracing and applying Marxism-
Leninism-Stalinism in the heart of that great
continent that is our ally and the ally of
the Soviet Union.
Mr! Pollitt, it would seem, didn’t get
the tip-off. (
On the whole, we think this a good
time to read agaim what an outstanding
American liberal, John Dewey, wrote two
years ago:
In the matter of a correct attitude toward
Stalin, the most powerful of all Russian
despots, we may very well allow ourselves
to be taught by him. He recognises a com-
mon interest with us. He accepts what aid
we can give him. But he does not trust us.
There are no democratic agents and sym-
pathisers at large in Russia, as there are
Bolshevik agents and sympathisers at large
in the democracies. For Stalin knows
what his apologists here apparently do not
know —that totalitarianism and democracy
will not mix.
Our future would be more secure than
it now appears if we were to emulate his
circumspection instead of indulging in the
fatuous one-sided love feast now going on.
Liquid Fire v. Japs.
(From an article by Holman Harvey in the
“American Legion Magazine,” official organ of
U.S. ex-service men.)
America’s Ml-Al flame-thrower is a
gun that can fire around comers. At
Tarawa it drove the Japs in screaming
terror from their half-buried and almost
impregnable blockhouses. At many
points it was the only weapon that could
flush them out. The attackers had tried
16in. naval shells, bombs and TNT.
Towards one particular blockhouse,
after several charges of high explosives
had been detonated against its walls with-
out success, two Marines started crawl-
ing cautiously, using such cover as they
could find. One carried a longish, oc|d-
looking gun with a crooked barrel, con-
nected by flexible tubing to three metal
cylinders strapped on his back. Close
at his heels was his assistant, ready to
operate the cylinder valves the gunner
could not reach, or to take over the gun
in an emergency.
As they crept forward, other Marines
covered their approach with rotating fire
directed at the portholes of the block-
house.
At length the flame-throwers reached
a precise point, carefully determined in
advance. It was close, but not too close,
to the wall, well to the side of one of
the embrasures, and just out of range
of the Japs’ extreme angle of fire. The
flame-throwers could now kneel or stand,
relatively unexposed.
* Valves were quickly released, the gun
readied. Then from its muzzle a rodlike
flame shot out With terrific impact
it struck the inner face of the embrasure
and bounded inside the blockhouse. The
Ml-Al tvas firing around a corner —at
almost a right angle.
It was all over in a few seconds.
Rather than face another blast, some of
the Japs inside blew out their brains.
Others ran out, their uniforms ablaze
and cartridges popping like firecrackers
from their cartridge belts. A few who
were armed were given a quick spurt
from the gun. They were incinerated
in their tracks, like insects hitting an
open flame.
The Ml-Al is the first flame gun in the
world to fire thickened fuel, igniting and
projecting it with great force against its
objective. It can also fire all-liquid fuel.
All-liquid fuel issues from the gun in
voluminous, rolling billows of flame and
smoke. When it has travelled 50 or 60
feet, the fuel, widely diffused and mixed
with air, will all have been consumed
and the flame dies.
Thickened fuel emerges in a solid, rod-
like stream. It describes a flat trajectory,
as clean-cut as the path of a tracer bullet.
The surface of the stream, ignited at the
muzzle, is furiously ablaze. The interior
core of 'fuel is not; it is consumed pro-
gressively as the stream shoots toward
the target. At its effective range a core
of thick and sticky yet-unburned but
ignited fuel strikes the objective with
great force. As it rebounds and disperses
it adheres like fish glue to whatever it
touches and bums there until finally con-
sumed —perhaps for several minutes. It
can be directed with astonishing accuracy
into small apertures, despite the fact that
the gun does not carry sights and is fired
from the hip.
For mopping up open dugouts, fox-
holes and machine-gun nests, the liquid
fuel with its diffuse, smoke-laden flame
is still preferred. It will lap and curl
downward over defence parapets and
spread with fierce heat.
Fuel for the Ml-Al is carried in two
tanks firmly buckled to the thrower’s
back, well up between the shoulder
blades. Braced between the two is a
third cylinder of compressed air. This
air, released gradually into the fuel tanks
through an automatic regulator, pro-
jects the fuel violently from the gun.
At the gun’s muzzle is a burner into
which hydrogen gas is fed from a fourth
and much smaller cylinder affixed to the
underside of the gun barrel. The hydro-
gen is electrically ignited and acts as a
pilot flame.
The fuel tanks cannot be refilled in
action—the operation is too dangerous.
They are loaded in rear areas, where
elaborate safety precautions can be ob-
served. The gun is generally fired in a
senes of two-second bursts; a sustained
burst would last only 15sec.
The gunner fires by pressing a trigger
plate on the top of the barrel at about
its middle. He uses the heel of his left
hand, gripping the butt of the gun with
his right at about hip height. The barrel
has a downward bend toward the muzzle
to facilitate aiming,
The men who operate these flame-
throwers are carefully picked. They must
he technically trained to service as well
as operate their complex weapon. Physi-
Gaily, they must be husky enough to
handle the 68-pound equipment with ease
And they must have commando dash and
temperament, for their job is one of the
most dangerous in all warfare.
De Gaulle Stand Explained.
[Extract from a “Reader’s Digest” special
article defending various U.S. State Department
activities. The writer, • Kingsbury Smith, has
been for years a Washington correspondent
specialising in State Department news.]
It was popularly believed that we
[U.S.A.] alone opposed diplomatic recog-
nition of De Gaulle’s regime as a pro-
visional Government. The fact is that
the British Government secretly took this


M
fmmm
mmmm
■*mssz
mm
m&mmM.
iMm.
msm
'M&
wmmgm*
%m.
■
RETURNED FROM ACTION...
This applies also to ZEROHEAT REFRIGERATORS. During the past
years our factory was engaged practically wholly on urgent Ordnance
and Munition work. Very little Refrigeration could be manufactured, and
then only directly for the Defence Forces. Australia’s role having changed
to that of one of the world’s major Food suppliers. Refrigeration has become
more vital. Therefore, permits may now be made available for essential
civilian requirements.
To meet the demand for increased Food production for overseas, it is
essential for Food Manufacturers and Firms engaged in the preparation of
Food to consider ZEROHEAT REFRIGERATION and AIR CONDITION-
ING UNITS, which are produced by the Firm of ECKERSLEY AND SONS
PTY., LTD., Established 50 years at SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Agents: HENRY BERRY & CO (A’ASIA), LTD.—ALL STATES
ƒ
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
JProm OIL BATH to
JUNGLE BATTLE
rJ-m
I
3M&
Moblloil
in New Guinea a battery of
Australian Guns is blasting a path for
the infantry to advance.
There's half again more power in their con-
centrated fury because with every two
guns there is a third which wouldn't be
there-except for an oil that you've pro-
bably never heard of.
It's a new industrial oil known to the manu-
facturers of steel who make gun barrels.
These barrels must be bored under a con-
stant bath of oil, and it was found that by
using this special product three gun barrels
were coming off the line where only two
had been produced before.
The Petroleum Industry is busy these days
assisting the United Nations' war effort-
producing such essentials as "Butadiene"
for synthetic rubber, "Toluol" for T.N.T.,
staggering quantities of improved 100
Octane aviation gasoline, as well as motor
spirit, lubricating oils, greases, anti-corro-
sion and anti-rust fluids, quenching and
cutting oils, solvents, etc.
Serving the Nation on Land , Sea and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
VI-413 (INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA!
PTY.
ltd:
stand before Washington did. The
hitherto unpublished full text of the
British communication to General de
Gaulle in November, 1940, reads:
His Majesty’s Government are prepared
to regard the Free French National Com-
mittee as representing all Free Frenchmen,
wherever they may be, who rally to the
Free French movement in support of the
Allied cause and to treat with the com-
mittee on all questions involving their col-
laboration with the Free French movement
and with overseas territories which place
themselves under the Free French. In mak-
ing this communication, I [Eden] should
make it clear that His Majesty’s Govern-
ment are not to be regarded as expressing
any views as to the various constitutional
and juridical questions involved. In par-
ticular, while His Majesty’s Government
would be happy to maintain their repre-
sentation with the Free French, they could
not accredit a diplomatic representative
to you or receive a diplomatic representa-
tive accredited by you, since this would
involve your recognition as a sovereign
State.
Despite this stand by the British, the
U.S, State Department was used as a
whipping post for De Gaulle’s failure to
receive recognition.
When Churchill was in Washington in
May of last year, the entire question of
Anglo-American relations with the Fight-
ing French was thoroughly discussed.
After Churchill’s return to London a
memorandum was distributed to the press
outlining the British Government’s atti-
tude. This memorandum, drafted by
Churchill’s personal direction, charged
that De Gaulle appeared to be animated
by dictatorial tendencies; that he was
trying to play Great Britain off against
the United States ; was leaving a trail of
Anglophobia wherever he went; was stir-
ring up trouble for the British in Syria,
and generally was tying to advance
French nationalism at the expense of
goodwill toward the Allies. The British
press was advised not to let the Fighting
French undermine relations between
Great Britain and the United States. As
a result of this, De Gaulle gradually
became more co-operative, and relations
with him have now greatly improved.
The world has wondered why the U.S.
State Department still refuses to recog-
nise De Gaulle and his Free French
organisation as the provisional Govern-
ment of France. It is partly because of
his dictatorial tendencies, and partly
because his organisation, according to
official reports from American diplomatic
representatives, has sometimes used “Ges-
tapo” methods of imposing its will on
other Frenchmen, Details of these activi-
ties, including “suicides” and brutal treat-
ment, would shock the American people.
The State Department has refrained from
making these reports public. Despite all
the propaganda to the contrary, Wash-
ington does not want to get rid of De
Gaulle, whose name in France is a sym-
bol of resistance to the Germans.
If the French people want to accept
General de Gaulle as their leader after
the war, that is their business. But the
U.S. State Department does not want the
French to hold the United States respon-
sible for imposing him or anyone else on
them. It wants the French people to
have a free choice.
Big Four Friends Forever?
(In this condensed article Chicago “Tribune”
has its doubts .)
From what Mr. Churchill and Mr.
Eden have said, the declared goal of
British diplomacy is a Four Power
arrangement to rule the world. The active
participants would be Britain, Russia and
the United States. China would be ad-
mitted for the sake of appearances.
The theory is that the Big Four among
them can establish peace and maintain it.
It seems to be assumed that the big
Powers will never fall out. The assump-
tion surely cannot be founded upon any-
thing more substantial than a pious wish.
When have the big nations ever behaved
that way toward each other?
The points of conflict remain. Upon
what terms can Russia and China agree?
Which one is to have Mongolia? If the
Chinese resist Communist infiltration will
the Russians fold their hands? Stalin and
Chiang have not told us.
And what about Chinese-British rela-
tions? The British say they made Hong
Kong out of nothing. The Chinese say
it is theirs by natural Who gets it?
Churchill and Chiang have not told us of
any agreement they have reached on the
point or on any number of others like it.
Russia has a century-old ambition to
expand into India and a troubled politi-
cal situation there invites intervention.
The rivalry between Russia and Britain
in the Near East, from Persia to the
Mediterranean, is another old story to
which the final chapter is yet to be
written. Russia is intriguing against
Britain in this area today, including
Palestine, where Stalin is seeking to
alienate the Zionists from Britain.
Churchill and Stalin have signed no self-
denying ordinances regarding the Near
East and the Middle East.
Nothing said by any of the spokesmen
indicates a willingness on the part of any
of the three Powers overseas to aban-
don the rivalries that will make the wars
of the future. Russia has so little confi-
dence in any such plan of collective
security that she is reaching out for
border provinces to the west. England
is taking steps to strengthen her imperial
ties and to organise western Europe in
her interest. China hopes that out of this
war she will obtain a strong army and the
industrial foundation for future military
strength. All of them hope for Ameri-
can support.
The notion that the allies of today will
remain the allies of tomorrow is a vain
one. A British wit recently put the matter
in an epigram that deserves quotation:
England! Let God arise and smite our foes,
The arm of the Almighty let us borrow.
But enemies of God today, God knows,
May be our co-belligerents tomorrow.
For “England” you can also read
“Russia” or “China.” The moral is that
anyone who counts upon permanent
friendships among great nations hasn’t
read history.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
General Chiang Kai-shek has sent an appeal
to President Roosevelt for help. There is a
stir about it in Congress. The President has
not made public the contents of that appeal
but any reading of the dispatches from China
makes it clear that this is a desperate SOS.
The Chinese ship of state is riddled with holes.
The ship may sink at any time. Help must
come soon and it must come in full measure.
N.Y. “Journal-American.”
* * * *
In his message to the Czechoslovak State
Council on February 3, Dr. Benes said that the
time had not yet come “to examine concretely
the matters” which were negotiated at Moscow,
matters about which “mutual
had been reached. Amongst these “matters
was an agreement amplifying Article 4 of the
Treaty between Czechoslovakia and Russia
which stipulates that the two Powers “shall
develop their economic relations in the largest
possible scale and render each other any eco-
nomic assistance after the war.” According to


/
n
1
SM£US FOX
RUBBER FOR VICTORY
5/-
War
Savings
Stamps.
A
RUBBER lost through careless driving—is a
dangerous drain on Australia’s depleted
stocks. But RUBBER SAVED through care-
ful driving is RUBBER for VICTORY.
OLYMPIC]
Rubber
insulated]
CABLES
Olympic tvres
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
POUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
■ b '* '
'SqBK - *
PI Wf
isil
.
fiSMi
. -ijk
A.
i lr
,
mtm
A. \
■:
H.. jd&e*"**** . J
WL-f<' ■' /?WMi
-
« /
wn* :
■iwsr'*-- ’
A TRADITION IN EXPORT
UNITED STATES STEEL EXPORT COMPANY is a name which signifies
integrity, quality, and dependability to steel consumers in all parts of the world.
For forty years the Company’s products have maintained this reputation by
excellent performance under widely varying conditions. Because United Stales
Steel is engaged in all-out production for the United Nations’ war effort, little
U.S.S. steel is available for commercial use. When Victory is won, United Stales
Steel Export Company will supply new and better U.S.S. steels for every purpose
everywhere from one source of supply.
UNITED STATES STEEL EXPORT COMPANY
Head Office:
30 CHURCH ST., NEW YORK
Cable Address:
"STEELMAKER," New York
statt?
It
p'
CQi>
Australian Distributors:
NORMAN W. HUTCHINSON & SONS
88 William St. f Melbourne
247 George Street, Sydney
WE SERVE THE WORLD
this agreement, the Czechoslovak economic
system is to be brought into conformity witn
the Russian, the Czechoslovak industries, mines,
and sources of hydraulic energy are to be
nationalised, the Czechoslovak war industries
are to work for the Russian and Czechoslovak
armies, war production is to be standardised
so that it shall conform with Russian war pro-
duction, the Czechoslovak currency is to be
stabilised in conformity with the Russian, the
Czechoslovak and Russian State Banks are to
work in conjunction with one another, Czecho-
slovak railways, motor-roads and air-lines are
to be constructed to meet the economic needs
of both countries. — London “Nineteenth Cen-
tury."
* =N *
The Tehran agreement is destined to play an
important part—perhaps a determining part
in the Presidential election this year. Americans
who do not wish their sons to remain in an
army of occupation overseas for an indefinite
term of years are looking to the Republicans
to prevent this from happening.— Chicago
“Tribune.”
* :Jc * *
The annual report of the British Mercantile
Marine Service Association states that, judging
from letters, subs, and torpedoes are the least
worry of shipmasters. What really gets them
down is the terrific increase in clerical work
due to Government controls. — London corre-
spondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* t- * *
British citizens’ hopes for a brave new world
after the war have gradually altered during the
past three years, according to the Mass Obser-
vation Organisation’s latest report. The survey
was taken from samples of opinion in widely
scattered towns and countrysides, among civil-
ians and fighting men and women of varying
income levels. The conclusion is that hopes for
increased social services haven’t changed, but
in every other category, such as educational
reforms, nationalisation of industries and less
unemployment, expectations have fallen and
most citizens show an increasing scepticism
that the post-war will bring anything but minor
changes. Drafted men and women are most
anxious about demobilisation, and while they
all privately hope to get out quickly after the
war, most of them realise it may take years if
done tidily.— London correspondent “Wall-street
Journal.”
* * * *
Some time ago General Alexander complained
about “pessimistic rubbish in the press” con-
cerning the Italian campaign. We were not
told what he thought of the pessimists in
Washington and in Canada, whence came,
from the Canadian Prime Minister, chatter
about “the possibility of terrible reverses in
Italy that may prolong the war not for days
and months but for years.” An odd thing
about such depressing utterances is that, when
the authors of them are questioned about their
sources of information, they airily reply that
they had none. Their private remarks were
made, none The less, before large audiences or
in the press which reports them. By conse-
quence millions of people imagine them to be
semi-official and confer upon them a responsi-
bility which these slapdash orators repudiate—
loo late. — Richard Jennings; London “Nine-
teenth Century.”
* * * *
France must be regarded as something of an
unknown quantity politically. The people hate
the Boche with all their souls, but otherwise
they are not as one. They must be handled
with great circumspection. That goes for Wash-
ington, London and Algiers as well. Too much
Allied mixing in the domestic situation might
lead to trouble. And should the Algiers
committee attempt wholesale purges when it
returns t'o France it might split the country
wide open.— London correspondent N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”
* * * *
The U.S. National Federation for Constitu-
tional Liberties, whose good-sounding title gained
it many distinguished patrons and patronesses,
has been listed by the F. 8.1. as a Communist-
controlled, subversive organisation. Present
or past association with it automatically sub-
jects any Federal Government employee to
special investigation as to loyalty. It bears,
no matter how concealed, the stamp. This,
despite the bland denial of George Marshall,
the federation’s president, that it is left wing—
the kind of denial which has become a recog-
nised part of Communist policy and tactics.
Unlike Communism in Russia, Communism
here has developed to a high degree the art of
masking and disguise. It is an adept at make-
up.—N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
Marshal Stalin did not have to persuade the
American high command that the war could be
won only by invading the Continent. That is
exactly what the American high command has
always believed, and has always planned for
in its studies of how to prepare for a Euro-
pean war, and has always held to as its main
objective, even when it was conducting the
Mediterranean campaign and the aerial bom-
bardment. — American syndicate writer Walter
Lippmann.
* * * *
Lend-lease to Russia will cease the moment
Germany is beaten unless Joe Stalin elects to
pitch in and help us lick Japan.— Danton
Walker; N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
At the end of the last war relations between
United States and British deteriorated
sharply. The slump began when we “walked
out” of the League of Nations which President
Wilson had fathered and on which world’s
hopes for peace were pinned. It gained
momentum when we boosted our already high
trade barriers. By the time the war-debt dicker-
ing began we had reached the state of name
calling. We called the British “welchers.”
The British dubbed Uncle Sam “Uncle Shy-
lock,” and soon it became a case of fists, not
hands, across the sea. The second World War
has brought the family together again. But
not necessarily permanently. For unless top-flight
statesmanship is forthcoming all around we
shall fly apart again. Unless inter-British
and inter-American interests can be drawn
closer together and expanded into a durable
association which will collaborate with other
United Nations we will quickly head into
further international bedlam and bloodshed.—
H.Y . “World-Telegram” London correspondent
William Philip Simms.
* * * *
It has sometimes been alleged that the Polish
troops which left Russia did not want to fight
there, that they are anti-Semitic, that they do
not want to fight at all and so on. The people
who make such assertions do not know—or>
prefer not to know —that these forces did not
receive sufficient arms in Russia, that in Pales-
tine they were on the whole on very good
terms with the Jews, and finally that, after two
years of the Russian climate, after chronic
undernourishment and overwork, their health
was completely undermined. All of them had
to go through a long period of rest, nourish-
ment and medical attention, and those British
and Americans who came into contact with this
army of ex-prisoners and sick men can testify
to the truth of this. Nevertheless, they form
the major part of the two divisions which
crowned their months of fighting in Italy by
the capture of Monastery Hill. These soldiers
are fighting the Germans. There are no
deserters amongst them, while countless Poles
forcibly conscripted info the German Army are
coming over to them from the German lines.
Their British and American comrades have
nothing but praise for these enduring allies,
who are proving their loyalty incontrovertibly
on the field of battle. — Ksawery Pruszynski;
London “Spectator
*
When I was in Australia I was not able
to meet Mrs. Curtin because she was at her
home in Perth on the west coast, and travelling
for civilians was almost impossible. When I
hear people complain here, I often wonder if
they realise that in Australia, which is as
large as the United States, only one train and
two ’planes a week were used for civilian trans-
portation last summer. They carried 16 and 21
passengers respectively.— From Mrs. Roosevelt’s
N.Y. “World-Telegram’'’ column “My Day” {on
(mother date from that in the item headed “Hot
News at White House.’”)
* * * *
Just three years ago, as we remember, Mr.
Roosevelt could look across the White House
lawn and see the parading followers of Mr.
Earl Browder picketing the White House and
carrying banners denouncing FTXR.’s foreign
policy and howling to the heavens of Washing-
ton that the brawl in Europe was a “Capitalist
War,” and that our good Lord Franklin was
hell-bent for shedding the blood of the Ameri-
can working man on foreign soil. Of course,
those were the days when Pal Joey in the
Kremlin and Hitler were buddies, and the pair
of them were digesting the remains of a neatly
carved-up Poland. And that was, also the time
when the Federal gendarmes tossed Comrade
Browder in the hoosegow for a little passport
monkey-business. Now to make a speech of
acceptance welcoming the support of Brother
Browder and his followers might be a difficult
task for many White House aspirants, but we
will lay dollars to doughnuts that F.D.R. rises
to the occasion.— John O’Donnell; N.Y.
“Daily News.”


INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Imported by the Government to ensure efficient rood transport.
A "Permit to Acquire" must be obtained from the Emergency
Road Transport Board.
• CAPACITIES: Up to 4H TONS.
• REAR AXLES: Sturdy, Full-Floating, TWO-SPEED.
• CABS : Imported, ALL STEEL.
Bodies Available:
• IMPORTED PLATFORM with steel skid strips,
Front Loading Board, Coaming and Rope Hooks.
• IMPORTED TRIPLE-PURPOSE STAKESIDES.
• DETACHABLE DROPSIDES and TAILBOARD.
• OTHER APPROVED ESSENTIAL BODY TYPES.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Application forms for official permits, full details
of prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase and immediate delivery may be obtained
as usual from our branch house in the capital city
of your State, and also from any Authorized
Metropolitan Distributor or Country Local Agent
for International Trucks.
Ask us to help you with your application.
A-110
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
{INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAT, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
•- G£-tt
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, d.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 P Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Heavier Bales.
“Mufrawong”: Average weight per
bale for the past season was approxi-
mately 121 b. lighter than the year before.
If the average can be increased from,
say, SOOIK to 3311 b., there will be a saving
of one bale in every ten. This will cut
costs of a pack, of weighing, branding
and stacking one bale and of brokers’
charges.
Still, when trying to jam in a few more
pounds, remember that the last few
strokes of the lever exert more strain on
the press and its ropes and bolts than all
the rest of the operation. A strongly-built
press in good condition, regularly over-
hauled and oiled, can stand up to this
extra stress, but an old or neglected press
can’t take it. Presses and spare parts for
them are equally scarce. Last season all
sorts of devices had to be adopted to see
shearing through.
Unless the wool can be pressed con-
tinuously shearing must stop, since few
sheds have room for stacking fleeces or
bins big enough to hold more than a bale
or two. Before shearing starts, prefer-
ably a long time before, the press should
be thoroughly inspected and every effort
made to get needed parts and spares.
If a standard main cable is unobtain-
able for a Ferrier press, get a lighter wire
rope. The diameter does not matter so
long as the breaking strength is equal
to fixe job. Many pressers prefer a light
rope, as it makes the bale easier tp put
down and the rope lasts longer than the
heavy cable. If a rope is showing signs
of fraying its life may be prolonged by
reversing it.
Vegetables in Queensland.
“Sarina”: The days warm up in N.Q.
in August, which means the end of veg-
etable-growing where water is scarce.
Melons, cucumbers and pumpkins, also
Chinese long, lima and French beans, may
be sown now. It is not too late for trans-
planting swede turnips and quick-grow-
ing cabbages. Silver beet, radishes and
shallots will also beat the heat.
In the south, lettuce can be planted in
light, rich soil. Rotted organic manure
makes lettuce grow rapidly, but plenty
of water is necessary. Neapolitan,
Hanson, Iceberg and the Imperials and
New Yorks are miniature “cabbages”
that need 12in. of space. Treat radishes
like lettuce and grow White Icicle, Long
Scarlet or White Chinese.
Swedes need deep soil or they’ll be
short. They’re pretty reliable if the soil
is fair and very easy to transplant. Kohl-
rabi is a good vegetable ; the tops are
cooked like cabbage and the bulbs like
turnips. Both swedes and kohlrabi need
ample room and they dote on b.-and-b.
fertiliser or superphosphate.
Beetroot is pretty hardy if insects are
kept off, but it won’t be edible if it isn't
watered well and grown quickly. Better
to plant it where it is to stay than
to check it by transplanting. Obelisk
suits deep soils; Turnip-rooted, Derwent
Globe, Crimson Globe and Detroit Dark
Red, shallow soils. Carrots require simi-
lar treatment; St. Valery, Manchester
Table, Chantenay and Early Horn are
good growers. Best soil for beet and
carrots is loose stuff containing plenty of
humus.
Asparagus.
‘Myrrhee”: Choose a sunny site. Dig
a trench a spade-width, Ift. deep, and
put 4in. to 6in. of organic manure in the
b.ottom. Give this a heavy dressing of
blood and bone and cover with a couple
of inches of soil. Plant one-year-old
asparagus crowns, in July or August in
southern Australia, every 18in. and cover
to a depth of 3in. or 4in. As soon as
the top growth shows above ground fill
the trench with soil or organic matter.
Allow the plants to develop fully, and in
autumn, when the tops yellow, cut them
off at ground level and in winter dig
the bed lightly and fertilise.
The following August or September,
about a year from planting, vigorous
spears will come through and they can
be cut lightly. Each autumn the top
growth is cut and each winter the beds
are dug and fertilised. When the plants
are fully established the spears can be
cut over a period of about 12 weeks
beginning in August. Blanch by hilling
in the spring, but if green asparagus is
wanted allow the spears to develop 3in.
or 4in. above ground level.
Honey Trees.
“Pat Ater”: “Myrrhee” could have
rounded off his survey of honey trees (B.
14/6/’44) by listing those most useful in
coastal areas. Away from areas of yellow
and white box, the honey, with few excep-
tions, is darker, but it has a tang which
many enjoy. They say it has more nutri-
ment.
One of the best honey trees and a big
flush bloomer in alternate seasons is the
bloodwood ( Eucalyptus corymbosa ). On
the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) bloodwoods
yielded big honey harvests when other
sources failed. An asset is the Sydney
redgum {Angophora lanceolata ), which,
like the bloodwood, blooms when quite
small—even as saplings.
Turpentine ( Syncarpia laurifolia ) gives
dark honey of strong flavor which can
be used to give body to lighter stuff.
A leading N.S.W. apiarist prefers
coastal honey to which turpentine bloom
has contributed,- but commercially he
seeks the box areas, because light honey
is in favor.
At the winter’s end the prolific bloom-
ing of the coastal ironbark {E. paniculata )
is often a great boon to inland apiarists,
who travel coastwards in lean seasons to
take advantage of its profusion. This
ironbark is the only one to grow in the
sandy soils near the seashore, and should
be more widely planted. When the
orange-blossom of coastal citrus orchards
follows E. paniculata, a bountiful honey
harvest can be assured. Queensland and
Cootamundra wattles can be planted in
proximity to the honey trees. They in-
crease and flower abundantly near the
coast, giving a wealth of winter pollen.
Paspalum Management.
“Plane Creek”: Paspalum is soon
ruined by mismanagement. It must be
from tussocking and choking
‘"itself out. During a flush season in 20-
acre to 30-acre paddocks cattle cannot
keep the grass down ; they eat where they
choose. Result is that minor areas are
well grazed. The cattle then return to the
grazed areas repeatedly, having found
that the succulent ratooning grass is more
to their taste than the long, ungrazed
stuff. Wise dairymen fence off large pad-
docks, making small corners which the
cattle must clear of grass or starve.
With rotational grazing succulent grass
at its most nutritious stage is eaten
down, with none of the waste that in-
evitably accompanies continuous grazing
of large areas. Two-wire fences with
efficient strainers will keep quiet cattle in.
Where paspalum stands have gone to
tussocks recovery will follow the break-
ing up of the tangled roots with disc
plough or stiff-tine cultivator. Disc-
ploughing lets the air in to sweeten acid
soils. Finish with the harrows. The grass
should come away satisfactorily if the
weather is right.
Paspalum has many insectenemies, and
long-established stands may not be worth
saving. Burn when dry, plough shallow
and burn the roots and sub-surface stems.
Buried seed may start another crop ; bury
the young plants, and you shouldn’t have
any more trouble. Later replant the land
with some other forage crop. Mealy bug
is killed if paspalum paddocks are regu-
larly burned before being cultivated, but
various grubs that feed on paspalum
roots cannot be controlled.
Outdoor Painting.
“Portergaff”; For best results use a
reliable primer. A lead-linseed oil mix-
ture may be used safely. Zinc paints
aren’t good primers; they lack the ad-
hesive and moisture-resisting properties
of white or red lead.
The penetrating powers and natural
drying qualities of raw linseed oil make
it an ideal thinning medium. On metal
and hardwoods use red lead; on soft
woods, white lead with sufficient red to
produce a deep pink.
Both white and red can be blended
to produce the desired color. Red lead
on its own is rather a strong primer,
though satisfactory for dark finishes. If
a light finish is desired break down with
white lead. A dash of genuine gum tur-
pentine is the only permissible thinner.
Cowcane.
“Hux”; Where summers are moist and
winters frost-free a patch of cowcane
(Saccharum officinarum ) provides good
feed for cows when pastures are scarce.
A tall, tufted plant, similar to sugar-
cane, it remains green throughout its life-
time of three to four years, and is drought-
resistant.
Rich, well-drained soils and cultivated
land suit it best; don’t plant in low-
lying areas. Propagation is by cutting or
set. Plant in deep furrows 4ft. apart, with
2ft. between the sets. Cover lightly at
first; fill in as shoots start. Twenty tons
per acre is the average for the first crop.
Don’t let cattle graze it; feed it chaffed.
High-fibre content is against it as feed for
cows in production.
The Erosion Menace.
In an effort to attract atten-
tion to it a Sydney organisation is offer-
ing prizes for art work, essays and theses.
The prizes aren’t large, but the object is
worthy, and it is hoped that enough
material can be gathered to stage a big
public display. Particulars:
A £lO war bond for best poster to
introduce a national erosion-control scheme
and encourage tree-planting.
A £lO war bond for best essay, limit
2000 words, on a tree-planting scheme to
embrace beauty and utility with reference
to town and suburban co-operative wood-
lots, garden clubs, forests, parks, etc.
A £lO war bond for best thesis, limit
3000 words, on causes and effects of
erosion, methods of fighting them, with
special reference to types of erosion, value
of pastures and trees, restoration and rest-
ing of land, irrigation and water conser-
vation.
All three open to service and ex-service
men of British Empire and Allied forces.
For people 16 years old or under, who
must be the children of service or ex-
service men, Boy Scouts, Girl Guides,
Junior Farmers, Junior Forestry League or
Legacy Club members: A £lO war bond
1 for best essay, limit 500 words, on “Our
Soil and Our Trees.”
A £lO war bond for best picture of trees,
forest or garden scene.
The war bond will go to the respective
organisation’s funds, the individual to re-
ceive a cup, finalists in each section to
receive a scroll.
The Ibis Society, 411 Hardy’s Cham-
bers, 5 Hunter-street, Sydney, will supply
entry forms on request. The competitions
close on August 31.
Hints for the Farm.
“E. 2”: When laying out new pigyards,
which must be a reasonable distance from
cowyard and dairy, it is worth while


i.iy.
(HARTS
For all type* of
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation*
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
.tWKN STREET PTY. LTD. BRISBANE. O LD.
For
f
Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
Smooth, Strong, Hard..
Prpfi from AlkaU
Fr ® ® 1 hardwall
CONCORD HA*
or Lime
plaster
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is an exception-
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended tor dadoes and other wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a smooth glossy, pure white, sanitary
finish of great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stair, wall linings or papers or sa-
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base for receiv-
ing any decoration as soon as the wall dries out. Special
grinding and processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
Packed in Jute Bags.
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
nr
mzm
•m
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., Building Materials Division
SYDNEY.. MELBOURNE... BRISBANE. ..ADELAIDE. ..PERTH
Pl 4-44
WINNING A VICTORY
ON THE
i(»W
i»?«f
ffff!
To provision our own and Allied fighting
services and to meet the colossal food needs of
our civilian population, speed and large scale
production are urgently required.
While all new “Caterpillar” Tractors are reserved for
fighting and other essential services, hundreds of others,
bearing this world famous name, are setting new
records on the food front.
With sure, track-type tread . . . they are tilling, sowing
and harvesting hundreds of thousands of acres at a
miserly fuel and maintenance cost. . , . Some of them
have thousands of working hours to their credit.
Wherever there is fighting to be done or food to be
grown, “Caterpillar” maintains a round - the - clock
schedule whatever the weather.
CT 1-33-43
"Caterpillar” D2 Diesel hauling 12-furrow heavyweight
disc plough breaking up new whealland in the Western
district of N.S.W.
*02*
BET* £3.® ■— ’
waugh & J£^m3 3 2i. R.u^ r j^
**• M, St Pelen c bd ,j Si
Wone- 2839. 102 475. UF UvJ
considering a trolley line for carting skim-
milk and other pig food. Rails may be
wooden, of 3in. by 2in., with sleepers at
close intervals. Trolley wheels are flanged
and are fixed to the axles, which turn in
the bearings. Trolley may be built with
platform to suit requirements.
“L.C.”: When it’s necessary to carry
pigs on to heavier weights, limit ration
so that rate of growth and tendency to
fatten will be reduced. Giving pigs heavy
percentages of oils makes them soft
fatted. Cod-liver oil often turns the fat o
bacon rancid and soft; don’t give it to
pigs within three months of slaughter
Slow-growing pigs are more liable to
produce fat than fast-growing.
“Gip”; No need for shortage of wire
to hold up small-scale fencing if gooc
timber is abundant. I cut 6in. box posts
and 4in, box and ti-tree rails. The posts
were put in 9ft. or 10ft. apart and the rails
wired on 4ft. from the ground. I then
strung a lOg. plain wire underneath
Total cost was 235. per mile for the plain
wire, and the little extra time it took was
worth while because of its stability as
strong cattle- and horse-proof fence that
will last for years. Fences such as this
erected 60 years ago have never needed
repairing because of decay—a considera-
tion in a white-ant-infested district.
“Farmer Bill”; If seeds of carob
beans and wilgas—usually hard to ger-
minate—are fed to the cows in a mash
and the droppings placed in a seedbed
a®d lightly covered with sand they'll
germinate within five days. Failures are
few. Trees developed in this way grow
at a quicker rate, are hardier and all-
round better specimens.
“Sarina”: Where rats are troublesome
half-fill a 40gal. oil-drum with soapy
water and lean a flat board against the
top of the drum. Place a large stone or
stones in the drum so that only a small
portion is not submerged. Bait with a
hunk of half-fried steak. First rat will
jump straight in, then climb on to the
rock in a halTdrowned condition. Its
despairing wails will cause friends to
jump in after it.
“Bennie”: As seaweed contains nitro-
gen, phosphoric acid and potash, it is
undoubtedly an excellent manure. Potash
and nitrogenous manure are of consider-
able value to potatoes, tomatoes and fruit-
trees. Seaweed will decompose rapidly,
and can be ploughed into the land in
autumn and winter.
“E. 2”; Cold chisels are better if well
worked and tempered off the hammer.
With the hammer face at the angle of the
slopes to the point, work the cutting edge
back on both sides so that it is solid
and well compressed. Tempered then
without reheating and with regard to type
of steel used a tough hardness is the
result.
“Portergaff”: Furnishings attacked by
borers and white-ants can be satisfactorily
treated in the home. Inject into the holes,
with suitable syringe, the following mix-
ture : Seven parts kerosene, two parts lysol
and one part phenyle. As well as destroy-
ing living borers, this mixture will pene-
trate right to the centre of infection by
smothering the eggs.
“Kay”: Buckets should always be in-
verted after use to prevent the bottom
from becoming rusty. It’s a way of en-
suring longevity.
“E. 2”: A good job of soldering de-
pends largely on the iron being in the
right condition. To dress it, heat until
cherry-red, then plunge it in water. After
that it may be hammered out and shaped
to a point. File the faces to the point
to bring them true and clean, then reheat
to working temperature and the iron will
pick up a good tinning by being run over
resin and solder on a dry board.
“Ninety-nine”: When painting iron,
one coat well brushed on is all that is
necessary. It will not crack. If two
coats are applied cracking or pealing may
occur because ironwork does not absorb
paint.
“Portergaff”: When sinking a shaft
keep a small trowel and a bucket of clean
water handy. Pug clay clings to the
banjo, so the constant washing and scrap-
ing will make the going much easier. In
dry soil a few buckets of water thrown
into the shaft saves a lot of sweat. Always
keep pick and shovel handles clean.
“Dukamundra”: There is an easier
way to remove axe handles ( B. 14/6/’44).
Cut off the broken handle just behind the
head and place the head in a vice or over
a hole big enough to take the handle;
drive it out with a fin. bolt and hammer,
hitting the sawn-off end.
“Ninety-nine”: To make whiting water-
proof, thin the whiting with water and
then add approx, one quart of boiled
oil to every gallon of the mixture.
“Myrrhee”; In Victoria the best time
to transplant carrot roots for seed is June-
July. When lifting, select only the best
roots, and choose them carefully for true-
ness to type. Handle them carefully;
injury may cause them to rot in the
ground.
“Bennie”: Soot is a useful fertiliser
because it contains vital manurial ele-
ments which include charcoal, ammonia.
muriatic acid, lime and magnesia. It is
most beneficial if spread over the soil
just before rain. It can be used in liquid
form for delicate pot plants, etc. For
ordinary garden use the liquid form is
not recommended.


WARNING
Even Slightly Bleeding (
SIGNS!
iws May Mean —
mm
guias
gums
scat
m.
•HfLAHIfD
gum
I-
gums
BIIIOWG
*
m
4 out of 5
may hare this dread disease
that often leads to loss of teeth
Do your gums ever bleed ? Are
they sore, tender to touch ?
Then watch out—Pyorrhea may
be starting trouble.
If you don’t take action at once
—it often leads to soft, flabby,
shrinking gums and eventual
loss of teeth.
Guard Against Pyorrhea
This Tested Forhan Way.
Every morning and night, mas-
sage your gums and brush your
teeth with Forhan’s Toothpaste
—the only dentifrice containing
R. J. For-
han’s D. D.
S. special
Anti-Pyor-
rhea astringent.
Forhan’s cleans dull teeth to
their natural sparkling bright-
ness-helps remove acid film
that so often starts tooth de-
cay.
Start using Forhan’s TO-DAY.
Note the difference in the bril-
liant lustre of your teeth and—
equally' important—the healthy
firmness of your gums.
A/sian Agents; The Sheldon Drug Co. # Sydney. Price, 2/4, Extra Large Tube, 3/6*
Forhan’s
Does BOTH Jobs Cleans Teeth—Saves Gums
Are you always weary...
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain?
then take a course of
registered
Blood, Veins, Arteries, Etc.
Thousands of sufferers have
grained relief from this wonder-
ful biomedical treatment. It has
long been realised that unnatural
weariness and many chronic pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Elasto goes to
work right at the source of un-
healthy conditions of the blood.
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the Inherent healing
powers of the body, with the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition;
arteries become supple; skin
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally; piles and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it Is the natural result of
revitalised blood and improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet—see offer below
answers the question that
everybody is asking. In simple
terms it explains just how Elasto
revitalises the blood. It explains
TABLETS
that Elasto is not a
drug: but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to
form organic elastic
tissue, thus enabling: nature to
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric of
veins, arteries, etc., and so re-
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It Is this restoration of
proper circulation that brings
the quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELAStO say:
“No sign of varicose veins
now."
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers."
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis."
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
££a46r uk£& -yrnty /
SMOKE-OH!
“A good man wants his woman like his
pipe.”— “New Idea.”
As long as she doesn’t go out by her-
self too often.
•b 4* 4* 4*
“Japanese Emperor’s hobby is his micro-
scope.”—“World’s News.”
After the war he’ll be able to examine
his Empire with it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Shortage of dentists.”— “Age.”
Perhaps they’re in the army, drilling.
“With the eyes of the portrait of his wife
looking down at him from the wall, Hilton
found it hard to say anything.”— “Mirror.”
It must have been a speaking likeness.
•i 1 + 4*
“An Englishman who arrived 15 years ago
and took up pig-farming has done so well that
at the end of the war he will retire and return
to England.”— “Sun.”
Home on the pig’s back.
4* + 4* 4 1
“If you concentrate on the beauty via health
angle you’ll halve the time and trouble spent
on actual beauty care.”— “Woman.”
If your angles are right and not too
obtuse.
4* *b *b *b
“Haversack, on train, betw. St. Leonards and
Hornsby, contents shaving outfit and pink night-
dress.”—
Well, that lets the bearded lady out, at
any rate.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Well, what AM I to do when I get a spot?”
— “Woman.”
Sink it first, inquire later.
Competition.
“A liquid resembling whisky is now being
used to increase the power of automobile
engines.”— “Daily Telegraph.”
The engine of my limousine
Develops hiccups on a brew
Of jungle-juice and kerosene ;
My innards likewise are the scene
Of battles with decoctions new ;
And there’s another bond between
Me and the suffering machine —
I draw the line at water, too.
Now it appears a car can use
A sort of substitute for booze.
And this inspires a solemn thought:
The Chev. and I will have to toss
To see who gets the stuff I bought
In a dark doorway at the Cross.
P. M. LUSK.
Alternative.
“I admit I threw peas and potatoes at my
husband. I didn’t throw any meat at him.
Meat’s rationed.” — “D.T.” divorce report.
Not like my heart’s delight—as witness
when
I homeward wandered reeling ripe
with gin.
She let me have what greens there were,
and then
Succeeded them with curry—in a tin!
CAL.
Progress Hits the Fowlrun.
“A Chicago woman’s pet rooster had its eye-
brows plucked and its claws manicured and
tinted red with nail-polish.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
This is nothing to the job my staff of
beauty specialists did on my prize Aus-
tralorps, every one of them a champion,
with practically ultramarine dye instead
of blood.
In addition to the usual eyebrow-
plucking and pedicure work, the birds
had their beaks tastefully decorated in
various shades of beefsteak red, their
combs bobbed, wing-feathers trimmed into
broad-shouldered effects and legs painted
with beige stocking lotion. A little mas-
cara did wonders with their liquid brown
eyes. An attempt at perming their
feathers all over unfortunately gave them
a strong resemblance to Highland sheep ;
we compromised by doing the tail
feathers only, tying them with bows of
cyclamen ribbon.
About this time the rooster took to
crouching forlornly in the corner of the
fowlrun with his head sunk in his ruffled
feathers. He also substituted a quavering
wail for his usual full-throated crow.
I had to admit that rooster was right:
we had gone too far. Inside a week the
fowls had formed a Housewives’ Asso-
ciation, a Fowlyard Younger Set, a Tem-
perance Group, several bridge fours and
a Society for the Protection of Hens’
Rights.
The next step on the road to civilisa-
tion was inevitable. My egg supply fell
to nothing when they took up birth con-
trol in a big way.
PLUM.
Resource.
O fickle heart! O cruel fair! ’
You swore that you would leave me
never.
And now, in dark and dire despair,
I find that you are gone forever.
/
What hope can cheer me in the strife ?
And why should I, poor wretched
sinner.
Continue this unhappy life ?...
Ah, well, I wonder what’s for dinner!
T. W. NATHAN.
Force of Habit.
The pub and pug games don’t quite mix.
When Bill the barman referees
He always ends the count at six,
And then he thunders: “Time, gents,
please V*
BRIAN BUREAU.
Overdue Changes.
“An American Traffic Commissioner has
advocated the construction of rough, crooked
and narrow thoroughfares in place of long,
straight highways, to reduce speed.”
The too-obvious alternative method of
compelling motorists to fit a sealed gover-
nor to their engine, thus automatically
fixing a maximum speed, must be con-
demned as too simple and logical. But
spheres other than motoring are feeling
the impact of this circumlocutory
method in their efforts to achieve reforms.
Alarmed at the consistency with which
businessmen are getting close to par and
associates to as low as 137 off the stick, a
Sydney golf club has decided to make
the going harder. Excavation work will
shortly proceed to rip away the fairways,
greens and bunkers so as to accommo-
“Where do you come from?"
“Bourse.”
“ Cripes, isn't that the joint where everyone's gain to
if the referendum's carried?"
date an equal-sized strip of disused Nor-
mandy battlefield, which will be im-
ported when shipping space permits. It
is anticipated that when land mines and
areas of quicksand are sown, with
speargrass on fairways and watercress
for greens, with the compulsory use of
iron balls and golf sticks with 6in.
handles, the present deplorable tendency
to improve games will be rectified.
A Melbourne firm which specialises
in household and gardening implements
expects to do a roaring business with an
innovation. It got the idea from a cus-
tomer who casually mentioned he was
replacing a garden fork a borrowing
neighbor had broken. As a result there
will shortly be offered for sale prong-
less rakes, garden rollers having square
instead of round rollers, straight-edged
saws, lawn mowers without cutting blades
or crossbar on the handle, triangular-
wheeled wheelbarrows, sanded sewing-
machine oil and stepladders containing
only the top step.
Convinced that a drastic reform in the
principles of judging is needed to curb
the boastings of successful exhibitors
about their dinner-plate-sized asters and
exhibition-shaped roses, the Horticultural
Society plans instead to popularise gar-
dening by holding aphis, red spider, mil-
dew and similar exhibitions. People now,
instead of cursing and being ashamed
of having seven million aphides on one
petal of their Crimson Glory, will be able
to admire the silver
cup on the mantel-
piece which they
were awarded for
their effort.
To discourage un-
necessary travelling
by the paying public,
the N.S.W. railway
department proposes
to remove all springs
from carriage bogies,
replace the present
seating with tallow-
wood backless forms
and move one rati
six inches closer to
the other so that
wheels on one side
of the train will
bump along the
sleepers. Should
passengers still notice
no difference in
their travel comfort
or be too tough to
bother whether their
kidneys break loose
from their moorings,
the department in-
tends altering the
shape of engine fun-
nels so as ff> blow
all the soft coal over
passengers, who will
also be wakened
every ten minutes on all-night runs for
ticket inspections. The department con-
fidently expects that this measure will beat
everyone but politicians.
Perturbed at a report that a man suc-
ceeded in okaying his assessment with the
return he submitted, the Taxation Depart-
ment has decided to simplify the method
of calculation by using as a basis the
mathematical formula: A differentiated
minus D differentiated squared divided by
the square root of i multiplied by P dif-
ferentiated, the whole raised to the power
of q and integrated.
Bo.


Public Notices.
I, GEORG FELIX EDELMANN, Stateless, of for-
mer Austrian nationality, born at Leoben, Austria,
and resident six years in Australia, now residing at
Quaker’s Road, Quaker’s HilJ, N*.S.W., and serving
with the Civil Aliens Corps at Alice Springs, N.T.,
intend' to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, KURT BLUM, Stateless, born at Kaiserslautern.
Germany, and resident five years in Australia, now
residing at 59 Oowper Street, Randwick, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO VIOLET MAY MOSELEY late of Urunga in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
IVOR TAYLOR MOSELEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1745 of 1944 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney before the Twenty-fifth day of
August One thousand nine hundred and forty-four
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. BRAYE & MALCOMSON Solicitors
92 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce,
TO JOHN THOMAS KENNEDY late of Macksville
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that CATHERINE STEWART MACKAY KENNEDY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 8634 of 1943 on
the ground of desertion If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the First day
of September One thousand nine hundred and forty-
four and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from FRED M. DODD Solicitor for the peti-
tioner 12 O’Connell Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROY TURNER formerly of South Head in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
BLANCHE ELVIRA TURNER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1404 of 1944 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by Ist September 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
M. B. BYLES & CO. Solicitors 4 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Because it offers many economi-
cal advantages for replacing,
extending, or re-lining small
bridges, Armco Multi-Plate is
gaining wide-spread popularity
among local authorities and
engineers. For one thing, these
heavy corrugated iron plates can
be designed to suit individual
needs. And they go together
quickly and easily on the job.
f ■
liiSl
MM
:
m m
mm
r
i?'
" 4
ft
FOR SMALL BRIDGE WORK
For the many jobs which will
be undertaken as soon as cir-
cumstances permit, investigate
the merits of Armco Multi-
Plate . . . and write to your
nearest Armco office for any
information or advice you may
require .
ARMCO
MULTI-PLATE
T
IV;
i
•" : - a '- 'V
ARM CO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE
ƒ
f
f
f
ƒ
f
ff
f
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
f
Save - or Slave. Put
ail you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5065 e
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Chess Openings, by Cunninghame.—
3486.
To buy The Spirit of the Child, by Wollas-
ton. —3487.
To buy William Hatfield’s Ginger Murdoch,
Desert Saga, River Crossing, Black Waterlily,
Big Timber, Into the Great Unfenced and This
Land of Ours. —34BB.
To buy trios for viola, violin and piano.—
3489.
Returned soldier wants to buy a tonette. —
3490.
To buy old Australian pictures.—349l.
To buy Australian Encyclopedia, two vol.,
and Ernestine Hill’s The Great Australian
Loneliness. —3492.
To buy The English Parnassus, edited by
Dixon and Grierson, and Clarendon’s Modern
French Short Stories. —3493.
Information Sought.
How many soldiers voted at the Federal
elections? Figures by States if possible?
N.S.W. 155,563, Vic. 108,956, Q’land 65,664,
S.A. 34,854, W.A. 40,655, Tas. 12,134, N.T.
706; total 418,532.
* * * *
What licenses, etc., are necessary to keep
Angora rabbits in N.S.W. ? Is the breeding
of these rabbits for the wool likely to be a com-
mercial success?
The Department of Agriculture issues a
license in accordance with the terms of the
Pastures Protection Act, and application should
be made to that department. At present market
conditions make the commercial prospects very
doubtful.
* * * ♦
Is there a restriction on the number of hives
which may be kept by N.S.W. beekeepers?
Apiaries must be registered in accordance
with the Apiaries Act, 1916. They are under
the supervision of inspectors appointed by the
Department of Agriculture.
* * * *
Origin of opera?
Dates from Greek times, when the actor de-
claimed his words to an accompaniment of
flutes and lyres. Evolution into its modern
form began when the sixteenth century Floren-
tines Peri and Caccini attempted to combine
music and drama. Monteverde’s “Orfeo,” pro-
duced in 1608, made a great impression on con-
temporary musicians, and the idea spread
rapidly. The first opera house was opened at
Venice in 1637.
* * * *
Where and what is the Goyder line, and why
was it given that name ? Authority for answer ?
The line is the first delineation of a boundary
for wheatgrowing based on an average Min.
rainfall. This line runs from a little north of
Pinaroo (S.A.), in a curve past Eudunda and
Kooringa (S.A.) to Terowie (Vic.), then be-
tween Yongala and Petersburg, then n.-w. to
Mt. Remarkable and south to Moonta (S.A.).
It has lately been extended by improved methods
of dry-farming, but is on the whole still cor-
rect, wheat being profitably grown between it
and the sea, but not to any extent beyond.
Named after George Woodroffe Goyder, Sur-
veyor-General in S.A. Authority: Australian
Encyclopedia.
Brief Answers.
J. 8.: Complain to the Department of Agri-
culture E.S.; Write to the Supervisor of
Correspondence Courses, Technical College,
Latrobe-street, Melbourne K.V.8.: The
N.S.W. Government railways were run at a loss
for the ten pre-war years G.O’C.; Cut across
centre of joint; serve from knuckle side for those
who like muttton well done and from opposite
side for those who prefer it underdone... .M.M.:
Obtainable from Anthony Horderns’, Sydney.
T.F.D’A.-B.: (1) Charcoal or Pencil Fixa-
tive (lOd. per bottle at Penfold’s, 88 Pitt-street,
Sydney). (2) Liquid ink remover (4s. 6d. per
bottle at Wm. Brooks, 99 Pitt-street) E.M.;
Write C/o The Bulletin E.F.W.: Plural
is encyclopaedias F.A.T.: The following
celebrities were notoriously delicate during in-
fancy and childhood; Sir Isaac Newton, Vol-
taire, Rousseau Charles Darwin, Victor Hugo
and Napoleon Length of Port Tack-
son foreshores is 198 miles.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
PF p.
Since Oe» s l» Khan aurp.l.ed the world
The horse has raised morale
From British Isles to Hindustan,
From Capetown to the Vaal.
D.K.P.: Pardonable if you’re young
W.T.: Just a “thought” L. 8.: Keep coming,
....8.G.R.; Nearly....C.M.: Colorless and
conventional T.J.M.: You can still write a
poem to the girl-friend, but you can’t woo “a
maiden fair” with “verse sublime” these days,
. ...F.L.: “Out with a bound” it i5....8.L.:
Write out of your own observation and don’t
try to imagine you’re a dying pioneer....
0.C.: Very nice, very jolly, very dreadful....
8.H..: “Clarion calls” are “as thick as peas”
in our mailbag J.C.H.: Prosy P.K.:
Try elsewhere. D.J.W.: Full of elves and
archaisms Another “clarion call.”
D.F.M.: Patchy L.8.P.: When you can
write such a line as “All his deeds effectuated”
the poem is obviously ineffectuated D.R.:
With a little more backbone the “Ode” would
have found a place J.G.A.: They finish
badly 8.C.: Golden wattle, bluegums,
koalas, songbirds, bees, woolly sheep,
emus and kangaroos somewhat overcrowd a
stanza of four lines... .H.H.S.: There’s a good
short story in “Fair Exchange” R.S.E.: Mix-
ture of pleasing realism and magazine sentimen-
tality 5.8.: Thistledown D.J.H.: Good
horse, but the style’s too slangy and facetious.
F.W.: Shirley will not dream over the
dishwater here.., .R.H.E.: Glad to know that
that parrot who provides the trick-endings
for melodramas is now as far away as New
Guinea... .R.G.8.: Only a par. in it N.W.:
Instead of waiting for her to jump, you
should have thrown Nan overboard....
G.D.S.: “Aimer sat on gulping great
draughts of vodka and cleansing his palate from
time to time with pre-war whisky/’ This
is no place, for fairy-stories M.G.W.:
What’s all that about? E.M.T.: “‘No,
Travers, no,’ he said, ‘kill me if you will but
don’t leave me here alone in this cursed place.’ ”
He will not be lonely in the w.p.b W.W. :
All German majors are, in a sense, “redundant,”
but you’d better have a look at your dictionary
all the same.


B
Th
World folio
ta
ri
a
ws
■ i
m
■fm.
fmA
■ ■
mm.
m
■
■ :
aessas
MECHANISED WARFARE
TN the last world war, Britain evolved the Tank, — out-
*■ standing military weapon of the period and forerunner
of mechanised warfare. Despite their ingenuity in forging
new weapons for battle, the British peoples have con-
tributed more to peace than to war Prominent amongst
the benefits Briiain has bestowed upon the world is the
development, by Courtaulds, of rayon and the lovely
fabrics made from it.
Courtaulds foresaw the potentialities of rayon and
brought it to perfection. Within a generation they had
established vast new industries in Britain, the United
States, Canada and elsewhere. Probably no single
achievement has secured a more widespread improvement
in standards of living everywhere.
The war has restricted the amount of Courtaulds rayons
at present available Research and development con-
tinue, assiduously, and still lovelier rayon fabrics will
reappear when victory is won. Courtaulds will demon-
strate once again that a British firm can lead the world
with new products and ideas destined to benefit all mankind.
Major-General
SIR ERNEST
SWINTON,
K.8.E..C.8..D.5.0..R.E.
The originator of the
Tank, raised and
commanded the
H.S.M.G.C.in 1916 The
tank was first used as a
new weapon in the battle
of the Somme in 1915.
The World s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics distributed
overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd
aiimysfdeade!
It's your fight your money is
needed now. Buy War
Savings Certificates
and 5/- National
Savings
Stamps.
THE CAT FARM
By J. SOMERVILLE BEST.
THE Crocketts had always been great
ones for cats. Barney couldn’t
remember the day when Ma hadn’t
had at least a couple of purring
“fummies” about the place.
But, even to him, eight seemed a bit
over the fence. Especially as Uncle Alf
had always professed to dislike them.
Uncle Alf, it appeared, had no say in
the matter. Since his sister May had
taken it into her head that looking after
him was her share in the war effort,
Uncle Alf couldn’t call his soul his own.
“Cats!” he muttered. “I’ll drown the
lot o’ them yet.”
But somehow or other he never got
round to doing it.
There were only two at the start: a
moth-eaten tabby named Bosker, who
was not all there ; and Nursie, a tor-
toiseshell, who made up for Bosker’s
deficiencies by entertaining all the toms
in the neighborhood and in due course
presenting the house with a batch of five
kittens.
Ma Crockett supplied the eighth one
Sunday afternoon when with Barney and
his wife she paid a family visit to May
and Alf.
“We’ll take along one o’ them half-
grown kittens,” she said. “May was
sayin’ a while ago they was troubled
with mice.”
Barney and Tooney were first to reach
the house, and found Nursie and her
tribe on the verandah. Barney stared
and scratched his sandy thatch.
“Crikey, Unc., what is it? A flamin’
cat farm?”
Uncle Alf grunted and shoved a claw-
ing kitten off his leg.
“Cats!” he growled, “We’ll have ’em
in bed with us soon.”
“Keep your feet warm, anyway,” Ma
wheezed as she came up the path, her
round face beaming and beaded with the
premature heat of the October after-
noon. “Not that you need ’em this
weather. Whew! ”
She stopped on the rickety step that
led up to the sagging verandah and
fanned herself energetically with her hat.
“Dunno why it wants to be so hot on a
Sunday, and me with me armor on.”
“Come inside and get cool,” Auntie
May suggested, in her usual mournful
tones, But Tooney had squatted among
the kittens, filling the doorway with the
spread of her stern. She was built on
much the same lines as her mother-in-
law, but Ma lacked what Uncle Alf
called the “wild look” in Tooney’s eye.
That look, however, was not discernible
how. With a kitten in each hand she was
hauled to her feet, exclaiming soulfully:
“Look, Barney, aren’t they ducky?
There’s not two alike.”
“Fifty-seven varieties,” Barney drawled.
“Get a move on there, love, you’re holdin’
up the traffic.”
Inside was, if anything, hotter than
outside. All the blinds were down for the
sake of coolness, but the only result was
a suffocating gloom. Ma groped her
way to a chair and flopped into it, only
to find herself sitting on yet another cat.
“I like a cat or two meself,” she re-
marked as it struggled out from under
her, “but I draw the line at more than
half a dozen. However many you got?”
“The one you brought makes eight,”
Uncle Alf said darkly. “But I’m going
to shift a few o’ them before they’re
much older.” He sidled across to the
window and pulled up a blind. “And the
first to go’ll be that blanky tom.”
“Why, it’s old Bosker,” Ma cried, and
pulled him back on to her lap.
She waggled a plump forefinger at her
brother. “Don’t you dare do anythink to
Bosker! You know we’ve ’ad ’im since
Barney was goin’ to school.”
Under her hand Bosker arched his back
and purred,
“ ’E’s the knowin’ one. Just look at
’im. Fancy ’im rememberin’ after all
these weeks!”
“Seven cats eatin’ their blanky heads
off, and the blasted place is still full o’
mice,” said Uncle Alf morosely.
“Oh, well, they’re company, ain’t they?
The cats, I mean. I expect sister May
feels a bit lonely sometimes; don’t you,
dearie?”
May nodded lugubriously, “You don’t
know how lonely! It’s all so quiet here
when you’ve been used to the city.
There’s times I think even an air raid’d
be a relief.”
MAY hadn’t talked so glibly of air
raids a year before when the scare
had been on. She’d been glad of the
quiet then, and gloried in the thought of
how far Alf’s place was from the main
road, and how near to a nice deep gully
with plenty of caves where you could
hide in case of an invasion. Funny to
think back and remember how real that
threat had been ; and how many people
had let themselves be stampeded into
doing things they’d never have dreamed
of doing in ordinary times.
Like her coming out here to look after
brother Alf.
“Not that he’s an easy one to do for,”
she confided to Ma and Tooney when
the men had retired with their pipes to
the back verandah. “Cranky! My word,
that man’s as cranky as a crooked stick.
Why, there’s times he don’t even open
his mouth not so much as to say ‘bo’ for
days on end. If it wasn’t for the pussies
I’d be out of my mind. And then he
talks about drowning the poor little pets!
My word, if he did I’d leave him the very
next day. There’s more thankfulness in
one of their little paws than in the whole
of his great hulking body.”
“Now, now,” Ma soothed her, “don’t
let yourself get all upset. You know it’s
just Alf’s way. He don’t mean nothin’
by it. He’s always been inclined to be
kind of sulky like. I s’pose it was livin’
all them years alone with Mother, and
her as deaf as a post, that made ’im that
way. And then livin’ on his own for so
long after that. Poor Alf. We just got
to bear with ’im all We can.”
“It’s all very well for you,” May sniffed.
“And you know what he done?” Re-
membering, May was outraged. “You
know that big blue jug that used to be
Mother’s? Well, one of the kittens that
happened to be taking a drink out of it
when Alf came in got a fright and broke
it. And, my word, if he didn’t go to
market then! That was a good jug, that
was; Mother always liked it. You
wouldn’t get another jug like that these
days. He give ten shillings for that jug.”
“My word,” May said, “he made me
that angry the way he was going on I
planked a ten-shilling note on the table
just to shame him. And you’ll never
believe what that man did. He took it.”
She nodded her head at Tooney.
“That’ll show you. How’d you like to
have to live with a man like that?”
“I wouldn’t!” Tooney said with
emphasis.
Appeased a little. Auntie May went
out to the kitchen and began to get after-
noon-tea, which she did to the accom-
paniment of clamorous yowls from the
seven cats, which, hearing the familiar
clatter of cups and saucers, came stream-
ing in from all directions, swarming up
her legs and swinging on her skirts in a
frantic appeal for nourishment. Even
the newcomer joined in with piteous cries
from the bag in which he’d been left on
the front verandah.
“Well, my goodness,” Ma said. “Don’t
you ever feed them?”
“Feed ’em?” Uncle Alf echoed from
the back steps. “That’s just it; she’s
feeding ’em all day long, and then they’re
lookin’ for it all the time. I’ll scoot a
few o’ them out of that, you watch me.”
“Now, Alf, don’t you hurt them. They
ain’t doing any harm.” May popped a
scrap of damper into Bosker’s open
mouth as he stood on his hind legs to
reach the level of the table.
“Teamin’ ’em to thieve, that’s what
you’re doin’!” Alf took a cloth and
began to flick it around the kitchen,
making a peculiar shooing noise between
his teeth. The cats didn’t seem to take
much notice of him, just circling round
and coming back again from another
angle. It was impossible to watch all
seven at once, and there were always
some who managed to infiltrate and
snatch a titbit from Auntie May’s
traitorous hands. Once he stumbled over
one of them and nearly went down full


vwU.hi,/,/
//'/
m
iiilii
HOGGET
MILITARY TAN
makes ihe shine
AND THE
BOOTS
last ionaer
Because the shine lasts longer, you Took,
smarter. Because the boots last longer,
you're more comfortable. Do yourself
good-get "Nuggef"-the Military lan
with the real, rich mahogany glow.
•42/IA
SCALDS /
HEAL UP
QUICKLY
with
Double “D"
Bums and Scalds need
immediate attention!
The pain* can be eased
and the inflammation
quickly reduced by in-
■ I
A
Be prepared—keep heal-
ing, soothing, Double “D”
Ointment always handy.
stantly applying Double “D” Ointment. It’s the addition of Pure,
Strong Double “D” Eucalyptus that makes this modern Ointment
so soothing, healing and effective. The high antiseptic properties
of Double “D” Ointment will greatly assist in preventing infection
and will also help injuries to heal in double-quick time.
ALWAYS KEEP A JAR OF DOUBLE “D” OINTMENT IN
YOUR MEDICINE CHEST FOR EVERYDAY EMERGENCIES.
•jp-w 1/6 per Jar.
Double D
HEALING SOOTHING ANTISEPTIC
m
i Wm
1
y
m
r
ni
VfM fa Metering !
,When the days of peace come and your new limousine
Is an all-plastic, jet-propelled, super-sixteen
Run on high-octane spirit and geared like a plane—
Complete with your girl-friend beside you again—
You will still for ignition and starting depend
Upon Masse, which battery proved such a friend
When you flew, sailed or drove against Jerries and Japs
And learned to trust Masses in all of those scraps.
There are
fosse Dealers
Everywhere
MB 6-12-43
Masse
| BATTERIES
are tigers for work !
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
length, only saving himself by clutching
at the doorpost.
“Look out what you’re doing! ” Auntie
May said sharply, “That was poor little
Nursie’s tail you trod on.”
Uncle Alf departed in search of moral
support.
“Cats!” he muttered. “If this keeps
on I’m clearin’ out.”
“Oh, now, Unc., it ain’t as bad as
that,” Barney soothed him. “You’re
pretty comfortable here.” He winked.
“And the aunt’s a good cook.”
“If it wasn’t for that” Uncle Alf
began darkly.
There was a wail from the kitchen.
“Just look what he’s been doing. What
a man! Shooing the cats with ray best
afternoon teacloth.”
Uncle Alf looked furtively over his
shoulder.
“Come an’ ’ave a look at the beans,”
he muttered to Barney.
As May made the tea she saw them
disappearing behind the shed. “There now.
Ain’t that just what you’d expect? Well,
it’ll serve ’em right if it’s cold, that’s all.”
“If it wasn’t for the way that woman
can cook,” Uncle Alf was saying, “by
cripes I wouldn’t stand it another day.
Cats! A cove can’t move for ’em day
or night. Did I tell you what they done
to me Sunday suit? That blasted tom!
’E slept in it. And May said it only
served me right, and if I ’adn’t tried to
scoot ’im out but left ’im sleep in the
front room ’e never would’ve gone into
the bedroom at all. Cats! She ought to
’ave a tail ’erself.”
| N half an hour or so All and Barney
*■ came trailing back to the house, Uncle
Alf with his cap more than ever down on
to his eyes, his shoulders hunched and
the inevitable cigarette drooping morosely
from the corner of his lip.
“I thought that’d be the way of it,”
he commented on the inspection of the
beans. “If it ain’t the blight it’s red
spider. There’s always something.”
Barney mooched along with his hands
in his pockets, his hat pushed to the back
of his head and his blue eyes screwed
up against the westering sun. It wasn’t
hi§ worry, thank Gawd ; they wasn’t his
beans. He was sticking to chooks. And
by crikey it was time he was getting
home to feed them.
He put his head in at the kitchen door.
“Hey, there, what about a cuppa tea
before we go? We’ll ’ave to be gettin’ a
move on pretty soon.”
The kitchen was deserted, but Tooney
appeared from the front room.
“Tea’s orf,” she announced. “Auntie
May got mad and cleared it all away.
But here you are, ducky; I saved you a
piece of cake.”
They kissed. Uncle Alf snorted and
peered into the cold teapot. “Well, I’ll
be damned! Never knew ’er to empty
it before.”
Tooney looked at him unsympatheti-
cally. “After the way you been going
on I don’t blame her. Anyway, she’s
coming home with us for a few days, the
poor old thing.”
It was Barney’s turn to exclaim “Well,
I’ll be damned!” But before he could
voice further protest Auntie May had
come out of her bedroom, ready to leave.
“After what I’ve had to put up with,”
she said, “I reckon I’m due for a spell.
You can just look after yourself for a
few days, Alfred. But don’t go persecut-
ing them poor harmless cats while I’m
gone. I hardly know if it’s safe to leave
them with you.”
“We’re certainly not taking them with
us,” Tooney said. “We’ve got two already.
That’s enough for us.”
They hustled her out to the car.
“Come on, Ma; where are you? We
got to get home and feed up.”
But Ma kept them waiting; she was
in the kitchen making a fresh pot of
tea for Uncle Alf.
‘l’ll send you up a pudding by the
baker tomorrow,” she whispered as she
came bustling out at last.
Barney had the engine going before
Uncle Alf remembered the cat they had
brought.
“ ’Ere, wait a bit. You better take that
cat back where ’e belongs,”
He made a dive for the bag, but the
bag was empty. Somehow the cat had
managed to crawl out and join the yowl-
ing horde at afternoon tea. Now, full
and contented, all eight of them sat about
the verandah, cleaning themselves and
enjoying the last bit of sun.
Unele Alf looked at them and scratched
his head.
“ ’Ere, which of the blasted things is
the one you brought?”
“It’s a sort of a tabby,” Ma called.
“With white on its nose.”
There were four tabbies in sight, and
three of them had white noses. Alf tried
to catch all three of them together, but
only succeeded in getting hold of one.
“That ain’t it,” Ma said. “It’s more
stripy than that. Might be that one
jist going up the step.”
Uncle Alf made another grab, but his
luck was out. Every cat in sight went
scampering under the house,
Barney revved up the engine.
Uncle Alf went inside and consoled
himself with Ma’s tea, soaking biscuits
and sucking them thoughtfully. It was
kind of peaceful sitting there on his own.
His face split into a sidelong, unaccus-
tomed grin as he went and sat out on the
step to finish his smoke. ®
By cripes, if any o’ them blanky cats
come about he’d scoot ’em.
But, by cripes, there wasn’t a blanky
cat to be seen!
J T wasn’t until Saturday that Auntie May
* * returned. Previously she’d never been
away for more than a day, and then when
she had returned the cats had all come
purring to meet her. But now there
wasn’t a cat in sight. No cats. No Alf. She
went round the verandah calling the pets
guardedly in case Alf should hear and
be laughing up his sleeve. She might
have known what would happen as soon
as her back was turned, surely he
couldn’t have drowned the whole eight
of them!
Inside the house there was a stuffy
stillness. The grit crunched under her
feet. Flies were picnicking on stale
crumbs and spilt tea on the kitchen table,
while blowflies buzzed indignantly at the
window. Auntie May sat down and cried
a little. Then she took a broom and
began to sweep the floor. But under her
flat bodice rebellion seethed.
Uncle Alf was pulling the last row of
beans when he saw the smoke curling up
from the kitchen chimney. He thought
of dinnertime and licked his lips. It'd
be good to sit down to a nice hot dinner
again.
And now that them cats was out of the
way a man might get a bit of peace.
Funny how they’d all cleared out like
that the minute May left. He supposed
he’d get the blame, but his conscience
was guiltless. Not one of them had
showed up so much as a whisker since
the afternoon she went away.
Trudging up to the house he began to
feel uneasy. A hot dinner wasn’t every-
thing, after all. She’d have a lot to say
about them blanky cats; and how was
he going to convince her he never done
it? She was such a one for nagging
about things. He almost wished she
hadn’t come back at all.
Auntie May met him at the kitchen
door, gaunt and forbidding..
“What’s happened to my cats?”
He mumbled “I dunno what ’appened
to ’em. They jist disappeared the day
you went away.”
“I may be a fool, Alfred,” she said
with dignity, “but I ain’t a big enough
fool to swallow that. As if the whole
eight of them would just disappear! You
drowned them!”
“I tell you I never touched ’em.”
But she only sniffed. “I told you what
would happen if you did. So now I’m
going. Your dinner’s on the table. You
better make the most of it, for it’s the
last that I’ll be cooking for you.”
UNCLE ALF stuffed himself with saus-
ages and mashed potato. It wasn’t
much of a dinner, after all. He could cook
potato and sausages himself. He’d rather
have cooked it and been on his own.
A cove had no peace with a woman about
the place. Always nagging at him about
something. Dirty boots. Tobacco on
the floor. Accusing him of drowning her
blasted cats!
The injustice of it nearly made him
choke. He hadn’t had a flamin’ chance
to drown them. Talk about that old tom
being knowing; he Was too knowing alto-
gether, that was the trouble. Maybe he’d
turn up again now she was back.
Bui she wasn’t going to stay, he sud-
denly realised. He could hear her mov-
ing about in her bedroom, packing. She
was going away again, this time for good.
For a moment he thought regretfully
of her cooking. But eating wasn’t every-
thing, after all.’ And maybe Ma would
keep on sending him puddings.
He poured himself another cup of tea,
letting a few drops spill' on the clean
cloth. She must have been watching him
through the half-open door, for she
pounced at once.
“Upon my word, Alfred, y’ oughter be
ashamed! ”
Her pudding wasn’t as good as Ma’s
anyway. He finished up his third help-
ing, and went out on the steps to have
a smoke. Thank Gawd he was going to
have a bit of peace at last.
Then he saw the cats marching up
from the bush. Bosker, the knowing one,
was in the lead, and after him came
Nursie and all the kittens, their slim tails
waving among the waving grasses.
He thought in despair, “By cripes! A
flamin’ cat farm! ” ]


HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees, Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an impar-
tial Executor with over 65 years’ specialised
experience in the administration of estates,
and the assurance that the interests of your
legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts
are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
£
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated In Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves ■ £ oGoj6 r is,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, 0.8. E.; G. S. Oolman, 0.8. E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder;
John Cadwallader. N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
f
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and Gianufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp battenes,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.t
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 131,213 50,138 25,210 55,865 819,832
Profit sale assets, £3589 .. 823,421
1937.. 140,468 48,753 24,729 66,986 890,407
Reserves drawn upon, £262 .. 890,145
1938.. 149,312 51,214 22,599 75,499 965,644
1939. . 160,077 62,299 21,540 76,238 1,041,882
1940. . 152,653 73,520 22,533 7 , , no - . s „
To tax reserve, £lOOO J 55,6 t 1,097,482
1941.. 155,876 79,197 22,442 54,237 1,151,719
1942.. 156,221 84,427 22,777 49,017 1,200,736
1943.. 164,760 71,560 22,727 70,473 1,271,209
* Includes divs, to shareholders: 1934-35, £5000;
1936. £5500 ; 1937, £5000; 1938-39, £2708;
1940-41, £2917; 1942, £2000; 1943, £1827.
t Apart from capital and tax reserve.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.t
1936.. 197,045 57,571 83,841 55,633 745,942
Profit sale assets, £3201 .. .. 749,143
1937.. 212,338 60,719 87,834 63,785 812,928
Reserves drawn upon, £238 .. 812,690
1938.. 227,462 65,096 86,381 75,985 888,675
1939.. 238,067 76,590 84,343 77,134 965,809
1940. . 253,750 88,130 86,631 7 , RQ , n , 9 „no
To tax reserve, £2500 \ ™ B9 1>042 ' 29S
1941.. 262,563 94,016 86,161 82,386 1,124,684
1942. . 277,821 98,883 87,953 90,985 1,215,669
1943.. 297,725 113,582 92,211 91,932 1,307,601
* Includes divs. to shareholders: 1926-35, £7500 ;
1936, £7000; 1937-38, £7500; 1939-41, £5000;
1942, £3000; 1943, £3229.
t Apart from capital and tax reserve.
The 19-year-old Metropolitan writes
industrial and ordinary assurance con-
tracts in the proportion of about two to
one throughout N. S. Wales, Queensland,
Victoria and S. Aust. Latest accounts
exhibit health combined with progress
and consolidation and strengthening of
the co.’s position. Chief factors affect-
ing the figures of recent years have been
changes in economic conditions and out-
look brought about by contingencies of
war.
Higher war-time mortality, which is
more or less passing in its incidence, the
upward surge of taxation and costs gener-
ally, the pegging of rents and the fall in
interest rates, which is likely to be last-
ing, have yielded a crop of actuarial, in-
vestment and other problems, as well as
cut into the surplus available for distri-
bution among policyholders in this and
all other life offices. Also, difficulties
associated with administration and the
writing of new business were further com-
plicated by service enlistments and call-
ups, which depleted trained field and
office staffs.
Next table shows surpluses available
for distribution among policyholders at
each of the last five quinquennial valua-
tions by the actuary:
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1931 .. £25,779 £19,700 £45,479
1934 .. 28,543 19,747 48,290
19371 .. 36,910 13,242 48,669
1940 . . 33,597 15,071 48,668
1943 . . 23,317 16,609 39,926
The contraction of £10,280 in the 1943
O.D. figure is due to the fall in net
interest earnings and to strengthening of
the basis of valuation. To help preserve
long-range bonus-paying capacity, the
basis of valuation in the O.D. was further
reduced to 2\ p.c. on participating con-
tracts (non-participating ones, equal to
only 8 p.c, of total reserves, are still
valued at 2| p.c.), and reserves against
policies less than a year in force have
been increased to 66.6 p.c. of net pre-
mium liability. Also, in the I.D. provi-
sion was made for payment of premiums
to cease after assured reaches 80 years
of age. Total cost of all this was £39,730
(£22,850 O.D. and £16,880 1.D.), which
means that protection for policy con-
tracts was strengthened by that amount.
In 1940 the basis of valuation was
lowered from 3 p.c. to 2\ p.c. O.D. and
from p.c, to 3 p.c. 1.D., at a total
cost of £45,200. The conservative valua-
tion bases now employed, and consequent
strengthening of actuarial reserves, give
solid grounds for confidence, the actuary
says.
In the O.D. policy bonus rates range
from 16s. p.c. on contracts less than five
years in force to 245. p-c, on those 15
years old or more. On I.D. contracts
which become claims during 1944 incre-
ments to sum assured range from 5 p.c.
for five- to nine-year-old policies to 10
p.c. for 15-year-old contracts, plus 1 p.c.
for each additional year. They are very
satisfactory rates, all things considered.
Combining the figures of both depart-
ments, the amount of new business put
on the books last year was £784,283 (up
£107,454), of which £562,410 (up
£57,420) was industrial and £221,873 (up
£50,034) ordinary. And the business was
handled at less cost. Excluding taxes,
exes, took 15.7 p.c. of O.D. premiums as
against 16.2 p.c. for the previous term
and 18.7 p.c., 1938. Analogous I.D.
figures were 34.8 p.c., 35.8 p.c. and 41.2
p.c. respectively.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., the amount added to assurance
funds wal £162,405, raising them to
£2,484,520, which has the support and
assistance of £100,290 of other reserves,
as well as £50,000 of share capital. Share-
holders have received 10 p.c. p.a. for the
last three years. In the O.D. the co. has
to earn £9 for policyholders before share-
holders are entitled to £l.
After deducting taxation (£5620), last
year’s net return on mean assurance funds
was 3.92 p.c.; so there is still a healthy
margin between assumed and actual earn-
ings. Here is the investment portfolio in
tabloid form:
1942. P.c. 1943. P.c.
Freeholds, etc. .. £268,541 10.8 £247,866 9.3
Govt, securities ..1,691,318 67.6 1,877,988 70.5
Shares other cos... 52,663 2.1 55,356 2.1
Mortgages * .. 280,763 11.2 272,293 10.2
Loans on policies 135,546 5.4 120,396 4.5
Book debts .. 53,841 2.2 74,659 2.8
Cash .. . . 17,796 0.7 15,625 0.6
Available cash is now mostly channelled
into Government securities (up £186,670),
which account for 70.5 p.c. of all assets,
as against 59.7 p.c. at the end of 1939.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
, Dividends, N
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£> £> £/ £•
1934.. 34,272 13,152 4 p.c. t= 20,816 304 153,030
1935.. 48,474 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 9,302 162,332
1936.. 56,686 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 17,514 179,846
1937.. 73,835 13,152 5.8„ „ 29,923 30,759 210,605
1938.. 85,097 13,152 8i „ „ 44,235 27,710 238,315
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 233,315
From contingencies, £13,000.. .. 246,315
1939.. 56,366 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 11,989 258,304
1940.. 66,684 13,152 6 „ „ 31,225 12,307 270,611
Plantations written down £20,000,
“mainly” from inner reserves.
From dividend suspense, £6939 .. 277,550
1941.. 55,306 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 10,929 288,479
To Fiji Bomber Fund, £5OOO .. 283,479
1942.. 61,770 13,152 6 p.c.= 31,224 17,394 300,873
To Fiji Fighter Fund, £5500 .. 295,373
War-risk fund created, £160,000 .. 455,323
1943.. 94,769 13,152 8i p.c.= 44,234 37,383 492,706
To patriotic funds, £7550 .. .. 485,156
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 480,156
1944.. 99,088 13,152 8i p.c.= 44,234 41,702 521,858
To patriotic funds, £7OOO .. .. 514,858
Added to reserves, £193 .. .. 515,051
Extension of war into the south and
sou’-west Pacific involved the principal
Allied Governments in heavy expenditure
in these areas. This expenditure in many
cases far exceeded that of the local
authorities themselves. And there has
been no counterweight of adequately in-
creased supplies on which to spend the
money, especially in small island centres
like Fiji. The wage, price and cost infla-
tion that inevitably followed created
boom conditions, which were assisted by
a sharp increase in demand for copra
and other island products at enhanced
prices after the Jap descended like a wolf
on the fold. To prevent the position get-
ting out of hand a multitude of economic
and other controls have had to be
imposed.
Thus Morris, Hedstrom’s earnings over
the last couple of years have been in-
flated by exceptional and temporary
factors. These now appear to have
passed their peak. There was a slight
contraction (£773) in gross earnings
(£277,102) last term —that was after trans-
fer of an unspecified amount to invest-
ment reserve, which is deducted from the
asset in the published accounts. In the
two previous years the visible expansion
in gross earnings was £47,938 and £39,829
respectively. Including a liberal £35,769
(down £11,197) for depreciation, the
shrinkage in exes. (£191,263) was £5865
last term. Taking into the reckoning
£13,249 (£14,022 in the previous year)
dropped from somewhere into the insur-
ance fund (now £97,969), the net result
stepped up £4319, reaching a record
£99,088. That was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 16.1 p.c. on the
£520,407 of ord. capital as against 15.7,
9.3, 8.3, 8.3 and 13.8 p.c. back to 1938.
The cautious board kept the div. at p.c.
For many years the policy has been to
keep the div. moderate and accumulate
strength, visible and otherwise. Over the
last decade £287,000-odd has been openly
struck off the book value of assets out
of earnings; and in the preceding dozen
years, in addition to ordinary deprecia-
tion allowances, £166,800 was taken from
visible accumulations to write down the
book value of assets and cover hurricane
losses of £12,400. So creation of a war-
risk reserve of £160,000 in 1943 (partly
from the year’s earnings but mostly from
inner reserves) isn’t likely to have ex-
hausted the inner strength. Thus far no
material war damage has been suffered by
the co., thanks to the American Fleet and
Allied land forces, which stopped and
then rolled back the Jap drive into the
Pacific.
Now consider these figures:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £739,613 £739,618 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits .. 4,946 1,631 1,779 2,936
Creditors, etc. 18,999 36,285 61,599 69,527
Plantations .. 49,247 26,508 21,623 20,032
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 803,195 278,070 233,905 196,422
Stocks, etc. ~ 887,110 249,297 . 221,123 236,890
Investments &
cash .. 167,256 411,621 771,786 948,727
Capital value
branches, etc. 92,760 49,510 25,550
Book debts, etc. 133,950 116,113 126,456 96,857
The feature that catches the eye is invest-
ments and cash, up £176,941 last term,
making the growth £781,471 since the
close of accounts in 1940. The item con-
sists of public securities £468,446, cash
£269,786, shares in subsidiaries £115,287,
and shares in other cos. £95,208. The
lot exceeds paid capital by £209,114, and
the amount coming to outsiders is more
than covered by book debts, etc,, alone.
Faced with such an embarrassment of
riches, the chairman has been moved to
remark that:
The investment of so large a sum as
468,446 in Government and municipal stocks
at low rates of interest cannot be considered
very profitable employment of shareholders’
funds. The present possibilities of expan-
sion in Fiji, Samoa and Tonga are limited.
The possibilities of finding more profitable
use for surplus funds is occupying the
attention of the directors, but it seems un-
likely that substantial progress can be
made until after the end of the war.
As for the current term, profits are
expected to be on a “much lower scale
than those achieved during the two
periods ended March 31, 1943 and 1944,”
mainly because there will be less money
in circulation and because of the effects
of controls on profit margins. In Aus-
tralia the ceiling price for the f.-p. £1
ord. shares is 235., whereas they fetch
38s. on the free market in New Zealand.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends
A B Nominal
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
£j £/ £/ £> £•
1934.. 36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4,266 313,209
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 5,167 328.600
1937.. 40,835 10,500 1 9,20 0 2400 8,73 5 337,335
1938.. 39,841 10,500 19,200 2400 7,741 345,076
From contingencies reserve, £51,037 .. 396,113
1939.. 37,876 10,500 19,200 2400 5,776 401,889
1940.. 41,453 10,500 19,200 2400 9,353 411,242
1941.. 36,717 10,500 19,200 2400 4,617 415,859
1942.. 32,360 10,500 19,200 2400 260 416,119
1943.. 37,837 10,500 19,200 2400 5,737 421,856
9 p.c.
1944.. 34,942 10,500 21,600 2400 442 422,298
Added investment reserve, £399 .. .. 422,697
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Harpers occupy a unique position in
the Australian dry-goods field. From the
start the policy has been to fill all execu-
tive positions from those trained in the
business. And the co. trades on short-
term both as buyer and seller, and the
management is, and always has-been,
opposed to “supported accounts,” pre-
ferring to have thousands of customers
on its books rather than be a silent
partner in a more limited number of
retail establishments.
The £430,000 of capital is in 150,000
7 p.c. cum. prefs., 240,000 ords. and
40,000 B (employees’) shares —these last
are entitled to three-fourths of the ord.
div., with a maximum of 6 p.c., but do


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * ♦ *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. 0. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day tor
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2Z), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
f
ACTS
LIKE THE NHIID
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
h
m
Established 1808 in Helen of George HI.
STABILITY
The Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPUING ST., SYDNEY.
■GUV U. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W,
■ . E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
’ , OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY ism 4
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Officer Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
Stop that wasteU
SQUANDER BUG
Empty pockets and purses hand the Squander Bug
a big laugh, but savings make him squirm. Take no
notice of his urgings to extravagance. Keep up your
war savings—Lend your money for Victory.
BUY 6d. War Savings Stamps, from any Money Order
Post Office. OR War Savings Certificates, from any
Bank, Savings Bank, or Money Order Post Office.
OR 5/- National Savings Stamps, from any Savings
Bank or Money Order Post Office.
SMC ** W* 9 **
5C.7.29
HOW TP
LOVE TO
SPENT) IT
ALL! "•
not share in surplus assets. When the
books closed there was £422,290 of re-
serves visibly supporting and assisting
capital, the whole of which and £31,302
besides was invested outside the business
in Commonwealth stock.
Another arresting feature is the steadi-
ness of earnings and distributions. The
ords. have had a regular 8 p.c. since
1918, with bonus additions of 2 p.c. in
1929 and 1930 and 1 p.c. last term.
War bumped up costs and taxation,
created man-power, shipping and other
transport difficulties, and cut off some
profitable business in Asiatic commodi-
ties and the return export trade. Though
demands of the services more than filled
the gap, these contracts carry smaller-
than-usual profit margins and have
limited supplies available for civilian use.
Last term civilian demand and defence
requirements continued on “a high scale,”
and turnover was “quite satisfactory.”
Still, the cautious board wrote net earn-
ings £2895 short of the previous year’s at
£34,942. That was enough to pay pref.-
and B-share divs., and show a wink over
10 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
10.4, 8, 9.9 and 11.9 p.c. back to 1940.
About half the div, comes from invest-
ments.
Here are balance-sheet figures;
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 34,243 45,700 41,359 61,610
Tax reserve .. 20,000 43,000 50,000 50,000
Freeholds .. 144,264 144,401 144,440 148,673
Plant, etc. ~ 38,574 28,912 24,739 21,817
Stocks.. .. 126,616 103,458 120,609 166,265
Sundry debtors 92,241 102,832 69,410 07,485
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 420,487 491,268 520,068 498,517
The growth in stocks (up £45,656) and
sundry creditors (up £20,251) was due to
purchase of materials for two leading
lines shortly before the close of accounts.
The last item in the table consists of
Commonwealth stock £461,302 (up
£10,000), cash £340 (down £31,551),
public-utilities stock £20,000 and deben-
tures and shares in public cos. £16,875.
Exactly what the board proposes to do
ultimately with the money it has thus
far been unable to use in the business the
“Wild Cat” doesn’t know. When the
books closed the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£620,657, up £1929) alone was equal
to approximately 365. per ord. share,
after allowing for return of pref.- and B-
share capital. Post-war repair and reno-
vation of factories will call for only a
fraction of the surplus.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 12,210 10 p.c. = 9000 1 oni „ - orl .
Provident fund, £l2OO J 2010 d2 ’ jl4
1935. . 12,186 10 p.c. = 9000 3186 55,700
1936.. 12,828 10 „ „ 9000 1 , 8 0 8 58 528
Provident fund, £lOOO j
1937.. 11,337 10 p.c. = 9000 2337 60,865
1938.. 12,284 10 „ „ 9000 3284 64,149
1939.. 13,225 10 „ „ 9000 1 o n 9 = fi7l7 .
Provident fund, £l2OO S 30 67,174
Tax suspense taken in, £3OOO .. 70,174
1940.. 14,286 10 p.c. = 9000 1 •
Provident fund, £835 f <4,625
1941.. 13,484 10 p.c. = 9000 ]
W/o freehold, £2650 .A 930 75,555
Provident fund, £904 J
1942.. 13,460 10 p.c. = 9000)
W/o freehold, £l5OO .. J- 2087 77 642
Provident fund, £873 I ’
1943.. 13,447 10 p.c. = 9,000 ]
W/o freehold, £l5OO .. (• 1877 79 519
Provident fund, £lO7O f ’
1944.. 13,180 10 p.c. cr 9000]
W/o freehold, £2OOO .. \ 1075 80,594
Provident fund, £llO5 J
This Adelaide trustee co. was formed
with the blessing of Elder, Smith and Co.
34 years ago, and for the last 24 of them
shareholders have had a regular 10 p.c. p.a.
And, subject to Government interference,
there is nothing at the moment to sug-
gest that the 10 p.c. is likely to be inter-
rupted. Expansion of industrial activity
in South Aus. has helped to increase
the volume of business placed in the ex-
pert care of the co., and so have the
uncertainties created by war, the change
m economic outlook, and the complica-
tions that have arisen from a maze of
legislative and quasi-legislative controls.
Also, the said uncertainties, etc., have
created a need for the revision of wills,
as well as made more apparent than ever
the advantages of the corporate over the
private trustee.
The moderate corpus and other com-
mission charges are anchored by legisla-
tion, as they always have been, which
means that the co. has been unable to
pass on any of the war-time costs infla-
tion. Considering this, and the effect of
financial controls upon interest rates and
rents, and therefore upon returns from
the co.’s own funds, net earnings over
the last five yeas have been remarkably
steady.
The increase in the volume of
business on the books over the last de-
cade amounted to £4,084,486 (equal to
over 34 p.c.), of which £305,240 was in
respect of the last term, which augurs
well for future earnings. Here is a bird’s-
eye view of the business since the end
of World War I:
m . T Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,2X7,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 \
1934.. 12,276,708 41,034 28,824 70 2
1936.. 12,950,598 43,952 31,124 70.5 ”
1938.. 13,791,547 47,207 34,923 73 9
1939.. 13,992,312 50,874 37,649 74.0 ”
1940.. 14,088,070 52,942 38,656 73.0
1941.. 13,958,748 51,321 37,837 73 7
1942.. 16,234.719 53,746 40,286' 74,9 ”
1943.. 16,055,954 66,108 42 661 75 9
1944.. 16,361,194 56,802 43,622 76.1 ”
Last term’s improvement in gross earn-
ings from all sources was £694. Exes,
(up £961) increased by approximately 4s!
p.c. That left the net result £267 lighter
at 14.7 p.c. on capital as against 14.9 p.c.
for 1943. After striking £2OOO off
the book value of freehold and sending
£llO5 to the staff provident fund, £1075
was visibly put in the cupboard, raising
the lay-by to within £9406 of paid capi-
tal. This means that capital and visible
reserves combined have to turn in only a
shade over 5.2 p.c. to pay 10 p.c. on
capital alone —earnings from the co.’s
own funds and other sources aren’t sepa-
rated in the published accounts.
At the end of March last the £90,000
of paid capital—it is in 360,000 pound
shares paid - to ss. each—and £985 coming
to outsiders were represented by public
securities £99,967, freehold, etc., £60,700,
book debts £12,511 and cash £4OOB.
Maxwell Consolidated, Daylesford
(Vic.), which recorded a loss of £6698 for
the year to the end of November, 1943,
has received a Government grant of £4O
a week, retrospective to October last,
for dewatering and essential maintenance
purposes. Operations ceased in October,
1943, owing to the man-power position.
The main fcaft is down 856£t. in dean
east-dipping slate country. The manage-
ment says large bodies of Bdwt. ore
remain to be worked in the north and
south faces on the 500 ft. level, while the
vein going north on the 400 ft. level con-
tinues and is showing “good values.”
Also, there are indications of “payable
ore” awaiting further development at a
number of points in thimine. _
J il r recen, t'. y
SLjcJnnS r Goverame u nt , s
ft had
, f wt-r uA 0 ! an r or m
dried^ ut
dr ‘ ed r u P- Now State and Commonwealth
SaranfS nn S >Jnm I if * J ° m
f ; U /P a y ea J gainst
from ° f S ° d a " d arS6mC
m low-grade ore. #
PinA Qnnn au * \ i a t
S f ec ’ Pllbar ? (W - A f bas as ked for
another twopence from the 2s. contnbs.,
making them paid to Is. lid. each. This
is the sixth call since the Commonwealth
Minerals Production committee increased
its development and equipment grant
u°m £ISJX){) to £50,000 and stipulated
that shareholders would have to do their
bit as well. The new plant was officially
timed to kick off months ago, but has
not yet done so. Optimists believe that
the co.’s future will be all right.
From London: A total of 14 bore-
holes over a distance of some 10 miles
from north to south in the northern sec-
tion of the Orange Free State have indi-
cated payable gold values. Only shaft
sinking and subsequent development
along lengthy stretches of the reef, which
arm t likely to be undertaken until after
the war, will prove definitely whether
this new field contains mines worth work-
ing. Meantime, shares in cos. interested
af e.being up and^up.
1, . • * 1 ,
Th y^f,. ha l been “ the “ ws lateI >'-
bee J d ?“?? d for “fo-
m • ly ? e 'T lu,k J
!Mu , rc t es ° f hes and
“h ,T P lir . d fo .- r b °‘ h Ger ™ a °l
f nd tbe Al,les - , Pr f: wa { p “ rO P e Produced
les f than onc , enth ot the worlds out-
P“»; i Producing areas were Southern
W ‘f h To, ,' firm ? ’
output.’ Followtng the Sap occupation ol
supplies to the Allies became scarce
Economy and replacement of tungsten
with other alloys, especially molybdenum,
hel P ed to ease the and Produc-
tion outside Eur^pe was intensified,
chiefl y in USA - and Bolivia. Supplies
tc> e Allies are now past the critical
sta S e > whereas Germany’s are fast drying
up—Portugal is the only remaining
European source from which Fritz can
obtain the stuff in limited s l
* * * *
H. C. Porter, who recently died in
London, was on the board of Gold Fields
Australian Development Co. He was also
chairman of Consolidated Goldfields of
S. Africa, Goldfields American Develop-
ment and New Consolidated Goldfields—
last-named is a large shareholder in Lake
View and Wiluna—as well as a director
of 11 other mining ventures, including
Pato Mines and Oroville Dredging.


or
Work
IS \
Cocoa puts
heart into a man.
Particularly the chap
who is working long
shifts. Bournville Cocoa creates warmth and energy,
and helps protect you against cold and fatigue. It
is a food in drink form, a half-pint cup of Bourn-
ville Cocoa, made with milk and sugar, having the
nourishment of two eggs. Ask for Bourn ville the
Cocoa with that real chocolaty flavour. Despite the
demands’ of the Services, it is still obtainable.
caobom ‘s ~
BOURN VILLE
COCOA
Made hy the makers of Dairy Milk Chocolate and Energy Chocolate
8CP4.15
beSSse®
imH FOR
W
.IRE
OR
tRE
BLACK;
UNUSED
BARBED WIRE
h/permits required
NO FILLING IN FORMS
Because there is no possibility of securing galvanised
barbed wire for some considerable time, the Department
of Supply and Shipping has arranged for the immediate
release of stocks of black, unused BARBED WIRE from
Military Country Depots. Don’t let your fences go to ruin
—begin your repairs now! This wire is cheap enough to
allow for a double top strand to be used. For prompt
delivery, place your order at once with your local Store-
keeper or Merchant. No permits required—no forms to
fill in—but supplies are limited.
ƒ
28 LB. COILS
€l5O yards approximately)—
1 ton equals 7 miles. This wire Is
12£*point gauge, four-point barbs,
AND HAS NEVER BEEN USED. Ex-
cept for some weather rusting it is
in good condition.
NOW FROM YOUR LOCAL STOREKEEPER OR MERCHANT
SSI/26
T
HE EXPERIENCE
:
s?'
GAINED IN TRUCKS
FOR WAR WILL MAKE OUR
iJSf WARpODUCfS
*3*
even toughe ran dm ore!
m
DE PE N DABLE
THAN THEY WIRE tEfOJRJI
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN'S
TRUCKS
and utilities
CHEVROLET - MAPLE LEAF - G.M.C. - BEDFORD
General Motors-Hol<Jen's Ltd.
AT. 786
THIWISMID
iSL
m
i
tIPTAJJ C 1941
Look ahead, young Captain Cook of 1944! A new world of opportunity
is opening before you. A world where distance is banished, and no place
is more than 60 hours journey from your home. A world teeming with
interest and reward . . . yours to explore, to develop, and in which to
prosper. This is the brave new world of the modern air age.
Australian National Airways-lhe world's greatest internal airline system
- has brought this age nearer by establishing an efficient, dependable
service of air communication-a service that may be depended upon to
serve Australia well in the post-war international development of aviation.
Mm
'll III 1 ’
INVEST ALL YOU CAN IN VICTORY BONDS.
USTRALIAN
I*
FIRST IN PEACE
TIONAL
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IN WAR
RWAYS
. FIRST IN FUTURE


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
Pacific Boundary Ride.
“Ek Dum”: Though dwarfed
operations in Europe and taking thirc
place in the news, the doings of Allie
Pacific commanders have been accordin
to the motto “Every day a step on tl
way.”
Admiral Nimitz in particular has tl
ball at his feet at the moment, and othe
are efficiently getting ready to take h
passes.
In any other kind of war what Admira
Nimitz is doing, and what his colleagu
are doing, round a piece of the Pacif
the size of several Europes would s
the world agog and dwarf other event
And when the history of the war come
to be written the admiral will have th
satisfaction of knowing that his opera
tions are those likely to be picked out
novel and strange beyond any previou
events in war, if only by reason of th
breadth of the field of battle and th
remarkable manner in which widespreac
blows are correlated.
Noemfoor Island Taken
In the South-west Pacific, at th
southern corner of the Pacific Wa
board, at 8 a.m. on July 2 America
forces landed on the high, rugged Noem
foor Island in Geelvink Bay, 55 mile
from Biak Island, though the invasio
was made from a mainland base 10'
miles away.
A mixed force, backed by a naval bom
bardment squadron including H.M.A.S
Australia, Arunta and Warramunga, wa
put ashore. It included an R.A.A.F
works wing and the usual strong detach
ment of engineers, complete with bull
dozers.
Meanwhile, parachute troops hac
landed on and taken Kamiri aerodrome
which lies on the shore under the shadow
of the heights of the island, along witi
the remains of 30 enemy aircraft, only
visible relics of a fortnight of heavy
battering by Allied air units.
Save for a little artillery fire there
was no resistance from the garrison, anc
the invaders began at once to deploy
against the remaining airfields. Resist
ance developing later was scattered by
the air co-operation squadrons, largely
R.A.A.F. Kittyhawks.
By the week-end only one airstrip re-
mained in enemy hands. And a smal
force of infantry had been landed on
Manim, a small island off the south-wes
of Noemfoor. Toward the end of the
week there were some resistance and a
counter-attack or two by the enemy south
of Kamiri, which is near the n.-w. ol
the island, but the ultimate results ol
the landing were never in doubt. By
July 10 the whole area of about 150
square miles—there is no harbor —was
under control.
South, east, west and north of Noem-
foor, on an arc 2000 miles long, bombers
operated from Palau to the Solomons,
and the trail to Saipan, via Yap, was
marked by substantial explosions, some
of them over Rabaul, Kaevieng, Wewak
area, Truk and Nauru,
Saipan Captured
On Saipan (Marianas) at the middle
of the week the resistance across the
waistline of the island had been broken.
Oarapan, the capital, was fully in U.S.
hands. The first thousands of civilian
Japanese subjects—Japanese, Koreans,
Chamorros were behind wire in com-
pounds. Other thousands were huddled
rn a few square miles of the northern tip
j ls *and with the remainder of the
oerenders, who seemed determined to
t° P°'ht of annihilation.
w u ere reported on July Bto be
S n ot these > remnants of an original
-0,000, separated from Japan by 1400
Pmles of sea.
Their last desperate counter-attack was
luade on July 6, when they penetrated
U.S lines for 2000 yards to the outskirts
of Tanapag the port on the west coast
Just north of Garapan. But the attack
enem y killed were estimated
at an end 0n
uly 8, and the Japs had failed in an
attempt to get part of their force away
in barges.
Guam, Rota and Tinian and targets
in the Philippines had been attacked
from the air.
On to Bonin
A U.S. Pacific naval communiqu
issued on July 5 was concerned witi
events 800 miles closer to Japan on th
Tuesday of the previous week. It wa
announced that preliminary reports o
operations against the Bonins and Vo-
cano Islands showed that the Volcan
H.Q. had been shelled by cruisers anc
destroyers, three destroyers had bee
sunk or beached, a large cargo vesse
and a tanker sunk, a destroyer left sti
and burning and several small vesse s
and harbor installations damagec.
Twenty-five enemy aircraft were sho
down and several damaged on th
ground. All for a gross loss of six Alliec
aircraft, no naval vessels being damagec.
Carrier aircraft on the previous da
had shot down 39 enemy aircraft anc
probably destroyed 16 more, beside
smashing 24 on the ground.
On July 3 carrier-borne ’planes ove
the Bonins destroyed 32 enemy aircraf
including 19 two-engined bombers, anc
another 98 were damaged on the grounc,
Next Stop Sasebo
The next stop on the Pacific wa
circle was in Kyushu, in Japan proper
where B29’s appeared on July 7 for th
second time in a month. They attache
Sasebo, one of the greatest Japanes
naval bases, and the Yawata and Omur
iron and steel centres. Tokyo reportec
that Nagasaki had been attacked anc
small fires started there, Tokyo said tha
only 10 machines had been used ; thai
they had arrived about 10 p.m. and ha
been promptly intercepted and repulsec.
It was claimed that four B29’s had been
shot down.
The raiders reported that all thei
machines reached bases safely, and tha
they had met only meagre ack-ack anc
weak fighter opposition.
Operations in China
At the same time U.S. raids were re-
ported 800 miles away on the China coast
at Hangchow and Laoyao, on Hangchow
Bay, south of Shanghai. These are fuel-
ling ports for the Japanese navy anc
air force, and probably supply, bases for
the forces engaged on the Canton-
Hangkow railway. The raids made a fine
salute to the seventh anniversary of the
beginning of the war in China.
Still another 600 miles away by air
line, the Chinese were holding their own
celebration, with the help of General
Chennault’s 14th Air Force. Chungking
announced the grand news that, after
General Chennault’s men had flown 3570
sorties from May 29 to July 5 and had
killed and wounded (on the official
estimate) 14,000 Japanese in strafing runs,
the remains of six enemy divisions which
had set out from Hankow to drive
towards Canton had been turned back.
Henyang had been relieved, the Japanese
had been routed 12 miles to the west,
and bitter fighting was going on on July
8 45 miles north-west of Yungfeng.
The Japanese force which had left
Canton to join the one from Hankow
had been stopped in its tracks, but it was
too early to say that the Chinese had won
complete victory in the area, though it
seems the enemy might have abandoned
his purpose.
Rout in Manipur
Another hop of 1200-1400 miles brings
the traveller to the Assam-Mogaung
Valley fronts of Burma. There the
Chinese had pushed 12 miles south of
Mogaung, but the Japanese were show-
ing more activity against British forces as
the danger to Myitkyina increased.
In Manipur, mopping up continued in
the Ukhrul area round the enemy’s main
base, and he was still losing heavily in
men and materials as he withdrew, with
his two defence areas north of the Imphal
road hemmed in by British troops.
It was announced that the defenders of
Imphal alone had killed 11,000 Japanese
since the beginning of Match.
Timor Raided
A boundary ride of the week’s Pacific -
Asian operation area was completed with
a view of RAA.F. bombing of Timor
and other points east on the north of Aus-
tralia. The length of the “border fence”
of the war area on which there were
actual operations was nearly 13,000 miles,
equal to from Melbourne to Glasgow,
via the Cape.
Added to this Mr. Forrestal, U.S. Naval
Secretary, announced that great successes
had been achieved by submarines, which
deserved the lion’s share in knocking the
props from under Japan’s conquests.
Since January, 1942, they were credited
with sinking 570 of the 740 ships lost by
Japan, and latest sinkings were 17 ships,
including a light cruiser, a destroyer, two
tankers and 13 cargo ships.
Caen Falls.
“Ek Dum”: The first two days of Ju
saw the British bridgehead across t
little Odon River, south-west of Cae
well established. Six of the ten roac
which enter Caen like the spokes of
wheel were in Allied hands some distan
from the city—two on the coastal sid
in the direction of the Seine mouth ; t]
road which marches with railway ar
canal to Ouisterham on the shore, eig
miles from the city ; the highway throuj
Carpiquet junction, a little less than fou
miles west of the city, which paralle
the railway across the Seulles to Bayeux
the road through Carpiquet and Fontena
to Torigny, a junction for St. Lo, Gra
ville and Vire, and the direct highway
Vire through Tourville.
The Canadians put the finishing touc
to the closing-in operation at dawn o
July 3.
Before daylight that morning the coun
tryside shook under a new creeping ba
rage, preceded by the kind of saturatio
bombardment which was made standarc
in Italy. The background was provider
by naval guns out at sea. The bombard
ment was so heavy that it appears to hav
sounded to Berlin like preparations fo
a main attack on Caen, especially as gust
clouds of rocket-firing Typhoons bega
to dive on enemy positions; but it wa
merely a preliminary to a movement b
the Canadians on Carpiquet, its cros
roads and its aerodrome, by the wic
prairie on whose other edges lie the Hip
podrome and the Grand Cours, along th
Orne, and the Bassin de St, Pierre anc
Gare d’Etat and the inner features of th
harbor.
British troops came in from the sout
to jockey the German front a little side
ways while the Canadians pushed on
towards the aerodrome. This they founc
ploughed up but strongly defended. It i
on the south of the village. By early nex
day the Canadians had taken Carpiquet
The British, on their right, had cap
tured Verson a few miles to the south
and joined up with the troops across the
Odon. Thus they widened the bridgeheac
east of that river.
The Canadians had still to fight to clear
some of the buildings in Carpiquet.
Behind them smoke issued from strong
concrete dugouts and defended farm-
steads and ditches. There had been mined
roads to be cleared up. There had been
positions which flame-throwers were
needed to clear. There were pockets of
resistance whose inmates remained dumb
and inactive while the Canadians passed
over them and then began to play merry
Hades from the rear. And all the way
the advance was up a gentle slope of fer-
tile, rising ground.
The Canadians made it. They could
see the houses of Caen only a couple of
miles away, and the gentle slope behind
them provided the kind of approach to
please tankmasters —a summit behind
which mastodons might lie hull down
and blast away to their hearts’ content,
and from which front-line mobile artil-
lery might do its worst.
Americans at La Haye
While the Canadians began their attack,
another movement had developed at the
base of the Co ten tin area. Having taken
Cherbourg and subdued the Cotentin, the
U.S. forces went back to the starting
line of their advance on the port and
began to move in exactly the opposite
direction—due south against the main
“lock-gate” ot the peninsula, formed by
the triangle of roads between Carentan,
standing on its low mound on the cast
amid the dairying lands of the Douve, to
Coutances, with its tall towers on the west,
and St. Lo, far away to the south-east of
Carentan.
In the attack on this block of Norman
soil there was plenty of variety of coun-
try to be tackled. And the Americans
synchronised their assault with other
operations round Caen, so as to achieve
a double objective— to gain vantage
points for advance to the Granville-Paris
railway and road and threaten the Ger-
man left flank, and to pin down as many
Germans as possible while the British-
Canadians, with the assistance of airmen
from all over the world, including many
Australians, and of the Royal Navy,
wrestled with the defenders of Caen, The
Americans’ positions in the north lay along
the light railway from Carentan to Barne-
ville, of which the two control points to
be attacked were the road junctions on
the light railway of La Haye-du-Puits
(Cherbourg-Lessay-Coutances road) and
the little village of St. lores, halfway be-
tween Carentan and La Haye, which
forms a lock in a road from Cherbourg
to Coutances, down the centre of the
Cotentin.
From here their way lay across dyked
and flooded fields screened with hedge-
rows. Such fields as were not inundated
by the Germans would be stripped, or
nearly so, it being the hay season.
The second U.S. approach direction
was from Bayeux through the forest of
Cerisy. The Carentan-St. Lo road to the
west is on the fringes of this forest coun-
try. The Bayeux highway to St. Lo used
to be a typical Norman highway through
the forest—white surface, running straight
for miles with gentle undulations, though
it may have changed of late.
The Germans dug concrete emplace-
ments in the forest dapple. They had
tanks and mobile machine-gun carriers
lurking behind smashed walls.
The Americans began their advance
from the north, across the 20-mile front
of the Carentan-St. Sauveur-le-Vicomte
line. Here were the sunken fields and
hedgerows. Already as they edged for-
ward they could see very much of the
ruin of war on the horizon.
Across the chessboard of this lowland
are villages, each with its church spire
as a marker; but most of these spires
already had been knocked down. And
the guns were seeking out the villages,
for to attackers villages must be regarded
as fortresses.
In the centre of their 20-mile line the
U.S. battalions at first met little resist-
ance, and the little village of St. lores
fell in the first few hours. But on the
western flank it was far harder. Rain
had been falling for three days. Water
in the lower fields was knee-deep. The
infantry had to crawl in mud sown with
booby traps. The dykes cut up the area
in front into squares like those of an
Oriental rice farm, but on top of them
shrubby hedges afforded extra cover. To
get into a field without the flanks being
cleared meant facing the risk of being
fired at from three sides by enemies who
could not be seen. Many walls, too, and
distant dells and bits of copse or farms
made mortar and machine-gun cover.
The enemy was fighting a skilful battle.
He used his mortars freely and blanketed
each field as it was invaded with his
snipers and automatic riflemen.
Literally every inch had to be fought
for. But towards evening the Americans
felt better when they captured a hill
which dominates the approaches of La
Haye du Puits, especially as the weather
had improved.
Into La Haye
Next day, if anything, resistance had
increased. Each field contained a sepa-
rate battleground. The under-hedge tun-
nels were still in use by the enemy. On
July 5 the advancing troops within short
range of La Haye were suffering heavily
from blasting by German mortars and
heavy machine-guns, but their own gun
support was good, and the break of the
weather, which was now sunny for a
while, enabled the air force to do its
part more thoroughly.
On the afternoon of July 5 bloody
fighting on a smallish scale was going on
in the outskirts of La Haye, though the
road into it from the north was still under
German fire and far from safe, the east
flank not having been fully secured.
All day on July 5 the battle raged for
La Haye. The enemy counter-attacked
fiercely and twice drove the Americans
out. They came back. Also they worked
round the flanks of the town east and
west with considerable success, but it
seemed that the little village would not
have one ancient Norman stone on top of
another by the time it had been captured.
At the week-end La Haye had still not
been lully subdued. Nevertheless, it cer-
tainly had been outflanked on the east


iy
i
m
. . . the Kiddies' room of 194 X
—Masonite, of course.
When the war ends your kiddies won’t be babies
any more. Your post-war home will have to in-
clude a room which will be theirs exclusively •..
a room with a floor that can “take it” ... a floor
of Masonite Tempered Presdwood. The fittings
and furniture will also have to be of this steel-
strong, knock-proof wonder board because Tem-
pered Presdwood can withstand all the bumps
and thuds those lovable young barbarians can
provide! The walls? Masonite Presdwood,
bevelled and grooved, creating an environment
of which those kiddies may well be proud.
0
,
MAIO-14
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD...TEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.
SALES DIVISION. 369 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
Reasonable supplies of Presdwood and Tempered
Presdwood obtainab e from all builders’ > liers,
timber merchants and hardware stores.
The MERCURY 51m. LATHE
ff
“THE little GIANT
of the Lathe World
AVAILABLE FOR CASH or EASY TERMS
Manufactured by . v .
Sole N.Z. Dist. Agents:
A, M, Satterthwaite
- & Co. Ltd.
Hereford St.. Christchurch
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co.Pty.Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY. BRISBANE,
If or Victoria:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 38 Market St., Melbourne.
Sole N.S.W. Dist. Agents:
Jhos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney
and, with another roaring barrage for
prelude, the U.S. forces extended their
Cotentin front 10 miles and began to pour
down from the sector between Bayeux
and Carentan through the fields and
glades towards St, Lo.
The fighting here was not so hard.
The Americans attacked St. Jean de Daye
across the Vire River, eight miles from
St. Lo itself. Thus they were swinging a
claw round north of St. Lo towards the
west coast and the Perier road in a
movement to cut off all Germans in the
La Haye-Lessay area. At midday on July
8 St. Jean de Daye fell.
Battle at Caen
At this time, a few miles to the east,
die main battle for Caen had been joined,
the biggest and fiercest which has been
fought in north-western Europe since
1918.
The morning of July 6, a month from
the landing, was sunny and hot.
The Germans still held the Carpiquet
aerodrome perimeter. All the boundaries
of the aerodrome were covered by a
great machine-gun pit in the centre. The
intermediate space all round the pit was
honeycombed with tunnels, some with
three and four entrances. Tanks were
dug in to blast all approaches.
All the week the Germans had counter-
attacked savagely both at Carpiquet and
south-west of Caen. Sometimes British
and Canadians were compelled to with-
draw before these dizzying onslaughts, but
usually they retrieved their losses.
The Germans were taking no chances
that the Orne would be crossed south of
the city. They knew that the two horns
of the British crushing movement were
gathering strength.
A few days before the British east of
the Orne canal, between Caen and the
coast, had had merely a holding force.
But Berlin had reported with concern the
landing of new bodies of troops and great
quantities of armament and stores on
that side. The remaining roads out of
Caen through the open eastern country
towards the Seine had to be kept open.
But the British were not concerned with
surrounding Caen. They were not con-
cerned with crossing the Orne to the
south. Indeed, it turned out to be their
intention to use the 150 ft.-wide Orne as
an obstacle to keep off the Germans
themselves; while they closed their
northern and western and, s.-w, fists on
Caen and crushed its defence out of
existence. They broke down all the
bridges on the south.
Mounting Air Attack
Their programme became obvious
when, on July 5-6, it being for the most
part fine and sunny, the air attack was
intensified.
It spread away to the south and east
along every German line of communica-
tion, road, rail, canal or river. It blasted
bridges across rivers other than the Orne,
tore up trains and supply columns, sought
out tank and artillery laagers. Generally
the air forces had a high old time.
The Germans themselves stepped up
their air defence. The whole countryside
seemed to be a solid field of flak along
vital communication lines, and there were
considerable air battles over 30,000 square
miles of country in which the enemy lost
at least 35 machines.
On Saturday morning, July 8, after
fierce German counter-strokes on both
British and American flanks of the 50-
mile line from Caen to the west coast of
the peninsula, the main attack on Caen
itself began as the two fists on each side
of the already wrecked city started to
squeeze together on the hinge of a strong
centre.
The opening blow was the dumping of
2000 tons of bombs in large helpings on
the town defences by Lancasters and
Halifaxes under a sky streaming with
fighters.
It was a withering blast, watched from
shivering treetops in the distance by
Tommies and Canucks. Then the guns
opened up—this time with a roar such
as Normandy had never heard.
Tanks and infantry went in with the
first light of dawn ; in the north across
more open ground towards the factory
area ; in the west and south-west through
fields and undulating country, with a few
farmhouses and churched villages. In
much of this landscape, as daylight ad-
vanced, farmers went to their work and
tended their livestock underneath the
screaming shells, giving an air of unreality
to the scene.
At one point over which the storm had
swept a 8.8. C. reporter came on Tommies
feeding hutched rabbits at a farm. But
in the forward areas the fighting was hard
and bitter.
Strong Defences
Neither tanks nor infantry could ad-
vance independently. They went together,
the infantry as scouts and flank and rear
guards, like destroyers and gunboats
screening a battleship. They found ahead
an area skilfully fortified. In the west
one tank ditch negotiated was 700 yards
long and had seven-foot-deep vertical
sides. Every wood, every church and
every building held fiercely fighting Ger-
mans, and they did not lack artillery.
Their 88’s and mortars pounded the
frontal battlefield incessantly with a
horrible intensity. The Spandaus were in
clumps. The heavies sent their shells
screaming from both sides. It was clear
that the enemy intended to fight every
inch of the way and that his combat
teams knew their jobs.
He had a heavy stake to hold. Caen
was a pivot of his western defence
lines of Paris, and its conquest and a
shattering of the lines holding it on the
south-east would clear the way across the
open country between Falaise and the
Seine mouth and up the river—broad
valleys with highways which run dead
straight or in lordly curves all the way to
Evreux and Ivry.
The enemy must keep sufficient armor
in readiness to fight a major tank and
artillery battle of manoeuvre in this area
so soon as Caen was in Allied hands.
Moreover, with the American active front
extending further through the Cerisy
Forest down the Caen-Caumont-Gran-
ville road to form a new claw across the
highways leading to St. Lo from the
south, the enemy became faced with the
movement which was foreshadowed here
at the end of the article on Normandy
last week—a double thrust stemming
from the centre of the Allied beachhead,
the British thrusting south-east and the
Americans south and south-west towards
the base of the Breton Peninsula, which
holds Brest.
The American drives were strong by
this time —a great scooping movement by
one claw down the coast from the Cotentin
by La Haye, with the other arm coming
up the Perier road after it had scored
across the Vire and the Vire Canal under
heavy fire ; the second budding off from
this southward to swing the six or eight
miles down the St. Lo road to that city
and meet the Caumont advance in a
crunching movement which would
squash out the defence.
About 30 hours after the attack on
Caen began the wrecked city was cap-
tured by the British and Canadians. It
was not a city any more. It was an-
other Cassino, reduced lo rubble and
junks of stone and concrete. The lessons
of Cassino were repeated—where infan-
try attack is preceded by first-class bomb-
ing the infantry must go without tank
support, since tanks cannot manage the
craters and piled buildings with the neces-
sary flexibility of movement. This time
the job had been done so thoroughly
and the artillery bombardment had been
so vicious that most of the Germans
were out of the city, though there was
strong resistance, overcome with tommy-
gun, grenade, mortar and flame-thrower.
There remained a pocket in an area in
the north-east which took a little cleaning
up —remnants of a badly-smashed divi-
sion and a half.
Coming Events
La Haye in the meantime was com-
pletely mastered by the U.S. troops, and
the Germans along a 50-mile line found
the attackers with a versatile selection of
objectives; a drive straight to Granville
down the coast in the west via Coutances,
outflanking St. Lo ; the attack on St. Lo
—very strong; the town is built on a
huge flat rock position, and its central
Place des Beaux Regards looks down the
steep precipice into the Vire River, which
bisects the city area,
And lastly the Germans must prepare
for the drive into the eastern end of the
Seine Bay shores from the British sectdr.
It is clear that the next few weeks
will see major events m France. The
strength is there, the way open for main
opening battles of manoeuvre which will
decide at least the fate of western France,
And 80 f ar General Montgomery has
shown a great skill and has once more
confounded the silly critics of the jungle-
trail-and-sandshoe-school who hold that
the first, duty of a landing force is inl-
mediate infiltration at any cost for as far
as its units can go.
It is part of the general’s technique that
jj e never strikes till he has created tools
powerful enough to punch a hole,
During the week Marshal von Rund-
stedt was recalled from his command in
France on the ground of ill-health,
Hitler promising him suitable employ-
ment elsewhere. He has been replaced
by Marshal von Kluge,
With the German public his reputation
j s akin to that of General Montgomery
among the Allies, and so far the German
High Command has taken great care not
to allow him to be associated with a
retreat.
Flying-bomb Effects.
“Ek Dum”: Day and night, in fair
weather and foul, flying bombs continue
to land in southern England and mainly
in London, destroying more houses,
wrecking more hospitals and churches,
killing more women and children.
Every day the problem which they
create occupies the time of hundreds of
heavy R.A.F. and U.S.A.F. machines,
bringing down bombs and blasting out lairs.
It is certain now that the attack is only
in its infancy, and that the one sure anti-
dote for it is actual capture of all the
land area within range of the launching
platforms or guns.
The problem of shooting down bombs,
as Mr. Churchill said, is the novel one
of chasing a projectile which travels
sometimes less than 1000 feet above the
ground at the rate of 528 feet per second.
To achieve this in the dark or in a
cloud or a London “pea-souper” or with
the sun in your eyes is next to useless,
especially as the speed of ’planes usually
is less than their prey at so low an alti-
tude. Beside the bomb weights of big
raids on Germany and France, the figures
for the flying-bomb attacks given by Mr.
Churchill convey little to the imagination
—2752 bombs which landed between June
15 and 6 a.m, on July 6 killed 2752 people
and wounded 8000-odd.
Worked on a daily average, however,
it means that, the clock round, at un-
known intervals, the English people,
mainly of London, have had six one-ton
bombs an hour on an average day and
night during that time.
In weight, the three weeks’ issue has
been equal to the monthly issue during
three months of the worst of the older
London blitz September, October.
November, 1940—though there has not
been the same dispersion. Average weight
per bomb in 1940 was about 3501 b. The
flying bomb weighs 22001 b. Where they
hit the damage is widespread. In 1940
a 10001 b. bomb, such as that buried in
front of St. Paul’s, was a sensation.
It transpires that a bomb struck the
Royal Military Chapel in the Wellington
Barracks (H.Q. of the Brigade ot
Guards), off Birdcage Walk, during a
service, killing Lord Edward Hay, colonel
of the Grenadiers, many Guardsmen.
Squadron-Leader Wood, R.A.A.F., and
A. E. Berry, of the Australian Tex-
tile Mission. The explosion wrecked the
chapel with its many memorials to
kings and great soldiers; the most
prorqinent commemorates the 14,85 u
Guardsmen who gave their lives in 1914-
18. The chapel is halfway between Buck-
ingham Palace and the Houses of Parlia-
ment, a quarter of a mile from each and
about the same from 10 Downing-street.
The appointment of a committee which
includes the heads of British anti-air


What a
Trustee Company
Will Do
In the whole realm of human affairs no responsibility presses so heavily as
trusteeship for others. That is why the Union Trustee Company was formed
in 1885 to provide security and the requisite experience to those with family
obligations. Under special Acts of Parliament passed in Victoria, N.S.W.
and Queensland, the Union Trustee Company:
Will act as Executor of your estate.
Will act as Trustee by direct
appointment, or in place of a trustee
who desires, for health or other
reasons, to relinquish his trust.
Will act as Administrator of a will
where an executor declines, or, by
consent of next-of-kin, will act as
Administrator where there is no will.
Will act as Attorney or Agent for
the management of property.
Will act as Manager of the estate
of an insane or incapable person, or
as Guardian of the estate of infant
children.
Will act aS Trustee for the holders
of debentures.
In all these cases the Union Trustee Company, with many years of proved
capacity behind it, will at small cost relieve the individual of onerous duties
and exacting responsibilities.
Write for free booklet.
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
J* 9* Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson
General Manager : Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager ; John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector ; H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD s
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman)
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson- '
„ T _ Horn Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD;
k.b. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman)-
•A. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.E.;
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, M.C., f.c.„, ~
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a„ a.i.c.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, A.F.1.A.. a a i <s
mnwSi'iir 16 Denham Street—-E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager)
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville. 8 ’
3 elmanism
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelraan Course
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER —24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanisra has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.” .
TEACHER— 22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, *42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency l have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, ’42; “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the rpplication
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, '42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness- and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—IBth May, ’42; “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part 1 have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years....l have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, '42; “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, '42; “1 undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London,
The Institute has been established In
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is.said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone; MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Note; Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
send me > Post-free, a copy of
MIND.”
“THE EFFICIENT
Name
Address
157
defences and Chief Air Marshal Tedder
to consider the menace shows the im-
portance which the Government attaches
to the f.bs., though their effects on morale
are probably considerably exaggerated.
In 1940 both defence and shelter were
so imperfect as to scarcely exist, but Lon-
don weathered nine months of attacks.
This time there is equipment for deal-
ing with the situation, and much of the
disciplined population is away from
London on duty.
In time Gdring’s latest novelty will fail
and its horrors be written up; to his
account, though to the end of the fighting
his new device will be a weapon to be
reckoned with by advancing armies whose
rear communication lines, ports and con-
centration points will be subject to its
attack.
On the Pisa Line.
“Ek Bum”: Resistance in Italy had
grown stronger at the week-end, but the
Germans were facing tough problems as
they reached the Pisa-Rimini line. Their
declaration of Florence as an open city
suggested that their retreat must continue
to the Po.
But this may not prevent them from
continuing to fight for every keypoint
and seek to destroy every military objec-
tive before they left it.
On July 10 they were still holding
Arezzo against the British-Indian ad-
vance (a new Indian division is in the
line) and Ancona against the Poles on
the Adriatic coast, while Leghorn was
burning as its suburbs were assaulted.
Still Going Back.
“Ek Bum”: On the Russian frontiers
the usual two wars continued to be car-
ried on —the correspondents’ war and the
war of reality.
Distant observers saw “Germany a
battlefield in 14 days.” Others told of
how Cossacks, with “specially-weighted
sabres,” charged into retreating Germans
and cut them to pieces ; how the enemy
was “thrashing about like a wild beast
brought to bay” ; and how at the same
time —or perhaps other times —he uttered
“lamblike cries of surrender.” Tough as
are the Geordies and the Jocks, they would
be melted into tears if greeted with baa-
baa salutations by Fritzes in Normandy.
Viewed a little more calmly, a dif-
ferent picture is presented.
The Germans have got out of Central
White Russia along the routes by which
they came in. They gave up Vitebsk,
Orsha, Minsk, Mogilev, Bobruisk,
Polotsk, Moidechno within a fortnight.
A few days later they abandoned the
Baranovichi Gap and were fighting in
retreat in the streets of Vilna. The
Russians had cut the Vilna-Dviqsk rail-
way to the north.
The average daily Russian advance was
about 12 miles. One force bearing down
on Minsk travelled 43 miles in a day;
another 24 miles a day, and a mile an
hour was common. Newspaper readers
were invited to believe (in the process
taking their eyes off Caen) that these
advances were made in heavy fighting,
with terrible slaughter of the enemy.
In the course of the advances, several
substantial rivers and two big ones have
been crossed. In Normandy, the little
Odon, 20 feet wide and steep-sided, its
banks mined and covered by ranged artil-
lery, was the object of a major artillery
effort before a bridgehead was established
across it. At Cassino, more than once,
operations failed because of the difficulty
of establishing permanent communica-
tions across the small Rapido under Ger-
man fire.
Retreat True to Type
At last week-end the events on the
Polish border had run the normal course.
The lines on the map had assumed a
familiar shape—a broad salient of Rus-
sians into the German front with strong
sides, its centre being pulled back so fast
that the Russians could hardly keep con-
tact with it, its sides able to hold lateral
thrusts. Much of it, of course, was
empty, save for reconnaissance units, the
retreat being along main routes.
There followed the usual pews of
stronger German resistance ; of a slow-
ing down, of counter-attacks.
The enemy began to disengage at
the south-east west corner of the Pripet
Marshes at Kowel, while clearing the
northern edges of the marshes towards
Pinsk. The timing of this move and of
moves towards the evacuation of the
Narva-Pskov area in the north suggested
that he was still in command of his
movements.
Defence Lines
wr °ng to suggest that he has in
Poland no lines of defence but only
strongpoints. There are plenty of lines
ot defence; lifles stronger than anything
in Russia, because of their comparative
compactness.
Indeed, till the borders of East Prussia
are reached the Russians will not be near
mam outer external defence lines of Ger-
many and will still be far from the inner
ones.
East Prussia is a mass of lakes. The
Carpathian area and the area north of it
are a great series of plateaux with much
wooded country and scored through
across the path of the Russian direction
of advance with deep rivers.
The Water Barriers
The water barriers are formidable. The
Bug, broad but shallow, runs behind the
Pripet Marshes, joining the Vistula north
of Warsaw.
The Vistula itself winds through
plateau gorges between wooded banks —
a formidable ditch. Then it broadens out
suddenly in the wide Polish plain, its
banks beset with marshes. Sometimes in
summer, when snow water comes down
or there is heavy rain, it spreads over
the countryside. Sometimes 3000 yards
wide and throwing off tributaries on its
east side, each of them a new network of
marshes and broad water obstacles, it
passes to the sea round a delta, one
stream straight out to Danzig, the other
on the east into the broad, placid harbor
of the Frisches Haff.
Where the enemy will stop in his re-
treat —which to Captain Cyril Falls, of
the “Times,” is “one of the most extra-
ordinary gambles in military history,
probably justified, though the risks are
very great”—only he himself knows.
He might try to pull up on the
Riga-Vilna (or Kovno), Brest-Litovsk,
Tarnopol (or Lwow) line, which would
display his forces for much of the
distance along the Bug. He might go
back further across the East Prussian
border, disposing his legions along the
Angerapp River, the chain of Masurian
Lakes, linking with the Narew River and
the Vistula defences right down to Gor-
lice-Tarnow. And west of that he has
Still another possible line, before reach-
ing the German border.
All this does not mean that there is
not plenty* of room for German defeat if
the Russians have the overwhelming man-
power and supplies it is said they have.
At the week-end further Russian
advances had begun south of the Pripet
Marshes and in the Kowel region, but
there had been in the first few hours
stronger German resistance than on the
central front.
Estimates of German casualties poured
forth in a confusing stream. A.B.C.
placed prisoners in the first fortnight at
183,000, but that Moscow figure covered
dead and captives. Professor Roberts in
his syndicated article, published on July
8, referred to “the relatively small num-
her of prisoners so far claimed by the
Russians” (he also had something about
“unjustifiably extravagant forecasts” and
“a note of caution”), but did not give the
number. However, a Moscow communi-
que on July 4-7 operations claimed
28,000 killed and 15,000 prisoners.
No Russian casualty lists have been
issued.


f
■
a
■
jt.
k
m
LEADERSHIP
In the field of tecKnical and scientific development—and still more in tfie
stress of commercial competition—leadership is a position not easily
earned or lightly held. Nor is the house of Philips unmindful of the
obligations which leadership entails; the confidence of the public for
over fifty years is a proud responsibility.
PHILIPS
Lamps • Discharge Lighting • Lighting Equipment • Radio
Receivers • Radio Transmitters • Radio Parts • Valves
and Thermionic Devices • Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment
Electrical Measuring Instalments • Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney - Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
V"
NT
Q.
ii
Production Is restricted «o
don’t blame your retailer
if you have difficulty in
obtaining Gillette blades.
Posted for General Service. —To save man-
power, Gillette “Standard” Blades now replace
Gillette, and the 7 o’clock. But you will find these
“Standard” Blades are still the best shave you
can buy —so when you get them, make them last.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Highway King, racing over fences for i
only the third time, outstayed Parentena ;
and Winterset in a thrilling race for the
Grand National Steeplechase at Flem-
ington on Saturday. The winner’s task
was made easier by Winterset and Zal-
raon indulging in a battle for the lead
over the last \ \ mile. They jumped every
fence practically stride for stride, and
eventually ran themselves to a standstill.
Winterset beat Zalmon for third money,
but was forced to carry his 12.7 all the
way, and many of his backers considered
he might have done better had rider L.
Meenan adopted quieter tactics.
Medium of substantial support at 5 to
1, Highway King completed a National
double for women owners. He is raced
on lease by Mrs. J. E. Mackie, while
Zalmon, G.N. Hurdle winner, is owned
by Mrs. J. Falkiner. Highway King is a
five-year-old gelding by Bulandshar from
Blue Maid, and has had two wins and a
second from three starts over fences. J.
Mackie, trainer of the winner, obtained
his permit only recently, -after having
been injured while riding over hurdles
several months ago. He said on Satur-
day that it was unlikely he would ride
again.
Parentena made a game attempt to
repeat his 1942 National success. He
looked the winner at the top of the
straight, but Highway King ran to him a
furlong from home and drew away to
win by two lengths. Parris, rider of
Parentena, considers his mount would
have won had he not got into the last
fence.
Cape Hero’s £7OO for winning the
Doutta Galla Hurdle was some compen-
sation for his third in the G.N. Hurdle.
Favorite at 5 to 4 on, he won easing up
by six lengths from Prince Danilo, with
Solvent third. Cape Hero has started
over hurdles five times for four wins and
a third. He was a failure on the flat, win-
ning only £224 in place money, but in a
matter of weeks as a hurdler he has won
£2435 in stakes.
Solecism failed to draw correct weight
after finishing a close third to Sligo and
Energy in the Footscray Steeple, and was
disqualified for the race, Prince Sussex
(fourth) being given third place. R.
Watts, rider of Solecism, was Ulb. short
weight after calling for the bridle, and
could not account for two pieces of lead
that were missing from the pocket of his
saddle. He thinks they may have been
lost when Solecism hit very hard and
almost dislodged him at one fence. Place-
tote backers of Solecism —4125 tickets
were issued —lost a dividend of 11s. for
ss. Prince Sussex, for whom 432 place
tickets were issued, paid a dividend of
£3 6s.
* * .
Prospects of heavy going slightly
affected the attendance at Rosehill on
Saturday. The totalisator, however,
handled £60,878 10s. The track_stood
well to the week’s rain, and both me Fly-
ing Handicap (seven furlongs) and the
July Handicap (U mile) were run only
a second outside the course records,
* * * * ,‘ n _ .
Most racegoers expected Orderly
start favorite for the July Handicap, but
Marcondis was first choice. Contin g
his consistent form Orderly held on long
enough to beat Boomanulla by half a
neck, with Marcondis a neck away third,
Orderly lost ground at the turn, where
,
he ran a little wide, but Duncan straight-
ened him quickly and he was in front
near i y two furlongs from the winning
p OSt Orderly now has won three races
and £1932 i n stakes since the Randwick
trainer H. Darwon paid 650gns. for him a
year ago Both Boomanulla and Mar-
C ondis had finished their runs just before
tbe post, but Moondarewa, racing for
tbe fi rst time in nearly six months, gained
ground to run fourth. He may have some
c hance of another win before the good
spring stayers return to serious racing.
’„‘' * , ,
John Halifax would not have won the
Flying Handicap had St. Elmo stayed on
the fence in the last 50 yards, but.no horse
in Sydney more deserved a change
luck. In six previous starts, John H -
fax had run five seconds and a fourth*
Apprentice allowances gave wejght a -
vantages to both f ’
Elmo and Arahura, but neither quite ran
out the seven furlongs Ara hura made a
fast run inside the furlong, but she then
veered m through weariness and had to
be checked sufficiently to cost her the
race. Gold Salute, a surprise favorite,
was always lengths behind the leaders,
but with any luck Beauhead (tourth)
would have troubled John Halifax. Beau-
head tried to follow John Halifax through
on the rails, but the opening closed
before he was clear.
Monaro overcame the disadvantage of
a bad start to win the Parramatta Handi-
cap. Thompson did not bustle him early,
and, suited by the quiet tactics, Monaro
just beat off Kookaburra by half a head.
Merrimba, half a head away third, again
did not run straight in the last furlong,
and right on the post he was not doing
quite as well as either Monaro or Kooka-
burra. A year ago it was intended to try
Monaro as a hurdler, but when jumping
events were eliminated for the duration
his trainer, N. Turnbull, decided to per-
severe with him on the flat. Grand Pro-
dige had little chance from the time
Brazen Boy raced with him from the six
furlongs, and Glendower, when in a win-
ning position in the straight, struck a
nerve in a foreleg and had practically to
be pulled up.
Finishing slightly the better, Philgita
(Piccadilly-Fairy Mag) beat Autocratic
and Margate comfortably in the Novice
Nursery. Both the minor-place getters,
however, may develop more than the
winner. Autocratic, a nice filly by Golden
Sovereign from Euglena, cost lOOOgns. at
the 1943 yearling sales. She finished
truly along the rails, but Margate, having
her first race, veered towards the centre
of the track through inexperience. Depre-
dation opened a short-priced favorite,
but drifted to 4to 1. She cannoned into
another horse at barrier-rise and lost her
chance, but subsequently she displayed
little speed and may be overboomed.
Ailed Chief appeared fo have the
Novice Juvenile won when he raced
away from Milanion and Insolvent a fur-
long from home, but he had nothing in
reserve against Gay Monarch, who
finished wide out. Gay Monarch started
at 50 to 1 and paid 96 to 1 on the win
totalisator. He had shown some speed
in earlier races, but was reported to have
done badly in his stable and was allowed
to run practically unbacked. Calgary,
on the fence, appeared to run third, but
the Rosehill angle is deceptive and In-
solvent beat him. £algary lost ground
through interference at the turn, and he
may be worth following in suburban
company. So, too, may Whistler, a big
gelding by Brueghel from Veilantif. He
was galloping fast when he ran into a
dead-end on the rails at the leger.
Had Scene won the Three-year-old
Handicap her apprentice jockey, T.
Clarke, would have been praised for
masterly tactics in awaiting a run on the
rails. But the opening did not come
until too late, Scene finished an unlucky
second to Mintage and Clarke was
blamed for the favorite’s failure. At some
time in a long straight a tiring leader will
shift out from the fence, but Newfield,
who was in front, stuck close to the rails
and Scene was badly blocked. Mintage
moved up sharply at the leger, and gained
his winning lead while Scene was being
hampered. Costing 140gns. as a yearling,
Mintage is by Hall Mark, recently sold
for 475gns. to go to a Queensland stud.
Nepean River won the Novice Handi-
cap from Poorjon and the favorite, Skip
Bomber. Few of the runners are likely
to rise above suburban class, but trainer
I, King has hopes for Skip Bomber, who
has been handicapped at 7.5 in the Mel-
bourne Cup. Skip Bomber still lacks
racing experience. He runs about at the
finish of his races, otherwise he might just
have won on Saturday. Nepean River,
passed at 450gns. at the 1942 yearling
sales, was bought privately by the Syd-
ney bookmaker J. Mandel.
* * * *
At his fourth start in the race. Gold
Force won the Doomben Newmarket at
14 to 1 at Albion Park (Brisbane) on
Saturday. Two previous Newmarket
winners, The Image (1943) and High
Rank (1941), were in the field. The
Image finished second, but High Rank
ran only a moderate fifth. Gold Force,
who led all the way, gave bookmakers
almost a clean sheet in a remarkable
betting race, in which five horses were
backed at 5 to 1 or less,
« * * •
Melbourne Cup weights have been
framed slightly lower than a year ago,
when there was no prospect of inter-
state competition. Kindergarten, top-
weight for the third successive time, has
dropped from 10.6 to 10st., but he broke
down in the Wellington Cup early this
year, and whether he will be fit enough
is doubtful. V.R.C. handicapper C. H.
Davis laid greater stress on autumn than
spring form with the rising four-year-
olds. He weighted Lawrence 51b. better
than the Victoria Derby winner Pre-
cept, and Mayfowl 31b. better than the
A.J.C. Derby winner Moorland. Among
the older Sydney horses, Cream Puff
appears best treated with 7.13, 51b. less
than she carried in the Sydney Cup.
* * * *
The question is sometimes asked “Why
don’t the stewards take action before a
race when an apprentice of little experi-
ence is put on a horse that with a cap-
able rider would be sure to be in de-
mand?” Considering that the stewards by
giving a boy a permit to ride have shown
their faith in his ability, it would be
difficult for them to do anything. Lads
must be given chances, but nevertheless
it is annoying for<te doubles backer, after
getting a leg in, to see his second leg
ridden by a youngster to whom an owner
or trainer could say “Do your best,
*with the almost certain knowledge that
a win would be a fluke. In such cases,
while anything drastic might be out of
the question, a hint from the stewards to
an owner or trainer that they were not in
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances.)
Trial Stakes: Craigie, 1; Castle
Frontenac, 2 ; Abbeville, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Gay King, 1;
The Artist, 2; Union Jack, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Chinook, 1; Fine Art, 2;
Rufus, 3.
Brighton Handicap: Beau Head,
1 ; St. Elmo, 2 ; Ron Rico, 3.
Moo refield Handicap: Active
Service, 1 ; Mary Lou, 2; Phala-
ran, 3.
San Souci Welter: Freckles, 1;
Milanja, 2; Nobleman, 3.


Personal and Missing Friends.
McGRATH, Andrew, Bricklayer.—ln 1887-1895 re-
sided at or near Liverpool (N.S.W.). Will he or
any of his descendants please communicate with
COLLINS & MULHOLLAND, Solicitors, 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney?
IF CHARLES ALFRED ADLAM, son of the late
Alfred John Adlam, of Waverley, in Taranaki, in
New Zealand, will communicate with the undersigned
solicitors, he will hear something to his advantage.
Any communication will be treated as confidential.
—NICHOLSON, KIRKBY & SHEAT, Solicitors, New
Plymouth, New Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce,
TO HUGH FOSTER.—TAKE NOTICE that GER-
TRUDE BEATRICE FOSTER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1523 of 1944 on the grounds of de—
sertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court,
King Street Sydney by the Ist September 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
C* H. PEARCE & CO. Solicitors 4 Castlereagh Street
Sydney, (1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW SOUTH
_ WALES — In Divorce. .
TO STANLEY KAY late of 24 Kelso Street Enfield
S^mT^.S, oUth Wales Real Estate Agent.—TAKE
NOTICE that AGNES STELLA KAY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1714 of 1943 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years or upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
juT l ? B Street Sydney by the 7th August next
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
[* G - H. TURNER Solicitor 11c Castlereagh
Divo e rce Sydney ’~’ (L ' S ') K ‘ BODY ’ Registrar in
BRANDALItR’A
fvt
9**
%
GW
1 PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BXUtSAOn * 00. U4_ SIEMLKUHAiI. UNO
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
f
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT'S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
buzacott-wolseley pty., ltd.,
throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BACK THE BOYS—Buy IVar Savings Certificates.
£Ui3|qoj(| jhoa Siqi s
Iga
r kA
ction
in
vrai
post
onx
vjitii
coil
at®
V/6
need
plan 5
ust
in®
to-
win 0 * 1
witn
ted
nem s
iton
uinte
omP°
acc
c
and
ettam
reduced
3
c
lot
cVsion-P
pie
nen
be
an
ot
0001
to
m
Sr<
|P^
: 8
1
0
o?.
A.T.L offers you without obligation constructive
advice in connection with any post-war production
problem involving tools, gauges, instruments or
components which must be engineered to limits of
super-accuracy.
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY . . » . MELBOURNE . . . . PERTH , . . . BRISBANE
ATLJ-D
accord with anything likely to prejudi-
cially affect the chance of a horse would
not be out of place.
* * * *
It is estimated that the value in the
United States of the stud farms which
produce thoroughbreds, of the horses
themselves and of the racecourses, is
over $150,000,000 (about £45,625,100).
In peace times nearly 224,000 men,
women and children were dependent
upon the industry for their livelihood.
The figures are those given by a reliable
American sporting paper,
* * * *
One of the world’s biggest bloodstock
deals has been completed in America.
Hemy H. Knight purchased the entire
thoroughbred holdings, comprising 149
horses, of the Valdina Farms, Texas. The
transaction exceeded by 15 the operations
of A. E. Allnatt, who, in England in 1942,
bought the whole stud of the late Lord
Glanely, The price paid by Knight was
not disclosed; guesses ranged from
250,000 to 500,000 dollars.
* * * *
Jack Farrington, a sergeant in the U.S.
forces in England, has applied to the
Jockey Club for a temporary jockey’s
license, Farrington, weighing Bst., claimed
to have ridden 40 winners in America.
The Australian Jockey Club has received
no similar request from Allied service
men.
* s]! * *
A few owners and trainers will be
annoyed with themselves if boat space
can be found for Sydney horses to travel
to Victoria for the Melbourne Cup. The
possibility of getting to Melbourne was
so remote when Cup entries closed early
last month that connections of some
good horses decided to keep the £2 nomi-
nation fee in their pockets. It is officially
announced now, however, that bloodstock i
can be carried by inter-State or overseas
vessels if the priority of essential war and
civilian cargoes is not infringed. The
big obstacle for Sydney horses is that,
after passage has been arranged for them,
they may still be left behind because
their deck or hold space is required at the
last moment for more pressing needs.
Miscellaneous
Most of the 65,000 who turned out to
watch the V.F.L. games on Saturday
chose the Carlton-Fitzroy clash, the teams
being second and third in the “four,”
with only two points between them. Fitz■■
roy took a strong side to Carlton, but
Carlton wouldn’t have cared if .they’d
brought two sides. The Blues went into
the lead and stayed there to win, 11.15-
6.15. Meantime Essendon, struggling to
get into the “four,” was staging the “Same
Old” form to wallop Footscray, 14.16-
8.13, Other disturbances resulted: North
Melbourne 21.14-13.9 v. Geelong, St.
Kilda 17.11-6.9 v. Collingwood, Rich-
mond 13.16-11.9 v. Hawthorn, Melbourne
10.10-9.13 v. “Sowth.”
* * * *
In the Rugby Union “match of the
day” Randwick gave a polished display
of speed and passing to rout Drummoyne
36-11. Leading West 3-nil at half-time,
Parramatta lost two men (injured) early
in the second half, and went down gal-
lantly before the Magpies’ onslaughts,
11-6. Manly won its second game this
season by beating East 8-6. Other
matches:
University 21, St. George 11; Gordon 23,
North 6.
* * * *
Ern Clingan, a pretty good middle-
weight as middleweights go (silent laugh-
ter from the shades of Fitzsimmons, Hall,
Creedon and Darcy), earned an easy
whatever-he-got for whipping Ken Peter-
sen at Leichhardt. He didn’t lose a
round, and was indulgent with Petersen
after the latter was down for “eight” in
the second round and was knocked to his
knees in the sixth. Petersen was on his
feet as the (more or less) wild bell rang
out the twelfth and last,
A charitable view of Tommy Chap-
man’s showing against Archie Rash, at
Sydney Stadium, is that Thomas was out
of form. It was his first fight since he
knocked out Eddie Miller, and his judg-
ment of distance was all wrong. Though
Tom attacked in every round. Rash, taller
and longer in the landed straight
lefts that made Chapman’s heavy punches
hit holes in nothing. Before the eighth
ended Chapman was tired, and long
before the end of the twelfth there was
only one in it —Rash.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Somebody wrote a long time ago: “He
never made a friend who never made a
foe.” Of course, he didn’t mean that in
the way both Australia and America could
have applied it on this year’s Fourth of
July. But would either U.S. or this Com-
monwealth have realised what true
friends they have in each other had they
not had a common foe? There was some-
thing exhilarating in the sight of the Stars
and Stripes so bright above city ways
last week; and Sydney went festive with
Allied service men on their national com-
memoration day. Some of these were
on leave from the fighting north, some
on their way to battle fronts. When the
war is over and peace returns, both U.S.
and Austf&lia might look up Emerson’s
essay on Friendship and make a note:
“The only way to have a friend is to be
one.”
The day was just one long continuous
celebration. Helpers at all the Red Cross
clubs and at the Centre worked overtime.
Turkey and cranberry sauce were on
every menu ; and so was American short-
cake. The English-Speaking Union gave
a late-afternoon party in honor of the
day. In the evening every dance-hall in
the city was packed. Always there were
the Stars and Stripes on the walls. A
portrait of Uncle Sam (painted by Serg.
Tony Gaines) held the gaze at the Grace
Auditorium, where the officers of Base
Seven held their dance.
Sydney’s long-promised opera season
opened last Friday with Gounod’s
“Faust.” This was presented in the Con-
servatorium by the Krips-De Vries co.,
and the producers must be congratulated
on the way they had overcome the diffi-
culties of the Conservatorium stage.
Strella Wilson was in radiant voice as
Marguerite, and sparkled along through
every scene, with particularly high-voltage
effect in the Jewel Song. Faust (John
Fullard) may not have been an army of
occupation, but still, the young men of
the village being away at the wars, he
did a “softening-up” act on Marguerite
with graceful song and attention, and
finally stormed her heart with a bushel
of sparklers. It would have been hard
for even a much more sophisticated per-
son than the village maiden to resist.
Evelyn Hall as Martha could not be given
a letter of recommendation as a chap-
eron, but was a blithe companion,
always in good voice and spirits. Harold
Williams (Mephistopheles) was at once
sinister and alluring, and just played a
game of diabolo with the professor and
the maid. Arnold Matters (Valentine) died
nobly, and June Lang made a melodic,
Siebel.
On Saturday night the programme was
changed. “Cavalleria Rusticana” and
“Pagliacci” were the fare. The heroine
in “Cavalleria” was Thea Philips, Who
sang and acted the part of Santuzza with
richness of tone and heartbreaking sin-
cerity. Lola, who broke up Santuzza’s
romance, was Joan Mackaness. Reginald
Willoughby as the fickle lover and Arnold
Matters as the wronged husband sang in
a way that the composer might have ap-
plauded. Heather Kinnaird was the
gentle mother in this Sicilian storm.
All the good wine was not poured out
at the beginning of the feast. There was
enough and to spare in the serving of
“Pagliacci.” Lionel Cecil and Sydney de
Vries held the audience in the grip of
their experienced acting as well as their
good voices as Canio and Tonio. Others
in the cast were William Herbert (Beppe)
and Alan Coad (Silvio). The only
woman in the piece who made her voice
heard was Angela Parselles as Nedda.
The Conservatorium was crowded.
All seats, even those at 255., were filled.
Lady Gowrie brought a party from
Admiralty House. Minerva Director
Kathleen Robinson came with her
mother. Those constant first-nighters the
H. J. Bradys were in the audience. So
were Mrs. Harold Williams and daughter
Venita. Mrs. S. O’Shea was another
applauder. Director of the Con. Dr. Bain-
ton and his family were others. Evelyn
Gardiner and A.B.C. chairman Cleary
listened with interest. So did the Ben
Edyes and daughter Stephanie. Margaret
Gillespie came to both performances.
Mrs. Glif Gearin and soldier husband
with the Grevor Molyneux couple made
an attractive foursome.
Travelling, even if only in the imagi-
nation, still lures the fancy. To send
a ’plane flying from Sydney to Geneva
and back on a fuel of shillings (Is. a
mile) has appealed so much to man,
woman and child that the Red Cross Air
Race has netted £122,901 for the N.S.W.
branch of the society.
Lovely, tranquil-looking Bathurst came
first in the race. Its ’plane, with Mayor
Alan Morse and his wife as co-pilots,
144 L 512 ™ leB and bro “ sht f * n
* 2s -. 2d> Geoftiey Hunte ,
Moree flying solo, a sort ot modern
v . ei . brought home £4426 4 .
Knight Donald Cameron and Nancy
Walton were right on his tail in the Red
Cross Headquarters plane, and returned
to base Wltb £43-8 4s. lOd.
The race was the most popular of all
the Red Cross Days’ special features. It
has knocked the baby competition, which
had hitherto brought £70,000, back into
the cradle. Nice shining souvenirs for
the winning pilots will be a combined
silver inkstand and inkwells to Mayor
and Mayoress Morse, a silver salver to
Dr. Hunter and a cream jug of the same
metal each to Nancy Walton and Donald
Cameron. There will also be certificates
signed by Lady Gowrie and Lady Wake-
hurst and money prizes to the winning
branches,
Grace Stafford is the president and
Mrs. Ben Edye' the vice-president of the
newly-formed ballet and theatre club,
Tonight, in Paling’s concert hall, Jeanie
Ranken will talk on the educational value
of the work the club has pledged itself
to carry out. If there are any Philistines
among the readers of this letter who
think that Australians have not the talent
to enter into competition with the ballet
dancers of the world, then may be cited
Bobby Helpmann and what he has done
at Sadler’s Wells. Bobby, it should be
remembered, was trained by Minnie
Hooper.
Another Australian who has made a
place for herself in the ballet world
looks at you from this Norton Trevaire
picture. She is Vera Lacey, and she is
the hon. secretary of the newly-formed
ballet club. Her first teacher was Minnie
Hooper, and when Vera went to London
she studied English ballet with Espinosa.
Six years ago she was appointed Aus-
tralian representative of the British Ballet
organisation and an Australian branch
was formed. The members of this branch
are sponsoring the club.
Even to those who knew her only in
the decline of her years, Mrs. Zara
Aronson was a striking personality. Her
mind was eager and alert, her humor a
trifle sharp-edged occasionally, but always,
at the root of it, good-humored. Erect
and handsome, even when in her late
seventies, she frequented literary gather-
ings, the “John* o’ London’s” group and
the Society of Women Writers being two
of her great interests. She was president
of the latter society for two or three terms
of office.
In her young days Mrs. Aronson had
been a newspaperwoman. She knew Syd-
ney when the Conservatoriura was still
the vice-regal mews —before the flat era,
when spacious homes like Burdekin
House were built with ballrooms and
cafe entertaining had not come into
fashion. Probably, like the other tiny-
waisted girls of her day, she did the
Block; but she also concerned herself
with the social and political movements
of her time. She was first State secre-
tary of the N.C.W, and a foundation
member of the first women’s political
movement in N.S.W., of the first women’s
literary club and of the Red Cross. She
did splendid work during World War I
in sending books and magazines to the
troops, and even in the beginning of this
war she did her bit in helping to keep
the Navy and merchant services supplied
with reading.
Proceeds from the Victory Younger Set
July 4 dance at Christy’s (a five-guineas-
a-licket touch, this) went to the Anzac
House Fund; those from the Independ-
ence Day dance at the Town Halt were
handed over to the Gowrie Red Cross
Convalescent Home at Gordon. From
all these celebrations influenza kept U.S.
Consul Ely Palmer at home, but his wife
was an early visitor to the Red Cross
Centre.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly will open a Loan
Exhibition of S. Woodward-Smith’s
paintings at the Grosvenor Galleries,
George-street, today at 3 p.m. Proceeds
from sale of catalogues go to Red Cross.
A date to be noted —the first of August:
Eunice Gardiner’s recital at the Con-
servatorium. This will help make up ihe
£5OOO promised by the C.W.A. to the
Gowrie Scholarship Fund.
From Melbourne
Whenever a few feminine heads get to-
gether and the subject is hats, it is agreed
that the off-the-face style Princess Eliza-
beth favors is the hardest thing to wear.
But all rules have their exception, and
the one to this rule is Dot Rankin, who is
wearing |a bright scarlet model, replica of
the Princess’s, with great aplomb. Dot
has left stage concerns, and now has her
time fully occupied with a newly arrived
baby. Another style that started with a
world figure (Mrs. Roosevelt) is the stock-
ing cap, which comes down on one side
of the head. It is ideal for the business
woman, and is just beginning to be appre-
ciated here.
. Talking of hats, Beth Gumming made
millinery history when she became Mrs.
Neville Palmer last Friday. Bridal nut-
cover was a wee thing of bright feathers,
in fuschia colors mostly, with two green
ones curving over her “up” hair in front.
That hair-do is part of the hat, so to
speak. As one onlooker described it, it
was built on the “fur and feather” motif
—the wearer’s own fur and some other
bird’s feathers. Wedding dress was of
clover-pink crepe romaine, accordion-
pleated.
Pictured here with a bow under her
chin (part of her get-up as soloist in the
ballet “Promenade”) is Sergt. June Nesbit,
W.A.A.A.F. She dances in a number of
other spots on the National Theatre
Movement’s ballet programme, too. This
is her first time on the boards, but she’s
been in N.T.M.’s Ballet School for some
time. The show, which will go on till
Saturday, includes balletisations of “Peer
Gynt” and Dante’s “Divine Comedy.”
Jean Alexander is both producer and
choreographer, and has more than a
finger in the designing of frocks and
decor, too. In the settings she has the
expert help of John Rowell.
“The Vision of Dante,” which mixed
speech with miming (an offstage voice
reciting bits from an English translation
of the poem), was the most eye-catching
of the ballets, with its large groups of
draped figures. Red robes predominated
in the general scene with lesser touches of
yellow and black, mauve and blue. Char-
acters were in traditional garb, Dante
and Francesca being unmistakable, sur-
rounded by the gloom of a medieval
purgatory. It occurred to one member
of the audience that Rimini will shortly
be in the firing line, and that Francesca,
though in infernal surroundings, could
reflect that home might be no improve-
ment.
Mrs. Fabian Chow has the gift of
carrying her hearers along at her own
emotional pace. Both at C.W.A. confer-
ence and at Y.W.C.A. luncheon she spoke
with feeling and some tears about the
sufferings of China, particularly of that
country’s women. She pictured the shel-
tered Chinese woman of the wealthier
classes being forced into the thick of
front-line hospitals in which anaesthetics
and other needful drugs and appliances
don’t exist and capture by the enemy is
a constant risk. C.W.A. members were
shedding tears before the address had
finished.
Thanking Mrs. Chow for her speech
to the Y.W.C.A, gathering Mrs. Essing-
ton Lewis had some compliments to pay
to Eastern women as a whole. She said
that when she was a delegate to a con-
ference at which Indian and Chinese
representatives presided she had experi-
enced a feeling of inferiority (as all the
Western women present had done) when
she witnessed the easy grace and dignity
with which their Eastern sisters handled
the affair.
Tay Greggan, the Grail Sisters’ head-
quarters (it was the Mortills’ old home),
has been humming with discussions and
demonstrations. A two weeks’ course of
preparation for home-making and family
living is being held there, and guest
speakers are lecturing on subjects in
which they’re experts. An exhibition
in connection with the course is in pro-
gress—it closes on Saturday, which is
Family Day, on which children and their
elders will round off the course with an
afternoon’s fun.
Like Rip Van Winkle a solitary horse-
drawn cab stood outside one of Mel-
bourne’s leading hostelries the other night,
but, unlike Rip, found the demand for
its services keen in a taxiless world. Near
by with contrasting modernity stood a
Red Cross mobile canteen, originally
designed for A.R.P. duties, but since used
to comfort soldiers wandering in city
streets. Horse-drawn cabs are about quite
a lot now and other besides small boys
(who always rush them) fancy a ride.
People who’ve had nothing to do with
horses are surprised to discover how
slowly such conveyances move compared
with the modern motor-car.
Married on Saturday at the little church
on the hill at Woodend, where quite a
bevy of other lasses have made their
vows, Sybella Macindoe, elder daughter
of Judge Macindoe and Mrs. Macindoe,
to Hugh Wettenhall (A.I.F. returned).
Bridegroom is son of the Marcus Wet-
tenhalls.
Two little birds who know who’s post-
ing what are the swallows nesting in the
G.P.O. arches just opposite the Defence
and Express Delivery windows. Odd
thing is that they are directly under a
bright light, on at all hours, which seems
to suggest that, contrary to Grandma’s
theory, little birds don’t go to bed at
sunset as an example to children but
like to sit up and read all night.
July 14 will be celebrated as France’s
national day with a note of hope and
thankfulness that has been missing during
these last tragic years of her Jfistory, for
the hour of liberation approaches. A re-
ception will be given at Menzies
by M. Pierre Mathis, Representative of
French Delegation, on Friday. And at
night there will be a French Ball in St.
Kilda Town Hall.
The Children’s Hospital memorial to
“Bluey” Truscott is particularly fitting, as
friends say he was intensely fond of
children, a characteristic that few sus-
pected who knew him only as footballer
and intrepid flier. The presentation
brought out the fact that he was taking
up teaching as a career at the time of his
enlistment.
The interest of violinist Thomas
Matthews in chamber music and the in-
struments that have made it in time past
is well known, so the concert in which
he is to be teamed with Marcell Kirby's
harpsichord should be a notable occasion.
Matthews has always brought an atmo-
sphere of drawing-room intimacy to his
concerts, and likes it so. Marcell Kirby
is the concert platform name of Mrs. Reg
Ellery, wife of the medico.
In Queen’s College’s production of
“Hamlet,” to open on July 26, the prob-
lem of providing for the frequent changes
of scene is being dealt with rather
brightly. Scenery is planned on steps
and platforms that will fit into outdoor
or indoor scenes with little alteration.
The crenellated walls for the scene on
the battlements of Elsinore are fitted into
the ensuing indoor ones by lifting the
tops of the gaps to make an ordinary
wall background. Costumes will be
medieval instead of Elizabethan in period.
Costuming has been difficult because the
show is not running for the 10 nights
necessary to qualify for a coupon issue,
but the producers say the togs will
be quite effective even so. Bill Ryall,
who did so well in “Winterset” last year,
will be Hamlet, and Deborah Newton
(daughter of surgeon-knight Alan New-
ton) will play Ophelia.
A pleasant gesture, and one that should
become a custom, was Ormandy’s in in-
viting to the Town Hall gallery for the
last orchestral rehearsal on Saturday
morning all who’d had some share in
helping with the night’s concert. City
councillors and their wives were guests,
with Town Hall employees, newspapei
people and others. In most European
capitals it is the custom for last rehearsal
to be a free show for theatre workmen
and hard-up Bohemians. With this excep-
tion Ormandy has been as firm as all
his predecessors in excluding onlookers
from rehearsals.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Higher Front-line Pay
Except in the case of officers, who re-
ceive a field allowance, army pay-rates
make no distinction between front-line
service and “base-walloping.” The private
or non-com. goes where the officer goes,
and often where the officer doesn’t go ;
but he gets no “field” allowance. Profi-
ciency in battle has the same reward (6d.
per day) as proficiency in a camp in
Sydney or Adelaide.
No one questions the willingness and
the good work of the men behind the
lines; they are an essential part of the
show. But these men would not grizzle if
the fighting soldier’s pay were raised
doubled, in fact—during action. While
actual campaigns don’t last long enough
for such a temporary rise to embarrass
the Treasury, even the shortest campaign
is long enough to last most soldiers a
lifetime (though, of course, it doesn’t!).
Each new campaign is an additional strain
op the soldier’s physical, mental and
moral make-up ; and his future life is
marred, and may be ruined, by the hor-
rible experiences he has been through,
even if he is not still further handicapped
by injuries received in action.
In actual fact there is no way ade-
quately to repay the fighting soldier for
what he endures in battle. But a rise in
pay would be at least some compensation,
opening the way to a few extra ameni-
ties in camp or to a more attractive
leave period. (A soldier “broke” while
on leave is a pitiful figure indeed.) —
Koitaki (A.1.F.).
Two Sorts of “Day Boys”
How many original enlistments are
there who have been “day boys” (B.
28/6/’44) since the outbreak of the war?
There were a number of these “day boys”
in Sixth Div. and Corps H.Q. in a private
house in St. Kilda-road, Melbourne, in
1940. I was one myself and worked
in a room with Major Bert Downie
(killed in action in Greece), Lieut,
(now Major) Leo Pro by n and Private
Bob Richardson. The two last-
named were captured on Crete, and
have been p.o.w. for three years.
When the A.I.F. came back from the
Middle East in 1942, Diggers were edi-
fied by the spectacle of home-front “day
boys” enlisting in the A.I.F. in the third
year of the war and retaining their home-
front status. All the general routine
orders in the world cannot alter
facts, and these militia transfers can be
distinguished by their general bearing and
by their “Tatt.’s ticket” numbers, which
they surely must find. very difficult to
remember. — El Madjal (A.1.F.).
R.S.L. Membership
All enlisted men were preparedi to de-
fend their country against invasion, no
matter where they ultimately served, and
to all intents and purposes Australia was
a “front line” for one period in this
struggle. Therefore why cannot the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A. admit all men who are
issued with the “returned from active
service” badge?
Why should the actual location of
fighting influence the League? The spirit
of the soldier’s intention should be the
deciding factor. After all, any man in our
forces has “returned from active service”
once he is discharged from the army and
resumes his normal peace-time occupa-
tion. Australia cannot afford the chaos
of shoals of ex-service organisations to
watch the interests of its soldiers —they
should be served by one strong and estab-
lished body.— Acorn (N.S.W.).
Patriotism and War
“E.M.” (B. 21/6/’44) adopts a point of
view which I cannot support.
The road to universal peace lies not
along the lines of accentuated national-
ism. It involves the sinking of egoism and
patriotism and acceptance of the fact that
the thoughts and actions of individuals,
sects and nations are relative to their
peculiar philosophy and ethics, and must
be accorded equal recognition in that they
are part and parcel of the peculiarities
of Man.
So long as such thoughts and actions
are pacific and not promoted to the re-
straint or harm of others (as is the way
of Nazism, Fascism and Bushidoism),
such an acceptance would provide a more
sincere and worthy motive for the back-
ing of this war than the arrogant strut-
tings of patriotism.
Individual, sectional or national traits
and accomplishments speak for them-
selves and need not blow their own
trumpets. lam an Australian of the
third generation, but I give equal praise
to the courage of a Chinaman or a Turk.
—G. V. B. (N.S.W.).
Post-war Motor Policy
Although the Australian motor indus-
try with its subsidiaries was the greatest
employer of labor outside primary indus-
tries before the war, not the faintest indi-
cation of Government post-war policy in
this direction can be discovered,, despite
repeated requests from the industry and
motoring organisations.
There were over 300,000 employees in
the motor industry pre-war. The Act
granting a monopoly and a bonus to
A.C.I. for the manufacture of motor
engines has never been rescinded.
In both Britain and the U.S. the motor
industry is able to go on with post-war
planning, thanks to frank discussions with
the authorities. Similarly, these coun-
tries have declared a policy for the dis-
posal of surplus military vehicles, which
will be reconditioned by the trade and
supplied to the public through trade
“There's room for one more.”
channels. Meanwhile in Australia the
newspapers publish ridiculous forecasts
of “jeeps” for sale after the war at £5
each.
The Government so far will not even
meet the motor industry to discuss post-
war problems. It suspects every pri-
vate industry of trying to make money,
failing to realise that that is the only in-
spiration for really profitable employ-
ment. — Auto (S.A.).
Science and Industry
Most of the New Orders proposed for
Australia consist, in the final analysis, in
taking something from somebody and
giving it to somebody else. Other
countries are planning otherwise.
Britain had planned to spend £2,450,000
in seven years on technical education ex-
tension. The amount is to be increased to
£35,000,000. In the industrial field the
Federation of British Industries revealed
that in 1938 (last figures available) 566
companies had spent £5,442,000 in re-
search work. Today the coal interests
alone, assisted by the Government, arc
spending millions on finding new uses
for coal. British Celanese announces
that as soon as man-power allows it will
be ready with new processes for the pro-
duction of plastics better than the best
now in use.
In America a recent survey found that
chemical manufacturers are spending
10 p.c. to 15 p.c. of their gross profits
in research. India has appointed Sir
Shasti Swamp Bhatnagar, D.Sc., to be
Director of Research, and the Govern-
ment has named an Industrial Research
Utilisation Committee consisting of lead-
ing industrialists to commercialise the
results of the research work.
Australia has the beginnings of an
organisation in the C.S.I.R. It has done
excellent work, and the recently formed
Division of Industrial Chemistry, under
Dr. Wark, has already achieved results
—notably on ethylene derivatives and the
extraction of vitamin C from passion-
fruit skins —that have attracted world-
wide notice. But unless we can get a
partnership of Government, Science, Capi-
tal and Labor to exploit the scientist’s
work many of his discoveries must re-
main of purely academic interest. A
joint committee of scientists and indus-
trialists should investigate the • prospects
for starting new industries, preferably
those which could use waste from exist-
ing factories or make better use of our
raw materials. Admittedly, there are
difficulties as regards patent rights, secret
processes and existing economic interests,
but, given the right man as chairman and
a genuine desire by all to work for the
national good, much might be achieved.
Government could assist greatly by
dropping the pretence that Utopia can
be attained by Act of Parliament. —
Harap (Vic.).
Co-operation
Why not more attention to co-opera-
tive schemes in post-war planning?
Co-operative enterprise has received
statutory recognition in most States. A
Queensland Act dated 1920 allows “indus-
trial and provident societies” to be regis-
tered. When so registered they can carry
on trading, wholesale or retail. Member-
ship is confined to persons of limited
means, and individual interest in any one
society is limited usually to £lOO.
Considerable headway has been made
with farmers’ co-operatives. A Queensland
Act of 1923 allows seven or more farmers
to form a society to sell the produce
of its members, manufacture and treat
produce and arrange for transportation,
cold storage or manufacture. The society
may buy or hire agricultural machinery,
livestock and other farm requisites on
behalf of its members.
All the legislative machinery is at hand.
Could not a fillip be given to co-operation
among farmers?
Trade-union members also could com-
bine and run businesses and conduct
shops. All that co-operation seeks is that
the members get a fair return for their
labor and enterprise. In retail co-opera-
tion, by reason of “combined purchas-
ing” the members are enabled to buy
necessaries at reasonable prices.
Queensland has co-operative sugar mills
and co-operative dairy factories, and
there is nothing to prevent the spread of
the principle.— Co-operation (Q.).
Pensions
C. J. Cerutty, when Auditor-General,
issued a warning that the pensions system
might collapse of its own weight. Too
many are looking to the Government and
not to their own exertions to support
them in old age.
Originally public pensions were granted
only to military servants, retired because
of injury or disablement. Today they
are handed out wholesale. Abolition of
pensions is not called for; what is de-
sired is more efficient administration.
The deserving should be separated
from the thriftless, the intemperate and
the wastrel.
The settlers who laid the foundations
of this continent didn’t look for doles,
relief or pensions. They relied on the
fruits of their hands and brain. A return
to the pioneering spirit is a pressing need.
Self-reliance is a vital element in national
prosperity, and a premium should not
be placed upon it. —A. Daly (S.A.)
Mechanising the Cow
Tasmanian cow-cockies reacted rudely
to a recent official promise to release
some thousands of tractors to help the
dairying industry. Evidently it is going
to take a long time, perhaps too long,
for some of our rulers to realise that
mechanisation and dairying are bad
mates. The contrast between the in-
ternal combustion engine of the cow and
that of the tractor is too marked for the
average human mind to be equally in-
terested in both at the same time and in
the same place.
Mechanisation in the paddock, apart
from the significant loss of humus, in-
volves a speeding up of the rustic mind
to a point where patient drudgery of
the dairy is apt to become repulsive.
When this happens either the machine-
minded farm-worker quits dairying or he
tries to accelerate and intensify the works
of the cow to a point where bovine nature
chucks it in. Mastitis and other diseases
of degeneration then appear, quality and
wholesomeness disappear, costs rise and
dialectic mechanised dairy-farming is
revealed for what it truly is—a doomed
illusion with Russian snow on its boots.
—J. W. R. (Tas.).
The R-Day Infliction
Why must we suffer the enormous cost
in time, money and man-power of a
referendum in war-time? Would any
other country in the world today suggest
or sanction such a thing?
We don’t need more power for the
authorities but better use of their present
powers. We need more intelligent fore-
sight in regard to the allotment of man-
power and more constructive aid in the
production and distribution of foodstuffs.
Will a referendum resulting in yes or
no give us this, produce more coal, or in
any way further our war effort?
Let us take constructive thought for
the morrow —but not at the expense of
the urgent work of today. Olive M.
Green (Abbott-street, New Farm, Q.).
[The writ having been issued, contri-
butions on the referendum must bear
signatures and addresses. Those of
“Com. Powers,” “Caveat Augustus” and
“Knitter” will be published if the neces-
sary authority is received in time.]
A Growl from the Southern Alps
Struggling over the crags and glaciers
of the Southern Alps, Maoriland high-
country musterers have collected most of
the merino sheep off this unfenced coun-
try, but blade shearers are almost unob-
tainable. On this high country, where
even in summer storms can be severe,
machines shear too close, and blades are
in general use. One source of trouble
is that our shearing award allows only
2s. 6d. per 100 difference between
machine and blade shearing.
11 is easier to shear 200 plains sheep
in a machine shed than to tear the wool
off 100 sandy merinos with blades. As
our mountain runholders have no source
of income apart from wool —snow takes
care of their surplus stock —their position
is desperate. If they can’t get the wool
off their sheep in time to turn the shorn
stock out on their summer ranges in
January, they might as well abandon their
Government leases of these high ranges.
That is just what they are threatening
to do. — Te Aute (MX.).
Future of Wool
I agree with “Trepex” (B. 21/6/’44)
that wool needs publicity and salesman-
ship and that advertisement will be
needed in a big way after the war, but
apart from the pessimistic utterances of
“experts” about the immense carry-over
likely at the conclusion of the war a
grave danger does exist that Australia
will be flooded with synthetics before
Australian manufacturers catch up with
time lost and produce again their pre-
war good-class cloths.
On the score of appearance and
price the synthetic product will appeal
to a great many, and with the poor
:ypes of woollen materials that are
being produced at present (through no
fault of the manufacturers) wool is being
dragged down to low depths. All the
advertising in the world won’t put wool
back on the pedestal it should occupy
unless good-class materials are available
immediately the war is over.
Australian wool should not need any
boosting, but stifling manufacturers and
preventing them from manufacturing
quality cloth is playing right into the
hands of synthetic interests. Once any
commodity starts to slip down the ladder
of popularity it takes a lot of convincing
arguments to encourage the public to
favor it again. If wool is to remain the
popular wearing material of the masses,
restrictions must be scrapped and the
public given the opportunity of once again
wearing good-quality woollen materials.
Further delay is dangerous.— lumbuck
(N.S.W.).


edals for Mother
.
4*l
*5
§
. ’ S 4'W4^ l y^^
l;
V..
? «
Her cares are many
her tasks beyond number.
Every hour, every minute
She is on duty —
She sees the children
of! to school
She makes the meals
She makes the beds—•
and the ’planes!
Sees to the laundry
and the lathe .
Fills the shell—
and the shopping basket,
a tiring business
these days.
Cuts sandwiches
for her man
going on night duty—
and wakes at once
if her child
cries in the night.
Tired yet tireless,
She holds the fort
of the family;
the citadel
of the hearth.
She has no medals,
only the pride
of working and striving
beside her menfolk
in a great enterprise—
to save the homes
and the children
of all the world.
★ ★ ★ ★
The women of Australia are making
great contributions to the war effort—
not least of these is what they are
doing for Savings.
Save for Victory
Inserted by William Arnott Pty„ Limited, Homebush, with
acknowledgment to "The Times," London .
ANZAC HOUSE IS FOR ALL SERVICEMEN AND WOMEN. HELP BUILD IT.
