

h
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 65-No. 3367
Wednesday, August 23, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
OLDEST OF THE CINQUE PORTS: SANDWICH.
SANDWICH was described in the eleventh century as “omnium
Anglorum fortuum famosissimus, but reclamation of fertile
areas from the sea has destroyed the once-great port, for what
was once the harbour is now farmland or building area. In
medieval days, Sandwich was a great and flourishing seaport; the
Doomsday Survey gives the total number of burgesses as 383,
which Would make it one of the largest towns in England.
After the Conquest, when Sandwich had become a Cinque Port
(together with Dover, Hastings, Romney and Hythe), it grew in
importance.
In 1171 Thomas a Becket landed here on his return from exile, and
twenty years later Richard I landed from captivity and walked
barefoot from Sandwich on a pilgrimage to Canterbury. In the
sea-warfare of the fourteenth century Sandwich played an important
role, although today it seems to slumber peacefully enough, like
many a country township.


ĥ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
1-lease send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
iS.B, 144 AGE.
The Red Page
ESSAYS BY SITWELL.
Possibly as an odd consequence of war-
time shortages in England, food, drink
and tobacco are discussed at loving
length in Osbert Sitwell’s new collection
of essays. Sing High! Sing Low ! (Mac-
millan ; Angus and Robertson). There
may be —though the beast is not quite
the same thing as a goanna—a tip for
hungry Australians in his recipe for roast
iguana:
Its small eyes, pail-shaped snout and
shark-like jaws, lined with a saw’s teeth
of steel, are, 1 khow, repellent to many.
But it is good, very good, to eat; and its
cost does not amount to more than the
equivalent of a shilling. The ways of cook-
ing it are many, but the best seemed to
* me to be roast saddle, cooked with herbs,
and served in a circle of its own eggs with
a rich brown sauce, flavored with madeira
or port. The saddle is white and tender
as the best capon, and the eggs, too, are a
suitable, and even delicious, concomitant,
once you have grown accustomed to the
idea of them.
For contrast, finding its way into an
essay about Cuba, there is the opinion
of King James the First on the noble
weed that Raleigh had brought to Eng-
land: —
“Surely smoke becomes a kitchen farre
better than a dining chamber; and yet it
makes a kitchen often times in the inward
parts of men, soyling and infecting with
an unctuous and oyly kind of soot as hath
been found in some great tobacco takers,
that after death were opened. A custom
loathsome to the eye, harmfull to the braine,
dangerous to the lungs, and in the black,
stinking fumes thereof, nearest resembling
the horrible Stygian smoke of the pit that
is bottomless.”
The success of a book, Sitwell recalls,
is said to depend on the amount of de-
scription of food it contains. “Dickens,
for one, enters into considerable detail
on the matter, and, indeed, almost the
first novel ever written, or at least the
earliest that has come down to us, the
Satiricon of Petronius Arbiter, is chiefly
concerned with a feast, the Banquet of
Trimalchio.” That being so. Sing High !
Sing Low ! should be assured of success.
All that will tell against it is a certain
hollowness. Sitwell presents largely an
artificial personality, and the success of
the essayist—witness Lamb or Hazlitt or
Eliot—depends on his genuineness. In
the best of his essays, “The Banquets of
Tantalus,” Sitwell writes with obviously
genuine feeling—for the stage as well as
for food—of stage meals, recalling an
occasion when Herbert Tree, playing a
starving poet, had to eat a whole chicken:
He solved the difficulty by causing to be
constructed for himself a fine, plump,
hollow pullet of papier-mache, the breast
being composed of two lids. He then filled
it every night with real slices of excelh
cold chicken and was thus able, when
moment came, to fling himself on the
tackle it with his fingers, and eat it
proper relish and abandon in f’
an enthusiastic audience. In addu
concluded this banquet with a whole u
of genuine grape's. The wine, howevc
which accompanied all this food, consisted
of colored water —except when one even-
ing, by mistake, turpentine was substituted
for it.
And Sing High ! Sing Low ! as a whole
is rather like that papier-mache chicken.
Sitwell’s defence of the Old School Tie
—another quirk of the war—is almost
an admission that his earlier lampooning
of the public schools was largely artificial.
The sentence with which he concludes the
book—“ls it kind, one might inquire,
to be rude to Pope or Dr. Johnson or
Sheridan or Shaw—or Sitwell; is if kind :
but, above all, is it wisel ” —smacks again
of artificiality: Sitwell doesn’t do the
pose of conceit as well as Shaw does, and
even Shaw probably doesn’t really believe
himself. These are small points, but,
allied to some pomposity of language,
their effect is considerable.
Nevertheless, if the bird as a whole is
a stage-property, the genuine slices of
chicken are also to be found in plenty.
There is a beautiful description of
ancient Chinese connoisseurs of orchards ;
an interesting examination of the similari-
ties between painters and poets at various
periods, Breughel the Elder and Shak-
speare, Gaugin and Baudelaire; and in
the essay “What It Feels Like to Be an
Author, ’ among some pleasiqg anecdotes
how one woman, on being introduced
to him, at once announced that she had
read all his books and didn’t like one
of them ; how another called on him and
demanded that he “take down in em-
broidery—one of the few arts of which
L am altogether ignorant—the colors that
she would sing to me” —a denunciation
that will be read with delight by all who
practise the arts and with due shame, one
hopes, by all who believe that the proper
way to behave on meeting a writer or a
painter is to be insufferably rude about
his works.
So disarming is this essay, indeed, that
it becomes difficult to discuss with any
freedom Mr. Sitwell’s enthusiasm for the
word “albeit.”
History of the Indies.
The commander ordered a last desperate
attack, and wh,en this also failed he with-
drew, but not before he had executed nearly
eight hundred of his unfortunate soldiers
in punishment for the deffeat. “We would
never have believed that such a cruelty was
possible,” wrote Coen, “if we had not seen
with our own eyes the bodies of the
executed.”
That was the end of a Javanese attack
on the Dutch citadel of Batavia in 1618.
Quoted from Nusantara: A History of
the East Indian Archipelago, by Bernard
Vlekke (Harvard University Press), it
indicates what should be the book’s chief
value—to remind Australians, New Zea-
landers and Americans that the history
of Oceania is one of perpetual war.
The tradition of warfare in the
“Island paradises” probably goes back
to Pithecanthropus and Modjokertensis
“The immigration of the Malays forced
the aborigines to take refuge in the jungle
.... The decendants of the Proto-Malays
were in their turn pushed inland by the
arrival of new immigrants, the Deutero-
Malays.”
On a rock near Batavia is carved a
record of the wars of the Hindu princes:
These feet of the Illustrious Protector who
is devoted to his duty, the incomparable
Prince, His Majesty Purnavarman, who for-
merly ruled over Taruma, may trample
upon the cities of his enemies and bring
help to his faithful allies.
“The first historical person of the
Indonesian islands of whom we have
more than a dim vision” was Dharma-
vam?a, king of East Java in the tenth
century, who planned the destruction of
the old empire of Shrivijaya and his own
supremacy over all the islands. He fought
a war against his rival:
We know no details, but Dharmavamga’s
attack must have been beaten off, and
Shrivijaya’s retaliation, though delayed,
was merciless. Its army, reinforced by its
vassals from the Peninsula, swept over Java,
took the capital and set fire to the Kraton,
the royal palace.
From the tenth century to the six-
teenth, when we meet the Portuguese,
, history of the islands follows the same
attera as the history of Europe; a con-
queror bloodily unites the kingdoms, his
empire collapses in violence, a new con-
queror appears. And, at any time when
these major struggles are temporarily in
abeyance, there is corruption and civil
war.
Regarding the Mohammedan Indo-
nesians as “Moors” the Portuguese lost
no time in beginning a crusade against
them.
With its first blow the Portuguese fleet
struck down the newly-founded' empire
of Malacca, but three other kingdoms were
ready to keep the green banner of the
Prophet waving in the archipelago The
fire of the Crusades was strong enough in
Albuquerque to make him capture and loot
all Mohammedan vessels he could find be-
tween Goa and Malacca. Thus he fought
the Moors while he served Portuguese com-
mercial interests.
Nominally at peace, Spain and Portu-
gal fought “a brisk little war in the Far
East.” On Christmas Day, 1601, five
Dutch ships were defeating thirty Portu-
guese. Following Drake, Cavendish and
the piratical James Lancaster, the English
traders arrived:
Nowhere was the competition fiercer than
in the Banda Islands, where the Dutch
bluntly used their superiority in numbers
and in ships and maintained their “right of
monopoly” by chasing the English out
under lavish display of gunfire. Of course
there was peace and even an alliance be-
tween the two nations in Europe—in those
times diplomatic relations were even more
complicated than in our days.
There should have been a really im-
pressive war early in the seventeenth
century, only the Dutch were not able to
provide Jan Pieterszoon Coen with the
numerous fleets he needed for his plan of
establishing an enormous Asiatic empire
with Batavia as its capital. One of Coen’s
projects, which might have had interest-
ing results, was to drive the Spanish out
of the Philippines with the aid of “thou-
sands of Japanese mercenary soldiers.”
Whether it is the Sultan of Mataram
depopulating rebellious districts—“on one
occasion he ordered several thousand
inhabitants to be transferred to his capi-
tal, where all the men, numbering more
than twelve thousand, were killed” —or
the Portuguese being driven out to Timor,
or Thomas Stamford Raffles trying to
turn the campaign against the French
domination of Java during the Napole-
onic wars into “a crusade for the libera-
tion of the Malays from Dutch oppres-
sion” and, after the war, strenuously
objecting to the treaty that had handed
the colonies back to the Netherlands, or
the Japanese making their present chal-
lenge, the pattern never alters; “the feet
of the Illustrious Protector will trample
on the cities of his enemies.”
A large, learned and formidable piece
of reading, Nusantara should help to
shatter some of our favorite illusions ; in
particular that Australians were born or
will be born into a heritage in any way
fundamentally different from that of “the
blood-soaked fields of Europe.”
Published in Haste.
My tongue of dust
Reared in its cave again, vital and wet,
Savoring in its fever ruddy draughts
That laved my palate. In my dream the shafts
Of sunshine caught the ruby, and I walked
In tides of wine and slept in wine and talked
In tongues of wine, and sang, and never knew
The ruby was the vesture of the Jew—
Jesus who moved before me as we trod;
Jesus who claimed to be the Son of God.
That is the thief talking in the best
passage of Norma Davis’s I, the Thief
(Arura Writers, Melbourne). In spite of
the directness and passion of the language
here and the praiseworthiness of the
attempt to write a long poem on a high
theme, the book should never have been
published.
The poem is not what one would call
a disappointment, because it was already
obvious from the long mermaid poem
in Earth Cry (the inclusion of which was
justifiable chiefly for occasional lines of
nature observation extraneous to the
central theme —a boat “clogged in honey
of the sun”) that Norma Davis would
always go astray when she quitted her
lovely Tasmanian earth.
The failure of this new departure into
an outworn literary convention the
verse mechanical, the mood sentimental —
cannot invalidate the power and beauty
of the nature verses of Earth Cry.
Nevertheless, its publication is regret-
table, the result of misplaced zeal on the
part of what appears to be a new group
of young writers in Melbourne.
An extraordinary misuse of the archaic
forms of verbs makes the poem as a
whole quite unreal, even ludicrous. If
Norma Davis did not know that only
“Bellerive” is allowed to say “We canst”
and (as a command by Pilate) “Releaseth
now Barabbas” and “I abideth,” surely
her publishers should have known better.
With those persistent errors of grammar
removed, the poem might have passed as
a tolerable rewriting of a Biblical story
best left in its own perfect prose; but
the errors are symptomatic of a general
falseness of tone —the poem is not real,
Norma Davis’s true vision is not religious
—in the conventional sense of the term —
but pantheistic.
Ornithorhynchus.
Charles Barrett’s The Platypus (Robert-
son and Mullens) tells Americans and
others everything they need to know
about the platypus except how to pro-
nounce “ornithorhynchus.”
After a general survey of the bird,
beast or fish’s history and habits Mr.
Barrett tells in detail the story of Robert
Eadie’s famous “Splash,” mentioning,
amonig other details, that “during his four
years of pleasant captivity ‘Splash’ con-
sumed nearly three-quarters of a ton of
worms and about two hundred dozen
eggs.” Also that “Splash” was apparently
allergic to the color blue and used to
dive into his pool in disgust when ladies
wearing blue dresses came to inspect him.
The booklet (60 pages) is well illustrated.
Robertson and Mullens have also pub-
lished a new edition of the best of Charles
Barrett’s books. On the Wallaby —which
is a very pleasant mixture of Australian
travel, natural history and autobiography.
A copy of Mullen’s Old Time Dance
Guide, containing instructions on the
polka, the barn dance, etc., which for
some strange reason was secluded beneath
the front cover of The Bulletin’s re-
view copy of On the Wallaby, is hereby
reconimended to all jitterbugs and
brolgas,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Wilfred Peisley’s oils at Sydney Gros-
venor Galleries are painted boldly, with
a liberal use of impasto, and, in sea-shore
scenes and night studies, such as “Port
Hacking Nocturne,” achieve very realistic
effects. Generally, his skies are too heavy
—of granite rather than air and vapor—
and the decorative pieces which he bases
on the moonnse motif are as false as
gilders excursions into purple, which
. they resemble There is real talent a
promise of high attainment i n S u
studies as “Showery Weather,” the nrh,
winning “Haystack,” “Pea Pickers” and
Shrimping,” and “The Valley Road”
big canvas that caught Howard Hinton’
eye, strikes almost a new note in Am
tralian landscape painting.
“C.Q.”: Many of the larger pictures
hung by A. D. Colquhoun in his late
show at the Athenaeum, Melbourne have
been seen before, but a similar idea runs
through his latest work, of which the
portrait of the late Senator Cunningham
is a good example. To give the illusion
of depth on a plane surface in his main
objective and he seems to have achieved
it in his European and English landscapes
as well as in his later.
What looked like the maze ot
Hampton Court at the Mural Hall at
Myer’s, Melbourne, turned out tb be a
show of paintings and photographs ot
Civil Construction in Australia by the
Allied Works Council. The photos tell
the tale of rivers bridged, mountains flat-
tened and deserts turned into traffic high-
ways much more effectively than the
paintings. Cameras have prejudices, but
not quite so many as have artists. Wil-
liam Dobell dominates the pictorial sec-
tion. His “Billy Boy,” “Cement Worker”
and “Concrete Consolidation Worker”
are more or less in the vein of his Archi-
bald Prize portrait. Others have a
Daumier-ci/m-Millet touch about them.
Melburnians are looking somewhat
bemused at an ‘ exhibition of win-
ning designs in a N.S.W. Housing
Commission competition hung at the
Metropolitan Gas Co.’s showrooms. With
all the architectural beauty of a dogbox
they combine most of the labor-saving
gadgets known to science and the sim-
plicity of a kerosene-tin ; but one has
some puzzling features. Designed for the
comfort and convenience of two parents
and six children it has two small bed-
rooms for the accommodation of the
latter. Unless there is going to be a mix-
ing of the sexes, the large post-war family
will have to be arranged in the propor-
tion of two males to four females or two
females to four males. Any fresh arrival
who upsets this ratio between the sexes
will, it is to be presumed, be exposed by
its parents at the gateway to the city in
the early Roman manner under National
Security (Unwanted Children) Regula-
tions.
At the talkies:
With two words borrowed from the story
in Burton’s “Arabian Nights” and about a
million dollars. Universal has demonstrated in
“Ali Baba and the 40 Thieves” (Sydney State)
how the original storyteller got it all mixed up.
One of the noble Forty—who are engaged in
beating with ridiculous ease the hordes of a
Mongol conqueror named Kaluga Khan— is
a mild, fat comic transparently recognisable as
Andy Devine. Ali Baba is a beautiful lad,
Maria Montez beautiful but dumb, and there is
much ferocious sword-play.
Adelaide Repertory presented three
short plays by Wilfred Massey in which
all the characters are women. Though
the same characters appear, different
players took the roles in each play. The
result was slightly confusing, but brought
out some actresses of promise, especially
Fay Nobbs. Ruby Litchfield produced.
A Town Hall packed to the doors
awaited Marjorie Lawrence at her
first appearance in Melbourne. A series
of screens was stretched across the
whole length of the platform ; when these
parted the great soprano was revealed sit-
ting like the Queen of Sheba on a settee,
The sitting posture gave to rather than
took away power from the performance,
and she seemed to radiate the vitality
and freshness that come only from a
focused individual. There is an inspira-
tional quality about Miss Lawrence which
isn’t confined to her singing.
“Cauboy”: The Borovansky Ballet,
returned to His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
with a full orchestra, has vastly improved
on its first tentative efforts. The barbaric
fierceness of some of the Russian dances
is lacking, nobody seems to be able to
leap from the o.p. side to vanish on the
prompt side in one step, and there is no
dancer with the voluptuousness of a
Lichine ; but you would have to go a long
way to find more charming ballerinas
than Laurel Martyn and Dorothy Steven-
son, more elegant foils to them than
Rubinstein and Bousloff or a crowd who
looked as if they enjoyed it more than
the disciplined corps de ballet. William
Constable’s scenery for “Giselle” follows
the best ballet traditions — i.e., brooding
over a river macadamised by the Country
Roads Board, his baron’s castle looks as
if it had been built by a C.C.C. recruite
from a mental asylum.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
> /
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
121 Years of Service
W-Si>
<9
V/.
S*
v\s
SO
«4»
LADY'S MODEL
With 28 in. x If in. Wheels and Tyres and complete
as above cycle.
PRICES: Fixed Wheel £l3/9/9
Free Wheel Clutch (when available), £l3/14/9
THE FAMOUS ENGLISH - BUILT
PHILLIPS AND RALEIGH CYCLES
Frame and Forks rust-proofed. Built in
England. English Chain Wheel, Crank,
Pedals. Good quality Saddle, fitted with
Australian Wheels and Tyres, 28 x If in.
Free Wheel Clutch and Side Pull Cable
Brake. Complete with Tools and Inflator.
Price
Before purchasing a Cycle it is necessary to have
an Essential User’s Permit. Application forms
m.ay he obtained from our Bicycle Department.
It's patriotic nowadays to cycle to work, to
help conserve essential transport and
much more comfortable too. Cycling is
healthful and invigorating and provides that
extra exercise which gives you the top of
the world" feeling.
"CHALLENGER" BICYCLES are built of
British and Australian material and all
frames are rust-proofed and guaranteed.
" CHALLENGER"
-LIGHTWEIGHT CLUB RACER (Sports Model)
Frame built of Rust-proof©d St©el and Tapered Fork
and Stays. Wheels, 28 in. x If in. Standard Australian
Tyres, 28 in. x If in. Pedals, English, with Toe Clips
and Straps. Handle Bars, adjustable. Equipment,
Free Wheel Clutch (when available), £l4/ 1 /-
GENT.'S "CHALLENGER"
LIGHTWEIGHT ROADSTER
Frame, 22 in. Tyres, 28 in. x If in. (six months' guar-
antee). Pedals, English Phillips. Saddle, good quality
leather. Handle Bars, adjustable. t Finish, five-coat
enamel. Equipment, Tools and Inflator.
PRICES; Fixed Wheel £l2/7/9
Free Wheel Clutch (when available), £l2/12/9
Tools and Inflator.
PRICES; Fixed Wheel
£l3/16/-
ANTHONY
'PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) FAMOUS
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE BAR
By “STANDBY.”
1.
THE two men clung to the bridge
rail, tensely waiting. Huge grey
seas crashed over the fo’castle head
and swept in torrents of foaming
water across the deck. Rain and spray
rattled like shot against the woodwork
of the bridge and stung the faces and
hands with the force of huge hailstones.
Even to experienced seamen the
motions of the little vessel were terrible.
At one moment her bows would be sunk
in the trough between two waves and
next they’d go soaring skywards as the
oncoming wave picked her up. Her head
would fall off a little and the sickening
roll would start.
Over she went till it seemed as if she’d
bury her starb’d light under that welter
of foam. For a second or two she would
hang there; then, as she began to roll
back to port, her bows came down with
a crash that jarred her from stem to
stern.
Two helmsmen were taking it turn
about in short tricks at the wheel.
Stripped to the waist, they sweated
and cursed in their efforts to hold the
ship on her course.
A man climbed the ladder, clawed his
way from hand-hold to hand-hold and
joined the two men on the bridge. The
howling of the gale made speech im-
possible. The elder of the two men
turned, pointed to a sheltered spot, dived
for it and wedged himself against the
flag locker.
“Well, Chief,” he asked, “what is it?”
The Chief Engineer clung to the edge
of the locker.
“We can’t keep this up much longer,
Skipper. I’m driving my engines as hard
as I dare but I’ll have to ease ’em down
before long. Are we making any head-
way?”
“The Second Mate’s up top waiting to
get a bearing but 1 think we’re just about
holding our own. If we’re not, I’ll have
to turn and run for it —if we can. I’ll
let you know.”
The Chief Engineer nodded and clawed
his way back to the ladder. He daren’t
stay too long away from his engine-
room.
As he disappeared there came a clatter
of feet and the Second Mate shot through
the wheelhouse and brought up with a
crash against the flag locker.
“Steady on, young fella. Take it easy.”
The Skipper’s hand shot out and stead-
ied him. “Did you get that bearing?”
“Sorry, Sir. That last roll caught me
off my balance. Yes, I got a good bear-
ing just as that squall lifted. It’s north
seventy-two west, Sir. Same as the last
one.”
“Righto, Second. Send the Mate into
the chart-room with me and you keep
your eyes skinned.”
A few moments jater the Skipper and
the Mate wedged themselves against the
chart table. They were old friends and
shipmates, these two. A stranger might
well have mistaken them for brothers.
Both men were of medium height, lean
and weatherbeaten. Probably through
the responsibilities of command, Captain
Worth’s hair was quite grey. Outwardly
he was always calm and unruffled, never
barking his orders. Bill Bradley was 38,
and, though only two years separated
the two men, looked ten years younger
—the Mate took life very much as he
found it.
“No go, Skipper?” The Mate was the
first to speak.
“No, Bill, it’s no go. We’ll have to
turn round and give that place a go.
We can get to the bar about high-water,
but God knows if there’ll be enough
water to carry us over.”
The mate studied the chart for a mo-
ment or two before answering.
“The chart shows the bar dry at low
water, but surely there’s a bit of a chan-
nel somewhere. If we once get inside
we should be pretty safe.”
“No place is safe under the full weight
of a cyclone, Bill. But it’s that bar that’s
got me bluffed. Once I head her for it 1
won’t be able to turn back. She’ll never
come round against this wind and sea.
If there’s not enough water, that’s the
end. When she strikes she’ll go to pieces
and we’ll never get a man off her alive.
Bill, old man, I don’t like it. We’ve been
shipmates for a long time and I want
your opinion.”
The Mate looked out over the tem-
pestuous sea and back at the cascading
deck.
“You’ll have to chance it, Skipper.
She’ll be starting to drift inshore soon
and if we don’t turn and run for the bar
now we'll miss the tide.”
“All right, Bill. My mind’s made up.
I only wanted to hear you agree with
me. I’m going to watch my chance and
bring her round.”
11.
THE windows of the little house
* rattled and shook in their frames as
the gale tore at then* fastenings. Rain
lashed down in torrents, finding cracks
under doors and around window fasten-
ings that had never leaked before.
The young woman lay in bed, trying
hard to read. It was quite a good story.
Only the day before she’d been so inter-
ested in it that she’d found herself unable
to put it down and prepare the evening
meal. And now she’d read the same page
four times.
If only that gale would cease. Those
terrifying whooping gusts that shook the
house.
Whoo-oo whoo-oo ... like a steamer’s
siren clearing its throat before bursting
into a hoarse bellow.
Moisture in the pipes or something
like that, her husband had said when
she’d teased him about the absurd noise
his ship’s siren made.
Was it only her imagination or was
each one of those howling gusts louder
than the last? The noise of the wind
and rain drowned even the thunder of
the surf. She’d go down and have a
look at it in the morning even though
she hated it in these wild moods. She
knew exactly what it would look like.
Huge grey combers, topped with dirty
white foam, would be racing towards the
beach. Overhead the low grey clouds
would be tearing along as if in an effort
to race them. And the combers would
dash themselves to pieces on the rocks
and the clouds would dissolve into
squalls of rain that would blot out every-
thing from view.
What was it her husband used to say?
“So thick, you couldn’t see the fo’-
castle from the bridge.” And tonight he
was out there, somewhere in that wild
howling waste, battling south in a ship
that wasn’t fit to be at sea.
She wished she hadn’t let that young
Third Engineer say so much, but he was
so young and new to the wayi> of the
sea and he had seemed to want to tell
her, the Skipper’s wife, all about the
ship’s adventures. The Skipper hadn’t
said anything like that in the letter he’d
given the young engineer to deliver,
but then he never did. Even in peace-
time he’d never say anything about his
ship except in praise of her.
The only mention of his ship in his
last letter was that one paragraph:
“Great news, darling. The ‘old girl’ is
about due for an overhaul, so I’ll prob-
ably be seeing you before the end of the
month.”
No mention of being attacked by
those bombers. And now this young
fellow had told her how the ship was
damaged and how the Chief Engineer
doubted if they’d ever get her down to
the mainland under her own steam.
She glanced at the ship’s clock screwed
to the wall at the foot of her bed. Ten
past twelve, and the start of another day.
Only five more days to the end of the
month, and he had said “Before the end
of the month.”
Why did her husband have to go to
sea? Why did any man want to go to
sea?
She’d schooled herself not to worry.
But a “lame duck” ; this gale; and the
glass had been falling steadily ever since
four o’clock.
111.
AT four o’clock the lookout caught
sight of the rocky headland marking
the southern side of the entrance and
soon after the lifting of a squall revealed
the long lines of broken water on the bar
The Mate turned a strained and
anxious face to his captain.
Struth, he said, ‘she’ll never do it
Skipper. There’s not enough water on
that bar to float a launch.”
“We’re going over, Bill, if I have to
jump her over it. Keep your eyes peeled
for any sort of a channel. There’s no
turning back now.”
He stepped into the wheelhouse and
addressed the helmsman.
“Tom, you’ve done a fair bit of bar
work, haven’t you?”
“Yes, Sir, We used-to go over Wide
Bay bar every week in the old Canon-
bar.”
“Right. You know your job. Hang
to her when you feel her stern lift and
don’t let her broach-to or it’s good-bye.”
“I’ll hold her. Sir.”
“Good. Now forget about your com-
pass and look ahead. See that rocky
headland? Steer just to the nor’ard of it.
Steady. That’s it. Keep her there. I’m
looking for a channel and if there’s deep
water anywhere it will be close to that
headland.”
He raised his voice and called the
Mate.
“If she gets over, it’s not going to be
easy to anchor her, where we want her. I
won’t have much room and we may have
to let go in a hurry. Go for’ard and get
your anchors ready and have a hand
stand by with the lead line. I’ll want
both anchors, and warn all hands to
hang on going over the bar.” He placed
a hand on the Mate’s shoulder. “Good
luck. Bill,” he finished quietly. “Look
after yourself.”
Not long now before we know the
worst, he told himself. For an instant
the picture of his young wife stood out
clearly before his eyes, then resolutely
he put it out of his mind. He’d made a
decision that would either save or lose
over a score of lives. Everything would
depend on how he handled his ship in
the next ten minutes or so. That and
luck. The luck of the sea.
Hell. It looked as if the Mate was
right. Only a few feet of water on the
whole length of that bar. The waves
reared up and crashed in a smother of
dirty, yellow foam.
“Keep her up, Tom. Keep her close
to the headland.”
He was still blindly following that
hunch that, if there was any channel at
all, it must be close to that headland.
Anywhere else was hopeless.
“A little more to port, Tom. Steady.
Try to hold her there.”
What was that, close in to the rocks?
The narrow patch where the seas weren’t
breaking quite so heavily. That must be
the channel. God send that there was
enough water in it.
Over his shoulder he spoke to the
helmsman.
“See that high rock, Tom? Keep her
head just a little to starb’d of it. There.
That’s your channel straight ahead now.
SeeJt?”
“Aye aye, Sir.”
The water was shoaling rapidly now
and he could sense the greater power of
the waves as they tried to tear his vessel’s
stern around and throw her broadside
on the bar.
“Meet her Tom, meet her. Don’t let
her get away from you.”
“Meetin’ her. Sir. She’s terrible hard
to hold.”
Again the stern began to rise. The
Skipper glanced behind. A truly gigantic
wave was lifting and breaking right
under her stern.
Up she rose as the huge wave carried
her forward in its rush for the beach.
The Skipper gripped the rail and
clenched his teeth with a force that made
the sweat break out. all over him. Tom
stood like a figure of stone grasping the
spokes of the wheel. His bare feet were
planted wide apart and he stared straight
ahead, waiting for the first swing of the
ship’s head. She roared straight fohvard,
the stern high in the grip of the onrush-
ing wave and her bows sloping steeply
downwards till it seemed as if they would
be driven right under. Then, slowly, her
stern sank and her bows lifted as the
wave passed on.
“She’s over. She’s over.”
Yells of pure relief came floating up
from the lower deck.
“Starb’d a little, Tom.” The Skipper’s
mouth was dry and he found it difficult
to control his voice. “Bring her round
steady now.”
It was nearly an hour later, on the
edge of night, before he got both anchors
placed where he wanted them and suffi-
cient cable paid out. The cyclone still
screamed, the ship strained at the
anchors, the night would be black, dirty
and anxious. But, thinking now of the
young wife in the cottage by the sea,
the Skipper smiled.
VARIOUS VERSE.
The White Eagle.
Evening falls soon in the hills across the river,
Moving dark where the treetops gleamed a
moment before,
Chilling to steel the lazy sweep of the reaches,
And at last, salt-cold, comes rippling in to our
shore.
Where the gulls long since wheeled up and went
flashing seaward.
With the tide’s first ebb deserting the threatened
land;
And the shag no longer sits where the bleaching
driftwood
Thrusts from the slate-blue mud and damp
white sand.
And the shadow climbs, and the clamorous gold-
green thickets
Grow shrill with a brief unease that falls dulled
to rest;
The thrush drops his gentle head, as in secret
listening
To the freshets of silver locked in his soft
grey breast.
And the lyre-bird, too, that gay and skilful
fellow
Who set the dawn-fogged dew of the bush alight
With the opal glow of his soul and his art’s
rich cunning,
Can find no song for this other grey of night.
Now far and steeply above us the dusk has
swallowed
The glint of the wiry grass that the boulders
strew.
Echoing no more to the thronged black curra-
wongs’ calling
Where the rose-limbed trees twist out to pattern
the blue.
But the light turns blazing at bay in its last high
fortress
And the walls of yellow sandstone with glory
run,
A crown for the night-gulfed slopes, and a
golden footstool
For the lord of the rocks and the champion
of the sun.
Stainless he rides on the swimming air, and
below him
Roll the vast dim sea and the splendor of the
world;
And the strength of his wing will be gilded, his
breast still blinding,
When the citadel falls with its blackened banners
furled.
Tomorrow I, too, must be dropping down the
river
With the screams of the flickering gulls for my
parting words,
And in the thick town I shall be often thinking
Of the great hill darkening here, and my quiet
birds.
I shall wish them all a still dusk and safe
dreaming,
But the lift of my heart will follow my shining
one
Where fire high bright cliffs rise burning and
he beyond them,
All his white beauty warm in the eye of the sun.
n.s.w.
NAN McDONALD.
Beleaguered City.
If Age cap. identify and realise,
The blue-robed sycophant alone 1 know:
An old man cozening from scalloped bays
The maid with parted lips and wind-closed eyes.
He likes the beach and leaves his shadow there,
Darkly to adumbrate the end of one
Who’s often spitted on the sun’s gold spear
And often tingling in foam-pointed air,
Who once was young and stood among the trees,
Dreaming that starlight crumbled in her gaze,
That her time could not look her in the face
But burn again and live, so fair she was.
And those who swam in minds admiring the
white
Flight of gulls that touch and escape, saw on
her throat
A rhythmic brightness like the pulse of wings
Agitating a tranquil southern night.
O city taking the blue robes, years
Are not prodigal of the Spirit: it will come
Before our works and after, setting its pride
Between the sad strokes of the pendulum,
Setting its pride among these frozen tears
And the inchoate music of the tide.
n.s.w.
TOM ROSE.
To a Crow.
You’ve made inquiries at the gate,
Not passed inside, asked someone there
Behind the grill of death’s bared ribs.
Is it the heart gives secrets, squibs
Of rumored sickness? Is it fate
Garbed in a dark gown standing there?
You ought to know, you old black crow!
Frost is a shroud as white as snow
And under it the grass won’t grow;
Though it covers the dead their feet still show:
And you’re not here, but you’re thinking now
To dress for a hearse the brindle cow.
What undertaker can conceal
In cash demands for burial
The carkings of a hateful crow?
You’re here, so let the whole world know
In cawings how a crow must feel
Taking the fees for burial.
You ought to know, you old black crow.
How sick-things feel when the heart beats slow;
When others watch, how tired they grow
Of life and what it has to show ...
But duty! Yes, I must allow
It’s duty, so I leave you now.
And friendlier in the years to come,
I’ll ride this way on a quieter horse
Some summer’s day, when ants run fast
Unhampered on the tracks ungrassed,
When at a paddock shrine will some
Stroke hungry jaws, hold lean discourse—
How sweet a beast was the brindle cow,
And how they miss her music now.
They’ll talk, because her skull will show,
Her spinal column in a row,
How white the bones as tombstones grow,
Grim ad. to the trade of an old black crow.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3367.
Wednesday, August 23, 1944.
FROM FRANCE TO THE AUSTRALIAN FRONT.
“We fought like tomcats, Mr. Churchill, but the numbers were against us.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-240 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
MONTY AND OTHERS
Without setting up as a rival of the great
Max Werner, who proved by the stars or
something that Hitler would be done to
a turn in December, 1943, Henry J.
Taylor, of the Scripps-Howard news-
papers, gave a pretty accurate account of
what would happen in France and abroad
when the invasion—still 17 days ahead —
was launched.
.Mr. Taylor, who gave “responsible
Army and Navy officers” as his authori-
ties, had no fear of the Anglo-American
“assault forces” being driven back into
the sea. He said they would encounter
only “defensive units,” composed for the
most part of second-class material, on and
about the beaches—as actually happened.
But behind the defensive units were'
“offensive troops, young, battle-tough-
ened and mobile,” who would not be
thrown into action “too soon.”
While the public is cheering the German
generals will be waiting. The test of
whether we can beat Germany in 1944 can
hardly come for 60 or 90 days after our
beachheads are established.
The 60 to 90 days’ period has arrived,
though it has not ended. It has brought
splendid victories, fruits of Montgomery’s
genius and of the fighting quality of bis
troops, who have never called in vain on
their companions of the sister services;
and the pressure on the enemy has been
increased by the arrival of another great
United Nations army in the South of
France. But “the test can hardly” be
said to have “come” even yet.
“If the Germans knew they were beaten
they would certainly not be fighting so
desperately,” said General Eisenhower
last week. There had arrived “a very
definite climax in one phase of the opera-
tional plan that has been in effect since
D-Day,” and the German forces engaged
were “taking a good sound beating.” But
there had been “tactical victories” before,
in Tunisia and in Italy, and in “the cam-
paigns ahead numbers of such tactical
victories must be won.” “Even if we
realise our fondest hopes in a situation
such as this we shall still be a long way
from the Rhine.” Wise words from a
cool-headed generalissimo of great ability,
but obscured by the prominence given to
the assurances of Max Werner and the
“traveller just arrived at” Stockholm,
Berne or Ankara that the Hun will have
his hands up in a few weeks.
Mr. Taylor suggested the possibility that
the enemy, instead of staking his military
fortunes on a great battle in France, might
elect to save his army and gain time “by
fighting only strong rearguard engage-
ments in an orderly step-by-step retreat
to the homeland.”
In that event our cheers over the quick
flushes of victory close on the heels of D-
day could easily give way to some dissatis-
faction. i
Give way to dissatisfaction they did, as
soon as it became evident that there was
to be no military promenade to Paris and
thence to Metz.
In this country Communists began the
snarling, inevitable sequel to their squeal-
ing for a Second Front, and Sydney
papers returned to the yelping which in
their case breaks out every time a British
general has what they choose to consider
a setback. As these papers report the
war, this is an experience which has be-
fallen no Russian general: Russian
generals and armies always win, and
each of their victories is “the greatest
in military history.” They were held
to be winning at a wonderful rate
when Montgomery was at a stand-
still whirling on to Warsaw, Cracow,
Riga, Tilsit and Konigsberg, pausing
only long enough to scoop up five divi-
sions of Germans here and there, and
keeping Berlin for the season when
apples fall. Where wounding compari-
sons were not actually made, they were
su SlP s f e d by the way the “news” was
presented; Russia first, with superlatives
unlimited and headlines stretched across
the page; Normandy a bad second.
People were encouraged to believe that
Rokossovsky would be over the border
and riding along Unter den Linden while
Montgomery was still fumbling in Troarn
or Falaise.
Montgomery was promoted to the
Eighth Army command against the advice
of the Sydney “Daily Telegranh.” One
of that paper’s many recipes for swift
and certain success in this war was that
Russian generals should be sent to Egypt
to teach pretenders like Montgomery and
Alexander their business, Timoshenko
being its choice for Second-Front com-
mander. The Great War Correspondent
F. Ehtenfried Baume (“Terewth”) was in
bright and early with “the stark truth
that Montgomery was kicked in the
tail at Caen” ; but it was reserved for the
“Telegraph’s” senior contemporary to tell
Monty he had got his army into a
fix in Normandy and show him how to
get it out. This it did in a leading article
on July 28:
The Russians at the gates of Warsaw and
deploying along the Vistula the still
confined and congested invading armies of
the Norman beachhead the Allies’ dis-
appointment in this field....
The plain truth is that much public
wishful thinking and tactics based uppn the
natural desire to avoid heavy casualties, to
which Our Military Correspondent refers
in another column, have hitherto not
availed against the efforts of a desperate
enemy. The time has come to face the grim
reality for which Mr. Churchill has re-
peatedly bade the Allies prepare. The
frontal attack from Caen to Coufances
must be carried through.
This prescription for victory regardless
of cost from a country without even a
platoon in France (no fault of the sons
of the immortals of Germany’s Black
Day) can scarcely have reached the little
general in time. Anyway, he had to make
shift with his own dispositions, and from
these “the frontal attack from Caen to
Coutances,” though the idea may have
occurred to his batman, was excluded.
The paper allowed on August 4 that they
were pretty effective:
“The British and American offensive has
engulfed the entire front” was the German
High Command’s report on the fourth
day of the Allies’ general offensive on a
front of some 50 miles. On that - day the
American right flank passed the end of the
Cotentin Peninsula and it's armored columns
were driving westward into Brittany and
southward towards Rennes. General Mont-
gomery’s manoeuvre one of a great left
wheel pivoted on Caen and swinging to
face south-east towards Paris and Orleans.
The swift progress of the Americans on the
right and the co-ordinated slower advance
of the British on the left are eloquent' of
the wheeling movement.
Even when the Americans of Mont-
gomery’s command had Rennes, Angers,
Laval, Le Mans, Alen?on and Argentan
and were driving hard towards Orleans
Our Military Correspondent had a gloomy
thought:
It remains to be seen whether the failure
of the Allies to effect a complete break-
through from the north has exercised a
limiting effect on the strategical plan.
In other quarters more addicted to
giving instructions to the Blimps of the
British Army (this Military Correspon-
dent, it should in fairness be said, is no
bad specimen of the breed) there were
moody conjectures as to whether the
Germans in Normandy had got or would
get out of “the trap.” For in the change
from carping to qualified approval, this
term had been borrowed from the argot
and arithmetic of Moscow correspondents
(15,000 Germans to a division, five, ten,
fifteen, twenty, forty divisions, and hence
75,000, 150,000, 225,000, 300,000, 600,000
Germans, in the current “trap”) and
applied to the operations of Montgomery,
who never uses the boastful and idiotic
expression.
While Americans, British and Cana-
dians were liberating so much of France
and so many French people and the
enemy was showing by his measures and
words that he regarded the hosts of
Eisenhower—among whom French sol-
diers are taking a proud place—as con-
stituting the greatest threat to Hitlerism,
something had gone wrong with the Rus-
sian time-table, as set out in newspaper
reports and headlines, not communiques.
On the word of a Moscow correspon-
dent who has hitherto been the rosiest of
optimists, “the frontal assault on East
Prussia” had been “deferred,” The Rus-
sian advance fci Poland had been
checked at most points and thrown back
at one. In the Baltic States “trapped”
Germans had passed over to the offen-
sive. Obviously trying to effect a diver-
sion, Russia-Is-Always-Right papers at-
tacked the leaders of the Polish under-
ground army and their Government in
London on the score of the rising in
Warsaw, styling it “premature”—surely
the lowest depth of servile meanness to
which even Russia-Is-Always-Right papers
have sunk.
“Premature” the rising may have been,
though at the week-end this remained to
be proved. Heroic it was and is; and
heroism ought to be respected even by
Russia-Is-Always-Right papers. In any
case it was in keeping with injunctions
issued to the oppressed patriots of Europe
through 8.8. C. As far back as
April 9 the Czechs were bidden by their
Minister of Defence in London over the
8.8. C. wave-length to “use all means, not
only passive resistance and intensified
sabotage, but also direct action against
the enemy and his organisation, to pave
the way for the Allied armies,” and Dr.
Benes, the Czech leader, shares the
favor of Russia-Is-Always-Right journals
with Marshal Tito. The marshal’s offen-
sive has been halted since his headquarters
were raided by an enemy band on May
25, but he remains a hero to the papers
which pronounce the Polish commander
in Warsaw a hot-headed bungler —be-
cause he raised an awkward and totally
unexpected obstacle to plans for another
partition of his country, by the look of
things the worst of the lot.
Meanwhile what of our own Com-
monwealth? By the decision of its
Government it is taking no part
in the liberation of Europe —it had
five grand liberating divisions there
in August, 1918, when the popula-
tion was only 5,000,000 —except for the
gallant bomber and fighter crews serving
under Tedder and Leigh-Mallory. In
common with their British, American and
Canadian comrades they have had sad
losses, but “no more fully-trained R.A.A.F.
pilots are to be sent” as replacements.
This came out during the last week of
the referendum campaign, along with two
unspeakably disgraceful facts, to one of
which the leader of the British Food
Mission to Australia bore witness: a pro-
duction-loss of 62,000 tons for the latest
“working” week (five days of eight hours
from bank to bank) on the N.S.W. coal-
fields and food ships but no cargoes, though
Britain’s need was never greater. “Our capa-
city to maintain our meagre butter ration”
(one-third of the Australian, as reduced)
“during the first two winter months,” said
Mr. Bankes Amery, “depends entirely on
supplies sent from Australia and New
Zealand during the next few months.”
Again: “Australian exports of meat and
butter to Britain have fallen by more
than half since the first year of the war.”
Now that the crowd in office has
stopped fighting and insulting fellow-
countrymen and bragging that Mr. Curtin
saved the country, it will perhaps contrive
to remember that the country is still en-
gaged with a foreign foe who is still in
occupation of Australian territory and
that there are military and man-power
problems, shelved to admit of its fighting
and insulting fellow-countrymen, await-
ing its decisions. In spite of appearances,
Australia has not concluded a separate
peace.
U.S. Republican Policy
With Mr. Roosevelt —in Mr, Eric John-
ston’s appraisal, “not a man to hang
around too long with a lost cause” —
again a starter and his team mate, Senator
Truman, much more solid than the fanci-
ful Mr. Wallace, and with such excep-
tional Republican candidates as the Gov-
ernor of New York, Mr. Dewey, and the
Governor of Ohio, Mr. Bricker, the Presi-
dential race looks like beating any Derby
ever run for interest.
However it pans out, the Republican
party will almost certainly dominate the
House of Representatives. Hence a
special interest in Republican foreign
policy—Mr. Roosevelt’s being well
enough known —for many others besides
Americans.
When Mr. Dewey began to look a cer-
tainty for Presidential nomination the
New York “Herald Tribune” assigned
one of its staff to read all his speeches to
find out just where he stood on foreign
policy. The summing-up was that Mr.
Dewey wants —as everybody does—per-
manent peace and is willing to have the
United States take a share in ensuring it.
He favors a continuing large army and
navy for America. He is agreeable to
the United States helping to rebuild the
world after the war, but without charity.
He has recommended freedom for capital
and labor. He has confidence that Con-
gress will do its part in building a better
world.
The Republican war policy as enun-
ciated by Mr. Dewey is to “carry on the
war to a total crushing victory,” After
that, to “organise in co-operation with
other nations a structure of peace backed
by adequate force.... to promote world-
wide economic stability.” Germany and
Japan, he has declared, “must not only
be utterly defeated and completely dis-
armed, but must not be left in a post-war
environment which might enable them to
manoeuvre as a balance of power.” Inso-
far as he can influence it, Republican
policy will not be on the lines followed
after the last war. “After 1919,” he has
stated, “lethargy, jealousy and power poli-
tics resumed sway among the Allies. If
after this war we reproduce the same poli-
tical climate, we will get the same results.”
In Mr. Dewey’s view “the central error
of 1919 was the false assumption that
words could create a peace.” The Repub-
lican election platform aims at “the
attainment of peace and freedom based
on justice and security”:- 1 -
We shall seek to achieve such aim
through organised international co-opera-
tion, not by joining a World State. We
favor responsible participation by the
United States in post'-war co-operative
organisation among sovereign nations to
prevent military aggression and to attain
permanent peace with organised justice in a
free world. Such an organisation should
develop effective co-operative means to
direct peace forces to prevent or repel mili-
tary aggression. Pending this, we pledge
continuing collaboration with the United
Nations to assure the ultimate objective.
In their election campaigning the
Republicans are being opposed by Corns,
and other Reds, Pinks and Puces of all
• shades. This is in good part accounted
■ for by Mr. Dewey’s reservations in regard
r to the U.S.S.R. He has stated that “in-
• evitabiy a major responsibility to work
; together will fall upon the United States,
Britain, Russia and China in the first few
years following the war”; but he has
so far banked most on the U.S.-British
alliance which he first mooted at the
Republican conference on Macinac
Island last September (not, however, that
this proposal has any general Republican
backing ; rather the reverse).
In April this year Mr. Dewey stated: -
No initial measures against Germany
and Japan, however drastic, will have per-
manent value unless they fall within the
setting of a durable cohesion between Great
Britain and the United States,. together,
I hope, with Russia and China.
American Corns, could never forgive
him for that, nor for this:
Russian affairs are in the hands of hard-
headed, realistic leaders. That is nothing
we should be afraid of, provided we are
equally realistic and devoted to our country.
And there were items in another of
the speeches he made in April which
would not sound well to Corns.:
We must look to the day when free men
everywhere, regardless of race, color or
creed, can live in freedom, can work at
occupations of their own choosing, can
raise their children in the traditions of
their parents, can worship God in the
manner of their own choosing.
Additional light on Mr. Dewey’s
foreign-policy outlook has been shed by
his endorsement of Mr. Hull’s state-
ment on that matter after the Moscow
Conference, and by Mr. Dewey’s support
of the Fulbright resolution in which Con-
gress expressed itself as favoring “the
creation of appropriate international
machinery with power adequate to estab-
lish and to maintain a just and lasting
peace,” which has since been practically
written into the Republican platform.
After a tour of the American Mid-West
in May Lord Halifax stated in an inter-
view that he found little of isolationism
there. Governor., Bricker has stated
that “the people of the Mid-West are
ready to join any sound co-operative
movement which has as its object the
prevention of war.” He makes the reser-
vation —as anybody not relying on a
crystal-glass would —that “how far
America should go in a world organisa-
tion is something to be decided when
we can see what kind of a world we are
in.” Also:
America will emerge from this war with
a navy twice the size of that of any two
other combined Powers, with the largest
army in the world, and with an air force
almost incalculable in size. It will then
be up to the rest of the world to co-operate
with us for peace. As long as I have any-
thing to say about it, there will be no
super-world-State and no world police force
imposing its will upon the United States.
Also, American military forces will never
be under the command of foreigners or
subordinated to them in any way..
On the evidence to date it seems highly
probable that the Republicans will take
the electioneering stand of supporting
American foreign policy practically as
stated and practised by Mr. Roosevelt
and Mr, Hull, and that their main election
appeals will be purely domestic. In this
both Mr. Dewey and Mr. Bricker have
uttered sentiments which supporters of
the Australian referendum would have
considered heretical. In another of his
speeches last April Mr. Dewey spoke
almost entirely on the dangers of regi-
mentation, with the hope for a revival of
general initiative and responsibility. Most
strongly he opposed what he described as
the tendency towards a “disguised totali-
tarianism.”
Mr. Bricker has been even more forth-
right and specific. America’s power to
help others, he has stated, will be depen-
dent upon the degree in which it
“strengthens private enterprise and pre-
serves individual opportunity.” In an
interview he expressed these views:
I believe that our first objective is to
maintain private enterprise and individual
initiative in America. We can prevent the
evils without destroying the system. We
can help those who are in need without
perpetuating the causes of poverty. We
can preserve dividends on individual initia-
tive and rewards for creative genius. We
can keep diligence more profitable than
sloth. We want the kind of society wherein
people are willing to take a chance and
wherein the chance of profit is greater than
the chance of loss. We want a society
wherein the individual boy and girl, or the
returning soldier, can get a job with a
reasonable hope of promotion. We want a
homeland where people can work hard and
save money and start a ‘business of their
own.
These and suchlike views amply explain
the stand that is being taken by the
American Corns, and their offshoot
etceteras. It is not a matter of support-
ing Mr. Roosevelt but of opposing what
the Republicans, judged from their
chosen candidates’ utterances, appear to
be aiming at, especially on the home
front. Practically identical was the Aus-
tralian Communist support of the refer-
endum proposals. To be or not to be
regimented in perpetuity, to have br not
to have private enterprise and individual
initiative, was clearly at issue here. The
Republicans assert that these matters are
very much at issue in America also, and
they are counting on this more than on
anything else to help them win.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Prescription Refused.
In the last of his few referendum
addresses Mr. Curtin wasn’t too sick to
be angry. Speaking at a Canberra micro-
phone, he, the war-time Prime Minister,
whose plain duty it was to unite the
nation instead of dividing it on a dis-
honest issue, and to exercise for the bene-
fit of the war effort the powers already
possessed by his Government —above all,
the power to compel the production of
sufficient coal —instead of demanding the
prolongation of these powers till five
years after the war and financing the
demand by dipping into the Treasury —
he, Storm along John, delivered a virulent
attack on “sectional interests”;
Sectional interests have cast suspicion and
doubt upon the central issue; have thrown
up murky smoke-screens, and have done
everything within their power by distor-
tion, lying and vilification to deny to the
Australian people the right to peace, to
enjoy the very things for which the national
existence was staked in war. Devoid of all
decency, these interests have stopped at
nothing, whether it be riding on the backs
of returned soldiers; reflecting on the judi-
ciary, as one hitherto respectable newspaper
has done; pandering to the fears and pre-
judices of the unthinking.
Of each of these muddy charges Mr.
Curtin’s own crowd was guilty. One of
his Ministers “reflected on the judiciary”
in gross terms. “Fears and prejudices”
were outrageously exploited in Labor
propaganda charged up to the people. As
for lying, Mr. Curtin’s party, breaking
with the traditions of Labor parties
throughout the Empire, stooped to an
alliance with Communists who have
made lying their businesses Communist
leaders made strikes their business when
the war was “imperialist” ; and in N. S.
Wales Mr. Curtin’s party associated itself
with a cartoon in the foulest Communist
style showing a grinning Jap (“Tokyo
Radio: Honorable Mike made from Best
Australian. Pig-iron”) advising Australians
to vote No.
But Mr. Curtin could think only of his
opponents. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he
bawled, “if you believe these lies, then
you discredit the high office to which any
Australian may be called and you blacken
the fair name of your own country in
the eyes of* the leaders of all Govern-
ments of the United Nations.” Distracted
words of a politician who realised that
his precious referendum was about to be
beaten.
Beaten it was, by majorities so big that
the service vote, even if influenced by
the brazen one-eyed campaign to which
servicemen in distant camps were exposed,
could make no material difference. And
the biggest majorities were in States with
Labor Governments, two of which had
shoved the Evatt Powers Bill on their
Statute Books (in the event, uselessly)—
at the beginning of the week, 108,000 in
N. S. Wales, 89,000 in Queensland and
27,000 in Tasmania, It was not then
certain that the Yes-men would carry
any State, though they had small leads
in South Australia, steadily being re-
duced, and the West. On the Common-
wealth totals they were 227,000 behind.
All the Queensland and all the Tas-
manian electorates (ten and five respec-
tively) said No most emphatically. So
did all the electorates represented by
non-Labor Yes-men: Warringah (Mr.
Spender), North Sydney (Mr. Hughes),
Henty (Mr. Coles) and Wimmera (Mr.
Wilson); the Warringah No majority
was the greatest of all. Ministers whose
appeals were flatly rejected by their con-
stituents were Mr. Forde (Capricomia),
Mr. Frost (Franklin), Mr. Scully (Gwydir)
and Mr. Chifley (Macquarie), and it may
be that Dr. Evatt (Barton) and Mr. Ded-
man (Corio) will join the dismal band.
Mr. Chifley’s discomfiture has a special
significance. In his electorate there is a
Left-wing element so strong that nearly
a year ago it “demanded” an immediate
invasion of France, in terms insulting
to Britain, in the name of the Labor
party. It is also the electorate in which
union coalminers and others, placing mob
action at the service of the Attorney-
General’s now-notorious referendum-
campaign utterance in Westralia (“the
right to ‘fire’ is characteristic of the social
system against which the Labor move-
ment must fight and win”), struck because
the town butcher had dismissed a girl,
and boycotted the butcher and a bus-
driver who had bought meat from him
for an ailing wife.
The other N.S.W. coalmining divisions
showed Yes majorities of 17,000 (Hunter),
7500 (Newcastle) and 6200 (Werriwa).
Macquarie’s No majority was 4700. In
N. S. Wales, at all events, no single epi-
sode had more to do with the defeat of
Labor-Communism than the episode of
the butcher, who, setting Mr. Curtin an
example from which Mr. Curtin, though
possessed of supreme powers, still shrinks,
stood up alone to a union mob and
beat it.
Saviour in Action.
Mr. Curtin, at yet another coal confer-
ence in Sydney on July 28, at which
owners, miners and Coal Commission
were represented, announced a target of
1,200,000 tons of.coal a month as hav-
ing been accepted by all hands, with Mr.
Wells, the miners’ Communist president,
co-operating in the “weeding out” of
striking and loafing “sports” (Mr. Wells,
apprised of the reaction of the “sports,”
denied it). Mr. Curtin was still full of —
er—fight:
Now that everybody is delivering ulti-
matums to me, I am delivering 0ne.... I
am looking at it as the head of a nation
at war, and which has to find coal in order
effectively to conduct the war Without
7,000,000 tons of coal between now and
December 31, the country’s war effort can-
not be maintained and this country will
be unable to carry out the Australian part
of the plan which I put to Mr. Churchill,
[as a result of which] substantial British
forces will be here very shortly. I am pre-
pared to pledge myself and my reputation
and everything I have, that I will bring the
plan into the Federal Parliament.
Whereupon there began another rash of
strikes in N.S.W. coalmines, high-lighted
by the Portland strike over the dismissal
of the butcher’s girl. The production
loss for just over half the present month
was 111,600 tons.
On August 17 it became so evident,
despite the efforts of Yes-men at conceal-
ment, that rationing, with the slashing of
fuel, lighting and transport services,
would have to be enforced, that nasty
questions were asked at referendum
meetings.
Dr. Evatt made some evasive remarks
about production in the Menzies Govern-
ment’s time, alleged coal production
records under the Curtin Government and
coal troubles in Britain and the United
States, asserting also that “every fair-
minded Australian would agree that Mr.
Curtin had saved Australia from inva-
sion by the Japanese.”
As a deliverer of ultimatums, Mr. Cur-
tin is like a poker-player bluffing on a
bob-tail flush. Whether dr not he saved
Australia from the Japanese, he has not
saved it from coal strikers and loafers,
though the remedies lie ready to the hand
that hasn’t the strength to use them. The
first should be the freezing of the funds
of the guilty union whose Communist-
headed executive undertook to get suffi-
cient coal if National Security regulations
against strikers and absentees were sus-
pended in favor of its own “laws” —as
was done —and, with typical Communist
perfidy, let the weak Government and the
country down.
Australian Colors.
Time was when the hoardings on the occa-
sion of a patriotic appeal and the like were
splashed with red, white and blue, and
when the Australian coat of arms and
the Australian flag were widely and glori-
ously displayed.
In the last war-loan campaign the Aus-
tralian colors were scarcely seen. Posters
displayed in Sydney were in the blood-
red and gold of the Russian flag, often
associated with the Communist five-
pointed star —which also, incidentally,
decorates the Australian ss. War Savings
stamp.
And though Australia’s own crest is a
seven-pointed star, the chief patriotic
Australian emblem used was Mr. Curtin’s
face. The tenor of the appeals was not
to save Australia but to “defeat Fascism,”
combined with an appeal to women to
“bring your boy home soon.”
The succeeding War Savings campaign
was dressed almost 1 entirely in the red
and gold of Russian Communism and
the characteristic light blue and white of
the Eureka Youth Movement, successor
to the Young Communist “party.”
Even this, however, was preferable to
the color scheme of the new war-loan
campaign. Though the Soviet star has
been retained as a decoration in many
posters, the prevailing colors used are
“black, yellow and brindle.”
The ghost of Von Hindenburg walking
the Sydney streets would be apt to dis-
solve in laughter at the spectacle of banks
and public buildings hung with war-loan
appeals clothed in the exact flaring orange
and black of the Royal Standard and
Kriegsflagge of the late unlamented Reich
of Wilhelm the Lost, which Australians
did so much to put out of fashion in
1914-18.
Somebody might gently remind Mr.
Curtin that Australia still has colors of
her own, colors which are flown over her
military camps, and which still have an
appeal to the majority of Australians who
have not joined his referendum-campaign
associates of the Communist party in
regarding Soviet Russia as their father-
land.
Ambush in Palestine.
A hushed-up crime;
In 8.8.C.’s breakfast news, repeated in this
country by A.8.C., it was reported that a car
in which Sir Harold Mac Michael, High Com-
missioner and C.-in-C. in Palestine since 1938,
was travelling to a farewell function had been
ambushed and shot up by gunmen, Sir Harold
being wounded slightly and two members of
his staff seriously. No doubt many listeners
scanned the newspapers that day and on suc-
ceeding days for details of the outrage.
They didn’t get them. Some journals dis-
missed the matter in a few lines. Others did
not mention it.
Very odd, especially as the London “Times”
and the New York “Times,” on which these
papers draw heavily for foreign news and com-
ment, have of recent months given no incon-
siderable space to the violent proceedings —gun-
running, bombing and shooting of policemen —
of Jewish terrorists in Palestine, particularly the
Stern gang. Of course, an attempt to wipe out
the British High Commissioner and C.-in-C. in
Palestine, his wife (“Lady Mac Michael was un-
hurt”) and personal staff must yield in impor-
tance to such events as the arrival in Sydney
of a party of comedians and crooners, but
it is of some significance if only to the
large number of Australian servicemen who
know Palestine and have observed the relations
of the Jews and Arabs there.
In an article contributed to the sober “Har-
per’s,” a Jewish writer, Eliahu Ben-Horin,
obviously one of those Jews whose unassail-
able position is that they are Britons or Ameri-
cans or Australians of the Jewish forth, and
who are concerned at the direction which the
New Zionism has taken, points out that
“Palestine occupies a position of singular
strategic importance in the general Middle-
Eastern picture,” and that the Middle East lias
become the most important single area in the
structure of the British Empire”; indeed
“without the Middle East there is no British
Empire.” In 1892 “Old Russia wanted to
stake a claim in the Middle East” and was
told by Lord Curzon that if would mean war.
But, as a result of the 1939 British White Paper,
“the Zionists and the Zionist supporters are up
in arms against Britain’s colonial policy, and
the way is open for the Russians.” .
True “Russian plans about the Middle East
are “not clear,” though the “aspirations of Russia
and Britain conflict.” In October, 1943, Maisky
previously Soviet Ambassador in Britain, and
himself a Jew, turned up in Palestine on some
mission or other. About the same time it was
announced that a special Soviet Jewish dele-
gation might soon visit Palestine. There fol-
lowed “an exhibition in Russia of the progress
of Jewish colonisation in Palestine,” the exhibits
being “flown in a Russian ’plane to Moscow.
This was succeeded by a Moscow announce-
ment of “a special Bureau for Jewish Religious
Affairs.” In the meantime there were “appeals
from Russian Jewry to world Jewry,” con-
veyed in person by “Professor Solomon
Michoels and Colonel Ifzik Feffer,” and “what
these Soviet Jewish delegates declared in New
York” must have been “approved by Moscow.
All this evidence of interest in Zionism is
quite recent. For a long time “it seemed as it
no bridge could ever be built over the abyss
dividing Soviet Russia from Zionism.
Soviet Russia backed the Palestine Arabs
against the Jews. Comintern funds were
lavishly spent to foster anti-Zionist and
anti-British intrigues and revolts.
Zionism was taboo in Soviet Russia....
persecuted more severely than any other
national movement. As “lackeys of British
Imperialism” Zionist leaders were sent to
prison or driven out of the country.
Hebrew, the language of the Bible, was
officially outlawed, and the Jewish re-
ligion was as relentlessly persecuted as
other religions.
One drawback was -that “the three million
Jews in Russia had no territory of their own,
“the consequences being embarrassing in many
ways.” So the Soviet Government embarked
on “an experiment which had all the earmarks
of an imitation Zionism.”
It tried to establish autonomous Jewish
settlements, first in the Crimea, then in Biro-
Bidjan, which, if successful, would have
brought about a territorial concentration of
the Jews. The Crimea and Biro-Bidjan
ventures failed.
Kind-hearfed people in this country are cer-
tain that similar “ventures” in North Westralia
—New Guinea has been hopefully added in the
last few weeks —would be rousingly successful.
There is no doubt that the New Zionism has
strong Leftist leanings. The vision of Pales-
tine as a British Commonwealth attracts New
Zionists in Australia and Britain, but is never
mentioned in the U.S.A., where most of the
New Zionists live. In Palestine itself, Mr.
Ben-Horin points out, Jews born in Russia
“probably” form the largest and most influ-
ential group, and, although Mr. Ben-Horin does
not say so, gratitude to and consideration for
the difficulties of the nation which set up Pales-
tine as a home for Jews and protected them
and their language and religion form no part
of the New Zionist composition.
Indeed, this Jewish writer says that “British
Imperialistic policy,” particularly as it concerns
the Arabs, “may push Soviet Russia into an
active alliance with Palestinian Jewry, giving
unconditional support for a Jewish Palestine.'
Soviet Russia might thus “not only gain the
everlasting gratitude of many Jewish groups
throughout the world, and the approval of the
nations of Europe interested in the emigration
of the Jews living in their countries, but it
would also create for itself an excellent posi-
tion in the Middle East.” It is drily noted that
“the latter argument would probably count most
in the calculations of the Soviet statesmen.”
THE DOCTOR WHO TELLS.
“And WHO’S the father?"
“He won't admit it, but it’s a man in specs and a boxer hat who's known as 'Honest John.'"


[For Referendum matter, J. E. Webb and
David Adams, 252 George-street North, Sydney,
are responsible.]
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Making
p P
ecTt
IJNA
■ 111
sshSf
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
INCOME TAX RETURNS
MADE EASY.
The Shipley Account Book
with Taxation Guide
(Copyright)
Specially prepared for GRAZIERS, DAIRY
FARMERS, ORCHARDLSTS, AND ALL
PRIMARY PRODUCERS.
EVERY ITEM FOR TAX RETURNS
FULLY EXPLAINED. YOU CAN’T GO
WRONG. OVER 1,000 COPIES SOLD.
The large number of testimonials received
from satisfied purchasers, prove the inest-
imable value of our Taxation Guide and
Account Book.
DON’T WORRY OVER INCOME TAX
RETURNS. THE READY RECKONER
SHOWS AMOUNT OF TAX PAYABLE.
Order Now—PRICE, £1
1/- extra for Postage and Exchange,
obtainable only from
J. SHIPLEY & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL POINTS
It is to be hoped that Curtin, Dr. Evatt,
Dr. Mannix, Billy Hughes, Percy Spender,
Bishops Burgmann and Moyes, Isaac
Isaacs, Keith Murdoch, Packer and the
editor of the “Age” were listening when
Marjorie Lawrence sang that charming
old song of hers:
Oh no, John, no, John, no, John, no, John,
no, John, NO.
The perfect referendum refrain!
“It is not my referendum,” Curtin said.
On Saturday the people hurled the thing
right back at him so hard that he is still
gasping for breath.
Beaten and humiliated, Curtin is now
willing to “consider, carefully and sym-
pathetically, any positive proposals for
constitutional amendment” which Men-
zies may put forward. Had he listened
to Bob when Bob proposed a national
Government, with self-effacement if
necessary, the nation would have been
spared a vast amount of trouble and ex-
pense ; but faction and office-greed
stood in the way.
Hughes, Spender, Coles and Wilson
who are Independents or something,
advised their constituents to vote Yes.
Aggregate No majorities in their electo-
rates on Monday were 47,577, Warrin-
gah’s being 21,498. A dazed Spender to
a Sunday paper —also Yes:
My hope is that in a quieter atmosphere
men from all parts of Australia qualified to
speak may meet to adjust the balance of
powers between the States and the Com-
monwealth.
Percy himself should take it on after the
next election —in an atmosphere so quiet
that he will be able to hear himself think.
A Curtin-flattering “S. M. Herald”
writer has had the face to assert that No
campaigners made so poor a fist of their
job that “newspapers were at their wit’s
end to preserve a referendum balance in
which their news columns would not be
undeservedly dominated by the case for
Yes.” The electors couldn’t have thought
so. As for majorities, Cameron got
nearly 10,000 in Barker, Fadden nearly
11,500 in Darling Downs and Menzies
nearly 16,000 in Kooyong ; the biggest in
Victoria on his side. That must have
hurt.
One of the most humiliating charges
ever made against this country and its
present Federal Government was con-
tained in the statement of W. Bankes
Amery, leader of the British Food Mis-
sion to Australia, that though ships were
available to take food to Britain there
were no cargoes, and that, compared with
the first war years, exports of meat and
butter to Britain had fallen more than
50 p.c. Every decent Australian must be
wishing for a sandy patch in which to
bury his scarlet face.
When Labor goes fishing for votes it
never neglects the bait. On its referen-
dum list were corsets for the corsetless,
and no more conscription for the Allied
Works Council; and though it couldn’t
offer anything tasty in the coal line it
went to all sorts of trouble to conceal
the unconcealable—the imminence of
rationing. But here it reckoned without
Mr. Hartigan, the N.S.W. Railways Com-
missioner, who chose polling-day for an
intimation that services were about to be
cut to the bone. Mr. Hartigan is a con-
stituent of Percy Spender, whose elec-
torate, bidden by Percy Spender to say
Yes, replied with the greatest of all No
majorities. Labor is a prey to gloomy
suspicions as to how Mr, Hartigan voted.
Gumbinnen being mentioned in the
Russian war news, a cableman obligingly
explained that Napoleon waited there for
the wreck of his army of invasion. He
didn’t wait for it anywhere, and he was
never near Gumbinnen. Still, how can
historical accuracy be expected from staff
men when a Big Boss like Keith Murdoch
reports that the Americans “are confident
in the strength of 120,000,000 organised
people,” and that the Russians, “I have
personally come to believe,” will be in the
war in the Pacific by “the middle of next
year,” because “they want to wipe out
their defeat of 1906.” The population of
the U.S.A. was 131,669,200 at the 1940
census, and it is a poor decade when it
doesn’t increase at the rate of a million
a year. The Russo-Japanese war began
on February 8, 1904, and was ended by
the Peace of Portsmouth on August 23,
1905.
From a blurb for a contributor’s book
which Sydney “Sun” is serialising:
In plain blunt soldierly language, Bennett
tells what was happening at G.H.Q. while
British and Indian troops were falling back
and Malayan Command was dealing out
soothing syrup. In his book is the same
vital spark that made Bennett a strong
conflicting personality in G.H.Q., always
counselling offensive action, always plead-
ing with the text-book generals.
The text-book generals were, of course,
British. The strong, conflicting personality
should remember that they can’t reply.
Mr. Curtin and Dr. Evatt, floundering
in the shower of negative votes, were
heard plaintively seeking causes on Mon-
day. A greater man than either knew the
reason long ago, and put it this way:
“You can fool all the people some of
the time and you can fool some of the
people all the time, but you can’t fool all
the people all the time.”
At the week-«fnd Sydney, preparing to
vote on the referendum, learned that
rationing of coal was likely to come
within a few days, that consequently
some industries would close down,
the harried housewife would have to
do with less gas and electric power,
country train services would be cut and
running times reduced. All this has been
familiar to Victorians and South Austra-
lians for a long time they have no
illusions about coal or coal strikes —but
it seemed to astonish the city which has
the coalmines at its back door.
Advice in “Salt,” the Army educational
journal, to the troops on the qualifica-
tions for voting on the referendum;
A soldier under 21 is not qualified to
vote by having crossed Bass Strait to or
from Tasmania. Thursday Island, however,
is “overseas”,.. .Troops under 21 who have
served in the N.T. but did not travel there
by sea outside the three-mile limit (unless
they had served overseas or in New
Guinea) also not qualified.
It shows to what heights of absurdity the
vote-catcher can attain when he really
sets himself to it.
Bellemore, the N.S.W. Man-power
Director, has come out with what must
easily be the winner of all reasons for the
continuation of a war-time department.
According to 8., his concern has
placed in “high priority war jobs” more
than 200 prostitutes, female vagrants and
shoplifters. And, says Mr. 8., “latest
reports have greatly encouraged the Man-
power Directorate in its work of social
rehabilitation.” Since when has social
rehabwhatitsname been a Man-power
duty?
Just before the referendum a lot of
people felt like ordering larger letter-
boxes, so great was the amount of printed
propaganda shoved into them. Costliest
of all the stuff was a large Manilla
envelope, postage-paid, addressed “To
the Householder” and containing a Yes
appeal from Chif. and Ev. Nobody
knows when Chif. and Ev. got permission
to use public funds in sending millions
of these things through the post, but it’s
no wonder Ashley waxes expansive about
postal revenue. A couple more referen-
dums and he’ll be able to issue diamond-
mounted date stamps.
“Added cost of salaries brought about
by operations of Women’s Employment
Board,” Ward’s improvisation, will figure
in all the seven Budgets if they are pre-
cise and detailed. In Westralia for the
year to June 30 “added” cost was £lO,OOO,
and, considering the small population, it
must have been only a fraction of total
cost. In any case, it reveals that most
of this form of benevolence or whatever
it is is charged up to the taxpayers —all
in the case of factories working on cost-
plus. In Queensland recently the board
was astonished at the appearance of a
young woman who said she wasn’t ask-
ing for any more money. Her posi-
tion was logical enough. She was afraid
that if the job were made too good she
wouldn’t hold it after the war.
A milk-truck driver gave a lift to a
farmer’s wife from Tooraddin into Mel-
bourne. He was making the trip in pur-
suit of his calling, and didn’t have to
jettison any milkcans to make room. He
was fined under Fuel Control Board regu-
tions for giving a lift when there were
trains or buses in the district. Govern-
ment by regulation is like that.
Not only in Victoria has the Common-
wealth offer of 6s. per day per hospital
bed occupied, conditionally on patients
in public wards being treated free, been
received without enthusiasm. The West-
ralian Agrarians went into the question
as it concerned country hospitals, and
were told that, even with ss. a day from
the State Hospital Fund, it would mean
a substantial loss, average cost of treat-
ment being 16s. B|d. per day, and that
charges in private and intermediate wards
would be increased. There is always a
catch in these things.
If the Wards and Calwells realised
how many students of politics from the
other side of the Pacific there are in
these parts they might be more careful
what they say even though the students
are friendly souls. One, interested in the
Westralian Assembly polls, asked The
Bulletin to fill in gaps on an electoral
map he had drawn. Another, looking
round the Queensland Parliament, con-
fided to a Brisbane “Courier-Mail” man
that he was surprised to see so many old
men there, adding that it seemed incon-
gruous in a frontier State. So it. is rather;
but the Westralian Parliament is the place
for old men. Willcock, the Premier, is a
comparative youth—he turned 65 on
August 9—but if he had to pick a cricket
team. Septuagenarians v. Tie Rest, he
would have no difficulty in filling it, with
Stubbs (83) and Drew (rising 79) umpires.
When Lud Mayor Nettlefold ascended
to his high office he told his fel-
low-councillors that he had had a dream
in which he saw post-war Melbourne aris-
ing overnight like Ilion towers and palaces.
A bit of his apocalyptic vision has taken a
step towards realisation, the Town Hail and
Properties Committee having approved
of a scheme for erecting a £1,300,000
business building on the Western Market
site, complete with offices and garages,
a planetarium and 100 ft. towers with
beacon lights to inspire the citizens to
look upwards. Another valuable feature
will be “the very large revenue to be de-
rived from tenants.”
In an outburst demanding a cleansing
of the Queensland Labor party, T.
Aikens (Lab.) remarked that he was
working for the party “when many of the
younger members who now claim to sit
in judgment were merely twinkles in
their fathers’ eyes.” Now they are pains
in the national neck.
Exonerating everybody concerned in
the charges made by Hannan, the
S.A. Crown Solicitor, that certain of his
mail was intercepted and telephone talks
tapped during the Powers Convention at
Canberra in 1942, the Royal Commis-
sioner (Justice Clyne) declared that he
was satisfied that Hannan himself
beheved these things had been done
Which shows the state of mind that can
be created when the actions of Govern-
ment authorities become suspect.
Out of New York came a voice declar-
ing the attempt on Hitler’s life “a gigan-
tic Goebbels hoax,” designed to “tighten
the screws on the nation.” The voice
belongs to Curt Reiss, “refugee journal-
ist, whose numerous books have earned
him the reputation of having unique infor-
mation about happenings in Germany.”
So many queer birds have information
about “happenings in Germany” that one
more or less doesn’t matter.
According to the London “Observer,”
often well informed, the Polish Govern-
ment in London ordered the underground
movement in Poland to co-operate uncon-
ditionally with the Red Army as it ad-
vanced. The Russian Government didn’t
reciprocate when the Poles rose in War-
saw, and there is obviously going to be
a devil of a row about it.
As the Dean of Canterbury, author of
The Socialist Sixth of the World, sees it:
Russia is a fact. Russian achievements
is also a fact. A fact and a prophecy! We
can, we must, we shall, learn; and the
future Australia will be as proud of the
future Britain as the future Britain will be
of the future Australia, as both alike are
proud of the rock whence both are hewn.
That rock is Anglo-Saxon, not Slav, and
on it stands the British Parliamentary
system, not Sovietism. Change its struc-
ture or foundation and it becomes a
thing of sand.
A publication of Cordell Hull’s
official report on the final phase of U.S.-
Jap negotiations prior to Pearl Harbor,
with the purposeful title Prelude to In-
famy, carries an illustration indicating
that the present Jap-controlled 2,857,750
square miles is going to be whittled down
—by terms of the Cairo Conference—
to 158,783 square miles. There has been
considerable amending of views on the
possibility of ever implementing the
Atlantic Charter, and also on the “unani-
mous success” of the Moscow and Tehran
Conferences, but not, so far, on the less-
publicised Cairo Conference—certainly
not in America.
Blithering for a Yes vote in Sydney
Domain Ward called upon his Caucus to
“free the Commonwealth Bank from the
control of private banking interests.” The
Commonwealth Bank is the boss rooster
in the Australian banking world, and
even Ward should know it.
Another bad case of chilled extremities;
For nearly quarter of a century the West-
tralian Cockles, with Nat. support, had two-
fifths of the State’s representation in the House
at Canberra and about the same in the House
at Perth, and since 1914 they have never been
without members in the other Perth shop. But
a couple of defeats at the polls had as demoral-
ising an effect on their outfits as a similar ex-
perience had on the U.A.P, in N.S.W., even
more successful in the thirties. At the Cockies’
annual conference the agrarian and political
parts of the show were separated to admit of
the former allying itself with the Wheat-
growers’ Union (for the most part aggressively
Labor) and the latter being set up as a
Democratic and Country League, or something
like that, without a newspaper (the “Primary
Producer,” very useful to the Country party,
“cannot,” it said, “be regarded as the mouthpiece
of the League”), without an arrangement with
the Australian C.P. and with an emasculated
objective. The old group “bound itself whole-
heartedly to oppose Fascism, Socialism and
Communism however disguised.” To placate
out-and-outers in the Wheatgrowers’ Union the
words “Socialism and Communism” were struck
out. With a compliment to “the capable and
conscientious” Opposition-leader Watts the re-
tiring president handed over to those present
the task of laying the foundations of “the new
political edifice,” intimating that his engage-
ments wouldn’t permit him to do any laying,
and bowed himself out. Watts is capable and
conscientious, and he has been ill served by
men to whom he was fairly entitled to look for
support.


(Vliatuk*
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
H. A. A. Embling, celebrating 50
years’ membership of Melbourne ’Change,
recalled the belltoppers, frockcoats and
beards that were customary wear at that
address when he started there. In 1911-12
Embling was Mayor of Prahran (Vic.),
and had as a fellow-councillor Tommy
Luxton, four times Prahran’s Mayor.
“Old Tommy,” also a member of
’Change, and father of later Melbourne
Lud Mayor knight Harold Luxton, had
all the attributes referred to by Embling,
even to the beard. George Meudell,
author of The Pleasant Career of a Spend-
thrift, used to tell of “Old Tommy” tear-
ing down Collins-street when booms were
on with his tophat on the back of his head
and the tails of his frockcoat flapping in
the wind, quite unconcerned that his sar-
torial get-up was marred by tan boots.
Herewith, appropriately depicted by
Frith in his dual roles —representing
M.-G.-M., and also bearing aloft a
banner with a proud device, with good
reason for shouting “Excelsior! ” —N. Ber-
nard Freeman is an old 38th Batt. Digger
who, before that scrap was over, trans-
ferred to the Aus. Flying Corps, then
became attached to the Royal F.C. Con-
trary to the widespread notion that re-
turned men find it hard to settle down,
the great bulk of them usually seem to
do so with alacrity and a wedding-
N. BERNARD FREEMAN.
ring, but Freeman was one of the excep-
tions which perpetuate the fallacy. Still
wanting to be on the move, he headed for
the U.S.A., linked up with the movies in
New York, returned as a Paramount rep.,
then, in 1925, opened the M.-G.-M. in-
terests in Australasia, and is managing
director. A Sydneysider, he was edu-
cated at Xavier, Melbourne, and was
starting in Flinders-lane when, at a shade
over 18, he enlisted in 1916. He’s chair-
man of the administrative committee run-
ning the Anzac House appeal, which is
going great guns. Incidentally, there’s a
tax rebate for contributions to appeals for
China, but none for this appeal, which
goes to show something or other —plain
dumb dunderheadedness, if nothing worse.
G. L. S. Rogers, of Roseville, Sydney,
commissioned flying-officer at a passing-
out parade at the R.A.A.F. School of
Administration in Melbourne the other
day, is a son of James Rogers, of Mur-
rumbeena (Vic.), the only Australian
V.C. surviving from the Boer War.
James Rogers was in the Ist Contingent,
Vic. Mounted Rifles, in that war and in
the Ist Anzac Division in 1914-18.
Judge J, B. Callan, of the N.Z. Supreme
Court, is one of three Maoriland Judges
who saw service in World War I. With
the Third Batt., N.Z. Rifle Brigade, reach-
ing the rank of captain, he acquired such
repute as legal champion of New
Zealanders at courts-martial that Cana-
dians also sought his services in their
troubles. Born at Dunedin in 1882,
Judge Callan started off as a partner in
his father’s legal firm and became a K.C.,
lecturer in Torts at Otago Uni. and Dean
of the Law Faculty. He is related to the
Gavan Duffy family, so prolific in Judges
(Canberra, Melbourne and Dublin).
I From John Brennan (there for The
, Bulletin);
I A pretty full contingent of Australian news-
papermen got in on the invasion of Guam.
“S. M. Herald” had Guy Harriott, having his
1 first experience of war in the Pacific after four
i years in the Mediterranean and the Middle East.
Melbourne “Herald’s” Denis Warner represented
the Australian afternoon group. Warner came to
■ the Pacific early in the year and was the only
correspondent on Bougainville for the Jap
counter-attack against the Empress Augusta
perimeter. Till then he’d been soldiering in the
ranks for three years with the Ninth Division.
Wilfred Burchett is also Australian, though his
1 basic accreditation is for London “Daily Ex-
press.” Burchett had pre-war experience of the
Pacific. He was wounded while assigned to the
India-China-Burma theatre. Also present, film-
cameraman Damien Parer, attached to Para-
mount News following his break with the
D. of I. Parer, who was with the A.I.F. divi-
sions through Greece, Africa and New Guinea,
says he has never seen a city so completely
destroyed by gunfire as was Agana. Alan
Hulls was nearly there for Sydney “D.T.”
and the morning group. A hold-up in accredi-
tation took him off his transport at the last
moment.
Marshall Lyle, who has passed on at
82 in Melbourne, was, with Alfred
Deakin, Deeming’s counsel. So high did
popular feeling run against Deeming that
Lyle had to interview him at night in his
cell at Pentridge. Born in Ireland, and
a practising solicitor there, Lyle was ad-
mitted to the Victorian Bar in 1887. He
specialised in criminology and appeared
at some of the most noted murder trials
in Victorian legal history.
Passed his 90th milestone in Mel-
bourne, Charles Brooking Were, one of
the last-surviving links with early Mel-
bourne. His father, Jonathan, arrived
in Batman’s village from London in 1839
and founded J, B. Were and Sons, which
has been mixed up with Victorian real
estate for nearly a century. Brooking
Were became a civil servant and was pay-
master and clerk of courts in various
country districts. His twin brother,
Arthur Bonviile Were, died last year,
H. T. M. Angwiri and F. H. Harrison,
Engineer-in-Chief and Acting Chief
Mechanical Engineer respectively of S.A.
railways, are off on a three months’ trip
to the U.S.A. and Canada to look into
methods that might be used on S.A.’s
Leigh Creek coalfield. In the job since
1935, Angwin supervised the Morgan-
Whyalla pipeline, the Goolwa barrage
and other big jobs, and started the P.W.D.
inquiry into the Uley-Wanilla water basin
on Eyre Peninsula. Harrison designed the
present loco, building plant, has helped
the Commonwealth keep its trains run-
ning on the north-south and east-west
lines and was in charge of Leigh Creek
coal tests.
J. W. Harrod, the Sydney man who
goes to join Angwin and Harrison on the
S.A. Electricity Commission, is 39 and a
science graduate of Sydney Uni., where
he took his M.E. with honors. The
thesis which gained this was entitled “The
Comparison of Alternative Proposals for
Generating Electricity to Supply a Grow-
ing Metropolitan Load,” but nobody
holds it against him. He’s had practical
experience in Randwick workshops,
General Electric, Sydney County Council
and' N.S.W. Public Works.
Links in the connections of the Mel-
bourne City Council have been snapping
a lot lately. Former mayors, Morell and
Campbell; Oswald, son of former mayor
Benjamin ; Mrs. F. R. Connelly, wife of
Cr, Connelly, and daughter of former
mayor Hennessey, have all died.
William Allan Mclnnes Green, Perth’s
Town Clerk in succession to 71-year-old
W. E. Bold, who retires after a record
term of 44 years, is a son of a former
M.H.A. in S.A. Educated in Adelaide
High and Uni., where he graduated in
engineering in 1928, Green was designing
engineer to the Adelaide City Council,
then city engineer in Launceston before
going to W.A. in 1937 as Perth’s City
Architect. Now 48, he served with the
2nd Tunnellers in the last war. ,
Since Bob Hope and party made a
forced landing in the sea at Laurieton
(N.S.W.) on the way down to Sydney a 1
member of the Amateur Fishermen’s
Association has reported a fine catch of :
fathead, whiting and bream up there,
every one of them grinning from ear to
ear. In Sydney Bob ran into the refer-
endum campaign, but managed to get as
many laughs. Sydney’s reciprocal lend-
lease included a massed press interview, at
which, with Bob suitably cornered, a lady
gurgled “What do you think the most ter-
rifying experience you’ve ever had?” As
BOB.
Bob is on the screen, so he is off it, except
that there seems to be more of him to
make you laff. Wisecracks come from
him as continuously as platitudes from
politicians. The way the girls flung them-
selves at him round about the Australia,
he reckoned he must have lost so much
blood in his accident that they mistook
him for Frank Sinatra. He should find it
restful up amongst the head-hunters.
Thereabouts he’ll carry on entertaining
the fighting lads, as he’s done, so far, in
Britain, North Africa, Iceland, Italy,
Kiska, Attu, the Solomons and elsewhere,
and maybe they’re queueing up for him
in Paris, if not in Berlin.
“F.J.R.”: B. 9/8/’44 was the first time
I’d seen “Tell the boys to pull together”
attributed to former S.A. Premier Tom
Price. My recollection is that John Abel
McPherson, the first leader of the S.A.
Labor party, was very ill and before death
he made the statement that served as a
motto for Labor in S.A. for many years.
Arthur Oliver Jones, erstwhile Commo-
dore of Convoys, now Inspector of Re-
cruiting for the Royal Australian Navy
(hence the glasses), began his naval
career in 1908 in H.M.S. Worcester and
served in sail from 1910 for three and
a half years ; one of his ships was the
barque Inverclyde. As a P. and O. officer
he visited Australia for the first time in
1913, and when the 1914-18 war broke
out returned to the Royal Navy, serving
OLIVER JONES, Commander, R.N.R.
in the Grand Fleet for the duration, sub-
sequently reverting to the Yellow Funnel
line until he swallowed the anchor in
1923 and settled here. Motor industry
executive to Woolworths, Melbourne,
where he was personnel manager, filled
in the years till the outbreak of this war.
With his decoration addenda already
stringing out after his name like a glider
convoy—D.S.O., D.F.C., G.M., 0.8. E
Air-Commodore Cobby now has the post
of air officer commanding the R.A.A.F.’s
most advanced operational group in the
South-west Pacific. Cobby bagged 34
enemy ’planes in the last war. Now 49,
he won his George Medal when a Cata-
lina crashed and 13 of the 19 aboard
were killed or drowned. Though himself
injured. Cobby got free and dived three
times into the hull to rescue comrades.
Botanist Percy R. H. St. John, passed
over at 73 in Melbourne, had the
same colossal memory for plants as
Eugene Ormandy has for music. He
could classify any plant at sight and with-
out a moment’s hesitation supply the
Latin name for upwards of 20,000. His
knowledge of Australian flora had the
respect of botanists throughout the coun-
try. It is his beautiful script which
appears on the labels of most of the
specimens in the Melbourne Botanic
Gardens, where he fostered Australian
plants and trees for half a century.
Two N.S.W. Bench appointments last
week went to last-war and present-war
Diggers, Judge J. S. Clancy becoming
chairman of the Crown Employees’
Appeals Board and barrister R. C. Kirby
getting the vacant Judgeship. After his
last war service, in which he was
wounded, Judge Clancy was admitted in
1925, moved on to the Bench in 1931 and
in 1939 was appointed chairman of the
Police Appeals Board for a seven years’
term. Judge Kirby, a 1927 Sydney Uni.
law graduate, left his solicitor’s practice
in 1942 to get into the A.1.F., and was
with it till last March.
Ernest Wickham, Queensland manager
for United Insurance, is retiring after 50
.years in the job. He started work for
the company in Sydney at 16 and is now
79. In other days he went in for rowing
and yachting, and for 15 years was a,
Rugby Union footballer; he played
against the first Maori team to visit
Queensland.
Just retired after 20 years’ continuous
service as councillor—twice president—
of Kara Kara Shire (St. Arnaud, Vic.)
A. A. Burge put up this record: He was
never opposed, never missed a meeting
and was never late.
Into the silence:
At Macedon (Vic.), at 76, pastoralist John
Ferrier Hamilton-Campbell, cousin of Lord
Galt and brother-in-law of Sir Edwin Sinclair,
of the British Admiralty.
At Hobart, at 52, David Goldie McHugo,
owner of the Ship Hotel, Hobart’s equivalent
of Young and Jackson’s. “Dave” to all sports-
men, generous as they make them, he was over-
seas in the ’l4-18 light.
At Caulfield, Melbourne, at 83, Robert C.
Bearup, father of the g.m. of A.B.C. He was
manager of the Stawell (Vic.) Gas Co. for many
years.
From London: Frederick Wall, dead at 86,
was secretary of the Football Association
(Soccer) from 1895, and earned a knighthood
for his work. He liked to recall that there
were about 1000 clubs when he began it, and
the staggering total of 750,000 when he re-
tired 10 years ago.
At 80, in Melbourne, John William Trumble, a
brother of more famous Hughie, and a trundler
and batsman of almost as high quality himself;
he tbured England with the 1886 team (Scott’s).
A solicitor, he was one of the oldest members
of the M.C.C. and member of the Melbourne
Club and Royal Melbourne Golf Club.
The reins have dropped from the hands of
Frank Smiley, doyen of the dwindling band of
Cobb’s coach-drivers in Melbourne. Born to
the coach business —his father was a driver
with Cobb’s before him —he handled the ribbons
over the rough route between Camperdown and
and Colac for many years, and subsequeuntly
reminisced for many years about those days
as president of the Old Cobb and Co. Drivers’
Association. Although he delivered gold and
passengers over roads that passed through the
Kelly country, he was one of the few veterans
of (he time who never claimed to have met
Ned. Smiley was a principal source of local
color for Will Lawson’s story of Victorian
coaching.
In Sydney, at 85, Emeritus Professor G. F.
Stout, the only Fellow of the British Academy
living in Australia. Professor of Logic and
Metaphysics at the University of St. Andrews
in 1903 and there till 1936, he came here five
years back, when his son, A. K. Stout, became
Professor of Moral and Political Philosophy at
Sydney Uni.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 87, J. W. Lowe,
who, born at Sheffield (Eng.), arrived in M.L.
as a boy and subsequently trained many suc-
cessful horses, including winners of the Auck-
land and Wellington Cups. The horse he took
most pride in was Solution, who won many
big events in M.L., as well as the Metropolitan
and the Melbourne Stakes.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Blue P.”: When three Sydney sisters
got bushed in one of the city’s nearer
playgrounds, the flapper press almost
pushed the war off the front page to give
their adventures a spark. When they
turned up after a night in the trackless
waste, fully two miles from a road and
nearly as far from a railway, the camera-
men got to work, and there were pictures
of the rescued being greeted by their
parents and so forth. Though the girls’
names were given fully a dozen times in
both papers, not once was the surname
correct. T’ hell with the facts !
* * * *
“Bo”: It is just barely possible that
the stereotyped grins on the faces of
players in dance bands, as exhibited in
the movies, denote enjoyment of the
crimes they are committing. That much
may be admitted. But that a dance-band
leader should undertake physical combat
with a male person strains incredibility
to breaking point. Yet such a feat of
aggressive masculinity has been claimed
for Tommy Dorsey, the din of whose
herd of noisemakers cackles from many
a silver screen. The harrowing outcome
“That Mr. Dobell? Are you requiring a model?”
of the Dorsey-Jon Hall “fight” has in-
spired me to compile, like Ko-Ko, a list,
Heading them, are Duke Ellington, Cab
Calloway and Count Basie. Next comes
Kay Kayser, yclept “the maestro,” who is
fancied by Hollywood as a comedian,
Follow, in order of virulence, Harry
James, Freddie Slack, Benny Goodman
and Jimmy Dorsey. For each I have nomi-
nated a bung-rules brawl opponent—l
want to match them with Joe Louis,
Frankenstein, Tarzan, the ex-Managing
Director of Murder Inc., The Wolf Man,
Pop-Eye and the Marines’ Chief Instruc-
tor of Unarmed Combat respectively. The
aftermath of such combats, if it’s possible
to arrange them, will, 1 feel sure, make
for a saner, happier and more peaceful
world.
* * * *
“K.”: The best touch in the reporting
of the invasion of southern France was a
Sydney man’s cable to his paper that
the enemy was “completely surprised.”
How could this be otherwise? After all,
the only inkling he could have had that
something was afoot were daily warnings
from Sertorius and a terrific bombing
of the defences for nearly a fortnight
beforehand.
* * * *
“Zake”: I can’t speak for the Cabbage
Garden end, but so far as New South is
concerned the old Melbourne-Sydney
jealousy is as dead as either city is on a
Saturday afternoon. This great truth,
which 1 had long suspected, became a
conviction on seeing a Fitz Patrick travel-
talk on Australia in a Sydney newsreel
theatrette, James A. spoke in his usual
fruity tones of Melbourne’s “beautiful
parks and buildings” and the audience
watched the accompanying technicolored
illustration in silent approval. Then it
switched to Sydney, where Our ’Arbor’s
foreshores got a pat on the back. But a
mention of “the fine wide thoroughfares”
was too much for an audience who had
come thither through draughty lanes
which it is flattery to call streets; the
spontaneous burst of laughter that fol-
lowed beat anything that could have been
evoked by Donald Duck or Bob Hope.
'When citizens can laugh at their own city
like that the green-eyed goddess must
look elsewhere for devotees.
x * $ 9fe
“R. Volt”: In post-war reconstruction
romance is likely to take the count from
progress in many matters, including the
backblocks pedal-wireless system, in-
augurated by Flynn of the Inland. Ernest
Fisk, of A.W.A., has a plan for a series
of ultra-high-frequency radio stations to
serve the interior. A single beam capable
of carrying 400 conversations will link
the lonely settler with the telephones of
the cities, and through them with New
York and London. The notion is not
new in Australia. The Flinders Island
radio telephone; established in 1942, en-
ables the inhabitants of the island to call
up anybody in the Commonwealth,
* * * *
“Exdig”: Certainly the army has gone
to the dogs (by gad, sir!) if what “Pip”
(B. 9/8/’44) says about men who were
axemen being sent to get wood for fuel
and mechanics being told off to •do
mechanised work is right. In the day's of
the first A.I.F. nothing so absurdly simple
was tolerated ; if a man was a plumber
he might be put to filling teeth if a
carpenter wasn’t available, but the trained
dentist would certainly be told off to
sweep out huts. My classic case con-
cerns a man who, in a tent in “Siberia”
(the recruits’ camp at Liverpool), boasted
that he didn’t join up to fight; he was a
bootmaker and he reckoned on getting an
army job at his trade. An old soldier
scoffed at him. “If you’re a bootmaker,”
he said, “they’ll make you a cook.” Sure
enough, when I ran across Crispin in
France six months later, he was a cook,
The only connection he had with boot-
making was that he wasn’t a cook’s boot-
lace.
* * * *
“Melbn”; It is difficult to get excited
about the row that has developed in Mel-
bourne over the disposal of the huge
Western Market site. A City Council
subcommittee wants to plank a big
building on it; some other people want it
turned into a square or city garden. The
congested city lacks open spaces, the exist-
ing ones, though large, like the Fitzroy
Gardens, being on the outskirts. But, even
"Yes, dears—when you're old enough you can have a double-breasted
coat like me!”
if Melbourne gets a centrally-situated
square, no one will be allowed to enjoy
it; the wowsers will see to that. In most
European cities you can sit in a public
square and drink beer or sip wine and
listen to bands playing. Not so in Mel-
bourne. No parts of Melbourne are
gloomier than its public places, such as
the Fitzroy Gardens, especially on Sun-
days.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Among the stories filter-
ing back to Maoriland from her flying
men on the Italian front my favorite
concerns the strange experience of a raid-
ing crew. To straddle the target the ’plane
was flown very low, and so intent were
the airmen that they did not notice a tall
chimney stack right ahead till it seemed
too late to avoid disaster. But a bomber
had seen the danger. The bomb it
launched at the obstruction struck the
base and toppled the chimney over a split
second before the other ’plane got to
the spot.
V * * *
“C.V.M.”: Reference (B. 12/7/’44) to
this being the centenary year of the death
of the poet Thomas Campbell reminds
me of some verses he wrote on the occa-
sion of the departure of some emigrants
for N. S. Wales. The poem is of con-
siderable length, and is excluded from
most collections of Campbell’s works, but
there are some lines that ought to delight
the Tourist Departments:
Delightful land, in wildness ev’n benign,
The glorious past is ours, the future thine!
As in a cradled Hercules we trace
The lines of empire in thine infant face.
What nations in thy wide horizon’s span
Shall teem on tracts untrodden yet by man?
What spacious cities with their spires shall
gleam,
Where now the panther laps a lonely stream?
It makes one sorry that this continent is,
as a matter of cold fact, pantherless.
* * * *
“Pip” on soldiers in transit;
Unlike L.T.Ds., through which movement
is usually rapid, staging camps are places of
waiting. Soldiers on draft to units are kept
in them until sufficient have been gathered
to justify special transport, or until a ship,
train, truck or ’plane is going in the required
direction. Sometimes it is only a matter of
hours, but a wait of two or three weeks may
occur. Reactions to the inactivity are varied.
Some lie back with a contented grin and gloat:
“We get paid for this.” Others pace up and
down like, caged lions, and count the seconds.
The rest show an impassiveness engendered by
four years of being moved like pawns. Fatigues
are handed out recklessly by staff n.c.os., but
the men given jobs always seem to go out that
day, and the harassed noncoms. grab passing
stragglers in their stead. These disappear just
as inevitably. If the staging camp is within 10
miles of a town an exodus over the back fence
begins about nine in the morning and scores
of hitch-hikers line the roads. An unexpected
movement order brings the truants swarming
back from all directions, most of them, appa-
rently, warned by telepathy. Away from towns,
cards and swi are popular pastimes, but at least
half the day is devoted to spine-bashing.
* * * *
“Vicar’s Warden”: Anglican Synod
proceedings are seldom marked by fierce
clashes of opinion, so there was a thrill
of half-scared anticipation when a gaunt-
let was thrown into the midst of Welling-
ton (M.L.) Synod .by a parson who
moved “That this Synod is grateful to
the Bishop of Hong Kong for ordaining
a woman priest.” An Archdeacon, sup
porting, quoted texts. The Bishop pro
duced a resolution of last Lambeth Con
ference to the effect that the order oj
deaconess was the only order of tht
ministry open to women which confer-
ence could recommend to “our brand
of the Catholic Church.” In the face ol
that resolution, commented a vicar, the
action of the Bishop of Hong Kong
“seemed a form of Bolshevism.” Retorted
another vicar that the B. of H.K. prob
ably felt that if he waited till all the
bishops approved he would wait till
doomsday. The debate was adjourned
and next day, when it was due to con-
tinue, a motion “that Synod proceed to
the next business” was carried.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The broadcasting of
Dorothy Sayer’s “The Man Bom To Be
King”—a modernised version of the New
Testament story —has aroused a brisk
controversy in Melbourne, with, surpris-
ingly enough, the ecclesiastical spokesmen
on the whole sticking up for Miss Sayers
and sundry laymen bitterly against her.
One correspondent of the “Age’
vehemently protests against such vulgar-
isms as “He’s got guts” being used as an
expression of admiration for Christ’s
courage and asks why such expressions
as “heroic,” “backbone” or “pluck” could
not have been used to better advantage.
“oacKOone,” too, was once a vulgarism
which made pedants shudder, and
“pluck,” according to my dictionary,
means primarily the heart, liver and lungs
of an animal, and only by metaphor con-
fidence and spirit in the face of difficulty
or danger.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: There’s nothing like a
war to bring about reforms! Smokers
have long been prohibited from enjoying
a fag in N.S.W. theatres, but in Sydney’s
Plaza you can now light up anywhere in
the house provided you are seated. There
is no “upstairs.”
CAEN AND FALAISE.
These Norman names, what memories they
waken!
Caen —what history student’s unaware
Its undisputed claim to fame in this is:
The first of English monarchs and his missus
Are lying buried there.
Falaise —now front-page word in all the cables —
Though far remote my academic days,
I still retain a misty apprehension
Of some occurrence meriting a mention
Connected with Falaise.
Yes, here it was (writes Green) the Conqueror’s
father-
To-be was captivated by the face
And figure of a tanner’s winsome daughter,
Arietta, washing linen in the water
That runs beside the place.
One can’t exactly say he wooed and won her,
But, in the terms grave chroniclers employ,
Duke Robert, probably a glib persuader,
Talked down her scruples (if she’d any)—“made
her
The father of his boy.”
That boy—reflect what destiny assigned him!
Who was to live to grab the English crown
When arrow-stricken Harold’s soul took wings
And “the Gold Dragon of the Wessex kings
On Hastings field went down.”
What history for countless generations
Was made, or altered, in how many ways
When Cupid loosed an arrow from his quiver
Where fair Arietta laundered in the river
That ripples past Falaise!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
PLEA FOR POLITENESS.
“N.S.W. Commissioner Hartigan has appealed to
railwaymen to be more polite and courteous to the
travelling public.”
You sons of Martha who, in ways that vary,
Fulfil your destiny and earn your screw
By transport service to the sons of Mary
(And, incidentally, her daughters, too),
Porters with luggage trucks around who potter,
Ticket-collectors, guards who shout “All
Right,”
Take it from Mr. Hartigan, you’ve gotter
Be a bit more polite.
Even a modern Job, there’s no denying,
In seasons of such strain and stress as these
Might find some travellers a trifle trying
And pretty near impossible to please,
Yet even those who prove as temperamental
As divas, and as prone to fume and froth,
May simmer down before the soft and gentle
Answer that squelches wrath.
Bethink you’ll leave your Hartigan now happy
By humoring the most' exacting sort
Instead of being grumpy, sharp and snappy
And cutting tedious inquiries short.
Avoid discourtesy. A better plan is
To try the tactics which convention bids
Doctors to use with patients, or which nannies
Employ with fractious kids.
Times change, we too. I’ve often recollected
One old Westralian stationmaster well,
Who, bored by importunities, directed
One over-fussy gent, to “go to Hell.”
Yet, far as I remember, no suggestion .
Of misdemeanor reached him from above,
Not even when the gentleman in question
Turned out to be the Gov.l
Times change, as I’ve observed, and manners
soften
Appreciably by general consent;
Grutf answers, rude retorts, are heard less often
(Excepting possibly in Parliament).
So, comrades, when your uttermost endeavor
Has failed to satisfy some captious wight,
Cloak your resentment with a grin, and never
Forget to be polite.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Melbn”: Melbourne’s Lud Mi’ayor
Nettlefold has been waxing sentimental
for a long time over the Melbourne in
Derbyshire, England. Messages have
been exchanged and the two towns are
becoming Very friendly. Now it has been
discovered that there are three other Mel-
bournes in Blighty, and Dr. Thomas King,
Marjorie Lawrence’s husband, has told
his Worship that there is still another in
Florida, the doctor’s native State. This
has stimulated the Eastern Telegraph Co.
to divulge that there are six Melbournes
in the U.S.A., also a Melbourn. If the
Lud Mayor takes a friendly interest in
all these namesakes of his city he will be
a busy man.
* * * *
“P.McM.”: A Scotland Yard man has
the tough job of looking after Churchill.
A recent holder of the office had to be
given time off to recuperate from over-
strain. The Yard’s history dates from
1729 when Sir Thomas de Veil was
appointed Commissioner of Peace for
Middlesex and Westminster and set up
his office in Scotland Yard. The C.1.D.,
established in 1850, got its ideal organiser
in 1901, when E. R. Henry, a retired
Indian civil servant, started a Criminal
Index which was responsible for 400,000
identifications by 1934. For quiet effici-
ency the Yard is unsurpassed. In his
book Out of the Night Communist agent
Jan Valtin tells of the ruses his organisa-
tion used to smuggle him into England,
and testifies that the C.I.D. always had
him on a departing steamer within a few
hours of landing.
* * ♦ *
“C.Q.”: Government-controlled medi-
cine hasn’t the endorsement of Dr. C. H.
Dickson, secretary of the Victorian
branch of the B.M.A. He cites the case
of a doctor who prescribed a hot-water
bag for a patient in 1943. His prescrip-
tion was returned by authority with the
observation that it hadn’t been written
on the medico’s printed letterhead paper,
and that the nature of the patient’s ill-
ness had not been stated. A fresh pre-
scription was sent in proper form, and
six months later word came that the
could have his bed warmer. He
didn’t need it, having been dead three
months.
* * * 4= 4c
“Sextant’s” tale of the sea:
We had been detailed to patrol off beleagured
Bardia to prevent the enemy getting men out
by submarines. After taking up our station,
well out of range of “Bardia Bill” (a gun we
had learned to respect) we were steaming up
and down listening and watching. Suddenly
a cheer came from the bridge. The signalman
reported, “The Australians are now entering
Bardia.” The skipper said he would take the
ship in and have a look at the port. As we
steamed shorewards we could see flashes from
guns on the cliffs. “Probably a few still hold-
ing out,*” remarked the director-layer. As we
dosed in a feeling of doubt began to creep in.
“Check that signal, yeoman,” called the cap-
tain. Silence reigned while the yeoman opened
the signal log. “ ‘Australians are now entering
Bardia,’ sir,” he replied. No sooner were the
words uttered than a huge column of water rose
ahead of the ship, followed by another on the
beam. The air-raid rattlers sounded. All eyes
turned skywards, but not a ’plane could be
seen in the clear sky. “Full ahead both, hard
a-port,” roared the captain. Then realisation
of what was happening dawned on all —we
were being fired on by the forts at point-blank
range. The ship heeled over, her guardrails
under, as the engine-room personnel obeyed
orders, and gave her the works. Shells were
falling all around as we raced seawards. An
occasional one fell very close. A smoke-
float was dropped in an endeavor to put the
gunners off their aim. We could not use our
own guns, as the ship was zigzagging wildly;
also we had no idea of where our own men
ashore may have been. I was far too busy at
the wheel obeying the seemingly endless orders,
“Starboard fifteen,” “Midships,” “Port fifteen,”
etc., to see what was happening on the run
out, but it was a queer sensation to hear shells
whistling past, knowing there was only three-
sixteenths of an inch of steel protecting me.
Anyway, we made it. On return to anchorage
the signal was checked. It should have read,
“The Australians are now entering the outskirts
of Bardia.
H: * * *
“Parmelia”: Maybe Sir Matthew
Flinders Petrie (B. 28 /6 / ’44) had a soft
spot in his heart for Australians on ac-
count of his father’s association with this
country. At least one Australian owed
his success to Petrie’s training. He was
Arthur Mace, who Was associated with
Howard Carter when the latter unearthed
the tomb of Tutankhamen. In 1923
Carter and Mace published an account of
their work at the tomb. Mace was the
son of an Australian clergyman and
grandson of a pioneer settler of Sydney.
His mother was a daughter of Bishop
Bromby.
* * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: It may be true,
as “Arter” says (B. 9/8/’44), that artists
are the strongest opponents of “modern-
ism,” but they have proved no sounder
in their art judgments than laymen or
non-painting critics. Not long since the
Victorian National Gallery held an
auction —one of many —of past pur-
chases of works of art, this time of
statues. The highest bid was £5O for a
piece allegedly by Canova and the lowest
£2 for a plaster bust by some forgotten
English academician. The original cost
of the pieces ran into many thousands,
and all were bought on the advice of
artists. National galleries ought not to
be allowed to buy contemporary art; the
Louvre doesn’t, or didn’t. Contempo-
raries are too near for judges to judge
dispassionately and calmly and too many
bad pictures have been bought by gal-
leries on the principle of “you scratch
my back and I’ll scratch yours.” There
“Is it my fault if we're short of hypodermic syringes?"
should be a probation gallery like the
Luxembourg in Paris, which assists the
living artist by purchasing his work, but
pictures for the main collection should
only be bought when they are at least 100
years old, when the reputation of the
artist has been firmly established and his
work isn’t seen through a veil of fashion.
The Melbourne Gallery has made no
mistakes about Rembrandt, Corot and
Turner, but the mistakes it has made
about painters who were contemporary
when they were bought are legion.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A bit of light thrown on
malaria infection recently ought to move
local authorities in Australia, where the
anopheles mosquito is prevalent, to do
some hard thinking. Melbourne “Sun-
Pix” artist Alex. Gurney, who does the
“Bluey and Curly” strip for that paper,
went to New Guinea for local color, and
four months after returning suffered an
attack of the fever. An Army MO. who
has specialised in malaria treatment says
this is by no means unusual; the onset
of fever can come nine months after the
bite of the mosquito. Many Diggers who
contracted the complaint while serving
in the Middle East were unaware of the
fact until they got the rigors in Australia.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Speculating whether
Cook had or hadn’t descendants ma 1 ' be
an interesting occupation (B. 9/8/’44),
but it would be more useful if the
authorities interested themselves in what
vandals have been doing to the Cook cot-
tage in the Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne.
Visitors have seen fit to snatch a portion
of immortality from one greater than
themselves by scribbling their names all
over the interior. The dwelling deserves
consideration not only as a memorial of
a great navigator. It is a beautiful
example of English domestic architecture
which could serve as an inspiration to
post-war reconstructors.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Prince Alfred’s, the
mainly-Methodist school in Adelaide
which was opened by the Duke of Edin-
burgh, has been keeping its 76th birthday.
Its oldest scholar surviving is supposed
to be Dr. J. T. Mitchell, of Northbridge
(N.S.W.), who is 88 and dates his school-
ing from 1869; parson Jarrett, of S.A.,
was one year after him.
* * * *
“Hist” on fliers and postage stamps:
Lindbergh is only one of many aviators
who have been honored on postage stamps
(B. 2/8/’44). The development of aviation
could be illustrated by stamps issued during
the last 30 years. Australia paid homage to
its greatest flier by an issue, in 1927, of stamps
inscribed “Kingsford Smith’s World Flights,”
a compliment the greater because it is con-
trary to precedent to give postal honors to
living commoners, however illustrious. New-
foundland in 1927 issued a stamp inscribed
with the name of the Italian De Pinedo for his
Atlantic flights (incidentally, a very rare staihp,
worth £4O used and five times as much un-
used). The same country similarly compli-
mented another Italian flier, De Balbo, in 1933.
USA, commemorated the 25th anniversary of
the Wrights’ first flight with two stamps in
December, 1928, and France in 1934 similarly
honored the 25th anniversary of Bleriot’s cross-
Channel flight, followed in 1937 with two
stamps to the memory of Jean Mermoz, who
lost his life when attempting an Atlantic cross-
ing Belgium gave postal honors in 1933 to
Professor Piccard for his stratosphere balloon
flights • Russia to the heroes of the Polar flights
in 1938; Germany to the achievements of
Count Zeppelin. An Italian stamp of 1932
illustrates Leonardo da Vinci’s fifteenth-century
concept of a flying machine.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: There is another relic of
the Emden (B. 9/8/’44) knocking about
Australia somewhere —the key with which
G. H. K. La Nauze, the cable man, sent
out the wireless SOS which brought the
Sydney to Cocos. The landing party
seemed to know that the wireless had
been their undoing and wreaked ven-
geance on the plant. A staff man sal-
vaged the key, and when last heard of
it was in Melbourne. It ought to be
secured for the National Museum.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide has celebrated the
100th anniversary of Charles Sturt’s jour-
ney to Centralia by placing a bronze
tablet on the Bank of Adelaide at the spot
where his expedition started. Sturt is best
known to history by his pioneer boat
voyage down the Darling to the Murray
mouth ; but after S.A. was founded he
settled there as Surveyor-General, and in
1844 he went in search of an inland sea,
of which that generation felt so sure that
a large boat was carted along. Sturt
turned north-west from a point on the
Darling, crossed Broken Hill’s present
site, ultimately ran into sandhills, nearly
perished with thirst, and finally staggered
back to Adelaide in January, 1846. Mc-
Douall Stuart, one of his party, was able
to cross the continent later. At the same
time as the Sturt tablet there was un-
veiled on the A.M.P. front a tablet for
J. C. Darke, an almost forgotten explorer
who was speared by natives just a cen-
tury back in the wild country behind Port
Lincoln. Darke’s Peak commemorates
his name.
* * * »
“Oldbold” remembers;
Field Punishment No. 1 was in vogue in
Egypt and even more so on Lemnos Island,
but got too unpopular with the Diggers to be
used to the same extent in France. On the
march to the Somme in 1916 our battalion
passed a Royal Fusilier tied up to a limber in
full view of all traffic in the village street.
“Take this over to the sergeants' mess!"
The storm of hooting, catcalls and jeers—not
at the prisoner but' at those who had tied him
up—showed the way F.P. Ko. 1 would have
been taken by our mob. But when they were
convinced it was deserved there was no objec-
tion. On a wild November night at Careton
camp, near Flers, a crowd of prisoners from
another Australian division, put temporarily
under our guard, started to play up. They were
real toughs, and they beat up the guard, set
fire to the Nissen hut, and were just about
to clean up everything when a company was
turned out to overpower them. It was the same
company that had furnished the guard and
when they saw the way their cobbers had been
handled they entered into the overpowering
with enthusiasm. Fighting and yelling, the rebels
were hauled out into the rain and sleet, rolled
in the mud and lashed to the wheels of limbers.
There remains with me yet the picture of an I
outsize in bullock-drivers tying the final knots 1
that tethered a blaspheming prisoner to the axle
of a G.S. wagon standing in a foot of
mud. From the tethered one came blood-curd- 1
ling threats of revenge, and from the other
a calm statement of a theory concerning the
prisoner’s birth, parentage and probable future,
phrased by one who had gained fluency steering
bullock teams around the hairpin bends of
the Atherton Tableland roads and graduated
in the same subject as a platoon commander
of the original A.I.F. The well-chosen words
and icy rain effected a cure by midnight.
* * * *
“Melbn”: The erection of monuments
to Mr. Churchill and one to Mr. Roose-
velt to flank the St. Kilda-road gateway
to the city is the latest suggestion for the
post-war beautification of Melbourne.
Most personal monuments of this nature
have been failures, but it is easier to
erect them than to take them down. As
evidence of that, the city is already
equipped with statues which wouldn’t
win a prize in a students’ exhibition.
H= * 4= *
“Hamfat” remembers a good-hearted
Governor of M.L.:
The theatrical co. I was with reached Wel-
lington (M.L.) flat broke after a country tour
in wet weather. Our season at the Theatre
Royal didn’t look promising. Thinking of
a way out, I remembered that Lord Ranfurly,
met on a trip up from Christchurch after the
November carnival, had been very affable; he
had spent half the night on the old Rotomahana
swapping yarns with members of the co.
Taking the risk that his lordship mightn’t be
as friendly in cold blood, as it were, I spent
my last half-crown on a cab to Government
House. While I was arguing the point with a
footman I had the good luck to catch the
Governor himself entering. Bluntly told that
his patronage of our show would make all the
difference between ruin and success, Ranfurly
affably offered full co-operation. He wrote a
personal letter welcoming the co. and declaring
that he would attend every play. The first fruits
were that the newspapers, when shown the
missive and instructed to put the coat of arms
and “under vice-regal patronage” over our ads.,
forbore to ask for cash in advance. Though
the rain continued we packed the Royal; the
dress circle (usually a desolate wilderness in
that house) was full; and Percy Dix, who ran
the theatre, was delighted at the array of private
carriages that brought fashion to his shabby
showhouse. Ranfurly not only attended as
promised but joined in some after-show suppers
on the stage.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A real old-fashioned miser
of the eighteenth-century brand has died
in S.A. He was a member of one of the
thrifty German families that came to
Australia a century back. In his little
home were found at his death bundles
of £5 notes long out of circulation, and
some hundreds of half-crowns. One of
his hoards has proved a sound invest-
ment for his heirs ; his 700 sovereigns
have more than doubled in value while
bottled away.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: “Ern Malley” wasn’t the first
spoofer of his species. Jan van Eyck, the
“father of oil painting,” author of the
Melbourne National Gallery “Madonna,”
is credited in art books with a
brother Hubert. Investigators haven’t
found a skerrick of evidence that Hubert
ever existed, though Jan had a genuine
brother named Lambert. Yet for . cen-
turies the apparently mythical Hubert
has been regarded as a greater painter
than his brother, on the strength of
literary references. However, outside his
pictures, the only evidence that even Jan
had a corporeal existence is a small
bundle of receipts for payments for pic-
tures and documents conferring annuities
on his wife aqd daughter.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Four boys and seven
dogs, all barefooted, were rampaging
through the Moulamein (N.S.W.) country
when they started a wild pig. The whole
11 gave tongue and lit out after the
porker, which charged into the lignum
brakes along the Merran Yarran and
baulked and doubled at top speed. Boys,
dogs, barks and yells went round, through
and over the lignum in a glory of effort
and excitement, astounded crows wheeled
high in the circumambient air with harsh
and indignant caws, minahs and apostle
birds shrieked alarm and defiance, and
the Herefords put their tails up and lum-
bered about, bawling and throwing earth
around. Piggie, grimly ducking and dodg-
ing, was silent but rapidly losing breath.
Then the chase reached a turn in the
creek where the lignum ended before a
small, baked plain. The hunt, clamoring
now with the imminence of the catch,
herded the quarry out of the lignum and
it took off across the plain. A minute
later grunting boys and yipping hounds
were hopping on one, two or three legs,
while the pig, its hard little hooves im-
pervious to the three-cornered Jacks
which littered the plain, cantered away to
safety,
% * * *
“The 0.D.”: That cove blowing his
bags out about old Darkie (B. 9/8/’44)
being a wonder dog and telling how the
wild duck, after decoying the tripe-chewer
away from her ducklings to a safe dis-
tance, “soared comfortably to a treetop
and left a very disgusted mong to squat
below” misjudged the mong. Darkie
wasn’t disgusted ; he was stricken with
astonishment at the spectacle of a wild
duck sitting on a treetop. Every time I
visualise that duck I’m stricken in the
same manner.
* * * * .
“Wippegong”; Perfumes and memo-
ries ! The coconut plantation and its vil-
lage, complete with buxom belles, was
left behind, and the party had settled
down to a straggling string that twisted
round the bay, in and out of mangrove
and jungle, but never far from the beach.
The A.N.G.A.U. captain led, then came
his police boys, then a few of us from
the R.A.A.F., then a collection of
natives in decreasing order of importance,
age and stamina, tailing off in half a
dozen wide-eyed nippers attended by
speckled mongs of the lowest plebeian
pedigree. Deep green mountains reared
to the right; on the left the Pacific lay so
true to name that piling woolpacks were
reflected as from a lake; then from
ahead drifted a scent that took me right
back to a bench down south where the
red shavings curling over the plane
wafted the same soft fragrance. Slow,
steady chopping and the rising aroma
drew us into the heavy shade, and there,
resting on a carpet of pink chips, lay a
cedar canoe, nearly finished. Within a
mile we counted a dozen of them, from
fresh-barked logs to slim-nosed craft
ready for launching ; and all the way the
perfume hung in the humid air, fainter
as the chopping faded, almost overpower-
ing beside the growing piles of pink chips.
These fuzzies had been moved from the
part of their home island where our
chaps had moved in, and new boats had
high priority. For no boat had the
builders to go more than 100 yards inland
for the log they wanted, and they felled
each tree with the same little axes that
shaped stem and stern. Meanwhile the
Marys had made new gardens —but that’s
another story.
* * * *
“Ringa”: The French explorer Dumont
d’Urville (B. 2/8/’44) took back to
his native land a couple of other un-
usual souvenirs which he picked up on
Tute Island (Torres Strait) in 1840; two
huge clam shells, each weighing about
5001 b., for years used as “tanks” by the
natives, who had hundreds of the shells
lying, concave side upwards, under the
palms and pandanus trees. The rain-
water was collected by means of long
strips of bark tied round the tree-trunks,
the loose ends being led into the shells.
D’Urville’s shells were installed as holy-
water basins in the Cathedra! of St. Sul-
pice, Paris, and so far as I know are still
there.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’ve struck some queer
fellers in me time,” remarked Mat, “but
thought I’d run into the daddy of ’em
all when I got a job with a little road
foreman just out o’ Wilson’s Downfall,
up in Noo South. There was nothin’ out
o’ the ordinary about him, ’ceptin’ that
he wore a whoppin’ great handlebar
moustache and hardly ever said a word
—which ain’t normal for a road fore-
man. Anyhow, on the first payday we
get our money and the gang, with the
foreman, heads for the pub. For some
reason the foreman takes a fancy t’ me
an’, gettin’ a trifle elevated, insists on
draggin’ me home t’ tea. We’re greeted
by the smallest woman I ever saw, an’,
while she’s eyein’ me off, his nibs goes t’
the wall an’ stands on his hands, restin’
his feet agin the wall. Of course, all his
cash falls out o’ his pockets. Without a
word his missus picks it up, shoves it in
her kick, helps him come t’ his normal
position an’ says ‘Come an’ get your tea.’
Yair, he did it every payday ; -saved him
a lot o ’trouble, I reckon.”
“B. A. Ker”; In all the years I’ve fol-
lowed the peregrinations of Mat and his
Mate through familiar and strange
country, chuckling at their humors and
sympathising in their tribulations, I have
rarely failed to see eye to eye with the
Big Fellow. But lately he has shown a
“Sergeant York, eh?”
"No, sir—Corporal Smiff, spelt wiv a 'y.' ”
marked aversion to day labor as com-
pared to contract work. Why? My ex-
perience has been that a good boss to
contract for is a good boss to his em-
ployees ; but a tough man to work for
is even tougher on a small contractor.
You soon get to know the latter type.
He sums you up quickly —you’re up
against it and want a job badly. We-11,
he doesn’t really want it done, but a
bloke gave him a price for a bit of clearin’,
and suckerin’. If you’d like to have a
look at it . He drives you out. You
reckon up what it’s worth, take into
consideration that he doesn’t really want
the job done, and knock a fiver off.
tt’mm, the other feller’s price was four
quid less. He pauses. You say nothing.
Suddenly his generosity overcomes him:
Tell you what he’ll do, he’ll meet you
halfway as he likes your honest look ;
he’ll lose two quid and you lose two
quid. Because you need it badly you
take the job. Of course, you have to
make your own arrangements about get-
ting supplies out; and every time the
trump arrives he has a “jist” job: “list
stack them bushes around that stump be-
fore you burn ’em —may as well kill two
birds with the one stone, etc.” When
you finish and begin squaring up he’ll
insinuate that you are claiming “clear-
ing” rates on the paddocks that were
only “suckered.” He’ll go over your
mathematics three times before reluc-
tantly admitting that the figures “seem
all right.” And if you’ve taken on a bit
extra at so much a chain he’ll argue the
point with the steel tape.
* * * * i
“Passage Pilot”: I’m saving recent
pars, to send to some of my friends
among the native skin divers. They’ll be
interested to learn that the big groper is
a harmless fish which has to be enticed to
bite. For those fellows, while they treat
the shark with a certain amount of
respect devoid of fear ahd the octopus
as a story-book fiend only, regard
the groper as the devil. I know the crew
of a wrecked lugger who swam all night
among the sharks sooner than run the
risk of crossing a reef where gropers were
known to lurk.
“Rover”: More dangerous than the
giant groper is Astrotia stohesii, the
deadly sea snake of N.Q. waters. Our
patrol met a couple of a bo. fishermen
near Newcastle Bay with a 3ft. specimen
caught in one of their traps. An olive-
brown reptile, A. stohesii first became
known in 1841, when Captain Stokes, of
H.M.S. Beagle, landed a 6ft. monster in
N.Q. Features of the snake are a row of
projecting scales with divided tips on the
lower surface of the body, a blunt head,
paddle or oar-like tail and flattened keel-
shaped body. It can move through the
water at a great speed ; its bite means
sudden death to all other sea creatures,
and its venom is fatal to humans unless
prompt medical aid is available. The
abos. told us that one of their tribe had
died within three minutes of being bitten
by a big snake; this, however, made no
difference to them, for the unusual catch
formed part of their dinner that night.
* * * *
“Kin”: The gidyas I’ve seen in
Queensland (B. 2/8/’44) throw at most
a shade like lace ; only a small percentage
are heavily shaded. Moreover, the far
from pleasant odor which the tree exudes
is the result of rain only when it is
flowering—which doesn’t occur often.
The bauhinia is a better shade tree,
although of course it is deciduous —one
of our few indigenous trees that is. But
the ideal shade tree at all seasons of the
year is the emu apple—the most beauti-
ful of all native trees.
* * * *
“H.S.G.”; These alleged bushmen who
must have fires set in geometrical pattern
when camping out are just a bunch of
pansies. I’ve never found one necessary
anywhere from New England in the
winter to the snow-clad mountains of the
Lebanon, All you want is enough nap
and a waterproof cover above and below.
The mistake most fellows make is to raise
the feet to tuck the blankets under, and
then roll from side to side for the same
purpose. The bed should be made like a
big parcel, open at one end and with the
top sheet tucked well under at side and
bottom. If it is slipped into a sleeping-
bag you can do your tossing and turning
without hugging the blankets to you. If
a balaclava is worn or the head shoved
under the nap with an air tunnel leading
to the outside world a warm night’s rest
is assured.
* $ * 4
“Fancar”: Though galahs, budgerigars
and quarriens were plentiful in the early
days on the eastern Darling Downs (Q.)
—the galah to a nuisance degree at times —
until a few years ago all were getting
quite rare. Now flock after flock are
appearing and feeding on the
ing Liverseed grass, the budgerigar mix-
ing fraternally with the quarrien and
rising and resting on feeding grounds in
a green and grey cloud. The growth of
milo and millet to a greater exent has
encouraged these birds back to their old
haunts, but the Liverseed grass (intro-
duced by Liverseed, manager of the old
Hermitage State Farm at Warwick) is the
staple seed food of the returnees, which
also include great numbers of quail and
crested pigeon. Considering that Liver-
seed grass, besides being a fair average
fodder, is choking out khaki and mint
weed and other minor curses on road and
wasteland, the eastern Downs should rise
up and call old Liverseed blessed.
% * * *
“Balurga”: I don’t agree with the
commonly-held belief that stock-horses
are born and not made. Granted the
potential stock- or camp-horse must
possess extra elasticity of movement,
coupled with super-intelligence, even
with these gifts he needs a fair horseman
to develop him. A poor rider never yet
made a good horse. In a fairly extensive
experience of show and station camp-
drafting I’ve found that the horse credited
with the ability to turn his rider off was
always a choppy, proppy brute who
worked off his front legs, and jarred every
bone in his rider’s body. A good camp-
horse works off his hind legs, his action
being smooth, lissom and rhythmic. One
doesn’t have to “sit for the prop” on him,
though admittedly, one can’t go To sleep
either. Cutting-out especially calls for
perfect co-operation between horse and
rider, as both must concentrate solely
only on the beast or beasts being worked
and act instinctively together. That is one
of the grandest experiences mortal man
can have.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Although almost any tree-
hollow does for summer residence, the
phalangers, or flying squirrels, go in for
community nests in the colder months,,
and four or five are commonly to be
found together. Tall tree
stumps, mere decayed
shells, are the usual selec-
tions, and it is amazing
how these shelters keep
bone-dry inside when
other hollows are satu-
rated. Lately, I felled a
stump which was the home
of four lesser flying phal-
angers, and I managed to
grab two of them. They
took it quietly, and I was
able to admire their striped
heads and rich, silvery fur
before releasing them,
when they skipped off in
lively, fluttering bounds to
a near-by gum. The nest
was of stripped green
leaves. The pigmy phalan-
gers, hardly bigger than
mice, and the big brown
fellows which volplane a
hundred yards or more at
a time also build nests for
winter.
“Rooster”: What is on “Betcha’s”
mind (B. 12/7/’44)? He starts off by
cold-shouldering the outbacker’s claim to
rightly assess weather portents, finishing
on a note of interrogation regarding the
meteorological perceptions of man and
beast. Since the weather, like mathe-
matics, obeys definite laws, the ability to
figure them out will naturally come
easier to the being best acquainted with
its vagaries. Thus an insect or animal,
being gifted with well-developed sensi-
tivity to atmospherical changes—they
have to be, since they’re compelled to live
out in all weathers —will readily detect
the approach of unfavorable conditions
and react accordingly. But homo sapiens
is not so discerning. Only a minority are
interested in such things as differentiation
between various clouds. A man doesn’t
get “a feeling” that it’s going to rain.
He’s merely keeping up his morale by
playing safe. But if he’s interested he’ll
surely know that stratus clouds give a fair
indication of fine weather as distinct
from dark, foreboding nimbus. He’s got
that much over a cow.
$ * * *
“Shearo”: I was interested on hearing
the Scully announcement that the 10,000
bullocks which were overlanded when it
was thought a Jap invasion was immi-
nent were to be slaughtered at Rockhamp-
ton, and that it was estimated they would
yield “3i million pounds of beef.” Well,
well! So they would just top the calf aver-
age of 3501 b.! I’m wondering if our
northern cattlemen have switched to
Dexter-Kerrys or if only one-third of the
original mob survived.
* * * *
“E 2”; That bit in the “Answers” col-
umn, “ ‘Clarion calls’ are as thick as peas
in our mailbag” (B. 12/7/ ’44), reminds
me of Joe Radway, whose “clarion call”
is a scorching blast to get the hands out
for work. A onetime employee still pops
out of bed like a rocket whenever he
hears a noise in the night, and it’s years
since he worked for Joe. I often wonder
what two new land-girls thought on their
first morning when Joe erupted at his
best —or worst,
THE SOLDIER.
Let us say “The Great Unknown”;
Mud and sand comprised his throne;
His fame is written on a stone.
Friends he had, and love he gave
Generously, his heart was brave
And given in war some friend to save.
Now for him the tumult dies;
Where the palms of Gona rise
In a quiet grave he lies,
Nameless under sun and sky,
Watching with a ghostly eye
The tyrant nations break and die.
R.A.A.F.
KEVIN COLLOPY.


“Chuck”: Returning from town, I
heard someone hollering for help. It was
Jake Allen. He’d been lopping willows,
and was on the end of a jagged limb about
20ft. up, hanging by the back of his belt.
All he’d say was “Get me down!” though
by the look of the bough I reckoned he’d
soon be down all right. Still he wasn’t
satisfied. Wanted me to do the job. All
right; I felt in all me pockets and found
I’d left me knife home; so, telling Jake
to hang on, I climbed me nag and made
tracks. Kept the moke jogging, too, and
wouldn’t even stop to yarn to old Morri-
son or the Wilsons when I passed their
places. And the time I had locating that
knife! When I got back I climbed out
on a limb just over Jake, an’ leaning
down I slashed his belt through in one
cut. Not bad? Last T saw of Jake he
was rolling about on the stones under the
tree and cursing me like mad. Me!
Sounded mightly ungrateful, but p’raps
the poor cow had got a touch of the sun.
* * * *
“Bill C.”: Where the scrub starts on
our basaltic hillsides (Sarina; N.Q.) the
stringybarks, bloodwoods and miscel-
laneous trees of the open forest stop. Only
the plentiful golden wattles intrude into
the dense thickets. A peculiar feature of
the fragrant-flowered acacias is that
whereas they invariably rise passably
straight in the open forest, they’re always
leaners in the scrub, despite the natural
shelter they get from strong winds. Pos-
sibly beneficent Nature has so arranged
it for the defence of rock-dwelling, red-
dish-grey wallabies with which the scrub
teems; when danger looms they go
bounding up these leaning wattles.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: I never really believed
that yarn about the shark turning to eat
its cobber the moment the latter’s skin
was broken and blood showed until I
blew in at the Point Cloates whalery
(nor’-west W.A.), Flensing was done
ashore, the small chasers going out for
their kill in adjacent waters. Sometimes,
though not always, the harpooned whale
bled, and then all the sharks from miles
around appeared. Generally the whale
bled from the mouth, and that started
the sea tigers tearing at the thick cetacean
lips. From there they would go on in
ever-increasing numbers until they prac-
tically consumed the entire carcass. To
discourage them Olaf went overside in
his praam, which is a small Scandinavian
dinghy dished upwards at both ends.
Olaf’s weapon was a 10ft. length of inch
waterpipe, with a sheet steel spear blade
let in at the.business end. Point and cut-
ting edges were kept tolerably sharp, but
the weight of the shaft was the main
asset. Plunged into the seething mass of
shark the spear never failed to wound.
Instantly the other sharks would bite at
the flowing blood. The wounded one
would try to get away, but the others
would mob him, the turmoil generally
disappearing into the deeps as the tor-
mented shark finally dived in the last
effort to escape. Olaf’s job was risky,
for if he slipped overboard it would have
meant “no flowers,” but I often thought
he enjoyed chopping at that mass of
shark.
* * * *
“B. 4”: “James W.” (B. 2/8/’44) par-
donably errs in assuming that the sable
raiders of my scran were all crows.
Actually they were those white-eyed ruf-
fians ravens. The hazel-eyed crow with
the dulcet ca! ca! is a more timorous
“I don't care what your mother said about your boots getting wet —
put 'em on!"
fowl than its compere of the guttural
gwar! gwah! It was a gang of those
sooty bandits which held the mag. in a
wing-and-tail stretch, while another
popped a morsel of mutton down the
squawk-hole. Almost any bird is a valiant
defender of the hatchery, the magpies sur-
passing all other in assaulting trespassers.
Ordinarily Jacky Goburra is the boss.
When scraps are heaved out, the magpies
are among the first claimants. But Jacky
has only to glide down in front of a
feeding magpie, glare, hop towards him
and thrust with his dagger beak, and that
usually belligerent chook flips backwards,
squawking and shrieking its resentment.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: Landing on Sweers
Island (Gulf of Carpentaria) came
across an unusual tombstone; a huge
boulder, with several sea shells embedded
in it, bearing an inscription to the effect
that James Foster, gunner, of H.M.S.
Victoria, was killed there on February 28,
1861. Inland an unfenced burial ground
thick with undergrowth and small trees
contained two rows of tombstones so
ravaged by the weather that the inscrip-
tions, except various dates in 1872 and
1873, were indecipherable. In the
surrounding bush were the white-ant-
eaten remains of several buildings and a
rusted ship’s tank, through the bottom
of which a couple of saplings had forced
their way. This latter was the home of
the largest carpet snake any of us had
ever seen ; it was at least 15ft. and was
the only snake we saw on the island,
which, however, was rich in bird life, and
must have been a paradise for the wild
cats that were plentiful. The cats were
probably descendants l of domesticated
animals, for later at Burketown we met
an old-timer who had been born on the
island in 1872 ; his parents Were among
the Burketown residents who evacuated to
Sweers in the late ’sixties when an
epidemic of yellow fever broke out in the
port. Some of them lived on Sweers
until 1875.
“Heard any shaggy dog stories lately?"
“Creel”: “P.A.’s” statement (B. 9/8/’44)
that the wolf-herring can do a 20ft. leap
is a bit hard to swallow. I’ve seen a
herring in a vain attempt to escape from
a shark leap wildly into the air, to be
snapped up by its pursuer as it hit the
water again ; a 6ft. leap was the best
that panic-stricken fish could manage,
Fossils found in north-west Q. reveal
that the wolf’s ancestors grew up to 20ft.
in length.
* * * *
“Zake”: I had never realised the all-
round value of the humble corncob to
the coastal cocky until I saw a fellow
near Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) using one as
a currycomb. He also used ’em as file
handles, bottle-stoppers and fuel, though
the smoke output beat the heat content
by several streets. I’d say that the corn-
cob runs the No. 8 fencing wire, the
“karersene”-tin, greenhide and soogee bag
pretty close in the outback Handy Sfakes.
* * * *
“Esk D”; Over in old George’s hut
we were yarning by the fire when three
lizards, stirred by the warmth, crawled
from crevices in the big stones of the fire-
place and basked in the fire glow. Gecfrge
was chewing—sign of the times —a cud
of hopscrub leaves with a little tobacco.
He let fly with an accurate stream of
juice and then another to send two lizards
scuttling back into the cracks. Interes-
ted to see if the old fellow could perform
the hat-trick, I drew his attention to the
third. “Cripes, no,” said George in
shocked tones, “that’s me pet. I’ve had
her f’r a coupla years.” Now, I’m hanged
if I know how he could’ve told any of
those lizards apart, let alone recognise
the sexes.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: A man battling around
Australia’s dry parts generally has a
mental list of his really good drinks.
When we reached Giles’ Pinnacles, still
25 miles from Kurnalpi, the oonts lay
down and nothing we could do would
induce them to rise. Eight days without
water had spoiled their dash. We had
been all day without, a drink, but
reckoned by walking all night we would
make Kurnalpi before we perished. A
few miles on the way we struck a well-
rutted track and a little later the warm
embers of a campfire. Such signs of
civilisation were cheering, though every-
thing was still ash-dry. By midnight we
were well beyond conversation point;
even the sucking of an ironstone pebble
wasn’t much good. Then right in the
middle of the track appeared a big black
billy. It was so incredible that we each
thought for the moment that the illusions
were starting. But it was real, half-gallon
size and nearly full of still warm tea.
We had one all round before speculating
as to how it got there. This is how we
figured it out. It had evidently been
hooked on to the tail of a dray by the
man who had dined at the campfire. Just
where we found it were deep ruts. As
the wheels plunged into these the tail of
the dray had dipped low ; the billy for
the moment had rested on the earth, had
unhooked, and without spilling a drop
had waited till we came along.
* * * #
“S.G.”; I think it was Edward Dyson
who used the lines:
In twenty battles lost an’ won
Jim often pasted me so ’ot
Mum didn’t know ’er fav’rite son.
My own mother got a somewhat similar
shock in the days when, as an amateur
pug, I was drawn in the lightweight
heats of a tournament for the champion-
ship of the Wide Bay-Burnett district
(Q.). Mum had made me a lovely pair
of blue trunks and I had white boots to
go with ’em. When my opponent ap-
peared, blowed if he wasn’t in exactly the
same rig. Anxious to avoid confusing
the ref. I borrowed black boots and green
trunks, climbed into the ring and
knocked the enemy cold in half a round.
Poor old Mum, sitting away at the back,
peered shortsightedly at the ring and
also went out to it, convinced that her
darling had been bowled over for the
count.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Mum was examining a pack-
ing-case that had come with the goods.
“Dad, will you get me a pair of hinges
for this lid some time?” she requested,
hammering busily at the boards. “It will
make a good bin for the flour.” Dad
grunted, and for the next few months
repeatedly promised to get the hinges
“next time Igo into town.” After that he
forgot about them. Then, in the store
one day he was yarning to old Sam when
a bloke walked in and asked for hinges,
“Got to make a flour bin,” he explained
loudly. “Nuthin’ like a good bin t’ keep
out the mice an’ save the flour from
dust.” “By cripes, y’ right there,” agreed
Dad. “An’ that reminds me ; I’ll take a
pair too, Sam, good strong ’ns.” That
evening he tossed the parcel on the table.
“Mum, where’s that box y’r goin’ to have
for flour?” he inquired as he untied the
string. Mum looked blank. “Oh, that,'"
she suddenly remembered, “why, it was
no good without a lid, Dad, so I gave it
to old Daisy for a feedbox early last
spring, or —er —it might have been the
autumn before, I just f’get.” Dad
dropped his purchase with a bang.
“What! And after tellin’ me t’ be sure’n
get the hinges f’r the blasted thing,” he
roared. “Cripes, Mum, after that y’ just
don’t deserve t’ have a bloke alwus buyin’
things for y’.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Lem Geary had the reputation
among his fellow cockies around Lower
Bend of being a hard man, and this was
enhanced when he docked a shilling from
his hired man’s wages, the bob represent-
ing the cost of two cornsacks which the
h.m. had ruined in putting out a grass
fire that was threatening one of Lem's
haystacks. One day Lem was looking
sourly at one of his Berkshires
which had had a litter of only ten
when a seedy-looking stranger dropped
his knot, sagged down on it, all in,
and asked Lem for a feed. Geary
surlily said he didn’t have food to waste
on fellows who spent their time wander-
ing the country with nothing to do. The
swaggie weakly asked if he could doss on
some bags in the barn. Lem knocked
him back again. The stranger looked at
him. “Perhaps y’ don’t know who I am,
Lem,” he said. “I’m your brother Alf —
remember, I ran away from the old man’s
place at Corkwood 32 years ago! ” Lem
didn’t turn a hair. He just looked at his
long-lost brother and said slowly: “I re-
member right enough—y’ borrered four
bob from me an’ took me best tie that
I’d paid one an’ six fer an’ never used,
an’ said you was goin’ to a darnce. I got
no time fer people who try t’ take me
down. Now git!”
* * * *
“Moyhu”; To convert a docile dog
into a sour, nasty-tempered one, touch
its tail. I’ve seen a motherly old cocker
snap the fingers of its best friend for
twitching her rudder. The tail equals
in importance the doggy smile in convey-
ing to the world evidence of canine
pleasure, and this sensitivity is possibly
due to the fact that the tail actually
commences in the brain, being an
extension of the spinal cord. In
fact, its caudal appendage might almost
be regarded as part of Towser’s thinking
apparatus. At any rate, a dog’s tail is
ranked almost equal in importance by the
owner, for purposes of protection, to the
other vital part of him, the nose.
THE HOWLING DERVISHES.
“The howling dervishes of song
Who craze the brain with their delirious dance.”
-— Longfellow.
It’s queer to think ev’n in those distant days
There must have been a few upon the scene
To irritate the bard who wove the lays
Of “Hiawatha” and “Evangeline.”
But just' remark the aptness of the phrase:
How tersely cutting and how subtly keen!
How long must we endure, good Lord, how
long,
Our modern “howling dervishes of song”?
“The sound must seem an echo of the sense,”
Wrote Pope, a bard deservedly renowned.
But when a scrutiny the most intense
Fails to reveal where any sense is found,
It’s obvious a minstrel can dispense
With any axioms about the sound.
A view, it seems, that wins adherence strong
Among the howling dervishes of song.
No force in metrical restraints they see.
Or forms approved from immemorial time.
Like crazy Bacchanals upon the spree
Through mists of whirling words they tear
and climb,
Making a madd’ning mock of melody
And breaking, as it were, the legs of rhyme.
A wild and woolly gang, a fearsome throng
In truth, these howling dervishes of song.
Brother, if you would join the clan, the sept
Of those who this intriguing creed profess,
The first essential is to be adept
At hinting meaning in the meaningless:
There’s little else required, it seems, except
Discordant unintelligibleness.
Armed with those attributes you can’t go wrong
Among the howling dervishes of song.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


R£ oisTe*e D
TABLETS
FOR BLOOD. VEINS,
ARTERIES, ETC.
What is ELASTO? ... What can it e/o for me ?,
Here are the Answers!
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness; if you
are the victim of chronic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
Elasto, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be”, you might well
say, when so many things have
failed ...
Here is how ELASTO works
It has long been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Elasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to work at
this source It revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries.
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing’.
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble is bad circulation.
This is more fully explained in
simple language in a'free book-
let—see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say:
The fact is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Elasto. Here is
what a few of many grateful
users have said:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ’Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema."
"My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
££a4&r- i/ou -ht/umdd *
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAT, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
* . nfl-Ch-
q Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixtur
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum oi
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 3583S, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4058 Melbourne, 758K. Brisbane, 712F Adelaide, 588 Perth^
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Melbourne Ram Sales.
“Bungaree”: There was a strong
demand for good sheep from well-known
studs, but anything else wasn’t wanted.
Highest price for a merino was 315gns.
for a ram from Bundemar (N.S.W.).
General average of prices was compara-
tively low, and only an occasional ram
reached the three-figure mark. Some Tas-
manian studs were represented, and the
top price was 270gns. for a Valleyfield
ram of typical Tasmanian super-fine type.
It is a long time since Tasmanian rams
appeared at Sydney sales, so N.S.W.
breeders who like them have to go to
Melbourne or Tasmania for them. Those
on offer were in the main disappointing
in appearance, being ultra plain-bodied,
with practically no front development,
and very light-boned.
Demand for selected rams fluctuated.
Better-known studs got fair prices, others
didn’t get a bid—partly because the re-
serves were too high. There was a con-
siderable tail among the flocks.
Corriedales ranged from very good to
very bad, some carefully prepared for
sale, others straight in from the paddock.
Guthrie Corriedales sold to 250gns., top
price of the sales, the sheep being pur-
chased for U.S.A. Other sales ranged
from lOOghs. to 220gns., the latter-
price being for a Tasmanian ram- On
the whole, quality sheep had a good
market, and low-grade rams a cold one.
There was a wide selection of Pol-
warths, both horned and polled. A stud
ram bred by Dowling Gumming and Co.,
of Jellalabad (Vic.), brought the particu-
larly good price of 140gns., and another
from the same stud made « 120gns.
Demand was limited, however; Pol-
warths have never attained the popularity
of Corriedales. Border Leicester prices
see-sawed considerably. Top price was
75gns. for a Starritt ram, but generally
there was little competition.
Planning Dairy Farms.
“E. 2”: Little attention is given to lay-
out of farms and outbuildings in most
districts. Sheds, cow- and pig-yards are
distributed around the farmhouses as if
deposited by a willy-willy ; arrangement
of paddocks are disorderly and incon-
venient, and shelter belts and watering
facilities are seldom given proper atten-
tion. Also, waste areas are allowed to
accumulate through growth of weeds and
rubbish. Swamps and lagoons should be
reclaimed.
Outbuildings laid out in orderly
fashion, properly maintained and painted,
not only wear and look better, but are
conducive to methodical system in hous-
ing of implements and attention to detail
in the cow-yard. Plenty of shade trees
lead to more comfort and less trouble
with stock. Ample concreting and gravel
about the yards provide escape from
mud and muck holes.
Given a well-planned homestead and
buildings, most farmers would be hard to
hold in making the best of their farms.
There’s plenty of scope for improvement
of pastures, maintenance and enrichment
of soil fertility and building up high
standards of production. Farming is an
all-time occupation, and efficient methods
and justifiable pride in the place will show
out in future prosperity.
Another thing, if there’s a share-farmer
don’t expect him to be content for long
in a shack like a dog kennel stuck up
anywhere between the pig-yard and the
stable. Housing for the hands should be
of the best.
Sore Backs and Shoulders.
“E.H.S.”: They’re almost invariably
the result of carelessness and dirt. The
skin on those parts where galling usually
occurs should be kept well clear of hard-
caked sweat, burrs, grass-seeds, etc., and
backs and shoulders should be washed
with water containing a dash of antisep-
tic when the horses come in after work.
Sore backs or shoulders are often caused
by using saddle or collar with sweat-
hardened lining. An occasional belting
with a stout stick will keep the lining
soft and prevent trouble from this source.
When the stuffing of saddle or collar be-
comes flat and hard it tends to cause
galling, but this may be obviated by prob-
ing 4 and teasing the stuffing with a steel
knitting needle until it softens up.
Girth galls, a frequent source of
trouble, are caused by sweat-hardened
girths, tight girthing and riding without
a crupper. The effects of sweat-harden-
ing may be avoided by using a canvas-
web girth, which can be washed when
signs of hardening appear—but most
horsemen prefer the rolled-leather type,
which, when thoroughly greased on the
inner as well as the outer surface, remains
soft and sweat-resistant for months.
When a sore develops the hair immedi-
ately surrounding it should be removed
and the part washed with warm water and
antiseptic soap. This, followed by a dust-
ing of boracic powder, should be repeated
daily until a cure is effected. It is very
hard to cure a sore while the horse re-
mains at work, and if the trouble persists
it should be given a rest until the part is
healed. If this is not convenient the
saddle or collar should be chambered to
relieve the pressure on the affected part.
Since these injuries are in the nature of
bruises, they’re far more resistant to treat-
ment than a clean cut or abrasion, and
are liable, if neglected or improperly
treated, to develop into a fistula or deep-
seated ulcer.
The Pastoralisl’s Lot.
As described in a letter:
I’m a bit anxious about the shearing this
year, but I suppose it will be all right. Thank
you for chasing round for shearing ledgers,
bridles, etc., etc., for me.
I have applied to the Rationing Commission
for tea towels for the shearers. I had to tell
him the number of sheep I shear, etc., etc.
I have applied to the Tobacco Distribution
Committee for tobacco for the shearers.
Also to the district police for a special license
for petrol for shearing. I had to tell them the
number of sheep I intend to shear.
I have notified the local policeman that I
intend to start shearing on the 14th inst., and
that I intend to shear 6500 sheep.
I still have a form to fill in, giving particulars
of all shearers and shed hands. It’s for Man-
power.
The business of deducting all their taxes is
ahead of me.
I have completed a couple of forms which 1
am hoping will enable me to procure a couple
of alarm clocks. One is for the shed, one for
the cook (Federal Pastoral Award; Cooks
Agreement Cl. 16; Shearers’ Agreement Cl. 29).
I suppose I will get a letter from the Deputy
Commissioner of Alarm Clocks asking for the
number of sheep 1 intend to shear.'
What a life!
Velvet Beans.
“L.C.”: In tropical areas velvet beans
do better than cow peas, give heavier
yields and are more palatable. Feeding
value is high. Queenslanders use them
for green manure, N.S.W. farmers for
grazing or hay. They’re summer legumes,
like a long-growing season and well-
drained, fertile soil; acid soils turned
down by clovers and lucerne also suit
them.
Cultivate the land well; leave 4ft. to
sft. between drills, 12in. to 18in. between
seeds; 101 b. to 201 b. will seed an acre.
When planted with maize or sorghum to
provide mixed grazing or silage, miss
every third or fourth row, and plant the
beans in it four to six weeks later. Beans
intended for grazing can have the stock
turned in on them at regular periods as
soon as they’re well established ; for hay,
harvest as they reach early flowering, and
cock for a few days before stacking.
Tree Seed.
“Farmer Bill”: Trees grown from local
seed suffer fewer setbacks than others.
Select seed from healthy, well-established
trees. Whether in capsules, pods or cones
collect just before maturity or the seed
vessels will split and cause losses. Euca-
lypt seed can be gathered summer or
autumn as capsules change from green
to brown. Cut off a branch bearing the
seed containers and leave on a paper till
the seed spills out. Gather up and sieve.
Place in boiling water and soak for the
following 24 hours, which softens the seed
case and speeds up germination of kurra-
jong, wattle, red cedar, teak, carob bean,
kauri, honey locust or wilga.
Sow eucalypts in August to October
with second sowings in frost-free areas
in February to March ; sugar gums, yel-
low box and lemon-scented gums, Sep-
tember ; cultivated deciduous or ever-
green trees, August on the coast, Sep-
tember inland ; pine seed, October if pot-
ting out in January; April if potting out
from July to September. Given reason-
able care, eucalypts will be ready for
planting into permanent positions the fol-
lowing July to August on the coast, Octo-
ber on the plains or tablelands or when
the frosts let up. Seedlings of most ever-
greens can be planted in August on the
coast, October on the tablelands or
plains; deciduous trees May to August
on the coast, August to September inland.
Seed-sowing can be done in boxes, pots,
open beds or permanent positions. When
using boJtes or pots, supply drainage;
spread broken stones or pebbles over the
bottom. Cover first with coarse soil,
build up layers of finer soil gradually, top
off with a thick layer of good sandy loam.
Hints for the Farm.
“L.C.”; Droughts, or the break of
them, induce worms. Sheep or cattle
cropping paddocks to the last blade pick
up greater numbers of worms’ eggs. Heavy
infestations are followed by deaths, even
while the stock is in good condition.
Watch and drench. New shoots of feed
after droughts break are conveyors of
eggs. To beat the worms keep up con-
dition by supplementary feeding.
“Myrrhee”: Adequate nutrition for
worm control deserves more attention
than it receives. Sheep in good condi-
tion can withstand worm infestation much
better than undernourished animals.
Don’t allow lambs or weaners to be
checked in their growth. Before pastures
decline begin hand-feeding, using oats,
wheat, barley or maize, ilb. to £lb. for
each sheep per day with a little hay il
available. The more worm-infested sheep
in a paddock the greater will be the con-
tamination with eggs and young worms.
“Old Cocky”: There’s nothing to equal
Kikuyu grass on average or poor soils.
Once established it is a fixture, but it must
be watched lest it work into adjacent cul-
tivations. For root-binding of stream
banks it is hard to beat, especially on
sandy soils. Drought doesn’t trouble it
unduly, and it can be grazed almost any
time of the year. Suitable for smothering
the most flourishing bracken, it is able
to stand up to trampling and rooting by
pigs. I’ve seen Johnson grass tormented
with a disc plough, after which Kikuyu
sections went in at the rate of approxi-
mately 1000 to the acre and wiped out
the Johnson.
“Farmer Bill”: Silage can be fed eight
to ten weeks after making. Don’t give
large quantifies at the start; cows on dry
feed may start scouring. Get them used
to it by placing small amounts in the feed-
boxes each night. Silage made from
maize or sorghum contains a high per-
centage of carbohydrates but is low in
protein ; supplements are necessary for
cows in production. To the daily ration
of 401 b. silage add 101 b. lucerne hay and
81b. bran ; for sheep or breeding ewes
; feed l|lb. silage with lib. hay or 4oz.
maize per head per day.
“Bennie”: While fowl manure makes
; fertilising elements in concentrated form,
materials less active should be mixeo
with it to increase its bulk. Leaf mould
, is excellent in sandy soils, and ashes help
considerably in heavier soils. Fowl
■ manure is better if used as a light top-
> dressing.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Where War Passed.
(Condensed from a “Life” article by U.S.
service man Corporal Paul E. Deutschman.)
Before the war Borgovecchio may have
been a pleasant place. If is a little town
pestled in mountains in the craggy in-
terior of Sardinia. Now you feel like
washing your hands when you leave
there.
We in the Mediterranean theatre have
seen the human misery, the degrading
filth and the starvation that war brings.
We realise the problem of reconstruction
that places like Borgovecchio and the
problem of rehabilitation that people
of places like Borgovecchio present. We
have seen many such towns and we know
that what we have seen is but a tiny
corner of the panorama of human suffer-
ing that this year will unfold before our
eyes.
You catch the full impact of the town
as soon as your vehicle reaches the main
square and is swallowed up by its mobs
of children who run through the filthy
streets. They are everywhere—impudent
little bandits who scarcely seem like
children.
What you see in their faces is as clearly
the imprint of war as if a bullet had left
its mark. So many of them are so un-
washed, so snotty-nosed, so sore-ridden,
so drippy-eyed (with open sores on their
legs and arms where the flies swarm un-
heeded) that when you do see a child
with a well-scrubbed‘face aqd the sem-
blance of a clean garment you cannot
help but wonder how high up in the
Fascist hierarchy his father had been in
order to wrest the precious soap.
All these children wear the same wise,
knowing, thoroughly disillusioned expres-
sion. Indeed, war, hunger have made
of Italian children moochers with a wis-
dom that far outstrips their years.
They demand cigarettes first of all,
then money and any kind of eatable you
might have in your possession. But in-
discriminate Santa-Clausing is absolutely
impossible, because there can never be
enough to go around. Consequently the
streets teem with small eddies of feverish
activity centred around each soldier.
Wherever you go you have a convoy,
90 per cent, children, but with a goodly
representation of shuffling old men with
beaten looks and tired eyes, and dapper
students, generally sporting tweedy top-
coats worn grenadier-fashion like capes.
They follow you through hell and high
water, enticing you with offers of girls
of the town, vino and local whisky sub-
stitutes, and bombarding you almost be-
yond ail enduring with all sorts of brassy-
looking trinkets, beat-up cameras, farpily
bedspreads and 100-lira watches.
If you happen to be smoking a cigar-
ette while walking down the street you
are followed by an entire regiment of
bambini and grown men, two or three of
whom hopefully sport empty cigarette-
holders between their teeth. Everyone
eyes the butt hungrily. When you throw
it away, perhaps a kindly inch or two
before its accustomed throw-away length,
a battle royal ensues in which the parti-
cipants show no quarter and little respect
for youth or old age.
Mothers send their children out with
a cheap brass pin that has been highly
polished to a shiny richness, odds and
ends of family jewellery, hand-woven
bedspreads and pillowcases from the
family bed, bits of wood with bright,
peasant coloring painted on them and
flowering native scarves. Small boys,
Whose command of the English language
is limited to single words like “radio,”
“watch,” “bedspread,” roam the streets
on the lookout for game, whom they lead
triumphantly from time to time up dirty,
creaking staircases. One boy of nine
years is the most persistent. He has a
stump for a right arm, lost when our
bombers blasted an important coastal
city ; both his parents were killed at that
same time. He now spends the entire
day pimping about town for his sister.
You feel like hell most of your time
in Borgovecchio. Everything that hap-
pens and everything you see bears a
sordid connection with war. You cannot
relax for a moment. Yet sometimes the
misery takes an odd turn, gives a swift,
humorous twist to a little incident. You
find a slight occasion to laugh, perhaps
at yourself, but if you search for social
implications underneath you arrive only
at the dead-end street of war’s misery.
There were two little girls, sisters obvi-
ously, who stood shyly (with a studied
shyness, but I didn’t suspect it), hand-
in-hand at the edge of my own particular
crowd of followers. They were perhaps
seven and nine years old, and were know-
ingly beautiful children, with the kind
of unself-conscious beauty that is accus-
tomed to being stared at, and with the
feminine wisdom of the ages written on
their faces. Their dainty little dresses
were so clean and their whole appear-
ances so shining and wholesome that they
appeared like two little strangers in the
town.
One of the sisters, the elder, winked at
me and smiled winningly. When she saw
my returning smile she came up to me
and took my hand in her tiny paw, never
to release it. So there I was —with a little
Italian beauty at each hand, promenad-
ing rather aimlessly, I thought, down the
street, terribly and proudly conscious of
the appreciative smiles we drew from
passers-by and the pretty picture I made
as one of America’s ambassadors of
goodwill in uniform.
But a moment later the procession
halted. I found that they had led me to
the doorway of the little store that sold
what passed for ice-cream—a sugarless,
flavorless, almost tasteless sherbet in an
ersatz brown cone. Disillusioned, I got
the point and bought cones all around
for the two little sisters and for the nine
or ten other kids trailing behind us, who
were also somehow part of the general
strategy. But I felt a little better a half-
hour later when I saw the two little girls,
with the same sweet, studied smiles, lead-
ing another unsuspecting soldier down
the street en route to the same ice-cream
store. The two little devils didn’t even
recognise me.
This was a mere oasis in a desert of
misery. It was the one opportunity you
had during all your time in Borgovecchio
to indulge in the tattered “kids will be
kids, all over the world” platitude. It
made your skin creep to think that on the
Continent things will be worse, in France
and Poland and Czechoslovakia and in
the ghettos of Germany.
A pathetic little girl sits on the kerb
before a food stand. She looks four
years old. The child, dirty and scrambled
and sickly almost beyond discernment as
to where the rags end and the festered,
flea-bitten flesh begins, is an orphan
whose parents have been killed in the
bombings. She sleeps in alleys and out-
of-the-way streets where human excre-
ment rots where it falls and lean, hungry
dogs roam at night. During the daytirpe
she takes her place here near the town
square, where more fortunate people drop
crumbs of bread and bits of unwanted
oranges into her lap.
The terrible part of it is that she is no
isolated incident, and, although she has
aroused much pity among the towns-
people, her case is not considered acute
enough or unfortunate enough to war-
rant anything more than this most tem-
porary sort of day-to-day relief.
.She is a statistic you see in the raw —
a unit of malnutrition that is not a num-
ber on a chart but a tiny bundle of fear
and starvation and filth—and life.
Italian soldiers roam the streets. Broke,
ragged, friendly as only an Italian can
be friendly, most of them wear the last
vestiges of military uniform. There are
patched and repatched trousers, torn and
retorn sleeves.
It is no secret that Americans are quite
sympatico with the Italians and vice
versa. But the political problems of Italy
(which we have long since realised over-
step into America’s own political prob-
lems) are very much in evidence. You
see very little of the strutting Fascist now,
of course ; but you do see a ragged, thor-
oughly disgusted and therefore politically
potent army (many of whose members
have been in uniform since before the
Spanish civil war), a tenuous group of
local bureaucrats whose political ante-
cedents can easily be fathomed, a small,
young intellectual class which mouthed
its first political catechism at the feet of
the Fascist gang, a seemingly impotent
and decimated group of older intellec-
tuals, the Fascist-tutored youth and an
absolutely disillusioned, puzzled and
divided citizenry.
These are the raw materials of Italian
politics—the starving kids and the prosti-
tutes you’ve seen on the roads with small
suitcases in their hands; and Alessandro,
the Italian soldier who borrows your sew-
ing kit to patch his torn trousers (his
mother was born in America and his
father lived there 18 years), and the
bombed-out houses with their jagged
walls, and the near-riot in an adjoining
Italian camp caused by the rumor that
old American uniforms were soon to be
issued to Italian soldiers, and the lousy
food ; and Luigi, who had fought at
Stalingrad and has learned nothing dur-
ing his lifetime except to kill, and the
old men who prostrate themselves for
your cigarette butts; and Benedetta,
whose mother had been killed by the
bombs you carried and fused ; and the
skinny pigs running through the streets ,
and the terrible, pathetic envy with which
the people regard all things American.
The slogans and the catcalls and the
brickbats and the various political sym-
bols have long since been chalked on to
the walls of Borgovecchio’s houses. A
soldier here has far too little actual inti-
mate understanding of the problems be-
yond the battles to recognise which of
these chalk marks will finally not be
erased.
Danger-spot China.
(From the “Atlantic Monthly.")
The Japanese are attempting to con-
sume our slowly developed offensive
power in China by every means they have
at their command. Their blows are
shrewdly calculated to wrest from us the
initiative on the mainland. They are
bound to succeed to some extent. By the
time we reach the shores of China, the
Japanese will have made it extremely dif-
ficult for the Chinese to meet us.
It is in China’ that the Japanese have
their one remaining chance to delay their
ultimate defeat. China must unfortu-
nately continue to bear much of the
brunt of the battle. In China alone do
the Japanese still have scope for poli-
tical manoeuvring.
What can we expect in China? From
the Japanese we can expect every effort
to take the fullest advantage of the dif-
ferences between the National Govern-
ment and the Communists, the weakest
spot in the Allied political position in
Asia ; hence, the importance to us of
Chinese unity. We can also expect con-
tinued efforts to turn the Chinese against
both British and Americans. To a block-
aded people with no great maritime tradi-
tion, our concentration on naval strategy
will be used against us as evidence of in-
difference.
In the face of all this we can count
on the National Government of China,
whatever the fortunes of war, remaining
faithful to the Allied cause. But we must
steel ourselves to the possibility of serious
deterioration in the Chinese political
scene.
Future of the Kings.
(Condensed from a “Christian Science Monitor”
article by Homer Metz.)
Five of Europe’s royal chieftains seem
reasonably certain to find their thrones
still standing when the smoke of battle
finally lifts. They are George VI of
Britain, Haakon VII of Norway, Wilhel-
mina of the Netherlands, Gustav V of
Sweden and Christian X of Denmark.
These crowned heads have won dis-
tinction in the dark days through which
their countries have passed. Without
exception, they have borne their share
of the common burden with courage and
dignity. They have endeared themselves
to their peoples and earned the respect of
persons of goodwill everywhere.
But they also have done much more.
They have made themselves valuable, if
not essential, parts of the democratic
machineries of their nations. They have
shown that the ancient “divine right of
kings” can mean the gloriously high privi-
lege of personifying the divine right of
men to be free.
But what of the other seven Euro-
pean monarchies —Belgium, Yugoslavia,
Greece, Bulgaria, Italy, Rumania and
Hungary? Their fate will be one of the
important problems of the peace. Only
in Belgium is there a better-than-even
chance a throne will be retained. King
Leopold’s impatience with some of the
shortcomings of representative govern-
ment and his 1937 policy of isolating his
country militarily have been criticised
severely at times. However, he is re-
spected for his calm disdain of the Nazis.
And his dynasty has been revered by
three generations of Belgians.
In Yugoslavia the youthful Peter may,
with the continued support of the Allied
Governments, survive the indifference to
his cause of the Partisans of Marshal
Josip Broz (Tito) and the cross-currents
of racial and political animosities that
surround him, but the odds manifestly
are against it.
In neighboring Greece the royal hopes
of George II likewise look slim. Recent
advices from the Middle East indicate
that a majority of the Greek people want
a return to a republic.
In Bulgaria the reigning king, Simeon
11, is a baby, which means the royal
power would have to remain in the hands
of a regency council for a good many
years.- It seems improbable that the de-
feated and war-weary Bulgarians will
consent for long to such an inherently
dangerous state of affairs.
In Italy Crown Prince Umberto may
succeed in holding the Savoy standards
aloft for a time. But many unbiased
observers are convinced that a republican
regime is an eventual certainty m the
Apennine Peninsula. ... . .
In Rumania young King Michael
appears to have neither the stature nor
the experience to preserve his dynasty
in the face of the chaos ahd stern atti-
tude of the Allied Governments that are
bound to follow the war. Rumania s
Hohenzollern monarchy has provided
little more than a caricature of respon-
sible government for more than a genera-
tion. , ,
For 23 years Hungary has been nomi-
nally a monarchy, while actually an aris-
tocratic oligarchy under the leadership of
Regent Nicholas Horthy. The Regents
abdication is likely to be one of the first
things the Allies will insist upon when
the Magyar nation sues for peace, and
it is doubtful whether the kingless mon-
archy he represents will be able to sur-
vive the shock of his departure.
There will, of course, be numerous pre-
tenders stalking through the Allied Chan-
celleries when the peace comes. But at
this writing none would seem to have
more than a forlorn hope of taking up
the sceptre of his ancestors.
Thus the old order passes, or, as Kip-
ling puts it, “the captains and the kings
depart.” , ,
Before World War I there were only
three republics in all Europe—France,
Switzerland and Portugal. At the end
of this war there may be only five mon-
archies, although it is a rash person
indeed who dares predict the future in
these transitional times.
Tough Job, Bombing!
(From an “Air Facts” article by Francis
Vivian Drake.)
Nothing short of an actual bomber mis-
sion can tell the whole story of conditions
on the 25,000 ft. front. The cold is worse
than Russia’s ; the cramped quarters as
bad as a tank’s ; the problem of oxygen
as vital as in a submarine.
Leave out danger from the enemy and
consider only the natural hazards. A
bomber crew is whisked at dizzying speed
from sea level to 25,000 feet. Making a
deep penetration into Germany the men
are in the air from eight to ten hours,
every minute packed with intense danger
and hardship. They must fight for their
lives, possibly suffer wounds without
proper medical help, and expertly control
some of the most complicated and fast-
moving machinery ever invented.
Quick, accurate jobs are done by every-
one from tail-gunner to pilot, but they
have to be done in clothes that are aggra-
vatingly bulky, for the cold may reach £0
degrees below zero. First a man dons
the heaviest of long underwear. Over it
go regular clothes. Then comes a bulg-
ing, binding winter flying-suit of leather
lined with sheepskin. He is already mov-
ing awkwardly, but there is more to
come: an armor vest of steel plates, a
yellow Mae West life preserver, and, over
all, the parachute harness. On his head
he wears a warm cap and a steel helmet.
On his hands go thick, heated gloves.
More items remain—not clothing, but
gear. Without oxygen, a man would lose
consciousness in about 30 seconds ; so he
slings on an oxygen mask around his
neck. (Later its grip on his face will be
almost maddening.) Then there are the
intercom, headset and the throat micro-
phone-Ahe one clamped over his ears,
the other strapped snug around his
Adam’s apple.
Worry No. 1 is take-off. The pilot is
strapped in his seat by his crew chief
(another restriction on movement) —and
he must take 30 tons of steel and alu-
minium, loaded with gasoline and high
explosive, into the air. From the time
the throttles are advanced at the head
of the runway, the tension begins. The
speed mounts to 100, 120, before the
heavy-laden wings lift the ’plane clear.
The slightest swerve would blow a tyre
and cartwheel ’plane, crew and explosives
into a pyre of flame and smoke.
The whole crew holds its breath. But
the ’plane doesn’t swerve. TLe mission
is on.
Now it is time to strap the oxygen mask
absolutely tight, so tight that the rubber
face-piece digs into the skin and cuts off
circulation in the cheeks. It is time for
the pilot to turn up his radio receivers
to a volume so loud that they overcome
static and enemy jamming. The noise
in his ears is deafening, but no word must
be missed.
The gunners start their power turrets
on methodical “searching” of the sky
for enemy fighters that may blast into the


My voyage
"All aboard for Shanghai Moscow
London . .
A fascinating thought now, but a common-
place event of the future in this age of flight.
London overnight any place on the globe
within 60 hours. Giant airliners, flying new,
shorter routes with passengers, freight and
mail, will make even distant countries our
neighbours. Time and distance will have
new meanings, and our development as a
Nation will be vastly stimulated.
Australian National Airways has created in
Australia the world's largest internal airway
service the foundation for this country's
great future in the skyways of the world.
INVEST ALL YOU CAN IN VICTORY BONDS
I^IUSTRALIAN
tionai Airways
PTY. LTD.
tIRST IN PEACE .... FIRST IN WAR FIRST IN FUTURE
55658
M.
mm
years’ reputation for quality
CRAVEN I
10 FOR 1/1 20 FOR 2/2
Save your money to save your Freedom.
Invest in War Savings Certificates.
formation at any second ; the navigator
begins his endless plotting and checking,
The second and third hours bring aches
to the pilot’s arms, legs and back, stiff-
ness to the rest of the crew. The throat
microphone grips and chafes; the Mae
West rubs the back of the neck. In the
headphones, above 20,000 feet, the grains
of carbon “pack” and produce a constant
drilling squeal that has the same effect
on the nerves as dragging fingernails
down a> slate. The cold begins to creep
through the heavy clothing. The oxygen
mask grips the face like a malevolent
hand. Subconsciously, a man wants to
loosen it or i;ip it off; consciously, he
leaves it on.
During the fifth hour, the Luftwaffe is
likely to show up several thousand feet
above the bombers, ready to slash down
in screaming formations. The attack cue
is the urgent—excited but not scared —
report from Top Turret: “Fighters at
five o’clock! High. Ten of them. 190’5.”
After the first, instant twitch at the pit of
the stomach, everyone waits tensely until
the roar of Top Turret’s guns say that
battle is joined.
From then on things happen so fast
there is little time for fear. Bullets spatter
through the fuselage with the clamor of
a boiler factory. The right waist-gunner
catches a slug. The co-pilot is ordered to
leave his seat and give first aid. In the
next few minutes, some of the difficul-
ties of this kind of warfare will be quickly
apparent.
Lack of room is one, an absurdly vex-
ing one. The co-pilot starts by disengag-
ing safety belt, heater connection, radio
cord and oxygen hose ; and, finally, his
parachute seat-pack. If the ’plane gets
hit in the next ten minutes, the co-pilot
is one man who won’t jump. He fastens
on a walk-around oxygen bottle, worms
out of his seat and starts aft.
Right Waist is unconscious at his sta-
tion. The slipstream shrieks in through
the gun aperture at 60 degrees below zero,
He needs a tourniquet and a compress,
sulfa dust and a hypodermic. It is no
job for heavy gloves. The co-pilot slips
his off. If he is fast, he may get the
necessary things done in two or three
minutes, then get his gloves back on.
Even so, he is probably in for trouble,
The blast of air is colder than the
chamber which quick-freezes food, and
it has the same effect on bare flesh. The
few minutes’ exposure may mean six
months in the hospital, hands muffled in
aseptic boxing gloves, in the hope that
the fingers will be saved. But it’s a dead
gunner or an injured hand, and there’s no
choice. The co-pilot’s next worry is to
struggle back through the ’plane to the
cockpit. His walk-around oxygen is giv-
ing out, and he seems slower and more
tired than a strong young man should be.
Near the bomb release line German
fighter Staffeln and anti-aircraft batteries
reach their frenzied peak of resistance.
The air is alive with flak. Horsing the
bomber through violent evasive action
takes all the strength of the pilot’s arms
and wrists. The crew counts each excru-
ciating second. Finally comes the bomb-
ing run and the thrilling shout —“Bombs
away! ”
The bomber swings around toward
home —and goes through the whole har-
rowing experience again until that blessed
moment when it slides down across the
Channel in the protective custody of the
Spits.
Careful Uncle Sam.
(Condensed from a N.Y. “Sunday Times”
article by James B. Reston .)
Seven times in the last fifty years the
United States has shown some willing-
ness to break with its isolationist tradi-
tion, either through the adoption of an
imperialist policy, as in 1898, or through
support of a collective security organisa-
tion, as in 1919.
The imperialism of President McKin-
ley and John Hay was followed at the
turn of the century by American partici-
pation in The Hague peace conferences
of 1899 and 1907. President Theodore
Roosevelt combined imperialism and
internationalism on various occasions in
the Far East, Africa and Latin America.
In 1910 the Senate and the House of
Representatives, without a single dissent-
ing vote, passed a resolution calling on
President Taft to invite the nations of the
world to create an international peace
organisation and organise the leading
navies of the world into an international
peace force.
In 1919 President Wilson led the moral
crusade to end all war ; in 1922 the Wash-
ington Conference undertook to limit the
war potential of the great nations. In
1933 President Franklin D. Roosevelt at
first supported and then abandoned the
World Economic Conference. Again in
1943, in the middle of another war which
all previous efforts at isolationism, im-
perialism and dollar diplomacy had failed
to prevent, the Roosevelt Administration
took part in the Moscow, Cairo and
Tehran conferences, which were designed
in part to establish the basis of a secure
peace.
The previous attempts to break isola-
tionist tradition help put the present in
proper proportion. The United States
has been at this point before, but there
are several differences today which are
worth noting.
The first difference is a difference of
time. It was not until February, 1919,
three months after the close of the last
war, that the Allies reached the point of
comparing notes seriously on the struc-
ture of the peace machinery. Thus, we
are further advanced in planning today
than we were at the end of the last war.
The second, and perhaps the most im-
portant, difference is a difference in tech-
nique. Historians seem to agree that
President Wilson’s plan was rejected by
the Senate not because his plan was bad
but because his political tactics with Con-
gress were bad. Mr. Wilson not only did
not confer at any length with the Senate
before drafting his League of Nations
plan, or take the Senators into his confi-
dence as he negotiated the world peace
machinery, but he refused to accept any
reservations they suggested. President
Roosevelt has not made the same mis-
take.
The general feeling here [Washington]
is that we are making progress toward
“participation” in some kind of world
organisation.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Henry Kaiser has asserted that the manufac-
ture and sale of 50,000 private airplanes in the
first two years after the war is by no means
visionary. Drawing an analogy from the his-
tory of the automobile, he estimates that a
milllion planes might be purchased for per-
sonal use in the next 10 years. He en-
visages a network of terminals, serving both
automobile and airplane, which would bring
virtually every area of the United States into
close contact. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
The American people are not isolationist.
They dread isolation because they are wise
enough to see that the fruit of such folly could
be the world against the United States. They
are trying to tell their leaders that, instead o£
an international lecture bureau on the virtues
of democracy and mysterious meetings of highly
placed personalities here and there, they want
a peace organisation built on foundations of
mutual interest, legal responsibility and practi-
cal enforcibility. —“Saturday Evening Post.”
# * * *
In Britain women (full-timers only) now
earn more than men used to earn before the
war over the whole range of textiles and
mining and quarrying Girls of under 18 nowa-
days earn more than grown-up women used to
earn before the war. If we compare the
earnings for July, 1943, with those of a year
before, the earnings of women increased by
15 p.c. and the earnings of men by 9 p.c. only.
Women’s earnings are clearly catching up on
those of men. This indicates the increased skill
of women, the increased output of women
piece workers, and the general tendency for
women to do men’s work. This may be an
important portent for post-war reconstruction.
In the light of the Beveridge proposals for a
national subsistence minimum women’s earn-
ings before the war were inadequate to pro-
vide an effective “margin of incentive” for
women to work. If the present trend continues
the end of the war may see a wage structure
which will provide for a relationship in the
earnings of men and women which will not
be a stumbling-block to the provision of a
national minimum. It is noteworthy that it is
the Government itself which is blazing the
trail in this upward adjustment of women’s
wages, for the highest earnings are being taken
home by the women employed in the Royal
Ordnance factories. Women there earn over
£4 a week, which is more than men used to
earn before the war in 15 out of 16 major
industrial groups—the only exception being
those aristocrats of male labor the printers.—
Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * *
Despite belief to the contrary, there has not
been one proved case of sabotage or espionage
by a Japanese-American in the U.S.A. or in
Hawaii since the beginning of the war, accord-
ing to Carey McWilliams, formerly Commis-
sioner of Immigration of the State of Cali-
fornia. —“Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * ,*
There is increasing evidence that the isola-
tion of thousands of Jap troops is having its
effect. It is now obvious to probably more
than 100,000 Japs that the Japanese Navy and
Air Force cannot save them. Major-General
Rowell’s story of Jap prisoners not attempting
to escape from a stockade with the door left
open would not have been believed a year ago.
Nor was it likely a year ago that a newly
captured Jap would request the use of a public-
address system to tell his companions of the
good treatment he was receiving. Perhaps be-
cause the tide of battle has turned in our favor
we find it easier to believe what so many have
previously denied: that the Japanese are human.
—“Atlantic Monthly.” t
* * * *
The solid core of the Nazi party is not only
the millions who are comparatively well paid
and are employees of the Administration but
also other millions who have been brought up
in various Nazi youth organisations. Less solid
but probably useful are: (1) The opportunists
and hangers-on and (2) the vast number of
people who have been made to participate, in
Nazi- crimes and are steeped in guilt of some
kind, so that they feel obliged to stick to the
Nazi cause or be punished for their criminal
deeds. In all, then, Hitler leans on those
12,000,000 well-armed worshippers and admirers,
plus the mercenaries and partners in crime.
The bulk of the population is apathetic or has
no means to resist. —George Axelsson; N.Y.
“Times.”
% * % *
Those who prophesied that Russia would
gradually turn to the Right have been confirmed
again. The Soviet Government lately issued
a stringent decree on the subjects of marriage,
divorce, the family and motherhood. “The
immediate aim of the law,” to quote Maurice
Hindus, Moscow correspondent, “is to sur-
round the family with more external obliga-
tions than it has ever known since the coming
of the Soviets and to lighten the economic
burden of parents. The ultimate aim is to
make the individual family the basic and all-
powerful pillar of society.”— N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* He * *
In the first third of this year the American
air fleets stationed in Great Britain lost in
bombers alone 40 p.c. of all the ’planes lost
in all theatres of war during the whole of last
year, and the British bomber losses amounted
to nearly 45 p.c. of the total for last year. This
means that some 11,000 highly-trained Ameri-
can and more than 7000 Similarly trained
British airmen were either killed or taken
prisoner.— N.Y. “Times.”


Public Notices.
I, METTA ROTHER, Stateless, formerly of Austrian
nationality, born at Vienna, Austria, and resident
five years and eight months in Australia, now resid-
ing at 262 Johnston Street, Annandale, N.S.W.,intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, HEINZ (HENRI) ARAM, Stateless, born at
Berlin, Germany, and resident years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 14a Manning Road, Double
Bay, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices. __
TO DONALD FREDERICK MATHBSON formerly of
Queensland Road Murwillumbah in the State of New
South Wales but whose present whereabouts are
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that an Action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of Summons Number
572 of 1944 by FREDA AMY MATHESON your wife
in which she claims a dissolution of her marriage
with you and the custody of the children of the
marriage and by her Petition filed herein she alleges
that in or about the month of June 1932 you with-
out cause deserted her and have since continuously
deserted her without cause for five years and up-
wards and it has been ordered that service on you
of the said Petition and of the said Writ be effected
by sticking up on the Notice Board in the Registry
of the said Court a copy of the said Petition and
the said Writ and by inserting this notice in two
issues of each of the following newspapers published
at intervals of not less than one week: “Sydney
Morning Herald,” “The Bulletin” and “Smith’s
Weekly” If you desire to defend this Action you
must within 46 days from the performance of the
last of the said acts enter an appearance at the said
Registry and in default of such appearance judg-
ment may be given against you Dated this Ninth
day of August 1944. — (1.5.) J. S. GIBSON, Second
Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN THOMAS EYLES.—TAKE NOTICE that
Olga May Eyles has filed a Petition for Divorce
Number 2334 of 1944 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upward If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney New South Wales on or before the
sixteenth day of October 1944 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from F. W. REILLY
Solicitor 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
For
h
Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/t AT ALL CHEMISTS
\oV
/r
Ov
V:
oVP
o* c
S
\\
l‘
s>*
C
s
_ .
Here is a gypsum finishing plaster which is
really tough ... a hardwall plaster which, used neat, gives a smooth, glossy, pure
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being free from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Concord Plaster is specially ground and processed, not only
to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to
facilitate its gauging with lime putty when less
hard surfaces are wanted. It is, of course, essential
that this workbe done by expert plasterers.
Packed in Jute Bags.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. Building Materials Division
SYDNEY . . , MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE , , . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
GET THE BEST FROM
SHED MANAGEMENT.
YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
” 3s. 6d. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
Your War
loan Bonds are as
Good as Gold
mm
m
m
m
-c
PT
i
K
In any case where you really need the money they
represent, Bonds are always readily saleable at their
full market value.
Victory Bonds are as safe as gold, because they are
actually receipts for money you have lent Australia;
and they are a promise, backed by the whole nation,
to repay your money in full at the due date.
War Loan Bonds are better than gold, because they
are an active, productive, income-earning investment.
The Second Victory Loan opens soon. Save all you
can —and lend all you can to put the weight into the
final assault.
NATIONAL
Ww
5/- NATIONAL
SAYINGS STAMPS
available at every Sav-
ings Bank and Money
Order Post Office
throughout Australia.
Only 8 required for
deposit on a £lO bond
when the Second Vic-
tory Loan opens shortly.
MAKE AN ADVANCE SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
LOAN
2PV-2-IA
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy small quantities of precious and
semi-precious Australian stones from pros-
pectors.—-3504. , ,, .
To buy My First Two Thousand Years and
Oscar Wilde’s Salome. —3503.
To buy poetical works of Will Ogilvie. 350,.
Information Sought.
Any statistics on illiteracy in Australia?
The question as to ability to read and write
was omitted in the last census owing to the
smallness of the number unable to do so. In
1921 2.85 p.c. of the population above five years
of age could read but not write English. These
included persons of low mentality who were
unable to learn. The manner pf signature ot
the marriage register is a guide; in 1864, 64 p.c.
signed the register with a mark; in 1939 the
number was .08 p.c. In 1942 only 29 persons
were unable to write their signatures, and
some of these were handicapped by some in-
jury. The Army Education Service found that
of 27,000 service personnel 3 p.c. were illiterate.
Brief history of the use of black-trackers in
Australia ?
In the hunt for escaped convicts and bush-
rangers trackers were used both in N.S.W. and
Tasmania. In 1826 Governor Darling sug-
gested that intelligent natives be attached to the
police parties; and so valuable did these men
prove that in 1841 Captain Dana formed a
native police corps in the Port Phillip district,
which was disbanded on his death in 1852. In
Q’land a native mounted police corps was
formed by Frederick Walker; it was disbanded
after a few years’ service, reorganised in 1857
and finally disbanded in 1900. Troopers were
allowed to re-engage as trackers attached to
the general police force. Other States re-
cruited native trackers for their regular police
forces, or borrowed troopers from the Q’land
forces. In the early days some trackers
dealt cruelly with other aborigines, but under
proper supervision they have behaved finely
and their capacity for special work is in-
dubitable. In 1939 N.S.W. employed 12
trackers, Victoria one, Q’land 33, S.A. five, the
N.T. 36 and W.A. 40.
(1) How does the possession of property
affect the payment of an old-age pension ?
(2) Are war savings certificates, war loan stock
and money in banks regarded as property ?
(1) An unmarried pensioner may have
property valued at £59 and a married pensioner
property valued at £119 without affecting the
pension rate. Property in excess of these re-
spective figures would cause a corresponding
reduction in the pension, and if a single pen-
sioner’s property were valued at £400 or that
of a married pensioner at £800 no pension
would be payable. (2) Yes.
Brief Answers.
A.R.S.: Only other way is to dissolve in
acetone, now unprocurable J.C.N.: Instru-
ment is probably a trade copy; if genuine,
value would be upwards of £1000. A. E.
Smith and Co., 9 Hunter-street, Sydney,
could give further information... .A.W.A.F.:
Lottery prizes are not subject to income tax
R.H.L.; Write to Department of Agriculture
for leaflet D.J.K.; A matter entirely for
your own judgment N.S.G.: Get in touch
with Officer-in-Charge of Education Depart-
ment, Furniture Workshops, Moore-street,
Drummoyne .L.C.D.; No copies left....
C.L.C.; He is known as an occasional exhibitor
with some of the societies H.H.: English.
A.W.R.: Plans could probably be procured
from the makers (Frederick Rose, Ltd., Ment-
more-a venue, Rosebery, N.S.W.) or from J.
Joel, Balmoral Beach, Sydney J.R.C.: On
presenting a doctor’s certificate and a release
from the Department of Supply and Shipping,
it may be obtained from Guyatt and Cos., 257 a
George-street, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the A lB. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. US. should be addressed to
the Editor.
H.L.: “So you will see that Trevor Victor
Townsend Bycroft was not worth all the writing
we have devoted to him.” Yes, we see
b.T. : Come out of the clouds J.8.C.:
“isn’t all this too melodramatic?” Yes....
s.R.: Flimsy H.K.F.: Might make a par.
A.E.D.: Interested in neither melodrama in
West Africa nor fleshpots in New York
p.w.E.: Send a magnifying glass and we’ll
read it I.McD.: Frothy J.S., L.H.: Come
again W.J.8.: The usual thing for her age.
Encourage her to read C.D.: “Boastful
pride; odious name; infamy beyond all parallel”
-you’re trying to denounce Germany in terms
so fee ha *g¥g d . fre^menwho
spray to flourish o|^.*; b g»y
thepoem, then. .F.EP . Stand
“Serera” months'ago I forwarded ' the ' imdeV:
No ha String is wffh
JS e P S . tn S| a f^ ees ls t toe
jothi 7 a £fnd'a cloud of diches between
ana r e »No” for vour “Referen-
|hem. ■• • T vf c A* • Not f ar but you can’t
dum •... LMcG • : for oolvwlSsS
see LrSrose- Sp here
8.C.8 : Neither verse nor prose, neither here
nor mere.


What is
PROBATE?
In a word. Probate is the official
proof of a will, and the document
issued to the executor as his authority
to administer the estate.
To be effective, a will must comply
with certain legal formalities before
its directions can be carried out.
As a matter of procedure, the Will,
together with evidence of its validity,
is lodged in the Supreme Court and
if this evidence is satisfactory, a copy
of the Will bearing the Seal of the
Court, is issued to the Executor and
this document is called the Probate.
Some wills, however well-intentioned,
for want of knowledge and care fail
to achieve their object.
In other cases, incompetent Executors
are appointed, involving difficulty and
needless expense.
Owing to the responsibilities involved
in obtaining probate, and in the sub-
sequent administration of the estate,
many persons nowadays adopt the
prudent course of naming a Trustee
Company to act as Executor.
For over half-a-century the well-
known Union Trustee Company has
faithfully discharged all duties apper-
taining to estates; it combines
knowledge, experience, permanence,
security, and complete impartiality.
It is therefore the ideal Executor and
Trustee.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITER
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c,b.e,; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson,
General Manager : Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager ; John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman)
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K, Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird,
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman);
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, m.c„ f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.C.e.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a,i.c.a.
Assistant Manager: C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stutnm, P. C. Neville.
Metropolitan Water, Sewerage & Drainage Board, Sydney
Conversion of Loan No. 5
maturing 15th October, 1944.
Holders of Inscribed Stock or Debentures of Loan
No. 5, maturing on 15th October, 1944, afre invited
to convert their holdings into equal amounts of in-
scribed stock or debentures in a new loan, No. 43,
maturing 15th October, 1958.
TERMS OF NEW LOAN
Interest—£3/8/9 per cent. p.a.; Price of Issue—Par; Currency—l 4 years.
Applications should be lodged with any office of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the
Board’s Head Office, or through members of recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia, not later
than 11.80 a.m. on Saturday, 2nd September.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends s Towards
Pref. Re-
Aprii, Profit. 9' p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ 6 £ £ £
1934.. 1,913 Nil Nil 1,913 21,397
1935.. 8,299 4741 f Nil 3,558 17,839
1936.. 20,090 7324 J: 4 p.c. = 6,659 6,107 11,732
8 p.c.
1937.. 23,426 2400 8 „ „ 13,821 7,205 4,529
1938.. 28,945 2400 8 „ „ 16,000 10,545 6,016
Loss realisation property, £1299 .. 4,717
1939.. 28,328 2400 8 p.c. = 16,000 9,928 14,645
Profit sale property, £324 .. •• 14,969
6.97 p.c.
1940.. 15,241 2092 Nil 13,149 28,118
7 p.c.
1941.. 18,098 2100 7 p.c. = 14,000 1,998 30,116
1942.. 38.020§ 2100 7 „ ~ 14,000 21,920 52,036
3943.. 18,625 2100 7 „ „ 14,000 2,525 54,561
8 p.c.
1944.. 39,392 2400 S „ „ 16,0,00 20,992 75,553
t 9 p.c. for 11 months to 30/9/’3l, and 6.9 p.c. for
13 months to 31/10/’32. * t Includes all arrears.
§ Subject to taxation.
Peace-time earnings were governed
largely by activity in the building trade.
The co. manufactured a wide range of
builders’ and plumbers’ hardware, sani-
taryware, dairy utensiles and hotel, cafe
and household equipment. In addition
to manufacturer’s profit from works at
Alexandria the co. also gets the retail
rake-off from three selling branches %i
the N. S. Wales metropolis and one at
Brisbane. Following losses aggregating
£24,654 during -the economic stagnation
of 1931-33, earnings made an encourag-
ing recovery until war brought diversion
of resources and consequent withering of
private building activity, as well as
changes in the nature of demand. The
growth of new demands, in the nature of
naval, military and munition require-
ments, including those of Allied forces,
filled the vacuum in turnover created by
the drying-up of activity in private
building.
Owing to the hit-and-miss nature of
taxation estimates no provision was made
for the Government’s share of 1942 pro-
fits. Since then each year's earnings
have been charged with the previous
year’s tax bill, and no provision has been
made to meet the next bill when it
arrives. Here is what happehed in de-
tail :
Profit .. £31,918 £38,020 £34,142 £51,661
Tux . . 13,820 f 15,518{ 12,269 t
Net Profit £18,098 £38,020 £18,624 £39,392
t Provision for tax. J Tax paid.
Mounting costs, mainly wages and
materials, took progressively deeper bites
out of takings for the three years to the
close of accounts in 1943. Last term
Government stabilisation measures helped
to slow down the advance in costs, and
plant was fully employed, partly on Aus-
tralian defence requirements and partly
on “extensive” contracts for Allied forces.
The £39,392 (up £20,678) of profit shown
was therefore won under exceptional cir-
cumstances, and is subject to taxation.
The board considered the position good
enough to pay an all-round 8 p.c. as
against 7 p.c. for the previous term, leav-
ing £20,992 to cover the tax contingency.
The pref. capital—£3o,ooo 9 p.c. cumula-
tive —is subject to the now outmoded
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act.
Finances are comfortable enough;
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £230,000 £230,000 £230,000 £230,000
Liabilities . . 127,620* 91,831 41,249 26,266
Freeholds .. 90,738 100,275 100,275 102,073
Plant, etc. . . 49,072 43,578 39,891 43,855
Stock.. .. 106,991 123,005 120,535 120,382
Book debts . . 139,239 116,109 74,300 63,716
Cash, etc. .. 1,791 5,954 5,861 19,146
* Including provision for taxation.
Improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£176,978) was £17,531 last term.
Post-war building activity promises to
create a strong demand for the co’s
ordinary trade lines. Much will depend
upon the nature and extent of Govern-
ment interference and the level and
stability of costs. The switch from war
back to civilian production will involve
many complicated problems, including
plant conversion, contract termination
and surplus disposal, on all of which
announcement of Government policy is
now overdue.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Jufie, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 18,757 7* p.c. *=16,750 3,007 71,210
Reserves capitalised, £42,001 .. 29,209
Unexplained addition, £760 • • ”9,959
1935.. 22,152 7* p.c. =18,901 3,251 33,210
1936.. 25,143 8 „ „ 20,161 4,982 38,192
1937.. 33,496 10 „ ~25,201 8,295 46,487
1938.. 31,732 10 ~ „ 25,201 6,531 53,018
1939.. 25,875 9 „ „ 22,681 3,194 56,212
1940. . 21,920 8 „ „ 20,161 1,759 57,971
1941. t 18,789 8., 20,160 56,690
1942.. 75,939 5* „ ~ 13,800 2,079 58,679
7943.. 29,276 9 ~ „ 22,681 6,595 65,275
1944.. 29,270 10 ~ ~25,201 4,069 09,844
Ever since Sydney interests took over
the business from Melbourne owners
early in this century the Metropole has
enjoyed a wide and profitable goodwill as
a comfortable residential hotel, with a
moderately-priGed tariff. Along with
other city hostelries, the co. is now per-
forming an essential service by providing
accommodation for service and other
personnel.
War brought rising costs, including
taxation and wages, which went up with
the cost of living index. Service and Man-
power call-ups complicated staffing prob-
lems, while beer and spirits have been
rationed, and the price of meals is fixed.
Also the anti-social strike technique of
the N. S. Wales coalminers produced
creeping paralysis in the State’s rail com-
munications, thus increasing the severity
of rail-travel restrictions. Still, as war
expenditure, financed largely by central
bank credit, increased, so did the volume
of employment and spending, which was
further, stimulated by influx of our own
and Allied service personnel into the city
on leave. This influx also taxed accom-
modation to the limit. Still, for a long
time costs won the race, and the Metro-
pole’s div. dropped from 10 p.c. in 1938
to 5i p.c. in 1942. Then the Government
took steps to check the ugly spiral of in-
flation, and the rate at which costs were
advancing slowed down, thus enabling
traders to get a little benefit from the
reorganisation and adjustments they were
continually making to cope with the
rapidly-changing situation.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, demand for apartments
exceeded the co.’s accommodation capa-
city, and the percentage of guest occu-
pancy was the highest in this hotel’s his-
tory. Still, the catering service showed
a loss, owing to the relentless pressure
of costs, especially foodstuffs. And there
is little prospect of improvement in this
section of the business, while first-class
dining-rooms with their heavy overhead
are restricted to present low maximum
tariff rates.
There was no change worth mention-
ing in the profit claimed, which was equal
to 11.6 p.c. on capital. A point was
added to the div., making it 10 p.c. again,
and £4069 was added to free reserves,
lifting them to £69,344. Actually, the
co. did better than was claimed. The
profit was written after making special
provision (£8000) for deferred repairs and
renewals, as well as setting aside the usual
£2OOO for depreciation and an extra £7OOO
for the taxgatherer (£34,000). The abnor-
mal conditions which have prevailed since
the outbreak of war—shortage of labor
and materials and restriction of expendi-
ture on repairs, etc. —prevented the man-
agement from effecting necessary and
normal maintenance of fixed assets.
Under peace-time conditions, renewals,
etc., are an important factor in main-
tenance of goodwill in this class of busi-
ness.
Finances are healthy:
1931. 1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £210,007 £252,010 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities . . 30,331 9,510 8,004 7,729
Tax reserve . . 27,579 36,142
Fixed assets.. 311,317 285,317 276,317 274,317
Stock.. .. 8,770 2,608 2,363 1,918
Book debts, cash,
etc 1,927 53,608 88,048 112,110
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
allowances for taxation, depreciation, etc.,
enabled £24,062 to be added to book
debts, cash, etc. Government securities
and cash total £108,695 (up £24,148),
which means that the co. is well placed
to finance renewals, etc., when the time
arrives.
The accommodation problem has
passed its most acute stage. It is doubt-
ful whether much, if any, improvement
in earnings need be looked for.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1934.. 40,479 6 p.c. = 40,4 3 2 4 7 850,663
Surplus on realisation of assets, £12,549.. 363,202
Prom doubtful debts reserve, £462.. 303,654
Written off shares in Other cos., £6958.. 356,690
1935.. 76,471 7* p.c. = 50,540 25,931 382,627
Prom doubtful debts reserve, £193 .. 382,820
1936.. 78,015 10 p.c.’= 67,386 10,62 9 393,449
Surplus on investment, £4 044 .. .. 397,493
1937.. 83,108 10 p.c. = 67,386 15,722 418,215
Tax provision written back, £73 68 .. 420,583
1938.. 97,101 12* p.c. = 84,233 1 2,86 8 433,451
1939.. 98,340 12* „ ~ 84,23 3 1 4,10 7 447,558
1940.. 96,705 12* „ ~84,23 3 1 2,47 2 460,030
1941.. 98,636 12* „ „ 84,233 14,40 3 474,433
1942.. 94,273 121,, ~ 84,233 1 0,04 0 484,473
1943.. 66,350 7.8 „ ~ 52,645 13,705 498,178
From doubtful debts reserve, £2500 .. 500,678
1944.. 66,186 7.8 p.e.= 52,645 13,541 514,219
This co. (paid capital £673*862) and
Australian Cement (paid capital £760,433)
are equal partners in Australian Cement
Pty. (paid capital £2,000,000), and have
been ever since 1930, when, seeing
trouble ahead in the industry, they de-
cided to get into double harness. The
partnership has been a satisfactory one.
The slump of the early 1930’s out of the
way, enough w r as earned to enable each
of the holding cos. to pay 10 p.c. again,
followed by a run of \l\ p.c. divs. until
war-time developments slowed up earn-
ings.
The operating co.’s two plants have a
combined capacity of some 500,000 tons
of cement p.a. The one at Kandos
(N.S.W.), which can turn out up to
200,000 tons p.a., shares the overcrowded
market in its own State with four other
producers. The other at Fyansford
(Vic.) has a rated capacity of 300,000
tons p.a., and makes high-grade potash
as well. This potash, made from hitherto
waste materials, has replaced imported
supplies of the stuff and thus become a
welcome addition to Australia’s activities
in production of war goods. The Fyans-
ford works are nowadays responsible for
most of the profit. Their only serious
competitor is Goliath (capacity 100,000
tons p.a.), a low-cost producer at Railston
(Tas.), and there is little competition
under present conditions.
The curtain is kept drawn over the
figures of the operating co., which ap-
pears to be paying 6 p.c. as against 9 p.c,
a couple of years ago. The drop reflects
reduced earnings, owing to contraction
in demand for cement. Private building
has dwindled almost to vanishing point,
and Government requirements, which now
account for the bulk of cement sales, have
tapered. Also, the taxgatherer takes a
lot more than he used to, and costs have
continued to climb, while selling prices
are subject to Government control. The
troubles of the industry are reflected in
closure, before the end of 1942, of the
Standard co.’s plant at Charbon (N.S.W.)
as a rationalisation measure.
Last term Kandos also received a div,
(amount unstated) from a subsidiary
whose shares have no value in the parent's
books. In 1937 the holding in the New-
castle Slag Cement Co. (£5000) disap-
peared from the published accounts. The
£66,186 (down £164) of profit was 9.8 p.c.
capital. The div. was kept at 7.8 p.c.,
and the £13,541 that remained, together
with £2500 from doubtful debts reserves,
lifted the lay-by to £514,219, equal to
15s. 3d. per pound of paid capital. In
addition to its holding in the operating
co., Kandos had £224,808 in Government
securities and cash at the end of June.
The amount coming to sundry creditors
was £10,403, which includes provision for
taxation.
After the war housing and public works
promise to create a strong demand for
cement, for a while at any rate. Ip Feb-
ruary the Prime Minister estimated that the
national housing programme would cost
the Commonwealth £500,000 in the first


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAXSEASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
h
CHARTS
For all types ol
Recording Instruments for any close
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quolatloei
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTY. LTD. BRISBANE, O’EO.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castlereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at ail branches
ARE YOUGETTINC
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
XOflflV
_ Filter
«=*(&
Cylinder
S 3
F I
—■ J -J »
M -*gg m
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BRANDAFJERA
9-*
%
PEN
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Coimnonweaith and foreign patents.— Advt.
Kt * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
„«© tf*® 1 tw
**
CORRUGATED IRON
PREPARES FOR THE FUTURE)
LYSIICHT'S
GALVANIZED
IRON
LYSRGHTS
ZiNCANNEAL
At the present time Lysog'ht’s Galvanized Iron is doing b
vital wartime job but the time is coming when it will
be called upon to play on even more important part in
the post-war reconstruction of Australia. When that day
dawns the builder, the farmer, and the plumber, will find
the Lysaght organisation ready to meet all demands that
may be made upon it for supplies of this famous building
sheet that is as strong as steel, easy and quick to erect,
and low in both first cost and upkeep. In fact, even now
plans are being prepared to meet all eventualities so that supplies, which ore restricted ot
present, con quickly be made available to the public as soon os hostilities cease. Thus in the
midst ai_ war, another Australian industry prepares for peace.
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
■'HIM ■EII■ D I I E I«IS11 I E ItEl 1 I ■ I EEI I I
THE EMPIRE'S
FAVOURITE
C ICARETTE
Special Mild , Medium and Full Strength
It’s your fight—your money is needed now.
Buy War Savings Certificates and 5/-
National Savings Stamps.
post-war year, rising to £5,000,000 p.a.
ten years later. The shortage of houses
in the Commonwealth is reckoned to
approach the 300,000 mark.
The mineralised black sands between
Southport and Coolangatta on the South
Coast of Queensland are receiving atten-
tion again. Early in this century un-
successful attempts were made to work
these deposits for their gold and tin con-
tent. Little more was done until the
1930’5, when two cos. —Beach Sands and
Black Leads Minerals —installed plants
for production of zircon concentrates ;
but activities were short-lived. In 1941
Mineral Deposits Syndicate and the later-
formed Rutile Sands Pty. began opera-
tions, and have since continued to pro-
duce a mixed concentrate, containing
rutile-zircon, ilmenite and monazite.
Particulars of production, grade of con-
centrate, price, markets, etc., have not
been broadcast. Owing to slackness in
demand for some of the minerals,
attempt are being made to effect economic
separation of others, chiefly rutile, for
which there is still a market.
* * * *
Performances of Morning Star
(G.M.A.) Mines, Wood’s Point, Victoria,
compare as follows over the last five
years:—
Work-
Yield ing
Tear, Treated, Ton, Costs, , Divs.
Mar., Tons. Dwt. Ton.* Profit. Share. Amt.
1940 f. 7,342 8.0 60/- £3,703
1941.. 13,391 10.2 61/1 22,316
1942.. 16,45 8 9.9 51/6 31,216 1/- £20,000
1943.. 15,021 12 6 54/8 46,487 1/- 20,000
1944.. 11,893 12.4 66/5 25,538 1/6 30,000
* Including development. f7i months.
The reduction of 3728 tons in ore treated
last term was due partly to additional
development (698 ft. as against 407 ft. for
previous term) and partly to scarcity of
labor and materials. There was little
change in head value (13.4dwt.), recovery
(92.5 p.c.) and yield (12,4dwt.). But costs
shot up 11s. 9d. per ton, and the net
result was £20,949 lighter at Is. 3d. per
share —paid capital is £BO,OOO in 400,000
shares of 4s. each, of which Mt. Coolan
(Q.) owns 90,000, Still, the board con-
sidered prospects good enough to pay
Is. 6d. per share, and it had the money to
do it. That made total divs. to date 6s. per
share. When the books closed more or less
liquids totalled £39,486. There was only
£1591 coming to outsiders. Fixed assets
figured at £130,843. At March 23 ore
reserves were put at 30,000 tons, expected
to average about lldwt., as against 26,000
tons of similar grade a year earlier. The
additional ore was disclosed by develop-
ment on No. 16 level. Achilles flloor. A
year or so ago a prospecting drill hole
down the centre of the dyke disclosed
seven new floors. All cores showed gold,
but none high-grade.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp., an exploration
and development concern with a paid
capital of £324,833 in 10s. shares, of
which about 97 p.c. is held by Gold Ex-
ploration and Finance of Australia,
claims a profit of £96,858 (up £28,353)
for the 12 months to the end of March
last. It paid its second div., 3S. per share
(£97,450), toward the close of accounts,
making total distributions to date
£113,692, equal to 3s. 6d. per share. The
profit claimed leaves out of the reckon-
ing charges amounting to £4890 —£1119
for depreciation, £11,621 loss on realisa-
tion of Erlistoun assets, and £2609 loss
on two abandoned properties. Sirdar and
Surprise. The corpoAtion’s chief asset is
1.300.000 f.-p. ss. shares (81 p.c. paid
capital) in Central Norseman Gold Corp.
(W.A.), which also paid its second div.,
Is. 6d. per share, on March 2, making
total divs. paid 2s. 6d. per share. The
remaining plant at Cox’s Find, Erlistoun
(W.A.), where pay-ore petered out and
operations ceased in June, 1942, is to be
sold at auction. Owing to man-power
and other difficulties, no further work
has been done on Western Mining’s other
two Westralian options—the Callion,
Davyhurst and Yilgangie Queen, Yarri.
The ore shoot at the Callion doesn’t go
down as a continuous body, but the drill
had disclosed between 50,000 tons and
60.000 tons of estimated 9.sdwt. stuff
when development ceased in 1942. At
Yilgangie Queen the deposit consists of
small high-grade shoots distributed in a
long shear, but work done is insufficient
to enable a reliable estimate of pay-ore
to be made.
* * * *
Triton Gold (W.A.), which is in
Western Mining Corp’s stable, reports a
loss of £2602 for the year to March 31
last. Operations ceased in August, 1942,
and sqme of the power units and work-
shop equipment were taken over by the
Government. The cost of keeping the
mine open is being met, in the main,
from the Commonwealth’s grant for the
purpose—£ll,lsB last term. Stopes are
reported in good condition, but owing
to swelling ground a lot of retimbering
of levels and passes will be necessary
before full-scale production can be got
under way again. Preparations are being
made to begin development work on the
bottom levels when men become avail-
able. Ore reserves remain static at
226.000 tons, averaging 6.4dwt. gold.
Only about three-quarters of this is ex-
pected to be extracted, unless further
pay-ore is opened up; and this possi-
bility, both at depth and in surrounding
ground ,appears to have been largely ex-
hausted.
* * * *
Gold yields from Westralian outback
producers, mostly owned and worked by
over-age prospectors and consequently
little affected by man-power demands,
are showing up well. At Meekatharra a
State-battery crushing of 194 tons from
the old Fenian mine yielded 2070 z., an-
other of 139 tons from its elderly neigh-
bor, the Marmont, 2890 z. At Marble
Bar, further north, a number of claims
are on the regular producing list, and
their working owners are doing well.
* * * *
“Westralian Gold”: It doesn’t seem
fair that dying or unpayable goldmining
ventures should be using up labor and
materials in war-time when sound pro-
ducers are crying out for more men and
more supplies to step-up development and
yields. What S. Africa thinks of such a
position has been made plain by its
Minister for Mines, who said recently:
“The idea that you can benefit the State
by keeping a hopeless proposition going
—by making other people pay to keep it
going—is absolutely unsound, and I will
have nothing to do with it.” In reply
to clamor for State mining the same
Minister stated he was not prepared to
change the basis of gold and base
mineral extraction, which for years had
been done by private enterprise, nor was
he in favor of any change in the present
system of marketing diamonds. He be-
lieved mining x a proper field for private
enterprise.


1 ,'l >
iffl
1*1 11
''A.
If! Hi
UH
SV'V
\\V\
."I'
Ml.li
1 vv;»y.»i>
THE SYMBOL OF
QUALITY
is Your Guarantee that
ani) Petroleum Product
bearing This Brand - IS THE BEST.
h
SHELL MOTOR OIL
7ti V'tofy-fiee
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED 111 Emm I
LQ4- 44-
Anti-T.B. Appeal
(Tuberculosis strikes at the Very vitals of our nation. But its spread
can be checked! The Anti-T.B. Association provides Clinical
treatment, but needs your help in building a Modern Clinic and
providing Mobile Service to Country Districts. Support their
£50,000 Appeal send donations now to the Honorary Treasurer,
Anti-T.B. Appeal, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
The VENUS 7 LATHE
Ideal ior the Small Workshop and
Garage Serviceman
Manufactured by
MARS MACHINE TOOL
ĥ
MANFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
Bridge St., Valley. BRISBANE
Sole N.S.W. Distributing Agents;
Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.
139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
For 'Victoria:
Thompson & Williams Pty. htd.
28 Market Street, Melbourne.
ħ
STURDY - - - QUICK
ACCURATE
Sole N.Z. Distributing Agents:
A. M. SATTERTHWAITE
& CO. LTD.
Hereford Street, CHRISTCHURCH
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Great Muck-up
Not many fully realise it, but in now
spending over £7OO million of the Aus-
tralian people’s money a year, the Com-
monwealth Government is handling seven
times as much of our income as it did
before the war. Over half the country’s
national income, in fact, passes through
the control of the Labor Government at
Canberra and through the hands of the
great war-time bureaucracy. The strain
on industry and finance is naturally enor-
mous. Where politics have overcome
economic considerations the strain has
become dangerous. The danger to the
Commonwealth from political misman-
agement and abuse has risen in propor-
tion to the growth of Government power
and spending.
Australians have lately seen a prodigal
expenditure of public money on presen-
tation of the Labor party’s case for the
referendum, and to say that it has been
a shameless abuse of the party’s existing
political power is to put it mildly. There
really seems to have been considerable
satisfaction within the Labor ranks that
the party has been able to get away with
it. A sense of decency and a sense of
shame do not appear to be pronounced
characteristics of the Government at the
present time. And, very sadly, the public
mind is not fully appreciative of these
deficiencies. Shocks ahd incidents which
once would have turned a Government
out of office are now merely the wonder
of a few days.
“This advertisement” or “this an-
nouncement” has been “authorised by
the Government of the Commonwealth of
Australia.” So the “Yes” campaign went.
Yet the propaganda was as full of party
tricks as a mong is full of fleas.
In this case of the extravagant and tricky
spending of Australian taxpayers’ money
for political purposes there is a pointer to
the nature of the Australian war expen-
diture. That expenditure, as indicated,
is extremely heavy, and the taxation, bor-
rowing, inflation and other financial
repercussions have been similarly severe.
Yet, though our war burden was bound
to be great in the most favorable of cir-
cumstances, politics have entered into our
war outlay on an extravagant scale. This
fact is shown in the press every week or
so, and it is revealed a great deal more
frequently to those having transactions
with Government departments or who
have associations with trade-union mat-
ters or with munition projects. The
men who are kept on in jobs where
there is no more necessary work '‘to do
are both a tax upon the working popula-
tion’s income and a tax upon man-power
resources which the Government is so
often saying are inadequate for the essen-
tial work which the nation has to do.
The keeping-on of men in worked-out
jobs usually has a directly political basis
—that is, the unions concerned are exert-
ing pressure upon the Government, or
the Labor party is loth to lose votes by
acting as a businessman would act in
similar circumstances. Sometimes the
political influence is indirect —the depart-
ment concerned may simply be lacking
in efficiency or energy, executives in the
department perhaps in the first instance
having been political appointments.
Australia’s output of munitions has
been very costly. The cost has been
raised by unnecessary hours spent on
jobs, by unnecessary overtime, by strikes
in associated industries (particularly coal-
mining), by job-control in most heavy
industries and go-slow on the waterfront,
by friction between departments, by delay
in getting authority for going ahead with
particular jobs, by scrapping of plans
that have gone far beyond the blueprint
stage, by longwinded correspondence
with Canberra, by the reduction of the
working week in the maritime industries
under the National Security Act (the
Arbitration Court being by-passed) and
by the payment of war-risk bonuses to
coastal seamen in areas remote from war
dangers.
An analysis of the foregoing reasons
for the excessive cost will show that many
of the causes have been a direct result of
Labor-party policy. The strikes, the job-
control, the go-slow, the excessive charges
for overtime and the defiance of authority
which are now giving the Prime Minister
the headache of his life are largely the
result of his own party’s teachings over
a long period.
Not only has the munitions industry
been affected by these inflated costs;
all production, whether for military or
civil use, has been subject to similar
influences. With rising costs there
have been rising prices in spite of
attempts at price control. The admin-
istration of price control is becoming less
and less effective, and black markets are
widespread. Also, Government subsidies
in order to keep prices on the “white”
market below the prices ceiling have be-
come an additional burden on the tax-
payer.
Perhaps the most comprehensive way
of looking at this picture of political de-
rangement of the Australian economy
is to regard it in the light of man-
power and production. While men
are not occupied in doing useful work
they are as big a liability to the nation
as if they were unemployed. They are
a greater drain on the taxpayer, as they
are mostly in receipt of pay swollen with
overtime and other war-time loadings.
The concentrations on munitions and the
need for men in the fighting forces have
reduced not only the production available
for civilian consumption but also for
expansion and upkeep of ordinary indus-
try. To have a political muck-up of pro-
duction imposed upon the inevitable
burden of war is far more than this un-
fortunate country should be asked to
bear. When output per man should be
rising in many industries it has been fall-
ing. And the man-power available for
production has dropped a great deal
more than necessary.
There are too many people engaged in
“administering” war-time regulations.
And there is an excess of regulations,
some of them drafted by civil servants
to suit their own official convenience. The
administration of rationing has become
quite an industry, though the need and
manner of much rationing are open to
question. If half the war-time increase
in the civil service were put to work on
essential industry, and really. made to
work, the need for many controls would
disappear, and the effectiveness of the
administrative machine would be little
impaired. As the position stands at present
thousands of civil servants are an ob-
struction to the nation’s business. Form-
filling and restriction of the citizen are
only useful when they assist the nation’s
business, whether the# nation is engaged
in peace or in war. Too much of our
war-time form-filling and “control”
machinery have never served any useful
purpose.
It is perhaps natural enough for a per-
son who, as a result of the war, got the
best job he ever had to object to being
“directed” into some more useful but
lower-paid work. A nation, however,
cannot long afford to have bodies of men
on its payroll unless they are doing useful
work. Many men are now doing work
that is worse than useless—“work” which
only impedes and delays the vital efforts
of others.
The great Labor-party muck-up of the
Australian economy is seen on all sides —
excessive debt and inflation, over-regula-
tion, excessive rises in costs, the partial
break-down of the dairying and some
similar industries, the fall in coal and
other production, the plague of bureau-
cratic pests, the elevation of the agent
provocateur, the excessive depreciation
and disabilities that have fallen upon
private industry, and the attempts to
bolster up the national credit and restrain
inflation by artificial means.
The weak and often shocking politico-
economic practices of the Labor Govern-
ment which have been seen all too fre-
quently lately seem to be growing pro-
gressively worse So much evidence of
extravagance, opportunism, waste and
expediency have been coming to the sur-
face in the Commonwealth administration
that natural fears arise that the whole de-
fence vote of over £5OO million a year
—about half the total national income
—is subject to the same deplorable state
of affairs. Where a huge fund is con-
centrated in the hands of a Govern-
ment and that Government has spent
war funds on political matters as well as
on more urgent needs, one begins to won-
der how much of a war bill which to date
has run to £l7OO million has been
really the result of Labor politics. The
Bulletin believes that a very considerable
proportion of the cost of war to this
country has its roots in politics and
bureaucratic administration. The infla-
tion which alone has added greatly to our
war costs is partly due to political causes.
Militant trade-unionism, never squarely
faced by the Government, has figured
largely. “Planning” that has ended in
muddle or abandonment has swallowed
much money also.
Unfortunately, the prospect ahead is
not merely a matter of having to cut our
losses. The conditions which caused
wastage and derangement in the past are
still with us. The whole of our war
expenditure, our regulations, our civil
service and our man-power generally
need to be thoroughly overhauled on a
non-political basis. There may be cries
of “Otto Niemeyer” and “Premiers’
planners” and all that sort of thing ;
but sooner or later we shall have to get
back to commonsense. The Curtin Ad-
ministration has little association with
economic realities at the present time.
Political upstarts, bureaucratic adven-
turers and militant trade-union bosses
have had their heads for too long to
permit anything of the kind.
Up to June 30 the Department of the
Army had received £920,313 for work
done by soldiers on the wharves, accord-
ing to a reply given by Mr. Forde to
knight Frederick Stewart. Soldiers en-
gaged in wharf work were handed army
rates of pay, but those for whom the
work was done were charged full award
wages.
* * * *
Consolidated Press (E. G. Theodore,
chairman), publisher of the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” and “Women’s
Weekly,” is offering £150,000 of p.c.
pref. capital, apparently for the pur-
pose of buying color-gravure and
other plant. Seemingly Consolidated
Press figures higher in Treasury esti-
mation than many other industries, even
though Information Minister Calwell has
little time for it. The “Telegraph” pre-
cipitated the censorship shindy a couple
of. months ago, but it advised a “yes"
vote on the referendum. Permission for
capital issues on the scale now granted
by the Treasury to Consolidated Press
has been extremely rare over the past
three years. And there is a war loan
coming on the market on September 26.
* * $ *
Australian defence expenditure during
July was £33.5 million, or at the rate' of
£402 million a year. Actual outgo on
war account during 1943-44 was £545
million. The 1944-45 Budget should figure
early in the next sitting of Parliament.
» * * *
Canada now holds 97 p.c. of its own
funded debt. Very few Canadian secu-
rities remain in British hands, the favor-
able exchange position of the Dominion
having enabled it to repatriate much debt
and capital during the early years of this
war. India is another country which has
greatly improved its external-debt posi-
tion. , It is not entirely clear as to what
is going to happen to Australia’s large
sterling balances when the war is fin-
ished. Our London debt is far in excess
of the accumulation so far, even though
funds are considerably bigger than they
were prior to the war. At that stage of our
financial history they were painfully low.
* * * *
A common excuse of Ministers of the
present Government when condoning
some outrageous act of their civil service
(such as censorship snooping or the pro-
voking of citizens into committing
offences under the National Security Act)
is that “the Menzies Government used
to do it, too.” Whether poor black-
guarded Menzies ever was responsible for
anything of the sort or not, it is entirely
illustrative of the character of the present
Ministry; its members on the whole
know much more about politics and pre-
cedents than they do of principles. The
common citizen, as such, is nowhere in
the race where principles are overruled
by mere political standards.
* * * *
Authorities place Canada’s housing
shortage at 300,000 units. There has not
been so great a restriction on war-time
home-building in the Dominion as there
has been in the Commonwealth. Con-
tracts awarded for residential construc-
tion in January this year were 60 p.c.
greater than the figure for January last
year and represented the highest January
total since 1937.


Position Vacant.
The Bankers* Institute of Australasia,
57 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Invites applications for the joint position of SECRE-
TARY AND EXAMINER. Commencing Salary £7OO
per annum. Applications by letter, stating age,
qualifications and experience should be addressed to
No. 722 c/o Employment Division, Craig’s Buildings,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
[This OT3 Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
three pints a day and so get rid of three pounds
of waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent
or scanty passages with smarting and burning
are further evidence that something is wrong
witih the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . .
used successfully the world over by millions of
people suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. '2lC), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
hĥ
nets
LIKE THE HHIIII
BOMBS
FOR VICTORY
UNITED STATES STEEL —the world’s
largest ‘steelmaker has discovered an
amazing new method of producing bombs
ten times faster than before. With greater
production than all Germany, Italy, and
Japan combined, United States Steel is
contributing to the United Nations’ cause
with bombs and other war products that
include armor plate for naval ships and
tanks, ship plates and other shipbuilding
materials, shells, shell forgings, anti-air-
craft gun parts, special steels for high
explosive and armor-piercing shells, port-
able landing mats, submarine nets, de-
stroyers, escort vessels, cargo ships, tank
landing craft, special aircraft tubing, wires
and cables for military and naval use,
bullet-core steel, and hundreds of other
articles made of U.S.S steel.
Today the various resources and facilities
are dedicated to the United Nations’ war
effort.
Tomorrow, when Victory is achieved, new
and improved U.S.S steels, the result of
wartime research, will be made available
everywhere, through United States Steel
Export Company, for the reconstruction
of a peacetime world.
UNITED STATES STEEL
EXPORT COMPANY
30 CHURCH ST., NEW YORK
NORMAN W. HUTCHINSON & SONS
Melbourne and Sydney
A ustralian Distributors :
WE SERVE THE WORLD
■■ ■
■
m.
■i
\
S S;S
\
m
The Vote Says “Free Enterprise
The impudence of bureaucrats as well
as the audacity of elected persons having
received a good cold sousing at Satur-
day’s referendum, the productive side of
industry (as distinguished from the inflat-
ing bureaucratic) may now have a chance
of regaining its proper status. Certainly
all national planning should be based on
the principle of freedom of enterprise,
and employment policy should be simi-
larly shaped. The National Security Act
must still run its course, as is only right,
but the Government has received a sharp
reprimand for its socialistic administra-
tion of that legislation.
In considering such necessary things as
uniform taxation in the post-war period,
uhiform railway gauges, Commonwealth
irrigation schemes, etc,, and the unwanted
duplication by the States of various
Governmental functions, those constitu-
tional reformers who voted “no” with
some regrets should not have any confu-
sion in their minds about their feelings
now. There is an appropriate time for
everything. Not only are war-time refer-
endums affecting the Constitution out of
place, but in this case the Goverment of
the day is perhaps the most irresponsible
the Commonwealth has ever had to suffer.
In its ineffectiveness it has been drifting
towards the radicals and Communists.
And the terms of the referendum and the
manner of the campaign savored more ot
the political go-getter than of the consti-
tutional and economic reformer.
Coal Crisis in New Zealand
Accustomed, in the palmy days pre-
-1939, to importing 100,000 tons a year
from the Commonwealth, Maoriland, too,
is going through the throes of an acute
coal shortage, and the latest production
figures make unpleasant reading for the big
body of consumers ranging from the gas-
burning housewife to vital war industries.
These show that for the first six months
of 1944 production from 16 mines4otalled
704,621 tons, a decline of 59,647 tons on
the parallel period of 1942. In the Wai-
kato mines alone, which are controlled
by the State, the drop was nearly 40,000
tons. Drastic cuts on rail transport were
reimposed time time ago, and, while there
is no official rationing system for coal to
the consumer, merchants have been doling
it out on a system of priorities for many
months. The most the average house-
holder can expect is one sack to last him
the winter.
In Auckland, the largest city, the gas
situation continues to be precarious. For
over a year there have been interruptions
in the supply, caused mainly by inade-
quate plant. Now the plant is adequate
the company gets its coal from hand to
mouth. Shoaling on West Coast bars,
preventing the dispatch of coal freighters,
is the main cause of recent crises, but
there is, too, a long and well-authenti-
cated story of go-slow and absenteeism
in the mines. Mines Minister Paddy
Webb, who is never allowed by Dominion
cartoonists to forget his break, “I raise
my hat to the miners,” has appealed again
for a better spirit among the men ; and
Frank Collindridge, touring British M.P.,
has given them a dose of the recipe he
tried on the Australian pits. In the mean-
while, at time of writing, essential war
industries in Auckland, like biscuit-mak-
ing and glass manufacture, are ham-
strung for want of gas.
There has been mention of the possi
bility of a reduction in income-tax levies
now that expenditure on war is falling
off. Possibly just pre-referendum bait,
like so many other party promises and
manoeuvres. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment and its war-time bureaucracy are
sure to find it difficult to contemplate any
letting-go of the tax revenue which has
provided such great centralised spending
power during this war. While The Bul-
letin does not favor the reduction of
income tax so long as any borrowing is
required to pay for necessary war ex-
penditure, on the other hand it strongly
opposes the continuance of war-time taxa-
tion rates a moment longer than the war
demands them. An abundance of revenue
is a danger in Australian political activi-
ties ; it so often leads to ill-advised ex-
penditure and expansion which only
results in the need for more taxation. In
N. S. Wales unemployed-relief tax has
never been done away with. Under
Stevens, when unemployment ceased to
be a serious problem, the amount received
in u.-r. tax was covered up in other
revenue. The McKell Government first
got into office on a platform which in-
cluded the abolition of u.-r. tax. By a
piece of the most barefaced trickery ever
seen in State politics McKell “abolished”
u.-r. tax by changing its name, but people
paid as much tax as before. There is no
doubt that the Labor Government in
Canberra desires to have hold of as big
a purse as possible in the post-war period,
and to have as many political dependents
—whether civil servants, other employees
or pensioners—on its bounty as it can,
irrespective of the injustice to taxpayers
or the damage to Australian industry and
the living standard. When the war is
over it will be a healthy sign if Austra-
lians demand the right to spend their own
money, and ask that taxation be reduced
to a reasonable peace-time level, reduc-
tions to be made in proportion to their
war-time rise. Penalty taxation of com-
panies should be abolished. The prin-
ciple that income should not be taxed
twice was jettisoned only as a war-time
measure, and with the end of hostilities
it should be restored. As things stand
now, all company income is taxed at
least 6s, in the £ more than income earned
by a man in business as a private person.
♦ * *
According to the chairman of Kandos,
the Sydney graving dock absorbed aoout
80,000 tons of cement. Local demand for
cement has been poor, said Mr. Jaques,
but exports to operational areas have
been a pillar of strength. Exports from
N. S, Wales this year exceed those of last
year by more than 200 p.c. Post-war
demand is expected to tax plant capacity
to the full.
* * * *
On July 24 the Australian public held
£176.3 million of a total note issue of
£192 million. The public holding is now
nearly six times greater than it was before
the war. Apart from the growth which
might be expected from ordinary war-
time developments, a large portion of the
increase is the result of black-marketing
transactions and tax evasions. Hoarding
of notes in Australia has been propor-
tionately greater than in any other Allied
country.
South America has been piling up huge
foreign-exchange balances as a result of
the stimulated buying of its produce by
the major belligerents. In 1943 Brazil
had a favorable balance of $lOO million
with the United States. Argentina had
a favorable balance of about $BO million
with the U.S.A. and about £3O million
sterling with'Great Britain. The accu-
mulation of these balances by South
American republics may mean that in the
post-war period there will be a stimulated
demand for imports not now available
in the British and U.S.A. markets; but
coincidentally with the accumulation of
favorable balances in London and New
York there has been a growing indepen-
dence of South American manufacturers.
Widespread industrialisation has taken
place. In Brazil the growth of the cotton
textile industry has been so remarkable
that one authority assures Lancashire
that it will be a waste of time trying to
recapture the market for bread-and-
butter lines. (In Australia the growth in
cotton-textile manufacture has likewise
been remarkable, though up to date it
has been principally concentrated on
twills, denims, dungarees, canvas, etc.)
It is anticipated that post-war Latin-
American demand will be for machinery
and similar goods. Owing to the devel-
opment of its cotton mills Brazil became,
at the end of 1943, the largest seller of
goods to the Argentine, displacing, for
the time being, anyway. Great Britain
and the United States, which have shared
the honor for a lengthy period.
* * * *
Nearly 70 p.c. of the sheep population
of Australia is in flocks of over 2000
head. Over half the total is in flocks
of between 1000 and 10,000. There
are more sheep in flocks of over 10,000
than there are in all flocks of under 1000.
There are 1086 flocks of between 10,000
and 20,000, 351 flocks of between 20,000
and 50,000, and 38 flocks of over 50,000.
There are about 100,000 flocks altogether.
The sheep population is about 125 million.


THE SERVICE MAN
Pacific Pause.
“Ek Dum”: Nearly all the activity in
the South-west Pacific has been preparatory
to further advances—attacks on the bases
of Halmahera, with an occasional shift
of blows to Amboina and its regions.
According to G.H.Q., the Allied Air
Forces are fully in control of sea lanes
round Halmahera. More shipping was
sunk in Davao Gulf (Philippines).
General MacArthur’s H.Q. reported
that air blows against the Second Japa-
nese Army isolated in the Vogelkopf Pen-
insula, at the extreme north-western end
of New Guinea, were being continued,
and that a number of barges were wiped
out along the coast. The army, which is
of divisional strength, has no route of
escape left to it except from west and
south-west, where some of it might make
Ceram by night, if it could cross to the
Maccluer Gulf side of the peninsula.
In Mandated N.G. mopping-up of the
remains of the 18th Japanese Army in
the Driniuraor area continues.
Moves further forward across Japa-
nese communications with the East
Indies area are reported from Washing-
ton to be imminent, a prophecy which
has support in Admiral Nimitz’s an-
nouncement that organisation of trans-
port, equipment, supplies, fighting ships
and aircraft has reached such a stage that
teams of commanders are to operate in
relays, alternately planning and fighting.
While Admiral Spruance, in command
of the Fifth Fleet, was fighting a battle,
Admirdl Halsey and his Third Fleet
would be planning another. To each of
these fleets a powerful amphibious corps
is attached.
U.S. Air Fleets, naval and otherwise,
were active round the whole northern arc
of the Pacific, from the Kuriles to
Kiushiu, the most south-easterly of the
main Japanese islands, and the Volcano
and Bonin islands.
Tokyo Radio reported the raid on
Kiushiu on August 19 as having been
made by 60 U.S. B 29’s, which attacked
Moji, at the mouth of the tunnel con-
necting Kiushiu and Honshu islands,
under the strait; also, Fukuoka, Kokura
and Yawata, the great armament centres
grouped in the area near the tunnel
approaches. The message said that
Shikoku also was attacked, and alleged
that 10 Super-Fortresses were shot down.
In Burma
Progress is still being made by the
Allied forces in the north. To the Chinese
and Americans under General Stilwell
has been added the British 18th Division,
reconstitution of a division lost at Singa-
pore, which is being used as a spearhead
in the push down the railway towards
Mandalay. Its presence in Burma is an
indication that larger operations can be
expected so soon as the dry season
arrives.
On the Manipur side the enemy has
been pushed over the Burmese border in
the Tiddim area, and two British-Indian
columns are fighting their way through
rains towards the Chindwin.
A Week of Victory.
“Ek Dum”: A general picture of events
in France during the past week:
(1) American advances from the pivot of Le
Mans across the Perche and the Beauce Plain
into the environs of Paris were so fast as to
make it certain that the enemy did not intend
to defend the capital on any scale.
Within ten days after Le Mans, 131 miles
from Paris, had been bloodlessly captured, U.S.
troops were reported at St. Cloud, which is as
near to the centre of Paris as Ashfield is to
the centre of Sydney, or Clayfield to the centre
of Brisbane. American forces had taken the
approach towns to the main Seine crossings—
Chartres, from which roads lead in all directions
to and round Paris; Dreux and Orleans, from
which roads lead across the Loire at Nevers to
Lyons towards which General Devers’s forces
from the Mediterranean are moving. Tanks were
across the Seine between Mantes and Rouen on
the main road from Evreux to Amiens. They
had met resistance only by patrols. U.S.
patrols were on the Seine 21 miles south of
Paris in the Melun and Fontainebleu areas,
where paratroops were said to have been
dropped beyond the river.
(2) U.S. forces also have crossed the Loire,
east of Tours, which at the time of writing had
not been reported captured, and before the week-
end had reached Chateauroux, lower down the
main Bordeaux-Paris railway, which passes
through Orleans. Here they were also on the
road to Vichy.
(3) In Brittany whatever the U.S. armored
forces were doing they did not tell, except
that they had accepted the surrender of the
German commander of St. Malo citadel, who
held out till his defending force consisted mainly
of cooks and supernumeraries. The enemy
still held all the chief ports of France, except
Cherbourg, Nantes and Caen.
(4) The fighting in the north round the Caen
pivot continued to be the chief fighting in
France until the week-end, when the “Gap” at
Argentan was closed by Americans and Poles,
and British forces took Argentan —according to
a 8.8. C. report. The British-Canadian sectors
were the only sectors of real resistance.
(5) The landing in southern France, here
suggested a fortnight ago as likely, was made
by an army of Americans and French, sup-
ported by one of the most cosmopolitan naval
forces ever assembled. Within a few days it
had proved that German resistance in what was
known once as “unoccupied” France was so
far next to nothing, though the 19th German
Army was somewhere in the region.
(6) Numerous irregular French forces
the Maquis —“bushmen” is a rough translation
—have risen in various parts of France.
Not much is known of these Maquis.
Correspondents represent them as 750,000
strong and “fully armed.”
The general position in France might
be summarised in a statement that the
Germans are abandoning the whole of
Western France, save for the ports, with-
out further capital resistance.
By the week-end Paris was threatened
with approach from three directions - -by
the main highway from the region of the
Seine mouth and the Norman coastal
region through Dreux, Mantes, the indus-
trial suburbs of Poissy and Neuilly;
through Versailles, on the main road from
Chartres, which is 541 miles by road and
rail from Paris, past Rambouillet, where
the old Royal Palace has long since been
transformed into a summer residence for
the President; also, by other roads from
Chartres, round through Maintenon to
the south-west, or up from Orleans
through Etampes and Monthery.
The fate of Paris seemed to be sealed
by August 17. On that day Paris Radio
went off the air, but reappeared to broad-
cast a German announcement of a revolt.
Other French stations ceased to broad-
cast news. The German News Agency
reported that the Allies had reached the
buffer line 23 miles from Paris near Ram-
bouillet. The report said:
Mobile warfare in the area near Paris
has resulted in a number of heavy battles
in the past 24 hours. The main drive of
General Patton’s Third United States Army
has forced its way along the route nationale
which leads to Versailles and Paris. One
American column has made towards
Etampes; another is moving towards the
Aure River (tributary and twin of the Eure).
These last two drives obviously aimed
respectively at Mantes and the southern
environs of the city, though that through
Etampes might well have had ambitions
which reached far out into Champagne
along the Marne (B. 16 /8 / ’44).
On August 18 the Germans and neu-
tral and enemy diplomats were reported
to be leaving Paris in droves. Explosions
were heard in the capital. Fires were seen.
A spokesman for the Allies had told
Parisians; “You can already hear our
guns. The time is not far off when you
will be asked to drive out the Boche.
Marshal Petain was reported variously
to have fled with Laval to Metz and to
be in the hapds of the Maquis at Vichy.
But the best sign of all was the lack
of defence on the flanks of Paris. The
columns which went to Orleans sailed
down the road through villages in which
there was no sign of Germans, in which
the villagers sometimes came out to salute
with rifles flung on their shoulders, some-
times to throw flowers and offer fruit to
the tank crews as they trundled along.
Only a dozen miles from Orleans was
there need to fire a shot. Resistance was
so light now that not a life was lost in the
taking of Joan of Arc’s city, possession
of which with its routes down the Loire
to Nevers and Lyons means much strate-
gically in the isolation of Western France.
Through Dreux to the Seine
By Sunday the northern force was
reported within five miles of Mantes, and
the other Allied columns were in line.
Further down the river towards Ver-
non, a crossing had been made on the
main highway to Gisors, the road junc-
tion north of the river for Amiens and
Abbeville.
The drive from Le Mans and Alenqon
to the Paris environs is something which
will never be forgotten by these young
Americans, few of whom will ever have
seen anything like that country.
First, on the main route from the west,
you come off the rich, high Perche and
look down across the almost flat expanse
of the wheatland, veined with the blue
lines of the Loir and the Eure. The
spires of Notre Dame in Chartres soar
into the air so like the sails of a tall ship
that a poet now dead for centuries named
the cathedral with a ship’s name, The
Admiral, with the Statue of Our Lady
of the Cornfield above the great door
as its figurehead.
Towards Paris you come into what
seems to be a vast pleasure garden of
rich farms and woods and little rivers
and delightful towns which seem to have
been invented by Norman Lindsay as
settings for his Villon etchings. Every
town has its keep or its palace for some
dead king’s mistress. You may wander
into a Dutch lake or an osiered pond in
which the frogs are blue, or find yourself
in a gnarled oak forest confronted by a
stag, or run up against an old mounting-
block at the end of an avenue (as you
can at Malmaison) with an inscription
which reads: “Napoleon’s last step on
his leaving for Rochefort, June 29, 1815,
at 4 p.m.” Sometimes there are little
brooks to cross.
At last on the northern side, there is
the Seine, perhaps at Mantes—“ Mantes la
Jolie” —above the He des Dames, its
houses dwarfed by its great collegiate
church, which one said long ago seemed
intoxicated with the ecstasy of the plains.
Mantes is a royal town, its arms “the
oak of the gods and the Royal Lily.” It
has known many soldiers, from Philip
Augustus to Lord Gort, pausing to hear
that the Germans had struck at Holland,
but never a more determined-looking one
than Patton of the Pearl Handles.
It is a main crossing place of the river,
a throat at which all the routes to Rouen,
Le Havre and north-west from Paris
can be strangled. And the Seine here
lives up to its reputation: “Perfectly navi-
gable, fertile, abundant, gracious, healthy,
without rocks or shoals, the safest river
in France.”
Here, across the broad stream, spanned
by the many-arched old stone bridge of
Limay, come into the view the plains
of the north stretching towards Flanders.
Only 46 miles away is the great junction
of Beauvais, through which the Germans
came to Paris; through which they must
be going. Another 36 miles on is Amiens,
the greatest road junctions of the Somme
country, with a place called Villers Bret-
toneux on a road a little to the east.
It was hard by there that the beginning
of the end came in World War I on
August 8, 1918.
At the Argentan Gap
The main battle was continuing south-
west of Caen ; the battle for the closing
of the 16-mile gap across the watershed
between Falaise and Argentan, further
south. From here to Caen it was the
real Battle of Western France.
At the beginning of the week the Cana-
dians, who formed the nose of the Brilish-
Canadian nutcracker on the north, were
still about four miles from Falaise, The
Americans, who had moved in bn Argen-
tan from the south, were all round that
important town.
Not much was known of the fighting.
There was a great strafing of routes by
rocket-firing Typhoons of the R.A.F. and
by Thunderbolts, some of which now
have been equipped with rockets. Corre-
spondents gave astronomical statistics of
the havoc brought.
There had at the beginning been some-
thing like six or seven German divisions
in the region, plus a dozen infantry divi-
sions, apart from those engaged with
Americans further west. These divisions
were moving right across the face of
the upward and downward movement by
which General Montgomery’s American
(southern) and British-Canadian-Polish
(northern) jaws were seeking to crush
their prey.
The German force had proved itself
so tough that it had needed all the main
power of the British armies backed by
unprecedented preliminary artillery and
bombing barrages to take the kinks out
of the front and roll the German mass off
its foundations. Correspondents declared
that so soon as the gap narrowed to 17
or 18 miles the enemy would become a
floundering mass of panic-stricken and
helpless booty, “inextricably caught in
the trap.”
Actually the junction of the Canadians
and Americans was a terrible task in such
country, especially having regard to the
fact that the Germans occupied the whole
of the Canadian flank for 25 miles up to
the sea, and that all along that flank was
magnificent country —from the enemy’s
viewpoint—for a surprise armored attack,
which had to be guarded against.
Moreover, the nature of the country
made it inevitable that much of the enemy
vehicular traffic would get out at night,
though much might be destroyed. The
whole countryside is a network of hedge-
enclosed lanes and roads through timber
and down gullies and along streams. To
bar the ways out of the enclave needed a
solid wall of armor and guns across the
entrance, breasting the top of the water-
shed on the way. And a record thunder-
storm. and other bad weather helped the
enemy rather than the Allies.
Even when the gap was only two miles
wide there was difficulty in closing it.
The delicacy of the task was added to
by the risk of bombing or shooting-up of
Canadian and American forces by
rapidly-moving Allied artillery a risk
which has been proved in half a dozen
accidents since the battle for Normandy
began. Eventually the task was accom-
plished by the Polish Armored Division
with the Canadians from the north and
General Patton's U.S. armor from the
south, at 7 a.m. on August 19.
By the week-end it seemed that any
Germans remaining in the pocket be-
tween Argentan, the town from which an
expedition set forth to murder Thomas
a’Beckett, and Domfort, were safely
sealed off, and that the great British
Second and Canadian First armies would
soon be free to move in other directions.
Making a right turn, the Canadian
Army, veterans every one of them, moved
east, and began to push the whole Ger-
man front away from the upper Ome
and its canal towards the Seine Estuary
—through the woods of Troam, along the
straight white, tree-lined road to Lisieux,
along the beaches past Cabourg (whence
William the Conqueror invaded England),
towards Deauville and Trouville and the
400 ft. cliffs which the Canadians would
reach before they came to Honfleur, town
of their own Champlain.
While the Third American Army spear-
head made its way toward Paris, the Ger-
mans, under orders, continued to hold
Brest, St. Nazaire, Lorient and other ports
of northern Biscay, at the same time no
doubt preparing for coming attacks on
La Pallice and Bordeaux.
Landing on the Riviera
On August 15 the landing in southern
France eventuated on the right side of
the Peninsula which has Toulon at its
apex and Marseilles on its western flank ;
the popular wintering area between
Cannes and Hyeres. It is an excellent
spot for such an adventure. From the
sea it is much like some of the Illawarra
coast, with rough hills along the sides
of which the roads skirt, coming down
to the sea. The ranges of the Maures
mask the coastal approach from Toulon.
From a few miles south-west of Cannes,
near Frejus, the river Argens runs in a
valley which forms behind the Maures a
base to the triangle of the peninsula.
Just at the rear of the ranges a main
road runs in to Toulon along the main
rail. The Argens Valley leads to Aix, a
main road junction—a few miles above
the mouth of the Rhone and from Mar-
seilles. A little further on is the plain
above the Rhone delta, criss-crossed by
rivers buttoned to the Riione by the three
ancient and historic towns of Arles, Tara-
scon and Avignon. Avignon is in an
angle between the Rhone and the main
stream of the Durance and the Verdon,
which have run from the east almost
parallel to the coast to form one tribu-
tary of the Rhone. They rise a few
miles east of the Mont Cenis tunnel,
between Grenoble (a stopping-place for
Napoleon in 1815, reported seized by the
Maquis ) and Turin, along the Italian
border, and the Maritime Alps, north of
Monaco.
Churchill There
Mr. Churchill, before the war a con-
firmed habitue of the Riviera, watched
the landings. ■
The lines of attack, rough coast with
some beaches, cork forests behind and the
mountains beyond that, were as suitable
as any. Genoa would be cut off immedi-
ately, and with it the routes to southern
France from the great industrial centres
of northern Italy. Marseilles and Toulon,
the greatest commercial and the greatest
naval port of the Mediterranean, lay
within a few miles of the point of attack.
An advance inland of 50 miles and
westward for 100 miles would enable the
spearheads to turn at a sheer right-angle
northward (after dealing suitably with
Marseilles and Toulon) and steer straight
as an arrow (almost) up the Rhone Valley
150 miles to Lyons. It would cut the
Mont Cenis-Modane routes to Italy and
deprive the German armies of Italy of
their short cuts to the German industrial
centres of the Rhine, via Dijon, Besanfon
and Belfort, not to mention the indus-
trial resources of Lyons and the southern
cities. The spearheads also would be able
to pass westward along the coast past the
romantic bastions of Aigues-Mortes to
Beziers, up the Toulouse canal and so
on to Bordeaux, if need be, up the
Garonne.
The landing was under command of
General Jacob L. Devers, who had com-
manded all U.S. troops in Europe until
last December, when he was transferred
to the Mediterranean as Deputy C.-m-C.
to General Maitland Wilson.
The first act was to deposit 14,000 air-
borne troops, paratroopers first, then
glider corps units, behind the enemy
beachhead positions. Next a mixed and
powerful naval force moved to close
quarters and began a heavy bombard-
ment supported from the air. The sea
squadrons included British, French,
American, Greek, Polish, Belgian and
Dutch ships.
There was little resistance, and no
enemy aircraft interfered. Within H
hours from the first shot the' Americans
(three seasoned divisions) and French
had established a beachhead 30 miles
long and several miles deep.
By next day hundreds of heavy tanks
and thousands of tons of guns and equip-


Public Notice.
I, KARL AUGUST MAIER, of German nationality,
born at Tuebingen, Germany, and resident six years
in Australia, now residing at 176 Pitt Street Sydney,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act, 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO CECIL THOMAS RAPLEY late of Camden New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that CLARA JANE
RAPLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 35 of
1944 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for* three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry King Street Sydney before the Ninth
day of October 1944 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from JOHN W. BINNEY Soli-
citor of 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(L.s.) G. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO PATRICK EDWARD ARMSTRONG formerly of
Ford Street Ballarat Baker but now of parts un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife AGNES
ARMSTRONG has instituted proceedings against you
for Divorce on the ground of desertion Unless you
enter an appearance in the Office of the Deputy Pro-
thonotary at Ballarat on or before the 20th day of
September 1944 the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs A sealed copy
Petition and copy Citation have been served on your
mother Alice Armstrong of Ford Street Ballarat.
R. J CRIBBLE & HOLLWAY of Lydiard Street
Ballarat, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Div6rcb.
TO KAVIN O’REILLY late of Helensburg New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that REBECCA O’REILLY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3009 of 1943 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards. If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
King Street Sydney before the Ninth day of October
1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from JOHN W. BINNEY’ Solicitor of 79
Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce. ,
GX
am
ment had been brought ashore. Prisoners
were coming in. The French and Ameri-
cans were moving inland, receiving a
rousing welcome from the inhabitants.
But though Berlin reported heavy fight-
ing on both sides of the mouth of the
Argens River and artillery duels about
Antibes, there were few signs of Field
Marshal Blaskowitz’s 19th German Army,
which was supposed to be trying to de-
fend the whole of France south of the
Loire with 10 divisions.
By August 21 the Allied spearheads
had reached a point 34 miles north-east of
Toulon in their westward drive, and were
threatening Aix. Another force had
driven up to the Grasse route from Italy,
north of Cannes and the mouth of the
Argens, by which Napoleon pushed into
France after his escape from Elba. About
2000 square miles were in Allied hands
along with 12,000 prisoners, in return for
slight casualties. Toulon and Marseilles
communications were imminently threat-
ened, and the fate of the two cities was
sealed. If major defence was intended
there were no manifestations of it. On
August 20 Toulon came under fire.
Not Decisive
It has been a remarkable week, but a
check on overconfidence is still needed.
A great victory has been won in Nor-
mandy ; but only against the Seventh
German Army and not against even the
whole of the German armies, of which
there are certainly three and possibly four
in France and the Lowlands, counting the
Seventh out. The Allies control about
one-fifth of France at most. But Berlin
says France will be abandoned.
No great European war has been
settled entirely in western France except
tor an odd occasion or so when a coup
de grace was administered there.
Further east are the age-old traditional
battlefields of Europe, the barriers of the
Rhine, the Maginot Line, the Meuse and
Ardennes defences, and the Albert canal.
Behind these the Siegfried defences, a
very different proposition from anything
so far encountered. Even the Somme and
the Marne must not be forgotten.
It is only two months to the first blasts
of winter. Meanwhile, the German has
not forgotten how to fight. He is still
fighting fiercely in Italy after a long and
trying retreat. In Russia he is counter-
attacking with masses of tanks and
artillery and using powerful air squad-
rons, some of them equipped with new-
type, very fast machines, some rocket-
firing and -propelled. HeTias lost much
material, thousands killed, scores of thou-
sands of prisoners. In France his method
is based on a system of powerful combat
teams supported by large numbers of
supernumeraries under duress, the
laborers and wood-and-water joeys of the
war. Some of these are unfit to serve
except in demolition gangs. Some are
Russian prisoners who will fight only so
long as the pressure is on them. It is
always the enemy’s endeavor when things
go wrong to save his elite corps to fight
again, at the expense of these mercenaries
and weaklings. To some extent he has
succeeded in doing this, though not alto-
gether by a long chalk.
The Allied High Command
During the week the Allied Command
was reorganised to meet the considerable
expansion of Allied forces in the north.
General Eisenhower moved supreme
H.Q. to France.
The ground forces now are organised
into two Army Groups. One consists
of the Second British Army, with the
Canadian Army, which includes the
Polish armored division. This is known
as the 21st Army Group. General Mont-
gomery commands it in person.
The 12th Army Group is made up of
the American First Army (General
Hodges) and Third (General Patton).
General Montgomery is overall com-
mander of these two groups.
In effect, the real operative com-
mander in France is General Mont-
gomery. All operations must conform
to his strategy and tactics.
The Germans will have to face land-
ings in the Balkans, unless the Allies are
satisfied that they are already defeated.
They must hold Denmark and Norway
strongly, for to open the Baltic would
be to court the entrance of the British
Navy and air attack from Danish and
Norwegian territory. Even as it is, the
minelaying operations of British Mos-
quitoes have closed port after port and
canal after canal all the way to Kdnigs-
berg for as much as a fortnight.
Hitler is about to test with a vengeance
the dictum of Clausewitz that the com-
batant in a central position has an advan-
tage over surrounding foes.
British on the Arno.
British and Dominion troops of the
Eighth Army on August 19 sent patrols
across the Arno north-east of Florence,
from which the Germans were withdraw-
ing under heavy pressure on both flanks.
This involved some fighting in the
suburbs. The city itself appears to have
been mined in certain areas, but its occu-
pation is imminent.
The only other major activity in Italy
was on the Adriatic, where the Italians
made a slight advance inland from the
coast on the headwaters of the Cesano
River and the Poles prodded heavily at
the shrinking German front.
A stage has been reached in the Italian
advance at which General Alexander can
afford to wait until developments in other
sectors make his task easier. A pause
will give time for the reconditioning of
Leghorn and Ancona
A landing on the Yugoslav coast is
expected by Berlin —Ankara reported
that it had taken place at Durazzo,
There were rumors in Europe last week
that the Germans were evacuating the
Greek islands of the Agean.
Air Developments.
Bombing of Europe on a large scale,
from Ploesti to the Rhine, continued to
be a feature of Allied operations.
But what is happening in 1000-bomber
raids is nothing to what will happen
as the new aerial developments of 1944
come into use. The British have brought
the rocket-strafing fighter to perfection.
Air Minister Sinclair describes the
accuracy of the attacks by these machines
as “truly amazing.”
When they are produced in larger
quantities their effect on battle results and
on civilian morale will become a major
factor. They are a devastating weapon,
without parallel for the purposes for,
which they are being used —destruction
of transport and fighting vehicles.
The Germans, however, have put into
the air already the Me 163, which appears
to be rocket-powered, or jet-propelled—
a “flying wing” type which is described
as the fastest machine yet seen in the
air. But speed is not everything.
More flying bombs fell in Britain
during the week causing more casualties
and damage. And Berlin threatens to
launch another terror —“V 2, different from
and more terrible than the flying bomb,
when the right tactical moment arrives.”
The Fight for Warsaw.
“Ek Dura”: Referring particularly to
the E. Prussian front. Marshal Model an-
nounced that strategic reserves had been
thrown in and that the Germans would
try to hold their ground.
All the signs are that these reserves are
powerful. The Russian estimate, perhaps
modest, is 16 divisions. According to
Warsaw reports at least three and prob-
ably five armored divisions have recently
reached that sector alone.
Along the fine from the region of
Cracow to the Insterburg Gap fighting
has swayed backwards and forwards, into
towns and out of them. The Germans
admit breaches in their lines. A few
days of silence elapse. And then it is
evident that the breaches have been
sealed and that enemy counter-attacks
have pushed the Russians back.
This happened in the Insterburg
Gap sector, across the Kaunas-Kbnigs-
berg railway. There, over a fortnight ago,
the Russians were supposed to have
reached Eydtkuhnen, an East Prussian
border town on the northern side of the
railway, and Wirballen, on the south of
the railway, a few miles to the south-east.
But on August 17 the Germans an-
nounced that the Russians had reached
Wylkowiszki, 11 miles from the border,
and several miles on the wrong side of
where the Russians were supposed to be
on August 4. Later the Russians an- #
nounced that they had reached the E.
Prussian border, but there was no further
development up to August 21. Interest
shifted to the Lithuanian front, where,
from Shavli into Latvia, the Germans
were fiercely counter-attacking at the
week-end. Despite heavy losses in tanks,
they had forced the Russians to abandon
a number of towns and villages.
Information about what is happening
on the Pskov front further north has be-
come vague, but it seems that a slow Rus-
sian advance is still in progress. Most
of the news during the week over the
whole of the northern front was of Ger-
man counter-attacks.
The White Russia Story
It more and more becomes evident that
the German retreat was an abandonment
of territory rather than a major defeat,
and that the lines selected for defence
have only now been reached.
One important piece of evidence of this
was in a Moscow statement that guerrilla
forces held 60 per cent, of White Russia
before the June offensive began.
Guerrillas certainly could not have
held 60 per cent, of that' territory if the
representations of Moscow correspon-
dents at that time concerning the exist-
ence of a powerful German defence line
in White Russia (“The Fatherland Line”),
were correct. That line was supposed
to have its face east of the Dnieper right
down to the southern border, and
the Russians had to create two fronts
manned by something like 80 divisions
to break through
However, it now appears that before
the offensive 60 per cent, of the suppos-
edly hotly contested country was already
held by Russian guerrillas who are also
announced to have “killed 500,000 Ger-
mans in White Russia alone .”
Along the Vistula
Along the Carpathians front there
was a general lull until the week-end,
when a new Russian drive in the Jassy
region was reported. Further north-
west, across the Vistula, the Russians en-
larged their bridgehead in the Sando-
mierez region. By August 17 they claimed
to have surrounded and taken the
town, previously supposed to have been
overrun. Correspondents’ stories of forces
hurtling on to within a few miles of
Cracow, which at the end of July was
“in danger” from columns “streaking for
Silesia,” proved to be furious fancies.
Game Poles in Warsaw
The Warsaw position is a sad tale.
Here again the presumption that the Rus-
sians were about to take the city in the
last week of July (“Russians Prepare to
Storm Warsaw,” July 25) and sweep on
to Berlin proved delusive.
The development of the situation seems
to have been as follows: In the last days
of July Russian spearheads approached
Praga, the section of Warsaw on the east
side of the river. They were even re-
ported to be fighting in its suburbs.
The Polish Underground Army, an
organised force raised under the authority
of the constitutional Polish Government
in London, whose vice-Premier rerpains
permanently in Poland, made some
arrangement with the Russians that they
would promote a rising. A day was fixed
—August 3. News, however, reached
General Bor, the Polish Commander,
that strong German tank reinforcements
were advancing from the west —probably
four divisions. Meanwhile, the Germans
had withdrawn all firemen from the city
and showed signs of getting ready for a
situation in which they might evacuate
and burn Warsaw.
Moved by these developments, and en-
couraged by reports which suggested that
the Russians were overwhelming the Ger-
mans to the east and that Moscow’s Polish
divisions were actually in the Praga
environs, General Bor gave the signal
two days earlier than had been intended.
His ill-armed force acted vigorously.
It seized both the great railway stations
on the Russian side of the river, where
the Red Army was supposed to be
approaching, pounced on most of the Old
Town on the other side and hauled up the
Polish flag on the Town Hall.
Many other positions were captured,
and calls were sent out for air support.
The Russians provided none, nor did they
furnish anything out of their enormous
Anglo-American supplies.
The Germans attacked with tanks,
flame-throwers and mortars, burning out
whole blocks of buildings to get rid of
snipers, exacting savagd revenge on cap-
tured Polish soldiers —who under inter-
national law had combatant status and
were entitled to be treated as prisoners
of war —and advancing on Polish posi-
tions behind screens of civilians.
The Russian advance seems to have
stopped dead almost directly the Poles
began to fight. Later Moscow issued a
statement in which it declared that
General Bor and the Polish Government
in London were responsible for a fiasco
and for having needlessly cost the lives
of many Poles by giving a premature
order to attack. And Russia-is-Always-
Right papers performed as usual.
Tt is difficult to understand wherein
the attack was premature in that at the
time it was made the Russians, as stated
in their own communiques, were within
two miles of the points at which the
Poles launched their offensive in the
north of the city, and, therefore, appar-
ently able to give not only artillery sup-
port in general but even mortar support.
The R.A.F. Arrives
It was left for the distant R.A.F. to
bring help to the brave little Polish garri-
son. General Bor’s communique on
August 15 read:
Fighting today subsided somewhat in the
difficult sector in the northern part of the
Old Town. The enemy has suffered heavy
losses yesterday and his counter-atracks re-
mained ineffective. The fact that we hold
the Town Hall makes it impossible for him
to use the main road through Theatre-
square. Artillery and mortar fire have
slightly slackened.
The Poles were grateful as well as
game. Their commander to the R.A.F.
airmen, come so far to give air support
and to land supplies:
Fighting Warsaw sends the gallant air-
men of the R.A.F. its thanks and gratitude.
We bow our heads to these crews which
lost their lives.
A British airman who is with General
Bor’s forces reported that “R.A.F.
machines flew over Warsaw on the night
of August 13 and were enthusiastically
greeted by the population, in spite of the
rain of shrapnel.” The R.A.F. identified
itself by dropping a wreath with the in-
scription: “From British soldiers to our
fighting comrades of the Polish Army.’*
And the cry went up: “They are ours!
They are British.” But over 20 of 100
R.A.F. machines employed had been lost.
Towards the week-end Polish courage
had risen higher for the knowledge that the
heroic little band of fighters whose lovely
capital was disintegrating about their ears
was not utterly deserted by Poland’s
allies. Supplies were still being brought
in, but considerably more were needed,
particularly in view of the fact that the
Russians had retreated well out of the
suburbs of Praga, abandoning Ossow,
seven miles east-north-east of Warsaw,
and in other places further south as much
as 16 miles from Praga, staving off fierce
counter-attacks. The counter-attacks were
largely made by strong German S.S. tank
units, reinforced by mobile guns in
powerful force. Further Polish risings,
throughout the country, were reported on
August 16.
On August 20 Moscow announced the
beginning of new attempts -to take War-
saw.
In brief;
British naval losses for 68 days of the in-
vasion total four destroyers, three mine-
sweepers, three frigates, three trawlers and one
auxiliary vessel.
* * * *
Dead on the field of honor, at 53, Brigadier-
General James Hargest, D. 5.0., M.C., M.P.
for Awarua (Maoriland). He was killed by a
shell in the Caen battle area while driving
a jeep in a forward area. A well-loved officer
and the bravest of the brave.
* * * *
A Polish Mustang squadron operating near
Paris on August 18 tackled 60 enemy Focke-
Wulfs —their own strength 12 machines —and
shot down 16 enemy aircraft for a loss of one
machine.


D
<OD
A
AA
Production is re-
stricted so don't
blame your retailer
If you have diffi-
culty in obtaining
Gillette blades.
Serving Since the Blue Gillette and the 7 o’clock
blades have gone to serve the guns, Gillette
“Standard” Blades now serve the chins. Make them
last—they’ll give you the best shave money can buy.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
h
Mi/oic/ -ne&c&idd weca/it
USE
CLQBITE
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
Please use less RRYLCREEM
The Services want it!
As all the Brylcreem at present being made
is going to the Services, you may find diffi-
culty in buying it. So use as little as you
can each time and massage every drop well
into your scalp. And here is a useful hint.
When the jar is nearly empty add a teaspoon-
ful of clean, cold water, shake vigorously and
note how clean the cream comes from the
jar. Yesl you can use the last drop.
A
A
rSL
Lay-by for Victory. Buy 5/- National Savings Stamps.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
At attendance of 43,000 and a tote
turnover of £127,216 gave Randwick a
good day on Saturday. The going was
on the soft side, and that may have con-
tributed to the disappointing form of
some runners. Improvements in the pad-
dock betting ring and official stand tote
facilities were appreciated.
T. Brosnan does not flatter himself that
in Vermeil (G. Moore) he has another
Lough Neagh in his care, but there was
no fitter nor better-looking colt in the
first division of the Three-year-old Handi-
cap. With 9st. he ran up to his appear-
ance. Third to King Step and Princeton
into the straight, he led commencing the
final furlong, and was a little too good
for Accession at the finish. Liberality
came home strongly in third place, and
is a staying possibility, as is Silver Field.
Well-backed Calgary was always one of
the tail-enders. Invictus ran fairly,
though without his chance ever being
more than that of a minor place-getter.
Backers who took a short price about
Abydos (F. Smith) for the Encourage
Handicap were in doubt almost to the
last stride. With Conversation and Mili-
tary Man making the running, Abydos,
ridden a little too confidently, was
well back to the turn, as was Skip
Bomber. They made a match of it over
the last half-furlong, and Abydos lasted
longest. Manday Son was a moderate
third, and then Deep Sky, who was never
dangerous.
Badly placed early, and still a long
way out of it turning into the straight.
Good Idea (W, Martell) added to the'
Derby possibilities by outstaying Swan
River in the second division of the Three-
year-old Handicap, the time being the
same as that put up by Vermeil in his
division. High Note, in third place, made
a fair showing, as did Topline, and Silent
is improving. Though favored by the
stable. Beau Monde never ran worse.
High Flight (Munro), after being second
to Highgate for a furlong in the Green
Hills Handicap, then took charge and won
decisively from the latter and St. Quen-
tin. The favorite, Easter Time, never got
in it, nor did Merrimba, who in finishing
last evinced a strong dislike to soft
going. Munro was unequal to winning
on High Flight at Moorefield, and because
of that was whole-heartedly hooted by
some backers who let High Flight run
against them this time. Increased attend-
ances naturally mean a big addition to
those who do not realise that a horse may
run better one day than another.
Nobleman’s (E. Doon) recent form did
not say much for his chance of success in
the Flying Handicap, and he started at a
long price. He looked particularly well,
and, second to D.S.O. at the turn, was too
good for the latter in the run down the
straight. Kingsdale had every chance,
but, though third, was never really
dangerous. Panchio’s fourth brought dis-
qualification to his owner (O. F. Triggs),
trainer (J, W. Cook) and jockey (H.
Hughes) for one year. Each has appealed.
but Triggs announced that no matter
what the result he would never visit a
racecourse in . Unp | aced rimne rs in
veiled Threat, Modulation, Warlock,
J Ka , a| , ,’ ooked as if
they would need racing to bring them to
, he f r best and the ru B nning J Majest
and Bravo did not make them stand out
The y WerC the laSt tWO ‘
The soft going must have bothered)
some of the August Handicap runners, as
they did not act up to recent form. After
Chatham’s Choice had made his usual
attempt to win all the way he was out-
stayed by Orderly (Duncan), who fol-
lowed him into the straight. Dewar, a
long last in the early part of the race,
made up a lot of ground, though without
ever looking like overhauling the first
two. Bon Terre and Cockrow headed
the remainder, of whom the best that can
be said is that “they started.”
In the Highweight Handicap Rylstone
(Moore) repeated his Rosehill effort. He
was going like a winner three furlongs
from home, and second to Louano into
the straight, ran past him a furlong from
home and stalled off Our Barney and
Betza, both of whom will improve.
Betza has furnished into a fine horse.
Halfway down the straight Louano
looked sure to get a place, but was cut
out of third by Betza in the last 50 yards.
Of the remainder Pall Mall, Gold Edifice
and Diadem did best. Several that were
expected to do well were hopelessly
abroad in the soft going.
* ♦ * *
Spearmain unwound a brilliant finish-
ing burst to defeat Cloudy Bay and Hero
in the Ascot Thousand at Mentone on
Saturday, Last of a strung-out field with
three furlongs to go, he won running
away. This first win for almost 2j years
has brought him into calculations for the
Cups. He was weighted at 7.10 for the
Caulfield and 7.7 for the Melbourne Cup,
but Saturday’s win left him liable to a
rehandicap for the Caulfield race. Spear-
mam s trainer, J. Fryer, has won a
Caulfield Cup with Skipton, and Mel-
bourne Cups with Skipton and Wotan.
Regal Coin, only Melbourne-trained
horse entered for the A.J.C. spring meet-
gave bookmakers a 20-to-l result by
narrowly beating Irish Myth and Carey
m the Effingham Handicap. He is an
fu tra u- 1 f ° r the , AJC - Derby, but, with
the shipping position uncertain, it is inde-
finite whether any attempt will be made to
get him to Sydney. A fine type of colt
by Golden Sovereign from Herowinkie,
Regal Com is a half-brother to Hall
r success returned only
i2BO of the 1250gns. he cost as a yearling,
but it should not be long before he re-
peats the performance. Irish Myth and
Carey also should improve.
Busybody, owned in N.S.W. by A. E
Cooper, but raced on lease by V. Watson*
recorded an overdue win in the Chester-
field Handicap. One of three equal
favorites at 9 to 2, she won narrowly from
Ducal and Home James, but last-named
was unfficky. Home James was making
what looked to be a winning run when
he touched the heels of another horse
and stumbled. Busybody is a five-year-
old by Talking from Philight, and had
not won a race since her two-year-old
days. Antos shaped well in fourth posi-
tion, but Cabonne, after setting up a long
lead, again showed no fight at the finish.
Few bookmakers wrote a bet against
Deserve, 50-to-l winner of the Anglesey
Handicap. She is a sister to Codicil,
winner at Caulfield a week earlier. Ola
Rose, 6-to-l winner of the Inverness Han-
dicap, gave jockey S. Martin his first suc-
cess since he recently resumed riding after
meeting with a serious accident three
years ago. Brewster’s Millions (4 to 1)
finished too strongly for the 50-to-l
chance, Priority, in the Normandy Trial
Hurdle, and Brother Bill (6 to 1) just
outstayed Gay Roi, with Cavallo a fast-
fimshing third, in the Sandhurst Handicap.
In the last 40 years Epsom Handicap
winners have included only two mares—
Maxamize 7.7 and Capris 7.12. The
latter, however, did not finish first but
got the race on protest against Gay
Lover. Flight proved herself an excep-
tional three-year-old by running a very
close second in the Doncaster Han-
dicap with 9.0—81 b. over w.f.a. —but, as
a four-year-old, with 9.5 (101 b. over the
scale) she may find an Epsom win an
even stiffer task. Running back to 1894,
winners with over 9st. were: Sequence
9.4, Wolaroi 9.8, Greenstead 9.6, Beau-
ford 9.2, Amounis 9.7, Chatham 9.10,
Silver Ring 9.6, Gold Rod 9.3, King’s
Head 9.4, High Caste 9.5 and Rimveil 9.2.
Flight, with 8.10 in the Metropolitan,
appeals more to me than with 9.5 in the
Epsom.
♦•* * *
F. Shean was not a gainer by his appeal
to the A.J.C. against his disqualification
by the Newcastle stewards for two years
in connection with an alleged attempt to
bribe the rider of Abbeville in the
Cameron Handicap, and A. Knox was a
decided loser. His sentence was extended
from two to ten years, which ends his
riding career. Shean, a younger man,
may resume at the end of his term. As
both are men of experience, and riders
of many important winners, it is a pity
that they did not entirely avoid being
associated with any business that was
likely to get them into trouble.
Last week the Newcastle stewards held
an inquiry into the possible identity of
the “man behind the gun” in the Abbe-
ville case, but learned little or nothing,
The Treasury sheets verified the statement
of a bookmaker as to his operations, and
told nothing against him. As it seems
unlikely the disqualified riders will do
anything towards assisting the authori-
ties in putting their finger on the spot it
is probable the inquiry will be abortive.
Still, it is improbable it will be dropped
lightly.
Miscellaneous
As the finals draw near the V.F.L.
competition is a chop-and-change affair.
Richmond, Footscray and Fitzroy each
have topped the list in three weeks; now
the three share the lead, with Carlton
and Essendon together next. When
Footscray went to Fitzroy on Saturday,
about 25,000 people went with them, ex-
pecting a good game, since a win for
’Scray would have put the side well out
in front. Fitzroy hopped out with a dash-
ing burst and had a 8.12-5.7 lead at half-
time, increasing it to 13.13-8.11 at three-
quarter time. Then ’Scray turned on a
fine display, kicked 4.7 to a point and
was beaten by the bell, 13.14-12.18. Rich-
mond disposed of Carlton, 11.16-8.16,
and Essendon had an easy run against
Geelong, 13.19-10.12. Yes majorities
were recorded by Collingwood 18.20-7.14
v. Hawthorn, St. Kilda 13.13-7.10 v. Mel-
bourne, South Melb, 13.16-6.12 v. North
Melb. Footscray-Richmond is the big
match for next Saturday.
Randwick, Uni., West and East won
their Saturday’s Rugby Union matches
to become the “four.” Uni. had a tough
tussle against Manly—the Villagers led
21-11 within ten minutes of the bell, but
Uni. came with an astonishing burst to
scrape home 23-21. North’s solid tackling
had Randwick pinned to a 5-3 lead at
“lemons,” but pace told in the second
half for tfie ’Wicks to win 21-3. Other
games:
West 15, Gordon II; East 18, St. George 9;
Parramatta 9, Drummoyne 3.
■* » * «
Two champions of Leichhardt and
thereabouts, Tommy Colteaux (middle-
weight) and Hockey Bennell (welter), were
seen in their sixth show at the local
stadium. Bennell is now five up, declared
the winner on points. To give the cus-
tomers a good run for their money, the
pair kept on boxing after four of the 12
rounds ended. Order was restored before
any damage was done.
Billy Fletcher, though beaten on points,
impressed by the way he fought Archie
Rash at Sydney Stadium. He is a young
fellow from Mudgee (N.S.W.) and, it
being his first big contest, he began ner-
vously. Rash thus gained a lead that
was never wiped out. He often tied
Fletcher up in clinches, and connected
with many straight lefts and counter-
punches, But had Fletcher fought the
first six rounds as he did the last six
there would have been a different story to
tell.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Three-year-old Novice Handicap:
Silver Field 1 ; King’s Glen, 2;
Accession or Sovereign’s Fate, 3.
Trial Handicap: Cargeonel, 1;
Paul, 2 ; Goshawk, 3.
Novice Handicap: Craigie, 1 ;
Skip Bomber, 2 ; Gold Edifice or
Whistler, 3.
Cape Solander Handicap; Ver-
meil, 1 ; Tea Rose, 2 ; Good Idea, 3.
Flying Handicap: John Halifax,
1 ; Nobleman, 2; Hauteur or
D. 5.0., 3.
Sydney Turf Club Handicap;
Royal Peer, 1 ; Lord Neith, 2;
Chatham’s Choice or Beline, 3.
Welter Handicap : Betza, 1 ; Ryl-
stone, 2 ; White Feather 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Art is in the money this year without a
doubt. Former director of the National
Gallery Will Ashton is collecting nearly
£3OOO from his exhibition just held in
Melbourne. Dora Jarrett last week won
the lottery with a friend. Sculptor Lyn-
don Dadswell has had his works bought
by the galleries of three different States.
And by the time the Society of Artists’
show opened last Saturday, more sales had
been made than during the whole of the
exhibition last year.
The Society of Artists’ show has
grown so popular that it has become
a two-day pilgrimage; at the private view
to see the pictures and on the opening
day to talk to friends. Minister for Edu-
cation Heffron made the speech this year,
and his announcement of increased
Government munificence to the National
Gallery met with loud applause. There
were also rounds of applause for Will
Ashton when invested with the society’s
medal for service to Australian art. Presi-
dent Sydney Ure Smith, as usual, was busy
blazoning the banner of the other chap,
while visitors were blazoning his over his
Sutton Forest scenes and the idyll of his
cottage glimpsed through the lace work of
fig leaves.
Portraits by women artists are a feature
of the display. Elaine Flaxton’s “Toni”
and Thea Proctor’s small girl in diaphan-
ous pink holding a pink carnation touched
the. imagination of every mother, Ade-
laide Perry showed no fewer than six
portraits. Douglas Annand, who has just
produced a book on Australian art, was
among the many painters who popped in
on both days. Howard Hinton, of course,
was among the throng. A lot of titles,
too —the Colin'Fraser, the Harry Gullett,
the Anderson and the Keith Smith ladies
were gazers. A brown tweed suit flecked
with red was one of the smartest at the
show. It was worn by Mrs. E. P. Hough-
ton. She and two of the Lane Mullips
sisters (also trigly tailored) made a group.
A nephew of the famed Epstein in the
uniform of the U.S. Army, young artist
Paul Jones and sister Frances, Mrs. Eva
Wunderlich and Mrs. G. Spencer were
among the hundreds.
In the earlier days of thd war the box
bicycle was found a grand help in hurry-
ing relief to bombed areas. Women of
the voluntary services manned the bikes,
which carried urns of tea or cocoa, milk
for the babies and other necessaries to
the stricken. But with the years a vast
improvement on the box bike, always a
heavy load to pedal, has been evolved.
It is the trailer bicycle. It is far lighter,
carries more, and on it a woman rider
can breast the hills more easily, even with
a better-serviced canteen. To buy one
of these in England costs £25.
Last Friday in one hit, Lyceum Club
members, to provide such trailers, dropped
£lOO into the brightly glazed bowl con-
spicuously placed for such offerings. The
many-windowed lounge of the club was
bright in spite of the dour day. The little
stage was heady with tall spires of double
stock and branches of flowering peach
sent in by member Laura Teague. Oliver
King sang groups of songs by Schubert,
Richard Strauss and Ireland, and Eric
Kennedy told of the hardihood of the
women of England. Lady Wakehurst,
having been first at the Rachel Forster
Hospital meeting, was the guest of honor,
and carried off with her a long pink and
gold box of home-made sweets brewed by
one of the members. President Mrs. John
Metcalfe and members of the committee,
among them the slim Mrs. A. G. Thomas,
were the hostesses.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says she
wasn’t surprised at Man-power taking
over a “resting” jockey as a chef. “Just
think how marvellously he’d turn out
‘Angels on Horseback! ’ ”
There was joy and a great multitude
in the club rooms of the Friends of
France one day last week. The reason
was that Roger Monmayou, France’s new
Charge d‘Affaires, was guest of honor at
the sandwich and coffee lunch. He is
going to be a great inceptive to the study
of the French language among the girls
of Canberra when he really gets settled
in the Legation there. It’s not started
yet. He is unmarried, good-looking and
has a manner easy and direct, and his
English is fluent. He was very touched
at the work the club, directed by writer
Ivy Moore, is doing for the people of
France. Highlight of the party was a
lucky-number competition for a young
goddess of a cauliflower.
Ballet-lover Whitelock carried the glow-
ing vegetable through the throngs dis-
playing its perfection. Result in pen-
nies was £1 13 s, The guest of honor had
donated the pound. Money goes to a
fund for buying comforts for the bombed
children of France.
Gaiety, spring blossoms and a large
and plummy cake made the opening of
the Lodge a festive occasioh. The Lodge,
once the Luxor private hotel, is the
Travellers’ Aid Society’s hostel for the
woman or girl train traveller who arrives
at Central and is without a place to lay
her head. Lady Wakehurst made the
opening speech, revealing that Sydney
had lagged behind Melbourne and Adel-
aide in providing such accommodation.
She declared the Lodge open, cut the
cake, wrapped a large slice of it, and
sent it by the hands of Commissioner
for Railways Hartigan to the station-
master at Central, who had “always been
so helpful to the society.”
Mr. Hartigan’s speech of thanks was
breezy and cheery. J. W. L. Gaden, of
the Red Cross, and Mrs. Jack Garry, of
the C.W'.A., which is intensely interested
in the work of the Travellers’ Aid, added
their quota of praise. The C.W.A. also
dropped £5OO in the society’s money-box.
The floors of the house glitter like a
skating rink, and though not gaudy it is
neat and shiningly clean. In addition to
the bedrooms —some single and some
family rooms for a mother and her chil-
a nursery where the small
ones may play. No meals are provided,
but there’s a caf6 close by. The address
of the Lodge is 358 Elizabeth-street.
President Mrs. L. F. Burgess, vice-presi-
dents Mrs. S. A. Irwin and Mrs. H. J.
Brady, secretary Miss Allen, Miss Fowler
and members of the committee were
among the hostesses who extended wel-
come and tea on the opening day and
on the following visitors’ day.
This is a passport photograph of Anne
Wienholt, but even its restrictions cannot
hide the vigor of the expression, the
intent look of the eyes. Anne is this
year’s winner of the N.S.W. travelling art
scholarship. Friends knowledgeable in
painting predict a notable future for her.
Nylon stockings, Havana cigars and
two bottles of brandy (96 years old these)
are among the lucky-number prizes at St.
Vincent’s fair this week-end. On Friday
and Saturday it will be housed in the
nurses’ recreation hall. There will be on
the lawn outside the doors a large mar-
quee filled with slippery slides, a Punch
and Judy show, a toy stall, and ice-cream.
That’s where the children can be parked
while parents spend their patrimony at
the fancy workstall. A great draw is the
International Stall (Allies and Neutrals)
stocked with wares of these countries.
Mayoress Bartley held a reception to
spring at the Town Hall last Wednesday.
It was really in honor of Lyndall Hen-
drickson, the S’Australian girl violinist;
but, what with the guest’s youth and the
boughs •of flowerings peach in the long
rooms, there was spring in the air. With
the small, dark-haired musician was her
mother, and the two had the opportunity
of meeting the real musical world of
Sydney, headed by Conservatorium Direc-
tor Bainton and Mrs. Bainton. Noted,
too, were the A.B.C. Moses couple and
the Roland Fosters.
Mary Winifred Barber, the small but
efficient almoner at Rachel Forster Flos-
pital, married her Captain F. V. O’Brien,
A.1.F., in the chapel of St. John’s within
the Uni. a week or so ago, and mother
is still breathless with the speed of the
preparations. The bridegroom came
home on leave earlier than expected, and
arrangements for wedding, reception and
all were made in less than four days.
White marquisette, lace and tulle swirled
about the pretty bride. Marie Leahy, of
Bundilla, Bathurst, was the ’maid. Cap-
tain John McCoy, A.1.F., was best man.
A flower girl, supporting the dignity of
five years and a Kate Greenaway frock
and bonnet, led the procession. Recep-
tion was at the Abbotsford Point home
of the bride’s parents.
From Melbourne
Days of warm sunshine combined with
encouraging war news have speeded up
activities on the social front. Plans are
being made to bolster up funds to be
used for post-war help to men and women
of the services. Mrs. Eric Harrison, wife
of Group-Captain Eric Harrison, with a
daughter Greta, Flight-Officer in the
W.A.A.A.F., is one of those who are
looking to the future. Mrs. Harrison has
been in her job since the outbreak or
war, and aided by a most capable com-
mittee has conducted the R.A.A.F.
Women’s Welfare Bureau. This exists to
help dependants, and conducts, in addi-
tion to an attractive creche a Welfare
House where children of expectant
mothers are cared for while the mothers
are in hospital and where, after returning
from hospital, days of rest and relaxation
may be spent by the mother.
This committee has sent two mobile
entertainment vans to forward areas.
Philip Hargreaves, the pianist, gives per-
formances in one. The R.A.A.F. Women s
Association, under the guidance of Mrs.
Harrison, has furnished what is known
as a Transient Officers’ Camp which
accommodates 60 men and is situated in
pleasant surroundings near a beach. One
of the jobs this committee is proudest
of was the acquisition of a beautiful home
in Toorak and fitting it out as a hostel
for members of the W.A.A.A.F. Now
the committee has been asked by the
powers that be to’make provision for an-
other 100 girls. It will be done.
Barbara Bennett, of Sydney, descended
upon Melbourne bursting with energy.
She came to direct the concert given by
another fair Sydney-ite, Enith Clarke
(pictured here by John Lee), whom critics
in her home town have already acclaimed.
She gave half the proceeds of her very
successful concert to the Red Cross. Bar-
bara and Enith are cosily settled in the
John Royle flat, and the former will take
the opportunity while here of seeing her
“cadet-middy” son graduate from a naval
establishment.
In theatrical language Marjorie Law-
rence is still “packing them in.” Noticed
in the large audience at one of last week’s
concerts was Dr. Arch Aitken, who had
taken time off to hear his favorite singer,
and Mrs. Aitken, now fully recovered
from a bad car smash. Hazel Raff slipped
a natty little water mole bolero over
her smart black frock, and Beryl Walker
had Persian lamb trimming her tailored
black coat. Mrs. Jean Miller, back from
Sydney, was another smart dresser who
favored black. Isobel Green, sister of
R. G. Menzies, decided on a pastel-blue
coat and soft dusty-pink chapeau.
It is impossible for city-dwellers to
forget that this is Red Cross Roll Call
month. Windows in all the large stores
have been cleverly dressed to impress
the window shopper with the work being
done by the organisation. Now wearing
the trim uniform of the Red Cross, Mrs.
Charles Sindrey is carrying on the work
of gaining subscribers which she began
last year. Piloting this campaign and
directing the many women workers is no
easy task, and in this work she is assisted
by Mrs. Harold Boas, who gives up most
of her days to this duty. Ably assisting
in the office are Mrs. John Baillieu and
Mrs. Wills-Allen.
In one day 5000 employees of a large
store were signed up as members. All
members of the ballet now wear Red
Cross badges, and, taking one thing with
another, it should not be long before the
objective of 250,000 new members is
achieved. Pressed into service, Dando, a
large shaggy mountain dog from Spain,
entices passers-by to look at him, and
for two bob a pat his master enrolls many
a dog-lover.
The Kennedys, Lauri and Dorothy,
have captured this city with their charm-
ing and unaffected manner. Dorothy
wears the pastel shades which throw into
relief her peaches-and-cream complexion
and lovely soft hair, which is - always
simply done. Lauri says the hats his wife
wears are daffy, but confesses that he
likes them. Lauri, as soloist yith the
Symphony Orchestra at the 1 own Hall,
was given an enthusiastic welcome, and
the recital by Lauri and Dorothy was also
most successful, Flowers have become,
as in the “gay ’nineties,” a necessary
feminine adornment, and most of the
women present, soberly but smartly
dressed, relied on corsage posies for the
important touch of color. Pat Hoogveld,
who wore an exotic orchid in her hair,
went on from the concert to the ball given
by the Women’s Association of SAW
broadcasting station. This energetic body
has already raised many thousands of
pounds for patriotic causes. Money from
the latest dance will go towards buying
electric cookers for military hospitals.
The Knox lady presided at an after-
noon tea to discuss plans for a gala
performance of “The Scarlet Lady,” to
assist Red Cross funds. Gertrude John-
son, director of the National Theatre,
assisted in dispensing tea and sug-
gestions. Mrs. Barry Thompson, who
is busy helping to make this performance
a success is also busy with her plans fo;
a Silver Wing Dinner Dance, which will
help brighten life around Caulfield Cup
time. The Silver Wings Committee has
done good work in the past. It has pre-
sented to the Air Force dental equipment
and X-ray outfits, and has donated and
maintained beds at Air Force House.
R. G. Menzies can always be relied
upon to make an amusing speech, and he
was at his best when he opened Will Ash-
ton’s exhibition of paintings recently.
Acknowledging the applause which
greeted him, he said it was a pleasant
relief from “the pig-iron usually thrown
at me when I appear on a platform.’
Mr. Ashton’s pictures appeal to the taste
of this city’s art-lovers, and sales have
been brisk.
A reference to the engagement of Sister
Vera Torney (B. 9/ 8 / ’44) mistakenly re-
ferred to her young man as Sergeant
Brett. The lucky fellow is Sergeant Bill
Berry, A.1.F., whose home folk live at
West Preston.
A distinguished visitor of last week was
Squadron-Leader Shelagh Julius, who
was on her way to visit her parents in
Queensland. Squadron-Leader Julius,
who is in the service of the M.L. Women s
Auxiliary Air Force, with the approval
of her grazier husband who saw service
in the last war, entered the W.A.A.F.
as a “cook’s assistant” and is now second
in command, of the Northern Gfoup of
the N.Z.W.A.A.F. This officer found on
her visit to the W.A.A.A.F. of Australia
that the service differed very little from
her own. There is but one exception. In
M.L. specially selected girls, with some
experience, joined motor-boat crews and
belonged to the “Air-sea Rescue.” These
girls had done great service in towing
large barges to the harbor, bringing them
from Auckland 20 miles away, where
they had been laden with supplies for the
Air Force station.
Margaret and Joan Joske, travellers,
who have adventured in places where the
■voice of the tourist is seldom heard, have
brought back with them rare and beauti-
ful things, Margaret is a painter. She
studied for a time in Holland with one
of the Dutch “moderns,” and her street
scenes, painted in Jugoslavia, ar.e interest-
ing in color and treatment. Joan is a
“creative” dancer, and a large room, com-
plete with a heavy white back drop and
lights is her home theatre. From time to
time Joan gives performances and
features dances inspired by countries she
has visited. Recently a group of people
gathered at the Joske home to hear Ata
Khyam, a young Indian medico, explain
the aims of the Australia-India Friendship
League. One of the plans, which has the
approval of the B.M.A. and the Nurses
Board, is the bringing to Australia of
Indian girls to be trained in hospitals.
On completion of a three years’ course
these girls would return to India, there to
carry on the profession of nursing among
the poor of their country.
Dr. Janet Cooper, a well-known medico
and a pillar of local charities, has decided
to contest a seat at the election for South
Melbourne council, and is not dismayed
by the fact that she has three male oppo-
nents, one also a medico.
Government House, Adelaide is not
to lose its nursery aspect. Lady Muriel
Barclay-Harvey brought with her two
young children by a previous marriage.
General Norrie will bring a daughter of
18 and a boy of eight by his first wife ,
he married again five years ago, anci
Lady Norrie, with two infants, will be,
to judge from photographs, the youngest
occupant of Government House within
living memory.


Ruw
•a
*• .
Mi
mm
Three Throw Hydraulic Pump;
to deliver 120 gallons per minute against a working pressure of
1,5001 b. per square inch. Finished weight 13 tons.
Two of the above Pumps were recently designed and built
by Ruwolt’s for Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
The Pump illustrated is a good example of high-grade engineering
work as produced by Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately attend
to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done in the
past.
CHARLES BUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
h
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
°| l Storek'eJpo” BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE SPUR OF WAR
It did not need the spur of war to intensify that zeal for research which
is the secret of Philips eminence in the world of electricity. Yet.
when the spur was felt. Philips redoubled their energies, realising that
the race for victory would go to the swiftest. Nor will their pace abate
when victory has been won, for peace will have its urgencies no less
pronounced than war.
PHILIPS
Lamps • Discharge Lighting • Radio Receivers ® Radio
Transmitters • Valves and Thermionic Devices • Medical and
Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment • Lighting Equip-
ment • Radio Parts • Metal Pressings and Stamping •
Electrical Measuring Instruments • Sound Reproduction Installations
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH BRISBANE
SMOKE-OH!
“Benefit by studying the beauty habits of
film actresses who most resemble your type.”
— Magazine.
But don’t copy them to the letter.
. *b *b *b *b
There s romance afoot!”— “Woman.”
Until her father gives you her hand.
. •b *b »b *b
“She said that her husband had come home
late the night before and was in bad.” — “D.T.”
As, indeed, so many husbands are.
Tragedy of a Small Town.
“Examination of a witness in Katoomba
(N.S.W.) Police Court was interrupted to allow
the deposition clerk to conduct a wedding.”
A similar duplication of jobs occurred
when the increasing drift to the city left
me the only citizen in the little town of
Wug Wug.
My first action was, of course, to elect
myself Mayor (unopposed), and at the
first meeting of the Borough Council I
found myself appointed Town Clerk,
Borough Surveyor, Fire Brigade Superin-
tendent and Health Inspector. The
meeting also increased the Mayor’s
honorarium by a substantial amount.
I next took over the various businesses
in the town, after which a day’s shopping
was a constant source of entertainment.
It was particularly amusing to watch the
expression of disappointed rage on my
face when I refused myself bacon or
tobacco. I was usually able, however,
to get in on my shirt and shoe quotas.
At the second meeting of the Borough
Council I abolished the rates, which were
becoming a burden to me. This also
necessitated abolishing the salaries of the
Mayor, Town Clerk, etc., but their pro-
tests were overruled by a majority of the
meeting.
Disaster finally hit our little commu-
nity when I, as the only publican, over-
charged the town’s Prices Commission
snooper (still me) for a bottle of beer.
As the only lawyer in the place, I con-
ducted both prosecution and defence bril-
liantly, the realism of the proceedings
being heightened by my skill as a ven-
triloquist. But the evidence was clear,
and I had no option but to sentence my-
self to three months’ without the option.
Now the life of the town is at a stand-
still. As a patriotic citizen I am morally
bound to boycott every one of my busi-
nesses.
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“To discover a potential star all dewy-fresh
in a high-school classroom is the kind of event
about which movie producers dream.”
— “Woman.”
The trouble is they don’t wake up when
she turns out to be merely a frost.
•b *b *b *b
“Refrigerator, 2-door, suit large family.”
—" S.M.H.”
What! Has the housing shortage come
to that?
*b *b *b *b
“Wanted 28in. lady’s bike frame.”
—“Great Northern.”
A child’s tricycle would seem to be
more suitable for her.
Evolution.
The father shifted folks from place to
place;
The mother looked the whole world in
the face.
Now habit and heredity divide
The' honors—half their kids are shifty -
eyed ‘ noTiXT n.ynra TT
. ju Brian Burea .
, * * , T„ *** . ■ „
, A sood n,shts
And put you in good shape for the
next dav
y ' * * * *
“She produced a number of letters to prove
that he had promised to marry her.”
—Court report.
Chain letters?
*' 4. 4. 4.
“Laundry: women, 45, for ironing and fold-
ing rooms.” —“Great Northern.”
Surely they won’t be expected tb pro-
vide their own scaffolding.
* * *
Real Tough Troops.
“The toughest army in the world, the Com-
munist Army of North China, takes time off
on Saturday night, when in town, to dance to
TzlTtog,
leader of 86 millions who are under Commu-
nistic protection, danced a fast one-step with
a cute co-ed from Yenan Art Academy. Roly-
half’a SiM Ja"|.ha“ g troSps.TnTed with°a
bright young thing one-third his age.”
—Harrison Forman to Sydney “D.T.”
General Can Hop Sum, leader of the
great North China People’s Communist
Route Army, pondered with pride, as he
sat in his tent, on the magnificent troops
he had under his command.
He had heard tell of some troops,
a * i j . . ,
Australians or somebody, who had beaten
a Japanese army back over the Owen
Stanleys. Some word, too, had reached
him of American marines and their feats
at Tarawa and Guadalcanal; of the
British who had slashed Rommel’s army
to shreds over 1000 miles of burning
desert and later fought their way up the
mountainous Italian peninsula; of the
Anglo-American armies who smashed a
way through Hitler’s Atlantic Wall,
Good enough, perhaps, in their way; but
such troops could only be described as
pansies compared to his own tough men.
Why, He could remember when they
had gone for four whole days without
seeing a picture show or hearing a con-
cert party. And what other troops in
the world could have done a forced
march of 18 miles in three days without
even having loofahs to scrub their backs
with at their nightly bath? Only a small
percentage of the soldiers had been able-
to bring along their checkers and mah-
jongg sets and their pet go idfi s h. These
hardships had been made worse by the
ZmZ-fpaZ (?« that they had run out of boiled lot
hes on the second day and this, more-
over, whe n they didn’t know but what
the Jap column might be nearer to them
than the 200 miles on which they were
reckoning
, ,
Then there was the time th ey had
stormed the approaches to Bung Wing.
At what bewildering speed had his troops
moved to overcome all obstacles! Held
up at one stage for half a day because
of heavy rain (the army having toughly
gone on the sortie without gamps or even
goloshes), defying the hot sun that came
? at afterwards, although they had only
inferior Jap-made sun-glare glasses im-
ported from Siberia, they had persisted
“ d eventually rushed through the terribly
monotonous short, dry grass that covered
the outskirts of the town to debouch
a t last on to the Palais de Danse.
And *ey reached that objective only to
find that there was only one rhumba left
to be danced before the orchestra played
“The Internationale.” It was a bitterly
disappointing end to a gallant action
which had not been without casualties-
one + man badl Y t X° dden l oa a 16 - stoae
matron and another poked m the eye by
a a ° la °~ e *. p ; y vCr ‘ , , ,
As the C.-m-C. was thus pleasantly soli-
Io isi there came to hi P tent ft/chief
G f staff
“Comrade-General,” said Major-Gen-
eral Yu Por Kow agitatedly, “tlings velly
bad. You savee we should now be on
marchee thlee houl ago.”
General Can Hop Supi shrugged his
shoulders. “No savee marchee this week,”
he said blandly. “Me enter contest for
jitterbug championship of Yenan. No
marchee till Fliday week after finals.”
Which goes to show, as the “D.T.”
correspondent truly says, that the Com-
munist Army of North China has no peer
for toughness,
80.
Social Contacts.
‘ American sailors are more inclined to whistle
at girls Rearing stockings than those with bare
legs, reports an American Associated Press rep-
resentative.” —‘ ‘Daily Telegraph.”
Thus, when a sailor goes a-wooing,
It’s not the contour of the limb.
However trim, that fetches him —
The outside wrapper’s his undoing;
And it’s a fact, though men deplore it.
The prudent girls who’vie hoarded hose
Will be invariably those
Who, when they’re whistled, just ignore it.
But here’s a word of sound advice to
You whistlers who give up the sport
And finally decide to court
A girl that’s suitable to splice to :
You want the shy, retiring sort,
The kind you have to whistle twice to.
P. M. LUSK.
Conclusion.
’Tis all a dream within a dream,
And we, who dream ’tis so,
Appear to realise we seem
To know not what we know.
And though to solve it all we try
In hopeful days of youth.
We find that everything’s a lie —
And that’s the flaming truth !
T. W. NATHAN.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others per line.
“Fisho” Tests—and Results
In a war-plant clerical section I am
associated with newly-returned men who
have justifiable grudges. One, whilst a
wireless air-gunner, lost a hand in action
in the Middle East. His application for
admission to the services correspondence
classes was noted “Not available to ex-
service men till Post-war Reconstruction
Plan functions.” Yet, if he were still in
the service he could do the accountancy
or any other course.
Another man, ex-merchant navy,
R.A.N. and A.1.F., hates office routine ;
but when Army Rehabilitation gave
him his psychology' test he, an ex-
perienced engineer arid mechanic, was
deemed admirably suited for clerical
duties or work as a commercial photo-
grapher—the latter classification was
gained because of his ready recognition
of colors in his “fisho” test, although he
affirms that he knows nothing about
cameras.
Here we have an example of two people
unhappy in the newly-allotted avoca-
tions —one, because he is denied the
opportunity of studying for advance-
ment ; the other, because he is a definite
misfit. Both are sick of approaching
Man-power (Servicemen’s Rehabilitation
Section), for that means waiting in a
queue, then meaningless interviews.
Surely our returned men deserve better
and more considerate treatment. They
should be given some choice and not be
at the mercy of psychiatrists and psycho-
logists whose judgment appears to be far
from infallible. No wonder most of the
released service men go foraging for their
own billets. — Aeram (Q.).
Soldier Preference
Soldier preference won’t take the form
of a voucher issued to the soldier on dis-
charge to be presented to any employer
demanding unconditional priority over
civilian applicants for employment. An
erroneous impression, that this is what
is meant is largely responsible for the sus-
picion and prejudice with which soldier
preference is viewed by some. Employers
in particular fear an attempt to remodel
their staffs to the detriment of the effi-
ciency of their businesses.
The responsibility should lie upon the
Government to re-educate the soldier for
absorption into commerce or industry.
He wants to be fit to hold his own
with civilian competitors for employment,
not to be apologetically shepherded into
a job found for him or made for him
from charitable motives.
Soldiers returning to civilian occupa-
tions who could use a rehabilitation
scheme fall into four classes:
(1) Those resuming their previous occupation
who would appreciate a refresher course of
training.
(2) Young men who enlisted shortly after
leaving school and had just commenced or were
about to commence studies.
(3) Those who will be unable to return to
their previous occupation because ( a ) they were
self-employed, (6) they have received injuries
which have incapacitated them, (c) there is an
oversupply of man-power in that occupation,
(a) conditions have otherwise changed.
(4) Those who have shown outstanding ability
in a calling different from their pre-war one and
who would like to pursue studies in the new
occupation.
The Government has announced a
Commonwealth Reconstruction Training
Scheme which on paper seems to meet
all requirements. Time alone will tell
whether or not the organisation will be
adequate to meet the demand for it. Let’s
hope they don’t repeat the A.E.S. error
of inadequacy.— Toreador (A.1.F.).
I cannot entirely agree with your lead-
ing article (B. 12/ 7/ ’44). These copper-
bottomed guarantees of employment have
been known to fail at times. If an em-
ployer goes bankrupt, for instance, his
guarantee isn’t much good to his soldier
employees. Also, in the post-war period
competition is going to be fierce and em-
ployers will not employ men whose effi-
ciency has been impaired by years of war
service in desert and jungle.
Since leaving the army in March last
I’ve been asked by one employer if I suf-
fered from malaria. When I said yes he
advised me to seek a job elsewhere. I
venture to say many thousands of my
mates are going to find it hard to hold
down their jobs, because employers will
not be willing to employ men who are
foredoomed to two or three spells in
hospital each year.
The regulation you quoted can be just
as easily repealed as it was promulgated.
And, remember, preference to returned
soldiers, such as it was, was very nearly
repealed about 15 years ago.
During more than four years as a
member of the A.I.F. I’ve learned to
admire The Bulletin for its consistent
support for the soldiers, and for its nearly-
perfect reporting of the war, but for once
I consider it has erred.—X-VX (S.A.).
Unwanted Opportunities
My work brings me in contact with
a department which employs 16 Waaafs
and six members of the R.A.A.F. The
girls, generally speaking, are young and
have not held peace-time positions, Their
standard of efficiency is low. In the open
field of competitive business most of
them would never get jobs.
To equip personnel for the future, the
R.A.A.F. Educational ' Service offers
tuition in a wide variety of subjects at
very low rates. Only two of the 16 girls
and one man are taking advantage of it.
Not, perhaps, a typical example of
back-of-the-line apathy, but discourag-
ing.—J, D. (Vic.).
The Middle-class Burden
While preparing his Budget Mr, Chifley
might well turn his attention to the plight
of family men on what used to be re-
“Still working in the Q. store , Blair?”
garded as the middle range of incomes
from £5OO to £750. Even before the war
these taxpayers had strong claims to con-
sideration ; today, as the new poor, they
are the hardest-hit victims of war finance.
Here’s a typical case —a family of four,
husband, wife and two children, aged 15
and 12. Husband’s income is a shade
over £6O0 —too much to enable him
to share some of the concessions and
grants that many wage-earners enjoy,
too little to allow him to regard his ex-
clusion from these with indifference. His
income tax is roughly £l2O. He has a life-
insurance policy, and contributes to a
pension fund as well—which means that
he won’t lean on the Government in his
old age. Probably he owns his own home,
or is paying it off —which means that he
doesn’t join in the clamor for Govern-
ment subsidised housing schemes. He
pays his doctor’s bills, and when hos-
pital treatment is needed the patient goes
into an intermediate or private ward —
another saving for the, Government.
His ambition is to give his youngsters
a better start than he had himself. He
wants to give them both a complete
secondary education, followed by from
four to six years at the university or else-
where, in preparation for their life work.
He realises that during all these years
they will earn nothing, or next to nothing
—that he will have to see them through.
It is true that, in undertaking this job, his
concern is for the youngster, rather than
for the country. But surely personal and
national interests are here identical. In
giving his children a good start he is
accepting a full share of responsibility as
a citizen, and has a right to expect that
the Government will not discourage him.
He is allowed a rebate on income tax
(£23 for the first child ; £8 for the seco::d),
and for the second the Government pays
him (or his wife) child endowment (£l3).
But on the day the elder child turns 16
(and while he is still at school) child
endowment ceases and the rebate for one
child is withdrawn. This happens just
when the cost of feeding and dressing the
youngsters has about reached the maxi-
mum, and when the really big expense
of completing their education lies ahead.
This family man isn’t asking for favors.
He simply asks the Treasurer to grasp
the fact that a dependant is a dependant,
as long as he (or she) is a dependant.—
Magister (N.S.W.).
Income Tax and the Deaf
The hard of hearing have to cope with
many difficulties in order to obtain and
keep a job.
The league I represent claims that both
the original cost of hearing-aid appli-
ances (£35 to £6O) and the weekly cost
of batteries (2s. 6d. to 155.) should be
allowed as rebates, for without this aid
no income could be earned at all.
The Federal Treasurer and Minister
for Customs have been asked to assist.
But the replies received have been most
unsatisfactory. M. Henderson (Hon.
Sec. Victorian League for the Hard of
Hearing).
Wages for Wives
“P.V.H.” (B. 2/8/’44) may be an A 1
housewife, but she’s C 3 on arithmetic.
She claims she does three full-time and
three part-time jobs. As she wants to be
paid full award rates she must expect
to work award houra—l32 a week on
three full time jobs ; 20 on the three part-
time jobs. That makes up 152 hours a
week leaving her just a little over two
hours a day in which to sleep or just sit
about feeling sorry for herself.
May I suggest to “P.V.H.” that she get
a pencil and paper and keep a time-
sheet, remembering to deduct the time
when she “simply must sit down and have
a cuppa” and the time she loses when
she “just pops in to Mary’s to tell her
that Jane’s baby has a new tooth.” I
think she will find that her hours actually
worked are not much greater than those
put in by her sister in the factory or office.
—Harap (Vic.).
Help or Hoard
An advertisement headed “Help or
Hoard” says that hoarded notes amount-
ing to £175,000,000 would earn £5,687,500
in interest, if invested in war loans.
True, but it is suspected even in
official circles that much of this hoarded
money, is the result of illicit gains from
black-marketing and other profits omitted
from income-tax returns.
One way to bring this vast sum into the
daylight would be to fix a date after
which the present note issue would not
be legal tender and, from that date, to
issue a new type of note. This has been
done with success in other countries. —
Bo Fin (N.S.W.).
The Pledges to Poland
Those whose fears for the future are
based largely upon a low estimate of
contemporary political morality and intel-
ligence cannot feel encouraged by the
spectacle of 94 members of the British
House of Commons urging the formation
of an international police force what time
the Polish Prime Minister makes his
lonely and disillusioned pilgrimage to
Moscow. This when there is assembled
in arms the most mighty international
police force this world has ever known.
Sympathisers with the Poles, who went
to war on the strength of a British
guarantee, now can start puzzling out how
that guarantee and the pious altruism
of the Atlantic Charter can be made to
square with arranging for Stalin to pinch
half Poland while Poland takes East
Prussia.—!. W. R. (Tas.).
The Future for Wool
“Jumbuck” (B. 12/7/ ’44) may be right
about the danger of synthetic products
competing with Australian wool, but in-
ternal conditions about to arise may be
even more perilous.
Britain has been and still is our best
customer for wool, and much will depend
on our treatment of Britain as to
how long this is going to last. According
to a leading article in the “West Austra-
lian,” dated 11/1 /’43, the British Govern-
ment paid us £189,000,000 in 1942 for
wool alone. A few years ago there was a
par. in the same paper about an exhibi-
tion in London of lacey articles of
woollen attire which would make a direct
challenge to synthetic products. Assur-
ance to British woollen manufacturers of
a square deal at our end of the business
would give them the confidence to launch
out on experiments which might counter
synthetics.
The Federal Government, pledged to
increase the production of all secondary
industries, is backed up by David Rivett,
who says that Australia should aim at
becoming self-dependent and “build up
secondary industries to an extent scarcely
contemplated five or ten years ago.” To
enable us to do this we would have to
buy the machinery from Britain and
proceed to supply our own market with
the tweeds, etc., it requires and exclude
the British articles by tariffs. How could
we expect the British to continue pur-
chasing our wool? —C. R. R. (W.A.).
Marriage and the Birthrate
While motherhood is essential to
women, fatherhood isn’t necessary to a
man’s health or happiness. It speaks well
for the gallantry of man that he spends
his days in self-denial and work, genera-
tion after generation, striving to make
his sons’ lives better than his own.
Though he works to that end, no man
really enjoys seeing his sons excel him.
If he loves his wife he is often miserably
aware of what his children take out of
his wife’s affection, something that should
be his. A man could have a pretty good
life with what it takes to keep a wife and
family. With a woman it’s different. The
bearing of a child occasionally is normal-
ising and necessary experience to a
woman. One man can be as a son or a
brother to another man, but no woman
can be as close to a woman as her own
daughter.
A woman can get self-expression living
her children’s lives with them. A man
cannot do this ; if he tries to live through
another man he becomes damaged, men-
tally and spiritually.
Let’s be honest. “Matrimony,” old
Stead wrote, “is the fair trade-union price
of a woman’s hand.” A woman’s wages
in marriage are the right to produce as
many children as are necessary to her
own wellbeing, and to use the man she
has herself chosen to be their father to
get for that part of herself which is in
her children those things out of life
which instinct and her personal ambi-
tion desire for them. If it comes to a
choice between hurting her children or
their father, Dad mostly comes off
second-best.
Of course, with all that, if marriage
were not preferable to cohabitation with-
out marriage the institution would have
died out long ago. The wages for women
aren’t so good inside marriage as they
are outside, but conditions are better. As
for big families, it takes just about two
generations of big families to discover
that no ordinary man can adequately pro-
vide for a large number of offspring. In
the big Australian families the eldest son
and daughter got the roughest deal, and
they became the most ardent propagan-
dists for small families.
Touching that yearly holiday which
would straighten out most married
women’s mental kinks, why can’t there
be national-fitness camps for mothers
with small children, equipped with kin-
dergartens? Then the big ones could be
packed off to the excellently-run camps
such as are functioning in my N. S. Wales
district, and Mother could get her holi-
day away from them and in company of
other sufferers. And what a holiday for
Dad!— C.K. (N.S.W.),


AUSTRALIAN STEEL
FIGHTS ON ALL FRONTS!
Libyan dust or jungle mud has made no difference to
the performance of Australian equipment. We have
evolved steel for all war purposes.
Steel is the mainspring of modern war. And
a war which is being waged from the balmy
South Seas to the icy wastes of the Murmansk
route to Russia—from Normandy to Aitape—
demands that steel must face up to the toughest
job ever tackled.
Conditions have changed rapidly in the
mighty drive that has carried up past the Axis
in the production of war equipment. The war
machine of to-day has been out of date to-
morrow—the armour-plate of one day has been
useless the next.
Thanks to Australian brains, and Australian
energy, we have been able to keep up with the
war. We have been able to meet every demand
made by changing conditions, and, better than
that, we have been able to strike out with a
few ventures of our own —things like the pro-
duction of ferro-zirconium, magnesium, and
tungsten carbide, all of which are, going to be
just as valuable to us in peace as they have
been in war.
To-day, Australian steel is battling on all
fronts —even in Normandy, where the British
Third Division was one of the first to hit the
beach. After Dunkirk, when the B.E.F.
streamed back almost weaponless, it was one
of the Divisions equipped with Australian
rifles. In Italy, Australian-made twenty-five-
pounders with the Eighth Army are carrying on
with the job they started at El Alamein.
We don’t need to repeat the praise bestowed
The Allies didn't have artillery suitable for jungle
warfare. so Australians made some Guns were taken
over the Owen Stanley Runge on pack-horses.
on Australian equipment in the South West
Pacific. Australians can afford to feel proud of
the contribution that our steel has made to the
Allied war effort, the more so because every
ton of steel that has gone into a gun, a ship,
or a tank, has cost Australia less than steel
from anywhere else in the world.
We've turned out everything from rifles to warships.
In every one of them the material has been of the
same high class.
Australians held onto Tobruk in the greatest siege in
modern times. Barbed wire made in Australia helped
them to do it.
Australian steel has made its presence felt from the
tropics to the Arctic Circle. No wonder we’re proud of
our war effort.
