

RAPE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 85.—N0. 3358
Wednesday, June 21, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BOLTON CASTLE.
FORBIDDING FORTRESS OF THE SCROPES.
COMMANDING half of Yorkshire’s Wensleydale is this massive
four-square castle with its great towers nearly a hundred
feet high. Although much of Bolton Castle is now m ruin it is
still one of England’s best preserved castles. Grey and forbidding
it stands, venerable with the centuries since Lord Richard of
Scrope spent twenty years and two hundred thousand pounds in
its building during the reign of the second Richard. This Richard
Scrope, apparently a builder for all time, fought at Crecy, was
knighted at Neville’s Cross, and rode against the Scots for forty
years
One summer’s day in 1568 Mary Queen ot Scots was brought here
a prisoner, and in one of the comer towers was her bedroom.
Here, among those who kept guard over her, was Sir Richard
Knollys, whom she nicknamed the good schoolmaster. From
Bolton Castle, the Queen wrote m secret to the Duke ot Morioi ,
little dreaming that Lord Burleigh was reading her letters
was the beginning of a romance that ended abruptty wnen
duke lost his head. And here, kept despite many comp r
for her release, the poor Queen remained for six months uni
she was removed elsewhere on her journey south to London an
the block on Tower Hill.
.
And still Bolton Castle stands today, a proud and mighty memorial
to a family famed through nnany.chapters of
for there were Scropes here at Bolton until 1630, when the estate
passed to the Orde-Powletts.


liMii
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney '‘BulletinA’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 244
AQE
The Red Page
WHERE'S THE HORSE?
Thinking of some South African novel-
ists, Roy Campbell once wrote in an un-
kind moment: —
You praise the “firm restraint” with which they
write;
I'm with you there, of course.
They use the snaffle and the bit all right—
But where’s the horse?
And in spite of the merit of the writing,
the ingenuity of construction and the
success as entertainment of Don
Edwards’s short stories collected under
the title High Hill at Midnight (Austra-
lasian Publishing Co.; by arrangement
with the Commonwealth Fund), one is
tempted to ask just that question about
them.
They are certainly restrained. Is
there a horse, or is there a bridle only?
There’s never any difficulty in finding
Gavin Casey’s “horse”: it works in a
mine. H. E. Bates wants to say some-
thing about the English peasant, seen as
a natural growth of the soil. De
Maupassant wants to tell you about the
comedies of the passions; D. H.
Lawrence about the dramas of the
passions. In theme and in characterisa-
tion as well as in place, the short-story
writer is normally “localised” ; he has his
individual concept of life to express and
all his stories fit into the pattern of that
.concept, broad or limited as it may be.
At first glance, Don Edwards’s “line”
.appears to be domestic disillusion ; the
picture of man and wife imprisoned in
hate or escaping in misery.
There are “He Walks Home with His
Wife,” a sketch of a couple divorced;
“My Mother Was Sitting Before the
Fire,” a well-balanced study of the
mother-in-law problem; “Memorable
Night,” the agonies of young love in a
triangle situation : “Clear Profit,” misery
among misers ; “You Drive Lola Home,”
essentially ithe same story as “He Walks
Home with His Wife” —Don Edwards
should watch for the danger of repeti-
tion ; “Escape for Her,” the same story
again ; “A New Job” and “A Move to
the City,” linked stories of a wife’s
hatred for her husband —a badly-chosen
ending for the book because they sug-
gest that as a whole it is in fact de-
signed to stress the disillusions and
despairs of human relationships.
There are certainly enough stories in
this group to indicate a concept. If it
were all that Don Edwards has to offer
it would be a poor sort of horse.
It is finely drawn, but it couldn’t gallop
a hundred yards. On Matthew Arnold’s
authority, unrelieved misery, mere hope-
lessness, isn’t a subject for art; and, if
the dictum is modified to allow an occa-
sional excursion into hopelessness, it re-
mains true as a generalisation. However
well done, the meticulous analysis of
hopelessness is an exercise in the art of
the post-mortem rather than an act of
creation.
Don Edwards rides other horses.
Their number and variety, indeed, are one
of the greatest attractions of his book.
“Fighting Makes a Man of You” and
“A Bit of a Hit Is Nothing” are two
stories —or rather, once again, essentially
the same story written twice —about a
small boy being coaxed into a fight by
his father and, saving the theme from'
being the familiar contemporary study
of the woes of childhdod, learning .that,
after all, “a bit of a hit is nothing.”
“Dopey” is the usual Australian punch-
drunk story, very well done but no dif-
ferent in its essence from a type A. C.
Headley has made familiar. The present
commentator can’t see any reason for
writing about boxing unless ithe writer
loves the game, and these punch-drunk
stories, essentially reformist and senti-
mental, amounting to a solemn warning
to all the fraternity to chuck it, are a mis-
take. Fielding, Borrow and Hazlitt wrote
for the fun of the fight.
Don Edwards has two studies of the
problems of teachers; one gangster yarn
and one story about a man coming home
from jail; two stories about railway-
men ; and four—“He Got a Job,” “On
Her Shoulders,” “What Chance!” and
“Long Afternoon”—on the Social Better-
ment theme.
As far as the reader’s entertainment is
concerned, it is good that he ranges so
widely in his themes and in his types.
But it makes the task of finding what
really is his “line” all the more difficult.
Headley has made a “line” of boxing
stories ; Don Edwards just touches the
theme for a moment. Will Lawson has
made a “line” of railwayraen; Don
Edwards spends only half an hour with
them.
But something of an underlying con-
cept can be discerned in these scattered
themes and characters. Clearly, in the
domestic-disillusion stories, he is inter-
ested in human relations. Clearly, in the
fighting stories, he is interested in the
combative male. In all the stories, even
those sunk in misery, his women are
attractively drawn, with something in-
domitable about them: their persever-
ance in “On Her Shoulders,” their thirst
for adventure in “Never Again,” their
hatred in “A New Job” and “A Move to
the City.” And clearly in his title story
Don Edwards is interested in the poetry
of nature, especially as a wild setting
for a drama of men and women.
The combative male ; the indomitable
female ; a Wild natural setting. It is when
he brings these three elements into the one
story that his concept of life is fully
conveyed at last. The sinewy strength
which is the ultimate impression he leaves
with the reader comes from three stories:
“The House on the Cliff,” “The Woman
from the Bend,” “Rendezvous Over the
River” (the last a model of construction).
Here his men are arrogant, his women
indestructible, and they hate or love each
other with certainty and passion against
a background of sea or mountains or
bush.
The concept from which D. H. Law-
rence wrote was very much the same as
this; Ethel Mannin, in a lesser way,
had something of it. It is certainly Don
Edwards’s line, and he should stick to it.
All his other stories are a groping to-
wards the concept made clear in these
three fine dramas. He has a horse ; and
he has found it; if he rides it hard and
fast, especially over the long distance of
a novel, he will win races.
Lonely Hearts' Corner.
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “may
I ask that you do something for me?”
“If it’s a loan,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“you’re not going to get it; if it’s a
cigarette, I’m going to keep it for my-
self. But anything else”
“Will you just stand a moment by the
window,” asked Mr. Shean, “looking out?
It may be that you will see the bare
boards of your neighbor’s house pressed
so mercilessly close against your; own. It
may be that you are chained to your bed
by a sick body not adequate for the
effort. It may be that you will look out
on great stretches of open country ; green
waving crops and blowing grasses and
trees bending in the wind. Perhaps you
will look upon the coolness of rivers or
the vastness of the sea. But surely you
will be able to find, somewhere, a patch
of blue sky.”
“Certainly,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“What’ll I do with it?”
“Pause there a moment and turn your
face to the future,” said Mr. Shean, “un-
afraid in the knowledge that what is
written there for you you cannot alter.
This moment is yours—nothing more.
Use it. Build upon it. Give to it all that
is best and noble in you ; cherish it, for
it is yours. Will you do this for me?”
“As a matter of fact,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “I won’t.”
“Come, now,” said Mr, Shean. “For
a lady. You are invited to look at the
blue sky by Elizabeth Webb, a Radio
Personality whose ‘Speaking Personally’
session has been broadcast to all States
of Australia and whose talks have been
distributed in book form by Oldham,
Beddome and Meredith Pty., Ltd.,
Hobart, under the title The Infinite Pur-
suit. Surely you will stand at the window
just for one teeny-weeny moment?”
“For a lady, yes,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“But I can’t say I feel much better for
it. Radio talks upset me. I should rather
like to be discourteous to a policeman.”
“Do you think,” asked Mr. Shean,
“that little children should be allowed
to read comics and wild-westerners?”
“Certainly,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“What would you do if a dear old lady
came to your door selling pot-holders?”
asked Mr. Shean.
*‘l should tell her that I did not
require any pot-holders today,” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“Ah,” said Mr. Shean ; “but suppos-
ing your little boy was so sensitive that
he suffered from an inner cringing ! /”
“I should warn him,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “against excessive indulgence in
italics and exclamation marks. Then I
should kick him.”
“What would you do if you were a
Lonely Heart?” asked Mr. Shean.
“I should try to be introduced to a
lonely American,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“I am afraid,” said Mr. Shean, “that
you are a pumpkin vine on which no
roses wifi ever blow.”
Two from "The Bulletin."
Currawong Press has published two
books of stories and sketches reprinted
from The Bulletin, G. C. Blceck’s Rats,
Ruses and Raggles, and J. H. M. Abbott’s
Out of the Past.
The definition of a novel needs to be
a pretty generous one for Rats, Ruses
and Raggles to merit the label on the
wrapper, “a Currawong novel,” for the
book is really a series of 1000-word
sketches, loosely linked. Such continuity
as there is has been destroyed at the end
by the inclusion of two or three short
stories labelled —astonishingly—as “chap-
ters” in the “novel” but having nothing
whatsoever to do with Raggles, his rats or
his ruses. What obviously was necessary
was for Bleeck to have written a couple
more yarns about Raggles, somehow
bringing him and his affairs to a con-
clusion.
The book remains, however, pleasant
reading. Raggles is the professional rat-
catcher whose adventures were chronicled
in The Bulletin at fairly regular inter-
vals a few years ago. He is descended,
probably, from one of O. Henry’s ami-
able rogues and puts a good deal more
energy,into tricking and annoying the
Town Councillors than into his rat-catch-
ing.
Like O. Henry’s, the stories are written
to a formula, but are redeemed from any
feeling of the mechanical by their humor
and their oddity. It is not every day one
meets a professional rat-catcher.
J. H. M, Abbott’s book is printed in a
villainously small type, apart from which
it is eminently readable. He has selected
from his “Out of the Past” series in The
Bulletin 45 brief factual sketches, leav-
ing his historical fiction possibly for an-
other volume.
He deals in characteristic style with
some of the Spanish voyagers; with
whalers ; “Sydney Harbor Names,” “Syd-
ney Streets” ; convicts, male and female ;
“The Last Tasmanian” ; “The First Bul-
letin” ; “Founders of Melbourne” ; “The
Very First A.I.F.” ... a sort of geo-
graphical and historical tour of Australia
by short and easy stages.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Pawang”: George Sava hasn’t written
a very remarkable play in “Children of
Russia,” given its world premiere in
Melbourne by the Group Theatre. Ber-
nard Shaw wrote a more enlightened one
in “The Doctor’s Dilemma.” Sava,
possibly because he is a doctor himself,
is so anxious to prove the B.M.A. right
on all occasions that he puts up against
it a Russian monk, a sort of emigre Ras-
putin, who diagnoses a grandduchess’s
malignant growth as flatulency, claiming
divine revelation and a magic golden
arrow for his authority. The doctor who
made the correct diagnosis scores a
triumph when his patient dies under the
belated operation. This is such old-
fashioned stuff that it is hardly worth a
mention. There is more interest in the
characterisation of the old Czarist aristoc-
racy, who are portrayed as wanting
Russia to be overrun by Hitler so that
the Bolsheviks can be ousted. This
seemed so incredible to the Melbourne
audience that it got the heartiest laughs
of the evening. Patricia Lee was admir-
able as a secretary in love with her some-
what priggish doctor, nervously portrayed
by Alex. Anders. Margaret Reid and
Hugh D. Neville were suitably decayed
examples of the Russian ex - ruling
classes. Felix Farquharson was a hope-
lessly apologetic Rasputin and looked like
a cross between the late Alfred Deakin
and D. H. Lawrence
“Cauboy”; If Gladys Moncrieff and
others had been financial members of the
union they didn’t want to join, it wouldn’t
have made the antiquated junk of “Viktoria
and Her Hussar” at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, any less imbecilic, nor the songs
that Gladys had to sing any better vehicle
for her talents. If there was anything
stiffer than the triangular Business in the
garden of the American Embassy at
Tokyo it was the same triangle trans-
ferred to the American Embassy at Petro-
grad. For some reason or other, musical-
comedy producers and actors find it
necessary to perform these domestic
situations, which are really comic, as if
they were undertakers’ assistants. The
scene in the vineyard of Dorozsma, Hun-
gary was colorful and comic neverthe-
less, the anonymous mayor delightful, and
dancers Karinska and Vadie were out-
standing.
Filling in a gap left by striking actors,
Lorna Forbes and a company put on
“Comedienne” at ■ the Comedy, Mel-
bourne, a play concerning the attempt at
a comeback by a one-time leading actress.
The old Shakspearean provided a convinc-
ing demonstration of the plausibility of
the playwright’s thesis.
Leo Cherniavsky, onetime of the
famous trio of brothers, returned to
Melbourne for a festival of fiddling at
the Assembly Hall. It was a much
matured violinist who played Tartini’s
Trillo del Diavolo with the speed of a
Spitfire, the Introduction and Rondo
Capriccioso of Saint-Saens with abandon,
and imparted polish and tenderness to the
Bruch Violin Concerto in G minor. Anna
Jackobovitch accompanied at the piano
with discretion.
In her pianoforte recital at the Sydney
Con. Vera Bradford was fully tested with
two fine sonatas; Haydn’s E Flat, a pat-
tern of orthodox sonata form, and Liszt’s
B Minor, which at first brought con-
tumely on its composer because he had
dared to use one continuous movement
instead of the accepted setting. In each
work the pianist gave a strong, authori-
tative reading, particularly in the Liszt.
That Miss Bradford possesses also a deli-
cate touch was demonstrated in a capti-
vating Chopin group. Debussy’s “Fire-
works” was given with a fine dash, and
the American Charles Griffes’s “The
White Peacock,” an interesting study in
unashamed impressionism, and ten one-
minute Bagatelles by Tscherepnine were
lively morsels.
Adelaide Repertory, now needing four
evenings in the big Tivoli to satisfy its
1500 members and the public demand,
entrusted “The Mocking Bird” mainly to
four experienced players, Keith Mc-
Donald, in the heavy leading part; Glen-
non, Claridge and Phyllis Simpson. Some
younger newcomers in the cast were
promising. Beryl Roberts produced.
“C.R.”; Melbourne Philharmonic’s
policy of giving platform performances
of grand opera is to be commended in
the present dearth of such things.- Its
presentation of “Faust” at the Town Hall
was without Professor Heinze, who was
sick, but his place was adequately taken
by chorus-master Dan Hardy, whose
quiet and generally unacknowledged work
behind the scenes has been a big factor
in scores of concerts directed by con-
ductors such as Thomas Beecham. The
ladies and gentlemen of the chorus didn’t
sing any the worse for not being dressed
in die quaint costumes of orthodox opera,
and William Herbert as the German
scholar who takes a fancy to an innocent
maiden was all the better for not having
to think about his sword, which generally
gets between the legs of leading tenors
at critical moments. Nor did the sar-
donic, saturnine, satanic, black-visaged
Alan Eddy need any make-up as Mephis-
topheles. His deep voice was golden and
his satyric laugh would have curdled the
milk in a dairy. Peggy Knibb was a tune-
ful Marguerite.
At the talkies:
Warner Bros, assembled a fine cast for “Casa-
blanca” (Sydney Tatler). The story, frankly
melodramatic, is particularly strong in charac-
terisation. The sparring between the German
commander (Conrad Veidt) and the corrupt
French Chief of Police (Claude Rains steals
the show with a spirited portrayal) is done
capitally. Humphrey Bogart turns in another
of his tough cynical roles, and Paul Henreid
and Ingrid Bergman handle romance and in-
trigue capably.
Specialists in “screwy” comedy, Olsen and
Johnson are at their screwiest in “Crazy House”
(State), in which they make a film —and what
a film —to their own liking and not to any
producer’s or director’s. Their efforts to sell
it are as uproarious as the stunts in its
making.
Booth Tarkington’s story of the small-town
stage-struck girl who reaches Broadway star-
dom makes an attractive film, but “Presenting
Lily Mars” (St. James) has one glaring incon-
gruity. Judy Garland, whose voice and acting
ability are no match for her personality, is
made to displace Marta Eggerth, who oan act,
is an eye-balm and has a glorious soprano
voice. The up-and-coming Van Heflin is
smooth as silk as a harassed producer. Set-
tings, dances and the musical sequences are
up to the high M.-G.-M. standard.
Jack Benny proves that a grin can still be
raised with that grand old war-horse of farce
“Charlie’s Aunt” (Empire). Twentieth-Century
Fox haven’t played around too much with the
original script, and Benny doesn’t spare him-
self as the rich aunt from Brazil in his efforts
on the Oxford (1894) front.
Bob Hope’s unerring sense of comedy and
Betty Hutton’s vivacity keep “Let’s Face It”
(Prince Edward) at a high pitch. The only de-
parture from the stage play is the hilarious
finish, with the three service men getting mixed
up with a U-boat while returning from their
comic assignation with, the middle-aged, venge-
ful wives of errant husbands.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE 1
mmmm
x : §pv:
mmmtm
N7^
>:m
m
ri
ms
M
mm
mm
wmfg
m
M
*»«¥
mm
:mi
>**
■
mmm
S,<yKsoXm
k/%
jm*
'T.iMUfc
z
••• • •>•■ •:>••
&Bm£
•£ss&>
€i
Ni
SR
/ U
an
w
m
Mi
£
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
ii>-
m
, Victory Sloga". * or a
••KEEP F' T ’ ,s * ® ter , day by d a V-
are brings V,cWry eather months, the
Fit during w , se germs.
«>“" .»««
keep yo“ anu
„„ a combing' o " of
ensured by Ha, ' b ° Q i\ and orange |U,ce _
--r:
per bottle.
./ y*
I
/X
X "m
W: : w*
mt
/ '/
\
- A
AAr A*x v
V.
' • W
'XX-'X**'**
m X #"
iA •#
; .»•••• v»£...
X X<=" :•'■ X> /Xj
X , XX xX X >
• f<> . s / X X .X' jX- i* l ' X / \\ ‘••
-X X ,A ; : ‘. ■’.■• X* X'* /' ■ ■ ■•■ . / \\
%/ / , X /•.;.../ >
XX
oX.X-X ,•:••• -v
/
€f//,
X #.X£s
//
/X
/>
1 I #/:
\ V
/^/
' ,X V*f
JSw*. * E$ ,-*-■•
, xxA Ax
£
Cx
/t
7
famous sow pwoes
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
i u \
:rIP
r
The nicest way 0/ taking
Halibut-Liver Oil
4
A combination of
Allenburys Halibut*Liver Oil
witK additional Vitamin D and
Ailenburys Orange Juke.
Cental** Um>
Vitifn.n A. «ftd f*e aotirad*i»K
Vitamin 0. *iH» »h« aot'Stwy
Vltomin C.
Om <eJ>f>ou*fu( */ f laUhorant*
is rouivolrttf i* y/ymtti f**frncy
wor */ CW-£»vrr
1 -mth tfeiia/vontul* «/
!mh Or<**S* Jvitr.
tf dtarsfimrs Mf htr» ifl
bac» J>i »«»•**.
Oil m
Mdnjfjetwfd m fno’o dby
Allen &Hanburys lid
London. E 7


S 5
©
I
or
S’
8*
©
Illustrated here, as one of Australia’s
leading architects sees it, is a typical
Australian post-war home.
A moderately-priced home de-
signed for Australian conditions...
to meet Australian tastes and needs,
that is how our architect describes it.
Planned, not as a building to which
you must accommodate yourself, but
as a home in which you will live more
comfortably.
It will have many work-saving
devices, too. New electrical wonders,
lighting, heating and refrigeration
will be beyond anything previously
seen.
And, 'better-living’ will be built-in.
Framework of your post-war home,
we believe, will be fabricated from
Steel Tubing. Steel Tubing (the
strongest structural shape known) is
light, fireproof and vermin proof,
and will not warp or shrink.
Structural Steel Tubing will be a contribution
to post-war housing by
Stewarts
emd
Lloyds
CAust.) Pty. Ltd.
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Perth and Brisbane.
Stewarts and Lloyds’ big job to-day is
the making of munitions of war and
piping for the armed services and other
essential purposes. When Victory is
won their interest in your post-war
home will be confined to the tubular
framework and to piping for water,
gas and other services.
V
□
SINK
□
DINING
(O.'o'x 12,' o"
GARAGE
18!o"x io!
o
LAUNDRY n / KITCHEN
HEAT
C R
RANDAH
P
BOOKS
FIRE PUCE
VERANDAH
LIVING ROOM
23.‘0" x 17 1 o“
BED ROOM
12V* 12!6"
BED ROOM
14'.6"x 12'. 6*


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3358.
Wednesday, June 21, 1944.
THE SHADOW AT THE FEAST.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-240 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
MR. CURTIN SHOULD KNOW.
Back from his triumphant wanderings—•
if that is the right term —Mr. Curtin
should be able to tell his colleagues a
lot of things he learned over there, and
probably will have a few to tell Aus-
tralia. One of the most interesting would
be what headway, if any, he was able to
make in regard to arranging the future
security of this country and what will
have to be done in the way of quid pro
quo.
The P.M. was grilled rather fiercely
once or twice in the course of his travels.
Some of the warmest stoking was done
by Col. McCormick and his Chicago
“Tribune,” which may have had a little
to do with the recent rebuff to the
colonel’s hopes of starting a paper t for
American troops in these parts. What
most infuriated the colonel had, oddly
enough, also most infuriated such stal-
wart Australian patriots as Mr. Keith
Murdoch and a choir of Australian
Senators—that is, the infernal hide of a
place like Australia daring to express
opinions and aspirations regarding the
future control of certain Pacific island
bases, as laid down in the Australia-New
Zealand Agreement. Being a forthright
man, the colonel up and declared:
We [U.SA.] should insist on retaining
such of the islands as we have saved from,
retaken or taken from the Japanese as
will secure our future safety from attack.
We should retain air bases and radio
stations wherever we have built them, and
we should secure now, by treaty, the right
to fly directly everywhere we want to go.
As for things the colonel or his paper
said about this country and its P.M. and
their proper place'in the scheme of things,
they were nearly enough to shrivel a bun-
yip. There’s no question about them, the
colonel and his paper are great scrappers
of the old pistol-packin’ school of journal-
ism. In this conflict they represent the
remarkable paradox of being branded as
“isolationist” when, as a matter of fact,
they are the most ferocious “imperialists”
in Uncle Sam’s corral. Someone who
has had the patience to count has
found that there are over 2500 islands of
one size and another in the former Jap
mandates. The colonel would have them
all for Uncle Sam; and it might fairly
be said on behalf of both Australia and
New Zealand that he’d be welcome to the
whole bang lot of them.
If the colonel, etc., had been all that
Mr. Curtin had to take on this and re-
lated matters, «the P.M. would possibly
have been, if anything, invigorated. Per-
haps the most cutting things he had tc
listen to came from one of the mildest
of men, which is saying something when
the man happens to be also an American
columnist. This one, William Philip
Simms, representing the New York
“World-Telegram,” was in London when
our P.M. cast up there for the Empire
Conference. Viewing that assembly and '
noting signs that the Premiers were turn-
ing “nationalistic,” Mr. Simms noted
also a tendency “to forget deeds per-
formed and words uttered in darker
hours.”
Singling the Australian out from the
pack, Mr. Simms gently reminded him
that after Singapore, “when Australia
stood defenceless,” he “did not turn
to Britain for help, l?ut to the United
States.” Mr. Simms also recalled the
P.M.’s agonised cry on that occasion:
“Said he, T ihake it clear that Australia
looks to America free from any pangs
about our traditional links of friendship
to Britain. We are determined that Aus-
tralia shall not go. We shall exert our
energy towards shaping a plan with the
United States as its keystone.’ ” And,
added the mild Mr* Simms;
That Australia did not appeal in vain is
a matter of history. Today the United
States Pacific Fleet alone is larger than
the fleets of the rest of the world combined.
The burden of defeat of Japan still rests
on America. Mr. Curtin has not said
whether he has changed his views, but' an
Australian spokesman, purporting to give
the Premier’s views in the “Sunday Dis-
patch,” nowhere mentioned America’s part
in stopping the Japs’ southward drive. On
the contrary, he attributed the “miraculous
phenomenon” to “the grace of God.”
Further enlarging on the theme of
some countries’ ingratitude and the pos-
sible fruit —a theme much more common
in America touching on Australia than
it should have any right to be—Mr.
Simms stated that the representatives
gathered in London were once more
speaking of the bigness of the Empire,
“pointing out that it is four times the
area of the United States and’ has three
times the population.” He added: “They
do not go on to siy, however, that
America is spending twice the money and
has more men in the armed services than
the Empire.”
Nobody would accuse this particular
writer of being merely one of those of
whom Mr. Churchill said that, since this
is an election year in Uncle Sam’s coun-
try, “a lot of rough things” will naturally
be said about Britain. Mr. Simms is
near enough to being a normal average
American for his comments to have
special weight on that account alone.
From all such Mr. Curtin, if he was
listening, must have gathered something
of the new America this war is shaping,
as it is shaping anew other countries.
He must have learnt that, while there is
a real feeling at this moment in Uncle
Sam’s country for peace-making colla-
boration with other nations after the war,
there is also there a rising nationalism
every bit as strong as that noticed by Mr.
Simms among the Empire leaders in Lon-
don. “Isolationism,” in the sense of with-
drawal within national map boundaries —
favored until well into this war by none
more enthusiastically than Mr. Curtin
himself —is an utter dead letter over there.
The new idea —there as elsewhere —is
to co-operate as far as can be arranged
with other countries in preventing war,
but also to be both ready for war and
able to fight it as far away from home as
possible. For these reasons it is the
present U.S. determination to secure bases
on just as many of the Pacific islands as
are considered strategically necessary,
and no pegging out of prior claims by
anybody is going to alter that, though
this does not seem to mean that the areas
now held by Australia and New Zealand
are likely to be requisitioned, or even
holdings on them. What is likely is that
Uncle Sam will be very closely concerned
with the defence arrangements of these
countries on those holdings. This is noth-
ing more nor less than the Australian-
New Zealand view as expressed in the
agreement between them signed at Can-
berra. They, too, there indicated, regard-
ing other countries, that it is of vital
future importance to know what defences
are proposed.
This, of course, hits Australia, in par-
ticular, in what has been —and still is,
despite the country’s being at war —one
of its softest spots. The “New Zealand
Herald” hit at it at the time the Canberra
Agreement was made:
The scheme of island bases to which Mr.
Curtin now pins his faith demands a com-
plete break from restraints and restrictions
on the use of Australian armed forces long
held as fundamental by the party he repre-
sents. Without question he believes in it
[island bases defence] as a long-term
policy. New Zealand, being invited to
collaborate, is entitled to ask whether
he, or anyone else, can guarantee its per-
manence.
Nobody of Mr. Curtin’s Government
attempted to answer this. It still needs
the answer which Mr. Curtin, having
looked into how other countries con-
cerned do things, may now, perhaps, be
able to give. It’s a big perhaps. Even
the war is still being fought on a volun-
tary basis by Australia. To alter this
“system” now—let alone with peace, for
a time, ensured —would call for a revolu-
tion in Mr. Curtin’s party. The party has
always believed in leaving it to the will-
ing, even when these are as many as five
times wounded in fighting to protect it.
That such an outlook is likely to be
altered once peace arrives seems incred-
ible. Then what plans for the safe hold-
ing of any island bases whatever can Mr.
Curtin and party guarantee?
Lacking such guarantee. Uncle Sam
would be a poor sort of ass if he moved
out of what he takes in the Pacific fight-
ing in favor of a country that is much
more vitally interested in some of those
takings than Uncle Sam could ever
possibly be.
A Noble Victory.
“The grandest conquests,” Napoleon
said with one of his rare sighs, “are those
of knowledge over ignorance” ; and to
this category may be assigned the
triumphs of science over disease.
Australian and American doctors have
been engaged for many months in a
campaign against malaria and other
scourges of the troops in New Guinea
and neighboring parts; and they are
winning. Waging a similar campaign, and
with one great asset in unlimited supplies
of quinine, the Japs are losing, as has
been revealed by grim evidence in aban-
doned camps and shelters and on jungle
tracks.
The Austral-American plan of cam-
paign was laid down by a special com-
mittee representing both medical services.
appointed by General MacArthur. Medi-
cal officers and malaria-control units
formed the shock troops, but the services
of every man in uniform were requisi-
tioned for an attack on the anopheles
mosquito. Laboratories in both countries
were placed at the service of the cam-
paigners, and Australia, which has never
lagged behind in this field, made valuable
contributions of drugs, particularly sul-
phaguanidine and sulphamerazine. “There
might have been a very different ending
to the Kokoda battle but for sulpha-
guanidine, which stamped out dysentery.”
These words were uttered by knight Alan
Newton in a presidential address to the
Royal Australian College of Surgeons, and
he went on to say that “the development
and manufacture of drugs and medical
equipment in Australia since the outbreak
of war has been one of this country’s
greatest achievements.”
What happened in the U.S. military
forces in New Guinea before the cam-
paign was launched and since has been
briefly but eloquently summarised:
The rate of malaria attack in New Guinea
in February, 1943, was 962 cases per 1000
men each year. In April, 1944, it was 45.1
cases per 1000 men; of these 30.9 per
1000 were new cases and 14.2 were relapses.
At one advanced base in 1943 the rate
was 2700 cases per 1000 men a year, mean-
ing that each soldier could expect to be
hospitalised 2.7 times a year. In April,
1944, the rate was 3.4 cases per 1000 men
a year.
Severity of individual attacks also was re-
duced. In March, 1943, the average stay
in hospital with each attack was 28 days;
in March, 1944, it was slightly more than
nine days.
The effect among Australian troops has
been set on record by Senator Fraser,
Acting Minister for the Army;— •
The deathrate from uncomplicated
malaria among the Australian troops in
New Guinea does not exceed one in 3000
—by far the lowest in military history.
Tile present rate of malaria admission to
Australian military hospitals in New
Guinea is 3.3 per 1000 a week. It is actu-
ally much less thart in Australia.
In New Guinea troops are taking anti-
malaria drugs regularly. In Australia,
where they are no longer liable to fresh
infection, drug medication ceases so that
cases of malaria may be detected com-
pletely.
Senator Fraser paid a tribute to the
work of an Australian medical research
unit, established in Cairns last June, and
to the spirit of “volunteers,” some of
whom have been “repeatedly infected by
mosquitoes with both malignant tertian
and benign tertian malaria for three
months, just as they would be in jungle
fighting,” and treated with anti-malaria
drugs.
These researches have shown that it is
possible, with adequate medication, to pre-
vent volunteers continuously exposed to
malaria developing either malaria fever or
malaria parasites in the blood, and that,
with malignant tertian malaria, fever is not
only prevented but the disease is actually
cured.
In effect, it is possible to maintain a
force in a highly malarious area for several
months with a minimum of malaria casual-
ties. The dangerous malignant tertian in-
fection will be cured, the deathrate will be
practically nil and the risks of subsequent
black-water fever will be eliminated.
Furthermore, such a force, even where
heavily infected with latent malaria, will
not serve as a source of infection for local
mosquitoes, since there are no parasites
in the blood of such troops.
The pity of it is that the measures
which have borne such noble fruit were
not undertaken long before the war. The
Bulletin published article after article
(most of them were written by “Ek
Dum”) urging the union of Papua and
the parts of New Guinea and the Solo-
mons held under Australian mandate,
with one administration, one capital and
an adequate scheme of defence, of which
the study, prevention and treatment of
tropical diseases in their regional distri-
bution would necessarily have been part.
Unfortunately its representations were of
no avail. Had island defence by well-
trained and -equipped Australians, their
health the prime consideration, been en-
tered upon when the Japs grabbed and
fortified their mandated islands. Dr.
Earle Page would have had no cause for
making the statements he made in Parlia-
ment, with their tragic implications; “The
terrible toll of sickness reduced the Sixth
and Seventh Divisions to infinitesimal
proportions at Buna”; and “From
August, 1942, to February, 1943, inclu-
sive disease caused 25,000 cases of dis-
ability.”
Free and Easy.
War-time polling is a messy business.
With far more than a million people
absent from their electorates, purification
of rolls is an impossibility, even if it were
seriously attempted; nor can there be
proper safeguards against impersonation.
Extension of the franchise to service men
and women under 21 and others not en-
rolled has complicated a position which
was bad without it.
In a little over nine months there were
elections for the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, for the Leg. Assembly in four
States, and for the Leg. Council in two
of the four States and in a fifth State ;
and now there is going to be a Common-
wealth referendum. Though nothing like
this or even remotely resembling it has
occurred in any other part of the Eng-
lish-speaking world, it is suggested that
service men welcome these interruptions
to their martial duties and gladly avail
themselves of all opportunities to show
that they are devoured with admiration
for Mr. Curtin and Mr. Forde and Mr.
Cooper and Mr. McKell and the rest.
Such evidence as exists shows rather that
great numbers of them consider voting
a nuisance.
At the Commonwealth election 98.37
p.c. of civilians marked ballot papers.
Although Mr. Curtin has said that “since
the war broke out more than 870,000
men have been enrolled in the armed
forces, 5 ’ only 413,841 voted, and the pro-
portion of voting service women was even
smaller: 16,000 out of 48,000. The
percentage of informals was high. So it
was at the N. S. Wales election ; out of a
batch of “almost” 20,000 ballot papers
received from some of the camps “more
than” 1500 had to be rejected. In
both cases invalidation was in cases
obviously deliberate.
Under the N.S.W. Parliamentary Elec-
tions (War-time) Act provision was made
for taking the votes of (1) members of
the forces in combat areas, irrespective
of age; (2) members of the forces under
21 who have served outside Australia and
are serving within Australia; (3) dis-
charged members of the forces from New
Guinea or elsewhere, over or under 21 ;
(4) persons over 21 employed in the
Allied Works Council inside or outside
Australia ; all whether on the roll or not.
These provisions were extended to ser-
vice men on leave from New Guinea and
to members of the Women’s Auxiliary
Defence Services.
Members of the military forces and of
the Allied Works Council were commis-
sioned “to conduct the election in pur-
suance of the law.” They were supplied
with lists of electorates and subdivisions,
the number of which runs into many
hundreds, and were expected to consult
these when asked to take votes by
declaration. If in the result votes were
cast for the wrong electorates —as could
happen on, a large scale, honestly and
dishonestly—it was just too bad for
suffering candidates and parties.
A list of subdivisions was published in
the Army journal “Salt.” Mr. Lang’s
“Century” protested that Botany and La
Perouse were wrongly included in Bondi
(a “doubtful” electorate) and Bondi and
Bronte in Blacktown, and that “soldiers
from Botany [a non-contested Labor
electorate] will be claiming votes for
Bondi”; but it was then too late for
alterations to be made.
The ever-generous Mr. Badly intro-
duced this accommodating measure. He
explained, or at least was understood to
say, that it was based on the Westralian
Act, There was no criticism on this score,
but by a melancholy coincidence things
done under the Westralian Act were suc-
cessfully challenged in the Court of Dis-
puted Returns three days before N.S.W.
electors Went to the polls.
Mr. I. G. Boyle, a Country-party man
of some tonnage, was the sitting member
for Avon. He was opposed by a Labor
candidate, Mr. W. F. Telfer, and the
returning officer declared Telfer elected
by 1433 votes to 1418. Mr. Boyle ap-
pealed on the ground of “irregularities”
and the pertinent facts—not disputed by
counsel for the respondent are sub-
joined ;
Soldiers’ votes counted and allotted num-
bered 231; Telfer received 121 and Boyle
110. Thirty-six were claimed to be invalid,
the declarations showing that' the persons
who made them lived in places outside the
electorate. Thirty did not disclose whether
or not the voters were over 21. Some
were witnessed by unqualified persons.
The returning officer in New Guinea
counted the soldiers’ votes there before
sending them to the electoral officer in
Westralia, “thereby depriving scrutineers of
the right to check them.” ,
Five polling booths in the electorate
closed at 7 p.m. instead of 8 p.m., as
prescribed by law.
A member of Telfer’s election committee,
withal an officer of an A.L.P. branch,
acted as a postal-vote officer contrary to
the law. He took 40 postal votes; 36
were for Telfer. Four postal-vote papers
bore no signature.
The decision of Justice Dwyer was that
51 invalid votes had been cast and
accepted, and he declared the election
null and void.
It does not seem likely that any N. S.
Wales contest will be the subject of in-
quiry, but the Westralian affair furnishes
matter for deep thought.


PLAIN ENGLISH
June Compliments.
Moscow was in a most ingratiating mood
last week. It began by giving for the
first time, “with appreciative comments,”
a “digest of supplies” received from North
America and Britain to the end of April
—“more than” 9,450,000 tons, including
12,256 ’planes, 9214 tanks, “nearly”
207,000 vehicles (U.S.A.) and 200,000 tons
of wheat and flour (Canada), to which
Washington added that in four months of
1944 alone the U.S.A. had sent 2,000,000
ton's of leasedend materials, including
1200 ’planes, 400 tanks and tank de-
stroyers and 52,900 vehicles.
Then Stalin allowed that “the*history
of warfare does not know any under-
taking so broad in conception, so gran-
diose in scale and so masterly in execu-
tion” as “the large-scale forcing of the
Channel,” Prodigious coming from Uncle
Joe.
Perhaps it was thought that the offen-
sive against the Finns, after so much
more was expected, would bring inappre-
ciative comments from the country, not
yet at war with Finland, which sent most
of the supplies. It may have been feared
that some nasty fellow like Westbrook
Pegler would profess to have found a
Pickwick analogy in the free-for-all at
Ipswich, where Sam Weller spreadeagled
two coppers: v
Whether Mr. Winkle was seized with a
temporary attack of that species of insanity
which originated in a sense of injury or
animated by this display of Mr. Weller’s
valor is uncertain; but certain it is that
he made a terrific onslaught on a small
boy who stood near him.
For all that is known to the con-
trary, harmony, heavenly harmony, pre-
vailed. And with the Italian King on the
shelf, a new Government which has re-
fused to take the oath of allegiance to
the House of Savoy, a Cbmmunist re-
turned from exile one of the chief Min-
isters and the “Times” correspondent in
Rome testifying to the “immense popu-
larity that Communism has won among
the Italian people,” Moscow has every
reason to be satisfied with developments
in the co-belligerent country and none to
deplore the fall of its “protege” Badoglio.
Nor has any Australian Tory been moved
to make his Big City hideous with wall-
writings, “stickers” and posters demand-
ing a Second Front in Siberia now.
More Prophecy.
“More jobs will be provided by the
Federal Government after the war than
the working population can fill.” That’s
how one newspaper summarises a state-
ment in a news bulletin issued by the
Department of Post-war Reconstruction.
A bright prospect if you happen to be
or have hopes of getting on the staff of
the Department of Post-war Reconstruc-
tion or if you belong to the minority
of Australians who believe that it’s
a Government’s job to provide work for
them, whether or not the work is useful,
reproductive,, economic or necessary.
But if you happen to belong to the
class of Australians who have lifted
themselves to positions where ability and
energy bring their own reward, the pros-
pect isn’t bright.
For the prophecy can only mean that
all who work on the jobs to be provided
will get high wages and work short hours.
The high wages will have to come from
loans or taxes or both, and that means
continued high taxation, since there are
already a £30,000,000 social security fund,
child endowment, pensions, rural sub-
sidies and a lot of other things, including
the cost of huge Government depart-
ments, to be met. And after the war it
will still be necessary to maintain the
Army, Air Force and Navy at a high
standard. (Nothing has been said of that,
though it is already a live question at
Washington and Ottawa, and it has noth-
ing to do with the Canberra corps of
professors.)
Further, Government jobs being what
they are, and union bosses being what
they are and Government costing being
what it is, the jobs will be filled largely
by the kind of people who look for the
kind of job where you can’t be sacked for
loafing or inefficiency or sly betting or
anything else.
tin all these glorious post-war schemes
there is no mention of the quantity and
quality of the work to be performed by
clients of the professors’ corps, though
there are still people who think such
matters important.
The Right to Steal.
An old police-court reporter again;
“Because of the increase in pillaging eight
police officers are now on duty at the Roma-
street (Brisbane) railway yards—previously
there were four.” So said T. E. Maloney, general
manager of the south-eastern division of the
Queensland Government railways, giving evi-
dence at the Fruit and Vegetables Commis-
sion inquiry. And, removing an impression that
his department will carry fruit and vegetables
only at owner’s risk, the g.m. said that in the
first quarter of 1944 “more than” £5OO had been
paid in claims for fruit and vegetables stolen
in transit. For 10 months of 1943-44 £17,758
had been paid as compensation for stolen
goods. This was an increase of £14,679 on the
corresponding period of 1938-39.
“It has become necessary, from the Railway
Commissioner’s point of view,” said Justice
Philp, chairman of the commission, “that
penalties should be increased.” He asked the
witness whether any magistrate had sent any
convicted pillagers to jail. “In a recent case,”
Mr. Maloney replied, “five men were fined £2O
each, in default three months’ imprisonment.”
“Twenty pounds—a sort of license fee,” his
Honor commented. The witness thought again
and then said “a shunter who had £4OO worth
of stolen goods in his possession was fined,
I think, £20.” “A fairly light premium for the
license,” said counsel assisting the commis-
sion. Then his Honor observed that if the
Crown was dissatisfied with a magistrate’s sen-
tence it could not appeal for an increased term.
This may not be the case in N. S. Wales, but
there is no instance in the Mothah State of
the Crown applying for something like real
punishment of persons convicted of theft,
whether from the Government or private em-
ployers. It hasn’t been done in the affair of
the three Government (Homebush) abattoirs
men caught with stolen goods who were fined
£5 or 10 days (there was a strike when they
were refused the return of their jobs, and —
nasty sequel—there was a threat of another
strike unless supplies of stock were speeded up
by farmers and graziers struggling with a
drought, followed by a return to go-slow when
supplies were ample). On the contrary, the
Meat Commissioner, who launched the prose-
cution and on whose behalf it was stated by
the police that meat worth £12,000 was stolen
last year, was attacked in an extraordinary
fashion by the “Official Organ of the Australian
Labor party.” Said the “Standard”: “The
prosecution of the three employees for alleg-
edly [!] stealing meat was an example of pro-
vocation that will be hard to live down”!
The man accused of “provocation”—he is a
favorite target for Labor invective —was
addressed as “Mr. Merritt,” though his name
is Merrett. His attitude to pilfering is on
record in evidence appended to the report of a
Labor-controlled select committee. A carcass
butcher having complained of pilfering at
Homebush (“I have lost quite a lot of meat at
different times”), the Commissioner replied:
“These men are constantly reporting that pil-
fering takes place, and the inference might be
drawn that we do nothing to prevent it. We
do everything possible to prevent it, but they
have to look aftei; their own property when it
is handed over to thern in the meat hall.”
Nevertheless the “Standard” let fly at him in
these terms:
Is it not a fact, Mr. Merritt, that over
a number of years it has been customary
for men to take meat home? Is it not
correct to say that the official “blind eye”
has been turned on this practice at Home-
bush?
It is now said that £12,000 worth of meat
is taken annually from the meatworks.
Mathematically, this would amount to a
mere bagatelle [!].
The general opinion at the abattoirs is
that the three men who were prosecuted
were very unlucky if they weren’t deliber-
ately made scapegoats, and, while most
employees would not countenance theft, it is
easily understood that they expressed their
resentment in the way they did when their
three workmates were singled out and
prosecuted for continuing a practice
which up to the present time had not been
considered a breach of the law.
This paper does not attempt to justify
the breaking of the law, and now that it
has been laid down at the abattoirs that
no meat must be taken, we would say that
the men have no further rights in the
matter.
What we do complain about is that it is
not in the interests of good industrial re-
lations to suddenly declare illegal a prac-
tice that has over the years been allowed
to continue without the bom fides of the
workers being challenged.
If this doesn’t mean that it is perfectly in
order for Government employees to steal unless
stealing is expressly forbidden, what does it
mean?
In another part of the Official Organ
the “decision to draw up a 10-year plan for
the socialisation of the means of production,
distribution and exchange in logical stages” was
hailed as “one of the outstanding results of
the annual general A.L.P. conference.”
Migration and Soil.
Last October the Curtin Government
appointed a departmental committee to
report on migration. There have since
been various Ministerial pronouncements
on the subject. Mr. Forde told an A.N.A.
gathering in Sydney that Australia should
aim at doubling and even trebling its
population, and that hia Government in-
tended to "give “every opportunity to the
fighting men of Britain to settle perma-
nently in Australia.”
No sensible Australian could quarrel
with this laudable aim, but every thought-
ful Australian must wish that the Com-
monwealth Government would be a little
less vague. It is one thing to make a
generalised statement about bringing suit-
able migrants here; it is another thing to
make adequate provision for them when
or if they come. And, with Labor’s
past attitude towards migration in mind,
there is something disturbing in the fre-
quent Labor qualification that migration
can only begin after service men and
women, munitions workers, C.C.C. per-
sonnel and others have been “rehabili-
tated.”
Above all, before the Commonwealth
Government talks airily about migration
it should make sure of the country’s capa-
city to feed and clothe the new popula-
tion, a capacity which depends on the
condition of Australia’s soil. At present,
taken as a whole, the soil is deteriorating,
its productive capacity falling, its fertility
being steadily destroyed by erosion.
There is a book. The Myth of Open
Spaces, by W. D. Forsyth, of Melbourne,
which should be studied by everybody
concerned with Australia’s future. Not
everybody will agree with all of the
author’s findings, soundly-based though
they are, but there’s no doubting the truth
of this:
Far from pushing out into new fields,
agriculture is tending to withdraw due
to lessened soil productivity brought about
by erosion, overgrazing or exhaustion
Nor is soil deterioration confined to mar-
ginal areas; it lessens possibilities of in-
creased population in districts of intensive
agriculture. No detailed erosion survey
of any considerable area has yet been at-
tempted in Australia; consequently doubts
exist as to the dimensions of the problem.
But there is no doubt of the national
importance of it, nor of the urgent need
for action on a national scale. The Com-
monwealth Government or a Common-
wealth Government will sooner or later
find that this must be a necessary pre-
liminary to all post-war plans.
REFERENDUM ORDER.
“Fourteen new GUN licences—WHAT?”


FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners'
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
i
7 You Cannot
Buy a
Better Polish I
\\W
You cannot buy a better polish than 'NUGGET' - for Nugget contains the
fins waxes that give the brilliant all-day shine.
Cl y° u cannot buy a more economical polish than 'NUGGETT- It lasts longer,
f 1,1 blather. It's brighter and gives a better shine for less polish and less effort,
NUGGET'
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tire 3 Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do noth-
ing about them. Nature may be warning you
that your kidneys heed attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood, causing nagging backaches,
rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, swelling, pufflness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness, Fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning show there is something wrong With
your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years-
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Wc'da from the blood. Get DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-dav —the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well.
POLITICAL POINTS
Saying he has “always opposed the
holding of a referendum in war-time.”
Hughes promised to back the Evatt war-
time referendum. Spender, though
hitherto very silent, is expected to be
seen in the same seesaw act. Their sup-
port will count for nothing against the
rising tide of opposition. There is still
time for Ministers to call the thing off
and save some of the money they are
set on squandering—very brazenly in the
field of propaganda. Present indications
are that their referendum hasn’t a China-
man’s chance.
Attorney-General Evatt has issued at
the public expense a well-bound book-
let on good paper containing some
25,000 words devoted to the Attorney-
General’s views on the Evatt referendum.
Menzies wants to know how many copies
have been or are to be issued, and how
much cost of preparation, printing and
distribution will amount to. Plenty of
Australian authors envy the facility with
which the Attorney-General can get his
views published and distributed at other
people’s expense.
Daring assertion in the powers-refer-
endum pamphlet: —•
Housewives and mothers will benefit if
the referendum is carried. Rocketing of
prices for food and clothing and exorbi-
tant rents can be effectively checked if the
Commonwealth gets these new powers.
Well, why aren’t they “effectively
checked” now, when “the Common-
wealth” has “these powers”?
With the N.S.W. election safely over,
the winners feel themselves free to feed
their particular grudges. Hence no doubt
a bitter attack in the Official Organ on the
Rugby League. That great Labor insti-
tution was ferociously accused of a
number of things, the mildest being that
it is “most acquisitive where its own in-
terests are concerned.” And there was
an envenomed account of a match in
which the premiers, after “several run-
away wins,” suddenly lost their prowess
“when defeat could possibly be of ad-
vantage to the club” ; indeed “put over
a brand of stuff that would disgrace a
team of schoolboys,” to the vast indig-
nation of “the cash customers, who keep
the game going: Cries of ‘Fisho!’ and
‘Take them home! ’ were expressions fre-
quently used.” Possibly the paper could
explain how it comes about that large
numbers of sturdy fellows, obviously ex-
cellent military material, are free to play
football for money in Sydney when the
Jap is still in Rabaul and flying over
Darwin; but that mystery it didn’t men-
tion.
There is nothing drearier under
heaven than Labor and Labor-union
wrangles. Having turned on Menzies
and mixed themselves up in Labor poli-
tics by shouting with the larger mob and
booming the Big (?) Four and the
McKells, the Sydney morning papers, as
one of the inevitable consequences, are
increasingly involved in deadly uninter-
esting barneys, in the latest instance with
the leaders of the smaller mob—or one
of the smaller mobs. Last week they ac-
cused Ward and Calwell in distracted
terms of “trying to persuade full Cabinet
to enter a grudge war against Australian
newspapers” by taxing advertisements, in-
terfering with the allocation of news-
print supplies, forcing a reduction of
newspaper prices and, above all, “vigor-
ously man-powering newspaper offices,”
with the recall of that ardent Second
Fronter Penton as a first step. It is sug-
gested that the Peepul should Rise Up
and Do Something About It. And if
the Peepul don’t rise up and things get
really serious there will no doubt be an-
other agonised appeal to the ill-used
Menzies.
Australian Wheat Board chairman
Clive McPherson has announced export
prices—6s, ll|d. a bushel “to certain
destinations,” and “to certain other desti-
nations” where there is strong competi-
tion ss. 9fd. bagged and ss, 3|d. bulk.
Growers needn’t hope to get these prices.
No. 6 pool payments are 4s. for quota
and 3s. for non-quota ; No. 7 pool pay-
ments, 4s. l|d. and 2s. Iyd, There may
be good reason for the secrecy as to the
“certain destinations,” but a lot of people
would be interested to have them iden-
tified.
“Wodgil”: I object to that slighting
reference in B. 14/6/’44 to the Commu-
nists’ Second-Front manifesto. It was
wickedly unfair not to quote the bit
about the aid to be furnished by “the
gallant armies of Marshal Tito and Gen-
eral Alexander.” Tito and Alexander!
What more could anyone want?
Having requisitioned a British M.P. to
assist him in making another “appeal,”
the umptyumpth, to N.S.W. coalminers,
Forde blew into Lithgow on Sunday and
“This is the Right Honorable Francis Michael Forde, P.C., Acting Prime Minister
of Australia. Your coalmining member is doing splen-did work. Would
you be so kind as to send a wharfie and a slaughterman?”
“appealed” for an hour and a half. After
listening to him and to the British M.P.,
the miners’ spokesman admitted a coal
crisis, for which “we feel we are in some
measure responsible, but we feel that the
Government must also accept responsi-
bility,” The Bulletin agrees with the
gentleman.
Homebush Government slaughtermen
transferred their attention to N.S.W.
farmers and graziers last week, alleging
that they were deliberately withholding
stock from the market. Everybody knew
stock supplies always fall off in autumn
and winter, and had heard something
about a drought and severe losses. Never-
theless the union ordered Scully and Dr.
Evatt to force farmers and graziers to
send more stock. Then it must have
dawned on somebody that nearly a week
had passed without a strike, so all hands
downed tools, leaving 2000 unkilled sheep
in the yards and the city facing another
week-end meat-shortage. On Friday
the union bosses met Messrs. Scully and
Evatt, but changed their tune into an
allegation that reduced output was caused
by the Homebush management reducing
the speed of the chain. And Messrs. S.
and E. dutifully promised to “investi-
gate,” mumbling something about “a
speedy solution if additional stock came
forward.”
Almost everything is a political ques-
tion in Queensland, and the buffalo fly
is on the list. So there was agitation in
political quarters when David Rivett,
chief of the C.5.1.R., told Queenslanders
that among the proposed methods of
dealing with buffalo fly is the possible use
of dichlordiphenyltrichlorethane (wow),
commonly called “D.D.T.” “It is not yet
certain,” he said, “that dichlordiphenyl-
trichlorethane may not harm the cattle.”
It will if anybody uses the word in their
presence.
Papers which boom selected Labor poli-
ticians (that goes for all the Sydney dailies)
have a new idol —Fraser, the member for
Eden-M6naro. Canberra made him chair-
man of one of its countless com-
mittees, and this prompted the Oldest
Daily’s star political writer to hail him
as “one of the few Parliamentarians who
combined a rooted abhorrence of all
bureaucratic excess and a complete belief
in personal liberties with sufficient ability
and experience for the very complex task
the committee faces.” Yet the paragon
has attended only a-dozen Parliamentary
sittings as member (he is a newspaper
man) and delivered only one speech. In
the one speech he made a suggestion
which thrilled all his comrades in tne union
—“an independent Auditor-General of
Civil Liberties with sufficient staff to
police this important field.” In other
words, he wants a new horde of officials
to watch the existing hordes of officials
and “report to Parliament any misuse of
power.” What are members of Parlia-
ment for?
There are 111 members at Canberra (or
would be if poor Blain were there) and
616 in Australia —more than there are in
the House of Commons—or would be if
serving members could be mustered. That
House has never been known to ask for
“an independent Auditor-General of
Civil Liberties, with sufficient staff,” to
relieve members of one of their prescrip-
tive duties.
To one war correspondent, Stanley
Burch, the Atlantic Wall was “formid-
able” and “brilliantly designed” ; a “terri-
fying zone of steel and concrete strong-
holds.” To a Reuter man it was “a
wall of very big bluff.” Reuter men
seem to have a fondness for extremes.
One who follows the course of events
from Moscow is apt to leave the impres-
sion after a battle or combat that the
Russians killed and captured 500,000 Hit-
lerites for a gain of two young Russians,
one born in a dugout to Madame Purin-
sky, the ravishingly beautiful sniper, who
has brought down 278 Huns with 167
bullets.
Delightful information for taxpayers
in a friendly daily-paper comment on
McKell’s “retirement” of C. Evatt from
his Cabinet:
As Minister for Education Mr. Evatt had
a spacious, well-furnished room with a
secretary and a staff. In his new position
he will still have a secretary and a motor-
car.
A secretary and a car for a mere “assist-
ant” ; and for Cabinet Ministers, cars,
secretaries and staffs! And Australia has
79 Ministers!
Angas (S.A.) and Rodney (Vic.) are
country electorates. At both by-elections
the Labor candidates were knocked kick-
ing. Cooper in Rodney scored only 2504
effective votes out of 9725 counted; the
other 7221 were for the Country party,
with R. K. Brose on top. The winners
support Premiers who have come out
strong against the Evatt referendum.
At the Victorian Public Service con-
ference Dunstan’s Discharged Soldiers’
Preference Act was described by the
president as “hastily conceived and ill-
considered” —a fair description of most
Australian legislation put through nowa-
days—and two returned-soldier delegates
agreed. One “cited many anomalies”; the
other said the thing was “beypnd all jus-
tice, and injurious to many members of
the forces.” Apparently the only thing
that can be said for the measure is that
it is better than the Commonwealth’s
nothing.
Makin, the Munitions Minister, spouted
for the Labor candidate donkey-licked in
Angas (S.A.) at a place very appropri-
ately called Sedan. With one eye on the
by-election and another on the Evatt
referendum, he said this:
The Commonwealtli Government has set
up a war-factory system with £100,000,000
worth of assets. Shouldn’t these factories
be used in the post-war period for the
benefit of the people by providing them
with the things essential to home life?
All the referendum votes Makin’s crowd
will get from manufacturers could be put
in a wineglass and covered with a goose-
berry leaf.
The editor of a Great Daily “passing
through America on his way to London,”
possibly to hurl himself into his Second
Front, sent a cable complaining that
Australian officials in America weren’t
allowed to splurge enough Australian
tax-money on parties:
One official was rapped over the knuckles
for spending £2O on a dinner to high mili-
tary and industrial officials.
In the same week it was announced from
Canberra that in 11 months Common-
wealth expenditure reached £632,762,000,
of which £291,006,000 came from
revenue and £341,756,000 from loans and
central-bank credit. But “Spend, spend,
spend the public money” is the motto of
journalists who have found favor with
Labor politicians—or some Labor poli-
ticians.
There is the promise of a healthy com-
petition in claims made for Whyalla
(S.A.), where B.H.P. has done wonderful
things, and Yallourn (Vic.). It was
claimed for Whyalla that it has the
highest birthrate in Australia, With a
population of 7700, 1000 births have been
registered in the transformed place in
four years. Yallourn (population 4000)
replied that there had been 610 Yallourn
babies in the same period. Go it, ye
country towns!


YOU CAN SERVE IN H.M.A.S. “
Even though you are not there in person you can help our Navy by taking extra care of
your Exide Batteries. Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment and car or
radio battery. Consult your local Exide dealer immediately you suspect the need for re-
placement, repair or recharging. Extra care will give you months of extra service.
HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
I mm
Si.-
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
A third term of office after the second
is a foregone conclusion for the Lud
Mayors of Melbourne, like the title that
follows the third term, and Councillor
Thomas Sydney Nettlefold is headed that
way. In his youth he dreamt of being either
a noted racehorse owner or a newspaper
editor, and he realised the second choice
to the extent of starting on a Labor
paper in Tassie as a boy at 3s. 6d.
weekly. Later he moved to Melbourne
and became a director of many com-
panies, including Goliath Cement, whose
material has gone into many of the city’s
buildings. Nettlefold is also managing
director of Cement Distributors, but he
has no prejudices in favor of the product,
having recently stated that he thinks it
would be a wicked thing to demolish Mel-
bourne’s beautiful old bluestone Town
Town Hall and replace it with modern
business buildings.
Inquiring in Sydney into the arrest and
detention of Australia Firsters and
others, Clyne, J., previously held a
number of other posts by Government
appointment, with an emphasis on ship-
ping—chairman of the Shipping Control
Board, the Salvage Board and the Marine
War Risk Insurance Board and member
of the Allied Consultative Shipping Coun-
cil. A Victorian County Court Judge in
1939, he became Federal Judge in Bank-
CLYNE, J.
ruptcy late in 1942, He went to the law
from a distinguished career at Melbourne
Uni.
Prof. H. W. Florey, the Adelaide man
who got a Birthday title in England, had
a brilliant career at St. Peter’s and the
Uni., and was the S.A. Rhodes scholar
in 1921. After Oxford he spent some
years at Cambridge lecturing on Path-
ology, interrupted by a period in the
U.S.A. as a Rockefeller Fellow. Then
to Sheffield as Prof., and since 1935 back
at Oxford as Prof, in his pet subject,
being specially associated with the new
drug penicillin. He’s 45.
“Ike Holler”: Jewish Synagogue cen-
tenary celebrations threw a light on a
Sydney street name Raphael-place.
Alderman J. G. Raphael was the treas-
urer of the original synagogue. He was
the first Jewish alderman in Sydney, one
of the early active founders of an art
society, a musical and dramatic society
and the first school of arts. The report
presented at the centenary referred to the
“York-street” synagogue: the reference
has usually been to “Druitt-street.” The
pub which stands on the corner where it
was erected bears some memories of the
synagogue in its stone pillars and arched
windows, for the original walls remain.
The building, of course, was deconse-
crated before being sold, a fate that has
befallen many religious edifices in Syd-
ney—one became a leather factory, an-
other a hide store, another a wool ware-
house and yet another a wood and coal
yard. One chapel in Surry Hills, long
closed up and deserted, became the venue
of a two-up school.
In those days when Melbourne theatres
possessed a private bar “Papa” Becker
was an outstanding figure, both behind
a bar and on “The Block.” Today, at
95, he’s still an outstanding figure. His
erect carriage, his buttonhole flower, his
cigar and on Cup Days his binoculars
are a feature of the Melbourne land-
scape.
William Neil McKie, M.A., B.Mus.
(Oxon), A.R.C.M., granted an hon.
Doctor of Music by Oxford, is a Mel-
bourne Scot to whom Melbourne owes a
lot of its present interest in music. As
City Organist, he started the free midday
concerts, and placed them on such a high
artistic level as to alarm some of the city
fathers. He was asked to provide pro-
grammes of popular music. “I am pro-
viding them,” he retorted, pointing to
the crowd in the Town Hall and the
crowd outside waiting for the second ses-
sion. McKie was bom at Kew, educated
at Melbourne Grammar and went with
an organ scholarship to Worcester Col-
lege, England. He came back as City
Organist in 1931 ; but, after a long fight
with the civic fathers, returned to Eng-
land as organist of Magdalen College,
Oxford.
Herbert John Keyes, succeeding the
late H. Rutherford Purnell as Principal
Librarian of Adelaide Public Library, is,
like most heads of departments in S.A.,
Adelaide-born. He joined the North
Terrace institution in 1899 and became
deputy librarian in 1913. Once a keen
follower of the turf, Keyes cleared his
61st hurdle in fine style a few weeks back.
Country-town doctor:
At the Glen Innes Quarter Sessions Judge
Slorkey, V.C., described the late Dr. A. J.
Mackenzie as “one of those old-fashioned
nature’s gentlemen of whom unfortunately
there are too few in the world today.” In the
war in which Judge Storkey won his V.C. (at
Hangar Wood in 1918), Dr. Mackenzie, ap-
plying for overseas service after doing a top-
notch job at various military hospitals in
Australia, was appointed C.O. hospital ship
Kanowna, which brought back many of the
wounded Diggers from Gallipoli and brought
off the released British prisoners of the Kut
garrison. Among these were Majors Hill and
Jones, who later expressed what all hands
thought of the C.O. by sending him an auto-
graphed copy of their The Road to Endor.
In his day one of (he most outstanding of
Rugby Union full-backs. Dr. Mackenzie rep-
resented Sydney Uni. and Australia. He
died at Stonehenge, which station he bought
seven years back, after close on 40 years as a
medico up around Glen Innes. Among a host
of other interests, including, naturally, the local
Caledonians, he was a foundation member of
the advisory council of New England College.
His association with Judge Storkey, V.C., was
as Deputy Sheriff.
The Force in Melbourne has lost one
of its best-liked officers through the retire-
ment at 60 of Superintendent Tom Dunn.
The most accessible of bosses, he was in
direct touch with almost every policeman
in the State, and he had a special admira-
tion for the skirted bobbies, a section he
helped to establish. It was Dunn who
compiled the manual of instructions and
standing orders which every John Hop
carries, and he founded the Police Insti-
tute, a co-operative where anything can
be bought, from a new suit to a thimble,
and whose profits form the basis of the
Police Provident Fund. He was vice-
president of sporting activities, chairman
of the wireless patrol and a member of
the C. 1.8. selection board. During his
term of office he saw the Russell-street
h.q. grow out of the old, low' bluestone
building into the palatial skyscraper
which dominates Melbourne’s skyline and
contains amenities for coppers that would
have seemed like a wild dream to a previ-
ous generation.
Passed his 89th milestone, Alexander
Asher, of Richmond, Melbourne, G.O.M.
of - the printing trade. Only surviving
member of the original Victorian Master
Printers’ Association and a founder and
past president of the Australian Provin-
cial Press Association, he is still vigor-
ously engaged in the printing business he
started 60 years ago.
N.Z.’s new manager of the Meat Pro-
ducers’ Board in London, succeeding the
late R. S. Forsyth, is Director of Stabili-
sation S. A. Chisholm. With the war on
he became associated with the British
Ministry of Food, and returned to N.Z.
in 1942 to become Deputy Food and
Rationing Controller.
South Australia’s new Police Commis-
sioner, William Francis Johns, here
viewed by Coventry, is one of the most
colorful personalities in the force, which
he first got into in 1906, rising to the top
from the ranks. Names tacked on to
“JOHNS OF THE MOUNTED.”
him in the course of a career which has
ranged the State to the Northern Terri-
tory, with time off to be with the old
9th Light Horse in Palestine, have in-
cluded Johns of the Mounted and Mulga
Bill, He’s big even for a bobby—over
6ft. Sin. and a bit over a powerful 17st.
A brother, Superintendent J. R. Johns,
who is metropolitan super, and was in
the running for the top job, is of similar
dimensions. They’re grandsons of a
Cornishman who settled on the land near
Adelaide 100 years back. In his younger
days Commissioner Johns was a formid-
able amateur heavyweight, and he’s still
a champion horseman. More unusual,
his hobby’s public speaking. He replaces
Brigadier-General Leane, retiring after a
record 24-years’ term.
Frith’s picture of Brigadier John
Rogers does not accentuate either his
look of youth or his normal calm col-
lectedness. He is a Tasmanian, born at
Penguin in 1895, so he was only 19 when
he interrupted his first years in science
at Melbourne University to enlist in the
old Sixth Battalion. By the time he
landed on Gallipoli he was one of the
youngest n.c.os. in one of the strictest
and best regulated battalions in the A.I.F.
Before he left the peninsula he was com-
missioned and became battalion intelli-
gence officer under the redoubtable
Gordon Bennett, whom he later followed
to the Third Brigade, then to division.
BRIGADIER JOHN ROGERS.
Finally he was attached to Corps H.Q. as
G.S.O. 3. Rogers had a front-line view of
as much fighting as any man in the A.I.F.
and distinguished himself several times,
especially in the Armentteres raids in
June, 1916, in the first Pozibres bombard-
ment of July 26, 1916, and on the Menin
road in September, 1917. Always checr-
ful, and always most careful about the
integrity of his information, he came
home with an M.C. won at Armentieres
and with a Croix de Guerre, quietly
finished his degree course at Melbourne
University, became a chemist with
Vacuum Oil Co. in 1923, and rose to be
assistant general manager in Sydney
under an old comrade in arms, D. S.
Aarons. Rogers was promoted to be
chief assistant to the sales director in
1938. His golf and billiards are reported
by the M.I. to accord with his official
description of conditions on the Menin
road on Sept. 20, 1917 —“tres bon,” if
sometimes a little disorganised in spots.
Medical knight Alan Stephen Newton,
M. 8., 8.5., F.R.C.S., told a moving story
of medical triumphs in this war in his
Syme Memorial Lecture at the College of
Surgeons in Melbourne, especially touch-
ing the measures Australia took to re-
place drugs cut off when Nippon started
to slop over Asia. Without the sulpha-
guanidine made by a process devised by
Professor Trikojus, of Melbourne, the
Battle of Kokoda, in Dr. Newton’s
opinion, would never have been won.
Even the abo. contributed to the cause.
A plant growing in Australia’s Nor’-west
which Binghi used to stupefy fish turned
out to be a valuable source of hyoscine.
Dr. Newton was born in Melbourne in
1887 and educated at Haileybury College
and Melbourne and London Universities.
He is vice-president and chief censor of
the R.A.C.S. and hon. sawbones to the
Royal Melbourne.
8.8. C. news broadcasters on the in-
vasion have included three Australians.
Chester Wilmot, who a while back sent
fine dispatches from New Guinea, is “on
loan” from the A.8.C.; Colin Wills, who
has been broadcasting in England for
some time, was often heard from A.B.C.
—skits, stories, “light entertainment,”
reviews, etc. He started out as a rounds-
man with the old “Guardian.” The other,
George Ivan Smith, as well as being a
pressman, is a talented artist.
S.A. gets a new “Evangelist” for its
society of that name —E. H. Tomlinson,
who had eight years of the work in Tas-
mania, and has latterly been either with
the troops at Albury or at the Richmond
branch of the Melbourne City Mission.
He replaces George Brown, who has had
21 years in Adelaide.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide (which was her original home)
Constance, eldest daughter of the old-time
knight, financier and philanthropist Herbert
Phillips, and wife of Harold Greenway, mining
expert in Melbourne.
In Sydney, at 80, Edward Bull Wareham,
former Adelaide Steamship manager in Sydney,
onetime Consul in Queensland for Austria-
Hungary and for a year in the last war Consul
in that State for Japan. Held directorships in
Waratah Tug and Salvage, Commonwealth Life
Assurance, Citizens and Graziers’ Life Assur-
ance, Cuthberf’s Misima Goldmine, Frank Ham-
bridge. Also a director of Airlines of Aus-
tralia from its inception till it was purchased
by Australian National Airways. His only
son fell on Gallipoli.
In Adelaide, at 76, Dr. Henry Arthur
Powell, an early Elder scholar and one of the
first medical students to graduate at Adelaide
Uni. In a lifetime of service in S.A. he was
Mayor of Kadina while practising there and
president of the District and Bush Nursing
Society since 1929, and latterly he did much
important work in the equipment of civil de-
fence. A colonel in 1914-18, he became C.M.G.
and was mentioned in dispatches.
In Melbourne, as the result of a motor acci-
dent, the widow of Peter Mcßride, Minister in
the Murray and Watt State Governments and
Agent-General for Victoria from 1913 to 1922.
In the last war she was decorated by the Queen
of the Belgians for work in London among
Belgian refugees, and did a lot there for
Diggers as well.
At Christchurch (MX.) at 91, Sir Walter
Lovelace Clifford, of one of Maoriland’s pioneer
families, and member of the Canter-
bury Jockey Club for 50 years. Born
at Wellington, he was educated at
Beaumont College (Eng.), became a civil
engineer and had a hand in surveying
London’s underground railways and the docks
in Swansea. Back in MX. he was engineer
on the Midland railway in Canterbury, and
later became part owner of Flaxbourne, the
family estate in MX. He succeeded to the
title in 1938. The new baronet is Father Lewis
Clifford, now a chaplain with the British Army
in the Middle East.
At 72, in Melbourne, John Reay Watson, of
the “Age.” He did a lot to make the literary
supplement of that paper. For several years he
was manager and special correspondent for the
Syme journal in London, and his articles on
art, the theatre, music and the big literary guns
over there gained a wide public. He published
a philosophical novel which had what few
philosophical novels have, a wide sale.


ISi
; :
■
*
dL
CAREER
WITH A FUTURE/
Now that we can look forward with every confidence to
the peaceful days of victory, wise men and women are
preparing for prosperity. Those with foresight are train-
ing their natural talents so that they may fulfil a worthy
place in the marvellous future which is even now unfold-
ing before this young, virile country. With industry
developing on a scale hitherto unknown in Australia,
Commercial Art leaps to prominence as a key profession
in which any person with trained natural ability may
enjoy success.
YOU, TOO, MAY GUARANTEE YOUR FUTURE
Try. your aptitude for Commercial Art by submitting:
for free, expert criticism the special test drawings
featured in our presentation booklet, “Art, Ability
Tests.” Send 4Jd. Postage and mention “The
Bulletin.”
(This booklet available only to persons over 15.)
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
80 SWANSTON STREET MELBOURNE, C.l.
THE SPUR OF WAR
It did not need the spur of war to intensify that zeal for research whichi
is the secret of Philips eminence in the world of electricity. Yet,
when the spur was felt. Philips redoubled their energies, realising - that
the race for victory would go to the swiftest. Nor will their pace abate
when victory has been won, for peace will have its urgencies no less
pronounced than war.
PHILIPS
Lamps • Discharge Lighting * Radio Receivers * Radio
Transmitters * Valves and Thermionic Devices * Medical and
Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment • Lighting Equip-
ment • Radio Parts • Metal Pressings and Stamping •
Electrical Measuring Instruments • Sound Reproduction Installations
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OE AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH BRISBANE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Australian Exchange Rale
There is a certain quickening of in-
terest about the future of the Australian-
London exchange rate. Some visualise a
“shedding” of the 25 p.c. discount now
applying to Australian currency, espe-
cially in view of the greater war-time
increase in living costs in Britain. It is
contended in many quarters that the
British cost-of-living increase of about
30 p.c., as officially computed, is a fic-
tion, inasmuch as it applies to a restricted
variety of essentials. But the same argu-
ment may be applied with almost equal
truth to the Australian official figure of
about 24 p.c., though, of course, no exact
comparison can be made.
Even if we assume that the cost of
living in Britain has increased half as
much again as it has in Australia —a rough-
and-ready assumption, but it will serve —
it has always to be remembered that a
large part of the growth in Britain’s living
expenses has been because of the costly
nature of war-time imports, the cost being
inflated by shipping losses, other trans-
port difficulties, high prices asked by
neutral countries and the lack of com-
petition among sellers of many classes
of essential goods. With the ending of the
war many of these problems should pass
away, even though Danish butter (for
instance) may be a long time figuring on
the pre-war scale in the British menu.
And with the passing of these problems
comes an automatic falling in the British
cost of living.
Australia cannot expect a similar fall.
Except for cotton clothing, a greater pro-
portion of the essentials of our living
are produced in this country. And so
a greater proportion of our living-cost
problems are also made here. These
home-made economic problems are par-
ticularly difficult to deal with. Their ad-
justment involves conflict between capital
and labor, between money and materials,
between debtor and creditor, between
exports and imports and between profit
and loss.
The indication is that a proportion of
the British cost-of-living index will be
much easier to reduce than the Austra-
lian. Though the Chancellor of the
Exchequer recently drew attention to the
fact that wages had risen more like 40
p.c. in comparison with the 30 p.c. rise
in living costs, don’t let us forget that the
25 p.c. increase in the Australian index
of wages is not a true reflection of all
our wages either. A greater proportion
of wage-earners are now getting more than
the base wage, in overtime and other mar-
gins, and women have entered a new
wage-world since the war.
Upon living costs in various countries,
and more particularly upon production
costs, do exchange rates depend to a large
extent. The country with low costs has
usually—subject to other circumstances—
money with a correspondingly high buy-
ing power in the world’s markets, with
the money of a high-cost country in a
reverse position. Hence, in considering
the future of exchange rates between
Britain and Australia, this analysis of
the possible future trend of costs.
It is true that at the moment the Com-
monwealth has more money in Britain
than it has had for a very long time. It
has accumulated this money while paying
its overseas commitments, or all but a
few trifling millions of them, other than
its obligations under lend-lease. And it
appears to be now quite clear that no
monetary hangovers are contemplated in
the lend-lease account, and that whatever
funds we have been building up overseas
will be free from earmarks by the U.S.A.
But even this comparative flushness on
our London account does not mean a
definite strengthening of the Australian
pound. There is already talk in London
that some of it should he used to dis-
charge pre-war debts soon falling due.
And with the end of the European war
this country will no doubt have big
purchases of overseas manufactures and
petroleum products to pay for, which may
be proportionately more costly than the
raw materials which we are able to sell
in return.
In Britain Lord Woolton, Minister of
Reconstruction, has shown concern for
the future buying-power of the money
small investors have put into war loans.
This is an anti-inflationary attitude which
promises to have a strengthening effect
upon sterling, provided it is not carried
too far, as the deflation policy was car-
ried in 1925. There seems to be no
danger of a return to the 1925 policy;
but the concern expressed for bondholders
is in contrast to Australian Ministerial
(and Labor party in general) addiction to
bank credit, which has already caused
considerable inflation and currency depre-
ciation.
While the political policy of Australia
as to freedom of enterprise remains so
murky, overseas capital is likely to be
hesitant in coming here. Trade-union
excesses will also cause discouragement.
Even where new capital does come into
Australia part of it often goes out almost
immediately in paying for imported plant
and other equipment for the undertaking
in which the capital is being invested.
In the Sydney Special Court last week
E. W. Abberton, owner of a car-hire
business, admitted to laying a trap with
the aid of the Prices Commission so as
to buy a motor-car at the fixed price. The
prosecution swted that Abberton was en-
trusted with £2lO of Commonwealth
money to make the transaction. Atkin-
son, S.M., said he had never heard of
a similar case where persuasive action
was so strong. The sum of £5OO as the
selling-price (the fixed price was £289)
was proposed, perhaps, by Grieves, owner
of the car, to try to choke Abberton off,
but when the latter agreed to it Grieves
was apparently overcome and accepted.
Although Abberton admitted that he
knew he was laying a trap for Mr. and
Mrs. Grieves with the Prices Commis-
sion he was not prosecuted for his part
in the transaction. He had, on a previ-
ous occasion, gone to the Prices Com-
mission when trying to buy a car.
Grieves was fined £25 and ordered to
forfeit the excess price. A moral seems
to be indicated from this extraordinary
case. It is that when a car-owner is
pestered by anyone prepared to offer
more than the fixed price for a car he
would be well advised to punch him on
the nose. In the first place the offeror is
breaking the law, and, in the second, if
he happens to be an agent provocateur
of the Prices Commission, so much the
better.
* * * *
Treasurer Chifley at least deserves the
credit of having told the trade-union
movement, in effect, that he has gone
so far their way but will go no further.
This was demonstrated when he told a
trade-union delegate from Queensland
that unpegged wages would mean inflation
and disaster to post-war export trades,
the delegate responding that inflation
would hurt only the investor, and (in
brief) to blazes with the investor, Mr.
Moroney, the Queensland delegate, is
supported by another trade-union intel-
lectual, a Mr. Kenny, who reported to a
N.S.W. Trades and Labor Council meet-
ing that Mr. Chifley “has a certain finan-
cial outlook that will react detrimentally
to the unions, because he seems to be hys-
terical about the war effort.” Mr. Kenny
having said that, need any more be said
about Mr, Kenny?
* * * *
Senator Keane has also taken a stand,
or at least has struck an attitude, against
trade-union requests. The unions asked
that facilities should be made available
for the home-brewing of beer (the ration-
ing of beer having in the first case been
introduced to prevent a threatened beer
orgy). After promising to consider the
question (beer made by the breweries
is now carrying an excise duty of 4s. 7d.
a gallon), Senator Keane decided against
the proposal, ’ sagaciously remarking that
there »would be a “possibility” of “illicit
liquor trading and increased drunken-
ness,”
* * * *
It was revealed at the censorship in-
quiry that the director of the Division of
Import Procurement sought information
from the correspondence of a “Mr. Y,”
who, it was believed, was trying to influ-
ence the Government against the policy
of the D.I.P. Only “Mr. Y”? Surely
the list of hostile citizens at least ran
from “Mr. A” to “Mr. Z” and back-
through the alphabet again!
* * * *
Once possessed of a decided exhibi-
tionist complex, the General Mining and
Investment Co. (Sydney) has become
almost a recluse. Formed in 1937 under
the wing of the “Investors’ Review,” de-
scribed by itself then as Australia s
leading financial service,” G.M.I. was
paraded vigorously before the eyes of the
investing public. “All the expert infor-
mation possessed by the mining board
of the ‘lnvestors’ Review’ Advisory
Service” was made available to G.M.I.—
and “readers who followed the definite
recommendations of the ‘lnvestors Re-
view’ earned 60 p.c. on their investments,
taking both losses and gains into ac-
count.” G.M.I. went to work buying
and selling shares, and was remarkable
in its preference for mines north of the
Australian continent. Only 6 p.c. of the
stocks on Mar. 31, 1939, were industrials.
Earnings got up to about 18 p.c. on capi-
tal for a period, and there were \l\ p.c.
divs. But when Japan struck there was
a heavy loss of tinmining divs., then New
Guinea gold divs. The Labor Govern-
ment tied up the Stock Exchange and
restricted trading operations. In the year
to Sept. 30, 1942, the co. showed a total
loss of £40,077 —in excess of all profits
since it began. The accounts were nearly
a year old when presented; in the pre-
vious period they were delayed almost
11 months. Results for the .12 months to
Sept. 30, 1943, were issued on May 23.
Although the 1942 report said that the
outlook had “considerably improved,”
the co. was able to show a profit of only
£484. Trading, dividends and interest
brought in, £3921, losses on investments
took £1067 and management exes. £2370.
“A number of large shareholdings for-
merly productive of income a|e now
contributing little or nothing. , In most
instances no improvement can be expected
until the termination of hostilities.” The
investment portfolio has been “re-
arranged” since the close of accounts.
Of the total investments held, 70 p.c. is
now represented by industrials, 25 p.c. by
gold stocks and 5 p.c. by base-metal
issues. The p. and 1. debit amounted to
£40,770 at Sept. 30 last, while capital
stood at £108,634. Investments at £60,958
show little change in book value;
sundry debtors have moved up from
£23,958 to £30,441. The co. owes £20,987,
compared with £14,456. The auditors
say they are unable to accept responsi-
bility for the valuation placed on invest-
ments, which are shown “at cost.” The
records of the Australian Mining In-
vestment Unit Trust, for which G.M.I.
acts as agent, have not been inspected by
the co.’s auditors. There was talk at the
beginning of a yield of £l7 1 Is. per cent,
from these units, the funds in the first
instance to be “invested” mainly in tin
and gold shares.


SOUTH AFRICA your post-war EXPORT MARKET
KEENE & COMPANY
( Principal: DAVID KAY),
COMMONWEALTH BUILDING, ST. GEORGE’S STREET, CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA,
P.O. BOX 2305,
Are desirous of making contact with Australia and New Zealand Manufacturers as
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES for South Africa and the Rhodesias.
Highest references available and really first-class representation assured.
Proprietary Medicines, Toilet, Household Requisites, Hardware and Plastics particu-
larly invited. Further information from
GOLDBERG ADVERTISING (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.,
BOX No. 3988, G.P.0., SYDNEY —or write direct.
C, TH AT
The v
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. 'Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 «.
===== [ADVERTISEMENT] —■
NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE ACCOUNTS
BEST FOR MANY YEARS.
The 74th annual meeting of the National Mutual Jjife Association of Australasia, lAd.,
was held at the Association’s office, 395 Collins Street, Melbourne, recently. Moving the
adoption of the report and accounts, Sir Harold Laixton, chairman, said
“The report and accounts, which are in
your hands, are very satisfactory. Indeed,
having regard to the manifold difficulties
with which we are beset during the year,
they are, in my opinion, the best accounts
that have been presented to us for many years.
INCREASED NEW BUSINESS.
“Our new business of £10,439,533 (which
includes £1,851,230 of new group life in-
surance) shows a substantial recovery from
the previous year’s total of £7,683,902.
“With regard to staff superannuation
schemes, we understand that the proposed
amendment now before Parliament affect-
ing the income tax law relating to contribu-
tions to pension funds has been introduced
in order to prevent tax evasion. The sug-
gestion is that improper schemes have been
arranged merely for the purpose of evading
tax. I therefore consider it desirable to say
that in devising and recommending super-
annuation schemes to meet the needs of
companies and other employers the Associa-
tion has always been scrupulously careful to
satisfy itself that every scheme for which it
is responsible is properly designed for the
benefit of the staff concerned, and to advise
that the scheme should be approved by the
Taxation Department before it is completed.
TOTAIi INCOME.
“The Association’s total net income for the
year was £6,552,288, a record figure. To this
sum premiums contributed £4,524,946, and in-
terest, rent and fees the balance of £2,027,342.
INTEREST RATE.
“The gross interest income represents a
rate of £4 Bs. 6d. p.c., and after deduction
of rates and taxes the net rate was
£3 18s. sd. p.c. Interest revenue for the
year was assisted by the collection of out-
standing interest not previously credited; but
for this the net rate would have shown a
more material fall than the slight reduction
of 2d. p.c. shown in the report. As you
know, all our new money and a substan-
tial proportion of the funds returned to us
on redemption of old investments are sub-
scribed to war loans at very low rates of
interest.
EXPENSE RATE FURTHER REDUCED.
“Despite the substantial increase in new
business our total expenses of management,
including commission, are just £4432 more
than the previous year. In these days of
increasing costs this is a remarkable
achievement. If, for the purposes of a true
comparison we exclude. A.R.P. expenses and
war damage insurance, the ratios of total
expenses to total net income for each of
the last four years are as follows: 1940,
8.93 p.c.; 1941,. 8.59 p.c.; 1942, 8.31 p.c.;
1943, 8.15 p.c.
“There are various methods of expressing
and calculating costs, but from whatever
standpoint one may look at our figures it
will be found that this improvement is real
and that our costs are remarkably low.
They are, I believe, lower today than they
have ever been. In considering this question
of costs it is important to bear in mind that
the Association’s rates of premiums are lower
in most instances than those of other offices.
ASSURANCE FUND.
“The result of the year’s transactions is
that the sum of £2,104,559 was added to
the assurance fund, which now amounts
to £53,778,881. As I haye remarked, the
total increase in the Association’s funds for
the year was £2,104,559. This figure also
corresponds closely with the increase in the
balance sheet total. Our comparison, how-
ever, discloses that Government securities
increased by £3,615,887, and the report tells
us that £3,345,000 of this sum was sub-
scribed directly to war loans.
TRIENNIAU INVESTIGATION.
“The results of the Investigation are set
out in the Actuaries’ report, which has
been adopted by the board. The total
business in force at the date of the valuation
consisted of 321,419 policies having a total
sum assured and bonus additions of
£140,897,720 and providing Annuities of
£240,951 per annum. The nett actuarial
liability under policy contracts amounts to
£50,510,975, leaving a nett surplus for the
triennium of £3,267,905. Our Actuary
recommends that the actuarial reserve
should be increased by a sum of £1,300,000,
this being the additional amount required
to permit all of the Association’s assurance
liabilities being valued on a 2\ p.c. interest
basis. This sum has accordingly been set
aside in the valuation Balance Sheet as a
special reserve.
“After making this provision there re-
mained a divisible surplus of £1,967,905, of
which sum £1,499,221 has been applied to
provide bonus additions of £2,275,000 to
members’ policies. The bonuses allotted are
on a scale that all members, I feel sure,
will agree are satisfactory in view of the sur-
rounding circumstances, and in this respect
the course we have followed is in keeping
with that of other Life Assurance Offices.
“These, then, are the results of the trien-
nial investigation, for which we decided two
years ago to wait. We have gained by that
decision. It has enabled us in determining
our course of action to take into account
all the changes, financial and otherwise, that
occurred during that very critical period, as
well as our own actual results. We are quite
satisfied that in applying part of the surplus
to bring our reserves info line with present
financial conditions and in preparation for
the post-war period we have acted correctly
apd in the best interest of the members.
You will, I am sure, agree that our Asso-
ciation, whose chief function is to provide
security, should itself be secure.
INCREASED INTERIM BONUSES.
“In the absence of some unusually ad-
verse experience, and in view of the large
additions which have been made to the
reserves, it is anticipated that for the year
now current the Association will be in a
position to allot bonuses at rates substan-
tially in excess of the rates allotted in respect
of each year of the triennium just ended.”
An Economic Thermostat
In the House of Lords recently Lord
Woolton, Britain’s Minister of Recon-
struction, surveyed the British post-war
scene as he expected to see it. He divided
his survey into three parts. First, there
would be the period, immediately after
the war, when 10 million Britons would
have to be moved “occupationally.” The
second period would follow this transi-
tion era, and would be one of spending
pressure, with the danger of a “boom.”
The third period would be after the force
of pent-up war-time demand had satis-
fied itself, all “willing expenditure” then
being over, and would be a time
that would test the wisdom of economic
management in the two preceding periods.
Lord Woolton was aiming to make this
part of the post-war years, “long as it
might be ahead,” one of planned capital
expenditure.
In regard to period No. 1, of the 10
million people who would have to change
their occupations, half might have to be
moved in a short time. The engineering
industry, “in so far as those conducting
it had spare time and spare minds,” had
been asked to make plans for new em-
ployment in advance of the end of the
war. One of the problems of all industry
at this time would be a shortage of raw
materials. The public demand for goods
would almost certainly exceed the supply,
and some sort of control would have to
be exercised over raw materials. Plans
were now being worked out by the Gov-
ernment and by industry with regard to
the availability of labor and basic
materials. Lord Woolton said he was not
advocating economic bilateralism when
he expressed the view that Britain would
at least have to make some sort of ar-
rangement for reciprocal trade with coun-
tries from which it bought food.
During this period of transition also
if. would be necessary to have some dis-
cipline over the consumption of goods.
If money were left free to do its natural
job prices would go up and the country
would pe faced with “a great deal of dis-
tress apd disaster.” These remarks seem
to dovetail with that part of the Budget
speech of Sir John Anderson in which
he spoke rather warningly of a transition-
period standard of living “at least as high
as we have now,” and of the necessity for
Britain to export a large portion of its
production in order to obtain essential
raw materials.
The second period in the post-war
scene was one in which labor would be
in great demand. With a very big home
market to satisfy, plans would have to be
made to avoid booms and to secure
regularity. For some time, perhaps for
years, Lord Woolton said, “there will be
a danger, if plans are not made before-
hand, of our becoming negligent.” He
gave a warning that if inflation in prices
were allowed to follow the spending of
war-time savings it might swallow the
whole of the people’s war-time invest-
ments. It would be wrong if prices rose
so high that money lent to the Govern-
ment became of less value than when it
was borrowed. The £2250 million sub-
scribed in small savings would be a valu-
able spending reserve for later on if pre-
served against inflation.
The Minister is obviously aware of the
value of war-time savings in providing
employment in the post-war era if prop-
erly spread, and is at the same time awake
to the inflationary danger if such savings
are spent in one great orgy. There is
an inherent inflationary danger in war-
time savings inasmuch as no country
has charged its people in money for the
full physical cost of war, and there has
inevitably been a surplus of money avail-
able for civilians in relation to produc-
tion available for civilians. The resump-
tion of peace-time manufacture will not
entirely correct this position unless post-
war manufacturing processes bring an
appreciable reduction in costs of produc-
tion.
The third period for which Lord Wool-
ton is planning is the one in which the
danger will be that of slump. All “will-
ing expenditure” then being over, it
would be the time for encouraging local
authorities, public utility companies and
private undertakings to expend capital on
plans which those concerns would have
been asked to defer to that date. Lord
Woolton emphasised the necessity for
complete and comprehensive plans for
this period. He said that the reason why
Britain’s public works plans failed in 1930
was because they were put in hand at
the wrong time, when unemployment was
most severe. The Government now had
plans under consideration to regulate the
flow of public works. Unemployment
jvas caused by the failure of effective
demand, and he believed that an
economic thermostat could bo found
which would enable a demand which
was always latent to become opera-
tive. Looking back on the past,
he said that our statesmen were not
then too well equipped with economic
information. The Government now had
the services of statistical records and ex-
pert advice concerning economic trends
and trade movements. These would
enable it to see ahead and take early
action to prevent unemployment.
Summarising a lengthy survey, Lord
Woolton told the House that the Govern-
ment realised fully the dangers of the
immediate and probably short transitional
period. It recognised also the danger of
booms, and would seek the confidence
of the country in its ability to control
booms, “pleasurable” as booms might
be for the time being for some people.
When the normal life of the country was
restored the Government would seek to
have regularity and continuity of employ-
ment for the whole nation.
It is refreshing for Australians to
hear of planning of this kind; it
sounds as though it has a basis of
commonsense. The whole perspective
uncovered, by Lord Woolton is colored
by the importance of private industry,
and he is not too much of a poli-
tician to admit that he has already gone
to industry to help him in his planning.
Taken with the opinions and forecasts
of M. S. Eccles, of the Federal Reserve
System of the U.S.A. (B. 10/5/’44), there
is revealed to Australians an outlook on
the post-war world foreign to that seen
by our Department of Post-war Recon-
struction, in which the predominant
feature seems to be bureaucrats survey-
ing Australia and taking the view that
it is a continent in which no industrial
or economic intelligence has ever previ-
ously been exhibited.
It is interesting to note, in the plans
of the British Government, that Govern-
ment spending on “works” is not going
to be carried out early in the post-war
period merely for spending’s sake. Un-
fortunately, it seems that in this country
we are faced with the alternatives of en-
tirely untrustworthy planning in the
Federal sphere while the present Govern-
ment is in office, or, with State rights re-
tained, politicians of the McKell type
defeating or crippling any Australian
post-war planning there might be of a
sound national character. There is evi-
dence that Mr. McKell and Mr, Cooper
are straining at the leash in order to get
going State policies of “works” and
spending irrespective of what may be the
considered opinion of the Common-
wealth’s more reliable financial and eco-
nomic advisers. It is a great tragedy for
the Commonwealth that the Constitu-
tional Referendum has been proposed in
the present state of Federal politics.
Lord Woolton sees Great Britain sub-
ject to economic restrictions for some
time, possibly years, after the war. In-
telligently applied there is no doubt about
the need for some restrictions, especially
in a country so dependent upon overseas
trade as Britain. In Australia there may
fall upon the shoulders of the Common-
wealth Bank the task of trying to enforce
by financial measures an economic policy
which could, under additional (legitimate)
Commonwealth powers, be carried out
more specifically by legal and similar
controls. For these probable post-war
difficulties Australians can largely blame
the lack of confidence in the Federal
sphere created by the present Govern-
ment.
Gresham’s law will eventually reveal
itself in Australian currency and credit
irrespective of what controls are imposed
in order to disguise the progress of infla-
tion. Bad money drives the good out of
circulation and causes a flight from
money into real assets irrespective of
controls ; black-marketing would become
a major industry in a country where
money was becoming a mockery in spite
of legislative controls that aimed at keep-
ing up its appearance. In spite of the
credit-happy speeches of the Prime
Minister prior to the elections —he was all
for using bank credit in the post-war
period in order to finance reconstruction
—it is known that the Treasurer has been
concerned about the excess of bank-credit
that has been created in maintaining the
money incomes of the people and reliev-
ing them of part of their war-time
financial responsibilities. Many will
remark that it is damn’ near time that he
was beginning to worry about the de-
preciation of the Australian pound. The
main trouble which confronts us at the
present is not what damage has been
already done, but what graver dangers
confront us in the future if the belief is
persisted in that the controls which have
for the time being saved inflation from
wrecking the war effort will for all time
save us from the effects of an unbroken
policy of inflation. While inflation con-
tinues regimentation must continue in
order to “control” the inflation ; and
when this semi-socialistic economy breaks
down under pressure of natural forces
we have a financial revolution that may
lead to revolution of another kind. Lei
there be no mistake about it; me
financial administration of the
wealth is going to have a great deal to
do with its future political admmistra-
tion.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clooter”; In a back-country town
where the sergeant of police is a “nark,”
the Sabbath is a dreadful day for beer
hounds. Around nine in the morning they
gather under the pub verandah, talk spas-
modically and in monosyllables, or idly
chew a match. They know the publican
isn’t game to risk opening his bar, they
know there’s no hope, but the pub is still
an irresistible magnet; there they stay
until well after dark, probably comfort-
ing themselves with the thought that Mon-
day is coming closer with every slow
hour. Which is why, on the King’s Birth-
day holiday in Sydney, with the city
deserted, the sky overcast, a cold wind
blowing and the rain coming down, I felt
that I was back home when I saw a
morose crowd outside a quayside pub.
Yes, the beer was off, the pub closed and,
like their contemporaries of the bush, the
city beer hounds were stumped. Though
they had a choice of picture shows, art
galleries, libraries, ferry trips, etc., they
remained firmly under the verandah of
the pub. I know now that if the Japs
had managed to get into Sydney the most
desperate resistance would have been
encountered in the pubs.
* * * *
“A. King Void”: Since the reduced
butter ration my midday has taken
to shaving off a thin curl of butter and
placing it daintily on the edge of the
plate. None of the regulars complained,
but one day a casual dropped in. He
surveyed the butter issue, flicked it
gently with a finger, then raised the plate
and blew. The wafer of butter floated
off into the air, and every diner watched
it describe a slow circle and flutter gently
to the floor. Then, in a dead silence, the
oldest regular rose, bowed solemnly to
the casual and resumed his seat.
♦ * * *
“Wodgil”: From a week’s issue of
cablegrams:
The U.S. Government has “blacklisted”
84 Finnish firms, one headed by the Foreign
Minister, Sir Henryk Ramsay.
“We expected to get 90 p.c. of the in-
vasion troops safely across the Channel,
but we have put 100 p.c. ashore,” said
C.-in-C. Allied Naval Forces, Admiral Sir
Bertram Home Ramsay.
The House of Commons is to debate .
the case of Captain Archibald Henry Maule
Ramsay, Conservative M.P. for Peebles,
South Midlothian, since 1931, who has been
detained for more than four years under
National Security Regulations.
How strange that men bearing the same
name should figure in such occurrences
ir the same week! The admiral’s home
is m Berwickshire; the captain, who
>vas severely wounded on the Somme
in 1916 (on that score there has always
been some sympathy for him), was taken
to his place of detention from Kellie
Castle, Arbroath, Angus. The Finn’s
British title was conferred on him be-
tween the wars. I suppose he is a de-
cendant of one of those “hundred thou-
sand Scots who in the hundred years which
ended two hundred years ago found their
way across the stormy seas to Sweden,”
of which Finland was then part. Sir lan
Hamilton, who wrote the quoted words,
says “there are a million human beings
calling themselves Swedes” almost a
sixth of the population—“who are actually
bound by the sacred tie of blood to Scot-
land.” As for Ramsays, they are to be
found almost everywhere. On their list
of celebrities are a poet, a portrait-
painter (poet Allan’s son and namesake),
a chemist, a geologist, an archaeologist, a
French writer (author of Les Voyages
de Cyrus), an American historian and “an
Australian statesman” —Robert Ramsay,
M.L.A. for East Bourke at 28 and mem-
ber of four Victorian Ministries, those of
Francis, Kerferd, McCulloch and Ser-
vice, before his death in 1882 at 40.
* 3*5 *
“Pitt St.”: Six days after the invasion
began my morning paper informed me
that censors had handled 2,500,000 words
“If Monty wants me, tell 'im I'm at the Follies Berjairs."
already from correspondents on the job.
Among them was this speculative item,
credited to a party named Leslie Randall,
of London “Evening Standard”: “Who is
in charge of German anti-invasion forces
in France—Rundstedt or Rommel?”
Mr. Randall appeared to be quite wor-
ried about it. Personally, I don’t care a
hoot, because I’m satisfied that the going
will be tough in the early stages, whether
Rund. or Romm, leads the enemy. But
what I would like to know is who, at
such a time, found opportunity to count
the number of words going through the
censors.
* * * *
“Tiki Biter”: A Maoriland magistrate,
faced with a youth who pleaded guilty
to bad language, put him on a year’s pro-
bation of good conduct and ordered him
to write out the 119th Psalm, the longest
in the Bible, “to help educate him in the
use of better language.” His Worship’s
object, laudable though it be, is unlikely
to be achieved. Writing of lines from the
classics was a favorite form of punish-
ment at my old school, and some of us
were so good at it that we often collected
a stray thrummer per hundred from less
facile offenders. Some of the imposts
were so regularly inflicted that some of
us got to know them by heart —though
even now I often wonder what they
meant.
* * * *
“C.P.R.”: When a holiday week-end
hit our city synchronously with the
familiar meat-shortage because the Gov-
ernment slaughtermen wouldn’t work, the
wife managed to lay in a bit of corned
beef. But the cat went short, a fact which
upset the family, trained to regard the
adequate feeding of animals as a sacred
duty. On the third day I discovered a
fish-shop almost swamped under a herd
of eager people buying flounder. I
plunged in, fought my way to the counter
and got a half-pound one ; thence to the
tram, pleased at having saved the fummy
further misery. At home I showed my
prize to the missus, saying “Well, the
poor old thing ought to be pleased with
that.” The missus grabbed it, a wild
gleam came into her eye and she declared
“Huh, we’ll have it for breakfast. That 11
be one meal I won’t have to worry
about.” Then she hoisted the pleading
cat out with her foot, and 1 withdrew,
pondering on what the daily food and
clothing battle could do to a woman.
* * * *
“P.McM.”; Shaving without hot water
or a mirror is all in the day’s work to the
hardened Digger (B. 14/6/’44). Still, why
risk chopping a hunk out of your phiz
when the polished bottom of a tobacco-
or mess-tin suffices to guide the razor?
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”; It would be diffi-
cult to imagine a narrative film better
done than “San Demetrio, London,”
which, after a long battle with the cen-
sors, has reached Melbourne, yet it left
spectators strangely apathetic, though a
trashy cowboy picture can excite them.
The reason seems to be that, like most
war films, it lacks the quality of the uni-
versal that makes all the difference be-
tween history and literature. Joseph
Conrad, in Lord Jim, wrote an enthral-
ling story of the abandonment of a ship.
The ship, crammed with Mecca pilgrims,
hits a derelict in the night and appears
to be sinking. The European officers de-
cide to leave her and her sleeping pil-
grims. They reach India, and before the
board of inquiry are telling a faked story
about how they saw the ship sink when
a warship makes port towing the vessel
and its bewildered pilgrims. The rest of
the story concerns a young fourth officer
who had deserted the ship along with the
others and his endeavors to expiate his
guilty conscience. There isn’t a filmgoer
in the world of any nationality who could
not identify himself with the conflict of
emotions in Lord Jim, and, although it is
one of the longest monologues in exist-
ence, it doesn’t |pore one, Conrad prob-
ably invented his yarn, wherpas “San
Demetrio, London” deals with an amaz-
ingly heroic episode that actually hap-
pened, but I doubt if many people would
want to see the film twice.
* * * *
“Petermac”: My sympathy in this war
goes out to the Armored Division. All
volunteers, and as fine a bunch of Aussies
as ever donned khaki, most of them have
had more than three years’ service with-
out firing a shot. Bitterly they realise
that they are known as the Third A.I.F.
and the Koalas (“protected— not to be
shot at”) without being able to do much
about it. Many have tried ingenious
methods to transfer to units going into
action. Their time may come yet, and
if it does they will do Australia credit.
Meanwhile the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. must be in
a dilemma as to the status of these and
many other sturdy A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
fellows when discharged.
* * * *
“Cheeser”: Recently the Common-
wealth authorities established another
post office in the vicinity of the spot where
the McCrae family settled near Rye
(Vic.) in 1841. It has been named in
honor of the McCraes, to whom Victoria
owes much. George Gordon McCrae,
the father of Victorian poetry, was a son.
The family tradition has been carried on
by Hugh McCrae, and a book of verse
by Christina Mawdsley, who has steeped
herself in Georgiana’s Diary, is in the
printer’s hands.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: An example of what a
book can be was presented to me by a
little volume simply branded Vortices
and All About Them. It was a textbook
on a subject that ordinarily 1 would have
considered covered for all my purposes
by the definition of a vortex; but in a
medical waiting-room one will read any-
thing. A chapter on waterspouts, their
causes and some notable records, got me
interested ; I passed to the influence of
vortices in atmospherics—and 1 borrowed
the book, returning it when I attended
for a repeat appointment two days later.
It had been read through, some chap-
ters twice, and gave more enjoyment than
a novel. A desire to read it again came
after a few weeks, but it had disappeared
from the medico’s premises, and he had
no knowledge of the book or how it
came to be in his rooms. It shows how
interesting any subject can be, handled
by a man with a full knowledge and a
capacity for good writing, sauced by
humor. An admirable example in jour-
nalism was Bluett’s local-government
column in “S. M. Herald,” but it dis-
appeared during the present war, -and
now Bluett is dead.
* * * *
“Lomond”: The phrase “Common-
wealth of Nations,” now preferred by
some people to “Empire,” is a lot older
than the Statute of Westminster. It was
coined on January 18, 1884, and Aus-
tralia was the first to hear it. Lord Rose-
bery used it that day in a speech at Ade-
laide in which he said: “Does the fact of
your being a nation (and I think you feel
yourself to be a nation) imply separation
from the Empire? God forbid! There
is no need for any nation, however
great, leaving the Empire, because the
Empire is a Commonwealth of Nations.”
Rosebery continued: “And let me remind
this assemblage of the fact that empires,
and especially great empires, when they
crumble are apt to crumble exceedingly
small.”
* * * ♦
“Plum”; A. P. Herbert would pounce
with cries of joy on an exposition of the
volubility of officialdom given in a St.
Louis “Globe-Democrat” article. This
reaffirms the Bible’s pre-eminence as. a
treasury of terse English—only 400 words
for the story of creation, and for a com-
plete code of morals, the Ten Command-
ments, only another 400. Lincoln’s Gettys-
burg Address has 266 words, and the
Declaration of Independence a mere
1321. The “Globe-Democrat” concludes
this list with the example of an Office of
Prices Administration announcement
which reduced the price of cabbage seeds
in a ukase of 2500 words.
* * * ♦
“F.S.”: A characteristic of young
artists of the “modernist” persuasion, in
my experience, is the habit of filling their
studios with divans, couches, cushions,
easy chairs and similar more or less
voluptuous-looking accessories to com-
fort. In following this quaint fashion
some of them leave scarcely enough room
for an easel or sufficient space to see
their model. Rodin’s attitude was
different. On one occasion he was show-
ing some visitors the sculptures in his
studio and a smartly-dressed young
woman complained that there was noth-
ing to sit down on. “1 don’t believe in
comfort —if you want to be comfortable
go to bed, madam,” remarked the
sculptor.
* * *• *
“Zake”: I read that a plan to establish
a Beer Control Board “has been revived
in Ministerial circles.” The news should
be as welcome to one suds-swiller I know
as a brand-new strike excuse is to a
N.S.W. coalminers’ lodge. Not that he’d
get more or cheaper beer in the pubs. On
the contrary. The setting up of a Beer
Board would probably mean that the
price of beer would immediately sky-
rocket to Is. 2d. a schooner, which
measure would be forbidden in bars ex-
cept between 5.40 p.m. and 6 p.m. every
second Thursday in the month. Also,
bottled beer, the sight of which only
those citizens with unusually retentive
memories can recall, if dimly, would not
magically appear in the bottle depart-
ments at the fixed —“fixed” is right!
price. The mystery surrounding the com-
plete disappearance of bottled beer would
still defy a Sherlock Holmes. Neverthe-
less, my suds-swiller would warmly wel-
come the board’s establishment, for he
has long determined to become an em-
ployee immediately it comes into being.
For under the unwritten law pertaining
to boards he confidently expects to be
able to buy at least four dozen a week.
ON AUGUST 19.
“The Referendum campaign would divide the
nation at a time when the world was at the supreme
crisis in its history.” —Earle Page.
When all should be working in unison for
The vital objective of winning the war,
When ev’rything else politicians are at
Fades into the background contrasted with that,
You’d think it was surely a time to forbear
From starting a rumpus and raising a flare
Regarding a purely domestic affair,
And from making the land that we live in the
scene
Of a ballot-box battle on August 19.
There’s an oft-quoted proverb that warns us
to keep
Away from disturbing dogs lying asleep.
And these dogs have been snoozing so long,
you’ll allow,
That there’s nothing to warrant awaking them
now.
In war-time there’s more to discuss and debate
Than powers your Commonwealth seeks from
your State—
What’s waited so long a bit longer may wait.
Yet there must be a struggle, they tell us, be-
tween
The Ayes and the Noes upon August 19.
We can all pull together, it’s safe to suppose,
And solidly stand against alien foes.
Rut in opposite camps, all at odds and estranged,
Our rulers insist that we needs must be ranged
On questions that really don’t matter a rap
Compared with the task of restoring the map
Of Europe, and settling the hash of the Jap.
No matter how little you think it may mean,
You must vote, or they’ll fine you, on August 19.
Let disputants prate of the wherefore and why
For the move, I should reckon a smack in the
eye s
Is their due who their fellows to faction incite
When the race is embarked on a bloodier fight,
And when all that it has into that should be
thrown
Are blind to the need to defer or postpone
Their squabbles on what should be well let alone,
And rulings on points which should never have
been
Set down for decision on August 19.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Lao-dah”: Caen was “Cay-en” to us
in our schooldays, and Webster’s New
International is still content with that
pronunciation; but radio announcers,
putting us all right as usual, call *it
“Kahng.” Touching Kahng’s connection
with William the Norman, the Kahngese
don’t allow the visitor to forget it.
“Hey, turn him round! Want the blood t ’ go to his head?"
Outside the city, in which one can
easily imagine one is back in the Middle
Ages, stands—or stood—a huge poster
announcing that it was from this spot that
“Guillaume le Conquerant” left for Eng-
l and
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: “D-Day” is merely a
cipher. Germans, however, will find
significance in the phrase, for to them the
Berliner D-Zug is the Berlin express. No
doubt many of them, soured by the experi-
fur/her and/ read into the
sa:
haughty
fuhrer a. D. - Fuhrer, on the Retired
List ‘ * * * *
“-r ijrti.a o n Amha-
Th
-SHS
(he s not done by), Blarney
or Collins, bu Dr Norman Haire b
Sydney, Australia 1892 “d back m Ins
birthplace. Who , Who cotons are 7.
inches long and two inches wide and a e
printed in small ‘ *
lieve they call it. Dr. Norman Haire gets
a bit over seven inches. Churchill’s share
is 5k inches. That of Sir Alexander Flem-
ing, the discoverer of penicillin, is exactly
two inches. Among the commanders
Tedder fares best with inches ; then
come sea-dog Cunningham (2* inchest,
Alexander (a shade over two inches),
Ramsay (a shade under two inches) an
Montgomery (not quite li inches). Syd-
ney for ever! #
*
“F.R.”: “Hist” (B. 7/6/ 44) is not quite
correct in stating that no Australian L.H.
regiment was armed with swords until
1918. At the end of 1915 a composite
L.H. regiment equipped with swords was
engaged in the campaign against the
Senussi, with headquarters at Mersa
Matruh. The first scrap occurred on
Christmas Day, 1915. A bunch of Senussi
were located about five miles west of
Matruh at a spot afterwards known as
Christmas Hill. Towards evening, after
shelling by a minesweeper and the Hon.
Artillery Co., supported by rifle fire, the
L.H., who had occupied a small hill,
charged with drawn swords, and by dark
had written finis to that particular stunt,
* * *
“Bo”: Annoying to some people is the
gibberish of those ladies who, interpret-
ing the stars, solemnly warn tripe-readers
against making decisions or wagers or
walking over precipices when Sagittarius
is in the fourth house; but I prefer it to
the cant of musical criticism. A Syd-
ney practitioner, “explaining” what he
called “the middle-class sentiment” which
had marked a pianist’s playing of a
sonata, said it was possibly influenced, as
he himself had been, “by an audience not
particularly musical.” No doubt he
derived this impression from the fact that
not a single member of the audience had
brought his piano along to assist his
listening. All that the Philistines did was
to clap at the end of each number ; had
they possessed musicianship sufficient to
warrant the critic’s approval they would
have provided an obbligato by snoring in
E Minor, gustily playing yo-yo in the aisles
or standing on their heads and blowing
tin whistles. One work, the critic also
found, “needed more fascination of
detail.” The executant should take warn-
ing, and with her next interpretation of
Liszt or Bach shove in a few native
twiddly-bits as she goes along.
# * * *
“Pal”; “K.G.C.’s” postmen’s mara-
thon figures (B. 31/5/’44) are absurd. To
cover 129,168 miles per foot in 23 years
works out at 18 miles per day for a six-
day week. Although this is rather high
and does not allow for annual leave or
other time off, it may be allowed to pass.
But to cover 185,328 miles per bike in
10 years would tax the powers of an
Opperman. It means that 60 miles per
day for six days a week were covered
continuously for 10 years ; again allowing
no time off for holiday or sickness.
Apparently what was meant was that
Fowler covered a total of 185,328 miles
during his 33 years as a postman. In
that case “Notslor’s” (B. 31/5/ ’44)
nomination, “Pop” Cumberland, postman
for 47 years at Albion (Q.), with a con-
servative mileage of 205,000 miles to his
credit, leads the field. “Pop” is a friend
of mine; before my enlistment in 1940
we had worked together at the same
P.O. for 30 years. Between us we have
covered over 350,000 miles, which we
claim is another record.
* * * *
“El Madjal”: Few tall riflemen (B.
24/5/’44) could have been found in the
Rifle Brigade during the last war. The
brigade—the old 95th —was recruited from
the East End of London, and its rank
and file were little chaps, though game —
none gamer in the B.E.F. The regula-
tion marching step of the R.Bs. is shorter
than that of Ikie regiments, and there are
no privates, the corresponding rank being
“rifleman.” If a rifleman were given the
command to slope arms he wouldn’t
know what to do. The command “quick
march” is given when he is at the “order
arms” position, and on moving off he
comes to the “trail,” On the further com-
mand “march at ease” he comes to the
“slope arms” position. By August 4,
1914, the Rifle Brigade had won more
V.Cs. than any other British regiment,
and during the war that lasted till
November 11, 1918, it lost 11,575 all
ranks killed.
* * * *
“Pip”: To the soldier meals are
always “munga,” “kai” or “chow.” The
breakfast porridge is “glue,” served with
hot or cold “milik” or “cowjuice.”
Any other sort of cereal is “brown
paper.” Toast becomes “burnt bread”
and is smeared with “grease.” Sausages
are “snags,” “snorks” or “mystery bags,”
eaten with “red Ned” or “the red sauce.”
Worcestershire is, of course, “the black
sauce.” Eggs—increasingly rare since the
Egg Board decided to help us —are *‘hen
fruit” and “cackle-berries” ; the powdered
version is “rubberised egg.” Jam is “fly-
catcher,” and is further distinguished by
its particular color. Golden syrup is
“cocky’s delight.” Any type of tinned
meat is “bully.” All tinned fish are “gold-
fish”; soup is “slops.” Lettuce is
“grass”; any form of salad is “rabbits’
food”; rice is “yellow peril”; a roast meal
is “Mum’s dinner.” Fatigue men and
mess orderlies are “spud-barbers.” Al-
though a drink of tea is a “cuppa,” the
issue pannikin is a “pint.” The soldier
who eats little is a “sparrow”; a healthy
appetite confers the title of “munga man”
on its owner, with the added distinction
of being “pretty good on the tooth.”
Strangely, the mess parade itself has
never received a distinguishing title, but
every babbler has supplementary ones to
offset the deficiency.
» * * *
“G’pa”: Recently £5OO was left to
the' Historical Society of Victoria for
a Matthew Flinders monument at
Schnapper Point, Port Phillip. Melbourne
has a Flinders statue in the precincts of
St. Paul’s: the navigator is depicted
stepping ashore in all his trappings, and
there are two sailors; one appears to be
pushing the landing boat, the other re-
tarding it. Subscriptions for this statue
yielded a surplus, the interest on which
is used by the Education Department to
issue textbooks on Flinders. The latest
Flinders legacy would be better employed
in this direction, as the proposed monu-
ment would be seen by few and become
merely another resting spot for seafowls.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Commonwealth
authorities have retorted on the South
Melbourne P.M. who criticised the use
of the broad arrow as an official symbol
by pointing out that it had its origin
long before the days of the Australian
convict. Actually, it is mentioned by
Pepys as derived from the anchor used
as a Crown mark when he was at the
Admiralty. There are other derivations,
all equally beside the point. In these
cases it is associations that matter. Be-
fore Hitler broke out the swastika was
for scholars Ihe pre-Aryan sun-symbol,
found in Troy, India, China, Japan, South
America and even West Africa, and for
ordinary people it was a meaningless
decorative motive. After it became the
emblem of the Nazis it acquired such
unfortunate associations that patriotic
citizens of Melbourne used to visit the
Commonwealth Bank, where it was woven
into the design of a huge carpet,
especially to trample on it. There was
so much public resentment that the car-
pet, a very expensive one, had to be re-
moved.
* * * *
“Listening Insect”: The row that broke
out in England over the broadcasting of
the Biblical plays of Dorothy Sayers has
not so far been repeated here since the
A.B.C. began disseminating the Sayers
series. The plays tell the story of the
"In writing the log, Mr. Boltrope, it is customary to say ‘The death
occurred of A.B. Simms '—not ‘ A.B. Simms kicked the bucket.'"
four Gospels, and the characters, mclud-
ing Jesus/converse in colloquial English,
Very different, I admit, from the stately
language of the Authorised Version, but
then the Authorised Version, too was
written in the colloquial English of its
* * * *
“Maude M”: Many years ago a
stranger walked into Sydney’s Public
Library and asked questions regarding
its contents. After a few hours the visi-
tor and the library assistant parted with
mutual respect. A year later a letter and
a parcel arrived at the library frorn
abroad ; the letter stated that the parcel
contained a present from a casual stranger
who had received courteous attention. In
the parcel was a First Folio (1823.)
Shakspeare with the Droeshout engraving
extolled as a likeness by Ben Jonson. It
remains still one of the treasures of the
library—too precious during war-time to
bring from its vault. The donor was
Richard Tangye, of Manchester.
*** , *
“Clooter”: The missus brought the
early-morning cup of tea to my bedside
and sat there while I absorbed it. “I’m
a bit puzzled as to what to give you and
the kids for breakfast,” she said with a
worried frown. “The baker has brought
soft, warm, fresh bread, which means it
can’t be toasted, so we can’t have sardines
on I can’t give you poached eggs
for the same reason ; you don’t like them
boiled or fried, and I can’t scramble them
because Baby broke the scrambler. If I
only had some of that nice beef dripping
we could have bacon rolls, but there isn’t
any dripping, so that’s that. I might have
had banana fritters, only I’m frightened
to ask the fruiterer for a pound of
bananas at the fixed price, and” But
by this time I’d leapt screaming from the
bunk and rushed to the kitchen, where I
tore^savagely at my cereal, washing it
down with powdered milk.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Country folk in Victoria
athirst for culture are bitterly complain-
ing of the difficulties of getting books
under the Melbourne National Library
country borrowers’ system. When I lived
in a remote part of Java a railway coolie
left at my door in a tin box every fort-
night half a dozen books of all sorts,
plus European periodicals, and I merely
paid him for the carriage. When I had
read all I wanted to I consulted my list
of subscribers and passed my parcel on
to the next man, who passed it on to the
next, and so on, until it had done the
rounds of the district, a large one ; then
it returned to the railway station. A con-
tinuous procession of pending matter thus
passed through my hands and the sub-
scription was a very small one. Wear
and tear and porterage on the books were
less than under the Victorian system. If
you wanted a particular volume you could
always get it included, but one of the
pleasures of the system was the unex-
pected book that turned out trumps.
* * * *
“A.J.K.”: In my experience, soldiers
like good music. Among the hundreds
of records now held by our signals sec-
tion and played periodically over the
loudspeaker system are works by Tschai-
kowsky, Chopin, Haydn and Rubenstein.
Musical quizzes and lecturettes while
away an occasional evening. Questions
like “What is a symphony, a sonata, a
concerto?” tax the musical knowledge of
aspiring Chabners. More and more con
cert parties recognise the growing taste
for better-class music. One with H-Q.
at Darwin, pianist, v ( ! olmist n^ n^ rp S '" i:> to ’
undertook a tour of remote areas t
provide jlassi^
included in the equipment. And the Dig-
gers gave Gladys Mo«crieffaBreatrecep-
tion during her visit to
many would like , to , t ha^ n h !f in S r S
when an unspeakable mob supporting
a crazy strike howled at her in Mel
bourne streets.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Moyhu”: We turned Strawberry and
her week-old vealer into the paddock
with Bluey, our pet doe kangaroo. Bluey
had only recently lost her joey and fussed
around the young calf as if it had been
her own offspring. Strawberry at first
looked on with bovine indifference, but
when the calf began to show a marked
preference for the Too’s company she
demurred. Matters didn’t improve, how-
ever, and after a couple of weeks of
rapidly-cooling affection the calf cut itself
completely adrift from the mother.
Running true to female psychology
Strawberry didn’t centre blame on her
own offspring but launched a frontal
attack on the Too. Bluey fought back
and was barely holding her own when the
calf joined in. Dismayed at this un-
natural onslaught the cow-mother turned
and fled. We last saw her passing over
the sparsely timbered ridge at the back
of our place, closely pursued by Bluey
and the calf. Both were hopping.
* * # *
“Solitude”: We were jogging down
the long spur from the tops when, spot-
ting a dingo some 40 yards ahead, we
gave chase. Soon we cornered him
against a steep washout, and, lacking
other reasonable means of attack,
Seventyfiver sooled his mong. There was
a grand scrap. Over and over they went,
each manoeuvring for a killing hold, till
presently they rolled into a bramble-
covered dip. There the fight continued
as fiercely as ever, while on the edge the
old chap hopped up and down excitedly,
broadcasting a running commentary on
their progress or bellowing urgent instruc-
tions to his mong. “Get him, Tige,” he
yelled. “Yair, he’s got him; no he
hasn’t. By cripes, the brute’s holding him
by the shoulder. Quick, w-where’s a
stick?” “Let ’em alone, y’ silly goat,” I
protested. “The mong’s winning. He’s
got the dingo by the throat.” But it was
no use arguing. The old cove had already
grabbed a stone, and, kneeling down, he
waited. Soon a head showed up out of
the fray and the stone landed with its
weight of concentrated fury. Immediately
there was a cessation of hostilities ; jump-
ing from the hole the dingo rapidly
disappeared, leaving Seventyfiver with a
badly-stunned mong to grieve over. He
still talks about the tough-skulled'dingo
that nearly killed poor old Tige.
* * * *
“Caballer”: Cockatoos won’t go near
a humpy until they have seen a man who
has gone in come out. If two men go in
and one leaves they still won’t approach,
and the same thing happens if three enter
and two leave. That seems the limit to
a bird’s mathematical ability, for if four
leave and three come out they will assume
the humpy to be empty and will dive into
the corn patch.
* * * *
“Toreador”; We were burning fire-
breaks in long, dry grass in South Queens-
land, and we had a big area to isolate, so
we worked a couple of shifts to keep the
job moving. We soon discovered that
the night shift covered much more ground
than the day shift (B. 31/5/’44). But we
reckoned it was because the fire was
easier to control in the cool night air
and we could work less cautiously and
therefore faster. The oxygen content of
the air doesn’t change when the sun goes
down, as “M.U.R.” suggests.
* * * *
“Zircon”: Tell “Caballer” (B. 3/5/’44)
that the springboard used for tree-felling
was introduced in Australia in 1881 by
William Perry Seymour, who died at
Tweed Heads (N.S.W.) six years ago at
the age of 98. A veteran of the Ameri-
can Civil War, he first saw the spring-
board used in the pineries of Washington
State, where it had been popularised by
a Nova Scotian a few years before Sey-
mour came to the Gippsland scrubs.
Later, coming to the N.S.W. North Coast,
he improved on the single board by add-
ing side boards, which, besides overcom-
ing root spurs, gave the axeman something
to rest on ; this addition, however, has
lost favor since. The use of the spring-
board dispensed with need for scaffolding
and halved the then cost of felling.
* * * *
“C.E.”: “I’ve asked Tom and Mick
Doolan in t’ dinner, Mum, an’ old
Sandy,” announced Dad, entering the
kitchen. “Their jinker nag’s a bit lame,
so they c’n stop overnight an’ go on
t’ town in the mornin’. What’s the
matter?” he added as Mum dived to a
tin in the corner. “Nothing, Dad,” she
said patiently, “only we’re on our last
loaf o’ bread, an’ no more till tomorrow
light.” “Well, that’ll be plenty” scoffed
Dad, turning to the door. “Women just
like t’ make a fuss, that’s all.” Soon as
he had gone Mum doubled the quantity
of vegetables in the pots and enlarged
the pudding. Still fearing a bread short-
age, she provided an enormous batch of
hot scones for tea, together with a couple
of pies, and next morning, as a further
safety measure, she grabbed a pan and
“Poor old Stork —he had a bust-up with a cove at King's Cross!"
fried flapjacks almost as fast as the
men could put them away. Later, Dad
helped the visitors depart, put in a
couple of hours on a broken fence,
and at midday returned for dinner.
“There y’ are, Mum,” he cried trium-
phantly, nodding to the table; “just
shows I’m a better judge than you are.
1 told y’ there’d be enough bread!”
* * *
“Naturala”: “Shamuseen” (B. 17/5/’44)
certainly gave us a good nature note when
he told of that death adder living inside
the unopened bag of pollard for three
months. But what makes him think that
the reptile dined on the pollard? Find-
ing itself in the warm darkness of the
bag it probably reckoned that hibernating
time had arrived and went to sleep. Just
about any reptile can sleep three months
or so without troubling about or
water.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: “8.M,” asks why his
cattle ticks always make for the south
(B. 17/5/’44). That particular species of
tick is not indigenous to Australia but
was brought on cattle and buffalo from
Timor in the days when Governor Dar-
ling had an idea that something might be
done with the Far North. Like every
other pest the tick found Australia
wonderfully healthy. It soon killed off
the few cattle of that region ; then, riding
on the tough buffalo, which also in-
creased wonderfully, it marched to the
south. At the edge of the buffalo country
it again contacted cattle which afforded
ample sustenance, and so continued its
southward progress. Thus to that par-
ticular kind of tick the south has ever
been the land of promise, and in the
hundred-odd years that have passed since
it first bit a bovine hide in the N.T. the
impulse to turn south has become an
instinct.
“Golden Mile”: The difference be-
tween a miner working over an abyss of
a thousand feet or so and the scaffold-
hand up a couple of hundred feet
(B. 17/5/’44) is summed up in one word:
vertigo. Had a job once where I stepped
nonchalantly on to the rim of a kibble
swinging over an open shaft a thousand
feet deep. Another part of the job was
to go up occasionally and oil the bearings
of the big sheave wheels at the head of
the hundred-feet poppet legs. I always
did that at night. Once I went up in the
day and reckon it was the only time
in a long life that I was really scared.
Cleats nailed on to the outside of one of
the legs was the ladder, and at the top
there was a bit of a stretch to draw one-
self up over the big mortised ends of the
12 x 12 cap beams. It was right enough
going up, but on starting to come down
I could see the ground well below. At
night I couldn’t see the ground, and so,
like being dropped down the shaft, there
was no vertigo.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Although I rather doubt
that statement of “H.A.L.’s” (B. 10/5/’44)
about rifleman versus bowman —give me
an automatic Winchester .22 and I’ll take
him on at 50 yards—l can testify to the
efficacy of the longbow. As a sport
archery makes much greater demands
on judgment and muscular control than
does rifle-shooting of the target-potting
order, and is therefore more interesting.
There is something very satisfying about
drawing, aiming and shooting with a
bow and nothing that one can see flies
so straight and clean as an arrow —once
one has passed the “wobbling” stage.
As for accuracy: once a uniform stance
and delivery have been achieved it is not
uncommon to hit one arrow with its suc-
cessor, and one gets very close groups.
“H.A.L.” should be taken with a pinch
of salt, however, when he says “you
can improvise the ammunition, or even
the weapon itself, with only a knife.”
The English longbow is the result of cen-
turies of use and improvement. In the
days when it went to war it was made of
selected and three-years-seasoned timber
by a professional bowyer, and it still is.
As for arrows: I have three London-
made beauties, matched for weight and
footed with hardwood which is fished
into the shaft with a four-and-a-half-inch,
three-legged join. The footing is done
so perfectly that it appears to be just
incidental dark heartwood. The nocks
are properly inlaid and the shafts are
finished with a varnish which is im-
pervious to moisture and, as far as I can
see, to abrasion. It doesn’t seem reason-
able that a whittled stick can give the
same performance as these trued and
balanced arrows.
* * * * »
“Edjudina”: In a real search for a lost
person, say a child, the bush will ring
with coo-ees, especially the W.A. gold-
fields bush, where there is no possibility
of the lost one finding a creek
or even a muddy pool. In such
places I’ve seen lines of men and
women miles long beating across country
in hope of dropping on a track. But the
best hail I ever struck was out at the 45-
Mile from Coolgardie. This time it was
a woman, newly arrived by coach, who
had been given instructions how to find
her husband’s camp a few miles out but
had not turned up there. It was pretty
rough country and there were not
many searchers. So on the second night
Mac Nab, with his bagpipes, walked a
mile or two in the direction she was
supposed to be lost, found a flat-topped
hill and set to skirling. It was close to
daybreak when the woman staggered
close enough in to get herself found.
Lost in a maze of scrubby gullies she had
given up hope when the faint skirl of
the pipes came to her ear.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Cannot agree with “Botano”
(B. 31/5/ ’44) that wattle seeds lie await-
ing a fire in order to sprout. Have seen
scrubs of the golden wattle disappear
and years later reappear. My observa-
tions: periodically wattle scrubs die, and
seeds dropped remain dormant until the
ground has had time to recuperate. These
armor-plated seeds, impervious to inci-
dental vicissitudes, lie quiescent for years
until copious rains have set conditions
right. The germinating plant then splits
its reluctant integument, the rootlet
strikes, and the cycle of life is resumed.
“K.G.C.”: Over the grave of A. L.
Gordon a wattle was planted by a mem-
ber of the Bright family (one was “Ned”
of “The Sick Stockrider”). It died, but a
seedling thrived. From that seedling, itself
now dead, sixty thousand seeds have been
distributed by enthusiasts to Gordon
admirers all over the continent, and from
reports received there are thousands of
living memorials to the poet. The wattle
was an Acacia saligna.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Through the pub door-
way the old moke could be seen drooping
dejectedly at the hitching-rail. But the
old chap, pointing at his steed, said “In
his day he was the best jumper in the
country. Even now I’d back him to jump
obstacles that no horse in this town will
take!” Flash Jack (whose hack won the
jump event at the local show) couldn’t
resist the opportunity to skite. “I’ll take
you up on that,” he butted in, winking to
the mob; “make it drinks for the
crowd.” The old ’un solemnly shook
hands on it, led the procession out on to
the road and placed two straws a couple
of paces apart before mounting his
champion. The old veteran thundered
down the road, took off at one straw and
cleared the other. Somewhat dubiously
Flash Jack put his mount at the “jump”;
but the horse, seeing no obstacle, merely
galloped over the straws. While the
drinks were coming up the old fellow
explained: “Old Ginger’s blind, but being
an old jumper he feels me gather him
together and lift, so he naturally jumps.”
Flash Jack Was still being chiacked —and
taking it in poor spirit—-when a stranger
rode up on a stylish bay. Within ten
minutes Jack had lured the newcomer
into expressing confidence that the bay
“could jump anything that bone-bag
could!” The stranger had cash as well
as confidence. But Jack covered ten quid,
and a hastily formed syndicate snapped
up the other 20 notes before the old ’un
got a look in. However, being a sport, he
performed the trick again. The new chap
put his horse at the jump—and cleared
it like a bird! A somewhat crestfallen
crowd discovered that the bay was blind
also. It also discovered, next day, that
the old ’un and the newcomer had been
seen camped together a few miles out of
town prior to their first meeting.
* * ♦ *
“Betcha”; Nothing strange in “Plane
Creek’s” foxies being poisoned by those
wallaby bones (B. 24/5/’44), for strych-
nine wouldn’t lose its strength in a mere
six months. I have seen strychnine-
poisoned rabbits collected early, their in-
testines removed and the carcasses fed
to pigs ; there were no ill effects. The
trouble comes when after lying some
time the strychnine permeates the entire
body, leaving the bones an ever-present
menace to scavenging dogs. As bury-
ing doesn’t overcome the danger, I find it
best to burn all poisoned carrion till even
the bones are reduced to ash.
“Chuck”: “Bughouse” (B. 31/5/’44)
states that a bird’s or animal’s power to
reject poisonous food will “invariably fail
should it be given a poison alien to its
customary line of food, such as arsenic,
strychnine or phosphorus.” I’m not so
sure. A popular belief in our Gippsland
(Vic.) district concerns the impossibility
of poisoning a crow with strychnine
owing to the bird’s ability to regurgitate.
Lending color to the yarn is the fact that,
of the countless times I’ve used strych-
nine, not once have I found a strychnine-
poisoned crow. Animals and quite a few
other birds succumb readily enough, and
undoubtedly the crows sometimes feed
on the baited carcass. Obviously, how-
ever, the black scavenger cannot cope
with phosphorus, for I’ve often laid out
the greediest members with this poison
and thus frightened off the remainder
of the bunch.
MAIWARI RIVER.
From far among the dim blue-misted hills
Maiwari comes, and all along the way
I follow. Little clouds of fairy spray
Mark her beginning where the mist distils
In gorges where the forest glooms and chills
And shadows sleep the silent hour» of day.
I follow, and I watch her run to play,
Sparkling amidst the jungle. Creeks and rills
And furry creatures from mysterious vales
And songbirds from the reaches of the air
Bring her their lore; bring here from forest
trails
A green and golden legend. Unaware,
She passes, dreaming, from her playing place;
And I, I follow, captive of her grace.
The jungle clears, and fair Maiwari swills
Round brown reflections by the shoreline grey
As grey and purple evening slips away
Beyond the far and dim blue-misted hills.
A solemn peace now surges up and fills
The sky of dusk; wherever she may stray
The earth is tranquil, dreaming out the day
Until the heart lies quiet as it wills,
As if some ship had furled at last its sails.
A cheery cricket, chirping from the grass,
Tells of old joys in oh, such tuneful tales
That here Maiwari hesitates to pass.
But night, the dark one, comes and in the bay
I lose and leave Maiwari fair for aye.
A.I.F.
T. S. BROWNING.


“Old-timer”: The first morning I was
with Long Harry he yoked his bullocks
up, then stood them into their places and
coupled the chains. Then he stood back,
whirled his whip and let out a profane
roar of exhortation and inducement. In
the slightly blue atmosphere the bullocks
chewed their cuds and stood unmoved.
The long ’un gave me a slight grin, drew
in his breath and let go again. One old
bald-faced bullock turned its head and
regarded him pensively. Harry dropped
his whip, threw his hat on the ground
and jumped on it and shrieked swear
words. The team remained impassive.
Harry recovered his headgear, rolled a
smoke and drew off, thinking. Then he
picked up the whip, walked a short dis-
tance ahead of the team and, whirling
the whip and flicking it on imaginary
backs, shouting and crooning to imagi-
nary bullocks, he walked away, A jerk
and jingle, a heave, and the team started
after him. “Y’ gotter use this ’ere
sikerlogy on ’em,” grinned Harry as he
dropped back beside his marching team.
“The galoots see me walkin’ ahead an’
every one of ’em reckons the team
must’ve gone on without him.”
a * *
“Blime”; Old Jack is in his late seven-
ties, and when war broke out was deso-
lated at his inability to lend a hand. Torn
by the overseas news, and smitten by
every war-loan appeal, the old stockman
returned to droving work, delivering the
mobs in good condition and all correct.
Soon he was widely sought by owners.
Up before daylight, he bucked the rain,
winds and snowstorms of a perishing
winter, and endured blazing days of
drought, riding late into the night in an
all-in effort to get the work through.
Whisky became a thing of the past,
and even his lifelong panacea, tobacco,
was abandoned as a luxury. After
years of heart-rending stoicism the old
bloke reached his set goal, and the
proudest day of his life came when, half
crippled with rheumatics, he hobbled to
the bank and paid his savings into the Vic-
tory Loan. His reward came a few weeks
later with an official notification that his
pension was to be cut.
“Some dirty, thieving robber's pinched our jemmy.”
“Plain Angas”: The kids have a rival
for that “Jack-in-the-box” (B. 24/5/’44).
It lives in a jar of water, and when it
swims it looks like a tiny camel-hair
brush, the business end of which is en-
gaged in waving frantically. Actually it’s
a caddis worm, living in three-quarters of
an inch of grass stem which it carts
around as the case-moth does its bunga-
low. Occasionally it lies on the weedy
bottom of the jar and fossicks for tucker ;
at that time, seen through a lens, it is
worthy of Disney. A little head, with
two dark camouflage stripes like those
of a badger, begins to root in the weed,
assisted by two long spidery legs. The
methodical raking over of the tiny green
plants and the absolute absorption of the
little creature in its own under-water life
are fascinating. It always brings the house
down, however, when it falls foul of an
air bubble. For a while it tries to work
with a shining globe of air sticking to
its head, but the inconvenience soon be-
comes intolerable. Then the beastie gets
indignant and paws at the encumbrance
with its long foreleg. If this doesn't
answer it rises in wrath, rears itself
against the upper edge of its doorway
and, retreating, scrapes the bubble off.
Then, calm once more, it goes back to
the serious business of eating.
* * * #
“Spinifex”: Of course stallions “blow”
a warning signal when danger threatens
(B. 7/6/’44), though I’ve usually heard it
called “snorting.” Adam Lindsay Gordon*
in “The Lay of the Last Charger,” says:
Snort, Silvertail, snort! When you’ve seen as
much danger
As I have you won’t mind the rats in the straw.
The noise certainly does serve as a warn-
ing to the rest of the mob, though any
horse, not necessarily a stallion, is likely
when alarmed to snort loudly, even
though there isn’t another of his kind
within miles.
* * « •
“Mat’s Mate”: “The only time I ever
give a John a hand,” said Mat, “was
one time I’m humpin’ the drum down the
Victorian Western District an’ camped
be a culvert a couple o’ miles out of a
little place. I’m boilin’ the billy just on
dark when a John comes ridin’ up an’
tells me I’m under arrest, ’Course 1
want t’ know why, but he tells me I’ll
find out an’ t’ get me swag an’ come
along. Well, it’s no good arguin’ with
the Law, an’ I was pretty tired, so along
I go an’ he shoves me in the Peter. After
a bit he brings me a real slap-up feed,
a bottle o’ beer an’ some extra blankets.
This staggers me, but I don’t say much.
Later on he comes over an’ invites me
over to the station for a game o’ two-
handed crib. He< says I better wear one
of his uniform coats, ’cause it wouldn’t
look well if anyone saw him entertaining
a prisoner. We has a fair night, him sup-
plyin’ drinks an’ smokes; but he won’t
tell me why I’m arrested. Next mornin’
he loads me up with tucker and half a
note, an’ then explains that the night
before he’d got a tip that three or four
larrikins had made it up t’ Catch him
alone at the station an’ clean him up.
When he sees me at the culvert he gets
the idea of pinchin’ me, dressin’ me in
his uniform an’ havin’ me in the station
t’ scare ’em off. It worked, too, an’ I’m
three good feeds, a few drinks an’ half
a nicker t’ the good.”
* * * *
“S.G.”: When a dingo got busy among
his calves the boss offered a tenner for
its scalp. Pretty well everybody had a
crack at it, in vain. Then a half-caste
appeared, heard about the tenner, eyed
his own cattle-dog, thought hard and de-
parted. Two days later he collected. We
helped him cash the cheque, and got the
formula. He’d prepared a bait with
gloved hands, selected a sandy patch at
the back of the selection, lightly buried
the bait, then grabbed his cattle-dog by
the ears and used its nose to push the sand
over the bait/ The warrigal, misled by
the scent into the belief that some hound
had buried a feed there, scratched up the
bait and gobbled it.
“Make it snappy; I win a fiver if the war finishes this year !”
“Bo”: Stubley, whose drooping sandy
moustache was an exact indication of his
hopeless-dawn nature, had one foot on
the lower sliprail and was chewing
a straw and looking with faded blue eyes
at the distant hills. Ten minutes later he
was still engaged in the strenuous physical
and mental exercise when a swaggie came
along, dropped his drum alongside the
sliprail and said “G’day, mate.” Stubley
continued looking into the distance.
“G’day,” he replied wearily. The swaggie
looked round the block, which was a
good imitation of a wilderness, and at
the shack, its rusty galvanised-iron
sheets at all angles. “Crops do no good? ”
asked the knot-carrier. The other slowly
shook his head. “Lorst ’em,” he drawled.
“Drought.” The swaggie’s gaze turned to
the deserted fowl-run. “What happened
to y’r chooks?” “Lorst ’em—foxes.” The
traveller looked around agatn. Cripes,
he said, “y’ ain’t even got a dog.” “Lorst
him,” said Stubley, his gaze still on the
hills. “Bait.” “I don’t s’pose y’r got a
missus, then?” Stubley, more gloomy
than ever, shook his head. “Lorst her
city.” He still stared at the hills. “But
I’m expectin’ her back, blast it!” “How
long has she been gone?” asked the
swaggie. Stubley took the straw from
his mouth. “ ’Bout fifteen years,” he said.
* * * *
“B. 4”: I raise my heels in protest at
“The O.D.’s” theory (B. 31/5/ ’44) that
horses have to be trained to sample the
staff of life. As most mokes are equipped
with horse-sense, almost any prad is
sufficiently sophisticated to appreciate
the delectable aroma of bread. Offer a
nag a crust. One sniff of the appetising
odor and an engulfing mouth closes
and crunches in supreme satisfaction.
I was carrying flour when one of the
spares tore a hole in a bag, and the flour
slowly dribbled out on the road. We
were rolling towards a wayside shanty.
I entered to escape the flies; the team
swung round and, following the train of
flour back, licked the lot up. As the
dough and dust lay heavy in their
innards, I was obliged to shout them a
barrel of beer to provide the leaven for
a rise. I used the tarpaulin after that, and
had to wire down the lid of the camp
oven when the damper was baking to stop
them opening the cookhouse door.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: Those abos. who presented
“Walkabout’s” friend “Circular Kelly”
with the idea of sleeping inside a circle of
burning logs to keep warm (B. 7/6/’44)
must have been having him on. The
many boongs I know had a fine contempt
for the white man and his big fires, which
are too hot to get near early in the
night but have to be stoked up —by a
half-frozen stoker —two or three times
before daylight. * Binghi sleeps close
beside a little fire, with a good supply of
firewood within reaching distance ; and,
when he has to stoke up does so without
leaving the old possum-rug or blanket.
If “Circular’s” numerous burning logs
were close enough to keep him reasonably
warm at about 4 a.m. in midwinter, the
temperature within the circle, when they
were all blazing merrily early in the
night, must have been high enough to
fry Old Nick. And another thing. If
one big fire gets too hot for comfort it
is always possible to turn round or roll
away a bit; but to sleep in the midst of
“an almost complete circle of burning
logs” ! * *
* * *
“Esk D.”: Rode over to Dan’s about
9 p.m. and found him harrowing. “Man-
power problem as bad as that?” I asked,
amused because through the day Dan
had been doing a bit of grubbing and
loafing—mostly loafing —about a patch
of new ground. “Aw, it’s not that ex-
ackly,” he said. “I just wanted to get
this done while I had the chance.’
“Should’ve done it a few nights ago when
the moon was brighter,” I said. “I s’pose
it might’ve been better then,” reflected
Dan, “but Murphy didn’t turn his team
out on the roads f’r a spell till yestiddy.
Y’ know, that cow wouldn’t lend his
horses to anybody.”
« * * •
“Lower Tops’l”: As the most danger-
ous of reptiles to bush wanderers my
vote goes to the Tasmanian whip-snake.
These little wrigglers, rarely exceeding
18in. in length, are so like brown withered
sticks that when motionless even the prac-
tised eye is often deceived. Yet for all
their smallness their bite is fatal.
Although plentiful in the Speck and the
Bass Strait islands —I’ve shot them sun-
ning themselves in the fairy grass on
rugged Deal Island in sight of Victoria —
Tve never heard of them on the mainland.
* * * *
“T V.”: Bunny is a non-drinker only
in the sense that Ned, our rouseabout,
is. Ned can leave the hops alone for
months at a time —when he can’t get it.
But take him to a pub and you’ll need a
tractor to pull him loose from the bar.
I’ve seen rabbits dying by the thousand
on a swamp in hot weather simply because
they’d cleaned up every skerrick of
tucker within a mile or two and they
could not leave the water to travel for
food. At the same time bunnies out in
the mulga who had not acquired a taste
for the demon aqua were fat and happy.
* * * *
“Zake”: I have heard wondrous tales
of the power of insects to better the
efforts of meteorologists in weather prog-
nostications. Bees, they told me, can
detect, long before the barometer, an
approaching change. Then I saw a fel-
low holding a mirror in the sun, the re-
flected rays of which were used, quite
successfully, to trick a swarm of bees into
believing it was lightning and induce
them to settle. And I saw the insects
cajoled into the belief that a banged
kero.-tin was thunder. After which I
relegated Apis into the category of
meterological dunderheads along with the
black cockatoos and the ants.
* * * *
“Vagabond”: Trust a boong to use
his head in the jungle. Toiling and
sweating up a slippery mountain track
through a New Guinea rain forest we
met a small party of fuzzies. They
stepped aside with sheepish grins as we
drew level; a casual glance showed them
to be the usual local type, a bit scaly
about the body, each man with a hibis-
cus blossom stuck jauntily above the ear.
They’d been cutting poles in the scrub
for building new huts, and were carry-
ing the indispensable machete or jungle
knife. We’d almost passed them when I
spotted a particularly black-mouthed
betd-nut chewer in the background
carrying a six-foot green pole with a
large white possum clinging to the top.
Closer investigation proved he was wild,
and I didn’t wonder at it. Binghi had
split the end of the staff, jammed the tip
of the marsupial’s tail securely in the
cleft, then bound the split with lawyer-
cane fibre. What he intended to do with
it I didn’t inquire, but he certainly had
that possum trapped.
THE SAIDOR TRAIL.
From the Rai coast to Yogomi
In the burning jungle heat,
With the caked mud clinging
To their heavy-booted feet;
Climbing down the ragged ridges
Where the surest foot may fail,
Australian troops were moving
Down along the Saidor Trail.
Through miles of mud and kunai
On the narrow, twisting track,
Through the ram-drenched valleys
With a rifle and a pack;
Worn and weary from the struggle
And their clothing damp and stale—
On the way to old Yogomi,
Down along the Saidor Trail.
There were sixty river crossings,
Yellow rivers deep and wide
From the steep hills rushing
—They were wet before they dried.
Wet with sweat and wet with water;
There were some whose cheeks were pale
As they trudged to old Yogomi
Down along the Saidor Trail.
R.A.A.F.
KEVIN COLLOPY.


For
Your Dog
ďsf
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
The MERCURY 51m.LATHE
dsf
Sole N.Z. Dist. Agents;
A. M. Satterthwaite
- & Co. Ltd.
Hereford St., Christcburcb
“THE little GIANT
of the Lathe World”
AVAILABLE FOR CASH or EASY TERMS
Manufactured by .
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co.Pty.Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY. BRISBANE.
For Victoria:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 28 Market St., Melbourne.
. Sole N.S. W. Dist. Agents :
Jhos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.
d 139 Clarence Street, Sydney
STOPvoupßupfure
Worries'
o
r
Mark® location
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL. APPLIANCE CO..
(Dent. 37), 9 -MarOn Place, Syaney.
Pacific a Navy Show.
(From an article by a London “Times”
correspondent.)
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The view sometimes expressed that the
way to beat Japan is to equip large
armies in China is fundamentally erro-
neous.
The fighting in China is a very heavy
drain on Japan’s strength ; but Japan can
at any time cut her losses there if she
retains sufficient sea-power to withdraw
her land forces.
Britain has never been beaten on the
mainland ; and Japan, like Britain, can
only be beaten by losing command of the
seas round her islands.
It may be that large-scale air bom-
bardment would break Japan’s will to
war, since it could only come in the later
stages of the war, and it would itself
be evidence that the outer defences were
broken. But the air bombardment of
1940-41 did not break Britain; and Ger-
many still fights on against a still heavier
air attack.
The one necessary and sufficient way to
defeat Japan is to secure command of
the Japanese seas. That, and that alone,
will make it possible for the Allies to
blockade the country and so cut off its
supplies. That, and that alone, will enable
them to put airfields on small islands
within a range from which they can
maintain constant air attack on the home
base of Japan, if that is then necessary.
Once that command is established over
the Japanese seas their armies on the
mainland and in all the other islands of
their domain will be cut off from rein-
forcement and supplies. There will still
be a considerable “mopping-up” to be
done there; but the real war will be
transferred to Japan. In Japan itself
land forces may be needed for the final
assault, and will be needed to occupy
such parts of the country as the Allies
find it necessary to hold as security for
the fulfilment of the terms of peace to
be imposed. But the victory will be won,
and can only be won, by sea-power.
Thus the vital war against Japan is the
war at sea. The successive reduction of
her outlying island stations —in New
Britain, in tne Marshalls, and so on —
are stages in that sea war. They reduce
the area over which Japan has effective
command of the seaways; that is, power
to use them herself and to prevent her
enemies from using them. And these
advances into Japanese-controlled seas
bring nearer the day when the Japanese
battle fleet must fight.
Japan has the great advantage of near-
ness to the area of operations. Her navy
will fight in its home waters, in seas
over which it has carried out exercises
for many years. Her initial successes
also enabled her to push the Allied navies
far-away. She has the disadvantage of
inferior resources, and of a position
which makes it impossible for her even
to threaten the home bases of either
Britain or the United States.
The Allies can outbuild Japan, so that
even if they were to lose the first great
naval battle they would not be finally
defeated. But the Japanese power cannot
survive the loss of her fleet.
The whittling down of Japan’s maritime
power by the destruction of her ships —
both warships and merchant vessels—is
bringing nearer the day when the
Japanese must strike to drive back
the fleets of the Allies. The Japa-
nese battle fleet can lose the war in
a day. But it cannot hope to ensure
victory; for the longer it postpones the
decisive action the greater grow the odds
against it.
The “Anchored” Air Base.
(Described by a last-war pilot in Manchester
“Guardian.”)
The development of aerodromes all
over Britain has been one of the remark-
able features of the air war. They cover
a net area exceeding a quarter of a mil-
lion aCres. The country has become so
crowded with air stations that we are
nearing the limit in finding suitable
ground for any additional bases.
In 1924 there were only 26 service and
aerodromes. Even in 1938 the
numbe r available for the R.A.F. was little
than ig-
*he m °dern aerodrome bears little
re u^ J ?^L an f e *° ose Ust war,
wl11 ? grass surface. The runways
u f d b Y the big bombers have to be made
P* concrete, the only form of construc-
bon that will stand when an aircraft such
H ?, e n m|! cas : ‘ er '„ witl ;. maxi ™ m weight
tmB ‘Hi A tarl ?? aC
, Up H and po,holed ’ dis “ for machfnes
landing at 115 m.p.h.
Most of the bigger air stations have
three or four of these runways They
are up to 3000 yards long and 100 yards
w i de . A lOOft.-wide concrete perimeter
track, about five miles long, joins up to
the ends of the runways to simplify the
movement of aircraft on the ground,
Today it is essential that the ground
well beyond the edge of an aerodrome
shall be cleared of trees, buildings, over-
head cables and so forth, because the
modern aeroplane comes in to land at a
shallow gliding angle, whereas in the past
the glide was comparatively steep. The
standard approach angle, which has de-
cided the extent of the clearance area, has
progressively changed from 1 in 15 in
1939 to 1 in 50. The pre-war aerodrome
of about 200 acres has been steadily ex-
tended to an area of between 450 and 600
acres.
Flying over Britain today the country-
side appears almost as one continuous
airfield, contrasting remarkably with my
own flying experience in the last war,
when aerodromes, all too often badly
needed through faltering engines, seemed
few and far between.
Not-so-gay Paree.
(As reported by a recently repatriated
American woman.)
“Paris after nearly four years of enemy
occupation is a city of hunger, black
markets, lawlessness, false gaiety and
terror.
“The Paris air is more highly charged
with menace than at any time since the
French Revolution. Invasion, civil war,
siege, famine, prison—whatever form the
future may take, Parisians are minutely
expecting the deadliest phase of the war.
“At least 60 per cent, of the popula-
tion is declining into anaemia because of
undernourishment, although the black
markets provide almost anything that
money—lots of money—can buy. Hunger
and extravagance are the two extremes
under which people live, depending upon
the state of their purses. Gangsterism of
the old-fashioned type, accentuated by
the existing opportunities for lawlessness,
flourishes side by side with terroristic
activities of patriots against profiteers and
collaborationists.
“Young people try to get most out of
life before they are taken off to Germany
to work as slaves. Persons seeking to
vent grudges denounce their enemies, and
executions are many. Clothes bandits
have arisen because of the textile short-
age and they operate with absolute im-
punity, specialising in female apparel.
People are stripped of their furs and
other clothing in the streets.
“In addition to patriotic bands that
operate against black bourse dealers and
collaborationists there are less idealistic
groups of foreign anarchists and killers
who have grasped leadership and are
translating the exploits of American pro-
hibition gangsters into modern French.
“Though there is little bread there are
plenty of circuses. People escape from
the galling irritation of perpetual difficul-
ties into the realm of art. Theatres and
talkies are crowded. The Grand Opera
is sold out both for opera and ballet half
an hour after the opening of the box-
office. Concerts jam the largest halls like
the Palais de Chaillot, which seats several
thousand.
“There’s a real renaissance in painting,
and at vernissages you can’t see the pic-
tures for the faces. Modern paintings are
selling for record prices. There are seven
or eight new Little Theatre groups. At
least two new young musicians will be
internationally acclaimed as second
Paderewskis when the tumult has sub-
sided. Paris coutouriers show four in-
teresting seasonal dress collections to
enthusiastic spectators.
“Paris is sitting on a volcano, however ;
a volcano that threatens to erupt into
bloody civil war and beneath which
smoulder the fires of revenge against the
Germans. Many in Paris are taking
English and Russian lessons —and Ger-
man lessons —with the view of taking
part in the ‘return occupation’ of the
Reich. But the general population finds
it increasingly more difficult to live. In-
numerable people eat nothing but dried
beans, carrots or potatoes boiled in water
day after day.
“While representative serious French
women are working and worrying, the
black market molls dance over this vol-
cano. They defy restrictions with monu-
mental hats that take two outsized felts
or six metres of fabric to erect. They
complete pure silk or wool costumes in
extravagant silhouettes with wooden
shoes, bare legs and an odd pint of
assorted jewellery—real and false. They
buy their dresses by the dozen at an
average price of 20,000 francs apiece.
They fight to order 5000-franc hats at
the leading Parisian modistes and roll
round the town in horse cabs at 500
francs a course, lest they be mobbed by
indignant crowds in the subway. In
poorer quarters, eyes have the wolfish
glare that must have reflected the guillo-
tine under the other terror.”
Empire’s Air Future.
C From an American ‘‘Foreign Affairs” article by
Sir Frederick Handley Page, managing director
of the Handley Page co. and vice-chairman of
the British Air Registration Board.)
What is the place of Great Britain and
the Empire in the larger schemes of
world air transportation? In my opinion
much of the future prosperity of the
world will depend upon the degree of
co-operation that can be attained by the
countries comprising the British Com-
monwealth of Nations,
The creation of the Empire air routes
was principally the work of Great Britain,
though each of the Empire countries
which they served contributed toward
paying the operating costs. Attempts
to link the British Isles and the scattered
territories of Egypt, South Africa, India
and Australasia suffered great vicissi-
tudes. The handicaps imposed by re-
fusal of European nations to accept the
principle of free passage for civil aircraft
was not surmounted till the long-range
Empire flying-boats came into use. To-
day, it is possible—though not in all
cases economically sound—to operate
Empire routes without seeking the per-
mission of a single foreign country.
This gives the British Commonwealth
much greater bargaining power than
formerly, and provides a powerful in-
ducement to all its member nations to
come together to complete the task of
creating an efficient air transport service.
In this I see nothing but good.
A suggestion that an Empire Air Force
be built up was made some years ago.
It was not wholly welcomed then, but
the war brought the idea to fruition a
few months after hostilities began. Not
only have squadrons of the various Air
Forces worked together ; the personnel
of different Forces have made up the
crews of individual ’planes. That close-
ness of co-operation is reflected in the
new name given to the R.A.F.’s old
Central Flying School—today the Empire
Central Flying School.
The Spitfire, Mosquito, Lancaster and
Halifax, like other types of British
fighters and bombers in the past, have
proved that the British aircraft industry
can meet the most exacting specifications
and more often than not throw in a
bonus. The industry is confident that it
can produce civil air transports cdinpar-
able in performance to its notable war-
planes. That confidence is doubtless
shared by the British Dominions and
colonies, and will probably induce them
to wait to see the British air transports
which are now being designed before
they commit themselves to buying or
building other types.
Before the war, Great Britain supplied
most of the aircraft used in her overseas
possessions and the Dominions. Several
of these countries now are in a position
to build ’planes of the largest size,
and those with manufacturing facilities
limited to the smaller types of air frame
and engine will doubtless enlarge their
scope to embrace all classes of aircraft.
In other words, the foundations have
been laid for an Empire Air Force and
an air transport industry capable of enor-
mous development. Fostered along the
proper lines, such a force will be an in-
valuable asset to each member of the
Commonwealth and a common bulwark
against any nation that, like Nazi Ger-
many, aspired to world dominion. A
unification of effort will work to the dis-
advantage of no one and to the gain of
all.
Such a grouping of skill and resources
would not mean that the Empire intended
to trade only within itself. It would mean
exactly the reverse. Co-ordination within
the Empire is needed to obtain the
greatest possible measure of air-borne
trade in every market that can be
reached by air, and to bring into exist-
ence the greatest number of air services
compatible with the amount of trade
available.
“Army of the Maquis.”
0 Condensed from a Chicago “Tribune” article
by its correspondent David Darrah, returned
after 16 months’ internment in France and Ger-
many.)
Civil war in France between the under-
ground “Army of the Maquis” and the
militia and police forces of Jacques
Darnand, former head of the French
Veterans’ Legion and now Laval’s Minis-
ter of Public Order, is being waged on an
ever-widening scale.
The “Maquis” army, mostly in the
forests of Brittany and mountains of the
Savoy region, appears to be well organised
in guerrilla bands or detachments. It is
said to embrace perhaps 100,000 men.
These men are supplied with arms and
money from England by ’planes which
land secretly in France, baffling both the
German military and the Darnand
militia.
At first the underground army was de-
signed for co-operation with the expected
landing forces. But during recent months
detachments and sections have been
warring on the Germans on their own.
It would be difficult to estimate what
proportion represents a political move-
ment and what represents patriotism.
Many are hoodlums and bandits who rob
and pillage. Another portion is made up
of Communists and paid agents of Britain
and Russia. A third element, which is
political and patriotic, is made up of
young men who hate collaboration and
who refuse to go to Germany to per-
form compulsory labor. They take to
the woods and mountains. When they
need food they call on a neighboring farm
and requisition what they want.
In addition to the terroristic raids they
carry out to harass the Germans and the
forays they make against the militia, some
elements of these bands are guilty of
banditry. Monsignor Dutoit, bishop of
Arras, in a recent pastoral letter deplored
the effects of civil war on the country,
and stigmatised especially the increasing
numbers of assassinations. “Magistrates
and civil servants, notably, become tar-
gets for assassins, and are held up as
examples by self-constituted arbiters and
patriotic avengers,” he wrote. “Profes-
sional bandits, taking advantage of the
discredit of the State police, are carrying
out vengeance and rapine against inno-
cent individuals.”
The bitterness of the partisan struggle
and the civil war between the French


dsf
Clt/oic/
use a
dsf
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
V*
I
■
m
m
MIRACLE..
IN OIL I
'VT’ES, we have been teaching petroleum to
■ bounce! Thousands of tons of syn-
thetic rubber, made possible by the magic of
petroleum chemistry, are now pouring forth
to sustain the Allied Nations’ war effort.
Caltcx’ associates have helped to create the
world’s largest petroleum Butadiene plant.
This one plant can produce enough base
stock to make 110,000 tons of synthetic
rubber. This is equal to one-seventh of the
entire wartime programme of synthetic
rubber in the United States.
Contributing the time and talent of their key
men entirely without cost... combing the
industry for the newest ideas and methods,
contributed without payment... five differ-
ent oil companies organised, planned and
largely staffed this great new Butadiene
supply unit.
And Caltex Lubricating Engineers in
Australia are playing their part t 00... war
plants and essential industry owe much to
the constant progress in the solution of
lubrication problems performed by these men.
-1—
rapm CALTEX LIMITED
Serving ihe Nation
Importers of Calfex Motor Spirit, Kerosene and Lubricating Oil ,
"••ssa
K
W*
fiH
i**L!
\
A
B
Australian National Airways air routes In
Australia cover 9387 miles—the approximate
distance between Australia and Leningrad.
A.N.A. has the world's largest internal airway
system and links every Australian capital, besides
radiating to many inland centres. Its giant
airliners, carrying passengers, mail and freight,
maintain fast and frequent schedules over its,
routes extending from Cape York to Perth. This
is part of A.N.A's. contribution to the future of
Australia ... a future which calls for the maximum
effort of every Australian if Victory is to be won
.., You can also bring the day of Victory nearer
fay investing all you can in Victory Bonds.
i.U
w
Australian
tional Airways
FIRST IN PEACE
PT V. tT D.
FIRST IN WAR
FIRST IN FUTURE
themselves is indicated by figures on
arrests and killings. In four months 230
gendarmes, 152 police agents, 150
civilians, two priests, one public prosecu-
tor. one Judge and two retired generals
were reported killed in the partisan
struggle between the “Maquis” bands
and the Vichy Government police and
militiamen. How many of the “Maquis”
were killed was not revealed.
During the same period 9000 bombs
were placed in shops, magazines, fac-
tories and dwelling houses ; 150 city halls
.were attacked and robbed ; 686 threshing
machines were destroyed and 3714 wheat
shocks burned. Also, there were 600
attempts to blow up railway tracks, many
of them successful.
“Free” Germans in Russia.
(From a N.Y. “Times” letter by Julius Epstein .)
The “Bund Deutscher Offiziere” (Asso-
ciation of German Commissioned Offi-
cers) was founded in Moscow on October
11 and 12, 1943, three months after the
foundation of the National Committee
for a Free Germany, 'the president of
.which is the Communist writer Erich
Weinert. It remains to be explained how
it could happen that not a single Ameri-
can or British journalist in Moscow
thought it worth while to report the
speeches of the German generals, colonels
and corporals at the first meeting of
“Bund Deutscher Offiziere.”
The speeches are the clearest proof as
yet obtained that the German General
Staff is about to turn the German military
defeat into victory and to prepare for the
third world war. Moreover, they are the
best evidence of the fact that Soviet
Russia already prepares for one possi-
bility for the time after this war; that is,
the renewal of the Russo-German pact.
Stalin, of course, holds many cards in his
hands, and it may well be that he will
discard his German puppets of the Mos-
cow committees.
The main point in all speeches is the
maintenance of an unweakened German
Wehrmacht after the German defeat.
For this purpose the German officers in
Moscow don’t hesitate to ally themselves
with the German refugee Communists,
as, for instance, the former member of
the German Reichstag Wilhelm Pieck or
the Communist writer Erich Weinert,
General of Artillery Walter von
Seydlitz, who presided at the founding
meeting, said in his introductory address:
“The goal is to end the war soon and to
prepare the peace. The removal of the
Hitler regime is the preliminary condi-
tion. It renders possible the creation of
a peaceful Government based upon the
confidence of the people and to avoid
more useless bloodshed by a truce, and
it makes possible, as proof of our peace-
ful indentions, to lead back the Wehr-
macht to the frontiers and to preserve it
for the people. An honorable peace can
be in store only for a people whose
Wehrmacht is not disintegrated. It is the
urgent need of the hour to conclude a
truce to anticipate the disintegration of
the Wehrmacht.”
The main report was made by Colonel
von Hooven. He stressed the fact that
Germany’s cultural achievements, her
language, her music, her classics, are being
appreciated by the Russian people despite
the war. It is really unbelievable that a
representative of the very same German
Army which destroyed the houses of Tol-
stoy and Tschaikowsky and ravaged
thousands of Russian libraries not only
in Russia but in France, Italy and the
rest of Europe could dare to challenge
the Russian people in such a way and
that he could do it under the protection
of Stalin
Brigadier General Lattmann, another
speaker at the Moscow rally, exclaimed
at the Stalin-sponsored meeting: “Save
the men of the Wehrmacht for the Ger-
man people! The German homeland
wants them. Prevent the ruin and dis-
integration of the German Army! Save
it for the new Germany as an instrument
of peace!”
Another peak of German chauvinism
—not only permitted but energetically
fostered by the Soviet authorities! —was
reached when the German field-chaplain
Kayser solemnly declared: “We are not
robbers but knights who took an oath to
their people and who consecrated their
sword to the noble war for truth, right
and freedom.”
These quotations may be enough to
illustrate what’s going on. The victors
will find not a single genuine Nazi in
Germany after the war. Only peaceful
people unfortunately misled by nauglity
Adolf Hitler. And the most peaceful
group of all will be the German General
Staff.
Although it is difficult to believe that
this kind of German propaganda is
originated in Soviet Russia, the country
which suffered most in this war and which
still suffers beyond description, the
country whose population was murdered
by millions —we must not only acknow-
ledge this strange phenomenon but see
through it to envisage the great danger
which may emanate even from a totally
defeated Germany
Fighting Norwegians.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Leslie Roberts.)
At Little Norway, the aerodrome in
Northern Ontario, young Norwegian
falcons learn to be fighter pilots. To
each youngster, freeing Norway means
freeing his own family, his own girl, his
own village, from the Nazi yoke.
Thousands of young Norwegians have
escaped to Britain and Canada. They fly
with the R.A.F., and up to the late
autumn of ’43 had won 170 awards for
bravery while amassing an ominous record
in enemy aircraft destroyed.
Who pays the bills?
At the time of invasion Norway’s mer-
chant fleet tallied almost 5,000,000 tons
and was the world’s fourth largest.
Almost 50 per cent, of the ships were
less than 10 years old, and many of them
were fast diesel-driven tankers and ships
specially designed to carry perishables.
Even before invasion, 54 ships, under
charter to the British, had been lost by
enemy action. Now wireless orders went
to every Norse master, instructing him
to make for the nearest friendly port and
go to work for his own Government.
Without exception, the captains com-
plied. Through 1941 and 1942 they car-
ried half the oil and a third of all
the foodstuffs which reached Britain.
Throughout the battle of the North
Atlantic a ship went down every second
day. But the merchant fleet kept on slug-
ging, taking such replacements as it could
get and working the whole fleet under
forced draft. By such devices fewer than
30,000 Norwegian sailors have footed the
bill for their country’s war effort while
the homeland itself has been locked in
bondage. The sailor pays his taxes as he
would at home. Every krone of revenue,
every ore of compensation, has gone into
the Government’s coffers, alongside the
country’s gold reserves, which were
sneaked out of Norway while the battle
was at its height.
Paying for the war effort is not the
only job. Other commitments are met on
the nail. In 1943, a loan of $20,000,000,
floated in 1923 in the United States, was
paid in full on maturity.
The result is a case of hero-worship
of the merchant seamen on the part of
the youngster in a Norwegian uniform.
Without them, he says, “we would have
been fighting on the charity of our
Allies.” You gather that the last thing
any upstanding young Norseman wants is
any part of any man’s charity. He has a
job on his hands —to set his beloved Nor-
way free and to pay the bills as he goes.
War by Photo.
(Cdndensed from a report by a N.Y. “Times”
war correspondent.)
The Allies’ air forces are now operat-
ing in Italy the biggest photographing,
processing and printing; plant in the
world. In civilian life it would represent
a $100,000,000 business in terms of per-
sonnel and equipment.
Last January alone it turned out
1.250.000 prints. It uses 20,000 gallons
of water daily, as well as 600 gallons of
chemicals. In a month it uses 31 tons
of paper.
This tremendous establishment is con-
cerned with the production and distri-
bution of aerial photography studies,
analyses of maps and reports based on
swift European tours by fast Lightnings,
Mosquitoes and Spitfires equipped with
cameras to spot enemy troop move-
ments, industrial construction and mili-
tary defences. During the past eight
months in the Mediterranean, the unit
has flown thousands of sorties to map
163.000 square miles. /
Before the Anzio landings complete
photographic mosaics of the shore and
of a 20,000-yard strip behind it were re-
produced and even the positions afford-
ing good cover for enemy machine-gun
nests were marked. Unit officers claim
that it was 95 p.c. accurate. Ninety


. A S A N AI D T O
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BACK THE BOYS—Buy War Savings Certificates.
7
♦ ■ . .. *
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
LIFE AND DEATH
■
m
■ ;
Air Tactics Diagram
shows how
FLYING HORSEPOWER
will aid our fighter pilots
Picture an Australian pilot up there, four
miles above the Pacific —fighting an oppon-
ent who moves 500 feet a second-twisting
and turning in mile-wide manoeuvres.
He's a long way from home, and the white-
eoated scientists in the petroleum labora-
tories, yet... Because those scientists found
a way to produce a fuel which is vastly more
powerful in today's super engines - our
flyers will carry a great advantage into battle!
The new TCC Process and the sensational
new Bead Catalyst are the revolutionary
refining developments which will make this
super power possible-which will help many
an Australian shake a Jap from his tail, zoom
up at an angle his enemy can't follow and
come back spitting sudden death.
Mobiloil
This new super fuel will make today's 100
octane gasolines seem old-fashioned...
means far greater speed and manoeuvra-
bility for our fighters, increased range and
heavier pay loads' for Allied bombers.
Thus, a new power "Flying Horsepower"
will help the United Nations to air suprem-
acy in this war ..and promises undreamed-
of performance from the super motor cars,
giant air liners and air-flivvers'of to-morrow!
Serving the Nation on Land, Sea , and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
Vl ' 4lo (INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
PTY.
LTD.
wm.,
k
?v
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
MADE SPECIALLY TO
FRETENT SORE THROATS
Kl»
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Refutation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5066 #
thousand prints were made for the
Salerno landings and 20,000 for Anzio.
Each division going in at Anzio had a
basic photograph unit covering the entire
area. Copies were given even to assault
platoons.
For important bombing missions,
hundreds of target charts are prepared
for the crews. More than 3,000,000
were made for the first. Budapest attack.
In one room this amazing visual in-
telligence factory turns out 30,000 prints
daily.
Russian Religion.
0 Condensed from a “Wall-street Journal" article
by Thomas F. Woodlock.)
The Bolshevist revolution inaugurated
in Soviet Russia almost a quarter of a
century ago in declaring all-out war upon
religion as such was something without
any historical precedent or even analogy,
and, therefore, it was an event of the
greatest significance. Beside it all other
innovations of the regime are of quite
secondary importance. Any serious
student of history would assent to that
statement, whether he accepted the Bol-
shevist concept of religion or not.
The population which came under the
Soviet regime in 1917 had a definite
religious concept. It was also prepon-
deratingly illiterate. At once the Bolshe-
vist regime started to remove this illiteracy
by establishing schools, and all agree that
in the past two decades it has achieved a
truly remarkable success. The schools
were all Government schools, and educa-
tion of children was compulsory from
the tenderest age. Not only was any and
all religious teaching excluded from the
curriculum, but the teaching was posi-
tively anti-religious, proportioned to the
pupil’s ability to absorb it. Not only
was this the case, but an active campaign
outside the schools was undertaken, the
object of which was to asphyxiate religion
and the practice of religion throughout
Soviet territory. The general facts are
too familiar to require recapitulation.
The young men and women in Soviet
Russia who are today between, say, five
years and 30 years are either totally
ignorant of the religious concept or
opposed to it. This is something that
must be borne in mind as we observe
recent events connected with the re-estab-
lishment of the Orthodox Church as a
legal entity in the Soviet republics. We
hear a great deal of the “revival of
religion” in Russia, the wholesale reopen-
ing of churches and the crowds that flock
to them. These crowds, however, are
mainly of “older” people, chiefly those
who at the time of the revolution of 1917
were fully adult and whose average age
must be today well over 50 years. They
wifi, therefore, constitute a minority of
the whole, and certainly the less socially
effective part. Each year that goes by
makes them more and more negligible.
Another 20 years will present the world
with something to think about —a huge
nation de-religionised. Add to this the
picture presented by Edgar Snow in the
“Saturday Evening Post” of the politico-
economic development under way in
Soviet Russia, and there is more matter
for prayerful consideration. Discount it
by one-half and there remains the outline
of a nation not merely de-religionised
but organised upon lines radically differ-
ent from everything that makes our con-
cept of the good “democratic” life. Snow
tells us that the Russians themselves call
it “democratic dictatorship,” which may
be translated a “contented totalitarian-
ism.” The nearest analogue in history
would be ancient Egypt, except that the
totalitarianism of ancient Egypt rested
upon a religious base, and this will have
none.
U.S.-British Differences.
(Condensed from the “Saturday Evening Post.)
There are, of course, many differences
of opinion between the United States and
Great Britain. Some are promoted by
Axis propagandists, but some are real and
substantial.
Mr. Churchill has explained that
this is election year in the United
States and that at such times “a lot of
rough things have to be said about Great
Britain.” That is true, but it would be
folly to dismiss the rough things as ex-
clusively the stock in trade of politicians,
and to ignore or suppress mention of
events from which such propaganda is
manufactured.
The truth is that the United States and
the British Empire between them repre-
sent at this moment about all that is left
of the free-enterprise world. In such a
world there are always things to argue
about, but the experience in both coun-
tries is that disputes are best handled in
an atmosphere of frankness.
Nothing could augur better for the
future of the United Nations than a


/3uu Wat JSonds
r fh MOW!
fl
rlwi
M
THEN YOU CAN PLAN
YOUR "VICTORY HOME"
Each one of us has a "posf-war plan”—an incentive to work
and save to hasten the day when long-delayed hopes can be
realised.
Most of these hopes centre on home-ownership—the home of
our dreams.
Let us therefore save and lend so that our dreams may become
practical realities, practical in every detail, including the pro-
tection of ceilings and walls with that most perfect weather-
proofing material—Sisalkraft.
SISv4LKR»FT
N.S.W.; S’, w. Williams & Co. Pty. Limited, 16 Loftus St., Sydney
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty. Ltd., 24 Bond St., Melbourne C.l
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust. Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust. Ltd., 625 Wellington St.,
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust. Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide St., Brisbane
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd., 82 Charles St., Launceston
William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd., 119 Collins St., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND; W. H. Huthnance & Co.. Nathan’s Buildings. Grey Street,
W. hTHuthnance & Co., Savoy Bldgs., Moray PI., Dunedin
P. Heath-Preest & Co.. Palmerston Building, 47 Queen fat.,
Auckland
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER— 24th April, '42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life.. ..as evidenced m
many new friendships, for instance.
TEACHER —22nd May, '42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before ana
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER—I4th May, '42: "The Course
has Improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.
CLERK —7th April, '42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, '42; “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. T ’?. ere . 1 „ 1 ®
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, '42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—IBth May, '42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
cart .1 have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years.... I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, '42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer
1 applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development. ’
SOLDIER—Ist May, '42; “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established In
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years.
Speed
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the P«“ nt
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with cac P ? y ua j
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of h
requirements.
and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and a •
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. I
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as require .
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man ana
jyoman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
[There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute m Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone; MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
1 Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank ha* made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable resident* of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelmaa Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND."
Name
Address • ».« • * •*.» • • • • * *iu*»
151
demonstration of the ability of the United
States and Great Britain to disagree in
public, carry on a lively argument and
then settle it.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The U.S. War Department is letting con-
tracts for a new wool field jacket for American
soldiers in Europe. In most parts ot Europe
that would be autumn or winter equipment.
And the new U.S. million-ton landing cratt
construction programme contemplates construc-
tion through most of 1945, another indication
we’re far from the end of the road, Scripps-
Howard Washington Staff.
Jfc # * *
The black markets are flourishing in
southern Italy. Food and clothing stolen from
the American Army are being sold at profiteers
prices to the people whose misfortune it is to
be ruled by the Allied military government.
Army trucks are being hijacked on their way
The bomber had been almost
ripped apart by German cannon.
The ball turret gunner was badly
wounded and stuck in the blister on
the under side of the fuselage.
Crewmen worked frantically to
extricate the youngster, but there
was nothing they could do. They
began to jump.
The terror-stricken lad screamed
in fear as he saw what was happen-
ing. The last man to jump heard
the remaining crewma%, a gunner,
say, “Take it easy, kid; we’ll take
this ride together.”—Jack Tait;
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
to the front. The supplies and even the
trucks themselves find their way into the rack-
eteer markets. The drivers wake up in the hos-
pital.—Chicago “Tribune.”
« ♦ * *
“We cannot recognise the right of one con-
testing party, however strong and however
great the services it has rendered to the
common cause, to settle territorial differences
in any other way than by the democratic
processes prescribed by international agree-
ment and obligatory upon all, the strong and
weak alike”— Matthew Woll, vice-president of
the American Federation of Labor.
« • * *
“Russia must choose. She can impose her
will [in rearranging the Polish frontier], but
she cannot impose it without estranging
millions of Americans whose opinions may be
decisive in the development of U.S. foreign
policy. And Russia will estrange others be-
sides Americans, for what will millions ot
citizens of the small conquered and satellite
countries have to hope from an Allied victory,
if this is how we discharge our obligations to
Poland? ” — Quoted by N.Y. “Journal-American
from a petition signed by “a group of 36
American citizens, all of them eminent in their
respective fields — education, religion, science
and public affairs.”
* * * *
Six months have passed since the revolt
of the Danish people against the Germans and
the scuttling or escape to Sweden of the
Danish Navy. During all this time the King
has been a prisoner in his Castle Sorgenfn,
outside Copenhagen, and for a great part of it
was confined to his rooms because he had not
fully recovered from the injuries he sustained
in a riding accident in October, 1942. Even
now, though completely restored to health, he
never leaves the castle. It is believed that he
wants to stress the fact that he considers him-
self a prisoner of war in German hands.
The last Danish Government resigned on
August 29 last as a protest against the German
demands. Since then the Germans have tried
in vain to persuade the Cabinet to return to
their offices, and have been equally unsuccessful
in their efforts to find a Danish quisling who
might be willing to form a puppet Government.
So the situation in Denmark is—no King, no
Government and no Parliament functioning.—
Danish correspondent. London “Times.”
* * * *
Every student of history knows that the
material prosperity of India has advanced enor-
mously under British rule. Unfortunately, by
bringing famine, pestilence and internal wars
under control we have at the same time removed
the check on the growth of population, and
this is a most baffling problem. Time will per-
haps solve it —with more education and a higher
standard of living. Some, system of birth con-
trol may be adopted by the people themselves.
The extent of the problem will be realised
when it is recalled that the population increased
between 1921 and 1941 by 70 millions. Even so,
famine, which was common in India throughout,
historic times, was gradually brought under con-
trol by the British authorities, and for 40 years
it has not seriously threatened the peoples of
India. There is a splendid organisation for
dealing with local famines. It has taken the
present war, with the loss of supplies from
Burma and the shortage of shipping, to cause
this evil to appear once more. — Ernest //.
Troughton {London), in N.Y. “Herald Tribune.’
* * ♦ »
Those who live in hotels or eat at restaurants
in Switzerland have 200 coupons a month and
for each main meal must surrender two coupons,
leaving a small margin for teas or light meals.
No person by eating at a public restaurant
can increase the food available at his home.
In fact, the coupon system is so ingrained that
after a meal in a private house the hostess
invariably expects to be given the correspond-
ing number of coupons... .Switzerland is en-
tirely dependent on Germany for her supplies
of coal, petrol and oil, and in return for them
she is forced to sell back to Germany the
manufactured goods that country so badly
needs. She must export watches, precision
instruments —in which she has always specialised
—engines and aeroplane parts in return for
her fuel supplies. The alternative is whole-
sale unemployment. Germany, appreciating
this, levies a kind of blackmail and profits
accordingly. While every factory in German-
occupied Europe is subject to bombing, those
in Switzerland constitute one of Germany’s
surest means of supply.— Extracts from a
London “Tiniest” article by Brigadier J. Har-
gest, the N.Z. officer who was captured in the
Tobruk fighting, but escaped to Switzerland.
* * * *
We hear a lot about the French who debate
in Algiers and comparatively little about the
French who resist in France. Since there are
no foreign correspondents in Paris or Mar-
seilles this is natural enough, but it is unjust
to our ally and dangerous to ourselves, because
misleading. No less fallacious are the explana-
tions often given of the fall of France in 1940.
That the Government was weak, the general-
ship obsolete and the Fifth Column active
cannot be denied. But all this was compara-
tively unimportant. The real cause of the de-
feat was an overwhelming German superiority
in tanks and aeroplanes. We had the Channel
to save us from the tanks and just enough air
strength to guard our skies; otherwise, as Mr.
Eden has pointed out, our fate must have been
the same. Let us not in our admiration for the
United States and the Soviet Union, forget
that the French were the only people except
ourselves to declare war on the Nazis without
first being attacked. — Raymond Mortimer;
Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * *
The unbeatable Republican choice would be
Dewey for President; Warren for Vice-Presi-
dent; MacArthur, Secretary of War; Stassen,
Secretary of the Navy; Bricker, Secretary of
the Interior; Edge, Secretary of State; Eric
Johnston, Secretary of Commerce; Taft, Senate
Majority Leader, and Hogan as the Attorney-
General. — Danton Walker; N.Y. “Daily News.
* * * •
During a night of storm off the Newfound-
land coast Captain William Clendeniel, the
master of a merchant ship, turned his vessel
in the direction of a sinking ship to rescue its
crew. The weather was so bad that' Captain
Clendeniel’s own ship was wrecked and the
captain was pinned on his bridge by a cargo
boom which crashed from the mast. The cap-
tain had a wooden leg, and when the boatswain
and a seaman tried to release him from the
heavy boom they could dp so only by unstrap-
ping his wooden leg, which was left with the
wreckage of the sinking ship. They helped the
captain to a raft and paddled away fro®
ship a few minutes before she sank. All three,
with other survivors, were later picked up by
H.M.S. Miscou. They were taken to an Ameri-
can base hospital at Fort Pepperell, where the
captain mourned the loss of his leg while he
was recovering from his injuries. Hospital
treatment did wonders for the captain, but
a complication of the chest made it necessary
that he should assume an upright position,
and that he should be able to walk at the
earliest possible date. However, makeshift
efforts to produce an alternative leg were un-
satisfactory. One morning, while new efforts
were being made to produce an artificial limb,
a telephone call was put through to the hos-
pital by a shipping agency, asking the hospital
authorities if they could find any use for a
wooden leg that had been picked up on a
Newfoundland beach. The authorities asked
that the leg should be sent at once. It was
the captain’s own, complete with shoe and
sock suspender.— London “Times.”


r:
' tL
• V'!)
J fCJ, :
5A
If O'
(L>^
PR 0 T
EOT
yotcAs famtSyd kea£M/
The healthy family is the happy family. You can best protect your children by eliminating
tne numberless germs that breed in closet pans ... the germs of typhoid, dysentery, hookwornj
and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR will give you just this protection., .and comfort. It is a
completely sell-contained sanitary system with modern and sturdily built pedestal. Sewage
material is chemically transformed into a sterile solution that drains away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY IS REQUIRED. Unwholesome odors, the embarrassment of emptying,
germs, flies, all are banished. Approved by the Board of Health, thousands in use in homes,
offices, hospitals throughout Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge) plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
U.S.A. Navy orders for Mobile Hospitals having been com-
pleted, we are now able to resume delivery of private orders
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
80 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone, 81052.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pam-
phlet on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
Name
Address
' 8TN.5.44
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATO3
Hygeia Sanitary Coy. Pty., Ltd.,
30 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. ’Phone, 81052.
WAR '^SERIES
RONALDSONTIPPETT
Put your savings
on service —
buy War Savings
Certificates and
Stamps!
i
. «
m
'THE scattered fighting fronts of the S.W. Pacific call for the transport
of supplies by sea. Shallow, sand-banked and coral-pitted harbours de-
mand the use of small ships, barges and lighters which must be equipped
with a special type of Friction Winch for the handling of cargoes.
Pictured here is a Winch in widespread use through the S.W. Pacific
zone a Winch for which we build 2 h.p. type “ N ” hopper-cooled
Petrol Engines.
Much of its work is done at the risk of enemy observation, therefore
it must “get on with its job” without hold-ups. The selection of a
Ronaldson-Tippett power plant is a guarantee of instant, trouble-free
operation from the moment anchors are dropped.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
N.S.W, Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
QTond Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty, Ltd.
Par bury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE I
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Industry.
“Trepex”: The near fiasco at the recent
Sydney ram sales wasn’t caused only by
taxation burdens, drought, etc. It is
attributable in part to the pessimism
caused by the ill-informed utterances of
newspapers, politicians, professors and
sundry half-baked “experts” concerning
the threat to the industry by the develop-
ment of synthetic textile fibres.
Our national solvency is built on wool,
and wool is our one major industry
which, from its foundation, has been
entirely self-supporting. Wool has never
had any of the subsidies and concessions
considered necessary and desirable for
other products. It has made enormous
contributions to both the internal and
external income of the Commonwealth,
and is still making them. Yet one Sydney
newspaper had the face to publish a series
of articles which advocated a policy of
switching from a main production of
wool to one of meat, which would
mean discarding the extraordinary pro-
gress we have made in the indus-
try, the unique skill of our sheep-
breeders, and abandoning an achievement
which is the chief prop of our enoncmic
progress. The man on the sheep-drafting
..race has contributed more to our standard
of living than any other class in the com-
munity. Literally, he has made two
pounds of wool grow where one grew
before, and that wool is the best textile
fibre in the world.
Admittedly synthetic fibre is a
menace. But the position of wool is far
from hopeless. The best of all textile
fabrics, it is used by little more than
20 p.c. of the world’s population. Can’t
■ the other 80 p.c. be taught anything?
That is our job, and it is no use expect-
ing other people to make the market for
us because they have the manufactured
goods to sell. They don’t care whether
they make their wares of wool or wood-
pulp so long as they can sell them ad-
vantageously.
Wool needs publicity and salesmanship.
As a people Australians can sell them-
selves any old thing at all from an out-
side country, but we are so arrogantly
self-satisfied with the value of our own
goods that we think the rest of the world
will buy them without an invitation.
Since the giving of free samples is a
legitimate practice of trade, why not ask
the British Government, which will own
enormous stocks of wool at the end of
the war, to join with us in making large
samples of wool available to people not
now familiar with it? It may cost a bit
at the start, but no successful advertising
stunt ever began without fairly heavy
initial cost. And wool certainly will need
advertisement in a big way after the war.
Snowy River Country.
“F. 8.”: There is a corner of Victoria
where thousands of new farms can be
established. It is a rich land where
drought is unknown, one .of the few
parts of Australia that have permanent
running streams. It is untouched by man,
still in its virgin state, and, being all
Crown land, will not call for slow and
costly resumption. It has been partly
surveyed, has miles of good, indifferent
and bush roads cut through scrub and
heavy forest, has a rainfall averaging 30
inches per year, and a lot of it is subject
to light snow.
It is in the shires of Tambo and
Croajingalong, in the Snowy River
country, and at present there are about
ten farms to every million acres, mostly
grazing properties, very little attempt
being made at farming. Natural grazing
on cleared land runs about a sheep to the
acre; where topdressing is done, two to
four sheep per acre. Practically no
attempt is made at conserving fodder, and
climate and soil are so good that they
mostly get away with it, averaging about
one lean year in ten.
On the lower end of the Deddick
River I have seen a crop of lucerne 3ft.
high, fit to cut in October. All kinds
of clover and grass do well. At
Bonang, over 3000 ft. above sea-level,
there is a dairy farm that shows hand-
some returns, though the nearest
creamery is over 60 miles away. It is
safe to say that there is more land there
fit for closer settlement than in any other
district in Australia. The price ranges
from 3s. to 10s. per acre ; size of blocks
about 1000 acres ; no rent for the first
three years ; terms of payment, 33 years
at low interest. I would value it as 60 p.c.
fit for sheep, 10 p.c. for cattle, 10 p.c, for
cultivation and 20 p.c. rough country;
none of it is actually waste land. Before
the rabbit plague it was fine natural graz-
ing country that would run a beast to
five acres.
There is no part of Australia with
better facilities for deep-sea ports, Two-
fold Bay on the north, Marlow on the
south, 200 miles apart. The Snowy is a
rich potential source of hydro-electric
power. With roads and ports it would
mean almost a direct service between the
Australian farmer and the overseas con-
sumer, with only ope handling from the
farm to the ship’s hold. Given modern
roads to its natural coastal outlets no
part of this area would be more than
four hours away from a deep-sea port.
Fast streams and high waterfalls make
it possible to have unlimited hydro-
electric power. The lower end of the
) Snowy River falls 1000 ft. in 32 miles. A
6ft.-diameter pipe could be taken off the
river without any dam. A full supply is
always assured, as the river is never below
that height. I could go on talking about
that stretch of country, but enough has
been said. I’m convinced that if Aus-
tralia wants new land for new farmers
it is there in the Snowy River country.
Winter Pastures.
“Pat Ater”: Dairy-farmers of the mild
N.S.W. coastal districts should sow pas-
tures now that can take advantage of
recent rains.
Quick-growing grasses like Italian rye
and red clover are recommended, if seed
of the latter can be obtained. It is not
too late for them to germinate and provide
late-winter and spring grazing. Though
April is the usual sowing time it passed
this year with dry soil and rainless skies.
In addition to the grazing a heavy cut
of nutritious hay can be expected where
summer rainfall is usual. With a fair
average run of spring and summer
showers, the red clover will continue
right through summer and autumn. It
is a wonderful fodder for dairy lands.
Italian rye will re-establish a subsequent
winter sward from self-sown seed.
Use the rye at the rate of 101 b. of seed
to the acre and 31b, of red clover, with a
dressing- of lewt. of superphosphate.
Lose no time in getting it in the ground.
Bracken.
“Enveen”: There are about as many
methods of getting rid of bracken as
there are runs in a rabbit-proof fence,
but the fern hangs on. The plough is its
worst enemy; it thrives under the fern-
hook and even the crushing, metal-ribbed
roller. The theory that if you keep it
cut or squashed for twelve months it will
die is just talk ; my experience is that you
can keep it down for three years and it’ll
come back if you leave it alone.
In land ploughed every year bracken
ceases to be a problem. But the trouble
is that it occurs too frequently in light
sand that doesn’t pay to cultivate. A
good growth of grass and clover will
choke it, but you don’t often get that in
sand. If the soil is just good enough to
carry light pasture the fern will beat it.
The best way is to use one of the
annual grasses, a hardy one like Wim-
mera, seeding freely. Sow it in autumn,
graze it in winter and early spring and
then shut it up and let it go to seed.
When the seed’s shaking, disc-plough the
grass in so that it grows again from the
seed. Leave the ground in the rough
if there’s risk of blowing. You’ll get
feed to justify cost of ploughing, which
is the only expense unless you topdress,
and the fern will give up after the share
has sliced its vitals for several summers.
Soya Beans in Queensland.
“Sarina”: They’re worth trying on the
Queensland coast for green fodder or
manure. Some claim they can’t equal
ordinary cowpeas for a heavy body of
foliage in a drought, but they are much
easier to grow than maize, and the green
stuff is very nutritious.
Deep soils are ideal. It’s a good plan
to plough in winter and leave the land
in the rough till spring. Break up and sow
on a fine seedbed. For horse cultivation
space the drills 3ft. to 4ft. apart and use
161 b. to 181 b, seed per acre. Sowing may
be done from late spring right through
the summer, although very wet weather
breeds mould. If possible, treat the seed
with nitrogen-fixing bacteria, especially if
the land has not previously been sown to
legumes. The first leguminous crop on
new land is often faulty because of non-
existence of soil bacteria. Generally, the
bacteria appear in time to help the second
crop, but you want them there from the
start.
Growers on coast and highlands could
try Biloxi and Otootan with every chance
of success. They are suitable for green
feed, hay and green manuring. More
trouble should be taken in land prepara-
tion when soya beans are to be sown for
seed. It will be all the better if the soil
contains ample potash, because this ele-
ment governs healthy, normal seeding
and/or fruiting in agricultural crops.
Mammoth Yellow is a good variety for
seed production. .
Some growers of cowpeas or soya
beans make them serve a dual purpose.
Instead of growing them for green feed
or manure only, they harvest the maturing
vines by cutting them low. Later they
plough in the stems, so reaping a con-
siderable amount of excellent forage and
enriching the land at the same time.
Manure.
“H.C.”; Return it to the soil in organic
or liquid form and much of the nitrogen,
phosphorus and potassium taken out by
plants goes back. Fertilising value of
manure depends on the food eaten, the
amount given back on age and type of
animal. Calves and lambs a few weeks
old store two-thirds or more of the nitro-
gen and minerals supplied by milk and
other feed in their bodies. At five months
and over the nitrogen retained is cut
down to 20 p.c. or 30 p.c. and the balance
excreted. Mature horses not gaining
weight, pregnant or nursing mares return
practically all the nitrogen, phosphorus
and potassium in the ration. Droppings
of fattening pigs contain 85 p.c. of the
nitrogen and 96 p.c. of the minerals in
their feedstuffs.
Amount of nitrogen and phosphorus
given out by cows in the milk reduces the
value of the organic or liquid manure to
from 60 p.c. to 70 p.c. of the nitrogen,
40 p.c. to 60 p.c of the phosphorus and
60 p.c. to 80 p.c. of the potassium. Many


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE. WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
THEY CALLED THEM
‘Victory Eights’
It was “V for Victory” right enough, so far
as the boys in the Middle East and their
V-8 trucks were concerned. In pride and
affection they named them “Victory Eights.”
Not that they were able to pamper them.
Armies on the move don’t have overmuch
time for wayside service. And the drive from
Alamein to Tunisia was actually the fastest
advance in military history. A very, large
proportion of the Eighth Army’s front line
vehicles in that campaign were Fords.
Overcoming treacherous sand and stony
highways, blistering heat and choking
sand storms were all in the day’s
work and show what you can
expect from the Ford
you buy.
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(Inc. in Vic.), Regd. Office, Geelong
d
FORD V-8 CARS
TRUCKS & UTILITIES
MERCURY CARS
PREFECT 10 H.P,
CARS & UTILITIES
ANGLIA 8 H.P.
s'
VZ
&
m
m
,/k
r//A
W/.
i^ey
W
BONDS
F30.20.T
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
N
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,
throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.,
... the Bathroom of 194 X
Masonite, of tourse.
Your after-the-war bathroom will have walls
of Masonite Temprtile. Temprtile is tough,
water-impervious Tempered Presdwood
pressed into 4-inch squares. Not only does
it give a perfect simulation of regular tiling,
but it costs far less. When the war ends,
any carpenter, with the aid of this Masonite
“wonder board,” will be able to give you
gleaming “tile” walls—walls in any colour,
as attractive and as easily washable as walls
of ceramic tiles, at a cost far lower than
you ever expected to pay.
fd
MA32-4I
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD..JEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.
SALES DIVISION. 3 69 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Obtainable from all leading builders* suppliers,
timber merchants, and hardware stores.
average farms get back 80 p.c. of the
fertiliser in the different feeds.
Manure from animals fed oats and
wheat makes better fertiliser than from
those fed corn. Animals on supplements
rich in protein such as cottonseed- or
linseed-meal return a double amount of
nitrogen and minerals to the soil. Drop-
pings of those on legume hay are worth
more than those on grass.
Pound for pound urine has greater fer-
tilising value than dung. In Maoriland
they estimate that liquid manure from 60
cows approximates 12cwt. of sulphate of
ammonia, 12cwt. of potash salts, scwt.
of superphosphate and scwt. of lime per
annum and is worth about £22. Mixed
fresh farm manure, bedding included,
averages 121 b. nitrogen, 51b. phosphoric
acid and 121 b. potash per ton. Amount
of manure produced per head by farm
animals is approximately: Horses, six
tons; dairy cows, nine tons; fattening
cattle, 7.8 tons ; sheep, 0.75 tons ; and
pigs, 1.7 tons per annum. To hold manure
that can’t be turned into the soil at once
pack into firm piles and keep moist. This
prevents fermentation and evaporation of
the nitrogen.
Hints for the Farm,
“E. 2”; Make sure that. gelignite is in
good order before use. Old or frozen
stuff is generally ineffective, and may
prove dangerous to handle. Don’t expose
it to the direct rays of the sun or a fire,
A tin stood inside a kero.-tin of hot water
makes a good warming pan. Always use
a wooden tamp. Tests conducted by the
Victorian Mines Department showed that
a metal rod can explode gelignite when
dropped from a height of 11 in.
Portergaff”: It’s hard to beat red-
lead and canvas for repairing leaky roofs
and gutters. Scrape away rust and old
paint, then apply one coat of heavy-
bodied redlead and raw linseed oil.
Paint both sides of a piece of canvas
large enough to cover the hole and finish
off with a second coat right over canvas
and iron. The result is a neat, durable
patch, proof against all weather,
“Hux”; Lopped well back, Tamarix
gallica provides a good low windbreak as
well as fodder in inland districts. Once
established, droughts and frosts don’t
affect it. It’s -a quick grower. A tree
planted at the beginning of a season and
regularly watered will supply enough cut-
tings for a break the following year.
Cuttings planted in early spring develop
quicker and form better trees. Protect
from stock at the start.
“Green Ink”: When crosscutting logs
on your own drive two long pegs in the
ground about 2ft. apart and 3ft. away
from the log. Fasten a bike inner-tube
to the opposite end of saw and loop over
pegs. See that it’s pulling dead centre and
you have a mate who’ll work hard when
you do and ease up if you want to. To
fall trees lean a light sapling against the
further side, attach tube to it about 4in.
higher than your saw cut will come. Pull
towards you and the tube will drag it
back. Drive axe in at height of cut to
form a rest for the saw.
“Myrrhee”: Try this new method for
fowl lice. Put i-pint lysol in 3gal. of
warm water in a 4gal. tin, the tempera-
ture slightly above blood-heat. Hold the
bird by the wings and lower all but the
head into the solution, which is quickly
worked through the feathers. Then im-
merse the head for about a second.
Squeeze the feathers to remove excess
liquid. Treat in the morning in good
weather to give the bird a chance to dry
out. For lice hatched afterwards, dip
again in about 10 days.
“Mi Mi”: Always have a bucket or
wheelbarrow handy when weeding or
digging the vegetable garden. This saves
time, duplication of work and permits of
immediate disposal of weeds, stones and
other garden rubbish.
“Tarboy”; The Grimwade Prize for
Industrial Chemistry for 1944 goes to Dr.
F. G. Lennox for his biochemical re-
search on insect physiology and toxi-
cology which has led to the development
of a successful dressing for the treatment
of fly-stricken sheep. This research and
Dr. Lennox’s additional work on skin
proteins, proteopytic enzymes and the
mechanism of loosening wool fibres in
sheepskins are vitally important to the
Australian fellmongering industry. As a
guage of this, before the war about
10,000,000 fly-stricken sheep were treated
for the recovery of wool. Since that time
the figure has almost doubled.


*
*
¥
-*
ii
m
/MVK
i
-x-
-i
i
•tyr
Production is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer
if you have difficulty In
obtaining Gillette blades.
Gillette is called up. No more exemptions for
the Blue Gillette or 7 o’clock blades. As stocks run
out they must get into battledress as Gillette
“Standard” Blades. But they’ll still give you the
finest shave you can buy.
in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, oldror new type.
Gillette
'o%es
While there is an unavoidable shortage of
gramophone records excepting for the
Armed Forces, the future is rich with
promise . . . the promise that some day
soon you will be able to choose the
music you want and play it whenever
you wish .
In spite of the difficulties
of war many magnificent
recordings have been added
to our catalogues, and so
we look forward to the day
fi
when the gramophone will again assume
its place as the outstanding medium for
home entertainment.
“His Master’s Voice”
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Incorporated in England). HOMEBUSH. NS W.
Ha/44
SMOKE-OH!
“When a man walks off a racecourse broke
he should vow ‘That’s the last horse I’m going
to back.’ ” — Sydney parson.
What’s the use? He’ll go out the next
Saturday and back the last horse again.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“The young girl, determined to end her life,
appeared to have switched off her radio set.”
—“New Idea."
Thus making murder appear like
suicide.
“Five hundred milligrams taken in one dose
are fatal, yet anyone who smokes a package
of cigarettes a day breathes in this amount of
nicotine every week.” — “World’s News.”
This is one trouble civilians don’t have
to worry about.
*b *b *b *b
“Frame your face with a whopping pastel felt
bonnet, planked at the back of your head.”
- — Woman’s mag.
And you’ll be a picture of beaming
absurdity.
b 4* b b
“Captain Shot Aboard Ship.”
— “D.T.” heading.
Fortunately his steward got him to bed
without the passengers being aware of
anything amiss.
4* 4* 4* b
“The clergyman gave the thief some money,
tobacco and cigarette papers and advised him to
go straight in the future.” — “Sun:”
Thief as he was, he had the makings
of a good man.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Report to the Nation.
What less interesting sight can there be
under heaven than a shut pub at high
noon?
I have never seen three ships come
sailing in; but I saw a sailor do a
most interesting thing. He stood on his
wrist-watch to weigh himself and put his
ear to a penny-in-the-slot weighing-
machine to learn if it was still ticking.
Anyway, when I’m interested in getting
a schooner at 5.55 p.m. behind a six-deep
herd of humanity I wish the barmaid
would show more interest in my signals.
Percival.
“Arched eyebrows help to give you a less
triangular look.” — “Woman.”
And also that element of surprise.
♦b 4* 4* *b
“The constable alleged that some putrid meat,
which the defendant was preparing for his cus-
tomers, made him sick.”— Court case.
Reincarnated'.
“A woman in O.S.A. who is taking divorce
proceedings against her millionaire husband
says he first wooed and won her about 2300
years ago when he was a Roman and she was
a Christian slave.” — “Daily Mirror .”
As a reincarnated soul I shared a simi-
lar experience. I got into the good graces
of Emperor Hakkizedolf 111 by making a
new liqueur which, he reported, gave him
most exotic dreams. I’ve pften wondered
since how it would have gone as a metal
polish for his soldiers’ armor, which was
my original intention when experiment-
ing with the formula.
As 1 looked like becoming Hakk’s suc-
cessor,' the Emperor’s daughter Nita
decided to marry me. Later, ever
seeking the perfect one-hit drink, I added
to Hakkizedoff’s liqueur some of the
newly-discovered asafoetida and was im-
mediately demoted to assistant fan-
waver. Princess Nita divorced me.
Only the other day Nita threatened
to get a decree nisi if I kept on trying
out my new cocktails on her old man.
Petermac.
•I*
“Only half an egg per customer was allowed
at some shops.”— “Daily Mirror."
This must lead to a scramble.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Plaintiff stated that her husband began to
drink heavily alter they were married. He
was seldom sober.” — Evidence in divorce case.
He believed in living a full life.
Vanished Pomps.
“U.S. women are being urged to pull up their
garters a couple of inches to save unnecessary
wear on stockings.”— “Sunday Telegraph.”
These trinkets, which in former days
Were oft with little gates adorned
Or broidered with some witty phrase,
Are by the modern flapper scorned —
From all accounts, the fairer gender
Now plumps for girdle or suspender.
One must agree the gartered knee
That gave Great-uncle George a thrill
Is rarer now, and probably
Will soon be glimpsed more rarely still
Now that the powers that be conspire
To make the lasses hitch them higher.
P. M. LUSK.
Paradox.
“The majority of munition-workers are
better off now than they ever were.”
— Politician’s speech.
A paradox of war is that
Munition-making chaps,
According to accounts, wax fat
On it —yet live on scraps.
F. M.
Under Great Strain.
“A man who was fined £l5 in London for
kissing his girl secretary said he had been
indiscreet, but he had been working under a
strain for some time.”
It’s a shame that such a reasonable
excuse should not have been accepted. It
shows that what is needed is understand-
ing men of the world on the Bench.
Take that morning when, on top of a
succession of things going wrong. Miss
Prim handed me my income-tax assess-
ment, just arrived. It was worse than
my most dismal forebodings had dreaded.
Something had to be done to relieve the
strain. I took Miss Prim in my arms
and kissed her.
Anyone who has seen Miss Prim would
realise that I must have been under a
terrific strain to do a thing like that. And
I don’t think Miss Prim would have ob-
jected only Maria, being in town, must
choose that momeqt to look in and see
me at the office.
Then there was the day when, worried
about matters I hadn’t fixed, I went into
a near-by restaurant to lunch. “Sorry,
steak and kidney pie is off,” said the
waitress. The strain was too much. 1
grabbed her round the waist and kissed
her. Apart from looking surprised and
pouring half a plate of soup down the
neck of a customer at the next table, she
showed no emotion. “My afternoon off
is Thursday,” she said the next time she
came round.
And Thursday is the night I have to
see Beryl, under the fear that she might
see Maria if I don’t. I was under a great
strain when I kissed Beryl, who is a bar-
maid, after she had announced that the
beer was off.
Now she is a part of the strain.
H. M.
Black Record.
“For many years a Hampstead (London) man
recorded all his wife’s faults in a book, and
read them to her every Friday night.”— “D.T.”
My wife’s not faultless, I’ll confess;
In fact, if I should so assess
Her little lapses in the home
I’d need, to keep the record right,
A quart of ink, a weighty tome
And several readings every night.
PLUM.
This tester of the adage made
The poor cop’s lot pathetic
By proving one man’s meat can be
Another man’s emetic.
B. B.
Reactions.
If a manifestation of something unknown
Came winging its way to the foot of
my bed,
I wonder if, giving a horrified groan,
I would seize on the blankets and cover
my head.
Or would I, with calm, analytical mind.
While weaker emotions were boldly
suppressed.
Endeavor the cause of the presence to
find ?
Well, I hope that I’ll never be put to
the test!
T. W. NATHAN.
Hon. Nipponese Viewpoint.
“Tokyo Radio was heard saying: ‘Allied
forces in France are retreating haphazardly
inland.’ ' —“Sun” cable.
Continuing, the announcer said that
on the Cherbourg Peninsula thousands
of 14in. shells fired from British and
American battleships had been completely
smashed by German coastal gun posi-
tions, pillboxes, rail and road junctions,
parked tanks and gun crews, among which
and whom they fell. Terrific destruction
had also been wrought among 2000-
pound bombs when they descended from
Allied ’planes. So deadly had been the
effect of passively determined resistance
. o_iiflnf. 0 _ii flnf . r TPrrr , a n ammunition and fuel
gallant 'merman ammunition ana ruei
dumps, staff headquarters, cookhouses
and dugouts that by the time the Allie _
’planes had turned to go back to Englan
to refuel and reload not one droppe
bomb was left intact.
An instance of the terrible hammering
the Allied navies in the Channel were
taking at the hands of Hitler’s undersea
fleet, the announcer went on, is offered
by the case of a U-boat commanded by
Kapitan-Lieutenant von Schweinhund.
Approaching t he flank of the invasion
,rr ° r '. armada in an attempt to sink a transport.
he u boat deverl caused an escorting
d t to „ weaken its ofl e ns ive
/ b de “ riving it of the use of f ou r
JJ h c g arg( f s one of which b | ew the
surface The destroyer im .
mediatel turned and rammed. As its
slk ' ed thro h the submarine's hull
panic undoubtedl ° spread thro u gh the
destroyer’s crew at the consequent con-
cussjon t hus greatly lowering English
mora , ’ A dent jn tbe destro y er ’s stem
a d scratc lied paintwork were pointers to
h j da £ the u. boat inflicted .
_ t 7, T ,
Turning to the Italian ca P gn,
Rad '° corntmueff, it wm evident
that Alexander s Fifth and Eighth Armies
» ere . Power'ess to prevent the glorious,
irres.st.ble advance by Marshal Kes eI-
™SS D fore< f„ n ° rt , h ’ warda “wards the
River Po. All obstacles had been swept
ruthlessly from the marshal’s path. So
powerful are the armies under his com-
mand that he could, if he felt like it, con-
tinue to advance, unchecked, right to
Berlin itself.
* 010
, An amazing tactical Victory had also
been achieved by the invincible Luftwaffe
in Italy. Obviously expecting tremendous
aerial battles, the Allies had sent out
every day for a week 750 bombers
escor ted by 1000 fighters. Harassed by
a complete absence of German fighters
over the battlefield, the bombers could
d° nothing but bomb, whilst the fighters,
having nothing to engage in combat, could
°nty AU m the time in strafing ground
targets. What had been the result? At
the end of the week of these brilliant
tactics the Luftwaffe had lost not a single
plane or a pilot in combat. Such a won-
derful feat could never be boasted by the
effet® R-A.F. and U.S.A.A.F.
On the Burma front, the broadcaster
went on, astonishing demoralisation pre-
vails among British and Indian troops
owing to the sound of distant detonations
caused by hundreds of Jap troops holding
grenades to their heads instead of sur-
rendering. The Jap High Command anti-
cipates that by the time the last of its
troops now in the Kohima area have thus
used up all their grenades the British
forces will be in such a state of nervous
exhaustion that any other Jap army that
happens to be sent there will find them
a pushover.
Bo.


FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
FCTA/Bla-5
ď
f
ONLY
£l7/10/-
WANTED
AU STATES
Built entirely in,Australia by
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
• SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
COULD HARDLY WALK!
Now Works, Scrubs and Polishes
R.O.R. BRINGS SWIFT BENEFIT
TO VICTORIAN MOTHER...
There are many people still who have
not obtained the benefits which R.U.R.
brings so swiftly. R.U.R. is famed for
its five-fold action as a laxative, liver
stimulant, kidney cleanser, blood puri-
fier and acid corrective.
It creates energy, charm, personality,
radiant living, and in cases of rheu-
matism, neuritis, sciatica and the like
it quickly gets them under control,
stops the pain and makes life worth-
while again. Mrs. Lillian Anderson, of
21 Lansdowne Street, Pascoe Vale,
proves this when she writes as follows:
“I have been that bad that I could
hardly walk. I was in hospital, but
it did no good. After I came home
from the hospital I said to my chil-
dren, ‘X am going to give R.U.R. a
go and see what it does to me. So
I started to take it and now here I
am. I can go back to work, scrub
and polish with the best of them. I
walk a mile and a half twice a day
and home again, and up till last
September was looking after my sick
husband. I don’t mind if you put
my letter through the paper, every
word is true, thanks to R.U.R.”
m.
m
# i
Take R.IT.R. yourself when you are
feeling run-down or suffering from
joint or muscle pains. In no time you
will feel better and the dreary outlook
of a pain-fllled life will have vanished.-
Take R.U.R. regularly for a while.
Smaller size, 4/-; the money-back
guaranteed full treatment, 7/6.
Obtainable at chemists and stores
everywhere.
RICHTfYOV HRE
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ
SHED MANAGEMENT.’* 3s. 6d.. POST FREE
WOOL-CLASSING AND
. "BULLETIN” OFFICE.
m*
mm.
i
%
m
if'
m*
I
mm& ??
M**
m#
m
yW
m
• •
m m
m
■fm
m
s M
m
® 8
"; ■
4' > , '
\ v'
;■> •:
mm.
zz*.
m'.
m&m
■* :
* * & 4
m
;>.%
again
tVhen
walk in peace!
Up in the jungles of the South Pacific our men are fighting so that one
day we may walk in peace, and so that fear will be banished forever from
this land we love.
It is for us to protect our heritage, 100. To lay our plans now so that
when our fighting men come hack to Australia, each shall have the
opportunity to share the treasures of the fruitful earth, and to win a slake
in a new and bounteous land.
In this development Caterpillar Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth-
Moving Equipment will play their part as they have played it in war.
They will build roads and airports at the lowest possible fuel am
maintenance cost. They will cultivate and conserve the land and bring
to desert wastes precious, life-saving water. Meantime, the whole of our
resources are devoted to meeting the needs of war.
CATERPILLAR D/CSCI
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and" **WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH . MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland.
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
gss wat
-tss ajt bjzsx lxs"
buy war
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
QU-ii-tt
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Tutor required for seven-year-
tion would suit aged man o Mo derate
good country home in s.-w. D tana.
Pa Xo~buy 6 Ethel Turner’s Seven IMile Amt,a-
Hans and The Family a! Misrule- 3477.
S So 1
H \T inf/ iSSn“■SST1** .or
“To'bS *TrSou,s. by Huysman. and 37*
Warrior. —3480.
Information Sought.
List o/ Presidents of the U.S.A. since Wash-
Washington, John Adams, Jefferson dadison,
Monroe, J. Q. Adams, Jacks n, p;ii more
W. H. Harrison, Tyler, Polk, Taylor, F illmo .
Pierce, Buchanan, Lincoln, /ohnson,
Haves Garfield, Arthur, Cleveland, B. Harrison,
Clevdkhd McKinley, T. Roosevelt, T aft,
Wilson, Harding, Coohdge, Hoover, L. D.
Roosevelt. .
Flow to remove a colony of bees that have
established themselves between the two walls
of a weatherboard house.
One or two outside boards should be re
moved from above the bees c °™ks and t
section plugged so that the bees cannot
upward P Then remove the lower boards to
expose the colony and use smoke to c ° ntr
the bees and force them to clusteraboveth
combs while each section of comb is removed.
After all the combs have been moved the
clustered bees may be scraped off with a tin
and placed in a hive Another way is to block
the wall entrance used by the bees, and as the
colony is unable to obtain food to carry
brood-rearing the population will decrease and
finally die out.
How to keep dogs free from ticks
Treatment with denis (either the powder 01
as an infusion) will kill ticks on the dog
protect from attack for about four days The
infusion may be made by soaking Uoz. to 2oz.
derris powder in a gallon of water tor
hours, adding enough soap to raise a good
lather. The wash is applied liberally and
allowed to dry on the coat. When using derris
in any form keep it out of the dog s eye ,
parts of the body around the eyes, ears and
paws should be gone over by hand and ticks
removed. Treatment should be repeated weekly.
How would the preference votes of the fol-
lowing be distributed: Smith 8760, Jones 7590,
Robins 4274 and Dixon 1900 7
Dixon should be excluded and each ballot
paper counted to him should be counted
the candidate next in order of the voter s prefer-
ence; if no candidate then has an absolute
majority, the process of excluding the candidate
with the fewest votes and counting each ot
his ballot-papers to the unexcluded candidate
next in order of the voter’s preference should
be repeated until one candidate receives an
absolute majority of votes.
(I) Is Joe Louis the real name of the present
heavyweight champion? (2) Prom whom,
where and wihen did he win the title. (i)
How many times has he Successfully defended
the title ? (4) Has he ever been beaten ?
(1) Joseph Louis Barrow. (2) From J. J.
Braddock, Chicago, June 22, 1937. (3) Twenty-
two times. (4) As an amateur he was beaten by
Stanley Evans, J. Miler, Max Marek and Clifton
Bridges—all on points in three rounds. Lost
one professional contest when k.o. d by Ma
Schmeling, New York, June 19, 1936.
Are used or Mint stamps of greater value to
C °MintTstamps are generally preferred, as they
always retain their face value. However used
stamps of some places with a small population
where there is little use for them may have
a greater value than those in Mint condition.
Brief Answers.
Enzed: All books now out of print....
J C • Apply to your local National Service
Office Tugger: Strain on .middle of rope is
equal to pull of 12 men J.M.M.: Never.
JK.: S. E. Stephens, Department of
Agriculture, Cairns, can advise on cultivation
of tropical fruits in N.Q P.L.G.: Have no
information... .E.M.A.: Diet is practically at
starvation level and dangerous without medical
supervision. Consult a doctor. Ine
taipan is a giant brown snake found m N.
Australia. The death adder is sometimes called
“deaf” adder owing to its disinclination to
move when approached Bob M.: Baron
Stonehaven was Governor-General when S. M.
Bruce was Prime Minister.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should he addressed to
the hditor.
J.McG.: Keep coming J.P.C.: Read
some of this century’s poetry, and don’t
address a magpie as a “winged minstrel” or as
“Thou” D.H.R.; Never rises from the flats.
M.V.M.: To scorn it were a sorry jest, but
couldn’t you speak more plainly?... .A.R.C.:
Broken under the weight of its polysyllables.
M.B.: Valiant effort, but doesn’t get there.
... .H.E.G.: “She then will them all into Berlin
drive.” It now will from this office 5c00t....
M.S.: Abo. has not been sighted at this office.
E.W.R.: Patriotism is no excuse for rhym-
ing “Armada” with “saga” F.J.H.: Sub-
ject so painful would need to be superbly
handled S.K.C.: Too “simple and homely.”
. ...1.5.: Not much use telling the “babe” to
think about it....G.C.: Next time you’re
sittin’ knittin’, keep on knittin’ H.B. : Fry
prose G.L.: “Autumn” is a frost
H.S.D.: If you really want to kill the rag-
wort you might try reading that poem to it.
D.W.H.: “I have several other poems
of a similar nature.” Sounds like a threat....
R.W.McK. (Fiji): Ground level... .J.F.S ;
Your friends, being plural, can’t possibly
“wait’st” for you L. 8.: This is no place
for agonisingly sentimental letters to an imagi-
nary mother... .F.E.G.; N.ot that far-fetched
sort of farce....R.E.: So many people—in
fiction—are slain by unmannerly ghosts
A.C.: Frothy A.M.D.; Magazinish....
P.G.8.: “Food for Thought” isn’t L.R.H.:
“Close behind them half a dozen little Trotters
trotted.” They’re trotting home.


BUY WAR* SA V I NGS CERTIFIC AT E S
\
ffWk
,?rr »>.
mA
•SSitxv
iff
«
*
tSOHS
</
!»>•
fl -•-IS
A "V * AS
4 fr“~J »
«>
V r*
R & MC 524
BUY WAR SAVINGS GER T I FIC AT E S
\^r
OH
t*OH'• ’'
Hi
LYSRGHT'S
GALVANIZED IRON
LYSRGHT'S
ZINCANNEAI
LYSRGHT'S
81ACK IRON
iWherever the war Is being fought—on the farm,
in industry, and in the front lines—you'll find
Lysaght's Galvanized Corrugated Iron playing its
part. That’s because it has been proved time
end time again that there can be no satisfactory
substitute for the great strength, long life and
economy of this outstanding building material. Capable of quick erection,and
with the ability to stand up to the hardest wear and weather, its popularity on
the fighting fronts has meant a severe limitation of supplies for civilian use, but.
it is hoped that the day is not tar distant when this famous building sheet
can again be made available in greater quantities to the general public..
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE! PE RIB,'
HO7-3504' 1
BLACK TIM
By S. D. B.
THE long backyard of the hotel ran
well down into the middle of the
block, and at the bottom the back-
yard of the butcher’s shop ran into
it. Two paths formed a right angle that
linked two streets. People used them to
save the walk round the corner; men
who had spent more time and money at
the hotel than would be approved by the
watchful public went that way to avoid
the more open main street; children
sometimes sneaked through on their way
to school, finding them vaguely exciting.
The bottom of the hotel yard made a
reasonably safe rendezvous for those little
pastimes the average respectable citizen
is most careful not to be caught at.
Over a hand of bridge and a couple
of bottles, the local policeman and the
one from the next town once conceived
a strategy that converted this rendezvous
into a veritable trap. They made a con-
certed approach, one down each path,
landing them in the middle of the two-up
school before the players realised what
was happening. The result was similar
to that of a large foot being suddenly
placed in a bucket of water. The two
stalwarts of law and order, their duty
done, laughed themselves hoarse at the
cursing, the clatter of galvanised iron and
the startled protests of somebody’s fowls
as the men surged over the fences to
safety.
Of all the people who used the
paths, Tim was certainly the most
regular. He worked in the butcher’s
shop, and every morning he strode
down to the fence, bobbed under
the top rail and w r histled his way
up the other path to the hotel kitchen.
He would place the breakfast order on
the table and stand with his back to the
huge wood stove, hands behind, balancing
on the balls of his feet, flexing his im-
pressive shoulders and talking to the
cook.
j T was, perhaps, a peculiar friendship
* —for these two were quite obviously
friends. Tim —young, eager, boyish ; the
cook—a solid woman about forty, hard,
blunt, slightly choleric in tone ; and be-
tween them a warmth that was deeper
than the cook would be prepared to
admit.
. Tim s l ometimes brought her the mak-
mgs; the cook preferred home-made
, „ „K u „ ... .
smokes and Tolled her own with m-
congruous dexterity. She did not like
asking at the shop for tobacco and papers
—it was about the only outward conces-
sion she made to convention. They
talked about the races, the weekly pic-
ture show > dances, past and coming, and
! he late 2. bits of gossip circulating in the
town. The cook did not go out much —
pi c t ures on Saturday nights and occa-
sionally the betting shop; Tim mostly
placed her shilling bets,
There was a rumor that she kept a
daughter at boarding school, but no
amount of conjecture had confirmed it.
There was only the veiled suggestion of
a past. It is doubtful if anyone had
P ierced her hard shell except Tim. But
then Tim was like that,
He aroused motherly instincts m
*° men who were hardened and softened
by His reputatton for wild-
ness endeared him to his friends. Every-
one at s h o p xiked him, for his warmth
an( j hj s impulsiveness. They called him,
affectionately. Black Tim.
The nickname was made apt by his
straight hair and the powerful splash of
eyebrows against the pale skin of his face,
by the bluish tinge round his jaw and
the thick growth on his chest and fore-
arms - In his dark eyes was an expression
humorous and unrepentant, like that of
a tavored do 8 conscious of disapproval,
waiting t 0 be patted ,ndul f ” Uy '
, He a “ d the cook w ° uld , ahat a whl e-
"ook P re P a ™S b « akfast a ? sbe
talked; then Tim would excuse himself,
“B e jt er get back and cut the rest of the
orders or the Boss’ll go crook on me,”
and he would go whistling down the
path again to the fence.
That was before Lois came,
IM flrst met Lois in the kitchen on
1 a Saturday night after a good day
at the betting shop and the bar; with
Tim, success in the one made possibili-
ties in the other expand in direct propor-
tion.
After such a day he would sometimes
go to the kitchen, and the cook would put
a meal in front of him and they would
eat together at the big, bare table. The
cook was Tim’s confidante when his
tongue was loose, and she usually list-
ened to his nebulous, alcoholic troubles
with motherly tolerance until his head
dropped on the table and he slept. She
listened with the same patience when,
partly recovered, his remorse was still a
little inarticulate, and then started him
down the path to the old fence, the shop
and bed.
The night he met Lois it was about
half-past eight. He was a trifle too un-
certain to go to the pictures and not bad
enough to be on a maudlin sympathy-
hunt, but he would “pop in and have a
word with Cook.” He came through the
door unsteadily without seeing the new
girl sitting opposite.
“How are y’. Cook?” he greeted ex-
pansively. “Whadda y’ know, Chatham
won the Cup! Good ol’ Chatham,”
“Yes, I know,” answered the cook
shortly. “I backed him.”
Tim pulled himself up at the tone.
He looked at the new girl. The brown
eyes and pretty mouth were hard and
hostile. “Did you back Chatham?” Tim
asked her, and diffidence trailed his
voice to the almost inaudible as no hint
of softening came into her face.
„ ,
tt Jhe reply was sharp, ultra-precise.
o, I not- I dont back race-
horses. and, collecting some sewing
and abruptly walking to the dooi, she
‘
self with drink, either The emphasis on
each word staggered Tim.
As Lois disappeared he stood for a
moment, then turned to the cook.
Struth! Whats the matter with her?
Bit snappy, isn t she? Doesn t seem to
hke me much!
“Nobody likes you much when you’re
drunk! ” The cook was shorter than
before. Tim was manifestly shocked,
That the cook didn’t like him either when
he was drunk had not occurred to him.
He started to say something, changed
his mind, and his brain switched sud-
denly to truculence. He passed out
through the door into the night and
weaved unsteadily down the path.
“Blasted women! Man never knows
where he is with ’em! ” He dipped under
the rails at the bottom of the hotel yard
and somehow missed the path, stagger-
ing and cursing through the tangled
weeds to the shop.
Lying on his stretcher in the back
room, his last thoughts recorded on his
mind a trimly full figure and brown eyes,
a well-shaped, obstinate mouth and rich
dark hair that seemed to gather fire
from the eyes and sparkle with them
under the kitchen light.
NEXT morning a subdued Tim took
the breakfast order. He did not
whistle or sing down the path. He was
still puzzled that Cook had sided against
him.
The rising inflection in the Boss’s
voice as he left the shop came back
into his mind. “Must be somethin’ new
at the pub, Tim’s puttin’ on ’is clean
coat this mornin’.” He became con-
scious that the whiteness of his coat
and the aggressive blue and white of his
new apron were conspicuous.
He smoothed down his black hair as
he came into the kitchen and stood awk-
wardly in his usual place. After a per-
functory welcome the cook unwrapped
the big parcel and spread the succulent
rounds of undercut steak, examined the
chops critically, poked the sausages
speculatively. She warmed a little to
Tim; he always gave her a good spin
with the meat order. She had been
thinking about him and the incident
with Lois. It seemed to have raised a
lot of memories. She wanted to be
annoyed and she couldn’t—after all, if
Lois was a soft fool as she had been
and fell in love with Tim’s waywardness,
it was none of her business.
But that was all before Phil came.
THE Boss brought Phil home one even-
ing and he sat down at the table
and grinned at the group as if he had
been doing it for months. All those em-
ployed at the shop mealed there and
had rooms in different parts of the town,
except Tim, who slept in the room at the
back.
In a week Phil’s easy confidence was
part of the place ; his friendship with


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
m
/
a
&
m
£
I I
/
A Sign of the Times
TOP DOG
WORK TROUSERS
... have a reputation throughout Australia
for hard wear and satisfactory service. In
workmanships fabrics and careful attention
to detail, they are recognised to be “tops”
in quality. So, hasten the day when civil-
ian supplies of TOP DOG WORK TROUSERS
are again unlimited by investing to the
limit in National Savings Stamps and War
Savings Certificates.
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
Tim was immediate and somehow
slightly incongruous. They were a simi-
lar build—one fair, one dark and rather
heavier. Their clothes were in marked
contrast. Phil’s were well cut, reserved,
obviously not dependent on the money
he earned at the shop. Tim’s were usually
a splash with the local tailor when one
of his long shots came home —wide
trousers with narrow cuffs, cutaway
pockets and double-breaster waistcoats.
They shared the room at the rear of the
shop and they went together on rounds
of the hotels and betting shops on Satur-
day afternoon.
Although the Boss himself could not
explain why he brought Phil to the shop
he soon found him to be a distinct asset.
His polite, correct speech attracted cus-
tom. The townspeople scented some-
thing romantic in his easy, polished
manner. If girls went shopping for the
week-end joint, they invariably came to
the shop in preference to the one down
on the corner. The Boss called him
“the Professor,” and when one young
lady asked him “What of?” he shocked
her with “Aw! He’s a Professor of Sur-
gery. He’s servin’ his time learnin’ all
the different cuts.”
'»
NO matter how Tim tried, he did not
make much progress with Lois. She
was not openly hostile, but Tim was
careful not to go near the kitchen when
under the influence, and beyond ex-
change of greetings and occasional differ-
ences of opinion in the kitchen she held
him at arm’s length—went to the pictures
with the cook and to dances by herself.
He gave up drinking—for a fortnight.
When Phil was putting him to bed he
muttered “Women! Man never knows
where ’e is!”
Then he asked Lois one morning if he
gave up racehorses would she go to the
Football Dance with him. It was not
in his nature to be humble unless appre-
ciated, and when she answered sarcas-
tically “How long for —a fortnight?” he
looked for a moment as if he would
strike her, then pushed through the door,
slamming it viciously. By the night of
the Football Dance they were still not
talking.
Strangely enough, after the first inci-
dent, the cook was all on Tim’s side,
even to the extent of talking to Lois
about him. “Why don’t you go to the
dance with him?” Her voice became
quiet and serious, “Perhaps he only
needs you to help him and he would
give up drink and horses.”
Lois flared up. “Yes! Perhaps he
would! For a little while. I’m not
going to ruin my life like. Mum, waiting
round for him to come home drunk, A
father and a brother is enough.”
“All right, dear. Don’t let’s quarrel.
I should be the last ope telling you what
to do.”
Tim was drunk at the Football Dance,
not unsteady, but loud and perverse. His
pale face was flushed and he made a lot
of noise whenever he thought Lois could
hear him. He drew attention to them
both because everyone knew how he felt
about her.
Lois tried not to be affected, but it
was no use. Just before supper she sud-
denly left her partner and grabbed her
coat from the seat. Phil caught up with
her and she hurried down the street.
They walked together to the side street,
down the path alongside the shop and
through the marshmallows toward the
hotel yard.
TIM found them sitting on the bottom
rail of the old paling fence in the
moonlight. He was looking for trouble.
“First time I knew you two were so
friendly!” he said. Phil was silent.
“We don’t have to ask you,” said Lois.
“What right have you to follow us?”
Tim started to speak, but Phil stood
up and put his hands on his shoulders.
“1 think you had better go to bed, Tim.”
“You mind your own bloody busi-
ness!” Tim shrugged himself free.
Lois stood between them. “If you two
fight,” addressing Tim, “I’ll hate you for
the rest of my life.”
It was no use. Words just twist them-
selves until there is no way out. Lois
was going. She wasn’t going to stand
round watching two grown men beat one
another to pieces. She stopped a few
yards away, helpless now and near to
tears.
Even in the bright moonlight it was
difficult to distinguish the figures—she
could see only that Tim, not Phil, was
being beaten. At first she was trium-
phant, with a vindictiveness almost queru-
lous. Then, as she realised he was being
hurt, she wanted to shield him and could
not move.
They shared the room at the rear of the
of the fence. She wiped the blood from
his face with a handkerchief Phil had
wetted at the tap, saying as if talkfng
to herself “You needn’t have hit him so
hard.” Tim’s eyes opened and the left
twitched as she swabbed the cut over his
eyebrow.
The tears were running freely down
Lois’s face. “Serve you right! Serve
you right! ” she sobbed hysterically.
THE FACE OF THE WATERS.
Once again the scurry of feet —those myriads
crossing the black granite; and again
laughter cruelly in pursuit; and then
the twang like a harpstring or the spring of a
trap,
and the swerve on the polished surface: the
soft little pads
sidling and skidding and avoiding; but soon
caught up
in the hand of laughter and put back . . .
There is no release from the rack
of darkness for the unformed shape,
the unexisting thought
stretched half-and-half
in the shadow of beginning and that denser
black
under the imminence of huge pylons—
the deeper nought;
but neither is there anything to escape,
or to laugh,
or to twang that string which is not a string but
silence
plucked at the heart of silence.
Nor can there be a floor to the bottomless;
except in so far as conjecture must arrive,
lungs cracking, at the depth of its dive;
where downward further is further distress
with no change in it; as if a mile and an inch
are equally squeezed into a pinch,
and retreating limits of cold mind
frozen, smoothed, defined.
Out of the tension of silence (the twanged
string);
from the agony of not being (that terrible
laughter
tortured by darkness); out of it all
once again the tentative migration; once again,
a Universe on the edge of being born:
feet running fearfully out of nothing
at the core of nothing:
color, light, life, fearfully
becoming eyes and understanding: sound be-
coming ears...
For eternity is not space reaching
on without end to it; not time without end
to it.
nor infinity working round in a circle ;
but a placeless dot enclosing nothing,
the pre-time pinpoint of impossible beginning,
enclosed by nothing, not even by emptiness —
impossible: so wholly at odds with possibili-
ties
that, always emergent and wrestling and inter-
linking,
they shatter it and return to it, are all of it and
part of it.
It is your hand stretched out’ to touch your
neighbor’s,
and feet running through the dark, direction-
less like darkness.
Worlds that were spun adrift re-enter
that intolerable centre;
indeed the widest-looping comet
never departed from it;
it alone exists.
And though, opposing it, there persists
the enormous structure of forces, laws,
as background for other coming and going,
that’s but a pattern, a phase, no pause,
of ever-being-erected, ever-growing
ideas unphysically alternative
to nothing, which is the quick. You may say
hills live,
or life’s the imperfect aspect of a flowing
that sorts itself as hills; much as thoughts wind
selectively through mind.
The eggshell collapses
in the fist of the eternal instant;
all is what it was before. -
Yet is that eternal instant
the pinpoint bursting into reality,
the possibilities and perhapses,
the feet scurrying on the floor.
It is the suspense also
with which the outward thrust
holds the inward surrender —
the stresses in the shell before it buckles under:
the struggle to magpie-morning and all life’s
clamor and lust;
the part breaking through the whole;
light and the clear day and so simple a goal.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.


Shake the BRYLCREEM jar this way
As all the Brylcreem at present being made is going to the Services, please
make the most of it when you have a supply. A few drops, well rubbed in,
will be sufficient to keep your hair smart and healthy. And remember,
dsf
"expert" shaking makes the
cream fluid, enabling you to con-
trol the flow. In a few seconds
you'll be able to measure an
economical quantity from the
even-flowing cream.
Don’t spend. Lend. Put your money into 5/- National Savings Stamps.
WEALTH OIL
REFINERIES
LIMITED...
roprietors of ill
the following trade marks:
"C.O.R, Plus" Motor Spirit
"C.0.R." Power Kerosene
"Coraf ite" K'erosene
"C.O.R. Light Diesofeum"
"C.0.R." Diesel Oils
"C.0.R." Fuel & Bunker Oils
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee.
TY7HBN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
i ” satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by CO years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.0.; E. R. snox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen 0. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative; H. A. Shaw, HO Lord’s Place. Orange.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De-
ended predation
March, Profit. Di. idends. Reserves. Reserves,
6ij?.c. £ £
1935 , . 931,940 731,250 909,247 3,088,939
1936 . . 937,980 877,500* 969,727 3,311,260
6.9 p.c.
1937 .. 1,036,336 804,375 1,201,688 3,509,057
74 p.c.
1938 .. 1,060,786 877,500 1,384,974 3,700,479
1939 . . 1,005,670 877,500 1,513,144 3,870,539
84 p.c.
1940 . . 1,103,744 994,500 1,622,388 4,092,025
1941 . . 1,054,331 994,500 1,682,219 4,351,538
1942 . . 934,619 994,500 1,622,338 4,666,646
1943 .. 1.041.601 994,500 1,669,439 5,049,140
1944 . . 873,969 994,500 1,548,908 5,443,655
* Includes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus scrip issue.
Few cos. are more fortunately placed
than this one, which is steadily extend-
ing the scope of its activities. In Aus-
tralia it refines, sells and finances all but
a small fraction (handled by Millaquin)
of the entire sugar output on a commission
basis under Government contract, and
does a substantial milling business on its
own account as well. It is also engaged
in growing and milling in Fiji, and in re-
fining in Maoriland ; and earnings benefit
by returns from a fine wad of outside
investments (£3,539,009, up £126,845) and
cash (£2,383,627, up £861,327), mostly
at short call.
The contraction (£167,632) in last
term’s net earnings was the result of a
sharp drop in output of raws in both
Australia and Fiji, and therefore in re-
turns from milling and refining. The
£873,696 of profit—not since 1938 has
less been claimed —was 7.4 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 8.9 p.c. and 8 p.c. for the
two preceding years. It was written after
allowing £419,836 (up £14,117) for depre-
ciation. Net addition to replacement and
depreciation funds was £394,515, raising
them to £5,443,655, portion of which is
believed to be genuine profit; and there
are less conspicuous corners in which
surplus earnings have been tucked away.
The board had no hesitation in repeating
the p.c. div., worth double that rate
on capital as it stood before the one-for-
one bonus issue in 1934,
Owing to shortage of skilled labor, fer-
tiliser and farm implements, there has
been persistent shrinkage in Australian
sugar production over the last five years.
Last season the figure was 505,000 tons,
compared with 627,000, 721,000, 783,000
and 901,000 tons back to the peak in
1939. Also, owing to shortage of labor
and the smaller cane crop—last season’s
was the lightest since 1927 —the co.’s
Australian mills worked broken time, the
crushing rate was reduced and the season
extended, all to the detriment of costs.
In Fiji about 50 p.c. only of cane
grown was harvested. Chairman E, R.
Knox says:
Much work in connection with the con-
duct' of the war was available to the Indian
labor and many other opportunities ex-
isted for making easy money with little
effort by canegrowers usually entirely de-
pendent on the sugar industry. These
conditions presented a golden opportunity
for the agitators; as a result the mill-hands
went on strike and later the growers re-
fused to harvest the crop without a big
increase in the price of cane. A Govern-
ment-appointed tribunal granted a small
increase to t'he mill labor and a commis-
sion found that an increase in the price
for cane was not justified Many of the
growers who wished to harvest their cane
were intimidated, and in some cases their
houses, as well as their crops, were burnt.
The British Government has appointed
an investigator to inquire into the co.’s
cane-farm leases and cane-purchase
agreements. “We are taking appropriate
action in this matter,” the chairman says.
Still, output of raws from the co.’s five
mills in Fiji will be affected for the com-
ing season, and possibly the following
one.
The co.’s sales of refined sugars and
syrups in Australia and N.Z. again ex-
ceeded half a million tons, so there was
little change in pickings on this account.
The pineapple cannery in Fiji is prac-
tically at a standstill, owing to shortage
of tinplate. Provision has been made
for extended planting when conditions
permit, anjJ bottled juice is being sold
locally.
Owing to shortage of molasses and
raw sugar, the co.’s two distilleries re-
verted to a week, and have dis-
continued making power alcohol for
fuel. Of the four grain alcohol distil-
leries, which the co. will operate as agent
for the Federal Government, the one at
Cowra (N.S.W.) is producing at rated
capacity, another at Warracknabeal
(Vic.) will come into operation shortly,
while delays in delivery of materials and
equipment have held up completion of
the other two —one each in S, Aus. and
Westralia.
The selling agreement with Masonite
Corp. has been terminated, but capacity
of the co.’s own Cane-ite factory was in-
creased by 50 p.c., and demand still runs
ahead of output.
The plaster mill at Concord (N.S.W.)
is flat out on defence orders, and the mill
to treat blue crocidolite asbestos in West-
ralia has had a satisfactory trial run, and
will be in full swing shortly. Also, the
mill in Tas., which turns out chrysotile
asbestos fibre, has been in operation since
the beginning of 1944. And Asbestos
Products, Ltd.—a N.S.W. concern with a
paid capital of £40,000, of which £34,185
is represented by p. and 1. debit —is now
in process of being taken over.
The munition factory, set up early in
1940, ceased production in March, 1944.
It was built and equipped by the co. free
of cost to the Government.
Finances are snug, as they always have
been;
1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £11,700,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 2,152,000 5,370,340 2,674,457
Suspense acounts 2,437,456 2,904,663 2,993,352
Employees’ funds 55,817 49,785 56,540
Refineries, mills,
etc. ~ 10,478,655 11,632,211 11,741,524
Steamers, etc... 271,877 316,607 268,310
Distilleries .. 322,678 467,497 478,536
Premises .. 228,202 230,057 233,476
Stocks . . 4,176,249 7,260,725 3,958,825
Book debts, etc. 415,295 2,399,056 2,310,855
Investments .. 3,252,177 3,412,164 3,539,009
Cash and
deposits .. 3,022,574 1,522,300 2,383,627
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£6,467,967, including
investments) was £198,510. Investments
include an unspecified amount of Govern-
ment securities.
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
r - Dividends >,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 74 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 70,359 Nil Nil 70,359 312,725
1934.. 120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
1935.. 80,009 65,143 Nil 14,866 410,865
Loss on sales shares Southern Blue
Metal, £43,500 367,865
Patents disclosed, £57,651.. .. 309,714
Loss. 5.8 p.c.
1936.. 29,734 58,125 Nil 221,855
Added patents, £974 .. .. 220,881
Profit.
1937.. 145,379 58,125 Nil 87,254 308,135
Added patents, £968 .. .. 307,167
1938.. 213,884 58,125 Nil 155,759 462,926
29 p.c,
1939.. 353,504 290,624 Nil 62,880 525,806
Patents disappear, £59,593 .. 585,399
5.8 p.c.
1940.. 382,417 58,125 Nil 324,292 909,691
74 p.c.
1941.. 35,434 75,000 Nil 870,125
1942.. 87,391 75,000 Nil 12,391 882,516
1943.. 350,345 75,000 Nil 275,345 1,157,861
This is Australia’s second-biggest iron-
and-steel undertaking, in which B.H.P.
bought the ords., and with them control,
in 1935. The pair are the backbone of our
heavy industries, and therefore the core
of armament and munitions production,
which has greatly increased the local steel
appetite. Further, the Government gets
its munition steel at cost-price—a patri-
otic gesture which evoked high praise
from Munitions Minister Makin—and
that price is less than would have to be
paid for steel from any other part of the
world, thanks to efficiency of both staff
and plant. /
The story since B.H.P. took con-
trol is one of rapid expansion and
assault upon costs. After adjoining
freehold was bought from the Gov-
ernment, two handy coalmines (the
Bulli and Mt. Keira) were acquired
and electrified from the co.’s own power-
house, and to provide for bulk handling
of coal extra locomotives and rolling
stock were purchased and railway sidings,
etc., erected. A battery of Wilputte coke
ovens and a by-products plant were in-
stalled, new blast and steel furnaces were
erected, thus increasing the output of pig-
iron and steel ingots, and the heavy and
other steel-processing mills were re-
modelled and extended to keep them in
step with growth in the primary units of
production. And now a hive of associated
industries is clustered round A.I. and S.
plant, and an industrial town has sprung
up where there were only a few scattered
houses a little over a decade ago.
The heavy construction programme,
and other troubles, overshadowed pro-
duction until after the outbreak of war.
Then service demands on shipping
limited the boats available for transport
of iron ore from South Australia, and
deposits of the stuff in N. S. Wales had to
be developed. But the new ore is so much
lower in quality and harder to treat that
its use will be discontinued as soon as
circumstances permit. This and climbing
wage and other costs, including taxation,
materials and wear and tear on plant
worked under emergency conditions, were
largely responsible for the collapse of
profits in 1941 and 1942.
Towards the close of accounts in 1942
lifts in selling prices of 355. pig-iron and
50s. steel were authorised. Also, follow-
ing heavy capital outlay, last year’s pro-
duction and efficiency stepped up, despite
interruption caused by storm damage in
May, 1943. After setting aside an un-
specified amount for taxation and striking
off £820,320 (up £53,760) ior deprecia-
tion, net earnings sprang £262,954,
reaching £356,345. This covered the full
pref. div. and left enough to show 5.8
p.c. on the £4,700,007 of ord. capital.
No div. was paid, the £275,345 that re-
mained being left in the business, lift-
ing reserves to £1,157,861.
The financial position benefited, of
course:
1935. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital .. £3,700,007 £5,700,007 £5,700,007
Sundry creditors* 649,937 3,423,394 2,356,371
Fixed assets .. 3,794,371 7,094,188 6,415,961
Shares in other cos. 391,809 386,498 388,498
Stocks .. .. 269,009 1,132,878 1,271,276
Book debts .. 317,722 1,405,532 959,823
Investments, cash, etc. 16,692 24,321 218,182
* Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
When the books closed more or
less liquids exceeded liabilities (down
£1,067,023) by £479,408, an improvement
of £953,573 qver the twelvemonth. Over
the last five years allowances for depre-
ciation, etc., total £3,379,991, and the
net reduction in the book value of fixed
assets was £1,339,636, of which £678,228
was in respect of last term, suggesting an
easing off in capital expenditure. Last
year’s substantial allowance for deprecia-
tion was partly provision against outlay
for war purposes on plant, etc., whose
value for commercial purposes post-war
is problematical.
Since the close of accounts, forays of
coalminers have slowed down iron-
and-steel production, but the Government
has prohibited the standing down of
labor in protected undertakings without
official sanction. The effects of this
policy upon production costs remain
to be seen. It is easy to conceive circum-
stances in which it might cripple an effi-
cient undertaking.
National Oil Pty., Ltd. (N.S.W.)
Revived in 1936 by gelatine knight
George Davis, but now predominantly
Commonwealth-financed and -controlled.
National Oil, working shale deposits at
Newnes, showed a loss of £263,123 for
1942, including £49,606 for interest and
£59,252 for depreciation. In 1941, the
first full period of trading, the deficiency
was £177,219. The increase followed a
drop in the output of finished petrol
from 1,999,018 to 1,559,823 gallons, with
consequently higher unit costs —in 1941,
3s. 4d. a gallon. Partly responsible was a
fall in extraction of crude oil from 53
to 48i gallons a ton of shale. Labora-
tory tests in the same period gave 91


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castiereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA 6007-8
and at all branches
m
m
m
M
Wherever the wheels of Industry turn
Since 1858 Ludowici Power Trans-
mission Equipment has played an
important part in the industrial de-
velopment of Australia. First with
their famous Pioneer Leather Belting
and, more recently, with a full range
of equipment to meet every need to
ensure maximum efficiency in the
transmission of power. Ludowici
Engineers are available to give you
the benefit of their expert knowledge
and experience on every power
transmission problem.
1
r
heather and Rubber
Bciting, Pulleys,
Bearings, Gears,
Hangers, Couplings,
Shafting, Short Centre
Pivot Drive.
LUDOWICI
POWER TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY • 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
The greatest
POST-WAR PROBLEM
C TRANCE as it may seem, the greatest o£ all problems in raising
our standard of living is how to persuade men to use the
abundant means available to them for raising it. How to make
people seize their opportunities! That is the greatest problem
to-day: it will he the greatest post-war problem.
When the war ends we shall have the means of establishing
a high standard of living: knowledge, labour, mechanical and
electric power —we shall have them in ample measure. What
will be needed to raise it is a decision to co-operate with each
other in making the effort to produce the necessary volume of
goods and services.
That is a sthnultaing thought: it should have a tonic effect
on those who seize on it.
Take the question of financial security. For 95 years it
has been open to any man (or woman) in good health to arrange,
within his means, with the A.M.P. Society for whatever volume
of security he needed. Members of the Society are at present
protected by 1,793,000 policies to the amount of £428,000,000.
There is no reason why the amount should not be doubled
and the number of people benefiting doubled, too.
If you, reader, are in search of Security, come and talk the
matter over with officers of the Society.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman,
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman. -
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq.. W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A W Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
gallons a ton, indicating someth! ng oC
the disappointment commercial opera-
tions have been owing to unsatisfactory
retorts and inadequate water.
At Dec. 31, 1942. the Commonwealth’s
equity was £1,193,231 the financial set-
up then was:
LIABILITIES.
Share capital .. .. £325,000
N.S.W. Government .. . • 166,000
Commonwealth advances .. 043,231
Commonwealth Bank . . . . 250,000
Other liabilities.. .. •• 153,5<0
£1,837,801
ASSETS.
Freehold .. .. •• £12,938
Buildings . . • • ■ ■ 69,509
Plant 879,190
Stocks, etc. .. .. • • 122,907
Stores . . . . . • ■ • 56,899
Development* .. • • • • 601,018
Other assets .. . ■ • • 35,340
£1,837,801
* Including trading losses.
In the hope of boosting output to
approximately 10,000,000 gallons of re-
fined petrol p.a., the Commonwealth last
year agreed to increase its stake in
National Oil to £2\ millions and provide
a further quarter-million towards the Fish
River water scheme. Then, following the
visit of the American Oil Mission, the
Federal Parliamentary Committee on
Public Works recommended provision of
finance to lift production of finished
petrol to 22\ million gallons p.a. It re-
mains to be seen, however, if 10,000,000
gallons annually can be produced during
the present war period, or whether the
project, will ever be economically worth-
while. While mechanisation may benefit
mining costs, the main problem of car-
bonisation has still to be overcome.
Great Boulder
After being on the outer since June,
1940—c0. went into liquidation in an un-
successful endeavor to change its domi-
cile to Australia holders of the
2s. shares received a 3d. div. in Feb-
ruary last from 1943 profits. Now
a distribution of similar amount is an-
nounced for 1944. Both distributions
are payable in sterling, and incur British
tax of nearly 10s. in the £. Production
for the past four terms has been:
Year ended Treated, Gold Yield, Average
December, Tons. Fine Oz. Per Ton.
1940 . . . . 417,298 97,141 4.66 dwt.
1941 . . . . 392,779 93,216 4.75 „
1942 . . . . 328,277 81,057 4.94 „
1943 283,201 63,802 4.47 „
Financial results, however, were shrouded
in mist till the release recently of the fol-
lowing details for the period of liquida-
tion, viz., Sept. 24, 1940, to June 30,
1943:
Revenue—
Bullion realisation .. £1,822,951
Proceeds residues .. 65,608
Gold tax refund ~ 16,497
Sundry revenue,. .. 4,521
£1,909,577
Expenses—•
Mining ~ .. £1,021,877
Treatment .. .. 447,597
Depreciation .. .. 135,847
General charges.. .. 51,517
Administration, etc. .. 24,005
1,680,343
£229,234
Appropriations—
Australian tax .. £12,037
Reserve British tax . . 112,500
W/o development .. 21,558
W/o leases .. .. 20,000
166,095
Available surplus .. .. £63,139
At June 30, 1943, more or less liquids,
including stores, had a book value of
£170,611; liabilities were £56,992, exclu-
sive of £54,000 reserved for “future”
taxation. Ore reserves are around ly
million tons, averaging With an
average payroll of 578 in 1943, the mine
was better off for man-power than Lake
View (404).
Belated accounts of Paringa (W.A.) for
year ended August, 1943, show profit on
working account at £26,277. With £31,952
brought forward, that made £58,229 avail-
able, of which £34,207 is chipped off for
mine development redemption, deprecia-
tion, directors’ additional remuneration.
taxation, etc., and £14,448 (15 p.c.) for
interim and final div. The balance was
carried forward. Shortage of miners cur-
tailed development, the footage being
1667 as against 3900 for 1942. So far
as opened up, the new ore-pipe discovered
on the 520 ft. level is estimated to contain
f A 234,000 worth of gold ; and by the
time the 800 ft. level is reached a lot more
wealth is expected to be exposed. High-
grade ore has already been met with in
development work on the 800 ft. level.
Ore reserves are estimated at 255,812 long
tons, averaging 6.54dwt., compared with
262,024 tons, averaging 6.31dwt., a year
earlier. Management claims that boring
from the surface on the Maritana gold
areas, a mile or so north of the Paringa
holding and near the eastern end of Kal-
goorlie townsite, has located payable
values at vertical depths of from 800 ft.
to 1000 ft. Maritana was one of the first
and best boomed shows on the field, but
its surface deposit faded out. The
co. controls upwards of two miles of
selected areas along the strike of proved
ore channels, and steady progress has
been made in exploration of the north
end of the Kalgoorlie gold belt. The
board’s long-sighted policy promises to
advance the co.’s position among Kal-
goorlie gold-producers post-war,
*
After a year’s silence, New Golconda
(W.A.) will hold a meeting of share-
holders in Perth on June 27 next. At the
last meeting it was recommended that
£920- obtained from sale of machinery,
etc., on the Iron Duke, Coolgardie, and
other moneys be distributed. After
further consideration a majority of direc-
tors decided that, in view of the fractional
return, it would be better to retain what
was in hand for the time being and keep
the office open at a cost, including secre-
tarial work, of £3O a year. Some share-
holders think that the co. should hang
on to cash in hand in the hope of getting
hold of some worth-while venture.
* * * *
Westralia’s Under-Secretary for Mines,
A. H. Telfer, estimates value of the State’s
mineral output for 1943, with gold pre-
mium added, at £6,385,541, a decrease of
£3,119,635 compared with the 1942
figure. Gold accounted for £5,710,668,
or 89.43 p.c. of the total; coal, £489,721 ;
antimony, £41,676; arsenic, £47,943;
pyrites, £19,078 ; beryl, £16,000 ; silver,
£15,735; asbestos, £12,975; feldspar,
£6924; tantalite, £6338. Divs. paid for
year by mining cos., mostly gold,
amounted to £597,546, down £173,834,
making the total amount distributed in
dividends £40,437,449 since official records
began. Over the same period value
of mineral production was £228,084,433,
of which gold accounted for £209,340,969,
based on old statutory price. Pre-
miums during 1920-24, and since
1930, and payments under Gold Bounty
Act of 1930 increased the total value
of gold and mineral production by
£57,206,615. State batteries—there are
23 with three leased —treated 19,074 tons
during 1943 for a yield of 18,5910 z. of
gold, worth (with premium added)
£180,769. Working expenditure exceeded
receipts by £8259. From inception to the
end of 1943 these plants extracted from
gold and tin ores nearly £12,500,000
worth of metal, including gold premium
estimated at £2,979,337. To date capital
expenditure on them is £542,066, and
working expenditure exceeds revenue by
£82,657. Westralian payments in Federal
gold tax from the time it came into force
in 1939 until the end of 1943 were
£2,808,113.
* * * *
Westralian gold industry lost a good
London supporter in Douglas Christopher-
son, who died at 75 last March. Brother
of Stanley Christopherson, chairman of
the Midland Bank and president of the
M.C.C., he was, until retirement a few
months back, chairman of the Lake View
and a director of Gold Fields Australian
Development, Wiluna’s next-door neigh-
bor, His career lay principally with Con-
solidated Gold Fields of South Africa—
a big holder in Lake View and Gold
Fields Australian—of which he was a
managing director for many years.
The following table, compiled by
Union Corporation, Ltd., the big South
African finance and development con-
cern, illustrates the effect of war condi-
tions and controls upon gold output of
the world’s chief producing countries,
except U.S.S.R.:
1940. 1942. 1943.
,000 oz. ,000 oz. ,000 oz.
fine. fine. fine.
South Africa .. .. 14,047 14,121 12,800
Canada , . . . 5,311 4,841 3,650
United States 4,863 3,619 1,350
Australia . . • • 1,644 1464 <5O
Sthn. Rhodesia . . 826 760 660
Columbia .. 632 597 .>7O
New Zealand .. . ■ 186 180 150
Compared with 1942 last year’s output
showed a reduction of 63 p.c. U.S.A.
(lowest outturn since 1848), 36 p.c. Aus-
tralia. 25 p.c. Canada, 13 p.c. Southern
Rhodgsia, 9 p.c. South Africa, Shortage
of skilled labor and supplies and the
requisitioning of some items of equip-
ment were chief troubles. These and the
steady rise in costs have resulted in many
mines closing down—for the duration, at
any rate. Also, in most cases, developed
reserves and broken ore have been un-
duly drawn upon. Speaking generally,
this is an unwise practice because of its
possible effect upon future average value
of ore throughout the mine.


mh
T
JLapering
PRODUCTION
COSTS
The aerial mast illustrated features
a tapered streamline section tube of shape and
form essential for aircraft requirements. The
ease and speed with which B.T.M. craftsmen taper
these intricate shapes from Cold-
Drawn Precision Steel Tubes augurs
well for the quality and low cost
of products of post-war Australian
enterprise.
it. a mc.
884
I • H S
mm
in
H
I
:&?■
1
■M
THE DE HAVILLAND
WORLD FORMATION
Great Britain, Canada, Australia,
New Zealand, India, South Africa
de Havilland' Aircraft,
Engines and Propellers'
Components Accessories
Light Alloy Engineering
Flying Training and
Technical Education
DE HAVILLAND
D.H.13
INVEST IN WAR bONDS
“What! ...
Steel Brains?’
exclaims Doug. Yarrow
Precision Lathe
Operator
■m m
“These modern precision machines can certainly perform
miracles —but they can’t think —they need the backing
of craftsmanship. It’s just nonsense to say that the day
of the craftsman is over. The opinion we hold in Richards
is that the better the machines the more scope there is
for individual skill, and it’s by giving good workmen good
machines that the highest engineering standards are
reached. When the need for munitions is ail over and
priorities are a thing of the past we’ll
be ready to tackle anything and every-
thing needed to make up the leeway
in body-building and general peace-
time engineering.”
R34
RICHARDS INDUSTRIES
R. & MCiHHHBMMBHHBIMnHB
LIMITED
w
7
A G
COOKERS
On Service
A us trail a
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
has enlisted in fivs vital services. AGA Cookers have
been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air Force for
service in unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and to the Ministry of Munitions. So it delivery of
your AGA Cooker should be delayed, please bear in mind
the urgent needs of the fighting forces and essential
services, which naturaflv receive war-time priority.
Wherever AGA Cookers are installed, whether for military
or civilian use. the proven AGA advantages are enjoyed
.. . almost unbelievable economy in fuel, continuous service
day or night, conservation
of food values and ease of
operation. Call tor demon-
stration or write for AGA
Catalogue R 6.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
tst. 1852 (In c in N.Z.)
45 Kinq Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
5.A. Agents: Cotton Palmer & Preston
Ltd.. Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents; A. S. Webster &
Sons. Hobart.
W.A, Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd..
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
Although the Department of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AG A
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.


Sfameitd cloyedeßujile ffhm
THE SERVICE MAN
On Nippon's Doorstep.
“Ek Dum”: First stories of the bomb-
ing of Japan, published by the Syd-
ney evening press under headings five
inches deep, could be interpreted to mean
that Nippon had been blown off the map.
Then it seemed that the island of Kyushu,
which contains 6000 ft. peaks, Nagasaki,
Sasebo (Japan’s greatest battleship base),
Moji and the great coal and iron centres
of Fukuoka and Yawata, had gone for
good, leaving the railway tunnel under
the strait to the mainland at Shimonoseki,
opened early in the war —as long as from
Circular Quay to Manly—full of sea.
The U.S. War Department’s commu-
nique was sobering:
A sizable task force of Super-Fortresses
bombed industrial targets at Yawata. Pre-
liminary reports reveal that, although enemy
aircraft were encountered and flak was
moderate to intense, none of our ’planes
was lost as the result of enemy action.
Pilots report that bombing was accurate
and large fires and explosions were
observed. Our ’planes operated from
bases in China which were completed
recently. Two B29’s (Super-Fs.) were lost
as a result of accidents, but the crew of
one is safe.
A Twentieth Air Force communique
later admitted that four B29’s failed to
return —one shot down by a.a. fire, two
lost accidentally and one missing.
The Japanese asserted that the raid
was confined to the Moji-Shimonoseki
area athwart the strait, and that more
than 20 Super-Fortresses and Liberators
took part; also that seven machines, in-
cluding two B29’s, were shot down. They
scoffed at the idea of industrial damage,
but produced the usual mangled schools
and hospitals.
The Super-Fortresses
Berlin has declared that the 829 was
used against European targets a few days
ago. As described in these columns (B.
9/3/’44), it is larger than the existing
Fortress, with a 141 ft. wingspan. It
bristles with guns set in remotely con-
trolled power turrets. It is heavily
armored and fitted for bombing at limit
ceilings of above 30,000 ft., and it can lift
10 tons of bombs for a short distance,
eight tons for 500 miles and three tons
for 1500 miles. Indeed, it is the first U.S.
machine which can carry the British six-
ton bomb, previously movable only by
British machines. The 829 is powered
by four 2200-h.p, engines.
There is a strong contrast between Eng-
lish and American machines. Lancasters
and Short Stirlings can lift eight tons of
bombs for medium distances. They are
flying bomb-delivery waggons, night-oper-
ated at comparatively low levels, lightly
armored by American standards because
darkness is their shield. And they con-
centrate on the job of bombing.
Fortresses are what their name implies
—they operate by daylight at high levels,
and their bomb-load has to a large extent
to be sacrificed to gun-power and armor.
As a bomber, a 829 aimed from Chung-
king at the nearest tip of Japan (1500
miles) is not as devastating as a Lan-
caster operating to the Rhine, and
little more lethal than a Mosquito aimed
at Berlin from Britain—Mosquitoes are
now carrying 40001 b. bombs.
One of the scribes (11) who flew with
the expedition, returned with the impres-
sion that one-fifth of Japan’s steel indus-
try may have been wrecked. It would
be unwise to bank on this as cold truth.
Essen alone has had thousands of times
as much explosive as was pelted in the
dark at Yawata, and Essen is still operat-
ing. All fuel and bombs, etc., for the
long journeys to Japan from Western
China have to be flown in over the sea
and North Burma, and it needs hundreds
of the largest machines to carry one
tanker load of petrol.
Until the Allies have a port on the
North China or Siberian coast, and
large-scale aerodromes beside it, attacks
on Japan, even with an abundance of the
largest bombers available, can only be
large-scale nuisance raids. But such
attacks should be a cat of another color
against nearer objectives round Burma
and Malaya, which should now be intro-
duced to the six-ton bomb on some scale.
From Vladivostok large fleets of B29’s
could wreak huge havoc in Jap bases.
Much More Important
In the excitement of the press absorp-
tion with the Yawata raid, the vastly
more important landing on Saipan, the
administrative centre of the Marianas (or
Mariannes), by Admiral Nimitz’s squad-
rons took a back seat.
The strategical advances of the Pacific
along lines here forecast two years ago,
and since several times described, are
shaping themselves with remarkable
speed.
Six months ago the nearest base to the
Philippines and Formosa was Darwin.
Three months ago a huge base was being
established at Kwajalein, in the Marshalls,
and the great bases along the Japanese
peace-time air routes from Jaluit —
Ponape, Truk, Yap and Palau—and
Sorong, the last main air base-ill New
Guinea, were being pasted to bits. They
are still being pasted.
Now the American naval forces have
advanced along their own Clipper route,
cutting off Guam, their former base, from
Japan, isolating Wake, another former
U.S. base, and all the south-east Japanese
islands, and bringing Formosa and the
China coast as close as Manila by sea.
Formosa and Bonin, 600-odd miles
from Japan, are worth watching. If
these could be taken, Saipan, Guam
and Wake occupied, and the East Asian
Command’s tentacles pushed to northern
Sumatra and the Andamans, the whole
of Japan’s “South-east Asia Co-prosperity
Sphere” would be closely surrounded.
Help for China would be in the offing,
and the beginning of the reconquest of
the D.E.I. would be merely a matter of
the time it takes to lay down large ap-
proach bases and start to operate them.
It is no wonder the Japanese are fighting
fiercely for interior rail communications
in China.
Saipan and Guam
These are not atolls. They are substan-
tial islands, highly developed with room
for considerable air bases. Saipan is 18
miles long by nine miles broad, with pros-
perous agriculture and good soil. It has
a fine harbor in Tanapac, on the west.
Tinian, 2i miles to the south, a beautiful
island with large herds of wild cattle, is
about 20 square miles, and Guam has
an area of 225 square miles, 2\ times
the size of Malta. Many of its natives
are in the U.S. Navy in Australian waters,
some holding rank.
The Japanese have a strong garrison
on Saipan, probably two divisions, backed
by armor. But, with the powerful naval
force behind the invasion, the result seems
to be a foregone conclusion. Already at
the week-end the U.S. forces had a beach-
head 5} miles wide and three miles deep
and a good airfield, though the enemy
was resisting very fiercely, as he still was
in the much smaller operations in which
he is being pushed inch by inch from
Biak Island, off Dutch New Guinea.* A
fierce counter-attack on June 18 on Saipan
cost the enemy 25 tanks and many troops.
Into Asia
Meanwhile, as Truk and Yap and other
Caroline centres were bombed from the
south and east,- a task force of Admiral
Nimitz carried the war to Bonin, within
600 miles of the Japanese coast, where
it sank two enemy ships, damaged 10
others and shot down 47 Japanese air-
craft, beside pumping large quantities of
h.e. into airfields, barracks and fuel-
storage areas.
Bonin has been a strictly closed area
since the last war —the writer tried hard
to get there 21 years ago without success.
It is part of Japan proper, and not of the
South Seas Mandate, so that the attack
is the first heavy assault on Asia from
the Pacific side.
It is a stupendous fact that Admiral
Nimitz’s great fleets have in the last six
months put Japan on the defensive not
only in the enemy’s “conquered” areas
in the South Seas, but right up to a point
within comfortable aircraft-carrier strik-
ing distance of Tokyo.
Bonin is two-thirds of the way inside
the “home waters” of Japanese battle-
ships. Those attacking it are within
range of attack by heavy Japanese land-
based bombers.
And with every month Allied naval
strength grows, and the Pacific war be-
comes more and more a naval war, to
which both land and air will be auxiliary
right up to the final stages.
At the week-end it was announced that
Admiral Halsey, U.S.N., to whom Aus-
tralia owes an all-too-little-acknowledged
debt, had been appointed to the com-
mand of the Third Allied Pacific Fleet.
This is symptomatic of the great de-
velopment which is continually going on,
both in bases and in available ships and
transport
Raging to a Climax.
“Ek Dum”: The battle for a foothold
and a port in Normandy continued
and grew in fury as the Germans
brought up more of their forces from
the centre of France to toughen their
perimeter and provide battering-rams to
hammer at the beachhead, already burst-
ing with men and arms. They fought like
demons for their communications to and
from Cherbourg.
It is a pity that news could not be con-
fined for a time to the sober official com-
muniques. Correspondents’ accounts
which are cabled by the ream, strategi-
cal conjecture mixed up with tales of
lady snipers dead in pools of blood, are
salted with too much assurance and
optimism. It is not true that the Atlantic
Wall defences have been contemptuously
battered open with a few Allied blows.
It was not true at the week-end that the
advantages in material and strength had
turned decisively to the side of the Allies.
It is true, as reported, that in many
cases forces pushing their way up the
little river valleys have reached as far
as 25 miles inland. But there the
grimmest resistance has begun.
The enemy is driving from parts where
the roads are wide apart and where his
forces are therefore widely separated.
He is advancing to parts where the roads
are close together as they converge to
Caen or some other key town. This
coming together of highways enables him
to achieve concentration of artillery and
tank effort. And, having advanced, the
British, American and Canadian troops
who are not in the Cotentin Peninsula,
fighting for the road and railway to Cher-
bourg, have carried themselves to the
limit of cover by naval fire and are prob-
ably temporarily at a disadvantage in
artillery, which is a very bad thing to be.
Tales that 400,000 to 500,000 Allied
troops had been established on the Nor-
mandy beachhead last week are incred-
ible. It would be impossible to handle
such a force in such a space. It repre-
sents more than 33 full infantry divisions
and considerably more divisions if there
were many air-borne and tank divisions
and artillery corps. Thirty infantry divi-
sions going ashore need 5,370,000 pack-
ing cases of supplies and 2,000,000 per-
manent tons of ships. Provision of
drinking water and all the normal ameni-
ties alone forms a vast task for such a
of men.
Up to June 15 the arrangements and
spearhead personnel position were some-
what as follows: The Allied beachhead
extended from the Dives River, seven
miles east of the Caen Canal, right round
to the Cotentin Peninsula to Quineville,
about eight miles from Valognes, the
main road and rail junction and the key
to the communications of the northern
part of the peninsula.
The early landings at the Caen end
had been made by the 6th British air-
borne division. And the Canadians,
forceful and enterprising as ever, were
ashore with their armor at Courseulles,
with its sand and pebbled beaches and
small harbor.
The Dunkirk “Remains”
But the first ashore (apart from
markers) were men of General Mont-
gomery’s old Third Division of Flanders,
with its co-remainder of General Alex-
ander’s “last 20,000” to leave the soil of
France in the 1940 retreat, the North-
umbrians, the last division mentioned in
General Gort’s Dunkirk dispatches, who
came cheek by jowl with the first
Americans.
The Northumbrians had fought their
way further than any other formation in
history. They had come back to Dun-
kirk from the Lille reserve area in 1940,
guarding the B.E.F.’s much endangered
flank all the way. They had fought
their way out through Ypres. They had
been trapped at Gazala by Rommel and
had broken through; they had been
trapped again at Mersa Matruh and had
broken out in a wild dawn foray which
shattered the steel ring round them.
They had turned round and helped to
chase Rommel right across Africa to
Tunis and right up the Sicilian coast
the Durham L.l.’s fight at the bridge
before Catania was the turning-point in
the Eighth Army campaign—into Italy
and then some.
The remainder of the invasion pioneers
who landed round the angle at the
western end of the Bay of the Seine were
the 29th U.S. Infantry Division and the
101st U.S. and 82nd U.S. air-borne divi-
sions. With these came strong British
armored and artillery forces.
There were three points of main
attack:
(1) That in the bloody fighting in the
Cotentin Peninsula, below Valognes, for
control of the road and rail from Cher-
bourg; (2) that for the approaches of the
peninsula formed by the triangle of road
Carentan - St. Lo-Coutances - Carentan; (3)
that for Caen, which was assaulted after
Bayeux fell to the British and Canadians.
Before attack by a British force the old
city had been turned into another Cassino
by the bombers.
Caen’s Value
To gain Caen was most important.
The old city has three railway stations,
a canal harbor, and, beyond it, six con-
verging roads, all of which help to give
great mobility to the German defenders.
A powerful British tank force succeeded
in outflanking Caen about the middle of
the week and cutting the direct road to
Honfleur at Troajrn, seven miles west of
the town, while another British-Canadian
force cut an important lateral road lead-
ing towards the peninsula at Tilly, about
halfway to Bayeux. The captors of Tilly
seem to have come from the Canadian
landing place at Courselles, and the move
was in itself the result of a sort of con-
verging movement.
These two drives apparently were
aimed at closing the jaws of a pincer
round Caen. But the roads come in to
Caen in the shape of a wedge. That
wedge was soon packed with four Ger-
man armored divisions, some equipped
with the heaviest tanks the German Army
possesses. By June 13 the Germans had
here engaged the 21st .Panzer Division
—very good—and the 12th S.S. —not so
good; it is a hodge-podge built up on
the ruins of a division broken up by being
turned into reinforcements for other for-
mations. And there were another armored
division and an infantry division. Before
the week-end the four armored divisions
had arrived. They don’t seem much if
you mention them quickly, but actually
they constitute a whale of a force, with
going on for 1000 tanks and guns, from
long 75’s to 88’s, and with a good back-
ing of mortars, heavy m.-gs. and mixed
arms, and screen of mobile
heavy artillery behind: as substantial a
group as has been concentrated to defend
such an objective anywheredn the present
war. It represents a sixth of the whole
force of armor used against Russia on a
2000-mile line in 1941.
The Peninsula Defences
The rest of the line on the German
side was held originally by two high-
numbered divisions, 716th and 709th,
below Valognes in the peninsula, with the
352nd defending Carentan. To these an-
other armored division presently was
added. The two high-numbered divisions
were probably little better than labor
corps. It was from their ranks that the
captured Russians, Poles, Czechs and
other non-Germans came. They are
blood brothers of the curious 924th
Division captured in Tunisia. The 352nd
is an experienced division which did a
good deal of fighting in the early days
of the Russian war. It was allotted the
worst of the infantry tasks in the Caren-
tan area.
Taking Carentan
To its aid the Panzers hurried up in
force, and advance was made harder for
the Allies by flooding the low flats round
Carentan, a small, busy town that looks
as if it had grown like a tree rather than
been built, with its arcaded houses and
openwork steeple. It stands on a little
bit of high ground among the low dairy-
ing flats at the junction of the Douve
and the Taute.
The Americans were compelled to let
the water on the flooded Douve sub-
side before they attacked Carentan. When
they established themselves there they
had cut the main railway and road from
Cherbourg to Caen, but not the system
of lesser roads and narrow-gauge rail-
ways which runs down the western side
of the peninsula through Lessay to Cou-
tances and then on about 17 miles to a
rugged, rocky, ramparted fishing-fleet
port, Granville. From Granville a broad


FOOD for Thought
m
v ;
im
-
When you are “burning the midnight oil”, and you
feel your “energy is flagging, pause for a cup of
Bournville Cocoa. You will go back to the job
refreshed. The reason is that Bournville Cocoa is
a food in drink form. A cup of Bournville is a
a supper in itself. Because of its food value, Bourn-
ville Cocoa is in great demand by the Army, Air
Force and Navy, but you can still occasionally obtain
it from your grocer. Ask for Bournville the
Cocoa with that real chocolaty flavour.
CAosam's
BOURNVILLE
COCOA
Made by the makers of Dairy Milk Chocolate and Energy Chocolate
8CP3.15
is wholly engaged in the
manufacture of Wireless and other equip-
ment for the Navy, Army, Air Force and the
Merchant Navy.
When Victory is ours, the Fisk Radiola will
again be available throughout Australia . . .
Until then, your local Radiola Distributor
will gladly service your present Radiola.
THE FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Austra I ia's National Wireless Organisation
PUT YOUR SAVINGS ON SERVICE—BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
main highway and a first-class railway
run almost straight east, via Vire, Piers,
Argentan, Laigle and Dreux, to St. Cyr
and Paris, Granville to Paris is about
180 miles.
The Americans meanwhile struck
about 25 miles south of Carentan, east
of St. Lo, the birthplace of Feuillet, who
gave literature the word feuilleton. From
St. Lo, Coutances, the third of the gate-
way cities of the south of the peninsula,
can be seen.
The three towers of the Coutances
cathedral form a landmark which seems
to crop up at every turn of the road there-
abouts. It is joined to Cherbourg, away
to the north, by a good road and a handy
light railway to the main line which tra-
verses the western core of the peninsula
via Lessay, on the edge of a broad “lande”
or open heath.
All this part of the country the enemy
held on to with both hands, as he held
on to the final main objective, the stretch
of main road between Carentan and
Valognes, where villages changed hands
every few hours and the mild rivulets
with poppied margins ran blood. But up
to June 14 there was little advantage
either way. Each side was gathering
strength.
Gradually the fight along the beach-
head in the frontal region of St. Lo-Tilly
was buried in smoke. In the murk tanks
came and went. And peasants continued
to tiff their soil and milk their cows.
Two things were clear. So long as
the invaders were on the rich, swampy
lowland of the coast the Germans fought
only delaying actions. As soon as they
reached higher ground and the gorges,
valleys and forest belts midway up the
little rivers which run into the Bay of the
Seine, there attackers found Germans
well armed, determined and able not only
to hit back but to take the initiative to
some extent. Every day there were more
of them, more of their guns and tanks.
Tank Battles Open
The Luftwaffe, though it was there and
active with two new fighters —ME2O9
and FW390 —was not nearly so strong
as might have been expected. But it
was cloudy weather, though growing
finer, and not oversuitable for defensive
air actions against superior forces.
So it continued to be left to the tanks.
It was, since Libya, about the first great
tank battle that had developed. It was
the first country which had been fought
over which was highly suitable for tank
warfare. The French roads, with their
long reaches of switchback and easy
curves, are ideal tank highways, espe-
cially as the hedgerows and the hollows,
the barns and bits of wood and spinney
and dell provide plenty of shelters where
a monster may lie low with an 88mm.
long barrel trained on a cross road or
on some stretch from which there is no
escape for the unwary except into a ditch.
There is also a maze of country lanes
to sneak down, not unlike the winding
lanes of England’s more populated
counties. In these British armor was
very much at home.
The enemy found British tanks in'
force between St. Lo and Caen, sidling
down between the Odon and the Seulles
rivers to join the Americans, who were
pushing inland via Torigny, on a jaunt
towards the Granville-Paris road.
By a stern use of Tiger tanks the Ger-
mans succeeded in stemming this daring
move, which had carried the British
spearhead 20 miles from the coast as the
crow flies. The enemy overlooked the
village of Villers-Bocage from a half-
quadrangle of higher ground. So the
Tommies moved out across country by
a convenient lane to Caumont, eight
miles north-west on the road from
Torigny. And when the Tigers and
mobile guns caught up with them there
was some pretty slambanging, of which
the Germans had the worse, for a time.
The British went back to Villers-Bocage.
The Germans drove them out. It hap-
pened three or four times.
But June 15 ushered in a new phase
of the fighting. Now the weight of Ger-
man armor began to be really felt.
Thus the pincer move against Caen
was abandoned with the reoccupation by
the enemy of Troarn, on the Honfleur
road, and Tilly-sur-Seulles, on the west
of Caen, along the main roads from
Bocage to Bayeux and Caen.
The British and Americans were oper-
ating now from the north-west, through
the forest of Cerisy on the main road
from Lisigny and the coast at Grandcamp,
by the Vire River mouth. They were
stiff driving for the rear of St. Lo and
Coutances. The Germans claimed on
June 15 to have smashed a massed Ameri-
can attempt to break through here.
In Cotentin Peninsula
There had been gains which brought
the Americans in the peninsula itself
close to high ground, but “violent
enemy reaction” was expected by the
Allied High Command, and it certainly
came. Villages changed hands again and
again. The Americans lost Montebourg,
retook it, lost it again and occupied it
once more, after scoring up the coast a
mile or so to Quineville, within field-gun
fire of Valognes junction.
The Allied Command reported that
day that on all parts of the front Allied
forces continued to carry the fight to the
enemy; that heavy enemy armored
attacks persisted in the Caen and Tilly-
sur-Seulles areas, but that the develop-
ment of the beaches was making good
progress and the unloading of troops
and stores was steadily increasing.
At the week-end all the German
counter-attacks had been frustrated and
the Allied Command reported: “Our
striking power is growing steadily.”
On June 18 it was announced that
elements of General Bradley’s Ninth
Division had broken across the neck of
the peninsula from Vierville, on a front
whose depth was from St. Saveur to just
north of La Haye. They reached the sea
west of the peninsula on the shores of
the Passage de la Deroute in the dunes
round Carteret and Barneville (a name
familiar to readers of Thackeray). Car-
teret is on a little enclosed h'arbor at the
junction of three roads —one to Cher-
bourg, 23 miles; one to Valognes, 22
miles; and one which forks in the south
about 20 miles out to Carentan and Cou-
tances. By this penetration, if it can be
maintained, Cherbourg is cut off, and its
guardian junction of Valognes squeezed
on both flanks from Quineville and Car-
taret.
A fine achievement; but the chances are
that the Germans knew that Cherbourg
was bound to fall or be besieged so soon
as the Allies had sufficient artillery and
tanks ashore to use them lavishly, and
that most of their troops are out except
for a last-stand detachment of desperate
units covering destructive measures.
These and the demolition gangs may
number some thousands —perhaps even
two or three full divisions; perhaps not.
The Germans will try to get them out
by sea or by breaking through to them,
but Allied artillery and tanks now seem
to be in the ascendant in the peninsula,
and they are the crucial factors. Still
reduction might be a long business. Cher-
bourg ist important enough to fight for.
Another drive had begun south of
Carentan, aimed along the main road at
Coutances itself. If this succeeds the
door to Cherbourg will be locked and
bolted.
The Navy’s Part
Naval co-operation continued to play
a tremendous part in the operation.
Throughout the week Nelson, with her
16in. guns, led the heaviest sea batteries
ever concentrated against land objectives.
The naval guns of this war, compared
with those of the last war, have much in-
creased range and lasting-power, and
their integrator systems for rangefinding
and gunlaying can direct a shell on to a
pinpoint. With the much longer life
of barrels, which in large warship guns
were badly worn after 90 rounds in the
last war, naval batteries have brought
a powerful new factor into landing opera-
tions.
A couple of ships like Rodney and
Ramillies can deliver main broadsides of
34,0001 b. weight with nearly 100,000 foot-
tons of muzzle energy behind each 1900-
2001 b. shell. Their secondary broadsides
together are equal to those of four eight-
gun cruisers. Batteries attacked by these
ladies melt into rubble and tanks dis-
appear into dust.
E-boats were ,a nuisance at nights ;
but Lancasters on June 14, the first bright
sunny, morning on which there was an
all-blue sky, went over the base at Le
Havre, and the whole coast was washed
by the tidal wave which their six-ton
bombs raised.
That night no E-boats were abroad.
Admiral Ramsay’s Summary
It was informative and graphic:
The Channel will soon be completely
ours, as it jolly well should be. I think
before long we shall be able to get down
to the ordinary transport operation of
ferrying men and supplies. It will be a
purely routine job, as in the last war....
The Germans are bringing up boats, but
we are taking a steady toll of them
The weather has not been the kindest to
us, and Providence has not been kind at
all We had a good spell for a fortnight,
and then for the first two days of the in-
vasion the weather broke just when we
wanted if calm. Hundreds of small enemy
craft were scattered over the sea and had
to be rounded up. Despite the weather
everything is going well.
Naval bombardment was supplemented
in the first week with 42,000 tons of
bombs and mountains of lead and nickel
from aerial gun and cannon, spread all
over the invasion area and its inland
communications. But it becomes more
and more clear that the air is accessory
to, not decisive in, major land battles
where rearward lines of approach sprawl
over tens of thousands of square miles.
Losses
The first official account of arm>
losses —American only—covered up to
midnight on June 16. Americans had
3283 killed and 12,600 wounded.
A week’s air losses: 139 heavy bombers,
415 medium and fighter-bombers, fighters,
troop-carriers and tow ’planes, excluding


No Man is
Entitled to Gamble
With His Family’s Security
Yet how many otherwise provident
men are doing this very thing T
They would not dream of exposing
their business assets to needless
hazards, yet they jeopardise the
stable future to which their depen-
dants are entitled.
It is a gamble with life to neglect
to make a will.
It is a gamble with fortune to choose
an unsuitable executor one who,
however well disposed, lacks know-
ledge, lacks health, or is too fully
occupied in other ways to be free to
give the requisite time to the affairs
of others.
The really provident man, having
made his will wisely, chooses a
trustee who will always be attentive
and who is experienced and com-
pletely reliable one whose daily
duty it is to make himself familiar
with all legal requirements, and with
the prudent investment of trust
funds.
Such an executor is the Union
Trustee Company, which provides
the pooled wisdom of experienced
administrators in all branches of
trusteeship, with a prestige proved
over two generations.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
2 0 CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
The only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of Directors
and Management in three States—New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland,
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE :
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.1.c.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J, G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager :L. K, Stephens
Bettesi
BRIGHTER BEDROOMS
a
is
af
INSULATION WITH
CANE-ITE
INSULATING BOARD
Walls and ceilings lined with Cane-ite
Insulating Board can be finished in any
shade you desire. They can be left in their
natural or ivory finish. However you treat
it Cane-ite gives you an attractive room • • •
and a room which is properly insulated
against heat and outside noises. For your
post-war home, specify Cane-ite Insulating
Board, for every room in the house.
SSSk
C A N E-I T E
%s '
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. {Building Materials Division)
MARKETING: CANE-ITE • C.S.R. SLAGWOOL
PLASTER PRODUCTS • ASBESTOS FIBRE
CASS-44
gliders. Losses were less than one per
cent, of sorties flown, the enemy’s being
reckoned at 10 per cent.; but these
figures have to be read cautiously in the
light of the immensely greater number of
Allied machines in use and the nature or
their missions. In effect, “we destroyed
396 aircraft for a loss of 554,” exclusive
of gliders.
Up to June 18 19,000 German and
other Axis prisoners had been taken,
8500 by the Americans. And prisoners
are always the best test of success in such
an operation.
Visitors
The King, Mr. Churchill and General
Smuts had visited the beachhead. The
King spent a day there and deco-
rated men for gallantry. And General
de Gaulle had come ashore and some-
body had crowned him with flowers —a
picturesque scene with a back-drop of
fields, in which lurked young French
women, married to Germans, who shot
down anything from five to 50 Allied
troops, according to the taste of corre-
spondents, before they expired in ponds
or gore.
No Easy Optimism
The preliminary stages were over.
The Supreme Command reported that
Rommel was moving up forces for a
major battle. There was no easy opti-
mism about this with General Mont-
gomery and his command.
Rommel has the advantage in terrain,
an amphitheatre of high ground with
high levels stretching out into the coastal
plain, all round the battlefield. Both
sides of his arc are well served by road
and railway. He has indeed networks
of roads and railways, so interwoven
that it is difficult to put them out of
action by bombing and strafing. They
can be used on a large scale by night.
And Rommel is only 120-150 miles from
great central armament areas round
Paris and along the Seine. The country
to the rearward of the German front is
no doubt well covered from every cross
road with hedgehogs and pillbox barriers
behind which defeated or mauled units
can retire. Rommel does not have to
look anxiously at the sky against the
chance of a Channel roaring in the north-
wester. The roads are good and the rail-
ways also are good, and bad weather
makes the task of the Allied air forces
the harder.
Lastly, in the cramped space of 700 or
so miles there is a very restricted limit on
the number of Allied troops that can be
deployed and on the versatility of their
movement. But the Germans can move
with a freedom which our generals can
envy. The Allies will be much better
served when they have Cherbourg.
Their leaders are likely to call the
tune unless Rommel beats them at
the game of bringing up reserves and
achieves overwhelming strength. They
have, at present, tjie initiative, and are
making good use of it.
Torpedoes from the Air.
“Ek Dum”: The long-discussed pilot-
less enemy aircraft, which seem to be
winged torpedoes, propelled either by jet
or by rocket and gyroscopically steered,
began to arrive in England regularly on
June 15, when the first 100 fell.
They are apparently the weapons men-
tioned by Mr. Churchill last month and
against whose bases Allied attacks in the
Pas de Calais have been frequent.
Their range cannot be greater than 150
miles at the outside, and it is sympto-
matic of the limitations of qir power that,
after several months of ragifig blitz, the
bases still exist from which they can be
launched. The Germans claim that they
are being used against Portsmouth, South-
ampton and Bristol, but Kent seems to
have absorbed many of them.
They apparently carry a 20001 b. war
head which explodes on contact or on a
time fuse after the engine cuts out.
London’s nearest point to France is
Griz Nez, about 80 miles away, and the
nearest point to the great marshalling
ports round the Isle of Wight (apart from
Cherbourg) is Le Havre, 105 miles. So
it seems that this new attack must
be limited to a narrow piece of southern
England tapering from 100 mites deep at
most at the eastern end to the bare fringes
of the coast in the mid-west. And bases
must be confined to a 100-mile-deep area
in northern France, and something less
in Belgium, and to the 10-50-mile coastal
fringe in the west.
If the things are in large numbers they
will do considerable and vicarious
damage, and they will be harder to eradi-
cate by ack-ack fire than appears at
first sight; also, though it might seem
that their straight courses make them
more susceptible to destruction than a
manoeuvring FW or Me or fast, high-
flying defended bomber, their great speed
and the low altitude at which they fly
make great problems for the defence.
At the same time, the effect of even
2000 or 3000 of them would not compare
with the concerted blast of even 200 or
300 Lancasters used at the same launch-
ing range. At present they have only
a nuisance value, but they are a type
of artillery capable of highly dangerous
development, even on actual fighting
fronts, especially if their size and range
are increased to any extent. They could
be a devastating weapon at short range
against a confined beachhead. But the
magnetic mine was a devastating weapon
till countered.
Onward in Italy.
“Ek Dum”: General Alexander is still
chasing Germans through the winding
mountain roads of Italy without a stop
for breath. Marshal Kesselring’s final
defeat was certain from the moment the
Alban Hill line was broken, but his un-
checked retreat was not, and the manner
in which General Alexander has used his
reserve armor —largely the Sixth South
Africans, who were threaded through the
line of advance in a most skilful manner
—is akin to genius.
Nowhere has the enemy been able to
shake off the dogged Allied armies. The
ultimate aim of General Alexander seems
to have been to concentrate the greatest
possible forcp at the first point in Central
Italy where there is a single main route,
and drive it like an axe blade down the
centre of the German retreat-in-depth.
This point was near Perugia, the
ancient university town to the left of
the Trasimene Lake, on the upper Tiber,
75 miles by air line from Florence.
On the 129th anniversary of Waterloo,'
which nobody noticed, the Eighth Army
took Perugia. At the same time, a
French landing was being made in Elba,
with very strong British and Allied naval
support. It was from Elba that Napoleon
escaped to fight Waterloo. The occupa-
tion may take some time, for the island
is rugged and mountainous and from the
sea, on the passage to Genoa, it seems to
tower above the lower coastal edges of
Italy proper.
At the same time the Germans re-
ported a landing by commando troops on
the Adriatic at Civitanova, 20 miles cr so
south of Ancona. A straight line drawn
across Italy from Civitanova comes out
on Elba. Thus Alexander’s armies ate
in line on both sea^ flanks of Kesselring's
retirement. In the centre they are punch-
ing hard between his Tenth Army in the
east and Fourteenth in the west, with a
chance of outflanking him on both sides.
The German seems to be making for
the welcome cover of the Po line like Brer
Rabbit making for a warren.
The Po line he will try to hold, to-
gether with Genoa. The fall of the in-
dustrial plain of Lombardy into Allied
hands would be a disaster for him. •
Offensive in Finland.
“Ek Dum”: A campaign against Fin-
land, the first on any massive scale
since June, 1941, was opened last week
along the Karelian Isthmus, and the
Mannefheim Line has come into the pic-
ture again, being now “as as
the Siegfried Line.”
Actually, the original Mannerheim
Line consisted of 64 mixed-gun positions
spread along a 90-odd-mile front, only 15
or so of them modern. And to defend
the line and about 1000 miles of frontier
in the north, the Finns had 11 divi-
sions, well but not copiously armed and
short of artillery. Nevertheless, M. Molo-
tov gave Russian casualties as 48,000
killed and 106,000 wounded. The Finns
were supposed to have lost more then
and still more since then.
They now have the support of six
German divisions in the north and are
held to be isolated from Germany by
Russian sea and air superiority. So it
is easy to believe that the Red Army
is “surging ahead, having in six
days, along a front 45 miles wide,
smashed 25 miles through two lines of
Finnish defences to within 30 miles of
Viborg (Vipuri),” later constricted to 18
miles.
At the beginning of the week the criti-
cal point of the Finnish defences was
reached—the narrow neck of land at
Vipuri, between the Gulf of Finland and
the lakes, which is about 12 miles wide.
Conquest of Finland would add little
to the winning of the war, and it may
add considerably to the political compli-
cations of Scandinavia if the Russians
approach the Swedish border.
The rest of the Russian front seemed
to be quiet. The only feature was
the expansion of U.S. shuttle-bombing
between the Mediterranean and the Rus-
sian fronts.
In brief:
The Allied forces in northern Burma are
converging on both Myitkyina and Mogaung
and have captured Kamaing, thus opening the
Ledo road to the latter town, which is a few
miles south-west of Myitkyina on the Ran-
goon railway. The hold of the Japanese on
the Kohima-Imphal road front is being steadily
broken. There is likely to be no major de-
velopment on the Assam front till after the
rains.
* * * *
While the fight for the suburbs of Changsha
was still in progress, the Japanese were pushing
on down the Hankow-Canton railway. Chinese
resistance had stiffened in Changsha itself, and
the defenders have the support of strong de-
tachments of the 14th U.S. Air Force, which
claimed on June 16 to have killed 1200 Japan-
ese in three days.


c
mm
« . ;
Cc
K\
TODAY.. . as in the 15th Century-
A
I
Leonardo da Vinci, probably the most versatile
man who ever lived , invented, among many other
devices, a pile-driver which is identical, except
for motive power, with the huge pressure
hammers in use to-day.
LJERE was a basic idea which had
1 “survived over four centuries, because
da Vinci's inventive genius saw clearly a
long way ahead. So, in the evolution
of a great engineering plant, when the
foundation is right, its development must
be right, too. To-day A.T.L., in response
to the demands of war, has developed
an organization equipped to handle the
most intricate and delicate precision
engineering
When you think of precision engin-
eering, precision tools or gauges—
think of . . .
♦
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . PERTH . . . BRISBANE
*
raters
GIN
SPORTING NOTIONS
Racegoers continue to bet more
heavily on the totalisator in Sydney. Tote
turnover, £138,201 155., at Randwick on
Saturday has been exceeded only at
autumn and spring meetings. The crowd,
45,000 including service men, was an in-
crease of 7000 on 1943 figures.
Excuses were made for Magi, but
Kingsdale would have won the June
Stakes in any circumstances. Kingsdale
indicated his return to form by a close
fourth in a Flying Handicap at Rand-
wick a week earlier, and his owners
wisely will keep him in training instead
of easing him for spring races. Kings-
dale followed the leaders, Trimmer,
Milanja and Tribal, to the turn, and
Munro did not ride him out once he
raced to the front at the furlong. Tribal
(third) showed improvement. He is
being carried along a trifle fast at six
furlongs and he may do better at a mile,
at which distance he will be able to bowl
along in front. Old Trimmer lasted for
five furlongs and finished sixth. Of the
unplaced horses he may be the best im-
mediate prospect.
Salivant and Orderly had the Elles-
mere Handicap to themselves practically
all the way. Orderly looked likely to hold
Salivant inside the last half-furlong, but
he weakened right on the post. Rising nine
years, and thus one of the oldest horses
racing in Sydney, Salivant has won 15
races, three of them for his present owner,
S. A. Brown, who bought him at auction
in January, 1943, for 320gns. The
favorite, Lambeth* could not be faulted
for condition before the race, but he ran
without dash and his rider, Mulley, was
urging him three furlongs from home.
Boomanulla seemed to show the effects
of four runs in four weeks and may be
the better for a short rest.
Prince conceded a long start from the
half-mile, but he won the Royal Mile
comfortably from Haripur, and appar-
ently is as good as when he ran second
to Kiaree in the Epsom Handicap. His
rider, Munro, does best from behind,
and, though some of his more recent
displays have been open to criticism, he
has not lost his vigor in a finish. Haripur
(second) had beaten Prince in the Welter
Handicap the previous Saturday, and he
may have troubled the winner again had
he escaped a check in the straight. The
favorite, Arahura, finished fifth and may
do better next time. She was hampered
slightly at the turn, and did not become
settled again.
Buyers missed a good horse when they
bid only 225gns. for Flying Step (Royal
Step-Merridong) at the 1943 yearling
sales. The breeder, C. H. J. Schmidt,
kept the colt, and Flying Step won the
June Nursery so impressively on Satur-
day that his owner might possess a first-
class three-year-old next spring. Removal,
who behaved well at the barrier this time,
looked a winner when he moved away
from Swan River at the furlong, but he
tired and Swan River came again to beat
him narrowly for second. The favorite,
Vermeil, may have been closer but for a
check at the half-mile. He was near
enough at the turn, however, and appar-
ently he is not as good as his autumn win
at Randwick suggested.
An offer of 2000gns. for Flying Step
was refused after the June Nursery. The
high bid was in keeping with the en-
hanced values placed even on moderate
horses these days, but owners are loath
to sell. By the time taxation is paid, the
purchase price is whittled away, and the
seller often finds himself without horse
or money.
Unexpectedly W. Cook, leading jockey
in Sydney this season, rode at Randwick.
It had been thought that military duties
would bar his appearance. Cook had an
unsuccessful day, and as J. Thompson
rode two winners, Abbeville and Mintage,
he is only one behind Cook in the pre-
miership. Both jockeys have similar
styles, relying more on hands and bal-
ance than on vigor, and both apparently
are better suited by free gallopers.
Mintage, winner of the second Encour-
age division, was a cheap yearling, cost-
ing only 140gns, in Sydney in 1942. He
showed promise early, but lacked stamina
and had not won a race prior to Satur-
day. Thompson always had Mintage
close to the leader, Royal Janette, and he
was not in danger once he shot clear at
the leger. King of the Mist, returned
from rounding up cattle at Tumut, fin-
ished second and will improve, and so
will Skip Bomber (third), who spoiled
his own chance by running erratically
towards the finish.
Thompson’s other winner, Abbeville,
had a four lengths’ advantage in the first
Encourage. Backers will not forget him,
even when he races in much higher class.
As Little Arty, Abbeville won several
races in Queensland a year ago and,
despite his lack of a recent outing, he
was always favorite. Abbeville is by the
1935 Caulfield Cup winner Palfresco,
whose 2.27 f still stands as the Australian
record for a mile and a half. Outside the
winner, the best effort was that of Castle
Frontenac (third). For a few strides in
the straight, Castle Frontenac looked a
possible danger to Abbeville, but his 9.7
stopped him. His condition can be im-
proved and he will be harder to beat next
start.
Victrix improved markedly to win the
June Juvenile Handicap from Depreda-
tion and Ducal Gem, but her form did
not warrant inquiry by the stewards.
Officials had attributed her previous
Randwick defeat to interference and
greenness, and it would have been
inconsistent to ask further questions
after the win. Standing 16 hands one
inch, Victrix is remarkably tall for a
two-year-old filly, and when she fills out
more she may be a first-class sprinter.
W. K. Dawes paid 650gns. for Victrix,
and she already has won two races worth
£994.
Goldmine, owned by B. H. Crowley,
may be the first of Gold Rod’s progeny
to win a race. She ran a fast-finishing
fourth in the June Juvenile and appar-
ently has acquired stamina from
Euphemy, her dam. Euphemy, by
Limond, raced only moderately, but her
sister. Variant, won the New Zealand
Oaks and another relative, Battledress,
the N.Z. Derby. Depredation, who fin-
ished second in the Juvenile, also may
develop well, but first she has to over-
come her habit of running about at the
end of races.
* ♦ * *
Coal-shortage making the necessary
transport unavailable, there was no
racing in Melbourne for the second week
in succession. Melbourne trainers trying
to get their horses to a meeting at Gee-
long per float were stopped on the way
by Transport Department officials and
compelled to return.
* * * *
Ocean Swell, winner of the English
Derby, is one of the first horses sired by
Blue Peter, who won the Derby in 1939.
Ocean Swell won only one minor race in
five starts as a two-year-old, and his
starting price, 28 to 1, suggests that his
subsequent form this season had not indi-
cated Derby standard. Tehran, who fin-
ished second, also is by a Derby winner,
Bois Roussel (1938), and so is Happy
Landing (third), by Windsor Lad (1934).
Windsor Lad, who was bought for
£50,000 after his Derby success, under-
went repeated veterinary operations dur-
ing his short stud career and had to be
destroyed late last year.
» =H * *
In a year in which many owners seem
too occupied with other matters to give
much thought to nomenclature, some
good names have been registered for next
season’s two-year-olds. The 2100gns. colt
by Genetout from Providence will race
as Guiding Light, and little fault can be
found with Laughing Cavalier (Dark
Lover-Royal Tone), War Loan (Double
Remove-Box On), Flowers (Greenwich-
Maypole) and Melba (Waikare—Princess
of Song),
* * * *
Reading, winner of the two Derbies
and two Legers in Australia in 1939-40,
has started his stud career at the Mayer
Stock Farm in America. He is being
given good chances, but more emphasis
is being laid on other Mayer stallions.
Beau Pere, Alibhai and Hunter’s Mpon
IV. Alibhai, by Hyperion from Teresina,
by Tracery, was injured and did not race,
but in training trials at Santa Anita he
was acclaimed one of the fastest horses
in the U.S.A.
* * * *
The hope that transport restrictions will
be greatly modified within the next few
months is probably responsible for a
large entry of Sydney horses for the Mel-
bourne Cup. Some of the entrants say a
lot for the optimism of their owners or
trainers, including horses that, though
well tried, have not yet given the slightest
suggestion that they have any chance of
getting two miles.
* * * *
Trainer T. Torpy made an unusual
record at the Tasmanian Racing Club’s
meeting at Elwick this month. It was a
mixed programme, trotting and gallop-
ing, and Torpy’s horses won all the
galloping races, four, and only one of his
winners started favorite.
* * * *
In any controversy as to Australia’s
best horse some supporters of old-
time champions discredit the value of
time —though for the purposes of com-
parison it cannot well be discarded.
Better tracks and different methods of
riding are put forward, but, while ad-
mitting the forward seat is an advantage,
and that Flemington and Randwick
have improved, those who have known
the tracksi mentioned over a long period
are not prepared to allow that the
improvement in them altogether accounts
for the faster, times now recorded. As
for the forward seat, that was the vogue
nearly 40 years ago. Before W. Evans
won the 1907 Melbourne Cup on Apo-
logue he was known in Sydney, as the
“Tod Sloan of the ponies”—unregistered
meetings. Some of those old-time horses
were undoubtedly good in their day, but
they go faster nowadays.
Time is not always an infallible guide,
but as late as 1914 Kingsburgh’s 3.26 was
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
Three-year-old Handicap; Cock-
crow, 1 ; Steadfast, 2; Highgate, 3.
Second Nursery Handicap: Fly-
ing Step, 1 ; High Tide, 2; Re-
moval, 3.
Trial Handicap: Castle Fron-
tenac, 1 ; Generator, 2; Allan
Veil, 3.
Botany Handicap: Tribal, 1 ;
Arahura, 2 ; Magi, 3.
Winter Stakes: Russia, 1 ; Wel-
lesley, 2; Tidal Wave, 3.
Exeter Handicap: Chatham’s
Choice, 1; Ron Rico, 2; Mar-
condis, 3,


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO HILDA McMAHON late of Brighton le Sands
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that EDWARD HARNETT
McMAHON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 569
of 1944 on the grounds of desertion by you without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 31st July 1944 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from CLIFTON R. PENNY
Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO SAMUEL HUNTER SCOTT late of Forrest Road
Bexley.—TAKE NOTICE that HENRIETTA ROSA-
MOND SCOTT has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1217 of 1944 on- the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Fourteenth day of August One thousand nine
hundred and forty-four and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSIEURS HUNT &
HUNT Solicitors of 15 Bligh Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
TO RONALD JOSEPH SCHOTT whose last known
place of abode was at Gordon Street Newstead Bris-
bane in the State of Queensland but whose present
whereabouts are unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that an
action has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane in the
State of Queensland by Writ of Summons No. 725
of 1943 by LILLIAN HELEN SCHOTT your wife
in which she claims a dissolution of her marriage
with you and by her petition filed herein she
alleges that in or about the month of February One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six you without
cause deserted her and have so deserted her con-
tinuously for five years and upwards. And it has
been ordered that service of the Writ of Summons
and petition on you be effected by the publication of
this notice once in the Sydney Bulletin a newspaper
published in Sydney in the State of New South
Wales and by the sticking up in the Registry of the
said Court an office copy of the said petition and the
said writ. If you desire to defend this action you
must within sixty days from the date of the last
act done as aforesaid enter an appearance at the
Registry aforesaid and in default of such appearance
judgment may be entered against you. DATED this
Eighth day of June, 1944.—(L.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO FLORENCE LOUISA BOYDEN (formerly Hall)
late of 68 William Street Sydney (formerly of Hobart
Tasmania.—TAKE NOTICE that GEORGE CHARLES
BOYDEN has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 119
of 1944 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Second day of October next and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from CLAYTON
UTZ & COMPANY Solicitors 136 Liverpool Street
Sydney.— ‘(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO DORIS LOUISE HALLORAN late of Sydney and
JACK DAVIS also late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that EDWARD HERBERT THOMPSON HALLORAN
has filed his Petition for Divorce No. 2858 of 1943 on
the' grounds of adultery If either of you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 31st
day of July next and obtain a copv of the petition
without charge from PEROIVAL GARFIELD TRU-
MAN Petitioner’s Solicitor 10 Martin Place Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
BRANDAttRA
If*
?s
Rt*
sag®’
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKAHDAOK* * OOw 144. BIEMIHOBAIt. SKO
Public Notice.
I, HARRY HERRMAN HELLER, of Hungarian
nationality, born at Budapest, Hungary, and resident
iive years in Australia, now residing at National Oil
Pty., Ltd., Glen Davie, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
LAWRENCE, Henry Ernest, of Forbes Street, East
Sydney, died 17th March, 1935. Will his brother
CHARLES or anyone knowing the whereabouts of
the deceased’s next of kin please communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney ?
ROGERS. —Information required as to the where-
abouts of EDWIN JAMES ROGERS, a soldier in
World War No. 1, who at one time lived in Sydney
and afterwards went to Queensland Son of Annie
Young (formerly Rogers), who lived at Yorketown,
South Australia.—EXECUTOß, TRUSTEE & AGENCY
CO. OF S.A., LTD., Adelaide.
ANY person knowing the present address of MRS
HENRY’ GERRARD, formerly Kathleen Beard, who
was married to Henry Gerrard at The Manse,
Liverpool Road, South Strathfield, New South Wales,
on the 26th March, 1925, is asked to communicate
with ADAMS & TUCK, Solicitors, of 13 Gremell
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
m
wmm
iiW
Relieve
quickly
with
GIN PILLS
D EL I£ F from Backache
(caused by weak, inflamed
Kidneys) comes quickly when
you take Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
GIN PILLS assist the Kidneys in
their action . . . help them to be-
come stronger . . . more active
. . . and free from inflammation.
Then with your Kidneys working
normally again, nagging back-
ache is soon forgotten.
Assist your Kidneys by taking Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills NOW.
27 Pills, lj9; 60 Pills, 2/9.
Dr. SHELDON'S
©
T H E K I D I*
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
ww,ben the specification calls for
STEEL
SHEETS
• • • call
ARMCO
■
M
I
HEREVER steel sheets of any kind
are required for your manufacturing pro-
-1
gramme get in touch with Armco (Aust.)
Pfy. Ltd. Whether you require Stainless
Steel, Deep Drawing Sheet Steel for all
types of pressings, Sheets for Electrical
Work, Bright Steel Strips, or Black Sheets,
you’ll find that Armco (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
caters for all your needs.
STAINLESS STEEL
ELECTRICAL STEEL
DEEP DRAWING STEEL
(for pressings)
BRIGHT STEEL STRIP
BLACK SHEETS
ARMCO f
A R M C O (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE
the Melbourne Cup record, and Queen
of Scot’s was best for the New-
market. Now the records for those two
important races are respectively held
by Wotan (3.2 U) and St. Ardent and
All Veil (1.101). Up to 1914 the
Sydney Cup record was LilyveU’s
and Storey’s and Broadsword’s
was the Doncaster best. Now
Lucrative leads in the Sydney Cup
with 3.20 f, and Mildura in the Don-
caster with 1.35 i. It would be strange
if the money and thought put into breed-
ing in the last 50 years had not been
productive of all-round improvement m
our stayers and sprinters.
«£ He #
On some programmes in India there
are races for women riders. There were
two at the Tolly gunge meeting in April,
and the winner of each was ridden by
Miss Winterton. Backers were awake to
her ability, one of her mounts starting at
even money and the other at 5 to 4
against.
Miscellaneous
Carlton, Richmond, Fitzroy and Foots-
cray are the leading V.F.L. teapis. On
greasy grounds only Footscray was given
a go for it when “Sowth” came to light
in the last quarter and got to within two
points. A late Footscray goal made it
9.13-8.10. Other games were “pie” for
the winners: Carlton 15.13-6.12 v. St.
Kilda, ’Wood 12.21-9.10 v. Essendon,
Fitzroy 14.13-7.10 v. Hawthorn, North
Melbourne 15.20-12.10 v. Melbourne,
Richmond 25.23-9.2 v. Geelong.
* * * *
Randwick maintained its unbeaten
Rugby LTnion record by defeating North
22-17.. Led by Durham, North’s for-
wards bustled the Flying Greens into
errors, but the ’Wick pace and sure hand-
ling told in the final stages. Manly
crumbled in the final 10 minutes to give
Uni. a 20-17 victory. Randwick is three
points ahead of West, with Uni. third.
Other matches :
Parramatta 6, Drummoyne 4; West 25,
Gordon nil; East 14, St. .George 8.
* * * *
Young lightweights Jim Fraser and Joe
Caldwell do not rank among the leaders
of that division in Sydney, but nothing
could be more exciting that) their fight
at Leichhardt. Caldwell, shaping right-
hand first, puzzled Fra,ser for a while,
and when Fraser’s right eyebrow was
gashed open in the sixth Caldwell’s stocks
were high. But the bleeding warrio r
floored him for “eight” in the next round,
and knocked him out in the eleventh.
For a late substitute Ralph Clay made
a creditable showing against Archie Rash
at Sydney Stadium, and was on his feet
at the end of the appointed 12 rounds.
He might have won if he hadn’t kept
hitting Archibald’s straight left with his
face.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
“Tom’s asked quite a few people” was
a comment that started a lot of sympa-
thetic giggles at Lud Mayor Tom Nettle-
fold’s reception for the Empire delega-
tion. It came from a portly gentleman
wedged in the heart of the very large
crowd that filled the reception-room. Con-
sequence of the crush was that a lot of
people didn’t see much of the delegates,
but they had a unique and prolonged view
of their taller neighbors’ backs, especially
if the neighbors were built on the heroic
lines of Methodist Conference president
Irving Benson, who was among the dele-
gation’s well-wishers.
Fact that they were out of sight and
sound of the official dais gave some of this
city’s best-known citizens a chance to
indulge in some quiet heckling of their
equally distinguished brethren who were
making the welcoming speeches. R. G.
Menzies’s well-put reference to West-
minster Hall was dubbed “Bob’s history
lesson.” Dr. Edith Summerskill won first
place in popular favor by making the
shortest speech of the “do,” Brevity
wasn’t a virtue of most of the “wel-
comes,” and back-row hecklers felt that
their grumbles at fellow-countrymen’s
wordiness were justified when two dam-
sels fainted.
The Brookes lady, who is W.A.T.C.’s
commandant, was on hand to welcome
first recruits at the corps’ new recruiting
spot at the Town Hall. There has been
a good response, and it looks as if the
idea has really caught on with the avail-
able young. Most of the W.A.T.C. offi-
cers are in essential jobs which they can’t
leave to join the services, and they feel
that with this work they are doing an
extra bit. Attending the commandant
were Anne Turnbull and Maria Lucas.
Originality war funds group has been
pretty busy for the last month or so, and
results of its industry were revealed
at its sale in the cafeteria of the Vic-
toria. Eye-catching were the Lency dolls
made by president Mrs. Arthur Laver
and Peggy Ayrey (also creator of scented
bath salts by a method revealed in the
good cause). Mary de Selle (who was
Mary Lundquist) contributed cute baby
rugs ornamented with Disney animals,
their tails and ears semi-detached so that
they can be pulled by an enterprising
baby and look much more lifelike.
Gifts to the sale, sent by Val and
Yvonne Cohen from their Barrier Reef
island, were sets of buttons made of vari-
ous shells (matching, of course) and thick
shelly necklaces, made for the lass who
feels that she must look like Dorothy
Lamour; they’re a nice tropical note
on midwinter wear. A sobering sight,
however, were the piles of calico aprons
going off like hot cakes; they’re things
nobody can do without these days.
The man in thp “Punch” cartoon who
grew rose-trees In his vegetable patch
because he did like rose hips and didn't
care for spuds wasn’t alone in his dietary
choice. The annual report of the Mel-
bourne Hospital Auxiliary gives some
space for saying thank-you to those
who’ve sent in rose hips to be made into
syrup for patients. The berries are rich
in vitamin C, and can be substituted for
the fabulously expensive and often non-
existent orange.
First full-time director of musical
studies at M.G.G.S. is Winifred Gardner,
well known for her singing for the A.B.C.
Her particular interest is the inculcation
of musical appreciation, for which cele-
brity records and occasional visits by pro-
fessional musicians are, she considers,
very effective auxiliaries. She is against
inter-school competitions, feeling that
they constitute too great a nerve strain
on young girls and do no real good.
A pointer to future social service for
the young was given by the success of
the experiment of sending schoolgirls of
15 years and thereabouts to work in free
kindergartens during the holiday fort-
night. At the Lady Huntingfield kinder-
garten at North Melbourne 40 girls went
for one day each and recorded their
impressions, three essay prizes being
awarded. Winner was Ruth Beed, a
15-year-old M.L.C. girl. This plan, as
well as being a help to the institutions,
enables the girls to find out in what direc-
tion their own tastes lie. Many people
in a position to know say that vocational
guidance needs this practical side to make
it a reliable guide to careers.
Women’s conferences succeed each
other in quick succession. Last week it 1
was mothers in union, and now the
Country Women’s Association is about
to break out into conference. Actually
these are splendid chances for the woman
in the home; she says something at her
conference, being emboldened by the
sight of so many familiar faces round her.
Perhaps she has a long-felt grievance
about anything from butterfat or travel
to bad roads. She has talked it over the
fire at home with Dad till she knows all
her points. So, encouraged by friendly
murmurs, she - rises and lets herself go,
sometimes waking next morning to find
she has made the headlines in the dailies.
What is interesting about this is that Dad
at home is as proud as a dog with two
tails about Mum’s success.
Believe it or not, there was a queue
out to the pavement at 7.10 on Saturday
night to get into the New Theatre to see
Mrs. Henrietta Drake-Brockman’s play
“Men Without Wives.” Opinion of the
management was that this showed awak-
ened interest in Australian playwrights.
On the other hand it is evident that the
recent actors’ strike sent some playgoers
to the semi-professional shows for the
first time in their lives, and perhaps some
of them thought these were a bit better as
entertainment than the revivals of roman-
tic comedies which were not, according
to 1944 idea, so very romantic or very
funny.
Pictured here is Alison Cobby, daugh-
ter of Air-Commodore and Mrs. A. H.
Cobby, who has announced her engage-
ment to R.A.A.F. lad Arthur Steinberg,
son of Mr. and Mrs. D. Steinberg, of this
city. Matrimonial plans haven’t yet been
determined, Arthur being at present on
service somewhere up north. Alison is
keeping on with her job in the Ministry
of Munitions meanwhile.
The resignation of the well-liked Keira
Tuson from Red Cross (Victorian branch),
where she has done a good job in charge
of publicity, is a matter for regret. Keira,
in addition to being one of the pleas-
antest-looking women about, has a dress-
sense which survives even uniform, and
her earlier experiences on the stage have
given her a more than usual capacity to
get along with all sorts of people. Of
late years she was hostess and entre-
preneur to a big business concern, an-
nouncing on dress-parade days and doing
the honors when distinguished shoppers
such as Mrs. Douglas MacArthur arrived.
In this connection one of her most excit-
ing days was that on which Noel Coward
showed up during a rehearsal for Red
Cross something-or-other and promptly
clasped the astonished Keira in an en-
thusiastic embrace, remembering her as
one of the people who had made a play
of his all the better by acting in it. Keira
is resigning to spend more time with sick
folk at home.
Historically-minded lasses who’re think-
ing off stitching another Bayeux tapestry
on their nights at home will have to jetti-
son the scheme, as the wherewithal for
that ladylike form of needle-wielding
has vanished from the shops. Besides,
even when it can be got, tapestry wool
takes coupons, a thing Norman ladies
didn’t have to worry about. This point
came up at a “patriotic circle.” Though
it was agreed that camouflage netting
wouldn’t have been needed by the Nor-
man hosts, there was a hot discussion on
whether knights wore socks under their
chain mail and wore them out as quickly
as does the modern invader.
A literal bird’s-eye view of the African
countryside has been given by Jean Begg
in a letter to Y.W.C.A. headquarters here.
She was describing things seen from a
’plane flight on the Cape-to-Cairo route.
Actually the trip was from Cairo to
Nairobi. Jean is head of the Y.W.C.A.
War Services in the Middle East.' Her
work has taken her into the Italian zone,
where service women, mostly nurses,
have, she says, a lot of discomfort to face.
From Sydney
Lady Gowrie has had a non-stop week
paying farewell visits. She has probably
broken all union rules as to hours of
labor. But this has been to her
a labor of love. Among the old
and true friends she visited were
the soldiers at Graythwaite; she found
time also to visit the King George
Memorial Hospital for Mothers and
Babies and the Kindergarten Training
College. Tomorrow there will be a big
rally of women’s organisations at the
Town Hall, at which Lady Mayoress
R. J. Bartley Will preside. Lady Wake-
hurst and State Premier W. J. McKell’s
wife will be among the notables present.
Orchids for Mrs. Arthur Grenfell,
0.8. E.! She not only likes us, but tells us
so. Mrs. Grenfell is the vice-president of
the World Y.W.C.A. After travelling by
air and land for the last six weeks, see-
ing quite a lot of our land as well as New
Guinea, she has nothing but praise for
what is being done. In fact, she has
said the Australian Y.W. work for the
service woman is even better than the
work done in England. This she thinks
to be due in no small measure to the
manner in which the Y.W. people have
worked in co-operation with the military
authorities.
One of the greatest compliments that
the women of today could be given was
paid by this slim-built Englishwoman of
the alert gaze. She said in her first talk
at the Y.W.C.A. that the women of Aus-
tralia “have a particular gift for home-
makingj” This surely is going to be the
cornerstone in any new and better post-
war world. She told how she had been
struck by the Australian women’s camps
—so comfortable and homelike. Though
only tents, they had been made charming
—with colored tablecloths and flowers —
shellcases being used for vases.
Mrs. Grenfell has come to Australia
as an official ambassador of the British
Y.W.C.A. to see the war work of Aus-
tralian women ; the Queen and Mrs. Win-
ston Churchill are deeply interested.
Long before Saturday afternoon every
card had been sold for the musicale at
Admiralty House. This was to aid the
Lady Gowrie Y.W.C.A. Post-war Recon-
struction Appeal for service women. Lord
and Lady Gowrie, who had thrown open
the reception rooms, were present at the
concert; later they were host and hostess
at a tea party for the entire audience.
Star of the afternoon was American
singer Benjamin de Loache. Lindley
Evans and Frank Hutchins were the
pianists.
Mrs. Grenfell, introduced by the John
Butters lady, spoke in the interval. Among
the listeners were Lady Wakehurst and
Peter Lubbock, Eugene Ormandy, U.S.
Consul-General Ely Palmer and his wife,
the Alex. Gordon lady, ; Mrs. Hope
Gibson (who organised the success), Mrs.
Walter Swinson, Mrs. Keith Morris, Mrs,
Norman McLeod, the Roland Foster
couple, Kathleen Nelson, sister Allison
and Michael Mann.
Here is a Norton Trevaire photo, of
Sergeant Roslyn Bowman, A.A.M.W.S.,
who lately announced her engagement to
Captain Richard Stafford, A.I.F. Roslyn
is a daughter of the Arthur Bowmans, of
Archerfield, Singleton, and her fiance a
son of Dr. and Mrs. S, R. Stafford, of
Kogarah. Both have been overseas, Ros-
lyn with the first group of V.As., serving
for six months in a hospital in Ceylon.
Captain Stafford, in civil life a doctor,
was in the Middle East.
Poet Nellie Evans, of the frail body
and the stout heart, died at the week-
end. She was one of our sweetest singers,
and her poems will live in the hearts of
many Australians —scarcely anybody in
Australia knew more about verse form
than Nellie. She was known to
and loved by a wide circle, and every
writing man and women in Sydney is
sorrowing over the passing of a friend.
The Society of Women Writers said
their good-bye to Lady Gowrie at a lun-
cheon at the Chelsea Club. There was
a big roll-up of members, but president
Nora Kelly was not among them —she
was busy saying farewell to an appendix.
A word of praise to hon. secretary Etta
Cowan for the flower arrangements. The
tables and four corners of the room were
gay with berries and roses.
The speakers emphasised the warm
affection in which Lady Gowrie is held
not only by those present, but by the
whole of Australia. This, they pointed
out, was the outcome of the very sincere
interest in and love she had for the
country which had been her home for so
long. In her talk Lady Gowrie displayed
an intimate knowledge of the writings
of our Australian women. Lady Gowrie
brought Mrs. A. T. Anderson to the
lunch, and Dame Mary Gilmore was also
among the elect.
After the luncheon there was a presen-
tation of members; and when Lady
Gowrie left she carried with her the
good wishes of all and a copy of Dame
Mary Gilmore’s Battlefronts.
Mrs. Grenfell wanted to meet some of
our voluntary women war-workers. Lady
Wakehurst, who has a soft spot in her
heart for the rank and file of these ser-
vices, who throughout the war have gone
on with their job cheerfully and unceas-
ingly, without thought of gain or honor,
wanted her to do so ; but voluntary war-
workers have only their lunchtime free.
So Lady Wakehurst asked representatives
of 15 voluntary services to lunch. Quite
informal, it was served on the terrace.
Congratulations to the W.A.N.S. on the
steaming hot tea, the sandwiches and
sausage rolls that were served from its
canteen.
Before luncheon there was an inspec-
tion of the girls by Mrs. Grenfell. Very
spick and span and workmanlike they
looked as, led by the W.A.N.S. drum-
mers, they marched from the gates and
formed a square on the lawns just be-
fore Government House and just above
the sparkling waters of the harbor. A
brilliant noonday sun intensified the
blues, the greens, the greys and the
khakis of their uniforms. It picked out,
too, the triangle—that emblem of the
Y.W.C.A., known throughout the world,
which Mrs. Grenfell wears in her blue
felt hat. Blue hat, dark grey skirt and
tunic is the uniform of the English
Y.W.C.A,
Even in war the gentle Arts go on.
Last Saturday at the conferring of degrees
at Sydney University Dr. Evatt was one
with the girls and boys, and looked as
pleased as any in the Great Hall when
he had the degree of Doctor of Letters
conferred on him. The books which
gained him his distinction were: Rum
Rebellion and Australian Labor Leader
—a life of W. A, Holman.
Sergeant Peter C. Carter (A.1.F.) and
Sub-Lieut. Laurence Frederick McGinty,
R.A.N., did not let the tides of war de-
flect them from their course. Peter, amid
the orchids and mosquitoes of the New
Guinea jungle, worked for and secured
his B.A. degree. The young navy officer
of 23 studied in his warship for his final
law exams. Private John Hugh Black-
more was another graduate in law. A
young attache to the Chinese Consulate
plucked his M.A. degree, and a bevy of
attractive girl graduates included two
Russian sisters.
. Before the Ormandy season is over
Sydney will be drunk on music. Many
who attended the first concert went
to the repeat performances to go home
more enthusiastic than ever with the work
of the orchestra under a fine conductor
and of soloist Ernest Llewellyn.
The “House Full” sign was again
out early for the change of pro-
gramme for the Ormondy concert on
Friday. Lady Gowrie brought a party,
and most of those who had been at the
opening concert came to this. A tense
excitement held the audience right
through the night. At the end the con-
ductor had to come back again and
again before the audience would leave
the hall. Fifteen-year-old soloist Allison
Nelson had her long fair hair tied up with
pink ribbons, and wore a pink and blue
floral taffeta frock.
On Tuesday, June 27, Mavis Dearman,
of the classic features, will give a recital
at the Conservatorium.
Among Saturday night’s brightest hap-
penings was the Dragon Festival Ball.
This packed the Town Hall with China’s
young sons and daughters and that brave
land’s many friends, all anxious to help
Madame Chiang Kai-shek’s “Warphans.”
The fair at Mosman Town Hall in aid
of the Memorial College of Household
Arts and Sciences was one of the suc-
cesses of Saturday afternoon. Lady
Wakehurst made the happy opening
speech.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4gd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Patriotism
During my travels through the western
States of U.S.A., from Canada to the
Mexican border, I could not help notic-
ing, especially among the younger genera-
tion, the great pride of the people in
their Union and their country.
Every American has a strong belief in
himself, in his fellow-Americans and in
America. It was obvious even to a
stranger that each individual firmly be-
lieved that America was a country
to which it was an honor to be-
long—a country greater than the indi-
vidual, inasmuch as he was only one
of the mass, but not to the extent of
making him, a slave or denying him any
of his rights. Americans’ enthusiastic love
of country may at times cause them
to see things in a wrong perspective, but
it is not so much idle boasting as
foreigners sometimes think.
The contrast with Australians in this
respect is marked. It is rare to find an
Australian fervidly expressing his patriotic
zeal. With Americans the torch of
patriotism is kept burning brightly in
peace and in war. Australians appear
to regard patriotism as a sort of temple
ot Janus which must be closed in time
of peace.
Australians have not yet freed them-
selves from the shackles of Puritanism,
which frowned on all emotional dis-
plays as bad taste, if not immoral. It is
not surprising, therefore, that from time
to time we have the spectacle of some
warped mentality traducing the Empire
unrebuked, although there are no nobler
pages in all history than the pages which
men and women of the Empire have
written from June, 1940, to June, 1944. —
E. M. (R.A.A.F.).
War and Morals
The “plague of declining morals” (B.
17/5/’44) is a direct result of the war’s
effect on our code of behavior. The
abnormal life which we are forced to
lead throws our entire outlook out of
orientation. In war-time, men who lead
a Bedouin existence know they won’t be
in one place long enough to reap any
of the oats they may sow, and a few take
advantage of the fact. It has been sagely
observed that war makes good men better
and bad men worse.
Female vagrancy and child delinquency
may be increasing, but not only in Aus-
tralia. The main cause will disappear
when the war is over.
“R.S.H.’s” remedy of “sincere reli-
gious faith” is vague and, I fear, super-
ficial. The unsympathetic approach to
questions of inorality by people who
would profess a “sincere religious faith”
often aggravates rather than alleviates
the problem. Well-meaning people often
have the unhappy knack of being destruc-
tive rather than constructive —Toreador
(R.A.A.).
The Australian Legion
In The Bulletin there has been
expressed many times the opinion that
ex-service men should take a greater in-
terest in the affairs of Australia by form-
ing one solid body for that purpose, with-
out becoming either attached to or creat-
ing a political party.
Two ex-service men’s associations, the
Demobilised Sailors, Soldiers and Air-
men and the Second Australian Ex-
service Men, have recently merged into
the Australian Legion of Ex-service Men
and Women. An offer of co-operation
was extended many months ago to the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A. but refused.
The wide scope of eligibility of mem-
bership enables all serving and dis-
charged service men and women to unite
in one big organisation on the lines of
the British and American Legions, The
Australian Legion’s main plank is guar-
antee of employment for all. A prosper-
ous community cannot be built up on
sectional preferential treatment in the
problems of employment and post-war
reconstruction. It is only begging the
issue if one man is to be given a job by
putting another man out of one.
This matter of preference to some and
not to others can be solved by removing
the necessity for preference. Is a man’s
eligibility for employment to be judged
by the risks he takes or the sacrifices he
makes?
The Australian Legion is established in
every State, and, by its all-embracing
membership, will have a great influence
for good on the future prosperity of the
Commonwealth. — W. J. Allen, Victorian
State Secretary.
Discharged and Dissatisfied
“R. Dodd” (B. 31/5/’44) narrates
experiences of his “rehabilitation” that
run uncannily parallel with mine.
I was discharged, after active service,
with a clean record. Like “R.D.,” I
joined a Federal Government department,
whose interpretation of the words “effi-
ciency” and “management” was stagger-
ing. After eight months I resigned.
I went to Man-power, and, submitting
major aero-engineering and flying licenses
and technical-school instructional experi-
ence, was offered a very indifferent job
as motor mechanic. This I refused.
I referred my case to the Minister of
Labor and received a most interesting
reply. He informed me that a job had
been found, and if it did not appeal to
me that was no fault of Man-power. That
organisation had, in its magnanimity,
granted me permission to leave Australia
to look for work, and it was no fault of
his department that this permission had
not been availed of. He concluded by
“hoping” that I would get a job suitable
to myself.
Tell Mr. Dodd to allay his fears for
the Digger who lacks resources of his
own. With God’s help and the hopes of
the Minister his future is assured. —N. A.
(Vic.).
“What the hell! Neville Cardus will only say I'm lousy.”
Maps
Another reply to “Gip” (B. 31/5/’44).
Until recently all Queensland military
maps, except a few in the south-east
corner, were compiled by the Survey
Office from Lands Department surveys,
aerial photos and field information.
Except for contours, these maps are iden-
tical with the standard military sheets
and are in no way inferior to them.
Generally speaking, the Lands Depart-
ment is not so much interested in topo-
graphy as in areas. In the case of pas-
toral holdings of low capital value, ap-
proximate boundaries and areas suffice
as a basis for rental. Accurate mapping
calls for extensive (and expensive) sur-
veys. “Gip” shouldn’t cavil at the reason
why his boundaries are not accurately
defined; it was to save him money.—
Del (Q.).
Westralian Youth
During many years spent in West-
tralian country districts I was appalled at
the injustices inflicted on country chil-
dren. For one thing, many have had to
travel long miles to school over bad
roads.
I was saddened but not surprised to
read in the “West Australian” that “an
informal survey made in 1942 revealed
a considerable number of illiterates” in
the Westralian forces, necessitating regu-
lar instruction for 130 men, many of
whom, on being taught, revealed high
intelligence. They were mostly outback
chaps who had never been able to avail
themselves of even primary schooling.
Area schools, suggested in a report
prepared by H. F. Proud, a Kulin farmer,
are what is most needed to remove this
handicap to country youth. These
schools, established in country towns in
conjunction with hostels under the care
of trained matrons where children
could board, would mean scrapping the
little wayback one-teacher schools on
the edge of the Never Never, and would
provide for all those lonely outback
children on correspondence lessons, and
for the less fortunate ones who are miss-
ing schooling.
Let it be said that Westralians are in-
creasingly if tardily mindful of neglected
youth. National Fitness Committees have
been established in many towns. York has
an active Youth Club with an equipped
hall. At Beverley a hotel is being con-
verted into a Youth Centre. Youth
Centres are also in process of establish-
ment at Pingelly, Narrogin, Dumbleyung,
Katanning, Mt. Barker and Albany. And
there are Junior Farmers’ Clubs.
Hitler has shown what can be done
to youth by shaping it wrong. It is up
to us to show what we can do by shaping
it right.— Olive Willey (W.A.).
Commonwealth Powers
Our Commonwealth ,is sovereign,
supreme and independent outside Aus-
tralia (vide the Statute of Westminster),
but inside Australia it is cribbed, cabined
and confined by the vagaries and petu-
lancies of six separate State authorities.
It is high time the farce ceased. I
claim that a vast majority of Australians
desire one governing authority to man-
age the national affairs of Australia.
Hence I urge the Commonwealth Par-
liament to cause a referendum to be
taken in order that the following issues
may be submitted to the people:
“Are you in favor of amending the
Constitution so as to provide (a) for the
abolition of the State Governments and
Parliaments as at present existing, and the
transfer of their property and powers to
the Government and Parliament of the
Commonwealth, and ( b ) for the estab-
lishment of new State Governments by
the Parliament of the Commonwealth,
with such powers and functions as that
Parliament may deem fit to confer upon
them?”
I submit that these proposals should be
substituted for those of Dr. Evatt, which
do not solve the problem of one Parlia-
ment for the Commonwealth. — John B.
Steel (N.S.W.).
Veterans and Others
Must the Middle East-New Guinea
veterans still be called upon for front-
line fighting? The argument is that
seasoned troops must be used, but these
same veterans were once thrown into
battle with far less training than the
present recruit receives. They have been
through years of campaigning under the
worst climatic conditions.
In New Zealand the old-stagers are
being replaced by those who missed the
first call-up.—G. M. S. (N.S.W.).
Loans and Appeals
Melbourne’s Lud Mayor Nettlefold
objects to the Commonwealth ukase that
public appeals for charity shall cease
when war loans are in progress. He
argues that these are essential and do not
interfere with the loans (witness the last),
the subscribers being not those who per-
sistently let the nation down.
No one knows better than Melbourne's
Chief Magistrate that time is the essence
of the contract in appeals. Cases in point
are the young woman who lost her legs
in a rail accident and the wee one whose
feet were severed by a mower. The £5OOO
raised at once for the sufferers brought
light into their darkness. Put the appeals
off for months and what would have
resulted?
Anyway, if a Commonwealth ban is
necessary, it should apply to State Gov-
ernment gambles.—T. P. (Vic.).
Confusion on Confusion
It’s hard to reconcile the published
statements of heads of departments, or
the advertisements authorised by them,
with actual experience and plain fact.
On Priority 4, I wanted to get my tyres
recapped. “We can’t do them just now,” 1
was told. “We have the labor, but can’t
get sufficient supplies of new rubber.”
When I did get them I was informed
that, because of the low percentage of
new rubber allowed, their life would be
problematical.
As there’s a war on, I’m not quarrel-
ling about this statement, but my morn-
ing paper informs me, on the authority
ot Mr. Beasley, that “Australian tyre
manufacturers have not been using all
the crude rubber available to them be-
cause of man-power shortage”
Petrol, so the rationing authorities tell
me, is a very precious commodity ; none
is available for anything other than abso-
lute necessity—even a service man home
on leave after a long period up north
can’t get it. But recently I noticed over
100 cars returning from a country race
meeting 40 miles distant; several big
cars (no gas producers) have been tour-
ing this part with a couple of Federal
politicians and their offsiders, and there
have been other things that make me
wonder.
Big hoardings bear flaring posters that
shout “Gas and electricity must not be
wasted! You must use less and save
coal!” Yet the country has plenty of
coal if only somebody would dig it. The
few things I’ve not yet been urged to
save money on are Parliaments, politi-
cians and control boards. Still, one never
knows! — Derwent (Tas.).
Paperchase
Short of paper as never before, we are
inundated with more pamphlets than ever
before. We have pamphlets asking us
to save rag, pamphlets imploring us to
save paper, pamphlets urging us to
consume more milk (rationed in places)
arid cream (unobtainable), War Loan
pamphlets, world without end. And
Certificates of Merit are issued to War
Savings committeemen who don’t want
them.
But the booby prize for the great Aus-
tralian paperchase should go to the bright
soul who thought up the Stocking Quiz
pamphlet. If a woman hasn’t sense
enough to know that a ring will tear her
stockings and that her suspender should
be fastened to the welt and not in the
silk, heaven help her! A Government
pamphlet won’t.
Surely press and wireless are capable
of doing all the advertising necessary.—
Bewildered Matilda (S.A.).
Compulsory Voting
Had James Merran (B. 24/5/’44) ever
taken any interest in local-government
elections he would not advocate the aboli-
tion of compulsory voting. At the last
local-government election in my muni-
cipality only 8 p.c. of those eligible voted,
and the 8 p.c. were mainly friends and
acquaintances (I nearly said accomplices)
of the candidates, for whom transport
to polling booths was provided. Practi-
cally no campaigning was done, and poli-
cies were conspicuously absent. The
whole thing was literally a popular-man
contest.
The of interest is hard to justify,
as the aldermen have wide powers in
the levying of rates and the control of
public works, parks,, playgrounds and
health matters within their municipality.
Those who share the benefits of a democ-
racy must be made to share its responsi-
bilities. Voting is one of those respon-
sibilities. — Toreador (A.LF.)
The Blueprint Artists
The satisfactory government of a wife
and family is just about the limit of
human political, economic and ethical
ability and is not often achieved. What
then should we think of those who either
alone or in company have the gall to
announce what they fatuously call “blue-
prints for humanity”?
Even if these planners could plan my
life better than I .can myself—and that
would not be hard —who would execute
the plan? I have tried to work behind
the bureaucratic scenes of three Govern-
ments —Imperial, Colonial and Dominion
—and in each I have observed what hap-
pens when the normal domestic inade-
quacy of the average man is extended to
power over the lives of people outside
the home. Just family life on a big scale,
with Father making a mess of things as
usual “Blueprints for humanity,” my
foot!—J. W. R. (Tas.).


TRAIN NOW FOR YOUR
POST-WAR JOB
\Vhat are YOU doing to protect yourself against unemployment after
the war? As Australia swings back to peace-time conditions thousands
released from the Services will have to be placed in work. The Govern-
ment of the day can be depended upon to assist, but whether you will
be able to keep yourself and your family in the way they are accustomed
depends on you . . . the amount you can earn will depend on your value
to the community. NOW—when work is plentiful and pay is good—
is the time to equip yourself with an extra trade. You can find no better
profession in which to qualify than in Diesel operating, for all over the
world more and more Diesel engines will be placed in use. Before the
war, a great swing to Diesel engines had begun. After the war this
swing will gain added momentum, opening up thousands of well-paid
positions. Diesel Operators not only earn big money, they enjoy pleasant
conditions and the respect of all the community—the respect due to the
man who has specialised knowledge.
ds
MEN OF ALL SERVICES ARE
TRAINING IN SPARE-TIME—ARE YOU?
In the fighting services—land, sea and air, and in war industries—
ambitious men with an eye to the future are devoting part of their
free hours for another big offensive. They’re equipping themselves
with training to do their part in winning the peace as efficiently as
today they are winning the war.
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE WILL TRAIN YOU
IN THE OPERATIONS OF THE DIESEL ENGINE IN YOUR
SPARE TIME, WHEREVER YOU ARE.
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering, and you
don’t need any high educational standard. The Diesel Engineering
course teaches you the whole subject in your own home, covering
both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel
(mining and other power plants). The course has been prepared
with the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma
awarded you on completion is recognised by employers all over
Australia. Post the coupon below and full details will be sent you
l?y return.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE STUDENTS
HAVE BEEN PLACED ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
The Diesel Engineering College’s new simplified system of personal
training by mail makes learning Diesel Engineering easy, no matter
how far from Sydney you may live. This College does not sell you
a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does
it fill up your head with a lot of complicated mathematics. By this
simple home-study course, practical Diesel engineers teach you
everything you need to know to operate and service Diesel engines.
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE—NO HIGH EDUCA-
TIONAL STANDARD NEEDED.
NO TEXT BOOKS REQUIRED.
/
FOR FREE BOOKLET.
II
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation, so
don’t put it off! The best intentions in the
world are useless if you don tAC T ! If
you don’t want to mutilate your “Bulletin"
just drop us a note!
efficiently. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-
followed instruction papers and diagrams. Everything is made
clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for
positions in as short a period as four months. The fees are low
and payments easy.
Over 2,000 students of the Diesel Engineering College have
obtained the diploma issued by the College, Many have obtained
positions as Diesel operators immediately after completing the
Course. Others in essential industries have the satisfaction of know-
ing that their qualification as Diesel operators will stand them in
good stead when the time comes to transfer to other work. Non-
residents of Sydney can obtain practical experience on a working
Diesel engine when they visit this city, NOW is the time for YOU
to start. Call at the Diesel Engineering College office any day, or
any Wednesday or Friday nights, for full particulars.
Government Diesel Engine Driver's Certificate
Residents of Sydney and district are prepared for the Government
Diesel Engine Driver’s Certificate . . . over 90% of our students pass
in the quarterly examincltions.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the
Diesel Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B." 21 /6 / ’44
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
255 a GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
