

APE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.—N0. 3336.
Wednesday, January 19, 1944.
Frida 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W,» Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BOTHWELL CASTLE.
BOTHWELL CASTLE, on the bank of the river Clyde, some
fourteen miles from Glasgow, belonged in the Middle Ages
to the Douglases, the most powerful family in Scotland, the rival
and sometimes the superior to royal power. The struggle between
the Douglases and the Crown finished towards the ei|d of the
fifteenth century, and under James II they were exiled, and Both-
well Castle, along with other possessions, devolved upon the
Hepburns of Hales. James IV created Lord Patrick Hepburn Earl
of Both well, and bestowed upon him the hereditary office of Lord
High Admiral of Scotland. His grandson was the famous Lord
Bothwell.
In 1561 Mary Queen of Scots, widow of Francis the Dauphin,
landed at Leith—she was then nineteen years old. Four years later
she determined to make herself the rallying point of Catholicism,
and married Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley, who stood next to her
in the line of blood, both being grandchildren of Margaret, sister
of Henry VIII. In 1567 she fell in love with Earl Bothwell, who
murdered young Darnley. The Earl was charged with the murder,
but was so powerful that he was acquitted. He divorced his wife
and married the Queen. But the horror of this act roused Catholic
as well as Protestant nobles to revolt. Mary and the Earl went to
meet them, but their soldiers refused to fight. Bothwell escaped
to a lifelong exile. The Queen was imprisoned in Lochleven, and
made to abdicate in favour of her son by Darnley, James VI of
Scotland, who became James I of England. In his reign the castle
once more reverted to the Douglases. In 1857, Lord Douglas dying
without issue, the property, with new Bothwell Castle, passed from
his sister, Lady Montague, to her eldest daughter, the Countess
of Home.


d
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Neiv Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin: ’
My Same
My Address
S.B. 244 AGE
The Red Page
"WIFE TO MR. MILTON."
In Wife to Mr. Milton (Cassell) Robert
Graves has performed much the same
service for the poet as Charles the
Second’s officers did for Cromwell when
they dug up the dictator’s bones and
hanged them on a gallows.
Graves is not the first novelist to put
the case for Mary Powell, the poet’s first
wife. A certain Miss Manning, described
as “a tall, thin lady with black hair, an
aquiline nose and a bright color; a stout
English churchwoman,” published The
Maiden and Married Life of Mary
Powell in 1851 and won high praise for
it from the reviewers of the day.
What is known for certain about Mil-
ton and the first of the three wives whom
he took to his surprisingly adventurous
bosom is that he married her, with an
abruptness that surprised his acquaint-
ances, when he was 33 and slie 16 ; that
her father owed Milton £5OO ; that after
a month of marriage Mary came home to
her parents ; and that, having stayed at
home separated from her husband for
the duration of the Civil War, she at
length rejoined him, bore him four
children and died at the age of 26.
Everything that history would like to
know about Milton’s character would
possibly be revealed if exactly what
happened during that first disastrous
month of his married life could be dis-
covered.
The full story is likely to remain a
mystery. The speculations of novelists
are to be judged on their plausibility, in
relation to the known facts, to Milton’s
writings and to human psychology.
Strictly, the question of its historical
accuracy or probability is irrelevant to the
valuation of Graves’s novel as a piece of
fiction ; it is not, as he points out, sub-
mitted as a biography. But, of course,
nobody could resist reading it as
biography. Is Graves’s Milton the real
Milton? Is Miss Manning’s?
Since Miss Manning’s Milton differs
considerably from Graves’s it’s amusing
to compare the two. Comparison, more-
over, is made easy because both novelists
have used the same set of facts and the
same method—Mary Powell telling the
story in the first person through the
device of a diary.
Before comparing the two stories it’s
worth while pausing to consider each
author’s outlook upon the subject. Miss
Manning was “a stout English church-
woman”: she will be as kind to Milton
as she can. Robert Graves, praising
Skelton in a poem once, said “Here is
no monstrous Milton”: he is unlikely to
be idolatrous.
Both Miss Manning and Robert Graves
find that the marriage was arranged by
the girl’s father as a means of evading
his £5OO debt to the poet. They agree
that Milton was genuinely attracted to
the girl; and both, though they paint
Mary as somewhat taken aback at the
proposition (in Miss Manning’s account
she “fell down in a Swound at Father’s
feet”), agree that she felt flattered at the
offer of a man already distinguished in
poetry and scholarship. They agree that
Milton’s learned conversation bored her.
Graves has a scene, missing from the
other novel, in which he has Milton mak-
ing the girl swear she is a virgin before
he will kiss her. Milton makes love
pleasantly, if a little pridefully, in Miss
Manning’s story:
Mr. Milton surprised me with a suddain
Kiss;
rather oddly in Graves’s version:
Then he said: “After I had seen you
for the first time, your hair became an
obsession of my mind: for it wreathed
itself between my eye and what book so-
ever I studied, though' it might be the
Holy Bible itself, coming with a gadding
or serpentine motion until it choked the
sense of my reading. However, when I
found experimentally that by no act of
ratiocination, nor any ascetic exercise,
could I circumvent or remove this strange
affection of the eye, and also that only the
hair of virgins had the same grand compul-
sion for me, I was no longer dismayed.
I concluded it to be God’s will that I
should render humble submission to Him,
and so to enter info wedlock, wherefrom
for certain choice reasons I had conscien-
tially refrained: for thus I should be able
to gloat upon your hair legitimately, and
soon (because of its daily and nightly
familiarity) I would no more be plagued '
with it, in my visionary sens®, than I am
now by my own ears.”
On the private life of Mr. and Mrs.
Milton on their wedding night and subse-
quently, Miss Manning is as silent as the
tomb. She was a genteel soul, and her
novel was published in the reign of
Queen Victoria. Graves, with a frankness
that probably would have made Miss
Manning fall in a Swound to the floor,
shows Milton extremely gauche as a
lover, torn between sensuality and puri-
tanism, ruthlessly selfish, outwardly
pompous and inwardly timorous, alto-
gether absurd.
Recovering from her Swound Miss
Manning agrees with Graves that Mary’s
early days in Milton’s home were made
unhappy by the spectacle of the poet
whipping his pupils ; also that she was
disappointed in London and longed for-
the countryside again.
Why did Mary go home to her parents
at the epd of the month? A report that
she was unhappy, says Miss Manning,
had been made to her parents, and they
asked that she should be allowed to visit
them. Milton, having looked “surprised
and hurte,” said that he “would not be
soe cruel as to keepe me from a Father
I soe dearlie loved,” and, at parting,
“kissed me most tenderlie agayn and
agayn.” But in Graves’s version Mary
is sent home by her husband in disgrace.
They have never managed to order their
private life to the satisfaction of either ;
the marriage, in fact, has not been con-
summated. Mary has recorded her de-
testation of Milton in her diary and,
upon her husband’s demanding to see
what she has written, has called him,
among other things (which Graves men-
tions), Stinkard, Base Slubberdegullion,
Cheesy Plagiarist and Eater of Stinking
Beef.
To correct you corporeally as you de-
serve [says Milton] I cannot, or not with-
out scandal. I cannot mulct you of money,
for you receive no wages; you are insen-
sible to gentle chiding; to forgive you
would be weakness. I am determined* to
put you to public shafne by sending you
back to your father’s house at Forest Hill;
nor will I receive you to my bosom again
until I be assured of your hearty repent- •
ance.
Graves and Miss Manning are united
in believing that Mary was delighted to
be out of her husband’s house and back
at her father’s. They agree on the his-
torical facts of the subsequent events —
that Mary remained at Forest Hill during
Cromwell’s rebellion ; that Milton’s mes-
senger, sent to retrieve her, was treated
with contempt by her family ; that Milton
began writing angry pamphlets on the
desirability of allowing divorce on the
of what Hollywood calls “incom-
patibility of temperament” ; that there
were rumors that Milton would pro-
nounce a divorce against his wife and (a
trifle bigamously) marry a lady from
Wales, Miss Davis or Davies; that
Mary’s jealousy and the thought of pro-
tecting her Royalist family through her
husband’s influence with the Roundheads
were partly responsible for her decision
to return to Milton—but they dp not
agree on what is all-important, Mary’s
state of mind.
In Miss Manning’s narrative she is
truly repentant:
Oh, Heaven, what would I give to see
the Skirts of Mr. Milton’s Garments agayn!
If Events prove not cross, I shall have
Speech of him whom my Soul loveth.
In the Graves novel Mary is “forced
to pretend more love for my husband
than in truth I felt.” She listens to the
advice of her mother (a pleasing character
in this book, rather like the nurse in
“Romeo and Juliet”): “Abase yourself
before him ; go on your belly like the
serpent; eat dust; assuage his wrath with
guile. But so soon as ever he has broken
his contract with Dr. Davis and has re-
ceived you to his bosom at last, why
then you are at liberty to rise up again,
springing upon his shoulders and making
bloody his sides with your spurs.” And
so —
Ho for that nasty, musty, fusty, dusty,
rusty City of London* the birthplace of
my husband, which I must learn to love,
even against my natural inclination.
In The Maiden and Married Life of
Mary Powell when the repentant wife
throws herself at her husband’s feet Mil-
ton addresses her:
“Much I coulde say to reproach, but will
not! Henceforth, let us onlie recall this
darke Passage 'of our deeplie sinfulle Lives
to quicken us to God's Mercy in afford-
ing us this Re-union. Let it deepen our
Penitence, enhance our Gratitude.”
In Graves’s novel, the wife is mere]
pretending penitence, and Milton is
shade harsher;
“It is God’s will that I should forgive
you. It comes not easily, so enormous is
the wrong that you have done me, so hate-
ful your ingratitude. Yet who can stand
against the commandment of God? There-
fore: ‘Woman, I forgive you!’”
In The Maiden and Married Life
Mary Powell, the reconciliation effectec
Mary becomes “a joyfulle Wife”; a
goes so well that the Milton menage
practically an Olde Englysshe Te
Shoppe. But in Wife to Mr. Milton Mar
“returns to my cat and dog life,” tell
her husband he has a foul breath (throug
smoking) and is madder than Nebuchad
nezzar, and in return is reproached fo
a “perverse termagant humour of wrang
lipg and repar teeing” and, during a laps
into English, is called a “puddinghead.
When, following history, Miss Manning
records that Milton gave shelter to Mary’
parents—impoverished by the war —she
paints him as freely and gladly chari
table: “We will use Hospitalitie withou
grudging ; and, as for your owne Increase
of Cares, I suppose ’twill be but to order
two Legs of Mutton insteade of one.” In
the Graves book, though the fact of giv
ing shelter is admitted, Milton is made
to say to the maid who brings news of the
arrival of the refugees, “Does your mis
tress know that they are here? Almost
I would rather have Bridewell anc
Bedlam spew out their scum upon me
than that this should happen. Say not
word to her, and I shall send them away
quietly, if I may, without her knowledge.’
Graves has some extraordinary pages
on Milton’s behavior during his wife’s
pregnancies; his passionate anxiety to
breed a warrior son, his methods of en-
suring that the infant would be born
hardy: “I truly believed him capable ol
sending me out on a cart into the fields
by Highgate, to be delivered without any
midwife’s aid under a hedge or in a ditch
of stinging nettles —and this not from any
unkindness to me, but all for the dis-
cipline of his martial son.” On this
matter, as on most others of crucial sig-
nificance, Miss Manning, doubtless for
fear of a Fitte, is mute.
Miss Manning’s Mary sums up;
His kind and equall Temper, his easie
Flow of Mirthe, his Manners unaffectedlie
cheerfulle; his Voice, musical!; his Person,
beautifull; his Habitf, gracefull; his Hospi-
talities, natural! to him; his Purse, Counten-
ance, Time, Trouble at his Friend’s Ser-
vice ; his Devotion, humble; his Forgive-
nesse, heavenlie!
Graves’s lady is less enthusiastic;
Nor have I any just complaint against
him, for he never raised a violent hand
against me, nor abused me in any other
way by which he could be held account-
able to God. He also fed and comforted
my father and mother and my whole
family when they were in distress. He acts
righteously, though without love as you and
I know love to be. He has a devil, the
devil of legality, the same which plagued
the Jews to tithe mint and rue, with other
follies: but this devil must have his due,
or he will howl and run stark mad and
hurt both himself and us.
Miss Manning (may her Bones reste in
Peace) has a devil also, and the devil is
sentimentality. Her happy ending won’t
wash. After he had married two more
wives, Milton retained a bitterness against
Mary—certainly against her children,
and most likely against her, too, for he
wrote in his will:
The portion due to me from Mr. Powell,
my former wife’s father, I leave to the
unkind children I had by her, having re-
ceived no part of it; but my meaning is,
they shall have no other benefit of my
estate than the said portion and what I
have besides done for them, they having
been very undutiful to me.
His Forgivenesse, despite Miss Man-
ning, was something less than heavenlie.
But was he quite so harsh a figure as
Robert Graves portrays? Graves rather
spoils his own case by overloading it. Not
a stone that could be cast is left uncast
by one or other of the characters in his
novel.
Milton was a great poet, was he? Yes,
but he “is more passionately set on liter-
ate fame than in love with poetry itself.”
“Comus” is a lovely thing, is it? Yes,
“but he has plucked out the feathers
from other poets’ wings to make of him-
self a great immortal Phoenix ; yet he has
gone about it so cunningly and with such
admirable judgment that these plumes
glow with richer color upon his wings
and tail, as he preens them, than in their
former places.”
A great mdfi remains great in spite of
borrowings, in spite of psychological
topsyturviness (making out a case for the
devil in “Paradise Lost” or writing, in
“Comus,” a naughty poem in defence of
chastity); in spite of a fondness for ab-
stractions and an excessive Latinity, does
he? Yes, but “Indeed I know not well
what I mean. Tis the case with me:
Non amo te, Licini, nec possum dicere
quare —l do not love thee, Liciny, but
cannot tell the reason why.”
Milton wrote a fine, generous elegy for
' his dead friend Ned King, did he? Yes,
but out of envy, not long before his friend
died and “Lycidas” was written, he had
written a “scurrilous lampoon” in Latin
verse about him, someone carps.
Milton steadfastly refused to enter the
church because to take the oath would
have “perjured him.” Then where, some-
one asks, was his conscience when he
took the oath to be admitted to his de-
grees at Cambridge and Oxford? And
then:
It is true that during the war he had
written his famous Areopagitica, a plea for
the freedom of the Press; but almost as
soon as the fighting was over he became
Assistant Press Censor for the Council of
State and helped to enforce a most re-
pressive censorship law.
That last charge is made by Graves
personally, in his introduction. Most of
the others —that he trained in military
exercises before the war, but evaded the
fighting; that his interest in reforming
the divorce laws was based on his desire
to rid himself of one wife and to marry
another ; that, in effect, he was cowardly,
morally inconsistent and ignoble in his
motives as well as arrogant, selfish and
harshly puritanic are made by Mary
Powell: by an embittered wife, that is.
It is in character for her to make such
allegations ; some of them are historical
fact; in all of them there is an element of
probability ; nevertheless, an impression
persists of the author’s overloading a case.
If the reader isn’t wary, he will even
find himself sympathising with Mary in
her vehement objections to Milton’s
smoking. He will find himself sympathis-
ing with Mary throughout: whereas, if
Graves’s conjecture is true that she was
in love with another man all her life
through, her whole case against her hus-
band falls to the ground. The story
doesn’t read very convincingly ; but if it
were true, Mary was a criminal idiot to
marry Milton, and he could hardly be
blamed for the failure of the marriage.
That Milton was an unpleasant example
of the puritan husband can. hardly be
doubted. Even making allowances for a
period in which autocracy was much in
fashion, it was hardly amiable to main-
tain
God’s universal law
Gave to man despotic power
Over his female in due awe,
Nor from that right to part an hour.
Adam is more than a little arrogant in
his attitude to Eve; and Milton gave
much of himself away when in “Samson
Agonistes” his hero. cried out in bitter-
ness and contempt
And broken by a peal of words —O weakness!—
Gave up my fort of silence to a woman.
It is difficult to like Milton. It is dif-
ficult not to agree that Graves’s picture
is, on the whole, justifiable. The case
should have been put more temperately;
some human balance should have been
brought in; some of the charges are
trivial: but this is more or less the real
Milton.
The real Milton, as seen by his wife.
A different mouthpiece, a different
approach might have done something to
justify the ways of Milton to man: for
Milton, even if you don’t like his style
or his mind, was undoubtedly a genius
and a wife isn’t necessarily the most im-
partial judge to sum up on a genius.
Milton, like any other man of his
calibre in the arts, was a man governed
by a demon, the demon of his work.
Contemporary psychology would cer-
tainly say that his blindness was self-
inflicted, or inflicted by his demon, a wall
to shut him off from the world and force
him to his work of creation. All the flaws
of his character might similarly be re-
garded as necessary for the task he had
to do. Byron and Shelley had a merrier
way of wrecking women’s lives, but they
wrecked them just the same. The novel-
ist dealing with Milton should approach
the subject as Thomas Mann worked with
the figure of Goethe in Lotte in Weimar:
a study of the ruthlessness of genius.
And it is no small figure the novelist
would have to portray. Milton notori-
ously identified himself with his Satan, a
rebel violent with the conviction of injus-
tice, magnificent in his anger and tragic
even in his self-pity. The Samson of
“Samson Agonistes” is more directly still
a self-portrait. Raging against his
enemies, raging against women, raging
against his blindness and tormented once
more by a sense of cosmic injustice,
Samson so hates the whole of creation
that he brings the universe crashing to
destruction.
Samson is an image of hate ; but a
hate so gigantic becomes a kind of black
affirmation of life; affirming by its
violent splendor the very thing it seeks
to destroy, the splendor of human pas-
sion. It is as futile to niggle at Milton as
it would be to snipe at that equally un-
amiable hater of life, Dean Swift.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
120th Year of Service
“THE SENIOR STORE”
m
5
, lo
anllo' 4 ' .*“ e7 /W/6
lined-
tho “ y •„ Un a«»”'- f,e d
■’"■
price •• - ’
ro^ O<V . G -
G° . ArV *<l°
\ <0^ e
»v- :*>>* “
> eW o % '
w
/
\
XX
v o l^l ~fhnriz a ti° n
please send your £ Australia-
nre coupon Uee. r aliy where
Un ,, p items are p ( jrec
ll the above * O.C.
signed ey
sa
All Wool Men’s Dressing Gowns,
medium weight, and carefully tailored
with silk cord and girdle. In plain shades
of Navy, Maroon, Green, Royal, Fawn
and with a contrasting shade on the collar,
cuffs and pockets. Sizes 36 to 44 ins.
Price £2/16/9 and 15 coupons.
“JUMBUK” Lightweight Natu-
ral Wool Underwear. Under-
shirts * with short sleeves and
regulation cut neck. Sizes 34 to
44 ins. Price 11/- and 5 coupons
“JUMBUK” Natural Wool Un-
derwear of light weight. Ankle
length, light summer weight un-
derpants in sizes 34 to 42 ins.
Price .... 12/6 and 6 coupons
Boys’ Khaki Shirts with Peerless
collar attached and breast pocket.
Boys’ Art Silk Singlet in the athletic
style with no sleeves. Sizes 24 to 32
in. chest. Price .. 3/3 and 3 coupons.
• Men’s and Boys’ Wear—Ground Floor
George Street.
Sizes
Prices
Coupons
12 to 14 14| neck
6/6 6/6
6 12
>
1w s
2000 HuAs OVo^/c
Can be supplied in Medium
Weight Officers’ style or extra
heavy Military style, in Tan or
Black (unlined). Made in Box
Hide and have extra stout sewn
and standard screwed soles. Full
and half sizes. Price 19/11
6 Coupons.
• Men’s Shoes—Ground Floor, George Street.
Famous
HORDE
Low Prices
’Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 G, G.P.0., Sydney


THE BLACKSMITH
By “S.D.B.”
Grandfather was up early this
morning! I walked up the gully
from the cliffs towards the black-
smith’s shop and could see him
stepping out purposefully, as if he were
definitely going somewhere.
It was the time of day that was un-
usual. The sun had barely lifted clear
of the sea —there was still that illusion
of slight flatness, as if it had bounced a
couple of times before clearing the water.
Half-past six! Uncle Jack was never
down before eight.
With Grandfather, time was unimpor-
tant, and he apparently felt that when he
woke up it was soon enough to get up.
He sometimes came down of his own
accord before lunch. Many times, stand-
ing on a box, working the smooth and
blackened arm of the bellows, I had seen
him stumble sleepily through the open
door of the shop, his old navy coat and
trousers looking as if he had not bothered
to undress before going to bed. He
would always retire in this manner if
Grandmother did not watch him closely.
He would remove his boots and socks (if
any); the well-nigh simultaneous thuds
would be followed almost directly by
a healthy snore. If nothing else, he was
an energetic sleeper.
He lay there on his back, a tall, straight
form outlined beneath the grey blanket
that, stretching fully from red border to
red border, barely covered him from chin
to instep. Even the gnarled toes were
active, and with his snoring the whole
room reverberated about the shaking old
iron bedstead.
HP HE old man was very puzzling to me.
I There was something latent and mys-
terious about his strange, gentle, slipshod
manner. There was infinite range for
speculation in the attitude towards him of
the people who made up our lives—
farmers, laborers, wheat-lumpers, fisher-
men and rabbit-trappers who came to
. the house and the ramshackle black-
smith’s shop. There was somehow a
balance of respect and tolerance and
sometimes the merest suggestion of ser-
i vility and fear in their faces.
There were conversations, stories and
i jokes—illusive fragments of something
that was past, gradually patterning into
sequence in my imagination. Stories of
duck shoots, fox hunts and kangaroos,
of long walks and contests of strength, of
drink and violence and fight, and under-
lying it all the savor of struggle and pro-
test, fierce joy and a dank taste of defeat.
Again I sometimes thought the old man
was perhaps chuckling within and even
a little contemptuous of them all, in-
cluding his sons.
I tried *to accompany him on his long
walks along the beach to Black Point,
down the Muloowurtie road or up Black
Bob’s track. I was only half aware of
the desire to piece my fragments together,
to round out the scrappy detail and com-
plete my picture. On one or two tense
and thrilling occasions I could sense a
yielding, a long-concealed desire to con-
fide, but always it seemed some interrup-
tion came to baffle and disappoint me.
I had a mental picture of him that was
a delight to me. When he came into the
shop he invariably went first to the forge
and, taking a glowing coal between thumb
and forefinger, would transfer it quickly
to the bowl of his pipe. In a few puffs
he would create almost as much smoke as
a newly-lighted coke fire; then, deftly
returning the coal, he would stand star-
ing out to sea —into the mirror of his
own thoughts—as the life of the shop
revolved around him.
When Grandmother’s voice announced
lunch he looked disgust at our prompt
response, removed his coat and, taking
the iron from the fire, would shape it
with the swift sure strokes of the master.
The first time I thought he really was
going to carry on until Uncle Jack and I
got back, but when we did the fire was
almost dead and Grandfather a speck on
the beach, well up towards Rocky Point.
Uncle had an idea one day and suggested
that, from then on, I stay and go to
dinner with Grandfather, saying “He gets
tired of pushing the bellows.”
THE shop was situated about halfway
between the cliffs and the house, and
as we now converged upon it I was
further surprised to find that Uncle Jack
had the smoke already billowing thickly
from the forge, and Grandfather had his
boots laced and tied. Except on Satur-
days, when he went to the township, there
was, more often than not, the ribbed
cuff of his long white underpants visible
through the dragging laces and curled
open boot-tops.
Today, then, was a day of some im-
portance.
Thinking about it for a while made
the reason obvious. Uncle Jack had spent
all the previous afternoon clearing the
massive tyring plate at the side of the
shop, stacking mallee roots and bluebush
branches in big handy heaps. Andy
Somerville’s wagon was in the yard, the
rear axle chocked up on old hubs and
broken fellies. We were going to tyre
two of the massive six-inch wheels, and
I was going to see a new grandfather.
* ns i!! red * n j ls
The wood was already built and the
B re was soon burning vigorously all round
the first tyre.
Grandfather laid out the big steel dogs
le / e f s ’ the , sled B es , hammers and the*
re st of the tools. I was given the job of
car hng water in buckets from the under-
grou j d tank to fill Grandmother’s big
round washtubs, which were placed ready
* or the moment they would be needed,
was an * dea l da Y f° r the job ; there
'Y as a fresh breeze off the sea blowing
sm °ke away from the tyring plate,
The fire was reall y Sphering heat now
and the solld mallee roots were glowing
ma^ es ’ breaking down and crumbling in
white-hot coals and feathery ash. Grand-
£ at^er was ssu m§ last-minute instruc-
tl0 T ns ’ . ~
, . iad s 9] domseen outdoors with
c ° a | and ne yer his hat. He was
a taa > lm P ressiv <-, dominating figure in
s ™ rt sleeve s and the usual mild, even
vague expression was changed to one of
concentration, his lips were drawn
slightly back from his blackened teeth,
and y* l * l a *? ng white beard he looked
som ehow enigmatic, as if, despite the
f/ esei }l rl l s A’ - wa /- smdlB S at some
thoughts distant m his mind, and was
“ urr ymg the work to return to them. His
forearms were thick with hair, powerful,*
with long ropy muscles and great veins
running from the withered skin of his
elbow to the knobbed, sinewy hands.
They seemed like tools he had picked
up and was using for the day. His smooth
head and lined face were shining with
perspiration, and his eyes were eager.
Even Uncle Jack was very much the
subordinate: he was stripped to a short-
sleeved flannel, with the two white
buttons undone at the throat and dark
piatches spreading under the arms and
across the back,
Grandfather poked the blazing
mass tentatively and the fire showed
glowing red. Both picked up their huge
goose-necked tongs.
“She’s ready! Now, young fellow!
You stand on the other side with the
hammer and when we lift you can knock
the rubbish off.”
I could feel the blood mounting. There
was excitement in the creep and feel of
thickening muscles; excitement and satis-
faction in the visible result of applica-
tion and skill; thrill in the feel of hard
smooth handle and the warm, sweaty
effort.
They stooped together and, taking a
firm grip, lifted the red-hot tyre clear
of the fire. At the impatient head-signal
I tensed and swung the hammer in a blow
that jarred the ash and shale to -the
ground.
The action was quicker now and tense.
The tyre must be on and cooled quickly to
obtain the best shrinkage and toughness.
They stepped the few paces to the plate
and placed it on the wheel, with the
inner edge in one spot slightly overlap-
ping the outside rim of the felly. One to
hold it steady now while Uncle Jack,
catching up the big lever, applied a steady,
equalising pressure. Dropping his own
tongs and snatching up a hammer, Grand-
father worked round in steady blows
each side of the portion overlapping.
Uncle Jack, increased the pressure until,
toes barely touching the ground, he
hunched his enormous shoulders right
over the bar, his glistening skin and
muscles writhing and bulging in maxi-
mum, straining effort.
The smoke of burning hardwood rose,
pungent, searing the nostrils like the smell
of burning hoof from the shoeing pen.
The tyre was lapping all round and jets
of flame leaped into life here and'there
along the rim.
The tools were again swiftly changed
and Grandfather held the big steel-
banded wooden swedge to the powerful
swinging strokes of the sledge-hammer,
stepping backwards round the wheel to
keep the tyre moving evenly.
“Quick, now! The water!”
We were all enveloped in a rising cloud
of steam as we dipped from the tubs and
quenched the thirsty, hissing steel.
It soon cleared and the first wheel was
done, the spokes and fellies still talking
one to the other as the tightening circle
drew them in close final embrace about
the massive hub. There were water
globules leaping and scurrying and
shrinking in torture to nothingness across
the smooth surface of the plate. There
was a period of relaxation and wp grate-
fully relieved tired muscles. It was like
surveying the shambles following a battle.
A S soon as the second tyre was dropped
into the slumbering heat and the fire
built up again, the first wheel was un-
screwed, lifted upright and trundled
drunkenly to the wagon, greased, juggled
on to the axle and keyed. Uncle Jack
told me to whip up to the house and see
if lunch was ready,
“If we waste too much time the old
man’ll get fed up and leave us to it. I
want to get the other one on before we
knock off.”
By the time the tubs were full and
the tools laid out, Grandfather had had
his lunch and the second tyre was ready.
We were much quicker this time. I
found myself handing the tools when
they were needed, and was allowed to
help belting down. The efficiency was
perhaps overdone—Uncle Jack provided
the only untoward incident by falling
over a bucket I had filled ready for cool-
ing off.
Grandfather had lost interest. He
worked now without enthusiasm, con-
cerned only with finishing an irksome
task. The eager, unfathomable look was
replaced by one of protest and im-
patience, The distartt thoughts were now
dissolved into immediate dissatisfied jang-
lings. He took his coat from the nail as
soon as the tyre was flush with the plate.
Uncle Jack and I continued—cooling
off, replacing the wheel and generally
clearing up. I had knocked the blocks
off the hubs and dragged them from be-
neath the axle, while he held the weight
on the sides alternately with a long
pole as a lever. We took all the tools
back to their appointed places in the
shop, raked the fire and returned the
tubs.
He said “You’ll soon be able to help
me by yourself,” and in spite of a blis-
tered hand and aching muscles I felt
suddenly proud.
OOKING down the gully, I could see
J — a shambling figure in an old navy
coat and felt hat, walking away into the
afternoon as if in aimless search of some-
thing. I again felt puzzled and disturbed.
All round me were the things I had
felt to be part of me, had grown up with.
The old, dilapidated blacksmith’s shop
with the loose sheets of iron held on by
the paraphernalia of the trade, the heap
of scrap-metal sprawling on its green
spring groundsheet, stalks of grass in its
tangled fretwork.,
A cold fear held me. It all seemed to
have lost its warmth, its old familiarity
and friendliness. The scrap suddenly im-
pressed itself in infinite detail upon my
mind —worn and twisted ploughshares;
broken cultivator tynes; horseshoes with
stubs of nails ; squares, flats and rounds
of indiscriminate length and variety ; the
broken wheel of a combine with rusty
spokes awry, and the wreck of the ancient
three-wheeled plough with thistles and
marshmallow growing richly green up
through the mangled framework ; the old
reaper we used as a fowlhouse.
I remembered the times I had felt de-
rision in Grandfather’s smile, and a con-
necting thread reached out and linked
itself from his soul to mine. I felt I knew
him a little better.
Bill Posters.
You won’t get pity, you won’t get pardon,
They’ll search the cellar, they’ll probe the
garden.
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters.
It’s no good saying you never did it,
They’ll find that body wherever you hid it:
Murder is nice but the laws forbid it,
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
While you lay asleep by the side of your wife
Somebody saw you sharpen the knife,
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters.
Somebody owned the sack you stole,
Somebody saw you digging the hole,
Somebody knows he’ll have your soul,
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
You shall be charged with breaking the peace,
Banged and badgered by large police,
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters.
They’ll come with summons, they’ll come with
injunction,
They’ll come with handcuffs and no compunc-
tion,
The law is firm and the law will function,
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
Under the bed or behind the door,
They want that man who started the war,
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters.
On village and city crashes the bomb,
They shriek at the sky where the bomb came
from
And your heart cries out like a voice from the
tomb
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
High is the mountain, wide is the plain,
You’ll never escape that voice in your brain,
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters.
Dive, in the surf, hit a ball about,
Hide in the film when the lights go out,
You’ll still be hearing the newsboys shout
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
Body of infant found in gutter,
Down in the slums you have heard them mutter,
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters.
The old mare’s bolting and you can’t stop her,
Father of ten slays nine with chopper,
Somebody’s running to fetch the copper,
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
Found in taxi with neighbor’s wife.
You never had such a time in your life,
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters.
Helen who wrecked the Grecian ships
Was round as an apple about the hips
But a weasel bit from between her lips,
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
Who was the hiker who dropped the match
And didn’t believe the grass would catch.
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters?
The creeks are dry and there’s nowhere to run,
A red smoke covers the face of the sun
And there in the murk of it justice is done,
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
Wasn’t it you, was it somebody else,
Adam and Eve as the fable fells,
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters?
Whoever it was it’s you they’ll blame,
It’s you they’ll throw to the house of flame,
Listen, the very stones proclaim
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
Rage at the stars but they won’t hear,
Venus shines for her dainty dear,
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters.
Saturri goes round in a ring all night,
Orion buckles his belt up tight.
No doctor lives at Mars’ red light,
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
Call to your brother, he’s deaf as a post,
Call to your sister, she’s gone like a ghost,
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters.
A man can’t walk if a man can’t fall,
Or maybe you did no harm at all,
But the writing is glaring on every wall,
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
You shall be washed as white as snow
In a hundred million years or so,
Bill Posters, O Bill Posters.
As white as a gull you shall rise from the slime,
But now you are living and life is crime,
You were born a man and you’ll serve your
time.
Bill Posters will be prosecuted.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Standpoints.
C I ) Retrospect.
It is only barking shins upon
the fallen ridgepole under the fern.
All is old ground; the camp moved on
when the work moved on. And though you
might trace
inch by known inch of it, leave this place:
there is less to learn here than unlearn.
(2) Experience.
In always a fumbled and strange task,
not scribed to a template, squared nor planned,
and never drafted at the desk,
this tool shapes clumsily to the hand.
(3) Knowledge. *
That too were useful if one could
knock on life lived, re-enter indeed
time past, and with all understood
—not of this outcome (which new choice
of action cancels at first voice)
but of mind’s darkness and its need.
(4) Balance.
All is clear gain; write off the overhead
as not the living man’s debt. So now, for life,
what good may come is profit; since you ( were
dead
these nine years back but for the surgeon’s knife.
(5) Development.
Suffer then also sorrow, creeping of years,
pain, hardship; for nobility wore such scars
as if in endurance lay all strength, all growth.
Yet is there reason to be loath:
it wants more than endurance to erect
in life’s length character worth its own respect.
(6) Verdict.
How little of what is done is of account
except having paid your way—which will not
mount
so high to the gap in conscience as to back
more positive achievement’s lack
with merits to justify you who descend
from the ruined banker’s son, Charles Darwin’s
friend.
(7) Duty.
Remains the unknown, that malice. One would
forestall
what evil the fqture brings, and most of all
for these who might meet it most. But days
have laughed '
before at careful handicraft
in coffins built too soon... Leave tenon and
wedge:
you are pledged to filling mouths —the immedi-
ate pledge.
(8) Existence.
Fire burning ... and it might almost tell
outline and formula for flame,
could but the asking sight compel
brief stay of what an instant bore;
which on that instant was no more,
as if by its being gone it came.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3336.
Wednesday, January 19, 1944.
SALUTE TO CASEY.
“Are they firing AT me or FOR me?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ■Phone 87971.
Victoria: hiewspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (,opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London; E.C.4.
LONE TRAIL?
To distant and romantic Tehran went the
leaders of Britain, the U.S.A. and the
U.S.S.R. to complete the work begun at
Moscow by their Foreign Secretaries,
and continued at Cairo by Mr. Churchill,
Mr. Roosevelt and Generalissimo Chiang
Kai-shek. That series of conferences and
another Churchill-Roosevelt meeting, also
at Cairo, with the Turkish President
and Foreign Secretary were hailed by
Field-Marshal Smuts as “the greatest
event of the century, if not of the cen-
turies,” and Mr. Cy Sulzberger, the New
York “Times” correspondent at Cairo,
wrote that the gentlemen present had
“architecturally designed the shape of the
world for years to come.” In an editorial
his paper borrowed and amplified the
figure and judgment, saying that the dele-
gates had “laid the foundations for a
new and better order in the world and
mapped out the means for creating it.”
They demonstrated that the United
Nations in general and the Big Four Powers
in particular are determined and able to
work together... .They laid down the prin-
ciples along which the problems of the
world can be solved by reaffirming the
Atlantic Charter and projecting a world
family of democratic nations in which all
peace-loving nations, large and small, can
have their rightful place. And they demon-
strated their good faith by applying these
principles in such cases as are ripe for pro-
nouncement, such as Iran.
Exactly a month later the New York
“Times” was in a very different mood.
“The Moscow conference,” it said,
“agreed to establish machinery for closest
co-operation between the Governments
of the United States, Britain and the
U.S.S.R. in the examination of European
questions as the war develops.”
The Polish situation is such a question.
Russia sent what amounts to an ultimatum
to Poland with no previous consultation.
A mistake, also a bad precedent, and
Americans must have serious misgivings.
Powerful though it is, Russia is not strong
enough to follow safely a lone trail.
It was a month crowded with shocks for
dreamers of dreams. The first came from
Iran, where the Big Three had subscribed
to a declaration recognising the “assist-
ance Iran has given in the prosecution
of the war against the common enemy,”
promising it “economic assistance” dur-
ing the war and after, as well as
“the maintenance of its independence,
sovereignty and territorial integrity,” and
“counting on its participation in the
establishment of international peace,
security and prosperity in accordance
with the principles of the Atlantic
Charter, to which all four Governments
have continued to subscribe.” “This,”
wrote Mr. Cy Sulzberger, “reassures not
only the weak Government of the ancient
and unhealthy State which lies athwart
Russia’s traditional quest for warm-water
ports in the Indian Ocean and a third
exit presently occupied by Red Army
troops, but all the little States in the
Middle East.” But within a week the
Iranian Minister to the U.S.A. was pro-
testing that Iran was “in very serious eco-
nomic difficulties, caused entirely by the
war,” and asking the Allies to “begin a
gradual withdrawal of their troops,” so
as to “restore our life-lihes to the con-
trol of our Government.”
Turkey was also mentioned by the NY.
“Times” man at Cairo. Describing it as
“the connecting link between Europe and
Asia,” he said it had been “reassured as
to its future position in the w0r1d....
reassured that Moscow does not want the
Dardanelles, nor a back door in Iran.”
Other writers were convinced that the
Turks’ objections to belligerency had been
overcome and that the Allies would soon
be bombing the enemy from Turkish
bases, and moving their warships through
the Dardanelles and the Bosphorus into
the Black Sea. But Turkey still stands
above the battle.
While the Tehran conference was in
progress Dr. Benes was said to be hover-
ing somewhere about that region. Im-
mediately it was over he went to Moscow
and signed a treaty of alliance with
the U.S.S.R. Forewarning of this,
Mr. Eden admitted in the Commons,
had been given at the Molotov-Hull-
Eden parleys, but Americans were
annoyed, and their feelings were not
allayed when a British United Press cor-
respondent gave the substance of a state-
ment alleged to have been made by Dr.
Benes to Czechs in Cairo on his way
back. It was to the effect that the
U.S.S.R. and Czechoslovakia would have
a common frontier after the war, that the
Sudeten Germans would be expelled from
their part of Czechoslovakia and that the
Russians would regain and keep Bess-
arabia and Northern Bukovina. A Czech
spokesman in London weighed in with a
denial, but, according to the United
Press, it amounted to nothing more than
an assertion that “Dr. Benes would not
say such things.”
About the same time Moscow an-
nounced its intention of sending a mili-
tary mission to Yugoslavia to support
Tito, who alleges that he is fighting “the
traitor Mihailovich” as well as the Ger-
mans and has repudiated King Peter, a
protege of Mr. Churchill. The U.S.S.R.
Government placed three Germans and a
Russian traitor on trial at Kharkov, and
hanged them after they had confessed to
frightful atrocities —“Russian courts are
known for confessions” was a New York
“Times” comment. The United Nations
War Crimes Commission being men-
tioned, Russia claimed representation for
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania as Soviet
territories, “thereby for the first time for-
mally implying the acquisition of the
Baltic States as an accomplished fact” ; it
had “previously expressed the opinion
that the British Dominions should not
have separate representation.” And for
arguing in a newspaper article that the
future of Poles and Balts should be the
subject of Allied negotiations, Mr. Wen-
dell Willkie was furiously attacked by
“Pravda,” which denounced him as a
meddler and a double-dealer and harshly
declared that foreign interference in the
affairs of “integral parts” of the U.S.S.R.
would not be tolerated.
The Poles have powerful friends and
influential organisations in the United
States, and, between the Hull-Eden-
Molotov and Churchill-Roosevelt-Stalin
conferences their cause was championed
at a New York meeting addressed by
Mayor La Guardia, Senator Brewster
and Congresswoman Sumner, a Republi-
can from Illinois. Mrs. Sumner was
“cheered wildly” when she said that
“Polish women and children have en-
dured every kind of cruelty under Stalin
and Hitler.” The lady accused Mr.
Wendell Willkie, who belongs to her
party, of having given “a false picture of
the situation, especially in Yakut —
he evidently missed seeing the mammoth
forced-labor camps where Polish prisoners
are treated worse than slaves because
they held anti-Communist opinions”
(“Daily Mirror” report). “Some Wash-
ington officials,” the lady added, “pri-
vately criticise the Moscow agreements,
saying they will mean the transfer of
Europe from Hitler to Stalin.” And
Mayor La Guardia, paying a tribute to
“the still-existing republic of Poland,”
said the Poles “will need friends at the
peace table.”
They haven’t many friends in Austra-
lian newspaper offices. When the Rus-
sians burst into Central Poland and simul-
taneously announced that “the Soviet-
Polish border” had been “determined in
accordance with the wishes of the popu-
lations of the western Ukraine and
western Byelo-Russia at the plebiscite of
1939,” at which Moscow decided who,
should vote and counted the votes (“the
Polish State and its Government,” Mr.
Molotov said, “have virtually ceased to
exist”), there was the familiar outbreak
of Russia-is-always-right stuff. This time
the Melbourne “Argus” joined in. It had
the face to describe objections to “the
incorporation in the Soviet Union of
the ‘cordon sanitaire’ Baltic States and
that portion of Poland roughly east of
the Curzon Line” as “anti-Russian
propaganda.” With equal impudence and
total disregard of the British Common-
wealth’s obligations under the League, to
which the Maoriland Prime Minister re-
ferred in Sydney (though not in respect
of the border rumpus) as a going concern
still, the “Argus” alleged that “Russia,
both before and since it became involved
in the war, has constantly demanded a
western frontier that will protect her.”
This is one of those half-truths that are
“worse than the blackest of lies.”
Russia made no such demand when it
was a member of the League, In the
Maisky-Sikorski agreement signed in the
British Foreign Office on July 29, 1941,
it was explicitly stated on behalf
of “the U.S.S.R. Government” that
“the Russo-German treaties of 1939 re-
garding territorial changes in Poland have
lost their validity,” Mr. Eden thereupon
handed General Sikorski a Note stating
that “in conformity with the provisions
of the Agreement of Mutual Assistance
between the United Kingdom and Poland,
his Majesty’s Government has entered
into no undertakings with the U.S.S.R.
which affect relations between this coun-
try and Poland” and “does not recognise
any territorial changes which have been
effected in Poland since August, 1939.”
In the Atlantic Charter Mr. Churchill
and Mr, Roosevelt set on record their
“desire to see no territorial changes
that do not accord with the freely ex-
pressed wishes of the peoples concerned”
and their “wish to see sovereign rights and
self-government restored to those who
have been forcibly deprived of them.”
In the Anglo-Russian Treaty “the High
Contracting Parties” not only agreed
“to work together in close and friendly
collaboration for the organisation of
security and economic prosperity in
Europe,” but pledged themselves to “take
into account the interests of the United
Nations in these objects,” and to “act in
accordance with the two principles of not
seeking territorial aggrandisement for
themselves and of non-interference in the
internal affairs of other States.” So it is
impossible for Britain and the Dominions
to associate with Communists and
Russia-is-always-right journalists and
radio uncles in selling Poland and the
Baltic States —in which there are no
“western Ukrainians” or “Byelo-Russians”
—down the river.
The U.S.A. is not a member of the
League—though it recognised, and still
recognises, Poland and the Baltic States
—nor has it a written alliance with
Russia. But as one of the United Nations,
subscribing to the Atlantic Charter, it has
made immense gifts to the Russians with-
out exacting terms, and when Secretary
Hull reported to Congress on the
Moscow declaration there was universal
applause. Among other things, the old
statesman said:
Questions relating to boundaries—there
are 30 or 40—must by their very nature
be left in abeyance till the termination of
hostilities....
As the provisions of the declaration are
carried into effect there will no longer be
need for spheres of influence, for alliances,
for balance of power or any other of the
arrangements through which, in the unhappy
past, the nations "strove to safeguard their
security or promote their interests.
To Mr. Hull, more than any other
man, the Russian claims, presented as
they have been with such expressions of
hostility to “Polish usurpers” and the
Polish Government, and in such a spirit
of contempt for the Atlantic Charter,
the Tehran declaration notwithstanding,
must have come as a shock. Though
allowance may be made for the feelings,
and even the thinking, of a Government
whose people have suffered so terribly as
the Russians have done and borne their
sufferings with such fortitude, persistence
in its present course is fraught with the
obvious risk of alienating American
friendship and support. No man, nor
any nation, likes to be thought a mug or
to feel that he or it is so rated.
A Digger Policy.
Leaving no doubt about where it stands
as an Australian services organisation
with a national outlook, the R.S.L., by
direction of its latest —the 28th —Con-
gress, held in Hobart, has issued a broad-
sheet setting out the Australian policy it
supports for now and after the war. Im-
mediate aims are naturally largely con-
cerned with planning for the re-establish-
ing of service men and women in normal
civilian life when the war ends or as their
service ends. That should also be a
major concern of the Australian Govern-
ment ; and in all other respects the R.S.L.
policy is good Australian policy. -
In their League the Diggers have, and
operate on, principles that are principles.
Hence, in nailing their colors to the mast,
they can today nail up the policy for
themselves and for Australia which they
adopted in 1924. By it, they remain non-
sectarian and neutral on all questions of
party politics. They have, of course,
special interests —if the welfare and just
treatment by the country of those who
are fighting for the country are to be
classed as “special interests.” It is a
national interest to see that all of these
who survive are fairly and squarely
restored to working citizenship, and it
should be set as high by the nation as it
is by the League. The Diggers of the
League will fight for this, though without
getting into party politics, and certainly
without resort to the sort of national
blackmail which home-front sectional
interests are pursuing while prospective
League members are away helping to
hold the country safe.
The basis of their policy, dating from
1924, includes: The integrity of the
Empire ; White Australia; an adequate
defence force; a vigorous immigration
system, with necessary safeguards to en-
sure suitable migrants being obtained;
unification of railway gauges; nationali-
sation of main roads ; decentralisation of
industries ; reafforestation ; public health ;
trade within our Empire.
. Adopted by Australia when the League
adopted it and vigorously carried out,
that policy would now have been return-
ing incalculable dividends. By the politi-
cal parties which formed the Govern-
ments and ran the country from 1924 till
this war had actually started that Diggers’
programme for the country was almost
entirely ignored. It was worse than
ignored on the vital issue of defence.
Part 2 of the programme —headed
“During the War” —gives first place
to “The solidarity, security and de-
velopment of our Empire.” The next
proposal—for a “War Government repre-
sentative of all sections of the people of
Australia” —has been ruled out by the
electorate, and will no doubt remain ruled
out unless the war drags on beyond the
comforting dates now being named by
people who ought to know, or who ought
to know better. Then Australia would
most likely once more belatedly discover
that the advice given by its best authori-
ties on war and defence—the aptual
fighters, represented by their League—
was as sound on non-sectional Govern-
ment as it was between the wars on
adequate defence.
Another proposal in this section —for
One Army, “for service wherever re-
quired”—has also been ruled out, by the
present Government, apparently sup-
ported by majority approval of leaving
most of the fighting of total war to volun-
teers. Adoption of this proposal would
have had the incidental effect of solving
a domestic problem of the League, which,
as it is now constituted, is itself a per-
petuating agency for the outmoded —and
damnably unfair—volunteer system, since
it accepts for membership only volun-
teers who have returned from combat
areas. As it now stands, all those volun-
teers holding vital positions in Australia
and all those who'will be training to carry
on at the fronts when the fighting ends will
be ineligible for League membership.
Preference in employment to ex-service
men and women, immediate application
of a comprehensive scheme of vocational
training and the rehabilitation, during
the war, of discharged members of the
fighting services, “without prejudice to
their post-war rights,” are the other planks
of this section of the Diggers’ programme.
In the matter of preference, the proposal
is for “first and complete preference to
those who enlisted for service abroad and
who served in a combat area.” This is
thorny.
Again, One Army would have sim-
plified the issue. Then all could have
been on one footing. As it is, what the
League actually asks for is first prefer-
ence to those who are eligible for its
membership. Nothing can be too good
for the front-line troops, for men serving
in action with the R.A.A.F. and the
R.A.N. The most miserable sectional-
interest blackmailer on the home front
would hardly dare to dispute that —cer-
tainly he wouldn’t try it in Digger com-
pany. But, if logic is to come into this
issue, then preference should be first to
the actual front-line fighters of the A.1.F.,
R.A.A.F. and R.A.N., with others “in the
combat areas” next, and so forth.
Ruling that out, the issue is still packed
with headaches. There are the thousands
doing vital jobs in uniform in Australia,
who, though they may be taking no risks,
are utterly removed from their civilian
trades and It would be
grossly unfair to rule these out as merely
comparable to the general run of home-
fronters who are carrying on at their
normal occupations. Again, the question
must arise of priority of preference in
rehabilitating these service men and
women —many of them have been serv-
ing since the outbreak —as against those
serving in combat areas, and, as to these
last, there is the question of whether
priority is to be in their interest or in the
country’s interest. Who should be first
discharged, a man who has served for
so many years and wants to get out, but
has no job to go to, or, say, an architect
or a carpenter, without the same length
of service, but vitally needed, as all such
then will be, in the general national in-
terest? This, of course, would go for
farmers and many more. Yet, the war
over, the men who have been for years
,in uniform will want to get out, and if
enough of them want to do so the going
could become thick. This is a human
factor which might send the grandilo-
quent plans for policing and schooling
the world pell-mell down the shute.
The League proposal is to retain the
existing services at their then strengths
until the personnel has been reinstated
in pre-war positions or otherwise rehabili-
tated —by a planned programme—in nor-
mal life. A large proportion, it believes,
could be absorbed by establishing from
such personnel a standing army of
100,000, and many more in works such
as a national building scheme, unification
of the railways, reafforestation and out-
back development.
Add to these proposals the planned—
it will need to be differently planned—
settlement of ex-service men on the land ;
the introduction of measures calculated
to increase population ; and collabora-
tion with other parts of the British Com-
monwealth and Empire in fulfilling inter-
national obligations. It is a notable pro-
gramme. The interests of the fighters
bulk large in it, as they should, not only
from the League point of view, but in
Australia’s national interest. The more
satisfactorily the service men and women
are eventually transformed into produc-
tive and contented citizens the better Aus-
tralia this is going to be. The more closely
the League programme generally is fol-
lowed the better, too, for Australia—the
safer also.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Victoria's Tragic Week.
Once more Victoria has been desolated
by fire. There was grievous loss of human
life—l 9 deaths were added to the 10
which ‘occurred late last month —and
there were huge losses of stock, feed,
fencing and homes. This time the fires
broke out in the Western District, rang-
ing from Melbourne bayside suburbs to
as far away as Mortlake, the recognised
danger belt in the east and north-east
having, so far, escaped. The fires came
after a season of lush growth—Victoria
is normally a lush State except for its
north-west—and, as usual, there was a
high north wind.
The tragic story, though lit by the
usual gleams of daring and heroism, of
men, women and children fighting the
flames until they dropped in their tracks,
is made the more tragic by the knowledge
that foresight and preparation could have
reduced, if not eliminated, the losses.
- It is poor consolation to see politicians
weighing in with “sympathy” and promis-
ing “investigations.” It is nearly five
years since Judge Stretton, sitting as a
Royal Commission on the tragedy of the
1938-39 summer, recommended the
creation of a single State Fire Authority,
free of departmental control. All the
State got was a Rural Fire-fighting Com-
mittee.
Bushfires are a national affair. This
country cannot afford to lose men, women
and children, livestock, grass, homes,
fencing, timber and crops at any time,
let alone while it is trying to carry on its
part in the greatest war in history. There
is a Commonwealth Minister of Home
Security, a Mr. H. P. Lazzarini, He had
not, up till Monday, been heard from,
though his optimistic colleague. Com-
merce Minister Scully, was heard “direct-
ing” somebody to “investigate.” It,is his
third summer as Minister of Home
Security, and if prevention of bushfires
is not part of home security why is he
employed? Man-power is important in
this connection, as in others, and his
Government has been in control of it
all the time.
Outbreaks of fire cannot be prevented,
though they can be lessened, but spread
of fires' can be checked, and that fairly
simply, especially in open grazing
country; It is basically a matter of charg-
ing some one authority with the duty of
doing it, and the obvious authority in war-
time is the Department of Home Security.
Victoria is not the only State that has
had a lush season.
Letter from a Communist.
“Ek Dum”: One of my treasures is a
choice collection of letters from Commu-
nists. All are abusive, all anonymous,
and some contain threats.
Added to the collection is a missive
neatly typed on ruled notepaper and
signed “Not Dumb.” The address is
“Surrey Hills,” and a tirade staled by
repetition ends with a prophecy, which
is fresh:
Believe us, your cup of bitterness is not
yet nearly full, for you have not long to live
to see International Capitalism, enthroned
at present in Londpn and New York, meet
the fate it deserves. Our comrades in all
European countries wait to take over. As
the existing German regime fa 115.... our
comrades in France, in the Netherlands, in
Spain, in the Balkans, in Germany itself and
in the Baltic States extend the hand of wel-
come to the heroic Russians as they sweep
westward. Against a consolidated Commu-
nist Europe, International Capitalism will be
powerless and in the British Empire and
America this vile system will wither and die.
This is an “Australian” Communist who
doesn’t consider himself at war with
Japan. And, considering all the war-time
strikes in which Communists have been
concerned, it would be a miracle if he
were the only one.
A State Election.
“G.C.G.”: South Australia is to have a
State election in the autumn, and the
result is anybody’s gues,s. Playford has
been Premier since 1938 and can
claim a useful record of achievement;
moreover, he has a strong party
organisation. It got a thrashing in
August, only one of the nine Federal
seats being saved, and, hoping for
an encore, Labor is contesting Leg. Coun-
cil seats that it seldom bothers about.
But a repetition is not widely expected.
Voting is to be compulsory for the first
time, and Independents are scurrying into
one or other of the two parties or bar-
gaining for immunity. Many seats are
labelled doubtful.
The two leaders are an interesting pair
to watch, either in the Assembly or in
the press. They have some personal
qualities in common. They are as austere
a couple as you could dig up over here,
so Bung and the Bookie have little to
hope from either. But there the re-
semblance ends.
Playford enlisted at 18 and was in
Gallipoli and France. Like his grand-
father and namesake in calling, physique
and mental make-up, his career has run
much on the same lines. He is Australia’s
only Digger Premier.
Richards has had a long career in State
politics, having unseated ex-Premier
John Verran in World War I. Taciturn
off the platform, he sounds like a penny
dreadful when wound up. He was a
member of the ill-fated Hill Government
which agreed to the Premiers’ Plan. Hav-
ing helped Hill to make it law, he was
soon helping to make Hill the party
scapegoat, himself enjoying (nobody else
did) a brief Premiership before South
Australia gave his Government a record
licking.
A different twist of circumstances
might have made Richards a banker or
a B.H.P. manager. He is a socialist, but
his cry of Socialism is qualified by a
private prayer, “But not in our day, O
Lord.” He said queer things recently
about the White Australia policy and has
not responded to invitations to explain
what he was driving at.
Richards is suspected of Federal ambi-
tions. Makin was mentioned for Canada
and Richards might accept a call to Hind-
marsh, if the bigwigs at Port Adelaide
deigned to look with favor on a
Premiers’-planner.
If South Australia has any regard for
commonsense and political sanity Play-
ford will win again.
P.T. Boats.
From John Brennan:
The P.T.Bs. nestle close to the trees along the
shores of the inlet. Fast, light motor-torpedo
boats with the lines of a wealthy man’s speediest
pleasure cruiser, they carry out the greater part
of the nightly sea-patrol work in the South
Pacific. During long, monotonous, sleepless
nights their crews maintain an unceasing watch
for signs of enemy barge activity, hoping always
that the Jap will attempt an evacuation of his
forces or the running of supplies and that
there’ll be shooting and action.
During the day they’re hidden from air obser-
vation by the overhanging branches of the trees.
Their crews sleep stretched out on the deck in
the shade. They’re the United States Navy’s
tiniest striking force, but there’s the same close-
knit harmony among the members of the crew,
the same pride in their ships, as there is in a
battleship or a cruiser.
Shortly after dusk the boats of the squadron
move slowly out of the trees and out through
the narrow passage in the reef which bars the
entrance to the anchorage. Then they split into
groups; one section heads south, one north,
one east. The noise of the motors swells to a
deeper, vibrant humming; the bow lifts power-
fully from the water as the screws bury deeper.
Astern the water boils white, thrown high
above the level of the deck, and falls again to
form a wide and gleaming track that stretches
back as far as the eye can see to the fading
darkness'of the land.
The gunners climb into their turrets and swing
their guns a little, pointing them to the sky.
There’s a faint gleam of light from the open-
ing of the charthouse, and the helmsman shifts
the screen a little to blot it out. The silhou-
ette of an island comes up darker than the
darkness ahead. The lead boat of the section
swings in a wide, sweeping semicircle heading
in towards the shore, and the others follow it
around like a trio of racing boats making a
turn around a buoy. It’s a swaying, swerving,
zigzag course now, for there’s no knowing
when one of the enemy’s night-patrolling float-
planes will come sweeping down in a strafing
run, attracted by those wide, white pathways
across the sea.
The lead boat swings around again in a
change of course that will take it parallel to
the line of the land a quarter of a mile away.
The little flotilla is hitting over 40 knots,
but the land seems to pass slowly by. the
point runs out a long way, falling in a daric,
gradual slope from the mountains.
The boats make a turn around it, sweep in
along the shores of a wide bay. There is no
glimmer of light from the land, nothing to
suggest that this is not just a dark, dead stretch
of uninhabited jungle. But the most important
Japanese concentrations in the area are there
along the shores of the bay, and there the
enemy has his supply dumps and barge station.
Everything is quiet, the persistent, regular
sound of the motors so much a part of every-
thing as to be scarcely heard. It dies to a
quieter humming. The lead boat slows quickly
till it is scarcely moving; the others slow with
it, closing a little in their formation. The water
churning white from the screws subsides into
darkness; those broad white pathways fade
from the sea. Every eye is turned towards the
sky, searching for ’planes. The gunners swing
the twin fifties in their turrets, pointing.
Nothing! It seems that time stands still in-
terminably. But in a few minutes the sound
of the motors swells again and the stern of the
ship thrusts down as the section sweeps round
and back on its patrol.
There are 30 miles of coastline to be covered
with its little bays and indentations where small
streams and rivers come down from the hilly
country behind. The boats head down along it
and back and down again. There is no sign
from the land, nothing but the darkness, though
the night glasses sweep back and forth. It is
midnight; two o’clock, three o’clock. The
motors die away again to an idle murmur. The
boats nose closer inshore and pass ever so
slowly back up along the line of the patrol.
Perhaps they may draw fire from the machine-
guns and shore batteries that are hidden there
in the edge of the jungle. Nothing again. The
enemy will not disclose his positions.
Four o’clock! It will be dawn soon and the
section must be away and back towards its
base; knd still no shooting. The hunting has
been poor for weeks. There’s been nothing like
the excitement of those happy, hectic nights a
couple of months ago when the Jap was evacu-
ating Bairoko, Kolombangara and Vella Lavella,
when his naval task forces could be expected
to make a run down to battle it out in the
Kula Gulf, when his bombers on the way to
hit at Munda would spare a flare and a stick
of bombs for a P.T. Boat.
Boats form up in line and. go slowly in along
the shores of the bay again. “Our light sur-
face units,” as the communique puts it, are
about to bombard “enemy installations.”
For twenty minutes the P.T.Bs. “bombard”
the enemy’s headquarters with tiny mortars
borrowed from the army and set up for’ard on
the deck. There’s plenty of satisfaction in the
dull sound of their explosions, in the quick
flash where one lands a little short on the edge
of the beach. Then they turn slowly out from
the land, the motors roar again and they head
proudly for home again, rolling out their wake
behind them.
Ihe P.T. Boat's are in the “Naval Bombard-
ment” business. They’re growing up.
THE COUPON CLASS,
“Come, come, gentlemen—this is the easiest conundrum on the list.”


/
m
■
m
m
1 1... m
M
.. tim
W£sMm
■
■
* ' I
1
m
TIM 7'
Uninterrupted Service...
constant, competent and
conscientious
When you entrust the direction of your financial affairs, or the administration
of an estate, to Burns Philp Trust Company Limited, you can depend upon the
most efficient service, the most competent direction, the most trustworthy
advice in all matters relating to the wise control of financial affairs. The
service of this Company is continuous. It is a permanent institution com-
manding the cumulative knowledge of directors and executives of wide
financial experience.
In your own irfterests, and the interests of your dependents and beneficiaries,
you should investigate the service this Company offers.
DIRECTORS—Jamas Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
C»Q M.PANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B - Sydney.
BP 52-43.
POLITICAL POINTS
In the latest bushfires in Victoria an-
other 19 deaths were added to the previ-
ous ten. The worst outbreak occurred
on Friday, January 14, exactly five years
to a day after the most disastrous series
of fires in Victorian history, when 70
perished. A State Minister announced that
a thorough investigation would be made
and the law strictly enforced —exactly
five years after another State Minister
had made a similar declaration. And
there is no supreme authority to direct
prevention and fighting of bushfires even
yet.
Facing a crowd of Melbourne butchers,
a “senior officer of the Rationing Com-
mission” was asked by one to work out
a meat-coupon problem likely to bob up
anywhere. He couldn’t do it, though he
battled for ten minutes with paper and
pencil. Saying the noise was‘unfair, he
finally refused to answer, and when other
officials said no butcher would have to
work in such a noise there was a howl
of derision. These rationing officials don’t
know much about the housewife when
she’s fighting to get a feed for her family.
Taking pills and potions has been a
weakness of many Australians for gener-
ations. Hard pressed as it is for war
funds —another loan is to be launched
presently—the Labor Government pro-
poses to minister to the weakness by
making medicine free at all dispensaries.
The first protests were heard when it was
given out by the Health man, Fraser,
that only doctors’ prescriptions would be
gratis ; and his reply was that “no pri-
vate doctor would conceivably refuse to
give a prescription because the patient
was unable to pay.” Nearly all g.ps.
are overworked these days, and their
obvious retort is that Fraser wouldn’t
dare to. ask a unionist to work for
nothing. There is certain to be a roaring
demand for extension of the privilege to
patent medicines and headache (or hang-
over) tablets and powders, and it is
equally certain that the Government will
surrender to it, surrender being its invari-
able habit. Then the taxpayers will be
up for a liability of vast dimensions.
Lt.-Col. Murray Robson, M.L.A.,
to a constituent:
We were in the Lae show this time, and
then chased the enemy up the Markham
and Ramu Valleys... .We won’t rest satis-
fied until we have the poor old Eighth
Division safe and sound.
A very different viewpoint from that
of a parcel of Sydney Labor members,
who are whingeing because the Army
won’t let them decide who should be in
it and out.
There k something radically wrong
with the priority system on inter-State
travel. In one of his periodical blasts
.against it, Hartigan, the N.S.W. Railways
Commissioner, said 359 berths, 1739 first-
class and 2654 second-class seats, were
vacant on Sydney-Melbourne expresses
in the last quarter of 1943. Playford
came in with the statement that there
were 4812 vacancies on Adelaide-Mel-
bourne expresses in six weeks!
Residents of Coogee and Bondi (Syd-
ney), feeling an earth tremor one after-
noon recently, declared it to be an earth-
quake shock. It wasn’t. It was the col-
lapse of several Bellevue Hill residents
who’d just received new income-tax
assessments.
Communication from a Sydney Organ-
iser, together with “a copy of a sum-
mary of the Philosophy of the Liberal
Democratic Party, also a booklet con-
taining the Constitution, Philosophy and
Policy”:
The State elections are approaching, and
it is anticipated that this party will conduct
an extensive advertising campaign.
I would like to suggest that in the future,
at frequent' dates, you send to this office a
copy of your paper, so that the Publicity
Committee may have your paper before
them for reference when they are planning
the campaign referred to.
The Bulletin will see the Organiser, also
the Publicity Committee, Constitution,
Philosophy, Policy and Party, damned
first.
“Fact,” a Sydney Sunday paper’s “news-
review,” with the usual Leftist trim-
mings, recently had Ciano, Mussolini’s
son-in-law, on a list of war criminals to
be tried and punished by an international
Court.' Along with the 77-year-old Bono
and four others, Ciano was shot by a
Blackshirt firing party at Verona last
week, having been found “guilty of
treason” by a “special Fascist tribunal.”
In his conversations with the “Times”
man (B. 12/1/’44), Badoglio said “Ciano
was against our entry into the war” and
he was one of the 19 members of the
Fascist Grand Council who, on July 24,
“brought Mussolini down, to fall like a
rotten pear.” But he was always poison
to the boo-boo boys.
Opening sentences of two Thursday
leaders in the Sydney morning papers:
* “Herald.” “D.T.”
No tears will be No one will shed
shed over the fate of tears over the execu-
Count Ciano, shot tion of Count Ciano
by “a special Fascist in German - occupied
tribunal” in German- northern Italy,
r—ipied northern
Italy.
iNowadays these papers are very much
alike. The only appreciable difference is
in the number of Huns they “trap” in
the Dnieper Bend—the “D.T.” is leading
by 500,000.
Out of Algiers came a French jour-
nalist’s acid comment on Italy’s co-bel-
ligerency. He quoted Machiavelli:
There is no example in history where the
Flouse of Savoy has finished a war at the
side of the ally with which it began that
war, except where there has been sufficient
time to change twice during the same war.
Certainly the House of Savoy was Ger-
many’s ally in 1914-15 and 1940-43.
If the President can bring it off, the
U.S.A. is to have a national-service law.
Squandermania, black markets and,
above all, strikes have forced him to a
decision which he would apparently have
preferred not to to take. In the
four 1943 coal strikes, all declared in
violation of the unions’ no-strike pledge,
there was a production-loss of 40,000,000
tons, and General Marshall himself had
to tell the union bosses that strikes and
absenteeism were prolonging the war.
“There is no evidence that any mem-
ber of Parliament cares a tinker’s curse
about the Teachers’ Federation.” So said
a Queensland delegate, R. K. Thomson,
to an Australian conference of that con-
cern at Adelaide. “The Federation,” he
added, “can do nothing to bring pressure
on politicians; it is a minority and a
badly organised one at that, and some
of its objectives are absurd.” All this in a
debate on a proposal, warmly recom-
mended by McGuinness, of Sydney, that
the Federation should join the A.C.T.U.
To the indignation of McGuinness,
who protested that “teachers” were “pri-
marily concerned with workers’ children”
and it was “only proper that they should
seek the assistance of the A.C.T.U. in
promoting their better education,” the
proposal was rejected. McGuinness’s
Sydney branch is still free to belong to
the semi-Communist Labor Council and
join in boycotting the W.E.A. for not
being servile to Stalinism —if it can.
President Roosevelt, in a fireside chat
on September 24:
At Tehran Mr. Churchill and I met
Marshal Stalin and talked with complete
frankness on every conceivable subject con-
nected with winning the war and establish-
ing a durable peace. I got along fine with
the marshal. I believe he is truly repre-
sentative of the heart and soul of Russia,
and I believe we are going to get along
very well indeed.
Republicans will now draw the inference
that the Russian claims to the half of
Poland were discussed at Tehran, It
doesn’t look as if the Democrats will get
the Polish vote at the November elec-
tions.
A bounding baron returns to the lime-
light:—
Lord Beaverbrook’s judgment has often
been wrong. He pathetically and fruitlessly
demanded Empire freetrade. On the eve
of the outbreak of war he said that there
would be no war. In the House of Lords
and through his newspapers he demanded
a “Second Front Now” at the very moment
when Britain’s existence was imperilled by
shipping losses, and the British forces were
hopelessly ill-equipped for Middle East
operations.
So, of course, Left-wingers are demand-
ing that Churchill should name him Secre-
tary for War.
There was a Police Association con-
ference in Sydney last week, and when
people read the old allegation that the
force was seething with discontent they
waited for McKell to reply—as he did —
that it was really seething with the asso-
ciation secretary. But for once there was
an agreeable change:
Constable O’Dea said that the prevailing
pin-pricking was causing great unrest....
the persecution going on was enough to
make King John of Magna Charta fame
turn in his grave.
But if the old boy wasn’t the hero of
Magna Charta, why should he turn?
Paddy Lynch’s death in Westralia re-
minded W. M. Hughes that he is not
only the sole original (1901) Federal
member but the one Labor conscrjption-
ist still on deck. Those who followed him
out of the party-room in 1916 were
Senators Russell, Givens, Guthrie, Senior,
Storey, Newland, P. J. Lynch, Pearce,
Henderson, Buzacott and De Largie
and Representatives Jensen, , Thomas,
Dankel, Spence, Laird Smith, Burchell,
Poynton, Webster, Bamford, Archibald,
Carr, Chanter and John Lynch. Pearce
is on the Commonwealth Grants Com-
mission. Carr was one of “Sausage King”
Anderson’s candidates at the August
election. Most of the others are dead.
Melbourne’s chief fire officer Kemp,
reporting the brigade’s busiest day for
40 years, when scores of homes were
burnt near Melbourne, made some caustic
comments on the habit of allowing scrub
and grass to grow right up to dwellings.
He couldn’t have taken a more trenchant
example. Melbourne’s Jpayside suburbs
are the home of a curious form of tree-
mutilation. The foreshore is clothed in
ti-tree, and thousands of home-builders
have planted their dwellings in the densest
thickets for a special reason. The ti-tree
provides ready-made hedges which can be
easily clipped into shape. In hundreds of
cases householders have expressed them-
selves in arboreal sculpture by carving
elephants, kangaroos, Greek vases and
other artistic objects with the loving devo-
tion of the artist. Unfortunately they
make excellent torches.
The British Government is making
plans for the general spread and use of
television after the war. Among the
treats likely to be enjoyed by N.S.W.
televisionists are projections of ( a ) a coal-
miner at work and ( b ) a Government
slaughterman at work—provided the
A.B.C. mobile television outfit can catch
one or other at it.
A Sydney “Sun” correspondent, recall-
ing the case of the young girl fined £l5
for not being on the job, compares her
case with that of the striking miner, and
asks “Is Mr. Curtin afraid to offend the
miners?” The answer is in the affirma-
tive.
A humorous touch has been given to
the Second Front campaign in Britain,
and that by the War Office, no less. It
has refused to accredit a “Daily Worker”
correspondent to Invasion Forces. No
doubt the War Office remembers that
during the Battle for Britain the “Daily
Worker” counselled abject surrender.
Also that the chief organiser of the Com-
munist party, which owns and manages
the “D.W.,” was sentenced to seven years’
hard for obtaining information likely to
be of service to the enemy from an Air
Ministry girl—he wrecked a young offi-
cer’s career in the same way.
Canberra’s blither about meat ration-
ing, Scully’s tosh about trapping rabbits
and the workstopping pranks of Sydney
slaughtermen all point to one thing—
the meat supply of Australia’s big cities
should be killed and processed where it’s
produced, in the country.
Sydney “Sun” went into raptures over
a youth from Czechoslovakia, aged 17,
who “secured first-class honors in Eng-
lish, Latin and French” at “the Leaving.”
The young gentleman likes “dancing,
swimming, books and pretty girls,” and
is “familiar to many listeners of radio
debates—-with a decided accent he de-
plores the Australian prejudice against
foreigners,” It can’t have operated much
against the youth and his ambitions; “he
hopes to enter the faculty of Arts at Syd-
ney University this year and later to
specialise in psychology.” Nothing about
asking the University authorities to let
him off at the end of 1944, counting it as
the first year of his course, to enter one
of the services. Abram Landa, M.L.A.,
doubtless shares the “Sun’s” raptures, but
mere native-born Australians will reserve
their enthusiasm for students who, domi-
nated by another form of “Australian
prejudice,” got into khaki and air-force
blue. Tommy White, M.H.R., says he
met “many University students” in the
R.A.A.F. in Britain.
It’s a sure sign of weak government
when Government employees identify
themselves with and try to justify
Government policy. Denying an asser-
tion that fines imposed on N.S.W. work-
stoppers were still uncollected—they were
waived on a massive scale for the year
to October —the Commonwealth Deputy
Crown Solicitor said “We try to give an
opportunity to the miners’ organisations
to discipline their irresponsibles,”. and
spoke of “our efforts to increase coal
production.” Then, according to the
“Daily Mirror” report, he accused “a
small section of owners” of being “always
willing to indulge in provocative action,”
referring to “one in particular” as “still
making provocative and exaggerated
statements.” The one in particular has
replied with a writ.


mm
Look After What You’ve Got!
Get your Exide dealer to give your battery “the once over” occasionally . . . and
when replacement is needed remember . . . Exide Still Keeps Going When the Rest
Have Stopped.
BATTERIES
EXB2-42
Let this he Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Paddy Lynch, dead in Perth (W.A.) at
76, arrived in Westralia in the late ’nine-
ties, a tall, spare, bearded man from New-
castle, County Meath, who had been a
wanderer on sea and land. He got a
job as mine engine-driver, was soon in
Labor politics as M.L.A. for Leonora,
and stepped from a precarious Ministry
of Works into the Senate. There he was
a figure for 32 years, and in the last six
(1932-38) was President. Lynch followed
Hughes out of the Labor camp m 1916,
and was a tower of strength to the con-
scription cause in the West, being re-
spected for his sincerity—he felt the break
keenly—and for his platform powers,
which reached real eloquence at times.
He had a farm at a place called Three
Springs on the Midlands line, but was
not nearly as successful a land man as
Michael Brown of Narrogin, whose
daughter became the second Mrs. Lynch.
If Flying-Officer John Edward Harold
Morris, of Cloncurry (Q.) and now in
England, resumes his pre-war calling,
racegoers may sight a bookmaker’s bag
bearing the owner’s name and “D.F.C.,
reg. A.J.C., Q.T.C.” The R.A.A.F. names
him as the only registered bookie in its
ranks abroad. Morris got his decoration
for good work over Germany and in
North Atlantic waters. On a sortie over
the Frisian Isles his Halifax, skippered
by an R.A.F. officer, was appointed to
lay mines, but found an enemy convoy
in the area. Ignoring the flak, the air-
craft went in—after three runs to pin-
point the spot —and dropped its mines,
“right on the allocated spot, which,” as
Morris remarked, “happened to be in the
middle of the convoy.” Morris was born
at Cairns.
Though in the New Year honors lists
knighthoods to Australians were remark-
able for their almost total absence, Prime
Minister Curtin expressed “very great
pleasure” at the bestowal of honorary
knighthoods on the two S.-w. Pacific U.S.
service chiefs, Lieut.-Gen. Robert Law-
rence Eichelberger and Lieut. : Gen.
George Churchill Kenney (since reported
as having reached Washington). They
headed a list of 20 British awards
to Americans in this area. General
Eichelberger commanded the Buna
sector during , some of the stiffest
fighting in the Papuan campaign.
General Kenney has done an out-
standing job over a long period as com-
mander in these same parts of the Allied
Air Forces. Other Americans honored
for their part in the Pacific war include
Lieut.-Gen. Alexander Archer Vandergrift
and Major-Gen. Richard Karens Suther-
land—both hon. C. 8., which distinction
has also gone to Major-Gen. Patton, who
has had somewhat varied publicity in the
Mediterranean area, where hon. knight-
hoods have gone to Lieut.-Gen. Mark
Clark and Eisenhower’s Chief of Staff
Major-Gen. W. Bedell Smith.
' “Spoke”: White civilisation isn’t
always fatal to the abo. Wandin (Mrs.
Dunnolly), the last full-blooded aboriginal
of the settlement at Coranderrk (Vic.),
collapsed and died while fishing the other
day at the age of 94. She had lived in
the same house for 72 years, and had
kept herself by fishing, rabbiting and
raising poultry.
From John Brennan:
When the Americans landed on Rendova an
Australian watched the destruction wrought on
Lambeti Plantation with a deep sense of per-
sonal loss —Leslie F. Gill, apart from corre-
spondents the only civilian to make the land-
ing, and the owner of Lambeti.
Melbourne-born (1887), Gill has been 32 years
in the Solomons. He was attached to South
Pacific Amphibious headquarters for the be-
ginning of the New Georgia campaign to
advise on problems of terrain, and there ana
on Vella Lavella his knowledge has proved
invaluable. An inborn love of adventure
first took him north. As a boy he read
of the Galapagos and, when he couldn’t
persuade a friend to try a trip there, went to
a job as electrical engineer in Chillagoe (Q)
“because the name sounded almost equally out-
landish.’” That led him to Ocean Island to in-
stall the first diesel engines in the Pacific; to
Papua and the Solomons. He went to various
posts as plantation manager—anything to get
together sufficient capital—and at last got his
start, taking up land at Ruravay, on Vella.
He began carving 400 acres put of the scrub.
When the depression came and everybody
else was selling, Gill had the courage to launch
out. Soon he had Lambu Lambu, Jorovete
and Sangarana on Vella, besides Ruravay, and
when Norman Wheatley died in 1931 he took
over Lambeti Plantation at Munda and the
trading station there —the largest in the western
Solomons.
Gill also took on the editorial side of the
“Planters’ Gazette,” studied accountancy and
freelanced for Australian newspapers. He has
had something on every page in The Bulletin,
Red Page and Woman’s Letter excepted. He
sent paragraphs on the Islands under the pen-
names “Tekelo,” “Tulagi” and “The Shocked
Curate,” and was “Australia Yet” on Plain
English and Business Robbery.
Things were being righted slowly in the Solo-
mons when the Japs came. Gill went to Mel-
bourne early in 1942 to a job in the Audit
Office at A.I.F. headquarters, but he had been
too long in the Islands to be happy sitting down
in the South. When the Americans landed on
Guadalcanal he tried everything he knew to get
a military job. The answer was everywhere
the same: “Too old.” Eventually he made it;
not as a soldier, but as a civilian with the Allied
Geographical Section. Whatever it was, Gill
would have been contented, because it brought
him back to the Solomons.
Brigadier Hargest, Maoriland’s farmer-
soldier-politician, should be able to write
an entertaining book about his adven-
tures. He commanded the Otago Regi-
ment at the end of 1914-18 (D. 5.0.,
M.C. and Legion of Honor), and in the
present scrap took the Fifth N.Z. Infantry
Brigade through Greece and Crete. He
was taken prisoner in Libya in Novem-
ber, 1941, escaped a little later from an
Italian prison camp, trekking 180 miles,
and in November of last year turned up
in Barcelona, where, according to cables,
Franco granted him “partial freedom.”
On the heels of that news came word of
Hargest’s safe arrival in England. Briga-
dier Miles, his companion throughout his
adventures as a p.o.w. aqd escapee, died
in Spain. Hargest was returned unop-
posed as member for Awarua at the last
elections.
Made a C.M.G. in the New Year list,
Judge Herbert Kingsley Paine, of S.A.,
could describe himself as Government
odd-jobs or spare-parts man. He has car-
ried out numerous Government tasks, on
royal commissions and in making special
investigations, as well as having been
Judge in Insolvency for more than 20
JUDGE PAINE.
years. As a result he’s one of the State’s
highest-paid public servants. Among
other things, present chairman of the
Electricity Supply Committee and for
many years chairman of the Farmers’
Assistance Board, Judge Paine was born
at Gawler 60 years ago, was “admitted”
in 1905 and' for some years practised in
country towns. Both Judge Paine’s only
two sons —one an air force pilot, the
other an A.I.F. lieutenant —have been
killed in this war.
The Shakspeare Scholarship, one of the
oldest at the disposal of the University
of Melbourne —it was founded in 1863--
has gone to Ronald J. South, 8.A., of
Hawthorn. It is worth £5O for three
years. The winner is the bright lad who
formerly won the Dwight prize in Eng-
lish language and literature.
Winner of the D.S.O, in two wars,
Brigadier Ray To veil won- the decoration
on the Somme and the bar to it at
Tobruk. He came from Brighton (Vic.);
his schoolmaster at Grammar there was
the man who subsequently became better
known as General Stantke. Tovell started
out in chartered accountancy, finishing
his course in England and returning to
Australia in time to join the old A.I.F. as
a private, get away in 1915 as a second
lieutenant and finish up in 1919 as a
brigade major. Back to accountancy
then, till he was able to go to his second
war as C.O. 26th Australian Infantry
Brigade, of the original Seventh Div.
Later his crowd became part of the
BRIGADIER RAY TOVELL.
original Ninth, and Tovell had over seven
months in Tobruk, took part in the foot-
race to Benghazi and back and gathered
a C.B.E. for his part at Alamein.
An architectural revolution: —•
Sir Edwin Landseer Lutyens, who designed
the Cenotaph in London and part of New Delhi
and was to have led in the rebuilding of London
(where he lately passed on), once planned an
architectural revolution. Becoming enamored
of the beautiful old pise farmhouses of Eng-
land, which had been built by farmers without
any architectural education, he started to build
modern villas and even large country houses
out of mud bricks and pisd made with the
earth and clay excavated from the foundations.
The idea caught on, and he wrote a book about
it, but, having a perfect modern plaster which
the old farmers hadn’t, he finished off his
houses in a way that completely obliterated the
very thing that had charmed him—the wavy
line and the variety which are characteristic of
true pise. The result was a house looking
exactly like the brick and concrete buildings he
wanted to get away from. Sir Edwin had con-
nections with Australia. He designed Nellie
Melba’s tombstone, which some of the diva’s
more outspoken friends have describe.d most
unflatteringly.
Reported missing in air operations on
the Westralian coast, Flying-Officer G. G.
Moore, son of Judge Moore, of the
County Court in Melbourne. Studying
at Melbourne University when the war
started, Flying-Officer Moore saw
R.A.A.F service up north, then joined
the Beaufort Bomber Squadron in W.A.
He was middleweight boxing champion at
his Alma Mater.
David Howells Fleay, B.Sc., Dip. Ed.,
Director of the MacKenzie Sanctuary at
Healesville (Vic.), who got into the head-
lines of London papers, rivalling the war
news, by announcing an interesting event
in his platypus family—the first in his-
tory —is a brilliant native of Ballarat.
He began as a schoolteacher, but nature
study allured him, and in 1934 he be-
came curator of the Australian sectioa
of the Melbourne Zoo, raising it to scien-
tific standards. Seven years ago he took
his present job, and, being a charming
writer and an intense enthusiast, he made
the sanctuary one of the most interesting
places of its kind in Australia. The birth
of the creature which caused international
excitement occurred on the curator’s 37th
birthday.
The other evening Archdeacon Han-
cock, of Melbourne, heard in a 8.8. C.
broadcast the voice of his son, William
Keith Hancock, Professor of Modem
History at Birmingham, proclaiming that
by way of recreation he was going to
write a biography of his father. Arch-
deacon Hancock, now retired, had a
colorful existence as a country parson,
covering his Gippsland parish on horse-
back and helping to fight bushfires. His
son, at the age of nine, won the Royal
Humane Society’s medal for rescuing a
child from drowning in the Mitchell
River, was Rhodes Scholar for Victoria
in 1922 and was the first Australian to
gain a fellowship of All Souls’, Oxford.
Since occupying the chair of Modern
History at Birmingham Professor Han-
cock has published a succession of his-
torical works, his latest, An Argument of
Empire, having earned enthusiastic hand-
claps from the critics.
Canon Edward Malian Collick,
rector of St. John’s, Fremantle
(W.A.), came to West Australia
from London in answer to a “posi-
tions-vacant” advt. It asked for
an Anglican priest to minister to
10,000 miners on the goldfields, a
tough enough job for any parson
to tackle. Canon Collick blew into
Coolgardie in ’94 and made such
a good fist of his ministration that
he remained on the goldfields for
30 years, with a break as chaplain
to the W.A. contingent in the Boer
War. At Coolgardie he began in
a tent, but soon had a church, as
well as boxing and physical-culture
classes for the local youth. When
he left for Menzies the presentation
committee was astounded at the
donations it received and the crowd
that turned up. Aware of Rev. Col-
lick’s generosity, the committee
sought out and paid his private
debts, to find that, with only one
exception, all he owed was for
meals and clothing for others. Rev.
Collick declined the Bishopric of
Kalgoorlie, and had an idea of returning
to London for slum work, but was per-
suaded to remain. He celebrated his 50th
anniversary with the church just before
Christmas, is 75 and a bachelor.
“F.S.”: The old Cobb coach preserved in
Melbourne and brought out on occasion
has more than an ordinary interest for
one Allied soldier —Major George Watson
Cobb, whose great-grandfather helped
establish the coaching service which plied
between Melbourne and the goldfields
and innumerable other places. Freeman
Cobb, a forty-niner, left his family in
Stamford, Connecticut, in 1849, to seek
gold in California, found it in impressive
quantities, and, not fancying the return
passage round the Horn, made a bee-
line for Australia, where, with others, he
started Cobb and Co. It is generally sup-
posed that Freeman Cobb returned to
America, but Major Cobb says his move-
ments after he left this country are shrouded
in mystery, though he thinks he became
a banker on the proceeds of his Aus-
tralian venture and set up another coach-
ing service in South Africa. Freeman’s
son pioneered the American canning
industry, and his son invented the open-
top can. Major Cobb is also a canner,
and was an 18-year-old soldier in France
in the last war.
It’s 60 years since George Ardill started
his City Mission to Sydney’s hungry. His
job as a journalist taking him into touch
with pathetic cases of poverty, he started
off personally relieving individual cases,
subsequently organising a soup kitchen,
which led on to what became.a mission
on a large scale. Tens of thousands have
benefited from what was thus started.
Ardill lately had an 86th birthday.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, Mrs. Mary A. Baird, pro-
prietress for 15 years of the Occidental Hotel
in Collins-street. It was a social rendezvous
for smarter Melbourne, especially noted for
its after-theatre suppers. One of it's fre-
, quenters used to be Melba, who presented Mrs.
Baird with a couple of etchings of Coombe
Cottage.
In Adelaide, Dauvergne Boxall, 48, who, till
his health broke down in 1940, was drawing-
master at East Sydney Technical School. As
a young man he was in an Adelaide architect’s
office, studying painting meanwhile under Will
Ashton, and with the advice of Hans Heysen.
Winning the Melrose portrait-prize of S.A.
Society of Arts twice, 20 years back, he went to
London, and studied at the Slade under Tonks.
He is represented in the Nat. Galleries of
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Pip”: “No-mated I’ve been,” com-
plained Bluey. “I’m D.P.I for going
through, me china’s faked the chits, I’ve
teed up munga from the cash and carry,
and we’re goin’ ter jump the rattler near
stand-still. We’re both browned off with
the whole doover. And what ’appens?
He meets a, bint in the John Brown this
arvo and dates ’er fer the flicks tonight.
Gives me right back to the blacks, he
does; and when I go butchers he tells
me not ter panic and pull me skull in.
A man oughter do the cow right over,”
George (who has a B.A. degree in the
pants pockets of his civvies) looked
pained. “I gather,” he corrected, “you
had made all arrangements for going
absent without leave. Your companion
had forged leave passes, you had bought
“Shower or no shower, chin-straps should be worn under the chin. Sapper !”
goods from the canteen, and you were
going to board the train together, without
tickets, about the hour of retreat, both
of you being dissatisfied with the army,
And then your companion met a young
woman in the town and arranged to
escort her to the cinema theatre to-
night. When you remonstrated he
recommended calmness and restraint,
You feel impelled to do him bodily
harm.” Sadly he returned to the news-
paper article he had been reading: “Basic
English Will Solve All Language Prob-
lems.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The service man who adver-
tised in “S. M, Herald” for a lost wallet
knows his war-time Sydney. “Substantial
reward in cash or tobacco” was the bait.
* * * *
“Looby”: War-time food shortages
produce rotten arguments. When spuds
went into smoke for a while and
the Housewives’ groups were moaning
about it, out came* a scientific nark to
say spuds are 99 p.c. water anyway, so
what odds? And when beef was above
rubies and mutton was rammed down
our throats, along came an
authority to say beef had
been overblahed for a long
time, and wasn’t half so
nourishing as mutton. As for
beef-tea —it was just water
with a good publicity
agent. Even the worthy
onion was slandered.
Everybody was yelping at
a shortage when suddenly
the innards of the Univer-
sity were stirred, and a big
shot rushed out to say that
onions, like spuds, are so
full of plain water that it’s
simpler and cheaper to
turn on the kitchen tap-
Arose the Captain Cook
diehards, who roared that
because Cook’s crew were
forced to eat onions they
didn’t get scurvy. His-
torians said it wasn’t
onions, it was lemons.
Other historians said it
wasn’t lemons, it was
limes, whatever they are.
By the time this contro-
versy faded, onions and
spuds were again in supply,
and the diet experts were
attacking white bread.
Now, in the face of meat-
rationing, a Sunday paper’s medical
writer says meat doesn’t matter —bread
contains equal nourishment. I de-
spondently await the stage at which
some professorial bigwig will demon-
strate that deep breathing is as good
as eating. If anyone protests he
can be knocked back with: “Well, it’s
good air, isn’t it,?”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: An old resentment at the
injustice done by historians to “bloody”
Richard 111 was revived by “F.S.’s”
comments (B. 5/1/’43) about propaganda
in the history books. The facts that really
count, are in stones and mortar all over
England. In Richard’s brief reign more
schools, hospitals and almshouses were
established than in any other, down to
the lengthy one of Queen Victoria. He
fought for the rights of the people against
barons and churchmen, who were
devouring the common lands. Naturally
the lords and prelates objected, and when
they called in Henry Tudor to “establish
a front” against Richard the common
people for whom he had fought listened
to grotesque whispers spread abroad about
his iniquities and deserted their cham-
pion. The historian upon whom reliance
is placed for pre-Tudor English history
was the paid servant of Henry VII, and
naturally he did his best for that mean
and grasping usurper in the way of black-
ening the record of Richard, who, it had
to be admitted, was a remarkable general
and an astute statesman.
* * * *
“C. Egg”: My mate Bill, ex-M.E, and
N.G., was medically boarded “B” class
after a spell in hospital, and was to go
through the pyscho-analytical test. Bill
had no desire whatever to soldier on,
and planned to convince the examiners
that his intelligence was too low to fit
him for any base job. So to the searching
and ingenious questions pelted at him by
the psychiatrists Bill returned the silliest
answers he could devise. To his aston-
ishment and disgust he found himself
classified as highly intelligent and the pos-
sessor of marked mechanical ability (he,
who couldn’t even master the works of
“May I be your Watchdog?”
a cigarette lighter). He is now tearing
his hair in an electrical plant 2000 miles
from his own State.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: According to a Moscow
cable, after the restoration of epaulets,
braided trousers and other Imperial in-
signia the Red Army officer, when intro-
duced to a lady or meeting one he knows,
was ordered to kiss her hand. And he
must shave clean every day and mustn’t
carry babies or hang on to the outside
of trams. That bit about the babies
doesn’t seem to me to be in character.
When I was train-travelling in Russia I
had as fellow-passenger a major in the
regular army who had been transferred
from Manchuria with his family, includ-
ing a baby. Every evening the major got
out a portable bath, planked it on the
floor of the compartment and proceeded,
with great efficiency, to wash the
youngster. His fellow-travellers did not
regard this as unusual in the slightest,
any more than they did the spectacle of
a bemedelled and epauleted general,
who might have come out of one of
Chekhov’s stories, shaking hands with
the ragged moujik who swept the station
at Irkutsk.
* * * *
“P. McM.”: A visit to one’s old
school after many years is an eye-opener.
Loudspeakers are installed in every class-
room, so the Head doesn’t have to send a
messenger for Johnny Jones ; he summons
Johnny per magnavox, and his disem-
bodied -voice makes any announcements
that are necessary. Most 'schools have
one or two cinema projectors installed,
and the laboratory equipment is of the
sort devotees of “stinks” in the old days
got no nearer than dreaming about.
Swimming pools, tennis and handball
courts and grounds for playing various
sports are bigger and better. The war?
Well, there’s always a big enrolment in
the school’s A.T.C.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Watching C. 1.8. men
giving evidence in court I was impressed
by the change that has come over the
detective force. The old-style detective
was a set type. He always wore the same
sort of suit, was always a big man with
big feet, and always carried an umbrella
crooked over his arm. But nobody would
believe that either of the two defectives
I saw lately in the witness box was a
detective. One, who talked learnedly
about the action of chemicals, told the
magistrate he held a science degree, and
neither he nor the other “demon,” who
was an expert on ballistics, had large
feet or looked like a detective —the
ballistics bloke looked more like an artist,
And neither carried an umbrella,
* * * *
“Alek”: A Wellington (M.L.) magis-
trate has earned from the Dominion’s
addicts to pipe, cigar and cigarette the tri-
bute due to a Daniel Come to Judgment,
He had before him two citizens caught
smoking in a non-smoker carriage of a
suburban train. He convicted, and ordered
defendants to pay costs, refusing to inflict
fines because, he said, there ought to be
a law to punish non-smokers who pile
into smoking carriages and usurp the
places of, those for whom the seats are
reserved.
* * * *
“Taipo”: The readiness with which the
Maori will sell his rock, his reel, his good
grey mare and his spinning-wheel has
impressed itself upon the Dominion’s
Internal Affairs Department, which,
finding one of the most ornate and tradi-
tion-sanctified of Maori meeting-houses—
the building at Whakarewarewa, Rotorua
—in private hands, has bought it for the
nation. These places, embellished with
elaborate carvings, are growing scarce.
About the time of the Boer War a
very fine edifice in the Rotorua district
was sold by private treaty. It turned up
a little later, complete, in the museum at
Hamburg— not at all a safe place as
matters have turned out.
* * * *
“P.A.” sighs for the Sydney of 1903:
Let’s take a walk down George-street. Out-
side Hank’s grocery (next door is Roberts’s
pub, said to purvey the best dinner in town)
sits Old Mother Fivebob, of the rasping tongue,
selling boxes of matches for “two a pinny.”
A large quilt of her own manufacture is spread
partly over the footpath. Passers-by are invited
to toss in a penny or a zack for the Great Aus-
tralian Fair. Mother Fivebob on St. Patrick’s
Day marches to the Showground dressed all in
vivid green, exchanging vigorous repartee with
bystanders. So does Paddy, who sells bananas
at 18 for sixpence and holds audiences spell-
bound with his patter. In the wake of summer
southerlies comes a street cry: “Fresh green
watercress; cool watercress.” In Castlereagh-
street, opposite the Australia, “Professor”
Charles Lillie shears and shaves archbishops,
Governors, lord mayors and university dons,
and holds them all in elegant conversation. He
also has a shamrock on his family tree, and it
is a legend that one St. Patrick’s morning wags
painted his saloon-front bright orange and
printed the name of a Presbyterian divine over
the door.
THE TWO MACS.
“Replying to the bitter criticisms of the Police
Commissioner and himself at the N.S.W. Police
Association Conference, Premier McKell said that
the whole tone of the proceedings was biased, and
that he and his. Government had adopted a most
liberal and sympathetic attitude towards the force.”
Just where a shoe pinches there’s nobody knows
Excepting the wearer, one well may suppose;
And it’s equally safe to assert (is it not?)
That past benefactions are often forgot
By those who bewail their unfortunate lot
And call on high Heav’n to note the excess
Of wrongs that they suffer demanding redress.
But, granting both axioms, none can gainsay
That the cops are annoyed with McKell and
Mac Kay.
They fell us of pin-pricks, and how each must
try
To keep on his bosses a vigilant eye
And hold himself constantly on the alert
The chances of any such lapse to avert
That’s likely to do him professional hurt,
A sideline through which, it assuredly looks,
His value is lessened for lumbering crooks.
And it’s hinted there’s cause to revolt and rebel
At the orders enforced by Mac Kay and
McKell.
In peace-time they reckon they’ve plenty to do,
And war brings fresh loads for our guardians
in blue.
They’re out to ensure that the bars and the
spikes
Of prisons should close upon Crackit and Sikes,
So they’ve reason enough fo proclaim their dis-
likes
Of any requirements that may interfere
With what they account their legitimate sphere.
Besides, they have views on promotions and
pay
That are doubtfully shared by McKell and
Mac Kay.
One Mac at a time, it has often been showed,
Is amply sufficient for blocking a road.
But what in the deuce can you do when you
find
The course that you’ve mapped and the path
you’ve designed.
Perversely impeded by two of the kind,
And it’s perfectly clear to the woodenest brains
One’s there fo O.K. what the other ordains?
Whatever their warrant, it’s easy to tell
Why the Johns are aggrieved at Mac Kay and
McKell.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
MIXED METAPHORS.
“Mr. Cosgrove said that the introduction of a
political red herring should not be allowed to cloud
the issue.”
If dialectic shafts you mean should miss you
When in these controversies you engage,
Don’t ever let a herring cloud the issue
Or shift you from the centre of the stage.
Grasp boldly, and you’ll find it up to mud,
Or, even better, nip it in the bud.
Where there’s a will, remember, there’s a way.
Put in your pipe, and paste it in your hat,
That, just as every dog will have his day,
So care is reckoned to have killed a cat.
These worn and polished pebbles of our speech
Are quite accessible to all and each.
Recall that he who sows the storm will reap
The whirlwind, and repeat in solemn tones
Old tropes about still wafers running deep
And the unmossiness of rolling stones.
To land a verbal'stinger on the jaw i
There’s naught so telling as a pithy saw.
It’s seldom difficult, you understand,
Into some wordy argument to push
The apt reminder that a bird in hand
Is worth a couple of them in the bush,
Or the reflection that a pygmy’s still
A pygmy, though he’s perched upon a hill.
But, brother, never mix these turns of speech,
Get rid of one before the next you broach.
No sober disputant would care to reach
The heights of Boyle whose other name was
Roche,
Or into melancholy fame to flop
Beside the shade of Mrs. Malaprop.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“X.S.”: Said a witness at, the Third
City Court in Melbourne in reply to a
question by counsel: “No, I did not go
direct. On my way I stopped and bought
a packet of cigarettes.” “Where ?” came
a buzz from all quarters as from a hive
of starving bees.
• «
“C;Q.”: With that swift and speechless
accord that passeth understanding, a
queue headed by two soldiers formed in
front of a tobacconist’s in Melbourne’s
Flinders-street. It lengthened and length-
ened till one of the soldiers turned to the
other and, remarking “Told you 1 could
do it,” walked off with his companion.
* * *
“C. Kerry”; Mention of my redoubt-
able countryman Sir Henry Browne
Hayes, founder of the beautiful Vaucluse
estate (B. 5/1/’44), recalls his equally
redoubtable contemporary “General”
Joseph Holt, of the “ ’Ninety-eight”
rising. Holt and Hayes were incom-
patibles, and it was a malicious jest
of Fate which made them castaways
together on little Eagle Island in the
Falklands after the wreck of the ship
that was carrying them home in' 1812
with free pardons in their pockets. To
the knight Holt was a mere commoner
of no account, whilst Holt regarded
Hayes as a low bounder. During their
two months on the islet, before their
rescue by H.M.S. Nancy, the shipwrecked
people held a.meeting to elect a council
or committee to run their forlorn com-
munity, and marines proposed Sir Henry
as their representative. Wrote Holt con-
temptuously in his “Memoirs”: “He was
a favorite with them, as he used to .sit
down on the deck and play ‘hors the
brouze’ and ‘hide the button’ with them,
two plays practised by blackguards.”
Back in Ireland the two warriors didn’t
know one another on any occasion.
* *
“Simon”: Rabbits, which with meat
rationing, so writers in the press say, are
likely to “come into their own,” have
always come into more than their own.
Once at the toniest hotel in a State capi-
tal a Parliamentary public works com-
mittee was booked in. After dinner every
night the French chef, with flowing black
whiskers, done up like a bishop, came
in to take his bow. A Big Man of that
committee, one not easily taken in,
ordered braised duck, and was delivered
a concoction containing streamlined
bones that seemed to be shaped for
burrowing rather than natation. Calling
the waitress he said “Since when
has a duck a pericardium like that?
This is part of a land mammal—kanga-
roo-rat or rabbit. I suspect rabbit. And
while I like rabbit I object to eating him
under an alias.” He threatened to debate
the matter with Frenchy and pull bis
whiskers. We hung round to see the fun,
but the discreet Gaul stayed by his range
that night, where the air was cooler.
* * * *
“Melbn”: A case at Wangaratta in
which two bookmakers were charged with
having made bets with women has
aroused all the feminists in Melbourne,
one leading social light declaring that,
although she disapproved of either men
or women betting, she would defend to
her last drop of blood the legal right of
women to be as foolish as men. The
law to which the ladies take exception
dates from 1906, when McShortodds was
explicitly prohibited from taking bets
from females under the Police Offences
Act. These last ten years it has been more
honored in the breach than in the observ-
ance.
“Ike Hollar”: When did the present
regalia of creamy flannels first become
part of cricket? Fifty years ago the cus-
tom was well established. But an old
Etonian declares that the boys in his day
played in their ordinary attire, just taking
off their coats and replacing their pot
hats with caps. In adult matches all over
England at that time the players merely
discarded their coats, still wearing their
stiff waistcoats, cravats and collars. It
must have been dashed uncomfortable.
My old Etonian says it was a Murdoch
team that taught- England to relax ; having
acquired easier “tropical clothing” of
duck op its voyage across the wdrld’s
hot latitudes it introduced the garments
on the field. The lead having been given,
English tailors took the matter up and
“cricketing flannels” were evolved. The
change must have come very rapidly when
it did come.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Why all this howl
against beer? When Macquarie ruled it
was regarded as a temperance drink. The
favorite tipple was rum, topers being
accustomed to take it neat, half pint at
a time. When it was suggested that the
harvest-time beverage of Metric England
be introduced the idea was hailed with
enthusiasm, and the powers that were
offered every encouragement to the
brewer. And certainly with the increased
use of the milder drink murders and
hangings fell off markedly.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The Japanese, according
to report, are busily militarising the
Netherlands East Indies. The Dutch
never bothered to teach their vast native
population soldiering. Having no further
territorial ambitions, they found a foreign
legion and a small native army sufficient
to police any disturbances which might
occur in their far-flung archipelago. The
Javanese princes, whose forebears won
their dominions in battle, maintained a
shadowy existence at Solo and Jokjakafta
each with his comic-opera army—with a
small Dutch fort next door in case of
emergencies. Things were on a very free-
and-easy basis. The Japs, it is said, have
changed all this and are training up the
youth of Java ala Hitler. How far they
are likely to succeed is a matter I wouldn’t
care to guess about.
* * * *
“SpokeshaVe”: Meat rationing has no
terrors for a lot of Melbourne people.
No, they aren’t vegetarians. They are
lads and lassies employed in various war-
time bureaus. Most of them lunch and
dine in the city, and as they have got
accustomed to reserving seats at their
respective cafes they are sure of a square
meal twice daily while ordinary citizens
whose lives are regimented by them can’t
“Show tickets, please !”
even get in. So, as far as I can gather
from a hasty perusal of the regulations,
these favored souls can consume a dozen
pounds of flesh in the cafes during
the week and then enjoy their regular
ration of 2Jlb. on Sundays. And why
not? As Napoleon or somebody said, a
bureaucracy marches on its stomach,
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The word “ideal” seems to
be troublesome. Murray’s big dictionary
is quite clear about it —three syllables,
with the stress on the “e” ; just “idea,”
with an “1” on the end. Then in review-
ing Dora Wilcox’s fine blank verse in the
Matthew Arnold manner, I met this
snag: —
And find again lost ideals, dreams too
fair —
I took this as a mistake, ruining the
metre, and so have quoted it always as:
And find my lost ideals, dreams too fair—
But evidently there are some who pro-
nounce the word as two syllables—“idle,”
“idyll,” or thereabouts. This is obviously
required in Auden’s poems:
And from its ideal order grew
Our local understanding too.
Can anyone produce a final authority as
to pronunciation?
* * * *
“X.S.”: Melbourne Beaks have been
given some peculiar titles by individuals
uninstructed in the etiquette of courts,
but Meehan, P.M., was a trifle embar-
rassed when a youthful defendant leant
over earnestly the other day and said
“What about bail, your Majesty?”
* * * *
“Fftmter”: I reassert that Dad got
ticket 55666 and his son 65665 (B.
12/1/ ’44). Dad’s came from the four-
penny block, son’s from the penny one.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” on global divisions:
The huge area defined in the south-east Asia
command of Lord Louis Mountbatteu and the
cognate fief handed to General MacArlhur re-
call, at any rate in their vastness, the fifteenth-
century division of the planet by Spain and
Portugal. After Columbus’s discoveries in 1493
it became patent that the two Powers would
soon be competing for riches in the sabre’
region, the extreme east of Asia, and to avoid
unpleasantness they applied to Pope Alexander
VI for a ruling. He made the magnificent
gesture of selecting a meridian passing down the
North Atlantic and granting Spain some thou-
sahds of miles to the west and Portugal some
thousands of miles to the east of that line.
Mariners in those days calculated their position
by dead reckoning, and the errors made were so
colossal that when Cabot discovered the fisheries
in Newfoundland, Portugal dispatched two
emissaries to see what the find was worth, as
she thought it was within her jurisdiction. Both
voyagers perished. It was the spice trade that
made Portugal’s mouth water, and she tried
to monopolise the business. D’Albuquerque was
named commander-in-chief of an area very
similar to Mountbatten’s, but including India.
In a naval battle in which the odds were ten
to one against him he defeated the Arabs off
the coast of Malabar, seized Goa, stampeded
the elephants of the Sultan of Malacca and
opened the gateway to Siam, the Dutch East
Indies, Indo-China and China. He died in
harness in 1515.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: A Melbourne parson. Rev.
Ray Richards, introduced an unusual
note into the controversy between Senator
Cameron and Ambrose Pratt on the
White Australia policy. • “The dark-
skinned races,” he declares, “are prouder
of their color, their culture and their
racial distinctiveness than we whites, and
they quietly chuckle at our attempts at
emulation. For instance, what are the
ideals of beauty set by film stars? Are
they not Eastern or Eurasian elongated
eyes, long finger- and toenails? Our
beaches and parks are crowded with sun-
worshippers, with faces towards the earth,
suffering tortures and doing penance,
praying and hoping for a change in the
color of their skins, from white to
brown.” That, at least, is true.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: With a detachment
of the 39th Regiment and 24 convicts
Major Lockyer, six weeks out from
Sydney in the brig Amity, landed at
King George’s Sound December 26,
1826. He found evidence that others
had preceded him; on Michaelmas
Island were four blacks, marooned, while
on Green Island lay a dead one. A few
weeks later the suspected murderers
dropped in—eight white sealers in two
boats. Lockyer -placed them under
arrest, though he doubted his legal right
to do so. Fourteen months previously
these eight had been dumped on Kanga-
roo Island by a Sydney schooner and left
to gather seal skins. Following their
trade they had worked the coast right
round to Rottnest Island, not less than
1500 miles, taking in the rim of the
Great Bight. They told the eager
Lockyer a great deal about the Swan
(whither Captain Stirling was shortly to go
in H.M.S. Success) and Peel Inlet, which
is the Westralian Murray. * For those
“hardy ruffians” were the first English-
men to explore those parts. John Ran-
dall was, the leader. History books are
silent regarding their exploits; Lockyer,
and possibly Sydney officialdom, regarded
them as lineal descendants of the pirates
of the previous century.
* * * *
“Nakh”: My Melbourne morning
mentor collected a symposium of New
Year wishes. Premier Dunstan wished
that “selfishness and greed could be swept
aside a>nd replaced by a true spirit of
brotherhood” ; the Lud Mayor hoped to
see “the implementation of the four de-
cencies—decency of wage, decency of
home, decency of education and decency
of security,” and an unnamed journalist
wished to bring about a “real feeling of
honesty in everyone, in every word and
deed, particularly amongst the younger
generation.” Very nice, but aren’t we all
getting rather tired of large, windy
abstractions? I turned with relief to the
wish of “Harassed Housewife” in the
same journal. She summed up her wish
in two words —“less rationing.”
H 4 H 4 H 4 t H 4
“F.S.”: Victorian farmers are still grin-
ning sourly at a Yuletide jest Told to
work through the festive season in the
interests of the nation, they found that the
department which is supposed to supply
them with permits to acquire hose and
other equipment had shut up for a fort-
night.
H« H 4 H 4 H 4
“Arcadian”; That bit (B. 15/12/’43)
about Wullie Scott marrying Ugly Meg
Murray and getting a good bargain re-
calls an Australian businessman of a few
generations ago who entered himself as
prize in an “art union” for women only.
The winning number was drawn by a
lady who, although quite young, was one
not likely to have had many admirers.
However, the bargain was kept, and, as
in the case of Wullie S., the lady proved
a treasure. She bore her spouse a
full quiver of offspring, while at
the same time so assisting him with
his business that his name became
a household word throughout Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Zake”: Predictions are rife
that, after Mars has oiled his sword
and put it away carefully until next
time, overseas travel will be more
or less the monopoly of the super-
luxury airliner, and that ocean-
going liners will no longer be built.
Maybe ; but I have the notion that
there will be plenty of people still
unbitten by the bug to rush some-
where very fast and then rush back
even faster. For the complete rest
which every human craves for at
some time of his life there is noth-
ing so utterly restful as a sea voy-
age, and those who seek it will not
find it in the air. No sky-rider will
be able to go for half-mile walks
around promenade decks and en-
joy the luxury of a swimming pool.
For the businessman who wishes to
caseharden a few more arteries by
tearing at top speed to conferences,
etc., the fast airliner by all means ;
but the great charm of an ocean
trip is that it confers peace arid
leisure.
John Brennan, from the Solomons:
Boxing’s about the most popular of all
amusements for service men. The only thing
that runs it close is a wild-west movie with
plenty of shooting and horse-riding; surpris-
ingly, the closer it is to the front lines, where
there’s real shooting, the more popular that
sort of entertainment becomes.
There were a good seventy-five hundred in
the “house” each night of the semi-finals
and finals of the South Pacific boxing champion-
ships ; they were held at Guadalcanal on
Christmas Eve and on Christmas night. Gene
Tunriey presented the medals to the winners,
some of whom Tom Heeney, who fought
Tunney for the championship in 1928, sorted
out from the losers as third man.
There were 12 divisions instead of the usual
eight—the film stars who provided the medals
when Joe E. Brown made his tour of the
Pacific had sent 12 medals—and four teams
were represented: Samoa-Fiji, New Caledonia-
New Zealand, the New Hebrides and the Solo-
mons. There had been an elimination tourna-
ment in all divisions. In one of the finals was
a Fijian representing the Solomons area; he’s
a private in the Fijian Infantry Battalion that
missed tangling with the Japs on Kolomban-
gara by one day —it’s hoping for better hunting
on Bougainville. Bert Swanson, of Suva, was
perhaps the most popular man in the entire
tournament. He came in at 1501 b. and won 18
fights, smiling as well as boxing his way through
them, before he had to go up against a
tough, hard-hitting colored boxer from New
Jersey. Swanson took plenty of punishment,
but the smile did not come off.
Most of the contestants had been in Golden
Gloves tournaments. The last night’s 12
fights made as good a boxing card as could
be seen anywhere. There was hardly a fight
in which the loser’s backers didn’t think (and
not unreasonably) their man had won. They’re
still arguing about some of the decisions, notably
about the one given against Bill Brown, of Inver-
cargill (M.L.), an air force man representing
New Caledonia, and a cagey, clever lightweight.
A colored boy, Charlie Clemmons, of Chicago,
got the verdict. A draw would have been
nearer the mark, but there had to be a verdict.
There was one Canadian in the show —he
didn’t get beyond the semis—and there were
several Hawaiians. Twin brothers. Marines,
Moe Weiss (1411 b.) and Harvey Weiss (1461 b.),
won divisions. Moe looked the best man
in the tournament, but Harvey was lucky
—9O per cent, of the crowd would have given
a colored boy, Eddie White, the championship
in that division.
Only in one case was there no cause for
argument. A big, clean-purtching colored
heavyweight, Jethro Jeffers, of Illinois, knocked
his man out in the first round. If was the
last fight and the only knockout of the night.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Esk D.”: The bushfire roared and
crackled through the scrub on the moun-
tain’s edge, then swept forward in a rush
across the fire trail and into the dry
grass of McKenna’s farm in the valley.
McKenna and his. four sons and nine
daughters took up the challenge and
fought back furiously, but there appeared
to be little hope. Choking with smoke-
filled lungs and scorched from the con-
flict, they were forced back yard by yard
to the old homestead. It seemed that
nothing could save it now. Then above
the roar of burning scrub was heard the
crash of many feet through scrub.
McKenna looked round. There, rushing
wildly to the scene, came Fagan, Mc-
Kenna’s neighbor and sworn enemy, and
with him his nine sons and four
daughters. Side by side, their fierce
antagonism forgotten, the two families
quelled the inferno just as flames were
almost up to the walls of the homestead.
As they wearily threw down the beaters
McKenna, his face alight with gratitude,
reached out a sooty hand to his bene-
factor. “S’pose we could order the doin’s
for a big family weddin’,” he grinned.
Fagan’s hand came out and pulled
McKenna’s nose —hard. “There, y’ cow,”.
he said. “I’ve bin wantin’ to do that f’r
a long time. Y’ needn’t git ideas jist
becos I had to keep the fire orf me crop
of oats over the crick.” Shooing his
family ahead of him Fagan mooched off,
unheeding the hilarious cackle of the
ghost of the perennial bushfire yarn.
* * * *
“QX106”; These canines who trot
through the Abo. pages blithely killing
snakes by grabbing Joseph by the lug
haven’t the right technique. Any good
bushman knows that a snake gripped by
the tail and kept moving has no chance
of striking. Just watchjhe blue dog with
the dingo cross in him make his play
at any slitherer. First a tail grip and a
shake to stun, then a middle grip to
break the back, and finally the crushing
of the head. My dog died of old age after
a lifetime of snake-killing, including the
mountain brown, and he followed that
method exclusively.
“Old-timer”; “Curyo” Charlie had
cracked it for a big win at the Merbein
(Vic.) sports and was sitting on about
£175 as he left the ground. He was hailed
by a couple of the cognoscenti. “Hey,
Charlie, reckon y’ll be in the big game
t’night?” “Aw, I s’pose so,” he answered.
He was feeding his hojse when a bleary
individual appeared.--'“Give us a hand
t’ duck me mate, will y’?” he asked. “We
bin on the pinkie an’ he’s out to it.”
They soused the stonkered one in
the river till he came to. “Take
much pinkie t’ knock y ’?” Charlie
inquired thoughtfully. “Depends whether
y’re used t’ it,” said the other. “If
y’ ain’t a bottle’d put y’ out f’r a
day.” “Curyo” went thoughtfully up the
town, came back with a bottle of pinkie
and said to the pair. “Look, I’ve left a
fiver at the store. It’s f’r you an’ y’r
mate provided y’ stand by until the
mornin’. Then y’ gotter souse me in the
river, yoke up me buggy, put me in it an’
drive me up t’ that store t’ collect y’r
money. On?” It was on. Next morning
the puzzled storekeeper, handing over his
roll, looked into “Curyo’s” bloodshot eyes
and said “l’m a weak char-
acter,” confessed “Curyo” shakily. “If
I’d kep’ sober I’d ’a’ got inter that big
game an’ done me money. The pinkie put
me t’ sleep an’ now I’ll get home with
most of it. But, strike me blind, I’ve
earned it.” And, retching drily, he shook
"Can't you chaps settle this some other Way? ”
up his old buggy horse and departed,
shaken and ill, but with his roll minus
only a fiver.
* * * *
“Arev”: Mrs. Jupp was busy in the
kitchen when she heard Bill’s voice out-
side, accompanied by the sound of heavy
boots running around the house and the
frenzied barking of the dog. As Mrs.
Jupp went to the door a ginger cat flew
past followed by Spot, the Jupps’ dog,
then by Bill, roaring. The cat ran up the
woodheap; the dog dashed up, clawed
at the wood, but slipped back. Bill
caught up and cuffed its ears. “That’ll
teach you to try to kill a neighbor’s cat,”
he said. The cat took the opportunity to
scramble down the other side of the heap
and escape over the fence towards the
next farm. Bill dragged Spot to the
kennel and chained him up. “I hate to
see a dog worrying a cat,” he told Mrs.
Jupp. “Spot will have to be taught
better.” All day Spot barked miserably at
his kennel, but Bill was firm. Next morn-
ing he went out to release the dog. When
he came inside there was a beaten look
on his face. “What’s the matter?” said
Mrs. Jupp. “Did Spot escape and kill
the cat after all?” Bill shook his head.
“No ; Spot was on his chain. But the
ginger cat came back and got our
canary!”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: If that bar of soap that
the factory hands returned in Old Sam’s
cream can (B. 15/12/’43) was intended
as a hint for cleanliness, then the joke
fell flat. Hot water, and plenty of.it, is
the only cleansing medium for cream
cans and milking vessels. In any case,
it’s the factory’s job to send the cans
back clean.
“Vimy”; Tell “M 8” (B. 15/12/’43)
that Nature, in giving the rabbit a white
tail, cared nothing for such artificial
enemies as a man with a gun ; she was
solely concerned with predatory lower
animals such as the fox. When the whole
family goes out to graze at dawn or dusk,
and danger threatens, Dad Rabbit thumps
one hind leg on the ground as an alarm
signal, and Mum makes a beeline for the
burrow. The kittens follow her, but as
she makes no sound equivalent to the
cluck of a hen with chicks the ones
furthest from her would probably, in
the dim light, run about aimlessly, aftd
be seized by the enemy, without the white
tail bobbing before them on which they
can glue their infant eyes. Some nature
students declare that so rapid is the repro-
duction process in rabbits that a doe
sometimes has two litters in her care at
once, one old enough to graze and one
still dependent on her milk ; and that
cases have been noted when, while out
grazing with A Company, she has for
safety’s sake locked the door, so to speak,
on B Company, by pushing a stone into
a narrow part of the burrow between
nursery and entrance.
I recall the rabbits during a
plague on Tammit (mid-Murray, N.S.W.)
in 1933. The large old riverside garden,
in which stand the two log homesteads,
was enclosed by a Cyclone fence, rein-
forced with l£in. wire-netting, so we
thought the countless millions of cotton-
tails running in from north wouldn’t
worry us there. But the half-grown
starved invaders got through that mesh in
hundreds, and, eating the lawns, shrubs
and rows of vegetables, soon grew so
much that they couldn’t get out. We
shot 900 before we ran out of cartridges,
and still there were so many under the
house they drove the cats out of their
lodgings there. And long after the
plague had passed—it went as quickly as
it had come —those stragglers were the
most shot-at and hunted rabbits in the
continent. We had traps, snares, shoots,
and laid poisons of all kinds, and things
were so hot that I saw one of them climb-
ing out over the fence on all fours like
a monkey. But before we got the last
one, we had caught every dog, cat, fowl,
bird and human being about, and had
blown the rain gauge on its age-old post
to smithereens.
* * * *
“Golly’s Missus”: I bought a turkey,
intending to fatten her up for Christmas.
She’d been in our yard about a fortnight
when I stumbled across her well-con-
cealed nest under the drooping boughs of
a lemon. In it were two eggs. She con-
tinued to lay until she had in all 15 eggs.
Then just before Christmas she com-
menced her term of sitting, and we
switched to lamb for Christmas dinner.
Eventually the whole 15 hatched out.
What beats me is how the last-laid eggs
come to be still fertile. We have no
gobbler, and she has po access to one.
The eggs took her nearly three weeks to
lay, wed had her a fortnight, making it
five full weeks since she’d been mated.
How long does a turk’s fertility last after
separation, anyway?
* * * *
“Nepean”: Mention recently in these
columns of storm-lashed fishing grounds
in Bass Strait and off the wild, west coast
of Tassie brings to mind another “bad
shop”—the Margaret Brock Reef off the
south-east coast of South Australia. A
long rock-bound Shoal, mostly awash, and
upon which on iron-screw piles stands the
peculiarly modelled Cape Jaffa light-
house, it is fringed on the seaward side
with square miles of reefy bottom, and
is reached from the Cape Jaffa fishing
camp, five miles away, through a two-
chain gap in the breakers hard by the
lighthouse. Out there with Tup Hackett,
just before Hitler said “Go,” we lifted as
many crays per pot as are to be caught
on any Tassie ground these days, and
there are more scale fish there than in
any place I’ve seen. The drawback, how-
ever, is that if the wind flies into the
west or the south you can’t take the pas-
sage through the reef, and it means a
long beat with miles of breakers to lee-
ward round the north end to home—if
you get there. Qne boat couldn’t make it
and was washed right over the faqe of
the reef—unscathed. This alone keeps
this fine fishing ground the secluded spot
it is, as in pre-war days Cape Jaffa crays
reached the Melbourne market overnight
by road transport.
* * * *
“Louden”: Another imported pest that
has had its name either distorted or mis-
translated (B. 29/12/’43) is the boxthorn.
In its native Holland it is boksdorn. Like
the “double-gee” or it came
to Australia from South Africa. Pro-
claimed a noxious weed for all Victoria,
boxthorn does particularly well on the
sandstone lands in the Warrnambool
district.
* * Jfc v
“Lower Tops’l”: As to barracoota (B.
22/12/’43) it is because they are at times
so voracious that they are considered to
have no idiosyncrasies in regard to biting
—but they have. The fishermen at San
Remo (Vic.), working off Cape Wollo-
mai, Phillip Island, prefer to stream
’coota lines at crack of dawn, as then
the fish can be relied upon to be break-
fasting ravenously after their usual
respite during dark hours. Generally, if
the shoal cannot be located in the first
few hours of daylight hauls are neither
fast nor heavy. Off San Remo, too, I’ve
often seen the big fish, when following
hooked flathead to the surface, fail to
take any bait, though on other days on
the same ground they don’t stop at
swallowing even lead sinkers. The
“torpedo” fish mostly won’t bite when
you see them jumping. Once, all the 11
miles from Cape Patterson to the Wollo-
mai, big ’coota were leaping out of the
ocean everywhere you looked, yet we
never got a tug. “A bad sign—the fish
are on the move,” a fisherman told me
back at Newhaven ; and next morning
there wasn’t a ’coota off the coast.
* * * sK
“Walkabout”: “Out Cloncurry (Q.)
way,” said Larry, “me an’ me mate were
camped near a waterhole on the south side
of the nettin’ fence, an’ we were watch-
ing a mob of camels stringing along loaded
with ore from out the Duchess way. As
they got opposite our camp a big willy-
willy come up, an’ when the dust cleared
away we were both on the opposite side
o’ the fence to the camels.” “I suppose,”
snorted “Tarcutta” Ted, “y’re goin’ to tell
us the willy-willy lifted you and y’r china
clean over the fence!” “Hold y’r horses
a bit,” Larry came back. “I never said
it did, did I? It lifted the camels over.
We seen it cornin’ an’ crawled into a
holler log.”
* * * *
“Jesmond”: The third eyelid described
by “R.P.W.” (B. 15/12/’43) is not
peculiar to crows and snakes. It is found
in nearly all mammals except man and
monkey, and is most easily seen in cattle
and rabbits. The higher apes (ourselves)
and the allegedly lower ones formerly had
this third eyelid, but the increasing
mobility of their upper eyelids develop-
ing throughout the ages made the extra
protection unnecessary, and the third
eyelid gradually dwindled until today all
that remains is a minute tag in the inner
upper corner of the eye.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were hanging round
a western N.S.W. town at harvest-time
when a cocky offered us a job at good
money. We threw our swags into his
truck and he ran us out to the place, only
giving us time to dump our stuff on his
back verandah before rushing us up the
paddock. After about an hour he stopped
for a smoke-oh and said “Gripes, y’re a
couple o’ good men I can see, an’, what’s
more, y’ know y’r work.” Then,
eyeing the big fellow thoughtfully, he
added “Y’ know, it’s a wonder a coupla
blokes like you never settled down an’
made a do f’r y’rselves. This knockin’
about’s all very fine, but there’s nothin’
like a home an’ a missus an’ a bit o’
land o’ y’r own.” I saw Mat give him
a long look, but we didn’t say anything.
When lunchtime came a lad brought the
tucker to us in the paddock. After get-
ting outside it, the boss and me lay down
in the shade for a spell, the lad went
away and Mat drifted off into a patch
of scrub. He got back just after we
started work a'gain. “Where you bin?”
I asked. In a low voice he said “Just
snuk roun’ through the scrub an’ pros-
pected this bloke’s homestead. Without
lettin’.on who I was I asked the missus
f’r a drink. Y’ see, y’ got t’ watch these
blokes who talk about y’ settlin’ down
an’ that. They nearly always got three or
six daughters about the place. But it’s
all right,” he said cheerfully, “this bloke
was just talkin’ —he ain’t got any.”
THE BIRDS.
The long, long journey lies behind me now,
And much it likes me to remember how
I have beguiled
The tedious way
With pleasures, often milky-mild,
Soberly gay,
Such as meek toiling men deserve;
But others fierce beyond belief,
Thrilling the taut nerve
To raptures swift and brief:
I’ve climbed great peaks,
Seen many plays.
Beautiful human faces,
Shows, circuses, freaks,
Coronation days,
Matches and races,
Many a boxing bout;
Caught salmon and trout.
Shot wild swine,
Drunk tuns of wine:
And whatever things I’ve seen and done
I’ve paid a price for every one.
Besides all these
Sports and jaunts and jollities,
Have I not had my share
Of great delights all- free?
Tire sight, the sound of the sea,
Sunsets and dawns, sweet winds on the hill,
Deserts of Asia, brown and bare,
Unfrequented lanes,
Jungles dank, and rocky glens,
For which no grasping hand presented any
bill.
Best of all I find,
Gazing back
Over my lonesome track,
Most medicinal, r'el/eshing to my mind,
Have been
The birds, the birds, the merry little birds.
My choicest words
Can’t tell what I owe them;
You all know them
With their preenings and beckings
And amorous peckings,
Motions quick and jerky,
Elvish attitudes and perky—
And the birds of ocean.
The albatross, stately and dignified.
With his smooth, effortless motion,
And the gulls like foam flying,.
Hungrily crying,
Their snowy wings
Reflecting the green light of the wave
In the underside;
Wild, free, greedy things,
Adventurous and brave;
While the richest bringers
Of high raptures to me
Have been the warblers, the singers.
The blackbird, supreme in his art,
Most deeply cherished in my heart.
There, my debt I’ve paid,
And full acquittance made;
And hark, far off, a blackbird loud and
sweet,
Gives me my receipt.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


“Chuck”: A beast’s head was sticking
out of the water in the home dam. It
belonged to a cow with milk fever, and,
as she was too far gone to help herself, I
caught a nag, puddled in slime over my
knees and got a rope hitched, only to
learn that the moke wouldn’t pull.
Scuttled back for the truck, ripped off a
tyre, mended the puncture, and after
running over my best sheep-dog, whose
main fault is a single-track mind in times
of trouble, eventually got the bedraggled
beast up the bank. Then, the petrol
being down to its last gurgle, I rode the
ten-mile short-cut for a packet of calcium
injection, blasphemously located , the
hypodermic and let the sick cow have it
in the neck. About midnight she seemed
better. I returned to the washed,
fed myself and crawled into bunk with
the comfortable satisfaction of a job
nobly done. In the morning the cow had
disappeared. I prodded the dam edges
with a pole, but as the pipe supplying
the house with slop water ran only at
half pressure that day it’s a pretty safe bet
the flamin’ nuisance went in the second
time from the deep end.
H= * * *
“Wester”: It would do “Nepean’s”
heart good if he could visit a homestead
on the Mulyandry plains, out of Forbes
(N.S.W.), where he’d see magpies (B.
12/1/ ’44) practically maintaining the in-
violability of the place. They greet the
sun every morn with a glory chorus and
a display of aerobatics; then, while a
half-dozen or so remain on guard, the
rest depart to forage. All through the
day individuals come back to relieve the
watchers, who give a chortle of thanks
and head for the swamp or river. Along
about 4 p.m., when the humans gather
on the verandah for afternoon tea, the
’pies knock off for the day, coming in
fiom all directions. They discuss the
day’s doings, hop and chuckle and
squabble and gossip ; then, as the mellow
evening comes, they give their bedtime
song. No bagman, horseman, motorman
or airman can approach that homestead
without the alarm being given. The
sentries’ reward is scraps of meat and
other odds and ends from the kitchen.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: I’ll admit to the “com-
mon mistake” (B. 12/1 / ’44) in calling a
12-gauge gun a .12 gun, but after read-
ing “Ballista’s” sermon on the subject
I reckon the mistake was worth it, for
a lot of misconception must now be
cleared up. Having absorbed the lesson,
I’m now going into a quiet corner to pro-
pound to myself the problem: If the
“bore size for a 12-gauge is set at .729 in.,”
what is the gauge of a .410 in. orchard
gun?
i|t * * »
“Horseless Horseman”: Mention of
that black gelding’s lone habit of gorging
loquat leaves in the horseyard (B.
22/12/’43) recalls a moke we bought in
1934 at Fort Bourke outstation (N.S.W.).
A large, thoroughbred-looking, washed
chestnut—he was by Ben Hur, a New-
castle Cup winner—we travelled him
down to the Murray on the road with
sheep, and, a bad doer like all his color,
he never learnt to walk in hobbles. Often
on night-camp, when the other mokes
had moved off to feed. Silver would be
standing statuelike watching us dine, and
as we tossed prune-stones around the
landscape we noticed to our surprise he
crunched them up and ate them. Soon
the tall thoroughbred cantering in hobbles
around the wagonette after pips became
our star turn with visitors. In the end
we fed him the kernels, and after that he
put on condition, and he could smell a
prune in your pocket yards away. Inci-
dentally, I sold that prad in Annuello
(Vic.), and in 1934 a Light Horseman rode
him down to the Melbourne Centenary
/
celebrations. At the outbreak of war he
was the V.R.C.’s ranger’s hack keeping
the racehorses on the right training-tracks
at Flemington. Not a bad finish fey a
prune-eating, Darling River drover’s
horse.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The primitive abo. of
the north-west Kimberley is often a six-
footer, splendidly proportioned and about
“We only use 'er at Week-ends."
as healthy an animal as is to be found
on this planet. His Eve, although smaller,
is likewise not to be despised from the
viewpoint of bodily beauty. Yet the abo.
couple carry all their worldly possessions
with them wherever they go, the man his
spears and other weapons, the woman
her portmanteau —this usually a wide
piece of paperbark, ingeniously tied with
string, which again may be spun from
wattle bark, the bark from the roots of
the baobab-tree or from human hair.
Contents seldom vary much, even though
a dozen such “glory bags” be opened.
A supply of edible roots, mostly those of
the water-lily; a pair of mortar-and-
pesfle stones with which to grind them ;
quartz or glass for the making of
spearheads; a handy-shaped stone or
two for axeheads; kangaroo-tail sinews ;
kangaroo bones for the points of hunting
spears ; balls of various kinds of hair to
be spun into waistbelts; fire-making
sticks ; dry grass for tinder ; oyster shells,
used as knives, mostly for cutting hair;
small skewerlike sticks used at corro-
borees as ornaments, and a supply of red
oxide and other pigments for the same
purpose. Nor is this property valued
overmuch: when doing a break for safety
the gin often abandons her reticule,
though never her baby.
“ Danger , boays! Henemy agent a-sketchin ship in poort!”
“Naturala”: The white-ant is even a
finer architect than the bee. Put a
spade into a termite mound, slicing
carefully so as to do the mini-
mum of damage. When a “face” has
been cleared examine the structure of
the cells or runways. It will be seen
that the termite knew about the strength
of the arch a million years before man
did. Every runway is an arcjied passage.
And from the crown of each lower arch
springs the buttress or wall of the arched
tunnel overhead. So the termite builds,
getting the maximum of strength with the
minimum of material. More, this system
of arch and buttress enables the building
to be contracted pyramid-wise at will,
again with the maximum of strength.
* * * *
“H.C.”: Biggest centipedes I ever saw
(B. 22/12/’43) were in New Guinea.
Some of ’em were 6in. long. A chap wan-
dered into a District Officer’s house one
night with at least 40 bites scattered over
him. He declared he was dying, but he
wasn’t. Ammonia took the stings out.
Tropical heat seems to reduce the poison
of centipedes up there, and they’re almost
harmless, though they bite hard.
* * * *
“Peppin”: Mitchell, Western Queens-
land, reverting to its show next May,
may lead country towns back to the old
yearly-show custom. Hopes are for a
full schedule of beef-cattle entries and
ring events. It is impossible to overesti-
mate the improvements to Australian
cattle- and sheep-breeding from these
smajl shows. In many districts what are
now sold as flock rams would have been
stud rams a few years ago.
* * * *
“Flock Ram”: We woke up one
scorching morning to find some smart
alick had tampered with every hydraulic
ram in our creek. It is only a small creek
in the hills, and the water position of our
holiday shacks was serious. My neigh-
bor rang up the relieving sergeant down
in the valley and reported the offence.
“What did you say was wrong?” the
sergeant inquired. We told him someone
had ruined all our rams in the creek.
Came the reply “Well, why don’t you
look after your sheep better? I can’t be ex-
pected to patrol all the Victorian ranges.”
Repeated attempts to explain proved
futile, so my neighbor paid a visit to the
police station and interviewed him. “I
never heard of hydraulic rams before,” he
said. “Next time you ring up be sure
to say if it’s your land rams or your water
rams that have been tampered with.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: It was in 1884 that a
young English scientist in Australia set
the British Science Association’s congress
in Canada babbling excitedly with a cable
announcing that the platypus lays eggs.
Now, 60 years later, David Fleay, that
excellent curator of the Healesville wild-
life, sanctuary, has acted as midwife to
“Jill,'’ a platypus reared in captivity. The
infant is fat, sturdy and sightless, but not
voiceless, inasmuch as it barks rather like
a puppy. The period of incubation took
six days, and to keep up her morale the
mother ate in a single night 400 worms,
338 chafer grubs and 38 yabbjes. It is
20 years since a living platypus left
Australia. Two were exhibited in New
York but didn’t last long. Fleay’s pre-
decessor at Healesville, Robert Eadie,
reared one, and to scores of visiting scien-
tists it was for five years the most im-
portant thing in Australia. Fleay has
carried on the experiment with the world’s
most ambiguous living creature.
* * ♦ *
“Betcha”: There’s no doubt about a
horse, dog, cat, etc., recognising indi-
viduals, but I wasn’t sure of the duller-
witted jumbuck till I met Toddling
Tommy and his crossbred. The big
poddy camps at night by the hut door,
follows the old cove through the day
whenever possible, and can pick him
a whole mob of blokes. A while
back, when Tommy got himself mixed
up in an accident and was hastily dis-
patched from the district, neither dogs
nor men could drive his jumbuck from
the hut. Getting daily poorer, Woolly
spent his daylight hours bleating and
kicking at the hut door until at length
someone carried him off. After three
months Tommy returned, and, though
the poddy at first showed no recognition,
within three days he was back at his old
tricks, climbing at the fence and becom-
ing greatly excited when he spotted the
old fellow coming down the street. Tom
claims genuine affection as the cause. I
wonder.
* * * *
“Zake”: Chris Wilkins had left one
of the town kids holding his hack’s reins
while he slipped into the stock and station
agent’s. When he came out two minutes
later he was just in time to see the horse
jerk his head back violently, freeing the
reins from the juvenile hands, as a steam-
roller lumbered past, and light out for
home, 12 miles out of town; which
set Chris a transport problem. Fifteen
minutes later he was passing the doctor’s
residence in the main street as the medico
backed his car out. He hailed Chris,
spoke a few words and the horseless one
got in the car. Twenty minutes later
they both got out and entered the
Wilkins home. Another five minutes and
the doctor re-entered his car, wondering
what had come over the usually placid
Mrs. W. that she should send for him
for a trifling complaint that a teaspoon
of carb. soda would have fixed up, but
philosophically considering that if half-
guineas were as easily earned and as
promptly paid elsewhere he’d have little
to growl at. At the same time Mrs. W.
was remarking to her lord, in an “I told
you so” voice, that now did he think the
telephone on to the place had no uses.
“P.A.”; Those klaxon-voiced
roWdies of the treetops the
dollar-birds have again taken
up residence in a ring of
big trees surrounding my
lower Blue Mountains fastness
(N.S.W.). From there they
saunter with much bluster and
bluff to break formations' of
smaller birds, and even to annoy
the übiquitous currawong. Look-
outs seem to give a signal from
some dead treetop for a noisy
family foray, in which the chief
act seems to be a display of
larrikinism accompanied by
noise. Their dun-colored bodies
flash in the sun, while their big,
silver dollar markings under the
wings become plainly visible.
While they appear to dominate
the airways and bludgeon the
lesser feathered fry, actually
theirs are merely fun frolics.
There is little desire for fight or
even bounce on the part of these
roisterers. Scallywags of the tree-
ways though they be, I’m glad
to have their company. It’s good
to have some irresponsibles around who
can throw off their cares so easily and
enjoy life to the full.
* * * *
“Esk D.”; Saw in a book of ancient
vintage a hint for preventing fence-jump-
ing animals from pursuing this hobby.
The idea was simply to clip the eyelashes
of the under lids, and the treatment was
claimed to be highly efficient and more
humane than other methods. Anyone
tried it?
VICTORIA SQUARE.
On a recent week as I chanced to fare,
Lone and idling along at ease,
Through a western suburb I found a square
Bordered around with shining trees.
Used to the sight of streets and slums,
City pavement's and smoke-hazed skies,
Coming so strangely upon those gums
Something of wonder filled my eyes.
Though all hushed in the breezeless day
Still they stood, yet, standing thus,
Somehow in fancy they seemed to say,
“Stay for a while and hearken us!
“Sanctuaried here in this wayside place,
Spared from the axeman’s blade a span,
Last are we of a stately race
Brought to naught by the will of man.
“Givers of shelter and graced with song,
Rooted deep and with arms flung wide,
Once like an army, stout and strong,
Lordship was theirs of the countryside.
“Boughs that danced at the wind’s caress,
Leaves that blushed in the sunset’s glow,
Sped, oh sped is their loveliness,
Gone with the days of long ago!
“Glory of suns and moons that shone,
Shines no more on them night or day;
Beauty was theirs that being gone.
Turned to ashes, has gone for aye.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE,
• TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
QUICKand DEADLY
KILL THOSE RABBITS
with
CVANOGAS
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
« 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
am
St's
LYS
.4. -
PROOF
lauuaunMF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
..>. dt
* »{ - f '• &* *"
gaA exM? ' It li
L
F
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Trucking Cattle.
Beefo : Although nothing can be
done until after the war, a more modern
type of truck should be evolved for carry-
ing fat cattle to treatment centres. In
many other cattle-producing countries —
in the Argentine especially—Australia’s
antiquated cattle trucks wouldn’t be
tolerated.
All trucks should have roofing to keep
off heat, cold and rain. At present only
a small percentage of trucks provide any
protection at all, and fats often arrive
in a distressed condition. With roofing
could go a spraying system in the hot
north, whereby cattle en route could be
showered with cold water periodically.
On river boats in the Argentine provision
of showers for cattle is a featufe.
Legislation is needed to make it com-
pulsory for' all horns to be tipped prior
to trucking. Dehorning in Australia is
not popular for some unknown reason,
but bruising and other injuries would be
reduced to a minimum during rail trans-
port if tipping becanje universal. Owners
who tip are convinced of its value.
Anyway, if Australian beef is to gain a
place near the top on export markets
present types of trucks must be scrapped.
Making Most of Rain.
“Curlew”: Where irrigation isn’t prac-
ticable thoughtful people are trying to
conserve rainfall by fairly simple means.
On comparatively level land the flow of
, water is very slow, so that the amount
absorbed by the soil is great. On undulat-
ing land there will be more runoff, and
on greater slopes much is lost, particu-
larly in heavier falls.
At Dookie Agricultural College (Vic.)
pegs were put in on a level around slopes.
Fifteen or 20 yards away similar lines
were run, and so on. The levels were
run with surveying instruments. Then
along these lines furrows were made,
throwing the soil downhill. Water com-
ing down the slope is thus impounded
and the furrows hold it. Until they’re full
there is no runoff. Any depressions into
which Water might get and run off
quickly, with scouring, are treated with
the formation of small dams of debris,
so that any- overflow may run off at one
side.
On D. Lawrence’s property at Avenel
(Vic.) much of the land is hilly, and down
these slopes after a heavy downpour there
would be a quick runoff. Much scouring
occurred, and at times fences were dam-
aged in the lower portions. Lawrence
ran dead levels across the slopes, using an
8ft. triangle with a plumb bob over the
centre. This was somewhat slow but very
accurate. As the country is granite, with
boulders in places, a shovel was used to
make the furrows.
Growth of grass has much improved.
Jhe annual rainfall is 27in., but by more
fully using it by furrow-impounding Law-
rence gets results equal to 40in. The work
is permanent, requiring only a little super-
vision to see that the furrows are in order
to prevent overflow except under extra-
ordinary falls of rain.
Stock Foods from Flax.
“Myrrhee”: Foods include flax-boll
chaff, linseed and linseed-meal. The chaff
has a fairly high protein equivalent, being
better than oaten chaff and nearly as good
as clover and lucerne hays, but it is as
low in other nutrients as oaten straw.
According to A. C. T. Hewitt, stock feed
expert of the Victorian Department of
Agriculture, flax-boll chaff makes a
balanced food as far as protein and
energy-producing nutrients are concerned,
but is unbalanced for bulk and total
nutrients. Commercially, as a bulk food
for horses and cattle, the chaff is worth
midway between the prices of oaten hay
or chaff and oaten straw.
The high protein content and digesti-
bility of linseed-meal make it one of the
best by-product fodders. Its food value
is also higher than that of most grains.
Stock fed with small quantities of linseed-
meal are usually more thrifty, and have
a conspicuously glossy coat; cows pro-
duce richer milk ; Linseed and linseed-
meal contain much mucilage, which, in
its passage along the digestive tract,
absorbs a large amount ,of moisture, giv-
ing both foods digestive properties. The
high protein content of linseed is utilised
to balance the ration for sheep on pas-
tures where the only other fodder is dry,
fibrous, protein-deficient herbage.
Linseed-meal, as gruel, is a good sub-
stitute for butterfat when skim-milk is
fed to calves, but linseed-meal is not
good for porkers and baconers, as it pro-
duces an oily lard which quickly goes
rancid.
Cyanogenetic glucosides are sometimes
present in linseed, and it is advisable to
feed flax-boll chaff, flax-seed refuse
and linseed-meal dry because, when
moistened, prussic acid may develop. The
digestive juices destroy the dry glucosides,
as does thorough boiling.
Prick!y-pear.
“Bungaree”: Tiger-pear on the Upper
Gwydir (N.S.W.) is spreading and dis-
turbing people from Bingara to Moree
and beyond. It’s different from ordinary
pear, and cactoblastis has practically no
effect on it. It grows in low, scattered
clumps easily missed in long grass. The
long, heavy spikes are a menace to stock,
which may stumble on a clump, and the
leaf which breaks off when a spike be-
comes stuck in an animal grows again
wherever it falls.
Sporadic attempts at stamping out
have been made by individuals with the
assistance of the Prickly-pear Board, but
their work and expense have been nulli-
fied by the indifference of others. Every
fresh in the river brings down pear on
to clean country.
There is a lot of it in the rough, prac-
tically unused country on the headwaters
of the Gwydir, and an organised cam-
paign is needed to clean it out. That
patch of country has scattered tiger-pear
all ilong the river to beyond Moree,
Valuable sheep-dogs have been
rendered useless through falling into a
clump of tiger-pear, horses have been
seriously injured, and it is impossible to
say what effect it has had on sheep and
cattle. Though man-power is short the
menace should be tackled in the proper
way at the earliest possible moment.
Crops for Pigs.
“Kiwi”: Growing his own feed, T. E.
Morgan, of Pukekoe East (M.L.), breeds
and fattens extra pigs without increasing
costs. Morgan keeps four sows to 30
cows, and is a noted breeder of prize
stock. Morgan’s soil is light and the
drainage good. Last season he grew
sugar beet —feed value double that of
mangolds and yellow maize, with
carrots and pumpkins on pasture ground.
Artificial and farm manures were used.
The season was a dry one, but he got
40 bushels of maize and 20 tons of sugar
beet from one acre.
The maize is a special variety of a
type*not yet named. Cobs turn down
and point to the ground. Yield is heavy.
It does well where the season’s short be-
tween spring and autumn frosts. Beet
and maize were sown in early November.
Morgan reckons the growing cost of
the maize at 3s. a bushel and the sugar
beet at 7s. a ton. With the skim-milk
from the 30 cows, roots and maize, pigs
are reared to baconer stage.
Trees on the Farm.
“Pat Ater”: There can’t be too many
kurrajongs in this fast-eroding, tree-
denuded land. Kurrajongs are great
fodder trees, but they should be carefully
lopped— not butchered —and are. also ex-
cellent shade trees. Contrary to general
belief they grow to ejiormous dimensions
in areas of assured rainfall, even right on
to the coastline. At Richmond (N.S.W.)
there is an old-man kurrajong which no
English oak or elm could put s to shame
for shape and size. It is the rendezvous
of most of the stock on the holding.
Being easily handled and transplanted is
one of the kurrajong’s greatest assets and
another reason for growing more of
them. Almost any soil suits it, and it
laughs at climatic variations.
But there is room on the farm for
more than kurrajongs. Sugar gums as
windbreaks —both the tall and the dwarf
varieties are splendid. They must
be transplanted young, and stock are
usually partial to them. A good way to
establish a windbreak along a western or
southern fence is to run a parallel single
electric-charged wire about 20 feet out.
Sugar gums are easily raised from seed.
Sow in an ordinary seedbed or box, just
burying from sight, and keep moist.
Transfer the youngsters into pots or tins
(with drainage holes and cut-down sides,
then tied round with wire). From these,
a year later, they can be planted out into
permanent places.
In dry areas or those of light rainfall
and hot summers it is best to get some old
lengths of 2in. or 3in. down-piping and
cut it into 18in.-length pieces. Fill these
with light friable soil, leaving the bottom
open. A piece of cardboard over the
hole will keep in soil till the small trees
are planted in them. They should be
then plunged into loose soil pockets or
beds to the rim and kept there, regularly
watered, till about 18in. high.
Even in hard times they should survive
if planted into open ground, with the
long taproots and feeding fibrous roots
well into the ground away from surface
heat. The way to do it is cut away the
piping or even put it in whole and allow
the roots to find a way out deep down
through the base.
Another splendid inlander is the yellow
box (E. melliodora ), which can be estab-
lished in a similar way. For bees yellow
box is worth £5 a year for each tree.
They’re great shade trees. Where rain-
fall is good, soil deep and winter cool,
there is nothing better than the English
elm. Plant it from sapling suckers and
let it grow into immense bowers for
shade. Good for fodder, too, in times of
drought.
Hints for the Farm.
“Green Ink”: That advice to growers
re branding bales (B. 20/10/’43) is not
so good. They should not be branded on
the bottom. When received at stores they
are marked on the head (top) with the
brand, number and quality of the wool,
then stacked in tiers three or four high,
head out and butt to butt. Obviously,
the stencil on the bottom cannot be seen.
Later, when shipped away, they are
branded on the bottom with a sin. sten-
cil with various numbers and counter-
marks and the name of a port. This
takes up a lot of space, without having
the grower’s stencil to annoy the brander,
who gets blamed for all mistakes.
“Myrr”: Wh£n the pig litter is thre»
weeks old use a low trough in a creep,
and feed a dry-meal mixture; wheat-
meal, barleymeal or pollard, with 20 p.c.
meatmeal if separated milk isn’t avail-
able. Keep the trough clean. Give milk or
water with the dry feed. If pigs haven’t
a run give them green feed each day,
and throw a shovelful of fresh soil over
the floor of their pen. If a pasture is
used a grass paddock that hasn’t carried
pigs for several months will give the
youngsters a good start.
“M.L.W.”: When using a cold chisel
keep a piece of oily rag at hand. After
each few blows touch the chisel edge on
the rag. This makes for better cutting,
and the chips turn more easily. To keep
the correct position and cutting angle,
watch the cutting edge, not the head. The
holding hand is never hit if the striking
is done with a wrist movement only, the
arm being held close to the side and kept
in the one position.
“Agro”: Mice will run around the iron
surrounding the haystack. At three or
four places put kerosene-tins in the
ground, flush with the surface. The tins
being level with the ground, mice run
straight into them and are drowned by
six inches of water placed in the bottom.
Put the tins hard up against the iron, as
the mice always run close in to it,
“B.”; Caterpillars and leaf-eating
beetles can be stopped with arsenate of
lead spray, 21b. to 80 gallons. If stock
have access to the trees use a gallon of
white oil emulsion, a pint of nicotine
sulphate (Black Leaf 40) and 80 gallons
of water. If this doesn’t work, try a solu-
tion of 11b. of derris-root, of soap
and 40 gallons of water.


Announcement
by The
Royal Sovereign
Pencil Company
ON the Land, in the Air
and on the Sea, pencils
are essential, apd in order
to maintain a regular supply
to all branches of the Armed
Forces, and to Common-
wealth and State Govern-
ments, we are unable to
make available for the public
anything approaching the
number desired.
To permit of quantity pro-
duction, the manufacture of
many of our well-known
brands has been discon-
tinued, and to conserve
materials needed for war
purposes, the finish and the
boxing of our pencils have
been modified considerably.
Thus we are able to maintain
our pre-war prices despite
the ever-increasing cost of
materials.
Materials needed for the
manufacture of pencils are
difficult to obtain. Receiving
from our regular source of
supply far less than the
quantities required, we are
forced to procure these
materials from other
sources. These, although
more costly, are not always
in keeping with “Royal
Sovereign” standards.
Under the present difficult
conditions we are doing our
best to maintain the high
quality of our pencils and,
until Victory permits re-
sumption of' normal sup-
plies, we shall continue
to give the best service
possible.
THE ROYAL SOVEREIGN PENCIL CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
140-146 Pacific Highway, Greenwich, N.S.W.
mm
M W
wm
<
If: I
mm
m
m
in
-You’re doing a big job now . . .
you’ve got a bigger job ahead
. . . and good lighting is a vital
factor in your post-war activities.
Be prepared, change over to “’Cold
1 Cathode” Fluorescent Lighting!
This smooth, powerful illumination merges
perfectly with daylight and gives daylight light-
ing at night. It ensures maximum visibility and
efficiency. Already, stores, offices, hospitals,
railways, theatres and restaurants overseas are
Fluorescent-lit.
Without obligation, and at our expense, we will
demonstrate this new lighting in your factory, or
informative literature will be mailed post-free on
application. War annexes and munition plants
get first priority, of course. Write or ’phone;—
lItTE R 10 R
LIGH T I n G
Division of IS eon Signs (A’sia) Ltd.
11-19 HARGRAVE STREET, SYDNEY - ’Phone:
FL 3132
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“For Democracy.”
(Condensed from an article by the editor of
London “Nineteenth Century.”)
The issue in the two World Wars is
being falsified by publicists and poli-
ticians who proclaim that their purpose
is to “make the world safe for democ-
racy,” that the present war is being
fought “for democracy,” and that it will
have been lost if democratic principles
do not prevail. There is a widespread,
almost a general, assumption that the
Democratic Powers are ranged on one
side and non-Democratic Powers on the
other.
The word “democracy” is seldom de-
fined. But if democracy is associated with
individual freedom, and if it is incom-
patible with despotism, as we are habitu-
ally given to understand, then of the
four major Allies only two, Great
Britain and the United States, are demo-
cratic, while two are not —Russia being a
despotism, and China a collection of
despotisms.
And when we are told that the war is
being waged .“for democracy” what are
we to understand? That there shall be
more democracy than there is at present
in England and America? That the world
as a whole, including Russia and China,
shall embrace democratic principles? Or
that the enemy shall embrace democratic
principles as one of the conditions of un-
conditional surrender? We are not told.
But it is permissible to point out that few
of those who are risking their lives in this
war would have taken the risk upon
themselves for any purpose of this kind,
and that if we are indeed fighting for
democracy and nothing else then the
people of England have been drawn into
the fight under false pretences.
The fact is that the people of Eng-
land, as of every other country at war,
are fighting for their own country. It
is on the need for defending their coun-
try against foreign conquest, whether the
would-be conqueror be democratic or not,
that they agree.
Those who hold that democracy is,
the form of government best suited to
the needs of the English people at the
present day are not false but true to their
political principles when they insist that
the fight for democracy is in Parliament,
in the press, on the public platform, in
conversation, and wherever people meet
freely together, and not on the battlefield,
that it is a fight between ideas, not armies,
that the ,way to promote democracy is
persuasion, not violence, that the Second
World War, like the first, has nothing to
do with democracy, that the German
nation would be the enemy none the less
if it had democratic rule and that Russia
is none the less an ally for being a
despotism, that if the war were indeed
being waged for democratic principles
and nothing more it would be an in-
famous crusade and a denial of those
principles.
It is not tolerable that the life of one
British soldier, sailor or airman should
be sacrificed so that the Italians —or, for
that matter, the Germans —may accept
democracy, or what our politicians and
publicists imagine democracy to be.
Labor for Russia?
(Condensed from an article by N.Y. “World-
Telegram” Washington correspondent Raymond
Clapper.)
Allied trade-union leaders have struck
squarely at one of the most fundamental
questions with regard to Germany in
their determination to oppose enslave-
ment of German labor to rebuild devas-
tated Russia after the war.
Sir Walter Citrine, dominant figure in
the British Trade Union Congress, and
American trade-union leaders, led by
William Green, Robert J. Watt and Mat-
thew Well, are working closely together
on this. They are aided also by some
French trade-unionists.
American Federation of Labor spokes-
men regard it as a vital policy. Their
viewpoint is that a strong Labor move-
ment in Germany is the best protection
against Fascism. They say that the first
move of the Nazis was to break up the
German trade-unions. The Nazis have
been mortal enemies of the unionists who
have fought the battle for democracy and
who must be the hope of democracy in
Germany after the war.
To permit such people to be dragged
off as slave labor into Russia would
violate what the Allies are fighting for,
say Labor Federation people. Further-
more, the Labor people do not believe
that slave labor would be an advantage
for Russia in the end.
Russians have discussed the idea. As
president of the A.F.L., William Green
has called upon President Roosevelt, in
his conferences with leaders of the Allied
Nations, to see to it that all are agreed
not to use slave labor out of Germany.
Mr. Green says the A.F.L. will oppose
such a plan with all of its power.
At any time almost we may have to
begin dealing with a defeated Germany.
It will make all of the difference in the
world whether we are going to follow
the Russian wish of conscripting German
labor as a form of human reparations or
protect the German workers while they
build up new unions and democratic
institutions.
Battle of the Ghetto.
(Condensed from a long, detailed account by
Elma Dangerfield in London “Nineteenth
Century.")
There were 3,130,000 Jews in Poland
before the war, or nearly 10 per cent, of
the total population. Today it is esti-
mated that less than 300,000 Polish Jews
have survived. The secret Polish radio
station “Swit” stated in June this year
that the Germans had exterminated 90
per cent, of the Jews in Poland, and that
the remaining 10 per cent, were being
systematically murdered.
In 1939 Warsaw had the largest Jewish
community of any city in Europe. Of
the 1,261,000 inhabitants 375,000, or
about 30 per cent, of the city’s popula-
tion, were Jews. Today Warsaw .has one
of the smallest Jewish communities of
any European capital. There are prob-
ably but a few thousand left in the
ghetto, and these are either dying daily
of disease, starvation and exhaustion or
are being shot in Warsaw itself or suffo-
cated in the stearmchambers at Treblinka.
In April, 1940, the Jewish quarter of
Warsaw, known as Nalewki and contain-
ing 244,483 Jews, was declared a “closed,
contaminated area,” allegedly because
558 Jewish cases of spotted typhus had
broken out. A decree ordered all Jews in
Warsaw outside the ghetto (about
110,000) to move into it and all “Aryans”
inside (about 90,000) to move out of it.
Incoming Jews were only allowed to bring
hand-luggage with them. On November
16 the ghetto was closed without warn-
ing, and all supplies of food were stopped
or confiscated. Prices soared, and the
Germans shot at sight any Jews or Poles
attempting to bring food into the ghetto.
Rape and outrage were nightly occur-
rences. Beatings for no reason at all —
except being a Jew —happened every day.
Four hundred and fifty thousands Jews
were by now crowded into the dirtiest
and most neglected part of the city where
244,483 people had lived before. The
number of inmates per room rose to six,
or even to ten. Brick walls 6ft. 9in. high
with broken glass on the top and barbed-
wire fences now enclosed the ghetto.
As the individual food rations were
wholly inadequate (about sJlb. of bread
. and 6ioz. of sugar monthly per person),
everything else had to be obtained
through the black market, where prices
were ten times as high as the legal
prices. Only about half the total popu-
lation in the ghetto could afford to buy
any of these extras. Mortality was
alarmingly high. The overcrowding and
the appalling sanitary conditions caused
epidemics of spotted fever, typhus,
typhoid and tuberculosis.
During the severe winter of 1941-42 —
when there was no heating at all in the
ghetto—the deathrate reached 13 per
cent., and in the first quarter of 1942
rose to 15 per cent, because of disease
and starvation. Many dead bodies were
found in the streets and were collected
into special horse-drawn two-wheeled


Prepare
HOMT.
to build
O
nm
m Vv;
*
m
<dt&L(
1
m\\d sm.
S O^SSS«#2
?2isf
jrr<t~
->®si
SdtS&VihUfS Q&Uf&
FOR YOUR POST-WAR HOME
Of course you can’t build it now . . . nor can
you do any extensive remodelling . . . even if
you could get all the Cane-ite you’d need for
the work you’re planning to do. And there’s
no reason why you shouldn’t plan, and pre-
pare, and save, for the home you’re going to
have when peace has followed victory. Then,
there’ll be plenty of Cane-ite, the ideal insulate
ing board for lining walls and ceilings.
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
MARKETING
CANE-ITE : : C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL : : PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS.
INVEST YOUR SA VING IN WAR BONDS
CA26-43
WAR SERIES
RONALDSDNTIPPETT
fT^HIS is a Winch which will solve certain unloading problems
-I for the men of the U.S. Navy. Our part of this production
is providing the power unit—a 6J h.p. radiator-cooled
Bonaldson-Tippett Diesel Engine.
By far the greatest part of our work to-day is closely connected
with the war effort. Many of the jobs which pass through our
hands are, in a sense, “routine,” such as the building of the
Diesel Engine for this Winch. Other jobs, however, call for
skill and equipment of a different and very special nature. In
all our work we bring to bear the best of Australian engineer-
ing ability and an enthusiasm which will hasten the ultimate
victory.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLABAT, Victoria.
N.B.W. Distributors: Bonaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty., .Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SIDNEY.
Q’land Distributors: Bonaldson, Tippett (Old.) Pty,, Ltd.,
, Parbury House, 137 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
carts for burial. There were scarcely
any births, but nevertheless the popula-
tion remained almost stationary because
of the arrival of foreign Jews who had
been deported from Germany and
Holland, as well as others from various
small towns round Warsaw.
In March, 1942, Himmler issued an
order for the extermination of 50 per
cent, of the Jews in Poland by the end
of the year. This order was carried out
in the Eastern Provinces, and it was
reckoned that 700,000 Polish Jews had
been massacred by the spring of 1942.
At first the executions were done by
shooting, but this was found insufficiently
rapid.
In Warsaw the Germans spread word
that the ghetto would be “liquidated.”
Instructions were given as to the number
(6000) which were to be “resettled”
daily. They were to be taken to the
“transhipment point” near by where there
was a railway siding. The first contingent
was increased to 10,000 “resettlers,” to be
followed by 7000 each day.
The Germans cordoned off streets and
blockaded houses and blocks of flats,
They then entered the courtyards and
opened fire at random, which was the
signal for everybody to assemble in the
yard. Arjyone who was slow to appear
or attempted to hide or escape was shot,
All the infirm, old and crippled were
either killed at once or taken to the
Jewish cemetery and there shot and
buried. An average of 50 to 100 were
thus murdered each day. Families were
forcibly separated, husbands from wives
and small children from their parents,
They were then taken to the hospital in
Stawki-street, where S.S. guards picked
out the able-bodied men for “dis-
persal camps.” The rest—older men and
women and mothers with babies in arms
—were herded into cattle-trucks. Here
about 120 were packed into a space made
to hold 40. They choked for lack of
air (the trucks were sealed from out-
side) and they often waited for hours
before the train moved,
It was only too obvious where they
were going—Treblinka. And everybody
knew what that meant. The Germans
tried to allay suspicions, declaring that
the deportees had “been sent to work in
the east.” As a matter of fact, only two
small trainloads of 4000 Jews were sent
to work behind the German lines near
Brest and Malachowicze up till Septem-
ber, 1942, when over 250,000 had already
been sent to Treblinka.
No wonder the railway line from War-
saw to Treblinka is marked—like many
others in Poland—by the bodies of hun-
dreds thrown out as they die, and the
crushed heads of babies who have been
hurled to death by their mothers to save
them from worse suffering at Treblinka.
Here a special platform has been con-
structed for the trains to disembark their
human cargo. On arrival the trucks are
rapidly emptied, the half-dazed men,
women and children are lined up sepa-
rately and told to strip for a bath to be
deloused. They are driven into cells. The
doors are closed and hermetically sealed
and the chamber is filled with steam
forced in through apertures in the pipes
connected with the boilerhouse. Polish
prisoners used to dig the graves, but
since these mass executions have been
intensified a great bulldozer has been
installed at Treblinka, and over the
bodies of today’s dead it digs out new
craters for tomorrow’s victims.
Dragnet Digest.
{Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
In his book Behind the Iron Wall, published
m Sweden, Dr. Arvid Fredborg, who has been
Berlin correspondent of the Swedish “Svensky
Dagbladet” for the last two years, says that the
German people would prefer to make arrange-
ments with the Allies at almost any price except
unconditional surrender. But the Nazis would
prefer an agreement with Russia, and if they
have to capitulate they would rather do it to
Stalin than to Churchill and Roosevelt. It is
reported in Berlin, according to Dr. Fredborg,
that Hitler has said if he fell he would pull
all Europe down with him; never would he give
victory to the British; he would gather all his
armies against the Anglo-Saxons ancf open the
gates east for the Bolsheviks to overrun
Europe. The possibility of such action was,
according to Fredborg, not far off in the late
autumn of 1942. — Manchester “Guardian”
Stockholm correspondent.
* Hi %
No problem in statesmanship more vital to
the destiny of mankind faces the people of the
British Commonwealth than that of the future
of India. It is the key problem in the future
of the British Commonwealth itself, the test of its
ability to develop from a small fraternity of
white nations with a dependent colored empire
into a no less cohesive group larger both in
the numbers of its nation-members and in their
racial variety. Moreover, India holds a critical
place in any system of world security which
relies at all upon the regional and oceanic
system embodied in the British Commonwealth.
India, the scene or object of war, would mean
an end to world security. If we in India and
in Britain, who are jointly responsible for solv-
ing the Indian constitutional problem, fail in
our task, with so much of goodwill and past
co-operation to help us, what chance is there of
avoiding a fatal outcome of those still wider
interracial and intercontinental stresses which
in the next generation or two may make the
defeat and disciplining of Germany seem a mere
in European civil war? — London
“Times” special correspondent.
* # * *
The Canadian Government has instituted a
distinctive Canadian medal to be known as
“the Canada Medal.” The Prime Minister-,
Mr. Mackenzie King, said it was regarded as
desirable to give suitable recognition of meri-
torious service. The new medal will be an
acknowledgment of such service not only by
Canadians but also by the citizens of other
countries whom Canada desires to honor. The
medal, of silver, bears on the obverse a crowned
effigy of the Sovereign and on the reverse the
arms of Canada and the word “Canada.” The
word “merit” in English or French is inscribed
on a bar attached to a mount of metal. The
ribbon is of equal stripes of red, white and
red, and the medal is to be worn immediately
after the British Empire Medal and before
war medals. Recipients will be entitled to add
the letters C.M. after their names in the case
of English-speaking recipients and M. du C.
in the case of French-speaking recipients.—
Ottawa correspondent London “Times.”
* * * *
We don’t agree with “Pravda’s” observation
that the most reactionary group in the United
States, in matters of pre-war foreign policy,
was the Republican party, which “Pravda”
thinks must bear responsibility for “the insuffi-
cient preparedness of the United States” and
“for the sacrifice, casualties and losses the
American people suffered at the war’s beginning
as a result of the country’s unpreparedness.”
There was another party, about which “Pravda”
has forgotten. In the summer of 1940, after
Hitler had attacked France, the Republican
party demanded a tremendous increase in
American armaments .and nominated as its
candidate for President a man who favored
the strongest possible aid to Britain. But in
the same summer of 1940 another political
party in the United States adopted a national
platform which declared: “Not a cent, not a
gun, not a man for war preparations. No aid
to the imperialist warmakers in London.
Oppose all war loans and credits to the warring
imperialist Powers. Stop the sale and shipment
of munitions and armaments. Resist the mili-
tarisation and armaments programme of the
Administration and Congress. Combat the
imperialist policies and acts of the President.”
That party was the Communist party of the
United States. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * *
Out of a European population of 2,000,000
in South Africa no fewer than 86,000 have
been on service outside the Union in North and
East Africa and Madagascar. The total, of
course, is considerably greater, as a large part
of the Army has had to be retained in South
Africa. A purely volunteer Army and Air
Force of some 166,000 has been raised. Add to
this the 53,000 men who have volunteered for
part-time military service and the 60,000 women
who are members of auxiliary services ; add,
again, the 60,000 workers in munitions and re-
lated activities, and we reach a total of 339,000
out of a total European population of 2,000,000.
In addition to this there are the large numbers,
exceeding 100,000, of Cape colored, Indians,
Malays and natives who form the non-European
army services and many of whom, 39,000 all
told, have given valuable service in different
theatres of war. I have spoken of a European
population of some two millions. Let us re-
member that of this population a considerable
minority is against South Africa’s participa-
tion in the war. A large section of this
minority, again, has been actively opposing the
war. It is one of the most remarkable of
achievements that General Smuts, beginning with
a Parliamentary majority of only 13, has been
able to evoke from South Africa so striking
a response to his Government’s policy. The
position of South Africa in 1939 was much
closer to that of Eire than to that of Canada
or Australia. — Manchester “Guardian” South
African correspondent.
Hi sfc Hi
In 1943 Italy, suffering the full penalty for
her mistakes, symbolised her act of contrition
by throwing out Mussolini. ,What of our-
selves? We have shown a deplorable levity
in our dealings with Italy since 1915. We
could have kept her as an ally if we had used
more intelligence. At the end of July, 1943, we
missed a glorious opportunity for helping Italy
immediately to stage a dramatic volte face
from the German to the Allied side. The volte
face belatedly came. But the future will never
be assured in Anglo-Italian relations until we,
too, recognise our past faults and mistakes,
and start again on an informed and clear basis
of mutual trust and respect, deriving from an
honest and moral purpose.— George Glasgow;
London “Contemporary Review.”
* * * *
They [Americans] came on a lot during the
Sicilian campaign and are now incontestably
a first-class army. No army, even the German,
has ever been better equipped, and, in addition
to their sappers, their artillery work is mag-
nificent. Our own gunners are as good as the
next man, but they are glad to go to the
Americans for tips just as the American infantry
are , glad to come to ours. — Manchester
“Guardian” war correspondent E. A. Mon-
tague.
* * :.<! #
“Unconditional surrender” has operated
powerfully upon the course of the struggle. If
it could now be defined and amplified—if the
Germans could be told both what they must
expect and what they need not fear in the event
of that surrender—the results might be far-
reaching.—N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
It. probably would be just as well not to
count on several all-out Pacific offensives in
the near future. We say this because of the
unfortunate public reaction in the past, when
hopes of quick defeat of Japan have been
aroused only to peter out as premature. In all
fairness to General MacArthur, Admiral Halsey
and their heroic men—who are fighting under
the worst conditions anywhere—there is no
reason, to believe that the South Pacific com-
mand has received the vast reinforcements
requisite for a knockout campaign.— N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of BERNARD
RICHARDS please ask him to communicate with his
people in Viet via ?
Public Notices.
I, MANFRED GRUNEBAUM, N 221554 3rd Australian
Employment Company, Mascot, of former German
nationality, born at S'chlierbach, Frankfurt-on-Main,
Germany, and resident two years in London, England,
and six years in Australia, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, CHARLES ARNOLD BLANKS, registered' as a
refugee alien, of former German nationality, born at
Stuttgart and resident five years in Australia, now
residing at 12 Oulworth Avenue, Killara, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act. 1920-1936.
I, HEINZ BAUM, of German nationality, born at
Berlin, Germany, and resident six years in Australia,
now residing at Id 1 Bradley Avenue, Bellevue Hill,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act, 1920-1936.
I, LUDWIG HAMMERSOHMIDT, of former German
nationality, born at R6gasen (now Rogozno, Poland),
and resident five years in Australia, now residing at
3A Wild Street, Maroubra, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, N268&00, PRIVATE FRANZ WILHELM BOEHM,
of German nationality, born at Berlin, Germany, and
resident more than five years in Australia, now
serving with the A.M.P., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, N 221673, HEINzIMNNERTa member of the A.M.F.,
of German nationality, born at Hamburg, Germany,
and resident six years and eight months in Australia,
now residing at Military Camp, Mascot, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920'-1936.
giiii
"1
gn the BIG jar and
EXTRA LARGE tube
you get more cleans
for your money ...
ISRIGHT
for All your white shoes
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
*
m
■
■
mm
■ H ■
rR|«
H
K/
o^l
r
P*
giiisg
fit
LESS
1
■
liMMy
-jiBW
tm
a
ai
WfH.'V" :■'■’■ *EIB I
, -•. J ' '* -j
<a.a :
I HI
■w 1
a»
■
L tsSS
Anyone can see clearly , . ,
that Fluorescent Lighting is an important contribu-
tion to Australia’s war’effort.
It is simple arithmetic.
Advantages of Fluorescent Lighting summed up:—
• More Light per Watt
© Greater Lamp L«fe
• Higher Lighting Effi-
ciency
• Improved Employee
Morale
• More Natural Light
• Bettelr Light Distri-
bution
- • Easier Seeing
• Less Fatigue
® Fewer Accidents
• Less Spoilage
• Lower Lighting
J Costs
• Reduced Reflected
Glare
• Heat Cut to One
Quarter
• Reduced Shadows
H
FLUORESCENT LIGHTING
lt all adds up to increased production, plant
efficiency, and total war effort.
Installation on cash or rental basis. This is the proper time to start thinking of your post-war lighting
projects. Perhaps a suggestion now from our experience in the lighting field will help you develop your
plans. We will be pleased to discuss them with you.
CLAUDE NEON LIMITED
2 ALISON ROAD, RANDWICK, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE; BRISBANE, ADELAIDE. PERTH, anil HOBART
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
IT
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
JObs a
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy the Beethoven sonatas, in one or two
volumes.—3416.
To buy guidebook for 1930 Nash.—3417.
To buy an electric waffle-iron.—3418.
Information Sought.
Details of a plant suitable for irrigating 10
acres of land 10 chains from water, with a 15 ft.
rise from water to land to be irrigated ?
Plant would include a diesel engine or farm
tractor to develop 12 h.p., a 3in. single-stage,
high-lift centrifugal pump, 18 chains of 4in. by
22-gauge G.I. irrigation main with quick-acting
couplings, and 10 chains of 4in. by 22-gauge
irrigation spray line with quick-acting couplings,
together with the necessary fittings. This plant
would deliver approximately 11,000_ gallons per
hour. For details and cost, submit to a firm
dealing in irrigation equipment.
How to clear land of lantana and guava
scrub ?
If a small area, poison with arsenic pent-
oxide ; if large, brush and burn, plough, and
poison hew growth.
What are the world’s record times for 100,
220 and 440 yards, mile and half-mile, 100 and
200 metres running championships and 120, 220
and 440 yards hurdles?
Running: 100 yards, 9.45ec.; 220 yards,
20.35ec.; 440 yards, 46.45ec.; half-mile, Imin.
49.65ec.; one mile, 4min. 6.45ec.; 100 metres,
10.25ec.; 200 metres, 20.3 sec. Elurdling: 120
yards (10 3ft. 6in. hurdles), 14.15ec.; 220 yards
(10 2ft. 6in. hurdles), 22.65ec.; 440 yards (10
3ft. hurdles), 52.65ec.
Brief Answers.
8.0’5.: The army rejects serious cases of
stuttering; R.A.A.F. and R.A.N. accept those
who stutter only slightly... .J.H.: The V.D.C.
receives the same pay as the A.M.F., but if
only part of one day is served the soldier is
paid proportionately. If more than one day
is served, a full day’s pay is made for part of a
succeeding day... .A.J.P.: No information
available... .N.D.F.: Use of the dressing does
not hurt the walls of tyres... .N.E.L.: Only
an expert could do the job. Your other ques-
tions will be answered later.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted ; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
M.W. —
Do these wax- days sanction give
All higher aims to disregard?
Nobler ideals are thrust aside,
Trampled on and grossly marred.
Banal talk meets present needs
With personalities a rite;
There’s mostly drivel on the air
And music primitive and trite.
... .H.M.W.: . Waved it away with zest....
W.G.A.; Not while you have clumsinesses such
as “With beauty foolish imitation mocks”....
8.L.: Retreating according to plan... .F.8.J.:
“Man in all his pompous vanity doth aspire.”
And where have you been asleep for the last
50 years? ... .M.A.L.: A poem about someone
else’s poem, painting or music nearly always
falls short of its subject. Others all slight....
N.K.; You try so hard to make them rough
and prosy that, unfortunately, you partly suc-
ceed H.E.P.: “Bushfire” doesn’t burn....
J.F.: Only the Religious Editor was pleased
with the last five lines... .N.L.R.: The same
wind has been blowing for years... .J.M.;
Featherweights P.K.: “’Twas Christmas
night and they did not fight.” No beer?
J. : Send it to the home for lost doggerel.
. ...F.R.C.: It still lacks the faintest glimmer
of originality F.P.: Good couplet at the end
of the tree poem A.H.W.: If you really are
suffering from “fierce winter’s blast” you’ve
proved that poets do live in a world of their
own... .S.S.: Marred by magazine cliches such
as “It didn’t take long for this charming,
courteous guest to find his way into the heart
of the susceptible Vanessa” M.M.W.: It
leaves no impression except a faint, squalid
gloominess P.P.M.; A woman’s paper would
like the comedy and might even pardon the
sentimentalities —“the garden of the gathered”
and “Old Mother Eternal,” etc P.S.: A
lifeless sketch....J.P.G.: Strained J.L.W.:
It rambles... .H.C.: Too thin A.N.S.:
Amusing, but slight... .H.V.P.; Hoary plot
and synthetic dialogue H.S.: It should
be boiled or burned... .M.G.W.: Story as
phony as the ten-pound note D.L.C.:
We get about 1,071,432 similar yarns every
year... .8.R.; “You won’t believe this, brother”
—correct... .R.J.J.; All right, a coconut fell
on his head. And what has that to do with the
analysis of human character? D.W.; Had
no trouble keeping those stags at bay....
K. : Good theme spoilt by overwriting.
. ...8.M.: For a woman’s paper... .F. 8.:
Not a story... .R.C.; Too gloomy.


Ruwolt
■-
-
me
I
Three Throw Hydraulic Pump;
to deliver 120 gallons per minute against a working pressure of
1,5001 b. per square inch. Finished weight 13 tons.
Two of the above Pumps were recently designed and built
by Ru wo It’s for Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
The Pump illustrated is a good example of high-grade engineering
work as produced by Ruwolt’s. *
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essentia!
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately attend
to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done in the
past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee.
VV7HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
” satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by GO years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. -H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen G. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Oureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
• Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: O. E. Oowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord s Place, Orange.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profit. 61 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
'££ £ £ £
1984. .186,748 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 08,623 280,822
Deficit.
Depreciation reserve deducted from
plant in balance sheet, £366,139.. 85,317
1935. .209,707 8125 10 p.e.=110,000 U n
Written off. £41,031.. ..j 50 ’ 551 54./66
Reserves.
1936. .226,529 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 1 001 ,„ r95
Written off, £41,113.. .. j 40 ’ zyl iu,o/o
1937. .259,659 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 7 7a nn , aa
Written off. £41,533.. .. f 78,001 88,526
1938.. 295,770 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 |
Written off, £43,682.. 89,963 178,489
1939. .280,984 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 1 71 afu 9f - n 9qß
Written off, £47,055 .. ( 71,bU4 5U ’^ yd
, —* —Pref.
61 ip.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary.
1940. .240,333 8125 1,031 14 p.c.=154,000 7 „ 0 „ OQQ
Written off, £44,476 f /8Z ’ y9;S
1941.. 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 \ oan oaQ
Written off, £43.945 J
1942. 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 1 9 - 9 •. fi7
Written off. £44.372 )
1943. .223,954 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154.000 1 9 ,-o 9Sn
Written off. £44,216.. .. ' .. j U
This is Australia’s largest publishing
organisation, and its 14 p.c. div., steady
since 1938, is the biggest thing of its
kind among the newspaper group on
’Change. Profits for 1942 were thrown
askew by receipt last term of an unex-
pected demand for £43,247 war-time
(co.) tax. The improvement shown in
the 1943 profit in the table is, therefore,
more apparent than real. The “Wild
Cat” continues to treat the board’s pro-
vision for depreciation (£44,000-odd) as
an appropriation of rather than a charge
against profits, because such provision
has long been in excess of actual require-
ments for the purpose. On this basis, the
£223,954 (up £39,079) of profit exhibited
last year covered pref. divs. and 18.1 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 14.5,
18.6, 21 and 26 p.c. back to 1939.
The co. puts out a string of eight pub-
lications in its home city, chiefe being the
#
morning “Sun” and evening “Herald,”
which lead the Commonwealth’s daily
circulation field with average net sales
of 285,000 and 260,000 respectively.
Broadcasting interests 3DB and 3LK are
other handy sources of revenue in these
times of rationed newsprint, and inter-
state associations ejqst with the “Courier-
Mail” (Brisbane) and the “Advertiser”
and “News” cos., of Adelaide. The
largest outside investment is Australian
Newsprint Mills Pty., in which H. and
W.T. was a prime mover. The Boyer
mills are turning out half the Common-
wealth’s present curtailed newsprint re-
quirements, and aim eventually to satisfy
60 p.c. of Australia’s normal needs, but
more plant will be needed before this can
be done. Reflecting the appearance of
the paper venture the publishing co.’s
return from investments has expanded
£46,939 over the past two years, and at
£86,041 now pays nearly half the divi-
dends.
The Tasmanian newsprint venture has
been the only factor between the metro-
politan dailies and four-page issues. As
it is, consumption has been rationed in
this drastic manner:
July, ’4O . .Restriction to 65 p.c. 1938-39 tonnage.
July, ’4l . . „ ~ 40 „ „ „
Jan., ’42 . . ~ ~ 32 ~ ~ ,
Sfov., ’42 . . ~ ~ 271 „ ~ ,’
0et.,’43.. „ „ 35',, „ „
The increase since the close of accounts
reflects limited resumption of imports,
and is to take care of growing circula-
tions atid Government advertising. Last
term the co. was on a 21\ p.c. ration,
with consequent further contraction in
advertising space, revenue from which
has fallen to a third of pre-war dimen-
sions. Oh the other hand, newsgathering
and publishing costs, have rocketed, and
so has taxation. Part of the lost income
has been recovered from the tacked
on to the price of the “Herald” and
“Sun.” On the other side of trading
account savings have come mainly
from a cut in the newsprint bill
(despite the price-rise in that com-
modity) and from a 40 p.c. reduction in
staffing. Chief economy last year
resulted from rationalisation of distribu-
tion under which the “Sun” goes out with
its rivals the “Age” and “Argus” ; the
“Herald” has no competitor to team up
with.
With most of the share capital invested
outside the business finances exhibit
considerable fluidity:
1936. 1940. 1942. 1943.
Stock.. £150,729 £416,322 £322,687 £203,254
Debtors,
etc. . . 214,911 189,316 144,219 144,560
Shares in
other cos. 337,840' 726,985 893,470 894,242
Cash, etc. 39,556 16,933 227,826 511,655
Liquids £743,036 £ 1,849,556 £1.588,202 £1 753,711
Liabilities* 138,496 115,540 152,866 254,496
Surplus £604,540 £1,284,016 £1,435,386 £1,499,215
Freeholds,
etc. . . 421,364 465,456 475,025 474,858
Machinery
and plant 320,721 238,052 163,896 119,645
Net
assets £1,346,625 £1,937,624 £2,074,257 £2,093,718
* Excluding- tax reserve, now £240,126.
“Herald” stocks have been the means of
sustaining less fortunate brethren, and
the figure above includes £73,915 (cost)
of paper on loan to the newsprint pool
formed for the purpose. “Plans are in
hand for development of the co.’s
activities” and g.m. Dunstan has gone to
America and Britain.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
Added Capital
To Re- and Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£.£ £ £
1937.. 54,745 8 p.c. = 32,000 1„ n ... .
Provident fund, £2OOO j 20,74 ° 664 > 163
Provision contingencies written
back, £5OOO 669,163
1938. . 62,686 10 p.c. *= 40,000 '
Provident fund, £5OOO 13,686 682,849
Staff bonus, £4OOO ..
1939.. 56,121 9 p.c. = 36,000 *
Provident fund, £2OOO 1 13,121 695,970
Written off premises, £5OOO
1940.. 58,345 9 p.e. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £2OOO [-15,345 711,315
Written off premises, £5OOO J
1941.. 61,454 9 p.e. = 36,000 *
Provident fund, £5OOO 1 15,454 726,769
Written off premises, £5OOO
1942.. 63,111 9 p.c. = 36,000"
Provident fund, £7OOO 1 15,111 741,880
Written off premises, £5OOO
1943.. 65,666 9 p.c. = 36,000'
Provident fund, £6OOO 1 18,666 760,546
Written off premises, £5OO-6
* Includes 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
Last year the Mercantile lost its manag-
ing director, knight Kelso King. He
had been chief executive officer of the
co. since its inception in 1878. His
brother, Selwyn King, has followed him
as managing director after 50 years in the
co.’s service. The King family and the
Mercantile Mutual have been part of
Sydney for longer than most people can
remember. Nowadays the office has
branches in every State and is represented
in most parts of the world. It has not
had the spectacular War-time results of
some other fire, marine and accident
offices; but, in spite of increasing taxa-
tion and other costs, earnings have shown
steady improvement, and the 9 p.c. div.
has been covered comfortably.
The cautious board has fully reinsured
overseas war risks. Among other things,
this should mean that profits are nearer
What they seem than in the case of many
offices which have retained a big swag of
marine risks, settlement of which is a
long-winded business. Marine war-risk
in Australia is a Government monopoly.
Last term the gross premium income
(£672,560) dropped £12,320. Reinsur-
ances (£337,148) were £24,788 lighter.
Thus net premiums showed a growth of
£12,468:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1930.. 362,202 194,895 157,446 53.8 p.e. 43.5 p.c.
1933.. 232,712 110,573 122,917 47.5 „ 52.8 „
1936.. 250,010 91,517 128,273 36.6 51.3 ~
1938.. 294,595 118,702 137,382 40.3 „ 46.6 „
19.39.. 300,940 134,204 135,922 44.6 „ 45.1 „
1940.. 306,541 134.981 137,110 44.0 „ 44.7 „
1941.. 315,104 131,798 146,685 41.8 „ 46.5 „
1942.. 322,944 124.645 160,200 38.5 ~ 49.6 „
1943.. 335,412 122,985 166,738 36.4 „ 49,7 ~
A tight hold was kept upon exes., and
there was an encouraging drop of £2 2s.
p.c. in the loss rate. The underwriting
surplus was £45,689, up £7590, but the
previous year’s figure was overstated to
the extent of taxation on interest, etc.,
income charged to underwriting. With
interests and rents shown at £19,977 net
(against £25,011 gross), profit for the year
was £65,666, up £2555. Shareholders
were handed 9 p.c., as .usual, £6OOO was
transferred to the staff fund, £5OOO was
written off premises and £18,666 was
carried to visible reserves.
Reserves, now £360,546, are equal to
90 p.c. of the paid capital. Here are
balance-sheet figures:
1931. 1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £400,000 £490,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 20,668 215,000 255,721 279,743
Tax reserve .. 6,000 18,000 35,000 50,000
Freeholds, etc. 412,968 485,384 480,300 475,071
Mortgages . . 19,256 14,745 21,661 18,885
Public securities,
deposits, etc. 319,963 364,149' 441,859 527,299
Book debts .. 67,614 68,212 76,323 65,060
Cash, etc. .. 6,051 23,479 42,457 32,973
Last year the co. added £85,000 to its
holding of war loans, raising the total in-
vestment in Consols to £318,782. The
reserve for unexpired risks stands
at £135,000, up £5OOO. Net tangible
assets at balance day were equal to 236
p.c. of the retained premiums—a strong
position. A feature of the business is its
gifts to the staff provident fund. Over
the past nine years these have totalled
£33,000.
Australian Knitting Mills (Melb.)
, Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1933*.. 24,538 74 p.c. 5 p.c. 27,750 158,825
Profit on sale of shares, £BBO3 .. .. 167,628
1934 . . 59,445 74 p.c. 74 p.c. 41,312 18,133 185,761
1935 . . 39,894 74 „ 7 „ 38,550 1,344 187,105
1936 .. 28,054 74 „ 7 „ 32,583 182,576
Unexplained addition, £l7OB .. .. 184,284
1937 . . 19,070 74 p.c. 7i p.c. 14,906 4,164 188,448
1938 . . 18,848 74 „ 74 „ 14,906 3,942 192,390
1939 . . 17,656 74 „ 7-J „ 14,906 2,750 195,140
1940 .. 28,736 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,111 203,251
1941 . . 29,018 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,393 211,644
To staff fund, £2OOO .. ■ . . . . 209,644
1942 .. 28,435 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 7,810 217,454
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 215,454
1943 .. 29,122 iff pi.e. 10 p.c. 20,625 1,497 2i6,951
To staff fund, £7OOO .. .. .. 209,951
* Thirteen months.
Big changes have occurred in A.K.M.’s
business over the last half-dozen years.
It used to be devoted to full-fashioned
hosiery and fine-knitted woollen and art-
silk under- and outerwear. Consider-
ing the pound-for-pound swag of reserves,
moderate earnings followed the Yarra
Falls-Austral Silk share shakeout in 1936.
Then war sent trade up with a rush and
altered the character of demand. All
plant suitable for the purpose—much of
it wasn’t —was switched to defence work ;
and heavy service demands and shortage
of yarns brought severe rationing in the
civilian trade, where fashion hosiery was
one of the lines hard hit. Still, the co.
picked up more on the swings than it lost
on the roundabouts, despite the smaller
margin on defence as against civilian sales
and the effect upon costs of a, high rate
of absenteeism among employees.
Last term turnover didn’t quite meas-
ure up to the previous year’s record
level, owing mainly to shortage of skilled
labor and of various types of yarn. Also,
demand on defence account eased a
trifle, and a bit more attention was able
to be given to the hungry civilian trade.
After allowing £25,000 (down £10,000)
for taxation and providing £19,252 (up
£217) for depreciation, which included
£5OOO to cover increased landed cost of
new plant, there was little change in the
net result (£29,122). This was equal to
14.1 p.c. on capital, which is in 10,000
p.c. cum. participating prefs, and
540,000 ords., all of 7s. 6d. each. An
all-round 10 p.c. div. Was again distri-
buted, and £7OOO was sent to the staff
fund.
Balarice-sheet movements mainly reflect
the installation of new plant and increased
civilian trade:
1935. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £550,000' £206,260 £206,250 £206,250
Liabilities . . 22,525* 36,114 36,081 40.505
Tax reserve .. 30,713 27,759
Freeholds . . 109,511 108,008 139,139 137,939
Plant, etc. . . 72,005 74,530 68,303 84,448
Stocks.. .. 143,635 191,449 143,629 144,774
Book debts . . 45,520 62,102 31,288 65,739
Cash, etc. .. 15,998 47,572 119,873 72,299
Shares .. 394,936
* including tax.
To spend £16,145 more than was written
off on plant, etc., and carry an extra
£34,451 of book debts, the cash holding
was drawn upon for £47,574 last term.
Including the tax reserve, the year’s con-
traction in the more or less liquid surplus
(£214,548) was £13,448.
As for prospects, they will depend
largely upon the co.’s efficiency and its
ability to reduce costs. The new cotton-
spinning plant, now in operation, and the


INVENTORS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
♦ ♦ * *
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anjl Trade Marks. — Abvt.
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
U'T
IK • v
Mark ® Location,
of YOUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEX, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
ONLY
£l7/10/-
Built entirely in Austrah
AGENTS
WANTED \
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
— SYDNEY AND BRISBANE -
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty., Ud.. King Street Sydney.
AE£PYOURHMR
0/
ON/
S timulate
Its growth
and keep it
healthy with
McMahon's. Easy and eco-
nomical, quickly effective In
cases of falling hair, alopecia
patches, scalp dryness, dan-
druff and cradle cap.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
fd
ECZEMA
2 ENSITIVE PEOPLE feel eczema acutely.
The continued irritation, the unsightly erup-
tions and the uncertainty where the trouble
will next spread make them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact that
certain skins react badly to various forms of irrita-
tion (internal or external), and poor general health
increases the liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema to spread
and to become chronic, early local treatment is
imperative, and the best salve for this purpose is
DOAN’S Ointment. It penetrates to the true skin
where the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and healing
and quickly allays the irritation. DOAN’S Ointment
ia also good for other itching skin complaints and
for the relief of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but be sure
you get DOAN’S.
in
XyXjl-S-S
msss&m
;•/ As
mm
vmsmmst
u
:
ll*
1
Jev
:
I
m
Z 1 1
t v
r':S
c«£s
a s*
:>•*
“I’m reminding you that peaceful days
will come . . . and with the return of peace,
you’ll be able to relax and think of home
comforts. For the time being, lake care
of your Feltex floor covering . . . and invest
-what you save in War Bonds.”
feltex
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Manufacturers of Feltex Floor Covering,
new wool-spinning equipment, scheduled
to turn out yarn by the end of July next,
ought to mean much so far as costs are
concerned. The efficiency problem will
largely depend upon what the Govern-
ment does through man-power and other
controls, and industrial legislation and
the terms of its contracts.
North Broken Hill. Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. serves. Reserves.
1933.. l sp.c. = locjoo 91.665 2,229,293
1934. .303,355 27* „ „ 192,500 110,855 2,340,148
1935. 420.683 40 ~ „ 280,000 140,683 2,480,831
i95e!!6661940 70 ” ”490.000 i7e!940 2J358.771
1937.. 105 „ „ 735,000 205,628 2,863,399
1939. :IJS; B4’ 40 ” 280,000 l,Bif&B
Shares written up,” £246,576 .. 3,061,969
1940. .520,388 40 p.c. = 280,000 240,388 3,302,357
1941.. 575.052 40 280,000 295,052 3,597,409
1942. .462,326 40 „ „ 280,000 182,326 3,779,735
1943.. 35 „ ~ 245,000 123,826 3,903,561
Profits in the table have been adjusted
to cover short-provision for taxation
£27,000 in 1941 and £53,248 in 1942. A
year or so ago an addition to the Federal
Income Tax Assessment Act provided for
a 20 p.c. tax exemption of assessable in-
come from mining of base metals and
rare minerals, specified in the regulations
and used in the prosecution of the war.
The big cos. along the line of lode at the
Barrier obviously derive a substantial part
of their income from mining such metals,
which are also used for the purpose speci-
fied. Still, the cos. failed to get any relief
from taxation, and were caught short
when the taxgatherer called. The catch
was that lead, zinc and silver were not
specified as base and/or precious metals
in the regulations. Such stratagem ill
becomes Government. For purposes of
taxation, these silver-lead-zinc mines are
not regarded as wasting assets—-as assur-
edly they are —when assessing co. income,
but are so regarded when calculating
share values for probate purposes. Only
the Government can have it both ways.
Here are North’s revenue and expen-
diture figures:
Revenue— 19'41. 1942. 1943.
Mine products . . £1,741,318 £1,828,508 £1,467,871
Investments .. 184,786 131,829 101,120
£1,926,104 £1,960,337 £1,568,991
Expenditure—•
Mine .. .. 1,054,658 1,114,715 1,067,326
P. and 1. item . . 405,821 476,722 213,662
Loss, investment 598
£1,461,077 £1,591,437 £1,280,988
Net profit .. 465,027 368,900 288,003
Last year’s revenue from mine products
was down £360,637 and from investments
£30,709, making drop in revenue from all
sources £391,346. Savings in expenditure,
etc., totalled £310,449, leaving declared
net result £80,897 lighter at £288,003.
That leaves out of the reckoning allow-
ance for depreciation (£75,000) and addi-
tion (£5768) to stores replacement reserve,
which, with £55 dropped into general
reserves, explains the difference between
the profit claimed and that shown in the
introductory table. The declared £288,003
is equal to 2s. 0.5 d. per ss. share. So 3d.
was clipped off the div., reducing it from
2s. to Is, 9d. per share. The drop in
earnings was due to slight reduction in
grade of ore treated, lower output from
the mine, owing to difficulty in obtaining
skilled workers, and to rising costs and
shrinkage in return from investments.
Production figures aren’t broadcast.
But of ore extracted last term 82.6 p.c.
came from the North section, where
about one-third of the stuff was taken
fiom lode pillars. Metal recoveries com-
pare as follows:
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Lead ~ 94.6 p.c. 96.2 p.c. 96.9 p.c. 96.5 p.c.
Silver .. 87.4 „ 90.5 „ 91.8 „ 90.9 „
Zinc .. 83.2 „ 86.0 ~ 86.4 „ 86.3 „
The slight reduction in last year’s recov-
eries was partly on account of lower-
grade ore handled. There isn’t scope for
much improvement in metallurgical effi-
ciency ; any further advance will be gov-
erned by the economic limit to which fine
grinding can be extended.
The financial position exudes health:
1940. 1942. 1943.
Shares in other cos. £1,313,637 £1,485,887 £1,490,491
Stores .. .. 90,008 118,231 143,238
Concentrates on hand 12,514 22,162 7,745
Debtors *.. .. 443,837 455,839 235,754
Cash, etc 187,196 362,636 400,388
Liquid assets .. £'2,047,192 £2,444,755 £2,367,616
Less liabilities* . . 325,220 235,264 270,065
Liquid surplus .. £1,721,972 £2,209,491 £2,097,551
* Excludes provision for tax, etc., now £122,407.
Liquid surplus was equal to approx. 9d.
per share at the end of June last. Share-
holdings comprise a large group of metal-
producing and -fabricating and ’plane-
construction and other industrial con-
cerns, all engaged mainly in turning out
war goods.
Although demand for Australian pro-
duction of some classes of war goods has
eased, Britain, America and Maoriland
are mopping up all the spare lead and
zinc, etc., that the big plants at Pirie and
Risdon can turn out. And post-war
demand for these metals promises to be
keen, too. Combined ore reserves of the
North, British, Junction and Block 14
sections of the co.’s property were figured
at 5,511,000 tons (up 165,000 tons) at
June 30 last. Assay isn’t mentioned, but
average grade of all ore milled by the co.
during the four years to mid-1939 was
14.69 p.c. lead, 8.770 z. silver and 11.18
p.c. zinc. A lot more pay ore is known
to exist outside measured limits, mainly
in the deep levels. Although mine revenue
might yet shrink a bit, little change is
expected either in return from invest-
ments or in the co.’s net earnings from all
sources,
J. Kruttschnutt, chairman New Guinea
Goldfields, Ltd., says the board has been
“reliably informed” that quantities of
gold are being illicitly brought from New
Guinea to Australia and sold by mem-
bers of the military forces. He also
accuses the army of “apparently not
taking the necessary steps to prevent
trafficking in gold.” As the co. has no
officer of its own on the spot to look
after its property, a word from the Minis-
ter for the Army would be in season.
* * * *
At Wiluna continued rise in working
costs and persistent fall in grade of ore
treated have forced expenditure above
receipts. Backed by the Westralian Mines
Department, the co. has applied to the
Federal Government for a subsidy to pro-
duce arsenic, which is associated with
gold in the ore.
* * * *
Chairman Alfred Sim recently told
Great Boulder’s London shareholders
that, with U.K. excess profits tax at
100 p.c., maximum div. the co. could pay,
when it resumed distributions, would be
6d. a share, less income tax (probably
, 10s. in the pound), in any one year. He
added that ore reserves, estimated a year
ago at 1,631,000 tons averaging
were being maintained, and that the
board was satisfied with the manage-
ment. The g.m. is Jim Hylton, formerly
of Burma and elsewhere, and a son of a
past boss of one of the Broken Hill mines.


■
“The title ‘First Victory Loan’
is used to point the way to a
goal and not to rejoice prema-
turely in something still to
be achieved. Whether Victory
comes soon or late depends
upon the energy we throw into
the conflict.”
YOU CAN MAKE am
ADVANCE SUBSCRIPTION
There's no need to wait until the Victory Loan opens before lodging your
subscription. Advance subscriptions of £lO or more may be made now,
through any Bank or Savings Bank, or through any Stockbroker.
OB BUY 5'- NATIONAL SAVINGS STAMPS
If you have not £lO available for immediate investment, you can get ready
for the Victory Loan by using every shilling you can spare to buy 5/-
National Savings Stamps. Paste these as you buy them in the free National
Savings Stamp Book. Full booklets of 40 stamps may then be used to pay
for a £lO Bond. As each page of 8 stamps (£2 worth) is filled this may be used
to pay a deposit on a Bond whilst a Loan is open or an instalment on a Bond
at any time.
Thus a convenient way is always open for you to invest your money in
Australia's Victory.
for The
iPJRy LOAN
Make an advance subscription now, at any Bank,
Savings Bank or Stockbroker ... or Buy 5/-
Naflonal Savings Stamps at any Savings Bank or Money Order Post Ohlce
PV. 1.19
Legal Notice.
HAROLD PADPIELD of no fixed place of abode
formerly of Springvale Road Spring-vale Victoria
died intestate on 19th July 1938 and the Public
Trustee for Victoria is administrator of his estate. —
WHEREAS WILLIAM GEORGE PADFIELD a
brothei' of the deceased or his children if any would
be entitled to share in the said estate if he or his
children survived the said deceased NOTICE IS
HEREBY GIVEN that unless the Public Trustee for
Victoria receives a claim from the said William
George Padfield or from one or more of his children
or their legal representatives before the 15th day of
April 1944 the Public Trustee proposes to distribute
the said estate as if the said William George Padfield
had predeceased the said deceased without having
children. —J. E. DON, Public Trustee, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Before the War and After
Before this war began Australia ex-
perienced years of unsurpassed peace-
tiftie industrial activity, and out of that
activity we enjoyed prosperity in spite of
chronic weak spots in our economy, such
as the wheat industry in marginal areas.
In March, 1938, the level of trade-union
unemployment was at 8 p.c., the lowest
since the depression. The wool industry
was still expanding despite the threat
of substitutes and an actual falling-away
in the price in the last financial year
before the war ; from 1935 until 1938
the return from the fleece was more satis-
factory (in relation to costs) than it is
today under its fixed war-time price.
Goldmining had revived to the extent of
gaining a place among our four most
important export industries.
Factory production for civilian needs
had recovered from depression and had
passed the 1928-29 record. Australia in
this respect was very similar to othef
countries which had previously been
traditionally “primary-producers.” The
depression and the shortage of foreign
exchange, which was partly a result of
the low level at which land products
stood in the world’s markets by compari-
son with other prices and costs, had
given an impetus to local manufactures.
This impetus was assisted by the lifting
of the exchange rate to a point where
costs of production became more com-
petitive with overseas countries, this
factor being also an influence in gold-
mining. Internally, too, costs had been
reduced even in terms of depreciated
money. In our pre-war life the expan-
sion of the steel industry was a most sig-
nificant feature, in 1938-39 output being
over 2i times as much as 10 years earlier.
This steel was the cheapest in the world,
the price remaining liable for a long
period before the war and for a consider-
able time afterwards.
There was no difficulty in getting a
house built before the war, provided you
had the money—or even 30 p.c. of it.
The price was not excessive by any pre-
vious standard. Though in no year up to
the outbreak of war did the number of
new dwellings erected in capital cities ex-
ceed the figure for 1928-29, from 1935
onward a high level of building activity
was maintained. An unprecedented boom
occurred for a short period during the
war year 1941, but official action soon
afterwards reduced home building almost
to nothing. Some such action was inevit-
able.
In the years immediately before the
war the motor-car trade was very active.
When the war-gong went there were
something like 560,000 cars on the
Australian roads, apart from commercial
vehicles, cycles, etc. There were 90,850
new motor vehicles of all kinds registered
during the year to June 30, 1938, and
83,607 in the next 12 months. Consump-
tion of petrol and oil was prodigious,
and both mostly came from “bad-
customer” countries. Following the petrol
war of a few years earlier, “gas” was ex-
ceptionally cheap, selling from about
Is. 6d. a gallon up to Is. 9d. Taxis were
plentiful—at 6d. a mile in Sydney. The
roads were crowded with pleasure motor-
ists, and individual transport in petrol-
driven vehicles was perhaps the outstand-
ing luxury of the age, largely because of
the cheapness of motor spirit, even in
Australia, where it bore a pre-war tax of
7d. a gallon. A considerable proportion
of this was passed by the Commonwealth
to the States for the construction and
upkeep of main roads.
In this business-chasing, pleasure-
seeking pre-war Australia there were
some unsatisfactory economic features.
Our trade balance in 1937-38 and in
1938-39, after an exceptionally good year
in 1936-37, was not enough in two years
to pay for one year’s overseas interest
commitments. Our wants in regard to
motor-cars, petrol, silks, cottons, tea,
machinery and other imported things were
in excess of our capacity to pay with-
out drawing on small London reserves.
Just before war started it looked as though
a peak of. prosperity had been reached
and was passing, in Australia’s case
largely because of falling world raw-
material prices and rising internal costs.
In some overseas countries, notably the
United States, there had been no sus-
tained post-depression recovery to match
that in Australia. The New Deal ap-
peared to fail to get down to the root of
the Republic’s economic difficulties. An
ailing U.S. economy was bound to have
its effect on world prices, even though the
United .States had rarely been a good
customer for Australian exports. Fol-
lowing the trade-diversion policy intro-
duced in 1936, Japan had ceased to be a
vigorous competitor at the Common-
wealth wool sales. Germany had barter
agreements with other countries.
In 1937 there had been a “prosperity
loading” of 6s. a week to the Common-
wealth basic wage. This had the effect of
increasing the living standard of those
whose income was regulated by the basic-
wage rate, but it also soon had an effect
on the cost of living and production
costs. At the outbreak of war the basic
wage stood at 795., compared with 665.
in 1935. Real wages rose only the
equivalent of 3s. a week in that time. It
was costs which went up most.
Total taxation per head in the last
year before the war was £l7 19s. 7d. Of
that, income tax, including “unemployed-
relief” and other State taxes that were
now hypocrisy, figured at £6 Os. 4d. a
head. Commonwealth income tax repre-
sented only £1 14s. 4d. a head. Income
tax so far as the majority of wage-earners
in Australia were concerned was either
at all or an annoying incident
of often unprovided for expense.
The war produced few immediate
sweeping changes in the Australian
manner of living. Even the rationing of
petrol was not immediate. But the col-
lapse of France was accompanied by the
addition of the man-power and prop-
erty clauses to the National Security Act,
and our commitments generally were ex-
panded. They went on expanding, and
after Japan came into the conflict in
December, 1941, they were subject to
much greater acceleration. Today, after
25 months’ war with Japan, defence is
costing us about half of our national
income, and there is scarcely a thing
which is not rationed or controlled at the
source of production. Taxation per head
had risen to £39 7s. 6d. for 1942-43 (it is
now higher), and Commonwealth income
tax alone was £l5 18s. 2d.—over nine
times the 1938-39 figure. Some people
are paying more than 18s. in the £ in tax,
and in these and some other cases war-
time taxation has been a disproportionate
and staggering burden.
The conscientious motorist who does
not claim “business reasons” for the pos-
session of a petrol-consumer’s license
pays something like 12s. to 15s. to use
a gallon of petrol on the roads, so high
are registration and insurance charges
and so low is his petrol allowance (equiva-
lent to 800 miles a year). The life of his
car is now limited by the life of his tyres
in the majority of cases. The basis of
our lives (if we shun the black market) is
subsistence, plus whatever amusements,
holidays, liquor, tobacco and cigarettes,
recreation and other occasional luxuries
we are able to get hold of in an un-
rationed scramble. There is an acute
shortage of housing that many municipal
sub-letting by-laws seem to ignore.
The cost of actual war, unavoidably,
is great. The incidental cost of war, less
ipevitably, is also heavy. Not only war,
but waste and bureaucratic control, too,
have consumed much of our peace-time
living standards. Inflation in our public
financial management has spread to all
industry, though its full effect is not yet
evident.
War has represented more than an in-
terruption to our 1938-39 way of living.
In the present fog of censorship and total-
war economy in nearly every country in
the world we can only guess at the shape
of the civil life to come. Australia now
has little freedom of private enterprise,
industrial and financial policy being at
the will of the Government. Our over-
seas trade is no longer on a plain com-
mercial basis, dealings with other coun-
tries being largely inter-Govemmental.
When war-time controls and war-time
agreements dissolve one wonders what
picture will rise before us. One thing
we can be sure of: however long it may
take for war-time controls to disappear,
in the end the natural economic forces
of the world will resume their sway over
the lives of people.
Relieved of the terrific cost of war,
visible and invisible, Australia can hope
for a return of concentration upon civil
requirements and civil developments. But
there will be obstacles to a full riddance
of the barnacles of war. The bloated civil
service will be hard to reduce to former
proportions, and while Government func-
tions and powers remain puffed up it will
not be easy to bring back the Common-
wealth income tax bill to £1 14s. 4d. a
head. It can be said, however, that the
Commonwealth has a better record in
connection with the reduction of taxation
with the passing of a need than have any
of the States.
The basic wage is now at 975. It
would buy less, if it could be spent on
the same necessities of life, than 795.
would in 1939. This and other infla-
tionary factors are partly responsible for
the 50 p.c. expansion in the money value
of factory production since war began.
But our physical output of many things
—such as steel —has increased, and,
though much of our stepped-up activity
has been in respect of munitions and
uneconomic war-time industries, there
has been some growth in our capacity to
produce a variety of civilian goods. Our
wool output has been kept at exception-
ally high level during the war ; wheat and
gold production, however, have been
“rationalised,” and the dairying industry
is suffering from man-power troubles.
The coming of peace will probably show
that Australia, while possessing several
expanded basic industries of peace-time
value, will have to devote considerable
time to restoring depreciation and neglect
in the case of industries catering in fin-
ished civilian goods. Our capacity to
make machinery should be much greater,
and in this fact lie considerable hopes.
Overseas trade prospects remain de-
pendent on war-time economic, political
and industrial developments in other
countries, taken in conjunction with costs
of production and similar factors in Aus-
tralia. Synthetics are an unknown quan-
tity. At the present time much is being
made of the free-trade and “free-access”
provisions of the Atlantic Charter, but
so far Britain and the United States have
not shown themselves to be in agreement


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO FRANK ROSS late of Narrandra.— TAKE NOTICE
that HAZEL LILLIAN ROSS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2830 of 1943 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 13th March 1944 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from M. B.
BYLES & 00. Solicitors 3 Castlereagh Street Sydney,
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
TO JAMES MURRAY McLEISH formerly of Perth
in the State of Western Australia now address un-
known. —TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the Fourth day of November 1943 has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of Western Australia
in its Divorce and Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
citing you to ajppear and answer the Petition of
ETHEL MAY McLEISH of 27 Lake Street Bayswater
in the State of Western Australia Married Woman
praying for dissolution of marriage In default of
your so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition proved and pronounce sentence in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid you within TWO MONTHS
from the date of the publication of this Notice
are to attend in person or by your Solicitor at the
Central Office of the said Supreme Court of Western
Australia at Perth and there enter an appearance in
a book provided for that purpose.—(n.s.) G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. -
MARGARET BATTYE, 8.A., LL.B., Southern Cross
Chambers, 7 Howard Street, Perth, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
KEEP BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
/
SAUCE
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
MATURED LIKE OLD WINE
Scotch
Whisky
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
* Glasgow and London.
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
JBHi
i ;
V- i
' J
* .J
f
THE ONLY
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
PYROX PROPRIETARY LIMITED, 18 Albion Street, Sydney
TH
JOHN ZYSUCBT
(RUSTBJSZM/S) PTY. ITS}.
mts
JsSS&*:>
■:
Wt '■&& ■(
u Wm
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . BRISBANE .
1.94 3031
on international exchange matters,
though admittedly the “plans” submitted
were only tentative. This paper’s regret
is that Australia, largely through the un-
representative, inexperienced and doc-
trinaire nature of its present Government,
has not done as much as was required of
it in keeping the economy sound for a
re-entry into competitive world trade
when the war is over.
From Charles A. Stewart, East Kew,
Victoria:
Business, Robbery, etc.
When are you going to strike a new note
under this heading? I’m sick and tired of
your articles week after week bemoaning, almost
in the same words, the alleged excessive use of
bank credit and the alleged failure by the
Curtin Government to tax a certain section of
the community at present earning high wages.
This week you said that “there appears to be a
widespread and deliberate evasion of taxation by
workers moving from job to job.” If this is
correct the employers of these workers must
assist the evasion by not, as required by the
Act, insisting on the, proper deductions to cover
the tax instalments.
Anyhow, even if all your allegations are
provable, forget them, at least for a few weeks,
and give us something new and a little more
constructive for the moulding of a good policy
for this country. In other words, give us a
new record, as constant harping on one or two
themes reminds of the wife or, worse still, of
Bing Crosby and the “Three Little Sisters.”
Many of my friends have lately told me that
they used to take The Bulletin for years. I
may have to join their ranks. It’s up to you.
Employers don’t know how much casual,
hourly workers get at other jobs. They
are concerned only with the money they
pay when deducting tax. As to “harping”
on the failures of the Curtin Govern-
ment —well, there is little of our economic
life these days that is not dictated by the
Commonwealth Government, and our
war effort and the means adopted to pay
for it are of concentrated, persistent
significance, with a few “themes” all-
important. Though repeated reference to
realities may be depressing to Mr. Stewart,
these pages are not intended to bo
“escape” literature. The necessary pre-
liminary to a constructive programme for
the country is the establishment of good
government. Bad government cannot be
by-passed in a total-war economy. And
Mr. Stewart’s last par.—is that a threat
or a promise?
* * * *
The price of lead in London is £25
sterling a ton, the equivalent of £3l in
Australian money. In Australia lead is
quoted at £22, and both the British and
Australian Governments are supplied by
the Barrier at below market price in the
two countries. Lead in Great Britain has
been sufficient for essential war needs, but
because of shipping difficulties economy
in non-military consumption has been
necessary. Ample supplies of the metal
are available within the Empire; in the
United States the position has sometimes
been officially described as “highly criti-
cal.” There has been a decline in U.S.
smelter outputs, if anything, and owners
of. potential lead-producing properties
have been encouraged to go into produc-
tion by the offer of advanced lead pre-
miums and, in some cases, loans.
Copper is a munitions metal which,
in Australia, for the present is well
above London parity. The British price
is £A77 10s. a ton, while the Com-
monwealth producer’s price is £lOO.
With the Allies appearing to be fast win-
ning the battle of the Atlantic, and with
new shipping becoming available in in-
creasing quantities, the main problem in
copper supplies—-that of transport —is
being overcome. The United Nations
control about nine-tenths of the world’s
copper, the annual output of which
is now about 3,000,000 tons, up
500,000 tons since 1939. Huge supplies
have been available for shipment from
South Africa and South America. Much
present Australian copper production is
at the mercy of the Price Controller.
Only the high price being paid for the
local product makes its output possible.
Not so long ago the Commonwealth
Government was frantically assisting the
working of low-grade deposits. It was a
passing phase in the strategic position of
the metal.
* * * *
To September 30 the debt of the Com-
monwealth arising out of the present war
was £B3l million, of which £325 million
was represented by public Treasury bills,
£17.4 million by internal Treasury bills,
£lB million owing in London and the
rest by open-market borrowings, war-
savings certificates, interest-free loans,
etc. The 1914-18 war debt stood at £257
million on September 30, and the Com-
monwealth debt for “works and other
purposes” was then £118.5 million, mak-
ing the total Commonwealth indebted-
ness £1207 million. State debts aggre-
gated £B9B million, and the national debt
£2104 million. The interest bill is £63.7
million a year.
* * * *
Albert Joseph Patrick Kenrick, engi-
neer, has been sentenced in Sydney to
six months’ hard labor on each of two
charges of having falsely represented him-
self as a retired naval captain and as a
retired captain of the Royal South
African Naval Division, Kenrick, a
South African by birth, pleaded guilty.
He had got a job in New Guinea by
using the designation of captain, and the
U.S. authorities had drawn attention to
the matter. He told a Commonwealth
officer that in the last war he had held
rank in the intelligence section of the
Torces, but later admitted that this was
untrue. Kenrick, it was stated, said that
because of his age (63) he was unable to
get work, and he thought he had a
better chance if he represented himself
as an officer.
* * * s*:
Rises in the old-age pension fortnightly
rate since Dec., 1940; Dec., ’4O, 25.;
April, ’4l, Is.; Dec., ’4l, 45.; April, ’42,
Is.; July, ’42, 2s. ; Oct., ’42, Is.; Jan.,
’43, Is.; April, ’43, Is.; Aug., ’43, Is.
When the cost-of-living index recently in-
dicated that Is. a fortnight should be taken
off pensions the principle was defeated by
National Security Regulation. The maxi-
mum rate remains at 545. a fortnight.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australians at Sio.
“Ek Dum”; The most important ad-
vances in the New Guinea area reported
last week were made by the Australians
on the way to take Sio. Those last few
miles to the landing base must have cost
the commanders anxious anticipatory
study of the none-too-promising map.
The position before Sio presented won-
derful opportunities for defence against
attack coming up the coast from
Finschhafen, more especially as the stage
from Bliicher Point might be expected
to make a commander relax his caution
after the terrible months of mountain-
jungle fighting in Sattelberg.
Those terraced hillsides, with their
swishing kunai, flowing with a motion
reminiscent of travelling sheep over
hummock hills devoid of timber; that
lazy sea, hissing up against the coral
cliffs and empty of all ships save our
own ; that sky, dedicated to Allied ’planes
roaring over to a whole wide arc of
enemy destinations, were all conditions
calculated to lull caution and favorable
to a surprise at the Kapugara River, a
few miles from Sio.
By the time the Kapugara was reached,
while the hills were still bald and silvery
with kunai a little inward, jungle patches
had begun again to shield the sea margins.
The cliffs had become higher. The
chances of successful ambush were
greater. Then came the Kapugara itself,
the father of all tank traps, built by
Mother Nature with Water power.
It is an immense gorge, scored in the
lower-reaches portions, near the sea, out
of solid coral rock. There it is well over
a quarter of a mile wide. Its banks go,
down sheer, and the side nearest Sio on
the main route is 300 feet high, the almost
perpendicular laces smoothed out in
parts into sheer faces 20 and 30 feet high.
Through the gorge purls or roars —accord-
ing to rainfall in the Stolzenfels Ranges
—the Kapugara to the sea, into which
it dives turbulently, leaving behind a
long sandspit like a wake. This, when
the Australians saw it, was decorated
with many a wrecked Jap barge. When
the column arrived the river was roaring.
Just before the main gorge of the
Kapugara was reached the advancing
Australians had rough country and an-
other small river or creek, the Buri, to
negotiate. Here, before their main
obstacle, the enemy had lodged 40 or 50
rearguard troops. They made little resist-
ance. The principal signs of the former
presence of the enemy and of an original
determination to defend the position were
newly-dug gunpits and bomb shelters,
built to stand considerable artillery
assaults, with tree trunks feet thick, and
earth on top. But most of these had
been abandoned ; and so was the gorge
itself. Fortunately, there was one
way round this ditch, whose sides became
more difficult nearer the mountains.
This was a narrow track round the cliffs.
First, a guide rope had to be rigged
across the roaring Kapugara. Over this,
sometimes up to their necks in water, the
infantry waded on a perilous bottom.
Then they snaked between the huge
blocks of coral tossed into a ragged pat-
tern by the sea until they were blocked
a hundred yards or so on by a natural
wall of rock, 30ft. high on their side,
falling away 100 ft. on the other side. The
enemy scaling ladders had been taken
away; but a western Queensland station
hand, R. A. Gillespie, from the Charle-
ville district, climbed the face like an
alpinist, settled a rope ladder on the ap-
proach side and found that the enemy
had obligingly left his rope ladders on the
other side.
Pack-loaded infantry went over the
wall. Pulley-haul dealt with heavier and
more bulky loads. From now onwards,
it was rough but easier going round the
cliffs, whose caverns still held enemy
gear. At intervals skeletons lay beside
the, track.
Halfway to Sio the Australians came
to the bank of the Coaling River, which,
like the Kapugara, had been turned into
a roaring torrent by the floods, with the
village of Nambariwa on its further bank.
Several attempts were made before a
rope-ferry could be established across this
crocodile-infested stream. A couple of
Japs were discovered on the other side
and promptly killed.
Soon 25-pounders round Nambariwa
village were pumping shells into Sio and
drawing little or no response from that
doomed base. On Friday morning the
spearhead set out on its final march. By
dusk on Friday Sio mission and most of
the outskirts of the area were in Australian
hands, and the Sio military area and
landing place inside the shelter of the
island were well at the receiving end of
the guns. On January 17 it was an-
nounced that Sio had been taken and that
a spearhead was pushing on to join the
Americans from Saidor —when last heard
of they were 45 miles from Sio.
Welding the Front
The enemy very evidently had intended
till only a few days before to put up a
defence at the Kapugara. The landings
at Arawe, Cape Gloucester and Saidor
and the increasing tempo of the bombing
all round the Vitiaz area and various
other demonstrations must have warned
him that the time had come for his re-
mains to make a moonlight flit.
This week will disclose what has been
left behind in the shape of patrols or
retreating bodies of troops between Sio
and the expanding American foothold at
Saidor. A few barges were blasted out
of existence at sea. In the air there was
just enough evidence to prove that there
was still a Japanese air force in existence.
In the Uria Ranges the Australians
were consolidating, pushing forward
and preparing * for the time when
they would have to give thought to
junctioning with the Saidor force, whose
nearest advance guards were less than 60
mjles from them.
Air Force sweeps and raids completed
the task of welding the New Guinea land
front into a single operation. The ’planes
went up and down daily, mostly' concen-
trating their wrath on the Madang-
Alexishafen area, which absorbed about
600 tons of bombs in a week, and on
the route along 'the Maklay coast, on
which bridge after bridge was torn up
along.with the highway and anything else
that looked like a target.
On New Britain
At Arawe there was little more than
patrol fighting, though one night a Tokyo
Radio announcer, who sounded as if he
had been to a geisha’s wedding, alleged
that the area had been recaptured by tl}e
Japanese. His statement was firmly denied
from Washington.
At Cape Gloucester the fight continued
for Hill 660, which dominates the Bergen
Bay area., with slight air interference from
the enemy, but strong land resistance.
It was a tough piece of earth to take
—hills usually are named on military
maps by their heights in metres, so this
one will be well on towards 2000 feet —
but the Marines took it.
Up to the week-end Jap dead counted
at Cape Gloucester totalled 3000. U.S.
losses when Jap 'dead were 2000 were
slightly over 100.
At the other angles of the. South Pacific
triangle the commanders under Admiral
Nimitz were not idle. Bougainville has
been turned into an aerial base whose
targets are Rabaul and the whole of New
Ireland and the small islands just to the
north of it.
The Week’s Bombing
Bombing continued in its usual pat-
tern. The Gilbert (naval) air force
made several raids on the Marshalls. The
South Pacific Command, based on
Bougainville, made Rabaul and New Ire-
land its pigeon.
On January 10 it was reported that 50
Zeros had been engaged off Cape St.
George, 10 shot down and two probably
destroyed, against a loss of six of Admiral
Halsey’s ’planes. Rabaul aerodromes
were attacked again and again by almost
every kind of machine, including
R.A.A.F. Beaufighters, the largest raid
being mentioned in the communique of
January 11. About 200 Liberators, dive-
bombers and torpedo-bombers attacked
Tobera and Vanakanau aerodromes
through holes in the cloud mantle. They
were pounced on by 15 Zeros, using
aerial bombs, which did little injury.
Some dive-bombers were damaged by
ack-ack fire. And about 40 Japa-
nese dive-bombers rose; 21 were shot
down for a loss of four Allied machines.
One Allied pilot was picked up about
30 miles north-west of Torokina (Empress
Augusta Bay). In a following raid a
parked machine and 16 out of 40 inter-
ceptors were shot down. Our bombers
were escorted. The joint Allied for-
mation came home short by only four
machines.
On January 17 G.H.Q. reported a raid
which destroyed seven cargo vessels, a
light cruiser and a destroyer in Rabaul
Harbor, together with 29 out of 60 to
70 defending fighters, besides 16 “prob-
ables,” The Allied Air Force lost two
bombers and eight fighters, but four pilots
were saved.
Off Kavieng a destroyer was set on fire
by a direct hit amidships and a day or
so afterwards another destroyer was
damaged by a near miss.
In the South-west area a Liberator
formation went to Kendari (Celebes),
fighting off on the way about a dozen
Zeros. One Liberator was shot down,
and two came home on three engines,
but compensation was fully exacted on
the Kendari waterfront. Koepang also
had attention, but a greater concentra-
tion was used against the coast of New
Guinea from Sio to Wewak, and particu-
larly on the Madang-Alexishafen area.
At the week-end G.H.Q. announced
that a 1200-ton ship had been left sink-
ing off Timor and that air operations had
been continued on a considerable scale
over the whole New Guinea area.
Europe in January.
“Ek Bum”: Spring over most of
Europe, except the extreme east, is now
not much more than a month away.
Snow is common in Germany up to April,
but the falls are not sufficient to interfere
seriously with transport.
At the beginning of March most of
the European roads will be clear of snow
and ice; save for high country and odd
heavy falls which sometimes occur and
lodge themselves for weeks in such pas-
sages as the Dragoman Pass, between
Bulgaria and Yugoslavia. River traffic,
vital to the eflemy, is, as a rule, inter-
fered with to some extent during March
by the snow floods in the lower reaches
of the Danube and other rivers flowing
south-east.
There is altogether too much optimism
about what is likely to take place. Ger-
many is pictured as a space full of*
ruined, smouldering cities ; the German
armies on the Russian front as retreating
and shivering remnants who are ridden
down by Cossacks like dingoes. A cam-
paign of not much import is supposed to
be going on in Italy, where a mere 30
divisions or so are being held by the
weather against the flickering attacks of
General Alexander. What are 30
divisions? Are not the Yugoslav Parti-
sans, on the authority of one of
“Marshal” Tito’s staff officers, holding at
bay “36 fully-equipped German and
satellite divisions”—which means over
500,000 men —“more Germans than on
any front except the Russian,” and
that “without heavy artillery, anti-air-
craft guns or tanks”? The daily press
swallows this rubbish whole.
On the western front, the invasion will
come. Every boo-boo boy knows that all
the peoples under Hitler’s heel —ill-fed,
ill-clad, ill-housed and depressed by
thoughts of the millions of their menfolk
in prison camps or slave factories —are
“ready to rise.” It seems to be assumed
that, after a sort of picnic, the invasion
forces will then cakewalk to Berlin to
meet the already victorious Red Army.
No account seems to be taken of the
fact that on all fronts the enemy’s be-
havior suggests that he is preparing to
engage in static trench warfare on pre-
pared lines of his own choosing and that
the contest between fortifications on a
modern scale and heavy artillery on the
scale of the last war has yet to be fought.
One or two sober-minded correspondents
in Italy have sounded warnings that 1944
may not be all roses —and the fact that
they have issued those warnings after a
series of press receptions by British and
American generals is significant,
“S. M. Herald’s” correspondent on the
Fifth Army front in Italy, Roderick Mac-
donald, son of the clerical M.L.A. for
Mosman (N.S.W.), wrote that “military
observers here clearly recognise that the
Germans still have something in reserve
—perhaps not a radically new war
development, but probably their own
spring offensive”:
Reliable information shows that the
enemy still has huge unbroken armies in
Russia, and accumulated stocks of war
supplies which may tide him over a de-
cline in production.
Some observers say the Germans are now
deliberately encouraging in the outside
world an exaggerated idea of the disaster
they are facing in Russia in the hope of
luring the Allies into a premature Conti-
nental landing.
Macdonald declares that these conjectures
are by no means peculiar to him ; “high
officers are fully aware of the German
situation in Russia.”
The Italian front is settling down to the
nearest approach seen in this war to the
conditions of last war. Winter snow and
mud and the general difficulties of moun-
tain country have reduced the usage of
tanks and heavier weapons, and what
fighting there is has been largely the
work of infantry, who must bear the
lion’s share of the campaign for some
time —this is another sign of change to
Older conditions.
Mainly there was only patrol fighting
last week on the Eighth and Fifth Army
fronts. An exception was on the small
section on which General Clark’s men are
pushing towards Cassino and scraping
the mountain heights, burrowed through
and through with defences, clear of Huns
one by one.
There the Americans moved forward to
Cervaro, one of the strong points cover-
ing Cassino, and French troops captured
important heights. The German resist-
ance is fierce and capable, and advances
are halted by frequent strong and well-
placed counter attacks.
Now the approaches of Cassino have
been reached, the country becomes more
open and the valley continues to widen
out beyond that town. One Algiers re-
port on January 14 said that patrols
already were within three miles of Cas-
sino ; another that some patrols actually
had by-passed the town. After bitter
fighting going on at the week-end Mt.
Trocchio, s on which are disposed the
defences of the actual pass before Cas-
sino, was taken by storm.
Fierce Fighting Over
Germany.
“Ek Dum”: The fighting over Ger-
many, France and other Axis-occupied
or satellite countries becomes fiercer as
spring approaches.
On January 12 the German High Com-
mand, ahead of the Allied communiques,
issued a tale of raids on Germany and
Sofia which was repeated over German
short-wave stations in several languages
during the day.
The first claim was that in a noon
attack on German war factories and other
vital centres the U.S.A.A.F. had had 123
machines shot down for a loss of two
German machines, and that seven Luft-
waffe machines had been lost in other
fighting. This was apart from Sofia,
where the Allied raiders had (it was
alleged) “met disaster.”
A later communique raised the alleged
number of American machines destroyed
to 136 —124 of them four-engined
bombers, and most “shot down before
they reached their targets.” In studied
forgetfulness of the Luftwaffe’s Black Day
over Britain, the encounter was described
as the greatest air battle of the war.
The U.S.A.A.F communique told a
very different story. It admitted that over
700 Fortresses and Liberators, which
mostly went to attack aircraft factories
at Brunswick, west of Berlin, and Oschers-
leben and Halberstadt, to the south-
west, had met tremendous opposition and
had had to fight a large-scale running
battle covered by a great force of escort-
ing Thunderbolts and Lightnings. But it
was stated that the objectives were
reached and smashed and that 125 enemy
interceptors were shot down by bombers
and 27 by fighters. The Allied loss of
’planes was 60 bombers and five
fighters:—
At a cost of approximately 5 p.c., our
bombing force wiped out for months the
production of three important enemy
fighter-’plane factories.
So said General Arnold.
The German force used was Very
powerful, and it made great use of
rockets. And the fight was all the way
from the North Sea coast and all the way
back.
The loss of bombers, the same in
numbers as at Schweinfurt on October 14,
1943, was enough evidence that daylight
raids on Germany can be made only at
high cost where the objectives are im-
portant.
The R.A.F, followed up the American
raids with an intense attack on Bruns-
wick on the night of January 14, when
2000 tons of high explosive and phos-
phorus was dropped in 23 minutes.
Several night fighters were shot down.
In the Brunswick raid and others over
Germany and France on January 14, 39
R.A.F. bombers were lost, but Brunswick
was left a flaming ruin.
The strategic bombing of Northern
France and Mosquito raids as far afield
as Berlin continued.
Sofia Bombed
The raids on Sofia followed the moving
up of the Allied Bombing H.Q. in the
Mediterranean about 500 miles from
Africa into Italy. The operations against
the city for the week ended January 11
had more attention from European radios
than any attacks outside Germany. While
U.S. heavies attacked in daylight, R.A.F.
Wellingtons made night horrible in the
little city. Its yellow paved streets lay
in confusion and ruin, and most of its
limited services —its 200,000 inhabitants
boosted one lift when the writer was there
16 years ago —had broken down.
The move-up of the Allied bombing
command across the Mediterranean
marks a new era of discomfort for Balkan
countries and for Austrian war centres.
Winter Campaign in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Daily-paper versions of
the war in Russia did not quite convey
the impression last week that it was


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF "NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO RALPH MORGAN JAMES also known as ROY
KELLEY formerly of Best Street Hendra near
Brisbane Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that AGNES
BERYL McCALLUM has filed a Petition in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its Matri-
monial Causes Jurisdiction (No. 3357 of 1943) pray-
ing that the ceremony of marriage celebrated between
her and you on the Seventh day of November 1936
may be declared null and void on the ground that at
the time when the said ceremony of marriage was
celebrated your wife WINNIFRED JAMES was then
living You may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or before
the Sixth day of March next and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS’. UTHER &
UTHER Solicitors 350 George Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN PATRICK DUNN IRe of Hornsby.—
TAKE NOTICE that IRIS GRETA DUNN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2368 of 1941 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by the Sixth March 1944
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MERVYN FINLAY Solicitor New lands House
141 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO BRIAN TERRENCE O’SHEA formerly of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN SUZANNE
O’SHEA has filed, a Petition for Divorce No. 2800
of 1943 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
desire to defend the case you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney on or before the 13th March 1944 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from JOHN
BARNETT GREAVES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK FRANCIS LIONEL JAMES other-
wise known as STODDART formerly of Sydney and
Melbourne,—TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET MARY
JAMES has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3654 of
1943 on the grounds of desertion without reasonable
cause or excuse for three years and upwards You
may enter an appearance before the 6th dav of
March 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from GREGG & MILNE Petitioner’s Solicitors
4 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
nearly over. A note of caution crept in
now and then, and it was admitted that
the savage shelling of Leningrad con-
tinued. Apropos of Leningrad, the Ger-
mans alleged that because of checks suf-
fered in the south the Russians were fail-
ing in an attempt to launch an offensive
in the area of the city which endured
so much and so stoutly.
In one paper a bit of debunking
was done by a correspondent on its over-
seas staff. There was a tendency to fall
back on gloomy Germans. “General
Dietmar, spokesman for the German
High Command,” was quoted as follows:
The volume and power the Russians are
hurling into their attacks is rising steadily.
It drowns the opponent, especially when his
numerical strength is markedly inferior.
Nobody as yet has succeeded in iden-
tifying “General Dietmar.” The enemy
never claims him as the spokesman of
the High Command. Anyway, the Berlin
version of what he said that particular
day differed from the stuff paid out here:
With the help of their British-American
sponsors, the Bolsheviks have started a
powerful offensive at three point's. With
the help of their allies, they have acquired
tremendous resources of man-power and
armament and the Bolshevik command
knows how to use them. Moreover, the
Bolsheviks have the ‘advantage over the Ger-
mans in that they have to fight on only one
land front, instead of on many fronts. The
commanders have an excellent technique and
are employing clever tactics. The way of
the German armies on the Russian front is
extremely hard, but we see no reason why
we will not be able to surmount all diffi-
culties if we show the same determination,
skill and devotion as our enemy.
On January 14 it was given out in
Sydney, the report being attributed to
Moscow Radio, that Russian troops had
reached a point on the Polish River Bug
115 miles west of the pre-1939 Russo-
Polish border. The only place where the
Bug is as little as 115 miles from the old
border is in the Novograd Volynsk area.
The official Moscow communique stated
on July 13 that the Red Army was still
a dozen miles on the Russian side of the
pre-1939 border in that region.
Scraps of Russian communiques are
published each morning ; German com-
muniques are purveyed in ever scrappier
form when published at all.
On January 13, a day on which Sydney
papers were picturing the Red Army as
“mustering for a decisive blow” and the
Germans as overwhelmed, fleeing terri-
fied and abject, the two official versions
of the fighting were roughly as follows:
Russian: Our troops on Jan. 10 took
Dombrovitsa, 17 miles north of Sarny.
[Sarny is in the Pripet-Marsh area, about
110 miles n.-west of Kiev, and 35 miles
across the old Polish border.] The Russians
s.-west of Novograd Volynsk captured about
150 inhabited places, including Pischev, 15
miles west of Novograd Volynsk— at this
point about 75 miles n.-west of Kiev.
The Red Army repelled heavy tank and
infantry attacks east of Vinnitza and south
of Byelaya Tserkov [this place is 27 miles
from Kiev, and to the south the Rus-
sians were previously recorded as having
penetrated nearly 40 miles to the (Ukrain-
ian) Bug River] and occupied a number of
inhabited localities.
The Russians west and north of Kirovo-
grad drove the enemy from several strongly
fortified centres of resistance. On Jan. 10
178 German tanks and 36 ’planes were
destroyed.
German: On the night of Jan. 13 [1 p.m.
Central European time; 11 p.m. Sydney
time] Russians on the north-east of the
Kerch Peninsula attacked with four or five
divisions, supported by heavy tanks and
Stormovik fighters. All attacks were re-
pulsed with heavy losses.
South-west of Dnepropetrovsk [where no
fighting had been mentioned by Russian
communiques] “repeated violent Russian
attacks” were “beaten back” north-west of
Cherkassy [south of the Dnieper, between
Kremenchug and Kiev] and “several Soviet
thrusts failed.” In the Kirovograd area
German pressure continued and “our troops
occupied a village and an important hill,
causing heavy loss to the Russians.” There
was violent fighting, in which “the Rus-
sians gained no ground,” west of Berdi-
chev and at Rychitsa. A fierce Russian
attack at Vitebsk was “beaten down,” the
“enemy suffering extremely .high losses.”
On Jan. 10-11 the Russians lost 350 tanks
and 450 aircraft.
By the week-end the Russians had
taken Mosir, gateway to the central Pripet
Marshes, which they were penetrating.
But German counter-attacks near Vin-
nitza, gate to the so-called Dnieper “trap,”
had become stronger, though Moscow
remarked that the Russians were not
giving way anywhere under their pressure.
There is nothing to suggest that the
Germans are in a “trap” in the Lower
Dnieper Bend. The most significant facts
about this salient are that if the Rus-
sians could break through the 54 miles
from Krivoi Rog, in “the suburbs” of
which they were reported 2i months ago,
to the coast at Nikolaev or crack the
enemy hold on Kherson on the Black Sea,
it would be disaster indeed for the
enemy.
But the Russians do not seem to be
attempting either of these moves. The
one area in which they have made sub-
stantial progress is in the Pripet marsh-
lands and along the southern margin of
that terrible country in which the swamps
now must be frozen.
If the greater German salient between
the Black Sea and Nemirov is a potential
trap for the Germans, so is the Russian
salient further north between Smyela and
Mosir a potential trap' for the Rus-
sians. In that region indeed the Rus-
sians would be in a worse position than
the Germans in the south, in view of the
nature of the country, if anything went
wrong.
The Cherkassy-Nikopol “Homs.”
One of the most peculiar features of
the southern Dnieper “trap” is its
strange shape. The main salient pushes
into the Russian-held country along the
Dnieper in two far-flung “horns.”
One, which is about 70 miles wide and
40 miles deep, has its apex at Smyela,
and is based on the key centre of .Uman
and defences south-west of Kirovograd.
This salient holds the German Eighth
Army. ,
The other has its apex at Nikopol, on
the eastern side of the Dnieper—on the
only point now held by the enemy across
the river on the Russian side. Its rear
apgles rest on Kherson, on the Black
Sea, in the south and the Krivoi Rog
region defences on the north. Here the
German Sixth Army, reconstituted after
Stalingrad, is in position.
Said a London “Daily Telegraph”
writer:
On the face of it neither of these salients
seems tenable for a day, yet Von Manstein
clings to them. There is no doubt that the
land mine has revolutionised the technique
of defence and withdrawal, making possible
much that was formerly impossible.
There seems no obvious reason why land
mines or any devices should have proved
able to stop the Russians in this region
when they have not been aW to stop
them further north. The two Dnieper
enclaves into the Russian front look
almost as if they were designed for
offence rather than defence —the horns
of a prospective pipcer movement.
Information about the campaign, de-
rived mostly from correspondents hun-
dreds of miles from it, is so confused that
a Harold Park punter would not stake his
judgment on what is actually happening.
So confused is the position that Rus-
sian communiques mention fighting in
areas which seem well on the wrong side
of where the front is supposed to be.
This much is clear, that the most sub-
stantial Russian progress has been made
in wild forest country in which the
swamps are often 12ft. deep, and which
all armies have hitherto avoided. For
the moment this country must be frozen,
but the freeze here is only comparatively
short —in range of normal 40-day snow
cover, compared with the country nor-
mally snow-covered for 80 or even 120
days in which some of last winter’s battles
were fought. The value to the Russians
of what is happening depends on whether
they can push the German line well west
of the marshes for some distance north
and south of them before the spring. If
they do not succeed in this, their victories
may be an embarrassment.
Meanwhile they are fighting with fine
spirit and energy and doing a good job
for themselves and the United Nations.
The furious fancies of correspondents stir
up the “two enemies” of unwarranted
complacency and overconfidence against
which Mr. Roosevelt has issued a solemn
warning.
Back to Maungdaw.
“Ek Dum”: Having abandoned the
approaches to Akyab, which the Irwin
Force secured on both sides of the
Mayu River before the monsoon, the
British allowed the enemy the privilege
of sweltering in the swamps of the penin-
sula opposite Rauthedaung throughout
the rainy season.
A month later than last winter, when
they began to advance in December, the
troops moved across the border, and on
January 11 the South-east Asia Com-
mand announced the capture of Maung-
daw, which formed the depot-point inside
Burma of last year’s operations. The
Command mentioned that the advance
had been made by “Allied” troops.
On January 13 British troops of the
14th Allied Army were firmly astride the
road to Buthidaung, about 14 miles
inland from Maungdaw—the only light
railway in Arakan used to connect the
two towns. There were sharp clashes
with the Japanese, who, in pockets, put
up fierce resistance, throwing in counter-
attacks against positions secured by
Indian troops on the Mayu Ranges
which it took all the tenacity of the
Gurkhas to beat off.
Maungdaw was found empty and
deserted and badly marked by Allied
bombing.
On Jan. 15 the Anglo-Indian forces
were edging slowly forward, but the real
fighting had not begun—only a sparring
for depots and positions.
There are signs that the attack will be
made with very different equipment from
that used last year. In the changed naval
and air and landing craft position Akyab
becomes a highly important base, from
which the heart of Burma would be
within short-range withering air attack,
and naval operations brought much
nearer Rangoon. The bulldozer and
other mechanical equipment, apart from
air cover, might put a new face on the
problem of the range of the Arakan
Yoma.
The advance promises to have far
more important results than General
Irwin’s ill-equipped attempt last year,
which nevertheless served great purposes.
Statistics and Casuaities.
“Ek Dum”: The quarterly summary of
the Department of Information shows
the development of defence forces:
Males. Females.
Enlistments before Japan
entered the war .. .. 431,400 3,600
Enlistments in two years
since Japan entered the
war .. .'. 433,700 44,300
865,100 47,900
Thus half the enlistments were in the
time of the Menzies and Fadden Gov-
ernments —those Governments which Mr.
Curtin, when electioneering, accused of
having been “blind to the dangers in the
Pacific” and “left Australia very much
unprepared.”
And 90 per cent, of the fighting in the
Pacific by Australian forces has been
done by three divisions which the
Menzies Government raised, and to the
raising and sending abroad of which Mr.
Curtin and Mr. Forde were opposed. It
is not pleasant to consider what might
have happened had those divisions not
been raised when they were and trained
in actual battle-abroad.
Casualties to November 30 are given.
They are made up pf 54,994 in the Army,
7764 in the Air Force and 2386 in the
Navy; total, 65,144. Of these, 15,709
were killed in action or died from
wounds, sickness or other causes, 16,792
were wounded, 26,438 prisoners of war
and 6205 missing.
R.A.A.F. figures, given earlier in the
week, include 3889 killed. Soldiers killed
or dead from other causes to December
31 were 10,894.
Mr. Beasley has stated Australian mer-
cantile marine casualties: Killed or miss-
ing, 307 ; wounded, 75 ; prisoners of war,
146 ; total, 528. Casualties among men
serving in Australian ships were 220
killed or missing, 17 prisoners and 53
wounded.
There are 1000 Australians serving in
British ships and 300 in foreign ships.
Chevrons and Medals.
“Ek Dum”: One of the meanest things
the Curtin Government has done to the
A.I.F. is to determine that prisoners of
war who are not in medical units con-
tinuing their normal work after capture
shall not be granted service chevrons for
the years of their captivity, on the
ground that once they are in enemy
hands they cease to Jie on active service.
The whole miserable ruling is repug-
nant both to generosity and to the normal
conceptions of military law.
If a prisoner of war is not on active
service, in heaven’s name what is he? He
is not merely bound to escape if possible,
but is liable under British military law to
penal’ servitude, if “having been taken
prisoner, he fails to rejoin H.M.’s service
when able to rejoin.” He is not absolved
by his captivity from inflicting any mili-
tary damage he can on the foe or from
his oath of service. And the enemy is
compelled by his presence to use up valu-
able war material and food, not to men-
tion the employment of armed guards to
keep him where he is.
The prisoner of war wears a uniform.
He is subject to military command and
military law. German War Usage says:
“Prisoners may be killed.... in case
of extreme necessity when other means
of security are not available, and the
presence of the prisoners is a danger to
one’s own existence.”
The test of the sanity of the Govern-
ment’s decision is the new British war
medal —the 1939-43 star.
The star is to be worn by members of
the forces who have served on various
war fronts —“six months’ service in any
of the operational commands” -named.
In some of these commands, there was
no fighting, or scarcely any—the North-
west Indian Frontier is one.
Take the hypothetical case of an Aus-
tralian who served for five months in
Libya and Greece and Crete, and who
then was captured, severely wounded,
after covering the retreat of his com-
rades at peril of his life and winning the
V.C.’
If the Commonwealth Government
were able to carry its stupidity to a
natural conclusion, it would be able to
deny the gallant prisoner his 1939-43 star,
on the ground that, in exchanging a V.C.
for the last of the six months in an opera-
tional area which would qualify him, he
had ceased to be a combatant soldier.
Fortunately, there are no Fordes
among those who decide these things in
Whitehall. Towards the six months
which it is necessary for a soldier to spend
in an operational area to win the star,
the British Government counts “time as
a prisoner of war.”
Thus the ridiculous position arises,
since the A.I.F. is under Australian con-
trol, that the Australian Military Forces
will solemnly consent to award qualified
captives in Germany a 1939-43 star for
being on active service while prisoners
of war, and will as solemnly deprive
them of their service chevrons for not
being on active service while prisoners
of war.
Only under the regime of a Forde
would it be possible for such an anomaly
to occur.
In brief:
Ten civilians were killed or missing and
41 seriously wounded as the results of raids on
Britain in December. On the night of Jan. 14
a cinema was hit —the second within two months
—and seven persons were killed and 31 injured
by a small-calibre bomb. “There was ho panic
the audience walked out quietly.’’
* * * *
Wing-Commander D. C. T. Bennett, who
commands the Pathfinder forces of the R.A.F.,
has been promoted Air Vice-Marshal —the
youngest in the services. He is a Toowoomba
(Q.) boy, educated at Brisbane Grammar School,
trained in the R.A.A.F. and seasoned in the
service of Empire Airways. Air Marshal Park,
who defended Malta and who hails from Maori-
land, becomes C.-in-C. Air Forces in the Middle
.East.
* * * *
A German blockade-runner, masquerading
under the Argentine flag, was sunk in the
South Atlantic last week.


X
tier
Gi
0Z
m
i
CLOTH
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The Sydney Turf Club’s inaugural
meeting at Randwick was a success.
There was an attendance of 36,000, a
tote turnover of £112,766, and the racing
was excellent, though results were not
to the liking of backers.
Yaralla got away badly in the Lord
Mayor’s Cup, but the way he ran subse-
quently did not lend itself to the idea that
his chance would have been a winning
one if he had fared better at barrier-
rise. Flight and Faerie Queene were the
early leaders, and their nearest followers
at the turn were Modulation, Kimbell
and Main Topic. In turn Kimbell and
Sir Neith looked dangerous, but it was
left to Rimveil (badly placed early)
to make a finish with Flight. However,
he never quite looked like beating her,
though only a head separated them at
the winning post.
Grand Fils’s fourth was a good effort,
and Faerie Queene and Boorchief also
ran sufficiently well to put them in line
for a minor handicap. The mile was
generally regarded as a trifle far for Soho,
but, contrary to expectation, he did not
show up at any part.
Capably handled by lightweight
apprentice R. Kelly, who rides him in
his work, Veiled Threat narrowly won
the S.T.C. Handicap from Lord Neith
and Two’s Company, the last-named fin-
ishing strongly. Luck in running did not
favor her. Riverton did the pacemaking,
but tired after leading round the turn,
and Tuokool and Lord Neith headed the
field halfway down the straight. Veiled
Threat was nearer the front than usual
in the early part of the race, and that
stood to him in the run home. Tuokool
made a good showing, but though Glen-
dower was in a handy position most of
the way he could not get the distance in
good company. Adjust ran respectably,
while Abspear did not improve upon his
recent form.
Strathdarr (Burridge) won the Nursery
Handicap almost from start to finish.
First into the straight from Bramble,
Invictus and Malvanah, he beat his stable
companion Prince Galahad three lengths,
with Goldmine (by Gold Rod) a close
third. Excuses were made for Beltana
and Union Jack on the score of interfer-
ence, but Strathdarr won so decisively
that neither could have beaten him , even
with better luck on their side. Felcorn
and Malvanah are improvers. Bred by
his owner, J. W. C. Beveridge, Strathdarr
is by Strathisla from Boorcello, dam of
Boorchief.
When Felbeam drew away from
Bronze Orchid and Sir Francis after turn-
ing into the straight she appeared to have
the Three-year-old Handicap won, but
Van Eyck’s (Shean) solid finishing run
was too much for her, and the latter
beat her a neck. Enthuse, having her
first start for some months, was third,
and Silver Clare (Silver Standard-Eul-
clare) made a promising showing. Denton
and Prince Hua ran fairly, while Ten-
nessee merely added to his many failures
when he seemingly appeared to possess
bright prospects.
The result of the Novice Handicap
was a complete upset, Cumberoona, Chief
Man and Prepare, three of the rough divi-
sion, filling the places in that order.
Royal Janette led into the straight from
Berne, Frustrate, Marabelle and Law-
giver. When the leading division bunched
halfway down the straight Cumberoona
(Pantheon-Miss Lu) drew out to win
from Chief Man. The winner, who is
trained by J. King, and was ridden by
N. Wilson, paid a tote dividend of £l4 ss.
for 55., but that was easily beaten by
Chief Man, who returned his backers
£6l 3s. 9d. It was against Buzz Off and
Great Scot that they were drawn wide
out at the barrier.
In the first division of the Highweight
Handicap, War Effort’s much-boomed
fast gallops of the previous fortnight
assured his favoritism, but they went for
nothing. Never closer than fourth he fin-
ished in that position, and, after Midgard
had made the early running, and Double
Birthday had shown the way into the
straight to High Flight, Rylstone and
Overjoyed, Rylstone (T. Webster) took
charge at the leger. He won easily from
Overjoyed and High Flight.
Brueghelier had an overdue win in the
second division of the Highweight.
Cradle Song had a useful lead from
Brueghelier entering the straight, but she
is seemingly not up to welter weight, and
the latter had her beaten halfway down
the straight. Brueghelier won, but had
nothing to spare from Thrax, who got in
it only at the finish. Silvereida, in third
place, ran her usual good race, but
neither St. Elmo, who struck trouble, nor
Beauhead was dangerous.
. *«. * * *
Apprentice G. Lansdown, who had not
previously ridden a winner, landed a
double on Home James (6 to 1) and Sir
Locket (5 to 1) —both trained by L.
Robertson—at Mentone on Saturday.
Sir Locket is owned by P. Grant Hay,
and Home James by his daughter.
Home James outstayed Orteli and
Cacique in the Sorrento Stakes, in which
Denko was a disappointing favorite. He
was beaten almost three furlongs from
home. Orteli was having her first race
for some time, and should improve.
Sir Locket finished just too well for the
33-to-l chance Exactly, with Azores a
close third, in the Summer Handicap. He
did not win out of his turn, but nt times
has been difficult to train. A six-year-
old gelding by Treyford from Queen
Thaura, he was bred by his owner at
Flinders Island. Rex Buzz, favorite, let
his backers down badly, but Twovals
only just missed a place, and Mor Veil
indicated that he is returning to form.
Port o’ Call, a two-year-old colt by
Portofino from Ahrob, outclassed his
rivals in the Beaumaris Handicap. Start-
ing at 4 to 1 he led practically all the
way, and won easing up by .four lengths
from La Patrice and Henty. Port o’ Call
cost 300gns. as a yearling, and is owned
by H.H, the Maharajah of Parlekimedi,
who races a large string of horses in
India. W. Dunqan, trainer of Port o’ Call,
expected to complete a double with
Leicester Square in the second Talgarno
Welter. Latter started favorite, but was
beaten a neck by the 15-to-l chance
Regular Hope.
Miradale, 16-to-l winner of the Wood-
leigh Handicap for three-year-olds, was
the first leg of a winning double for T.
Hoppo, one of Melbourne’s most promis-
ing apprentices. Hoppo also was suc-
cessful on Regular Hope. Camille, a
four-year-old mare by Assignation from
Maureen M., was backed from 33 to 1
down to 7 to 1, and outstayed Errand
Boy and Captivator in the first Talgarno
Welter. Calgara, whose two previous
races had been over hurdles, gave book-
makers a 50-to-l result by leading practi-
cally throughout the 13 furlongs of the
Rosebud Trial.
* * * *
A.J.C. added money for the three days
of the autumn meeting totals £27,850,
against £19,850 for two days last year.
One thing that should please owners and
trainers is that the minor handicaps have
received full consideration in the allot-
ment of prize-money. The Rosehill R.C.
has had a good year, and is showing its
appreciation by giving £4lOO for its meet-
ing on March 25—a big jump from £2600
for the corresponding day last year. It
really looks as if one of owners and
trainers’ troubles will shortly be that there
will be little left with which to find fault.
* * * *
There was nothing in Saturday’s run-
ning at Randwick that threw light
on the probable result of the Chal-
lenge Stakes. Soho’s display in the Lord
Mayor’s Cup was disappointing. He dis-
played no dash, and his subsequent with-
drawal from the Challenge was not
surprising. Yaralla will upset form if he
wins, and, beaten in a division of the
Highweight Handicap, Silvereida or
Cradle Song can scarcely be recom-
mended.
Veiled Threat will meet Lord Neith
111 b. worse in the Anniversary Handicap
than last week’s S.T.C. Handicap terms,
when a head separated them at the finish.
The difference should be sufficient to
enable Lord Neith to turn the tables, but
there is the doubt whether he will be
suited by the mile and a half. His form
in Tattersall’s Cup said nothing favorable
for him as a stayer. Anyhow, he will
be meeting Two’s Company only 41b.
better than last Saturday, and it looked
as if she should have finished ahead of
him.
It does not seem as if much is to be
feared from any of the other S.T.C.
Handicap runners. Abspear and Dewar
ran indifferently in that race, but in the
Lord Mayor’s Cup Grand Fils empha-
sised his Anniversary chance. Near the
tail-end most of the way there was a
deal of merit in his fourth. Last Satur-
day’s run in the S.T.C. Handicap gives
Two’s Company a good Anniversary
chance, but it is no better than that of
Grand Fils, as he will meet her only 41b.
worse than when he beat her in Tatt.’s
Cup,
* * * *
It must have been a surprise to those
who had an idea that the Sydney T.C.
had the control of racing in Sydney as
its ultimate object when the A J.C, met it
in such generous fashion in connection
with its opening meeting. Of course
admission fees went to the S.T.C., but the
ruling body presented it with tote profits
and those from other privileges in an
endeavor to put it on a financial footing
after its payment of substantial compen-
sation to Rosebery for its racing date.
The course was given rent-free. Most
people wish the S.T.C. well in its
endeavor to put profits from race meet-
ings back into the game, but it looks as
if it will be a long time before it builds
a racecourse of its own and takes over
others,
* * * *
The Caulfield Futurity Stakes, a
quality handicap this year, has attracted
V ictoria’s best sprinters, nominations
totalling 43. Amana will have pride of
place in the handicap, but he is so bril-
liant and carries weight so well that suc-
cess is not beyond him with 9.7. Trans-
port restrictions put entries from Sydney
out of the question. There are 70 entries
for the Oakleigh Plate.
* * * «
The Waikato R.C. has achieved the
distinction of giving more prize-money
for a one-day meeting than any other
provincial club in Maoriland. At its fix-
ture next month it is distributing £1350
more than on the corresponding day last
season. The total is £4700, the principal
race being the Storey Memorial Handi-
cap of £1250, against £705 a year ago.
Comment on what the totalisator has
done for Maoriland clubs during the past
years is unnecessary.
* * * *
Weight stops the best, and 10.9 saw
Kindergarten out of a place in the
Wellington Cup, two miles, last week.
Lord Chancellor’s weight in that race also
completely settled him. The winner was
Don Quex. Of the £27,000 put through
the tote on the Wellington Cup £16,866
was on Kindergarten.
Miscellaneous
The Colteaux-McNamee mill at Leich-
hardt was declared a draw, and it was a
rotten decision. Always the better, and
much speedier, boxer, McNamee made
Colteaux look a novice in many rounds,
and had him down twice. The “cham-
pion’s” vigorous, but ineffectual, methods
must have impressed the referee.
Alleged to have whipped Leo Kelly,
and built like the Rock of Gibraltar, Joe
Gullidge, a colored American service man,
fought a ten-rounder with Steve Norrish
at the Sydney Stadium. He might have
done better in a wrestle with Chief Little
Wolf. Norrish outboxed him from go to
stop.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By "PILOT."
Encourage Handicap: Buzz Off,
1 ; Frustrate, 2 ; Lawgiver, 3.
Valicare Handicap: Beltana, 1 ;
Strathdarr, 2 ; Twice Royal or Fel-
corn, 3.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Flight, 1 ;
Felbeam, 2 ; Enthuse, 3.
Challenge Stakes: Panchio, 1 ;
Industry, 2 ; Trimmer, 3.
January Handicap: Two’s Com-
pany, I; Faerie Queene, 2 ; War
Bird, 3.
Paddington Handicap: Thrax, 1 ;
Dick Whittington, 2 ; Boorchief, 3,


Women's Letters
From Mefbourne
Fortune and misfortune were mixed in
the devastating fires which wiped out over
100 homes in the fashionable bayside
suburb of Beaumaris, Melbourne, on the
second Black Friday in Victorian bush-
fire history. A woman who removed her
cow from a grazing paddock to the home
paddock to get it out of the sun before
she went to her office found it safe and
sound on returning, while the paddock
it had left was in ashes. A woman who
lost everything she owned in the Napier
(M.L.) earthquake had the mortification
of seeing her house go up in smoke near
Mentone. But the Jonah of the disaster
was the man at Beaumaris who succeeded
in rescuing four suitcases of his goods
and chattels from his home and for
safety’s sake put them in a borrowed
canoe moored off the foreshore. Going
down to the beach to collect his belong-
ings later he saw the canoe making good
time towards the Heads with his suitcases
in it.
A reminder of the fact that the Red
Cross Society is at work in the civilian
field as well as on service was the organ-
ising of relief to* the bushfire areas. Blood
plasma was sent to the spots where there
were casualties amongst firefighters—
there has been a very heavy toll of these.
Red Cross headquarters presented a scene
of activity as parcels of clothing and
other personal necessities were packed
and sent off to burnt-out areas.
It is at times when needs such as this
arise that the faithful service of Red
Cross auxiliaries is appreciated. There
have been many calls on them, and
whether for victims of flood, fire or ship-
wreck or any other disaster they’ve been
reaqly with medical supplies, clothing and
any other help needed.
Voluntary organisations began last
week to liven up after their year-end
interregnum, and were soon in full swing
again, albeit somewhat short-staffed, as
holidaying children will keep many
voluntaries busy till the end of the month.
Plans for 1944 activities are being put
in order for presentation to general meet-
ings, of which there is always a spate in
February and March. Committees that
look after children’s interests are taking
a breather after a welter of Christmas
parties, zoo and beach outings. The
arranging beforehand and the tying-up
of loose financial ends afterwards make
these affairs no light work.
Getting geared up for another strenu-
ous year is the Youth League, which
looks after the needs of service men on
leave. It has its headquarters in Kew
municipality, and was founded by Mrs.
W. J. Price. Monthly dances are the
main items, and the posting of books
and magazines to service men is among
the minor services rendered. Seeing that
the man in a front-line station doesn’t
get missed by the postman, even if he
hasn’t any friends or relatives, is part
of the job, too. The founder, by the
way, has been doing factory work as a
full-time war job.
Among organisations which are run-
ning to schedule again is the R.A.A.F.
Auxiliaries’ Committee, the motive power
behind the R.A.A.F. Welfare Bureau,
W.A.A.A.F. House and Welfare House
(the last-mentioned for children of air-
men and, of course, with W.A.A.A.F.
House, at its busiest in the holiday
period). A recent recruit of the Welfare
Bureau is “Chic” (christened Loris)
Larue, sister of Wing-Commander John
Larue. She comes to the work with an
inside knowledge of Air Force conditions.
She’s also the holder of an “A”-class
pilot’s license, so no technical talk
should be beyond her ken.
Though January is a very quiet month
on the home front the number of wed-
dings doesn’t seem to be slackening off —
if anything, they’re on the increase. Wed-
ding presents are taking a very decided
turn towards the strictly useful. On the
whole, too, they’re simple and inexpen-
sive, as most brides show more joy at
the sight of an off-the-market egg-beater,
a saucepan or a teacup or so than at a
silver teapot or the conventional toast-
racks and fish-servers.
Members of the U.S.W.A.C. welcomed
Mrs. Clarence Spiker, wife of the new
U.S.A. Consul, at lunch at the Australia
on Monday. The advisory and execu-
tive committees of the corps were the
guests of acting-president Mrs. Herbert
Allen (who has been doing the job since
Mrs. Erie Dickover went back to the
States). Mrs. Spiker will be the next
U.S.W.A.C. president, it being the custom
that this position is always held by the
Consul’s wife. Very vital, and interested
in affairs here, she should be much more
than a figurehead.
The Littlejohn Memorial Chapel,
Scotch College, was the spot chosen by
Betty Plumb for her wedding on Satur-
day to Flight-Lieutenant Lesley Brown,
R.A.A.F., son of James Brown, of Yarra-
wonga, and the late Mrs. Brown. Betty
is the elder daughter of the V. J. Plumbs,
of Malvern. The ceremony was an all-
R.A.A.F. affair, with bridegroom, best
man (Flying-Officer Don Wilson) and
chaplain Lefanu all in air-force blue.
The bride, a Waaaf till a few weeks ago,
wore a formal wedding frock of white
crepe, and was attended by sister Mrs.
Pieter Wessels as matron of honor.
Rosemary Bartlett and Captain Phillip
Barton, whose marriage took place last
week, are cousins, so the affair was a
family gathering. Rosemary is helping
the wheels to go round in a war-produc-
tion factory, her job being draughting,
as she wields a skilful pencil. A lot of her
life has been spent in Fiji, where her
parents, the E. A. Barnetts, resided for
many years. School brought her to this
city from time to time. The bridegroom
has family links with the Common-
wealth’s first Prime Minister, Toby
Barton.
The proposal of the State Government
to make grants to schools for children's
libraries is something of a triumph for
the many teachers who have been push-
ing this movement along, day in, day out.
The idea is that the child learns more
from looking up facts for himself than
by being told them. It’s the “let the
young idea shoot the way it wants to”
theory, with some commonsense safe-
guards in the way of supervision and
guidance.
Kirsova and her co. were welcomed by
a ballet-hungry public when they ran up
the curtain on Saturday night. The Boro-
vansky season awakened interest in the
possibilities of local talent. Kirsova
established a reputation for herself in
this city earlier by performances which
scored heavily for both dancing technique
and decor. Pictured here is ope of the
co.’s twins, Joan Halliday (twin sister is
a frequent dancing partner), who is the
Dawn Fairy in “Hansel and Gretel.”
Saturday night’s audience was in its
glad rags to match the bright array of the
corps de ballet. Even lasses with “not-
dressing” male escorts didn’t let this come
in the way of wearing a long frock. The
dinner hat seems to be coming into
popularity for the first time in years, as
it is calculated to take away somewhat
from the formality of evening garb. An
attractive black stiffened-lace one was on
the head of Laurel Martyn, who watched
the show with Dot Stevenson, both bring-
ing an expert eye to ballet technique.
Vice-regals were in one box and Gladys
Moncrieff blessed the work of fellow-
artists from another.
From Sydney
The devil that lurks about Australian
bushlands every summer slipped his leash
last week and raged, a ravening beast,
in Victoria, leaving a trail of dead and
homeless. Service man and civilian fought
valiantly against this terrible foe, and
got him in check. Folk on this side
of the border were not unscathed, but
their worries were nothing to the tragedy
of their neighbors. New South Wales
bows her head in sympathy with her
sister State.
. The word Bataan has about it the glory
of heroic struggle against bitter odds.
Americans salute that word with pride,
even as the English salute Dunkirk. And
surely no ship was launched with deeper
blessing, more ardent good wishes than
the new Tribal class destroyer, H.M.A.S.
Bataan. The wife of General Douglas
MacArthur sped the destroyer down the
slips with a spray of champagne and “I
name you Bataan. May God bless you.
At the official lunch which followed the
launching Mrs. MacArthur was presented
with a pendant of black opal and
diamonds.
Randwick greeted her new follower,
the Sydney Turf Club, with a somewhat
languid smile. The day was hot, so hot
that there was no coolness in green
border or shrub, but the crowds rolled
along, and committee members and their
wives smiled with satisfaction over the ,
successful inaugural meeting. President
of the S.T.C. W. W. Hill and his wife
were among the noted. Margaret Fagan,
who had been at the Bataan lunch, came
on with Lieut. Lloyd Green, of the U.S.
Navy. Joan Allen, Pat Coen and Julee
Helen McGrath were other attractive
bits of youth doing a flutter in the sun.
A few women, by the way, were
among the pickers-up of £6l 3s. 9d. for
five shillings, paid by Chief Man in the
Novice Handicap.
Mrs. Thyrza Hershey wears the uni-
form of the U.S. Red Cross with an air
all her own. She calls her part of mak-
ing America’s young sons happy so far
away from their homes, personal service.
It consists of doing the boys’ shopping
for them, buying gifts for them to send
to mothers, fathers, sweethearts and
wives when Christmas or birthdays come
along. Then there are such matters as
writing letters, sewing chevrons on, even
a hurried pressing of pants sometimes
when lads have a special date and want
to look smart. One of the prettiest compli-
ments Mrs. Hershey has had paid to her
was the arrival at her hotel one morning
of a young American sailor. He came
with his arms filled with flowers. It was
his mother’s birthday, and he brought
his gift to one who had helped to create
the feeling of home for him under strange
skies.
Mrs. Hershey’s husband is Burnet
Hershey, war correspondent of the
last war and of this. His book, Air
Future, which concerns itself with the
aero politics of a post-war world, has
had' a splendid press. He was for some
years a radio commentator of one of the
better-known stations in New York. .He
has written plays for the stage" and for
Hollywood, and he is director of the
Overseas Press Club in New York. This
photograph of Mrs. Hershey comes from
Norton Trevaire studio.
Everywhere, up and down the town,
in cafe, car, or even milk bar, the sub-
ject of conversation is meat rationing.
The great worry seems to be how the
dogs and the cats are going to manage
on the restricted protein content. The
King Edward’s Home for Dogs reports
unusual numbers of pets being brought
to be painlessly put to death in the lethal
chamber. This seems a bit premature,
because R.S.P.C.A. secretary Lord de-
clares that meat twice a week with sub-
stitute meals of green vegetable and
gravy, meatmeal and bonemeal and
odd drinks of milk will keep the dog
sleek and fit. Nor are the animals with-
out their pen-friends. Three thousand
animal lovers have put their names to
paper petitioning Minister for Com-
merce Scully for a meat ration for pets.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says that
when once the battle of .the scissors com-
mences she will visit her butcher’s in the
quiet hours. The problem of producing
your own shears and cutting the coupons
yourself or handing the shears and
coupons to the man of - brains and heart
and asking him to do the dismembering
will be, she thinks, a difficult one. The
very thought of the peak hours in the
meat shop with dozens of scissors blaz-
ing and hissing through the air is enough
to cause the most intrepid to recoil.
Probably, too, she adds, one day some
overworked and infuriated housewife will
go berserk and start tearing the stamps
off with her teeth.
At the Royal “Patience” is now run-
ning her blithe, unrationed career.
Coupons were never heard of in those
days or Bunthorne (Ivan Menzies) could
never have eaten fresh-made butter with
a tablespoon. Marie Bremner was a
coquettish Patience, and Evelyn Gardiner
the Lady Jane of the rugged bosom who
finally marries the Duke. Dragoons,
poets, lovesick maidens are mixed in a
mad, glad medley against pastoral back-
(cloths in the true G. and S. manner.
'Tremendous crowds of school kids greeted
the opening matinee. Evidently parents
believe you can’t start a good habit too
soon.
The gardens of China’s Consul-General
Dr. Tuan were bright with flowers and
bright-faced Chinese girls in their national
dress last Saturday. The grounds, with
their harbor vistas, were thronged, over
200 members of the People’s Foreign
Relations Association being there to pay
a tribute of friendship to America’s Min-
ister Johnson and his wife. Mr. Johnson
is a veiy old and tried friend of China.
He was stationed there for over 30 years,
and he and that country’s Minister in
Australia were cobbers in Nanking. That
was an added reason why Dr. H’su Mo
and his wife came from Canberra to be at
the party. He introduced the guest of
the afternoon to the gathering. Mrs.
Fabian Chow, who represents in Aus-
tralasia the P.F.R.A., was also a speaker.
For four years the men of the Mer-
, chant Marine have gone their ways on the
perilous seas of the wofld. Each of them,
on every voyage, has known that his ship
might be blasted from beneath him, that
he himself might sink to freeze to death
in the ice floes towards Murmansk or be
cast adrift in the Indian Ocean to die of
thirst beneath a pitilessly burning sun.
But danger has not made them hug the
land ; it has sent them to sea in, maybe,
greater numbers.
On Friday the public will have the
chance to show what they think of the
Navy and the Merchant Marine, for
Martin-place will be as gay as the decks
of H.M.S. Pinafore. Little Buttercup’s
stores will be quite outshone by the fair-
ings on the stalls and on the wheels.
Sailor’s Day it will be, and members of
the Commercial Travellers’ Club, dressed
as jack-tars and pirates, are even pre-
pared to dance a hornpipe around the
wheel they will keep whirring all day.
The old clothes stall, run by the Mission
for Seamen, is expected to do roaring
trade. Cabbage and lettuce in green
glory, rosy apple and glowing tomato,
with all their garden sisters apd brothers,
will hold levee from early morning.
Pretty girls in the national dress of Allied
countries will extract money quite pain-
lessly. In short, it’s to be a glad and
profitable day in the cause of all men
who keep the seaways open.
In a post-war world of readjustments,
of orphaned children, and of babies suf-
fering from malnutrition, Australia will
have to take a hand. That the Govern-
ment recognises this is shown by its de-
cision to extend financial aid to women
students taking a University social-studies
course. Applications for such assistance,
together with applications for enrolment
in the social-studies course, should be in
by January 29. Forms are to be had at
the University office. Since last year
throughout the universities of Australia
the Government has extended the palm
crossed with silver to students taking
other degree courses, such monetary help
being based mostly on the parents’
straitened means and the applicant’s
academic ability. But this is the begin-
ning of the system in regard to the social-
studies course. A matriculation or leav-
ing certificate is necessary, and the age
must be over 19. The Quota Club, too,
is feeling alive to the importance of
social-welfare work and is offering a
scholarship valued at £75.
A Mozart festival is to be given by
violinist Thomas Matthews and pianist
Eileen Ralph, taking the form of five
concerts at the Con. on February 10, 12,
15, 17 and 19. Programmes will include
concertos, violin sonatas and duets and
some of the pianoforte works.* Michael
Mann, boy pianist, and William Krasnik,
viola, will assist.
Michael Mooham, a good Maorilander
for over 20 years, inherited his rich and
warm speaking voice from forebears in
Enniskillen, County Fermanagh, Ireland.
He brought the voice and a gift for
friendship over the Tasman, and paused
at the Australia on his way to Canberra.
He holds that Maoriland is the finest
country in the world ; that the British
stock is unequalled for courage and
endurance. But when he speaks of Ire-
land it is with a subdued but fierce pride.
Michael is the national secretary of the
ML. Labor party. He is in Australia
with the delegation headed by M.L.’s
Prime Minister Fraser.


War-time NERVES
and HEAVINESS
HOW TO BEAT THEM
AND FEEL FIT AND WELL
War-time worries, irregu-
lar hours and meals often
result in faulty elimination,
nerves and heaviness.
You feel run down, weary
and out of sorts.
But there’s no need to stay
that way. Just take R.U.R.
for a while, and gain for
yourself the real relief ex-
perienced by so many
people all over Australia
and New Zealand.
R.U.R. gently nudges kid-
neys and liver, and gets
them on the job again.
It aids in reducing uric
acid accumulations, and
keeps bile flowing freely.
Thus, frequent causes of
faulty elimination are cor-
rected. Normal functions
are restored, and glowing
health is a speedy result.
Pain and discomfort dis-
appear.
So if you are suffering
from rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, neuritis, kidney
troubles, sluggish liver, con-
stipation—get R.U.R. right
away. If you can’t get
R.U.R. locally, send 4/- for
the smaller size, or 7/6
for the money-back guar-
anteed full treatment to
R.U.R., 841 George Street,
Sydney.
TAKE R.U.B. UNO RIGHT YOU ARE
Quality of Reproduction
g For nearly half a century the world’s greatest artists
have entrusted the permanent reproduction of their
art to "His Master’s Voice” —exclusively.
Purity of tone and quality of reproduction have
therefore become a tradition with "His Master’s
Voice” ... a tradition which ensures that "His
Master’s Voice” radio sets and radio-gramophones
enable you to hear the world’s greatest artists as
they would wish to be heard.
•v
X,
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
RADIO RECEIVERS RADIO-GRAMOPHONES
We regret that no Radiograms or Radio
Receivers are available for the time being
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R.29/43
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND *
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
11 i
iii
i«i
it up
Bill
ill
ill
Modern high-cfcss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
NUMBER THREE
4
Unique
Features
mm
m*m
i « : ■»
THE MARS” SHAPER
1. Schlesinger Accuracy.
2. All Surfaces Machine Ground.
3. Dynamically Balanced to prevent vibration.
4. Ram specially treated to prevent seizing, so
insuring firm, even movement.
BETTER THAN IMPORTED.
df
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.
. BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole wholesale distributers for N.S.W.,
THOMAS HERBERT & COMPANY PTY., LTD., Clarence St, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
“Lost East Lindfield bus, Suitcase.”
—“Great Northern.”
Finder keep suitcase, return bus.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“The first assault on North Africa required
110 tons of maps.”— “World’s News.”
The Atlas Mountains?
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Lady Flora realised that he was only flat-
tering her because of her wealth and position.”
—Magazine story.
Flora and fawner.
Sometimes a girl with a creamy com-
plexion can go very sour.
■4* .j. .j. 4.
“About this time Rose developed a highly
Communistic outlook.” — Biographical item.
A red Rose.
4*
“Off and on, she argued with him all day.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
“Off and on” is redundant.
•{*
“Once he chased me with a boiling hot iron
in his hand. I threw the hose nozzle at him.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
And then, presumably, he struck while
the iron was hot.
❖ 4 1 4*
“Finally after all his devotion and tenderness
he came to the conclusion that Amy was too
self-centred even to appreciate his attentions.”
— “Sun.”
“In spite of its title there was very little that
was Scotch in the procession.”— “Daily Mirror.”
In fact, it passed a given spot quite
readily,
4* 4*
“Twenty pints of beer a day were nothing
to him. He weighed 23 stone.”
— “D. Telegraph.”
A heavy drinker.
+ 4* ■J I 4*
. “Many women are now listed as ‘manufac-
turers.’ ” — Woman’s paper.
They have always made eyes.
“Snifter knew that the detectives would
shortly call for him. They would ask for a
confession. Knowing escape was impossible,
he proceeded to shave and wash.”
—“Daily Mirror
Determined to come clean.
Nature Study.
Emerging from its native ground
A worm came forth to glance around.
A watchful bird at once descended,
And thus the worm’s career was ended.e
The next-door cat, a yowling creature,
Possessing no redeeming feature,
Decided on the bird to sup.
And rather loudly chewed it up.
Alas! The process ends at that,
For nothing ate the yowling cat!
T. W. NATHAN.
Indispensables.
“Petitioner stated in her affidavit that £l2 a
week was insufficient for her needs. She had
had to dispense with her gardener and
laundress.” — “Truth.”
It all came out in the wash, my dear.
She had expensive needs.
Twelve quid a week went up in smoke —
But how about her weeds ?
E.
Around the girls he wrapt his arms;
On gorgeous wraps he spent his pelf;
But naught like that her heart could stir —
She was too wrapt up in herself.
H. M.
Baited Lines.
This is, as you who read will see,
An artful piece of trickery.
Or you might say, in accents blunt,
A sly device, a cunning stunt,
A crude, unfair, unworthy lurk.
But what care I ? If it should work,
At last I’ve got, without much dint
Of toil or merit, verse in print.
KEN.
Saved!
The big meeting-place under the hill
seethed and heaved as the myriad mem-
bers of the Subterranean Mutton Protec-
tion Society forgathered to discuss vari-
ous matters affecting their interests. The
excited chatter stopped as Bill Bucktooth,
the chairman, thumped hard on the
ground with his hind foot for order.
“Fellow-rabbits,” he began, “you all
know, only too well, how the rationing
of mutton and beef will make it harder
for us. Man’s inhumanity to rabbits
makes countless thousands of us mourn
someone near and dear to us. Time was
when we were free to roam at will, help-
ing ourselves to luscious pastures and
crops. But what do we find today? Net-
ting everywhere. So far it has caused us
no great hardship, but we know that man
with his devilish ingenuity will try to put
a swiftie over us soon —perhaps netting of
a mesh large enough to entice us to poke
our heads through ; then, when our ears
spring to the alert at danger signs from
man or his hounds, we shall be trapped.”
“That’d only trick mug bucks who
didn’t look before they leaped! ” squeaked
a cocky-looking kitten.
Bill Bucktooth fixed his interrupter with
a gimlet eye. “And you’d be the first
rabbit to fall for it,” he retorted crush-
ingly. “Why, you haven’t even the brains
of a human being!”
When the laughter at the crestfallen
kitten had subsided, Bill went on: “Gra:>s
has long been virtually rationed, and even
roots have been scarce. My good wife
and I and our 1800-odd sons and daugh-
ters have been compelled to climb kurra-
jongs to get sufficient sustenance. Do
they think we’re a lot of squirrels? What
we should demand is regrassing of terri-
tory and bigger and better unnetted
crops.”
Voices: “Hear! Hear!”
“And the trappers around here are
working 18 to 20 hours a day and making
fortunes—or, rather, we’re making them
for them. Do any of you younger rab-
bits know what you’d look like without
your fur muff? Are you”
At that moment the great concourse
looked around as a shrewd-looking rabbit
came pushing through holding up a
paper in his paw. It was Claude Cotton-
tail, who had been an educated rabbit in
a circus before he escaped, and who,
knowing human language, was held in
high regard by his less-talented fellows.
He went straight up to the chairman,
who heard the newcomer out and then
held up a paw.
“Gentlemen,” he announced, and he
was smiling broadly now, “Claude brings
us great news. He has found a trap-'
paper. On it he read an announcement
that the Minister, a Mr. Scully, is calling
a conference of all rabbit-trapping in-
terests. That means Government control,
and Government control will mean
hordes of inspectors and a sharp decline
in "caught rabbits. As for the few who
will be caught, their relatives will be
proud to know that their carcasses will be
lined up for in long queues, and humans
will pay three times what they used to.”
A motion to accord a hearty vote of
thanks to Scully was carried unanimously.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Dangerous Alternative
I protest most emphatically against th
proposal that instead of “pay-as-you-go
income taxation discretionary powe
should be given to the Taxation Depart
ment to waive payment in case of hard
ship on death or on termination of
lucrative war job or on other side issues
That attacks all sound principles of taxa
tiop. It is a basic principle of income tax
that it should be certain and inescapable
A provident citizen, earning good
money, looks ahead and makes provision
for paying future levies when times ar
hard or when he dies. Why should the
thriftless and improvident person have an
advantage over his prudent brother? Any
discretionary power of tax remission is
direct incentive to thriftlessness.
A citizen should not be compelled to
go cap in hand to any officials for tax
remission. This is the thin end of the
wedge which, would enable bureaucracy
to triumph over Parliamentary taxation
levies.
All these objectionable features woulc
be avoided if a straightout “pay-as-you
go” principle were adopted for everyone
and it would be uniformly fair. Johr
Citizen would know that when he hat
paid his tax by that method he hac
settled his bill up to date.
The alleged departmental difficulties or
intricacies are not insurmountable
Queensland overcame them in 1930 when
the principle was introduced in its
Income Unemployment Relief Tax Act.
—T. Payer (Q.),
Regulations and Evasions
People openly declare that those
who do not indulge in a little black-
marketing, or use “influence” or double-
up for a cigarette issue are fools, because
everybody’s doing it.
Recently a motorist unwittingly bought
two tyres from a black-market dealer.
When he discovered this, he returned the
tyres and was called a fool. “I may be,”
he retorted, “but I won’t be a rogue.”
His honesty was so extraordinary as to
make news.
Perhaps if Australia had been well
blitzed we should now have a better pub-
lic spirit. We in the A.I.F. could scrounge
with the next one, but never at.- the ex-
pense of a cobber and the fruits were
usually shared.-—Ex-2- A.I.F. (S.A.).
Because of illness in the family some
friends were anxious to get to another
State. They were told there was nothing
doing—all available accommodation was
taken. They accepted the dictum, only
to discover that others who had come
along later on were given passages.
We’re getting on in Australia! — Innocent
Abroad (Tas,).
Regulation 59AA
It is a pity that “G.R.” (B. 5/l/’44)
chose the administration of Reg. 59AA on
which to pour forth his wrath. “Who is
to give the permit?” he asks: “A board
of businessmen? No, a civil servant,”
That’s a querulous half-truth. The Con-
troller of New Manufacture is among
other things an ex-businessman who came
to W.O.T. after active service in this war
as an A.I.F. major. The greater part of
W.0.1.’s extensive staff is recruited from
outside the civil service, from the univer-
sities and from businessmen. No depart-
ment has fewer of the permanent civil
service type in it and no department has
striven more earnestly to fit the right
man into the right job.
Does “G.R.” imagine that a “board of
businessmen” in each State could handle
the issuing of permits (about 20 applica-
tions a day) more efficiently than a single
man with business and administrative
experience?
Regulation 59AA was introduced, by
the way, to prevent the growing tendency
to cash in on war shortages. When a
man closes up his “non-essential” busi-
ness to turn to war production or to fight,
the demand for those non-essential goods
increases.— Taurus (Vic.).
Post-war Farming
The Department of Post-war Recon-
struction has been looking into some
lural statistics as a guide to the solution
of post-war land problems, which it pre-
sumably believes will be part of its job
after the war. “Australia,” it remarks,
was well off in 1939 compared with de-
pression standards, but all was not well
in rural economy.”
As a general rule farmers could not enjoy
the living standards of industrial workers
without State assistance such as subsidies,
debt adjustment, freight rebates and drought
and flood relief. In 1939, 20 p.c. of the
nation’s breadwinners were on farms, but
their share of the national income for living
averaged only 18 p.c Average prices
for farm products between 1928-29 and
1938-39 were 25 p.c. less than for 1918-28
... .average costs were reduced by only 13
p.c. between 1927 and 1939... .Increase in
(farm) incomes was based on output per
man, but not on increased output per acre
or per animal unit.
A strange conclusion, seeing that wheat
yielded more per acre, sheep more wool
per head and cows more milk and butter-
fat per head.
Annual indebtedness increased by from
20 p.c. to 25 p.c. in the period... .Rise in
productivity per man meant that agricul-
tural employment increased by only 22 p.c.
from 1911 to 1939, though it increased
rural output by 50 p.c. Rural workers
made up 24.4 p.c. of Australian bread-
winners in 1911, but only 20.8 p.c. in 1933.
As the department sees it, “this increas-
ing ability to feed a given population with
the work of fewer and fewer people must
set a low limit to the direct employment
possibilities in agriculture unless our
markets expand.” It then asks “Will
“Come in out of the rain—do you want to catch a cold?”
the 150,000 men transferred from farm-
ing to the services and war work want to
return to country life after the war?”
and answers “They may not, unless rural
awards become general, farm incomes
improve and the amenities of the city
are made available to the farmer and his
family.”
If the world reverts to its pre-war
design after the initial food-relief phase,
the department suggests that “three broad
approaches of this sort are likely.”
1. Reducing Costs: Extension of im-
proved farm practices, provision of essential
services—water, electricity, roads —subsidies
to lower costs of essential materials ( e.g
fertilisers), and reducing costs of clearing,
soil conservation, pasture improvement,
herd-testing, etc.
2. Promoting Stabilisation and Security:
Price-fixing, production control, subsidised
crop insurance, debt adjustment, recon-
struction of holdings (including subdivision
for new settlement), control of land values,
rural wage awards, industrial decentralisa-
tion, and so forth.
3. Raising Living Standards: Improved
housing, educational, medical, cultural and
other community facilities.
(1) and (3) offer possibilities ; but aren’t
most of the things set out in (2) as
remedies the very things that brought
farming in Australia to its present pass?—
Old-timer (N.S.W.).
Future of Agriculture
After the war Australia will be pro-
ducing on a large scale aeroplanes, textile
machinery, cars, agricultural machinery
and steel for engineering purposes. Her
shipbuilding industry will develop rapidly,
and she will undertake the building of
large naval bases in the South-west
Pacific.
At least 75 p.c. of the males now en-
gaged in munitions, aircraft production,
shipbuilding and engineering will be likely
to retain their present jobs.
What effect will all this have upon the
Government’s contrivances for post-war
agricultural development? Many people
are drifting from agriculture, owing prin-
cipally to extensive scientific research and
improved farm machinery, which is
reducing man-power to a minimum.
If Australia is to produce her own
iron and steel requirements for engineer-
ing projects, make her own clothing and
other textile commodities, also manufac-
ture cars, ’planes and ships, she will not
desire these things from Britain, America
and Japan.
But what is to become of food-produc-
tion? Many countries even in pre-war
time were unable to fulfil their food re-
quirements, thereby having to look to
others for produce. What we in Aus-
tralia have to consider is how agricultural
development and stabilisation are to sur-
vive the unavoidable industrial revolu-
tion which confronts us.—E. G. R. (Q.).
Political Qualifications
“Ajax” (B. 8/12/’43) hit the nail on
the head when he asked who would
decide the “good moral character” of
intending members of Parliament.
“Arthur” (B. 10/11/”43) would have
candidates for Parliament undergo a
qualification test. Not an academic one,
surely? Scholars have not headed the
list of Australian statesmen in this age
or in past generations. A man may be
learned yet lacking in wisdom and leader-
ship, two indispensable qualities in
statesmanship.
And “Arthur” advocates “a rigid
examination of members’ financial posi-
tion yearly.” Presumably those of an
unsound financial position are to be dis-
qualified from holding office. If so, what
an opportunity for vindictive opponents!
The present system of allowing candi-
dates to enter Parliament is the fairest
under the British principle of “govern-
ment for the people by the people.”—
Jay (Q.).
There’s reason in the argument that
candidates for Parliament should pass
some examination to show they are not
unfitted altogether for the post they sought.
A candidate for the police or tram ser-
vice has to do this,
I would make it easy for the intending
member by 'requiring of him only that
he should qualify after he had been
elected, by acquiring a reasonable work-
ing knowledge of three or four of the
scores of subjects that come up for de-
cision in Parliament or enter into the
making of those decisions. I’m rather in-
clined to make grammar a compulsory
subject.
This is a great era for trade-union sec-
retaries, who flock in procession to the
N.S.W. Legislative Council and other high
conclaves. Yet, with popular support
everywhere, Labor is lamentably weak in
all the State Second Chambers, and has
strikingly few men capable of making a
fair show with the bills of an average
session. This lack can be overcome if the
members will apply themselves to a little
work and study. Of course, some of them
do this already. The others might do so
too under compulsion.—H. S. (N.S.W.).
Industrial Fatigue
Australia has a new disease. War
workers are complaining of nervous
reaction from long hours of monotonous
work, with few holidays, and the National
Service Minister has promised all pos-
sible relief. The problem of industrial
fatigue has never seriously arisen here
before. In America it has been the sub-
ject of scientific research for many years,
and there it has been proved beyond
doubt that in many types of work fewer
working hours, or relief from monotony,
result in greater net output.
I remember one experiment among
girls whose sole job it was to fold hand-
kerchiefs in a nine-to-five working day,
with normal morning, lunch and after-
noon breaks. A new system was tried.
For 10 minutes the girls stood at their
job, the next ten minutes they sat down
and the third ten minutes was free. In-
creased output was about 40 p.c., and
the girls finished the day fresh as daisies.
A similar experiment was tried among
coal-loaders, who were given a rest for
five minutes in every 15. They almost
doubled production.
In the army it is tradition that at 10
minutes to the hour men sit down for
ten minutes. Students, too, know the
value of the ten-minute break from their
books each hour. For the last couple
of years our war workers have been flat
out and have achieved wonderful results.
They deserve scientific treatment for this
new weariness to enable them to remain
fit and healthy, and even to increase pro-
duction.—Pip (A.1.F.).
Workers and Unionism
The workers have permitted them-
selves to be influenced by professional
politicians and agitators to depart from
most of the principles of democracy that
have been gained at such great cost.
They have allowed their minds to be
poisoned, with the result that only a trace
remains of that harmony that is essential
to progress in industry.
The outcome will be more and more
small men out of business, and on the
labor market more men for fewer jobs.
The unionist claims this is right—the Gov-
ernment should control all business. .Let
us suppose that becomes an .established
fact, where is the guarantee of harmoni-
ous working?
Government-controlled industries have
been the worst sufferers from strikes, etc.,
and it is reasonable to conclude that a
multiplication of businesses so controlled
would mean a multiplication of strikes.
The worker is standing on the wrong
foot. He should take an active interest
in his union, get rid of the noisy, disloyal,
parasitic, intolerant element, reintro-
duce freedom of speech and expression
of opinion (secret ballot for all major
issues) and select qualified representatives
with honesty of purpose, ability and wis
dom to give a square go to man and
master. — Arthur (Q.).
The Price of Butter
The dairy-farmer has been refused a
reasonable price for his butter. The retail
price is about Is. 9d. per pound; it
should be 2s. 6d. per pound.
If dairymen had received this price
from the beginning of the war there
would have been no need for rationing,
and the U.K. could have been supplied
with large shipments. No hardships
would have been imposed on our own
people, who are so lavishly paid for their
work that they can easily pay the price.
As it is, dairy production is declining.
The Port Curtis (Q.) Dairy Association’s
annual report for 1942-43 shows the
average number of suppliers has dropped
from 3232 in 1942 to 3103 in 1943. In
1940 there were 3511.
Rationing of farm produce and restric-
tions on prices of such are quite unneces-
sary and bad in their results. The correct
procedure is to decree minimum prices
and for the Government to assume
responsibility for any losses due to over-
production. There has as yet been no
overproduction, but a good deal of
underdistribution, and for that the
Government is entirely to blame. — Ex-
Dairyman (Q.).
Food Reform
The diet of the masses in Australia
seems to be mainly meat, starch and
sugar. Some of the results can be seen at
the outpatients’ departments of the great
public hospitals. The favorites of the
younger generation—pies and pasties, pas-
tries, hot white bread, hamburgers and
tea-and-toast —keep the doctors busy.
We should be better for a return to
something like the traditional peasant
diets that produced the healthy founda-
tions of all strong and fertile peoples.
My Scandinavian forebears had magni-
ficent teeth and giant strength even to
great old age, preserved by coarse rye
bread, unpearled barley, deep-sea fish and
garden greens. As it is, city-bred civilised
man is the sickest beast on earth, and
much of his medical research seems to
be directed to enabling him to eat his
cake and have it—to keep bad habits
and dodge or palliate the consequences.—
Hendrik (Vic.).
Sympathy for Ma
In Jolliffe’s work the tragic figure
of Ma destroys any appeal that Andy's
antics may have to my sense of humor.
In Ma I always see the personification
of the many women of the outback whose
lives have been devoted to a heartbreak-
ing servitude to lords who treat them
as mercilessly as they do their other beasts
of burden.
1 suppose Ma is a comic figure to the
majority. Still, it is a pity that an artist of
Jolliffe’s undoubted talent should find it
expedient to hold up to ridicule the brave
little battlers, of the bush, of whom Ma
is the embodiment. —G. M. (W.A.).


No Medals for Mother
m
*0
mm
m
f I
r
mm
- :'
IK
; '/F;
#o^
%•
Her cares are many
her tasks beyond"number.
Every hour, every minute
She is on duty—
She sees the children
off to school
She makes the meals
She makes the beds—•
and the ’planes!
Sees to the laundry
and the lathe.
Fills the shell—
and the shopping basket,
a tiring business
these days.
Cuts sandwiches
for her man
going on night duty—
and wakes at once
if her child
cries in the night.
Tired yet tireless,
She holds the fort
of the family;
the citadel
of the hearth.
She, has no medals,
only the pride
of working and striving
beside her menfolk
in a great enterprise—
to save the homes
and the children
of all the world.
The women of Australia are making
great contributions to the war effort—
not least of these is what they are
doing for Savings.
Save for Victory
Inserted by William Arnott Pty., Limited, Homebush, with
acknowledgment to "The Times," London.
