

GAR
The Bulletin
Bulletin,” Vol. 65 —No. 3383
Wednesday, December 13, 1944
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HARROW-THE SPEECH HOUSE.
J_J ARROW SCHOOL owes its establishment in 1571 to a local
yeoman, John Lyon, for ‘thirty poore children of the parish
ot Harrow. In the constitution was a clause allowing the master
to receive also “so many Foreigners” as would be practicable, for
“such stipend and wages as he can get.” Out of this clause grew
S : chocl o£ Harrow ' which has ,ons aso edipsed the
g nal foundation.
The original school-house is just below the church, the “Fourth
Form Room’’ being the original schoolroom. Memorial to many
°f its students later to become world famous are the carved school-
boy names that cover the furniture here.
T he fir ? Speec j! Room ™ as erected b Y Dr - Butler in 1820, and
chord of the arc being next the road.


Sojourn*
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, a*
advertised m the Sydney ‘‘Bulletin,"
My Name ..
Uy Address
S.B. 144 ..
ME AN JIN
SUMMER NUMBER will include short stories by
Vance Palmer, W. Grant Taylor jarticles by A.
Boyce Gibson, Frank Medworth, Kenneth Slessor,
O. R. Badger, Brian Elliott, Len ,
R G. Howarth; poems by Judith WngW, J-
O’Dwyer, Alec King, Peter Middleton, lan Mudie,
John Henderson and overseas writers; reviews, m
drawings. An ideal Christmas gift.
ON SALE AT ALL LEADING BOOKSTORES.
The Red Page
PARTLY JOSEPH FURPHY.
Miles Franklin, “in association with
Kate Baker,” has produced Joseph
Furphy (Angus and Robertson), a life of
“Tom Collins,” the author of Such is
Life. It is a valuable work, and, in spite
of Miss Franklin’s frequent apologies for
its “dulness,” it is surprisingly readable —
largely because of the inclusion of letters
by A. G. Stephens.
Those facts should be kept in mind ;
but the book seems to the present com-
mentator to fail on two grounds, wholly
on one and partly on the other.
The first count against it is that it is
not so much a biography as a basis for
future biographers to work Am. As such,
of course, it will be valuable. But if a
real biography of Furphy is wanted in
Australia, the whole job will have to be
done over again, and, since she is not
merely some devoted research-worker but
a writer of skill and repute, Miles Frank-
lin’s defence for not having done the full
work herself does not seem admissible.
“The time,” she says, “is not yet ripe
for a definitive biography of Joseph
Furphy,” Why not? one must ask. A
definitive biography of Bernard Shaw
has been published in his lifetime;
definitive biographies of W. B. Yeats and
James Joyce were published immediately
after their deaths. Joseph Furphy could
not be compared with these three Lives.
Miles Franklin in her own defence:
The Australian attitude towards bio-
graphy opens the case for Mateship versus
Modernity, and so far Mateship holds the
pass. No frankly searching study of the
lives of our prominent personages would
be tolerated by their relatives or descen-
dants, nor indeed by the public, because of
the still lingering conventions of modesty
and reticence by which British middle-
class behavior was regulated until inhibi-
tion loosened in the preliminary war of
1914-18. No matter how unseemly a man’s
actions, immediately he is dead de
mortals nil nisi bonum remains the accepted
formula for his printed chronicle: practi-
cally nothing is allowable beyond eulogy
expanded from an epitaphic text. This
outmoded reserve can be attributed to
neighborliness, to parochialism, or be dis-
missed as hypocrisy, but it cannot be flouted
by an author who desires publication.
Thus Australian autobiography and bio-
graphy tend to be unexciting by comparison
with the divulgences which spice many
American and English memoirs: naturally,
if iliogically, the circumscribed product is
then shunned alike by publishers and
readers.
This is an extremely ingenious piece of
special pleading. Miles Franklin has not
only loaded all the responsibility for the
shortcomings of her biography on to the
shoulders of the public and the pub-
lishers, but by carefully balancing
“Mateship” with “Modernity,” “neighbor-
liness” with “parochialism” and “out-
moded” with “spice” she has evaded ex-
pressing any personal opinion on the
desirability of reticence in biography.
Was there, in fact, some startling piece
of “spice” in” the life of Joseph Furphy
which Miles Franklin refused to reveal?
Paradoxically, her defence must inevitably
arouse that speculation, the very type of
personal curiosity the biographer wished
to avoid.
It seems extremely unlikely that there
was anything startling in Furphy’s life.
Some little story or other there may have
been ; something that could have been
told without harm to the living or the
dead, just as the full story of W. B. Yeats
was told by Joseph Hone. It seems that
Miles Franklin’s apologia is a smoke-
screen, a red herring. The “dulness” of
the book is not due to the absence of
“spice” but to the author’s failure to make
it come fully and convincingly to life
within her own chosen limits.
This is the second count against it:
that it does not fully succeed even as a
biography which leaves the author’s
private life private. The great faults here
are, first, scrappiness, and, second, senti-
mentality.
The scrappiness is the result of a
general failure to visualise and drama-
tise. Two examples; when Furphy
comes to Sydney, and, according to one
of his letters, “had tea with Stephens and
a long evening with some of the boys
invited to meet us”—Albert Dorrington,
Norman Lindsay, Victor J. Daley and
others—Miles Franklin makes no attempt
to picture the gathering ; and when, late
in life, Furphy took an interest in
spiritualism and attended seances there
is no attempt to “materialise” Furphy,
the gathering or the ghost, if any. In
both these instances Miles Franklin had
precisely the material that made Hone’s
life of Yeats rich and colorful and
strange—literary gatherings and dabblings
with spiritualism—and she has done no
more than record the bare facts.
Instances of sentimentality can also be
found everywhere. The fault becomes
most apparent when Miles Franklin is
endeavoring to explain away the petering
out of Furphy’s talent. This is explained
as the result of virtue —Furphy had to
fend for his family; a woman was a
woman in the bush and a man was a
man, and had Furphy taken to literature
at the sacrifice of his wife and children
“he would have had no mates.” And it
is also explained that he had wearied of
a struggle that “had not won due recog-
nition” —this after A. G. Stephens, on his
first reading of the manuscript of Such
is Life, hailed it as an Australian classic.
The truth is, Furphy won instant fame
with Such is Life. His correspondence,
his “mates” and his passion for
knowledge wasted his time. “During
the day I am always zealous of
good works in that line [correspondence],
but when night comes on I find there is
something I ought to know and don’t.
For instance, whether it was Pharaoh-
Necho or Pharaoh-Hophra that was so
badly walloped by Nebuchadnezzar at
Carchemish, And I must satisfy myself
on that point. Or else there is some
scientific or ethical problem clamoring
for investigation.” Miles Franklin does
not do a good service to young Aus-
tralian writers by explaining to them, in
effect, that it is better to write no books
than to dare the penalties of greatness,
and that great writers are necessarily
“self-seeking,” “ruthless,” “spicy” and
“spectacular” fellows who “live on
women” and starve their wives and
children.
Why, then, did Furphy not produce a
great successor to Such is Life and
Rigby’s Romance ? A biographer digging
a little deeper than Miles Franklin is
prepared to go might find that if he had
a great talent —genius—he evaded his
responsibilities, taking to scholarship as
a drug as other men have taken to drink.
If he had a minor talent —if his impulse
was essentially autobiographical; and
this is more likely the case —then he
didn’t go on writing because he couldn’t.
Such is Life, a freak book and essentially
an autobiography—at one time it was
intended to be labelled as such—is
pleasant reading. But that does not make
Furphy a great writer; he contributed
an article on Tennyson to The Bulletin,
and Stephens, rejecting it, wrote to him;
“I find Tennyson MS. labored and flat,
and dislike the intrusion of so many
pompous polysyllables.”
As it happens, by a comparison with
Ulysses, Point Counter Point and A La
Recherche du Temps Perdu —which she
says are “decadent,” defended only by
“foaming” advocates—Miles Franklin hits
unconsciously on the great weakness of
Such is Life. It is certainly true that
Furphy’s book can be measured in such
company—and Miles iFranklin did well
to suggest it; but it is also true that the
lack not of “spice” but of a full and true
picture of life has retarded the popu-
larity of Such is Life. Nobody could
say that Shakspeare and Fielding were
decadent.
Which leads one to the conclusion that
perhaps Miles Franklin was correct, after
all, when she attributed the “dulness” of
her biography to its reticence. It is not
that one misses the “spice”; it is not that
one hankers for the “spectacular”; but
that once reticence or evasion is chosen as
a principle the whole work becomes de-
vitalised. The work may be good as
Such is Life is; it may be interesting and
important as Joseph Furphy is; but it
can never have the vitality that enthralls
or the completeness that satisfies. Truth,
said Keats, is beauty; what sets out to
be only partly true can be only partly
beautiful.
S.
Australia for the Young .
Due partly to the scarcity of English
publications, partly to the fact that Aus-
tralians of any age want to read about
their own country these days, children’s
books by Australian authors are boom-
ings: witness Leslie Rees’s Digit Dick on
the Barrier Reef, which has already sold
42.000 copies, with another 25,000 now
being printed.
Another of Rees’s books, Gecko, the
Lizard Who Lost His Tail (Sandman
Library ; John Sands Pty., Ltd.), has sold
30.000 copies. A third. Shy, the Platypus,
is expected out for Christmas, and a
fourth, Digit Dick and the Tasmanian
Devil, is in preparation.
Though the method differs —in Digit
Dick on the Barrier Reef the miniature
hero is taken on a tour of the undersea
world, is carried off by a sea-eagle, travels
the islands ; the Gecko is victimised by a
kookaburra ; and in Shy the life history
of the platypus is told —Rees’s books all
have the one purpose: the teaching of
natural history in an entertaining way.
Much the same idea is behind Tales
of the Dead Heart, by J. K. Ewers (Cur-
rawong), which is chiefly concerned with
aboriginal legends—“ Why the black
swan’s beak is edged with red,” “Why
the bull-roarer roars” and so on. It is
set in the Centre, with an aboriginal boy
for hero.
Charles Shaw, who is published by
Dymock’s, has found that some of his
Bulletin “Aboriginalities” ballads appeal
to children. N. S. Wales Education De-
partment featured his Abo. verse, “The
Frogs of Tomanbil,” in part-speaking
form in its school magazine, and followed
it with “The Warrumbungle Mare,” to-
gether with Ted Scorfield’s cover illustra-
tion from the book of verses of that
name. Next, the A.B.C. —which has
serialised both Leslie Rees’s Digit Dick
stories —gave a dramatised version of
“The Warrumbungle Mare” in its schools
broadcast. .
Shaw’s The Green Token, a children's
yarn, sold out as soon as Dymock’s pub-
lished it.
The Treasure of the Hills will be chil-
dren’s fare for Christmas. The volume
will include The Green Token. Treasure
of the Hills deals with three boys who
are staying at a farm on the Lachlan
and go in search of Ben Hall’s treasure —
there being a legend that Ben left a hoard
behind him. In The Green Token a brother
and sister, on a holiday trip down the
Murray, find themselves engaged in frus-
trating a plot by enemy agents to blow
up the Hume Dam.
Among Shaw’s adult fare, A Sheaf of
Shorts —yarns from the bush reprinted
from various periodicals—sold out on
publication; and Outback Occupations,
from The Bulletin, is now in its fourth
edition.
Another publisher has a new edition
of Norman Lindsay’s classic The Magic
Puddin’ in preparation.
V. B.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
From John Brennan:
For two matinee performances at the Mer-
cedes Theatre in Tacloban (Leyte Island, Cen-
tral Philippines) Professor Paz, Master of
Mystery, Music and Dance.
PROFESSOR PAZ THE GREAT
World’s Famous Magician
He Must Be Seen To Be Believed
As Magician He Has No Equal
As Performer Second to None
As Entertainer Famous Continentally
WHERE DO THE DUCKS GO?
Paz is a Leyteno born, who early got into the
vaudeville business. In 1921-22 he toured the
Australian Tivoli circuit. The next 20 years
he spent in wanderings through India, Burma,
Arabia and the East Indies ; a few months be-
fore Japan came into the war he returned to
his farm on Leyte. He was wounded in an
early bombing raid over Leyte, then when the
enemy arrived he joined up with the guerrillas
for a time. But soon, he says, there was nothing
to eat, so he returned to Tacloban. He showed
for one week there, then was ordered to {our
the Jap camps entertaining the soldiers. When
the Americans arrived Paz was still in Tacloban.
He very quickly saw the chance of making
something on the side entertaining the troops.
Paz first proved himself a master of mystery
with a half-dozen sleight-of-hand tricks, picking
coins out of his ear and pingpong balls from
the toe of his shoe. After a while he thrust
48 swords through a young lady who yvas shut
up in a wicker basket. Then another shapely
Miss appeared, dressed chiefly in a filmy pair of
pyjama pants, and went through the motions of
a dance. Paz here proved himself a master
of music by dashing down into the orchestra
pit and taking over a set of drums, while three
young men made music with saxophones and
trombone. The young woman”s dance being
finished, Paz dashed back, grabbed up a ven-
triloquist’s doll and sang mournfully, the doll
likewise. The versatile professor next showed
his mastery of the dance, cavorting happily in
a waltz with another (not-so-ypung) lady. There-
after Paz mystified, musicked and danced alter-
nately, the shapely Miss appearing between
times in Indian costume with clanking anklets
and a water-jug, and in Hawaiian grass skirt
to sing “Aloha-oe” and wiggle her hips. Finally
Paz produced two ducks, put them into a box,
then tore the box to pieces to prove they had
disappeared. When the show was over no one
—with the possible exception of Paz —yet knew
where the ducks did go.
As a magician Paz proved himself a better-
than-average trickster; as a musical maestro
he’s almost unbearable; terpischoreally he’s un-
believable. The audience applauded with the
same liberality as that with which they handed
over 50 cents American to gain admission.
Every swing of the shapely young lady’s hips
threatened greater damage than the theatre had
suffered in a couple of hundred bombing raids,
American and Jap. With two such girls, four
such hips, Paz could fill the Mercedes at 10
times the price.
Some Artbursts;
Sydney sports no fewer than six pre-Christmas
art exhibitions—all doing pretty well in sales,
owing to war-time. Two of these have been
already reviewed. Of the other four, most in-
teresting, because it maintains a flavor all its
own and is contributed to by so many painters
to whom art is purely a hobby, is the annual
show of Joe Holloway’s Sketch Club, which has
its habitat in Sydney’s Chinatown. There are
a lot of servicemen in the membership. This
year’s best work comes from the brushes of
Lance Solomon (two splendid pictures of break-
ing surf), Garrett Kingsley (graceful nudes),
Roy Thibou, Joe Holloway himself (some well-
painted flowers and some portraits), Albert N.
Clarke and Sid Baron (whose “8 a.m.,” a study
of Sydney ferry wharves, in water-color, is a
very pleasant performance). And there is the
usual emergence of an unknown who paints so
well that one wonders why he has been hiding
his light under a bushel. This year it Is Syd
Sullivan, an oldster who, apparently, has just
recently taken up again the exercise of a
talent that has lain dormant for many years. He
is a master of impasto, and his impressionistic
works “Roseville” (a study of the upper reaches
of Sydney Harbor), “The Picnic,” “Holiday”
and “Sunlight” have a Corot-like quality.
Then there is Jo Booker, who should have been
an etcher, but performs instead on wood with
a red-hot needle, and Sam G. Goddard, who has
a pretty taste in color, and Private T. P,
Martin, whose “An Irish Sergeant” is a sin-
cere and effective piece of portraiture.
At Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries the Australian
Art Society shows some sound work by Jer-
rold Nathan, J. Salvana, Clif Peir and Garrett
Kingsley in oil, and from W. M. Whitney and
Muriel Waddy in water-color. Dixon Copes
shows some very attractive work, the best, per-
haps, “Hay Stack, Picton.”
At the Grosvenor Galleries (which are not
afflicted with the greenery-yalleriness ascribed
to their London prototype) a group of a dozen
painters provides a very entertaining show. S.
Woodward Smith’s “Country Lane,” C. D.
Parker’s “Early Morning,” Frank Macnamara’s
“Five O’Clock on the Bay,” Garrett Kingsley’s
“Jocelyn” and Tom Garrett’s two weirdly
romantic studies in guache stand out. Lloyd
Rees, G. K. Townsend, Dudley Parker, Arthur
Murch, Kenneth Macqueen, Robert Johnson and
Harold Greenhill are also worthily represented.
At the Macquarie Galleries “A Review of
1944” consists of one picture each from 42
painters. Daryl Lindsay, John D. Moore,
Ronald H. Steuart, Thea Proctor, Muriel Med-
worth, Roland Wakelin, Dorothy Thornhill, J.
Noel Kilgour, Arthur Murch and Lloyd Rees
present understandable compositions graced by
deference to technique.
Art shows are crowding each other in Adel-
aide. Birks’ Gallery has sound paintings by
Nat. Gallery trustee John Goodchild. At Myer’s
is the work of Esmond George, who has brought
back souvenirs of Palestine, curiously (in
favored spots) like Australia. At Martin’s,
Herbert and Nelly Hennessy, brother and sister,
have a joint show. “Contemporary Art,” as
shown at the Society of Arts, is a welter of
furious fancies, with an occasional commonplace
as contrast. The show is redeemed by two
Gleesons, from Sydney. Presumably they have
been allowed in because they depict in each
case a group of nudes being devoured by
monsters; but here is a Contemporary who is
welcome to be weird because, amazingly, he can
both draw and paint.
The exhibition at the Athenaeum, Melbourne,
of paintings, drawings, sculpture and craft of
service Tech, students raises the question
whether it was worth the Government’s while
to appoint official war artists. Governments
always choose the conventionally successful, and
examples of their work in this show are slick,
pretentious and smacking of their art schools.
There is a liveliness about some of the others
which they would no doubt have lost if the
war hadn’t interrupted their training. Hessian,
black-out paper and suchlike material had to
be used for paintings and drawings, and
humidity, dust, insects and mildew had to be
fought with. One young water-colorist, unable
to obtain materials, turned to craft work and
produced quite remarkable things from salvaged
rubbish. Others jotted down their impressions
in ink or pencil on scraps of paper. Being
eager to express themselves, rather than please
some official, they did crude but fresher work
than the official artists provided with all the
requisite conditions. Spr. Betty Pleydell’s study
of a girl’s head is worth a mention, as also
Lieut. Ray Ewers’s modelling of a native girl s
head.
At the talkies:
There are no better films being made of war-
time England than those by M.-G.-M.’s Eng-
lish studios. “The White Cliffs of Dover
(Sydney St. James), based on the Alice Duer
Miller poem and showing the impact of war
on two generations, is a worthy successor to
“Mrs. Miniver.” An Anglo-American romance
has given the script-writer a chance for some
side-play on the national characteristics, done
with great delicacy and. good humor, and inter-
preted with shrewd judgment by those two fine
actors Sir C. Aubrey Smith and Frank Morgan,
one as a peppery retired English colonel and
the other an American businessman who thinks
the English climate is operated by some hvery
fiend in Sheol. The English stage actresses
Gladys Cooper and Dame May Whitty demon-
strate that beneath a dignified, even at times
cold, front the hearts of England’s middle-
upper classes beat warmly enough. Irene Dunne,
as the American girl who marries an Englisn
officer of World War I and sees her son, again
an English officer, come home wounded m this
war, does the best work of her career. Alan
Marshall gives strong support.
Crime novelist James A. Cain doesn’t spare
his readers brutal realism; in his “Double in-
demnity” (Prince Edward) this same charac-
teristic, combined with a strikingly clear-cu
yet ingenious plot, is transferred, unlove y
characters and all, to the screen. The murderers
—a wife who will bepefit from her husbands
accident policy and the insurance salesman
who wrote the policy—are ferreted out hy
the accident manager of the company, worm,
on a knowledge of human nature. The result
Is a thorouglily satisfying job of work. Fred.
Mac Murray, Barbara Stanwyck and Edward C
Robinson work out the grisly drama with a
brutal efficiency, and the director has kept the
tension on throughout.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
■ .
■
m
■iWii
111111111111
Sms&S
imm
H
*
,
■
SS®?|
; :: : xv ::
;
: ■••;•■ >
>vX •' ,
:
*ll
S¥S
:
’
ll
mm s
■ • •
mm
> y
w- *
ro *f«h
|
M J
■
iilii
’
: '
y'X
:V.'. XV
:S»:
>; : ; v ;* : ■•;■
Mi
:•?: :-:
mmm
mm
■m
vm
H
Wmm
IS
Wit
»
gXS
*ffss
V/7
X
M v '
Y
mm
C(
<\
ill
A
A
VJ
n
K
,V-
-4
r
"iii
V «
X
m
#
✓
yz&>xr*> ;
-u*
vXv
.. . v
»
bs m
'
XxX:: v:'-':-x' • :
••• • ;••■• •.
’PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY
He is here in his Castle as jolly as ever . . .
and he has a Happy Surprise for each one of you. . . .
Come along and see him. . . . There’s a magnificent
CRYSTAL COACH
just the most splendid Coach you ever saw!
It’s strewn with Crystals like gleaming, glittering
Diamonds which scintillate and shine —it’s just
too dazzlingly beautiful.
Your Old Friend is in his Castle seated on his
GREAT GOLDEN THRONE
and when you step out of the shining Coach
you will see him. His face is wreathed in a big
smile, for he loves all boys and girls!
COME EARLY, CHILDREN!
• New Toy Dept.—Ground Floor, Pitt St., or First Floor, George St.


MR. HAKES JOYOUS QUEST
By RODERICK FINLAYSON.
THE Hake family caused some diver-
sion during their visit to Tidal
Creek. They came on a raft, or
rather a barge, but Mr. Hake in-
sisted on calling it a raft. There were
six of them, Mr. and Mrs. and the four
girls—Ellie, Mazie, Jo and Ippy (short
for Calypso). Ellie was eighteen, Ippy
was thirteen.
Cappy Bean, of the Sea Hawk, roused
out old Luke the fisherman early one
summer morning to get him to give the
Hakes a tow with his launch.
“There’s a damn’ idiot —a whole damn’
family of idiots—on a barge stuck on a
mudbank down the creek,” Cappy Bean
told Luke. “Want me to give ’em a tow
—their damn’ cheek! Well, seems you
can pick up a quid or two if you like
to go for the fools.”
Old Luke, a kindhearted fellow, drifted
down the creek, got a line on the barge he
found stranded among the mangroves and
towed the Hake family into Tidal Creek.
There was a sort of shanty built on the
low barge, complete with tin chimney,
dolls’-house windows and a horseshoe
over the door. Washing, white and
colored, fluttered from a line rigged be-
tween the tin chimney and a pole astern.
The pull of the clothes in the breeze
threatened to wrench off the creaking
chimney. A starchy-looking Union Jack
was nailed to the pole. In front of the
shanty there was a little rockery planted
with spiky flowers and herbs. Tidal
Creek had seen nothing like it.
When it rounded the bend behind old
Luke’s launch and glided majestically
toward the wharf, its deck swarming with
the figures of Mr. and Mrs. Hake and
the four girls, Mr. Cummings, the store-
keeper, scratched his back and said “Am
I dreaming?”
It was a dream, all right—a dream
come true. Mr. Hake’s dream. Mr. Hake
hadn’t been a day at Tidal Creek before
everyone knew all about it. He told folk
that he’d dreamed all his life of going
to sea, having a ship of his own, leading
the daredevil life. Well, this was it.
Mr. Hake was a man going on for
late middle-age. He was bald and always
hatless, and determined to be cheerful.
He was a clerk of some sort in a bank.
Nearly forty years in the same bank,
entered it as a youth, a mere schoolboy,
all those years under an electric light,
behind cold steel and stone, he said. You
got an impression of a miraculous escape
from a nasty kind of Devil’s Island. You
looked at him standing there on his raft,
bareheaded, lean and thankful, in the sun,
and you almost wanted to shake his hand
or photograph him or something. You
asked him how he did it.
HE dreamed and saved, he said. At
last he had saved enough to buy the
barge and build the shanty on it. Funds
didn’t run to an engine. “Hang it all,
why have an engine?” Mr. Hake said
when he found he couldn’t afford to buy
one. “We’ll be drifters, just drifters on
a raft.”
Winter went in a whirl of preparation
—furnishing the shanty, laying in stores
and equipment, planting the herb garden.
“There’s nothing like herbs for health,”
said Mr. Hake.
Summer came and with it Mr. Hake’s
furlough, three months in which to drift
over the seas on his raft. The girls were
as goofy about it as their father. Mrs.
Hake was a bit more cautious. “Keep
enough cash to come back by train,” she
said. No one listened.
Mr. Hake had rigged a pole and what
he called a “lanteen” sail. He also had
a lot of oars which he referred to as long
sweeps. “The girls should be able to
send her along quite a hit in a calm,”
he said.
Mr. Hake didn’t trust his seamanship
enough to leave his home port unaided.
He hired a towboat to take them well
out of the harbor and along the coast in
the shelter of the islands.
“Now we’re set,” said Mr. Hake fare-
welimg the towboat man and trying to
assume a proper seaman-like attitude.
“Deep seas and wide horizons and all
that.”
“God help them,” muttered the tow-
boat man as he cast them adrift.
The sea sparkled in the morning sun,
a gentle swell rose lazily up the shores
of lonely little- islands and poured from
their rocky ledges, white gulls rose
squawking from the black rocks and
flapped down again, and the tang of sea-
salt made the Hakes ravenous.
After a quick lunch Mr. Hake secretly,
wanted to land pirate-like upon one of
the forlorn and rocky islets and explore
its few yards of windswept scrub, but he
saw no safe-looking beach. Instead he
tried to set his “lanteen” sail.
It seems that Mr. Hake had trouble
with his “lanteen” right away. At last
the whole family manned the long sweeps.
Seems they had even more trouble with
the sweeps. In fact, they drifted all day
and all night with the tide and the coastal
currents, and the currents carried them
into the bay and the tide left them stranded
on the mudbank where the old Sea Hawk
on her usual Thursday trip spotted them.
Mr. Hake said he never intended to
let his drifting get that far out of hand.
“But we’ll get the hang of it yet,” he
added cheerfully.
"T HEY had a great time at Tidal Creek,
* though.
Mr. Hake was perpetually darting
about in a quest for knowledge and pin-
ning down any likely source of informa-
tion. Old Luke usually kept out of his way,
but of course the storekeeper couldn’t.
One day Mr, Hake said to the store-
keeper “Can you let me have some butter-
milk? No? Ah, that’s a pity. I’ve
always wanted to sample buttermilk.
Never had a chance to see the stuff evpn.
Hear it’s so good for one. And the girls
need it, I’m sure —brains, nerves, cool
the blood. Marvellous, the scientists
assure us. You really ought to stock it,
Mr. Cummins.”
“Only feed that stuff to the pigs round
here,” drawled old Luke, who happened
to be passing.
“Really?” said Mr. Hake.
“Call it skim-dick, pig food,” said
Luke, winking at the storekeeper. “Bar-
rels of it on any farm. Ask them up at
Reekie’s place.”
“Ah, we must take a hike that way,”
Mr. Hake said.
Now, although Mr. Hake liked to drift
about the seas he was also military-
minded. There was a great military tradi-
tion in the family, he hinted. It was a
big disappointment when the Army
turned him down. It was almost a bigger
disappointment having no sons. Mr.
Hake made up for it, somewhat, by run-
ning things on military lines and being keen
on discipline, alertness and observation.
So Mr. Hake set out with his little
army to raid the buttermilk country. Mrs.
Hake stayed on the barge darning socks.
Mr. Hake jyore a khaki shirt and shorts
with a little haversack on his back. The
girls wore khaki shirts and shorts and
carried little haversacks, too. One of the
girls, Mazie, was fat as a dumpling and
pinkish. Two were sallow and very
skinny. And Ippy was peculiar ; she was
skinny from the waist up, and had ex-
ceedingly podgy straight-up-and-down
legs, like those of an elephant. Her skin
went raw red in the sun.
At first the little army was a rabble.
They walked along gaily and nonchal-
antly, with little cries and sounds of
pleasure. But when they were well out
of sight and hearing of the village it was
different. The girls knew what was com-
ing and looked expectantly at their father.
“Now then, we’ll have a little bit of
marching,” said Mr. Hake. “Fall in,
smart there!” he commanded in an un-
heard-of kind of sergeant-major’s voice.
“Now then, advance in single file. By
the right, quick march.” Mr. Hake's
voice always broke down on the final
word of command.
The tiny army, fat and thin, stepped
bravely along. Their general, bald, sun-
burnt, peering intently ahead, breathing
deeply and thankfully the clear sweet air,
strode beside them murmuring encourage-
ment.
“Left, right, left, right. One, two, three,
four. One, two, three, four. One, two” —
and so on.
A mile seemed no distance at all. Only
the horseman spoilt things a bit. He
trotted, unseen and unheard, out of
ambush from a soft side road and sur-
prised the little army—threw it into con-
fusion, in fact. It was always the prac-
tice of Mr. Hake and the girls, on seeing
or hearing the approach of anyone, to
break their ranks and stroll casually
along. The horseman caught them nicely.
They went all red and confused.
After that Mr. Hake fell back upon
alertness and observation. At intervals
he pointed out to his daughters natural
beauties and curiosities. The road led
them past a swamp bristling softly with
raupo and .ringed about with tall flax and
clumps of cabbage-trees. In the middle
was a pool covered with water-weeds, red,
green, yellow.
“Be on the watch for swamp hens,”
said Mr. Hake. “Remember the illustra-
tion in the Christmas Annual —red beak,
blue and black plumage.”
“Long skinny legs like Ellie’s,” Ippy said.
The girls peered eagerly, trying to pene-
trate the raupo with their gaze. But they
saw no birds.
Farther on they passed a grove of old
pines. The roots of the trees arched out
of the red clay soil of a low bank. Be-
tween these roots were the openings of
rabbit burrows.
“Coming back we shall creep quietly
along and try to surprise the bunnies at
their evening play,” said Mr. Hake.
Overhead, a hawk slowly circled the
paddock beyond the pines. But the Hakes
didn’t notice him —or perhaps they mis-
took him for a seagull.
SOON they came to Reekie’s farm.
They trooped round to the back door
of the farmhouse. There were some
speckled hens and a gaping youngster in
the dust of the yard. Mr. Hake knocked.
After a good while a woman shuffled
to the door—an untidy, flat-faced woman
who looked at Mr. Hake through eyes
narrowed to slits. She said nothing.
“Good afternoon,” said Mr. Hake.
“Lovely day today?”
The woman waited dumbly.
“We’ve come to see if we could buy
some buttermilk,” said Mr. Hake. “Have
you any to spare?”
That long, narrow-eyed stare was some-
thing new to Mr. Hake.
“Buttermilk, you know,” he said mak-
ing vague churning movements with his
hands. “We were told you had plenty.
Just whatever you like to ask for it.”
“Mister’s out,” the woman said.
“Well, perhaps we could find him,”
said Mr. Hake looking brightly around
the farm.
“He’s out at sea,” she answered, back-
ing away.
“Oh,” said Mr. Hake.
Just then the girls who had been pok-
ing about the yard gave happy little cries,
and Ippy ran back to her father.
“I think we’ve found some,” she said
breathlessly. “Buttermilk! ”
She dragged her father (“Steady now,
steady! ”) over to the end of the cowshed
where there was a barrel half full of the
skim milk that was kept for the pigs. The
milk, sour in the hot sun, had turned to
thick curds and whey. The woman fol-
lowed Mr. Hake at a distance, her eyes
slitted with suspicion. The girls were
around the barrel peering and sniffing.
“Don’t quite care for the smell.”
“barrel’s filthy.” “Only the ow/side.”
“Well, you taste it.”
“May we help ourselves?” Mr. Hake
asked, producing a tin mug from his
haversack. “We carry our own,” he
smiled, waving the mug.
The woman kept her distance.
“Wouldn’t touch it if I was you.”
“Ah, you farm folk,” laughed Mr.
Hake. “I know, I know. But the
scientists assure us we all need it. Full
of the life germ and things, you know.”
“Wouldn’t touch it,” the woman re-
peated hoarsely.
Ippy tasted some on her little finger,
made a grimace and spat. The other
girls sniffed a lot and refused to try any.
But Mr. Hake dipped out a small mugful,
sipped, tasted, said “Ah,” looked at the
treetops and gulped the rest.
“Not quite what I was led to believe,”
he said, “but you girls are foolish. Come
on, won’t you have any?”
“Not that nasty stuff,” said Ippy, hang-
ing over the pig-sty rails to stare at an
old sow.
The woman stood silent without a
change of expression. Mr. Hake offered
her money “for her trouble.”, She shook
her head and backed quickly away. Mr.
Hake put a shilling into the hot paw of
the gaping youngster, said good-bye and
led the girls out to the road.
On the way back to his raft Mr, Hake,
pleased with his experience, called for a
marching song. The little army broke
out with “Marching to Georgia,” and
they kept up chorus after chorus, forget-
ting to go quietly to surprise the bunnies.
“A great day, girls,” said Mr. Hake
as they neared the village.
THE tale soon got around. The grinning
horseman and the slit-eyed woman
saw to that But Mr. Hake seemed not
to notice the sly winks and jokes when-
ever he approached the store verandah.
He was as keen as ever on his quest for
knowledge, and that quest was the cause
of the Hakes leaving Tidal Creek.
To Mr. Cummins, the storekeeper, he
said one day “I’m anxious to find the
place around here where the old-time
Maoris bathed in a special curative mud.
Read about it in a travel guide-book.
Must be so good for the system. Science
is just beginning to discover the marvels
of the mud treatment. Just the thing for
the girls, I’m sure.”
“Place round the bay where you get
plenty,” old Luke drawled.
“Really?” said Mr. Hake.
“Tow you out if you like.”
A day or two later Luke towed the
Hakes on their barge to a particularly
black and slimy mudbank, where an oily
overflow from the swamp oozed through
the mud.
“Ah, that’s it,” Mr. Hake cried as soon
as he saw the place. “Look, girls, the
vegetable oils!”
Solemnly and seriously the Hakes, with
the exception of Mrs. Hake, got into their
swimming togs and wallowed in the mud.
Mr. Hake and Ippy even plastered their
faces. They stretched themselves, on the
barge in the sun to “bake off.”
The mud crusted and cracked, and they
itched horribly. After a good baking,
when they could stand the itch no longer,
they jumped into the sea to clean them-
selves. Luke drifted about in his launch,
smoking and doing a bit of fishing, just
for the pleasure of watching them.
Towards evening Mr. Hake said good-
bye to Luke. “I mean to stay here a
while,” he said. “Maoris buried a lot of
valuable carvings in the swamp near
here, I believe. Must do a spot of pros-
pecting.”
Old Luke headed his launch for home.
At the bend he turned his head for a last
look at the Hakes. Mr. Hake was stand-
ing erect on the barge. The girls scur-
ried about the deck obeying his orders.
His voice, magnified by the evening
silence, rang out clear and almost musical
across the bay. The strong yellow light
of the setting sun shone full on Mr. Hake,
making his lean figure somehow noble
and purposeful. Out on the wide empty
sea, off the lonely coast, the captain
stood in command of his ship.
Death is Neither Here Nor There.
A SOLDIER'S SONG.
Death is neither here nor there,
Only life is hard to bear.
Death is just the age-old story
Of involuntary glory;
A sudden shift of emphasis,
An angel’s sweet and soft caress.
Death is neither here nor there.
Death is just the Journey’s End,
The pub where elbows always bend,
The money that you never spend;
The serial’s predetermined end.
Death is the faithless lover’s friend.
Death is the one-man daylight raid,
The Visitor Who Overstayed,
The bills the undertaker paid,
The sudden thrust, the friendly stab,
The sequel to the Smash and Grab;
The recurring number in the sum,
And Morning Tea in Kingdom Come.
Death is neither here nor there.
Death is neither here nor there,
But, Christ, how life is sweet and fair!
For life is love, and love’s sweet breath
Can’t warm the pale, cold lips of death;
And life is light and warmth and fun
Beyond the reach of tank or gun. ..
O death is harsh and cruel to bear
When there is sunlight in the air;
When there are girls whose lips are red
Like wounds upon the newly dead,
But lips which laugh and kiss and sing!
O death’s a harsh and cruel thing
When love is sweet, and girls are fair
And life and warmth and light are here.
MX.
ANTON VOGT.
The Moon is Dark.
The moon is dark above the river gorges,
Dark its death-shining where the rocks rise
black,
And lonely the heart turns to its old places.
Asking of night and time the shadowed track.
Could he return, who walks in death, to follow
Through the thin sheoaks where the white sand
gleams
That once led home, he would be long in finding
The scrub-choked stones, the charred and
smothered beams.
Who would have thought a night so starred
and silver
Could fall to this dark shining in the west?
Long after midnight and so long till morning—
My heart, a dark moon burning out my breast.
N.s.w.
NAN MCDONALD.
Alone.
(In a book written in 1938 under the title Alone
Admiral Byrd tells of his terrible experiences, both
mental and physical, during his solitary occupation
of the Bolling Advance Weather Base during the
Antarctic winter night of 1934.)
I am acquainted with night for I saw the sun
As a god fall from the altar place:
I saw in the east the baffled face
A moment haunting the mocked horizon.
Something within me died with incipient day;
Cut from the common heritage I shared
No longer the golden plenty, I was snared
In the dark ice, in a crevasse brought to bay.
The fingers of frost charged with death
Were fire to my flesh, they found
The innermost cell, with iron skill they bound
The drooping will and laid a load on breath.
I was alone like one dead, tossed
To an islet of pain, flung
Across a forgotten sea and wrung
By remembrance of a world supremely lost.
MX.
J. R. HERVEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3383.
Wednesday, December 13, 1944.
A LONG WAY AFTER BYRON.
The mountains look on Marathon,
And Marathon looks on the sea;
And, musing there an hour alone,
I dreamed that Greece might still be free.
“doom, coom, laads, this ain’t bein’ matey.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors: »
H. K. Prior J. E. Wehb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
“PEOPLES' REVOLUTIONS.”
“In a hundred years,” Napoleon said at
St. Helena, “Europe will be either Re-
publican or Cossack” —by which, of
course, he meant Russian. When the
hundred years were up, with Russian
communism pressing rapidly, and in some
countries violently, west and establish-
ing Russia First parties not only in all
the Baltic, Balkans and Mediterranean
countries but in Britain itself, it must
have seemed to many Europeans that
their continent was in process of becom-
ing Republican and Cossack. For reasons
which should be familiar, it did not come
off then, but in the changed circumstances
this war has brought about the hopes
and fears felt in 1919-20 have been
revived tenfold.
Going into France, Belgium, Yugo-
slavia and Greece with gifts of supplies,
as well as the priceless boon of libera-
tion, and perhaps also with expectations
of general gratitude, though in nations
as in individuals gratitude is the rarest of
human virtues, the forces of the western
democracies found everywhere Russia
First parties with arms in their hands.
When the Germans were overrunning
Europe the older men among these par-
ties played the enemy’s game. To them,
as to organised communists everywhere,
the war was /‘imperialist,” and as such
was to be resisted with strikes and other
forms of sabotage,, enjoined upon them
by subterranean propaganda. “Imperial-
ist” the war remained until June 22,
1941 ; then, Russia having been attacked
by one of its partners in the Molotov-
Ribbentrop and Molotov-Matsuoka pacts,
it at once became a crusade for
righteousness.
For most of these native-born com-
munists the change merely meant that
they had to work hard for the Germans
on short commons. But when the coast
was clear the bolder spirits threw them-
selves into the underground struggle (in
which, of course, there were fine men
and women of all shades of opinion), and
there they were joined by youngsters of
both sexes who grew up during the occu-
pation, and who had already imbibed the
notion that revolutions were beautiful
and wonderful things. They and their
auxiliaries, among whom were many
Spanish Reds, and members of the
criminal classes who didn’t go over to
the Germans, were armed by Britain and
America, and, though nowhere in a
majority, when the first raptures of de-
liverance were over they everywhere
became formidable and menacing. It
soon dawned upon the Allied leaders that
these gentry were much less interested
in fighting Germans than in “liquidating”
so-called “collaborationists,” real or
alleged, and in seizing power by intimi-
dation or force, and that they themselves
and their armies were expected to stand
aside, at whatever cost to their communi-
cations from the sea to the firing line,
until each “people’s revolution” had run
its wild course.
This humiliating and dangerous role
they refused to accept. No doubt at their
instance, demands for the surrender of
arms were made to the Resistance move-
ments in France, Belgium and Greece.
No such demand could be made in Yugo-
slavia, because that country has been
assigned to the Russian sphere of opera-
tions. In any case it would have been use-
less, because Marshal Tito, or whatever
his name is, chooses to ignore the British
and American Governments when he. is
not railing at them through his radio sta-
tion in far-away Tiflis. To Joseph C.
Harsch, of the “Christian Science Moni-
tor,” there was “nothing surprising about
the fact that Marshal Tito made a trip
behind the Russian lines just before Rus-
sian troops crossed into his country ; but,
since the British have gone to great
lengths to co-ordinate their Yugoslav
policy with Moscow, it was surprising to
London that he should do so without any
advance intimation of his intentions to
London.”
He disappeared one day from his head-
quarters and appeared next with the Red
Army.
What happened in France is no less
obscure than the never-explained truce
with the Germans in Paris, which was
entered into without reference to General
Eisenhower or any of his commanders.
It came out that the communists of the
Resistance movement had refused to give
up their arms and were threatening to
form a Resistance Council in rivalry with
the De Gaulle Government; and then the
subject was enveloped in a Seine fog. In
no wise reassuring are the restoration of
the infamous Thorez, exiled for being not
only a 1939-40 saboteur but a deserter
from the Army, and the refusal of the
De Gaulle Foreign Minister to enter into
a post-war western partnership against
Germany, proposed in London, unless
Russia was admitted to it. This gentle-
man obligingly offered to admit Britain
to a Russo-French alliance prior to going
to cher Russia with his chief, and the
Russo-French alliance has now been pro-
claimed.
But it became a military necessity for
Britain to protect the threatened Govern-
ments in Brussels and Athens —the one
headed by the last freely-elected Prime
Minister, the other accepted at a confer-
ence in Lebanon to which all the Greek
parties sent delegates, mostly from Greece
itself. This the Tommies did in their
methodical way; in Belgium without
bloodshed ; in Greece with much less than
would have been inflicted by any other
breed of soldiers who, in the sixth year of
a terrible war, realised that victory was
being jeopardised by an attacking mob of
communists whose leaders were already
branded with the guilt of mutinies in the
Mediterranean and in Egypt, and who
began by calling a general strike.
One inevitable but very unfortunate
accompaniment of the communist out-
break in Greece, alike treacherous and
stony-hearted, was a total stoppage of de-
liveries of relief supplies to the unhappy
people. They are all coming from the
British Empire and the United States, and
are practically all carried in their ships
over seas still perilous. Not one of the
liberated countries in which communists
are throwing their weight about has re-
ceived a side of bacon or a bag of flour
or a blanket from cher Russia. Cher
Russia itself has had enormous quanti-
ties of foodstuffs, wearing apparel, boots,
bedclothes and the like, as well as trans-
port vehicles to take them where they
were needed most, from the same quarter,
Britain’s share being ungrudgingly given
out of strained resources and stained
with the blood of many a British seaman.
It is a rotten return for all this bounty
that so many of the recipients should be
raising new problems for the Anglo-
Americans, in the process reviving the
hopes of The enemy in Europe—standing
formidably on both fronts and still master
of the lives of millions of prisoners of
war and forced laborers in Germany, and
of people longing for deliverance in Nor-
way, Denmark, Poland and HoMnd —by
choosing to behave as if communist
coups d’etat were the only things worth
striving for in this war-wrecked world.
Justifying the instructions given to
the British commander in Greece, Mr.
Churchill said it was for the Greek people
to decide whether they wanted a n mon-
archy or a republic, a Government of the
Right or of the Left; but, meantime, the
country being in an appalling condition,
“the authority of the constitutional Gov-
ernment must be accepted and enforced,”
and the British Army would help it to
maintain law and order. Mr. Cordell
Hull’s successor, Mr. Stettinius, an-
nounced that he was in full agreement
with the first part of the statement, but
refused to express approval or dis-
approval of the second part. Two days
previously Mr. Stettinius had pointedly
dissociated his department from British
objections to Count Sforza, for many
years an exile in the U.S.A., becoming
Foreign Secretary in the tempest-tossed
Bonomi Government at Rome. A very
unusual double event, and Mr. Eden
seemed embarrassed when tackled about
the Sforza affair in the Commons. He
intimated that his opposition to the
Count stood, notwithstanding the State
Department’s “sharp rebuke”—an ex-
pression used by the New York “Times,”
which averred that “the rebuke to Britain
faithfully reflected the views of the
President.”
This dispute crowns a series of disunify-
ing exchanges between the two great
Western Allies. Enlarged and become"
graver, it would make Russia dominant in
the Grand Alliance, and would lend fresh
hope of a negotiated peace to Germany
and Japan. This is thoroughly realised in
Washington and London.
But it must also be thoroughly realised
in Washington and London that it has
become necessary to put some straight
questions to Moscow about Russian
policy, and Mr. Stettinius may now pro-
ceed to do so without danger of exposing
himself to the charge of being one-eyed
where Britain is concerned.
Where Russia is concerned Australia
is fed with pap and little else. Except for
journals like the New York “Daily
News,” the Chicago “Tribune” and the
Hearst papers, this was also the case in
the U.S.A., but in the last six months,
with knowledge overcoming ignorance
and facts putting fancies to flight, there
has been a coast-to-coast change in diet
and seasoning. Criticism of Russian
policy is now general, except in the Leftist
press, and with the receding of hopes for
the long-promised invasion from the east,
the Red Army having been halted in East
Prussia or Poland or otherwise engaged,
it is increasingly outspoken. And accord-
ing to the mild and careful magazine for
which Mr. Harsch writes, it has reached
the trenches:
On both the British and American battle-
fronts along the German border, from
which the writer has just returned, the
troops have been openly asking what the
Russians are waiting for. Why haven’t they
attacked Germany itself? Back in England
there is a similar sentiment. If isn’t so
acute, because it is easier to see the pict-
ture in perspective. It isn’t easy for Allied
troops fighting against desperate German
resistance along the Lower Rhine, round
Aachen and in the Vosges to consider in
perspective the diplomatic differences over
policies towards Holland or the relative
Russian-British spheres of influence in the
Balkans. The soldiers find it hard to be
patient with what they term a delay on the
Eastern Front.
Propaganda emanating from German
sources and German sympathisers still in
France, Belgium and Holland has been
quick to capitalise on the present situa-
tion. There have been repeated rumors in
Paris of a separate peace between the Rus-
sians and Germany, at least some of which
are directly traceable to individuals moti-
vated by intense anti-communist feeling.
There have been similar rumors in London,
though to a lesser extent.
The correspondent was Mallory
Browne, and he wrote on October 13.
Last week the New York “Sun” was
moved to write, apropos of “the battle of
power politics raging in Europe” and
threatening “the high hopes of the entire
world for a lasting peace,” that “it is an
interesting and somewhat disconcerting
fact that from the moment the Allies in-
vaded France last June the direct westerly
advance into East Prussia and Poland
came to a virtual standstill,” being
diverted south, “some military leaders
believe, more by political desire than
military necessity.” For a wonder, this
was republished in the Sydney “Tele-
graph.”
Mr. Churchill, replying with tremen-
dous vigor to a Left-wing Labor chal-
lenge to his Government, because, as he
thundered, it “has not allowed gangsters,
heavily armed, to descend from the
mountains and instal themselves in power
with all their bloody terror,” revealed
that among the gangsters were Germans,
left behind and presumably privy to the
communist plot. And a correspondent
recorded that he had heard the measures
taken by the Tommies in Athens com-
pared unfavorably with the treatment of
Greeks (political color unmentioned, but
perfectly understood) by German soldiers
during the occupation!
Meanwhile the war against Japan, to
which cher Russia is not a party, entered
upon its fourth year. The third anni-
versary brought a statement from General
Blarney that “Australian fighting divi-
sions” would take part “in the cam-
paign .in the Western Pacific,” and
another from Mr. Forde dedicating 1945
tp “the release of the lost Eighth Divi-
sion.” It brought also threats of a general
strike on the railways and another on the
N.S.W. coalfields, the latter from com-
munist leaders of the Miners’ Federa-
tion (re-elected in the union ballots and
cockahoop over communist successes in
the N.S.W. municipal elections), because
the Government was actually collecting
fines for the equivalent of what in the
services is desertion or mutiny, and was
objecting to workstoppers rounding off
their outrages on “the entire economic
structure of the country” (Mr. Forde) and
its war effort by taking 16 days off at
Christmas, 10 days being about to be
gazetted. Beyond this region of war-at-
home, launched anew against the airways
concerns and about to break out again
in the case of the Portland butcher, the
Japs, after three years, were holding
nearly all their vast conquests, were —
despite losses which, as reported,
approached the fantastic —fiercely resist-
ing the slow American onset in Leyte,
were showing that their air force is
still formidable, and were reducing
Chiang Kai-shek’s China (communist
China is not fighting) to desperate straits.
On military grounds that were souhd
enough then, Mr. Churchill and Mr.
Roosevelt decided on defeating Germany
and holding Japan till Hitler was out of
the way. In the political situation that
has developed and is developing perhaps
it would have been better to beat the
Nips first. As far as can be seen, no
communist conspiracy would have had to
be dealt with on the way, and the people
thus far freed have been friendly and
grateful. '
A "Purely Political" Pact?
Not before he was due for it, Dr. Evatt
struck a snag when he tried to make
another of his foreign-affairs statements
in the House at Canberra in circum-
stances which would have allowed no de-
bate. Objecting, Mr. Menzies instanced
similar handling of the Australian-Ne\ft
Zealand Agreement.
Because of that handling the Agree-
ment remains as designated by Mr.
Menzies last March: “It is not binding
upon Parliament or upon future Govern-
merits, for it is a purely political docu-
ment, not submitted for ratification but
made between two Governments as rep-
resenting their current views.” That is,
it is sound only on the assumption that
the two Governments that put it together
are going to last for ever. In what it
generally stands for, it deserves to be
something better—whatever may be said
of some of its parts.
The delay in having Parliament sanc-
tion it looks like normal political tactics.
After it was signed there was some dis-
cussion of it in the Senate, hostile enough
on the then majority side to indicate that
it might have been blocked. That no
longer holds; and basically the thing is
important enough to warrant arranging
a special Parliamentary debate. Mr.
Menzies, for one, has declared that he
is still waiting to make a speech on it that
he prepared six months ago. He should
be given the opportunity; or he should
make the speech in any case.
“We have,” Mr. Menzies has said, “a
long history of friendship and of sub-
stantial community of interest with New
Zealand, but it is a mistake to think that
formal documents create or assist strength
in such matters.” About the best that
can be said for the “long history of
friendship,” etc., is that there was never
any invasion either way across the Tas-
man. For all the unity there was be-
tween them the two countries could have
been separated by 12,000 miles of ocean.
Until this war showed up the folly of
such separate existence the only time they
were in relationship at all was when there
was some trouble over oranges and
potatoes.
Aspirations embodied in the Agreement
have been kicked about already—the air
proposals in particular. Others will no
doubt become casualties, and some of
the proposals for such things as the treat-
ment of native populations may for a
long time remain only pious thoughts.
But if all the Agreement went west ex-
cept the basic aim of it as set forth in
the first half-dozen and related clauses —
the joining of the two countries as a
single unit in the Pacific scheme of things
—this could still stand as a considerable
improvement on what it replaced.
Viewing the Agreement without party
bias, in it these two countries —or, rather,
their current Governments —took the ini-
tiative in setting forth what they held to
be their common interests in the Pacific
of today and tomorrow. They planned
for joint consultation, which is being
furthered, and they agreed to act jointly
on specified Pacific and world issues, as
they have since done. That is not to be
measured by success or failure on any
particular issue. There will be plenty
of failures. Whether right or wrong on
any specific aim, these are small coun-
tries. Even acting jointly they represent
a very small Power, and hence they can
expect to be pushed around. But it
should be nothing to their discredit that
they should feel themselves nationally
mature enough to at least try to do some
of the pushing. Patently, they must be
able to do that more effectively under the
new arrangement than under the old.
The vacuum alternative is to say noth-
ing except “Yes” and to say it softly,
irrespective of what it might mean in the
close or distant future. It should be
interesting fb hear from those who never
refer to the Agreement without hostility
what—except for the nothing all their
declaimings end in—they would prefer in
the place of the proposals that most seem
to stir their ire. For example, to those
in Clause 13:
The two Governments agree that within
the framework of a general system of world
security a regional zone of defence com-
prising the South-west and South Pacific
areas phall be established, and that this
zone shall be based on Australia and New
Zealand, stretching through the arc of
islands north and north-east of Australia to
Western Samoa and the Cook Islands.
To Mr. Menzies, in his first reactions,
this represented merely reversion to “iso-
lationism with slight territorial exten-
sion.” It could be at least as soundly
argued that it represents, instead, willing-
ness to take up a natural and vital re-
sponsibility. Pending whatever will even-
tually emerge, it has to presuppose a
“general system of world security,” ar-
ranged with divisions of regional zones
of defence. This might fail to even-
tuate, though it has been envisaged by,
among others, Mr. Churchill. But pre-
supposing the scheme, or something like
it, then responsibility is accepted for look-
ing after the defence of that zone which
the two countries could be expected to
be able to defend if they could defend
anything.
So far from representing mere rever-
sion to “isolationism" of the Curtin
brand it represents a new and adven-
turous orientation of these two countries
in their general Pacific standing. It could
represent a tidy-sized steady job—assum-
ing an earnest resolve to see it through;
all things considered, a whale of an
assumption.
The weakness —on the Australian side,
at any rate —is that the commitments
almost certainly have not been faced. They
will call for the establishment of the means


of defence ; and, unless its members have
undergone an extraordinary and so far
undisclosed change of heart and head, the
present Australian Government side can
well be expected to shrink from setting
up any such adequate establishment. It
is much more likely that when peace
comes this political crowd will treat
defence as badly as in the past.
Mr, Menzies has cause for concern
over the Agreement, since the colos-
sal responsibilities it very lightly takes up
will almost certainly fall to non-Labor
Governments to carry through. He has
justly complained about the whole busi-
ness of making the country’s foreign policy
a party matter. He has wisely suggested
a joint Parliamentary committee on foreign
affairs, though possibly with little expec-
tation that it will be adopted by the
crowd in office. Also, he has rightly de-
clared that “Australia must have as the
foundation of any foreign policy an ade-
quate permanent defence structure.”
Without this the Australian-New Zealand
Agreement might as well remain another
of Dr. Evatt’s undebated papers.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Wasting Time.
A great many Australians, brought lace
to lace with the soil-erosion problem lor
the first time, are appalled at the enormity
of the loss and the lack of attention it
has received from both State and Federal
authorities. Should they be wondering
why little or nothing has been done, let
them consider the report of the S.A. Soil
Conservator (R. I. Herriot), made public
bv Premier Plavford
The Herriot report recalls that a Sand
ine Herriot report recalls that a Sand
toaV WaS P at , Ade^laid'e in
1923. At a conference of Federal and
State Ministers at Adelaide three years
later it was decided to establish State
erosion committees, and one such com-
mittee was formed at Adelaide m 1937.
It reported to the Minister in 1938. A
Soil Conservation Act was passed in
1939, also at Adelaide, and in 1940 a soil
conservator was appointed;—
Two additional appointments have been
made, ’but the appointees are still en-
engaged on other duties Two cadets
have completed the first year of their
B.Ag.Sc. at Adelaide University; it is
planned to appoint two more next year
Fundamental legislation has been pro-
vided and more funds are being voted for
financial assistance to farmers and for ex-
perimental work than are being used. The
hold-up at the moment is the lack of
technical man-power.
From 1923 to 1943 only seven South
Australians were turned loose on soil
erosion, and only one of them was actively
engaged. In N. S. Wales the soil con-
servator probably has a dozen helpers.
In the remaining States, apart from
Water Commissioner Hanslow’s desper-
ate efforts in Victoria, nothing is being
done.
Yet soil erosion can be beaten and
nobody has to waste precious years
on a university course to find out how
to do it. There are knowledge and will
enough in the country if only the national
Parliament will realise that the job is
urgent and can’t be fiddled with.
Jolly Millers and Others.
Sydney “D.T.” recently gave two (2)
illustrated pages to the life-story of a
pugilist, mentioning incidentally that he
“changed his name by deed poll” to Vic
Patrick —it didn’t say why. Equally
enthusiastic, Sydney “Sun” mentioned
that Mr. Patrick had a habit of spreading
a £25 banquet for patrons and friends
after every engagement.
The young gentleman happens to be
in the Army. His area of service has
never been too remote from the
Stadium, and he was recently allowed
leave, a periodical concession, to train
for and figure in a bruising match. There
has been an animated controversy as to
whether his next fight, with a Mr. Miller,
who travels about a bit, should *be in
Sydney or Melbourne. The “D.T.”
pointed out that if he had to go to Mel-
bourne it “would mean a break of at
least a fortnight from his Army
duties for training, and there would be
the additional time required for travel.”
No mention of rail priorities, it being
apparently understood that with the
“ever-popular Eddie Ward” in the Trans-
port Ministry rail priorities could be taken
for granted.
The next development was a Stadium
blast to the effect that if Mr. V. Patrick
refused to fight in Melbourne, “under
conditions arranged,” he would get no
more Stadium engagements. This made
the situation extremely serious, and the
views of another Miller were sought by
“S. M. Herald.” Mr. Miller No 2
replied: “The Melbourne directors con-
trol the business, and if Mr. Lean says
the match will be in Melbourne the Syd-
ney manager [Mr. Miller No* 2] has no
say in it.”
There followed an inter-State ’phone
discussion between Mr. Patrick’s man-
ager, a Mr. McQuillan, and the formid-
able Mr. Lean, who had “announced that
the bout will take place in Melbourne on
December 16.” Then Mr. McQuillan
flew to Melbourne to see Mr, Lean, and
their consultations led to a communique,
reduced by “S. M. Herald” to the state-
ment that “the fight which was to have
taken place at Melbourne Stadium on
December 1-6 has been postponed, by
agreement, to a date to be fixed in
January.”
Sydney “D.T.” averred that the date
had been fixed January 13, in Mel-
bourne—and that “the position is not
satisfactory.”
The man most concerned has not even
applied to the army for leave to train for
the fight. His manager says he expects
Stadiums, Ltd., to arrange for army leave.
A much more important fight is available
for Patrick in Sydney. Yet when the pro-
moters are asked if Patrick will meet West-
bury, who is also in the army, they reply
“After Patrick has had a couple of warm-
up fights,” /
That appeared on the third anniversary
of Pearl Harbor. It was not quite in the
“Remember Pearl Harbor” spirit, nor did
it exactly chime in with Mr. Forde’s
pledge of devotion to the Diggers in the
hands of the Japs (“the all-absorbing aim
of Australia’s war policy for 1945 should
be the release of the lost Eighth Divi-
sion”), albeit characteristic of the source.
But the unfinished story leaves a
lot of things unexplained, such as
whether pugilists are considered non-
combatants, and whether in the matter
of obtaining leave so that they may en-
rich themselves and their employers (one
for the pug, two for the Stadium) Mr.
Lean or Mr. Wren or Mr. Ward runs
the Army.
There is another Mr. Miller in the
sporting business —Mr. Miller, of the
Sydney Rugby League. This Mr. Miller’s
burning ambition is to arrange “a series
of matches” with Queensland and New
Zealand teams “next season,” when
“travelling restrictions may be lighter.”
The amateur Rugby Union took the
opportunity to announce that it had no
such “series” in contemplation “because
most Union players are in the services.”
It could have added that many Union
players are among the dead, wounded
and missing, and that some (internationals
among them) are prisoners of the Japs.
But if its announcement was intended as
a challenge, Mr, Miller No. 3 did not
take it up.
Difficulties in France.
Written by a returned p.0.w,:
Catching the last of the beer at our suburban
pub, I asked the barmaid, a native of Mar-
seilles, what she thought of Petain. I noted
her reply and, zealous in my quest for in-
formation, dashed over to King’s Cross and
interrogated a lady from Lille who works in
a milk bar. I was on the point of going
in pursuit of a greengrocer from Grenoble when
it occurred to me that I already had a cross-
section of French opinion.
Lest some literal-minded person with an
archaic reverence for objective truth criticise
my methods, let me plead that I have merely
followed the general practice of global journal-
ism in an effort to arrive at the reaction of
the “average” mind in some specific country
to this or that historic event.
We have had more garbled and contradic-
tory reports on France than on any other
country—reports concerning not only that
mysterious factor the psychology of the people
but concerning matters of fact, such as the
food position. I have read positive asser-
tions that the French are well fed. No doubt
a foreigner prowling about King’s Cross would
form the opinion that silk stockings, Scotch
whisky and American cigarettes are readily
available to the Australian public. Well fed?
Last year in Belfort I saw middle-aged men
and women fighting for food. In Marseilles I
saw a boy shot for stealing a packet of raisins.
I hesitate to give an opinion on the psy-
chology of Frenchmen. But, having lived with
them for over two years, I can at least outline
tendencies which militate against the restora-
tion of France to its old position in Europe and
the world, for which national unity is a neces-
sity.
First, France is a defeated country, and the
long occupation did not put an end to the
faction which contributed to the defeat. 1
have met Anglophiles who sincerely admired
democratic institutions but were pessimistic
about the future of democracy in France. They
thought their country was in danger of yield-
ing to fascism, communism or a military dic-
tatorship.
1 greatly admire - Frenchmen who fought
for liberation, in the open or underground.
My admiration for underground fighters —
and may I say planners—is increased by my
knowledge of the tremendous difficulties they
had to overcome, among them “collaboration”
and apathy.
In a p.-0.-w. camp near Graz, Austria, the
future of the French prisoners was largely in
the hands of a sous-officer. This fellow openly
boasted that he had no intention of returning
to France, but wanted to join the Gestapo, as
offering “une belle carriere.”
In every prison camp in Germany there were
P6tain groups whose symbol was a kind of
fasces. This movement was sponsored by the
Germans, and parades were held regularly,
usually presided over by the senior French
officer. One colonel I knew was “unsympa-
thetic,” so he was transferred to a Russian
camp, where typhus was raging. “Other ranks”
who didn’t play ball had an incredibly thin
time.
Another point; Even among Frenchmen who
are bitterly anti-German there are many who
believe, rightly or wrongly, that our side has
been guilty of indiscriminate bombing of France. ■
We have had newsreels showing the Allies
being greeted by cheering crowds and photo-
graphs of Yanks and Tommies running an
osculatory barrage from fair Parisiennes. In-
teresting, but of no lasting significance. In
my time as a p.o.w. old issues of “Der Adler”
were available in camps. They were full of
similar pictures after the occupation of Athens.
These illustrations did not prove the Greeks
welcomed the German invasion.
PROSPERITY FOR EVER!
“A.C.T.U. ultimatum presented to the ‘Government’: Forty-hour week, universal two weeks' holiday, 6s. a week war loading and 6s. a week prosperity loading for all
workers.
“Hey, you, what’s this about you not paying your prosperity loading?”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
your will?
ii!
iil
hi
llH
Pf
CT1£
time
mi
SSN^
By
?he
pa
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland
insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Hands off Greece” cries were heard
last week in London and, of course,
Sydney, and the word “democracy” was
mouthed by knaves and fools. It had no
hollow sound when Churchill used it, as
he did crushingly, victoriously :
The last thing that resembles democracy
is mob law, with bands of gangsters, armed
with deadly weapons, forcing their way into
cities, seizing police stations and keypoints
of government and endeavoring to introduce
a totalitarian regime. Democracy is not a
harlot to be picked up in the street by a
man with a tommy-gun.
There is no one like the Old Master for
getting to the heart of a subject and
demolishing cant and humbug with a few i
terrific words.
General strikes were overtures to the
communist performances in Greece and
Belgium. One has been threatened on
the N.S.W. coalfields, with, as an alter-
native, “a one-day stoppage every week,”
if the Government doesn’t cease taking
fines from workstoppers’ pay and object-
ing to a 16-days’ loaf at Christmas. It
is not expected that there will be fighting
in these parts. There would be no more
communist-led union larrikinism if the
Government showed some of the firm-
ness with which Mackenzie King snuffed
out resistance to the conscription law in
Canada.
One of the most moving passages in
the language was written in the annual
report of the S.A. Betting Control Board
which, .after analysing figures, concluded
that the books had had a poor year and
finished thus:
The board can only regard with mis-
giving a state of affairs in which book-
makers generally struggle to make a profit
and in which they incur the risk of sub-
stantial losses.
And the iron-hearted Playford, unmoved,
told the State Parliament that there
would be no immediate action to alter the
betting laws. It’s enough to make the
S.A. books emigrate to Sydney, where the
Government set up a racing club which
is buying courses.
Tacked on to a trenchant review of the
late proceedings at Canberra:
The seventeenth Parliament will be in-
gloriously prorogued at an early date, and
the eighteenth will no doubt be opened in
the autumn with the ceremonial and
panoply befitting a Royal occasion.
Too, tQo good to be true.
With Bulla-Dalhousie held by a slightly
increased majority (995 in an effective
poll of 8456), Dunstan is closing an event-
ful year. Except that he was out of
office for 24 hours or so, he has been
Premier since April 2, 1935—far and
away the longest continuous period any
Victorian has had since William Clark
Haines became the first of the line on
Nov. 28, 1855. Dunstan hasn’t lost a
general election in his time (there have
been three) or a by-election. Yet his
paity has always been in a minority hi
the constituencies and in both Houses.
J - Sedwick, secretary of the Sydney
Milk Zone Dairymen’s Council, declared
the other day that £40,000 lavished on a
Produce More Milk” campaign, includ-
ing display advertisements, would have
been better spent buying fodder for
drought-stricken cows. True; and it’s
High time Commonwealth Food Control
was prevented from squandering public
S£ ney ' I } Jn / ort l una t e ly the only people
who could do the preventing are them-
selves squandermaniacs.
Passing the buck is catching like
measles. Witness “S. M. Herald!’’ pro-
posal that its readers should write or tele-
graph to their Federal members asking
them to get more coal. Witness also a
“Telegraph” declaration, embodied in an
Open Letter to John Sydney, that its
readers can solve all the problems raised
by the tyranny and impertinences of its
late pals “by demanding another referen-
dum.” Apparently, both papers have
ceased to support Labor, but they were
associated with it long enough to learn
or become proficient in one of its ignoble
expedients.
Many Labor politicians (not Mullens,
of Footscray) have no use for secret bal-
lots on strikes. In Townsville (N.Q.), how-
ever, when the Trades and Labor Council
decided on a one-day strike as a protest
against “general goods shortages,” secret
ballots were held by two unions. Amal-
gamated Engineers and Railway Salaried
Officers. They were against the strike,
1 48 to 24 and 107 to 31 respectively. But
the strike went on.
According to G. W. Kennedy, presi-
dent of Brisbane Chamber of Commerce,
industry doesn’t know where the axe will
fall next. Still, there is no reason to
assume that it will fall on any other
place than that on which it has been fall-
ing lately—fair on the neck of industry.
“I ACCUSE!”
“The Revolution has come —by Act of Parliament.” — Premier Lang, October, 1932.
“Fellow-Australians, read the evidence carefully. Then make up your minds how you are
going to meet the threat of communist conquest.”— Ex-Premier Lang in “Communism in
Australia December, 1944.
Giving what he considered to be causes
of Australia’s dreadful forestry position,
W. W. Gay, Victorian Commissioner for
Forests, listed (1) low proportion of forest
areas, (2) overcutting and settlement, and
(3) disastrous bushfires which had
wrecked afforestation. There are, of
course, six State Forestry Departments.
It having been decided in Adel-
aide that the title “Commissioner” for a
member of the Cabinet is all wrong, be-
sides being long-winded, the C.P.W.
is to become Minister of Works, the
Commissioner of Crown Lands and Im-
migration just Minister of Lands. N. S.
Wales still has a “Colonial” Treasurer
(McKell) and a “Colonial” Secretary
(Badly), though colonies went out in 1901.
“Nakhoda”: Federal Director-General
of Health Dr. Cumpston, who is search-
ing for cures for the declining birthrate,
has been offered a method by two mis-
sionaries with long spade beards who
have arrived in Melbourne from Dutch
New Guinea. They report a pleasing
native custom which provides that no
bridegroom can get a bride unless he
presents her with two human heads by
way of dowry. The heads are supposed
to represent souls from which the wife
may draw strength for child-bearing. A
flaw in the idea is the absence of any
explanation as to how the heads are to
be obtained without further reducing the
population.
At Melbourne last week Parliament
started the usual race for the Christmas
recess, which it hoped to reach by Thurs-
day, and there was a spirit of co-opera-
tion in the Assembly while members de-
bated co-operative housing, National Gal-
lery reform and Public Library and
Museum improvements. Art centres were
dealt with and dismissed with the celerity
appropriate to the opening of a pie-cart.
There was joyance in the air—members
had just given themselves an additional
£l5O p.a.
To be neighbors and racial connections
of the Germans is bad enough, as the
kindly Dutch, who only wanted to live at
peace with the world, can testify. To
have been their allies is worse. The part
of Italy ftom which they have been driven
out they left in such a state that the
Anglo-Americans have been heavily
handicapped in their works of mercy. In
one year the t.b. rate doubled and infant
mortality (deaths in the first year) shot
up to 50 per cent. In their misery and
mental disturbance some of the Italians
have turned forgivingly to the prime
author of their calamities. Reporting
this, a New York “Times” correspondent
gave a toned-down translation of words
scrawled on walls in a working-class
quarter in Rome: “We want the old
stinker back! ”
A couple of British Ms.P. caused one
of the noisiest 30 minutes in the
Commons when they complained that
Home Secretary Morrison had refused
them exit permits to visit Paris. If they
care to come out to Australia and join
the Communist party they will enjoy rail
and ’plane travel priorities and even get
trips abroad at the public expense. This
is an aspect of Australian life not suffi-
ciently played up in appeals for migrants.
Nature has an uncanny way of aveng-
ing itself on countries that play tricks
with it or reject its fruits. When
Wallace, afterwards Vice-President, was
U.S. Minister of Agriculture he tried to
raise prices of foodstuffs and cotton by
encouraging farmers to plough-in their
crops and kill off their young stock. Then
came the Dust Bowl. Scully, admittedly
a first-class greyhound-racing judge,
caused Australian farmers to be paid for
not growing wheat and cabjpages. Now
Australia has an old-man drought.
A Canberra reviewer has worked it out
that since the Parliament at Canberra
came under Cut-and-run control it has
had 156 sitting days. Meeting of one
Chamber counts -as a “sitting, day,” and
the “day” may be over in a couple of
hours—in the Senate it often is. Still,
it may be argued, if any demagogue cares
to do so, that Parliament tends to be
superseded by Caucus, and Caucus by the
Federal A.L.P. executive and the
A.C.T.U.
The present moment is an inappropriate
time for a revival of inter-State cricket,
but the V.C.A. feels hurt about the tart
way its suggestion was treated. Still, it
was mean of a delegate to a meeting to
suggest that cricketers should “get caps
and whips and come across to Melbourne
as jockeys.”
To a party of correspondents permitted
to visit “Soviet Estonia,” battlefields
barred, the news was broken gently that
“Soviet Estonia” had no intention, “at
least for the present,” of “collectivising
farms.” The informant was a Mr. Veiner,
“the husky handsome peasant-born Presi-
dent of the Council of People’s Com-
missars,” who explained that “the inde-
pendent farming tradition of the Estonian
peasant” had been taken into account.
He added, however, that the “Soviet
Estonian Government intends to carry
out a programme of nationalising all in-
dustries employing more than 10 persons
without compensating present owners.”
How Ward must envy the facility with
which “the Soviet Estonian Government”
does these things!
Several months have elapsed since the
Benes Government in London, acting in
concert with Moscow, called upon the
Czechoslovaks to rise; and no doubt
they did rise. (So did the Poles in
Warsaw, on the orders of their Gov-
ernment in London, but they were aban-
doned to their fate, except by R.A.F.
and American heroes flying from Italy,
and then their leaders were denounced as
traitors.) Darkness settled on the Benes
rising till last week, when, in a report in
Melbourne “Herald,” it came out that,
though “large Soviet forces” are “spread-
ing deeply into Czechoslovakia,” the ter-
raip is “so difficult that it raises” a
“melancholy thought”:
Prague, the first capital to be occupied
by the Nazis, may be the last to be liberated.
The melancholy thought is a very dis-
appointing sequel to months of mystery.
Tale of two Johns:
At just on 68 Lang has given birth to an
idea—“harness New Guinea water and pipe it
to our parched areas.” He makes no claim
to originality, admitting that he was inspired
by John Forflest, “who brought water over a
thousand miles to supply a goldfield.” Actu-
ally, C. Y. O’Connor, with John’s blessing and
steady support, took Helena River water from
the Mundaring reservoir to Kalgoorlie, 35 If
miles away (Nat Harper, a retired mining man
and M.L.A., is now widely recognised as
having originally suggested it); but when lack of
moisture was raised as an objection to the Kal-
goorlie-Port Augusta railway Forrest said “All
right, we’ll extend our scheme to the border.”
And no doubt the stout old boy would have
extended it to the border, and beyond, had it
been necessary. Nowadays Perth and many
other districts get water from O’Connor’s reser-
voir; and even before the war length of mains
ran to 1721 miles. Lang needn’t be discouraged
if his enemies dismiss his proposal as a pipe-
dream. That was what many Westralians said
of the O’Connor-Forrest achievement from the
time the bill was introduced (September, 1896)
till the fluid was delivered in Kalgoorlie (Janu-
ary, 1903), on which occasion George Reid
said to the assembled company fit included
almost every contemporary celebrity, from Bill
Lyne to Larry Foley) and through it to the
celebrating town: “I have never heard so much
talk of water and seen so little of it drunk.”


■
- .
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
General Scobie, commanding British
forces in Greece, is no stranger to Aus-
tralia. As Lt.-Col. R. Mack Scobie, he
was at Duntroon in 1933-34. When
not directing the military training of the
college cadets he was keen on coaching
their Rugby team. Once a half-back in
big football in England, his strong points
were getting the ball away from the scrum
and hard tackling. When last heard of
he was wearing, among other ribbons, a
C. 8., C.B.E. and M.C.
-General Scobie has an Australian in
the top post assisting him —Reginald
W. A. Leeper, British Ambassador to the
Greek Government in exile since Feb-
ruary, 1943. Hotly criticised in the course
of the Commons debate —one Labor
party member alleged that the Ambas-
sador had acted “in an extraordinarily
hysterical way”—Leeper was born in
Sydney in 1888 and educated at Mel-
bourne Grammar and University and at
Oxford. In the British diplomatic service
ever since, he had been at the Warsaw,
Riga and Constantinople Legations.
“Ek D.”: Reg Leeper must have
gasped when he heard it said in the
Commons on Friday that he was regarded
in some quarters as “the evil genius of
the Balkans.” He is a mild diplomat
whose manner has a faint reminiscence
of J. G. Latham about it. Scholarly,
friendly, there is about as much evil in
him as one would expect to find in one of
the Twelve Apostles. His gift of tongues
seemed to the writer when he met him to
have given him a wide tolerance of
peoples—he is an authority on Polish
and Near Eastern affairs. The trouble
with Leeper from critics’ viewpoints is
probably that he is opposed to rule by
bloodshed—a tendency which naturally
places him in the Fascist class when he
exercises his prejudice against “demo-
crats” and “liberators” of the Comintern
brand.
Recently enthroned Archbishop of
Quebec and Metropolitan of the Prov-
ince of Canada, Dr. Philip Carrington is
a son of Dean Carrington, of Christ-
church (M.L.). Born in England 52 years
ago, Archbishop Carrington was edu-
cated there and at Christchurch. In 1924
he went to St. Barnabas’s Theological
College, Adelaide, and three years later
became Dean of Divinity at Bishop’s
University at Lennoxville, Quebec ; then
Bishop of Quebec in 1935.
Soldiering is a tradition in the family
of Lieut. Reginald Walter Saunders, the
first full-blooded aborigine to be com-
missioned in the Australian Army. His
father served on Gallipoli with the 10th
Battalion and a brother was killed at
Buna. Born 21 years ago at Lake Con-
dah, near Warrnambool (Vic.), Lieut.
Saunders fought through Libya and
Greece, was picked up when his trans-
port was sunk off Crete, was in the rear-
guard action on that island and remained
there in hiding for 12 months, escaping
to fight again in New Guinea. A first-
grade footballer in his teens in the
Western District, he talks with the same
scholarly purity of diction as his fellow-
aborigine David Uniapon.
J. M. Black, of Adelaide, who will
reach the nonagenarian stage next March,
has been selected by combined Victorian
scientific bodies as winner of the Natural
History Medallion for 1944. Black’s The
Flora of South Australia has become the
official textbook at Adelaide University,
where its author is hon. lecturer in botany.
The medallion is the gift of J. K. Moir,
of Melbourne. Previous winners have
been A. H. Chisholm (1940), the late
Frederick Chapman (1941), David Fleay
(1942) and Major H. W. Wilson (1943).
Few men in Australia lead a busier life
than John Beal Chandler. As well as
being Lud Mayor of Brisbane, he is
member for Hamilton and leader of the
Q.P.P. (Kewpies) ; head of a business
concern manufacturing and handling
important lines of goods and running
broadcasting stations ; president of the
Patriotic Fund and the Comforts Fund
(Q.), and a member and frequent speaker
at Rotary. Twitted in Parliament about
his companies, he revealed that all his
directors are employees.
By the time this Bulletin is out
Donald Marr Nelson may be passing over
the South Pole taking a short cut to what-
ever’s his next destination. As Roose-
velt’s personal representative he was in
Chungking with Pat Hurley ironing things
out there following the recall of General
Stilwell. Still in Chungking last Monday,
Nelson was at Canberra last Friday, hav-
ing flown across from Perth in eight
hours, claimed as a record for that hop.
Next morning he was due to see Curtin
in Melbourne. Till a couple of months
ago he had the huge job of chairman
of the board controlling the whole of
Uncle Sam’s war production, from boot-
laces to battleships. A Missourian, born
at Hannibal, he’s a typical self-made
American businessman. Son of a loco,
engineer, he worked his way through
schools and university, bagged a degree
in science, and by sheer force of ability
worked his way up to be one of the heads
of Sears, Roebuck, merchants. He’s 56.
The R.A.N.V.R. officer with binoculars
is Lieut. Ivan Champion, who before the
war was a Resident Magistrate in Papua.
With Karius, Champion crossed New
Guinea from south to north in 1927, the
pioneer pair ascending the Fly and after
months of almost incredible hardships
reaching the headwaters of the Sepik—
the first crossing of New Guinea. Cham-,
pion donned naval uniform to do his bit
in the current war, and his knowledge
of New Guinea waters and ability as a
surveyor and navigator have been of
great value. He has succeeded in getting
mixed up in almost every show in New
Guinea, including the evacuation of
troops from New Britain (1942), the
Coral Sea battle and the Buna victory.
His only wound has been a severe bite
from a wild pig which attacked him
when he was gazing intently through a
theodolite at Admiralty Islands., Born in
Papua, he bears a name that is well
known there (his father was Government
Secretary under Hubert Murray). The
IVAN CHAMPION.
artist, who has served with him, says he
can vouch that the name is singularly
appropriate.
Frith joins “Granny”:
Among the tidy total of drawings by Frith
in his 14 years with The Bulletin are fairly
recent ones of Warwick Fairfax; and thereby
hangs a tale that might have a moral to it.
Born in London in 1906, Frith, with influence
working extra hard, got into one of those im-
porting and banking firms the exclusiveness of
which only somebody acquainted with the old
city can even faintly imagine. There Frith used
his tyro pencil sketching the staff, including the
boss, who got to hear of it and sent for him.
The boss’s reaction to the one of himself was
to tell Frith to go to —no, not there; but to the
supremely august firm presided over by the
boss’s father, and do him. It had to be done
without letting the old boy know; and the result
so tickled Frith’s boss that a bit later, having
gone out to boss his firm’s branch in Tokyo,
he sent for Frith, and subsequently sent Frith
across to manage the firm’s branch in Korea.
This might be incredible to anyone who knows
Frith as well as The Bulletin and the V.D.C.
know him, but he has a statue of a Korean
goddess or suchlike to prove it. Anyway, he’s
now Taken his lively personality round to
Hunter-street, joining Warwick Fairfax’s paper
the “S. M. Herald” (“Granny”), and the moral
is that if Frith hadn’t gone and drawn his boss
in the first place this wouldn’t have happened to
him. Frith came to Australia on a sudden de-
cision (his own), and broke into The Bulletin
with a clinking caricature of onetime N.S.W.
Premier Bavin. His next batch of eight bounced
back; he came in to get a pointer or two; saw
S. H. Prior, and, on the strength of the Bavin
drawing, Prior offered him a staff job. Till this
ON THE MARCH.
week Frith had been with The Bulletin ever
since; in the last few years doing some fantastic
soldiering (and also, however, some genuine hard
work) in the V.D.C., in action with which Scor-
field here depicts him. One of the typical
Frithian V.D.C. acts was to light and toss an
outsize hunger on parade. The sarnmajor
naturally roaring “Who did that?” Frith stepped
forward. Flabbergasted at anyone admitting to
it like that, the best the sarnmajor could manage
was “Orright, orright,” and let it go at that.
Perhaps round where he is now he’ll have to
answer to his complete moniker. John Eric Frith,
or else, maybe, they’ll do some reforming them-
selves.
Commanding the, Australian Naval
Squadron in the absence of Commodore
Collins (wounded in the Philippines fight).
Captain Harold Bruce Farncomb is a
Sydneysider, born in 1899, and was the
first Jervis Bay cadet to reach the rank
of captain. With his new post Farncomb
becomes commodore. He joined the
R.A.N. in 1913, was with the Grand
Fleet in the last war, and in this war
has Commanded H.M.A.S. Perth, Can-
berra and Australia and H.M.S. Attacker,
British escort aircraft-carrier,
“M.H.E.” farewells a friend:
Strange that John Boyd Cramsie should have
passed on without more notice than he re-
ceived. He was a man of broad outlook, fine
mind and great energy, and outside this
country he was recognised as one of the
world’s greatest authorities on meat, and par-
ticularly on abbatoirs, their construction and
management. Bred in pastoral N. S. Wales,
he had his early training on the Territory border
in north-west Queensland, pioneered the organ-
ised killing industry in central Queensland,
came south and eventually placed the Sydney
abattoirs on their feet —they were a model in
his days and were almost strikeless. He had
travelled extensively in his later years, founded
the Australian Meat Council, and was Aus-
tralia’s delegate at the World Economic Con-
ference during the depression. He could
have had control of all the interests of one of
the biggest U.S. meat-packing firms in South
America if be had wanted it, and of the cattle
interests of one of the greatest concerns in
Africa, but he preferred his own country, even
though the N.S.W. Government thought so
little of his very cheaply-bought services that
it replaced him at its abattoirs by gentlemen
who included a Domain spruiker. Cramsie was
a councillor of the Sydney Royal Agricultural
Show, and its meat exhibits were largely
due to his organisation. But above all he was
a fine Australian, kindly, broadminded and con-
siderate, whose office was a sort of unofficial
employment agency for young men with a taste
for station life and whose services were always
available free and fully for the promotion of
any scheme likely to intensify settlement and
promote country interests.
Bobbed up again in Sydney journalism,
W. A. O’Carroll, now writing “Man
About Town" in Ezra Norton’s “Daily
Mirror.” A Queenslander, he served an
apprenticeship on the Brisbane “Courier,”
where his father worked and which his
grandfather had edited ; an uncle was on
the original “Hansard” staff at the open-
ing of the Commonwealth Parliament.
Bill used to write the “Diary” in Sydney
“Evening News” in Errol Knox’s time,
and then moved to the “Daily Telegraph”
when the “Sun” acquired it. More re-
cently he represented overseas newspaper
interests in Australia.
To Lord Cowrie’s continuing Austra-
lian interests (B. 6/12/’44) has been
added membership of National Mutual
Life’s London board.
Veteran of World War I —three years’
service and holder of the 1914-15 star—
Major Edward Mansfield has retired from
the Army for the second time and has
resumed civilian medical practice at
Cairns (Q.). He is a brother of Mans-
field, L, of the Queensland Supreme
Court, and another brother is a distin-
guished Brisbane eye specialist. Apart
from his professional skill. Major Mans-
field will be remembered in the Army
for his pungent personality. Brusque in
manner, terse and forthright in speech,
he disposed of official matters with a
minimum of words and a maximum of
speed and efficiency. Despite this some-
what formidable aspect of his very posi-
tive personality, he’s been a sterling friend
to many a Digger.
Into the silence:
In London, Thomas Halbert, his Maori name
Tawera Moana, journalist, broadcaster and
lecturer. As his lectures (Royal Empire Society
and British Ministry of Information) showed,
Halbert had a great knowledge of Maori his-
tory, life and traditions. Born in Gisborne, he
was an officer in the last war, serving on
Gallipoli and in France, and he also figured
in films, one being “The 49th Parallel.”
At Ratana Pa (M.L.), at 50, Haami Tokouru
Ratana, Labor member for the Western Maori
electorate. Son of the miracle-man of a genera-
tion ago with whom he toured the world in
1924-25, Ratana served for three years overseas
during the last war. He had many tries at
Parliament before he was elected in 1938.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 59, Archdeacon
Bullock, who, born in Derbyshire, went to
France with Imperial forces as chaplain in 1916,
transferred to the N.Z.E.F. and returned with
it to M.L. after the armistice. A forceable
speaker and a good administrator, he became
totally blind about a year ago.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 78, Robert Ellis
Wood, formerly g.m. of Kempthorne, Prosser,
wholesale druggists. Twenty-five years ago he
went to Melbourne, became g.m. of Felton,
Grimwade and was prominent in the formation
of Drug Houses of Australia.
At Heidelberg, Melbourne, Mrs. Benjamin
Heinze, mother of Bernard Heinze, Ormond
Professor of Music.
At Heidelberg (Vic.) Military Hospital, at
60, Major Henry Kaufmann, who was fighting
against the Boers at 17 and served in France
and Belgium in World War I. All his six sons
are on active service.
At Gulgong (N.S.W.), at 70, Frederick Heard,
who put up what is claimed as a N.S.W. record
by entering the local P.O. as messenger in the
’eighties and, without any removal, finishing
as postmaster three years ago.
At Red Cliffs (Vic.), at 95, John Carmichael,
who, having fought against the Maoris with
his father, may have been the oldest ex-soldier
in Australia. He was born at Burra (S.A.).
In Melbourne, at 57, Dr. Adolph Joseph
Storfer. A friend of Thomas Mann, Stefan
Zweig, Andre Gide and Freud —he edited some
of the psychologist’s works —he fled from
Vienna to Shanghai, where he started an anti-
Nazi paper, which grew from a monthly to a
daily. The Japanese suppressed it, and on
British instigation Storfer came to Australia.
He got a job in a pipe factory in Melbourne
and developed from a doctor of philosophy
into a good craftsman.
At 70, Dean Edward O’Kedfe, for 46 years
a priest and 44 years associated with North
and North-western Queensland. For 17 years
he was stationed at the Towers.
In Adelaide, at 61, musician Richard Kitson.
Saxophone and especially clarionet were his in-
struments in the Tramways Band, the SA.
Orchestra and the Conservatorium Orchestra;
he was also adjudicator in musical competitions
everywhere. As a young man he won the
clarionet solo at South-street, Ballarat, in 1907.
At 57, at Williamstown (Vic.), Peter Miller,
a Scot, who designed and built many fine ships
for Australia. The Victorian Government in-
vited him to Melbourne in 1914 to assist in the
shipbuilding policies of the last war, and he
helped to design the Fordsdale and other ships
built at Cockatoo or Williamstown. When
W. M. Hughes’s venture went by the discard
Miller joined the firm of Kelly and Lewis,
and later became managing director of Chal-
lingsworth Pty. With the new war the Harbor
Trust appointed him manager of the Williams-
town Dockyard.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMPLE'S INKS
“Pitt St.”: A Sydney afternoon daily,
after calling attention to the impossibility
of buying a bottle of beer for Christmas,
announced that black marketeers had
cornered the botfled-beer trade and were
asking as much as 10s. for the fluid. No-
body seems to know how or where the
black gang gets its supplies, though to a
simple fellow like myself it seems reason-
able to suppose that a careful check of
every case of bottled stuff that left the
brewery would be a help. In Sydney the
brewing and bottling of beer is in the
hands of two companies, and retail sales
are confined to licensed persons. If, then,
50 dozen leaves a brewery on order from
a licensed retailer it oughtn’t to be hard
to discover what the licensee does with
them. However, the paper’s suggestion is
that those who pay high prices to the
black gang are just as bad, and that if
nobody bought black-market stuff there’d
be no black marketeers. A hard saying ;
still, I support it, for I’d go dry as a
wooden gourd before I’d pay more than
—hold on, I’ve just heard of where I
can get some at 30s. the half-dozen. Want
to be in on it?
* * * *
“Blue P.”: There are no Pulitzer prizes
for journalism in this country, more’s
the pity, but if there were a trophy for
the best descriptive passage I should
nominate one that appeared in “S. M.
Herald” on 5/12/’44. It was a small item
describing a bottle battle between foreign
merchant seamen in Sydney’s Hunter-
street early that morning, and concluded
with this:
A diminutive and very intoxicated Aus-
tralian soldier watched the police interro-
gating men involved in the fight. He then
lay down in the middle of Hunter-street
and went to sleep.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Joseph Ward is buried
with his wife at the extreme end of the
Dominion, The Bluff, “entombed on the
very hem o’ the sea.” The memory of
the man who saw the menace Germany
presented in the early part of this cen-
tury and presented Britain with a battle-
ship was revived recently. At the annual
meeting of the Southland Automobile
Association it was proposed that a scenic
road be built round Bluff Hill as a
memorial to Ward and Brigadier Hargest,
both of whom represented Awarua in
Parliament.
“Petermac”: According to medical
reports, cases of neurosis among soldiers
are more numerous in this war than
in World War I, psychiatrists attributing
the prevalence to the strain and pace of
modern living. The U.S.A. seems to be
ahead of other belligerents in its treat-
ment of neurotics ; understandably, since
courses in psychology have been avail-
able for years at most American univer-
sities, and even department stores have a
psychology-cwm-efficiency expert in at-
tendance to handle delicate situations.
Which reminds me of the story of one
such specialist who was called upon to
apply tact in getting rid of the ten-year-
old spoilt son of a wealthy customer who
doing his best to wreck the toy de-
partment. The psychologist strode over
to the brat and whispered earnestly in
his ear. The effect was miraculous —with-
out more ado the boy left peaceably with
his mother. Puzzled as to the formula
used, Mother asked the imp what the
psychologist had said. “He said Tf you’re
not out of here in two minutes I’ll cut
your dam’ throat,’ ” was the reply.
“Hamer”: Because “Blind Freddie
could see that” was used in a Federal
Parliamentary argument a “S.M.H.” cor-
respondent wanted to know who Blind
Freddie was. The office was stumped for
an answer. But all old Sydneysiders
should remember blind Freddie Solomon,
the hawker, who found his way about
more competently without his eyes than
many can do with full sight. He was a
Sydney identity for 40 years.
* * * *
“Bo”: Judging by the formidable-
looking phizog which gazes out at readers
of the dailies whenever Musso’s daughter
Edde (invariably described as having “a
masterful and dynamic personality”) hits
the headlines, death at the hands of a
firing squad for having tried to spike his
comic pa-in-law must have been shorn
of some of its bitterness for Ciano. Now,
according to the inevitable Swiss corre-
spondent of an American paper, Edda
has found a new lover. The boudoir
hero is another blueblood, the Mar-
quis Emilo Puci di Barsento, de-
scribed as one of Italy’s “crack” pilots
—which, presumably, means that when-
ever Emilio saw a Spitfire he remem-
bered an appointment elsewhere and
cracked on the pace to get to it. Having
“He's not a Yank, Muriel. He's British—you know, English!”
been tortured by the Gestapo “for love
of Edda,” Emilo is said to have escaped
“dramatically ” (this should be illustrated)
from their clutches and brought Edda’s
children to Switzerland after a “thrilling”
flight. The yarn bears all the hallmarks
of the eighth-gin-sling-stage at the Hotel
Plouplou, Berne. But the correspondent
failed to top it off in style—the oily-haired
aristo was not referred to as “dark, hand-
some and dashing.”
* * * *
“L.H.P.”; “Hamfat’s” reference (B.
29111/ ’44) to burlesque in Sydney re-
minds me of an experiment made by
George Rignold. He produced on the
same evening Douglas Jerrold’s nautical
play “Black-eyed Susan” and Burnand’s
burlesque of that opus. It was a logical
notion, as the points in the burlesque de-
pended on some knowledge of the
original. Commencing on February 18,
1895, at Sydney Her Majesty’s, the
double bill lasted only to March 9. Had
the idea caught on Rignold was going to
follow it up with “East Lynne,” “Lady of
Lyons” and other plays, plus their bur-
lesques, but Sydney didn’t like it, and
Handsome George had to revive “Called
Back” and other melodramas.
* * * *
“Bar Din” on the Greek tongue:
It may be suspected that some of the pother
in Greece is due to the language difficulty.
When I was there three years ago one of our
gun crew who had graduated with first-class
honors in classics was chagrined to find that
when he greeted his first Athenian with a polite
remark anent the weather he received nothing
but an uncomprehending stare. Natural enough,
it may be said, since the language of Aristo-
phanes would be bound to differ from that of
the Metaxan era, but actually the Greek
language has altered less since classical times
than English has since Chaucer. It is a matter
of pronunciation. Erasmus started the trouble
with a treatise on the pronunciation of Latin
and Greek: so great was the prestige of the
Dutch scholar that learned Europe swallowed
his theories bait, hook and sinker. And the
Erasmian pronunciation has been used in schools
and universities ever since. As Erasmus died
in 1536, that is carrying tradition a long way.
An interesting twist to the story is the circum-
stance that Erasmus learnt Greek from a
native of Constantinople and used what he con-
sidered to be the “modern” pronunciation.
“Uramao”: Members of the N.Z.E.F.
who, sight-seeing in Rome, visited the
house of Keats possibly did not know
that there is a link between the poet and
their own land. Through a misunder-
standing, on the eve of Keats leaving for
Rome Charles Armitage Brown, his
“generous protector and devoted friend”
(to use Lord Houghton’s phrase), did not
accompany him, but sailed for Maoriland,
accompanied by his son. Brown lived
only a year in Maoriland and his grave is
at New Plymouth. Houghton, in Life
and Letters of John Keats, acknowledges
the value of material preserved by Brown.
* * * *
“T.McN.”:'A crowd is an ugly thing.
My tram stopped suddenly, and on the
track in front of it lay an elderly man.
From the back end of the tram men,
women and kids fought each other to
get to the front. The spot was an inter-
section and humans converged from all
angles, hurrying like ants who’d discov-
ered a dead or dying caterpillar. I’ve seen
crows in a tree over a drought-stricken
sheep, hawks converging on a trapped
rabbit, the hard-faced confidence man
eyeing his prospective victim, the las-
civious look of a lout at a dance, but all
were mild compared with the avid, sensa-
tion-hungry expressions on those faces.
None was moved by sympathy, and,
strangest of all, few spoke. This went
on for 15 minutes. Then the ambu-
lance arrived, police forced a way for it
through the press and the victim
was removed. With a collective sigh of
disappointment the crowd broke up, most
of it with backward glances at the spot,
as though wishing somebody else would
fall, or scream or be taken with convul-
sions. As our tram finally moved off,
first of a half-mile-long string of them,
the elderly lady opposite me, who had
been hanging out of the window all the
time staring between the backs of two
policemen and risking severe spinal strain,
said to me “Do you supposq they’ll have
a picture of it in the papers tomorrow?”
They didn’t.
H= * * *
“Cauboy”: A cabled prophecy that
Noel Coward’s “Blithe Spirit” will break
the record for a non-musical comedy
with the 1467th performance at a
London theatre shows an insufficient
acquaintance with theatrical history. The
record is securely lodged in the tomb of
an Australian, Oscar Asche. On December
29, 1920, his “Chu-Chin-Chow” reached
its 2000th performance and the run ended
on July 22, 1921, with the 2238th per-
formance.
* * *
“Pat Ater”: “Aunt Sally’s” reference to f
wicketkeepers (B. 29 /11 / ’44) reminds me
of perhaps the most polished of them all,
who failed because his hands were soft.
He was Johns, a Victorian solicitor. J. J.
Kelly took him home as second ’keeper,
but had to do most of the work. Johns’s
hands gave out after six or seven matches,
with “Jonah” bowling. It was all the more
a striking tribute, then, from Kelly of
the leather-like mitts to hear that he con-
sidered Johns the most brilliant ’keeper
he had ever seen —right up to Oldfield’s
day. Jim, himself a hardened warrior,
dispensed with inner gloves (having a
special ’keeping pair made, well padded)
and stood up at arm’s length to fast
bowlers, till Ernie Jones sent him back.
Cotter kept him there.
* * * *
“A Major” hears some old “song
hits”:
At a suburban cinema the organist-vocalist
who diversifies our celluloidal fare with five
minutes of Wurlitzer and warble announced
at he was going to revive “song-hits since
1912.” The audience looked apprehensive, but
it needn’t have worried—the five minutes wasn’t
exceeded. Jumps of two, five or even seven
years here and there testified to the paucity of
memorable ditties in recent years. Some of the
“hits” resurrected were so dead that it is doubt-
ful if anyone but the collator remembered
them; others were woefully misdated. Included
in the symposium were “Everybody’s Doing It,”
“Horsey, Keep Your Tail Up,” “Alexander’s
Ragtime Band,” Nat Ayers’s “If You were the
Only Girl in the World,” Romberg’s “You
Will Remember Vienna” and O’Hara’s
“K-k-katie.” For 1944 we were given a taste
of saccharine 3-4 time “Anniversary Waltz.”
There are associations with some of the older
tunes. “Everybody’s Doing It” was already
familiar in these parts when played by the band
of the Renown, conveying Edward P. on an
Empire tour; “You will Remember Vienna’s”
advent in Australia coincided with the Japanese
bombardment of Chapei. The Ayers lyric,
musically the best of the bunch, brings back the
long season of “The Bing Boys Are Here,” into
which it was introduced. “K-k-katie,” clever
and tuneful, is notable for having been translated
into every civilised language and published in
a dozen musical centres. All these have good
wearing qualities. But over the last decade or
so lies the trail of the crooner, and the “hits”
during that period one does remember are re-
called with a shudder.
* * * *
“Fitzwilliam”: Possibly “M. N. Joe’s”
French lady (B. 29/11 /’44), who wanted
to know when the atrocities would com-
mence, was a reader of Byron, who re-
ports a similar incident as occurring at
the sack of Ismail: “Some voices of
the buxom middle-aged Were also heard
to wonder in the din.... Wherefore the
ravishing did not begin!” Or, more
likely, madame confused hostilities with
atrocities.
“Strawhair”; I agree with
“F.S,” (B. 6/12/’44) that it is ex-
tremely difficult to believe that a
couple of practical jokers, how-
ever clever, engaged in parodying
“modern” verse could by accident,
as it were, reach Parnassian
heights. The thin partition be-
tween great wits and madness, re-
ferred to by Dryden, doesn’t
enter into the matter. Eddington
may assure us that an infinite
number of monkeys banging
away on an infinite number
of typewriters for an infi-
nite length of time must inevit-
ably produce all the works of
Shakspeare, but commonsense
rejects the conception; and rightly
so, for while nobody can dispute
the existence of an infinite amount
of time, monkeys and typewriters
are finite in quantity. Undesigned
resemblances are commonplace—
.the carrot or potato or mountain
silhouette that resembles a human
face ; pictures in the clouds (the
whale in a butter boat) or in a
glowing coal fire ; weird things to
be seen by the sick or the imagi-
native in a wall-paper pattern —
but behind these is no relevant in-
tention whatever. It is only in
“modern art” that anarchy is so
prevalent that a burlesque of the product
is impossible.
YO-HO-HO!
Ever the year’s approaching end
Sets one thinking of Christmas cheer.
What did I hear you say, my friend?
“Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of beer.”
Truly a sentiment good to hear,
But how to purchase what none will vend
Presents a puzzle that’s dark and drear,
And leaves one wondering whither to wend.
Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of beer!
Never the bustling breweries halt
Stacking their barrels, tier on tier,
Rich with the product of hops and malt
For the Yule we welcome but once a year.
Piled in their pyramids pints appear
Waiting their move to cellar and vault;
But where they vanish is far from clear.
Though we’re fold it isn’t the Government’s
fault.
Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of beer!
Where does it get to? Well, old chap,
It’s wasted effort to pubs to steer.
If you reach the blr there’ll be draught on tap,
But a bottle to carry home? No fear!
The bare suggestion they’d scout as.queer
And deem you a shingle short, mayhap.
Your only hope is the black marketeer,
Your only chance for it “under the lap.”
Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of beer!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
MEMO FOR MENZIES.
“Mr. Menzies said that outbreaks of a violent and
abusive character in the House would continue until
the Speaker repressed them without waiting for
private members to object.”
Art list’ning, Rosevear? You, who should be
sentry
To challenge chaps who scorn to watch their
steps,
Making a constant mock of Parliament’ry
Standards befitting to the House of Reps,
You, who should straighten up explosive gentry
That foam and fizz like newly-opened
Schweppes,
What explanation have you or excuse
For countenancing mannerless abuse?
Does your attention need to be directed
By those whom such delinquencies displease
To insolence across the floor projected
By wild and woolly party devotees,
Invective such as might have been expected
From old-time bullockies or Thames bargees?
And would you fain be deaf to what you’re
there
For, vigilantly noting from the Chair?
Your duty in the legislative forum
By virtue of the office that you grace
Is obviously to be censor morum
In the debates of that exalted place,
To quell disorder and enforce decorum,
Backed by the muted menace of the Mace,
Also to put your foot on what’s taboo
Without it being pointed out to you.
Think of the galleries! Is it conducive
To the respect in which you should be held
For them to listen to tirades abusive
And savage calumnies, to be compelled
To hear no dialectics more conclusive
Than such as could be hardly paralleled
In shearers’ huts or foc’s’les on the seas,
Or camps where navvies swap amenities?
Attention, Rosevear! Here’s a field that’s ample
To make your mark in and to throw your
weight
About. Suppress these miscreants who trample
On all the decencies of high debate
And turn your talk-shop into an example
For less important joints to imitaO,
Keeping in mind that these are aims wnich Bob
Views as inseparable from your job,*
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tuart”‘ I like a story told in all
innocence by one of Ihe Sunday papers
about a trainer who bought a yearling
at the Easter sales and the partner in his
ts and sorrows. He bid £l6O, and on
going to complete the purchase was stuck
up by the missus, who, all excitement,
told him he could consider halt the
“Calling home base —calling home base —motor quit , but coming in on
a bomb and a prayer.
animal hers, adding that she had the
money. A model of domestic devotion,
he yielded at once, but, not unnaturally,
asked how she had become possessed of
so large a sum. She explained trium-
phantly that she had been saving up the
pennies in the telephone-box. Let s see.
240 pennies in a pound ; 80 times 240,
19,200. Wonderful! For some strange
reason, the Sunday-paper raconteur
denied us a pen-picture of the lady taking
the 19,200 pennies out of her vanity bag
and handing them to her gratified lord.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Apropos the virtues and
vices of Ivan the Terrible (B. 29/11 / ’44).
I was told in Moscow that the strange
church in the Red Square with its golden
domes like entries in a home garden
vegetable competition had been built
by the terrible Ivan, and that he
had had the eyes of the archi-
tect put out, so that the architect
wouldn’t be able to design a similar
temple for another ruler. I don’t believe
the story, which X have heard applied to
other tyrants. In France I was told of
a medieval countess who had the head
of her Court painter chopped off so that
he shouldn’t paint pretty pictures of her
rivals ; and in Italy I heard of a grand
duke doing the same thing to a sculptor
who had recorded his very unpleasant
features for posterity so well that he
didn’t want any other grand duke to have
the chance of employing him. These
stories, I suppose, imply that people were
so impressed by the artist’s work that
they had to invent a yarn that would
make him different from other artists.
» » • •
“Gauguout”: While the Dobell case
was giving free art lessons to the popu-
lace and paying solid dividends to legal
gents no end of art critics came to light
on our office staff. The knowledge of
most of them was a matter of surprise,
having been hidden till now behind a
veil. Some hailed the Dobell portrait as
the work of a genius. Others (the man-
ager among them) said it looked like a
warmed-up corpse. When the controversy
was at its height the accountant brought
in a study in black-and-white, set in a
handsome gold frame. It was, he said,
the work of a young friend of his, an
artist of the modern school, and was
called “The Maelstrom of War.” Cynics
turned it upside down, suggesting that
that was how it should stand. But several,
including the staff know-all, rallied to it
and declared it the work of a coming
artist, with boldness of conception and
depth of feeling. The new picture was
left in the office until the following day,
throwing out the challenge of its novelty
and inscrutability. At dinner-time the
accountant retrieved it, and, retiring
to the door which he left ajar to facili-
tate his retreat, informed us that it was
an ink-smeared backing sheet from the
office cyclostyle. Since then art is not a
popular subject among us.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Pleasant to real that Arthur
Cask, the novelist, looks on me
as a “literary godfather” (B. 8/11/’44).
This is what happened: His first story,
The Secret of the Sandhills, was a delight-
ful thriller woven round our own S.A.
beaches and racecourse and G.P.0.; yet
a local public took that lamentable Aus-
tralian pose; “Gask? The dentist on
North Terrace? Why should he think he
can write?” I said, in reviewing it, that
it would be thrilling if placed anywhere,
and was doubly so because localised.
Gask has declared that this boost brought
him his first hearing with a London pub-
lisher, But does London take the view
that the impd’rted must be best? Not
much! After a few successful Australian
stories there, Cask received the official
tip, “Our readers like a familiar scene ;
please place your future stories in Eng-
land.” Cask pluckily stuck to his Aus-
tralian detective, but had to make him
settle in Britain to detect.
“Aye-aye”: I often wonder what the
present-day men of the Mercantile
Marine think of the term “Merchant
Navy.” In my time (and that includes
the period of the last war) there was
always a kind of antagonism between
Navy and Merchant services, a heritage
from the time when Navy press-gangs
used to get most of their crews from mer-
chant ships. In tramp ships, the biggest
proportion of the Mercantile Marine, any
attempt to introduce naval fashions was
met with suspicion and resentment. Only
on the big liners ’ were uniforms worn,
and in the minds of real sailormen the
crews of those ships were not sailors,
and, to all intents and purposes, had
“swallowed the anchor.” I did a three
weeks’ gunnery course in the last stoush,
and they gave me a suit of blues, a suit
of whites, various sundries and sixpence
a day extra. But I don’t remember see-
ing any of my mates rigged Navy-way,
and I know I left my clothes in the tram
after finishing the course. I joined the
Royal Navy afterwards,- being, so I told
myself, sick of being torpedoed, and want-
ing a chance to hit back, but I have my
doubts sometimes, even now.
“Poor Jack”: I’ve heard many a sea-
chanties programme on the wireless, but
never yet have I heard the most common
chantey of all, sung on every outward
voyage when the crew has worked out
the advance notes. Most ships pay a
month’s advance when signing-on, and
this was regarded as dead time. The end
of this period is marked with a ceremony
in which an effigy of a horse, made oi
burlap and straw, is hauled to the main-
yardarm. All hands haul away and sing
“The horse is dead, let him die, let him
die,” several times, and finally the horse
is consigned to the deep. Usually the
old man splices the main-brace, recognis-
ing that the crew will be more amenable
to" discipline in the future. Another
popular chantey on tramps is a Yankee
capstan-haul called “Alabama Bound
“Alabama bound, for the North Poles
so goshdarned cold.” A close runner-up
is the one about the bo’s’n’s wife “and
she was dressed in blue,” but that is never
likely to get into any radio “session.”
5£ * *
“S.T.S.”; Let me endorse the curse
of “Pitt St.” (B. 8/11/ ’44) on any home
without verandahs. Our forefathers soon
realised that every Australian house must
have verandahs, and only the craze for
copying the imported is now endangering
them. Europe counts its hours of sun-
shine just as we count our points of rain,
and its latest home style (which started
in Germany) is a veritable sun-trap. Very
cosy, too —in Europe. But to copy it
here is absurd. One can understand, per-
haps, the architect who wants to attract
attention by being modern and unusual ;
but not the buyer who has to live in the
unsheltered roasting-apparatus.
* * * *
“Pawang”; The American soldier-
hypnotist who put 200 students and pro-
fessors to sleep at Belfast University (B.
29 /11 / ’44) claimed to he able to
perform the same feat on a person 1000
miles distant. This reminds me of a
friend of mine in Perth (W.A.), who was
being treated for a variety of complaints
by an unregistered practitioner of the
black art who lived in Melbourne. At a
pre-arranged hour daily my friend went
into what he called “the silence,” and
while he was in this condition he dis-
tinctly felt the power of his physician
flowing through, so much so that he was
sometimes flung off his couch on to the
carpet. He gained great relief for his
symptoms thereby, though the relief
wasn’t permanent, unfortunately.
Periodically the patient exchanged notes
by post with his psychic healer, who
expressed intense delight and pride at the
success attained, ascribing it to his ability
to project his soul through the ether, i
forbore to tell my friend that there is two
hours’ difference in time between Perth
and Melbourne, and that the gifted healer
was probably playing bridge when my
friend was in “the silence.”
v * * *
“Humberstone”: In the organising of a
party for children, 10-11 age-group, it
was decided to hold a competition in
which well-known faces were to be recog-
nised. These included royalties,' poli-
ticians, film stars and some other nota-
bilities, including George Bernard Shaw.
There was a protest about G. 8.5., but
1 over-ruled it, saying no one could miss
that beard. No one did. But only the
winner ascribed it to G.B.S. Every other
child said “Monty Woolley.”
* « * *
“Lao-dah”: It was the artist Renoir,
I think, who said that communists should
be compelled to wear peaked caps so that
you could see them coming and avoid
them. Paris dislikes argument on politics
at meal-times. The average Parisian,
from milkman to poet, will argue about
art till four in the morning, but he
doesn’t like to see good food spoilt by
political disputation. In pre-war years
Paris cafds bore the legend: “No Politi-
cal Arguments Allowed Here.” The only
other city in which I have seen a similar
notice was Melbourne, where a Greek
cafe sported such a warning, no doubt
as a war-time measure.
**♦ . *
“Chevroford”: I got a good demon-
stration of the Australian habit of under-
statement from a timber-getter encoun-
tered on a walking trip from Brisbane
to Sydney. “How far is it to Port Mac-
quarie?” I asked. “Well,” he said, aftei
long reflection, “it’s a good step. Would
it be twenty miles?” I said. “No, it
wouldn’t be twenty miles,” was his re-
joinder. “Would it be ten miles?” I said.
“My oath,” he retorted, “a good ten
miles.” “Then how far is it?” I asked
in desperation. “It’s a good step,” he
answered, raising his axe to end the con-
versation.
* * * *
“Cism”: The incident, described as
“freakish,” of an American unit using
electric power generated by a Jerry-
operated powerhouse 15 miles distant to
illuminate a beach on D-Day had
a (what shall I call it?) reverse
parallel in the Western Desert. It
was not until some time after Rommel
had been stopped near El Alamein and
edged back along the coast by the Aus-
tralians that someone remembered the
water pipeline that ran out into the desert
beside the single-track railway to Mersa
Matruh and points west. It was still
intact and carrying water to the enemy.
Forthwith it was turned off —as close
to the front line as possible.
* * * *
“Listening Insect”; A.B.C. probably
does more to ruin literature for chil-
dren than any other influence. It has
an ingrained habit of engaging literary
“ Let's go somewhere else —I'm allergic to eggs.”
gents and ladies to retell in their own
way the story of the plays of Shakspeare,
the Iliad, the Bible, or some novel of
Dickens. Though they bowdlerise these
great works, they do their job quite well,
and the children like the entertainment.
Unfortunately, if they try to read the
original work later in life they are likely
to be disappointed because the original
isn’t like the broadcast version. A friend
of mine had his enjoyment of good music
almost spoilt in much the same way.
Reading the analysis of Beethoven’s sym-
phonies in Norman Lindsay’s Creative
Effort, he was moved to buy a player-
piano and got years of pleasure out of
playing over pianoforte transcriptions of
the immortal nine. Then one evening
he went to a Heinze performance of the
Seventh and felt let down. He found
the music “fuzzy,” naturally, because He
missed the sharp staccato note of the piano.
* * * *
“Aratta”: Mr. Abe Cohenstein, stand-
ing at the doorway of his old clothes
shop, watched with speculative eye the
rather grubby-looking citizen staring
through his shop window, “You vant
something?” inquired Mr. Cohenstein
softly. “Yeh,” replied the other; “I
wanter overcoat, a good ’un ; but it ain’t
gotter be too big a price.” “Come inside,”
invited Mr. Cohenstein cordially. The
other followed him in, and Mr. Cohen-
stein busily dumped a number of gar-
ments on the counter. The customer
pawed them over, and at last selected one.
“How much for this ’ere?” he asked.
“That von two poundts,” replied Mr.
Cohenstein “Two quid,” echoed the
other ; “too much for me —come down a
bit.” Mr. Cohenstein eyed the other
keenly. “That’s a peautiful bit of stuff,”
he said. “I rob myself, but I let you
haf it for thirty-five shillings, not von
penny less.” The other pawed the gar-
ment over irresolutely. It was evident
to Mr. Cohenstein that this was what he
had made up his mind to buy. “That
coat is a bargain at thirty-five shillings,”
he urged; “peautiful materials in it.”
“Yes,” said the other; “the stuff’s all
right, but I don’t think I’ll take it; the
color’s bilious.” “Pilious!” Mr. Cohen-
stein echoed ; “pilious!” Then he smiled
ingratiatingly. “I tell you vat I do,” he
said, “you take it at thirty-five shillings
and I’ll throw you in a pox of anti-pilious
pills for noddings!”
*,* * *
“Traymon”: “C.Q.’s” reference (B.
8/11/ ’44) to a neat witticism of Mel-
bourne’s Judge Streeton suggests com-
parison with the keen judicial wit of F. E.
Smith, later Earl of Birkenhead. Early
in his Bar career he was frequently in
holts with the Bench, and on one occa-
sion complained that the Judge was obvi-
ously biased in favor of his opponent.
After a sharp interchange, the Judge
ordered Smith to sit down with the re-
mark “Young man, I find you extremely
offensive.” “Yes, m’Lud,” replied Smith,
“we both are. But I am trying to be and
you can’t help it.” A clash between Smith
and Sydney’s Judge Curlewis would have
made legal history.
* * * *
“Pip” on the warrior’s jungle couch:
Most soldiers are experts at constructing
bush beds. These are necessary in the jungle,
for sleeping on the ground invites ever-y scor-
pion, centipede and insect in the district to
come and have a bite. When the bivouac site
is selected furious activity begins with machetes
and axes; branches and leaves are cut down
and lawyer vines dragged from the tree-tops.
Simplest system is to use logs for the head
and foot, run two six-foot saplings across,
make a mattress of vine between them, and
cover the surface with leaves. Most bed-makers
use this system or a minor variation. Four
poles driven into the ground at each corner
of the bed support the mosquito net. If there
is much rain about the groundsheet or gascape
goes above the net and the bed is then insect-,
mosquito- and (reasonably) waterproof. The
groundsheet can also be made into a hammock
by extending it between the two saplings, but
this is reckoned an inferior method. When the
bivvie is to last for some time brisk trade with
our Allies begins, for their issue includes canvas
stretchers. Some of their troops also have an
ingenious haramock-cMwi-waterproof-cum-sleep-
ing-net arrangement.
“Rooster” on a tropical ailment:
Among the diseases contacted by troops in
N.G. and N.Q. is the mite-borne scrub-typhus,
about which little was known until recent years.
It is allied to Japanese river fever. The causa-
tive organism is Trombicula hirsti. In Japan,
Java and Sumatra the carriers are rats, field
voles, mice and such small deer. The little mite
is scarcely visible to the naked eye, and is, at
certain seasons, prolifically spread through scrub
and rank grass areas. Opening up of new areas
invariably brings high incidence, which falls as
the scrub is cleared. Incubation period is
erratic—four to 16 days, with a maximum of 21
days. The high fever lasts from 11 to 16 days,
falling rapidly. Headache is persistent and
aggravating. A well-defined rash appears on the
fourth day. Patients are cold-sponged fre-
quently and given as much fluid as they can
drink. Sedatives and anodynes help to offset
the severe migraine and restlessness. No
specific antitoxin has as yet been found, but re-
search gives hope that a curative serum may
be prepared from an infected patient’s blood-
stream at certain stages of the fever.


ABORIGINALITIES
212 sheep in a day; but in the daggy
year the highest tally was 112, by Sam
Plant, rated a “gun.”
* * * $
“Plain Angas”: Shot a hare today that
had been mauled by a dog. The newly-
healed skin on the back had been badly
tom and on the rump there was a hor-
rible three-inch slash in which the mag-
gots were working their way towards the
spine beneath the skin. ■ Puss was in milk.
This means that she had travelled many
miles from where she was caught, and had
reared a family, living all the while in
agony. I shoot for the table, and
I very seldom lose a hare wounded.
If I do puss has either a clean puncture
that will heal quickly or a wound that
will kill in an hour or so. The grey-
hound boys—the Waterloo Cup used to
be run in these paddocks—hunt for sport.
* * * *
“Dinkum”: Ben had been saving the
little paddock near .Johnson’s house for
months to top up his show bullocks, and
now he was perturbed at the condition
of the beasts. On excellent feed they were
falling away. He inspected the fats often,
and one day rode over to find an animal
tonguing badly and very hot. Half an
hour of worried speculation followed.
Ben had never known a poison weed
affect an animal like that; still, one
couldn’t be sure. CJalloping home, he
hunted desperately through books in
search of a clue. Then he rang the vet.
Armed with several likely cures and much
advice, he dashed back to the paddock,
but the animal now appeared quite nor-
“Bo”: Joe Hinton took quite phleg-
matically the news that his wife had given
birth to twin sons. A few days later
when his mare had twin foals Joe and
the whole township of Wildbee had a
topic which was discussed with animation
and much reminiscence and comparison
of foalings back for 40 years. I called
in at Joe’s a week or two later, when the
excitement was on the wane. He was
looking glum, and I inquired if any-
thing had gone wrong with either of the
twins, human or equine. “Aw, they’re
orright,” said Joe ; “but it’s Strawb. She
had her calf last night. Tough, isn’t it.
An’ now, I s'pose, a man’ll never get the
opporchunity again of pullin’ off the hat
tiick.”
*** _ *
“Propalong”“Quoting” Jimmy’s habit
of producing a Banjo Paterson, Ogilvie
or Lawson tag to fit any situation was
regarded as highly amusing—by strangers.
We knew that if one of us got on a
tight youngster a bit too good for him
he’d hear, just at that stomach-crawling
moment when he’d begun to lift in the
saddle, “Stick to him, Bill, for another
round for the pride of the Overland,”
from Jimmy, safe on his old chestnut
mare. If you happened to be crutching
sheep on one of those awful days when
the jumbucks are suffocating from trying
to pile up in the shade of the fence
corners, with every man spitting dust and
maggots, you’d presently hear a com-
placent Voice:
Of course, there’s heat —no one denies —
And sand and dust and stacks of flies,
And rabbits, too, at Booligal.
If, wrestling with a chunk of half-dry
belar, you smashed a favorite axe-handle
Jimmy’d be sure to pipe up, “ ‘The handle
from the first worn smooth with sweat
and dust and graft’ —that’s Lawson, y’
know,” And when stung you turned
and called him a loose-mouthed adjectival
soanso he’d murmur triumphantly, “ ‘And
if his words are rude and rough— ’ ”
Then, brightly, “That’s Will Ogilvie.”
One evening when we were having a
smoke outside the hut in came Jimmy’s
old mare, with saddle and bridle but
minus Jimmy. We could see by her
knees that she’d come down. Dan
climbed the windmill tower and slipped
down, chuckling “He’s cornin’; on’y
about a mile back—you’ll hear ’im
cursin’ shortly.” When Jimmy, dusty,
bindi-eye-studded, and pretty well can-
descent, got to the hut door he found it
closed and from within heard a doleful
voice:
He would ride the Reckless filly, he would have
his wilful way;
And here, he’s not back at sundown —and what
will his mother say?
* * * *
“Ham”: Before autumn crutching was
introduced sheep dags were often of great
size, particularly during lush seasons.
For over 20 years in the men’s hut on
Barooga station (Riverina, N.S.W.) there
hung a “king” dag weighing 1 Si-lb., taken
from a sheep shorn by Tom Powell in
1887. Tom said that when the sheep
went down the chute it stood on its head
for some time before regaining its
equilibrium. It was a wet year, with
trefoil growing in profusion everywhere.
And daggy sheep do slow down the shear-
ing. At this station the preceding year
Moses Wright, with the blades, shore
Just a light trim up, eh? Y' got crosion pretty bad.”
, c , , , , ,
™ b be X cr , day ? another beast
stmt any afflicted, but recovered,
Be f n debated the situation, but, as his
al J eady m ’ b f d F ove the bailies
°tt to the show and took second place
to an ora adversary. Sorrowfully be
watched the contests in the arena, and
towards evening turned homeward, pon-
dering deeply on the result -of the last
event. Owning no stock to practise on,
the Johnson boys had carried off first
and second places in the bullock-riding
championship.
*, _ *, * . * .
Zakc . hor sheer enthusiasm there is
noth | n g to beat that of the amateur bush-
weather prognosticator. Struck one cove
cont cmplating a pair of ankles which
r cr ? i b f ra Y Wlt ? arge U !^ l P?‘
bad heard that if you leap on a bull-
domicile and the inmates don t
appear promptly to repel invaders it is
? certain sign that ram is imminent. The
bulls must have ,seen o£ the unanimous
opinion that a dry spell was ahead.
“Solitude” • Seventvfivpr returnprl fmm
t he“
determined intehtion to buy a new hack.
I offered one of mine. “Which, one?”
was his eager query. “The brown mare?
Aw, it don t matter. Well, Sam s got
a good one—black dumper, used to
road work and camping.” Again the old
bloke’s interest faded. All the next week
he went round growling about his need
for a new nag, but after I’d found several
more prospects and he still refused to
look at them I gave him up as hopeless,
Then one morning I rode over to find
him happily contemplating a stocky little
grey, tied to a hitching stump. “Got me
new nag,” he grinned. I gave the grey
a once over. “Not bad," I conceded,
“but not a patch on the brown I offered
you. Not so good, in fact, as the moke
y’ve already got.” “No,” agreed the old
bloke, “but he has his points. Not that
I’m sayin’ nuthin’ ’gainst me old nag,
mind y’,” he continued. awright
f’r down-country drovin’, but not bush
campin’. At four o’clock in the mornin’,
cripes, that black’s too damn ’ard t’
find.”
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: I put an old but well-
oiled girth on my saddle the other day,
and now it’s my painful duty to recom-
mend a copper rivet to supplement the
stitching on girths, surcingles and stirrup-,
leathers. It’s a good idea to put these
rivets in before using new gear because,
although the leather may be well cared
for, the stitching, especially in sweat-
soaked girths, will give sooner or later.
As I said, it’s my painful duty to recom-
mend this. Gravel-rash!
# ❖ * *
“Old-timer”: To anyone who has
knocked about this country for a few
years and used his eyes and imagination
there’s a sort of grim humor in the sud-
den discovery that duststorms mean loss
of soil. This loss has been going on, I
suppose, for 50 years or more, and I
sometimes wonder how much Jimmy
Tyson and Kidman and some of the
other big squatters of the far outback
had to do with it. Later, of course,
cockies in the Mallee and the Riverina
and in the Gippsland and Illawarra cow
country did their bit, aided and abetted
by all sorts of people from t.s.r. floggers
to hungry cane-growers. The present
drought has simply brought a sort of
climax and if it has awakened urban
dwellers to the tragedy all the better.
Still, I can’t help thinking of old Rob
Mcßoberts (peace to his ashes!) and the
day we were camped in a deserted pise
hut at Warracknabeal. A duststorm came
up that blotted out the sun, and as we
rubbed our eyes and spat the grit from
our teeth old Rob yelled “Gripes, boy,
they talk about takin’up land an’settlin’
down! A man’d never know where his
blasted land was if he did take it up ”
That was in 1910. A lot of it is now in
the Pacific Ocean,
(cvr ‘
Y.N.”: Not all the top-soil from our
drought-stricken inland is falling into the
Tasman on turning Maoriland’s snow-
covered mountains pink (B. 22 /11 / ’44).
One night last month there blew up about
the biggest duststorm in the history of
the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas. Next
morning the usual red soil had disap-
peared under a thick layer of fine grey
dust. A Griffith man, with an enquiring
turn °/ mind, carefully measured an
area of his concrete path, brushed the
dust therefrom, and carted it off to the
C.S.I.R. Citrus Research Station, where
it was weighed. One of the research
officers calculated that soil at the rate of
13cwt, to the acre had been deposited,
wblcb means tba t we collected 190,800
318 ’°°° “
,
“Hector”; What about Mat and his
biographer ambling up to the Darling
Downs (Q.) before they get properly
footsore, to see a bit of fancy bag bounc-
ing on the wheat dumps? At Clifton
this season Jack Galvin stacked 3200
bags on his own in a day, and it wasn’t
a “round-the-clock” day either. Local
bag wrestlers consider the tally worth
recording, but one Flaherty “took” 4000
odd at Bongeen dump a few seasons ago.
* * * *
“Maleesh”; I was talking over the
Greek campaign with Laurie, who comes
from out Trangie way. I told him how
we had camped at the foot of Mt.
Olympus and woke next morning to find
a shepherd and his flock in our midst,
He was bearded and picturesque and
dressed much as Hellenic hillmen must
have been in Byron’s day. We all tried
out our colloquial Greek (two ackers
the book cost in Alexandria) until
in disgust he spoke to us in the
purest patois of Chicago. “He was
still there when we came through,”
Laurie said. “As a matter of fact, I shot
him myself. If you had known any-
thing about sheep you would have saved
me the job. He had only about a dozen
woollies ; most of them had foot-rot and
he made no attempt to do anything about
it. He had a beautiful dog and didn’t
know how to work it: and his hands
were soft. Yes, he was a fifth columnist,
all right, and the sheep made a perfect
target from the air.”
* * * *
“Carnie”: After Melbourne Cup Day
our oldest inhabitant asked me if I knew
whether there was a brand of butterfly or
moth called Sirius. The reason for the
inquiry was that for the forty-five years
since he selected land here flights of
migratory white butterflies have passed
through the district on Cup day, always
flying in a north-easterly direction. The
migrations last from three to five days.
The o.i. believes there’ll be some day
a real honest-to-goodness Melbourne
Cup tip in this early November pheno-
menon, and he’s dead scared he’ll miss it.
* * * *
“Fancar”’; My pre-war neighbor used
to have one ambition: to find a cheap
brand of kerosene with the lighting and
heating quality of the dearest grades.
Savings of about eighteenpence a tin
were always hard earned with smoked
lamp chimneys and clogged burners, and
each time she imagined herself “caught”
she inveighed against the Government
and the oil companies. “I’d never
have bought the stuff if it hadn’t
been labelled 150 per cent, pure” she
would declaim. And she’s not the only
person who thinks the 150 deg. lire test
embossed on a kerosene tin is the com-
pany’s bona fide assurance of the ultra-
superior quality of its contents.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”; Towards the close of
a long, dry spell termites got into one of
my 1000-gallon tank stands. Holding off
until rain seemed imminent, I finally
drained the tank, removed it from the
stand and settled the wood-chewers. I’d
just got it back on its stand when
a terrific thunderstorm broke. During
the night the tank overflowed, but morn-
ing found it empty again. Careful though
I had been, handling the thing had injured
its rusty bottom. Before I could get
cement for repairs, another downpour
refilled it. This time it stayed full.
A lot of dust must have been washed into
it by the second storm, and that settled
down and blocked the leaks.
# * * *
“Bill C.”: I’ve used long-lasting candles
of my own making on the N.Q. coast
(B. 15/11/’44). Required are sand, kero-
sene, a sound 21b. treacle-tin and a
banksia cone. Strip the fluffy stuff off
the banksia stick, then bore a .hole large
enough to pass the banksia stick through
in the centre of the tin lid. Half-fill the
tin with kerosene-soaked sand, and into
this push the banksia stick, allowing half
an inch to come through the hole in the
lid. Touch the “wick” with a drop of
kerosene and light. It will burn brightly
for hours, and is safe to use. The weight
of the sand will prevent it from being
upset.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I was havin’ a drink in a
bush pub one afternoon,” remarked Dan,
“when a jolly-lookin’ old chap blew in.
After insistin’ on shoutin’ fer me he asked
me if I wanted a job. I sed I did, an'
after a couple more spots we came t’
terms. A little later we set out in his
jinker for home. A few miles out he
pulled up at a gate openin’ on to the
roadway. ‘This is my place,’ he said.
I got down an’ opened the gate, an’ the
old chap drove through. As I turned t’
close it I sights nailed to the inner side
of the gate a quaint effigy of a man with
a huge face and a twisted grin on his
dial. The lower part of the figure bore
a rather battered appearance. Alongside
the caricature was nailed another piece
of tin with the words ‘Kick me an’ see
what happens’ written on it. A chuckle
came from the sulky, an’ I turned t’ see
the ole chap grinnin’. ‘Got yer puzzled,
eh?” he said. ‘Let me interduce yer.
That‘s Bill. Y’ see,’ he went on, ‘lots
of folks is rather careless ’bout closin’
gates after ’em, but I rarely have any
trouble with mine. Bill sees t’ that. Y’
see, most people is curious. When they
pull through they see Bill grinnin’ at ’em,
an’ they read what’s written there along-
side him an’ outer curiosity they give
Bill a boot. Y’ can see where they’ve
'kicked him there about his legs.’ ‘Yes,’
I,said, ‘an’ what happens?’ The old chap
laughs. ‘Well, I alwus keep the hinges
an’ catch well oiled,’ he said, ‘an’ the
hefty boot they gives old Bill sends the
gate swingin’ back inter the catch on the
post. That’s all.’ ”
A FANTASY.
Friend, was it ’ninety-five? How the years fly!
So many of them gone since you and I
Tramped down t'he woody grove
To cast our flimsy hooks on cotton leads
For banded parrot-fish among the weeds
In Little Sirius Cove.
The houses cluster and the roads are bent:
I cannot find again the way we went,
Where errant fancy drove,
Till memory returns with sorry shock:
Is this the cave? Was that our favored rock
In Little Sirius Cove?
This battered hulk a “galleon stored with gold”
And run aground, we deemed, in days of old
What time the frigate hove
Her anchor in the bay and, passing south,
The tall ships dipped their pennons by the
mouth
Of Little Sirius Cove.
Though still the sea, and still the sunlight
gleams,
Where are the joys, where are the splendid
dreams
Imagination wove?
Time nods; another pattern is arranged:
We are grown old, and everything is changed
In Little Sirius Cove.
Ah, might I make a bargain now with fate,
Would I not barter all my man’s estate
And all the treasure-trove
The years have brought me, once again to be
A child, and sit here gazing at the sea
In Little Sirius Cove?
N.S.W.
ROBERT MURRAY.


“R.D.”; Sam had bought a spring cart
for 30s. at a clearing-out sale, and he and
Tom McCarthy were examining it. “I
reckon yer give too much for it,” said
Tom. “Go on,” said Sam. “It’s a bar-
gain. All it wants is a new pair of shafts,
a few new floorboards, some bolts
through the frame, a new axle, the wheels
done up and a coat of paint, and it’ll be a
flamin’ new cart!”
$ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We had a contract on
the edge of a town and had the butcher,
baker, grocer and milko delivering tucker.
Mat knocked up a Coolgardie safe which
kept the meat, milk and butter so cool
and fresh that we became ambitious:
instead of buying bottled beer we bought
draught by the gallon, poured it into
bottles, and tied the corks down with
stout string. About then we began to
miss a bottle now and then. We watched
the delivery men, but they were innoccir
Other attempts at discovery failed. Mat
borrowed a s.b. gun, loaded it, cocked the
trigger, fixed the gun to a tree beside the
safe and connected the trigger to each
bottle by a complex system of tie-wires.
On the afternoon of the second day there
was a roar from the camp and we gal-
loped to the spot. Noises from a deep
channel led us to a bewhiskered bloke flat
on his back and gasping. Beside him was
a long bamboo rod fitted with a short
looped line. “Hell’s bells,” he jibbered.
“That stuff o’ yours must have a kick
in it. Might ha’ killed a bloke.” Then
we discovered the long slit in the hessian
at the back of the safe through which he
fished for free refreshments, and “our in-
dignation knew no bounds.” But it was
nothing to his indignation when he
learned it was a gun and not a bottle that
had exploded. He gave Mat a long,
severe look and said curtly “Too many
ruddy young fools in this country,” and
departed, rod over shoulder, presumably
to look for saner parts.
5^
“Chuck”: Bob ran the truck on to
the road, turned south, and for the first
couple of miles cussed his northern
neighbor for leaving stock on the high-
way. The greedy cow always put his
sheep out soon as there was a green
shoot on the road. Anybody’d think he
owned the damn place-hogging the lot
“ It's improving!”
like that. Good job if his flamin’ jum-
bucks got run over! Bob spent a worry-
ing day in town, being held up till
after dark by a series of mishaps. A
couple of blow-outs a mile out of town
didn’t help either, and his temper was
about worn through by the time he
rounded the home turn on to a mob of
woollies. For a hundred yards he tooted,
dodged, and skidded, as one after another
the sheep made their belated decision to
cross; then, cursing, he trod savagely
on the accelerator. Fourteen bumps he
counted before turning in at the gate.
Well, that’d teach the cow t’ put sheep
out. Bob’s grin faded as he noticed the
bumper. Gripes, he’d have to straighten
that before anyone got suspicious. He
fastened the shed doors carefully, and
was making back to close the gate when
there was a hail from the house. “Don’t
matter ’bout the gate, Bob,” came his
partner’s voice. “Old Thompson took
his sheep in this afternoon, so I hustled
up a big mob of ours ’n shoved ’em out.”
=t= * * *
“M. 8”: Bill and I were running the
big steam pump. There was a good head
of steam on, the safety valve was whis-
pering, the big engine thundering along
evenly, the water surging from the lOin.
delivery and Rowdy, the utility dog, lying
in the shade of the pump-house. Then the
driving belt snapped, and as I jumped for
the throttle and Bill leaped at the damper
the flying belt-end crashed through the
pump-house wall and missed Rowdy by
a whisker. That dog covered 50 yards
under evens, and was still yelling his
surprise and anger at us as we drew the
fire and blew the pressure down. It was
only when we’d calmed down and set
about repairs that we realised Rowdy
thought we’d done it on purpose.
* * * ' *
“Wippegong”: The screen stretched
between two coconut palms is still a
bright landmark when the first fans
arrive for the best seats, but as dusk falls
the crowd thickens, the talk and laughter
rises to a steady rumble, and wan stars
blink through the humid pight. Just be-
fore the pictures start, and you’re idly
looking fhrough the tree-tops, you’ll see
a little lumpy object leap from an upper
branch and hurtle earthwards, but nearing
another tree it pulls sharply - out of its
dive, lands on the trunk and goes
bouncing up the bigger branches till only
a shaking amongst outer leaves tells where
the hunter feeds. A few active minutes
there, and away he plunges again, now
lost for the moment against the deep
shadows low down, now re-appearing as
he bobs upward against the darkening
sky. These sugar squirrels are the dain-
tiest natives in all the islands. Sleeping
the day through, often in the heart of a
palm, they’re easily found by the Fuzzies
and kept- as pets and possible sources of
revenue. Entered a village where a dusky
lass of ten or so wore one in her hair,
but it was promptly snatched therefrom
by her old man, who offered simultane-
ously the squirrel and the information,
“All Australian American give one pound
this one” —the swift collapse of his ex-
pectant grin op realising our sales resis-
tance is a pleasing memory. They’re
easily kept, though, and will tackle most
table pickings. A slice of banana is
always appreciated, but for sheer gastro-
nomic joy watch the little flier’s face as
he crunches and gobbles a big moth.
More than one pilot has kept a squirrel
in his shirt pocket. They’re good com-
pany on long lonely trips, jvhile at the
journey’s end they have had their owners
both flocked by femajes and flung out of
pubs.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”; Incarcerated in a glass jar
I have a diving beetle: a big, handsome
male with hind legs enormously devel-
oped for swimming and two interesting
clasping pads on the foremost pair. Wish-
■ ing to give him something to rest on
• when he came up to renew the air supply
. under his wing covers I put a slice of
. cork, weighted with three nails stuck in
i the under-surface, in his jar. For days
; he has pushed this float around, some-
' times climbing on top, sometimes resting
: underwater while clinging to a nail, often
, driving it around, tugging and heaving
■ at the cork in what seemed to be pure
1 play. Then it occurred to me that the
' beetle’s frolic seemed at times a bit
peevish. Observation proved that the
diver was lighter than water: he could
stay up without effort, but to keep him-
self on the bottom of the jar, where the
soft mud and algae afforded no anchorage
for a gentleman of his size, he had to
swim. To test my theory I dropped a
small stone in the jar. Within ten minutes
the beetle was perched contentedly on the
gibber and, except for breathing pauses,
he’s been there ever since, a living ex-
ample in elementary physics.
“That makes the score four-six
“Passage Pilot”; How did “Creel’’
manage to see only one devil-ray (B.
29/11/ ’44)? Fve never seen fewer than half
a dozen together, and on the move they
are strung out in line astern. I’ve seen
them fight, splashing with the antics of
a couple of Muscovy drakes and keep-
ing up that battle for more than 10 hours.
Fve had the harpoon into one, inches
deep, and pulled out only a bundle of
string and sinews. They’re weird and
harmless, though credulous people believe
they wrap their wings around a swimmer
Or small boat and drag it to the bottom.
*** t *
“Betcha”: As soon as the wireless
plays “Advance, Australia Fair” Barney’s
sorry-looking mong sits up on his end
and howls. No other tune affects him,
not even boogie-woogie stuff, while as
for swing, Fve seen that tripehound
sleep through it. Any explanation from
the Council?
;Jc
“Naturala”: One of my hives being
overfull of drones I placed a trap over the
entrance and soon had a catch of at least
a thousand. After appropriate treatment
I emptied the trap in the chicken-yard,
thinking the population there would dis-
play its usual appetite for any-
thing in thedpsect line. But not
one fowl, from the oldest hen
to the youngest cockerel, showed
any interest, although every one
snaps at any fly within reach.
Evidently the fowl tribe has an
inherited caution which tells
members, however young, that
the bee is dangerous, and this
seemingly applies also to drones,
which, of course, have no stings.
Turkeys seem to be without this
caution, since on being let loose
in the hive garden they at first
make a few snaps at flying bees.
They soon learn better, their
wattled heads rendering them
particularly vulnerable to stings.
But when a flock of young Mus-
covys broke bounds and got
among the hives they gobbled
up every grounded bee, and
picked a few off the landing
boards. They obviously had no
inherited caution, nor were par-
ticularly vulnerable to stings.
Few wild birds attack bees,
though there are some tribes that make
Apis their special prey.
jjc sfc
“B. A. Ker”: Between periods of
house-repairing, fencing, wood-cutting,
odd-jobbing and teaching youth to deliver
a straight left “with the knuckle part of
the glove,” Big Jack had built up a
reputation as an amateur watch-maker.
To see his immense fingers delving into
a wristlet watch scarcely bigger than his
thumb-nail was to marvel. But one
wintry morning I found him staring de-
jectedly at a mess of alarm clock. “Hope-
less, isn’t it?” I asked. He turned to me
like a man with a sorrow and said “Y’
know, I had her pretty good. The main-
spring I took out of that red clock and
the pinion came out of the little one
there; the hairspring was in the silvery
one. I got her keeping c’rect time, but
the alarm hand wouldn’t stay put at five ;
during the night it would always creep
around an hour. Chewing-gum would
have held it, but it didn’t seem profes-
sional-like. Several times I thought I had
it right, but as sure as fate the next morn-
ing the alarm wouldn’t go off before six.
Then for three nights running the alarm
rang on the tick of five. The fourth night
I went to bed thinking of delivering the
finished job in the morning. I woke up
confident that I’d beaten the alarm by
minutes till I saw the dial. Six o’clock!
And that’s when I lost my temper and
pelted the clock against the wall. I was
halfway through my breakfast when the
one o’clock mail whistled at the crossing.
Here, look at those hands.” The light
dawned as I gazed—the clock had
stopped at half-past twelve!
“Pat Ater”: I know the vegetable
called Ulex very well, thanks “Fancar”
(B. 22/11/’44), and grow a double-
flowered beautiful variety, Ewopeus,
which frustrates the bees with its func-
tionless blossoms. Gorse or furze is
papillionaceous, and therefore self-pol-
linating to a full degree. Mendel
chose the pea-flowers for his tests be-
cause their chance of cross-pollination by
insects was so remote. Actually, French
beans, garden and sweet-peas are all
hand-hybridised. To beat self-pollina-
tion of pea-flowers one needs to be
“quick on the draw” with hand-hybridis-
ing or the bloom will do the job itself.
Agreed that many pea-bushes, like the
native Gompholobium (“Golden Pea-
bush”) have apparently adaptable keels
for insect attention, but it’s strange that
the function of reproduction proceeds
without outside aid—-and begets no
hybrids.
* * * *
“Wirebuster”: “Hard Luck” Joe was
out on a desolate stretch of black-soil
country, following a track that was only
two wheel ruts towards the horizon.
He had his waterbag in one hand,
a half-full billy in the other and
his mind made up to stew some
tea should he come across some
timber. But there wasn’t any timber in
sight; the only grass was a continuous
narrow line that grew in either wheel rut.
It was dry and brittle, and in the end,
out of sheer desperation, Joe dumped his
drum and the waterbag, fixed the handle
of the billy to a wire fish spear that he
always carried, applied a match to the
grass of one wheel track and followed the
flame for a mile and a half till the billy
boiled, after which he stamped out the
flame and found he’d forgotten to put
the tea in. But he wasn’t to be beaten.
After a lot of thought he lit the other
wheel track and followed it back the way
he’d come. But the grass in that track
burned so slowly that by the time he
got back to his swag the billy had boiled
dry. It’s things like that that drive a
swaggie to accept work.
SHEMLOCK TRAIN.
I dreamed last night the Sheralock train
Came down its rusting right-o’-way,
Clanging across the mulga plain,
Running against the break of day.
It was a frenzied thing of steel,
Spraying the murk with lurid light,
Rending the hush with siren peal,
ShemTock-bound at dead of night.
Kerbing stones where the streets went down
And pepper-trees in a long straight row,
Are all that’s left of Shemlock town
That flourished fifty years ago.
Poppet-heads on the wind-swept rise
Sentinel each forsaken mine,
And only the flooding moonlight lies
In lanes where lost lamps used to shine.
But reborn of a memory,
Out of the halcyoned yesterday,
The Shemlock train comes back to me
Down its forsaken right-o’-way.
Rending the hush with throttle wide,
Spraying the murk with lurid light,
Ringing across the countryside,
Shemlock-bound at dead of night.
W.A.
JACK SORENSON.


maL
r:
O'
N
a?
X
10"
ME='
PROTECT
Ifcn/A/
*/J 9
'd
The healthy family is the happy family. You can best protect your children by
eliminating the numberless gexms that breed in closet pans . . . the germs of typhoid,
dysentery, hookworm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR will give you just this protection ... and comfort.
It is a completely self-contained sanitary system with modern and sturdily-built pedestal.
Sewage material is chemically transformed into a sterile solution that drains away into
the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS REQUIRED. Unwholesome odors, the embarrass-
ment of emptying, germs, flies, all are banished. Approved by the Board of Health;
thousands in use in homes, offices, hospitals throughout Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVE NAT OR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
SO Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone, 81052.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pam-
phlet on the HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR.
Name
Address
8TN.5.44.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 BRIDGE SYDNEY.
’Phone 81052.
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO. PTY., LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores. Pastoral
Firms, etc.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, OHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
df
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
OnogAS
manpower
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
storekeepers throughout Australia
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Post-war Wool Marketing.
“Outback”: Winton (C.Q.) wool-
growers suggest, for the post-war mar-
keting of wool, continuation of the
present appraisement system, to be
financed by a Commonwealth loan of
£50,000,000. The wool should be appraised
at an average, say, of 14d. per pound,
and the wool then becomes the property
of the board, on which growers should
have majority representation. The price
to be charged for the wool by the board
should be decided after taking into
account the capacity of the manufacturer
and consumer to pay and competition
from other materials.
Any profit made by the board should
be used as follows: One-third towards
repayment of the loan, one-third to
growers and one-third to a capital
account until the board had sufficient
capital, after that to reserves. After the
Government loan was repaid, half the
profit to growers and half to reserves.
Any loss incurred by the board should
be met by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. But if the board had built up
reserves these should be utilised before
calling on the Government. The British
Government should be asked to allow the
board to handle the disposal of its wool
stocks. ♦
An alternative finance scheme agreed
to was one in which woolgrowers in all
Empire countries would form a Wool
Trust, to be capitalised from the proceeds
of wool taken over and sold, the Com-
monwealth Bank to provide the neces-
sary finance during the liquidation and
formation period, which, it was suggested,
might extend over 10 years.
The scheme included the taking of a
ballot of growers with a view to obtain-
ing permission for their share of the
profits on the resale of wool by the
British Government under the present
purchase scheme to be used as the
nucleus of the required fund.
Working Bees.
“Eskdale”: It is easy to cateh and
maintain a hive. Make a box hive
and have it ready. The frames are readily
made with timber from boxes, and stand-
ard size for top bar is 19in. long, bottom
bar 17iin. and end bars 9iin.; width is
|in. and spacing Eight or ten full-
depth frames will be needed for the brood
chamber, and another storey of half-
depth frames can be added later. Honey-
comb may be cut from the shallow frames
during any time of plenty, care being
taken to leave a starting comb along the
top bar for the bees to build on.
Thickness of timber for hive, floor and
cover should be not less than |in. Cover
should fit securely and be roofed with
weatherproof material so , that no water
is let into the hive. A queen cage will
be needed for the transfer. This can be
made of wire gauze, with a plug for the
opening.
To rob the wild bees’ nest, after the
tree is felled, allow some time for the
bees to glut themselves with honey, then
smoke gently through the entrance. Most
will have ceased flying, and the hollow
can be opened without many active.
Remove the combs singly and tie or
fasten with splints all comb with worker
brood into the frames. Drone comb is
recognised by the larger cells and should
be set aside. Get thd bees on to the brood
again to minimise loss of young bees.
They may be driven from the hollow
with smoke, the queen located and caged
and the swarm or clusters shaken or
brushed down into the box. Leave them
until the full swarm has gathered. The
frames and queen cage are inserted in
the permanent hive and the remaining
bees dumped on a bag spread under the
hive entrance ; they will walk in.
After two or three days the colony
should have settled down, and toward
evening the queen may be liberated. A
minimum of smoke and disturbance then
and they should not leave. Put the super
on when the first set of frames are filled.
Combs fitted into one or more frames
will induce the bees to work there.
Laying Baits.
“E. 2”: Carcasses laced with strychnine
while still warm make the best baits for
foxes and dingoes, but any time up to a
few days old will do. Idea is to get the
poison spread through the carcass, which
then an effective bait until the
last vestige of hide disappears. Cut deep
slits into the fleshy parts, and make thi ee
or four incisions into the intestines. Dose
for each is as much as would lie on six-
pence, measured out by tapping the bottle
on the pocket-knife, and mixed well into
the cut. When this is absorbed an equal
measure of baking soda is stirred in.
Rabbit’s liver is an effective bait in
the haunts of dogs and foxes, but they
won’t come for miles as to a carcass.
Poison the liver and bury an inch or two
under the ground beside a track; if not
buried birds may get off with it. Eagles
often carry pieces of poisoned meat for
a mile or so and drop them, so neighbors
within range should always be notified
when there are baits out.
Tick Fever.
“Ccc”: It can decimate a flock of
fowls. Symptoms are droopy tail, mopish-
ness, dark-bluish comb and yellow
diarrhoea. It comes primarily from bite
of infected ticks, later from lice off in-
fected fowls or infects drinking from
communal water.
Isolate all infects and suspects to a cool,
shady spot with plenty of drinking water.
Dose twice daily- with either a teaspoon of
wine or half an aspro crushed in a tea-
spoon of paraffin oil. Give convalescents
a stiff mash.
Remove healthy fowls to sanctuary.
Burn old perches. Spray house with a
gallon of hot soapy water containing a
teaspoon of lysoL Hang clean, smooth
wood or, better still, iron perches by this
tick-proof method; Thread a small funnel
(bottle necks are excellent) on the wire
supports, plug it with cork or oily rag,
fill with sump-oil and kero., smear perches
with oily rag? 5 Faintly pink all drinking
water with condys (permanganate of
potash).
Summer Dairy Crops.
“Pat Ater”; In the comparatively
mild climate of Robertson-Moss Vale
(N.S.W.) dairying country Jap millet is
well established as a quick-growing and
readily-cropped greenstuff. With many
it takes the place of maize ; though the
latter is extensively grown and used as
bulk fodder or for silage. Farmers use
the green crops in this way to supple-
ment improved pastures which see them
through winter to autumn.
Jap millet is a high milk producer and
suits all classes of stock. It will provide
green crops from late spring (if sown
early) till autumn and is invaluable for
warm coastal belts and coastal uplands.
Good deep soil suits it best and a
dressing of super, of lewt. to the acre at
sowing induces strong root action.
Grain sorghum is good for summer
sowing from the coast to inland areas.
It is easily grown and cheaply harvested
and with good summer rains heavy yields
can be expected. There is a guaranteed
price by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to growers of seed, at 3s. 7d. per
bushel. Last year Darling Downs
growers got as much as 90 to 100 bushels
to the acre.
Even at half that yield, in normal
seasons it will pay handsomely to grow
sorghum for grain. Best varieties are
Wheatland Milo, Kalo and Hegari. Sweet
sorghums such as Saccaline, White Afri-
can, Early Orange and Imphee are not
acceptable.
Avoid land infested with noxious weeds
and dust all seed before sowing with one
of the proprietary dusts. Dry inland
areas need to make a heavier sowing of
31b. to the acre, with the rows only 3ft.
apart, to obtain comparable results. Milo
and Kalo are the varieties recommended
for drier districts.
Fistula in Horses.
“J.R.D.”: The swelling, which usually
shows up in front of the shoulder blades,
may not be noticed for some time if tfie
horse has a long mane. First indications
may be through stumbling or general
stiffness in the forequarter. If possible
call in a vet.
Most common type of fistula shows up
as a swelling which eventually breaks
out just in front of the wither. The
swelling should be brought to a head by
hot fomentations, and if it has to be
treated surgically use clean, sterilised
knives. The wound must be kept open
until the sac has been completely drained.
It may be necessary to drain from the
bottom of the sac by the use of a seton.
Treatment may not be worthwhile
unless the horse is a valuable one. Points
that have to be considered are (1) the
horse cannot be worked for about six
months, (2) it will require treatment
during that time involving considerable
time and expense, (3) the danger of in-
fection to other animals is considerable,
particularly where the germ of contagious
abortion is present. The sick horse
would have to be isolated and treated
regularly and all discharge destroyed by
burning. Even after it has recovered
fistula frequently recurs.
Treatment with sulphanilamide has
given good results but the powder should
be given as a ball or , a drench only as
prescribed by a vet. The cavity may be
treated by packing with sulphanilamide.
Sometimes diseased bone is at the root of
the infection and treatment may never be
thoroughly successful. Some old-fash-
ioned remedies, like treating the wound
with chemicals of a corrosive nature and
inflicting tremendous suffering on the
animal, should be avoided.
Hints for the Farm.
“Watchem”: Ridge- or strip-ploughing
is holding soil on the farm of A. Barbary,
Woomelang (Vic.), winner of Karkarooc-
Wycheproof section of the soil drift con-
trol competition for 1942-43. Barbary
had a 200-acre paddock drifting badly in
1940-41. Using a 3-furrow plough from
which the outside mouldboards had been
removed, he ploughed deep furrows a
chain apart at right angles to the prevail-
ing wind. The drift was arrested. How-
ever, the paddock showed signs of
movement again the next year. Barbary
ploughed this time between the previous
furrows. Erosion was stopped and the
area, subsequently sown with Bencubbin
and Baldmin, yielded eight bags to the
acre.
“Myrrhee”: Band apples and pears
now for codlin moth and examine every
ten days or so while fruit is on the trees.
Keep cover such as loose bark and rub-
bish away from butts and forks. Bands
are made from old sacks cut into strips
2in. or 3in. wide and long enough to go
round the trunk and slightly overlap.
A- single thickness of bag is sufficient.
After the fruit season remove the bands,
which may harbor other pests, such as
red spider.
“Bennie”: When using fertilisers with
squashes and melons see that they don’t
touch the seeds when first planted. A
safe method is to lay the seed on the top
of the rich soil and cover with poorer
soil.
“Myrrhee”: Nests of the large meat-
ant can be destroyed by pouring an egg-
cupful of carbon disulphide down each of
the openings. Another way is to drive
a crowbar into the centre of the nest 9in.
to 12in. deep and pour in half-pint of
carbon disulphide for a nest up to 4ft.
in diameter, or one pint for one 4ft. to
6ft. in diameter. Then close the hole to
keep the gas in. Carbon disulphide is
inflammable and poisonous, and needs
the same precautions as for petrol.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Robot Bombs and the Future.
(From a report by the “Christian Science
Monitor” Washington correspondent.)
There are two destructive effects of
robot bombs. One is the obvious fact
that they are so devastating. Suppose we
make a botch of this new peace as we
did of the last one, and Europe starts re-
arming. Every antagonistic nation will
set up robot installations directed at the
principal cities of its rival. It can’t help
itself, any more than it could help build-
ing tanks, ’planes and warships. But this
time the armament race is far more ter-
rible. This time by the mere pressure of
a finger on a push-button a flight of these
robots can be released that will wipe out
a whole city.
That ,is bad enough, but the second
destructive effect is even worse. People
haven’t seemed to grasp this yet. As
long as you know your neighbor country
is arming with these new robots —arma-
ment automata —you can have no secu-
rity. No city can sleep soundly at night
that knows these things are silently
pointed at it across enemy borders.
Think of the new emotional strain that
will follow any diplomatic crisis of the
future!
A surprise Pearl Harbor was bad
enough when conducted by ’planes over
hundreds of miles of sea. But im-
agine the close-packed cities of Europe
made vulnerable to this new weapon,
with its ever-increasing potential range
and destructiveness. What politician in
Europe can, at the height of an inter-
national quarrel, take responsibility for
delaying the release of these things, when
his own cities may be crushed by the
other nation’s surprise attack? Can
people wait for a formal declaration of
war any longer when surprise may mean
annihilation?
If an international fire-alarm system to
prevent future conflagrations by aggressor
States is to be worth anything, it must
act quickly. Robots don’t wait. If the
peace agency can’t move fast it is hardly
worth moving at all. Yet there are
members of the U.S. Congress who are
already attacking the Dumbarton Oaks
proposals because they would commit the
United States to fast action without long
Senatorial debates in each case!
Jews in the Wehrmacht.
(From a U.S. Associated Press report.)
A Jewish Army chaplain told how
Jewish members of Hitler’s Wehrmacht,
newly arrived at Fort Custer (U.S.A.)
prisoner of war camp, exercised their
newly-found freedom by requesting Jew-
ish prayer books, Jewish scriptures and
Mezuzahs, even before putting aside their
German Army uniforms for captive
garb.
Chaplain Perley said he was “flabber-
gasted” when he received a call from
the director of the prisoners’ camp ask-
ing him to visit a group of Jewish cap-
tives who had just arrived. There were
about 20 in the group.
“Most of them, I found,” said Chap-
lain Perley, “were half-Jews, and only
one of them was a full Jew. Some had
apparently spent months in German con-
centration camps, but when the man-
power shortage in Germany became acute
they were drafted into Nazi labor bat-
talions. D-Day found them in Nor-
mandy working on fortifications.”
According to camp officials, when,, the
beachhead was established and the Allies
started their advance along the Nor-
mandy peninsula, these men were issued
uniforms, arms and ammunition and ab-
sorbed into the German Army.
Chaplain Perley said “Ministering to
German prisoners of war was the last
thing I ever expected to be called upon
to do as a Jewish chaplain in the United
States Army.”
Occupying Japan.
(From N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”')
Difficulties facing the United States in
the military occupation of Japan go
beyond anything likely to be encountered
in Europe.
The complexity of the Japanese lan-
guage is only the first of them. The
fundamental problem is the contrast be-
tween Western and Japanese culture,
which will not be easily overcome even
by the ablest and best informed of the
second lieutenants* majors and colonels
who will receive assignments as adminis-
trators.
The difficulties are discussed by John
F. Embree in the current “Far Eastern
Survey.” He points out, as examples, that
the Japanese resent rude and domineer-
ing behavior to the point that it can lead
to assassinations and doorstep suicides.
that they use go-betweens in situations
which cause embarrassment to negotia-
tors, and that individuals in Japan strive
so hard to avoid personal responsibility
that committees are more useful in vari-
ous circumstances than individuals.
Competent American executives have
been known to be rude, usually see only
a waste of time in the use of go-betweens
and are scornful of committees as instru-
ments for getting jobs done. Men who
have fixed attitudes of this sort probably
could maintain military rule in Japan,
provided that they had enough well-
armed men under their orders and blood-
letting was not frowned upon; but a
better solution would be to select admin-
istrators with extreme care and to give
them thorough training not only in lan-
guage but in the customs and beliefs of
the Japanese.
Any other course would have disas-
trous results in Japan, and would have
repercussions in other Oriental countries,
in which some of the customs and modes
of thought are not unlike those in the
Japanese islands.
Passing History.
[The last days of Mussolini, as reported in
the “Reader’s Digest” by George Kent, who
had his information from Dino Grandi, and
other members of the Italian Grand Council.]
When Mussolini and Hitler met in the village
of Feltre in northern Italy on July 19—the day
the Allies first bombed Rome from the air—
dei' Fiihrer made it plain to il Duce that the
Nazi-Fascist honeymoon was ended, and the
German High Command was taking over in
Italy in name as well as fact. Furthermore,
he said, unless Mussolini got tough and
aroused his people to whole-hearted support
of the war he would be replaced by someone
who would. Altogether an unpleasant conversa-
tion.
On Wednesday, July 21,* back in Rome,
Mussolini astonished the inner circle by calling
a meeting of the Fascist Grand Council for
the following Saturday. No such meeting had
been held for more than three years. But il
Dace’s reason was obvious. He had a harsh
pill to feed Italy—the loss of Italian sovereignty
—and needed all possible support.
For two years Dino Grandi had brooded over
the disaster which was overwhelming his
country. There was only one way out: Italy
must quit before it was too late. And Italy
would never quit as long as Mussolini held
power. Mussolini must go.
On Thursday, July 22, Grandi decided to
tell Mussolini that he was going to ask the
Council to oust him. How much courage this
took only those who had lived for years under
a Fascist regime can understand. To act before
the Council was one thing; to warn il Duce
two days in advance was suicidal. Mussolini
agreed to see him, allotting him 15 minutes.
Grandi, whose voice is soft, began by remind-
ing il Duce of a statement Mussolini had once
made: “Let all parties perish, ours along with
the others, so long as our country is safe.”
Grandi told him the country was in danger, that
it was il Duce’s duty to return the command of
the armies to the King, so that peace could be
made.
Grandi stayed an hour and a half. Finally
il Duce arose and said, “We will see.” The
interview was over.
At home, Grandi went through the list of
members of the Grand Council, and checked six
whose goodwill could be depended on in the
crisis. That evening he visited them, discover-
ing that those half dozen would support his
attack on Mussolini. All that evening and the
next day they talked, while men of Mussolini’s
secret police watched from the shadows. At
any moment bullets might put an end to their
conversations, but they had come to the point
where their honor as patriots was more impor-
tant than living.
Saturday afternoon, at five o’clock, cars con-
taining the members of the Grand Council
pulled up before the Palazzo Venezia. In the
courtyard, usually empty except for a guard
or two, stood a battalion of helmeted Fascist
militia, armed with rifles and machine-guns—
a gentle warning.
The balcony room of the Palazzo adjoins
Mussolini’s offices. It is a long room, hung
with tapestries and old masters and lighted by
a beautiful Renaissance chandelier. At one
end is a thronelike seat, the place of il Duce;
facing it, a wide semicircle of chairs.
Before sitting down all raised their arms in
the Fascist salute —and the Fascist Grand
Council was in session. Mussolini spoke first,
for about an hour, on the conduct of the war,
placing blame for defeat on the military leaders.
Old Marshal de Bono, who had lost his com-
mand in the Ethiopian campaign, objected.
Others spoke, and the discussion went on for
another hour.
A little after seven Grandi remarked that the
Council was a civil group and not qualified to
discuss military matters. Then, turning to
Mussolini, he said, “What I am about to say
you already know, because I told it to you two
days ago.” Grandi spoke for over an hour,
urging that Mussolini had outlived his useful-
ness, and that the command of the armies be
restored to the King.
Then he drew from his pocket a copy of a
motion directing that government by Parliament
be restored and that Mussolini be instructed to
ask the King to assume, under Article Five
of the Constitution, “all supreme initiative of
decision.”
Having read the motion, Grandi uttered a
word which in that room was revolutionary:
“Votare,” which means “Let us vote.” In
more than 20 years of Grand Council meetings
no member had ever voted. “Votare I’’ said
Grandi again, and sat down.
The Council had been in session four hours.
Because Mussolini didn’t smoke no one else
did. No one drank or ate anything. There
was nothing to relieve the tension. Mussolini
had counted on angry speeches, denunciation,
but here was a document, a demand for a vote.
He leaned sideways in his chair, his lips work-
ing, passing a pencil back and forth between
his hands. In the halls immediately outside
the room and at the doors about 60 men stood
with fixed bayonets. These men, the toughest
in Italy, were the Moschettieri del Duce —
Musketeers of the Duce. They were pledged
to support Mussolini to the death, and obeyed
only him. A word from the man on the
throne and Grandi and his supporters would
speak no more.
But nothing happened. Then Federzoni,
president of the Royal Academy, compared
this war with the last, to the detriment of
Mussolini. Bottai, who had run the trade
unions, told of the workmen’s dissatisfaction.
Di Marsico, Minister of Justice, attacked from
the legdf point of view. De Stefani, former
Minister of Finance, dwelt upon the war’s
economic havoc.
Count Ciano, Mussolini’s son-in-law, one
of the few who knew Grandi’s plans be-
forehand, supported Grandi courageously. He
addressed the Council, charging that Mussolini’s
blind passion for martial glory had made him
lead Italy into war without consultation with
the Council, and against Ciano’s advice. This
despite the known serious shortages of many
types of armament.
Mussolini shouted, “The moment you entered
my house there entered treason!”
Hien the supporters of Mussolini took the
floor and the talk went on four hours more.
Finally Mussolini arose, said that nothing was
being accomplished, that it was getting late,
and declared the meeting adjourned.
Grandi sprang up. What did time matter?
he said. At this moment Italian soldiers are
fighting and dying on battlefields in Sicily. Why
be disturbed over the loss of a few hours?
Let us work out a solution.
The meeting continued. Mussolini began
to speak. His face was grey and, in the words
of one of the members, his voice had the
savagery of a wounded lion. He defended his
dictatorship and the Axis pact. It was too late
to think of turning back, he said; Italy must
stay in the war. His conscience was clear. The
people were with him to a man.
Grandi asked Mussolini to tell them what
Hitler had told him. Mussolini refused, but
assured the Council, that victory was inevitable.
“Words, only words!” shouted Grandi. “We
know you asked for 3000 ’planes. He offered
you 300.”
Farianacci, one-time secretary of the Fascist
party, defended the Duce and, in a long speech
praising Hitler and Germany asked the Council
to vote its allegiance. Then Scorza, secretary
of the party, introduced a motion which was
substantially a vote of confidence for M usso "
link It declared that all who opposed the dic-
tatorship and the war were subject to the charge
of treason.
Yes, it was treason, shouted Farinacci, and
asked punishment for all who had a “demo-
cratic mentality.” Galbiati, who commanded the
militia, said, “My troops will know how to
deal with you who have raised your voices to-
night.” And Tringari Casanova, the prose-
cutor, shouted, “Remember, you ate playing
with your heads!”
The meeting was now swinging in. Musso-
lini’s direction. Three members who had pre-
viously indicated their approval of Grandi
arose to say that they had been mistaken.
It was now about four o’clock an the morn-
ing. The room was filled with a low-pitched,
murderous excitement. From below came the
thud of gun butts struck against cobbles as
guards were relieved. Anything might happen.
Grandi, weary but his head held high, arose
and stood for a moment in silence. Then he
said, “We don’t care what happens to us.
It is our solemn duty to see that this motion
is acted upon. Votare!”
Pareschi, the Minister of Agriculture, fainted.
He came to, weeping, and saying, “It’s hor-
rible, these attacks on il Duce.” Later he
voted with Grandi —and was executed.
Mussolini, staring into Grandi’s eyes, spoke
in a strangely dry, menacing voice. “The King
will support me in ail I have done,” he said.
“When I tell him what happened tonight he
will say, ‘They have betrayed you.’ ”
Grandi, implacable, arose again. “Let us
vote,” he said. “Va bene” said il Duce.
“Very well.”
The voting began. Each man arose and
spoke his vote aloud. The first, Scorza, said
in a clear voice, “No.” Then he sat down and,
as secretary of the party, began recording the
votes. The president of the Senate was next.
He said, “I abstain.” Old De Bono, who hated
the Duce, got up stiffly and said, “I vote yes.”
Grandi followed. Then Bottai stood to utter
another yes.
The evening’s debate had been largely among
a dozen men. The others would decide the out-
come. The room was stark with suspense.
Most of the silent ones voted for the Grandi
motion. At last it was over. The count was
19 to 7. Mussolini was finished. The Duce
arose from his throne slowly and without a
word or a glance walked with stiff strides
to the end of the long room and vanished
through the door.
Grandi went to inform the chief of the King’s
household what had happened, giving him a
copy of the signed document for His Majesty.
Mussolini started his last day distributing
prizes at an agricultural school ceremony,
attempting to create a “business-as-usual” atmo-
sphere.
In the palace the King waited for Mussolini
to appear of his own accord. At five o’clock,
when il Duce bad failed to come, the King sent
for him. Mussolini began talking of plans
for the future. The King said, “The Council
has voted. You no longer have a share in
Italy’s future. I will accept your resignation.”
Mussolini stormed out, asking a porter at the
door, “Where’s my car?” Then an ambulance
drove up and carried him off. The fallen dic-
tator left Rome for all time.
* * * *
(Complete text of the Roosevelt-Churchill
statement on Italy.)
“The Italian people, freed of their Fascist
and Nazi overlordship, have in these last 12
months demonstrated their will to be free, to
fight on the side of the Democracies, and to
take a place among the United Nations devoted
to principles of peace and justice.
“We believe we should give encouragement to
those Italians who are standing for a political
rebirth in Italy, and are completing the destruc-
tion of the evil fascist system. We wish to
afford the Italians a greater opportunity to aid
in the defeat of our common enemies.
“The American and the British people are,
of course, horrified by the recent mob action in
Rome, but feel that a greater responsibility
placed on the Italian people and on their own
Government will most readily prevent a recur-
rence of such acts.'
“An increasing measure of control will be
gradually handed over to the Italian Adminis-
tration, subject, of course, to that Admin sir a-
tion’s proving that it can maintain law and order
and the regular administration of justice. To
mark this change the Allied Control Commis-
sion will be renamed the ‘Allied Commission.
“The British High Commissioner in Italy
will assume the additional title of Ambassador.
The United States representative in Rome
already holds that rank. The Italian Govern-
ment will be invited to appoint' direct repre-
sentatives to Washington and London.
“First and immediate considerations in Italy
are the relief of hunger and sickness and fear.
To this end we instructed our representatives
at the U.N.R.R.A. [United Nations Relief and
Rehabilitation Administration] conference to
declare for the sending of medical aids and other
essential supplies to Italy. We are happy to
know that this view commended itself to
other members of the U.N.R.R.A. Council.
“At the same time, first steps should be taken
toward the reconstruction of an Italian eco-
White House War Department
Plans for demobilising part of the
U.S. Army after the defeat of Ger-
many contemplate release of about
2,000,000 immediately after an
armistice. The Army will set up a
point system, men with highest
points to be retired. Points will be
thus calculated: For each month in
service, one point; each month
overseas, one additional point; each
battle honor, four points; Congres-
sional Medal or Legion of Merit,
four points; each bronze star for
service in battle, four points; for
each child, eight points; married
men without children, eight points.
Since there will be greater need for
airmen in the Pacific, a separate
system will be set up for Air Corps
veterans. The Navy has no ‘plan to
release men. It is proposed to police
parts of Europe by using men who
like the Army, plus professionals
in before the draft and men with
no overseas experience who want
to volunteer. — N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
nomy—an economy laid low under the years
of the misrule of Mussolini and ravished by the
German policy of vengeful destruction.
“These steps should be taken primarily as
military aims to put the full resources of Italy
and the Italian people into the struggle to de-
feat Germany and Japan. For military reasons
we should assist the Italians in the restoration
of such power systems, their railways, motor
transport, roads and other communications, as
enter into the war situation, and for a short
time send engineers, technicians and industrial
experts into Italy to help them in their own re-
habilitation.
“The application to Italy of the Trading
with the Enemy Acts should be modified so as
to enable business contacts between Italy and
the outside world to be resumed for the benefit
of the Italian people.
“We all wish to speed the day when the last
vestiges of fascism in Italy will have been
wiped out, and when the last German will have
left Italian soil, and when there will be no
need of any Allied troops to remain—the day
when free elections can be held throughout
Italy, and when Italy can earn her proper place
in the great family of free nations.”
England for Ever!
(As seen by the American correspondent Lewis
Gannett, writing from London in N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”)
The letter columns of the “Times” are
as cherished a British institution as Sun-
day debates on Hyde Park Corner, the
House of Parliament or London Bridge.
And what is England writing about in
these dramatic war weeks, as the heart
of England, is recorded in the right-hand
side of the old Thunderer’s editorial page.
Not about flying-bombs in London.
The question whether cats or dogs have
been the more favored in homage paid
by literature to animals was hotly dis-
cussed for a time; a cat-loving corre-
spondent proudly recalled that it was the
death by drowning of Walpole’s cat
while goldfishing in an Oriental china
cistern which inspired Gray to write a
famous ode.
An inspiration to English letter-writers
was a dispute whether the Australian
Jones had actually bowled a ball through
the great W. G. Grace’s beard during a
cricket match played in 1896, One corre-
spondent, adduced photographs which
showed that in 1896 the beard was not
bushy enough. Mr. Arthur Porham, of
Great Ramsgate, who had collaborated
with “W.G.” on a book about cricket in
1899, said he had never heard “W.G.”
mention the incident, and was sure he
would have had it occurred. Incidentally,
he suggested that “W.G.” disliked fast
bowling, which produced an angry flood


■v i
mm
The World follows Brifain s lead
wuiLi. -ij/i i y - jt^apß
r!U *. vloo
Mifel'-
US
9 S
i f -* l ' ■||f / *>-±S»S
rvv^>T2i.^a
RAILWAY TRANSPORT
RAILWAY locomotives, which have hauled the major portion
of the world’s land traffic for the best part of a century,
were invented in Britain, and British steam trains are still the
fastest and safest in the world.
Not least among the many other discoveries and inventions for
which the world owes a debt to Britain is the development of
rayon by the firm of Courtaulds. It is almost entirely due to the
enterprise shown by Courtaulds that the, development of rayon
has advanced with such giant strides. The pioneer work done by
this British firm has been the means of creating a vast industry in
England, the United States and other countries.
Today, rayon has won universal acceptance and admiration. As
a factor in raising standards of life and comfort, Courtaulds
rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from it, deserve a prominent
place in the regard of all nations. The necessities of the war
have restricted the available supply of Courtaulds rayons. But
when victory is won, the results of unceasing research and experi-
ment during the war years can be translated into even more
beautiful and more versatile rayon materials.
In the post-war years the British Commonwealth will demonstrate
that in the future, as in the past, British brains and industry can
guide the world towards fresh achievements for the well-being
and happiness of the human race. To this great ideal the firm of
Courtaulds dedicates its vast store of technical skill and experience.
GEORGE
STEPHENSON.
Born 1781. Pioneer of
railway locomotion.
His famous engine
“The Rocket” made
history in 1829 by
pulling a train at a
speed of 29 miles per
hour.
The World's greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics
distributed overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd.
:
H
~ - -T -
3?^
C--' .----:-
'v- -
'c*r- -
Another Epic
War Transport
Feat by “Qantas
To re-forge the link between Australia, India,
Burma, Middle East and Great Britain a regular
air service has been established across the Indian
Ocean. “Qantas” personnel fly high priority pas-
sengers, freight and airgraph mails on the world’s
longest regular non-stop service, in-
volving a single flight of over 3,500 miles.
<^s
AIRWAYS
EMPIRE
TOWNSVILLE
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MEL B 0 U
of refutation. The controversy is still
raging.
Beards also figure in the debate about
the coat of arms prepared for Princess
Elizabeth by the College of Heralds.
These arms include a beardless unicorn,
and erudite scholars from all over the
United Kingdom are wrangling pro and
con the question whether the best uni-
corns wear beards.
Meanwhile the usual British debate
about good English weaves its way through
the letter columns. One correspondent
having suggested that the war word
“directive” was an importation from
across the Channel, C. F. Strickland, of
Oxford, wrote that it obviously came
from across the - ocean. He suggested
“that editors should issue an instructive
to their staffs to avoid the use of this
expressive except in quotatives from other
languages.”
That’s England in war-time. Writers
to the “Times” trudge sturdily along, pre-
occupied with great questions which have
preoccupied England for generations.
They want to keep the record of the past
straight in the present and of the present
in the future. The war goes, and letter-
writers carry on the proud British tradi-
tion of colorful indignation about every
little thing under the sun.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
A year ago there was talk of Mr. Churchill
being given a dukedom, like his illustrious fore-
bear, Marlborough, and his retirement. Today
few in England believe that will happen. He
is too much of a fighter voluntarily to withdraw
from battle and, fearing defeat without him,
the Tories would not let him retire. — N.Y.
“World-T elegram.”
* * * *
Many of the Dover people who have had to
live in the old caves for the past four years
to escape the shelling from across the Channel
are still there today because, like London bomb
victims, they have no other home. In these
caves below the chalk cliffs they have sleeping
accommodation, food, medical aid, electric
lights and water. There are few buildings in
Dover that escaped harm. All public build-
ings were damaged to some extent, and the
city’s two hospitals were hit. Because of the
adequate shelter casualties were kept to 107
killed, 200 injured seriously and 221 slightly
injured from shells. The death rate was one-
in-sixteen shells. Bombs killed 109 and injured
144. It was estimated that the total number
of shells dropped on Dover was 2226. They
damaged 1200 buildings.— N.Y. “Times.”
Last year at Quebec all drinks were on the
Canadian Government. But there was a scandal
when the liquor bill for the conference ran to
$40,000. So this year conference Scotch-and-
soda cost newsmen 25c. each— Drew. Pearson;
N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
“Prior to the announcement of the Morgen-
thau plan to reduce Germany to an agricul-
tural nation stripped of all industry the Ger-
mans were surrendering in droves; now they are
fighting like demons. The announcement of
this poorly conceived plan played directly into
the bloody purposes of Hitler and Goebbels.
It has cost and will continue to cost us a fright-
ful loss of life.” — U.S. Senator Johnson ( Dem .)
* * * *
The engine which drove the buzz-bombs to
London evidently has been abandoned for the
V-3. The buzz-bomb draws its oxygen from
the air outside and flies low. V-3 is said to
start almost straight up, like a long-range artil-
lery shell. The expected altitude of a V-3 tra-
jectory would carry it to a point where it could
not efficiently suck oxygen from the air. Hence
it seems to be designed as a true rocket, which
carries its oxygen in its fuel. The take-off
weight of V-3 is 14 tons. Much of this may
be fuel. It has an explosive radius of three
kilometres, or almost two miles. But the
words “explosive radius” do not necessarily
mean very wide destructive power. The absorb-
ing power of air is tremendous. At a distance
the air waves are able to do considerable
damage to structures which happen to be situ-
ated just right, but the lethal power is long
gone.— U.S. Associated Press.
* * * *
From D-day fo the end of September men
of the French Commandos carried out 210 mili-
tary missions with negligible losses. The
organisation numbers only a few hundred and
is furnished with American equipment. The
members were trained in American Ranger
schools. The organisation was formed this year,
when 50 volunteers were asked for, and within
a week 1500 applications were received. All
members of the original group were Frenchmen
who escaped by devious ways. Among the most
conspicuously successful of the commandos are
a priest from Bayonne, several lawyers and a
chemist from Paris, a former Marseilles butcher
and two internationally-known Rugby players.
They were trained as parachutists in Egypt,
then learned mountain-climbing in North Africa.
For the great adventure —the return of French
armies to French soil—they crossed the Mediter-
ranean in a sailboat loadccj to the gunwales
with high explosives. Six hours before H-hour
on D-day they swarmed ashore at St. Tropez
on the Riviera coast, and since that time they
have fought six engagements as infantrymen,
discovered and helped to silence 100 German
batteries and smoothed the way for the Allies’
armies in a dozen different ways.— N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” war correspondent.
jjc
Most of Belgium’s important cities and in-
dustrial installations have been captured almost
unharmed. Moreover, the food situation inside
the liberated country proved to be —at least tem-
porarily—'better than could be expected. The
Allies found not only large stocks of Belgian
products but also quantities of French food
Egon Kaskeline; “Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
There is already in existence a trend on the
part of a considerable body of opinion in the
United States toward the belief that it is a
part of the job of the American people to see
to it that Governments satisfactory to our-
selves must be installed in every nation of the
world. That road, of course, leads straight
to intervention in the domestic concerns of all
peoples. It is a road which, if pursued, would
utterly disrupt the structure of the inter-Ameri-
can system of the Western Hemisphere, with
disastrous results to the vital interests of every
one of the American republics. If is a road
which can end only in the ultimate assertion
of hegemony by the most powerful nations
over the smaller countries within their “sphere
of influence.” It is a doctrine which is utterly
at variance with the theory of the equality
of sovereignty of all nations, great and small.
—Former U.S. Under-Secretary of State Sumner
Welles.
* * * *
The lessons of the last decade must have
made plain to everyone how close the connec-
tion is between a free press and peace, as well
as between a controlled press and war. It is
obvious that no future German or Japanese
Government should be allowed again to sup-
press a free press and free radio and to sub-
stitute official lies and hatred directed against
the rest of the world. But a more difficult
problem is suggested by the case of France,
where the new regime has already adopted a
press law providing for the sequestration of any
newspaper published in France during the Ger-
man occupation and virtually requiring any
paper subsequently published in liberated France
to support the De Gaulle Administration; a
similar law provides for control over the radio.
Surely care must be taken to see that such
regulations are only of the most temporary
nature. What, again, of the problem of Russia,
where the newspapers are owned by the Gov-
ernment and cannot be anything else than its
mouthpieces?— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
If there exists a man so dense as not to
know the spiritual value of France to our
civilisation as a centre of science, art and every
form of culture, as a torchbearer of liberty,
and as an exponent of widespread, true comfort
enjoyed in the beauty of family life, that man
must at least, if he is capable of understanding
the most obvious Wessons of this war, realise
the practical importance of France to Britain.
Because France was overrun by Germany we
risked, and escaped by a mere hair’s breadth,
being destroyed from airfields and submarine
bases in France. Because France went down in
the East all our Eastern Empire was put in
mortal jeopardy to Japan. Without the liberation
of France we could never hope to deal a death-
blow to the aggressive might of Germany.
Without France as our ally in the future we
can never hope to contain Germany or to secure
peace in Europe.— Sir John Pollock; London
“Contemporary Review.”
* * * *
“A world organisation based upon the com-
plete and equal sovereignty of all States, great
and small, is nothing more than alliance of all
the nations of the world and should be repre-
sented as such and as nothing more. It has no
more power than the individual members choose
of their own free will to put into it on any
given occasion.” — Former British War Minister
Hore-Belisha.
* * * *
The French Committee of National Resistance
was asked whether they could, by sabotage on
the German communications, delay Rommel's
transport by six hours. When our landings took
place, their action delayed it by from three to
three-and-a-half days. Some German divi-
sions that started off to reinforce the Atlantic
wall never arrived at all. One motorised divi-
sion from the Ardennes, after three days of
travelling by rail, found itself still south of
Paris. It then gave up the train and took to
the road, only to be bombed in transit at every
point by the R.A.F. on information given by
Resistance agents. Two S.S. divisions were held
up till the first critical phase was past. An-
other division from Soissons also. The motor-
ised division which was stretched out from Bor-
deaux to Toulouse left for Normandy. After
repeated forced halt's the infantry arrived, but
the vehicles never turned up.— -Sir John Pollock;
London “Contemporary Review.”
* * * *
It must have been only after the gravest
soul-searching that the Governments of Switzer-
land and Sweden made such a revolutionary
break with the past as to announce that right of
asylum will not be granted to war criminals.
Asylum is a right that has been recognised for
centuries. But the crimes of the Nazi and
Fascist leaders are so monstrous, the Swiss
and the Swedes say, in effect, that even a com-
passion as old as time is not a broad enough
cloak to cover them. Penned behind a con-
tracting wall of blood and iron that shrinks by
the hour, it is little wonder that these evil men
order their hapless followers to stand and die.
Even history is made sick. They have created
a hell on earth. Now they must live in it until
they meet their fate. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Germany is too large to be a moral leper
colony in the midst of Europe. The alien
schoolmaster cannot re-educate it. The alien
policeman cannot forever patrol its streets.
The victor cannot forever sit on its head. He’ll
get tired. The alien social worker cannot con-
tinually visit the homes. There’s the problem;
and the forces which are closing in have many
ideas, none of which seems to offer a solution.
No doubt for ten or twenty years peace can be
imposed. Beyond such a period are new person-
alities in government, new national desires and
designs, and probably new animosities, new
alarms and new sympathies. The best the
present can do for the future is not to lay a
powder train to a magazine of explosives.—
Chicago “Tribune.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
HERMAN OTTO SCHULZ, formerly of Nhill, Vic-
toria, or his children, will hear to their advantage
by writing to TRUMBLB & PALMER, Solicitors,
Nhill. .
WOULD WILLIAM CHARLES, husband of Eliza-
beth Charles, formerly of Warwick, Queensland,
and believed to have resided at 48 Ocean Beach,
Manly, New South Wales in about the year 1939 or
any person knowing his present whereabouts please
communicate with MESSIEURS FREDERIC B.
HEMMING & HALL, Solicitors, Box 1133 P, G.P.O.
Brisbane.
Public Notice.
I, DOMENICO LA ROSA, of Italian nationality,
born at Terra Nova Sappo Minulio, in the Province
of Reggio Calabria, Italy, and resident nine years
in Australia, and now residing at 441 Alfred Street,
North Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Ant -rogiii.Rfi.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
!
ACTS
LIKE THE HflllO
tine in its cavity.
W rite To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lL), 343 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
sdf
STRONGER.
LIGHTER ...LONCER-LAS TING
*
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
A
CASE S
8
Inhen the specification calls for
STEEL
SHEETS
000 call
ARMCO
HEREVER steel sheets of any kind
are required for your manufacturing pro-
gramme get in touch with Armco (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd. Whether you require Stainless
Steel, Deep Drawing Sheet Steel for all
types of pressings, Sheets for Electrical
Work, Bright Steel Strips, or Black Sheets,
you’ll find that Armco (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
caters for all your needs.
STAINLESS STEEL
ELECTRICAL STEEL
DEEP DRAWING STEEL
(for pressings)
BRIGHT STEEL STRIP
BLACK SHEETS
ARMCO W
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE
!«
:x
I
M
i
s*p
,y -
>. •■■
55658
years’ reputation for quality
CRAVEN A"
10 FOR 1/1 20 FOR 2/2
Save your money to save your Freedom.
Invest in War Savings Certificates.
Our Service Department.
Wants.
To buy Paterson’s The Animals Noah Forgot.
—3556.
To buy collected works of “Banjo” Paterson
and volume containing poem “Sweenie.” —3557.
To buy Modern Gas and Electric Refrigera-
tion, by Althouse and Turnquist.—3ssB.
To buy Tom Collins’s Such Is Life. —3559.
To buy a George 111 shilling and an 1887
sixpence.—3s6o.
Information Sought.
(1) A tenant of mine in N. S. Wales, although
given notice to quit, has refused to leave and
continues to pay his rent. Am I still compelled
to keep the house in repair? (2) He has since
installed a racing dog on the premises. Can I
make any additional charge for the dog, or (3)
force him to leave for bringing it in?
(1) Yes. (2) No. (3) Not unless you can
prove that he has been guilty of conduct which
is a nuisance or annoyance to neighbors.
Is a banker compelled to observe the direc-
tions on a crossed cheque ?
The Bills of Exchange Act 1909-36 provides
that if a banker pays a cheque crossed gener-
ally otherwise than to a banker, or if crossed
specially pays it otherwise than to the banker
to whom it is crossed or his agent for collection,
being a banker, such banker is liable to the
true owner of the cheque for loss he may sus-
tain owing to the cheque having been so paid.
It has been held that the paying bank has
nothing to do with the application of the money
after it has once been paid to the proper re-
ceiving bank.
Where should application be mads for a
Sydney bookmaker’s license? Are guarantees
required? Length of time before granting of
license ?
(1) To the Australian Jockey Club, 6 Bligh-
street, Sydney. (2) Guarantees are not accepted.
Applicants must satisfy the club that their finan-
cial position is sound. (3) Depends on appli-
cant’s credentials and vacancies. At present
demand for licenses far exceeds the supply.
Can inkstains be eradicated from an oak
table ?
Stains are usually very stubborn. The only
really effective method is to clean off with sand-
paper .and fine emery-paper and repolish wood
Another way is to rub stains with hydrochloric
acid and sponge off with clean cold water after
a few minutes. When dry, table can be re-
polished with raw linseed oil.
Brief Answers.
R.H.T. Sydney tote prices are generally
slightly longer than bookmakers’... .V.F.F.:
Coin is worth about Is. 6d G.T.O’C.: The
Australian Cement Manufacturers’ Association,
14 Spring-street, Sydney, will supply a pamph-
let on the making of concrete fence posts....
J.A.C.: C. T. White, Department of Agricul-
ture and Stock, Brisbane, may be able to help.
. ...J.M.: Second quotation is from Will Ogil-
vie’s “Sunset-side”... .E.FJ.D.: (1) Words and
music of “Lillibulero” are given in an article
under that heading in Grove’s Dictionary of
Music. (2) Jacobite songs of the period are to
be found in most collections of Scottish min-
strelsy. (3) It would require a good deal of his-
torical research to discover what songs, out-
side “Rule Britannia,” were sung in England
during the Napoleonic wars. (4) Same applies
to Crimean War... .B.McL.: “The Chemical
Engineering and Mining Review” and “The In-
dustrial Australian and Mining Standard.”
Other queries will be answered later H.C.W.;
The first D.C.M. winner in this war was Sgt.
Pickett, decorated for services at Bardia on
Jan. 3, 1941 W.H.D.J.: Records state only
“consecutive”; Sydney “Daily Mirror” had an
article some time ago mentioning the matter.
. ...L.P.P.: Book is now out of stock, but
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, expect further
supplies and will take orders A.T.T.; Agents
for Household Foot Plate separators are the
Baltic Simplex Machinery Co., 475 Flinders-
lane, Melbourne ... .A.G.L.: Mr. G. F. Damp-
ney, Walworth-avenue, Newport Beach, N.S.W.
D.0.8.: Air Navigation Regulations do
not require passengers or pilots to carry para-
chutes during flights within the Commonwealth.
As far as is known, similar conditions exist
abroad... .J.A.: Gordon and Gotch, Barrack-
street, Sydney, could arrange for first. Com-
municate with the manager of The Bulletin
for second T.G.: Obtain dye from chemist
and follow directions on packet.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
N.E.W. Indistinguishable from other drought
poems... .G.R.E.: Might suit a daily....
C.R.8.: Conventional G.M.J.: Language
unnatural.... J.K.: Kee Pj coming; you’ve the
right feeling for the busli... .P.R.T.: Doesn’t
sound very much like a mountain talking
LM W ;: Prying C.K.: » —s.o read
more intelligibly upside down... .G.R.P.. It
you really approached her with “Thinkst thou,
my fair” it’s no wonder she went off with the
other bloke C.R.: Youth is no excuse for
rhyming “damned” with “land”... .R.F.:
Platitudes are not the less platitudinous for
being worked into indifferent verse... .C.McK.:
No wow endings.. -.LG : Hoary plot and[ syn-
thetic dialogue -K.MX : detect.ve
to lock-up..... • •• faintlv in-
“/ngfy
She . up „ she got OU t... .F.8.C.: Why
do yQU write a story a bout him when you admit
an bore? S.W.: You’ve been read-
j ng Ern Malley G.T.: We were glad when
little Elsie was turned out into the storm....
F.G.K.: Illegible W.G.S. :No cowboys will
tote their six-shooters on this ranch.


m.
1
Time for a
Capstan
the Empire’s
favourite
REMEMBER —if you're short of
Capstans—it's because they have
gone to the boys in the fighting
services.
It’s your fight — your money is needed note.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5f- National Savings Stamps.
YOUR FAMILY’S FUTURE
OWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many.
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desired to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trustee with the
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility; that can guarantee
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 59 years’ experience.
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and 'Trustee,” that explains the Company’s
service and what it costs.
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others. Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £62,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar. „ Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 54,497 4 p.c. = 50,000 4,497, 1,048,795
Transferred to inner reserves, £25,000.. 1,023,795
1935 .. 55,201 4 p.c. = 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
1936 .. 57,973 4 ~ „ 50,000 7,973 1,036,969
1937 .. 61,337 4$ „ „ 56,250 5,087 1,042,05 ft
1938 . . 65.788 5 „ „ 62,500 3,288 1,045,344
To inner reserves, £20,000 .. .. 1,025,344
1939.. 71,121 sjp.c.= 65,625 5,496 1,030,840
1940.. 71,393 54 „ ~ 68,750 2,643 1,033,483
1941 . . 66,520 54 ~ „ 68,750 1,031,253
1942 .. 69,519 5* „ „ 68,750 769 1,032,022
Kept.,*
1942 .. 66,541 5i „ „ 65,625 916 1,032,192
1943.. 67,014 5 „ ~62,500 4,514 1,036,706
1944.. 66,216 5 „ ~62,500 3,716 1,040,422
* 12 months.
Control and nationalisation are the
main instruments the Government pro-
poses to use in its reconstruction pro-
gramme. To be effective control must
receive a large measure oTpublic support.
This the Government recently sought by
referendum, but was rebuffed by the elec-
torate, which made it quite clear that most
people desired to please themselves in
matters of business enterprise, and in the
way and manner in which they employed
their labor and spent their time and
money.
Yet the Government has decided to
nationalise inter-State airlines, to set up
in the aluminium ingot manufacturing
business, and is now considering the vital
question of nationalising the banks. Vital
because it might mean political control
of capital and credit. Given a monopoly
of the entire banking structure, it would
be an easy matter to socialise one part
after another of the whole field of trade
and industry by regulating the flow of
capital and credit, the life blood of free
enterprise.
Also, at first sight it might appear com-
forting to learn that “fair” compensa-
tion is envisaged as the basis of nationali-
sation. Compensation in the form of
Government bonds, however, is a tortu-
ous argument for intensifying the cheap
money policy, and leaves the ultimate
value the bonds would have open to
considerable doubt. These are disturb-
ing thoughts for industry and all with
money invested in it. Still, they are pos-
sibilities that need to be pondered.
No other business has been more
hedged about by war-time controls and
restrictions than banking. Neither the
soundness of the banks nor the services
they render, nor the extent and loyalty
of their co-operation in making effective
present financial controls, which aim at
restricting borrowing and Spending for all
except war purposes, are or have been in
question. These and other things make
it difficult to understand the recent re-
duction in the charge for overdrafts, now
4| p.c. A common rate for sound fixed
mortgages is 5 p.c., and pastoral-finance
cos. and building societies may still
charge up to p.c.
Overdrafts, the banks’ chief revenue-
producing asset, carry free chequeing and
other services not available to borrowers
on fixed mortgage. And since war began
increases in trading-bank deposits have
been lodged with the central bank at a
nominal rate of 15s. p.c. p.a. Also, net
earning power of the trading banks has
been restricted to the average for the
three immediately preceding war years,
which takes no account of increased taxa-
tion and other charges borne by the
banks, or of the extra cost of additional
services they have rendered, many of
them gratuitously. In Canada the maxi-
mum charge for bank advances was
recently reduced from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c.
Last term the Adelaide, which does
most of its business in its home State,
netted £66,216 (down £798), equal to a
modest 2.8 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined), or 5.3
p.c. on the £1,250,000 of capital alone.
The div. remained at 5 p.c.
Balance-sheet movements reflect the
common experience :
, March' —• , Sept. ,
1940. 1942. 1Q43. 1944.
Notes .. £6,569 £6,499 £6;499 £6,499
Bills, etc. 367,596 f
Deposits. .7,391,001 f 8,993,127 10,732,542 12,406,843
Liquid
assets 4,650,449 5,752,003 7,839,096 9,773,030
Advances 5,010,078 4,926,723 4,624,276 4,299,853
Premises,
etc. .. 422,997 455,533 449,417 451,785
Other
assets... 178,810 144,208 210,346
Last term a contraction of £324,423 in
advances was accompanied by an expan-
sion of £1,674,301 in deposits and a
growth of £1,933,934 in low-interest-bear-
ing liquids. These liquids include the
special war-time deposit with the
Commonwealth Bank, £3,334,000 (up
£994,000). When the books closed liquids
amounted to 78.7 p.c. of outside liabili-
ties, advances to only 34.6 p.c. of deposits,
and the co. was holding £5 8s. 5d. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own. It all means strength, combined
with low earning power.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
1934.. 105,067 10 p.c. = 50,000 55,067 801,908
Reserves capitaiised, £250,000 .. 551,968
From hidden reserves, £50,000 .. 601,968
1935.. 102,837 8 p.c. = 60,000 42,837 644,805
1936.. 130,648 10 „ „ 75,000 } „, a
Staff bonus,, £5000 f 50 ’ 648 695 > 453
1937.. 126,284 8i p.c. = 63,750 62,534 757,987
1938.. 150.506 94 „ ,, 71,250 79,256 837,243
1939.. 143,764 10 „ ,, 75,000 68,764 906,007
1940.. 137,289 10 „ „ 75,000 62,289 968,296
1941.. 185,928 10 ,, ., 75,000 110,928 1,079,224
1942.. 157,376 10 „ „ 75,000 82,376 1,161,600
1943.. 164,637 10 „ „ 75,000 89,637 1,251,237
1944.. 178,976 10 „ „ 75,000 103,976 1,355,213
* Subject to unexpired risks.
This energetic and prosperous 58-year-
old Sydney-controlled fire, marine and
general insurance office, with world-wide
connections, is a handsome contributor
to Australia’s invisible exports. This
addition to the national income from
abroad is likely to be more appreciated
after the war than at the moment, pro-
vided the business isn’t hamstrung by
Government interference.
The Jap invasion of southern Asia and
the islands deprived the co. of the wide
connections it had built up in these areas,
and some assets as well. In the published
accounts the only visible effect was a
contraction of £28,552 in net earnings in
1942. There was no faulter in premium in-
come, which has stepped along like a
thoroughbred. This because the manage-
ment immediately put more vigor into the
hunt in remaining foreign fields, includ-
ing U.S.A., Canada, S. Africa, Middle
East and India. Including marine con-
tracts, bulk of which originated in
Britain, U.S.A. and Argentine last term,
business gathered outside Australia now
accounts for the major portion of
premium income.
Since the close of accounts arrange-
ments have been made for writing
business in Tunisia and Algeria, and the
London office hopes soon to begin again
in France, where activities were inter-
rupted by the German invasion. The
same remarks apply to Belgium and Hol-
land, and plans for reconstruction of the
co.’s operations in Jap-occupied terri-
tories are in hand.
In Australia the “pegging” agreement
has reduced competition among insur-
ance offices to a minimum—-this for man-
power reasons —and, as a war measure,
the Federal Government became self-
insurer of all cargoes owned or partly
owned by it, thus affecting the volume of
local marine business. There has been
steady expansion of fire, workers’ com-
pensation, personal accident and “other”
insurance, but income from motor-vehicle
cover has shrunk by about one-third since
war began.
The improvement in last term’s net
premium income was £6688, making the
growth £178,765 since 1939: —
Net Loss Expense
Sept. Premiums. Claims. Expenses.! Rate. Rate.
1895. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p c.
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 ,,
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 ,
1938.. 691,771 364,631 239,487* 52.7 „ 34 6
1940.. 743.309 382,520 296,822* 51.4 „ 39 9 ”
1941.. 853,576 406,595 334,316* 47.6 „ 39 1
1942.. 872,711 418,965 376,163* 48.0 , 43 1
1943.. 900.871 412,403 404,823* 45.7 44 9
1944.. 907,559 412,989 405,500* 45.5 „ 44.6 ”
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
— £10,938, 1938; £20,895, 1940 ; £26,639,
1941; £27,180, 1942 ; £39,095, 1948; £40,168,
1944. t Including- contributions to staff fund.
The year’s larger business was gathered
at only £677 extra cost, including rates
and taxes. Despite extensive bushfires in
Victoria and the Bombay disaster in April
last, which caused material damage esti-
mated at £21,000,000 sterling—the loss
was borne partly by the Indian Govern-
ment and partly by underwriters, who
made a voluntary contribution on a per-
centage basis claims were only £586
heavier. The underwriting surplus was
£5425 stronger at £89,070, equal to 11.8
p.c. on capital. That includes £5OOO
(£15,000 in the previous term) added to
the reserve for unexpired risks, making
it £545,000, which .is 60 p.c. of the year’s
net premium income, or half as much
again as is usually considered adequate.
Interest and rents turned in £89,906 (up
£8914), or 12 p.c. on capital, which gives
the 10 p.c. div. a very comfortable look.
It should be remembered, however, the
£750,000 of capital has the support and
assistance of £1,355,213 of reserves, in-
cluding the amount set aside against un-
expired risks.
Assets are a solid lot:
/ / 1913 v 1 —1944 ,
p.c. p.c.
Gov. securities ..£1,883,189 (iO.O £2,130,700 55.0
Municipal sec’ties 62,929 1.7 51,429 1.3
Deposits, cash,
sundry debtors,
etc 1,343,040 37.0 1,357,967 85.0
Premises.. a. 337,110 8.3 337,110 8.7
Total assets .. £3,626,268 100.0 £3,877,206 100.0
Liabilities* .. 1,587,532 £1,734,494
Net assets! • • £2,038,736 £2,142,712
* Including contingencies. f Subject to final div.
With Government securities (up £247,511)
equal to 55 p.c. of total assets, the co. is
obviously a staunch supporter of war
loans. Also, the fine wad of cash places
the co. in a position to make prompt
settlements.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £/ £>
1934 .. 260,884 25 p.c. = 200,000 1,895,485
1935 .. 355,302 30 „ „ 240,000 2,010,787
1936 . . 519,903 62.5„ „ 500,000 2,030,690
1937 . . . 803,278 70 „ „ 560,000 2,273,968
1938 . . 437,432 80 ~ „ 640,000 2,071,400
1939 .. 383,138 40 ~ ~ 320,000 2,184,538
Shares written up, £201,369 .. 2,335,907
1940 . . 455,244 40 p.c. = 320,000 2,471,151
1941 . . 326,803 40 ~ „ 320,000 2,477,954
1942 . . 313,008 30 „ „ 240,000 2,550,962
1943 . . 269,340 30 „ „ 240,000 2,565,302
1944 . . 287,244 SO „ „ 240,000 2,612,546
Colin Fraser, who sat at the South’s
board table for 25 years, and at the head
of it for the last 17 of them, died in
March last. His work in Australian
mining and associated industries brought
him a knighthood in 1935. Knight
Alexander Stewart follows him as chair-
man of the South.
The co.’s principal business is mining
non-ferrous metals, the backbone of
munitions, at the Barrier, the world’s
greatest silver-lead-zinc lode. In addi-
tion its shareholdings in other cos., in
the books at £1,348,445, give it a pro-
prietary interest over a wide field of Aus-
tralian industry. This field includes pro-
duction of lead and silver at Port Pirie ;
zinc at Risdon ; copper at Port Kembla ;
fabrication of aluminium, copper and
brass at Sydney, Port Kembla and Mel-
bourne ; manufacture of aircraft at Mel-
bourne ; production of paints and lac-
quers at Sydney, Melbourne and Adel-
aide; making of insulated cable at Liver-
pool ; turning out of printing and fine-
writing papers at Burnie, and of sulphuric
acid, superphosphate, etc., at various
localities.
As for the mine, the curtain remains
drawn over production, milling and assay
figures for security reasons. At June 30
last ore reserves were figured at 1,825,000
tons (down 135,000 tons). Excepting
135,000 tons on the 1630 ft. level, this esti-
mate excludes all ore below the 1480 ft.
level. In one section the diamond drill
has disclosed continuation of the ore-
body to 110 ft. below the deepest level,
1940 ft. A year ago the board reckoned
that proved, incompletely developed and
prospective ore together would provide
about eight years’ work for the mill at
full production. About 380,000 tons p.a.
were being treated before the war. There
is a highly speculative possibility that
the lode might develop a counterpart at
greater depth associated wi/h the main
line of shearing. When the necessary


ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
6UTHRIDGE
GEORGEST
MMPERDOWN
F I UTE R
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ~.
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch;
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as —
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts, or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months :
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instal ments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., Ath Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Gr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt,
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.X. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Aovi.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of c J f a * ms * < , , amvs&n
Directors : THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; F. W. Syd y S P •
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. BUTTER, uenerai g g .
-Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 12!) Fltt htrcct ’ Sy<lne l_
mmm
-o
w
i
*
i
w
was
V!F
N?S-™
&///&
that money cannot buy a better lamp!
The Philips emblem—the world-famous “waves and stars”
—is your guarantee that the lamp bearing this brand is
the best that money can buy. Look for the “Mark oi the
Master” when you buy your lamps. You’ll be sure_then
that you are getting a maximum of good light for a
minimum of cost. Fit a Philips and seel
PHILIPS
Lamps and Lighting • Radio and Toleviiion • Transmitting Equipment m
Electronic Device* * X-Rar Apparent* • Electrical Equipment for Indu.lrjr. eta.
Philips Electrical Industries of Australia Pty. Limited
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide —— Perth Brisbane
PHILIPS
“Dad’s giving me another
War Savings Certificate
... I’ll buy a bike when
the war’s over
m
S'"'
X
m
A
m
A
mm
V
The war has meant a shortage of many civilian
goods. But after Victory is won a great wealth of
fine new productions will be available for everyone’s
selection. That will be the time to buy. Help your loved
ones to be ready for that day by giving War Savings
Certificates this Christmas. They increase in value
every year —help Australia’s war effort—and will save
you hours of shopping for other gifts.
i \
HERE’S HOW.— Buy War Savings Certificates from any Bank, Savings
Bank or Money Order Post Office, sixpenny War Savings Stamps with
free gift folder from any Post Office, and 5/- National Savings Stamps
with free presentation folder from any Savings Bank or Money Order
01S “' X 1,26
equipment and man-power become avail-
able the diamond drill will provide the
answer
It may now be questioned whether any
useful purpose can be served by non-
disclosure of domestic mining statistics,
upon which shareholders depend lor
appraisement of the progress, or other-
wise, of their venture and the value ot
their investment.
Chief factors affecting earnings during
the war have been lower tonnage and
grade of ore mined and treated, lifts in
taxation, wages, freight rates, cost of
fuel, timber and other mining requisites,
and higher smelting and refining charges
and reduced returns from investments.
Water is the trouble at the moment, and
will be until rain replenishes the reser-
voirs at Stephens Creek and Umberum-
berka. Supplies are now being drawn
from the Darling River at Menindie—
four trains daily, each carrying 90,000
gallons. This haulage can be doubled,
raising it to approx. 5,000,000 gallons a
week, or about half the normal draw
from the reservoirs.
Last term there was a spring of £22,337
in declared profit, due mainly to better
average prices for lead and zinc:
Declared profit— 1941. 1943. 1944.
Mining .. .. £206,867 £133,142 £157,008
Investments . . .. 134,184 98,653 97,124
Total .. . . £341,051 £231, £254,132
Australian domestic prices for lead and
zinc, like those for iron and steel, are
the lowest in the world.
The profit claimed is reconciled with
the profit shown in the introductory table
in this way:
Profit claimed .. .. .. .. £254,132
Add : Allowance for depreciation.. .. 33,000
Unexplained addition stores reserve 5,121
Total £292,253
Less: Written off investments .. .. 1,596
Unexplained reduction special reserve 3,375
Unexplained reduction general reserve 38
Net profit per table .. .. £287,244
The £287,244 is equal to Is. per
f.-p. ss. share, and Is. 6d. (30 p.c.) was
distributed, same as for the two preced-
ing terms.
When the books closed more or less
liquids totalled £738,809, excluding share-
holdings. There was £112,395 coming
to outsiders. The mine appeared at
£223,314, and plant at £1,314,473.
As for the future, after existing stock-
piles, mainly in Government hands in
U.S.A. and elsewhere, have been ab-
sorbed by reconstruction requirements
the question looks like being one of
supply rather than demand. Known un-
developed world deposits of lead-zinc ore
which can be profitably worked at present
price levels are few, and not extensive.
Much will depend upon the course of
costs and prices.
Down and apparently out a couple of
years back, A 1 Consolidated, Gaffney’s
Creek, is at present Victoria’s glamor
mine. Two- to five-ounce yields have
been coming out of the mill over the last
12 months, the recent run of ore return-
ing something above the lower figure. A
Christmas box of 4s. a share went out on
December 8, making total handout since
January last £103,500, or 235. a share. Yet
despite protests Treasurer Chifley frowns
on a higher price than 10s. being paid
for the co.’s scrip—there are 90,000 10s.
shares issued and paid to Bs. each—thus
valuing the mine and surplus liquids at
£45,000. Less-glaring price anomalies in
the case of industrial stocks have been
adjusted. Production is approximately
100 tons a week.
* * * *
London-controlled Gold Exploration
and Finance Co. received an extra £56,214
in divs. and interest (£117,819) for the
year to March 31 last, making total
revenue £118,722. Exes, took £6463 and
taxation £50,931. The £61,328 that re-
mained reduced p. and 1. debt, to £4729.
After allowing for taxation, the co. had
£317,000 net in cash and Government secu-
rities. Issued capital is £913,017 in 10s.
stock units. A recent London stock quote
was Bs. The co.’s shareholdings in-
clude scrip in Central Norseman Gold
Corp., Western Mining Corp., Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie, Triton Gold Mines,
Gold Mines of Australia and Victoria
Gold Dredging, An interest is also held
in the Jim Crow dredging proposition
(Vic.), awaiting equipment as soon as con-
ditions permit, and two small properties
in Westralia await development, too. The
board’s post-war policy will be partly
governed by the question of double taxa-
tion.
* * * *
London-controlled Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie (paid capital £610,000 in 10s.
stock units), operating on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), treated 79,709 tons
ore for the year to March 21 last, as
against 141,351 tons and 159,442 tons for
the two preceding terms. With the mill
getting about half its full feed, working
costs advanced from 28.365. to 34.735. per
ton. Profit was £18,271 (down £52,651) and
£24,649 previous over-provision for taxa-
tion was written back, while £27,250 was
earmarked for depreciation. A 6d. div.
(£15,250), same as for previous term, took
all but £420 of the balance. Ore reserves,
proved and probable, are figured at
536,670 tons (down 17,000 tons), averag-
ing s.7dwt. as against s.2dwt. The im-
provement is due partly to higher grade
of new ore developed and partly to revi-
sion of earlier estimates. Development
continues to be limited by the labor posi-
tion.
* * * *
At 7|dwt., recoveries of Yellowdine
Gold Development (W.A.) put on
’weights in 1943. But little high-grade
ore is in sight, and the future of the mine
is doubtful. On heavily-reduced through-
put yields have fallen from lOdwt. a ton
since 1939. Treatment of 14,513 tons for
5536 fine ounces gold last term returned
a surplus on mine account of only £4OOO,
and shareholders (the Moonlight Wiluna
co. is prominent) were passed by.
* * * *
Evanston G.M. (W.A.), which came
into prominence with average 15dwt.
yields (not sustained) in 1939, has about
40,000 tons of 6dwt. sands stacked for
possible retreatment post-war. The co.
had the bad luck to have 20,000 tons of
ounce ore buried in an earth movement
in 1943, but it is hoped that a large pro-
portion of this will be recovered. When
operations ceased developments in the
sulphides had been promising, although
the extent of the ore body has yet to be
proved.


m
NO
NO
%%
m
<m
ME/
Si *
DURING THE SUMMER THE “THERMIT” THREE-
BURNER RANGE is a necessity in your Kitchen. Ask
your retailer to give you particulars of—
IMF'S
BLUE FLAME
COOKING APPLIANCES
The MARS High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the "MARS" Planer is of
a proved design and capable
of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED. ALL GEAR TEETH
ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence
Street, Sydney. For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 28 Market
Street, Melbourne. For N.Z.: A. M. Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street,
Christchurch. STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
Business Rollery.ETC
Long-term Budget-balancing
The compensatory-Budget theory has,
in principle, a good deal to be said for it.
The underlying idea is that, when the
business cycle comes round to “depress-
ion,” Governments should spend freely
from borrowings central-bank bor-
rowings or otherwise in order to
loosen the spreading grip of unemploy-
ment and revive business confidence and
public spending. The “compensatory”
part of it comes when the danger of de-
pression is past and a boom seems
imminent; the method then is to restrict
the spending of Government money and
to siphon off public purchasing power
and repay depression debts by taxation,
thus curbing the excessive spending and
investment exuberance on the part of the
people that is characteristic of unhealthy
booms.
Summed up, the idea is really to
balance Budgets as between slump and
boom, and not necessarily from year to
year. Mathematically we would seem to
have here, at last, the key to the aboli-
tion of booms and their attendant de-
pressions. But while it may be politically
easy to use bank credit for the purpose
of public spending at any time, whether
depression is with us or not, it is poli-
tically most difficult to levy taxation in
order to repay, in times of prosperity,
depression borrowings.
We have in the most concrete form an
example of this political difficulty. During
the depression of the early nineteen-thirties
the Commonwealth Bank advanced the
Australian States short-term loans
amounting, in all, to £53 million, in order
to finance their Budget deficits. It was
agreed at the time that they would pay
into a sinking fund an amount equal to
4 p.c. a year in order to wipe off these
debts in a reasonable period. But now,
at a time when State finances are in a
condition of extraordinary buoyancy and
when there is urgent need to curb unnec-
essary spending, instead of the States
doing anything to honor their obligations
more speedily than was originally agreed
to, they have arranged with the Common-
wealth to have the contribution to the
sinking fund cut down to 1 p.c. a year,
and the Commonwealth Government is
going to pay a quarter of it!
It is necessary to emphasise also that
the States have never carried out the
promise to pay 4 p.c. p.a. in the past. They
are immediately putting up £lO million
in a lump, it is true, but that is far short
of what the annual 4 p.c. would have
amounted to by now. Micawber had
far more financial principles than the
average State Government. Chief debtor
States are now represented by Labor
Governments.
The case of the Australian depression
deficit debts and the present dangerous
abundance of spending money through-
out the Commonwealth shows how diffi-
cult politics make it to do what seems to
be the logical and decent thing. Cheap-
jack politicians live for the day alone ;
it is clear that present Australian Govern-
ments, Federal or State, are not to be
trusted with any economic programme
that aims at curbing a boom or reducing
excessive spending power. Referring to
the difficulty in the United States of
raising adequate taxation for war pur-
poses in spite of the huge volume of
money in circulation, the National City
Bank of New York, apropos of the com-
pensatory-economy idea, said: — .
If we are unable or unwilling to tax ade-
quately in war-time, when the need is so dear,
and when there is a spirit of patriotism to help,
what chance would there be in ordinary times
of raising taxes on large masses of people to
cut off a perfectly good boom which everyone
was enjoying and would doubtless like to see
continue indefinitely?
The Institute of Public Affairs (Victoria),
in its booklet Looking Forward, advo-
cated something very similar to a com-
pensatory-Budget programme. It was
contended;
Budget's should be so constructed that, when
necessary, Governments are enabled in any par-
ticular year to spend more than they receive
from ordinary revenue and public loans in the
interest of maintaining employment. Conversely,
in times of great economic prosperity Govern-
ments should accumulate surpluses to cover
deficits incurred under the policy just advanced.
The balancing of Budget's should be a long-term
rather than an annual objective, but should be
so administered as to guard against the danger
of inflation. Government financing of this kind
will demand the exercise of the strictest care.
So far as possible ample safeguards, including
regular funding loans and stringent sinking-
fund provisions, should be instituted against
political abuse or misuse.
It is clear enough from this statement
that the I.P.A. is fully aware of the diffi-
culties in the way of the compensatory
economy ; so far as the State depression
debts are concerned it was almost pro-
phetic in its reference to the necessity for
“stringent sinking-fund provisions.” (The
booklet was published many weeks before
the Financial Agreement Amendment Bill
came before Parliament.)
While the I.P.A. in Victoria seems
prepared to go a good way with the
idea of long-term Budget-balancing, the
National City Bank of New York is em-
phatic in its distrust of the idea:
In periods of expansion the Government
becomes encumbered with all kinds of excess
personnel, agencies, departments, and what not,
whose idea as to their indispensability ex-
tend far beyond the termination of the original
emergency. Similarly, people on the outside
who have been the recipients and beneficiaries
of the Government’s largesse can seldom bring
themselves to see any good reason why the flow
from the Treasury should be cut' off. As the
saying goes, “Who wants to shoot Santa
Claus?” The result is that every period of big
spending leaves the Government on a per-
manently higher level of costs, with more debt
and more taxes.
And comparable difficulties arise as to taxes.
While plenty of people like to see Government
expenditure increased, nobody really likes to see
taxes go up. Yet it is implicit in the compen-
satory-Budget theory that taxes be increased
promptly and vigorously to draw off purchasing
power and retire debt as a break upon in-
flationary tendencies. What are the chances of
this weapon being employed effectively? A
candid facing of the lessons of our war-time
tax experience is hardly encouraging. Despite
the most compelling reasons for tax increases
in war-time, both to pay for the war and to
sterilise surplus purchasing power, we have
witnessed the spectacle of months of wrangling
over tax bills; and not even yet have we a tax
programme that is truly anti-inflationary in the
sense of going to the heart of the problem of
reaching excess income where it is being created.
It seems that the U.S. bank has ob-
jected to the theory when presented as an
economic cure-all in itself. Referring
to the “over-simplification” which the
compensatory-Budget idea introduces to
the problem of keeping employment
stable it goes on to say:
What it means, first of all, is applying a
single specific—Government spending—to all
the ills to which the economic system may
fall victim. No need to bother about the par-
ticular cause of the trouble —whether it be
some basic disturbance or unbalance in vital
parts of the economy. No need to bother
whether exorbitant demands of particular groups
are blocking the channels of trade; no matter
about international trade barriers, or wrong ex-
change rates, or bad tax laws, or other short-
sighted actions and policies of individuals and
Governments which, in varying degree, may be
responsible for interrupting the even flow of
economic activity. For all these the prescrip-
tion is the same —more Government' spending.
It is necessary to point out that the I.P.A.
does not regard long-term Budget-balanc-
ing as a cure-all, and that its economic
policy for post-war Australian industry
enters into other difficulties confronting
the nation with considerable detail. But
it is perfectly clear —and the I.P.A.
acknowledges this —that the free spend-
ing of money during a depression im-
poses a stern obligation on Govern-
ments to recoup the outlay by taxation
when times change for the better.
Budgets, in other words, still have to be
balanced. The I.P.A. makes no bones
about that.
The fact that the Federal and State
Governments have been unable to face
their solemn obligation to wipe out the
depression deficit debts as speedily as pos-
sible while money is flush does not damn
the principle of long-term Budget-balanc-
ing, but it does damn the financial prin-
ciples of the Governments now in power.
Something which Australians will really
have to shape up to is the question of
whether they are ever likely to be able
to put into office a Federal Government
which is capable of taking the financial
affairs of the nation sufficiently seriously to
divorce them from politics. It will have
to be a Government unlike present Aus-
tralian Labor Governments and unlike
the Roosevelt New Deal Administration
in America, which is obviously what the
National City Bank of New York has in
mind in its criticisms.
Any hope of long-term Budget-balanc-
ing being successful in Australia could be
written-off in advance if Labor Caucus
became the virtual dictator of Common-
wealth Bank policy, as is now suggested
by the proposed changes in the banking
system.
Long-term Budget balancing holds out
the promise of comparative stability of
employment if the people and their Gov-
ernments are prepared to accept the obli-
gations that go with it. A political re-
naissance will be necessary in this country
for the principle to achieve anything.
Failure to respect the obligations imposed
will mean greater economic disorder than
before.
Dr. Evatt said last week that the Com-
monwealth had possessed ever since
Federation sufficient powers to legislate
on banking and insurance. Not many
people questioned this power. Many do,
however, distrust any suggestion of poli-
tical control of banking, whatever the
legal powers of the Government may be.
At the present time it seems to be the
Caucus idea to achieve by financial
means many other objectives that are un-
constitutional if tackled from the legal
angle. This danger has been pointed out
in these pages periodically for months
past. Dr. Evatt should remember that
there is a spirit as well as a letter to the
law, also that what may seem to be
legally correct and politically expedient
may be economically disastrous.
* * * *
The Australian note issue at last shows
some sign of declining. It has dropped
£3 million in four weeks. This is ap-
parently due to the withdrawal of United
States forces from the Commonwealth.
But unless U.S. troops are keeping many
millions of pounds-worth of Australian
currency in their billfolds as souvenirs it
seems that the public is holding by far
the greater part of the grossly inflated
note issue that has been a feature of war-
time Australia.
* * * *
Announcing the proposed taking over
of inter-State airlines. Acting Prime
Minister Forde claimed that from 1932
until this year no less than £3,367,000
had been paid as airline subsidies, and
that the amounts were increasing everj
year. Mr. Menzies pressed for details.
Eventually the following figures were sup-
plied :
Poundage
Year. Subsidy. (Mail). Total.
1932- .. £92,000* £92,000
1933- .. 82,000* 82,000
1934- .. 87,000* 87,000
1935- .. 133,000* 133,000
1936- .. 191,000* 191,000
1937- .. 203,000* 203,000
1938- .. 194,000* 194,000
1939- .. 254,000* 254,000
1940- .. 159,000 £49,000 208,000
1941- .. 88,000 128,000 216,000
1942- .. 37,000 586,000 623,000
1943- .. 37,000 847,000 884,000
Total .. £1,557,000 £1,610,000 £3,167,000
* Prior to establishing Department of Civil
Aviation. Break-up of figures not readily avail-
able.
Menzies, commenting, said, “The total of
subsidies and mail poundages is shown
as £3,167,000 —but out of this the mail
poundages (which are included only for
the last four years) amounted to
£1,610,000. It must be emphasised that
this figure is approximately the same as
the air-mail revenue paid by the public
to the post office, and that, therefore,
whatever its amount, it should not be in-
cluded in the subsidy total. Actually, sub-
sidies have amounted in the 12 years to
£1,557,000, portion of which was paid in
the first eight years of the period for the
carriage of mail. The amount is, there-
fore, less than half the sum which Mr.
Forde would have Parliament and the
people believe has been paid in that form
to the companies.” The 1943-44 figure
of £37,000, he pointed out, gave a far
more accurate picture of current airline
operation and development than the
£3,367,000 quoted by the Acting Prime
Minister. In studying these figures it
should be remembered that airlines get
no direct revenue for the mail they carry.
That goes to the post office.
* * * *
“The Government is spending millions
and millions on war; why can’t it do
the same spending in peace-time?” This
question is often asked. The National
Bank’s chairman, H. D. Giddy, at the
bank’s annual meeting, has done some
explaining for popular benefit:
It is true that experience of war finance
clearly proves that the actual creation of
credit, or provision of money—call if what,
?ou will—is not a stumbling-block to the
carrying out of any Government programme
of works or services. At the same time
it emphasises the fundamental fact that
Government expenditure on national and
social works must ever be subject to the
willingness of the individual members of
the community to make personal sacrifices
in their immediate standards of life and
to the continuance of restrictions on their
freedom to spend and invest.
The war experience of the Government’s
ability to find money for fighting purposes
is certainly not a sound postulate for post-
war economic planning. It has given en-
couragement in many quarters to the de-
mand for extravagant schemes for public
and semi-public works in the post-war years.
Groups here and groups there press for this
or that' vast work and this or that fresh
field of Government spending activity. Far
too much thought is being given to the
division of the post-war national income,
far too little to its creation.
He added: “Feckless chatter about rely-
ing on the use of central-bank credit is
dangerous in the extreme. Money be-
comes a poor thing when it is made so
plentiful that it loses its value in terms
of the necessities of life. Let us face
realities, and as a nation insist that our
economic planning be based on the
simple truth that our real national in-
come is derived from the energetic and
intelligent use of the resources and gifts
with which we are endowed.”
* * * *
“The more the people realise,” says the
National Bank’s chairman, “that incom-
petent political interference with currency
and banking means disaster to their per-
sonal financial affairs the less is the
danger of the destruction of .our financial
system by ill-considered partisan legis-
lation.”


fs
DUPLICATOR
ONLY
£l7/10/-
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
AGENTS *k eir cost ' The "National" Rotary Dupli-
WANTED cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
ALL STATES Plans. Music, etc.
Built «ntirtly in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
.Vi ii 1 ’ ... —— SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ■
EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Ply-Ltd.. King Street, Sydney.
PENS
I
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRAXDAOSX * CO, LM, BIRMIXUUAU. ESQ
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castlereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones; MA 6007/8
and at all branches
Remobilization
for Peace.
The future belongs to those
who prepare for it . , .
Prepare NOW for your post-war
future by qualifying in one of
these vocational subjects—
H.R.I. Post-War
Career Training
Department of Accountancy & Commerce -
Accountancy and Secretaryship
Cost Act’ncy and Factory Management
Banking and Securities
Insurance Examinations
Local Government Examinatiops
Effective Correspondence
Psychology and Human Relations
Department of Distribution —
Selling and Sales Management
Marketing and Advertising
Retail Selling
Showcard and Ticket Writing
Department of Business Administration—
Business Administration
Modem Merchandising
Factory Management and Foremanahip
Department of Public Service —
Public Service Grade, School, Police and
Nurses' Examinations
Pre-war is not good enough for post-war
The already high standard of H.R.L tutor-
ial services is being constantly improved.
As a result, H.R.L have won more exam-
ination honours than all coaches in Aus-
tralasia combined
Let us help you to choose the vocation
for which you are most suited seek
our advice start training NOW!
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
Sounded and Owned by Hemfngwoy & Robertson fry. UdJ
Professional Tutors
24 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
124 Chalf’t Chbs.42 Phillip St., Sydney
1 and in all Capital Cities. Newcastle
and Launceston.
Please send me FREE copy of your
96 p. “Guide to Careers in Business.'* i
N ame
Address
Career interested in.
Age...,
24/667 !
Public Notices.
I, WILLY LEHMANN, of German nationality, born
at Kirch-Hammelwarden, near Brake (Oldenburg),
Germany, and resident six years in Australia, now
residing at Pierce’s Creek, Canberra, A.C.T., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
I, ADOLF RUCKER, of German nationality, born
at Ruslesheim on Rhein, and resident 35 years in
Australia, now residing at Gilgandra, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1986.
means
£
Of*
o
c o/?%-
e
Despite the requirements of the Services for
Cadbury’s Chocolate, you can still occasionally
obtain a block of Dairy Milk Chocolate or
Energy Chocolate (except in New South Wales
and South Australia, where transport and ship-
ping regulations do not allow us to distribute).
DMP.S15
An outstanding “ private venture ” production of the British aircraft industry—The
de Havilland Mosquito ( Rolls-Royce Merlin engines). Most versatile high-speed
aircraft in service, equipped for duties ranging from night fighting to long-range heavy
bombing, the Mosquito is in quantity manufacture in Britain, Canada and Australia
BOLD ENTERPRISE
The battle honours achieved by British warplanes in every
zone of the global war testify to the great and virile industry
that stands as a background to the fighting air forces.
Right up to the present day British official policy has
entrusted the design of all aircraft and engines to the
individual companies of the aircraft industry—a system
which has produced, among other rich dividends, bomber
fleets carrying bigger unit war loads than any other Service
in the world, fighters whose supremacy has remained
unchallenged for five years and flying boats which range
the oceans.
Most of the more successful warplanes and engines which
equip the Empire Air Forces owe even more than their
design to private enterprise. The genius of the industry’s
designers frequently enables them to foresee, more clearly
than the official technicians, the future operational require-
ments of the fighting Services. Thus are created the “private
ventures” —aircraft and engines of which both specification
and design have been evolved by the manufacturer and
developed through his initiative.
When its war task is completed, the British aircraft industry
will direct to the pursuit of peaceful objectives the inventive
genius, technical skill and adaptability through which air
mastery in war has been achieved.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
A Labor-party retort to the claims by
trading banks that Government conti of
of banking would give the
control of the people’s economic file im-
plied that these claims were an admission
on the part of the banks that they now
possessed the powers which they w£* e
afraid to grant the Government. Ihe
Labor contention is entirely wrong. Gov-
ernment control means Government
monopoly. There is no banking mono-
poly under present arrangements (except
insofar as the National Security Act con-
fers extraordinary powers on the Com-
monwealth Bank). There are nine pri-
vate trading banks and a Government
central bank, all (in peace-time) in full
competition with each other. And if the
people, or any section of the people, dis-
like all of the present banks there is no
legal impediment to their starting a new
one when the war ends. But under a
Government banking monopoly there
would be no more chance of starting a
new bank than there is now of starting a
new “free enterprise” postal or telephone
service. New competitors would be
illegal.
* * * *
Elaborating on information given at
the annual meeting of Amalgamated
Wireless last week, W. M. Hughes, ac-
cording to a Sydney “Herald” report,
pointed out that the board of the co.
consisted of three directors appointed by
the Government, three by private share-
holders and a seventh who was chosen
by the remaining directors. He himself
had held this seventh place for 22 years,
and could not be described as a Gov-
ernment appointment. Although Mr.
Hughes recommended a “yes” vote at the
referendum, in this newspaper report he
is credited with saying that continuity
of policy and freedom from domination
by either the Government or private
shareholders was the especial virtue of
the A.W.A. organisation. This “new
concept,” while it protected the public
from exploitation, atjfie same time made
available the benefits of the initiative
and vision of private enterprise.
* * * *
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., machinery and
machine-tool merchant, with head office
in Melbourne, has decided to convert
into a public company, and existing
shareholders are to' offer the public
225,000 £1 ordinary shares at £2 each,
plus stamp duty and Bd. brokerage. lan
Potter and Co., of Melbourne, will be
the principal brokers. With the conver-
sion of 25,949 prefs. into ords., paid
capital will be £777,849, all but £44,950
(employees’ shares) of it in ords. Ord.
div. was 10 p.c. in 1941-42, 7 p.c. (tax-
free) in 1942-43, and 8 p.c. (tax-free) in
1943-44. With conversion to a public co.
the tax-free nature of the divs. is likely to
cease, with perhaps a corresponding rise
in the rate. Small shareholders are better
off where they pay their own taxation,
provided the amount that the company
would have otherwise paid comes along
in extra dividend.
* * * *
Chairman T. G. Pizzey, speaking at the
annual meeting of Geo. Pizzey and Son,
Ltd., Melbourne, deplored the fact that
the Government has given industry no
clear lead as to its post-war attitude.
“On the one hand,” he said, “we have
the leader of the Government declaring
that there will be a place for private
enterprise, and on the other there is the
retention of stagnating regulations clearly
foreshadowing an intolerable and exces-
sive control. The mere declaration that
private enterprise will be permitted to
play its part becomes worthless if the
extent to which it is to be allowed to do
so is not clearly defined. Because of
this, opportunities for expansion by this
company, which under more favorable
circumstances would have been quickly
seized, have either been reluctantly aban-
doned or deferred.” The Pizzey concern
is in the tanning and leather-merchan-
dising business. It is an industry the
problems of which Sol Rosevear professes
to know all about, but which has had
its full share of rationalisation and regu-
lation difficulties to overcome in order to
produce even heels for soldiers’ boots.
* * Hs *
The A.C.T.U. is still “disappointed.”
Neither Mr. Curtin nor anyone else, it
appears, has done anything very concrete
about its demand for (a) a “uniform
prosperity loading of 6s. a week to apply
to all workers,” ( b ) a “war loading of 6s.
a week similarly applicable to all
workers,” (c) a 40-hour week within six
months of the end of the war, and ( d ) a
fortnight’s holiday a year for all. But
the A.C.T.U. hasn’t given up hope, and
is still pressing for the out-of-season
“prosperity loadings,” etc., to be intro-
duced by National Security Regulations,
thus sidetracking (a) the Arbitration
Court and ( b ) the Parliament of Aus-
tralia. The demands of the A.C.T.U.,
as usual, are a mixture of ( a ) suicidal
selfishness and ( b ) rafferty rules.
* * * *
Though arrivals into store, particularly
at Sydney, have been delayed “owing to
transport difficulties,” 1,118,820 bales of
wool have been appraised at £19,813,032
for the current season. Averages: N. S.
Wales, 12.71 d.; Victoria, 13.8 d.; Queens-
land, 14.25 d.; S.A., 11.9 d.; W.A., 13.12 d.;
Tasmania, 16.34 d.; Commonwealth,
13.22 d. per pound, which is .26d. below
the average at this time last year. “Owing
to transport difficulties” means owing to
coal strikes.


THE SERVICE MAN
The R.N. Is Coming!
“Ek Dum”; It was announced in Lon-
don on Dec. 11, and confirmed later the
same day by the Acting Prime Minister,
Mr. Forde, that Britain was sending one
of the greatest battle fleets ever mustered
to Australia, which will be its base.
Since the ’he js still a United States
naval zone, I.N. will operate as the
strategical —aon demands under the
supreme command of Admiral Nimitz or
General MacArthur, but the Board of
Admiralty and its Commander-in-Chief,
R.N., will maintain responsibility for the
conduct and personnel of the fleet.
Its magnitude is guaranteed by its com-
mand :
Commander-in-Chief: Admiral Sir
Bruce Austin Fraser, who was formerly
Chief of Staff of the Mediterranean Fleet,
Third Sea Lord and Controller of the
Navy and Commander-in-Chief of the
Home Fleet in the period during which
the U-boats were finally beaten, the Mur-
mansk convoys established, and the Ger-
man battleship Scharnhorst sunk in an
action which the Admiral personally
fought.
Administrative Commander: Rear-
Admiral C. S. Daniel, who served at Jut-
land, like his C.-in-C. at one time com-
manded H.M.S. Aircraft-carrier Glorious,
has held a number of administrative posi-
tions in the Admiralty, and for a time
commanded H.M.S, battle-cruiser Re-
nown, which brought Edward VIII when
Prince of Wales to Australia in 1920,
and H.M. George VI and Queen Eliza-
beth to open Canberra as the Federal
capital in 1927.
Vice-Admiral Sir Arthur Power will
command the East Indian station. He is
one of the world’s gunnery experts, com-
manded the Portsmouth Gunnery School,
1935-37, and H.M.S. Aircraft-carrier Ark
Royal, 1940-43, during her adventurous
career in the Mediterranean. He was pro-
moted to command a cruiser squadron in
1942, and was Vice-Admiral in charge
of Malta, in the island’s most crucial days
of 1942-43.
The news is a magnificent Christmas
box for all the free peoples of the Pacific
and it serves notice of the ultimate fate
that awaits Japan.
Mr. Forde announced his “warm ap-
preciation of the switching of the fleet,”
and said that £21,156,000 worth of sup-
plies and services would be provided by
the Commonwealth for the R.N. by June,
1945.
He said that Australia would greet the
fleet as cordially and extend the same
kindness and hospitality as were extended
to Australian forces in Britain.
And so Australia will —with much
accrued interest.
New Landing on Leyte.
“Ek Dum”: Though Japanese troops
on Leyte are being squeezed tighter to-
gether, the high hopes of the last week in-
October that operations on the island
were nearly at an end have not been
realised. Rain —more in a few weeks than
falls in Sydney or Perth in a whole year —
stalled the American advance. In the last
few days the weather cleared consider-
ably, and this was turned to good
account.
With light opposition and few casual-
ties, the U.S. 77th Division was landed
on December 7 at Ipil, three miles from
Ormoc, thus enabling a squeeze to begin
from the south to meet the one from the
north, which on December 8 was only 12
miles away.
Ger al MacArthur’s communique said
that L.v enemy had been taken unawares,
and added: —
By this manoeuvre we have seized the
centre of the Yamashita Line from the
rear and have split the enemy’s forces in
two, isolating those in the valley to the
north from those along the coast to the
south. Both segments are now caught be-
tween our columns pressing in from all
fronts.
By Dec, 10 Ormoc had fallen. The
Seventh Division, about five miles further
south on the elevated terrain north
of the Tabgas River, at the time of the
landing had pushed to the coast and cap-
tured Albuera, near the western side of
the mouth of Ormoc Bay. On Dec, 10
it was on the point of joining the 77th
in Ormoc.
Another U.S. division closed in from
the east on the Albuera trail. And
9 miles to the north of Ormoc the 32nd
Division was working its way down from
the Leyte River, but having to fight hard
for ground. Between the 32nd and the
77th are the Ist, 16th and parts of the
22nd and 103rd Jap divisions.
On the day of the 77th Division’s land-
ing the enemy was trying to bring in
another convoy. Each side tried to sink
the opposing troopships and blood was
drawn on both sides. The Japanese
claimed that the U.S. convoy had been
“wrecked completely,” and put down
their own air losses at 13 machines, which
had crash-dived into the American con-
voy, making “hero gods” of their pilots
and crews. In Ormoc Bay in a previous
clash (December 2) a U.S. and a Japanese
destroyer were sunk. Another enemy
destroyer was damaged and six enemy
aircraft were shot down.
General MacArthur’s H.Q. admitted
that an Allied destroyer, hit by a tor-
pedo bomber, which was driven into the
sea, had had to be sunk by a sister-ship,
and that a light transport was also sunk
and five aircraft were lost—the pilots
were saved. Thirteen enemy troopships
were claimed as sunk and 81 aircraft as
shot down.
Raids on Tokyo
The raids on Tokyo have been a main
topic with Japanese radio—the first four
were on November 24, 27, 29 and Dec. 3
(Tokyo time). The first, Tokyo Radio
admitted, struck the city environs in
several quarters, all important industrial
areas. It was said that the attacks were
made from great heights—up to 32,000
feet—and that 5001 b. bombs were used
with incendiaries.
The next attack was reported to have
been by about 40 829 s at 1 p.m., to have
lasted about hours and to have cov-
ered areas from Tokyo to Nagoya and
Kyoto, Tokyo Radio, curiously enough,
did not claim to have destroyed any U.S.
machines. Weather was described as bad,
the bombing as “blind and ineffective.”
The third raid lasted from 11.55 p.m.
on November 29 through a couple of
hours of the following morning.. It was
the capital’s first taste of night raiding.
The account sounded as if Tokyo Radio
had spent a restless night.
The general attitude by this time was
one of fury. “Apes” was about the mildest
phrase which was being flung at the
Americans, and no secret was made of
the fate likely to befall any fliers who
happened to reach the ground in Japan.
U.S. official reports of the Dec. 3 raid
said that the Nakajima aircraft plant was
bombed in clear conditions, that one
829 was lost, four enemy fighters de-
stroyed and eight more probably de-
stroyed in a running fight.
On Dec. 7 a couple of 829 s on recon-
naissance dropped some more bombs on
Tokyo, and further wandering giants were
reported on Dec. 9. They were believed
in Washington to have attacked Kure
naval base. On the previous day Premier
Koiso had threatened fearsome reprisals
should any of Japan’s “sacred spots” be
bombed.
General raiding took place over the
Bonin-Volcano area and over the Philip-
pines and parts of Borneo. Australian
Spitfires made the first attack by single-
engined machines on Timor, and the
longest Spitfire strike yet made in the
South-west Pacific —the round flight was
800 miles.
Earthquake off Nagoya
Meanwhile, Mother Nature had taken
a hand on December 7 and had given
Nippon a warning which must have made
its inhabitants momentarily believe that
the whole U.S. Air Force had arrived.
For four hours on the afternoon of Pearl
Harbor Day an earthquake, whose epi-
centre was at sea, about 50 miles off
Nagoya, kept the main island quivering.
Tokyo asserted that, save for some
trouble from tidal waves and the crum-
bling of a few cottages, there was no
damage to speak of.
The disturbance did not interfere with
the Japanese Pearl Harbor “celebrations,”
though it made the Jap Radio sound as if
it might have been treated to one over
the nine. It threatened “an all-out offen-
sive in the fourth year of war.” It claimed
that Allied advances in the Philippines
and South China —“in our inner defence
zones”—had “met a snag and had
been smashed.” And it invented a com-
mando and parachute offensive on Leyte
which destroyed ground installations ; a
“grand-scale offensive against the enemy,
who was discovered in a very confused
state.”
Winter in the West.
“Ek Dum”: It became clearer last
week that the Allied drives in north Ger-
many did not constitute a main offensive.
The object was to take the front to
natural barriers before winter finally
closed down. From these barriers there
might be a main offensive at a later date ;
but, as Douglas Wilkie (Sydney “Sun”)
wrote on December 9, “the road to Ger-
many is a matter of mud, rivers and
mountains; just now tanks, pillboxes,
dragons’ teeth and heavy artillery are
relatively unimportant in this (Venlo)
sector,” The British wiped out the Venlo
bridgehead north of the Meuse.
Rain has pelted down for days. The
mud has been pounded into something
between butter and glue. Conditions like
these always dominate man’s handiwork
—except in the spheres where Moscow
correspondents work.
The rain in the north has already
changed to snow. The flat country along
the Meuse, and particularly in the marsh
lands behind it, has become more un-
comfortable because the Germans in
north Holland and along the Rhine
branches have broken a few more dykes,
and rivers have swollen. On the flats
water in places lies six to 18 inches deep.
Between the Waal and the Lek, between
Nijmejen and Arnhem, there was on De-
cember 8 a new 40-square-mile sea,
A few heavy shells boom over. But,
on the whole, friend and foe alike are
content to have a comfortable river or
some other natural feature between the
two front lines while they think up the
next phase.
Further south, where the hills slide into
the valley of the Roer, that river has
become the boundary line between friend
and foe. Here hill country and forests
provide sectors on which more action is
possible. The Germans have been using
their King Tiger tanks, which made their
appearance in East Prussia a few weeks
ago. They are especially heavily armored
mammoths of about 70 tons weight, with
a long-calibre, high-velocity 88mm. or
some comparable gun as main armament.
But there is little likelihood that even
such tanks will be able to deal with mud
where it is at its worst.
The U.S. Ninth Army was at the week-
end ranged along the west bank of the
turgid Roer for some distance, and had
cleared the part of Jiilich on the western
bank. Here the fighting was in heavy
snow.
South again, in the Hiirtgen Forest
area, the river forms the most far-flung
boundary of the U.S. First Army’s ad-
vance. It ran a little faster through
Diiren than lower down to the north,
where it had a chance to spread out,
while the shell-torn trees on the hills be-
hind swayed and tossed in the winter gale
against the swirling mists. Mists and
snow on most recent days have made
effective air activity in the battle line
impossible.
Six Months in Europe
On December 6 a small ceremony was
held at First Army H.Q. to mark the
passage of six months since the landing
in Normandy, Said Lieut.-Colonel Beck
of the staff of the First U.S, Division,
the first U.S. formation ashore:
There will be no spectacular breakthrough
of 20 or 30 miles here such as we had
earlier. The enemy has organised his de-
fence in depth, and we shall have to fight
hard. The recent fighting in the Roer
River sector has been the hardest yet.
The Germans have done everything in their
power to stop our advance, and they have
been successful in causing delay.
In six months, during much of which it
was on the road or inactive, that First
U.S. Division used 5000 tons of petrol,
carried 28,000 tons of water and fired
325,000 shells and 5,111,000 rounds of
small-arms ammunition. Multiply by
about 40 to get the usage of all the Allied
forces in France, add the enormous usage
of the air forces and the navies, and you
get a faint idea of what it is likely to take
to break to the Rhine.
The Saar Drive
Most attention has been concentrated
on the area in which the Third and
Seventh U.S. Armies are operating and
on the far south towards the Rhine, where
the French First Army is working from
the south in the Mulhouse region, and
sections of the U.S. Seventh Army are
pushing towards it from Strasbourg.
There was still fierce fighting in the High
Vosges, 10 miles north-west of Mul-
house, on December 9.
Towards the south the main fight is to
take the city of Colmar, which lies about
ten miles from the railway crossing place
of Alt Brisach over the Rhine.
Because of its surroundings Colmar is
difficult to approach. And communica-
tions are distinctly in favor of the enemy,
who also has a short line of retreat to
the river, which the Allies are trying to
reach in adjacent areas, and a gap 20
miles deep to pass through between
Schlettsbadt and south of Colmar. There
are several obstacles to be crossed by
troops on the Strasbourg-Colmar road
who are working to control the Rhine
crossing places in the south—Erstein-
Ottenheim; Rheinau-Kappe; Alt Bri-
sach ; Neuenburg—all between Mulhouse
and Strasbourg.
One barrier is the river 111. Then comes
the Rhone-Rhine Canal, forming a wes-
tern moat for the Maginot fortifications,
which come next. Finally there is the
river. These defence lines are much more
formidable than those of the Roer district
in the north.
The Saar Battle
North-west of Strasbourg a bitter
struggle is proceeding along the banks
of the Saar. Optimists are positive that,
having crossed this stream in six or seven
places, General Patton is fighting inside
the Siegfried Line, which is “crumbling.”
The facts are not so cheering. The
Americans in some force crossed the Saar
last week midway between Saarbriicken
and Merzig, 14 miles to the north. Points
at which they first crossed were Saar-
louis (Saarlautern) and the little village
of Fraulautem on the eastern bank. But
they had to fight hard to establish and
extend their bridgeheads along the river ;
equally hard on the west bank to bend
their front yard by yard to its shape.
Most of the western side of the river
from ' Saarlouis, beyond Merzig, was
in General Patton’s hands on December
9. He had inched in with tremendous
force against tremendous resistance until
he was within three miles of Saarbriicken,
the central pivot of the Saar system.
The British Air Ministry estimates that
in Saarbriicken there are 225 devastated
acres, mostly smashed on October 5.
U.S. troops were further south-east in
Saarguemines, close to the German
border. There was stern house-to-house
fighting in the town. The Germans on
December 9 were furiously counter-
attacking at the Dillingen bridgehead, 2\
miles above Saarlouis.
Co-ordinating with the forward push
of General Patton, which has covered 36
miles from the Vosges in a month, leav-
ing only odd forts between Metz and the
border to be cleared up, the U.S. Seventh
Army thrust northward from the Saverne
Gap area towards that part of the Ger-
man boundary which runs almost east
and west from Saarguemines to the
Rhine.
They made good progress as they came
off the higher land, but struck strong
resistance in the Maginot Line region
towards Rohrbach, Bitche and Hagenau.
On December 9 a bitter fight for
Hagenau, on a road to Mannheim, was
in progress. German communications
are here sheltered by considerable forests,
covering the Haardt Mountains back to
Kaiserslautern. The fighting becomes
tougher on this front, as everywhere
when German internal defences are
approached.
German Man-power
Most appraisers of the situation would
give their ears to know the truth
about German man-power. Every new
piece of information is more confusing
than the last. One estimate places Ger-
man losses in the west at 150,000 in three
weeks of November and 25,000 on the
Ninth Army front since November 16.
From the official “Moscow News”:
On June 22 the Soviet Information
Bureau noted that the German fascist
troops had lost 7,800,000 soldiers and
officers killed and prisoners.
This, of course, was exclusive of wounded
and of losses on the western front. Since
June 22 German losses east and west
have been reckoned in millions. But
the New York “Times” quoted a “re-
liable authority” as giving total enemy
casualties at 5,500,000, of which 3,000,000
had been killed in action. It was added
that 90 p.c. of the wounded returned to
the front.
Mr. Patterson, Under-Secretary for
War, said last week that, “with less in-
tensity of artillery fire and inferior air
power, the Germans are suffering more
severely than our United States forces.”
But his figures showed that the U.S.
forces on all fronts had lost 13,840 men
since November 22. Total U.S. casualties
September 22-December 6 were 170,000,
and army losses since Dec. 7, 1941 f are
approaching half a million.
The severe casualties and the grim
prospect of more had, Mr. Patterson said,
caused men less than 19 years of age to
be “sent overseas as replacements for
armored units and infantry.” This rep-
resented a change in policy necessitated
by urgent military requirements. The
Under-Secretary added that ‘‘steady re-
plenishment of our ammunition, now
being expended on a large scale, is an
imperative objective.”
Mr. Mackenzie King’s statement of the
position helped to win him a majority
of 168 to 43 against the anti-conscription
resolution in the Canadian Commons:
Anyone who has the knowledge I have
about the seriousness of the situation at


Missing Friends.
TO CECIL BRIAN LA FRONDE formerly of 12
Tribe Street South Melbourne Victoria but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JEAN MARION LA FRONDE has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for Divorce on the ground of
desertion UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in Mel-
bourne on or before the 23rd day of December 194-1
and cause an answer to be filed at the abovenamed
office on or before the Eleventh day of February 1945
the case may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs. —ALFRED H. IVENS 259
Collins Street Melbourne Solicitor for the petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HORACE JAMES HILLS late of Healesville
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that IVY MAY HILLS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3953 of 1944 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards IP YOU WISH TO
DEFEND you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Twenty-second day of January One thousand
nine hundred and forty-five and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from HALSE MILLETT
MAIR & CO. Solicitors 18-20 Martin Place Sydney.
— l.s. C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO RUBY KATE JANET CRONK (also known as
Lois Gardner) late of 15 Illawarra Street Allawah.—
TAKE NOTICE that BASIL GEORGE CRONK has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4602 of 1944 alleg-
ing that you the said Ruby Kate Janet Oronk have
been guilty of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you desire to defend
the suit you must enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office King Street Sydney by the Twenty-
ninth day of January One thousand nine hundred
and forty-five and obtain a copy of the petition
free of charge from JOHN CHARLES PAYNTER
Solicitor of St. James Buildings, 109 Elizabeth
Street Sydney New South Wales DATED this Sixth
day of December One thousand nine hundred and
forty four.— .(l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
ESTATE of DANIEL BRODIE deceased.—TAKE
NOTICE that the PUBLIC TRUSTEE OP NEW
SOUTH WALES is the Administrator of the Estate
of the abovenamed deceased who died intestate at
Cooma, New South Wales on 9th April 1943 The
parents of the intestate JAMES BRODIE (or Brodey)
and JOHANNA BRODIE (nee Flynn) were married
at Cooma on 23rd December 1861 there being issue
of the marriage including John Brodie born in the
District of Cooma on 24th October 1865 The said
James Brodie (or Brodey) father of the intestate if
alive on 9th April 1943 would have been solely
entitled in the Estate of the intestate If James
Brodie (or Brodey) died prior to that date brothers
and a sister of the intestate would be entitled to
share in the Estate and if the said James Brodie
married again after the 25th April 1901 the date--
of death of his said wife Johanna Brodie (rtee Flynn)
any issue born of any such subsequent marriage
would be entitled to share in the Estate as half-
brothers and half-sisters of the intestate If the
said John Brodie brother of the intestate died prior
to 9th April 1943 having married leaving children
alive at that date such children being nephews and
nieces of the intestate would be entitled to share in
the Estate.
LET the said JAMES BRODIE or any persons
claiming to be his children of a marriage subsequent
'to 25th April 1901 or the issue of a deceased child
of such children if any or their personal representa-
tives AND the said JOHN BRODIE or his children
if any or their personal representatives AND any
other person or persons claiming to be next of kin
of the intestate TAKE NOTICE that unless a claim
by them or any of them to be the next of kin of the
intestate is received by the Public Trustee under-
signed aforesaid on or before the Ist May 1945 the
Public Trustee will distribute the Estate of the said
Daniel Brodie deceased amongst the next of kin of
whose claims he then has notice.
W. B. GEDDES,
Public Trustee,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
CD
am
this moment would want to have the
House’s support in carrying on the war
effort Members cannot imagine what this
war is like and what it may lead to.
Ravenna Falls.
“Ek Dum”: The capture of Ravenna
by the Eighth Army was important,
though not so important as the opening
of the road to Bologna would have been.
That is the direction in which the greatest
hope of big gains lies, since the straight
highway from Faenza leads to Milan and
Turin and the industrial areas of the
north-west.
Beyond Ravenna there are flooded
lands and a broad lake and no very
material objectives short of Ferrara.
Ferrara could more easily be attacked
from Bologna, from which the Fifth
Army troops on the road from Florence
are only a few miles on the south-west.
The Germans are hanging on to Faenza,
their stopper on the road from Rimini
and Forli, like bull-ants to a chop, while
Eighth Army troops struggle,.to outflank
the town on both sides across the barrier
of the Lamone (on some maps “Lumene”)
River, which runs across the main road
from Forli, just short of Faenza. The
Eighth Army has a bridgehead across the
Lamone to the west of Faenza, but the
bridgehead has been under very heavy
counter-attack from the enemy, and up
to December 9 it had been impossible to
exploit it. /
The Mediterranean Air Force has been
active, especially in attacking Brenner
Pass communications and (in support of
the Russians) rail communications in
Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia and the
great Skoda munitions plant, which
hitherto has been curiously immune.
From the raids of December 9 28 air-
craft did not return.
In the Balkans
In Yugoslavia it was reported that
Marshal Tito had 200,000 Germans cut
off. The enemy’s yarn was that it was
bringing up its army group from the Bal-
kans for the defence of Hungary. In
any case, Anglo-American authorities
were more concerned at the operations of
the Communist “Army of Liberation”
which is killing British soldiers in Athens
and neighborhood during an attempt
to implement the Comintern’s instruction
to “turn Imperialist war into civil war ;
use the war in which your own Govern-
ment is concerned to defeat it.”
The forces involved are similar to
those with which Australia might be
infested if communists had been allowed
to form a “People’s Army,” with author-
ity to take home lethal weapons.
In Greece the communists are remark-
ably well armed, a fact which makes
food for thought. They either received
their arms from the Allies—or from
somebody else. It has been reported to
Mr. Churchill that German soldiers are
fighting in their ranks.
But General Scobie, the British com-
mander, is a tough nut to crack.
He is a long, dour Scot, well known to
many Australians, since he was here some
years ago as Director of Military Art at
Duntroon. His was the historic figure
which came careering through the outer
perimeter of Tobruk on an armored
vehicle, a mark for any German with a
gun, in the van of the force which broke
out of the town and ended the siege in
December, 1941.
The strength of the insurgents in
Greece is such that British reinforce-
ments may be needed, though communists
have failed to gain the support of
socialists and liberals in an attempt to
carry on a general strike at Salonika and
Patras, It is curious that the “rising”
seems most to affect British centres of
operation.
Moscow is saying nothing officially
about the affair, but is broadcasting
foreign opinion—for the most part that
which criticises the British Government.
Mystery on Mystery.
“Ek Dum”: The position on the
eastern front becomes more and more
mysterious. The news is all of three
great armies advancing to and round
Lake Balaton and gradually encircling
Budapest, which was supposedly in a state
of panic and confusion and full of flee-
ing Germans more than a month ago.
On the north of Pest, the flat two-
thirds of the capital lying on the eastern
side of the Danube, the Russians have
had to fight hard to reach and cross the
river. This should have been their
easiest route. Yet, though they had
needed the most strenuous efforts
to reach this approach, they have
been able to romp across the river on a
wide front south of the twin cities, and
in one sector to roll on 90 miles in a week,
past some main defence lines, without a
single check. They have penetrated hills,
crossed main roads and rivers, and—at
one place certainly—plunged through
forests without having to fight on any
scale. They established themselves on
the shores of Lake Balaton and beyond
without meeting even one real armored
counter-thrust. At the week-end Buda-
pest was reported cut off, or nearly cut
off, by the Russians.
Pest should be completely at their
mercy. They should be able to paralyse
it by bombing and beat it to bits by artil-
lery fire. Its perimeter must be so long
as to absorb large numbers of enemy
troops, who will be in the gravest
jeopardy from the Russian spearhead
loops round Buda, on the western side of
the river.
The Final Advance
It was reported from Moscow on
October 24:
With more than threequarters of the
great Hungarian plain in their hands, the
Russians are regrouping for the final ad-
vance on the capital, Budapest.
But this final advance was sidetracked at
the time.
There is a suggestion from Moscow
that the delay was due to an attempt to
take the capital intact and “save it for the
Hungarian people,” For this there is no
official support, and it is an absurd sug-
gestion. With two months’ warning, the
Germans are unlikely to have left any
measure undone which would allow the
Russians into the town before it was re-
duced to ruins. No sentiment would be
likely to interfere with wholesale destruc-
tion-sentiment never touches those hearts
of stone. Budapest is too valuable for
winter quarters, for dumps and for war
industrial purposes, to be left intact to
the Russians.
The representation now is that the three
great armies of Marshals Tobulkhin,
Petrov and Malinovsky are driving for-
ward to the Vienna Gap, where by dint
of a large-scale winter campaign they
are to break through the defences. If
this idea were fostered merely by cor-
respondents in Moscow’s Hotel Metro-
pole—increasingly bored as they are be-
coming more and more remote from the
front —there would be nothing abnormal
in the suggestion. But when it
comes from Moscow Radio, which has
official backing, and from other Russian
sources one wonders seriously what is
behind it.
It is impossible for anybody who has
seen the Balkans in winter to believe
that in newly-gained hostile territory,
with snow-choked mountain passes and
blizzard-swept plains, the communication
lines being up to 4000 miles long, a flow
of materials can be kept up to maintain
even one fair-sized army in battle.
Throughout all the Russian advance
there have had to be pauses, even on
Russian soil, for transport to catch up
with the needs of the army; this even
when it was obvious that the enemy was
still in retreat. Every observer who has
had a glimpse of the Russian supply lines
has commented on the huge numbers of
small carts which form the bulk of front-
line carriage, and as the front has pene-
trated deeper into Europe those carts
have become of less and less use. The
strain on animal traction and its wear
and tear must have been enormous.
It is very hard to believe that Russia
is able to fight battles in Hungary with
10 per cent, of the intensity of the great
mechanised war on the western front,
which is taxing the much superior fac-
tory and communication capacity of the
Allies, But Russian supply systems have
always been a mystery to observers.
“Beginning of End 1 ”
On October 25 newspapers everywhere
were so confident that Russia was about
to win the war that “Big Gain in Hol-
land —British Second Army Thrust” was
relegated to a corner of a Great Austra-
lian Daily to make way for a huge black
splurge; “Red Army Fights on German
Soil . . . Moscow Hails Victory As Be-
ginning of End.” It was recorded that
this was Moscow opinion, succeeding
an announcement that “the deeply
echeloned East Prussia defences” had
been “smashed on a 90-mile front and
that “five important towns” had been
“captured in a 20-mile break-through . . .
It was recorded that “Berlin admits an
even more sweeping victory: the Red
Army, it says, has reached the River
Angerapp, 35 miles inside East Prussia.
It turned out that the whole thing was
nonsense. There had been no break-
through. The Russians had not reached
the Angerapp River, or come within miles
of it, unless some small patrol pushed
thither to fall into a “trap.” There has
since been nothing to support the state-
ment of Moscow’s chief official military
commentator. Colonel Gerolin, that
“thousands upon thousands of Germany’s
picked soldiers manning the frontier
defences have been killed, and the cur-
tain has risen on the last act of the
drama that Hitler began.”
The attack was supposedly made with
a tremendous force —63 generals were
mentioned. It came to nothing. The
Russian front is further back today than
it was at the end of October. The “500
guns to the mile” which the Russians
were supposed to have massed for “satur-
ation fire” could not have been effective.
A “Red Star” prediction (24/10/’44) that
“the fate of every town which presents
an obstacle to our troops” would be that
of Schirwindt —“the town was utterly de-
stroyed to the last wall, and its garrison
annihilated” —has not come true.
The Russians in Poland have made no
gain of importance since October. In
some places they seem even further back
than they were at the end of that month.
Their offensives in the Baltic countries
came to an abrupt end so far as progress
was concerned nearly two months ago.
This is all the more curious since, when
Russia gained control of the German
flank and ostensibly of the eastern Baltic
Sea through the fall of Finland, there
were believed by Moscow to be only 30
ragged German divisions left pinned down
in a corner of Latvia, and it was an-
nounced on November 6 that the destruc-
tion of these was about to begin. It has
since been reported from Moscow that
52 Russian divisions were being hurled
against the starving remnants of the 30
German divisions, but so far without any
apparent effect.
Since September the main actual ad-
vances of the Russian armies seem to
have been wanderings through the
surrendered Balkans into Yugoslavia, “by
permission of Marshal Tito,” and through
Hungary.
It is impossible to believe that these
have involved any large-scale fighting,
outside tank battles. The few ragged
thousands of mixed troops who have been
captured in the last fortnight—3o,ooo in
all, Hungary included—surrendered so
quickly that they could scarcely have
troubled to fire a shot. It must be noted
that they were operating not against
large, well-supplied static forces but
against moving spearheads with large and
difficult rivers behind them. Contrast the
surrenders with the continued resistance
of the 10,000 or so defenders of Dunkirk,
Lorient and other German positions in
France,
Links with Western Optimism
The Russian mystery is evidently
linked with the mystery of the Western
Front. It is beyond question that in mid-
September the Allies in the west believed
that the war could be ended by Christ-
mas because the Germans were “stra-
tegically in a desperate position.” This
belief was not the prerogative merely of
a group. It was common among General
Eisenhower’s advisers (the general called
upon the Austrians to rise and the
foreign slaves in Germany to leave their
munitions factories and take refuge in
the country). It was voiced by Field-
Marshal Montgomery, It was held
in the highest political circles in London
and Washington. It was crystallised in
the middle of September in a letter which
the writer has seen, from somebody in
a very good position to judge, in which
it was asserted beyond doubt that Ger-
many was strategically in a worse posi-
tion than in November, 1918.
This conception was not based merely
on what was happening on the Western
Front. It was based on the belief that
before Christmas the Germans would be
submitted to a pressure on the eastern
lines equal to the west and that they could
not stand the squeeze. Instead, there is
always going to be a grand Russian
offensive next week or next month “when
the weather becomes cold enough”
(A.8.C.). It is evident that the Allies in
the west have met an unexpected call on
their man-power and upon their munition
resources. Yet if Moscow’s representa-
tions of the past few days are true, the
Germans there feel so strong and confi-
dent in the west and are in such a des-
perate position in the east that they have
felt it necessary to withdraw the German
44th and 71st Infantry Divisions and the
271st Infantry Division from the western
fronts in a process which Moscow Radio
calls “rushing headlong from one sec-
tor to another trying to plug breaches
in their defences.”
No breaches have yet become evident
in their main western defences which the
Allies are having to fight to temporary
exhaustion even to reach. If the enemy
is in so poor a way that he thinks
battle-weary remnants of three ersatz
divisions —one of which is a reconstituted
formation which was supposed to have
been wiped out at Stalingrad and since
twice mauled to the point of extinction
are the right stuff to hold his back door,
it is a matter for amazement that he has
been able to keep the doors locked so
securely elsewhere.
A much more convincing explanation
of the transfer is that he thinks the
length and nature of Russian communi-
cation lines are such that he need not an-
ticipate a main assault on the Vienna Gap
for some time. And that his remnant
divisions have been sent there either be-
cause they are not fit for more onerous
tasks and to stand the pounding of the
more intensive artillery and bombing war
of the west, or because he regards that
front as not important in the present
phase, his main defences being further
back.


** G/5T ** ££ J ABLETS
FOR BLOOD. VEINS,
ARTERIES, ETC.
What is BLASTO? . . . What can it do for me ?
Here are the Answers !
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness; if you
are the victim of chronic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
Elasto, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be”, you might well
say, when so many things have
failed . ..
Here is how ELASTO works
It has long- been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Elasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to work at
this source —it revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries.
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing.
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble is bad circulation.
This is more fully explained in
simple language in a free book-
let — see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say:
The fact is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Elasto. Here is
what a few of many grateful
users have said:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.’’
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
££aASy ukM' /jaAs>€, y-azo /
Your Dog
Are You Watching
His Health?
If your;dog’s coat is dull, loose or ragged—if he
is listless, won’t eat or is out of sorts he may
be suffering from digestive disorders. Start him
on a course of BARKO Condition Powders.
Constant scratching is often a sign of Eczema.
Give him BARKO Condition Powdersand apply
BARKO Skin Lotion to the affected parts. Wash
your dog always with BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
Buy them from
all Chemists
BARKO
Give him
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION - - • 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP - 9d.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The Canterbury attendance must have
been gratifying to the Sydney Turf Club,
which takes over that course during the
coming year. The tote turnover was a
record for the track, showing that, among
other things, small bettors are not worry-
ing themselves about post-war develop-
ments involving loss of big wages.
Little can be said of the Flying Handi-
cap. Grand Prodige (Coutts) dropped
Clarion Call after the latter had paced it
with him to the half-mile, and went on
to win at his ease from Britannic. Ex-
cuses were forthcoming for Britannic, but
he could not have won even with all the
luck on his side. Soho was third, and
never looked like doing better, and of
those behind the first two nothing ran on
better than Victory Lad. Modulation,
who was always one of the tail-enders,
finished last.
Precise was scarcely entitled to hot
favoritism for the Canterbury Handicap,
but he did flatter his backers, making the
running to the straight entrance. Then
Gauntlet disposed of him, and he, in turn,
gave place to Royal Peer and Betza. The
last-named fairly forced himself through,
and squeezed home by a short head in
1.52, record time for the course at nine
furlongs. Precise ran fourth, but nothing
outside the first two looked like adding
to its credit account within the next few
weeks.
The Trial Stakes saw Kitalurgy (Swin-
ton) act up to her country reputation.
Never far from the leading division, she
got a clear run on the rails in the straight,
and was too solid a finisher for Marquis,
who made a good bid for a win all the
way over the last seven furlongs. A rank
outsider in Adept ran third, followed by
the over-rated Prince Buzzard, whose
form did not warrant the price taken
about him with his steadier of 9.0. The
favorite. Courier, was a complete failure,
not being a place possibility over the last
half-mile of the trip. Moresby showed a
little improvement, and that many of the
other runners are in training further
proved the optimism of either trainers or
owners.
N.S.W.’s biggest breeder, P. Miller, who
does not race much nowadays, owing to
illness of a few months ago, had a win
in the Nursery Handicap with Mon-
mouth (Le Grand Duc-Marida) whose
finishing run bespoke further success. He
was ridden by Thompson. Metronome
was prominent throughout, while Sir
Alex, in third place, is likely to improve
considerably. Luck did not favor him.
Trianon showed pace, while Gold Cas-
cade and Huamight did not run up to
previous form, never really raising their
backers’ hopes.
Night Parade’s recent efforts did not
say much for his chance of winning the
Campsie Handicap, but with a 71b.
apprentice allowance putting him 51b,
below the advertised minimum, he took
charge in the straight and squeezed home
by a neck from the stronger-finishing
Marcontine. It was E. Cracknell’s first
winning ride. Kookaburra led early in
the piece but the tri was a trifle far for
him, aiid though the fact of D Munro
being his rider was expected to do a lot
for Air Link he did not shape as well as
a j b j s previous two or three outings,
Disappointments included Magi, Lady
Hamilton and Cordale, the last-named
being one of the rear division throughout.
' Haddon Hall, favorite for the first
division of the Highweight Handicap,
looked as if he would be all the better
for another race, and ran that way. The
pacemaker, St. Elmo, had a useful lead
turning for home, but was outstayed by
Fine Art (Sinclair). Dorrie Wyn and
Louano, third and fourth respectively,
were well placed from barrier rise, but
were not good enough.
In the second division of the High-
weight, Felbeam (Thompson) proved
some horses can be got ready without
being raced into form. It was a feather
in F. T, Cush’s cap. Although she had
not started since last April, Felbeam was
so well backed in town prior to Satur-
day that she opened at 3 to 1 on the
course in a field of 20, and closed a point
shorter. Her backers’ judgment was ex-
cellent. Felbeam went to the front from
Kurranulla before going half a mile, and,
giving nothing else a chance, won as she
liked by a length from Fermanagh
in a half-second faster time than Fine
Art put up in his division. Fermanagh,
who made up a lot of ground from the
turn, will be better suited by Randwick
or Rosehill. Of the unfancied lot Fort
Leon, Kurranulla and Valve showed they
were improving.
* # * *
Grain Trader, father of two foals, de-
feated Cavallo and 10-year-old Damalis
in the Benevolent Fund Handicap at
Flemington on Saturday. Cavallo looked
all over a winner a furlong from home,
but he veered out under pressure, and
Grain Trader, left with a rails run, won
by a head. Damalis showed his best
form for some time, and Little Tich made
up considerable ground to finish a close
fourth. Grain Trader, a five-year-old by
Harinero-Marcana, was the medium of
fair support at 8 to 1. He is raced and
trained by S. B. Ferguson, who also owns
his two foals and their dams.
Claudette, even-money favorite, finished
seventh after being second for home.
Many of her backers criticised H. Badger
for his handling of the mare, contending
that he should not have paced the field
up to the tearaway Laughton, who held
a lead of about 15 lengths at one stage.
Circumstances, however, were against
Badger. He considers that he would have
been forced to race four horses wide had
he not pushed Claudette along early, and
it was his bad luck that nothing else came
along to do the “bullocking.”
Ironheart, backed from 33 to 1 down
to 8 to 1, outstayed Navarro in the
Maroondah Handicap, for two-year-olds.
Raced and trained by V. O’Neill, of
Spearfelt fame, he is a colt by Kinder-
scout from Little Valve, and cost 1000
guineas as a yearling. A half-brother to
the Williamstown Cup winner, Throttle,
Ironheart impresses as a potential stayer.
Mysticus gave bookmakers a 33-to-l
result when he defeated Solon and Mil-
lais in the first Highweight Handicap.
Now six years old, his only previous win
had been recorded in maiden company
at Mornington as a three-year-old. He
developed a strange illness after that race,
however, and was sick for almost 12
months. Backers had better luck in the
second Highweight Handicap, the con-
sistent Aggressor justifying his 9-to-4
favoritism by beating Port o’ Call and
Maniototo.
* * * *
Bearing on the Villiers Stakes, Grand
Prodige’s win at Canterbury was out-
standing. He completely outpaced a smart
field, and carried 101 b. more than his
Villiers weight. Modulation, who had
61b. more than his, looked very bright,
but as he finished last it is difficult to
compute by what poundage Grand Pro-
dige beat him. Sticking to figures, Soho
has little chance of beating Grand Pro-
dige on 51b. worse terms than last week.
Britannic is 61b. worse off, and Silverelda
31b., as compared with Grand Prodige.
Bahtheon and Victory Lad were among
those well beaten by Grand Prodige, and as
they met him better than Villiers terms,
and are unlikely to improve to a greater
extent, the odds are against either turn-
ing the tables on him. Betza’s form in
the Canterbury Handicap was sufficiently
good to cause him to enter into Villiers
calculations, but there is the doubt
whether he will commence smartly
enough to be suited by the mile. Of
Saturday’s runners it is hard to go
beyond Grand Prodige, though he may
find it difficult to disposed of Liberality
and other new opponents. As Beauhead
is not to be a runner, Liberality will be
ridden by Thompson.
Royal Peer’s defeat by Betza did not
tell against his Summer Cup chance,
though he will meet the latter a pound
worse. There was no suggestion of luck
in Betza’s win, as he had to fight his
way through in the straight, but Royal
Peer has won at a mile and a half at
Randwick, and as he had not raced for
nearly two months prior to Saturday last
the next fortnight should do more for
him than for Betza, though hard racing
evidently agrees with the latter. They
were the only Canterbury Park runners
suggestive of Summer Cup possibilities.
Cordale’s form in the Campsie Handi-
cap was distinctly poor, and though both
the distance and high scale of weights
may have been against him, it was not
an effort that commended him for the
Cup. Veiled Threat did no better than
could be expected in the Flying Handi-
cap, and Night Parade’s Campsie Handi-
cap win did not greatly enhance his Cup
prospects.
Of Saturday’s non-runners, Kiaree
and Falcon Knight continue to do well in
their work, but though the former is sure
to run well he may have just enough
weight to stand in the way of his success.
* * * *
Recently bookmakers have experienced
some unprofitable days at Randwick.
They, like punters, can have bad trots,
and if a man is betting out of luck the
success of a third choice can occasion-
ally do more damage than a win by a
favorite. Still, on the whole, it does not
seem as if the books could have suffered
severely at Randwick. Sixty-seven races
have been run at that track this season,
and the following winners started at
8 to 1 or longer:
S.P.
Tactician .. .. 25
Genista .. .. 25
Prince .. .. 20
Gay King .. .. 20
Sunfel .. .. 20
Britannic .. .. 20
Royal Peer.. .. 15
Lancaster Pilot .. 15
Oberon .. .. 15
St. Quentin .. 15
Soho 15
Silver Field .. 14
S.P.
Accession (d.h.) 12
Winnipeg .. .. 12
Gauntlet .. .. 10
Panchio .. .. 10
War Effort .. 10
Nobleman .. 10
Nightbeam .. 10
Magnificent .. 10
Toulon .. .. 8
St. Quentin .. 8
Buzz Off .. .. 8
Debenture .. 8
As many people associated with racing
—these including trainers—regard a han-
dicapper’s billet as an easy one, appli-
cants for that position with the Sydney
Turf Club are likely to be numerous. The
possibility of £lOOO a year will be a big
attraction, and may bring new talent to
the fore. Perhaps, however, none will be
quite so enthusiastic as a gentleman who,
after his appointment as handicapper by
a leading club, allotted handicap weights
for a w.f.a. race. Fortunately, they did
not get into print, but it was not sur-
prising that he did not last very long.
* * * *
The books —or many of them —are
reported to have had an unprofitable
time at Randwick this season, and when
this was being discussed recently it caused
a layer of a humorous turn of rpind to
remark: “Well, essential industries receive
a deal of consideration nowadays, and so
far as the public is concerned bookmak-
ing comes under that heading. There-
fore, as button days are popular, I don’t
see why the Government should not
agree to a Randwick Bookmakers’ Relief
Button Day. The small bettor who has
been losing his ss. in the same old way
might not take kindly to the idea, but
perhaps it would not be too much to
expect those backers who have been tak-
ing thousands from us to make liberal
response.”
* * * *
When Pensacalo won the recent N.Z.
Derby at Riccarton (Christchurch) he
he was so little fancied that of the 14
runners he was only 11th in demand on
the straight-out tote and 10th for a place.
It was a great finish, not more than a
half-length separating the first four
horses.
Miscellaneous.
Stan Wilson and Ken Petersen did very
little fighting at Leichhardt till the cus-
tomers protested ; then Wilkes sailed in
and soon had his man in a bad way.
Solid rights sent Peterson groggy in the
seventh, and he came up groggier, if any-
thing, for the minute’s spell. A few more
punches and the flag of surrender was
hoisted. Jack Brander, now a serviceman,
skittled Jack Mitchell in the third round
of a supporting bout.
It is fortunate for some people that the
facts disclosed at 2 p.m. weighing con-
verted an impending tragedy into pure
farce, Alan Westbury, alleged to be a
welterweight, was matched with Bill Heb-
berd. Westbury scaled 11.8 and Hebberd
9.12. That tore it, and for Westbury the
Sydney Stadium management substituted
Joe Grant, on whom Hebberd scarcely
landed a glove, though himself too tough
to be bowled over. So Westbury-Hebberd
must be accounted the world’s worst
effort at matchmaking.
FOR ASCOT.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Nursery Handicap: Sir Alex, 1 ;
Milong, 2 ; Metronome, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Trianon, 1 ;
Doubloon, 2 ; Double Gift, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Mel Swan,
1 ; Marquis, 2; Nepean River or
Moresby, 3.
Kingsford Smith Flying Handi-
cap : Hall Stand, 1; Majesty, 2;
Bangster, 3.
Ascot Handicap; Lambeth, 1 ;
Easter Time, 2 ; Gauntlet, 3,
Bunnerong Three-year-old Handi-
cap : Debenture, 1 ; Recka Oka, 2 ;
Oliver, 3.
Welter Handicap; Dick Whitting-
ton, 1 ; Marcontine, 2 ; War Effort,
3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Lady Wakehurst for seven years has
kept a date with the “Old Folks At
Home” of the Sydney City Mission. Each
year she is a guest at their Christmas
dinner. This year she went to the Alex-
andria Hall, Alexandria, with a gift of
300 calendars, one for each member of
the company, and all autographed. A
concert followed the dinner, and Lady
Wakehurst stayed on, enjoying and
applauding.
The Charles Chauvels arrived in Sydney
from Melbourne last Thursday in time
for the first screening of “The Rats of
Tobruk.” As usual with her husband’s
films, Mrs. Chauvel has played an active
part in the production. Nick Woodward,
who founded the R. of T. Association,
was a guest, and with him were his wife
and son. With the Chauvels was daughter
Suzanne. Also in the Mayfair audience
were the wives of Peter Finch and Flying-
Officer J. W. Goffage, R.A.A.F., who
play leading parts in the picture. There
was quite an air about the official party,
which included the Governor, the Hon.
Henrietta Loder, Premier McKell, Syd-
ney’s Mayor and Mayoress and Peter
Lubbock.
Muriel Alexander, secretary of the
Women’s Committee of the Musical Asso-
ciation, is working hard to make a suc-
cess of the color film and music matinee
on the 16th. This is really a repeat per-
formance of the programme given at
Paling’s in October ; and both will benefit
the Gowrie Scholarship Trust. The color
films showing, native birds and flowers
rejoice in the titles of “Where Bower
Birds Play,” “Wild Flowers of Kuringai
Chase” and “Woodland Sanctuary.” A
special musical accompaniment has been
arranged. Norman Chaffer and Foster
Stubbs, of the Amateur Cine Society, are
responsible for the films. Foster’s contri-
bution is telling the story of an old violin.
There will be songs and instrumental
music. At Adyar Hall next Saturday
afternoon.
Rowe-street, that narrow way between
Market- and Castlereagh-streets, might be
renamed the place of little shops for big
causes. Throughout the war some of its
windows have been displaying pretty
and hard-to-get goods which were
being sold to help some war or welfare
fund. Just now, in addition to the
C.U.S.A. shop, there are the Opportunity
shop, a money-spinner for the Peter Pan
Kindergarten, and the Blankets for
Britain shop, which is really the premises
of interior decorator Margaret Jaye.
The 8.F.8. committee is busy today
preparing for the opening tomorrow. A
fitted travelling-case, baby’s underwear
of the finest stitchery, Christmas present
pretties, model frocks and some really
good wines and liqueurs are among the
stock. The liquor will be auctioned later
by Max Lawson. The Moxham lady,
Mrs. Neils Storraker, Mrs. Nesbitt, Mrs.
Grant Lindemann and Margaret Jaye
are the shopkeepers.
Last week Lady Gowrie cabled saying
she would be pleased to supervise the dis-
tribution of the blankets. The committee
had set out with the intention of sending
one thousand. But that seemed so few
among so many. Now the workers dream
of many cargoes of blankets.
Congratulations are due to the mem-
bers of the C.W.A. on another promise
honored, and on another deed for the
general good. When the Gowrie Scholar-
ship Trust was founded the C.W.A.
promised £5OOO to the fund. From one
branch and another the cheques have
been coming in to the Trust headquarters,
and last week one for £2lB 3s. 3d.
brought the C.W.A. total to £5028 6s. 7d.
* The 18 finalists in the A.C.F. Victory
Girl contest came to town last week. It
is true that some of them were from
suburbs as close at hand as Hunter’s Hill,
Mosman and Burwood, so that a jaunt
to the city was no thrill, but some of
the winners came from as far away as
Mudgee, Wagga and Narrandera; the
girl who topped the poll, from Wil-
cannia. From last Thursday till today
the girls have been the guests of the
A.C.F. Before their first plunge into the
mad city whirl —a tea party in the Town
Hall —a newsreel was made of them
mounting the steps to the front door
while passers-by in George-street stopped
to gaze.
Upstairs in the corridor outside the
reception rooms more cameras lurked.
There were a speech from Mayor Bart-
ley and smiles from his Mayoress. There
was a green bank of feathery fern as
background for the hostess, whose frock
was of blue and white-flowered silk, and
whose hat was a tiny white sailor. Dur-
ing the week Mrs. Sam Jones, the Nock
and Morshead ladies and Mrs. C. J. Pope
have been official shepherdesses to the
young visitors. Their round of gaieties
included an evening at the Anzac Buffet,
with music and dancing, a surf carnival
at Manly, morning tea with Lady Wake-
hurst at Government House, a trip to the
Zoo and a day at National Park. The
contest raised over £325,000 for the
A.C.F.
A new venture of the A.C.F. is its
mobile canteen unit. The idea is that if
Mrs. Smith, of Burwood, wishes to give
a function to raise funds for the A.C.F.
some voluntary workers will dash out and
staff the function. In these days of
domestic-help problems, the scheme
seems practically sound, and it might be
adopted by other war-working groups
with advantage. Helen Michell, of the
Revenue Branch of the A.C.F., is the
organiser. The Norman Nock lady is
senior of the 14 Commandants. Helen,
well known in the Kindergarten move-
ment in Sydney, was for three years head
of a preparatory school at Hyderabad,
India.
Next Friday afternoon a sound like
the clash of cymbals will reach the ears
of those passing the doors of 77 King-
street. Members of the Lyceum Club will
be in the thick of their Christmas tea
party. Star event of the afternoon will
be the handing of a present to Mrs. John
Metcalfe, Lyceum’s enthusiastic president
for the past five years.
The W.A.N.S. are going into the
theatrical business. Under the direction
of Mrs. M. Wallace, W.A.N.S. area
officer of Neutral Bay, and director of the
entertainment unit, they will present the
pantomime “The Sleeping Beauty” at
the Con. on the 20th, and on the 30th
there will be a holiday matinee for
school-children. The panto will have an
assortment of animals almost as varied
as the guests in the Ark or at Taronga.
Pat Milner, in this photograph, is the
sparkling Prince Charming.
Three cheers for Mrs. C. Crowe, of
Bourke-street, Moore Park. Every year
for four years she has given a Christmas
party for the pupils of the Bourke-street
school. Usually there are 400 guests.
This year 800 turned up. Mrs. Crowe
is fond of youngsters. She owns several
residentials in the street and will let her
rooms only to people with children, -
Principals in one of last week’s engage-
ments were Elizabeth Whiddon and A.C.2
Nicholas Kelso King, R.A.A.F. Eliza-
beth’s parents are the Frank Whiddons,
of Point Piper. Her affianced’s father
was knight Kelso King. His mother gave
a party and the Whiddons gave another
in Celebration.
A steady stream of callers has flowed
through the Grosvenor Galleries’ exhibi-
tion. Knight George Davis and his
lady were very interested in Robert
Johnson’s Capertee Valley picture, as
Glen Davis is situated there. A portrait
of Joy Cuttle by Garrett Kingsley was
much admired. She is painted in her
bridesmaid’s dress of pale-pink lace, re-
cently worn at the wedding of her brother,
Lieut. Bruce Cuttle, A.I.F.
Younger artists in Sydney had a thrill
of excitement at the announcement of
Mitty Lee-Brown’s marriage to Dr. Peter
Vasquez Russo. Mitty, a gifted young
painter, was the runner-up this year in
the N.S.W. Art Travelling Scholarship.
The wedding was very quiet, only a few
intimate friends being in the secret. The
bridegroom comes from Ballarat (Vic.).
Mitty’s father was Dr. R. K. Lee-Brown.
From Melbourne
The Christmas spirit is abroad already,
and the shops are filled with harassed
mothers trying to buy toys to make glad
the hearts of their children on Christmas
morning. The Doll Fair in Melbourne
Town Hall for the Red Cross was
thronged all day with mothers and their
children. The dolls made a brave show-
ing, but the prices! Dolls dressed in
cheap little net frocks with very ordinary
calico underclothes brought four guineas ;
some dolls were sold for 19 guineas.
Other efforts to help solve the problem
of Christmas giving and at the same time
help the war effort included the opening
by Mrs. Charles Allum and her band of
willing helpers of a shop in aid of the
War Nurses’ Comforts Fund. Many
lovely and useful gifts were displayed,
among them knitted goods for the new
baby and the toddlers marked with the
magical words “coupon free.” Many of
the articles had been made by members
of the committee and the Next-of-kin
Auxiliary to the War Nurses’ Comforts
Fund. Precious coupons had been sur-
rendered not only for wool but for sugar
to make the jam and butter for the
sponges and cakes which were sold.
When Wing-Commander John T.
Phillips, R.A.A.F., came to Melbourne
from the Harbor City his eyes lighted on
Nan Cooper, the lovely lass pictured here
by Athol Smith. A whirlwind courtship
has just ended with John placing a
sapphire and diamond ring on Nan’s
finger, and wedding bells will peal for
this handsome couple early in the New
Year. Nan is one of a bevy of daughters
belonging to the L. K. Coopers of Range-
road, Camberwell, and adds business
ability to her good looks. She helps to
manage a beauty salon in Collins-street.
The first gap in the happy Cooper
family came when brother Basil joined
the R.A.A.F. and left for Canada in
1942. Gaining his wings, Basil went to
England as a pilot-officer, where he be-
came engaged to an English Waaf.
In July, 1943, returning from a bombing
raid over Essen, the ’plane piloted by
Basil was shot down, and word has
recently been received that his last resting-
place is in Holland. Nan’s surviving
brother, Peter, is still at Melbourne
Grammar School. Wing-Commander
Phillips, who has made many friends in
Melbourne, is the only son of Mr. and
Mrs. J. T. Phillips, of Neutral Bay,
Sydney.
The Silver Door Fete, an enterprise on
behalf of the Kindergarten Union of
Victoria, brought forth undies and
knitted goods marked “coupon free.” The
city was filled with the noise and clatter
of button-sellers and stall-holders who
wished to boost the Air Race to Geneva.
One of the busiest stalls was that organ-
ised by the Police Department. Stalwart
policemen off duty held up the public,
who responded generously to the demand
“Buy a button and help the Red Cross,”
A Paddy’s Market held in the Town Hall
for the same cause had many customers.
The second-hand clothes stall did a brisk
trade.
The various bodies sponsoring entrants
to the fictitious Air Race are all working
hard. The Beatrice Beaufighter, named
for the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Beatrice
Campbell, has travelled many thousands
of miles, and the Town Hall group is
losing no opportunity of sending it
further on the way.
Mrs. Barry Thompson plays fairy god-
mother every Christmas to children
patients in the Alfred Hospital, and
makes the kiddies happy with presents of
toys and sweets. Wallace Mitchell under-
takes the role of Father Christmas. This
Christmas makes the 29th occasion for
Mrs. Barry Thompson, who last week
gathered around the luncheon table a few
of her willing helpers. Mrs. Forbes
McKenzie, who has a daughter just em-
barked on a nursing career, and who finds
time away from her job at the Navy
office to help Mrs. Thompson gather in
toys for the children, was a guest, also
Mrs. Alec Kerr, wife of a well-known
medico, with two children. Many women
will in the next few weeks give
“toy afternoons” to make this Christmas
a happy one for the youngsters in the
Alfred.
From Perth came news of a marriage
in the Priminister’s family—Sergeant
John Francis Curtin, R.A.A.F., took unto
himself as wife Catherine Reid Neill. The
ceremony took place in the Ross
Memorial Kirk. Priminster Curtin,
stricken by illness, was unable to attend
his son’s wedding, but telegraphed his
good wishes. The bride, formerly a
Waaaf corporal, is the only child of Mr.
and Mrs. D. H. Neill, of Mount Lawley,
W.A., and she was bom in Scotland,
arriving in this country with her parents
20 years ago,
Many times Strella Wilson was called
back on the stage when she appeared in
“Princess Ida” recently. Never has there
been a more attractive actress in the title
role and certainly no lovelier voice. At
the conclusion of the play the singer was
entirely surrounded by floral offerings,
and the audience clamored for a speech.
Janet and Bowen Paine took along a
party of 36 friends of Strella’s, including
R. G. Menzies and most of the Menzies
family and M. Mathis; afterwards,
moved to the home of Isobel Green, sister
of the Menzies boys, for a welcome-home
party. The greatest admirer of the singer
was daughter Pam Garrick, who also was
seen at the premiere of the picture “Rats
of Tobruk,” in which she plays a lead-
ing part.
Paddy, wife of Lieut.-Col. Don
McKenzie, is back in her Toorak flat. For
some months she has been in Canberra
while her husband was giving a course
of lectures at Duntroon. While in N. S.
Wales the McKenzies went exploring the
country in a jinker and had great fun.
They did some hundreds of miles and
Paddy says travel by horse and jinker is
the ideal way of seeing the country. Re-
cently Paddy gave a pre-graduation party
for nephew lan, who was at Duntroon.
lan, who is the son of the late Major
Eric Wilton, formerly of Duntroon, is fol-
lowing in the family tradition, but was
not at the party. He was represented by
his mother, Mrs. Eileen Wilton and
sisters Maureen and Anne.
Major Walker, who is leaving Mel-
bourne soon to make his home in Adel-
aide, was a guest and others enjoying the
party were Mr. and Mrs. Neville Sun-
ning. Mrs. Running, tired of being at
home while husband was doing his war
job, found employment in a spinning fac-
tory, where she has become an experi-
enced worker. Adding gaiety to the party
was the much-travelled Hilda Corbett,
wearing a smart grey jumper suit v ith
burgundy accessories, and Adrienne Wall.
Paddy, who before she went to Canberra
worked for many months in a munitions
factory with sister Eileen, is having a
short breathing space before she again
takes a war job.
Latest to join the ranks of the married
are Felicity, daughter of Mrs. McPhee
and Colin McPhee, of Cressy, and Henry
Norman (ex-A.1.F.). Felicity walked
down the aisle of Scots College Chapel
in a becomingly-draped gown of soft
mushroom-pink crepe topped by a smart
little bonnet of brown felt embellished
with two pink water-lilies. A shoulder-
length brown veil draped the hat and a
posy of matching water-lilies was carried.
Bride was given away by her uncle, Daryl
Lindsay, who combined brevity with wit
in his speech during after-rejoicings at the
Windsor. Mrs. Daryl Lindsay, smart in
a brown and white spotted linen suit with
saucy white hat, was hostess, and had
arranged the flower decorations of the
reception-room.
Mrs. McPhee’s frock of navy patterned
in white was worn under a navy coat,
and went with navy hat and accessories.
She was accompanied by her younger
daughter, Mrs. J. Mouton, in a smart
black frock and small pancake hat of
mist-blue felt. Laura Herman, sister of
the bridegroom, highlighted her black
outfit with a gay floral chapeau. Rose-
mary Knox chose dusty-pink with match-
ing hat. Many telegrams were read by
best man Clifford Murch, among them
one from the bride’s uncles, Lionel and
Norman Lindsay. Padre Stephen Yarnold,
who tied the knot, presented the bridal
pair with the gift given to every couple
married in the Scots College Chapel, a
Bible bound in red morocco with the
school crest in gold stamped on the
cover. After a brief honeymoon the
Normans will live on their property down
Port Fairy way.


you cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAASEASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, understand that all
such fatal diseases as Fistula, Ulcer of the
Rectum, - Fissure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of this trouble. DOAN’S
OINTMENT is unequalled for every form of
Piles—Bleeding, Itching, Protruding, and Blind
Piles, and hundreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective remedy right from
the start', because at such times a single tin has
often effected a cure, while in the old deep-
seated, chronic cases several tins are some-
times necessary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing, antiseptic
and soothing. That is why it is equally suc-
cessful in overcoming Eczema and other skin
complaint's. But be sure you get DOAN S.
MENTMORE
tm44U&4*§ jp€M4
Made in England
?«gVS|
'R,
'O
°0
</>
FIXED PRICES
Supreme .. 16/5
Diploma .. 18/11
Autoilow .. 26/3
I4ct. solid gold nib,
iridium pointed
IT WON'T BELONG NOW/
—before you can fill your car with petrol
and hop off for a care-free day at the beach
with the family. Meantime, your car is not
getting enough running to keep the battery
charged. Call on your Masse dealer once a
fortnight and get him to test it. An occa-
sional re-charge may mean many extra
months of service.
‘Masse
ARE IS 8 I E 8
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
* "i ■* -
%
mmsm
r
m
mm
»&
mm
*%
m
m
W-
m
■•ST
is s
$
Is
m
M
2
,m\\«
CLOTH
■'. s
IT f
o*'* K Wf
y. 5
m
• %
IPSws
C ivW-
-51
jtfF ="V
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR_IgRJ^NK
SMOKE-OH!
“Among the reading suggestions are: For
boredom, Psalms ciii and civ.” — Weekly paper.
Sleepy worshippers look forward to
these every Sunday.
*b. •** -J.
“Sour expressions and sore feet usually go in
pairs.”— Woman's paper.
Of shoes too small for you.
*l* *l*
“Should I ask my wife for a divorce or just
carry on?”— lnquirer in “Sun.”
If you carry on she’ll probably give
it to you,
•J*
“Ox carts are being used in Berlin to convey
beer and other necessities.”—' “S. M. Herald.”
In good Sir James's halcyon days
Before old “Granny” bobbed her hair
And gave up wearing rigid stays
Beer had a place with vice to share —
A waste of money and a snare;
Most pleasing, then, it is to see
(The Oldest Reader now will stare),
Beer ranked as a necessity!
H. M.
*b *l* *b
“Girls invariably mature earlier than boys.”
— Woman’s paper.
But reach a ripe age much later.
*b *b *b
“Adjustment of Fish Prices.”
— “Advertiser''' heading.
Presumably on a different scale.
4* 4* *b
The New Diplomacy.
“It is generally admitted by those well
acquainted with the circumstances surrounding
Japanese-American negotiations preceding the
present war that Japan was not the aggressor.”
—Tokyo spokesman.
Amplifying his statement, the spokes-
man went on to describe in detail the
events of December 7, 1941.
An Imperial task force, which hap-
pened to be cruising near Hawaii, sent up
a small force of ’planes on a goodwill
mission to the islanders. The fact that
each ’plane carried a full load of bombs
might be interpreted as a further ges-
ture of friendliness, as the bombs
in question were securely gripped in the
racks as a precaution against their being
accidentally dropped.
On coming in sight of the American
fleet and fortifications at Pearl Harbor,
the spokesman continued, the Imperial
pilots were so overcome by this evi-
dence of hostile intention against the
Emperor that they felt compelled to re-
lease their bombs. The placing of such
temptation in the way of patriotic sons
of Nippon could only be construed as
an act of flagrant aggression.
To make matters worse, at that very
moment the peaceable envoys of the Em-
peror were being received in America
with a false show of welcome and con-
ciliation, which could be interpreted as
nothing else but the basest treachery and
hypocrisy.
Reviewing the China Incident, the
spokesman denounced the unprovoked
aggression of the Chinese, who, by
placing a rich, undeveloped territory close
to the Imperial dominions, had deliber-
ately incited the Nipponese to acquire it.
The spokesman concluded with a stern
warning to the U.S.S.R., which by means
of a fisheries agreement and a neutrality
pact had given plain evidence of hostile
intention.
Plum.
“The carbuncle had spread to his neck and
shoulders and a nasty abscess had formed in
each armpit.”—“ The Doctor Who Tells.
Almost a boil-to-boil description.
’b
“ ‘Woman of the Town’; ‘The Invisible Man s
Revenge.’ ” —Theatre advt.
Jack the Ripper again?
The M.P. Sits for His Q.C.
“Members of Parliament should submit to a
qualifying examination before they are allowed
to demand it of other professions.”
—Retiring B.M.A. president Dr. Roseby.
1. —The day after the publication
of your press article on the Dignity of
Parliament an hon. member on the oppo-
site side of the House, in the course of
debate, calls you “a scabby, leprous rat.”
He is a muscular 15-stoner. You tip
the scale at 9st. 81b. Your alternative
reactions could be (a) Drag your coat off
belligerently and yell “Hop outside, y’
swine, and I’ll job yer!” ( b) Say gently:
“I would earnestly implore the hon.
member to desist from such un-
gentlemanly remarks and strive to keep
the debate "on a high tone” ; (c) Leap to
your feet and savagely grind out: “Wot’s
bitin’ you, y’ half-witted ape ; crawl away
and nibble yer navel.” State briefly why
you would choose the third method.
2. —You are newly elected and a mem-
ber of the Opposition. Agreeing with
Lord Rosebery that it is the Opposition’s
bounden duty to oppose, you take your
seat determined to do this. The first
measure brought down by the Govern-
ment is one to raise Parliamentary
salaries by £2OO p.a. Point out the weak-
nesses in Lord Rosebery’s dictum, and
enumerate the reasons which will impel
you, as a fair-minded man, to vote with
the Government on what is obviously a
sound and statesmanlike piece of legis-
lation.
3. —You have become aware that the
stock joke in your electorate, which has
a big block vote of civil servants, is that
the only time you ever open your mouth
when the House is sitting is when you are
in the Parliamentary bar. An election is
due in three months. Would you con-
sider this an opportune time to make a
speech praising the superb achievements,
sacrifices and loyalty of the public ser-
vice, and announcing your intention in
the near future to father a bill to liberal-
ise the superannuation scheme, reduce
the retiring age and make the working
week one of 28 hours?
4 jn the absence of double-murders
and turf sensations, the daily press has
suddenly discovered the 50-year-old men-
ace of water hyacinth choking our coastal
rivers and is playing it up for all it’s
worth. Yours is a city electorate and
you have only the vaguest idea of what
it’s all about. Bearing in mind possible
public interest, would you deem it tacti-
cally sound to demand a royal commis-
sion and send a statement, accompanied
by a photo, you had had taken 15 years
before, to the daily running the feature?
5, Taking into consideration the possi-
bility of a press photographer being pres-
ent, the fact that you sleep with your
mouth open and your usual inability to
keep awake during the debating of im-
portant measures, detail the steps you
would take to appear conscious during
the debate on the Budget at a night
session.
6. —Hot under the collar, you have
made a statement to the press which later
you realise is a boner, it having been
interpreted as an attack on a section of
your own party. Describe the steps you
would take in claiming that you had been
misreported.
7. —Your party has been slashed to
ribbons at the polls, having lost all the
“key” electorates. Explain in detail why
you, as the spokesman, should claim to
have registered a “moral” victory.
8. —After one of the most abusive elec-
tion fights on record, in which the lowest
tactics were used, you are returned. Give
some reasons why at the declaration of
the poll you should stress the fact that
it was one of the cleanest-fought cam-
paigns you have taken part in.
Bo
Sartorial Niceties.
When Unde Sam, disguised as Santa Claus,
sent diapers to Tunisia, the Arabs used them
as turbans.” —American paper.
The Arab in his infancy.
Appears from all accounts to be
From surplus clothing rather free ;
He wears, in fact, precisely none.
The Bedouin, who wears a loose
But very adequate burnous,
Has probably as little use
For trousers as his infant son.
And therefore, if he chanced to find
Among the strange, new gifts consigned '
By Uncle Santa through lease-lend
Some pants of the three-cornered kind.
It seems the well-dressed sheik’s in-
clined
To wear them on his end.
P. M. LUSK.
The Rub.
“In every great love there is an element of
unhappiness.”— Woman’s paper.
Last night beside the silver sea
I poured my soul to Nerolie
She trembled with delight to hear
The vows I whispered in her ear.
It was a perfect night, and yet
This morning I have one regret :
I’m haunted by a fear that she
Took my proposal seriously.
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed hrst is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Water Is Not All
Every visitation of drought during the
last half-century has produced a spate
of schemes calculated to make inland
Australia, if not a Garden of Eden, at
least permanently safe and productive.
In every case conservation of water in
favored areas and its transmission to the
interior are given precedence over other
considerations. But the most cogent
factor in grazing is the normal carrying
capacity of the country affected by re-
current dry spells. Paddocks as bare
of grass and herbage as a skating rink
will not carry any more stock because
of their being provided with permanent
water for drinking, however desirable this
latter may be.
As a matter of fact, it is character-
istic of droughts in this country that
the feed gives out long before the
water. In the 1902 and the 1914 droughts
in the Western Riverina the wells and
even the tanks were capable of providing
more water than was necessary for the
wants of the surviving sheep.
My point is that the opening up of
water-channels into the interior would
serve no purpose commensurate with the
cost. On the other hand, it might lead to
greater losses of sheep through the upset-
ting of the natural balance between feed
and water and inducing overstocking.
Where the proposals involve irrigation
in the interior the problem is different,
but the arguments advanced are equally
illogical. As Geographer Griffith Taylor
and Statistician Knibbs emphasised a
score of years ago, there is no justifica-
tion for attacking the arid and semi-arid
areas of this continent until the unde-
veloped lands within the good average
rainfall zone have been brought to some-
where near their productive capacity.
A look at the present condition of
eastern N.S.W. should leave no doubts
regarding the vast area of half-developed
land awaiting improvement and popula-
tion before any start is made to irri-
gate or open up the far west. This eastern
half of the Ma State contains about
150,000 sq. miles and is mostly outside
the area of recurrent droughts. It con-
tains such favored spots as ,the North
Coast, Liverpool Plains, New England,
Southern Tablelands, the South Coast
and Eastern Riverina. Its population of
about 2,500,000, with the exception of
about half a million, lives either in Syd-
ney or in towns and cities of more than
a thousand inhabitants. This means that
a strip of excellent farming land the size
of Italy is being occupied by a rural
population of half a million.
The population of Italy exceeds
45,000,000. Although the living standards
of its people before the war were never
of a sort for Australians to aim at, they
were not so bad considering that
they have neither coal nor iron laid on
and that their farming land is in general
far inferior to ours of eastern N.S.W. —
F. A. (N.S.W.).
Australia Comes to Fiji
Two days ago, here in Fiji, the atmo-
sphere thickened; the sun merely glowed
like a large golden plate; visibility was
considerably reduced. At night no stars
were to be seen, while the moon was only
a luminous suggestion beyond the haze.
Australia had come to Fiji.
How many acres of good soil were
swept away to visit these green fertile
islands—soil that should have been
securely held at home?
Twenty-two years ago I was wheat-
farming in the Riverina. That country
was considered then as one of the safe
areas, which, though visited by droughts
periodically, had a generally sufficient
rainfall to ensure against outright failure.
But there was a tremendous area of dead
and dying timber everywhere, with pathe-
tically few clumps of green dotted hap-
hazardly in small isolated groups over a
land rapidly succumbing to the wire
fence and the plough. I name the wire
fence as one of Australia’s chief enemies.
If farmers all over the threatened areas
were to act individually, at once, in a
fairly simple way, a very , great deal could
be done to prevent such dangerous losses.
Hedges planted along fence lines, grown
to a reasonable height of 6ft. or so, could
well break the destructive force of the
wind at ground level, while trees (pines
or other suitable types according to locali-
ties) planted in rows across each farm,
but not in small groups, would prove a
most efficient breakwind, and soon repay
a thousandfold the time, labor and cash
spent on their establishment. — Bahut
Achcha (Fiji).
Railway War Profiteering
Tell “Accurate” (B. 22/11/ ’44) that I
got my data regarding train miles run
(B. 4/10/’44) from Transport and Com-
munications Bulletins, Nos. 33 and 34,
issued by the Commonwealth Bureau of
Census and Statistics. “Accurate” should
acquaint himself with these sources of
information.
“Accurate’s” argument only reveals
that, relatively to her capacitjr to provide
loading, Australia is grossly “over-rail-
wayed,” that it required a war to bring
up the volume of traffic to economic
balance, and that peace-time railway
charges were about three times what they
should be. In between wars Australians
pay enormously for services which they
do not get, and during wars —as in the
case now in Queensland —they go with-
out much of even the inefficient railway
service which they got in peace years.—
Junius (Q.).
Seamen’s Bonuses
I am a shipmaster, and have seen this
war through on this coast. We are hav-
ing a quiet time now, but less than 12
months ago, and for two years before
that, we earned our money. Even when
no submarines happened to be about it
“ I want it purely for medicinal purposes
wasn’t fun to sail in a convoy on a dark
night, with all ships blacked out. You
couldn’t see ten feet ahead, but you
knew that there were other ships 300
yards ahead, each side and astern of you.
But lam digressing. I really want to
tell you a funny story. Just on three
years ago Government gave us a 50 p.c.
war bonus. That sounded good, but it
wasn’t as good as it sounded.
At sea, over the wireless I received the
news of that 50 p.c. bonus. However,
until I received confirmation from ray
office I could not pay more than 25 p.c.
Playing safe, I made out two sets of pay-
sheets, one for 25 p.c. and one for 50 p.c.,
so that on arrival in port, whatever my
instructions, I was ready. On arrival I
was instructed to pay the crew 25 p.c.
Next day orders were received to pay
50 p.c.
Believe it or not, I received 4s. more,
net, at 25 p.c. than I did at 50 p.c.; I paid
£7 less in tax. The Government gave us
50 p.c. war-risk bonus, but we never saw
it; Mr. Chifley took care of that.
I receive £2B a month bonus, and pay (
£lB of it in tax. All seamen are taxed
on a similar scale. We can’t refuse to
work on week-ends, or knock off for the
day at five o’clock. A forty-four-hour
week for us is practicable only on paper.
We get paid for all hours over 44 at over-
time rates, but it is a case of one for us
and three for Mr. Chifley, and we can’t
refuse to work 100 hours a week if it is
necessary.
Wherefore, we object to being classed
with coalminers, wharf-laborers and
cooks. We are paying our share, and piore,
of the war effort. — Seaman (N.S.W.),
Dogs Before Babies
Sales tax on baby soap is 25 p.c. Sales
tax on dog soap is nil. Only toy-dog and
greyhound owners buy dog soap.
My own dog, a kelpie, gets a scrub with
the remains of the laundry water, with
hosing afterwards. He has a better coat
than any other dog in the district.
Some? time ago when a sales tax was
placed upon all human medicines there
was no sales tax on dog medicines. Why?
—Chemist (N.Q.).
Conservatism and the New Order
The Conservative party in Britain has
issued a report entitled “Work: The
Future of British Industry.” Although
produced by a political party it is almost
devoid of politics. Here are a few quota-
tions, each of which might be profitably
expanded to a volume: “Trade-unions
were not established to be the preserve
of any one political party.... In facing
the future emphasis must be placed on
opportunities rather than on difficulties.
.... It is essential to encourage initiative,
not to go slow and play for safety....
Technical progress, skilled administra-
tion and good workmanship —these, and
not a new political system, can raise the
standard of living.... The greatest single
cause of the depression was the failure
to diagnose unemployment as a world
problem.... Public works should be a
buffer against depression, not a cure for
it.”
If, as seems likely, a Conservative
majority is returned in Britain at the next
election, recovery may not be so long
delayed there as in countries where a
belief exists that prosperity can be impro-
vised by an Act of Parliament. — Harap
(Vic.).
Australian Women Defended
Having “eaten in every sort of place,”
you think “the average Australian woman
is an indifferent cook and seldom a really
good household manager,” do you, “Fifty-
four” (B. 22/11/’44)? Why do so many
Australians condone the public criticism
of the Australian woman for all sorts of
imagined shortcomings when they should
be lauding her? Consider her indomit-
able courage through the awful depres-
sion years —bearing and rearing sons and
daughters—and now in war-time sacrific-
ing those sons to keep Australia free and
taking up the slack in the man-power
shortage.
Think of newly-married brides, living in
hovels and under houses, waiting hours
in shopping queues, standing in crowded
trams and buses —some of them expectant
mothers.
Then the single girls, staffing civilian
hospitals at week-ends, working at service
hostels at night, meeting returned and
wounded Diggers, cheerfully entertaining
service men “passing through” to the
north, and all the time, perhaps, anxiously
awaiting news of Tom at the front.
But my defence rests on deeper grounds
than all this. The present nation-wide
wave of condemnation of Australian
women, if allowed to continue, will
destroy the rightful respect our men
should have for their womenfolk. Com-
pare the shop queues with the tote queues.
t As for domestic science, ask any
Digger about Mum or Sis’s cooking.—
Mary (Q.).
Ersatz Tobacco
Tobacco addicts, who are mulcted in
millions of pounds every year by way of
Customs and Excise duties, should be
afforded protection by the Common-
wealth against racketeers who, taking ad-
vantage of the war-time curtailment of
supplies, have been foisting all sorts of
vegetable rubbish on the public under
the guise of “smoking mixtures.”
It is up to the authorities to investi-
gate the racket in the interests of revenue,
even if they feel undisturbed at the whole-
sale poisoning of pipe-smokers.— Nick
OTine (N.S.W.).
Unfair to the Speck
The brochure Know Australia issued
under the authority of Minister for In-
formation Calwell annoyed Tasmanian
Treasurer Dwyer Gray, who complained
that his State had been omitted from a
map contained in the booklet. He said
this had repeatedly happened in official
publications. In a second issue of Know
Australia a small part of the north of
the State appeared labelled “Tasmania,’'
and Launceston and Hobart were jammed
together.
Members of the Fingal Municipal
Council fell foul of the booklet on
another score. In it the question “What
about snow?” is answered: “There are
only three areas in Australia in which
snow regularly falls —the Australian Alps
in N. S. Wales, the Alps in Victoria and
Mt. Wellington in Tasmania.” The final
assertion, councillors averred, is entirely
wrong. Snow certainly falls on Mt.
Wellington, but the chief Tas. snowfaii
is on Ben Lomond (5160 ft.) in the north-
east, where snow lies for months on end,
and falls take place many times between
April and December. The Northern Tas-
manian Alpine Club regularly indulges
in ski-ing on Ben Lomond. — Fingal
(Tas.).
Post-war Industry
Having earned a good livelihood, by
private enterprise for some years (in spite
of physical handicaps), the writer con-
siders the system fair insofar as it rewards
the industrious and penalises the slothful.
But,, like any other system, it has its faults.
In the post-war years it will be in the
interests of industrialists and business
men generally to seek remedies for the
more obvious defects.
The solution to that biggest of all prob-
lems over-production demands some
measure of co-operation between manu-
facturers and distributors. It is a prob-
lem that can and must be solved if we
are to preserve economic stability. To
business men it is not comforting to con-
template a future situation where busi-
ness will slump because we have collec-
tively produced goods in excess of public
demand.— Blue (Q.).
Small-House Design
Whatever is done about housing, don’t
let us adopt holus-bolus those American
house designs which so many short-
sighted people admire.
'"Central heating, always the first con-
venience to take the eye, proves nothing,
because it is a necessity and not a luxury
in many parts of the U.S.A. There are
many other commonplaces of American
small-house design which we would find
undesirable.
For instance, nearly all American
front doors enter straight into the living-
room, and, more often than not, the
living-room is also the passageway be-
tween kitchen and bedrooms, a feature
so inconvenient —at least where there are
children —that the sponsors of a recent
Australian small-homes competition have
warned competitors against it. Moreover,
wood, so common in American house
construction, is not to be compared with
stone or brick for most Australian pur-
poses.
Again, some recent small houses in
America are without laundry, a deep two-
compartment sink in the kitchen doing
double duty as a sink and washtrough.
It would be a pity if, having at last
abandoned our insularity, we were to
lose all sense of proportion and blindly
adopt bad as well as good points in over-
seas house design. To judge by some
recent published plans, there seems to be
some danger of this. —R. A. J. (S.A.).
Accent and Vocabulary
Is “Nakh” (B. 18/10/’44) really in
earnest when he says “Good speech de-
pends on the speaker’s vocabulary”?
Does he mean that so long as I say
words I can call them “woids” or
“wurrds” as I please? After all, speech
is supposed to be musical. I suppose
“Nakh” is entitled to think that “keow”
sounds as well as “cow,” but he will
hardly say that to recite:
’Ome is the sailor, ’orae frum the sea,
An’ the ’unter ’ome frum the ’ill,
is doing the fair thing by R.L.S.
Of course bad speech, like crime, is the
result of environment, but that is no
reason for tolerating it. If children are
allowed to speak whatever jargon they
like each district will eventually have its
own native dialect. The patois of Noo
South Wales will be unintelligible
to a Melbourne newsboy or an Adelaide
bank clerk. In other words, we shall
provide a new foothold for that ancient
institution class distinction.
It follows that if speech is to depend
entirely on vocabulary, grammar, as well
as phonics, can be disregarded. If I can
call my cows “keows,” I am also entitled
to remark that “Them keows is fair
keows.” After all, the rules of grammar
are only conventions which we are
“pansy” enough to observe.
In conclusion, I have yet to meet the
Australian speech-teacher who makes his
pupils say “quaite” and “reahlly.” That
is an ill-bred affectation. — Niles (Q.).


THE SUN SHINES ON A FAIRY-
LAND OF BEACH. AND ARNOTT'S
MILK ARROWROOT BISCUITS ARE
PLENTIFUL ONCE AGAIN.
1
I
’
; %
/
1
ip l |II r '3 ’
1.- J J .• ■ ?S «Ba
dSSSm 3S. si
dmotts
\ i
K J A FAMOUS
Milk Arrowroot discuits
THE FIRST FAVORITE OF EVERY CHILD—EASY TO CARRY-EASY TO SERVE
«
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND NATIONAL SAVINGS STAMPS
