

w
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3408
Wednesday, June 6, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
WILTIO HOUSE, Which King Charles I Loved Above All Places.
TX/ILTON HOUSE, some three or four miles north-west of
Salisbury, was erected by William Herbert, first Earl of Pem-
broke. Henry VIII conferred the buildings and lands of the dis-
solved Abbey of Wilton upon William Herbert, who had married
Anne, sister of Katherine Parr. As executor of Henry’s will he
had considerable influence in the Court of Edward VI, who
created him Earl of Pembroke. He at once began to alter and
adapt the conventual buildings at Wilton, and made them into a
residence worthy of his rank, engaging Holbein to design the porch.
Since that time many celebrated architects have been employed
on the house. Solomon de Caus built the garden front, which was
burnt so,on after its completion. The fourth earl wished Inigo
Jones —who built the Palladian bridge over the river Wiley, which
flows through the park—to restore the portion destroyed; he
declared himself too old, and left the work to Webb, who had
married his niece. Van Dyke decorated some of the chambers.
Little change occurred in the house until early in this century,
when James Wyatt was set to enlarge it. He swept away much of
the ancient part, and substituted a mixture of Roman and Gothic
forms. Queen Elizabeth visited Wilton House in 1579, and Prince
Henry in 1603, when for a short space it became the residence of
the Court. It was here that Sir Philip Sidney composed his
“Arcadia,” and some of the incidents are painted on the panels
of the saloon. The house has also the reputation of being the
birthplace of the dramatic poet Philip Massinger. Aubrey says
that King Charles I loved Wilton above all places, and went there
every summer; and it was he that advised Philip, Earl of Pem-
broke, to have the front constructed with stately'pavilions at each
end, and to improve the garden.


m
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your New Free
Bsoklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit,
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Addre** . r.
S.B. 245 AGE
The Red Page
A MYSTIC AND A CRITIC.
Because he wrote some good verse
and some exquisite prose, it’s important
enough that the seventeenth-century Eng-
lish mystic Thomas Traherne should be
brought to .the worlds notice ; but, hav-
ing regard to the welfare of Australian
letters, it’s equally important that Gladys
I. Wade’s Thomas Traherne (Princeton
University Press ; Angus and Robertson)
brings to light an Australian critic of
rare sensitivity and intelligence.
Now headmistress of a college in Syd-
ney, Miss Wade went to England with a
Hacked Research Studentship from the
University of Western Australia and this
book, which has won her a reputation
overseas, is the result. She has also
edited the definitive edition of Traherne’s
verse.
The general thinness of the bio-
graphical chapters of Thomas Traherne
is not Miss Wade’s fault, Traherne hav-
ing been “discovered” only in the present
century. Miss Wade has made the most
—at times, as in the search of his writings
for proofs that he spent his boyhood in
his uncle’s tavern, she makes something
more than the most —of the few lean
facts unearthed by exhaustive researches.
She endeavors to tell the whole truth
about her hero, not being unduly per-
turbed by his confessions of great
wickedness at the age of about fourteen;
and, though an admirer, she is capable
of looking at Traherne as a human
being:
We know fairly well what Traherne
thought of his parishioners. One cannot
help wondering what his parishioners
thought of him! It might not always be
comfortable to have a practising saint for a
rector; we lesser mortals value comfort,
and are apt to resent those who disturb it.
A friend of those days, possibly a parish-
iipner, has given us a glimpse of this other
side of the picture. “He was so wonder-
fully transported with the Love of God
and with those inexpressible Felicities
to which we are entitled and was so full
of them when abroad, that those who
would converse with him were forced to
endure some discourse upon these subjects,
whether they had any sense of Religion
or not.”
However, since in spite of such
glimpses of reality the biography is un-
doubtedly thin and shadowy, it is just
as well that Miss Wade has something
more definite to offer. And that she
most certainly has. The book would be
worth reading simply as a kind of antho-
logy of Traherne’s writings. The verse;
Drown’d in their Customs, I became
A Stranger to the Shining Skies,
Lost as a dying Flame.
And the prose, surprisingly pithy and
direct from a gentleman who lived so
much in the shining skies:
To love another is absurd and impossible?
lt is a surprise to an Atheistical fool
that it should be one’s interest to love
another better than one’s self: yet Bears,
Dogs, Hens, Bees, Lions, Ants do it: they
die for their young ones All Valiant
Heroes love their Country better than
themselves.
And again—some examples of Traherne’s
imagery Miss Wade has singled out:
Fie Clouds himself, like the Cuttle, in his
own ink.
The World is not this little Cottage of
Heaven and Earth.
Thy body was given to thee to be a
lantern only to the candle of Love that
shineth in thy Soul.
A Christian is an oak flourishing in
winter.
And with the virtues, the almost equally
delightful faults:
Traherne is of Donne’s.century and could
not wholly escape the influence of the fash-
ions he set. So in this Hexameron one
finds teeth described as a “Port-Cullis of
Pearls”; St. Peter’s tears of penitence as
the rainwater which made him clean; other
penitential tears as a sort of celestial fire-
engine—“Tears are the best Engines and
Water-works to quench the Devils Fires.”
(Tears seem to have an irresistible tendency
to provoke these excesses!)
Miss Wade’s comments here will serve
to illustrate that her book is not merely
a work of scholarship but truly, as it is
described, a “critical biography.” She
examines Traherne’s writings for the
principles on which they are based and
indicates clearly where she approves or
disapproves. She likes (and she is wise
in liking) Traherne’s “ease and sim-
plicity” of style:
An easy Stile drawn from a native vein,
A clearer Stream than that which Poets feign....
But, while thus ranging herself along-
side Hazlitt (the advocate of the “plain
English style”) and, in our. own time,
W. B. Yeats (“the natural words in their
hatural order”) she perceives clearly the
danger that always arises when the prin-
ciple is misinterpreted:
. Where Traherne made his mistake —and
Wordsworth was not quite innocent of it
—was in thinking that one plain word was
as good as another for the uses of poetry;
that the function of words was negative,
merely not to refract the visionary light.
But as the greatest poets have shown, this
light , will shine only through song* There
is no virtue in mere plainness and simpli-
city.
Miss Wade concurs with her hero (and
with Aristotle and Matthew Arnold) in
emphasising the essential detachment of
art: in particular, the art of the theatre
He gives his conclusion that however
much one identifies oneself with the tragic
protagonists, the emotions engendered re-
main different in quality from those one
would feel if enduring these experiences in
actual life; and in this difference lies the
esthetic pleasure derived from an acted
tragedy, and also the power and the puri-
fying effects of emotions aroused by dram-
atic representation.
If a tragedy merely makes you sad. Miss
Wade implies, it is bad art; it should
make you wonder.
It is not so easy to agree with Miss
Wade when she suggests that, given
fuller understanding of the function of
art, Traherne might have become
Milton and written a “Paradise Re-
gained.” His talent was essentially lyri-
cal and—though speculations of this sort
are hardly worth makings—it might more
appropriately be said that, given a bit
more blood to mix with his spirit, the
poet might have become a Herrick, a
Davies or a McCrae. Traherne was a
mystic, and mystics live too much in the
clouds to be much use to the arts of this
earth. Even in Blake, a tiger makes
better poetry than an angel. Miss Wade
is certainly correct, however, in saying
that Traherne’s efforts to translate his
visions into didacticism were a mistake.
There is a true critical intelligence at
work in this book ; like Matthew Arnold’s,
perhaps a trifle chilly—Charles the
Second wasn’t such a bad fellow after
all, and he did support the arts —but a
niind on the whole finely balanced, acute
in perception, disciplined in the best
tradition of English criticism. Miss Wade
should obviously turn her attention now
to Australian letters.
Music and Books .
Ernest Wunderlich’s All My Testerv
days (Angus and Robertson) came out a
few weeks after its author’s death at
83. Sydney knew him for sixty years, as
a manufacturer, and a patron of the arts,
especially music.
He was a pianist and composer of
ability. His first love was Bach, and he
delighted in the problems associated with
contrapuntal compositions.
His little book of memoirs is unaffected
and direct in style. It touches upon very
briefly or ignores altogether many actions
which redound to the author’s credit.
These omissions have been repaired to
some extent in a foreword by Neville
Cardus.
Born in London, Wunderlich began his
education in England and finished it in
Germany and Switzerland. At eighteen
be was apprenticed to a manufacturer of
turbines at Vevey, but after a year of it
returned to his home in London and a
clerkship at £2 a week. He became an
omnivorous reader, preferring “the evolu-
tionists, natural selectionists and ration-
alists of the time.” His favorite author
was Huxley, whose confession: “I have
no faith, very little hope and as much
charity as I can afford” seemed to ex-
press exactly his own outlook on life.
Later his favorite philosopher was—
strangely—Schopenhauer.
When, after sojourns in Europe and
South Africa, Wunderlich arrived in
Sydney, in July, 1885, he found it a drab
place and made a mental note that red
tile roofing would brighten it up a lot—
an improvement which Wunderlich, Ltd.,
in later years did much to bring about.
One of the earliest Wunderlich con-
tracts was for a stamped zinc ceiling for
Sydney Town Hall (then called the Cen-
tennial Hall). The great organ, appar-
ently, was an afterthought, and Wun-
derlich was able to convince the city
fathers that the elaborate plaster ceiling
of the original design would come
crumbling down as. soon as an organist
set the 64ft. pipe booming. Another
early contract was the copper sheathing
of St. James’s spire. There were news-
paper allegations of assistance to nature in
securing the delicate light green patina
that this took on shortly after it was
erected, but Wunderlich declares that all
that was done was to sponge the spire
with sea-water from Coogee.
There are affectionate references to the
musical Sydney of the ’eighties and
’nineties: conductors Robert (sometimes
Roberto) Hazon, Joseph Bradley, Mar-
shall Hall; singers Bassich and De Vere
Sapio (sopranos), Dani (tenor) Patti,
Crossley, Dolores, Andrew Black (that
incomparable basso); pianists Mark
Hambourg and Teresa Carreno. A refer-
ence to Teresa’s “sledge-hammer” style
recalls that she was a very vigorous exe-
cutant. But she had few equals in her
day as an exponent of Beethoven and
Liszt. The Austral String Quartet —
Monk, Hill, Janssen and Gotsch —is ap-
preciatively remembered, especially its
performance of Alfred Hill’s works. There
is a brief mention of Melba, heard when
she was billed as Mrs. Armstrong:
“Such a perfect singing voice had never
yet been heard, but it did not speak to
the heart.”
Among references to attempts to es-
tablish a bohemian atmosphere in Sydney
is a short account of the Century Club,
started by Archibald, Fred Broomfield,
Wunderlich and other bright sparks. It
carried its bohemianism to the extent of
not paying its rent and died an early
death.
Wunderlich revisited Europe on several
occasions and heard great music there.
His observations on the Wagnerian Festi-
vals at Bayreuth were contributed to
The Bulletin many years ago—briefly,
he reckoned the operas needed drastic
pruning and culling.
The memoirs end with a few words
about books—Wunderlich’s library was a
large one. He praises especially Frazer’s
monumental Golden Bough, Wilde’s A
House of Pomegranates, Rousseau’s Nou-
velle Heloise, Tolstoi’s War and Peace,
Voltaire’s Candide, together with the
works of Rabelais, Balzac, De Maupas-
sant, Charles Lamb, and Fabre the natu-
ralist. Tristram Shandy and Don Quix-
ote are highly esteemed, and among the
poets pride of place is given to Byron.
A. W.
Romance and Reality.
There are certain errors a writer of
verse must not commit if he wishes his
work to be taken seriously; one does
not, for instance, attempt to rhyme “con-
undrum” with “son” —as Louis H. Clark
does on page 49 of his Romance and
Reality (National Press Pty., Melbourne).
Some kindly words by Bernard O’Dowd
are printed on the jacket of this book
of soldier verses, but it is difficult to
believe that Mr. O’Dowd finds “the clarity
essential to true poetry” in lines such
as this: —
He has not much chance of perching
on “high branches of the Australian
Lyric tree” while he errs like that. And
yet there is promise in Clark’s writing.
One or two of his poems have been
printed in The Bulletin. If you forget
the bad rhyme “saw” and “shore” ; if
you ignore the archaisms “perchance” and
“ ’twere” ; if you disregard the fact that
an unrhymed line “O tell me was each
.sparkling face a child” has stumbled in
to mar the pattern of the whole; and if
you are not worried by unnecessary capi-
tal letters and exclamation marks, then
there is something genuinely good in his
sonnet about the eternal “Soldier on the
Shore”;
Thus through forgotten ages shall he stand,
While God is God and there is Right and
Wrong;
A soldier —feet set in the crumbling sand,
His seaward gaze tear-dimmed, his' purpose
strong!
The verses as a whole are too violent
and macabre for good taste ; there is far
too much “smashing” and “screaming”
and “howling” and “clawing” and
“raping” and “sobbing” and “leering”:
Old terrors magnified run rife
In ghastly, ghoulish cowls;
Three surgeons with a single knife
Plunge deep into my bowels
But these, the violence and the turgidity,
are the characteristic faults of youth,
and, as usual, have the compensating
merit of intensity. There is no merit
whatsoever in the innumerable lapses of
technique. Instead of publishing his
verses, Clark should be polishing them:
clarify, simplify, study the great masters
and take a deep “breff” every now and
again.
More helpless now than when at birth
A mother kissed this fevered brow;
Death’s but a stream, the solving worth
Of where, and why, and who, and how;
Our Hell and Heaven have their Earth;
Indeed Eternity is now!
For in the end as when we start
The clues solve not Life’s conundrum.
At first the soul must link a heart —
Then heart must shape the soul, My son!
Or that he can find “new hope for the
future of the Australian Ballad” in:
I guess me ’eart will know no ease
’Til erfly breff is gone,
Til then, me an’ my memories
Must jist go marchin’ on
Wot’s war? yer muck erbout until
Yer ergree who’s the winners;
Yer learn ter laugh, an’ slash, an’ kill;
On leave, like bloody sinners.
In a serious ballad about a tragedy in
a bar-room Clark observes at the moment
of crisis:
The barman gave a groan
And fiddled with the ’phone.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Ivor Hele’s war paintings:
Official war artist Ivor Hele whose sketches
and paintings made during the New Guinea
campaign have been on view_ at Sydney’s
National Gallery, is better equipped for his
task than most of his confreres. Before he
wore a captains pips he served as a private
with the A.I.F. in the Middle East, and as
" ls 'ater work as an artist in North Africa and
the Pacific demoristrates, he looks on soldier-
ing through the eyes of the P. 8.1. In addi-
tion to experience in the ranks he brings to the
job of war-illustration talents that have beer
developed by sound training. His powers of
expression, thus backed, are devoted to showing
that war is a matter of blood and sweat and
a mighty serious business. He presents the heart-
breaking obduracy of jungle-clad mountains
the grit and dogged endurance of jungle
fighters. His young soldiers are not comic
figures. They have sensibility and intelligence
Even his sketches of Japanese dead have dignity
The pencil sketches all have the snap and
effectiveness of sure technique. Typical is No
59, “Australian Infantry Man,” which comes
nearer expressing the Australian attitude to war
than do all the orations ever made on the sub-
ject. The works in oils, all in a low, sombre
key, convey not only an aspect of things seen—
the camera can do that—but a judgment and
an attitude of mind. Hele’s theme is war as a
regrettable necessity.
“F.S.”: An early rush of winter art
shows in Melbourne included Miss Jo
Sweatman at the Athenaeum and Arnold
Shore at George’s. Mr. Shore is all dash
and some sparkle, superimposed on a
groundwork of solid observation. Miss
Sweatman observes nature as faithfully,
but lacks the dash and sparkle.
At the talkies:
“The Climax” (Sydney State): Technicolored
vehicle for soprano Susanna Foster, who sings
Chopin divinely and demonstrates that merely
to climb to F in alt is a matter of ridiculous
ease. The story is a pale echo of “The
Phantom of the Opera,” with Boris Karloff as
a mad doctor determined to ruin the soprano’s
voice because it reminds him of another voice,
the owner of which he keeps embalmed in his
rooms after having bumped her off for decid-
ing to keep on singing opera instead of marry-
ing him. Turhan Bey, the lady’s handsome
admirer, is a Turk —and terrible.
“Murder, My Sweet” (Sydney Empire):
Murder thriller based on the Raymond
Chandler story Farewell, My Lovely. Dick
Powell makes the detective surprisingly amus-
ing, and his gigantic, slow-witted, windpipe-
fancying client is played with the right touch
of the inexorable by Mike Mazurki.
“Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo” (Sydney St.
James): The story of the Doolittle raid. Aerial
photography is good and the carrier scenes
realistic. A romance has been grafted to the
main theme and a scene at a pre-embarkation
dance is mushy, but it doesn’t detract much
from the film’s merits. In fact, it brings to
light a promising young actress in Phyllis
Thaxter.
“The Master Race” (Sydney Plaza): Story
built around the not improbable notion that
the defeated Nazis will try to go “underground”
for a comeback later. George Coulouris as a
German general staff colonel gives a striking
performance, and minor roles are capably
filled.
With Bernard Shaw’s “The Doctor’s
Dilemma” Sydney Independent Theatre
became fully professional. On the whole,
Doris Fitton and the cast have done jus-
tice to the play—although the Shavian
opinions on the medical profession can
only be really enjoyed when read
Leonard Bullen made a fine Louis Dube-
dat, never losing his poise and giving tire
right impression of charming villainy
Mrs. Dubedat is one of those rare per-
sons who, by sincerity and charm, can ge
away with situations in which other per-
sons would be ridiculous. Molly Brown
did not succeed in giving this impression.
In the death scene her acting was lacking
in emotional intensity. Partly, however,
the weakness of this scene is Shaw's
fault: Dubedat takes such a darned long
time to die that the illusion is almost com-
pletely lost, and all one has left is the
cleverness of the Shavian remarks.
Edward Smith made the best of a good
character in Mr. Cutler Walpole, the sur-
geon with an itch to practise his art, and
Clifton Penny was excellent as Sir Patrick
Cullen, the elderly physician who has
retired from private practice.
“C.Q.”: Melbourne National Gallery
has some enormous canvases, including
the “Banquet of Cleopatra” of Tiepolo
(lift. 7in. by Bft. lin), which cost
£32,000, and the two huge cartoons by
Puvis de Chavannes, which are even
bigger. This size record will shortly be
beaten by the City of Mildura, which has
acquired the enormous tempera paint-
ing “St. Aidan Preaching to the Poor,
by Frank Brangwyn. It was originally
designed as a mural for St. Aidan’s
Cathedra], Leeds, and measures 38ft. by
14ft. It is the gift of ex-Senator R. C. D.
Elliott, of Toorak, who some time ago
presented his collection of Orpens and
other English painters to the dried-fruit


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE'
JL
h.
I
■iom
J.
m
m
,i<:> {/
m
111
mm
*' o x '' ,;
■ f* . V. * 1
I
{>/
I
,i;
*
Z££S& >
i -
, • , .;■ ■■; ■
r
y
I /
*
‘ -i
if
I m
m
•v
, * >
4
iH
a
, '
★
SsS>^
a®
/ /'
>7
I I,
0
f
Attractive Printed Bedspreads# cut
and made to fit double bed, com-
plete with two pillow covers to
match. Obtainable in Rose,
Burgundy, Light Tan or Blue.
Price
£6/6/-
No coupons.
Ready made Tapestry Curtains, finished
with a pleated heading, having a pocket
for f-inch rod. In Rust, Green, Burgundy or
Fawn. Price, pair 99/6
No coupons.
• Furnishings—Third Floor.
Wadded Edge Felt Cush-
ions, filled with best qual-
ity new wool. In Green,
Rust, Brown or Burgundy.
Price 35/- each
No coupons.
Felt Tea Cosies, with
raised Floral Sprays de-
sign, pleated ribbon round
edge, padded and lined’
with Satin, Biscuit, Rose,
Green or Primrose, 25/- ea.
No coupons.
Freight paid on these goods,
except on Cushions and Tea
Cosies.
36-inch Repp, plain colours, suitable for Curtains or
Furniture Coverings. Colours are Rust, Green, Blue,
Burgundy or Brown. Price, yard 7/11
3 coupons per yard.
48-inch Medium Weight Curtain Repp. A new fabric of
local manufacture. Makes an attractive draping. Colours
are Burgundy, Green, Rose, Rust or Brown. Price, yard, 12/6
No coupons.
40-inch Indian Burlap. Natural ground with a multi-coloured
jaspe pattern. An excellent fabric for loose or close fitting
covers. Price, yard
No coupons.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


~ v yA, v f, \V r\ '*} y- 9
«i' '/A \1 Y ih/
,{ " y rkf vl yy/
y
yw
,
s//
wj
\MIJ) ’■ • U/li, 1/
«»lIM
ii
a*
m
m*
m
wffi
/V///AZ
fm
Ws
mk \rm
'm*
mm§
V '•
W:
2&
&
0
ri
(£;
a
NS
J-
>x
KZI
S£
Q:„ n
<r <-
y
Vj
/
/
iK
m
Ox>
&
Metropolitan Assets Are Working for Victory
The Company’s funds are constantly being invested in Common-
wealth War Loans—thus making the money fight and bringing
final victory nearer.
r J I HE wise man defers spending now so that he will
be able to enjoy independence and leisure in later
years.
Life Assurance is a friend and guardian of the
thrifty—it is the bulwark against the uncertainty of
the future.
A small sum put aside regularly now in a Metropolitan
Policy will reap its reward in the ease and independence
that will be yours later.
Carefree days ahead—retirement without financial worry
—dependants amply provided f0r.... .it is worth working
and planning for!
A U 5
ALIA
♦
*
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITD
HUNTER. AND STREETS.SYDNEY,
W. A. H. ALLWORTH (Chairman).
Asst. General Manager and Actuary:
INC. 1895, QUEENSLAND,
DIRECTORS ;
STEWART. COL. ALFRED SPAIN.
General Manager:
E. W. ROBINSON.
J. A. HENDERSON.
Secretary:
GEORGE LESLIE, A.A.I.S.
VICTORIA:
The Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street, Melbourne.
R. S. Johnston (Manager).
BRANCH OFFICES;
QUEENSLAND:
The Metropolitan Building,
367-369 Queen Street, Brisbane.
J. L. Kichter (Manager).
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
The Metropolitan Building,
22 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
A. B. Bolton (Manager).


The Bulletin
VoL 66—No. 3408
Wednesday, June 6,194 S
D-DAY REUNION.
“Don’t look round, Monty, but I think we’re being followed.”


The Bulletin
The Natidnal Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
* • H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney;
v,™ Box HUBS; ’Phone 8797 L
victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
West-ralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
w Zealand : Nathan s Buildings ( opp.
T G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
PEACE PROBLEMS.
In the history of victorious wars in which
Britain has been engaged the only kind
or peace which lasted was a generous
peace. There have been two striking
examples in the last two centuries.
British opinion was hotly divided as
to whether the war against the Boer
republics was a just war. Lloyd George
opposed it, risking his political career and,
on one wild occasion, his skin. His leader,
Campbell-Bannerman, denounced meas-
ures employed in subduing the veldt
farmers, particularly the gathering of
women and children into concentration
camps, in which many died, as “methods
of barbarism.” But there was no con-
flict of opinion as to the magnanimity
of the terms granted to the vanquished.
Five years after the last shot was fired
Louis Botha took the oaths of office as
Premier of the Transvaal. Three years
after that he became Prime Minister of
the South Africap Union, and another
four years saw him lead it into the first
German war, in the process crushing a
rising of irreconcilables headed by De
Wet, his old comrade-in-arms. He himself
expelled the Germans from South-west
Africa, and Jan Smuts commanded the
British forces in German East Africa.
To the common cause Botha and Smuts
brought no mean addition of physical
strength and an access of moral strength
that was recognised everywhere. Their
prowess on the battlefield was matched,
in the case of Smuts excelled, by their
wisdom in council. Botha’s exertions in
this field are less known than those of
Smuts, which became world renowned ;
but President Wilson credited Botha with
the most moving utterance he had ever
heard. It was a plea for a merciful peace,
spoken in the character of a man who
had known the agony of defeat, and in
whom all bitter feelings had been trans-
formed into loyal friendship by greatness
of mind and heart on the part of the
conquerors. And Lloyd George has pre-
served what Botha said at a meeting of
British and Dominion Premiers and Min-
isters at Paris in 1919:
Lord Milner will remember that it is
exactly 17 years to the day since peace
was signed in South Africa. On that occa-
sion it was moderation which saved South
Africa for the British Empire, and I hope
on this occasion that it will be moderation
which will save the world.
In the first German war thousands of
Botha’s burghers and stripling soldiers —
among the latter Deneys Reitz, son
of a President of the Orange Free
State, and a noble soul who died
too soon—-fought in the British Army, -
and many fell. So it was in the second
German war with thousands of their sons
and grandsons and other Dutch South
Africans of the present generation. This
steady loyalty must be a chastening reflec-
tion to Germans when they contrast it with
the alacrity with which their allies, one
after another, fell away from and turned
their arms against Nazi Germany, which,
and Nazified Europe with it, was to have
endured for “a thousand years.”
The other example of British generosity
to a defeated enemy which had enduring
consequences was extended to the French
after the defeat of Napoleon’s efforts to
make himself master of Europe. He was
hated as much in that time as Hitler has
been hated in ours, but when he was
overthrown hatred did not influence
British policy. If the Prussians had had
their way France would have been dis-
membered and forced to pay crippling
indemnities. For themselves they de-
manded Alsace and Lorraine. The British
view was that France, as strong as its
tremendous loss of manhood in the wars of
the Republic and Empire allowed, and with
the capacity to lead a full national life,
■was necessary to Europe, and the British
view prevailed over the spirit of ven-
geance and greed. And although France,
as the course of events has pitilessly
shown, emerged from its revolutionary
and imperialist wars with unhealed
wounds, which w r ere opened again by the
Commune, and though it has had its
periods of swashbuckling, it has had no
war with Britain since 1815, and was
on the same side at Navarino and in the
Crimea, as well as in the two German
wars.
An account of the proceedings at the
Congress of Vienna in 1814 has strangely
modern touches:
The four Great Powers agreed that all
subjects of general interest should be
settled by a committee.... and that they
should first settle among themselves the
disposition of the conquered territories.
The French representative’s first step was
to ignore the position of the Four and to
assert that only the congress as a whole
could give the committee full powers.
Meanwhile separate committees were formed
for the discussion of special problems.
Had the Four remained united in their
views they would still have been irresistible.
But they were gradually dividing into
two irreconcilable parties on the Polish
question. Russia, exaggerating the part it
had played in the final struggle, demanded
that the whole of Poland should be added
to the Russian dominions. It was the
British representative who led the oppo-
sition to these peremptory demands. He
came to the congress with an overwhelm-
ing distrust of the growing power of Russia.
He considered that the equilibrium of
Europe would be irretrievably upset were
the Russian boundaries to be pushed into
the heart of Germany.
The Russian claims were supported by
Prussia, which had come under Russian
influence, and a nasty situation arose. “It
seemed by no means unlikely that the
armies of the Four would soon be en-
gaged in conflict with one another.”
The British representative saw that war
could only be avoided if one party was
made stronger than the other. He de-
manded the admission of France to the
secret council. This was refused, and on
January* 3, 1815, a secret treaty of defen-
sive alliance was signed between France,
Austria and Great Britain. For some time
affairs hung in the balance, but Russia
could not mistake the tone of its oppo-
nents. Gradually a compromise was ar-
ranged, and by the end of the month all
danger was passed.
After Waterloo Montgomery’s fore-
runner, Wellington, became commander-
in-chief of the joint army of occupation.
It was stipulated by the winners that the
occupation should last for five years. Realis-
ing that the swift restoration of France
was a British as well as a European
interest, and exerting himself to achieve
it, by, among other things, securing loans
for the French Government from the
banking house of Baring, Wellington had
the term shortened to three years. For
him it meant the Surrender of “an office
of almost unparalleled influence and
emolument,” and retirement to “compara-
tive insignificance for years,” but he was
that sort of man: a great and selfless
servant of the country.
In 1822 Wellington was back in the
centre of the stage as the dead Castle-
reagh’s successor at the Congress of
Verona ; and there followed a string of
episodes, also with strangely modern
touches:
The main question before the congress
was the policy to be adopted with regard
to the Spanish movement, whether called
revolutionary or constitutional, by which
the absolute monarchy of King. Ferdinand
had been overthrown. It was a settled
policy of the British Government to oppose
any joint intervention of the Powers in
Spain. At Verona Wellington found that
the Czar was bent upon obtaining a joint
declaration condemning the Spanish Con-
stitution and committing to the Russian
Army the task of overthrowing it. In per-
suance of his instructions Wellington stated
that Britain would rather sever itself from
the European alliance than consent to any
such joint declaration.
Joint declaration there was none; but
in 1823 the French Government, egged
on by Russia, Austria and Prussia, sent
an army into Spain. Britain did not
resist the invasion by force of arms,
though Canning announced that he would
defend Portugal on “the well-known
heights of Lisbon” ; but it retaliated very
effectually by recognising the indepen-
dence of the Spanish-American republics,
“calling into existence a New World to
redress the balance of the Old.”
The attack on Spain was delivered by
Rightists. An imitation is now proposed
by Leftists, though British policy is still
against intervention in Spain and a
greater obstacle than in 1823. “The more
things change the more they remain the
same.”
r In 1945, as in 1823, the Government
at Paris is concerned to restore French
prestige, badly shaken in the European
war. That accounts in the main for its
violent measures in the Levant, which
resulted in the British Commander-in-
Chief in the Middle East being ordered
to take control, which he did, very
promptly and decisively. The French
blame Sir Edward Spears, formerly Min-
ister in Syria and Lebanon, for the plight
in which they find themselves. It is an
obvious consequence of their moral
weakness in those countries, which were
never French conquests, and of the moral
effect of their military disasters through-
out the Arab world. It was natural for
them, with their traditions, to believe
that a show of strength in the Levant
would react to their advantage, not only
there but throughout their North African
possessions, but it can have had no such
effect anywhere. Indeed, the action they
took introduced a new complication at
San Francisco when the conference, at
which Syria and Lebanon have delegates,
was going rather badly, and gave Mr.
Harry Hopkins and Mr. Joe Davis some-
thing more to worry about when the
new President sent them to Europe.
At the moment the affairs of that con-
tinent, neutral countries and two or three
others excepted, are in an appalling mess.
A month after the surrender of Ger-
many there were armed Russians in the
Danish island of Bornholm, but no un-
armed British or Americans, other than
perhaps a privileged correspondent or
two privileged because of known
opinions—in Berlin or Vienna. Out of
the night that covered Finland, the Baltic
States, Poland, Rumania and Bulgaria
nothing came. From Fiume there was
a report of fighting between Yugoslavs
and Italians; and, although the proceed-
ings in Trieste were heavily censored,
the censorship was lifted to admit of
Marshal Tito alternately warning the
armies of Field-Marshal Alexander to
keep out of his way and appealing to
them to give his empire, or whatever it
is, the benefit of the Atlantic Charter.
How that instrument can be applied to
a case in which Yugoslav, Italian and
Austrian communists, all backed by
Moscow, are claiming the same parts
of the old Austrian empire neither the
mighty Marshal nor anyone else can
explain.
Perhaps the situation is not really so
bad as it seems. Russia’s terrific war
losses, the secession of whole divisions
to the enemy and the problem of the
succession to Stalin may be influencing
its mysterious moves. Like Tito, it may
be leading not from strength but from
weakness. There are American accounts
of unrest in the Ukraine, cynically con-
nected with# the demand for a sepa-
rate vote for the Ukraine at the San Fran-
cisco palavers and in the world security
organisation ; and it seems odd that Mos-
cow should be so bitter against the leaders
of the peasant parties in Poland and
Rumania, though both have a history of
resolute opposition to Hitler and his gang.
Moscow’s attacks on all the neutrals and
on the Vatican and on many British and
American politicians and newspapers may
also proceed from anxious uncertainty
rather than conscious power.
But to the Sydney morning papers,
which wanted war for Czechoslovakia in
1938 —Czechoslovakia, now almost the
most abject of Russia’s puppet States—
the position is Awful. The heart of the
“Daily Telegraph,” which was positive
that the dotard Chamberlain had only to
sign up with Stalin to prevent war in
Europe and in the Pacific, since Stalin
could knock out Hitler with one hand
and Hirohito with the other, has
descended to its boots.
“Scrutator,” writing in the London “Sun-
day Times,” suggests that Britain cannot
afford to send big military forces to the
Pacific because it would thereby enlarge
Russia’s power and weaken its own ability
to bargain; “it would be one of the greatest
follies in history”.'.. .Truly staggering
It reflects a situation so disillusioning that
every thoughtful reader must wonder
whether we are not racing towards a crisis
equal to that which produced the war
If that is the situation, then we admit this
appalling fact, that the unity of the United
Nations has collapsed, that we must either
submit to superior “bargaining power” or
force a showdown.
“S. M. Herald,” though not quite so
scared, is also a prey to gloom:
Russia is busily strengthening its position
in Europe and delay favors its plans. The
decisions to be taken in Europe are of
greater urgency than the fashioning of an
international charter at San Francisco. A
good and lasting peace cannot be based
simply on the appeasement of Russia as
the dominant European Power.
Does all this lead up to the proposition
that there should be a soft peace for
Germany? Far from it. Just as there
was no soft peace for France in 1815,
though Britain tempered justice with
mercy, there can be no soft peace for
Hitler’s country. There should instead be
retributive justice for criminals, without
denying them the spirit of Anglo-Ameri-
can law, and stern exaction of repara-
tions, particularly in the form of labor,
without permitting it to degenerate into
slave labor. But our English-speaking
peacemakers must look to the future, and
there should always be in their minds the
wise words of the greatest of political
thinkers, who knew well that the guiltiest
of nations (and only a part of any nation
can be adjudged war-guilty) is capable
of redemption. Said Edmund Burke:
“I do not know the method of drawing
up an indictment against a whole people”;
and if anyone should try to draw up such
an indictment his own posterity may repu-
diate it and him. Meanwhile, the best
hope for the democratic world lies in the
fact that Britain and America are sticking
together everywhere.
Preference, Ltd.
One thing came out most clearly, in the
“debate” on Mr. Dedman’s Re-establish-
ment Bill —that the Government knew it
had become balanced on the horns of a
dilemma and was determined to get down
from that airy but uncomfortable situa-
tion as speedily as possible.
On the one side it was prodded by the
Labor-union organisations which boss it.
The ukase of these had been that there
should be preference only to Unionists. They
always insisted that the men in the armed
forces, in many cases undergoing strains
and dangers beyond the comprehension
of home-fronters, should, honorably dis-
charged, be treated on no more than an
equal footing with those who stayed at
home, safe and enjoying life, and improv-
ing every day their civilian security behind
the backs of and, in this intended arrange-
ment, at the expense, of the fighters.
On most issues the Government would
have felt the prodding from its masters
and would have jumped with alacrity.
But this question of the treatment of
the fighting men was another matter. Like
none of the other issues, it could have
fatal effects —for the Administration. For
once, a substantial body of organised re-
sistence had to be reckoned with. In
every part of the country branches of
the R.S.L. were heard insisting that pref-
erence to servicemen there must be. The
poorest statistician on the Government
benches would be capable of translating
that insistence into terms of votes.
Hence, when the no-soldier-preference
cohorts swarmd into Canberra they were
met by their Prime Minister and distracted
servant, Mr. Curtin. More than two
years earlier Mr. Curtin had declaimed:
“Whatever Government is in power, I
pray that it will see that the men and
women who have fought are given a place
that their services merit.” He further
stated that “as a particular principle the
Government believes that preference to
returned soldiers should be integral to the
general administration.” And this he
further refined to the unvarnished state-
ment that “there should be preference
to returned soldiers.”
The Prime Minister, it was given out,
“pleaded” with his masters. Maybe, foo,
he hinted that even they would be weak
compared to the voting their demand would
certainly in due course produce. The
upshot was the familiar compromise. The
bosses present gazed deep into the murky
prophetic crystal and saw therein the
magic words “Seven years.” Astutely in-
terpreting the sign as seven years of
preference or seven years (at least) in the
wilderness, they made their unhappy
choice.
The next thing was the instrument,
Mr. Dedman. That Mr, Dedman did
not get within long-distance cooee
of the national feeling on the matter
of preference to the fighting men stood
out like Ben Lomond from the Bill
he eventually spread before the House.
That the all-night wrestling of Jacob by
the ford of Jabbok was mild exercise to
his own was to become evident in the
34 amendments he had to thrust before
the House when the adversaries in that
august sanctuary had begun shooting peas
through the flimsy tissues of his measure’s
apparently imposing fabric.
The pea-shooters, who would have lost
nothing in dignity by admitting the
soundness of the Bill in other particulars,
concentrated their fire on the section of
the measure which its sponsor, in a
masterpiece of understatement, had fore-
told was likely to “excite more contro-
versy than perhaps any other part.”
Every shot fired most obviously enhanc-
ing the political assets of the shooting
party, Mr. Dedman’s side was quickly
reduced to resorting to the “gag.” For
all the controversial matters dealt with
in the meantime, there had been no such
resort since 1940 —an accurate measure
of the Government side’s uneasiness of
“conscience” and fear for its continued
existence. By this means Mr. Dedman’s
Bill was bludgeoned through a “debate”
every minute of which was the most
uncomfortable experience the Govern-
ment had as yet undergone.
Even now the Government has not
heard the last of it. Its bosses will come
together again as from June 16, and there
will be great gnashing of teeth over the
seven-years’ preference, notwithstanding
that this clause of the Bill remains
couched in terms that the Government
could still, if it wished, and dared, inter-
pret to spread preference so wide that it
would be meaningless. As well, the care-
takers of the absent Diggers’ interests —
branches of the R.S.L. throughout the
land —will be heard from, and what they
will have to say can be expected to make
the Government wish it had had the cour-
age of its Prime Minister’s earlier con-
viction —the conviction of every fair-
thinking person in the country. Digger
spokesmen have already described the
thing as “a fantastic shadow of a Bill of
Rights for servicemen”; “Only when
the war with Japan has ended and ser-
vicemen return to civilian life will this
hollow mockery of the re-establishment
measure be shown.” To which it only
needs adding that there must be an elec-
tion next year, and that if “Labor” goes
out the limited-preference provision will
be repealed.


PLAIN ENGLISH
June 6, 1944.
Today is the first anniversary of D-Day,
when by a supreme feat of naval organi-
sation for which Admiral Ramsay was
mainly responsible—he was not spared
to share in the triumph —the Anglo-
American armies, under the overall field
command of General Montgomery and
the supreme command of General Eisen-
hower, landed in Normandy.
There are words to fit the occasion: —■
The British nation can be counted
on to carry through to victory any
struggle that it once enters upon, no
matter how long such a struggle may
last, or how great the sacrifice that
may be necessary.
Author? Adolf Hitler!
Overworked Diggers.
Stirred by the gallant death in action
of Lieutenant Tom Derrick, V.C.,
D.C.M., pride of one of the three
great A.I.F. divisions which have been
in everything, an unknown officer wrote
bitterly in Melbourne “Herald” that
Derrick’s mates could see only three
ways in which “a good and willing fight-
ing soldier’s fi;ont-line service could be
terminated”:
These are by death, by crippling wounds
or by a breakdown in health.... In yester-
day’s casualties, published in the newspapers,
nearly 30 p.c. were either junior officers or
n.c.os. These are nearly all men who won
their rank through years of service.
Today the United States has a definite
period of battle service. Britain was dis-
charging and removing battle-weary men
before the Rhine crossing... .The A.I.F.
is the only Imperial force where citizen
volunteer soldiers go on year after year,
campaign after campaign, wound after
wound, without any hope of qualifying for
a job which will give them a chance of
bare survival.
And, only a few days before Derrick
died Brigadier Cremor, veteran of 1914-
18 and a unit commander in the Sixth
Division, unburdened himself to Mel-
bourne Legacy Club:
They (the present A.1.F.) are bitter, cyni-
cal and afraid. Bitter about the lack of
realisation by the Australian civilian of what
the fighting man has endured. Bitter about
....strikes and lockouts.., .trouble caused
by loafers, s.p. bookmakers, dog-trainers
and the like who have been allowed to
shelter in the coalmines... .about profiteers.
They are awake to the rottenness and
cowardice of professional sport.... know
how jockeys and pugilists, fit and of mili-
tary age, are allowed to dodge real service
and flit from capital to capital... .They are
cynical about promises that the post-war
world would be a better 0ne.... compare
their lot with the lot of those who stayed
at home.... but, worst of all, they are afraid
of what the post-war period holds for them,
particularly if they have to compete with
well-established non-soldiers And I am
afraid with them and for them.
These are the men who, less than six
years ago, were young and strong and
healthy, full of laughter and the eager-
ness of youth, ripe for comradeship and
adventure, possessing talents and ideals,
free of bitterness and cynicism and fear,
keen for life. Now, still young in years
but aged by experience and overlong ser-
vice, they turn their grim, old, patient
faces to the enemy and go to battle again
while home-fronters in fax better physical
shape play football, push bikes, engage
in prize fights and go to the races.
Canada and Maoriland are passing their
veterans out of the services. The Maori-
land Government has “introduced a
scheme for rotation of service from rear
to forward areas,” The Canadian Gov-
ernment is “arranging for the return to
Canada in the next six months of all
personnel with more than four years’
overseas service” —which means, in the
case of many of them, a year’s campaign
in France.
What is the Australian Government
doing? Well, there is to be “reduction of
the armed forces by at least 50,000 special
releases from the Army and Air Force
by the end of this year,” and five-year
men with “operational service overseas”
are, with returned p.0.w., “to be given
the option of taking their discharge.”
Meaning, presumably, that they will be
required to apply for discharge by filling
in a form or forms. Those who knew
Tom Derrick say that, though he would
have accepted the position had his dis-
charge been made mandatory, he would
never have applied for it. And there are
many like him.
Back to the Old Form.
“Atrax”: War-time exigencies have not
been allowed to interfere with the work
of Queensland’s famous Transport
Strangulation Board in preventing the
use of the main roads by the people who
paid for them.
From a seaside township some 70 miles
from Brisbane there operates a motor
transport service which does the return
trip daily. It carries goods, including a
Brisbane evening paper, on the homeward
journey, but passengers are not allowed.
They must go 12 miles to the nearest
railway station, and thence be jolted for
three hours. Except for one day a week
there is no return connection from the
station. Accommodation in Brisbane is
almost impossible to obtain nowadays,
but the T.S.B. isn’t interested in that.
For taking pity on a sick woman and
giving her a lift in to a city hospital the
transport man was warned that if he did
that sort of thing again his truck would
be confiscated and he would be run out
of business. It had actually happened
to one of his predecessors on the route,
so he reckons that he’ll just have to let
the next one peg out.
A Still-unbeaten Foe.
“S.C.D.” sounds a tocsin:
A lot of publicity and effort is being ex-
pended in N. S. Wales on anti-v.d. work and
that is as it should be. But bad as the v.d. posi-
tion is, it is not nearly as bad as that of t.b.
which, because of war conditions, lack of hous-
ing, congested populations and some food
shortages, is likely to get out of hand. Differ-
ence between v.d. and t.b. is that sufferers from
the former can get medical help if only they’ll
seek it; sufferers from the latter are denied
adequate treatment because sufficient hospital
and clinical accommodation doesn’t exist.
In N.S.W. the Anti-Tuberculosis Associa-
tion is the only organised body doing any-
thing about the scourge. As an indication of
the inciease in sufferers, the modest clinic in
Surry Hills last year conducted 20,000 treat-
ments, double the number it handled in 1940.
Shortly the return of many p.o.ws. from Euro-
pean camps can be expected and it is certain
that some of them will be t.b. sufferers.
Whether or not the community can expect
the Governments to attack the problem—they
never have done so thoroughly and at the
moment seem more interested in providing pen-
sions for invalids than in preventing invalidism
the A.-T.A. isn’t letting up. It wants a
modern central clinic and mobile clinics to
travel through the country, and it reckons this
can be done for £50,000. T.b. is preventable
and curable, but the means must be available.
The association depends upon public subscrip-
tions, and its work deserves all support.
"Labor" and its Friends.
Mr. Menzies asked the House to vote
that the Government should be sent to
the country on the score of:
(1) Its failure to deal adequately with the
rising tide of industrial lawlessness.
(2) Its encouragement of Communist
activities.
(3) Its failure to carry out an effective
housing policy.
(4) Its attack upon the responsible
authority of Parliament by (a) its refusal
to permit discussion in relation to the
matters under consideration at San Fran-
cisco, and ( b ) its use of the forms of the
House to stifle full and careful debate upon
important legislative proposals.
(5) The chaotic conditions which exist in
relation to food production and the failure
to discharge our contractual obligations of
supply to Britain.
On every count of the indictment the
Opposition-leader had an overpowering
case, and he presented it with force and
skill. Had the proceedings been in the
nature of a trial by Judge and jury with
no time limit he could have called thou-
sands of witnesses from every walk of
life, among them Judges and R.&.L.
executives, with evidence multiplying
daily —with, for examples, the Sydney
A.L.P. sending one of its vice-presidents
to spout at a communist meeting, and
with the bosses of Sydney waterfront
unions deciding to defy the strongly-
worded decision of Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Judge O’Mara that the shipjoineis
(who only want to work on Australian and
British naval vessels and merchantmen,
and end the anarchy which prompted
Admiral Fraser’s public protest) are a
duly registered union and must not be
discriminated against. But the “Govern-
ment” had the numbers and the division
was as usual.
On the communist issue Mr. Chifley
denied that his party had anything to
do with communists, notoriously its
allies at the powers referendum, the result
of which his “Government” is trying
in various shifty ways to get round.
When evidence of the connection and
of communist control of unions inside
the A.L.P. was cited Ministerialists
laughed and jeered. But a front-bench
Minister, Mr. Beasley, was silent, no
doubt wondering whether any Opposition
speaker would recall what he said in the
House as leader of the Non-Communist
Labor group. None did, but this Minis-
ter’s remarks are preserved in the Par-
liamentary reports and some (2/5/’4O,
page 491) are here quoted:
We feel it to be our duty to inform
honorable members, and the people of their
electorates, of the facts of the position that
has developed. Because of our own close
association with our own political organisa-
tion we are satisfied that the Communist
party now controls the policy and domestic
affairs of the Labor party in N. S. Wales.
Mr. Barnard: The honorable member
knows that that is untrue.
Mr. Beasley : I repeat that circum-
stances definitely establish that the Com-
munist party is controlling the policy and
domestic affairs of the Labor party.
These words and others in the same
strain were uttered three weeks before
Minister Gullett, announcing that the
“communists are in every form and guise
enemies of Australia,” and that Austra-
lians should “look on them as enemies
as they would on enemies in arms,” de-
clared the communist organisations illegal.
And the communist grip on trade-unions
—though strong enough in 1940 to work
up anti-“imperialist”-war strikes on coal-
fields and munition factories—-was only a
circumstance then to what it is now, when
even the A.W.U. has been powerless to
prevent criminal shearing strikes in
drought-stricken Queensland and N. S.
Wales.
HELD TO “STRICT ACCOUNT ABILITY.”
“The Full High Court has unanimously upheld a decision of a Perth magistrate, W. J. Wallwork, in the case of a girl charged with having travelled from S.A. to
the West, at the invitation of her fiance, an R.A.N. rating, without a rail permit. He ruled that the requirement violated Section 92 of the Constitution, and the
Court held that it exceeded the defence power.”
“And now we, the salt of the earth—ballerinas, pugilists, communists and union heads—’ll have to scramble for seats with the common herd. Wotcha
mean by letting the High Court get away with it?”


YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Becognlso backache as a signal that there
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
In your body passes through these tubes to ba
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
lUnless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does—take DOAN’S
33ACKACHB KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
ŵ
The Life and Art of Thomas Collier, 8.1., with
a treatise on English Water-color by
Adrian Bury, with beautiful color plates
and other illustrations. Limited edition.
£8 Bs.
Etty and the Nude. The Art and Life of
William Etty, R.A., 1787-1849. By W- Gaunt
and P. J. Roe, with colored and other plates.
Limited edition. £8 Bs.
Soho Centenary, 1844-1944. A gift from artists,
Writers, and Musicians, to the Soho Hos-
pital for Women. 335. 3d. (post. 6d.).
The National Costumes of Holland. Fifty
studies reproduced by Lithography in full
colors from the originals of Gardelanne and
Moffatt, with explanatory letterpress. A mag-
nificent volume, size 15i x 11 inches.
£5 15s. 6d.
The Nude from Cranach to Etty and Beyond.
By P. Gordon Roe, with numerous plates.
Limited edition. £5 ss.
More Details from Pictures in the National
Gallery (London). With numerous plates.
12s. (post. 9d.).
The Life and Art of Altrecht Durer. By Erwin
Panofsky, with 325 collotype illustrations.
Two volumes. £B.
Thesaurus of the Arts. Drama, Music, Radio,
Painting, Screen Television, Literature,
, Sculpture, Architecture, Ballet. This liberal
education in the Arts contains more than
8500 references. 425. (post. Is. 6d.).
The New Century Dictionary of the English
Language. About 24,000 pages, containing
the great mass of words and phrases in
ordinary use, 12,000 quotations, 4000 pictorial
illustrations with supplements of synonyms
and antonyms, foreign words and phrases,
biographical and geographical names, etc.
Special offer, 635.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts, or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully_repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months:
Instal.
16 8
1 13
2 10
3 6
4 3
8 6
A longer p
granted act
with a corre
instalments.
ma «<
iln*
4
0
8
4
8
ay may be
rcumstances
action in the
Apply Person 4/6 Floor
RURi ANK
Head Offie ' Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
The Churchill Government brought in
its war-gratuity plan three months before
the Curtins introduced theirs; It has one
feature lacking in their scheme: officers,
n.c.os. and other ranks are to draw post-
war credits —no mean addition to the
gratuity in any case, and in some fairly
substantial. Menzies and Fadden pro-
posed post-war credits for servicemen and
private taxpayers alike, but the Curtins
were so clever that they wouldn’t have it
Not on the say-so of some atrabilious
“Tory,” but in a report furnished to the
Government by Barry, the Victorian
K.C., who has had briefs from Ward and
Calwell and is Labor himself, it has come
out that Moresby was garrisoned in
January-February, 1942, by ill-trained
and ill-disciplined militiamen “of lament-
ably poor quality” (Blarney). AlSo that
the main bunch, after examples of “un-
seemly behavior,” caused by the “misuse
of liquor,” arrived with inexperienced offi-
cers and with camp equipment stowed in
the bottom of holds, which “contributed
in no small measure to the disorderly and
undisciplined conduct prevalent for some
weeks after their arrival.” And between
February 5, 1942, and the departure of
the Administration on February 15
“there was extensive looting.” All this
with a contemptuous Asiatic enemy
bearing down and with Labor politicians
in office three to four months, who
were to claim in the election year that they
had put everything to rights ; altered the
“Tory” strategy, restored morale and
saved the country. The same crowd is
fond of taunting Archie Cameron with
the fact that he proposed recruiting and
training eight to ten A.I.F. divisions at
the outset of the German war. Its own
“policy” was to have no A.I.F.
The new machinery devised for
preventing international shooting matches
couldn’t prevent the French from
shooting Arabs, couldn’t investigate
their quarrel, couldn’t even effectually
tell the French to stop, since France,
as one of the Big Five, could veto
all discussion. There is some doubt
as to whether in such cases interested
nations can even exercise their old right
of registering a personal protest with
either party without violating the new
pact. Moscow and its satellites are all
for preserving the veto without modi-
fication, and “ S. M. Herald’s” young
editor, now surveying the proceedings at
’Frisco, is in a dreadful state about it.
Senator Fraser, Forde’s deputy, has
foreshadowed a “wider inquiry” into
Army detention systems and discipline
in detention camps, as a result of Justice
Reed’s report on the Grovely affair. Jus-
tice Reed found it impossible “to make a
definite finding on the precise extent or
nature of the ill-treatment that took
place,” nor could he say that any particu-
lar member of the camp staff was culp-
able ; but he characterised the measures
taken to suppress the mutiny on 7/10/’43
as “reasonable.” Stating that the soldiers
Wilson, Derrick and Chalmers were no
more guilty than 80 or so others, his
Honor recommended commutation of
their sentences to discharge without
ignominy. This, the Senator avers, can’t
be done, so the three will get no gratuity.
After a week of alarums and excur-
sions, during which the ousting of Dun-
stan from the leadership of the Country
party was mooted, the redistribution-of-
seats plan was passed through Victorian
Leg. Assembly by a tremendous major-
iy, the minority being all Agrarians.
Its endorsement by the Plush iHouse,
whose seats aren’t affected, is a sure thing.
The imperturbable Dunstan has weathered
worse storms.
In a White Paper Dedman, enthusi-
astically supported by Ward and Calwell,
has undertaken to find work for all,
whether wanted or not. At the same
time Dr. Evatt is trying to get a “full
employment” resolution adopted at San
Francisco, the idea, Menzies suggests,
being to get round the powers-referen-
dum result. This Government is cer-
tainly a daisy at trying to get round
things.
Presenting his White Paper, Dedman
quoted a William Blake stanza with im-
provements of his own;
I shall not cease from mental fight,
Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand,
I ill we have built Jerusalem
In Australia’s pleasant land.
In the original it is “I will not cease” and
“In England’s green and pleasant land.”
However, the Dedman version must have
delighted St. Kilda and Bondi, and it
should bring new hopes to the projectors
of those Kimberley settlements.
Report (here condensed) on the Aus-
tralian delegation at ’Frisco, the work of
E. H. Cox, of Melbourne “Herald”—the
first really intimate and instructive one
that has come to hand:
The delegation has acquitted itself in
some ways superbly well, but in others, un-
fortunately, even badly.... Largely a one-
man show, with Dr. Evatt filling that
“PILLAGING TO BE PUT DOWN."
“Twenty bales of cotton piece goods, valued at £8000, disappeared from a steamer voyaging
from Sydney to Melbourne, and 3000 revolver cartridges from the hold of a ship in Sydney
Many convicted thieves and others with ‘records’ are working on Sydney wharves 63
of which are policed by 15 constables, with powers so limited that they are unwilling to
stop suspects.”
role methods those of party political
manoeuvring on a highly sectional basis,
developing sometimes into markedly crude
party political debate Official public re-
lations arrangements, generally bad; occa-
sionally misleading and biased Failure
of Dr. Evatt to use the Australian group
as a team has been marked throughout
Curious atmosphere of caucus-like secrecy.
After the first few brief meetings con-
sultations with the general body of con-
sultant's virtually ceased and some hardly
know what is going on.
The correspondent allows that Dr. Evatt
“discharged his self-imposed task with the
utmost diligence and conscientiousness,”
but declares that “general results” would
have been better if he had shared it “to
a greater extent” with Forde (“friendly
personality a valuable asset”) and Mc-
Ewen, “whose quiet debating persistence
would probably often have yielded better
results than Dr. Evatt’s hard-hitting blunt-
ness, which occasionally annoyed others.”
There is every reason to suppose that
Forde and McEwen admit it.
Up at Hughenden (N.Q.) they’re talk-
ing about striving for a new State, hold-
ing that the North is poorly represented
in both Parliaments, gets little or no con-
sideration from either and is likely to
get less in future. The reformers are con-
fident that with Townsville, Cairns, Innis-
fail, Ayr, Ingham and Charters Towers
to begin with, they have the material for
a good State ; and so they have.
Hore-Belisha is back in the Cabinet
as Minister for National Insurance. He
was one of Chamberlain’s men, and he
finds himself among many others, not-
ably Sir John Anderson, Lord Woolton,
Lord Simon, Oliver Stanley and W. S.
Morrison. By his own appointments as
P.M. Churchill has recognised that
Chamberlain was a good picker.
It was noted in President Roosevelt’s
lifetime that he never employed Hoover
or even called his predecessor into con-
sultation. Truman has rectified the
strange omission by asking Hoover’s
opinion on the food situation in Europe
and the measures that should be taken to
grapple with it. It is a subject on which
no other living man could speak with
greater authority or give sounder advice.
Strange that no attempt has been made
to recapture Nauru and Ocean Islands.
Every argument for cleaning up the Jap
garrisons in New Guinea and the Solo-
mons applies to these islets, which
in economic importance are comparable
to Tarakan. Moreover, since the war
long ago moved away from them, no sea-
power and only trifling air-power, if any,
could be brought to bear in their defence.
Europe as well as Australia needs phos-
phates, and their value in exports to Aus-
tralia before the war was round
£ A 1,000,000 a year.
Launching a £25,000,000 war loan, and
saying there was already £12,500,000 in
sight, Nash, Chifley’s opposite number
beyond the Tasman, pointed out that in
the first German war “the greatest expen-
diture was incurred in the last twelve-
month and the twelvemonth following.”
And it is certain to happen in Australia
this time, though “Labor” doesn’t seem
to be even dimly conscious of what is
coming. It is equally certain that in the
two years of greatest expenditure
“Labor,” if still in office, will spend every
pound it can lay hands on, as it is doing
now, with no thought for the morrow.
Like the Australian Ministers to Mos-
cow, first Mr. Slater and then Mr. Molo-
ney, the British High Commissioners ap-
pointed to Ottawa and Canberra in 1941
retained their Parliamentary seats. Mal-
colm MacDonald, who had to shift from
Bassetlaw (Notts) to a Scottish division
Ross and Cromarty, is not going to con
test it again, perhaps because Scotlanc
is nearly certain to go Labor; but Si
Ronald Cross has gone back to contes
Rossendale, a Lancashire electorate whos
M.P. he has been since 1931. Win o
lose, he is not likely to return to Australia
for long, if at all.
The Menzies Liberals and Chandler’
People’s party have reached an under
standing, by virtue of which the Q.P.P
will carry on as such in State politics anc
join with the Liberals, under their banner
in Federal affairs. The arrangement i
an omen of ruin to Conelan in Griffith
and to Hadley in Lilley. Hadley, Lilley’
first Labor M.H.R. since the electorate
was established in 1912, was dumb fo
over twelve months, and fellow-members
began to wonder whether he was ever
going to break his silence. When he die
they wished he had remained dumb.
If Melbourne’s present city fathers hac
been functioning 50 years or so ago there
would have been no Fitzroy Gardens and
probably no Botanic Gardens. The sole
remaining public property in the con-
gested city is the Eastern Market, and the
council now has the same designs on it
as it has on the Western Market, which
it has decided to turn into a commercial
building so that it can make a bit on ren-
tals. If it succeeds future city fathers
will have to resume at enormous cost
private property now occupied with build-
ings, because the city must have lungs.
In the meantime, Lud Mayor Nettlefold
continues to open art shows and solemnly
castigate the public on its indifference to
beauty and culture.
A note from “Hansard,” 24/6/1941;
theme. Hitler’s violent infraction of the
Ribbentrop-Molotov agreement:
Mr. Calwell: In view of the changed
international situation, will the Prime Mini-
ster now afford full facilities to the Aus-
tralian Communist party to recruit a for-
eign legion to fight for democracy in Russia?
In those days Calwell posed as a crusader
against communism—“ Red fascism” he
called it often. On that subject he is now
silent and perfectly tame.
Except Stalin, no one had a better
“press” than the Moscow agent known
as Tito. Proclaimed the opposite in every-
thing to “the traitor Mihailovich,” Tito
was photographed and written-up as if
he were the reigning male toast of Holly-
wood The Marshal playing chess, the
Marshal dictating to a beautiful girl guer-
rilla, the Marshal fondling his dog, the
Marshal bathing in a lake, the Marshal in
a dizzy variety of uniforms and in almost
everything except action with the enemy
—the Marshal was the theme of whole
pages of illustrations and of adoring
articles to be measured only in acres. But
where heroes are concerned the picture
press is as fickle as its own flappers, and
last week Tito became really angry with
it, having discovered that “much has been
written, evilly, unjustly and insultingly,”
about him and his korz. He was in so
frenzied a state of mind that he quoted
the Atlantic Charter, though there is not
a word in that instrument to warrant the
greed and effrontery of any Moscow
agent with a Balkans musical-comedy
phiz.
Before Melbourne “Argus” began pub-
lishing the views of Drew Pearson, Max
Werner and Walter Lippmann its Can-
berra man had a crack at Sydney papers
with a craze for dishing up American or
Americanised commentaries:
Editor to staff man: “Do me a column
on foreign affairs.”
Staff man: “I haven’t got ‘Time.’ ”
But “Time” has fallen out of favor in
these quarters. It has become much too
critical of Russian policy. So the “Sun-
day Telegraph,” which used to publish
a “Time” supplement and brag mightily
about it, now prints only innocuous stuff
from the Luces’ weekly.


;■ v<
Some men are so crazy they keep the motor
running while their cars are parked. They
think this re-charges the battery.
Don’t be fooled with crazy ideas. Take your
battery to your Exide dealer every second
week. He’ll help you get months of extra
service from it by keeping it properly ser-
viced and re-charged when necessary.
£xicc
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Advice comes from London that Lieut-
Colonel Ken Starr, who is O.C. of the
Surgical Division of a large front-line
A.I.F. base hospital, has been awarded
the Jacksonian Prize by the Royal College
of Surgeons. Starr is a tall, self-possessed
young Newcastle man who now becomes
the only Australian —or British —surgeon
to hold the Jacksonian and Hallett awards
of the R.C.S. and the Honors Award of
the American College of Surgeons. The
essay on which the Jacksonian prize was
awarded was based on work done at the
113th A.G.H., where Starr’s plastic
surgery earned him a world-wide reputa-
tion. His research was carried out in
association with the late Dr. Leslie Utz,
whose co-operation Starr has described as
“indispensable” and as placing him under
a great obligation. Dr. Utz, who himself
had wop an overseas reputation through
his researches on Addison’s Disease, died
at 52 a few months ago, before the Jack-
son award was made.
Judge Angas Parsons, who has resigned
from the Supreme Court of S.A. at 73
because of ill-health, is a son of a famous
Parliamentarian and orator who was Ad-
ministrator of the N.T. when it belonged
to S.A. The present Judge was Attorney-
General and K.C. before going on the
Bench in 1921. As Senior Judge at the
death of Murray, C.J., three years ago,
Judge Parsons might have taken the
higher position, but declined it; he had
already had, in 1935-36, nearly a year as
Acting Chief Justice. His wife is a
member of Adelaide’s Bonython family.
One of the greatest fighting men of the
Second A.1.F., Lieut. T. C. Derrick, V.C.,
D.C.M., died on Tarakan as gallantly as
he had fought throughout. Defending
against enemy counter-attack a knoll
which he had previously led his men to
take, he was faced with the necessity of
a direct assault on a Jap machine-gun
nest. He took his platoon in headed by 16
Owen and half a dozen Bren gunners,
shoulder to shoulder, he himself running
among the sections, indicating targets and
inspiring his men to rout the enemy from
the knoll. They consolidated their posi-
tion and prepared to meet attacks through
the night. When the attack came in the
early morning Derrick was hit by a
machine-gun burst as he sat up to direct
the defence. Desperately wounded, he
continued to give orders; his men suc-
cessfully repulsed the attack, but subse-
quently an operation and blood trans-
fusions failed to save their splendid fight-
ing leader. Short and thickset, turned 30,
Thomas Currie Derrick left work on a
fruit farm near Berri (S.A.) to join the
A.I.F. He got his D.C.M. at El Alamem,
his V.C. “for refusal to admit defeat
in the face of a seemingly impossible
situation” at Sattelberg (N.G.), and his
commission among 30 recently issued.
Derrick was buried at the battalion ceme-
tery on Anzac Highway, Tarakan.
Thomas Playford, who has surprised
S.A. by being Premier continuously for
over six years, a thing unknown since
Kingston’s time, has now acquired a son,
having only daughters before. It is said
to be the first time that a Premier ot
S.A. has ever been visited by the stone
while in office.
R. E. Brady has completed 40 years’
secretaryship of the Darling Range Road
Board (W.A.). In the old days the only
railway was owned by the Canning
Jarrah Co. After a settler had com-
plained that the train had no respect for
the timetable, if any, or the rights of pas-
sengers waiting at sidings and apt to fall
asleep, the Government took the line
over. But there was a guard with two
obsessions —Black Orpingtons and the
Boer War. All passengers had to do
when he came looking for fares was to
start an argument about either or both,
whereupon the guard would hop in and
fares would be forgotten. The arguments
were conducted in open trucks, the pas-
sengers sharing the space with all sorts
of stuff, from drapery to bonedust. Brady,
as secretary, collector and supervisor of
the Road Board, began work at £2 a
week.
“Ek Dum” introduces him:
Even Scorfield failed to insert Instructor
Captain C. R. Benstead, M.C., R.N., Chief
Education Officer to the British Pacific Fleet,
into the compass of the frame as allowed by
National Security Regulations. Captain Ben-
stead is 6ft. s£in. tall when in repose and
6ft. 9£in. when on his dignity. To see him
climb into an ordinary army motor car is like
watching the Hosts of Midian embark; and to
travel in that same car with him through the
arid countryside of N.S.W. sets the heads of
his companions ringing with the rhyme:
Benstead, Benstead everywhere,
And never seems to shrink.
In one so large that the three normal dimen-
sions almost fail to contain him, it is natural
that Benstead should have covered a remark-
able lot of ground. He was at Cambridge when
his time came to go to the last war, served as a
gunner with the Fifth Army, was for a time
brigaded with an A.I.F. battalion, is familiar
with the topography of Villers Brett, and the
nearby countryside from personal experience,
and thus was able to write M.C. after his name
CAPTAIN C.R. BENSTEAD, M.C., R.N.
before he achieved the right to use B.A. The Royal
Navy when he joined it experimentally com-
missioned him for the world tour of the Special
Service Squadron in H.M.S. Hood, the largest
ship it had to offer, hoping that in such sur-
roundings he might appear in better proportion
to his fellow-men, and when Hood did not
sink under him it cautiously passed him down
the scale until he graced the ancient Courageous,
one of the two converted cruisers of last-war
vintage which were among Britain’s first naval
aircraft carriers. Courageous was sunk during
his absence and he went to Furious, her sister,
ghost of a bygone era, which the Germans
found it no easier to sink than they would have
done the Flying Dutchman, even though she
performed almost supernatural feats, such as
chasing the Hipper—a new eight-inch-gun
heavy cruiser—with a few old Swordfish air-
craft and some 5.55, rollicking into Petsamo,
being pursued beyond the Arctic Circle by the
Luftwaffe and the Reichsraarine together and
braving the terrors of Malta convoy work when
the Mediterranean was at its unhealthiest. All
these dangerous and sometimes hungry adven-
tures seem to have produced in Benstead an air
of ruddy well-being and of perpetual youth
which makes the now rheumatic companions of
his youth feel envious. They have not eyen
choked the internal source of self-expression
from which he has drawn about a dozen books
of the most' various descriptions, ranging from
his excellent and solid Fifth Army Falls Back,
which narrowly missed greatness, to his
recently published Alma Mater, a work so
humorous that it made even a critic of the
S. M. “Herald” laugh naturally and approv-
ingly. Benstead married a New Zealand girl
and has made his home in Cambridge.
H. W, Simmonds, of the Waite Insti-
tute of Adelaide Uni., leaves for East
Africa on an errand probably unique.
He has been commissioned by the admin-
istration of Samoa, where the rhinoceros
beetles are doing serious damage to the
coconut palm, to collect from Zanzibar
or thereabouts a species of wasp whicn i
reputed to deal effectually with them.
Another Old Digger gets a top possie
on sheer merit with the appointment o
Dr. Frank McCallum as Director-General
of Health, succeeding Dr. J. H. L. Cump-
ston, retired. A Victorian, son of a Mel-
bourne Doctor of Divinity, and educated
at Wesley and Melbourne Universities, Dr.
McCallum was on Gallipoli and in France
with the First A.1.F., and joined the Com-
monwealth Quarantine Service soon alter
the fighting ended, subsequently heading
forjhe U.S.A. and England on a Rocke-
feller Travelling Fellowship. Since 1934
he has been senior medical officer on tne
Public Health administration staff at Can-
berra.
A great old scientist:
One of the most remarkable scientists Aus-
tralia has produced passed over when u ' •
Thomas Cherry died on his way home from
his laboratory in Melbourne. For years in tne
pursuit of the origin of cancer he ha “ ob-
served a routine that a young graduate would
have thought exacting. With one woman assis-
tant he conducted continuous experiments w
mice and other creatures and every now ana
then came out with an illuminating brochure
which scientific bodies the world over stud .
The rates of t.b. and cancer and the bailing
relation between them was his special conce ,
and he believed himself to be on the eve of an
important discovery when his death came. JJr.
Cherry had already sufficient achievement tor
several men when he took up research into
cancer. After a brilliant passage through Mel-
bourne University, emerging with the degree or
doctor, he went to London and Aberdeen, bu
never practised. Returning to Melbourne, he
joined the medical school as a demonstrator,
became lecturer in bacteriology, then adviser to
the Agriculture Department. Ue tramed butter
factory managers, lectured on dairy farming,
was sent abroad on special missions, and finally
was appointed to the Chair of Agriculture at
the University. In the last war, m which he
lost a son, he studied billharzia in Egypt- On
his return cancer became his offiy mterest and
he maintained it to the end. A charming,
gracious, large-hearted man, as well as a keen
observer.
Marie Pitt, who won A.B.C.’s national
song-lyrics competition of £7O against
200 rivals, and whose effort, “Ave
Australia,” was described by. the judges
as having “movement, passion and Poetic
imagery which stir the blood,” is halt-.
Irish, half-Scotch and all-Australian. Her
parents pioneered Bulumwaal (Vic.), and
she was brought up on the farm until
she found a city job as photographic re-
toucher, writing poems for The Bulletin
and winning verse competitions between
whiles. One competition was for a song
of Empire, open to the English-speaking
world, which she wrote in 1902. She
married a Tasmanian and lived with him
in mining camps on the wild west coast
until he died, when she returned to Mel-
bourne. Since then she has published
two books of poems.
Succeeding Frederick Mann, C.J., as
Victoria’s Lieutenant-Governor, Chief
Justice Herring, K.G.E., D. 5.0., D.S.C.,
M.C., K.C. Mann, C.J., saw service m
the Boer War, and was appointed L.-G.
when he was 67. His successor served
with distinction in the two world wars,
and is 53.
Colorful personalities figured in Bris-
bane’s Empire Day celebrations. G.’W.
Money saw service with the Cape
Mounted Rifles and Landrey’s Lighthorse
in the Zulu Wars, finally becoming a heut.
in a native regiment. P. P. Townsend
has served in almost every war since the
Matabele dust-up; he won the Military
Medal with the first A.I.F. in France.
G. J. Metcalf, the bugler for the occa-
sion, often sounded the bugle for Queen
Victoria and other members of the Royal
Family as her yacht proceeded to Cowes ;
the last time he did so was in 1882.
George Henry Wise, former Federal
Minister and now the oldest practising
solicitor in Australia, can give even
G B. Shaw a start in the active longevity
stakes. He pads to and from his office
in Sale daily (walking is the only exer-
cise he has taken in his life); visits Mel-
bourne to see his lawyer son; thinks
nothing of returning on his own to Gipps-
land by late train; is up in the morning
as usual, and has only spent a day in
bed once in 60 years, when he slipped
and /sprained an ankle. Born in Mel-
bourne, educated at “Scotch” and ad-
mitted as a solicitor away back in Vic-
toria’s Dark Age (1874), G. H. Wise was
Assistant Minister of Defence in 1918
and P.M.G. in 1920, has been six times
Mayor of Sale, and since 1887 has beeny,
a director of the A.N.A., of which he
was chief president in 1891. He holds
a mort of present local public positions
and will be 92 next month.
Boer War and first World War soldier
Major-General John Gellibrand, who
passed on in Melbourne at the week-end,
built greatly on his sound reputation on
Gallipoli, where, with the 12th Battalion,
he won the D. 5.0., subsequently gain-
ing a bar to it at Bullecourt. Before that
war was through he had as well the C. 8.,
Legion of Honor, Croix de Guerre and
the American D.S.M., and K.C.B. was
added in 1919. Afterwards Gellibrand,
who hailed originally from Tasmania,
was Public Service Commissioner for his
home island, then Victoria’s Police Com-
missioner, and next M.H.R. for Denison
(Tas.), 1925-28. He is generally re-
garded as the founder of that fine old
soldiers’ institution the Legacy Club.
Since his return to W.A.. from active
service Chaplain D. K. McConchie has
been senior C. of E. chaplain to Western
Command. Released from the army he
becomes organising secretary of the
Church Extension Fund. A canon of
St. George’s, Perth, he left in April, 1940,
with the Sixth Divvy as chaplain to the
2/11th Batt., and was in Libya, Greece
and Crete, where he was captured. Three
years a p.0.w., he was camp chaplain in
various hospitals and camps in Germany,
Greece and Poland.
The offer by the Bishop of Sheffield
of the benefice of Rotherham, Yorkshire,
has been accepted by Bishop Gerard, of
Waiapu (M.L.). When the current war
started Bishop Gerard was appointed
senior chaplain in the second N.Z.E.F.,
and was subsequently captured in North
Africa. Later repatriated and back in
M.L., he resigned the bishopric of Waiapu
to become chaplain with the boys in the
Pacific.
Former Queenslander Dr. L. Graham
Brown, who, with Brigadier Formby
(S.A.), operated on Queensland Premier
F. A. Cooper in London, was grounded
at Brisbane Grammar, won a Rhodes
scholarship in 1908 and in England gained
his M.A., M. 8., Ch.M., M.R.C.S. (Eng.)
and L.R.C.P. (London). Dr. Brown held
both junior and senior gymnast titles of
Queensland, and in Rugby Union cap-
tained Blackheath against France in 1921
and England against Wales in 1922.
Appointed assistant co-ordinator of
rural training under Post-war Reconstruc-
tion, J. S, Ballantyne, of Melbourne, is
a graduate in agricultural science of Mel-
bourne Uni„ and is also a practical
farmer. Before he enlisted he ran a farm
in the Newlyn district (Vic.). He’s 31.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 82, W. Ferguson, who when
he retired in 1921 was in charge of Brisbane
Police district. He was 37 years in the Queens-
land Force, coming to it after service with the
Royal Irish Constabulary.
In Chicago (U.S.A.), A. S. Newsham, artist.
Born in Sydney, he was educated at Brisbane
Grammar and went to America in 1902. Just
before his last illness he finished a portrait of
General MacArthur.
At 65, in Brisbane, J. Galt, one of Queens-
land’s outstanding scholars. He served the
State Government in the Mines, Public In-
struction, Land, Tax and Home Departments
and in the Titles Office.
At Eltham (Vic.), at 81, Albert Sydney
Austin, past president of the Southern Rivenna
Graziers’ Association and former chairman ot
the Australian Wool Growers’ Council. H®
gained an M.B.E. in the last war as a Y.M.C.A.
commissioner in Palestine.
In Melbourne, Dr. E. Buller Allan, son of
George Allan, founder of the pioneer musical
firm bearing the family name. Dr. Allan was a
lieut.-colonel of the A.M.C. and O.C. of Hare-
field Hospital, London, in the last war.
In Brisbane, Miss Lena Hammond, for long
that city’s leading teacher of singing, and her-
self an accomplished contralto.
At Ascot Vale, Melbourne, Frederick H. Nott,
who pioneered confectionery making in Vic-
toria. His father and grandfather made lollies
in Bristol (Eng.) before him.
In W.A., at 52, Col. W. B. Robinson,
D.C.M. E.D., who, born in Parramatta
(N S.W.), was schooled in the West, went away
with the first contingent in 1914, was on Galli-
poli and in France, and invalided home in 191/.
After that war he stayed with the A.M.F., and
when the present war was declared he became
colonel of the 10th Garrison Batt., then
trained A.I.F. and C.M.F. reinforcements,
going to the V.D.C. when it was formed. He
was a company director, prominent in Masonic
and Legacy affairs and a member of the Array
Canteens Board.


QHVHHIO
Gerrard
Model "L”
Machine
GERRARD WIRE TYING
MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
18-24 IRELAND STREET, WEST MELBOURNE
Branches throughout Australia
Gerrard, busy with wire
tying vital war supplies,
today is no less proud
of the thousands of
Gerrard Machines, made
in peacetime, now serv-
ing their users well, so dependably—though
necessarily restricted because of shortage
of wire and flat band strapping.
Tomorrow, when business has returned to
normal, Gerrard Machines and Service will
be available to assist all in their packing
problems.
PROPRIETORS OF THE
FOLLOWING TRADE MARKS
"C.O.R PLUS" MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.O.R" POWER KEROSENE
“CORA LITE" KEROSENE
“C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM"
“C.O.R" DIESEL OILS; AND
“C.O.R" FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
Branches in all States
C 8
Business,Rollery,Etc.
White Paper, Dark Outlook
Australia’s present Commonwealth
Government has produced so many poli-
tically pink “papers” during its period of
office that few will accept its White Paper
on “full employment” as being a lily-
white economic document. The allegedly
“white” literature is being produced at a
time when a very socialistic piece of
banking legislation is before Parliament,
and nationalisation of the airlines is on
the same programme.
Behind the Government there is a
long record of concessions to Aus-
tralian Reds and Pinks, of bowing
to trade-union anarchy, of the bludgeon-
ing of democratic principles, of snooping
into the mails, of confiscation without
proper compensation, of toleration of
trade-union defiance of the arbitration
courts, of costly and reckless vote-buying
and of weak and dangerous financial ex-
pedients.
The present banking legislation is the
result of trade-union intimidation of the
Ministry, and so is its White Paper on
employment. Not that some knowledge
of the Government’s post-war planning
for re-employment is not overdue ; other
countries, including Britain, have been in
the field with plans for post-war industry
long before this. But the value of the
Federal Government’s planning, whether
late or soon, is well illustrated by its hous-
ing “planning,” which has been in “opera-
tion” for many months: it is not worth
a damn. It is recorded that Ministers
held up the issue of the present White
Paper so that they could exercise the
editorial blue pencil on it and eliminate
“economists’ jargon.” In operation of
the “plan” it will require a great deal
more than a blue pencil to eliminate poli-
tical interference and radical trade-union
pressure.
The plan, if plan there is, is a mass of
confused window-dressing tangled with
socialistic implications.
The Government’s economic policy is
born of political interference. The Trade
Union Congress in Melbourne recently
demanded a “positive policy of full em-
ployment,” and, regardless of previous
ideas of “fullest possible” employment,
the plan expressed in the more com-
munistic terminology was accepted as the
Government policy. Introducing the
White Paper, Mr. Dedman, the Minister,
who has always had a weakness for
socialistic schemes, said that it “sets
forth boldly and unequivocally the Gov-
ernment’s intention to secure full employ-
ment of the people of Australia after the
war.”
Full employment, or the most practi-
cal approach to it, is a most desirable
thing. The Liberal party is all in favor
of it, and it has supported the well-
expressed policy of the Institute of Public
Affairs (Victoria) in this connection. The
I.P.A. in Victoria last year put out a
booklet entitled Looking Forward, which
is one of the most practical pieces of
post-war planning that this country has
heard of. It expresses a liberal policy
towards wage-earners, but it is not
founded on revolutionary doctrine or
dogma; its basis is a continuance of
free enterprise, “a high level of total
employment,” highest possible rewards
to employees consistent with healthy in-
dustry, stable money, and a credit policy
in which an autonomous central bank
would have a large say. Taxation, it is
contended, should be reduced to allow
adequate incentive.
An • economic advisory council was
proposed by the I.P.A. to advise
the Commonwealth Government on
investment policy in the period of tran-
sition from war to peace; the coun-
cil, it was suggested, should con-
sist of nominees of the Commonwealth
and State Treasuries and the Common-
wealth Bank, the Co-ordinator-General
of Works, “and of members drawn from
private industry and finance and selected
for their special experience and know-
ledge, as in the case of appointments to
the Commonwealth Bank board.” It will
be seen that one of the essential differ-
ences between the I.P.A. programme and
that of the Labor Government is that
one visualises a Commonwealth Bank
free from political control whereas the
other takes an exactly opposite view. The
intrusion of politics into planning—in
fact, the basing of planning on politics
—is the outstanding feature of nearly all
the Labor Government’s attempts at
“solving” the nation’s economic prob-
lems.
The Government White Paper says that
the full-employment scheme has no place
in it for work for work’s sake. Then it
must differ greatly from the Govern-
ment’s present policy. If there is any part
of the plan that is really consistent with
the Government’s present and past policy
it is that it relies upon the Governments
of other countries falling into step with
Australia. Mr. Beasley tried to do some-
thing about this at the International
Labor Conference, and Dr. Evatt has
endeavored to spread the gospel abroad
since. But while Australia is set on its
“positive policy of full employment”
without great regard to the means thereto,
Britain, the United States and Canada
have spoken up for a vigorous industrial
system based on free enterprise and past
experience, and are tackling the job from
where they believe it should start, not
where they believe it should end. Full
employment is no mere matter of wish-
ing ; it has to be planned for and worked
for from the ground up.
The Canberra White Paper proposes
to regulate total investment and spending
by supplementing private investment with
Government spending when the former
tails away. This is a commonly accepted
plan in most countries, but it presupposes
an attempt at all times to control infla-
tion. Canberra, too, proposes to con-
trol inflation, but again we must look
to the past to obtain a line on the future.
Inflation has been checked in Australia
during this war only in a temporary and
arbitrary way, and is now tearing at its
bonds. Once you create great inflation
you can’t stifle it without stifling so much
else.
In order to achieve stability of invest-
ment the Government proposes to con-
tinue controls of interest rates and bank-
ing. It ignores the utter artificiality of
interest rates in Australia during this war,
indicated by the poor response to war
loans and the recourse by the Govern-
ment to the deposits of people with
money in savings banks. Huge invest-
ments in war loans have been made by
the savings banks in order to maintain
the country’s credit; but such Govern-
ment recourse is only safely possible so
long as the people are constrained to save
their money instead of spending it.
Those who have studied Labor’s White
Paper must come to the conclusion that
what it hopes to achieve depends very
greatly upon the successful putting into
practice of essentially Labor doctrines
at home and abroad. The nationalisa-
tion of banking is one of the planks in
the scheme; the adoption of A.L.P.
policy in respect of employment in other
nations is a second; the “overhaul” of
the arbitration system is a third ; the re-
tention of “price control, material priori-
ties, capital issues control and, where
necessary, control of imports” represent
a fourth; the non-contributory social
security scheme is a fifth. The attitude
of the Government towards taxation re-
ductions after the war is left in as un-
satisfactory a state as it ever was.
The Canadian White Paper, presented
in the Commons, Ottawa, on April 12, is
not based on an attack on free enter-
prise or the democratic way of life. It
speaks of a “smooth and orderly transi-
tion from war conditions to peace while
maintaining a high and stable income
and employment level. Its attainment
will require the effective working of a
number of compatible policies all directed
to the same end, each contributing to the
success of the others. Similarly, it will
require the active co-operation of all
Governments and groups within the
country.”
Canada realises that, left with reason-
able freedom, private investment will find
plenty of opportunities. “A quite dif-
ferent fiscal policy” from that operating
during the war “will not only lower taxa-
tion as rapidly as possible, but will be
developed to encourage an increase in
private investment to a high and stable
level.” Also, “in the housing field ex-
penditures have been deficient for the
past 15 years, and the need exists as
soon as war exigencies permit for invest-
ment in housing on a scale far exceed-
ing the immediately pre-war levels.” The
Government proposes, during the busy
period following the war, to plan de-
ferred works for the appropriate
moment. And, “by co-operative effort,
the whole technical level of Canadian
industry must be raised.”
Referring to the possibility of substan-
tial taxation reductions and the cost of
servicing the war debt, the Canadian
Government points out that “if income
and employment can be maintained at
high levels the relative post-war war-
debt burden is likely to be little more
than it was pre-war.” In Australia “the
war” is being made an excuse for the
retention of all sorts of restrictions and
taxation even when it is over; the Gov-
ernment’s real reason for this retention
is to keep control over the nation’s spend-
ing and production for political purposes.
The banking legislation was again
before the House of Representatives last
week. It was attacked by Earle Page,
who, as Federal Treasurer, gave the
Commonwealth Bank board control of
the note issue in 1924, and by Percy
Spender, who said the method of intro-
ducing the bill was undemocratic, the
Government having no mandate. Navy
Minister Makin, who seemed all at sea,
appeared to think he made a point for
the Government when he claimed that
“Australia has worked for three years
under the provisions that the Opposi-
tion is now denouncing.” True ; but Aus-
tralia has worked under food, clothing,
man-power and other restrictions that
almost everybody is now denouncing.
The simple and dangerous facts of the
proposed banking legislation are that
under it there will be complete political
power over the Commonwealth Bank,
and that the central bank will have dic-
tatorial and oppressive powers over the
trading banks. Labor Caucus will, in
brief, have control of our £ s. d. And
wouldn’t that really be a horrible sight
to see?
* * * *
Professor Copland told members of
the Commonwealth Institute of Accoun-
tants that price control during the year
now closing would cost £l2 million. The
figure appears to include the cost of
some subsidies, but does not cover all
assistance given to various industries.
Copland said that price control would
make its greatest contribution during the
next five years, and it would be “an act
of folly” to abandon it when the last
shot in the war was fired.


COMSTEEL W.lB
18% TUNGSTEN
«S 8 m
y''
' /
m
i
a
m
w
mmmm® aragra &n
r
....
■
i
Jr
» I
as®!?
IB
r % : J
■ ■ \
-
a—l»
I. ■ H I HI ■
**pn
%4 ■■
■ CHI
WfKttefyrW** W
pf\
yiy
. ..
:
c-
-111
:
H
■
li
I
Australian manufacturers ate to-day producing precision tools to standards of
accuracy and .quality which before the war were believed impossible of achieve-
ment. Slitting saws; twist drills; milling cutters and gear hobs; these and many
more specialised products are being made, and made well.
We do not make these tools. But we do make the steel from which they are
made- —fine quality high-speed steels capable of giving completely satisfactory
performance and giving Australian industries independence of overseas
supplies, now and in the future.
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY LIMITED, HEAD OFFICE & WORKS: WAftATAH, S.S.W,
Branch Warehouses: Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide «- Perth*
44/12
COMSTEEL
Stainless, TTept-Resisting. High-Speed, and
Alloy Steels. Bromet Tips.
Economic Development
A. G. L. Shaw, lecturer in economic
history at Melbourne University, has
written a 190-odd-page book entitled The
Economic Development of Australia,
published by Longmans, Green and Co.
The greater part of it is historical, and
interestingly so, though a color of opinion
becomes more evident as the story reaches
present-day problems. Occasionally the
opinion is strongly colored.
Says Mr. Shaw, “if Macarthur did
much to develop the wool industry, if
the early squatters and miners and in-
dustrialists did much to open up the
country, they did much that was foolish
and selfish. To private enterprise is due
not only ‘John Bull’s greatest woolsack,’
but over-stocked pastures, over-planted
farms, the theft, for such it was, of Crown
land, the erosion of our fields and even
different railway gauges.”
After stating that “in the past the
Labor party advocated control of capi-
talism through Government competition.
If this is denied, they, and others, may
demand direct control in the interests of
the public,” the writer goes on:
At the moment plans for reconstruction,
for the “new order,” are being made.
Education, housing, social security, trans-
port, irrigation —these and other topics
are being mooted. Perhaps the most
vexed question is the relative place of
private and public enterprise. Here ex-
perience suggests many lessons. Neither is
wholly bad, as vigorous advocates too
often suggest; but the advantages of indi-
vidual initiative must be weighed against
the disadvantages of private interest ; and
the advantages of public control must be
weighed against the losses of official
caution, routine and red-tape.
Mr. Shaw, in order that “business,
whether private or public, may be carried
on to the best common advantage,” in-
sists that education is necessary ; “little
can be done without a capable and trained
personnel..! . appointments on any but a
merit basis are undesirable.”
Living standards and the distribution
of wealth are given a special chapter.
One paragraph:
Australians in the past have boasted of
many things that are the best in the
world. Among these are social services
and the standard of living. But, like many
other boasts, they are illusions, and, like
our “illimitable resources,” they have been
exaggerated. The standard of living is a
good one, though not the highest in the
world. It has been protected by the arbi-
tration system. The wealth of the com-
munity has been comparatively widely
spread. Perhaps for this reason our social
services are rather backward; but we should
not boast of them. Perhaps they can be
explained away, but then qui s’excuse
s’accuse.
The book deals pithily with the out-
standing economic developments in the
Commonwealth, from rum currency, the
gold discoveries, the development of in-
dustrial arbitration, the 1916-17 mice
plague, the depression and recovery to
tariff policy and B.H.P. In its brevity
the story inevitably gives an incomplete
picture on occasions —the account of the
Commonwealth Government’s shipping
venture is obviously unfinished.
The author says the book “is not a
work of original research” —“I have
drawn heavily on the work of _ the late
Professor Shann and of Mr. Brian Fitz-
patrick,” though “I have disagreed with
them in many cases.” The Bulletin
does not always go the full way with Mr.
Shaw, possibly in instances where he is
inclined to agree with Mr. Fitzpatrick.
But his effort as a whole has been worth
while, a merit being the book’s easy
digestibility.
The U.S. Treasury estimates that all
active companies in the United States
earned 7 p.c. on their capital and reserves
during 1944. That is after paying taxa-
tion In 1936 the comparative figure was
4 7 p c„ 1937 4.9 p.c., 1938 2.3 p.c., 1939
4 3 p.c., 1940 5 p.c., 1941, 6.9 p.c., 1942
7.8 p.c., 1943 7.5 p.c. The sharp rise m
business activity from the “low” of 1938
was “stimulated by the outbreak of war
in Europe and later carried to unprece-
dented heights after the U.S. entrance into
the war,” the National City Bank of New
York says. A much fuller use of plant
capacity has followed, and “marginal”
producers have been showing profits. A
decline in profits since 1942 has not been
the result of smaller turnover. Raw-
material and labor costs have been rising,
while Federal taxation has been increas-
ing, too. Companies are taxed 95 p.c.
on excess profits, with all taxes limited
to 80 p.c. of earnings. Some Govern-
ment contracts have been revised on a
basis of lower profit margins, and this
has cut down profits rather than turnover.
The ratio of net profits to gross income
has fallen from 4.5 p.c. in 1942 to 3.1 p.c
i n 1944. Though profits to shareholders
funds have dropped from 7.8 p.c. to 7 p.c,
between 1942 and 1944, they are a better
average return even than in 1928 and
1929, the “boom” years.
’** * *
In contrast with United States experi-
ence, Australian representative compan}
earnings have fallen since the war began
The figure of 6.7 p.c. on shareholders’
funds in 1939 compares with 5.8 p.c. in
1943. Estimates for 1944 give a result
similar to 1943. Australia has price con-
trol, profits control and heavy company
tax, with subsequent taxation of divi-
dends in shareholders’ hands.
* * * *
Leslie Lefeaux, who was formerly
governor of the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand, in his retirement takes an active
interest in Maoriland finance. Speaking
to several hundred businessmen in
Wellington recently he said:
The State housing scheme provides an
example of how the economy of a country
can be upset by unsound methods of
finance. As in the case of public works,
there is a limit to what a country can
afford. If that limit is exceeded trouble
will arise sooner or later. It is not' enough
merely to say we need more houses. There
may be many things which we as indi-
viduals may want; but it does not follow
that we should have them unless we can
pay for them properly.
Financial soundness dictates that expendi-
ture on the building of houses should be
kept within the limits of the savings of the
people as a whole which are not utilised
for other purposes. The cost of a house
may, of course, be met —in whole or in
part—out of other people’s savings, such
as those represented by building society or
other mortgages. If the State elects to
build and own the houses the same rule
should apply. Government loans should be
raised for the purpose from the public.
By that means the volume of money in
circulation is kept within bounds, and an
abnormal demand for consumer goods
avoided. It is thus possible to determine
the total amount that is properly available
for housing purposes.
Mr. Lefeaux invariably attracts a large
and attentive audience among business-
men in a country that is becoming in-
creasingly critical of so-called “advanced”
methods of Government.
„ * * * *
Canada, which appears to have been
first in the field with taxation reductions
following the end of the war in Europe
—they relate mainly to sales tax—has two
. .. • J ,• j
taxation investigations under way.
“Canada’s taxation system needs to be
overhauled,” says the Royal Bank of
Canada, adding: “It is merely a counsel
of self-preservation to say that there
should be the most careful and co-opera-
tive study by taxpayers and experts to
design a system that will collect the State’s
revenue with the least possible discourage-
ment to the business enterprise that will be
the backbone of post-war employment and
income.” The bank says that all thinking
people in all ages have recognised that
the methods and application of taxation
have a tremendous impact upon produc-
tion, enterprise, jobs, prosperity and the
growth of civilisation. “It is possible for
a Government in seeking one good, or a
good for a certain section of the com-
munity, to lay waste or seriously hamper
development that would have resulted in
much greater good for a much greater
number. Efficiency in taxation means
much more than economy in collection.
In its more important sense it means col-
lection of the necessary revenue for the
greatest good of the citizens with the least
possible burden on the national income.”
* Sf * *
From a New Zealand reader:
In B. 25/4/’45 you mention that the
Commonwealth Bank made a profit of
£2,743,115 from the note-issue section for
the year ended June 30, 1944. How is this
profit derived? In view of the fact that
every note the bank issues represents a
liability for its face value, I am not fully
clear as to how such a handsome profit
can be made.
The right to print notes is the right to
create money, especially where there is
little or no obligation to hold gold back-
ing. Money can be invested at interest.
That is what the Commonwealth Bank
does with its notes ; it invests the pro-
ceeds as the notes go into circula-
tion. The loans and investments appear
opposite to the note liability in the note-
issue balance sheet. The bank pays no
interest on the liability, ’ though its collec-
tions, on the other hand, are very sub-
stantial. The war-time note issue in Aus-
tralia rose to over £2OO million at one
stage. Even 1 p.c. clear on that yields
a big profit.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Jamwood”: Relative importance of
sacrifice and sport to the Sydney morning
papers, as conveyed in headlines and
space on the same day;
“S. M. Herald”: V.C. Winner Killed on
Tarakan (single-column line; If inch near
bottom of column); French Sire Back—
Phans Recovered from Germany (1 column,
two lines, overrun; 7iin.); Reduction
Plans Deferred—Voluntary Scaling Down
of Teams by Owners (2 col., 2 lines, over-
run; 14in.); Prince Buzzard Back to Han-
dicap Events (2 cols., overrun, black type
introduction; 7in.); Fuller and Heron to
Meet for First Time (1 col., overrun ; 4iin.);
Charges for Match—League Rebuffs Com-
mittee (1 col., 2 lines, overrun; 7in.); 1000
Miles Race —Cyclist's Plan Big Tour (1 col.,
2 lines, overrun; 7in.); Brisbane Amateur
Boxers Ready for Contests (2 cols., 1 line,
overrun; Bin.).
“Daily Telegraph”; Lieut. Derrick, V.C.,
Killed on Tarakan (1 col., overrun; l|in.,
near bottom of column); May Run in
Queensland Sprint—Best Horses to be
Nominated (3-col. first line, 2-col. second
line, overrun, intro, in black type; Ilia);
Decision on Race-Team Cuts Deferred
(3-col., overrun, intro, in black type; 13in.);
O’Connor to Miss City-Country Game
(2 cols., overrun, intro, in black type;
4iin.); Cuts Coal to Build-up Muscles
(1 col., overrun, intro., referring to boxer',
in black type; 7in.).’
And in neither of the immediately suc-
ceeding issues was there a line about Tom
Derrick, though in each there were more
columns op commercial sport. It is
still sweet and proper to die for
one’s country; but when there are so
many bookmakers, bruisers, leather-
chasers and bike-pushers about, and hav-
ing the time of their lives, you needn’t
expect more than brief mention in the
Sydney dailies, even if you won the V.C.
and the D.C.M.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: That reference to the sepa-
rate-peace offers in the last war (B.
30/5/’45) reminds me of the story of the
Perth (W.A.) restaurateur whose windows
were broken by wild reinstoushments
from N. S. Wales. It happened to him
when ’Tino’s Greeks had become un-
popular ; the reinstoushments thought
he was a Greek. To a knot of sym-
pathisers, among whom was Alick Mc-
Callum, M.L.A., he protested that it was
a case of mistaken nationality; he was a
Jew from Warsaw; in effect, a Russian.
“Well,” said McCallum, “in case those
fellows come back you’d better stick a
notice on your front door”—it was shut
—“and sign it; something like this —T
am not a Greek; lam a Russian.’ And
put it on your windows when the
glazier’s done his job.” “All r-r-right vor
you, Mr. McCallum,” the injured one
demurred; “but no goot to me. I ask
you vot’s a man to do if R-r-russia
tvists?” In the end Russia did “tvist,”
and on the evidence of Lloyd George it
had made five offers to “tvist” between
1915 and 1917. If you allow that the
L.-G. revelation was much in the minds
of two representatives of a later school
of statesmen it would account for a lot
of things.
“Magnus”: One of those cablegrams
that make oldsters rub their eyes has
come from London. The Astronomer
Royal, commenting on a report that
an R.A.F, Lancaster had located the
“exact position of the magnetic pole,
in the vicinity of the Sverdrup
Islands,” said this proved he was
only 75 miles out in his own esti-
mate of the m.p.’s position, and that he
was right when he declared it would be
found 100 miles from the position hither-
to assigned to it. We were taught at
school that the position of the m.p. had
been located by Sir J. C. Ross in lat. 70
deg. 5 min. N. and long. 96 deg. 46 min.
W., which put it in Boothia Land, north
of Hudson Bay. Furthermore, we were
informed that the m.p. is of a migratory
disposition, moving slowly and slightly,
but to such an extent that tables of decli-
nation and inclination have to be com-
piled annually. If the m.p. has climbed
as far north as the Sverdrups it has
covered a lot of territory since Ross
nailed it down. J. G, Bartholomew’s
maps, up to 1928, the latest to which I
have access, show the magnetic pole still
sitting where Ross found it, 500 miles
south and one or two hundred miles east
of the new location.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Speaker Rosevear’s
tribute to the good work done by Parlia-
mentary reporters in polishing up speeches
That's Uncle Dan all over—always first in when dinner’s on!”
probably surprised a considerable section
of f.a.q. vote-fodder. Many simple souls
were under the impression that the efforts
of their members were published as de-
livered. “Hansard” would afford much
more interesting reading if its staff fol-
lowed the method by which Frank Mor-
ton used to enliven his column with
extracts from the speeches of Tas. Leg.
Councillors. Morton preserved mispro-
nunciations, bad grammar, missing aspi-
rates, grunts, throat-clearings, unfinished
sentences and all, including punctuator^ -
snores from fellow-legislators, and dished
them up under such headings as “Views
of the Hon. Dodery.”
* * * *
“Harap” on Burma’s debt to Aus-
tralia ;
The country fought over should be of
peculiar interest to many Australians. At
Myitkyina three dredges manned by crews who
learned their trade at Bright once dug gold
out of the Irrawaddy. Down the river, at
Bhamo, there was a picture of Prof. Gregory
in the club, taken after his return from a
journey over the Chinese border, where he
discovered a mountain possibly higher than
Everest. Mandalay is the branching-off point
for Burma Corporation Mines, one of ' the
biggest silver-lead shows in the world, man-
aged and staffed almost entirely by old Kal-
goorlie or Broken Hill personnel. Much of
the Mandalay-Rangoon railway was built by an
Australian contractor, and in Rangoon itself
Anzac Day always brought a reunion of
Diggers at the old Minto Mansions Hotel. But
before the Diggers came Rangoon had known
Aussies as jockeys, trainers and bookmakers,
and, pondering much on things that had hap-
pened, the racing-club committee imported an
Australian stipendary steward. As Mount-
batten’s men move down the coast they will
come to Tavoy, where, during the last war,
wolfram production was largely in the hands
of men who insisted that Melbourne Cup Day
should be a public holiday. When they reach
Mergui and push on up the Tenasserim River
to Thabawleik they should find a huge tin
dredge belonging to a Sydney co. Before they
arrive at Tavoy they may see a few pieces of
aeroplane wreckage on the coast. If they do
it may be part of Kingsford-Smith’s ’plane
which crashed into the sea, presumably out of
fuel, when that gallant knight of the air was
within a few miles of safety.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: A murder case in the
Supreme Court of M.L. has aroused much
controversy. A boy of 13 shot his mother
and young brother. He was described by
witnesses as normal and affectionate, and
could give no reason for his act. An
alienist who examined the boy said there
was not the slightest evidence of insanity.
The jury found the lad “not guilty,” and
he was acquitted. Helmholtz’s theory of
intermittent insanity a “spasmodic”
aberration of the- brain —has been ad-
vanced as the only likely explanation,
sjc sjc slc
“Yair”; The kids in our street are
having a great time on the new building
that’s as far advanced as the second
storey. When the workmen ■ leave the
youngsters arrive. They climb as far as
possible and throw hunks of wood at the
parts they can’t reach. They squirt the
tap-water in all directions until the sur-
rounding earth is a bog. They steal every-
thing movable, and fill billycarts full of
bits of wood. As demolishing was going
on in another part of the grounds, the
workmen put up a notice-board, “Danger.
Keep out.” But several kids were found
fb~ afternoon on the forbidden area
collecting firewood as usual. A workman,
passing on his way back from the pub,
yelled out “Hey you, kids! Didn’t you
see the notice-board?” “Yes, thanks,”
called out the leader of the gang. “We’ve
got it here!” pointing to the billycart.
* * *
“J.K.”: Unlike Sydney, Melbourne's
suburbs and environs still have many
horse-troughs. All bear an inscription
that they were erected by George and
Anms Bills. S.P.C.A. was named to ad-
mimstrate a considerable legacy left by
the Bills for the purpose of putting these
troughs in suitable places, and the society
has done a good job.
* * * *
“Footscray”: I disagree with everything
“Caiiboy” says (B. 9/5/’45) on the speech
of Australians. There is no Australian
speech. The inarticulate, colorless,
monotonous diction of the average Aus-
tralian is merely mutilated English —
mutilated by the incorrect functioning of
the instruments of utterance. If the chil-
dren in all schools were taught elemen-
tary English phonetics while they were
being taught the alphabet; if the muscles
of the lips, tongue and lower jaw were
educated; if breath control and the art
of putting expression into words and how
to convey shades of meaning by the cor-
rect and effective use of accent, emphasis,
pausation, inflection and modulation
were part of the instruction given,
the Footscray child, as well as the
Toorak child, would speak correct Eng-
lish and the “English drawing-room”
would not present embarrassment. Good
speech does not depend on academic edu-
cation, It is merely a matter of educat-
ing the muscles of the articulative organs.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A bookmaker who was
fined £250 in Nelson (M.L.)—the tribe is
outlawed in Fernland—had reason to
curse his telephone number. . After
bookie’s counsel had explained to the
Court how impossible it was that his
client could have been guilty of such a
charge the magistrate came in with a
crusher-— defendant’s ’phone number was
next in numerical sequence to his own.
* * * *
“Asphar’s” scrap of history from the
brief Crete campaign:
In the first weeks of March, 1941, the cruiser
York was at Souda Bay (Crete) refuelling when
a human torpedo attacked her. It was pro-
pelled by an Italian, who jumped clear after
disengaging himself from his harness. The
torpedo struck amidships, and the York in-
stantly began to founder, and within an hour
had settled deeply into the shallows. Her
superstructure and main decks stayed above
water, and the ship’s crew, aided by experts,
worked furiously to refloat her. The great day
was nearly reached when this would be possible
when out-of the blue, flying low for the kill,
came Messerschmitts, prelude to the German
■ invasion. Many British ships and others be-
came sitting targets for the rain of hate let
loose. The A.I.F. crouched in their pitfully
inadequate shelters, froze into shadows behind
bushes and prayed daily for guns that never
came. Bunched together on the main front
just behind Cania (the capital) they scanned the
ever-empty skies. German and Italian para-
chutists had descended in clouds and obliterated
the aerodrome of Heraklion. “We want gups,
aircraft and more guns,” the cry went un-
ceasingly on. But it did not fall on deaf ears.
In a region more battered than any other lived
precariously some Royal Marines. At nightfall
a silent group of men crept down to shell-torn
Souda Bay and, wading out to the battered re-
mains of York, they dismantled two of her
Sin. guns which had miraculously managed to
escape damage. Somehow these were strung
on to wheels and were rushed up to the Aussies’
left flank. Coming in for their usual kill, the
cocksure Nazis were met with the roar of the
great guns, almost drowned in the human roar
of exultation from a thousand jubilant throats.
On two lonely hilltops reckless observers re-
ported havoc amongst the enemy. The Ger-
man air-reconnaissance was thorough, and in
a matter of less than half an hour Crete shook
to the blast of 12001 b. aerial torpedoes. The
Marines blazed away to the last, and were
finally found dead to the last man around their
guns. A young Australian officer, viewing the
scene, suddenly broke into a run. He ran to
the bay, pulled himself on to the ruins of
York and rescued her ensign. Today it proudly
flies above Brisbane’s Admiralty House.
* * * *
“Magister”: Why is it that the potted
wisdom of our forefathers makes no
appeal to the present generation? There
was a time when one could say “Never
buy a pig in a poke,” or “A stitch in
time saves nine,” and even small children
would see the point. When I try the
old proverbs on my senior high-school
pupils they stare at me blankly. Simple
ones, such as “Birds of a feather flock
together,” they can work out; but they
neither use such expressions nor, appar-
ently, feel any need for them.
* * * *
“Rover”: Mention of souvenirs of
Captain Cook (B. 9/5/’45) recalls that
when I was last at Cooktown (N.Q.) the
State school had on display in a glass
case the remains of the mooring post to
which Cook is supposed to have secured
the Endeavour when he beached the ship
for repairs in 1770 at the mouth of the
Endeavour River, on the banks of which
Cooktown stands. In the ’seventies, when
Cooktown boasted a public museum, the
famous bit of wood was its most treas-
ured relic. When the museum was closed
the wood was transferred to the school.
“Pessimus”; If “lan” (B. 16/5/’45)
had continued his researches he would
have discovered that with brewers more
numerous in Victoria quality was lacking.
Said an aggrieved colonist in a letter to
the “Times,” Sept. 12, 1855, “The sub-
stitution by Sir Chas. Hotham of bad
beer for good champagne on the occa-
sion of a ball in celebration of her
Majesty’s birthday occasioned no small
disgust among her loyal subjects, and a
most disagreeable disturbance in the
digestions of many of them.”
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The extraordinary achieve-
ment of laying an oil pipeline across the
Channel to meet the needs of the invad-
ing Allies, suggested by Lord Louis
Mountbatten and carried out by the cable
companies, long practised in submarine
cable-laying, recalls a somewhat similar
feat in the last war. When the French
Government hastily removed from Paris
to Bordeaux in the face of the German
invasion it looked as if the Calais cable
would be put out of action. The Eastern
Cable Co. was asked if it could establish
communication with Bordeaux. It said
that was easy. Within 36 hours opera-
tors in London were conversing witn
operators in the French port over a cable
that had been paid out from a cable-
laying steamer from a point in Cornwall
across tlie Channel.
THE WAINSCOT MOUSE.
There’s a piquant phrase that’s attributed
To Billy Hughes (so at least it’s said)
In playful reference to the way
Cabinet secrets go oft astray,
Leak out and cause some trouble thereby,
Though no one seems to know how or why.
It’s passing strange when things “get around”
From a knot Of men who’re to silence bound.
But no need to wonder, no use to grouse;
The mischief’s done by the Wainscot Mouse.
In days gone by one quite often heard
That the gaff was blown by “a little bird,”
A polite evasion, as you may guess,
To baffle undue inquisitiveness
When a fellow wasn’t disposed to say
How some treasured item had come his way.
But the feathered thing that once bore the
sting
Of reprehensible eavesdropping
Has gone to the pack, been given a douse,
And the place is filled by the Wainscot Mouse.
You chaps who gather, wherever it be,
In a setting of solemn secrecy,
In a chamber “tylcd” with the utmost care,
No stickybeaks within earshot there,
No “Chiel amang ye” who’s taking notes
Which, once they’re printed, may cost you
votes,
No grim reporters, those downy birds
With pencils poised for unguarded words,
Take care! It’s seldom you’ll find a house
Where there isn’t lurking a Wainscot Mouse.
Errors he’ll sometimes make, it’s true,
But that’s no more than most of us do,
Repeating things that you didn’t say.
Or reckon you didn’t anyway,
Or, if you did, that were clearly meant
To be “off the record” in any event.
Avoid then perils in tactless gab
When you can’t be sure there’ll be none to
blab.
You may prove your caution and show your
nous
By never forgetting the Wainscot Mouse.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ear Punisher”: Melbourne became a
seat of war when the Bing Crosby boys
and girls assembled at the T own Hall
5000 strong to honor their crooning hero
with dance and song. The capacity of the
hall being not more than 3000, they
couldn’t all get in, and those who were
excluded had to be quelled by the police.
Those who did push in packed the con-
cert chamber so tight that movement
except of the emotions was impossible.
All would have gone well if some insen-
sitive person hadn’t allowed into the
broadcast entertainment mention of the
hated Sinatra. The only thing that pre-
vented a riot was the aforesaid impossi-
bility of physical movement. But it was
agreed afterwards that a good time had
been had by . all. The thing that puzzles
non-partisans in the Bing-Sinatra contro-
versy is what is the difference between the
two idols.
% H* % *
“Lao-dah”: Touching the succession
to Stalin (B. 23 /5 / ’45), my nomination is
a field-marshal, although a politician might
become a sort of shadow Czar, on the
lines of Nippon. Most communists of
my acquaintance are firmly convinced
that when the warfare has finished the
dictatorship of the proletariat, whatever
that means, will resume its sway in Russia.
They know little about human nature.
* * * *
“Hist”: Tell “Collector” (B. 23/5/’45)
that the victory stamps of this war are
already appearing. The Philippines cele-
brated the freeing of Manila by over-
printing stamps, France has issued a
“Liberation” stdmp. Its value is four
francs (the rate for overseas postage),
and it depicts an allegorical figure of Vic-
tory, mounted on a winged horse, beckon-
ing on with outstretched arm a group of
Free French soldiers. The letters “R.F.”
(Republique Fran?aise) reappear after
their suppression during the reign of
Vichy.
* * * *
“Edward O.”: Prince Chichibu,
brother of the Japanese Emperor, much
in the news of late, was educated in Eng-
land. When the Japanese education
authorities some years ago ordered that
in future the sound “chi” must be
dropped and be replaced by “ti,” the
prince, who knew all about the subtitle
of “The Mikado”—“The Town of Titipu”
“Horace is blotto again—I DO wish you Wouldn't rinse your glass in
his pool!"
DU t in a vigorous objection to being
railed “Titibu.” The biggest Japanese
liner at the time was the Chichibu Maru.
The name was painted out and Titibu
Maru substituted. People missed the
Lnat The co, restored Chichibu Maru.
The education department threatened
reprisals, so out went Chichibu Maru
again ; but the new name was Kameruka
Maru. “They can’t tamper with that!”
said Nippon Yusen Kaisha.
* * * *
“Fodgie”: Where did “Benbow” (B.
9/5/’45) get the information that “only
two white men made the long climb to
R. L. Stevenson’s burial”? Moors, in
With Stevenson in Samoa, says 19 Euro-
peans and 60 Samoans were present. And
Stevenson had no “last long illness” ; he
was making a salad when he had a
hcemorrhage of the brain, dying within
three hours. “The Road of Grati-
tude” or “The Road of the Loving Heart”
was not from Vailima to the tomb, but
from the main road from Apia to
Vailima. It was made by Samoans who
for political reasons had been kept in
prison and whom Stevenson had fed (see
“Letters to the ‘Times’ ” Vailima Papers ).
The Samoans asked that while making it
they should not be given food other than
what their women brought them, so that
the work would be a real “alofa” or labor
of love. Moors suggests that Stevenson
must have several times climbed up Vaea
Mountain, for on more than one occasion
he spoke of the “gorgeousness of the view,”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”; A thing that intrigues me
is the desperate tone of those advertise-
ments of firms concerned with the equip-
ment of a home. In well-got-up display
advts. in almost every newspaper they
show the wife or the husband and wife
eyeing a cottage and in the letterpress
assure them that, so long as they find the
cottage or build it or win it in a raffle
or something, the firm concerned will do
the rest. The pathos of it, of course, lies
in the fact that no ordinary citizen dare
build a home at present, under threat
of prosecution, and though there have
been miles of talk and acres of plans,
the housing authorities set up by the
Government haven’t produced even a dog
kennel and don’t look like doing so.
Those advertisers must be great optimists.
A man can’t carry furniture, carpets, etc.,
around with him while waiting for per-
mission to build, buy or rent.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Sponsors of shows of pic-
tures given by leading painters to causes
like the Melbourne Lud Mayor’s Fund
for Incapacitated Soldiers don’t know
much about these things. An exhibi-
tion of 56 paintings and tapestry brought
in £B7B, an average of £16 —less than
many “modernists” and painters of
pussycats are getting. A John Rowell,
“Pale Amber,” fetched 20 the
purchaser remarking with a grin “You
seldom get a Rowell this size for that
price.” Painters who give their pictures
away are suspect, the art-loving public
feeling there is a catch in it. The Lud
Mayor could rake in more money if he
kept his patriotic purpose a secret and
sold the works at the usual auction
houses.
* * * *
“Keel Bow”: Whenever I hear prog-
nostications of inflation I recall a yarn
a Viennese told concerning the week in
1922 when the kroner skidded to 360,000
to the £. Old Carl had bequeathed a
lifetime’s hard scraping of 10,000 kroner
to Fritz and Franz. Franz followed the
old man’s careful steps and put his 5000
on fixed deposit. Fritz squandered his on
a marathon binge. Came the war, then
the inflation, and the virtuous Franz
found himself worth less than 4d. The
prodigal made a million kroner on his
empty bottles.
* * * *
“K.G.C.”; “Bernard Hackshaw’s” call
for an Australian poet laureate (B.
16/5/’45) is a reminder that we once had
one in the person of Michael Massey
Robinson. This gentleman, an involun-
tary exile, had specialised in blackmail,
perjury and poetry. Before his death he
recovered from all except the last. After
"I'll hold her, George , while you Wake Joe up!”
a stormy career here, which included a
stay in Norfolk Island, he found Gover-
nor Macquarie an easy mark for his blan-
dishments in birthday odes and other flat-
tering effusions, and was granted two cows
from the Government herd in lieu of the
traditional tun of wine. His odes were
published in the “Sydney Gazette.”
* * * *
“G’pa”: If anyone expects to see any
of the old Melbourne described by “Ceg”
(B. 16/5/’45) he is destined to be dis-
appointed. The Eastern Market was
“cleaned up” after the murder of Alma
Tirtschke on the last day of 1921, and
nowadays the market wears a quiet cul-
tural air. Several bookshops and three
art shops flourish there. There is no
shooting gallery,
* * * *
“Bo”: The technique of putting the
family cat out at night is simple. You
wait until he is washing himself, where-
upon you move up on his rear flarik and
make a grab. But the descending hand
has been anticipated, and the animal
slides into the next room, leaving you
clutching air. You close both doors to
trap him, but a thorough search reveals
. nothing. He will later be found purring in
front of the refrigerator. So you open
it and pour a saucer of milk as a bait, but,
refusing to fall for this old one, he just
goes on eyeing you warily. Another
futile grab and a room-to-room chase is
on. Finally, after missing him by a
whisker with a desparing kick, you go
and shut both outside doors you had
optimistically left open in the hope that,
panic-stricken, Tom would dash outside
for safety, and you retire to bed hoping
for the best. All who have indulged in
this nocturnal sport will have a spot of
sympathy for the Madrid policemen who
have been striking trouble in rounding
up 23 cats which are still roaming
around the closed German Embassy
building. Did someone ask why so many
cats were needed in the Nazi Embassy?
Well, look at the number of rats the
building used to house!
* * * *
“Clooter”: I see where a 73-year-old
British M.P., challenged on his state-
ment in the Commons that the Ministry
of Works’ target of 200 to 300 bricks
a day by bricklayers was “absurdly
small,” got busy with a trowel and
mortar and laid 200 in less than an hour.
I agree with the old chap that the Works
Ministry’s target was absurd —any re-
spectable brickie on a small house job
ought to put down 800 or 900 bricks in
a day —but, all the same, this business of
rushing out and working flat out for an
hour isn’t a fair way of establishing a
reasonable day’s output. 1 knew a road
contractor who had men shovelling blue
metal into drays from railway trucks,
He’d appear suddenly, shovel like one
demented for 30 minutes or so, throw
down the banjo, look significantly at the
men and then rush off somewhere else.
There’s a difference between eight hours
and 30 minutes. The day the flood threat-
ened the check banks along a. mi e o
his road he called all hands to strengthen
them. He grabbed a banjo, too, but he
was done in an hour, whereas the team
shovelled steadily for five solid hours
and saved his road.
* * * *
“Zake”: An English newspaper corre-
spondent in America, discussing the ques-
tion of what should be done with Ezra
Pound (who found both his spiritual and
his actual home in Italy in recent years),
suggests that the simplest solution would
be to “impound or impale him.” I sug-
gest making him sit and listen while
someone with a shrill voice reads his
unintelligible verses.
sH * * *
“Strict Veg”: Much has been written
about malnutrition in Europe. That a
child born into a continent which has
been dominated by Hitler for five years
and been bombed and ravaged by con-
tending armies should be emaciated is
not surprising. But it is surprising to
learn that there is malnutrition in Syd-
ney’s Pott’s Point and Melbourne’s
Toorak. A Commonwealth nutritional
survey reveals many cases of under-
feeding amongst the children of wealthy
parents. The report says these young-
sters .are given plenty of money and
spend it on lollies and tarts.
* * * *
“Avon”: Those affectionately-named
“Beetle” buses (B. 23/5/’45) have their
parallels in Wellington (M.L.). In a
Supreme Court case a witness said he was
“riding in a ‘Fiducia.’ ” Blair, J., who
ordinarily resents having matters of com-
mon knowledge explained to him, indi-
cated that he knew “Fiducia” was a nick-
name for a type of tramcar, but could
counsel tell him how the name arose?
Counsel could and did. These rather
luxurious cars were commissioned by the
City Council in 1933 as evidence of its
confidence that Maoriland would come
safely out of the depression. It was a
gesture of trust; trust, in Latin, is Fiducia.
* * * *
“Tiki”: A queer fatality in Auckland
(M.L.) has its lesson in these days when
electrical appliances have their place in
every household. A little boy was sitting
watching his mother operating an electric
sewing-machine, connected to a lamp-
socket by a two-core flex. His foot was
resting on a gaspipe. His hand touched
the frame of the machine and he received
a shock that killed him. As the coroner
po nted out (after hearing expert testi-
mony), the only safe connection for such
appliances is a three-core flex and plug.
The reason for the third wire and the
proper method of connecting it will be
explained to the buyer by any qualifier
dealer m electrical appliances
NEVER SATISFIED!
The leaves rustle happily in the breeze
Like the rustle of notes in a spendthrift’s
hand,
And a curious story is told by the trees,
A story of Labor’s Black-Magic Land:
“The apple-trees grew in Black-Magic Land,
And all the red apples were ‘black,’ they
said. , ,
Then the Wizard of Boycott lifted his hand
And all the ‘black’ apples again were red. ’
(The wind rustles lightly through the trees
Like words adrift in Dame Rumor’s store,
And the trees moan “People are hard to please.
When apples are ‘black’ they get down on their
knees *
When red’ they suspect there are worms in
the core.”}
N.S.W.
EVE MERRITT .


ABORIGNALITIES
“C.H.S.”; Dear Bulletin, —I heard a
very funny story which I think should
appeal to your readers; and you must
pardon my insisting on telling it in my
own romantic style. It appears that a
man named Blewey (I assume this is the
correct spelling), being at some pains to
impress, the buxom daughter of the agri-
culturist by whom he happened to be em-
ployed, went forth into the meadows and
plucked a lot of dear little wildflowers.
These he wove into a sort of lei, such as
the Hawaiians wear on festive occasions,
and, stealing upon the wench as she stood
in the cow-byre, dropped it across her
shoulders. Now you must understand
that the maiden, being most astonished,
emitted a cry, whereupon, I am assured,
a gang of workers at a sawmill some little
distance away sprang up and resumed
their work, assuming that the noise was
that of the starting whistle on the engine
of the plant. This in itself was humorous
enough, but when the sawmill employees
dispovered their mistake they at once in-
sisted upon beiqg paid overtime, other-
wise they would cease their work and call
upon all others associated with their in-
dustry to do the same. After a good deal
of trouble, the dispute was settled, one
condition being that the farmer at once
cut down all wildfloWers in his meadow
so that the workers would not again be
misled. The cream of the story, how-
ever, is that when Blewey was ordered to
cut the flowers the farm was immediately
declared “black” by the Florist Em-
ployees’ Union because Blewey was not
a member of that union, and the poor
farmer was compelled to buy a herd of
Aberdeen-Angus cattle. Much to his
astonishment, the cows of the herd yielded
white milk, and he was compelled to dye
it with aniseed balls at four a penny.
* * * *
“Fang”: An old legend of the Moira
Lakes along the Murray concerns a duck-
shooter, name unknown, who fashioned
a huge muzzle-loader from a piece of
strong 4in. piping. This wicked piece of
destruction was fired from a fixed position
on a duck-punt and, loaded with an
assortment of small metal scrap, had a
devastating effect when unloosed among
a closely-packed mob of flying ducks.
One day the shooter, toung u ,c loaded
weapon to his punt ? was confronted by
thp game inspector. What did he mean
by having in his possession an illegal
duck-gun, i.e., one that could not be fired
from the shoulder? The shooter argued,
prevaricated, and finally declared he
. could fire the thing from his shoulder.
Whereupon he swung it up and let drive.
The kick of the young cannon knocked
him back head over heels, breaking his
collarbone : but he’d proved his point,
and the inspector had no case.
* * * - *
“Esk D.”; It was a bleak, misty morn-
ing when I pulled into George’s hut and
backed up to a roaring blaze. “Yair,
she’s a good fire,” he said. “Found a
tree of that curly lightwood, an’ it burns
like fury. That’s the last stick there on
the floor.” I had a closer look at the
“curly lightwood”—the best piece of
fiddleback blackwood I ever struck.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Sam, working on a road-
contruction job, was not popular with
the boarding-house cook who had to
cut lunch for him. When he protested
against the one measly sandwich he ob-
tained a grudgingfincrease, but seldom got
enough to eat at work, and spent a lot
of time in the kitchep arguing about it.
Finally, fed-up, cook tore a loaf of bread
in half, loaded it with butter and meat
and wrapped it for Sam’s lunch. That
night she leered at him. “Well, ducky
how was y’r lunch t’day?” “Aw, not
bad,” Sam said cheerfully. “But I see
y’re back t’ the one sangwich agen!”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: In North
Queensland the cassowary is usually re-
“ You'll need no burglar insurance if you buy this one. Miss.”
garded as fierce, with a reputation for
attacking children, yet in north-east New
Guinea I’ve seen the bird domesticated
like the best barn-door fowl. t I chanced
on one on the edge of a jungle-fringed
native garden where sat two Marys.
The ladies whistled, as they would to
call a dog, and the cassowary ran up be-
side them and later followed them to the
village. I learnt that the bird had been
reared from a chick, at first being carried
to and from the garden in a bilium
(string bag). It was caught, as are all
“little fella marooks,” in the jungle by
running it down, after the mother bird
has been chased away.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Touching that bottle-of-
water cure for a rearing horse (B.
9/5/’45), I’ve seen it tried. There was a
certain technique about it. My experts used
only a bottle with the Hennessey’s Three
Star label. Such a bottle, which brought
the finest brandy of that time to Australia,
was of beautifully thin glass. Filled with
water it broke over the equine crown
quite easily, giving him the required shock
without the slightest injury. To use any
modern bottle on a horse’s head should
lay the breaker open to a charge by the
R.S.P.C.A.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Another instance of
the sudden disappearance of sea fish from
harbor waters (B. 16/5/’45) were the
trevally of the Kent Group, Bass Strait.
In the tide-whipped, catspawed waters of
bold Murray Pass, which separates the
precipitous, red-granite-faced cliffs of Deal
Island frpm the others of the group, the
fish, in warmer months, were once so
plentiful that the s.s. Charlotte Fenwick
—afterwards a well-known Port Phillip
Bay trader —and several ketches were en-
gaged in running the hauls to Welshpool
for Melbourne markets. Then one sum-
mer, 30-odd years ago, the fish didn’t
arrive, and, according to the lighthouse-
keepers there from time to time, they’ve
never reappeared. Incidentally, Deal
Island’s lonely lighthouse tower, over 100
years old and 1000-odd feet a. 5.1., is the
highest lighthouse in the world.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Ahead of us on the road
a traveller pedalled steadily on a bike
almost hidden under swags and camp
gear. We surged past him in the car,
giving him a wave of encouragement,
topped the next hill and dropped down
into the valley. There the fuel-pipe
blocked up and it became necessary to
blow all fuel lines after disconnecting,
then connect and test. While this was
going on the traveller on the loaded bike
rode past. We caught him three miles up
the road and, five miles on, the fuel sys-
tem failed again. Followed the expendi-
ture of much labor and profanity, during
which the cyclist rode past and on. We
watched him in dead silence; then the
driver said “That’s the last time that so-
and-so will have the laugh on us.” He
tested the fuel lines minutely, made dead
sure everything was in order and away
we went. We caught the cyclist at a
crossroads, where he was leaning against
a finger-board, the right arm of which
gave our destination as 23 miles. We
turned, the driver honking the horn at
the silent cyclist, and opened her up.
Soon the good road faded into ruts and
ridges, with bad pot-holes here and there,
and the driver muttered “Who said it was
a good road?” Thirty miles along we
pulled up, entirely surrounded by
nothingness, and fretfully wondered
whereinell we were. Ninety minutes later
we were back at the finger-board, which
now 1 pointed in the right direction, and
we saw how it had been twisted in its
hole. In the town we caught that cyclist
and prepared to do him damage.
“Listen,” he said, “I knew there was
somethin’ wrong an’ was leanin’ agin the
post nuttin’ it out when y’ druv up. When
y’ turned an’ shot away it dawned on
me. I yelled, but y’ was in too much of
a hurry. So I righted the post an’ come
on. Y’ don’t want t’ rush about without
waitin’ t’ think.”
* * * %
“Betcha”: Those wedge-tail admirers
who challenge production of proof
against their favorites should have been
with me when I came on a dying lamb
recently. Its back was broken, skin
punctured in several places, and I looked
round for a fallen limb as the possible
cause. There was none. Rounding a
hill a little later I was in time to see a
big wedge-tail scoop up a lamb and make
off. Some distance from the ground the
catch began to kick and struggle and the
bird dropped it. I beat him to his quarry
and found the lamb with broken back
and skin punctures as before. In justice
to the big vultures, however, I hasten to
add that not all play havoc with stock,
but when a pair do begin their ravishing
the only sensible procedure is to grab a
rifle and sleep on their trail.
* * * *
“Blime”: Not sure of my bearings in
the strange locality, I made across to
where a cove was re-erecting a fence,
just as another bloke snigging posts
on the line. “Here, what’s the
idea?” snorted the first-comer, surveying
the new consignment. “Call them fence
posts? .Why, every one of ’era’s big
enough for a flamin’ strainer.” “Aw,
they ain’t too big,” murmured the sec-
ond-comer, placatingly. “Makes a better
fence having ’em solid. “Better fence me
eye,” came the reply. “What the blazes
d’ y’ think A man is? A blasted cfane?
Y’ got t’ split them posts an’ put ’em on
the line, an’ they got t’ be decent ones,
see?” “Yair, but....” “It ain’t no
good arguin’,” bellowed the fencer. “I
said, take them damn’ things away. Split
’em about half the size, Yair, an’ y’
can boil the billy now, while I get me
coat.” He mooched off down the fence,
and I turned to the splitter with a sym-
pathetic grin. “Boss goes a bit crook,
doesn’t he?” I ventured. “Yair. Cow
ain’t ever satisfied.” he said with a sigh.
“But he ain’t the boss. He’s the cove I
got hold of t’ put up that bit o’ fence
for me.”
# * % sfc
“B. A. Ker”; The gate was one of the
low, iron-work type that were popular
before cottage-building became a major
crime; the flaw lay in the fact that the
vertical bars were either too close or too
far apart. Thus when, alarmed by the
child’s screams, the parents rushed to the
front fence they beheld their heir firmly
pilloried with his head on one side of the
gate and his body on the other. Ten
minutes later a hysterical mother was still
trying to wriggle her son’s head out of its
prison, while father, the mailman, a
horseman and several neighbors asked
uselessly “How did he put it in?”
A practical mind suggesting a hacksaw,
the tool was produced, but at the fourth
stroke the ancient blade broke. Some-
body borrowed a rusty file, worked
heroically for five minutes—and suc-
ceeded only in scoring the paint! A
voice knew that an oxy-cutter would do
the job in no time, but was silent when
asked where an outfit could be obtained.
The most practical suggestion came
from a truck-driver: “Take the gate off
and I’ll drive him down to the black-
smith’s.” Spanners were being applied
when a tall, elderly man stepped around
the little group. Taking the situation in at
a glance, he lifted the boy off his feet,
.and with a commanding “Hold yourself
stiff, son,” turned him on his side and
simply passed the little fellow through
the gate head first. The benefactor ex-
plained that he had been a warder in a
jail, where he had seen it demonstrated
that a slim person could squeeze sideways
between two bars just wide enough to
allow his head to pass through.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: “Nor’ West’s” (B.
23/5/’45) idea that a skin-diver may be
grabbed by a giant clam “while groping
for shell 30 feet down ” isn’t borne out
by the facts. Divers, skin or otherwise,
don’t “grope” for such things. They pick
them up deliberately, with a clear view of
their surroundings. That is why “dirty-
water week” stops proceedings in their
line. During more than a quarter-century of
acquaintance with Torres Strait and Great
Barrier Reef waters I inquired systemati-
cally for an authenticated, first-hand in-
stance of injury or death caused by a
giant clam, whether on the surface or
under water. Not a single one was
forthcoming, from white men. Straits
boys or Japanese, although groper, eels,
stonefish, anemones, octopi, giant rays and
seasnakes all figured amongst the sub-
aqueous risks. The only shellfish regarded
as dangerous was the black and yellow
cone-shell, and that only if handled. As
for “biting,” I’ve tried gaping clams with
a variety of introduced articles ranging
from hot stones to dead sharks. The
only response has been a leisurely with-
drawal of the great tinted mantle and
the slow closing of the shells. A reason-
ably active man could be a hundred yards
away before thqy came close enough to-
gether to grip a hand or foot.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Hobart’s waterside recently
thrilled to stirring stories of a mysterious
marine monster which had scared seven
bells out of solitary fishermen, and even
pursued a courting couple from the water-
side Domain seat whence they had been
gazing across the romantic 'moonlit Der-
went. The general idea amongst deepsea
fishermen was that the visitor was a sea-
lion ( Zcdophus lobatus is its scientific
monniker), a fairly frequent species on
the Speck’s southern and western coasts.
The males grow to 10 feet or more in
length, and are of great bulk. An even
stranger sea-visitor was reported some 40
years ago by a party engaged in prospect-
ing for coal along the storm-beaten coast
between South and South-west Capes. It
was over 20 feet long, including a broad
flattened tail, stood fully six feet at the
shoulder and was browsing on seaweed in
a beach pool. When disturbed by the
party’s dogs it galloped on four short,
thick legs into the surf and swam rapidly
out to sea. It was believed by zoologists
to be a specimen of Hooker’s sea-
elephant, a rare aquatic mammal found
only in the vast westerly low-altitude
ocean drift which sailors call the Roaring
Forties.
REMEMBERING THE BIRDS.
The bracken clearings t'eemed with speckled
quail.
You’ve seen a youngster move through grass,
and trail
His father’s stockwhip? Each behind its mate,
That’s how the birds ran —like a brown whip
drawn
Among the kangaroo-grass. They would wait
Until you almost trod on them and then
The stockwhip rose and cracked about your
. head.
Down glades that smelled of parrots we would
hear
Rosellas lilt, and saw them sit in pairs
Lovely as stained-glass windows set in dark
Green chapel walls of myrtles. On cold, clear
Mornings the grey thrush beat his silver gong
With ringing strokes, while brown lark followed
lark
Crawling the sky like spiders, there to swing
From airy rafters on silk webs of song.
The stockmen kookaburras came to fling
Their wild stampeding laughter round and
round I
In clamorous circles of Australian sound;
While crows in death-black armor rasped the
air
With voices harsh as hessian. Thus the birds
Led in the morning, lovely as a mare,
Her mane and tail long-flowing, white as curds,
Her great eyes dark with dew yet ringed with
light,
So beautiful we kids would stand and stare
And kick a clump of grass and grope for
words.
The dusk, too, had its birds. Before the night
Could squat down, ,black-man fashion, on its
heels
To make a flame of stars with two smooth
sticks,
The magpies flashed like flung spears where red
seals
Of gum-sap streaked the boles, as though deep
pricks
From feline claws had let the rich blood out.
The faint “chink, chink” of blackbird anvils
lost
Among wild pear-trees purpling in the frost
Sounded forlorn, while urgent as a shout
The black swans cut like reapers through the
wide
Wheat-colored sky, and even while you stared
Wistfully after them the dark would slide
Out from its place, and suddenly you were
scared ..:
Yes, bush brat as you were, born, bred, and
reared,
You sensed the mystery. Something moved
and spoke
A tongue you knew not. Then the bell began
Its eerie tolling, “Mopoke” —pause — “Mopoke,”
And far and faint the echo— “poke, Mopoke,’ 1 ’
Until you knew why prehistoric man
Slunk after sundown to his rock-walled cave
And lit a fire, and by its flickering light
Moulded a god from clay to help him brave
The breathing hostile presence of the night.
TAS.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Bad Australian”: I always had my
doubts about the vocal qualities attri-
buted to the turtle, but now that we
have it on the unimpeachable authority
of “Moyhu”. (B. 23/5/’45) that the voice
of the chelonian is heard in the Murray
Valley (Vic.) I frankly admit that the old
Israelite chronicler knew his turtles.
When I was out in the spinifex near the
W.A.-S.A. border I witnessed several
turtle migrations. The reptiles were much
larger than the dinner-plate variety of
the Murray Valley, being about the
dimensions of a soup tureen —a very con-
venient size. Whenever I felt a desire to
vary from tinned-dog to aldermanic
fodder I started a fire in the cooking pit,
went out and lassoed the nearest of the
migratory horde, eviscerated him, placed
him upside down in the pit, covered him
with a thick mat of burning pig-face and
saltbush, and a couple of hours later
served up the appetising dish in its own
tureen. Up till then I had been puzzled
as to how they survived in a land where
water was so scarce, but I found out
then that, instead of parking alongside a
water-hole, they made a habit of carrying
the smaller water-holes along with them.
This extraordinary custom made it clear
to me why so many wanderers in the
western deserts had been stonkered by
failing to relocate water at which they
had camped on their outward journey.
* * * *
“Hanko”: “Wild” Brady weaved to the
bar and called for a double brandy.
'Bertie, the barman, a freckled, red-haired
midget, waved him away. “Yer ve had
enough,” he said. Brady’s hand shot out
and he tweaked Bertie’s nose. lears
sprang into the little bloke’s eyes, but ms
red hair wouldn’t stand for that, so he slid
over the bar counter and grappled With
Brady. “Wot yer goin’ ter do?” asked
Brady. “Throw you out, yer big cow.
“I’ll give yer a hand,” said Brady. Where-
upon, with the barman still attached to
his person, he flung himself through the
swine doors. When the half-stonkered
crowd surged out they found Bertie
writhing on the footpath all the
wind jarred out of him. Brady had seen
to it that he got a cushioned landing.
Someone brought out a nobbier of
brandy. Brady took it. . “Never give
alcohol to a bloke sufferin’ from con-
cussion,” he said.
* * * *
“Two Wars”: “Contrary” Charlie, in
town on one of his periodical benders
suddenly decided to go to Sydney, and
made arrangements to be called early.
That evening proved to be a hectic one,
and it ended with one of the wags doing
Charles’s face over with blacx boot
polish, after which the reveller was tossed
on to his bed in full marching order. Next
morning, after prolonged rapping on his
door, he eventually got to the perpendicu-
lar and groped his way adross the room
and stared into the chest-of-drawers
mirror Then he staggered back and
muttered thickly. “Gripes, they’ve woke
the wrong bloke! ’
* . * *
“Sister”: Tauripi, the'native constable
of any village in Papua, with his blue
serge rami and jumper faced with red
and his brass badge of office the size of
a soup plate, does his little bit of Empire-
spreading quite conscientiously, thougn
maybe he’s a bit hazy on minor points
of law Should this might-be-cnminal
who ate his mother-in-law, because she
miked too much, be handcuffed when
conducted to the magistrate’s station across
lawyer-vine bridges swaying perilously
over gorges, thousands of feet deep, and
tbroueh interminable miles of reef-
spiked coast in a crazy canoe? Whim
Gubment allows Tauripi no hand-
cuff key lest he be constrained to
use it in bribery or blackmail—he could
map the handcuffs on a man for stealing
and unsnap them for a bribe of fish or
rips With complete dignity he drops
in to the Government Rest House, where
one is camped, to talk the matter over.
This policeman’s lot is not such a com-
pletely happy one: he is required to keep
a strict eye on village morals and clean-
liness, to see to it that roads are kept
wa |J ca s] e and bridges in repair and the
i ii Q u~ Qr i nnH
sagO supply Well ahead Ot demand and
report immediately the building 01 tiee-
houses, which means an enemy in the
offing and cannibalism and that insistent
bedevilment pourri-pourri. All this old
Tauripi, the constable, attends to for ten
bob a and S 0 many sticks of tobacco.
“If my old mob in the union hear We on'y get half an hour for lunch they'll
go stone flamin' mad!"
ŵ
“Now, see you're back by five o'clock or you'll be locked out ."
sighed and said “Well, I suppose were
lucky.” “Lucky?” echoed the cocky.
“Yair, didn’t y’ say y’ was a wheat-
grower?” answered Mat. “What’s that
got t’ do with it?” “Well, it’s lucky for
us y’ ain’t a canary-seed grower or we d
be talkin’ t’ y’ in whistles.” Thus did
we rejoin the great army of the unem-
ployed.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Dunno how “Propalong” (B.
16/ 5/’45) wangles the ammo, for ball
practice ; however, as the range of h.v.
.22 calibre is about 50 yards, his ranging
up and down the pallid axis on a 4ft.
chaffbag at 100 yards betokens a tyro’s
eyeing of the foresight. To set a .22 try
this: Draw a white cross of one-inch
bands and one-foot arms on a brown
background, and paint a black semicircle,
inch radius at the intersection. Prone
position, sandbag rest, foresight centred
on lower arm, tip touching base of semi-
circle, fire three rounds grouping at 30
yards. Correct any lateral error if rifle
has a fixed backsight by tapping fore-
sight to the right for error to the right,
and vice versa. Now advance your target
to 75 yards, and test elevation. Set your
rifle by lowering foresight with file it
necessary. Practice and observation will
inform you of the correct amount of fore-
sight to use when shooting under or over
your optimum. Finally, don’t cant your
rifle nor pull its trigger, and aim - just
under your target.
* * * *
“Zake”: Noticed that a fencer using
split posts; —which are always better than
round ones- —made certain that where
there was a small end that went into the
ground. He couldn’t tell me the reason ;
he had always done it, and he claimed
that with the big end out it meant its
life as a post would be lengthened con-
siderably. My guess is that the big end
forms a sort of umbrella over the rest ot
the post, thus saving it from rain rot.
“Naturala”; Some bush superstitions
die hard. Strolling along a W.A. bush
road I came upon a young fellow con-
templating the remains of a dugite (black
snake) that had recently been mashed up
by a car. A number of young were visible
both inside and outside the carcass, some
of them still lively. “There you are, I’ve
heard some fellows argue that a mother
snake doesn’t open her mouth and swal-
low her young when in danger,” he said.
“But there’s positive proof. How did all
those young ones come to bejnside her?”
It certainly did have that aspect, and I
nearly bought a fight in trying to explain
the two methods of reproduction of the
snake family. Everyone, of course, knows
that some are viviparous, producing their
young alive, while others are oviparous,
producing young from the egg. But
though the serpent tribe has this division
there is very little actual difference in the
internal structure of both kinds. The
viviparous, like the oviparous, produce
eggs, with the difference that they retain
the egg within their body right until the
young-is on the point
of hatching. The in-
fant serpents then
pierce the membran-
ous shell and find
their own way, by
their own locomo-
tion, out through the
vent. The ovipar-
ous mother carries
through her maternal
duty much after the
manner of the bird.
So the serpent
bridges the gap be-
tween that part of
the animal creation
that lays eggs and
that which develops
its young in a womb.
* *
“Gumsucker”: So
“Jim Grahame” re-
members home-made
bread (B. 2/5/’45).
So do I, though list-
ening to the plaints
of the modern woman I wonder now how
Mum ever found time to bake it —for six
of us. Apparatus, a ten-gallon oil-drum
built in alongside the open fireplace, where
she, with a couple of fire-bars and a
hanging chain, did the rest of her cook-
ing. Firing of the oven wa6 done in a
square tunnel that branches out from the
fireplace. For a shelf this drufn oven had
merely an iron sheet that rested on the
lower curvature, just a trifle below centre.
The door was merely the drum lid, loos-
ened so that it would pull out. With the
heat all round it, the dough baked to per-
fection. I reckon the crust on those loaves
put solid bone into thousands of first-
generation Australians. On Sundays the
oven had another use: in went that day’s
dinner, usually the best part of a side of
wether mutton. Gripes, I can smell the
mutton just as it was being lifted out,
appetising these days of drought-stiicken
sheep and meat rationing.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: A clump of trees on
the plains will always have its bird colony,
and our present Burmese camp is
no exception ; but there the resemblance
ends. The trees are mostly mangoes,
with a few slender palms, odd patches
of bamboo, and other smaller trees I
know not. Instead of maggies hanging
around for scraps we have crows —low-
bred, abusive, grey-necked fowl —and
scavenger kites poised head to wind
above. Tire cackle of mynas is continu-
ous. The common type which, unfortu-
nately, we know at home ; the pied, a
much more attractive bird, now making
a grass nest as big as a tub ; and the
grey-headed, not unlike our own brown
tree-creeper. The songsters of the spot
are a pair of magpie robins, or dhayals:
trim little fellows, which have three dark
green eggs in a moss arid lichen nest
snuggled in a hollow spout beside the
tent where our radio performs. The
quiet members of the tree pies, longtailed
brown, black and white birds now build-
ing in the densest foliage above the open-
air bar ; and the glossy black drongoes,
with deeply forked tails, who have a
quiet chatter to each other on a ridge-
pole at dawn then bottle up for the day.
The beauty of the bunch is an oriole-
red beak, black head, throat 3-nd pri-
maries, and the rest pure gold—whose
bark-and-fibre nest sways above the
track to the mess tent; but some tool
took the eggs and the birds moved on. An
interesting colony, and I was surprised
to find them nesting before the rams ;
but more sombre in plumage and song
than a corresponding colony of our birds.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Shortcut” Sid had taken a job
with Benson to grub out and burn some
“blind” stumps— i.e., stumps level with
the ground. Sid, true to his prefix, pon-
dered the position deeply, and when the
cocky departed for a three-day trip o
town he set to work—but not on the
stumps. A few feet away from each
stump he dug a sizable hole, into which
he tossed and burned some branches. Th
earth from each hole was thrown over
the stump alongside it, and when Benson
returned he glanced over the apparently
stumpless paddock and expressed satis-
faction. But later, when he looked down
the cavities, he said to Sid, a tone
of suspicion in his voice, “Them stumps
didn’t give much ashes. Aw, *h e .y
gave plenty right enough,’ Sid replied
easily ' “but they was ironwood stumps,
and the ashes was so blanky heavy most
of ’em sunk straight inter the earth!
MOONBOUND.
[“Marama gently lifted Ina and carried her up to
his moonland .. . But Ina never lost her love tor
her old earth-home. Even now, when the moan is
clear of clouds, you may see her gazing earthward.
—Maoriland Fairytales'. Edith Howes.]
Last night I saw the round bright moon
unveiling
From the dark clouds, as a woman sheds the
raiment
Thai hides her shining beauty. In that moment
Showed the faint shadow-form of Ina, sailing
Feet-first through the night, the Maori maiden
Far from her home on earth, moonbound,
bewailing
Her exile there, forlorn and memory-ridden.
She stood alone in the sky, her feet wide-
planted
On the barren moon-crust, looking earthward,
longing . .
For the warm whares, for her people singing
About their fires. And so she looked and
panted
For the lost earth, as beautiful to her dreaming
Eyes, as the moon to the first earth-child who
wanted
That golden ball, so near and perfect-seeming.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


the hand
m
< * i
' SR <j
SGSSB
€ASTsmsw** im * m -
Apart from the bureaucratic bungling which invariably
stifles service in public enterprises, the Government’s
proposal to take over civil airlines directly affects you
and every other taxpayer financially.
It means that without any greater efficiency in your
air transport services you, as a taxpayer, are saddled
with up to £8,000,000 purchase price for the existing
airlines.
Privately owned airlines have contributed £1,109,230 to
Government revenue in the last five years. This figure
does not include the millions paid out in taxes by the
airline companies. The Government’s record in trans-
portation ownership, in which £4,004,678 was lost on the
Commonwealth Shipping Line and the writing off of
£30,000,000 of taxpayers’ money from Government Rail-
way activities in one State alone, indicates that Govern-
ment ownership would make the air lines a further
drain on taxpayers.
This is the shadow which the Government’s plan of
socialisation casts on your future. Beware of Socialisa-
tion!
AIRLINE OPERATORS’ SECRETARIAT
50 Market Street, Melbourne
WHY THIS THUSNESS?
w
When, in spite of a year of record egg production,
the breakfast egg fails to appear on the table, as
occasionally happens, or we have to accept some
other minor food inconvenience, let us reflect that
this is just as it should be.
Australian food is playing a vital role in the winning
of this war. The people of Britain, as well as soldiers,
sailors and airmen fighting throughout the vast
Pacific and South-East Asia areas, depend very
largely on us for their daily food requirements.
To meet these needs, we as a nation must produce all
the food we can. We must grow our own vegetables
wherever possible. We must not plunder the nation’s
food resources by buying on the black market. We
must conserve all we can, waste as little as we can.
We must always keep in mind that—-
FOOD IS STILL A WEAPON OF WAR
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control.
F 68.82.55
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Two Men and a War.
(Told in a London dispatch to the U.S.
Publication "Free World.")
Among the German prisoners captured
in France there were a certain number of
Russians. Some time back two were cap-
tured who did not speak Russian or any
other language that was known either to
their captors or their fellow-prisoners.
They could, in fact, only converse with
one another. A professor of Slavonic
languages, brought down from Oxford,
could make nothing of what they were
saying.
Then it happened that a sergeant who
had served on the frontiers of India over-
heard them talking and recognised their
language, which he was able to speak a
little. It was Tibetan! After some ques-
tioning he managed to get their story.
Some years earlier they had strayed
over the frontier into the Soviet Union
and been conscripted into a labor bat-
talion, afterwards being sent to Western
Russia when the war with Germany broke
out. They were taken prisoner by the
Germans and sent to North Africa ; later
they were sent to France, then exchanged
into a fighting unit when the second front
opened, and taken prisoner by the British.
All this time they had been able to speak
to nobody but one another, and had no
notion of what was happening or who
was fighting whom.
It would round the story off neatly if
they were now conscripted into the British
Army and sent to fight the Japanese, end-
ing up somewhere in Central Asia, quite
close to their native village, but still very
much puzzled as to what it is all about.
The Ten-tonner.
(In the N.Y. “Times” article from which this
is taken the big British bomb is described as an
11-tonner, but that, of course, would be by
American weight .)
The British 10-ton bombs are so devas-
tating that one of them dropped experi-
mentally obliterated a small granite island
off the British coast.
When a “dud,” filled with ballast
instead of explosives, was dropped at a
British experimental station it buried
* tself 80 deeply in the soil that it took
18 men working 12 hours a day nine days
*° dig it out.
The British have named it the Volcano
bomb. The one used on the granite island
was the first ever dropped,
The gigantic missile will “almost cer-
tainly find it way into the Pacific, and
there is no point in telling the Japanese
how thick they must build their concrete
fortifications, or how deep they must
bury their underground factories in order
to obtain immunity,” British Information
Service has stated,
Its use is restricted now by the fact
that, as far as is known, only one type
of ’plane, the British Lancaster, can lift
it. A special hoisting tackle was manu-
factured to load the bomb into the Lan-
caster, and even then it took six men a
half-hour to get it into position,
The Volcano, according to the 8.1.5.,
is ten times as powerful as the Germans’
3000-mile-an-hour V-2 rocket, and is
“highly accurate,” as the V-2 is not. It
is almost twice as powerful as the
earthquake bomb that the British used to
sink the German battleship Tirpitz,
Fruits of Yalta.
(Condensed extracts from a London “Nine-
teenth Century and After” signed editorial by
F. A. Voigt.)
It is true that Germany must be dis-
armed. To reduce her exorbitant power
and restore the Balance was the one pur-
pose with which Great Britain went to
war—to keep it reduced must be her prin-
cipal, though not her only, purpose in
making the peace. But “elimination and
control,” although necessary as ex-
pedients, will not solve the German prob-
lem in the end.
The German problem cannot be solved
unless the European problem, of which
the German is but a part, be solved. The
Yalta Declaration offers no hope of a
solution—indeed, it destroys every hope,
for it announces nothing less than the
destruction of Europe as an organic whole
and the re-opening of the European prob-
lem in a new and intractable form,
Europe was divided in the disastrous con-
ference held at Teheran in November,
1943—n0t, as is frequently alleged, into
“spheres of interest” or “influence,” but
into areas of military occupation. But
the consequences, clinched at-Yalta, are
the same—a deep division, not only in
areas of occupation but in two different
worlds. The Declaration offers no other
advance. There is nothing new to be
discovered in that welter of hollow assur-
ances and portentous abstracts.
* * * *
Europe is an organic whole, a common
consciousness and a civilisation with her
It’s doubtful if President Truman
can take up where Roosevelt left of)
[dealing with Churchill and Stalin ].
It is doubtful if anybody knows all
of the understandings Mr. Roose-
velt had. Harry Hopkins may know
some. Military leaders know the
military commitments. A new
President is not bound by political
arrangements of a predecessor.
That means that Churchill-Stalin
may have to start over again, may
find more of an attitude of caution
and questioning on the part of the
U.S. That is one complication. It
can be an important one. —“United
States News.”
own moral law, her own mind and char-
acter, her own unique heritage. She has
immense cohesive power, a power which
is, in our opinion, ultimately irresistible.
If divided, as she has been, she will find
herself again in a new cohesion —and
nothing that Great Britain, the United
States and Russia can do will avert the
ultimate reintegration of Europe within
her natural boundaries, which are,
roughly, the boundaries that existed in
1939. The only hope in a good and a
lasting peace lay in the reintegration of
Europe, a task which the three Great
Powers are well able to carry out in col-
laboration with Europe. That hope re-
mains unfulfilled.
* * * *
The Yalta Declaration proposes a control
over Germany that goes far beyond what
is needed to disarm her and keep her
disarmed. Such a control, devised to ex-
tirpate certain ideas and a certain men-
tality, which are neither defined, nor
even understood, presupposes a vast sys-
tem of supervision and invigilation, of
elaborate coercion with the help of agents
and informers and of “collaborationists”
whom their fellow-countrymen will treat
as “collaborationists” are treated else-
where. Plans for the “re-education” of
the Germans, the control of the German
wireless, of newspapers and of textbooks,
will but perpetuate that odious form of
warfare known as propaganda—and the
effect will be the opposite of what is in-
tended. For the days of propaganda are
finished. Propaganda is but advertising,
and it has been used and misused in such
excess that it engenders an ever-harden-
ing “sales-resistance” which will weaken
or destroy the influence of the authority
which propaganda is meant to strengthen.
None have misused propaganda as much
as the Germans have—and it is the Ger-
mans who have acquired the greatest im-
munity to propaganda. Their own re-
education has begun. They are unlearn-
ing the history they have been taught
Under the National Socialist dispensation,
and are learning the history which history
herself is teaching them in her own ruth-
less way.
Germany is to pay “reparations in
kind.” It is only just that she should be
made to do what she can to repair the
destruction she has wrought. Too much
of it is irreparable.
It is not clear whether proposals made
for reparations in the form of compul-
sory labor will be adopted or not. But
if tlie Germans are reduced to a state of
helotry, and if they are to supply the
victors with cheap labor, it will not be
enough to say that this is no less than
they deserve. It will be necessary, in our
own interest, to point out that it will


A hew
ItoduvUty
fa AuMbaU
Tkat Australia migkt ke stronger
in war and greater in peace, tke
Commonwealtk Government en-
trusted PYROX wi tk tke vital
task of estaklisking tke manu fact ure
of DIESEL FUEL INJECTION
EQUIPMENT to kigkest world
standards. . . today Pyrox is proud
to announce A GREAT NEW^
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY,
pioneered and kuilt to serve tke
Nation now and in tke years to come.
jyrox diesei
fuel IniedioH. Equiymmt
TREATS
effectively
Nc
No 2
RHEUMATISM
LUMBAGO, NEURITIS, SCIATICA,
MYOSITIS, FIBROSITIS, SPONDYLITIS
These are diseases of bacterial origin and all respond to Vaxos
treatment. Vaxos No. 2, produced in Australia by an eminent
physician under Government Licence, is a Warren Crowe type oral
vaccine. Unlike ordinary medicines, it is absorbed right into the
bloodstream, where it neutralises the bacterial toxins that cause the
complaint. Relief is rapid. Pains and joint swellings quickly
diminish. Muscular elasticity returns. Continued-
treatment brings long-lasting immunisation. Vaxos
is safe and simple to take—just a few drops in
water each day.
Cease your needless sufferings. Ask your Chemist
for VAXOS to-day
TWO OTHER DISTINCT VAXOS TREATMENTS
Vaxos No. 1 for Hay Vaxos No. 3 for Boils.
Fever, Catarrh, Common
Colds, Influenza, Bron-
chitis, Bronchial Asthma.
Antrum and Sinus
Troubles, Tonsilitis and
Middle Ear Troubles.
Pimples, Carbuncles,
Acne, Psoriasis, Der-
matitis, Eczema, Im-
petigo, Septic Sores,
and most Skin Infec-
tions.
EACH TREATMENT IN TWO SIZES.
ẃ
Large size (24 c.c.’s), 6 Medium size (15 c.c.’s),
weeks’ treatment for weeks’ treatment
Chronic Cases “ Acute Cases . . . .
If your chemist is out of stocks, write to
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST), 582 Lit. Collins Si
126
Melb.
IFXVHC! ito 9
■w in SwP iil
ORAL VACCINE
violate every principle for which organ-
ised international labor has fought and
invalidate every reason for the existence
of the trade-union movement.
**, * *
To stabilise the coming peace, to hold
the divided and half-shattered European
structure together, a superstructure has
been devised —the new League of Nations,
a kind of universal despotism which
would perpetuate peace by the menace
of universal war.
The Declaration offers the “peoples” of
“liberated Europe” assistance “to solve
by democratic means their pressing poli-
tical and econopaic problems.” It in-
vokes the Atlantic Charter as conferring
the light off all “to choose the form of
government under which they will live.”
But the fact is that upon a dozen coun-
tries between the Arctic and the Aegean
—Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania,
Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary,
Rumania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Albania
and, probably, Austria —despotic rule,
varying from slow pressure, as in Fin-
land, to sanguinary repression, as in
Yugoslavia, is being imposed, or will soon
be imposed, as part of the system of coer-
cion sanctioned at Yalta.
* * * *
The Lublin Committee, now known as
the Polish Provisional Government, has
been exposed as so unmistakable an im-
posture that it would be hard for the
British Government to extend de jure
recognition. The Lublin Committee must,
therefore, be made to appear what it is
not —the disguise which has been ripped
off must be replaced by another that will
be more deceptive. The Declaration pro-
poses that the committee be “reorgan-
ised” on “a more democratic basis.” But
this is impossible. Indeed, one touch of
true democracy would make the com-
mittee disappear, and- would consign its
present members to hurried flight, to
prison or to execution. To suggest that
it should be democratic is to suggest that
it be what it cannot be. Its purpose is
not to be democratic nor to promote
democracy, nor to defend Polish inde-
pendence, but to be despotic, to suppress
democracy in Poland and to deprive
Poland of her independence, for a demo-
cratic Poland would be independent and
an independent Poland might be demo-
cratic.
The Lublin Committee and bodies like
the municipal councils in Warsaw and
Cracow are made up of men who have
no legitimate qualifications, represent no
party, movement, trend of opinion or
interests in Poland, and commarid no
respect whatever. It is suggested in the
Declaration, that Polish “democratic
leaders from within Poland and abroad”
should join the committee. But, again,
according to the view expressed by the
committee —and reiterated by its spokes-
men and endorsed by the Russian press
and wireless —all Poles who could be
called “democratic leaders” 'are likewise
“fascist” or “reactionaries,” associates
of Hitler and Dr. Goebbels, or simple
“bandits.” What Polish “democratic
leaders” are asked to do is to connive in
the annihilation of the country’s inde-
pendence.
General Bor, the leader of the Warsaw
insurrection, is the particular object of
the venom discharged by the spokesman
of the committee. And, indeed, he is
guilty of the three most heinous crimes
that could be perpetrated under such a
dispensation —the crime of popularity, of
loyalty and of patriotism.
There is no limit to the effrontery and
the rapacity of the Lublin Committee, any
more than there is to its perfidy and in-
gratitude. It is no longer at pains to
conceal its hostility to Great Britain. It
is no longer satisfied with the annexation
of Germany as far as the Oder and the
Neisse. It claims German territory up
to a line running 30 kilometres west of the
Oder, and insinuates that Schleswig-Hol-
stein might be incorporated in the Polish
vassal Republic.
* * * *
The hostility which the Polish vassal
Republic is showing towards Great Britain
is shared by the administration estab-
lished under Marshal Tito in Yugoslavia.
That the Serbs, as a nation, are demo-
cratic makes it necessary for him to
divide them to rule them, and to coerce
them by terrorism and massacre. But
they are not only democratic but pro-
British, though not as much as they were,
for Serbia, with Yugoslavia, has been sac-
rificed as Poland has been sacrificed.
Tito’s administration openly expressed
sympathy with E.L.A.S. during the recent
fighting in Greece. British intervention
in Greece not only saved the Greeks
from further massacres and from an un-
Hellenic despotism but also from being
forced into hostility towards Great
Britain, a country to which they are more
devoted than to any other except their
own.
What we have said with regard to Gen-
eral Bor in Poland applies with equal
truth to General Mihailovich in Yugo-
slavia. A Government, as wretched a
vassal Government as any in Europe, was
formed in London not to govern Yugo-
slavia but to disguise the nudity of Tito's
despotism and to provide him with ser-
viceable instruments abroad. The mem-
bers of this Government left London with
utter reluctance and with trembling, to
place themselves at the disposal of the
ruthless tyrant they helped to power.
* * * *
To undo the work done at Yalta, to
solve the German problem by solving the
European problem, to re-establish the
Balance of Power, will be the task of
years, perhaps of a generation. What
has been lost can be recovered, even with-
out another war, if England re-awakens
to her European interests, to her Euro-
pean status and to her European heritage.
If she declines the task, the restoration of
Europe will be accomplished without her
—and perhaps against her.
Germany, obsessed by fear of encircle-
ment, made the imagined real. Russia,
obsessed by the fear of a European coali-
tion, is promoting that coalition and a
new challenge to her mighty achievement.
England, obsessed by fear of war, made
the Second World War possible.
She was never greater than when she
stood alone in that war. Let her beware
lest the time comes and she stand alone in
the peace to follow. For all her greatness
may not suffice to save her then—or to
save Russia.
Kwanto, Heart of Japan.
(From a N.Y. “Times” article .)
Japanese domestic propaganda now
freely admits the probability of direct
invasion. No matter on what part of the
Japanese coast it begins, it must end in
the Kwanto Plain.
Kwanto is the lowland area of Honshu,
from which rise Tokyo, Yokohama and
26 other cities of more than 25,000,000
people. It is the heart of Nippon and
the powerhouse of the empire. It covers
somewhaj more than 5000 square miles
and is the largest low-lying area in old
Japan. One-fifth of the population lives
there, and this area houses the nation’s
greatest concentration of heavy industry.
Tokyo and Yokohama, still politically
separated, are really one city now, a single
port that forms a community of more
than 8,000,000 people. For the last ten
years the Government has been develop-
ing the heavy, strategic industries of the
two great cities and they now form the
major part of Japan’s war potential.
Obviously, Japan cannot fortify her
entire coast. Our seaborne strength will
give us the choice of many landing places,
but it is not likely any will be far from
Kwanto. It will be there, too, that Japan
will concentrate her full power to strike
back. Nevertheless, it is in Kwanto and
somewhere in sight of the Imperial
Palace that we must impose peace.
The Chicago Air Conference.
(Accomplishments summed up by Edward
Warner in “Foreign Affairs.”)
The representatives of 54 nations—all
the world except the enemy States and
the Argentine Republic, which were not
invited, the Soviet Union, which did not
attend, and Saudi Arabia, which did not
accept—gathered in the Stevens Hotel
in Chicago from November 1 last to
December 7.
The accomplishments were several.
The most important, in its elfect upon the
legal status of international air transpor-
tation, came by surprise within a few
days of the end of the conference. The
transit agreement, colloquially known as
the “two-freedoms agreement,” was for-
mally proposed by the senior Dutch
representative—a very appropriate spon-
sor, in view of the unremitting struggle
of the Netherlands for greater freedom
in the* air for more than 20 years past —•
and was vigorously supported by the
French delegates. The agreement was
made a conference document, open
to separate signature then or later. By
February 20 it had been signed by 33
nations. The number included all the
great colonial empires with the exception
of the Portuguese, and all the other lead-
ing aeronautical States and all States
covering large enough territories to'make
the right of flying over them a matter of
practical importance, with the exception,
at time of writing, of Australia, China,
Brazil and the Soviet Union. TThe sig-
natures have been attached ad referendum
and most have not yet been formally con-
firmed ; but it is clearly possible to expect
widespread acceptance.
The transit agreement does two things:
It gives the accepting States a free and
unlimited right of passage for the ’planes
of each State through the air-space of
every other ; and it gives their aircraft
a general right to interrupt their passage
for refueling or mechanical attention.
To realise what a landmark this is in
aeronautical history one really needs to
have lived with the subject during the
years between the wars and to have seen


<&m ® ¥DCECiIRg GIN
ẅ
cidim ® gin
mucins GDN ® ¥DCOCIP!S GDINi
VG. 21
-■<v
T m
ii. ,
SfJ
«&
r *
V: /A
k. \v : -
sVmJL/7^
No one has ever seen steam!
Our business is making plant to pro-
duce an invisible product <— steam.
Tbe water gauge of a boiler will
illustrate: In the lower portion of tbe
tube there is water; in tbe upper part,
which is clear and appears empty,
there is always steam. Of Though no
one has ever seen steam, it is tangible
-—it has temperature ... it is dry, but
easily wetted ... it is fluid and com-
pressible. and, in weight, many tons
of steam are produced each hour in
every major power station. However,
there is no desire on our part to be
pedantic about it, and we suggest
you continue to call as “steam ’ those
fleecy clouds that billow from the
kettle.
Steam production starts at the draft-
ing board/—but, whether or not the
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS -- INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
production of the steam will be
economical, rest's on design experi-
ence, backed by research, made prac-
tical by sound engineering and a
thorough knowledge of the behaviour
of local fuels.
Look at the Babcock steam installa-
tions in the power houses of Aus-
tralia ... of Britain ... of Europe
... of the Americas ... of Africa and
Asia—and let us remind you that the
economical production of this in-
visible, yet tangible product, steam,
is itself dependent upon something
invisible, yet tangible, called re-
sources.
★ ★ ★
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia,
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our British
organisation . . . maintain to Babcock
users our world standards of workman-
ship with moderate first cost.
w
at first-hand how firmly almost every
State has repulsed any attempt to release
international transport from its cocoon
of multiple national restrictions. For
the first time, nations which wish to trade
with one another through the air can plan
to do so, feeling assured that they can
reach each other’s territories without
needing to meet the terms imposed separ-
ately by every State along the way. They
are assured that, except for non-stop
ocean crossings, they can halt for refuel-
ing at intervals which are economically
desirable and will not have to carry
enough fuel for roundabout flights.
The participants to the transit agree-
ment undertake to abstain from the role
of feudal baron who levied private
tribute on all the commerce passing
along the highroads within his grasp„
The agreement has found vigorous spon-
sors everywhere, fired by the conviction
that the maintenance of barriers to inter-
national commerce by parties having no
relation to it except the accidental one of
geographical position would represent an
intolerable retrogression toward a closed
world.
The second notable result of the con-
ference was a plan for an international
aeronautical organisation of much wider
scope than any of its predecessors. The
International Convention for Air Navi-
gation which met in Paris in 1919 set up
a Commission composed of members
from all the participating States. Ulti-
mately they numbered 33, but their meet-
ings, usually held only semi-annually,
were concerned almost solely with techni-
cal problems. The Conference of Lima
in 1937 proposed a similar body for the
Americas, but it never was formally con-
stituted.
Under the Chicago plan the interna-
tional organisation will be set up in two
phases. There will be a provisional body,
to become active as soon as 26 States
have accepted the compact and simple
interim agreement, which will give way
to a permanent organisation, similar
though not identical in structure, when
26 States have formally ratified the much
bulkier permanent Convention. The
Interim Council will act through com-
mittees and a secretariat. Its primary
task will be to study and distribute in-
formation on problems of interna-
tional air traffic —routes established and
planned, costs of operation, subsidies,
tariffs, airport facilities, etc.-—and to de-
velop standard rules of the air, regula-
tions for equipment and personnel, and
operating practices on airways. The
participating States agree to provide the
Council with copies of all agreements re-
lating to routes and services and to re-
quire their international airlines to file
full traffic reports and financial state-
ments.
The permanent Council, which will
probably come into existence in 1946 or
1947, will be authorised in addition, at
the request of any contracting State, to
investigate any situation which appears
to present avoidable obstacles to the de-
velopment of air navigation. Still wider
duties are given it. If it believes that a
contracting State’s airport facilities (in-
cluding radio and meterological services)
are inadequate, it may, at the request of
that State, provide and administer the
airports and other facilities used by inter-
national air services. It may, with the
assent of the contracting States concerned,
assess the costs and specify charges for
the use of the facilities. In short, the
new agreement offers an opportunity for
great progress in welding the world’s air-
ways into a unit. It does not assure
uniform economic practices by the dif-
ferent States —in regard to subsidies, for
example —but it offers hope of elimi-
nating at least some of the differences of
opinion as to what these practices actually
are.
The Council will have 21 members,
and will be elected by an Assembly in
which every State will have an equal
vote. In the first election for the Interim
Council, held at Chicago, representation
was given to the United States, Brazil,
Mexico, Colombia, Chile, Peru, El Sal-
vador, the United Knigdom, Canada,
Australia, India, France, the Netherlands,
Belgium, Norway, Czechoslovakia, Tur-
key, Egypt, Iraq, China. Canada was
chosen as the seat of the interim organi-
sation.
The Council will elect its own presi-
dent, who will be a salaried official, rep-
resenting no nation and pledged to be
influenced by none. Each State is to
have a right to participate in the work
of every committee except two technical
committees which will be chosen by the
Council.
The arts of aircraft design and air
navigation are constantly developing,
and standards governing them must obvi-
ously be kept highly flexible. Hope of
keeping the standards up to date would
disappear if fresh ratification by all the
participating Governments were required
whenever a change were made. The ex-
pedient chosen was to give the permanent
Council full power to adopt, amend or
annul technical annexes to the Conven-
tion at any time by a two-thirds vote ;
but those annexes are not to be given
compulsive force. There will be no
binding obligation on any nation to keep
to an international standard. However,
when the Council has actually adopted
a standard practice of any sort individ-
ual States will wish in their own interest
to keep to it.
The Chicago Convention also breaks
new ground in escaping from the rule of
unanimity which puts a single reluctant
(or merely dilatory) State in a position
to prevent action. The Assembly will
have the power of cancelling the mem-
bership in the organisation of any State
failing to accept a crucial amendment.
Last among the noteworthy achieve-
ments at Chicago is the so-called “five-
freedoms” agreement, which will bring
about virtually complete freedom of the
air for transport purposes among States
accepting it. Transport ’planes of the
signatories will have full rights to pick
up and set down passengers and goods
in each other’s territory, except that each
nation may reserve its own internal traffic
(cabotage) for its own nationals, and
subject to a specification that an airline
must start in its own metropolitan terri-
tory and proceed to its most distant ter-
minus with reasonable directness. In
other words, it is not permissible to lay
out routes that wander and wind in search
of local traffic. Within those two limits
the nature and volume of the operations
allowed will be unlimited.
The main unfinished business at Chi-
cago concerned the rights of conducting
trade. The two-freedoms agreement on
transit will enable commercial aircraft
to go wherever trade is to be found ;
but actually to engage in picking up’ and
discharging passengers and goods will be
possible only in the territories of the
limited number of States which have
signed the necessary agreement. If trade
is to be carried on, either a new attempt
must be made to find a general formula
or a network of bilateral, trilateral and
quadrilateral pacts must be negotiated.
The latter is currently being done. Agree-
ments between the United States and
Spain, Sweden and Ireland have been
announced, and no doubt there will be
more.
Arab Palestine Plan.
(From a report by N.Y. “Times” Jerusalem
correspondent.)
The Foreign Ministers of Arab States
who drafted the constitution of the pro-
posed Arab league at their Cairo con-
ference are understood to have decided
to recommend a compromise solution on
Palestine for acceptance by the Palestinian ,
Arabs.
The compromise is said to include the
principle of equal political and civil
rights for Jews and Moslems, leaving to
Christian Arab residents of Palestine the
power of veto. The Arab, Foreign
Ministers would be prepared under this
plan to obtain agreement from Palestine
Moslems to early Jewish immigration of
200,000 to 300,000 persons. This, they
feel, would provide some relief for
Jewish refugees.
Under such a plan, Moslem leaders
argue, the 700,000 Jewish inhabitants
would be increased to 1,000,000 within a
short period, equal to the Moslem popu-
lation. There are about 150,000 Christian
Arabs, who would thus hold the balance
of power.
A local Arab political observer said the
Arab reaction might at first be acrimon-
ious, especially among younger elements
who hold violent nationalistic views, but
that the general feeling ultimately would
be to accept the plan.
Britain then, he said, would turn over
its Palestine mandate to a permanent
United Nations authority that would
emerge from the San Francisco talks.
U.S. Post-war Ships.
(From a “United States News” article .)
The programme presented to Congress
by Vice-Admiral Emory S. Land, Chair-
man of the Maritime Commission, calls
for a post-war American merchant mar-
ine of not less than 15,000,000 tons and
preferably 20,000,000. Such a programme
would employ all, or nearly all, of the
fast, efficient new ships, and keep them
in American hands. The Admiral fore-
sees sufficient cargoes in a broadly ex-
panded post-war world trade, and urges
that American shipping take over a big
proportion of the commerce once carried
by German and Japanese vessels. Con-
tinued operating subsidies, primarily to
equalise wage payments to American and
foreign sailors, would be necessary.
Many in the U.S. shipping industry
are hopeful that the Admiral’s estimates
of post-war American shipping will be
borne out. They are inclined to question,


One Executor
with the Knowledge
of many
When you take the serious step
of appointing someone to act as
manager, executor or trustee of
your estate you are entitled to
be fully satisfied as to capacity
to do what is required.
The future of others who mean much
to you depends upon your choice.
The Unioij Trustee Company of
Australia meets all requirements. For
sixty years it has rendered service
precisely similar to what you require.
It has built up a fund of knowledge
and experience which, through trained
executives, is readily available to you.
Its directors are men of substance and
standing, themselves well accustomed
to the discharge of very responsible
duties. Their accumulated experience
is also at your disposal.
Estates worth in the aggregate many
millions of pounds have been handled
by the Union Trustee, oyer two
generations. That is the basis of the
confidence which has led so many
prudent people with responsibilities to
choose the Union Trustee.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor: Samuel Cooke. General Manager; John Lamtt.
Manager: J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager : T. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Maior-General Sir W. T. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
T W Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart, M.C., F.C.A, (Aust,);
' R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.E.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager ; H. W. Herbert, b.ec., F.F.1.A., A.C.I.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., A.A.I.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors ; C. W* Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb,
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
0*
kfill**
V
r> f 1
ST-s
Mk
FIASHU6HT BATTERIES
Why should a flashlight battery have a dateline?
Flashlight batteries should be
stamped with a date for the same
reason that eggs should be
stamped with a date . . . • The
fresher they are when you get
them, the longer they’re going to
last you. Eveready is the first and
only flashlight battery to be
stamped with a date that clearly
tells you that it is fresh. So, look
for the dateline on every Eveready
flashlight battery. It’s your con-
stant guarantee of light at any
time anywhere.
When , you can see, you’re safe
—so keep that flashlight you
bought for the “blackouts” in good
working order. If its batteries
have gone weak, refill it with
Eveready dated batteries. Then
you’ll ALWAYS be sure of a
strong beam of light ... in the
garden at night . . . from your
bedside . . . walking along that
dark street ... in the car.
eVE READY
TRADE-MARK
DATED FLASHLIGHT BATTERIES
They last longer because you always get them fresh
however, whether anything like 20,000,000
tons can be utilised.
The Admiral wants to keep 10,000,000
to 20,000,000 tons of shipping in storage
as an insurance reserve against any third
World War emergency. For the most
part these vessels would be the less use-
ful Liberty ships. The proposal recalls
the hundreds of vessels built in the first
World War that rotted in rivers and
estuaries in the years that followed. How-
ever, new methods of ship preservation
have been adopted. There is a new type
of paint, and an electrolytic process to
keep barnacles from collecting on hulls.
Or, Admiral Land says, the ships could
be stored in fresh water, in which the
life of the hull is considered indefinite.
The problem, in the latter event, would
be to find fresh-water expanses big
enough for such a large number. The
Admiral says he knows of a place, but
for the present it is secret. Speculation
is that it might be outside the United
States. Machinery could be preserved
by a coating of white lead and tallow.
The total cost is estimated at from
$3OOO to $5OOO yearly per ship. The
Admiral considers this cheap insur-
ance against having to build vessels at
$1,900,000 and up each, if another war
should come.
The third part of the plan is to sell
7,000,000 to 12,000,000 tons of shipping
to Allied nations. Behind this isan argu-
ment that, as the result of a common
war effort, the American fleet has grown,
while 'that of these other nations has
been reduced by enemy action and by an
inability to build. The figures mentioned
are intended to restore the various Allied
merchant marines to their 1939 strengths.
Norway, Greece and Denmark especially
are in need. Great Britain will want
ships, but, by comparison with the smaller
nations, is in a better position. There
also are ideas of helping the Chinese
start a merchant marine.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
William Allen White’s Report on the
Russians reads to us like an honest, factual
report by an honest and highly capable news-
paperman and war correspondent. That is
what the book reviewers generally agreed W. L.
White was, on the strength of his previous
distinguished war books They Were Expend-
able and Queens Die Proudly. White’s book
about Russia, however, has had a different re-
ception. Our Left-Wing book reviewers, of
whom there are many, are damning it as a
malicious attack on the sainted Soviet, and some
of them are trying to smear White himself.
Apparently it is a literary crime in these per-
sons’ eyes to go to Russia and see it as any-
thing but an earthly paradise—even as it is also
a literary crime for an American writer to say
anything unqualifiedly good about the United
States. These Left-Wing critics’ first loyalty,
like the American communists’ first loyalty, is
to Russia; and the literary O.G.P.U. will do its
best to get you if you’re a writing man who
deviates from the party line when discussing
Russia. — N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
Everyone took part in the fighting which
went on for many days during a Japanese
counter-attack in Burma. Transport and supply
personnel defended the rear organisation with
the same - tenacity that British and Indian in-
fantry held the “box” defences in front. (Each
Indian Infantry Division consists of three
British and six Indian or Gurkha battalions.
The personnel of the divisional artillery is
largely British.) During this period there were
examples of deliberate, cold-blooded slaughter
of wounded and non-combat'ants by the
Japanese. A 7th Division field dressing-station,
containing more than 80 wounded, was overrun
at night and occupied by the Japanese. Forty-
eight hours later a senior Japanese officer
arrived and ordered the massacre of the doc-
tors, medical orderlies and wounded. Six doc-
tors were lined up and each dispatched with a
bullet through the ear, the orderlies were
butchered, and Japanese soldiers went from
stretcher to stretcher bayoneting the wounded.
—From an American “Foreign Affairs” article
by Horace S. Sewell.
* * * *
The U.S. Navy, hard put for words to des-
cribe its fresh-food refrigerated warehouse in
the South-west Pacific, says “There’s nothing
else in the world quite like it.” Statistically,
the “ice-box of the South-west Pacific” stores
5,500,0001 b. of foodstuffs, including 2,500,0001 b.
of meat, 2,200,0001 b. of fruits and vegetables,
and 800,0001 b. of dairy products. The island
plant was designated to meet special needs of
the tropics—such as the quick unloading and
storage of as much as 700,0001 b. of meat
at once —to escape quick spoilage. The plant is
located within 300 yards of dockside, so that
perishable foodstuffs never are out of refrigera-
tion more than an hour. In an outside tem-
perature reaching 130 degrees, meats are stored
at 10 degrees above zero, fresh vegetables at
40 degrees, and dairy products at varying tem-
peratures to fit the particular item. — “Christian
Science Monitor.”
* * * *
American Ambassador Hurley and Mr.
Nelson went to Moscow on their way to Chung-
king and discussed Chinese policy there. They
were informed that Russia does not regard the
Chinese communists as being true communists.
Stalin is quoted as calling them “margarine
communists.” The two American emissaries
were informed that Russia approved of the
general purpose of American policy, which is
to sustain and strengthen the Central Chinese
Government. In other words, the spectre of a
Russian-American clash over the rival factions
within China was largely laid. A reconciliation
within China is still earnestly desired. But the
Generalissimo is being urged to such reconcilia-
tion by appeals to his statemanship, not by
threats [as formerly], American policy now
starts with loyalty to Chungking and to the
cause of a gradual maturing of peace inside
China, instead of starting with the implied
threat that it might some day throw Chungking
overboard in favor of the opposing faction. —
Joseph C. Harsch; “Christian Science Monitor’’
Washington correspondent.
* * * *
No civilisation dies unless it is already weak
and exhausted. There is a great vitality in
Europe; there are nearly 300,000,000 people bent
on recovery and reconstruction. To assume that
these people, the largest group of politically
self-conscious people on earth, will not be a
powerful factor for good or ill in the world of
tomorrow is short-sighted and unrealistic in the
extreme. There will be struggle for Europe —
not between Russia and Britain, or democracy
and communism, hut between the pulling and
straining forces within the worn fabric of
Europe itself. — N.Y. “Times” columnist Anne
O’Hare McCormick.
* * * *
With the formidable forces which will be
assembled in addition to the bombing she
recently has undergone, and which will be in-
tensified under plans adopted, the Japanese
islands will be laid waste. It is a fearful prospect,
and we may expect more peace feelers. That
they will be rejected by us is certain. We shall
hope that Britain will feel likewise, and Mr.
Churchill’s pledge would seem to indicate as
much. — U.S. “Army and Navy Journal.”
* * ♦
Dr. Joseph Schwartz, European director of
the American Jewish Joint Distribution Com-
mittee, estimates that 500,000 of Europe’s
6.000. Jews escaped destruction by emi-
gration and that only 1,000,000 to 1,500,000 of
the 6,000,000 total were now left on the
Continent. France, whose Jewish population
was approximately halved, now probably has
the largest number of Jews of any European
country, with 170,000. Incomplete reports from
Poland show between 100,000 and 200,000
survivors out of a pre-war Jewish popu-
lation of 3,500,000. Almost no Jews remain
alive in Germany, which once had 600,000.
Italy has 20,000 known survivors out of 50,000;
Belgium 20,000 to 30,000 out of 90,000; the
Netherlands 10,000 to 15,000 out of 140,000,
and Czechoslovakia 45,000 to 50,000 out of
360.000. Most of the latter are Jews from all
parts of Europe in a concentration camp at
Theresenstadt. In Austria it is believed some
200 baptised Jews and Jews married to Gentiles
survive out of a former 180,000. — Paris corre-
spondent N.Y. “Times.’'’
* * * *
Great Britain’s exports during 1944 rose to
£258,000,000 for an increase of £25,000,000 over
the previous 12 months, the Board of Trade
announced recently. The year’s export figure,
however, was only 54 per cent, of the pre-war
total of £470,800,000. It fell short of the 1942
amount, which was £270,900,000 despite war-
time price increases. Statistics showed that
Britain’s South American trade was oil by
£11,000,000. Exports to Russia accounted for
£14,000,000 of the increase.— London corre-
spondent N.Y. “Journal of Commerce.”
* * * *
We see a city, Rotterdam, for example,
largely destroyed by the Germans, and des-
troyed in such circumstances that the destruc-
tion was wanton. It was not a military neces-
sity at the time. To say this city shall be
rebuilt by Germans seems simple justice. But
once we look into the means of bringing this
about we are involved in the problem of forced
labor and this leads to difference of opinion.
If we could find the individual Germans who
destroyed Rotterdam and compel them to re-
build it that would faff within the principle of
personal punishment for personal crime. But
the only practicable way now would be to
compel other Germans to do the rebuilding.
Because one German dropped a Bomb on Rot-
terdam in 1940 another German, now perhaps
only 17 years old, who had no part in the war,
is to be required to do forced labor outside
his country in say, 1946. A vague sense of the
injustice of this, in the personal sense, accounts
for the current argument in America about
whether forced labor should be imposed on
Germany.— Mark Sullivan; Washington “Post.
* * * *
Canada, with a population of only 12 million,
exported in 1944 slightly more than a billion
pounds of beef, pork, mutton and poultry to
the armies and civilian populations of the
United Nations. She sent 800,000,000 pounds
of that to England. Much of it was an out-
right gift.— Chicago “Sun.”
* * * *
Now that the isolationists have become a
vanishing race we have the perfectionists with
us. Their idea seems to Be that 135,000,000
imperfect Americans, plus 180,000,000 imper-
fect Russians, plus 45,000,000 imperfect English-
men, ought to have no trouble in creating
something the world has never had—a. perfect
plan for permanent peace.— Letter m Pt.x.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
It is significant that Gen. Charles de Gaulle
is not using the world “revolution”
He prefers instead the word “renovation. By
this he means getting France back on her feet,
restoring her physical, economic and moral
health, and removing once and for all the night-
mare of aggression from across the Rhine.
Since he has been in France, after a four-year
absence, General de Gaulle has had his ear to
the ground, and he has heard rumbling of oppo-
sition to some of the revolutionary tendencies.
Hence his more cautious policy. General de
Gaulle, who is a philosopher and a close student
of history as well as a good soldier and a smart
politician, is as aware as anybody that the
world moves on and that great changes are
ahead. At the same time, he has a horror ot
any system that might destroy human dignity.
—Paris correspondent Washington Post.
sj: * * *
Iwo was ample indication of what is in store
for us in the final assaults upon Japan itselt
and upon the Chinese coast which the Japs
hold. We must face that ordeal with the solemn
realisation that freedom is a costly for
which men must often pay m blood. Washing-
ton “Post:”
* * * *
After the headlines have turned to other areas
the hardest fighting often comes. This is especi-
ally true in the Pacific. That was, and still is,
the case on New Georgia, in certam areas ot
New Guinea, on New Britain and Bougainville.
The Marines on such small islands as Tarawa,
Roi, Eniwetok, Saipan, Guam and Iwo can see
how far they have to go and know when they
have the grisly job finished. In the jungles the
fight seems to go on interminably. N. Y.
“Times.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, - BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
JBBSSSmmm m
■
'-X^^^XS;
<*¥«
v*?
MWCv ..,.,.. f
iHi
.:• v v . .
PROTECTION during Peace and War
given by
ZERCHEAT LOW PRESSURE
REFRIGERATION SERVICE.
throughout Australia.
ECKERSLEV. SONS PTV. UO.
j 33-103 CLARENDON ST.. STH.
MELBOURNE SC.S |
Agents: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CVanogaS
SAVES
MAN POWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM’
Cyanogas blovVer (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Jairy Stock
C:
Gal'
CV/
__ . BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Queensland’s Wool.
“Balander”: It’s on the cards that
Queensland’s wool clip will be down
100,000 bales this year, which means well
over a million and a half pounds knocked
off the State’s income. Drought and
shearing strikes are equally responsible
for about 90 p.c. of the loss, war-time
hindrances and shortages for the rest.
Winchcombe Carson, the wool people,
reviewing the year, remark that prepara-
tion of the clip suffered through man-
power shortage in classing, and the
season resulted in more “doggy,” straight-
fibred, tender and thin fleeces.
A lot of the wool was prematurely
shorn for several reasons, most impor-
tant being the onset of drought and fear
of labor troubles, and there was a lot of
burr and “shiv.” Some good wools came
from central and northern districts;
Emerald arid Springsure wools were
fairly well-grown, though with color and
burr showing up. South and south-
western clips exhibited drought effects,
had a lot of dust and were tender and
thin. From around Charleville, Cunna-
fnulla and Quilpie came good fleeces, but
the shearing strike and delay caused
many to be overgrown and to lose in
value. The Downs and near West were
much the same and the Traprock and
Granite country clips are well below pre-
war standards. ,
In 1944 Queensland shore 21,542,724
sheep and 2,275,353 lambs, nearly 1\ mil-
lion less than in 1943. Grown sheep cut
an average of 8.21b., the average for
sheep and lambs being 7.71b. Winch-
combe Carson expect a lower average
cut this year and a lower lambing.
Many people have confused notions of
“Sunny Queensland” as a sort of para-
dise of sugar, bananas, butter and beer.
The truth is that, as in the southern States,
wool is one of its main revenue sources;
and when wool goes down the State goes
down, though you would not think so to
hear the Brisbane politicians joyfully
planning a big post-war spending beano.
Forage Poisoning.
“H.C.”: Other names for it are sleepy
staggers, meningitis and botulism.
Horses, being most commonly fed on pre-
pared fodder, are the main sufferers;
cattle, sheep and pigs are occasionally
affected. Mouldy grain or preserved
vegetables may introduce it to the poultry
run. The intake of a large dose of the
poison makes the attack acute, and it
runs its course quickly. Peculiarities of
gait, clumsiness in eating, followed by
paralysis of tongue and throat, are, sure
symptoms. After that the limbs become
uncontrollable, the horse goes down,
tries to rise but can’t. Though it may
be down for one to four days before
dying, it is usually conscious to the end.
The chronic form is rightly termed
sleepy staggers. The horse is dull,
doesn’t seem inclined to walk and when
it does finds it hard to lift its feet clear
of the ground. Saliva and nasal dis-
charges are marked. The animal can
swallow small quantities of moist food,
but can’t manage a dry ration ; mastica-
tion is slow and some of the food drops
from the mouth. Such cases may last
several weeks, gradually wasting away ;
only a small percentage recover.
The microbe lives in soil or water and
is usually carried into the fodder by dust.
Hay, grain or chaff left exposed to rain
and becoming mouldy makes an ideal
breeding ground. So do tussocks of rank
grass near creek beds, or heaps of de-
composing matter containing grain.
Being the poison may be washed
from one part of a haystack or silage
pit to another. Water from an infected
haystack can cause poisoning. Most
dangerous of all is mouldy silage.
There’s no cure. Animals are usually
affected following rainy or humid periods.
To forestall, protect haystacks and
fodder from dampness. Suspected food-
stuffs —including silage—and the ground
surrounding them should be burnt.
Pasture Legumes.
“Plane Creek”: It is a pity the lespe-
dezas-, a family of pasture legumes, have
not yet been planted on a large scale in
Queensland. Native of Eastern Asia and
Japan, where there is snow in winter and
intense heat in summer, they have been
grown in the United States for many
years, are rated ideal for stock feed and
are made into hay.
The lespedezas make their main
growth during summer, appearing about
September and growing until the follow-
ing May. They are then dormant for
three months or so. If stock don’t eat
them back too heavily they produce a
heavy crop of fertile seed. This seed is
scattered far and wide by the winds and
is washed down hill by heavy rain, so
lespedezas soon spread if given a chance.
I believe they would grow most suc-
cessfully on the coast of Queensland,
“Y airs, the ’oppers et their way through the districk to our bound'ry fence ,
then—Wouldja believe it? — by-passed us”
especially south from Rockhampton.
There are minor patches of lespedezas
on the N.Q. coast, where they are doing
passably well on felled scrub. There are
also sizeable stands of a species called
Lespedeza striata or Chinese lucerne, in
s.-e. Queensland, and the legume is
gradually spreading. The lespedezas can
stand even stony soil, but naturally grow
most satisfactorily on good country,
where their average height is 3ft. At no
stage of growth are they poisonous to
stock, and their food value is highest
when they’re young and succulent.
Bean Fly Spray.
“Muffin”: Bean fly can be controlled
by a spray containing one part of nicotine
sulphate, eight parts of summer white
spraying oil and 800 parts of water. Con-
venient formulae:
1. 2. 3.
Nicotine
sulphate .. i-pint 1 fl. oz. 1 teaspoonful
White oil .. 2 pints 8 „ 8 „
Water .. 25 gal. 5 gal. 5 pints
The timing of applications is based on
the life cycle stages of the fly, and any
appreciable departure from the schedule
is likely to result in considerable loss.
In southern and central parts of Queens-
land the spray should be applied three
days after the first beans appear above
the ground, and thereafter at four-day
intervals. In northern districts the period
should be reduced to three days.
As only the tops of the leaves need be
sprayed, 30 to 50 gallons of the insecticide
will be adequate for an acre of beans at
average planting distances. A new batch
of spray should be prepared for each
application, as the mixture deteriorates
very rapidly when held in open con-
tainers. Once the spray has dried on the
leaves rain does little harm, but if a
shower occurs very shortly after the
application the treatment should be re-
peated.
Storing Lemons.
“Myrrhee”: Lemons for storing should
be greenish-yellow and 2jin. to 2|in. in
diameter. Make sure that the skin is
not broken, as the smallest puncture can
admit fungus spores. When picking cut
the stalk so as to leave a small button.
After picking allow the fruit to sweat
for 10 to 14 days., i.e., pack loosely in
cases so that some of the moisture will
dry out of the rind. Then pack carefully
into boxes with clean dry sawdust or
chaff, or wrap each lemon separately in
paper. The object is to slow down fur-
ther evaporation and to keep each fruit
apart to avoid the spread of disease.
Store the cases in a cool, dry place, in a
cellar or under the house. Take a look
at the fruit once a month for any sign
of mould development. Properly-stored
lemons will be of excellent quality. The
rind shrivels so that the fruit will occupy
about 25 p.c. of its former space, but
the quality and juiciness of the flesh
remains.
Beet.
“Will C.”: For red beet a rich, sandy
loam is best, though good crops can be
grown on most (deeply-dug) soils. Well-
rotted manure dug well in supplies nour-
ishment to the plants and does not cause
forking of the roots. Use blood and
bone fertiliser or superphosphate. All-
year-round sowings may be made in mild


MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’i
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Manseaae Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course,
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Bog Soap.
. nl/A CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
DAKKU SKIN MOTION 3/fi
lODINE DOG SOAP
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
-/o
w
Mnnouncemeai
The Manufacturers of
ŵ
wish to advise the public that although
Feltex floor coverings are now being
manufactured, it is regretted that factory
production is not sufficient to meet all
demands, and intending purchasers may
have to wait for delivery of orders placed
with their furnishing store.
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
FELTEX HOUSE, 261 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
§555
S ft
2b
ft
* * '
' MS
m ■
a
1 m
m
fit
*s
■%v : ? $
%
>-S:'
V
>%
*
\
Ui
In the story of the re-conquest of the South-West Pacific, right up to when Tokio
lakes the final count, Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Earth-Moving Equipment will
find an honoured place. , , , ,
When the call goes up-“ Bring on the Tractors”, with tusks of steel and with more
There's only one "Caterpillar"
The name "Caterpillar*' is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria, Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
power than a herd ol elepnants, taier*
pillar Diesels move in. With broad,
deep-grousered tracks, providing a firm
foothold, they drive their bulldozers
forward with mighty thrusts—-toppling
trees, uprooting stumps, sweeping them
aside with brush and rocks. The in-
fantry, guns and tanks go through.
Giant Trail-builders and Scrapers, pow-
ered with Caterpillar diesel engines, go
to work to make the trail into a road in
record time or build an airport to drive
the Nips back to final destruction. And
so it will go on until Victory comes.
CATERPILLAR DtSSCt
TRACK.TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH • MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
if • - Rd St Peters Sydney. 'Phone—LA332l. Marquis St.. Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Unwins Bridge Rd.. . R fh l Y 57 Cambridge St.. South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle. Port Macquarie*
il D. McDougo//, >6 Kincaid St.. Wagga ■fhanc-2139 102 M.lhaarn. St..
P South Brisbane. ‘Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St.. Inmsfail. Phone—lnmsfail 475.
Finht, Work, Buy War Savings Certificates
climates provided water is available.
Sow the seed in drills 18in. apart at in-
tervals of three weeks or a month, and
thin out the plants to Sin. apart. Trans-
planting is not worth while. Keep the
soil loose, but don’t prick the bulbs.
may damage the bulbs it
they’re not covered with soil.
The dark-red Egyptian turnip-rooted
beet matures early and is of fine quality.
Derwent Globe and Crimson Globe are
early deep-red beets of excellent flavor.
Crosby’s Egyptian is an early beet excel-
lent in size and very well flavored. Obe-
lisk is a splendid beet; it reaches a length
of 4in. A solid-fleshed beet, Detroit
Dark Red, is fast becoming popular.
Only quickly-grown beet is tender and
edible. Plenty of moisture is required ;
keep the plants moving. Regular spray-
ing or dusting with lead arsenate is usu-
ally necessary to keep insect pests in
check. Nitrogenous manures, given
heavily, are bad.
The Soy Bean.
“Sarina”: It hasn’t had a fair trial in
Australia, but in the United States many
farmers are planting it in preference to
the cowpea. It’s certainly more valuable
and far hardier. Soils and climatic con-
ditions that stump the cowpea suit the
soy bean. The Japs practically live on
soy bean products, but in Western coun-
tries it is usually grown for green manure
or for stock feed. Provided the nitro-
gen-fixing bacteria are sufficiently devel-
oped, it will gather all its nitrogen from
the atmosphere and enrich the land. It
sometimes happens that the first soy
bean crop is unsatisfactory because of
underdeveloped bacteria. In such cases
the plant has to draw its nitrogen from
the soil, but this nitrogen is returned
with interest when the crop is ploughed
in. The following crops generally do
well.
When grown for green feed the plant
should be cut when in flower and later.
Cattle are very fond of it either chaffed
or fed green, and its high protein con-
tent makes it an excellent mixer with
fodder grasses of the millet family. The
seed is very good for stock, whole or
crushed. Shelled like green peas and
cooked the beans are tasty human
fodder.
The varieties Laredo and Biloxi have
been grown very successfully here ; some
kinds have failed under Australian con-
ditions. To ensure good, even germina-
tion the soil should be well broken down
prior to seeding. The small seed should
be sown Sin. or 6in. apart in drills 3ft.
apart. The warm months favor seeding.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hux”; Sheep on cereal rations need
lime, When the C.S.I.R. fed a group of
sheep a cereal ration minus lime over 27
months mortality was high. In another
group fed the same ration plus lime
only one died. Clover or lucerne as hay
or silage make up the lime deficiency.
When not available, add 1 p.c. of ground
limestone to the cereals. Don’t mix the
lime with whole grain fed in troughs or
trailed. Make a lick of it by adding an
equal quantity of salt; a dash of
molasses makes it more palatable.
“Nuffin”: Experiments in the Rock-
hampton area have confirmed previous
indications that stylo can readily be estab-
lished by burning and surface cultivat-
ing, and that once established the yield
of pasture is almost doubled. Since the
protein content of the legume is high, its
value, particularly for the frost-free parts
of coastal Queensland, is fully apparent.
C.S.I.R. annual report, which discusses
this, also refers to the possible use of
pigeon-pea as a protein rich supplement.
Further work has shown that the heavy
yield of seed from same of the introduced
varieties is more than fully maintained
in the ratoon crop, two varieties from
India having yielded an aggregate of 47
and 46 bushels respectively in two years.
“Myrr”: For apricot scab spray with
Bordeaux mixture 6:4:40 just as the
final leaves are falling (about the end of
May in Victoria) and in spring at the
pink-bud stage. Prepare the Bordeaux
mixture by dissolving Ulb. copper sul-
phate in five gallons of water in a non-
metallic vessel. In another vessel dissolve
either l£lb. hydrated lime or lib. of
quicklime in another five gallons of
water. Then mix the two by pouring
together into a third non-metallic vessel.
The mixture should be sky-blue in color.
Use it at once.
“Muffin”: Bean aphid may at times
become very prevalent, notably on long
beans growing in the spring months. The
leaves of heavily infested young plants
take on a pronounced yellowish hue and
growth is greatly retarded. Nicotine dust
or spray will normally control aphids.
If nicotine sulphate-white oil spray is
used in the early stages of growth for
bean-fly control aphid infestation should
be kept at a low level until flowering
occurs. Aphids sometimes become
numerous even on sprayed plants owing
to their preference for the undersides of
the leaves, which are not normally wetted
by bean-fly sprays; a more thorough
application of the insectide will then be
necessary.
“Plane Creek”: Before any large-scale
regeneration of trees is attempted in
Queensland, mistletoe must be tackled
and eradicated. There are about 60
varieties of the tree parasite in the bush,
and all trees seem more or less susceptible
to it. Not only native trees, but garden
shrubs and orchard trees are affected.
Some measure of control can be effected
if the infested limbs are cut out of para-
sited trees, but the pest is spread with
lightning speed by various fruit-eating
birds. Graziers have sought C.S.I.R. aid.
but have been told that the disappearance
of forest possums and koalas has greatly
assisted the mistletoe’s spread. The scien-
tists are looking for a suitable insect para-
site to sool on the tree-killer.


HkV IV. I Un Ti
WAR
RUNALDSONTIPPETT
THE 45ft. Army Tug: pictured here has a wide variety of uses in
the South-west Pacific area. Many such tugs are doing herculean
tasks in war operations. A number of them are fitted with type
CKB32 Konaldson-Tippett Marine Diesel Engines complete with gear
box—sturdy units more than equal to the heavy work they are called
upon to do. Konaldson-Tippett Engines of all types are engaged in
important war duties. They have the confidence of all branches of
the armed forces.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY, LTD.
Head Office: BALI. A RAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
QTand Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
MmM
■■, as :
m
ma
I
C; : -:S:x : jx;i;
V
m
m
m
The name “CAL-TEX” came into
being with the discovery of huge
oil resources in the British Protec-
torate of Bahrein (Persian Gulf) by
the CALifornia-TEXas Oil Company.
Texaco, a world-wide oil Company
which has servefl Australia for
many years had large marketing
and distributing facilities. «
So . . by consolidation of the huge
resources of the two companies, the
name “CAL-TEX” was born and
it became possible to develop the
new and strategic source of supply
WHICH HAS PROVED SO VALU-
ABLE TO AUSTRALIA DURING
THE WAR YEARS.
The management and policies of
the Company remain unaltered.
You get the same friendly service,
unsurpassed quality and nation-
wide distribution you have enjoyed
for many years. From now on ask
for “CAL-TEX.”
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FINEST OIL SUPPLIES
SMOKE-OH!
“Blue drab R.A.A.F. officer’s tailored whip-
cord uniforms, as new, d.b.”— Suburban paper.
So they’re not all glamor boys, after all.
-- 4*
“The attractiveness of each girl is due to
matching herself with her clothes.”
— Woman’s paper.
Thus producing a striking impression.
. -I* -I* -I* *i-
“Young woman, 25, wishes to meet young
Man, 25-30, non-danger, view to Matrimony.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
For security reasons, apparently.
Free Thinker.
“Immanuel Kant thought everything out care-
fully before acting; and therefore remained a
bachelor,” says a biographer.
He lived his life without a mate.
His shirts and thoughts to choose.
Which that they who hesitate
Aren’t always bound to lose !
P. O. M. C.
»!• ■J* 'r*
“Mrs. Anderson declared that her husband
concocted innumerable stories to explain his
absense at nights Divorce report.
Anderson’s fairy tales?
“Denton said it had cost him nearly 20
pounds to attend to put his view of the case.”
— “Sun.”
He was at a loss to explain.
4* ' ❖ 4*
Judged.
“Quite a number of these learned Judges
have been small of stature.” — “S. M. Herald.”
To my old mother’s words this lends
Support (h(?r thoughts were pious );
She used to say that heaven sends
These little things to try us.
Burglar Bill.
.J. ►> .T. .T.
Immortality.
“Five hundred citizens of Armidale (N.S.W.)
paid ss. each to hear Tex Morton, the “Yodel-
ling Cowboy”; only 130 bought tickets at 3s.
each to hear Cherniakovsky play the Tschai-
kowsky Concerto.’.’ — “Sunday Telegraph.”
The discussion among the shades on
the slopes of Mount Parnassus grew acri-
monious.
“It’s a question of royalties,” said a
small Hebraic gentleman with little fore-
head and less chin. “I sell 100,000 copies
a year of ‘Honey-Pot, the Flies Are
Buzzing,’ and even Beethoven couldn’t
beat that.”
“What was that he said?” asked Beet-
hoven.
“The peepul are the best judges,” de-
clared an unidentified crooner.
“Popular taste,” said Caruso, “steenks.”
“But it goes a long way in this im-
mortality racket,” argued Benny Katzen-
jammer, while his Kids agreed rhythmi-
cally.
“He must be right,” Puccini admitted
sadly. “Otherwise some of us wouldn’t
“Try the other door—the handle's not so stiff.”
be here. And we wouldn’t be arguing
about who deserved immortality and
w h o didn’t.”
At that moment there was a stir
among the foothills. .
“That clinches it,” said the crooner.
“Here comes Sinatra. Hiya, Frankie!”
“Hey! Sinatra ain’t due for another
40 years,” protested Benny. The older
immortals took no notice. They were
busy electing to a prominent place a
shade who carried a smoking shotgun.
Plum.
.j. ju & .f.
“Wanted man with good voice capable of
driving car. Bondi Daily.
A high octane voice, as it were,
->.
“Lost small green purse containing boney.”
— “Northern. District Times,” Epping ( N.S.W. ).
A collector of gold napoleons, eh?
The New Culture.
“Republican Representative Joseph C. Bald-
win (N.Y.) wants to replace ‘the unknown pro-
fessional educators we are sending to Europe’
with famous movie stars. ‘The Germans and
Italians loved them before the war and they
wouldn’t resent or be suspicious of them now,’
said the Senator.”
The re-education drive by the team of
high-powered Hollywood tutors was in
full swing.
On the great floodlit stage of the Hitler
Jugend camp were Kay Kyser (“the old
maestro”) and his band, King of Swing
Benny Goodman and his Wow Wailers,
Cab Calloway and his Sable Syncopators
and Harry James and his Blase Blarers.
Aided by a corps of torch and blues
singers, they were all going flat out on
“Ma Honey Talks Dat Baby Talk” in a
preliminary softening-up.
The class stood up to this ordeal,
its stamina having been developed by
long exposure to lengthy, impassioned
tirades by the late Chief Ratbag. But .the
first real test came when the Andrews
Sisters, with obbligato by Freddy Stack’s
massed saxophones, bawled their new
number, “My G.I. Joe’s No Jonah.”
Followed a spot of rug-cutting by
Uncle Mose and his Jacksonville Jivers
to demonstrate the Culture of the
Old South. By the time Skeleton
Man Sinatra had oozed out “Sunday,
Monday and Always” Chief Re-Educa-
tor Herman Z. Finkelbaum was con-
vinced the professional educators had
been shown what education should be.
But the pupils were visibly drooping,
and the tough S.S. leader in charge of
them (by special permission) had to be
manhandled into spitting out a phial of
prussic acid.
Herman, ever with an eye to drama and
climax, selected the moment of Frankie’s
final note to walk on to the stage, bang
the crooner between the shoulder-blades,
offer him a bundle of ornate cigars and
say “Thplendid, Frankie, my poy!”
The effect would have been ruined, of
course, had (he Teutonic scholars stopped
to think that had the cadaverous howler
taken one pull at even a weak cigar he
would immediately have had to be
borne coffinwards. Fortunately they
hadn’t had to think for themselves for
over a decade, and it went over their heads.
But the spectacle of such frater-
nisation between Aryan and non-Aryan,
which Herman had meant as a re-educat-
ing influence, caused an uproar, and
there were hysterical yells for a brush
and a pot of yellow paint. Ed. G. Robin-
son was obliged to die three times in a
swirl of sawn-off shotgun bullets in a
scene from “The Life of ‘One Finger’
Gallotti” before the school settled down
to lessons again.
Then on to the stage bounced Laurel
and Hardy—at least, Oliver Hardy
bounced—but after ten minutes of doing
funny stuff while the audience looked on
with wooden faces, the duo withdrew
baffled. Someone had forgotten to explain
to the class beforehand what humor was.
A series of historical sketches, aimed
at demonstrating the invariable triumph
of Democracy over the forces of tyranny
and evil, and done in the best
and most accurate Hollywood
manner, then depicted in turn
Charlemagne’s coronation
after his victory over the
hordes of Hamilcar Barca at
Flodden Field, the great
speech by Churchill’s ances-
tor Marlborough at Jena after
his crushing defeat of
and the signing of the Treaty
of Westphalia by Charles the
Bold after he had deposed
Gustavus V of Sweden. These
were specially selected as ap-
pealing to the Germans’
deeply-rooted historical sense.
A scene from “Frankenstein Meets the
Werewolf,” with Boris Karloff as the
Mad Doctor, and Bela Lugosi as the
Toothed Horror, was given as represent-
ing some of Hollywood’s most pleasing
cultural attainments, after which Herman
got the spotlight to announce the high-
light in the curriculum—the appearance
of Lana (“Legs”) Luscious, Hollywood’s
most stupendous, colossal drawcard and
the personification of blonde glamor. As
Herman withdrew and the drums of the
bands rolled, the massed spotlights re-
mained empty. Herman, in the wings,
rushed to the assistant prodoocer.
“Where’s Miss Luscious?” he asked, in
a panic: “the whole goldarned scheme of
re-education breaks down without her.”
“She left a note before she left a few
minutes ago to fly home, Hoiman,” said
the a.-p. sadly. “Her ninth husband
divorced her yesterday, and she’s decided
to get married again today!”
BO.
Floral Tributes.
“According to an article in the ‘American
Magazine,’ the war-time shortage of men is
making girls bolder.”
’Twas once poetic etiquette
In tuneful numbers to disclose
Your love’s resemblance to a rose,
A pansy or a violet
From out its leaves discreetly peeking ;
And every sonnet-writer knew
That when the honeysuckle blew,
It was the bees that did the seeking.
Now if a fellow from the chase
Could get a moment’s breathing space,
And set himself to eulogise
In floral terms the modern Venus,
He’d choose a more resourceful genus —
The kind you hear of catching flies.
P. M. LUSK.


/*?)
u
bleaks
3)amlbu/ft
Dandruff goes after a few ap-
plications of McMahon's. It
makes the scalp clean and
fresh . , . banishes scurf, itch-
ing and dryness . . . prevents
falling hair.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
i
mu
M
AMO SCALP
w
NEW methods, new media, new
techniques will be needed in
advertising after the war—because
the war has upset so much of our old
ideas—and there Vfill be a tremendous
surge of Advertising effort required
for manufacturers to put their peace-
time products back on the market.
This means that NOW is the time
to prepare for a career in Advertising.
This involves study and preparation by
up-to-date tuition methods and latest
textual material. This training is
supplied in the H. & R. Course in
Marketing and Advertising.
The man—or woman —who studios
now, and qualifies for the degree of the
Advertising Association of Australia
will undoubtedly secure preference for the
many post - war positions in Advertising.
Why not call or write in to
H. & R. for full particulars
and be sure of your future.
Specialist Coaches in Business
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
.(founded ond Owned by Heminrjwov X Robertson Pty. lld.t
Professional Tutors
24 Bank House, Bank Place. Melbourne
24 Chalft Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
jplease sena me i'KKK copy of your
96 pp. “Guide to Careers in Business.”
Name -Age
Address
Career interested in
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ETHEL MONA RINDFLEISH. —TAKE NOTICE
that Rolf Thomas Sherwood Rindfleish has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1348 of 1945 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards and is asking the Court’s discre-
tion under Section 19/2a You may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court Sydney by
the 24th July 1945 and obtain a copy of the
Petition from GEORGE MONTGOMERY STAFFORD
Solicitor 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
Public Notice
I, DOMENICO PIRLO, of Italian nationality, bom
at Breycion, Italy, and resident seven years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at Bingeebeebra Creek, New
South Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act, 1920-1936.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W.. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Two Most Popular
MARS Precision Utility Lathes
Offered Subject to
Release by Minis-
try of Munitions
The “MARS” Gin. LATHE
The “MARS” 6" LATHE will enable you to carry a host of small jobs
and so save your bigger lathe for the bigger work. DYNAMIC BALANCE
of all necessary revolving parts permits high speeds without vibration.
Built to Dr. Schlesinger standards of ACCURACY. All surfaces aie
Machine Ground. Detachable Gap Bridge.
If Jmr
fy. ,h «p
*
ii
ijlw I
QjgsLinj^
sMn
iliii
,
The
Ministry of Munitions
advises that Lathes up to
and including s|-" sizes
may he sold without
obtaining a release.
The “MERCURY” 5y 2 in. LATHE
“the little GIANT of the lathe world”
is ideal for the Garage and small Engineering plant. Built to Dr.
Schlesinger standards of Accuracy and with all necessary revolving parts
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED. All surfaces are Machine Ground.
Detachable Gap Bridge. ,
Price, £165 (plus Sales Tax, Packing and Freight if applicable)
All details from the Manufacturers or from the Agents listed below
ESTABLISHED FOB
QUARTER OF A
CENTURY
Manufactured by
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing: Agrents: N.S.W.—Thus. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney; VlCTORlA—Thompson & Williams
Pty. Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne
Stockists: Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney
For greater
smoking enjognteni
A
CRAVEN
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy carob and locust-tree seed.—3642.
To buy fan-shaped shells 2in. to 3in. in
diameter.—3643.
Information Sought.
Is it necessary to have a licence or permission
to make and fly a glider or sailplane, and must
it be proved airworthy before flight is legal?
At present the Civil Aviation Department
places no restrictions on the construction and
operation of gliders. After the war legislation
as to licensing will probably be enacted.
Further information may be obtained from
The Secretary, Combined Glider Club’s of
N.S.W.
(1) Can a change of name be effected in war-
time? (2) Procedure?
(1) National Security Regulations provide
that an enemy alien or a naturalised subject of
enemy origin shall not, without the consent in
writing of the Attorney General, be known
under a name different from that by which he
was known on September 3, 1939; apart from
this there is no legal obstacle. (2) The new
name must be advertised and a deed poll must
be executed, which, after being duly stamped,
is registered with the Registrar-General’s De-
partment.
Is a storekeeper bound by law to sell tobacco
to non-customers ?
He has a common-law duty to supply a rea-
sonable quantity if he has it in stock and there
are no customers to whom it has been promised.
If he says he can’t supply there isn’t much
that can be done about it.
What big races did Comedy King win
'a four-year-old; his breeding and record at
stud ?
AJ.C. Spring Stakes (lj miles, w.f.a.),
Melbourne Cup (2 miles), V.A.T.C. St. George
Stakes (9 furlongs), V.R.C. Essendon Stakes
mile, w.f.a.), V.R.C. All-aged Stakes (1
mile, w.f.a.), AJ.C. Autumn Stakes (H mile,
w.f.a.). Comedy King was a black imported
horse by Persimmon from Tragedy Queen, by
Gallinule from Clarion, by Ben Battle from
Black Witch; he-headed the winning sires in
Australia in 1920 and 1923.
Brief Answers.
G.8.T.: (1) The valleys of the Nepean and
Hawkesbury Rivers, Camden, Penrith, Rich-
mond and Windsor are suitable for lucerne-
growing. (2) Average price during 1935-40 was
£7 per ton; during the war period lucerne has
fetched £8 10s. per ton. (3) Five to six cuts
can be expected under natural conditions and
seven to eight under irrigation 8.5.: The
Occupational-Therapy Training Centre, 539
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, will advise you of the
qualifications necessary... .F.E.8.: Members of
the 1939 American Davis Cup team were R. L.
Riggs, F. A. Parker, J. Kramer and J. R. Hunt.
B'.A.H.: In 1938 the Australian price of
the MG Midget Car was £398... .M.C.: Fhght-
Lieut. Isaacson flew the Lancaster “Q for
Queenie” from England to Australia in March,
1944; Flight-Lieut. Hudson flew “G for
George” W.H.; A horse does not have a
gall bladder; “gall” usually refers to skin
lesions caused by the rubbing of harness....
J.R.; Not without the warden’s written sanc-
tion to enter.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address wist appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
N.J.E.: Popping stars popping back; but if
.you’re young you may yet pop up....J.F.M.;
Looks like two minutes’ hard work... .D.R.L.:
Those generalised themes are worn out'; you
might try pars about specific incident's
W.G.W.: Humor forced and faint J.E.C.:
“Salutfe to the Commonplace” commonplace.
B.G.; Stop talking to trees A.E.G.:
The feeling’s there; expression weak and de-
rivative... .M. 0.: Poem about appendicitis,
adenoids, asthma, bronchitis, boils and the
common cold is as awful as the whole lot plus
mumps and measles... .T.R.P.: A series of
conventional exclamations saying nothing....
P.M.J.: Last line an echo 1.H.L.: More a
sermon than a story. .. .M.D.F.: Get more of
the smell of sheep and tar into it A.J.Q.:
Picnic good, but characters wooden K.W.:
Come again L.S.: ‘‘You’re not asked to
believe this.” We don’t... .M.S.; Might make
a par ...A.H.; Don’t say “in the words of
the poet”... .E.M.T.: “The blonde with
the hair piled up into a pompadour which even
the lady of history would have recoiled some-
what at its exaggerated height, giggled .. .
Your prose is-also somewhat piled up....
B J T.S.: Soldier with a penchant for making
noble speeches has the charm of novelty.


wmm
zmm
m¥m<
m
Wi
m
jr r usndei
msM
' m
m
11 •
m
i ,\
V
wsam®
1
9
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
SORE THROAT!
(First sign of a cold)
Act quickly 3 ways
W'tt with
Double D
&ucalttftiud fixPiact
drop;
b “I)’
■■■
in water.
and
Don’t wait until that Sore Throat
develops into a Cold. Banish it
now —this way:—
Dl TIJ throat and chest with
Double
TAlf F 3 drops of Double
“D” on sugar.
GARGLE "'J;,
A few drops of DOUBLE “D
tumbler of water make a pleasant,
antiseptic gargle that will ease your
throat and help destroy ’Flu-Cold
germs. Double “D” Eucalyptus is
always pure, strong and reliable.
Dusty Worked It Out
By JACK RICHMOND.
IT started to rain about three in the
afternoon and young Tommy Emms,
who had come over from next door to
take the harrows because I had a
sore foot and preferred the springtooth,
put on a coat a couple of sizes too big
for him when he turned his team on the
headland.
“Dusty left the old coat in the stable,
so I shook the spiders out and brought
it down,” said young Tommy. “Hullo,
a hole in the pocket.”
A stub of pencil, a forgotten packet
of cigarette papers and some old, dirty
folded sheets of paper covered with pen-
cilled figures fell out. Tommy picked
them up and put them in the pocket on
the other side.
“Maybe Dusty wants them sums on the
paper,” Tommy said. “He’s always
workin’ somethin’ out, ain’t he?”
I said, “Well, sometimes they’ve got to
be worked out.” I didn’t want to dis-
cuss Dusty’s shortcomings with Tommy,
who probably had his father’s prejudices
in the matter of farm bookkeeping. Old
Bill Emms never did put a figure down
on paper and his income-tax return is
probably less of a headache on that
account.
But Dusty is my partner ; no kid or
neighbor farmer would grin too broadly
over his bookkeeping in my presence,
though Lord knows it’s been hard enough
to put up with. I was glad enough to
leave the books to Dusty when we entered
into our partnership, but I didn’t imagine
that he would sit up all hours, working
out every little item with those neat
figures of his.
Tommy Emms, in Dusty’s too-big coat,
went off again in the wake of the harrows
and drizzle of Tasmanian rain. The
drizzle kept on and I found myself cold
riding on the springtooth. Dusty was
off gathering sheep, so I couldn’t turn
the job over to him. But there was only
an hour more and I’d finish the paddock.
“Goin’ to sow her with ryecorn, ain’t
you?” Tommy said when we met at a
headland. “You need somethin’ in ; you
never got much in in the autumn.”
Tommy has the frankness of youth,
but he probably would hardly have
noticed the uncropped paddocks himself ;
he was repeating his father’s words. They
were true enough; I’d had some hot
words with Dusty about the autumn
cropping.
I was still thinking about Dusty and
his ways when, as I was knocking off,
he came in sight and ran the gathered
sheep into the creek paddock, ready for
the yards in the morning. His lean figure,
with his head slightly bent toward the
drizzle, came quickly along the head-
land, stopped for a moment with Tommy
Emms, who was turning for his last bout,
and came on again.
“There’s heavy rain coming,” I said,
“and this paddock couldn’t be in better
heart. She’ll grow a good crop of rye,
I’ll bet.”
“Yair, it ought to,” Dusty said. He
is thirty-two and at thirty-two a man is
still young, enough to have some hope,
but sometimes Dusty doesn’t talk as if
he has. He talks like a cold shower,
and that was his tone now. “I don’t like
these spring-sown crops, though ; they’re
not iq long enough to get enough feed
off ’em.”
“The paddock would have been sown
in the autumn if I’d had my way,” I
said. “It was your own idea to go for
rye' in the spring.”
“Seemed the only thing to do,” Dusty
said. “We ruled out oats for spring feed
because we found they didn’t pay.”
“Well, you worked it out that they
didn’t,” I said.
Dusty looked tired, and I knew he
found it hard work wandering around a
bush run, gathering sheep on foot. His
idea—and a good one, too —of muster-
ing stock was to do it from a horse’s
back, but he’d worked out the cost of
keeping a hack on the place, and it didn’t
seem to pay.
WE reached the stable and Tommy
Emms came in with the other team,
and Dusty looked at them all in their
stalls and listened to them eating the
chaff that Tommy and I dished out into
the mangers.
I knew that sound of two teams hard
at work on expensive chaff was distressing
to Dusty. And so, later on, when he re-
ferred to the matter I was hardly sur-
prised.
We had gone to the house, washed and
sat down to the meal which Dusty’s aunt,
who does our housekeeping, had laid
ready on a tablecloth so white and
starched we nearly put our collars on.
Dusty said:
“Two teams are one too many for this
place.”
“If we only had one,” I said, “what
would one of us be doing while the other
one was working the only team?”
“Sometimes,” Dusty said, “it seems to
me it might pay us better if one of us
just sat down and did nothing.”
“For the love of Mike,” I said, “let’s
quit working things out and just go ahead
and farm the way others do.”
“And go broke the way they do,”
Dusty retorted.
“They seem to hang on to their farms
and their cars.”
“Most of them are bankrupt without
knowing it,” Dusty insisted.
“The way you add up they are.” But
I could see this was getting into Dusty’s
hair.
“I add up two and two the same as
anybody else,” he said heatedly. “If the
answer’s painful don’t blame the
arithmetic.”
WE came to a tentative agreement that
night to sell one team, and in the
morning I heaved the super, and seed on
to the utility and drove it out to the
paddock.
Then I came back and got the team in
the drill. I saw Dusty come from the
house and wave, but I didn’t stop to
talk to him.
Dusty arrived in the paddock just as I
was filling the seedbox. “It’s no use,” he
said. “Rye’s out. It won’t pay.”
I said, “Go back home. I’m going to
try it, anyway.”
Sheets of paper fluttered in Dusty’s
hand.
“I worked it out that the cost of rye
for spring-sown seed is excessive. I
think we’d better try field turnips.”
“I think we’d better, too,” I said.
He looked surprised and suspicious ;
I didn’t always agree so readily with
him. I explained, “Field turnips are the
only fodder crop we haven’t tried. If
you work it out that they don’t pay
either we’ll at least know where we are.
We’ll sell both teams then and just sit
down and run stock on grass.”
Dusty considered it seriously. “It might
be the best thing to do. We wouldn’t
carry as many stock, but the overhead
wouldn’t eat up the income.” He held
out the sheets of paper. “Want to see
how the ryecorn works out in cost per
head per year?”
DUSTY’S figures kept me pretty de-
spondent for the next week or two,
but then I heard the welcome ring of
axes in our firewood, and I realised the
cutters we’d waited for so long had
arrived.
Firewood may not show a big profit,
but it is usually a definite and steady
profit. And so now, as the trees fell with
a pleasing swish and crash, we felt almost
prosperous.
“Nobody can say we don’t get any
profit out of that,” I said, as one of Spud
McGowan’s two big trucks, heavily
loaded, crawled along the track to the
road gate. “There’s a sure profit of a
pound or so in every load that goes out.”
But something seemed to jar on Dusty.
Maybe it was that casual “pound or so.”
Dusty likes things worked out more accu-
rately than that.
“I haven’t figured out what the loads
average,” he said. “Might be interesting
to see just what we are getting out of this
wood.”
But I didn’t worry. This was once
when Dusty wouldn’t work out a loss.
Over among the timber next day I was
sympathising with Spud in his truck
troubles. Spud’s two trucks seem to have
run into more stumps and jumped more
logs than the average wood truck, and
though they were not old they’d done
plenty of work, Spud being no loafer.
In fact, I don’t know anybody more ener-
getic than Spud. He’s the nuggety, squat
ball-of-muscle type, and I’ve known him
drive thirty miles from town, cut and load
five tons of wood single-handed and get
back to town with it, and keep this up
day after day.
But if Spud’s body didn’t rebel against
the hard slogging his mind eventually
did. He developed a grouch, and the
grouch was that the more he worked and
earned the more he had to work and
earn.
“Expenses just keep catchin’ up on a
man,” Spud complained again this morn-
ing. “When I had a fifty-quid truck and
made four or five quid a week I didn’t
seem to get as much in debt as I do now
I’ve got two thicks and employ three
hands. It’s something I never can under-
stand. Does it mean that if I work two
more trucks I’ll still be no better off?”
“If each truck makes a profit you must
be better off.”
“Well, each truck makes a profit all
right, but I don’t seem to get it. That’s
The Net-maker.
“Wild plum will carve into the finest
needles.”
So said my father, threading the scented
twine.
The day before, as once men carved an
image
of a favorable God with reverence,
he shaped the needle for a salmon-net.
From fence to fence, under the wide fig-
tree
he looped his lines, the leaden sleeves in
place,
the jostling corks floating to keep up
nothing.
All this the preparation, the necessary
discord
before the ritual music of net-making.
“Men have been making nets,” he said,
“since Christ;
they haven’t learned much new in all that
time —
perhaps old Peter wove as I am weaving
the meshes suited to his fishing grounds.”
His hands were delicately fingering harp-
' strings
as he leaned above the taut ropes on the
fence,
and his ear was low to the float-line, hear-
ing there
in this strange instrument his time-loved
song —•
the music of flood-tide and shimmering
hauls,
of southerly busters, and the choppy ebb
against fresh northerlies, the strong, clear
call
of journeys home, with bellied sails and
chests
as silvered as a Spanish galleon’s hold.
All this the net played, his brown hands
shuttling
crab-wise, industriously, across its strings.
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS.


ŵ
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.O.) f
Sydney.
\Y. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
October 31, 1944.—1 find myself becom-
ing more methodical about things and
can deal with problems more clearly and
quickly. In fact, Pelmanism has ful-
filled exactly what I wanted. It has
widened my horizons socially and cuI-
turaIIy.—LIEUTENANT.
March 3, 1944.—1 am afraid force of-
circumstances had caused my fires of
interest to die down. Now I feel that I
have regained my grip and have defi-
nitely laid the basis of a successful
Course.—MAJOß.
November 10, 1944.—My memory is good.
I have an interest in life, and I am no
longer a mind-wanderer. I have gained
a great deal of general knowledge, and
1 find I can accomplish more and
take more interest in people and things.
—NURSE.
September 6, 1944.—1 feel I must thank
the Institute for the co-operation and
the almost unbelievable benefits I have
received through the Course, but most
of all for the happiness that I have
derived since I started. —CORPORAL.
September 17, 1944.—My interest and
powers of concentration have increased
to a surprising extent. I look forward
to each day with pleasurable anticipa-
tion and undertake each new matter as
it arises with added confidence in my
ability to see it through to a satis-
factory conclusion. SOLICITOR, EX-
SOLDIER.
September 17, 1944. —I must tell you how-
much you are helping me and how
very encouraging your advice is. About
three months ago I dreaded the thought
of meeting people or mixing with them.
I just could not do it. I thought my-
self inferior to them. Well, now I am
just the opposite. I love meeting
people; I have found how very interest-
ing they are.—GUNNER.
September 18, 1944.—Frankly, I feared
my future w-hen I returned to civil life.
Now I feel I am advancing towards the
goal of the fuller man. Fear of the
future has been replaced by willingness
to embrace it with open arms and a
desire to serve my fellow-men in my
own caIIing.—PRIVATE.
September 30, 1944. —Without a doubt, I
have made progress. My original aims
—clearer perception, concentration and
more astute mental employment—have
become clearly defined. In covering the
ground I have found other information
of which I had not previously thought.
—CAPTAIN.
March 11, 1944. —My work in the Pelman
Course was of immense value, and to
my surprise I mastered the tricky sub-
ject “Engines,” to the extent of 95 p.c.
I have never been “mechanically”
inclined, and the mechanics of the
simple egg-beater were formerly about
my Iimit—FLIGHT-SERGEANT.
October 30, 1944. —One of the require-
ments w r as the memorizing of a 50-word
message of words, place names and
reference numbers. By using the Pel-
man methods I was pleased to find I
had the whole list correctly reproduced.
Similar instances often occur.—COR-
PORAL.
FACING A PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
tn Sfa
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors-. THOMAS A. MAGNEY , Chairman; F. W. Dueshury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. Stanches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
Interest - - Power
The Pelman Course increases interest-power. It is this quality of the
Pelman Course which makes it of peculiar usefulness to members of
the Services.
Interest makes duty purposeful, helps to quick apprehension of the
subject matter of training and educational courses, adds to the
pleasure and profit of free time and keeps the mind in trim for re-
entry to civil life. Interest discovers the real meaning, the energy and
movement of what engages our minds and so keeps us alert and
responsive in any circumstances and in any company.
Interest-power is sometimes the cause and sometimes the effect of
other qualities which Pelmanism sets out to develop in the individual
pupil. These qualities are:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Initiative
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Judgment
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Alongside we publish extracts from a few hundreds of letters received
during 1944 from members of the Services referring to the qualities
developed by Pelmanism.
The same full service is given to civilians with similar results.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of person-
ality in “The Efficient Mind,” sent post free. Inquiries are
confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Note; Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT MIND.”
Name
Address
171
The Headquarters of the Pelman Institute are in London . The Institute has been established in Melbourne under
the same direction for over 36 years , and has enrolled more than 60fl0(f of the half-million world Pclmanists •
the catch. I always seem to be paying
bills. Look at this chequebook.” He
flipped over a lot of butts with. large
figures and recent dates. “I pay out so
much money now I can hardly keep track
of it.”
“Yet there’s steady money in wood,”
I said. “Look at all the trucks on the
roads”
“I do,” Spud said, “and that’s what
keeps me going. Not that there’s so many
these days, but that’s only because the
boys are at the war. But I watch the
trucks go by, and I think ‘Well, there’s
other mugs besides me, and they seem to
be eating well.’ ”
I said “Now, look. Spud, you tear off
that gloomy expression ; you won’t get
the wood any cheaper. You’re making a
profit all right. They tell me you own
three houses in town, and you bought ’em
out of wood.”
“Well, I did—by some sort of miracle,”
Spud said.
He honed his axe, an old one, the face
of it worn away by years of Spud’s shar-
pening and cutting. And he sank it into
the tree with a sure, supple, seemingly
effortless swing of his practised arms and
twist of his thick, round torso and shoul-
ders. Spud’s axework is always pretty
to watch, and I stood and watched him
till the tree came down.
Nice sounds all right—the swish and
crash of trees, the ring of axes. They
were sounds as pleasant as the chink of
money, because that’s what they meant
to Dusty and me.
“Do you know,” I said to Dusty that
night, “that if Spud McGowan hadn’t
come for the wood we’d have been stuck.
We couldn’t find anybody else to cut and
cart it, and it looked as if Spud wouldn’t
arrive. But he’s here, and the wood
money will see us through.”
“That’s about it,” Dusty agreed. “It’s
a bit of luck for us. Of course, at the
price he’s paying us for it in the tree,
Spud mightn’t be making it pay, but that’s
his own funeral.
I was so glad to have Dusty up against
something he couldn’t find made a loss
that I slept well that night and woke
happy. We were right till the stock
would go on the market. The wood
money was saving us.
I WENT into the township that morning
1 for stores. Maybe it would have been
better if I had stayed at home, because
I think that was the day the damage was
done. Yet I don’t know ; there were
other days when Dusty wandered out on
to the wood-run and yarned with Spud.
Anyway, I learned about it when Spud
handed over the weighbridge tickets and
money for the last two loads out.
“Next tickets and money’ll arrive by
mail, because we’re not coming back,”
Spud said. “I’ve sold the trucks. Like
you said, I’ve got three houses in town,
and I can live in one and let two, and
find some kind of part-time job to make
up the difference. There’s nothing in
wood now.”
“Nothing? Why, Spud” But Spud
was pulling some folded sheets of paper
out of his pocket. I’d know those figures
anywhere.
“It’s the depreciation that’s the trouble,”
Spud said. “Dusty worked it out for
me.”
Well, that was the end of the wood
money. I could have killed Dusty, of
course ; could have taken to him then
and there with an axe. But that was no
use. It wouldn’t have paid.
VARIOUS VERSE.
The Dying Spider.
A spider in his galleries of web,
As Quasimodo through Our Lady’s
window,
Squints at each fly; limbs weaving to
and fro.
Swinging in bell towers; red claws that
stab
At the trapped shadows. Dusk —and he
has spun 1
Many small suns that every morning
Shone with a brilliance of silk; and every
one
At evening, no longer adorning
The marble balustrades, looped like wire
Lustreless and leaden, gathered the gloom.
Often he rang the sculptured scrolls of
bloom
With bell-ropes of fine thread; his belly-
fire
Forging a silver tenuous as time,
That held madonnas spellbound as frail
moths,
And gargoyle beetles trembling at each
chime. * ,
But to his nostrils now a thousand broths
That bathed the bones of many insect
saints
Steam with a vengeance. Sickening, he
faints
And falls, it seems to him, ten thousand
feet,
Full of repugnance now for life and meat.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.
The Scholars.
l.
Truly they seem not quite what the age
supposes,
Professors, learned assessors, unwilling to
seek
The new and the strange, their old be-
spectaMed noses
Questing like bumble-bees in the flowers
of the Greek,
Their spare time spent in the cultivation
of roses
With wild debauches of chess one night
a week.
A kind of seagull, a closer view discloses,
A twinkling people, eager in legs and
beak.
And indeed they are for the most part
jolly fellows.
Plump and exuberant, like toddlers who
search' for treasure
On the beaches of life, just out of reach
of the billows.
And bring us all that they find with out-
cries of pleasure :
“Look what I found! It was just washed
up on the sands!”
—Throw it away, good fellow, and wash
your hands. *
2.
One might have accepted the valuable
pieces of coke
And the cork and the broken bottle they
brought to our eyes;
Hardly those gifts of the waters the elders
would poke
With their walking-sticks where the sea-
anemone lies
In a dream of purple and silver; yet
enough to invoke
Some glimpse of a stoker and far-off
oceans and skies:
Trophies to praise in a nervous and land-
loving folk
Who felt that beauty was safest in such a
disguise.
But on those beaches, especially after
storms,
And huge in their silver fury the great
seas glitter,
The flotsam took far less desirable forms,
Masses of kelp and shellfish, a tangled
litter
Where the starfish pales and the mermaid
decomposes:
We wondered what had happened to all
their noses.
n.s.w.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
the Bar.
Men that are men, ah, how they love the
bar.
The vertical, the perpendicular,
The beery reek, the fog of cheery smoke.
No place at all, God wot, for womenfolk:
Male talk, male oaths and manly pleas-
antries —
“The murmur of innumerable b’s.”
m.l. ’ Arnold Wall.


ẃ
That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 66
years’ specialised experience, in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sit Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sit Claud*
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman,
C.8.E.; Sic Alan Newton, M.S. Melb., F.R.C.S. Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
% Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
1.44
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is "No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost! .
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since, few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 74 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £> £ £ £
1934. .120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
1935.. 80,009 65,143 Nil 14,866 410,865
Loss on sales shares Southern Blue
Metal, £43,500 367,365
Patents disclosed, £57,651.. .. 309,714
Loss. 5.8 p.c.
1936.. 29,734 58,125 Nil 221,855
Added patents, £974 .. .. 220,881
Profit.
1937.. 145,379 58,125 Nil 87,254 308,135
Added patents, £968 .. .. 307,167
1938.. 213,884 58,125 Nil 155,759 462,926
29 p.c.
1939.. 353,504 290,6*24 Nil 62,880 525,806
Patents disappear, £59,593 .. 585,399
5.8 p.c. .
1940.. 382,417 58,125 Nil 324,292 909,691
7J p.c.
1941.. 35,434 75,000 Nil 870,125
1942.. 87,391 75,000 Nil 12,391 882,516
1943.. 350,345 75,000 Nil 275,345 1,157,861
1944.. 187,368 75,000 Nil 112,368 1,270,229
Ord. div. appropriation added re-
serves £91,675 1,861,904
A disappointing result, due to factors
over which the management had no con-
trol. The £187,368 (down £162,977) of
profit claimed was enough to pay the
prefs. their full contract rate (7? p.c.) and
show a mere 2.4 p.c. on the £4,700,007
of ord. capital as against 5.8 p.c. for the
preceding term. The profit was written
after setting aside £190,500 for the tax-
gatherer and allowing £802,865 (down
£17,555), equal to 12.5 p.c. of book value
of fixed assets at end November, 1943,
for depreciation. As in the previous year,
the allowance includes special provision
for plant and equipment acquired for war
purposes but which will become redun-
dant for ordinary trade requirements. No
ord. div. was paid, nor has been since the
co. took over Hoskiqs’s Lithgow works
and transferred the plant to Port Kembla,
on the N. S. Wales south coast, about
17 years ago. The 5 p.c. ord. div.
(£91,675) declared in 1929, but not paid.
has now been tossed into general re-
serves.
Troubles last year included an almost
complete stoppage of iron and steel pro-
duction for a month, owing to a general
strike at the South Coast Collieries. For
the rest of the term steel output was
severely curtailed by (1) creeping paralysis
in the coal trade, brought about by the
anti-social strike technique of the miners ;
(2) diversion to other national require-
ments of coal normally reserved for the
co.’s activities; (3) changes in the inci-
dence of demand for steel for war pur-
poses. The same causes bumped up pro-
duction costs, of course, and so did the
Government prohibition against standing-
down surplus labor without official sanc-
tion. Also, service demands on shipping
continued to limit the vessels available
for transport of iron ore from S. Aus.
To meet the emergency that thus arose
low-grade deposits of the stuff had been
opened-up in N. S. Wales as a temporary
measure; and this, too, had its effect upon
operating results.
Since B.H.P. bought the ords., and with
them control, in 1935, the story has been
one of rapid expansion and assault upon
costs. The heavy construction pro-
gramme and difficulties associated with it,
together with other troubles, and the fact
that the co. has supplied the Govern-
ment with munitions steel, etc., at cost-
price, or thereabouts, have curbed
financial results. Furthermore, the said
cost-price was, and still is, much below
what would have to be paid for steel
from any other part of the world, thanks
to efficiency of both staff and plant.
What both the Government and routine
and other workers need to realise is that
“full” employment and a “high and' in-
creasing” standard of living cannot be
achieved without a high and increasing
standard of efficiency in industry. Effi-
ciency in industry calls for high stand-
ards of service, integrity and initiative
in management, for skill and devo-
tion in foremen and other skilled opera-
tives, and also for alert co-operation
among routine workers. Two things not
yet widely appreciated are (1) that a
spirit of co-operative keenness, based on
a consciousness of good and efficient ser-
vice, ministers not only to profits but to
wages and the benefit of society as a
whole, and (2) that detailed interference
with day-to-day operations of industry,
and the methods of administration devel-
oped by Government departments, are
unsuitable for the conduct of industry and
incompatible with efficiency and flexibility
in its working. The co. and the manage-
ment appear to have done their part; it
remains for the Government and labor
generally to demonstrate that they will
do theirs.
Capital expenditure at the Kembla
works was on a reduced scale last term,
and attention was turned to further in-
creasing the efficiency and productive
capacity of plant. Erection of an addi-
tional battery of by-product coke ovens,
reorganisation and mechanisation of the
co.’s coalmines and plans for a merchant-
bar, rod and strip mill are in hand. And
so is development of the iron-ore deposits
at Cockatoo Island, Yampi Sound, over
which the co. holds a lease. Here the
single bed of hard high-grade hematite is
being prepared for open-cut mining. It
outcrops for a length of some 7000 feet,
varies in width from 15 to 100 feet, and
forms a sea cliff reaching a maximum
height of about 400 feet, average approxi-
mately 200 feet. There is estimated to be
some 7,000,000 tons available, assaying
69.4 p.c. iron. Plant is being arranged so
as to deliver direct to ships moored below
storage bins.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the co.’s
investment portfolio:
1935. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £3,700,007 £5,700,007 £5,700,007
Sundry creditors *649,937 *2,356,371 *2,163,853
Fixed assets .. 3,794,371 6,415,961 5,839,172
Shares in other cos. 391,809 386,498 886,498
Stocks . . .. 269,009 1,271,276 1,201,172
Book debts .. 317,722 959,823 665,412
Investments, cash, etc. 16,692 218,182 1,151,011
* Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
The contraction of £192,518 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors last
term is due partly to transfer of the un-
paid div., already referred to, to reserves.
Debtors’ balances were reduced by
£294,411 and stocks by £70,104, while
investments (mainly Government
securities) and cash, etc., were strengthened
by £932,829. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,240,230) was £760,822.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 37,158 6 p.c. = 37,500 101,159
1936.. 42,754 5 „ „ 37,500 5,254 107,013
1937.. 58,088 5.8 „ „ 43,750 14,338 121,351
1938 '•• «* ”” n 46 > 875 } 13.270 134,621
To staff fund, £5OOO .. J ’
1939.. 51,233 6-| p.c. = 46,875 4,358 138,979
1940.. 49,352 ~ „ 46,875 2,477 141,456
1941.. 38,971 5 „„ 37,500 1,471 142,927
1942.. 45,661 5 „ „ 37,500 8,161 151,088
1943.. 58,243 6i „ „ 46,875 11,368 162,456
Inner reserves disclosed, £172,217.. 334,673
1944.. 112,589 8f p.c. = 65,625 ) 48 gg 4 331 (337
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. j ’
Unexplained addition, £126,512 .. 508,149
19 45.. 96,732 p.c. = 65,625 | 26107 534 256
To staff fund, £5,000 .. )
The shipping bottleneck and rising costs
affected earnings during the first two years
of the war. Then extension of the conflict
into the south and sou’-west Pacific in-
volved the principal Allied Governments
in heavy expenditure in these areas. And
the American fleet and Allied land forces
stopped, and then rolled back, the Jap
drive south; thus providing the security
necessary for continued trading there, as
well as a new and strong demand at good
prices for much merchandise that the
co. was able to provide as shipping space
became available. Also, following the
enemy’s thrust into the islands, there has
been a ready market for copra and other
South Sea products at enhanced figures.
Thus this co.’s earnings have been in-
flated by exceptional and temporary fac-
tors over the last three years. Head-
quarters are at Suva —and have been since
the co. took over this section of the big
B,P. organisation in 1920—and there are
still 17 branches and numerous trading
stations scattered throughout the islands
of the south Pacific. For the most part
the enemy has been driven out of the
Solomon and Gilbert island groups,
where the co. used to have four branches.
But the position is not yet such that the
authorities feel justified in authorising a
resumption of trading there. The esti-
mated financial loss to the co. was chalked
up against inner reserves and 1942 earn-
ings in undisclosed amounts.
Owing to the change in outlook and
enhanced security which followed success-
ful Allied operations, the board decided,
at the end of January, 1944, to centralise
certain branch reserve accounts, in which
provision had been made against possible
war damage—no Government insurance
rover was available for the purpose. In
this way inner reserves of £172,217 were
disclosed in the 1944 accounts and
£126,512 in the accounts just presented.
Exactly how much of the £298,729 thus
brought to light had been accumulated
pre-war isn’t ascertainable from the pub-
lished figures. What is plain is that in the
past earnings have been better than the
cautious board claimed.
The board makes no comment on last
year’s trade activities, appear to
have been well maintained. Gross earn-
ings from all sources were figured £398
better: „
Gross Gross
Jan., Profit. Exes. Jan., Profit. Exes.
1932 £169,182 £112,487 1941 £164,226 £125,255
1934 147,700 109,642 1942 180,407 134,746
1936 153,393 110,639. 1943 220,371 162,128
1938 203,465 138,320 1944 272,595 160,000
1940 191,683 142,331 1945 273,193 176,401
Exes, (up £16,455) continued to climb —
they include something for taxation and
£21,839 (up £2278) for depreciation—
leaving the net result £15,875 short of the
previous year’s record figure. The £96,732
of profit claimed was 12.8 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 15, 7.7, 6, 5.1 and 5.6 p.c.
back to 1940. The div. was kept at 8i
p.c., £5OOO was sent to staff retirement
fund and £26,107 was put on the shelf,
raising visible lay-by to £534,256, equal
to approx. 145.. 3d. per pound of paid
capital. •
More weight was added to the already
robust financial structure:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 55,708 119,222 268,428 301,087
Properties,
shipping, etc. 384,546 215,679 145,153 133,407
Investments . . 258,096 211,421 408,765 499,571
Stocks, etc. . . 98,803 390,504 691,807 856,980
Book debts .. 163,221 121,666 97,244 49,614
Cash ~ . . 67,498 99,790 94,595 78,271
The growth of £165,173 in the book value
of stocks might have some connection
with the disclosure of inner reserves
already mentioned. To make the addi-
tion and increase investments (largely
Government securities) by £90,806, book
debts were reduced by £47,630, cash, etc.,
was drawn upon for £16,324 and the
amount coming to outsiders was increased
by £32,659. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£1,183,349)
amounted to £159,366, due mostly to dis-
closure of reserves.
}
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
To Re-
Mar.. Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 12,186 10 p.c. = 9000 3186 55,700
1936.. 12,828 10 „ „ 9000 1 2828 5 g 52 8
Provident fund, £lOOO j
1937.. 11,337 10 p.c. = 9000 2337 60,865
1938.. 12,284 10 „ „ 9000 3284 64,149
1939.. 13,225 10 p.c. = 9000 f 67 174
Provident fund, £l2OO 1 302,> „ ’
Tax suspense taken in, £3OOO .. 70,174
1940.. 14,286 10 p.c. = 9000 1 7 , 625
Provident fund, £835 1 ’
1941.. 13,484 10 p.c. = 9000]
W/o freehold, £2650 ..1 930 75,555
Provident fund, £904 I
1942.. 13,460 10 p.c. = 9000 ]
W/o freehold, £l5OO .. !- 2087 77,642
Provident fund, £873 I
1943.. 13,447 10 p.c. = 9,000 ]
W/o freehold, £l5OO .. [ 1877 79,519
Provident fund, £lO7O J
1944.. 13,181 10 p.c. = 9000]
W/o freehold, £2OOO .. 1 1076 80,595
Provident fund, £llO5 j
1945.. 11,110 10 p.c. = 9000 f si 540
Provident fund, £1163 ) ' .
Never has the need for revision of wills
been greater, and never have the advan-
tages of the corporate over the private
trustee been thrown into bolder relief.
This because of economic changes and
uncertainties and the maze of taxation
and other legislative and quasi-legislative
controls that war has brought about. For
these and other reasons more business is
being entrusted to the expert care of the
cos.
Their moderate corpus and commission
charges are anchored by legislation, which
means that they have been unable to


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of axl classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
♦ ♦ * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
STOP™ Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® location,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Boussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 day*’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
FOR SALE BY PUBLIC AUCTION
"MIM O N G
At Imperial Hotel, Longreach, on Thursday, 14th June, 1945
In WINTON DISTRICT, 8 miles NTH. KYNUNA, 67 mites JULIA CREEK
Phone; Kynuna Exchange
AREA; Approx. 95,000 acres, com-
prising 5 Grazing Homesteads.
LEASES: 28 years from 1/1/1938.
Can be held in two or more names.
COUNTRY: Comprises Mitchell,
Flinders and other good grasses,
shaded by Coolibah on creeks, with
clumps of Whitewood and Supple-
jack.
STOCK: Approximately 13,000 sheep,
cattle and horses. Details on appli-
cation.
WATERED: By 2 bores (non-flow-
ing), equipped, which pump into
about ten miles of bore drains to
dams. 21,000 yard tank, from a
bore on "Gienbervie," a bore on
"Spreyton," and a party bore.
IMPRVTS.: Homestead —6 rooms,
also kitchen, store, office, etc.
Men's quarters. Garage, workshop,
waggon sheds, etc. Shearers' accom.
20 men, shearing shed, 10 stands.
Usual plant, inc. Tractor, Truck, Oil
Engine. Elect. Light.. Subd. into 12
sheep paddocks; 2 horse paddocks
at house and one at each hut. 3
sets of yards.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND
(Incorporated in England)
Licensed Auctioneers, Stock & Station Agents
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, ROCKHAMPTON, CLONCURRY, HUGHENDEN,
LONGREACH, BLACKALL, CHARLEVILLE, ST. GEORGE
pass on war-time costs inflation. At the
same time financial controls have forced
down interest rates and kept rents low.
This has meant only moderate returns
for the cos. from investment of their own
funds, which are mostly in Government
securities and rent-producing freehold.
Also, the said controls have retarded real-
isation of estates, affected corpus and
other commission earnings, and, in some
cases, inflicted needless capital loss upon
beneficiaries.
Last term this Adelaide co. put ovei
£1,250,000 of new business on its books.
This exceeded the value of estates wound
up by £429,553:
Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1931.. 10,545;284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
1936.. 12,950,598 43,952 31,124 70. S „
1939.. 13,992,312 50,874 37,649 74.0 ~
1940.. 14,088,070 52,942 38,656 73.0 „
1941.. 13,958,748 51,321 37,837 73.7 „
1942.. 16,234,719 53,746 40,286 74.9 „
1943.. 16,055,954 56,108 42,661 75.9 „
1944.. 16,361,194 56,802 43,622 76.1 „
1945.. 16,730,747 55,267 , 44,157 79.9 „
The contraction of £1535 in commission
and other receipts is due mainly to the
effects of drought. Exes, increased by
only £535, leaving the net result (down
£2071) at 12.3 p.c. on capital, as against
14.7 p.c. and 14.9 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years. The div. was kept at 10
p.c. for the 25th year in succession. And,
subject to Government interference, there
is nothing at the moment to suggest that
the 10 p.c. is likely to be interrupted.
Expansion of industrial activity in S. Aus.
should help to swell the volume of busi-
ness placed in the co.’s care, and the con-
sequent expansion in income can be ex-
pected to look after the growth in costs,
provided inflation is kept in check.
At the end of March last the £90,000
of paid capital —it is in 360,000 pound
shares paid to ss. each —together with
reserves and £BO7 coming to outsiders
was represented by public securities
£106,966, freeholds, etc., £60,700, book
debts £4417, cash, etc., £5930. Capital
and reserves combined need turn in only
5.2 p.c. to show 10 p.c. on capital alone.
The S. Aus. Government has obtained
a grant of £503,000 from the Federal
Government towards the cost of a
200,000-ton-a-year coal - crushing and
drying plant, which is to be installed at
Leigh Creek, about 160 miles north of
Port Augusta and on the railway to Alice
Springs, A previous grant of £lOO,OOO
was made in July last in connection with
the water supply to the field, where
the State is developing by open-cut
a 40ft. seam of sub-bituminous coal,
covered by 20ft. and more of over-
burden. The field is an extensive one,
and the average ash and moisture content
of the seam now being opened up is
15.4 p.c. and 31.8 p.c. respectively, with
a mean calorific value of 6163 b.t.u. In
sun-dried samples the moisture content
has been got down to 7 p.c., with subse-
quent re-absorption to 11 p.c. in damp
weather. A 50-50 mixture with New-
castle coal has given satisfactory results
on the S. Aus. Government railways.
* * * *
Western Gold Mines, NX. (paid capital
£32,000 in 100,000 10s, shares, of which
20.000 are f.-p. and the balance paid to
ss. 6d. each) has gone into voluntary
liquidation. It owns 200,000 f.-p. 10s.
shares in Triton Gold Mines (W.A.) and
practically nothing else. Those on
the register are to get two Triton shares
for every Western share (contrib.
or f.-p.), but no cash. Western was
formed in Melbourne in 1933 to develop
the Reedy Mararoa leases, at Cue (W.A.).
These were later taken over by Triton,
which ceased operations in August, 1942,
and some of the power units and work-
shop equipment were taken over by the
Government. The cost of keeping the
mine open is being met, in the main,
from the Commonwealth’s grant for the
purpose. Slopes are in fair condition, but
a lot of retimbering of levels and passes
will be necessary, owing to swelling
ground. Ore reserves are estimated at
226.000 tons, averaging 6.4dwt. gold, but
only about three-quarters of this is ex-
pected to be extracted, unless further pay-
ore is opened up.
* * * *
A spokesman of the Westralian Depart-
ment of Industrial Development says that
the alunite deposits at Lake Chandler,
near Merredin, on the Perth-Kalgoorlie
line, from which potash is obtained, are
the most extensive in the world, that they
contain sufficient potash to supply the
whole of Australia’s requirements (based
on present consumption) for more than
a century, that so far 2000 tons of potash
fertiliser have been made available to
agriculturists in the Commonwealth, and
that there are good prospects of refined
alumina and other products being turned
out in the future. But of receipts and
expenditure to date he says nothing.
Critics are also curious to know why this
enterprise is run by the Department of
Industrial Development instead of the
Mines Department.
* * * *
Under-Secretary for Mines A. H.
Telfer estimates Westralia’s mineral out-
put for 1944, with gold premium added,
to be worth £5,735,671 (down £667,386).
Gold accounted for £4,899,997, or 85 p.c.
of the total; then came coal £583,976,
pyrites £68,340, arsenic £48,384 and tung-
sten ores £21,420. Divs. paid for year,
mostly by gold cos., amounted to
£814,715 (up £184,669), making total
amount distributed since official records
began £41,284,664. Over the same period
value of mineral production was
£230,924,485, of which gold at the
old statutory price accounted for
£211,321,534. Gold premiums during
1920-24 and since 1930 added £60,126,047
to total value of mineral production.
During 1944 State batteries —there are 23
with three leased —treated 18,261 tons for
15,5850 z. gold, worth £152,670, Work-
ing exes. (£37,876) exceeded receipts by
£15,850. From their inception to end
of 1944 these plants extracted from gold
and tin ores £12,374,018 worth of metal
—£12,279,564 gold, £94,454 tin. To date
capital expenditure on these State bat-
teries aggregates £542,204, and working
exes, exceed revenue by £98,508. West-
ralian payments in Federal gold tax from
the time it came into force in 1939 until
end of 1944 amounted to £3,155,515.
Owing to continued man-power, plant
and other war-time difficulties more
mines, including Yellowdine, Tindals and
Ora Banda Amalgamated, were forced
to close last year. These and other
producers which had to give up earlier
for similar reasons are now being main-
tained by the Government, so as to en-
able them to reopen with minimum
delay when man-power and materials are
again available. Expenditure incurred on
such maintenance during the year totalled
£48,697.
YOUNGHUSBAND, LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
29th May, 1945.
Moving the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet at the Annual Meeting
of Younghusband, Limited, Sir Clive McPherson, Chairman and Managing
Director, said: \
WAR
Victory has been gained in Europe after the greatest war the world has known. Looking
back to the dark days at the outset, what a tribute is due to the people of Britain who never
faltered even at the zenith of the cruellest German air raids. Let us give thanks to Aimigruy
God for deliverance from such a threat to our National existence, that looking back it se
a miracle has saved us. At the same time, whilst we rejoice in the Victory oyer Germ Y»
still have a powerful enemy to defeat in Japan, in which there must be no relaxation
to achieve final Victory. In our gratitude to our fighting services we must also hot to g
part played by our Great Allies, and in our efforts for success in the Peace years ever
mind that the same co-operation and understanding must be our endeavor.
PROBLEMS OF PEACfe
. These problems are now under active discussion in all Allied countries and are full of
complexities. All countries find themselves loaded with a National Debt the magnitude o
which must call for the most serious consideration. Our Australian position is approximate y
that we commenced the war with a debt of 1200 millions which today is -500 millions
this additional amount been represented by productive works the would not
presented such problems, but such is not the case, and in consequence the facts must be fa
and the truth told and recognised by all. ~ .
I have confidence that our community will be prepared to face the situation provided tne
facts are clearly, fearlessly and honestly placed before them —for in the ultimate issue public
opinion must be the final arbiter as to National Policy. , ,
At our last Annual Meeting I ventured to assert that there can be no easy path out oi our
difficulties, and as events develop I feel that such cannot be too strongly emphasised. _ It will
be by wise statesmanship —wisdom in finance —reduction of taxation, in order that incentive
may be given for full time work —and by the wholehearted will to work by all sections ot tne
community for many years to come —that Australia will emerge successfully from this upheaval,
the magnitude of which has never before been even approached in the world s history.
BANKING CONTROL.—Legislation now, under consideration by Parliament has indicated
Government intention to assume Political Control of Banking. A strong Commonwealth Bank
furnished with necessary authority to control the credit structure, note issue and exchange is,
by working in co-operation with the Private Banks, in the best interests of the community,
but direct Political Control of the Bank by any party in power is viewed with apprehension.
Let it be said for the Private Banks that they have played a valuable part m the
development of this country from the pioneering stage, and by their knowledge and experience
of Industry are well equipped to render further valuable service to the community in the tutuie
in friendly co-operation with the Commonwealth Bank.
A study of the trend of deposits and advances of the Private Banks during the depression
years and immediately prior thereto reveals that before the depression the ratio of advances to
deposits averaged about 85 per cent., whereas during the worst years of the depression the ratio
exceeded 98 per cent. , , , , . . ~
CONTROLS IN GENERAL.—That some degree of controls must be continued into the
Peace era will be recognised as necessary to stem the inflationary trend, but it is to be hoped
that the Government will declare clearly, and without leaving any doubt, that there will be
a continuous diminishing of control until free enterprise is again reinstated in the community.
Let us beware of the continuity of controls for any longer than is necessary and ot any
regimentation of the individual—both of which are necessary in total war but anathema in
peace time. , . , .
In this connection I would refer to a statement recently appearing in our daily press—by
Professor Cassel, recently deceased, the great Swedish economist, who was ranked in the highest
grade of old world economists. The statement is headed “Noted Economist s Warning .
“Economic dictatorship is much more dangerous than people believe. If we allow
economic freedom and self-reliance to be destroyed the powers standing for liberty
will have lost so much in strength that they will not be able to offer any effective
resistance against a progressive extension of such destruction to constitutional and public
life generally. . , . , A .
“And if this resistance is gradually given up—perhaps without people ever realising
what is actually going on —such fundamental values as personal liberty, freedom ot
thought and speech, and independence of science, are exposed to imminent danger.
“What stands to be lost is nothing less than the whole of that civilisation that we have
inherited from generations which once fought hard to lay its foundations, and even gave
their lives for it.”
COSTS OF PRODUCTION. —I have on previous occasions at this our Annual Meeting
referred to increasing costs of production in our Industry and to Industry in general. Here
is a problem in which all Industry in the Peace era will find its crucial test, and the best brains
of Statesmen and Industrialists must be brought to bear if we are to successfully compete with
our export trade in future.
To produce on a basis that other nations are unable or unwilling to purchase means
disaster Reduced taxation is one of many factors which must be achieved in this connection
Consideration of these Problems of Peace brings to my mind an extract from Lord
Macaulay’s Essay on Southey’s Colloquies on Society, in which he states:
“It is not by the intermeddling of Mr. Southey’s idol —the omniscient and omnipotent
State —but by the prudence and energy of the people that England has hitherto been
carried forward in civilisation; and it is to the same prudence and the same energy that
we now look with comfort and good hope. Our rulers will best promote the improvement
of the people by strictly confining themselves to their own legitimate duties—by leaving
capital to find its most lucrative course, commodities their fair price, industry and
intelligence their natural reward, idleness and folly their natural punishment by
maintaining peace, by defending property, by diminishing the price of law, and by
observing strict' economy in every department of the State. Let the Government do this
the people will assuredly do the rest.”
I commend these words to all as worthy of the deepest thought—at a period which may
well prove the turning point in our history. . . .
I have ventured to make these references today to expressions of opinion by such
recognised authorities —opinions which at the present time are of particular value, when we are
all searching for a true perspective, which will result in a sound National Policy bringing
happiness and prosperity to the community in the years to come.
SEASONAL
Turning to seasonal conditions; my hope expressed at our Annual Meeting last May—that
the dry period of last year might terminate in the coming winter—has, unfortunately, not
eventuated. Over a large part of Australia the past season has been the worst on record, and
at this date remains unbroken. Shortage of fodder of all descriptions has accentuated the
difficulties of primary producers—losses of stock have been heavy. Our best hope is that with
the approach of winter we will receive seasonal rains that will end for some years the monotony
with which these dry seasons have been recurring in recent times.
WOOL
It is gratifying to know that those in authority in the various woolgrowing organisations
are taking active steps to combat the onslaught of synthetic fibres against_ the Wool Industry.
The growth of consumption of synthetic fibre production has advanced with such strides that
from a very small beginning about the year 1921 world’s consumption has now outdistanced
that of wool. Again, the question of cost of production of wool is one which must ever be
kept in mind.
CENTRAL WOOL COMMITTEE.—It is opportune that I should express appreciation of
the manner in which the Central Wool Committee has carried out its great volume of work
during the war years, and of the regularity with which payments have been made throughout,
without exception.
WOOL CARRY OVER—An important Conference is now being held in London between
representatives of Great Britain, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand to_ consider the
marketing of the carry over of wool, amounting at present to about 11,000,000 bales. At the
same time consideration will be given to the marketing of future clips. Australia is represented
by Australian Government nominees, the Chairman and the Executive Member of the Central
Wool Committee, together with representatives of the wool growers.
As this Conference has not completed its deliberations, I have no comment to make at
thiS i 944-45 e ’sEASON.—'The Central Wool Committee is satisfied, from the experience of the
oast five years, that the practice of retaining a percentage of the appraised price until after
the end of each wool year can be discontinued without risk. Accordingly, it decided that for
this season it would not withhold from suppliers of participating wools any part of the appraised
price as Retention Money and, consequently, 100 per cent, of the proceeds are being paid on
the due date after each series of appraisements.
FLAT RATE ADJUSTMENT—WOOL PAYMENT.—With regard to the flat rate adjust-
ment payment, ho accurate estimate is available, but according to the latest figures the rate
should be about the same as last year, which was Hi per cent.
STAFF
Shortage of man-power has added to our staff problems during the year, but loyal service
by all departments has enabled us to carry through satisfactorily. I accordingly express
appreciation to all sections for their wholehearted co-operation.
I will now formally move the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet, and will ask
some Shareholder to second the motion, when the matter will be open for discussion.


TO SERVE FOR YEARS
... many, many years!
—* -"7
aifey*- yi •■? •■ *9^
f
: r**V--7-\ ■'• ■..■■■*"r
■
m
■
% i
:
HI
9 m
/ ..,i!
S:;i
- ' ]sj
... .7 o .jM
i
m
■
MHPlii
illllillii
,
fr*
■ll
>
H
mm
mm
-&v:
mmm
Ifili
■ :':■ |
*■ .:
■
MS
"llilS
m
m
* "
» i
Mis
pjNDER the highways of tomorrow, corrugated
iron will carry the load for many, many years.
Years that will be free from problems of maintenance and replace-
ment. Armco Multi-Plate Pipe is proving in thousands of installa-
tions that it is ideal for the construction of bridges that require high
load-bearing capacity at low cost. The combination of modern
steel construction with native stone, as shown in this photograph,
makes beautiful durable bridges.
Municipal councillors and engineers are invited to
write for full particulars to their nearest Armco Office.
ARMCO
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
SYDNEY - - - MELBOURNE - - - BRISBANE - - - ADELAIDE


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
On Japan's Doormat.
“Ek Dum”: Hanging on with tooth
and claw, the remnant Japanese on
Okinawa have been pushed into the last
remaining corners and hideouts on the
island, as a result of the capture of Shuri’s
broken castle and the flowing of the
dead-weary American divisions round the
awful and bloody mire heap which used
to be the town of Naha.
There is only one more line of defence
which can be held for any time, and in
that congested area in the south the last
of the enemy faces complete annihilation.
The approach of the end is marked by
reorganising and by the kind of events
which close every campaign.
The Royal Navy, for instance, appar-
ently has concluded its main task in con-
nection with the battle, the blockage of
air support from the Formosan and
Hong Kong areas by Jap squadrons
staged through the Sakishimas.
Early last week Admiral Nimitz pub-
licly thanked Sir Bernard Rawlings, who
was at Guam in King George V, for the
efficient and valuable manner in which
the squadron had carried through the
job. Admiral Nimitz visited the British
battleship, the first to visit Guam, and
addressed the crew, and the flagship and
her destroyer escort were given a won-
derful welcome by the Americans.
All round there are signs of change
and expansion for newer and greater
tasks to come. Though it had formerly
been stated that General MacArthur was
to command all land operations in the
Pacific, those in the Ryukus have pro-
ceeded very much under naval super-
vision, and the naval nature of the war
to come has been further emphasised by
the f&ct that Admiral Nimitz has taken
the Tenth Army and other forces under
his direct command.
Admiral Spruance’s Fifth U.S. Fleet,
which has carried the main burden of
naval support at Okinawa, losing 23
ships, the heaviest U.S. naval casualties
in the Pacific, has returned to Guam, giv-
ing place on May 27 to Admiral Halsey’s
refitted Third Fleet, which includes a
fast carrier squadron under Vice Admiral
John McCain. And the Fifth Amphi-
bious Force seems to be still in the
Ryukus under Vice-Admiral Harry Hill.
The Royal Naval Fleet is continually
under expansion, and the changes have
been marked by the transfer of Acting-
Vice-Admiral Daniel, R.N., from his
post as Vice-Admiral of the British
Pacific Fleet to command of a battle
squadron and his replacement by Rear-
Admiral J. W. Rivett-Carnac, R.N. And
Rear-Admiral R. M. Servaes, R.N., is
to hoist his flag in a Pacifib cruiser squad-
ron.
Bombing of Japan
The main feature of the Pacific war,
apart from the tremendous transport and
organisation operations in progress, is
the almost universal emphasis on soften-
ing up by bombing, which leads some
prophets to believe that landings will be
made in Japan and on the China coast
by September.
Land campaigns in Tarakan, in New
Guinea (except in the Rabaul area), in
the Philippines, where further towns
were occupied in Mindanao and where
General MacArthur’s push in North
Luzon is still worming its way up the
Cagayan valley against fairly tough oppo-
sition, are all in climatic stages. The
initiation of new movements is marked
by fresh outbursts of bombing directed
against objectives all round Borneo,
which the R.A.A.F. is helping to blast,
in Formosa and along the China coast,
on all the sea routes which afford com-
munications between Japan and these areas,
and particularly against Japan itself.
It is now established that the new type
of Superfortress and the 832 (Super-
Liberator) in use against Japan are carry-
ing loads of up to eight tons of bombs
and incendiaries against cities. And
Japanese admissions are eloquent of the
damage which is being done by the new
fire bombs, M 72, which are being de-
livered in 5001 b. clusters.
The scale of the raids has been in-
creasing since attacks began. They have
also been increasing in frequency. In
March fewer than 100 machines were
being used, without escort. Now the
average runs from 300 to 550, with Mu&-
tang fighter escort from Iwo, and the
opening of a new runway on Guam will
increase the volume of trade still further.
In April there were a round dozen of
great raids, the biggest by about 200
machines. In May there were 16, in
which at least three times as many
machines were used and more than four
times the incendiary bomb load dropped.
With Tokyo still burning over hundreds
of acres, the twin attack was shifted to
its port of Yokohama, 18 miles down
the bay, and to Osaka, both of which
were plastered during the week with
over 3000 tons of fire bombs. Tokyo
owned that widespread and densely-
populated areas were laid waste. Indeed,
if Tokyo admissions count for anything
not much of the Japanese cities is left —
as far back as April 24 the Board of
Information glibly declared that since
March 1 in Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and
Kobe, over 1,000,000 homes had been de-
stroyed and 3,000,000 persons rendered
homeless. But since these admissions
were used as a text to prove that the
Allies were involved in a horror campaign
against innocent civilians, they and all
Japanese admissions of the extent and
effect of what is happening need to be
regarded with caution.
However, the U.S. Command appears
to accept it as fact that 51 square miles,
or a quarter of greater Tokyo, has been
completely burnt out, this being the area
in which 4,500,000 out of the capital’s
total 7,000,000-odd people lived. The
wrecked areas are supposed to include
mile after mile of great war factories and
the business and Government centres.
Up to the week-end about 24,000 tons
of bombs, mostly incendiary, had been
dropped on Japan in three weeks, which
represents about an average week’s bomb-
ing of Germany any time during the past
four months of the European war. Thus,
if the results are what they are claimed
to be, bombing of Japan seems to pay
infinitely greater dividends than the bomb-
ing of Germany and to be fraught with
dreadful casualties among civilians of all
classes and ages. According to Tokyo
Radio the single 3200-ton raid on Yoko-
hama early in the week caused the de-
struction of 60,000 houses and made
250,000 persons homeless —20 houses and
80 homeless persons per ton of bomb.
Direct bombing by land-based machines
was supplemented by a renewal of car-
rier-borne attacks on Kyushu.
The reports of the raid results com-
bined with those from China, where vari-
ous Chinese and American authorities
anticipate Japanese withdrawals from
southern Asia —though it is more likely
that they are withdrawing only from cer-
tain areas —are leading to undue optim-
ism and to the bandying about of all sorts
of newspaper opinions which responsible
leaders do not share.
President Truman’s Message
President Truman’s message to Con-
gress came as a salutary cold douche. He
said that a year from now the United
States would have 7,000,000 men in the
Pacific, forces twice as powerful as those
used against the Germans, and that 316
cargo ships were being converted to trans-
port men from Europe to the Pacific
front, while Britain was lending the
Queen Mary, the Queen Elizabeth and
other ships.
The President supported the estimate
here made last week that Japan still had
more than 4,000,000 fighting men under
arms. He said they were organised in
more than 100 divisions. He also gave
support to the deduction that the Japa-
nese still have a strong air force when
they feel justified in using it —3000 front-
line machines and a production of 1250-
1500 per month.
To the President’s warning, one from
Sir Robert Craigie, British Ambassador
to Tokyo from 1937 to the outbreak of
war, was added. He said that the vulner-
ability of Japanese cities to fire bombing
was largely offset by Japanese adapt-
ability. As has been here averred
more than once, the loss of a Jap’s small
paper or wooden shack is not necessarily
a disaster.
Sir Robert Craigie points out that the
enemy citizen has no furniture and
can move his belongings in a small suit-
case, and that those who have been used
to sleeping four in a room won’t object
to sleeping eight in a room —in fact, the
conditions are very much like those which
enabled the Russians to stand up to the
destruction of their cities.
Industry, the Ambassador said, had been
in process of dispersal over the country-
side in cleverly camouflaged underground
factories for five years before war broke
out —this has been insisted upon in the
last few days by Japanese spokesmen. In
this respect, Sir Robert declared, the Japa-
nese had been more far-sighted than the
Germans, by whose bitter experience they
also had benefited. And he stresses the
point stressed here last week that “a very
large proportion of Japan’s war industries
are concentrated in Manchuria, so far
not accessible to bombing.” But he says
that bombing will shorten the war, and
advises the need to bomb Japan’s vulner-
able strategic railway system, mainly built
along the coasts.
This in many ways would probably pay
much greater dividends than the burning-
down of whole square miles of tatami
walls.
In Burma an early monsoon has inter-
fered with operations, but there was
severe but small-scale fighting north of
Prome, where 1200 of the enemy were
killed trying to keep open their escape
roads. The Japs lost 31,000 killed and
1200 prisoners in the recent campaign.
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: Though Tarakan is nearly
all under control of the A.I.F. and its
Indonesian supporters, there are still
strongholds and defence areas which are
not only holding out but vomiting bitter
little counter-attacks at intervals.
On May 29 it was reported that Ninth
Division units had advanced the whole
length of the island and captured its
northern tip. Cape Djoeata; but much of
the interior was still in enemy hands. As
it fell piecemeal to the Australians it
showed scenes of complete and horrible
destruction, especially when the capture
of Freda Hill, a four-mounded formation
in the centre of the island, was achieved
by two companies after several days of
insistent attack, backed by bombirig and
burning out with incendiary jelly.
For some other bills our men
were still fighting bitterly, their assaults;
supported by the heaviest air blast yet
seen on the island. Some positions caved
in, but Margy Hill, in the north, held
out till 14 days’ fighting had resulted in
considerable casualties on both sides, and
the aircraft had charred much of the
surface to powdered cinder.
Exactly what the tactical value of
Tarakan will be remains to be seen. It
is uninviting as a base. It will yield oil.
But the airfield, as here suggested soon
after the landing, is likely to prove a
disappointment, since water floats up
through it exasperatingly. It will need a
tremendous amount of building up to be-
come permanently useful for heavy air-
craft.
Capture of the island has cost many
Australian lives, including that of the
gallant Lieut. Tom Derrick, V.C., D.C.M.
It will have to be defended against air
attack which already has materialised,
though not on a large scale.
The operation has been marked by the
usual wrangle about numbers and equip-
ment. It seems conclusive that the force
used allowed little margin either in gross
front-line troops or in specialists, and the
lessons learnt teach clearly the need for
intensive sapper training and for the
lavish provision of engineers, material
and personnel, of air support and of the
more mobile types of gun and mortar
whenever the Jap is attacked from the sea.
Tarakan Defences
Tarakan was not a very important
objective from the enemy’s viewpoint.
His force was about a couple of regi-
ments, by all accounts, but it becomes
clearer at every step in the Pacific that
when he resorts to defence and has time
to prepare he uses dispersal with skill
and wastes none of the moments during
which he is engaged in waiting for
attacks.
Tarakan was like a giant antheap.
Going on for 20 main interconnected
tunnels had been cut, each well timbered
and high enough for a man to stand up-
right in them and for two men to pass.
These were built on the zig-zag, and were
trapped and mined. Major ones were
about quarter of a mile long, and were
supplemented by semi-circular mole
burrows, three feet wide at the base, pro-
viding communications under all hills of
tactical value on the island.
Approaches to actual hill defences were
salted with all the usual types of mine—
ceramic, Dutch mushroom, yardstick and
heavy buried bombs and a plentitude of
buried shells, fused to act against troops
and tanks. Inside the fringe of these
each ridge or mound was turned into a
fortress position created in dispersal with
its units —log-bunkers aqd steel and con-
crete pillbox, m.-g. nest and redoubt,
connected by the tunnels the timbering
of which was designed to prevent inter-
nal falls under heavy bombardment, and
screened by linked weapon pits near the
tops and on sides of hills.
Obviously, the kind of fighting needed
to attack these positions called for
specialised support at every stage: for
good and minute reconnaissance, for
skilled mine detecting and clearing parties,
for continually available and sufficient
artillery support, for abundant and ex-
perienced infantry to assault bunkers —
usually defended by dual-calibre guns
mounted on rails on which they could be
run into the tunnels out of harm’s way
when matters became too hot for strong
barrages—and for smoke cover to neutra-
lise enemy gunnery while the infantry-
men were making their approach. Finally
for abundant sappers in a position to use
their materials unstintingly to seal up the
tunnels thoroughly and quickly.
Unless the elements are available in
their proper proportion and unless each
knows its work thoroughly, stalemate or
heavy loss must result.
With the lessons of Tarawa and Iwo
behind it should be the aim of the Gov-
ernment to provide not merely that
sufficient men and material of all kinds
likely to be needed are available, but that
there is such abundance that possibility
of debate about adequacy is ruled out.
The Army’s Good Effort
Certainly the army has been doing its
best to assure this consummation, and
with a remarkable measure of success,
having in view the sloth, quarrelling,
strikes and unskilled interference in civil
life. Not merely are Australian units to-
day embarking on landing operations
equipped with the familiar so-called
“American-type” equipment—much of
which was born in Britain and elsewhere
—but much of it has been improved out
of sight by battle-seasoned Australian
veterans, who have applied their own
experience to redesigning it.
One example which may be cited for
comparison. At Milne Bay, legend says,
the dock-operating equipment originally
consisted of a coil of rope. At Tarakan
dock-operating companies were fitted out
with mobile jib cranes with hydraulic ele-
vators, power winches, pile-driving equip-
ment and a general outfitting so self-
contained that they could have set up a
large dock and wharfage plant on a
desert island, operated it, fed its person-
nel, defended it and used it under the
stress and strain of war.
Its wharfage equipment, indeed, was
so up to date and capable of dealing with
cargo at such a rate that its introduction
in Sydney would be apt to send every
“militant” wharfie out on strike.
N.G. and Bougainville
In the Wewak area the feature of the
last few days of fighting towards the end
of the week were furious counter-attacks
against the base landing beaches at Dove
Cove, the point through which supplies
are being fed to the A.I.F. east of
Wewak. The enemy made a particular set
against commando positions adjacent to
Brandi plantation, and succeeded in
maintaining a foothold gained on an im-
portant ridge overlooking the coastal
road from Mandi to Brandi. He appeared
to be well armed, was able to mortar
Australian positions, and showed persist-
ence in attacking, causing a number of
Australian casualties, though himself
losing heavily.
The same sort of fighting is in progress
in Bougainville, where the battle is be-
coming vital to the enemy as the advanc-
ing A.M.F. overruns the food areas
adjacent to Buin. Both here and on the
Bonis perimeter in the north, into which,
so far, the Australians have been unable
to break to any extent, the enemy
counter-attacks were warded off with
heavy loss, though not always easily. The


s
&
ys.
0
Y.
so.
,y
.4*“
n
*.,S
&l>. !
m
m
- i i
m
wm
w
m.
%
men who made
Spitfire Engin^
Since the outbreak of war, thousands of
Britain’s peace-time automobile engineers have
collaborated to increase the output of the
famous Merlin aero-engine, a product of the
British Motor Industry both in design and
w
development. The techni-
cians who have added this
experience to their acknow-
ledged skill as precision
craftsmen are the men who
will figure largely in the
production o| the fine cars
and tough trucks Britain will
eventually send overseas.
THE MOTOR INDUSTRY
OF GREAT BRITAIN
AUTOMOBILES • TRUCKS • BUSES
expressly designed and built far overseas
m
jmi
o
m.
«?
i
WA
VZ*'-
ŵ
Leader in Empire Aviation
development.. past, present and
future ... Qantas, seasoned by
quarter of century’s service to
the Nation in peace and war, en-
visages new and greater achieve-
ments in the post-war Air-age.
EMR IRE AIRWAYS
SYDNEY : MELBOURNE : BRISBANE : TOWNSVILLE : PERTH
ground forces have again and again found
reason to be thankful for the support of
the Maoriland Corsairs.
Linking with the British.
“Ek Dum”: Ahead of the A.I.F. when
Tarakan is captured lies mainland Borneo,'
the world’s largest island except New
Guinea and Greenland and perhaps its
wildest. It consists of a backbone of tre-
mendous mountains whose silt flattens
out into swampy, cretaceous plains
full of oil, round the coasts. These
levels are seamed with fine rivers. Some
of the mountains rise over 13,000 feet —
Kinabalu towers up over the sea in the
north-west corner much as the peaks of
the Finisterres tower in New Guinea. In
fact, the whole island resembles New
Guinea in nature save that it is more
savage and ferocious in its interior and
more civilised around its Malay-colonised
coasts.
Like New Guinea, however, its
strategic conquest depends on the con-
quest of its ports, but the clearing of the
interior of Japanese, if they are there in
any numbers, will make the job of clear-
ing Bougainville, difficult enough, look
comparatively simple. The rivers and a
relative abundance of craft give the
holders access to the interior for some
distance, and there are series of tracks
running between which make it possible
to cross the island with reasonable
facility in some areas. There is about
1.23 miles of railway on the west from
Jesselton to Melaplap, branching at Beau-
fort to Weston on Brunei Bay and
Tenom on the Padas River.
The key points of Borneo’s coastline
are Sandakan, on the north; on the east
Tarakan and Balik Papan, the Dutch oil
areas (the latter the most important);
Banjermassin on the east of the broad
southern base; Pontianak on the west
of the south-western base.
The north-west coast, in Sarawak and
British North Borneo, presents the best
bases. The wide Datu Bay, on which
Kuching stands, with its five rivers, is a
fine stretch of sheltered water with some
interior bays and inlets and considerable
resources. By far the best naval base in
west Borneo is Brunei Bay, about 170
miles south-west of Sandakan, to which
it is connected by land routes. The
bay is a fine stretch of unbroken water.
free from reefs, which could hold the
whole fleets of the Allies.
The surroundings of Brunei are
pleasant for a base. Many rivers and
creeks flow into it out of beautiful hills.
There are several small islands, one of
which, to the starboard of the river
mouth, had been flattened by some early
engineer—a Spaniard, tradition says —
who built a mole which threw the true
river entrance to the east.
The river flows down between hills
600 ft. to 700 ft. high, gay with tropical
growth, brilliant green and feathery
palm, with patches of red-soiled culti-
vation on the banks of the stream, which
is alive with traffic and not devoid of
alligators. Old Brunei lies inland on a
little lake surrounded by hills.
In the northern outer portion of
Brunei Bay is Labuan, an island which,
like Borneo itself and Tarakan and most
of the islands hereabouts, is pear-shaped.
This was the original British settlement,
occupied until 1848 only by a British
trader, and then by Rajah Brooke as
Lieut.-Governor, It is smaller than
Tarakan —about 11 miles one way and
not more than three or four miles the
other. On the south there is a bay at
Victoria, about a mile by three-quarters
of a mile. One side of this is formed
by a broad sandspit, an unhealthy area
abutted by a great swamp, on which the
original settlers were almost wiped out
by fever. In the rains of September-
October the swamp usually swells into a
foetid lake.
On the other side, and inland from
the southern harbor, are low hills, rising
to 350 feet or thereabouts, which pro-
vide a healthier camping ground. The
Japanese are reputed to have airfields on
the island, as they have near Sandakan,
where E. and A. liners used to call in
happier times, and where one of the two
residents of British North Borneo had
his H.Q. —the other is at the British
centre of Jesselton, under the shadow
of towering Kinabalu, halfway between
Brunei Bay and the north-western cape
of Borneo, Banmangio Point.
A little south of Brunei are the Miri
oilfields, as yet only tapped by east-coast
standards, but highly important to the
future.
All these areas must be attacked, but
it seems that there is scarcely the force
in Borneo at present to do it effectively
and securely. One brigade of the Ninth
Division A.I.F. will need refitment and
rest after Tarakan.
OnThewhoT Borneo belongs strategi-
Ca j' y to th he f nt t h h and
rather than to the true Pacific area, and
11.I 1 .™ 11 be s . ur P rlS ‘ ng , l£ , campaign for
Malaya and the East Indies is carried to
anew major stage without some adjust-
mems of control areas
~T h? i™* 10 " °. f the u thru l‘ of 9 k T ra l
MacArthurs strategy has been that of
General Nim tz, generally northwards
and north-westward.
The thrust of the British Fourteenth
Army of General Slim and of Sir Arthur
SevTon hasteen and E eastw and an 3
Cey A° n ’ , seen5 een and is eastward and
south-eastward The natural corollary
to operations from India is a drive from
the east towards the west to place the
N ET, Malaya, Borneo and French Indo-
V ii? a m a , vic . e ' lit
This method ? f approach would con-
sohdate communications while that which
provides for outward thrusts north and
south-west from the Philippines, and
operations under separate command, pro-
duces a disjointed and illogical system
ot dispersion. .
present the south-east Asian area
embraces duly territory as tar as Sunda
Strait, the French China coast and
Hainan. Its northward boundary is he
2°th parel el above Luzon which also
marks the limit of he South-west Pacific
Command. The natural boundary should
be the Pearl River and Hongkong.
Britain’s Growing Power
Britain has now great forces in India,
and they will be greater with the arrival
of many new naval ships from Britain
and with the creation of the Twelfth
Army, under Sir Montague Stopford,
member of an old Indian fighting family,
who has gained his experience of con-
temporary Asian war in command of the
XXXIII Corps of the Fourteenth Army
driving from the North in Burma. The
withdrawal of the U.S. 10th Air Force
from Burma marks, too, the entry of the
R.A.F. into the Asian war on a grand scale,
It will be some time before any new
Campaign in the south-east Asian area
can be brought into full swing, though
the preparatory naval and air operations
can be carried to an advanced state be-
fore the weather is most favorable for
land campaigning from November on-
wards.
But early next year should see the
battle for the south-eastern box in full
swing—drives from the Borneo-Celebes
area in the east, perhaps northward from
the Australian coast, against Jap-held
,ron ' l the west > the box being bounded b >'
M , and ’ Sumatra on the west, by
Timo J and , the south or Celebes
and B the eas(
The Brjtish £orC(JS wi „ be the head and
front of all operations in this area, and
it would be natural if Australian and
perhaps Maoriland troops were linked
K nder British command, thus making the
operations an entirely homogeneous
British Commonwealth business, save for
h Dutch whose comm on trade routes
to Europe’ and proximity and linkage in
CommerCe w i t h Britain m Europe
b j naturally into the same basket,
J
Australian Liaison
The reconques t of south-east Asia and
the East Indies Archipelago is no minor
operation. It is a tremendous business
calli for massive reS ources and great
naval and air effort It invo i V es recon-
queS{ an area sea an( j land larger
than Australia It will have a great f utU re
military and nayal value if carried out
by unified British Commonwealth forces,
ag an exerc j se wb ich covers the defence
of a| , th strategic routes !jnking British
possessions fro ® Britain to India and
l rom Indja tQ AustraUa and Hongkong-
routes which const itute the main life
art o£ th comi£ o£ British nations,
parti ' ularl Australia and New Zealand,
The pol f tica , advantages o£ a reconsti-
tution of areas which would result in
British Commonwealth and Empire forces
operating all in one piece under the driv-
ing hand of Mr, Churchill do not need
to be stressed. It would mean that
the command-in-chief in Australia would
once more become a domestic affair, sub-
ject to the King and Parliamentary con-
trol. It would bring the linkage of com-
mand and interchangeability of resources
which has existed in the R.N. and R.A.N,
and in the R.AT. and R.A.A.F. into
being in the land forces, and it would
make the reconquest of British territories
and British communication routes a
British task, preliminary to a first phase
in the conquest of Japan proper, in
which, in any case, British naval and air
and land forces would have a share via
attached squadrons, and the Canadians,
who are not going to be left out of the
north Pacific War.
It is deplorable that when other Allied
nations involved in the Pacific war are


Leral Notice.
TO ARTHUR JAMES HAROLD BENNETT formerly
of Hornby Christchurch and any person' claiming
through him Pursuant to an Order of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are required to send in
before the 31st August 1945 your claim to share in
the estate of IRENE THELMA BENNETT late of
Wellington Spinster deceased failing which such
estate may be distributed disregarding your claim.—
The Solicitor Public Trust Office Wellington New
Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO THOMAS ERNEST HOOPER late of Annandale
Seaman.—TAKE NOTICE that MURIEL ESTHER
ANNIE HOOPER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4793 of 1944 on the ground of your desertion
If you wish to defend the suit you should enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 9th July 1945 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from OSBORNE
MITCHELL ALLEN Solicitor 56 Hunter Street Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In' Divorce.
TO BERYL HORSLEY formerly of Blacktown.—
TAKE NOTICE that FRANCIS WILLIAM ALBERT
HORSLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2003
of 1945 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards and is
seeking to receive the Court’s discretion under Sub-
Section 2 of Section 19 of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you desire to defend the case you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before 30th June
1945 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MICHELL AND GEE Solicitors 92 Pitt
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO TIMOTHY JOSEPH O’CONNOR of Sydney New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that MELBA VALDA
O’CONNOR has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 45
of 1945 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
before the 13th of August 1945 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from W. H. MANN
Solicitor 247 George Street Sydney New South
Wales. — (1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notice.
I, ROBERT SCHROTTER, of Czechoslovakian nation-
ality, born at Prerov, and resident five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 222 New South Head Road,
Edgecliff, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Missing Friend.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of MAR-
GARET AITKEN (or Aiken) who was a daughter of
the Marriage of DONALD AITKEN (or Aiken) and
BARBARA ANDERSON MacLEAN who went from
Scotland to Australia about the year 1924 and who
was married to AXEL or of her sister
CATHERINE who married JOHN JOHNSTON whose
father had a Foundry in or near Sydney please com-
municate with MESSRS'; WATT, SON & CO. Solici-
tors 183 St. Vincent Street Glasgow C. 2. Scotland?
TrM> =
6 arv
BAVE YOB
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
JIBECTOBS—Janies Burns - B. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
Manager—E. S. Parker.
ẁ
ẅ
r
r
ib.
I could -
lovely
out
home
of thal
After the WAR . . . your very own home
with many conveniences to take the drudgery
out of housework ... all your pet ideas m
interior decoration . . .
FELTEX
FELT and TEXTILES OP AUSTRALIA LTD.
Manufacturers of Plain $• Marbled Feltex
pH'
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH WAR LOANS
building up their efforts, the Australian
Government has few thoughts which do
not tend towards the liquidation of the
Australian war effort, which is marked
politically by timidity, diffusion and half-
measures which are a disgrace to the
country.
The United States proposes to double
its military man-power in the Pacific. Its
forces then will be equal to the whole
population of Australia. Britain is out
for a total effort which will end the war
quickly. The Canberra Government’s
Defence Ministry is still in the hands
of an invalid, and its army in those of a
wandering babbler now floating round
the Americas somewhere about as effec-
tively as a Japanese balloon, while the
Army has no spokesman in the House
of Representatives. The Government can
think only in terms of Army releases and
of vote-buying expedients with which it
hopes to conquer the “internal enemy” at
the next elections.
It has no heart even for fighting un-
armed union bosses who bring its author-
ity into contempt, much less armed Japa-
nese. One of the advantages of linkage
of the South-east Asian and Australian
commands would be that it might give
the Australian effort a badly-needed
blood transfusion.
It is a pity that it is not prepared for
by the appointment to Admiral Mount-
batten’s H.Q. of a Minister with a seat
in Parliament through whom the Aus-
tralian effort might receive an impetus.
The Barry Report.
The report of J. V. Barry, K.C., on
the condition of affairs in Moresby at
the outbreak of the Japanese war shows
clearly the mess into which Australia
was led by the Wards and others who
had no use for the defence of New
Guinea until they took office. Part of
what happened then is set down.
At Moresby, the crucial heart of the
defence of the north-eastern approaches,
there were, on December 7, 1941, about
1250 militia and 300 Papuan infantry,
“a garrison, unable, because of the in-
adequacy of its numbers and equipment,
to resist any attack in strength.”
To these were added on January 31a
consignment in the Aquitania, with ac-
companiments of beer and other things
—“according to official returns 3726, but
on general estimates about 5000, young
and untrained troops,” and with dis-
cipline to match. Military police with this
body were “insufficient in numbers, but,
what is more important, worthless in
the performance of their duties.... a
force for the creation of trouble rather
than the preservation of order.”
The troops were “without much of the
equipment necessary to give them any
reasonable prospect of maintaining
health in an area such as Port Moresby,
and through “gross carelessness and in-
competence,” camp equipment had been
“stowed at the bottom of holds.” After
the second bombing of Moresby on
February 5 there was “extensive looting.”
No file could be found in the Defence
Department dealing with complaints
about equipment at Moresby, but there
were later plenty of complaints by the
Commander-in-Chief on his return from
the Middle East about the “lamentably
poor quality and discipline of the troops”
there which “reflected the general condi-
tion of the A.M.F. in Australia.” The
53rd (N.S.W.) Battalion sent to Moresby
was “of an average age of years.
Many had been in the army for a period
of weeks only and were unfamiliar with
arms or discipline.”
No doubt some of Mr. Forde’s “three-
weekers,”
The C.-in-C. said:
On my return from the Middle East at
the end of March, 1942, discipline was so
poor as to be appalling. The conditions
in the principal Australian cities were so
bad as to demand drastic action to improve
them.
The condition of the Provost Corps at
the time can be described only as dis-
graceful.
The provosts allotted to New Guinea
appear to have been of the same standard,
the above conditions applying also to troops
sent to defend New Guinea.
No commander could have carried out
the task imposed upon General Morris un-
less he were given well-trained, well-dis-
ciplined and well-officered troops. All of
these conditions appear to have been lack-
ing in the forces allotted to him. The re-
sponsibility lies less with the commander
on the spot than with those responsible
for providing him with inadequate and in-
competent forces.
For the nation that means the “Labor”
Government —the cool, calm, collected
fellows who stopped the rot, called off
the retreat behind “the Brisbane Line”
and saved the country. These saviors of
the country are still in control of Aus-
tralian defence —if control it can be
called.
In Darkest Europe.
“Ek Dum”: A heavy censorship
appears Jo blanket everything Concern-
ing affairs in Vienna, in Yugoslavia and
in other parts of eastern Europe. Only
Moscow and its satellite radios are vocal
about the situation, and it is evident
that very delicate questions will need to
be handled very firmly and very quickly.
Moscow Radio and press in the past
few days have been involved in a cam-
paign to intimidate the Swedish press
and in another to bring British and U.S.
newspapers back into the fold from
which some have strayed.
Moscow’s sympathy is evidently with
Tito and also evidently there is mutual
good feeling between Moscow and De
Gaulle over the Syrian affair. Moscow’s
outlook is apparently being wrapped up
in an ambition to control Persian oil,
which would be more controllable if
pipelines were under the thumb of a
French Government honeycombed with
communists than under that of indepen-
dent Syrian-Lebanese Governments sus-
ceptible to the influence of Britain and
the United States, the only western coun-
tries of any tonnage with communist-free
Governments.
At the same time, it is reported that
the Turkish Foreign Minister, who has
returned to Ankara from Moscow, has
agreed “in principle” to give up control
of the Dardanelles and the Bosphorus
and to cede a little defensive territory to
Russia in the north-east of Asia Minor
—moves which would virtually reduce
Turkey to the level of the rest of the
countries east of Italy; a vassal State
which for all practical purposes might
just as well be tacked on to the U.S.S.R.
The whole Middle Eastern situation,
like that in the Baltic, where Russia con-
tinues to occupy Bornholm Island com-
manding the entrance to the Baltic Sea,
and part of northern Norway, will need
to be dealt with early if Europe does not
wish to wake up one fine morning and
find itself a Russian province, the whole
of its system of government under super-
vision by Moscow and holding “inde-
pendently” only such territory as Mos-
cow does not need for its own “security.”
If Russia is pursuing a policy aimed
toward this end it is entirely in keeping
with the speeches of Marsha] Stalin at
the conference of the Russian Com-
munist party in March, 1939, and on
November 7, 1939, when he counselled
the communists of the world that the
aggression of Britain and France against
his ally, Germany, had given communists
the world over their opportunity to put
their slogans into operation and over-
throw the capitalist system.
It was reported at the week-end that
the Allied Commission for the control of
Germany General Eisenhower and
Field-Marshals Montgomery and Zhukhov
—was meeting or were about to meet in
Berlin. It is to be hoped that the meet-
ing will result in the establishment of
free access by the Allied press to the
Russian zone, though probably it will not.
Early in the week, lease-lend to the
U.S.S.R. having come to an end, the
transit arrangements of the United States
Command in the Persian Gulf were
liquidated. It had since 1941 passed
4,000,000 tons of war supplies into
Russia. The termination of this great
effort was not marked by any public
expression of gratitude from the Kremlin.


the storage wa11...
an idea for every Australian home
There Is hardly a home anywhere that doesn’t need addi-
tional storage space. An American organisation thought
about the problem, then commissioned two prominent archi-
tects to attack it scientifically result, THE STORAGE
WAIjIi, the most valuable and practical idea In home build-
ing of a decade. Host practical
material for construction of the
storage wall Australian-made
Masonite Fresdwood, a hard,
steel-smooth board that comes
in sheets up to 12ft. x 4ft. and
which is worked with or-
dinary carpenters’
tools.
STORAGE CUPBOARDS
OPENING OTHER SIDE
BUILT-IN RADIO
WRITING DESK
RECORD - STORAGE |
RECORD PLAYER
CUPBOARD OPENING
OTHER SIDE
The space-saving, space-giving storage wall replaces the
ordinary between-room wall. It provides cupboards (usually
12" deep) throughout the entire length and height of the
wall. Some cupboards and shelves open into one room-
some into the other—depending on the needs of the indi-
vidual rooms.
Our main illustration shows the Living Room side of a
Storage Wall between Living Room and Hall. On the un-
seen side Is space for umbrellas and raincoats, golf clubs,
tennis racquets and other sporting equipment. Our small
sketch shows a “Between-bedrooms storage wall”.
IF YOU'RE A HANDYMAN . . .
w
and your building: supplier has sufficient
stocks of A" Masonite Presdwood, and
dressed seasoned timber suitable for
framing: (we suggest 3" x 1" and 3" s
V), you can start to build a storage wall
right away. Even If you only rent the
bouse In which you now live you can
construct a storage wall in sections . . .
then when you build a home of your
own it can easily be taken down and
re- erected.
PRESDWOOD—
STANDARD AND TEMPERED
Northern Sales Division:—
369 Pitt St., Sydney.
Southern Sales Division:—
529 Collins St., Melbourne
2 TWO BARS
Production is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer if
you have difficulty in obtain-
ing Standard Gillette blades.
To obtain extra service from your Gillette Blades
use both edges equally. Identification marks
have been placed on the ends of the blade which
project beyond the razor head (see illustration).
These enable you to use the two sides alter-
nately, thereby obtaining maximum benefit from
both cutting edges.
STANDARD
Gillette Blades
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
Saving means Safety, Waste means Disaster. Buy more Wat Savings Certificates.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Carrying 13st. and giving away up to 4st.,
Winterset, with L. Meenan up, splendidly won
the Hopetoun Steeplechase (2\ miles) at Flem-
ington on Saturday. For all his weight, punters
cheerfully took 7 to 4 about him, and the old
reliable gave them the spectacle of a faultless
ejchibition of fencing, and their money as well,
He came out lookmg exceptionally bright, and
when they got going went beautifully along in
front with the bottomweight, Nigel. When
they came to the treble the second time Nigel,
beaten, dropped back, and shortly afterwards
fell. In grand style Winterset raced on in
front, but Tente, with 3st. 41b. less weight,
was making up ground, and the pair fook the
last fence with only a length between them. It
looked as if weight was going to tell when Tente
began ranging up m the run to the judge, but
Winterset easily drew away again, to win by
four lengths, with West Haran 10 lengths away
thfrd-
a u * tj,, ‘ . A , .
A five-year-old son of The Buzzard, Solvent
was always well placed in the York Hurdle
behind Hearsay, and, moving up to that co -
sistent place-filler at the turn, won by over two
lengths, with Hearsay next. It was the winner s
first run over the jumps for nearly a year, and,
as he’d meanwhile been failing on the flat, it
might suggest possibilities for other products
of The Buzzard with like flat records. Inter-
mission (favorite) and Isambard (second favorite)
were respectively fourth and fifth, without ever
appearing likely to run down the winner, who,
stalling at tens, won in a style that brings
him into the Grand National Hurdle reckoning,
His bad luck continuing, the ex-Sydney per-
former Versailles was first home by half a
length in the six-furlongs Royal Handicap, but
lost to Drum Net on a protest. The protest
resulted from a scrimmage about a furlong from
home, in which Drum Net had to be checked
and Reperio appeared an even worse sufferer,
The rider of Versailles, apprentice G. Clarke,
was suspended for two months. Keplerian was
two lengths away third, with Irish Myth next
and shaping like an early winner,
......
Time in the Royal was 1.13 i, and the Gay
Lothario-Gay Mary filly Beaumelle occupied
only three-quarters of a second longer in com-
fortably defeating Star of India and Gay Lad
i n the Rot'hsay Handicap for two-year-olds,
xhe field of over 30 stretched right across the
track beginning the straight six, and once again
those with the inner running had all the best
Q f j t . Those whose runs can probably be dis-
regarded on that account included Chatter Lad,
w h o had won in S.A. with 9.13. He went very
f ast f or a while. Also out there were the
reC ent easy winner Tilly Black (a handy sixth)
anc j t h e promising Hellespont colt Vino (fourth),
V ino lost ground crossing over towards the in-
sjje
The piping-hot favorite Oatcake was far
from tasty in the 13-furlongs Sandringham
Handicap, third to Arduli (an easy winner,
j m p rov i n g on her gooc i second to Simmering at
Mentone) and Queen Midas; and the Tas-
manjan Night Fighter (also favorite) was downed
Gala Chief and Peter Lalor in the 10-fur-
, * Buckincham Handican
longs Buckingham Handicap.
x „ _ ~ 0
A* Rosehill on Saturday the Golden Sove-
reign-Golden Character filly Lakshmi Vallis and
Northern Pearl, a daughter of Beaupartir-
Western Pearl, turned on a finish in the Nin-
sefy which kept supporters of both on their
toes till the numbers went up. The Maharaja
of Baroda s filly proved as golden as her pedi-
gree, by a head, with the Te Hero-Miss Stefan
filly St'efanova three lengths away third,
Northern Pearl (4 to 1) was favorite, and it was
a wise punter who took the hint and fled the
course forthwith. Not one favorite finished
closer than second and rank rough ’uns were
the order of the day. D. Munro finished second
on three favorites from four mounts. Tahmoor
(6 to 4), Prince Buzzard (9 to 2) and Sunfel
(5 to 2) gave him this ghastly treble. Lord
Neith was his other mount.
In the seven-furlongs Juvenile for colts and
geldings the Pure Gold-Miss Argos colt Gold
Caste, beautifully turned out, took the eye be-
fore the start, and, running along comfortably
in second place throughout, looked a winner
coming into the straight half a length behind
the leader, Alderman. However, this Manitoba
colt had apparently been going even more com-
fortably at the head of the field and went on to
a nice win. A Midstream-Superic colt, Bun-
dagen, took a deep breath at the right moment
for third money and paid £9 2s. 9d. on the
tote. Bramalt, a close fourth, and Mt. Howitt
behind him, had both shown promise in recent
runs and continued to do so here.
The Dundas Handicap provided another close
finish, and seven furlongs in Imin. 24^secs. —
half a second outside the Rosehill record on
a day when only moderate times were re-
corded in all other events proved the race as
good as it looked. The five-year-old Royal Sun
gelding Tahmoor is joint holder of the track
record, but could not quite reproduce the effort
on Saturday, and Cragsman fought out the
finish to beat him a head. The three-year-old
Beau Pere fifly Lunar’s third in this smartly-run
race was an excellent effort. She seems to
favor this track and Randwick, where the
running is somewhat similar. After the race
the customary small bunch of pocket-stipes
yelped their habitual “Rub ’em out”—in a
race battled out in near record time by two
horses lengths clear of the rest of the field!
Since the threat of fodder shortage loomed
over their hoary heads quite a number of
veterans have shown wonderfully rejuvenated
form. Air Link, Goose Boy and Aralys finished
in that order in the mile and a quarter June
Handicap—aged geldings all of them and with
little recent form to recommend any of them
save Aralys, who won his first race in nearly
four years at the last Rosehill meeting. Punters
by this time were scrambling to retrieve lost
coin, and neither the recent bad luck of Prince
Buzzard nor that of his rider, D. Munro, pre-
vented them making the combination favorite
for the Granville Novice, over a mile and a
half. Here five-year-old Great Scot repudiated
his recent form—Nth, last, last. Half a furlong
from home Prince Buzzard was nicely placed
and seemed ready to take the race, but a 221 b.
difference in weight told, and the winner was
able fairly easily to hold off the challenge.
A Newcastle performer, the three-year-old son
of Brueghel, High Tension, beat everything else.
Glencrag, Sunfel and Notre Dame accounted
for the Three-and-four-year-old; then a couple
more of the aged brigade, Rylstone (first) and
Bragger (second), beat the Golden Sovereign
colt Invictus (third) in the nine-furlongs Rydal-
mere Handicap. Going on his last couple of
runs over the distance Invictus should win in the
near future. An interesting starter in the
Three-and-four-year-old was Sancherie, a
hitherto unraced and good-looking four-year-
old daughter by Sansofine from that fine mare
Sarcherie (winner of the Doncaster, and twice
second and once third in the Melbourne Cup).
Inexperienced at the barrier and badly drawn,
Sancherie was a bad last in a big field when
they got going, but at the end of the seven
furlongs she had passed half the field and
looked fit and willing to go on passing the rest
for a few furlongs more.
For Rosehill (before acceptances):—Two-
year-old (colts and geldings); Tithonus, 1; Don
Giovanni, 2; Personality, 3. Two-year-old
(fillies): Civic Pride, 1; Volley, 2; Sonning, 3.
Trial: Chatster, 1; Right Royal, 2; High Ten-
sion, 3. Flying; Vermeil, 1; Hall Stand, 2;
Tahmoor, 3. Rosebery Handicap: Wellesley,
1; Goose Boy, 2; Invictus, 3. Welter: Murray
Stream, 1; Lunar, 2; Bragger, 3.
* * *
Apart from the racing angle, resumption of
the sport in the United States will mean a lot
to the 881 stud farms, totalling two and a
half million acres and spread over 40 States.
On those farms there are reported to be
8700 brood mares, 780 stallions and 5500
yearlings. Since last month they will have
also 6000 foals. At three sales last year
761 yearlings brought $3,143,400, average $4131,
compared with the previous year’s totals of 790
sold for $1,548,640, average $1960; and these
figures don’t include the many hundreds sold
privately. Also, apart from the big stud farms,
many tobacco growers and suchlike go in for
bloodstock breeding, bringing the total 19 about
4000 breeders of thoroughbreds. It is, in fact,
what in most countries would be rated a major
industry.
* * * *
Another R.A.A.F. returned man, Flying-
Officer Tom Bradley, D.F.C., of Coonabara-
bran (N.S.W.), has dropped in to talk about the
English racing he’d been seeing at Newmarket
over the past year or two. The thing that struck
him most particularly was the excellent spirit in
English racing. He found the approach to it
altogether better than the Australian approach.
This has been endorsed by yet another, who de-
scribes the English approach as more in the
nature of clean amateurism —racing for its own
sake and for the other better aspects of if,
such as breeding—compared with the strongly
commercial approach noted here. It should
be said that these commentators were referring
to Sydney racing. In general their finding
would be hard to refute, though there are still
some owners who seem to go in for racing in
the English spirit, and put a lot of money
into breeding as well.
Like air-gunner Sgt. Arthur Hill, whose
choice of the Hyperion-Leger Day colt, High
Peak as the coming English Derby winner has
been mentioned here, Flying-Officer Bradley
makes a selection. His choice is the Precipita-
tion-Snowberry colt Chamossaire, who, inciden-
tally, has also been mentioned by the London
“Times” racing scribe as a Derby prospect, along
with the Nearco-Rosy Legend colt Dante and
High Peak. In the Coventry Stakes High Peak was
beaten easily by Dante, but started slowly. In
his last race of last season High Peak was
beaten a head by Chamossaire. The Precipita-
tion colt is trained at Newmarket by Perry-
man and owned by Squadron-Leader Stanhope-
Joel. High Peak, with Harry Wragge up,
went out for his first race at odds-on, and
landed the money.
* * * *
The Derby, which is to be run next Saturday,
will be worth £7839 to the winning owner—
the richest it’s been since before the war. There
are 29 acceptors, with Dante early favorite, then
Midas (Hyperion-Coin of the Realm; owner
Lord Rosebery, who led in last year’s Derby
winner, Ocean Swell), with High Peak and
Chamoissaire next in that order. Leading
jockey for the extraordinary total of 17 years,
Gordon Richards, who, strangely enough, has
yet to win a Derby, will be on the Foxhunter-
Mistress Ford colt Fordham, owned by the
Aga Khan, whose Tehran, despite having been
beaten (narrowly) in the last Derby, was rated
last year’s best. Fordham finished ahead of
High Peak (third) in the Coventry Stakes, won
by Dante, whose Derby start is reported to de-
pend on a Harley-street specialist’s report on an
eye injury the colt suffered in the Two Thou-
sand Guineas, in which he was just beaten by
Court Martial. If Dante start's he’ll be ridden
by Billy Nevett ; Tom Lowrey will probably
be on Chamossaire, E. Smith on Midas, Harry
Wragge on High Peak, A. Wragge on Paper-
weight and D. Smith on the King’s horse,
Rising Light. Paper Boy, lately brought to
Australia for stud purposes, is by Colorado
Kid-Art Paper, and so related to Paperweight.
* * * *
“G.N.’s” paean on the return of
cricket:
The fine sporting gesture by the English
skipper in the concluding over of the Victory
Test once more emphasises that cricket is a
great old game—one which does not give the big
man an advantage over the smaller one, except
perhaps, in the case of express bowling. Lord
Hawke, who led teams to every part of the
Empire, aptly expressed it as “A pure


AGENCIES WANTED
FOR NEW ZEALAND.
The principal of a New Zealand firm of Manu-
facturers’ Agents, R. W. Sharp, Ltd., 164 Cashel
Street, Christchurch, will be visiting Australia
for the purpose of interviewing manufacturers
with a view to present and post-war trade.
Timetable: Sydney, June Bth to 15th inclusive;
and from July 6th to July 28th inclusive; Mel-
bourne, June 17th to June 27th inclusive. Corre-
spondence enabling interviews to be arranged
will be appreciated. Address letters to —
R. W. SHARP,
C/o Masonic Club, Sydney,
or C/o
Commercial Travellers’ Club, Melbourne.
HUMS
Circular Charts Jo» all types oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Get our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
OUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O'lO.
Vcßoetv
Tmp er
55
British Right Through
Imperial
Typewriters ■
Standard and Portable Models
DOBELL PTY. LIMITED, 29 Reiby Place, Sydney
Interstate Agents:
GEO. RAITT 8C CO. PTY. LTD.
467 Collins Street, Melbourne
HOLDSWORTH 8C CO. LTD.
51 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
BURRIDGE & WARREN LTD.
69 King Street, Perth
L. DOBELL 8c CO. PTY. LTD.
47 Ci*eek Street, Brisbane
J. C. McPHEE PTY. LTD.
99 Collins Street, Hobart
JOHNSON & HEY
37 Hunter Street, Newcastle
2988
\i>
V 3 ®
\3 V
O
S s
m
oV
o
: "S' ■ ■ ' ■ . '
a , ; ,... :j.vV. .:■•, ' v : ' , . ■ •
:'V~'i -v; . •
We can supply
these
> r# +* - \ . <=&«'
PRODUCTION
’ ... .■
.‘£S '
' ■-....
v- .' .... . - ■ . •
•■■■■ - SiillSi . v/
JIGS &
FIXTURES,
PRESS TOOLS,
DIES, MOULDS
& GAUGES
Full-time maintenance of a toolroom is a serious economic
proposition for the individual manufacturer. By taking advantage
of the specialised and permanent resources of A.T.L., however,
he has at his service when and as required the most modern
precision machinery in Australia, ready to produce jigs, fixtures,
press tools, dies, moulds and gauges at lower cost and in shorter
time than would be possible were production attempted within
his own establishment.
n
Cb
X
ilii
, >
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
PRECISION ENGINEERS. TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS. TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
game and the one that does most good;
it is characteristic that while you make
runs you make friends.” Australia has
produced, some giant players who were
terrific hitters, notably George Bonnor
(N.S.W.), Jack Lyons and Joe Darling (S.A.),
and Warwick Armstrong (Vic.), but there have
been some dandy little men also who lost
nothing by comparison either in brilliance or
rapidity of scoring; Charlie Bannerman, maker
of the first century in Test cricket, Graham, Syd.
Gregory, Macartney and the famous Don.
Apart from their batting, they were all worth
going miles to see for their fielding alone, and
now Hassett looks like carrying on the good
work on their behalf for another decade or
more.
* * * *
South Melbourne, leading in the V.F.L.
contest, went home in stunned silence on
Saturday. Matched against Fitzroy, 1944
premiers, South witnessed the staggering
spectacle of a senior V.F.L. team kicking
7 goals 23 behinds, and was so over-
come that all it could manage against
these scatter-gun tactics was a score of
10.15. Other teams are worried; the
Fitzroy strategy might yet result in some
match ending 0.130 to 20.10. Only one
of the other leaders was in danger. North
Melbourne downed Melbourne, 18.11-
10.12; Essendon went through Geelong,
14.28-9.10; Collingwood rattled up
19.16 to St. Kilda’s 7.12 ; Footscray beat
Hawthorn, 17.14-11.15. The game of the
day was Richmond v. Carlton. The
Blues hopped out with a 2.3 to nil lead,
were overhauled, came again and just
failed to get there in a ding-dong finish,
which gave Richmond the winning goal
on the bell, 13.16-12.17.
At this stage South Melbourne leads
with 24 points, Essendon is next with
22, then Collingwood, Footscray, North
Melbourne and Richmond with 20 each.
Melbourne has 12, Fitzroy 10, Carlton 8,
Hawthorn, Geelong, St. Kilda 4 each.
* * * *
“Golesneek” looks on:
Just how far the V.F.L. is likely to enter-
tain notions of letting any other football body
in on a good thing is demonstrated by the
doings this season. Over 500,000 attended the
matches in the six rounds played up to 26/5 / ’45
and paid a total of £14,367, within a quid or
two of the 1939 figures. Biggest total crowd
so far this season was 103,700 on 26/5/’45 and
biggest single crowd 30,000 at the South Mel-
bourne-Footscray match on May 19. The
biggest football crowd in Australia this year
was 40,293 at a Sydney R.L. game on May 26,
but there were no horse-races that day; in any
case Sydney crowds have a tendency to concen-
trate at one game, whereas Melbourne crowds
spread themselves. As for amalgamation pro-
posals in Victoria, the best the V.F.L.’s oppo-
sition could do was 45,000 at all matches on
the opening day, when no V.F.L. matches were
played, and 20,100 on one day since. This
suggests that V.F.L. football is booming in
Melbourne; it’s a different story in places like
Bendigo, Ballarat, the Wimmera, Gippsland,
Riverina, the North, North-Western and West-
ern districts, where the services and metropoli-
tan war jobs, as well as the V.F.L., have
drained off many of the best players.
* * * ♦
With three regular players absent,
Randwick had many anxious moments
before it downed Drummoyne, 22-18, thus
maintaining its unbeaten record. Winger
Paterson scored a try and another ten
points with his boot. Hooker Alby Stone
celebrated his double century of first-
grade games by getting a feast of the ball
from the scrums for East, which routed
West 28-3. St. George was no match for
University, although Saints scored 16
points to the students’ 11 in the second
half to make it Uni. 24, St. George 16.
Parramatta’s forwards played the decisive
part in their side’s 8-3 win at Manly’s
expense. North scored five tries to nil
to trounce Gordon 21-3.
“P.McM.”: University v. Randwick
next Saturday should be the match of the
season. The Flying Greens prefer the
open game, but they have not met a back
line nearly as strong as that of the
students. Moreover, the Varsity forwards
are fiery, and their knack of wheeling the
scrum to nullify loss of possession has
helped their side to win many a game.
The duel between their five-eighth, John-
son, and Cremin should itself be out-
standing. Johnson is clever in attack.
Cremin is a deadly tackier.
* * * ♦
At Mosman (Sydney) council meetings
a few years ago there could be seen
among the aldermen at the table, all in
“soup and fish,” a well-built middle-aged
man with a phiz which had seen some
wear and tear. He spoke seldom except
to urge the claims of the Balmoral Ward,
which he did too successfully, aldermen
from other wards protested, though never
acrimoniously. Alderman Dave Smith
left Mosman for the mountains. He
returned recently at death’s door, and
last week fellow-aldermen were lost
among the crowd of boxers and devotees
of less exacting sports who followed his
coffin to Gore Hill cemetery. Dunedin-
born, Dave Smith came to Sydney when
he and the century were young, and for
11 or 12 years he was an outstanding
figure in the ring as amateur
middleweight champion, cruiserweight
and heavyweight champion among the
pros., opponent of some of, the best
Americans and Britons of the age
(a great one in pugilism) such as
Papke, McGoorty, Clabby, Cyclone
Johnnie Thompson and Pat O’Keeffe, and
tutor of Les Darcy. He had decisions
over all the contemporaries he engaged
except McGoorty and Darcy, being
scientific and dead-game and far more
intelligent than most pugs. Withal he
was a good fellow and capital company.
* * * *
After seeing Ritchie Sands stop Cliff
Bowen in less than a round at Leichhardt,
spectators wondered how Bowen had man-
aged to go the limit with every hard
hitter he had previously met. Fuller v.
Heron was a pretty good fight at the
Stadium, with Fuller a clear winner on
points.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Now authority has revealed what every
woman keeping house has known for a
long time that the daily loaf is often of
inferior quality. And what about the chop,
so-called lamb, that looks and smells suc-
culent but must remain uneaten because
of its toughness? What of fruit, the one-
time homely apple and banana among
the company, now become so dear that
soon only the black marketeer, rolling
in his unjust profits, will be able to buy
it? Can something not be done about
these matters? The Australian woman
does not grudge England and Europe
much of this land’s plenty, but she does
ask for her family “a fair go.”
And then there is the matter of queues.
Queues have become so much of the
daily round that maybe authority has
pome to look upon those who form
them as dumb driven cattle. But old
friend Carlyle, who claims they were a
Paris invention, looked upon them as
something worthy a chapter, in which
he says:
If we look now at Paris, one thing is too
evident: that the bakers’ shops have got
their queues or tails; their long string of
purchasers arranged in tail, so that the first
come be the first served In time we
shall see it (this waiting in tail) perfected
by practice to the rank almost of.an art.
But consider, how a man must not only
realise money, but stand waiting (if his
wife is too weak to wait and struggle),
in the tail till he gets it changed for dear
bad bread.
Wal Taylor’s expert fingers and artistic
mind were behind a super job of book-
binding which Lady Wakehurst will take
to England with her. Inside the covers
is an address from the Women’s Land
Army and this, signed by leading office-
bearers, was presented to the Governor’s
wife one afternoon this week. The covets
are of rich madonna-blue Russia leather,
which Wal had had by him from pre-
war days. Before coupons, too, was the
rich, deep-blue moire silk lining the
covers. These bore Lady Wakehurst’s
initials in gold and a tooled design of
the map of Australia and the golden
fleece. The address itself is on goat-skin
parchment, and the lettering is sheer
beauty done by Were Roberts. Mr.
Roberts is instructor in lettering at the
East Sydney Tech. A. book he has
written on this ancient craft has been
accepted by a London publisher.
Bruckner’s Seventh Symphony was the
golden fish served at last week’s orches-
tral concert. Bernard Heinze conducted
the interpretation, which found favor
with a Town Hall audience. Melbourne
girl, Sylvia Fisher, was the soloist on the
first and second nights, and sang with
clear voice and sureness “Traume” and
Senta’s ballad from “The Flying Dutch-
man.” Sydney listeners were glad of the
chance to hear this singer, who has a
great reputation in Melbourne.
There was a great flurry at the A.8.C..
last Thursday. Noel Mewton Wood, the
Commission’s latest imported pianist
rang up the studio saying “I’m here.”
He had arrived without preliminary an-
nouncement, and there was no red carpet,
no wreath of bays or anything. Fortu-
nately Noel has an aunt to stay with.
She is Mrs.. Chartres, of Point Piper,
whose brother, Frederick Mewton, was
for a time organist at St. Andrew’s. Noel
grew up in Melbourne, and his first
teacher was his mother, back in Aus-
tralia with him. He has been away for
seven years, and has played with
orchestras conducted by Beecham and
other noted conductors.
Auctioneer Max Lawson’s was not,
indeed, the Voice of the Turtle, but it did
make guests spring to the bidding on
an afternoon of last week. The scene
was the Pickwick Club ; time 4.30 on-
wards. Items auctioned were theatre boxes
and seats. Altogether, Max topped up
£264 for the cause—St. Vincent’s special
appeal. Four theatre boxes at 20 guineas
each were snapped up; so everything
seems under control for the matinee at the
Theatre Royal on June 19. President of
the Women’s Committee, Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, was hostess of the party that en-
circled the auction.
Poetry-lovers throughout the land will
rejoice that the A.B.C.’s prize for a lyric
suitable for a national song has been won
by Marie E. J. Pitt. Marie has always
had the knack of capturing the heart
and enslaving the memory with her vivid,
emotional and tuneful lines. And who
is there better fitted to write a song of
Australia? Marie was born in Victoria,
of pioneer stock. She spent her girlhood
on the land. Later she passed some
years on both the east and the west coast
of Tasmania. At one time she was the
only woman in a mining centre. Since
her pen started to write poetry she has
been a Bulletin contributor.
St. Michael’s, Vaucluse, was chosen
by Mrs. Patricia Osborne (young widow
of Flight-Sergeant Oliver Willis Osborne,
R.A.A.F.), and Flight-Lieutenant Denis
Garvan, D.F.C., R.A.A.F., for their
wedding last week. Bride’s parents are
Dr. and Mrs. George Curtis, of Bellevue
Hill. Bridegroom’s father was Denis
Garvan, his mother is Mrs. Gordon
Brady, of Bellevue Hill, The reception
was at the home of Mrs. Stewart Jamie-
son, sister of the ’groom.
Cynthia Reed (Mrs. Hansen) has
written a new ode to a Nightingale. It
is not poesy but prose, and it runs into
a full-length book called Lucky Alphonse.
Alphonse is the heroine who takes up
nursing as a profession, and the story
of her training in hospitals abroad will
prove informative and provocative now
that nursing conditions in Australia are
under review.
Cynthia is an Australian who studied
in the renowned Florence Nightingale
School at St. Thomas’s, London, and at
the New York Medical Centre. She was
nursing in the American Hospital in
Paris when France fell, but, fortunately,
escaped by way of Italy to the U.S.A.
Mrs. Hansen has had a life of varied
experiences, and has tackled many ways
of making her living, from growing vege-
tables in the South of France (pre-war)
to being a survey officer in a Government
department. She married while in France,
and has one small daughter.
The Sydney Symphony Orchestra com-
mittee gave a nice friendly old-fashioned
tea-party at the Women’s Club in honor
of the A.B.C.’s new chairman Boyer and
Mrs. Boyer, and General-manager Moses
and Mrs. Moses. An easy feeling of
mateyness prevailed. The Alexander
Gordon lady, who shared hostess duties
with Mrs. Robert Dixson, and Mrs. W.
Hope Gibson made a neat little speech
and Mr. Boyer’s speech in reply was
smoothly tooled and lettered. There
were about 50 guests in all.
Frank Hutchens, Stanley Clarkson,
Margaret Dreyer and Lily Kolos will be
the musicians and singers supplying the
programme at the musicale in aid of the
Mayoress’s Clothing Fund. This will be
in the foyer of the Town Hall tomorrow
afternoon.
On a really busy night there will be 900
servicemen seeking repose at the British
Centre in Hyde Park. There will be 450
beds in dormitories and 450 shakedowns in
the ballroom. This has a delicate pink ceil-
ing and blue woodwork, and that will be
a comfort to the aesthete who may find
himself a bit sleepless. There is plenty
of light and space about the building.
There’s a snack bar and a soda fountain,
but real meals will be served at the Anzac
Buffet next door.
Rear-Admiral G. D. Moore, R.A.N.,
Commander R. F. Jennings, R.N., and
other officers of bpth navies inspected
the building last week, and by now ser-
vicemen are in residence. Secretary of
the British Centre, A. L. Spooner, es-
corted the visitors over the building, and
explained that the permanent staff will
number 20, and that voluntary helpers
would be drawn from those on the
present British Centre list. Blue and
white are the dominating colors of cur-
tains and other furnishings. Official
opening is dated for June 22, when the
Duke of Gloucester will officiate.
Westralian June Epstein’s recital in
the Conservatorium early last week was
in aid of the World Student Relief Fund.
The aim is to make the lot of the student
in war - stricken countries a little
smoother. June was the first Australian
to win the Trinity College of Music’s
overseas scholarship. She has the dis-
tinction of having been soloist with
Trinity College orchestra in the Queen’s
Hall, London.
From Melbourne
With the advent of winter women have
got out all their warmest clothes. As a
shield against stormy blasts a most at-
tractive fashion has come into vogue. It
is a throw-back to childhood’s days, for
it is just a warm knitted peaked cap
which covers the head and ties snugly
under the chin. The color matches coat
or suit, and the cap is knitted in all-one-
color wool or can be patterned. Some
have the whole front formed of loops
of wool, making an effective frame for a
pretty face. For evening wear the “fasci-
nator” of an earlier period is making its
appearance for dressy occasions. More
and more attention is given to suits and
coats. A favorite coat style is of seven-
eighths length, and has a graceful swing
at the back. Wide pockets match wide
lapels. For the woman with the slim
figure the fitted coat is permissible. Capes
are coming back into the picture. They
are hip-length or, if coupons allow, reach
the hem of frock or suit. The hand of
the Wool Board is apparent in some of
these developments.
The calendar for the next few months
is full of patriotic appeals, Lieut. Joel,
R.A.N., and his committee are working
at top speed for the success of “Jack’s
Day,” and although they have suffered
a setback (they have been refused a
Button Day) they are undaunted, and will
find some means of disposing of the but-
tons they have on hand. The R.A.A.F.
Locker Fund Committee is organising a
ball, at which girls will form a Debutante
Set, with R.A.A.F. partners.
The “Mardi Gras on Ice” carnival
attracted over 2000 sightseers to the St.
Moritz Palais, St. Kilda. Many hundreds
more were turned away, and the organ-
iser, Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, and her
young helpers were delighted when at the
end of the evening it was known that
over £lOOO would be handed to Mayor
Nettlefold for the Disabled Soldiers and
Sailors’ Fund. Among the helpers was
Margot Cornaga, pictured here, who has
been engaged in this work since its incep-
tion. She has appeared as Tondelayo in
Cavalcades, and will again be seen in this
role on July 4, when Mrs. Mitchell’s
young helpers will assist at the ball in
aid of the Naval Relief Fund.
Margot, born in Maoriland, came to
Australia when she was 13, and was edu-
cated at St. Catherine’s. In addition to
her other good works, she is secretary of
the women’s committee formed to assist
at Haere-mai (which means welcome), a
hostel where troops from Fernland may
have a meal, and for whom entertainment
is arranged during their stay.
Sponsored by various organisations, a
Child Welfare Exhibition was held in the
Town Hall. As a prelude, an essay com-
petition was held among the metropoli-
tan schools, and on opening day the win-
ners, Dorothy Clarke, of Ormiston Girls’
School, and James Webb, of the Mel-
bourne Boys’ High School, stood on the
platform, surrounded by distinguished
citizens, and read their efforts. Most at-
tractive of the exhibits was that of the
Association of Creches, which organised
a model creche, with toddlers playing in
the miniature playground and tiny babies
going through the routine which forms
their day. Two mothercraft nurses were
in attendance, watching the children and
answering questions from interested spec-
tators. In the Department of Health’s
Division of Maternal, Infant and Pre-
school Welfare a nurse was dressing a
large baby doll and explaining to a crowd
of schoolgirls how baby should be washed
and dressed and, later, fed.
One exhibitor, a young lad, a member
of one of the boys’ clubs, showed his
versatility in handicraft —millinery, fancy-
work, hand-made flowers and even a
knitted bedjacket were among his pro-
ducts. Wallaby-skin mats, woven rugs,
baskets and weaving were shown by the
Aborigines’ Association, the weaving done
by the women and children of the Mt.
Margaret Mission in W.A. being of par-
ticular excellence. An attractive display
of books was staged by the Children’s
Library Committee and pictures were
shown of children lining up with the
books of their choice and handing them
to the librarian.
To help the Y.W.C.A.’s appeal for
funds Mrs. K. Kumm and Mrs. Essing-
ton Lewis sent out invitations to friends
to bring an antique, a piece of costume
jewellery or a piece of needlework to a
bazaar. Most of the invitations were
accepted and sales were brisk. The affair
was held at the home of Mrs. Kumm, in
Hopetoun-road, Toorak, and the weather
was bright and sunny. Mrs. Kumm re-
ceived the guests with Mrs. Essington
Lewis, both black-clad. Mrs, Kumm
added a mink cape to her outfit, and Mrs.
Essington Lewis a black coat trimmed
with Persian lamb. Mrs. A. Lord relieved
her black attire with a wide-brimmed red
felt hat. Mrs. Hector Greig, a vice-
president of the Y.W.C.A., wore a cherry
suit.
Captain Ralph Campbell Musbury
Duckworth, 0.8. E., R.N., had to come to
Australia from Somerset to meet the lass
he married recently. His bride, Second-
Officer Ruby Cortez, W.R.N.S., came
from London to Australia to meet
romance. Second-Officer Cortez was
assigned to duty as secretary to Captain
Duckworth, who is Assistant Chief of
Staff of the British Pacific Fleet in Mel-
bourne. They were married at Christ
Church, South Yarra, Choir boys sang
their sweetest for the ceremony, which
was performed by the Rev. W. H.
Henderson, 0.8. E., senior chaplain of the
R.A.N. The bride’s long-sleeved tailored
gown of white crepe was surmounted by
a shoulder-length tulle veil attached to
her hair by a coronet of gardenias. She
carried an ivory-bound prayer book. The
white crepe frocks of her three attendants
were embroidered in crystal beads. Sun-
set-toned gladioli figured in their hair
and formed the bouquets they carried.
Matron -of - honor was Third - Officer
Margot Harris, wife of Lieut. Harris,
Royal Marines. The two bridesmaids
were Third-Officer Rosemary Reyne,
W.R.N.S., daughter of Rear-Admiral Sir
Cecil Reyne, and Ruth Franklin,
W.R.N.S. The bridegroom was attended
by fellow-officers, eight of whom with
flashing swords held aloft, formed the
guard of honor as the newly-wedded pair
left the church for the reception, held at
Domain-road, South Yarra.
“Bats in the Belfry,” presented by
R.A.A.F. and W.A.A.A.F. personnel,
was a great success. Section-Officer
Joyce Money as Miranda and Flight-
Lieut. Jeff Lear as Edward were out-
standing. Proceeds went to the R.A.A.F.
Locker Fund. The University Union
Theatre was scene of the presentation,
and in the audience were Air Vice-
Marshal George Jones and his wife, who
covered her short red-wool dinner frock
with a brown full-length musquash
coat. The wife of Air-Commodore
Lukis also donned a fur coat over
her black frock, trimmed heavily at the
neckline with steel beads. Group-Captain
E. A. Mustar brought his wife to the
performance in a rust-red frock with a
fur coat for added warmth. Shirley
Scott, snugly wrapped in a grey tailored
coat, was with P. O. S. Moignard.
Servicewomen took the opportunity to
get out of uniform. Among those who
sold programmes was A.C.W. Dodo
Ireland smart in a long red wool evening
gown trimmed with white braid. Acting
as usher, A.C.W. Joan Wilton was gowned
in a long flowing silk multi-striped skirt
allied with a tight-fitting black velvet
jacket. A party of W.R.N.S. came along
to see the show. Third-Officer Chand-
wick, W.R.N.S., was in the audience.
Dr. C. Ednott Crooke gave an exhibi-
tion of his water-colors, entire proceeds
of which went to the Red Cross. The
painter was specially honored by a visit
from Lady Dugan, Victoria’s Red Cross
president, who thanked him for his gener-
ority, and expressed her appreciation of
his work. Her Excellency, usually in
pastel shades, attended the show in a
leaf-green ensemble, with an upturned hat
of velvet in the same color. A pfesy
of primroses was pinned into her silwr-
fox fur. Green shoes, in soft suede were
also in the color scheme. Miss Lisle
Johnson accompanied Lady Dugan, her
suit of grey tweed highlighted by a pastel
yellow sweater. Her wide-brimmed felt
hat had touches of yellow ribbon. The
Angliss lady, a member of the Red Cross
committee, chose a suit whose soft
brown tonings were well suited to the
chilly weather. Mrs. Ednott Crooke pre-
sented Lady Dugan with a floral token
on her arrival.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Gauge Unification
The mileage of railways open in Aus-
tralia, according to The Commonwealth
Year Book, 1940, is:
• Miles.
Commonwealth .. .. ••
States 25 ’£g-53
Private 764/71
Total .. •• 27,998.29
Total cost of construction and equip-
ment, Government railways only, was
£317,253,832. The Year Book shows that
over the period 1934-39 a loss of
£7,329,000 was made on the combined
Government railways, after payment of
working expenses, interest and other
charges.
To the £317 millions shown above there
is to be added initially £76,751,000 for all
work other than the complete standardis-
ation and modernisation of Queensland
and W.A. railways. This sum provides
for standardising Victorian and S.A. rail-
ways and the one from Fremantle to Kal-
goorlie. When all Queensland and W.A.
railways are converted a further estimated
sum of £132,500,000 has to be added.
The total final cost will be around
millions, and on this huge sum
interest will be paid for ever, plus losses.
Losses on railways are world-wide, and
apparently are insurmountable. The
motor-car and the motor-truck provide
greater speed and accessibility and fre-
quency of delivery, and can, and do, cut
prices to the bone, whilst the railways
employ bagmen trying, most ineffectually,
to recover the traffic, and being finally
left with low-grade freight such as wheat,
road metal, etc.
When the aeroplane—passenger and
freight types—becomes fully operative it
is probably safe to say that the railways
will be doomed from the point of view
of profit.
Why waste money on unification?
Water conservation, land settlement,
housing will absorb all the available
millions. —Francis (Vic/).
Re-establishment Bill
It is likely that the reaction of the
average-thinking serviceman to the Ded-
man measure will be characterised more
by resentment than any other emotion ;
more particularly if he has been in a posi-
tion to read the Parliamentary debates.
It is apparent that our so-called “Bill
of Rights” was conceived in a spirit of
political expediency. It is the price paid
for services rendered by a certain Inde-
pendent member of the House at a criti-
cal moment in Federal Labor’s history,
and he probably realises by now that he
has been paid off in somewhat spurious
currency.
Government members have made it
clear, inadvertently or pot, that it is
preference for Unionists which they de-
sire. Even Mountjoy admits this. Since
it is the desire of Government supporters
to enrol all workers within the ranks of
unionism, it follows that the serviceman’s
passport to re-establishment is to be a
union ticket.
This would not be so bad if this war
had not seen so many unionists doing
their best to bring discredit upon union-
ism. Whatever is good amongst its prin-
ciples has been degraded to a policy of
blackmail, often at the expense of the
very serviceman to whom they would
grant a belated share in the ill-gotten
plunder. In short, it behoves the unions
to put their respective houses in order if
they desire to make them attractive to the
returned serviceman. Even their first prin-
ciple of unity seems to have gone by the
board, for conflict between executives
and the rank and file has become
frequent.
Granted, that unionism is purged of its
war-time spirit of lawlessness and the re-
turned soldier'has been duly installed in
membership, where then is he to look
for the oft-promised reward? The Gov-
ernment’s answer to this is full employ-
ment, indeed a worthy objective, but one
which has for many years eluded the
combined efforts of economist and poli-
tician. Perhaps the Labor party will
write its name in history by finding the
solution.
But the Government has yet to demon-
strate its sincerity by showing us just how
it intends to achieve this. So far, it seems
that it proposes to “pass the buck” to
private enterprise, whilst continuing to
hamstring this unhappy animal, —One
of the Navy (R.A.N.V.R.).
Nationalisation “Under the Lap”
Amidst all the talk of nationalisation
of banks and airlines, the N. S. Wales
Forestry Department is carrying out a
very neat plan for virtual nationalisation
without risking the losses of the avowed
socialist experiments.
Having a monopoly of the raw
materials of sawmilling, the department
simply dictates to its customers the prices
which they have to pay for royalty, log-
hauling, cutting, etc., and also decides
what profit will be permitted to the miller,
who must take the profit allowed or go
out of business;
Needless to say, the profit allowed is
well controlled, as the higher the profit
allowed the smaller is the royalty payable
to the department. Losses which may
occur to the miller he must bear alone. —
A. C. M. (N.S.W.).
The British Way
It is passing strange that clamor con-
tinues for a New World, a New Way of
Life. Are we so blind to the great lesson
that has been offered us, so dull that we
cannot read the writing plain upon the
wall? Look at the world or, narrower
than that, look at the United Nations.
There is only one —and it is not vain-
glory to say so, but a simple statement of
fact —that can look back on the war years
with pride in the whole record. Britain
alone came in fighting, and is fighting
still; paid her way while she could, and
paid a pretty high price for pre-Pearl
Harbor help from America; helped
everybody at the sacrifice of her own
“ Let's know when We get near 'em, mate — I’ve got to learn how to
parry yet.”
needs, and, greatest of all, came through
with her Parliamentary institutions and
the monarchy stronger than ever.
Look at the Dominions’ record —
shoulder to shoulder with the grand Old
Country, right from the beginning! Isn’t
it something to shout about, to learn
from? What do we want with a New
Order when the Old Order stood through
this holocaust? Improvement, yes, of
course, but in closer relations within the
Empire, not a weakening of' it by inter-
national commitments that might take us
God knows where. They talk of what to
do with war criminals, with Germany.
The answer is: Treat them the British
way. —F. H. W. (S.A.).
Dangers of Inflation
While a change in the method of con-
trolling the Australian banking system is
under discussion it may not be out of
place to-recall the inflation which took
place in Italy, Germany and Russia sub-
sequent to 1920, and to consider Chinas
present-day plight. The trend in these
countries has been to issue unlimited
paper currency to finance Government
expenditure and the experience has been
disastrous to working people.
Is Australia headed the same way? In
1939 the total Australian notes held by
the public averaged £35,000,000, and
“till money” with the banks approx.
£14,000,000. At January 29 last the total
note issue was £193,000,000, composed
of approximately £15,000,000 of “till
money, and £178,000,000 in the hands
of public.
Germany and Russia by 1930 had got
their currencies into such a state that no
person (except fools) would accept their
money in payment for goods. Foreign
traders insisted on gold or goods. Thus,
to secure imports, Russia by 1932 had
brought from America and Canada some
highly-paid experts to increase her gold
output. By 1937 the Russian currency
was on a much sounder basis.
For the last 10 years the U.S.S.R. offi-
cial exchange rate has been quoted as
20 to 25 to the £ (sterling), whereas the
internal purchasing power of the rbuble
has been only one-fifth of its exchange
rating. Hence the British Ambassador’s
staff is allowed by the U.S.S.R. Govern-
ment 48 roubles to £l, and the British
Government subsidises this to the extent
of another 48 roubles.
Russian Government cafeteria charges
vary from two roubles a meal for
people employed in light industry, with
a wage of 200 to .300 roubles a month,
to four roubles a meal for people em-
ployed in heavy industry, with wages
at 400 to 750 roubles a month. The two-
rouble meal is admittedly not very satis-
fying, so averaging the daily meal cost
at eight roubles it costs a worker 240
roubles a month for food alone. That
is why the wives of many Russian mar-
ried men on 300 to 400 roubles a month
have also to work to live. It explains,
too, the necessity for creches and kinder-
gartens. The cause? High Government
profit on all food.
A U.S.S.R. 300-rouble-a-m’onth wage
is worth £5 6s. 3d. (Australian) a month
or approx. £1 6s. 7d. per week; just
short of the Australian old-age pension.
On these facts the average Australian
worker has nothing to hope for from
socialistic government or system of
finance.— Common Sense (W.A.).
Leave in the R.A.N.
Why is the R.A.N. treated so shabbily
in regard to leave? Army and Air Force
personnel get accumulated leave even if
they wait up to two, or even three, years.
There are many cases of soldiers, after a
ẁ
form.” Stipends of the official clergy
would be paid by the State. The vast
majority would welcome such a Church
which in lime would provide a common
faith for every Australian. Would it
work? YE Day and the National Days
of Prayer provide the obvious answer. —
Chaplain (A.1.F.).
Queensland Coal Development
I read with much interest your com-
ment (B. 2/5/’45) that the Queensland
Government was first in with a post-war
development scheme, inasmuch as it pro-
poses to develop the Blair Athol coal de-
posit 130 miles inland from Rockhamp-
ton, allegedly the largest coal seam in
the world.
The facts are that the British Com-
ffionwealth Co-operative Development
League offered to open up three coal de-
posits in central Queensland to the point
of production and hand them over to the
coalminers free of debt as owners, to be
worked co-operatively with consumers
as a contribution towards peace in in-
dustry. This offer was made early last
year. Less than a month ago the League
was informed that the scheme was im-
practicable—no reasons why.
The Callide Valley deposit, almost in
sight of Gladstone, one of the best deep-
sea ports on the coastline of Australia,
with almost inexhaustible water on the
spot, just as good quality and, if anything,
more extensive than Blair Athol, is
turned down. The only advantage Blair
Athol has over Callide Valley is from
a State-owned viewpoint —the State Gov-
ernment would be able to extract from
consumers an additional hundred miles
freight over a State-Owned railway.
The League is offering to operate any
one of the thousand coal deposits in cen-
tral Queensland side by side with the
Government-controlled affair and beat
them at their own game, co-operatively
working. Co-operative Development
(Q-).
Landlord and Tenant
If the National Security (Landlord and
Tenant) Regulations and War-time Mora-
torium Regulations are “unpopular with
the masses” (“A.D.,” B. 25/4/’45) it is
because of people’s ignorance of the pro-
visions of the regulations rather than
any major deficiencies in them.
Even tenants enjoying service privileges
may be tendered notice to quit if they:
(1) Fail to pay rent for 56 days.
(2) Fail to perform some other term of
(3) Fail to take proper care of the
premises.
(4) Cause a nuisance or annoyance to
neighbors.
(5) Are convicted of an offence arising
out of the use of the premises for an
illegal or immoral purpose.
Furthermore, a tenant may be given
notice to quit if the owner requires the
premises for his personal occupation or
for some person who resides with and is
dependant upon the owner; with the
proviso that the tenant is not a depen-
dant of a member of the forces, who by
reason of service is required to live away
from home, in which case suitable
alternative accommodation (defined in the
regulations) must be found for the ejected
tenant. , .
Under National Security Regulations
notice to quit must detail the reasons for
terminating the tenancy and must be
given for a period of not less than seven
days, plus a further period of seven days
for each six months of occupation, but
not exceeding in the aggregate 91 days.
Upon the expiration of the period ot
notice, application for the ejectment of
the tenant may be made to the appropriate
court—Ex-Estate Agent (A.1.F.).
Retiring Age for Politicians
Why should the suggestion of a retir-
ing age for politicians cause a flutter in
the Parliamentary dovecotes? What is
sauce for the goose should be sauce for
the gander, and if men in other walks ot
life are considered too old at 65, so should
the politician be. In fact, it should be
more applicable to him, for we are led to
believe that the mental strain involved
in such a pursuit is far greater than that
of the ordinary man.
If politicians will not retire gracefully
and voluntarily they should be compelled
to do so on reaching the age of 65, and
leave the field to younger people. Ibis,
however, seems to be one more case in
which the law-makers say “One law lor
you ; another for me.” Retiring Age
(Tas.).
Wood Pulp as Drought Fodder
A news-reel shows cattle in Sweden
being fed on wood pulp. Bushmen know
how often starving stock have been
nursed through a drought on white box
and bush apple-tree leaves Thls
from Sweden seems to hold
for our drought-stricken inland. Box and
apple wood should make the right kind
of pulp, and there is plenty of both m
Australia, beside many other varieties,
which might prove better still. G. A. B.
(N.S.W.).


*7Ss
,/n*
w
&
m
""in.
«U|
Jni
#2
My
•M 9
£
;a§»
UNDER COVER .
The enormous quantity and types of wireless equipment designed and
manufactured by A.W.A. for the fighting services of the Allies of course
cannot be stated. It is, in effect, “under cover.”
However, when security restrictions are lifted, there will be revealed a
remarkable story of how A.W.A. built up its peacetime organisation to war-
time proportions and met the insistent and pressing needs of the services
for wireless equipment of every type.
Time was an essential factor speedy deliveries to the forces a vital
necessity. Scientific research workers and experienced wireless engineers
concentrated by day and night on production. Their one and only objective
was increased production, and yet more production, in the speediest possible
time.
This was achieved - peak production reached, and a flow of progress
deliveries made to the NaVy, Army and Air Forces of the Allied Nations.
With the coming of peace . . . A.W.A. will enter the electronic age with an
unrivalled record in the Australian wireless industry.
Definitely the post-war Radiola will gain by the increased technical skill of
A.W.A. scientists and engineers developed in wartime production. It will
be an instrument of entertainment worthy of the famous trade mark of
Radiola, renowned throughout the Commonwealth.
ẅ
w
ŵ
