

E
The Bulletin
.‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3421
Wednesday, September 5, 1945
Price 6d.
,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TAYMOUTH CASTLE.
'"TAYMOUTH CASTLE, near the village of Kenmore, Perthshire,
A and at the head of Loch Tay, was built in 1580 by Sir Colin
Campbell, sixth knight of Loch Awe, on the eastern limit of the
Taymouth property, acquired in the fifteenth century by his ancestor
Sir Colin Campbell, knight of Rhodes. When he was asked by a
friend why he had placed his house at the extreme end of his
estate instead of the middle, he answered “We’ll brizz yont” (press
forward). However, the castle is still at the end of the property;
for instead of extending eastward so as to make the house in the
centre, as he had intended, the family possessions now stretch
for a space of a hundred miles westward right up to the Atlantic.
The lowness of the entrance-hall increases the effect produced by
the grand staircase, which immediately follows it and rises to the
full height of the central tower, ornamented in the richest style
of Gothic architecture after the manner of Henry Vfl’s chapel at
Westminster. Taymouth was visited in 1819 by Prince Leopold,
brother of the Duchess of Kent, and afterwards King of the Bel-
gians: Lord Breadalbane summoned part of his vassals to appear
in honor of his guest, and some 2000 men assembled, all dressed
in Highland costume, before the castle. On the mantelpiece of
the inn at Kenmore is a couplet written by Burns in praise of the
scenery round the castle.


d
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL—
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write /or Profit, <u
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 146 ..
AGE
The Red Page
MYSTERIOUS PERIODICALS.
Stand up, Mr. John K. Ewt'rs.
Mr. Ewers, you have written, and your
publisher (Georgian House, Melbourne)
has sent in to The Bulletin for review
an introduction to Australian literature”
entitled Creative Writing in Australia.
As an example of the book’s generosity
of range and by no means inconsiderable
critical acumen, one may quote this para-
graph on a short-story writer who has not
yet published a book: -
A humorist of no mean order is James
Hackston, who in a series of stories has
created an inimitable “father.” full of bluff
and bravado and grandiose schemes which
never eventuate. He is nicely offset by a
patient and understanding “mother,” who
debunks his quixotic dreaming by taking no
notice of it and going quietly on carrying
the brunt of tbe burden of keeping the
home fires burning. Taken separately these
stories are highly amusing and “father” is
a great creation, but one wonders just what
would be the cumulative effect if all his
pretentious escapades were gathered to-
gether in a single volume. The reader
might, perhaps, grow as weary of them
as the “mother” in the stories themselves.
James Hackston’s stories, you inform
the world, are to be found in “periodi-
cals.” You do not say that the “periodi-
cal” in which all James Hackston’s
“father” stories have appeared is The
Bulletin.
“Other writers,” you say, “whose work,
can only be assessed by occasional
examples in periodicals and anthologies,”
are A. C. Headley, Alan Marshall and
Don Edwards. You do not say that
Headley and Don Edwards are regular
Bulletin contributors, nor that ’Alan
Marshall has published his best work in
The Bulletin.
Before a collection was published in
book form, Douglas Stewart’s short
stories were “seen occasionally in periodi-
cals and anthologies,” you say. You do
not say that, with the exception of one
story published in the Auckland “Star,”
New Zealand, and two which had not
been published anywhere, all the stories
in A Girl with Red Hair were first printed
in The Bulletin.
“Brian James,” you say, “is a new
writer who has comparatively recently
found periodical publication.” Brian
James’s stories—you do not say—have
been published in The Bulletin and no-
where else.
Your list of. contemporary Australian
short-story writers who have published
books is: Gavin Casey, Margaret Trist,
Dal Stivens, Douglas Stewart, Brian
James and Marjorie Barnard. “TTie most
outstanding [v/c] contemporary short-story
writer in Australia,” you say, “is Gavin
S. Casey.” Casey’s most skilful story,
you say, is “Short Shift Saturday.”
Your list of novelists who have
written short stories is; Katherine
Susannah Prichard, Vance Palmer, Frank
Dalby Davison, Henrietta Drake Brock-
man and Myra Morris. Frank Davison’s
“The Good Herdsman,” you say, was “the
outstanding story” of Coast to Coast, 1943.
You add that “a representative survey
of the contemporary Australian short
story may be obtained from Coast to
Coast."
Perhaps it was not necessary for you
to record that Coast to Coast was
founded by The Bulletin; that “Short
Shift Saturday” and “The Good Herds-
man” were both first published in The
Bulletin ; and that The Bulletin pub-
lished the best stories —and most of the
stories—of Gavin Casey, Margaret Trist,
Douglas Stewart, Brian James, Katherine
Prichard, Vance Palmer, Frank Davison,
Henrietta Drake Brockman and Myra
Morris, Perhaps, on the only occasion
among your chapters on contemporary
Australian prose and poetry when you
mention anything that a knowledgeable
reader could interpret as relating to this
paper, it was not necessary to say that
Casey’s S. H. Prior Prize was awarded
by The Bulletin.
Perhaps. Yet these are facts. Why
conceal them?
You are certainly not justified in
inventing all these mysterious “periodi-
cals” in which the best Australian short
stories are published. You say, eventu-
ally, they are “few.” They are The Bul-
letin. Your book is a history as well as
a critical survey: an “introduction” for
students, a record for posterity. As such,
it is scandalously inaccurate.
As in the case of Coast to Coast, per-
haps it is justifiable not to mention that
the anthology Australian Poetry was
founded by The Bulletin ; perhaps,
when you single out for praise from Poets
at War eight verses by soldiers, you do
not need to add that five of them were
first printed in The Bulletin ; likewise
when you give special honors to A. G.
Austin’s “Chez Nous” from Australian
Poetry, 1942 —and also from The Bulle-
tin’s Red Pages of soldier poetry; per-
haps you are justified in classifying Brian
Vrepont—who published in The Bulle-
tin long before “Meanjin Papers” was
thought of, and who still publishes here
as often as in that estimable little maga-
zine—as a “Meanjin” poet: but you
cannot, as a recorder of facts who
discusses at fantastic length the activities
of the minority movements in Australian
poetry, justifiably pretend that such
writers as Robert Fitz Gerald. Norma
Davis, Kenneth Mackenzie, Douglas
Stewart and Rosemary Dobson are “in-
dividualists” publishing apparently no-
where. These individualists, like the short-
story writers and the soldier poets, pub-
lish in The Bulletin.
Since you pay due tribute to The Bul-
letin of past periods, noting its great
influence on the ballad movement of
Paterson and the story movement of Law-
son ; noting A. G. Stephens’s discovery
of Such Is Life and recording the import-
ance of The Bulletin novel competitions,
your book, had you continued to record
the full facts, would have been crammed
with references to The Bulletin from
beginning to end. Well, why not?
This form of attack (for, whether you
meant it or not, it is a form of attack)
comes regrettably from you for two
reasons: firstly, though many minor objec-
tions could be made, and though one must
read “Bulletin” for “individualist” and
“Bulletin” for “periodicals” throughout,
your book is a good little survey ; and,
secondly, many of your own short stories
have been published in—“periodicals.”
John K. Ewers, you may sit down and
think it over.
Red Page.
The American Wits,
The most pleasing discovery in The
Best American Wit and Humor (World
Publishing Co.; Angus and Robertson)
is Mr. Franklin Pierce Adams. Unbe-
knownst to the present commentator, Mr.
Adams has been hiding under a bushel
somewhere in darkest America one of the
brightest lights you could come across.
He has a series of skits on famous
poems and famous incidents in history,
in which he satirises both the poem and
(more bitingly) contemporary journalese.
He takes, for instance, Longfellow’s “Ex-
celsior” and tells the story as a daily
newspaper would report it:
DOG FINDS LAD
DEAD IN DRIFT
Unidentified Body of Young Traveller Found
try Faithful Hound Near Small
Alpine Village—White Mantle
His Snowy Shroud
ST. BERNARD, SEPT. 12.—Early this
morning a dog belonging to the St. Bernard
Monastery discovered the body of a young
man, half buried in the snow.
In his hand was clutched a flag with the
word “Excelsior” printed on it.
It is reported that he passed through the
village last night, bearing the banner, and
that a young woman had offered him
shelter, which he refused, having answered
“Excelsior.”
The police are working on the case.
Mr. Adams has the landing of the Pil-
grim Fathers under the heading “Pilgrim
Dads Land on Mass. Coast Town,” with
the information that the Mayflower car-
ried “a cargo of antique furniture” and
that “steps are being taken to organise
a society of Mayflower descendants.”
Then there is Wordsworth’s “Lucy
Grey”:
LAKE BARD’S PAL,
INCOG, ENDS ALL
Young Woman, Friend of Famed Poet,
Takes Own Life.
GRASMERE, June 4.—Mystery sur-
rounds the demise here today of a beautiful
young woman alleged to be a close friend
of William K. Wordsworth, a poet, of No.
2118 F West Commercial Street.
“She was a Dove Springs girl,” said
Wordsworth this morning, in a statement
given out at his lake villa, Kamp Kumfort.
“She was not well known, and gained scant
praise during her life. As far as is known
she had few lovers.”
He added that her interment made a dif-
ference to him.
Next in delight to Mr. Adams are
Robert Benchley (a skit on the secretary’s
speech at a committee meeting) and Corey
Ford (a parody on the detective story
writer S. S. Van Dine in which the mys-
tery is made extremely sinister and
baffling by the fact that the corpse is not
dead and “inadvertently takes part in the
Most of the contributions to this an-
thology are from professional wits who
conversation from time to time”).
write for the U.S. newspapers ; there is
a sophistication and a polish in their
writing hardly to be found in Australian
journalism which, with a few exceptions,
either takes itself with provincial serious-
ness or weakly imitates the Americans.
The black-and-white drawings repro-
duced, however, are much inferior to
current work in Australia ; and will re-
main so while black-and-white men con-
tinue to resist (as all but a few of them
do) the cult of bad drawing and feeble-
ness to which the Americans have suc-
cumbed.
Two from Soldiers .
T 7 T, XT r>i 1 r r
From P. C. Neasbey s Blokes I Knew
(Frank Johnson, Sydney), another Middle
When men sail away from Australia as
members of the Australian Imperial Forces
on active service they begin writing a story
unique and peculiar to their characteristics.
And these characteristics are fearlessness,
determination, devotion to their country
and themselves and an inbred decency and
love of things clean. They are the salt of
the earth. In every theatre of war these
sons of a great new world have justified
their reputation as incomparable soldiers,
and much ink has been spilt by many who
would paint a picture of the .indomitable
courage and elan which always marks the
“Digger.”
Neasbey spills a great deal of ink say-
ing just that. But that sort of thing
comes more gracefully from outsiders,
For an Australian to read Masefield’s
fine tribute is a heart-warming experi-
ence ; reading Neasbey’s is an uncom-
fortable one.
There is humor of a rough and ready
kind in Blokes I knew; some factual/re-
porting ; and the soldiers are recognis-
able, but superficial.
The Turning Point (Collins, Ltd., Auck-
land) is about the N.Z. engineers in the
M.E., and the author, Lieut.-Colonel H.
Murray Reid, M.C. and bar, is another
Man with a Purpose.
He is more restrained than Neasbey but
equally enthusiastic—for the men who
were under his command—the ordinary
tappers.” This admirable attitude may
have helped to make him a good soldier,
and there is no reason why it should
handicap him as a writer, were it not for
the fact that it betrays him into errors
of judgment.
He distorts the characters of his
sappers, pushing them, willy-nilly, into
a stiff heroic mould, and taking liberties
with their conversation. The result is
that flattering type of portraiture which
is almost caricature. Far better to
visualise the men as they are, report the
conversation as it is spoken and let the
heroism speak for itself.
The book is apparently taken from a
diary. There are some good photographs,
a mass of material and some repetition,
It is an interesting book, in its way, but is
mainly of specialist interest. Anyone who
reads the lot should have a very sound
idea of an engineer’s work and what he
doesn’t know about mines and the battle
PI Alomoin \i7 * /
ol El AJamem fiom the N.Z. point of
view would hardly be worth knowing.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Thirty years after Paris:
“F.S.”: When about 30 years ago artists in
Paris decided t'o paint like children some strange
things happened. A painter would stop and
stare with awe and admiration at an infant’s
chalk drawing on a pavement and murmur
“Ah, what innocence, what instinctive beauty,”
and, regardless of the fact that he had learned
fo draw and the children hadn’t, would go off
and try to paint a nude that looked like a stick
insect, a profile portrait with both eyes showing
or a landscape which looked as if an atomic
bomb bad hit it, and send it to the Salon,
where it would be put into the dustbin. But
there is nothing so persuasive as a fashion, and
it wasn’t long before artists whose previous
acquaintance with a brush was when they were
shaving, and painters who painted their works
while blindfold or blind drunk, were being
hajled as geniuses and art exhibitions were
being held in schools and lunatic asylums and
being solemnly attended by the leading critics.
Nine-tenths of this movement was probably
founded on the impressionists, some of whom
were good artists who weren’t deliberately trying
to make houses look as if they were falling over,
but whose work looked so strange to academic
eyes that the most incompetent artist who copied
their superficial aspects was believed to be doing
something profoundly important. This by way
of introduction to the latest show of ' the
Contemporary Art Society at the Myer Gallery,
Melbourne, which is so like previous exhibitions
as to be practically indistinguishable both from
them and from what Paris was doing in 1914.
It wouldn’t do these enthusiastic young men
and women any harm, now that they have
shown how well they can fulfil a fashion, to see
how well they can just paint an ordinary cup
and saucer. Rembrandt could have done both
jobs quite easily.
N. S, Wales Society of Artists is
nothing if not a la mode; wherefore its
exhibition at the Education Department
Gallery, Sydney, consists largely of spoilt
canvas and misapplied paint, reflecting
current fads. Oases in a jungle of clumsy
ugliness are Norman Carter’s Sydney
North Shore pastorals; the cleverly
painted and excellently drawn figure-
pieces of Harold Abbott and H. Badham
E. A. Harvey’s essays in portraiture, land
scape and still life; Nancy Kilgour’
“Under the Toll House” ; Charles Meere’
portrait of Maureen Macleay ; an impres
sive cloud study and a good portraii
“Judith in White,” by Roland Wakelin
William Dobell’s amusing “Chez Walter”
Adrian Feint’s beautifully finished de
signs; Frank Medworth’s etchings
Dattilo-Rubbo’s character studies, par
ticularly “The Suspect”; Ure Smith’
tinted drawings ; Eric Wilson’s London
snow pieces ; an exquisite piece of sculp
ture by Tina Wentscher, “Anjang Jung!
Girl” ; and some excellent modelling tr
Arthur Fleischmann. The Nationa
Galleries of N. S. Wales and Victori
saw fit to glean a dozen canvases from
the show.
“MacH.”: Judging William Dobell’
paintings has become rather difficult since
he was hoisted into the role of-touchstone
for Modernism. If one criticised hi
Joshua Smith one was immediately
Academic, Reactionary or even—accord-
ing to one ruthless soul —Fascist. If one
wholeheartedly approved of it one be
longed to the elect. This, of course, was
an absurd position. Dobell, at 50, is
still a comparatively young painter with
not a very large output, and his ultimate
reputation will not be correctly assessed
for many years. I have thought—and,
after viewing his portrait of W. Magnus
in the Society of Artists’ show, still have
the same opinion—that he has not yel
clarified his outlook. With a genuine im-
pulse towards experiment and obviously
fascinated by the rough comedy of life
—the grotesque humor of the tricks
played on the human form by life, time
and character —he has also a tendency to
submit to the weaknesses of modernism:
physical distortion, spiritual decay and
despair. He painted the airman “Scotty”
Allan without distortion and with exuber-
ant vitality ; Joshua Smith in a mood of
despair, which showed even in the color
of the background, that sick-looking
yellow. The portrait of Lord Wakehurst
was unimportant—an academic job, ill-
done. In the Magnus portrait there seems
to be a return to Dobell’s proper role of
humorist. The surrounding color, a glow-
ing crimson, is extraordinarily rich and
vital and the figure (though of an amaz-
ing rotundity) is certified undistorted by
those who have seen the sitter at his
restaurant at King’s Cross —in which
Dobell has “set” his painting. Possibly
as a result of courtesy, the picture is
curiously lacking in humor; but it is a
relief to see the artist turn from “The
Dead Landlord” to a live restaurant-
keeper, There is a need for a painter (as
for a novelist) to depict the human
comedy of Sydney, and no one could do
it better than Dobell. Uncertain as it
seemed, the portrait looked the best thing
in the show.
At the talkies:
“The Three ' Caballeros” (Sydney Mayfair):
A Walt Disney fantasy in color, this time with
humans mixing up in the affairs of three lively
cartoon characters. The innovation is cleverly
concocted, and there is an excellent flying donkey.
Also a penguin who realises his dream of
living in the tropics. A combination of natural
history without tears (but with laughter) and
South American travelogue, the film sets a high
technical standard.
“The Picture of Dorian Gray” (Sydney
Liberty): Oscar Wilde. The story of the young
man who stays handsome while his portrait ages
and reflects his vices boils down to a murder
thriller, illuminated by Wilde’s wit. George
Sanders as Lord Henry, Dorian’s evil genius,
delivers his lines smoothly, and Elsa Lansbury
turns from a sure portrayal of the sly, volup-
tuous housemaid of “Gaslight” to an even surer
cameo as the singer whom the gay young repro-
bate “rooins.”
“On Approval” (Sydney Embassy): Edward-
ian comedy by Frederick Lonsdale. , Clive
Brook, who, as well as taking in polished style
the role of the blue-blooded bounder who con-
siders work a frightful form of disease, pro-
duced and directed the film, has kept the hilanty
going at top pressure.
Adelaide Repertory catered for the
more frivolous among its 2000 members
with Merivale’s “Strange case of Blondie
White.” A too-clever popular novelist,
just to prove that his job needs more
brains than the policeman’s, spots a mur-
deress, sits back for her to get murdered
herself and finally hands over to justice
the boss criminal. Don Noblett has the
best chances; with Reed as his puzzled
friend from Scotland Yard, who sus-
pects the author himself; and Iris Hart
as the wife who butts in and is also sus-
pected.
An all-Russian programme brought
two enormous crowds to the sixth concert
of the symphony season at Melbourne
Town Hall. Kapell was at the piano for
the Rachmaninoff concerto, into which
the composer, having written it for him-
self, packed everything from speed and
declamation to tenderness and passion.
Stravinsky’s “Petrouchka” was written for
the ballet and is one of those grotesque
pieces which are easier to listen to if you
have dancers to look at. Tschaikowsky s
“Romeo and Juliet” made a lovely full-
stop to the proceedings. Bernard Heinze
conducted in a mood of inspiration.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE 1
'm* 11
m
‘W'v s? !
Si
I35P^
i
i j
TZ
m I *
.
iGr
L
t\
»
-*“4
\
■
1: -m
%
2S
ft.--
Bni
i\
f
W
m
-. - -
:
-ft
ft
fWS
£
¥
**s?
*•
ENGLISH COTTON TWEED TROUSERS.
for hard wear, 3 pockets, belt loops,
adequately cut, soft inside finish. Neat
dark patterns. 30" to 50" waist. Price, 20/1
4 coupons.
• Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street.
BUY NOW FOR A RAINY DAY
No coupons.
MEN'S LIGHTWEIGHT WATERPROOF JACKETS 100%
waterproof, full cut for ease, storm fronts. Reinforced rustless
buttons, special armhole ventilators. In a serviceable Grey,
the Coat weighs 200z5., and will give long service. Suitable for
Golfers, Fishermen, Hikers, Farmers and all outdoor wear.
Sizes: 36 in., 38 in., 40 in. and 42 in. chests. Price 257-
No coupons.
NOTE—We are holding stocks for our country Clients—to
save disappointment order NOW.
- w\\\w \ \ \ i ////////////// i/s/////y/y/////y////ss/y>
.303 RIFLE AMMUNITION .303 Rifle
Cartridges are now available from us
. . . at the price of 25/-> per hundred.
A district, Police Permit must be obtained when ordering.
Permits are free.
• Lower Ground Floor —Pitt Street,
s’yys'/’/’/'/s ss s// ////// 1 1 V\\\ \\ v \\\v\\\\\\\VA\\\\\\\\
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Dorgans Werea Pair
By DON EDWARDS.
JIM DORGAN and his wife were
generally described as “a pair” by
the townspeople, although they were
as unlike as it was possible to
imagine.
He was a big, plump fellow, red of
face as a sunset, slow as the creek that
trickled past their house, and altogether
easygoing. He was generally to be seen
lounging on the wide verandah, slumped
against the wall like a half-filled bag of
chaff. From this position he could see
any passers-by on the road, and the vari-
ous activities of “The Flat,” which was
at once the public reserve, common,
camping-place and recreation ground of
the village.
He loved a yam at any time on any
subject and, unless you got past the house
quickly, he would call to you and then
unfold himself slowly on to his feet and
as slowly saunter out towards you. He
would lounge against the fence, hanging
over limply like a bullock-skin, and hold
you in leisurely but persistent conver-
sation till you managed to escape. *
The only time he showed any energy
was in the avoidance of work. When
some kindly citizen, feeling sorry for Mrs.
Dorgan, would offer Jim a job he would
say “Well, I dunno ; I’m pretty busy just
now,” or “I’m thinking of starting out
at the quarries next week.” What he was
busy at no one ever discovered, and he
never started work at the quarries. The
very thought of big, fat “Dorgie” toiling
at the quarries was enough to make one
wince.
By contrast, Mrs. Dorgan was slight,
wiry and energetic, with the quick, jerky
movements of a peewit and a restlessness
that sent her bustling about the house
incessantly and made her much sought
after as washerwoman and charlady by
the housewives of the town. She always
did a good job in quick time, for her
nervous energy was unbounded.
“Dunno why she bothers with that lazy
lump Dorgan,” people would say. “He’s
just a big loafer.” But she seemed to be
quite satisfied with “Dorgie.”
They had five children, the eldest four-
teen ; three big, boisterous girls arid a
couple of thin, quick, freckled, sparrow-
ish boys, who were always rushing and
shouting about the house or waging stone
fights with other children from the vil-
lage. Mrs. Dorgan was continually
shouting to them to behave or calling on
“Dorgie” to discipline them, but he
ignored them, even when they rushed up
and down the verandah and jumped over
his outstretched legs. If a particularly
noisy and violent game disturbed him he
would threaten to give them a belting,
whereupon they would laugh. The fact
was that “Dorgie” didn’t seem to count
much with anyone except his wife and
Alf Spears.
Mrs. Dorgan seemed to be quite fond
of “Dorgie,” even proud of him, and at
the least excuse she would gabble away
about his excellent qualities, although she
w'ould always end by qualifying her state-
ments with “There’s only one thing,
though, he’s terribly independent and
determined. He likes his freedom, and
if he gets an idea in his head nothing will
shift, it,” and she’d smile sympathetically
as if she really understood and forgave
him.
In one way and other, “Dorgie” pro-
vided a good deal of amusement for the
town. The sight of his big, fat form
waddling down the street was enough to
set you laughing and the kids calling after
him, but nothing perturbed him. His
good humor increased when he got drunk,
and he would slowly make his way home
from Weston’s pub, veering this way and
that like a ship in the wind, and carrying
a foolish grin on his benign countenance.
On one occasion he appeared in court
as a witness on a case in which his friend
Alf Spears was involved. To the horror
of the local sergeant, Ted Plater, “Dorgie”
entered the witness-box wearing a police-
man’s coat. The magistrate looked at
him and blinked.
“Ah, a police sergeant, I see, Mr.
Dorgan,” he said.
“Dorgie” smiled, shook his head and
murmured “No.”
“An ex-member of the force then, Mr.
Dorgan?”
Again “Dorgie” shook his head and
smiled.
The magistrate sat up and leant towards
him, “Then might I ask why the coat,
Mr.. Dorgan?” he said acidly.
£t Dorgie,” grinned widely and nodded
towards the sergeant. “Ah,” he said,
“old Ted there give it to me”’
Afterwards, when the case had been
lost and he was strolling home with Alf
Spears, he remarked “I thought, since I
was going to court, it would be better
to wear a copper’s coat, but the old bird
didn’t seem to like it.”
Alf Spears and “Dorgie” were “a pair,”
too, according to the local inhabitants.
They were certainly more of “a pair”
than were Dorgan and his wife, for Alf
was also big, fat, lazy and slow. Alf
worked occasionally ; sometimes at Wes-
ton’s pub as an extra hand, and now and
then on one of the neighboring farms;
but for the most part he loafed about the
town or lounged on the verandah yarning
to “Dorgie.” Mrs. Dorgan didn’t like
him, that was obvious. She seemed to
regard him as some sort of a threat to
her influence on her husband.
Often Alf and “Dorgie” would sit on
the verandah yarning for hours, backs
propped against the wall, legs outspread
and heads droopiiig. In winter they would
move round the verandah with the sun ;
in summer with the shadow, and some-
times, if the day was very pleasant, they
would shift out beneath the big pepper-
tree near the front gate, to come saunter-
ing in rather more quickly than usual
when one of the children shouted “Hey,
Mum says that dinner’s ready!”
Alf was a bachelor. “No getting tied
up in marriage for me,” he would say,
looking knowingly at “Dorgie” and dis-
gustedly at the children racing and shout-
ing and wrestling about the house. “I’m
all for a quiet life.”
He lived in a hut on the far side of
“The Flat,” and he had worn a track
across to “Dorgie’s” house. One of the
local wits had called it Spears-road, and
soon the name was in general use.
Alf’s motto was “Anything for a quiet
life,” and his defences against any upset
or disturbance were a shrug of the
shoulders and a broad grin. He had a
defence against work, too ; a bad back
that could be summoned to his aid when-
ever he required it. “Sorry, but me
back’s too bad,” he would say or “That
back of mine’s playing up again,” and he
would bend himself forward and walk
with a limp until the danger of work had
passed. The only person in town who
sympathised with Alf about his back was
“Dorgie.” Others would ask sarcastically
or jokingly after Alf’s back, but
“Dorgie’s” voice always had a note of
sincere sympathy in it when he said
“How’s the bad back, Alf?” and Alf’s
reply was always “Oh, about the same,
Jim. No better.”
“What your back needs is rest,” re-
marked Mrs. Dorgan once when she heard
Alf give his usual reply, but Alf only
said “That’s right, but a cove has to keep
going.”
Alf was suspected of doing a little quiet
thieving if the opportunity offered itself,
but only if the opportunity was there. If
he happened across a trap with a rabbit
or fox in it or if Jensen’s fruit-trees
pushed their branches near the fence he
would take advantage of the chance.
Once “Dorgie” heard Jensen and Wicks
talking about their suspicions of Alf and
he interrupted with “No ; Alf Spears is
as straight a cove as ever lived.”
“Ah,” said Jensen, “you can’t tell me
that. What about his bent back?”
T'HEN “Dorgie” left. One morning he
1 told his wife he was going across to
Alf’s place and he didn’t return.
When he failed to appear for lunch
she was surprised but pleased, for she had
expected him to bring Alf with him, as he
usually did. When he didn’t turn up for
tea she was perturbed, so she walked over
to Alf’s hut to see what was keeping
“Dorgie.”
Alf said he hadn’t seen him all day,
hadn’t seen him since last night, and
couldn’t imagine where he’d got to; but
Mrs. Dorgan knew Alf.
She looked him in the eye and said
“You know where he has gone to, Alf,
and you’re going to tell me.”
Alf looked uncomfortable, and again
denied any knowledge of the whereabouts
of his friend, and to his surprise Mrs.
Dorgan turned and went home. As she
left, however, she shouted “I’ll be seeing
you tomorrow, Alf Spears.”
Next day the news that “Dorgie” had
gone was all over the township. People
said they didn’t suspect him of having
that much energy, while the general
opinion was that Mrs. Dorgan would be
better off without him.
However, Mrs. Dorgan seemed to value
“Dorgie,” despite what people thought of
him, for early the next morning she was
outside Alf’s hut shouting at the top of
her high-pitched voice “You know where
he is, Alf Spears. Why don’t you tell
me?”
Alf stayed inside, hoping she would
go away, but she kept on shouting until
he appeared and again denied any
knowledge of “Dorgie’s” place of retreat.
The only result of Alf’s denial was to
make Mrs. Dorgan shout louder than
before “You know where he is, Alf
Spears. Why don’t you tell me?” till
Alf hurried inside.
The children going to school stopped
and took up the cry, and a couple of
quarry-workers and a drover paused to
enjoy the scene. Still Mrs. Dorgan
shouted her request to Alf.
Suddenly one of the children said ex-
citedly “There goes Alf, Mrs. Dorgan!
There he goes!” and the crowd rushed
round the back of the hut to see Alf
lumbering away towards the town.
“You needn’t think you’ll trick me, Alf
Spears! Why don’t you tell me where he
is?” yelled Mrs. Dorgan setting out in
pursuit, while the amused spectators fol-
lowed her. *
Alf glanced back and increased his
pace to a labored waddle, but, handi-
capped by his fat, he was no match for
the quick, energetic Mrs. Dorgan.
She overtook him before he reached
the main street and walked close beside
him shouting at him “Come on, Alf
Spears! Why don’t you tell me?”
Shopkeepers appeared at their doors,
women, hurried oift to their front gates
and pedestrians joined the group that fol-
lowed Alf. Outside Weston’s hotel Alf
turned at bay and shouted “I tell you I
don’t know where he is,” but the mob
took up Mrs. Dorgan’s chant and yelled
in unison “Why don’t you tell, Alf
Spears? Why don’t you tell?”
Alf looked at them wildly and fled into
the hotel. The crowd jeered. Without
pause, Mrs. Dorgan pursued him, and
there was a cheer as she disappeared into
the bar.
In the face of such determination Alf
gave up the struggle. “He’s gone to
Boonbi, up the line,” he said in surrender
before Mrs, Dorgan could speak. She
turned and scooted out of the bar like a
rabbit, and when the train pulled in half
an hour later she was waiting on the plat-
form for it.
i “Well, Alf, you’re a big pimp,” said
Weston.
“Aw, gee,” replied Alf, “anything for
peace and quiet.”
The next day Mrs. Dorgan was back,
and so was “Dorgie,” sitting on the
verandah in the shade. Alf sauntered
across and joined him, and they yarned
away as if nothing had happened, while
the kids played and wrestled and yelled
about the place.
It was to Mrs. Wilson, for whom she
did washing, that Mrs., Dorian un-
burdened herself in a statement that set
the town laughing.
“Running away, like that,” she said;
“shows you how independent he is and
how he likes his freedom.”
“Oh, but surely,” said Mrs, Wilson.
“He came back again, didn’t he?”
“Yes, he did, when I made him,” said
Mrs. Dorgan, “but if you only knew how
determined he is and how he likes his
freedom,” and her voice fell to an intense
whisper, “Well, I’ve never been able to
persuade him to marry me. That shows
you,” Triumphantly she turned again to
the washing.
VARIOUS VERSE.
Down Under.
Green rain falls from a rocky sky —
Australian grass in summertime.
Where- I've been clinging as the fly
Thick in the grass in summertime.
This downpour, to an Englishman,
May seem too savage, on the verge
Of flooding rain, such as began
At beckon of the Demiurge.
But harvest of these skies I take;
First I mow it, then I make
Hay of rain; which all must seem,
To an Englishman, a puzzling dream.
Here stalactites, the forest’s trees.
Drip in the night a dew of stars:
The roof of this strange cave I seize
With feet-like hands, a man from Mars:
Or so an Englishman may think
If sight could penetrate the earth,
Perceiving through some hellish chink.
Imagination’s at a dearth
Inverting life to frighten him
Whose upright life- has proved so grim :
Though he may too accept this ease,
Swinging through these root-like trees.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.
The Devil and the Angel (3).
Beneath the moon in the standing corn
at midnight,
Thus was the scene set for our latest
meeting.
And I addressed the Devil in this fashion:
“Sir, our next subject is this scarecrow
person;
He's stood here long enough to merit
freedom.
Day after day with empty arms extended,
A lolling head and a sad hat to crown it;
Your turn to ask him, as is customary,
Whether he goes with you the rollicking,
treacherous
Way to damnation; or with me to Heaven,
There to be solaced with the psalm and
psalter.
Ringed round with angels,'garlanded with
lilies.”
I give the fellow praise for oratory.
He minded, perhaps, hjs failure and my
triumph
Over the recent business of the statue--
Some mid-Victorian statesman —/ forget
now —•
Who chose the better way and winged to
Heaven
Only on Thursday last.
Briefly, I say, he made it most impressive.
At his conclusion I addressed the scare-
crow,
Who all this while'’lolled back, and, half
attending.
Rolled one bright eye from out his thatch
of straw;
Then we stood silent waiting his decision.
“Heaven,” he said; “Hell,” he said. “Give
me a field of sunshine
And the birds,” he said, “and their rude
remarks in passing;
And a bit of a banter with hares in the
corn at evening
And the farmer taking a swig from the
bottle at noonday.
And a slip of a girl with his lunch tied
up in a napkin ;
Don’t talk to me,” he said.
I confess to discomfort.
And I stole away ; but remarked, looking
over my shoulder.
That the Devil was stealing away in the
other direction.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON .
Bridgehead.
A chain of footprints over the sand that
night,
Emphatic and in one direction headed
from the sea;
None marked the stealthy bridgehead—
there was no light
For the confusion of such an enemy;
No steady candle-power, but we all
remember
How lightning laid weals on the rigid arch
of the sky.
Not being fools that the crooked hands of
the rain
Might beckon to witness a final grating
and flare.
Giant vision of the earth surrendered
again
Down splintered glass perspectives of each
crashed year;
We caressed our failing fires, played halt-
ing chess
With ghostly pawns on the darkened plots
of despair.
Stirred up the planets into a whirling flux,
Wound out the spattering gullies of the
thunder !
We crouched in our beauty, waiting for
the stacks
To topple, pinning our sullen bodies
under
The frozen flanks of death on a broken
world,
Sprawling over the flattened smudge of
the cinder.
Yet did we not hear some alien arc of
sound
Swinging against the battering leagues of
sea ?
That quaking light played zigzag tricks
around
Our starting bridges of sight and sanity;
Often the twitching eyes of the nearly-
dead
Grope back for the smile of the sun in a
twisted tree.
Out there again—surely the lifted muzzle-
Of .laughter wedging into the snarling
skies, *
Besieging our shuttered windows with the
dazzle
Of anti-climax playing on reddened eyes?
Over the wheeling mist of settling cities
Flashed the ironic laughter of sunrise.
R.A.A.F.
F. WEBB.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3421
Wednesday, September 5, 1945
LEGAL DIFFICULTY.
“Hey, you’ve reached the Equator, and under your own Militia Hopscotch Act you can’t go beyond it.”
“But I’m a volunteer.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
■ Box 252IBB; Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
SINGAPORE AND AFTER.
The last communication from Australia
to the officers and men of the Eighth
A.I.F. Division was addressed to them
by the Army Minister a few days before
they entered upon their dreadful cap-
tivity, which in the case of the survivors
■—except General Bennett and a few score
others who escaped or were rescued—
lasted into the seventh month of the
fourth year. It was a promise of succor,
couched in Mr. Forde’s* floweriest terms
—“it will go, not as a few consignments
from a shrinking store, but as a stream
which will swell to a flood, and a flood
which will grow to an overwhelming
torrent.”
Mr. Forde was never tackled in Parlia-
ment on his fustian, so well-meant in a
fatuous way but in the event so cruel.
After Gallipoli there was a British Par-
liamentary inquiry on which our own
Andrew Fisher served, but at Canberra
Singapore was not even debated. An
Old Digger Senator, expressing a con-
siderable body of military opinion, sug-
gested that General Bennett should be
court-martialled, while allowing that the
escaped commander would in all proba-
bility clear himself. The Labor Govern-
ment chose instead to judge General
Bennett’s case itself, and, with another
outburst of Fordean or electioneering
language, to give him the Westralian
command. “*
During the ensuing years the Govern-
ment seldom referred to the men of
Singapore except when a war loan was
on the market. It banned newspaper
publication of Japanese radio messages
concerning Australians held in prison
camps, and identifiable by given names,
rank and enlistment numbers, though
newspaper publication would have
brought comfort to many stricken hearts
and could by no conceivable pos-
sibility have conveyed to the enemy in-
formation which he did not possess.
Good people who made a practice of jot-
ting down the substance of these mes-
sages and writing to the addresses given,
realising that the precious intelligence
might not otherwise reach relatives who
had no wireless sets, were warned that
they were breaking some regulation or
other.
In general the attitude of the Gov-
ernment appeared to be that Singapore
was an unpleasant subject which must on
no account be mentioned unless some
material advantage would obviously
accrue. That great, though immeasur-
able, moral advantages could be gained
by dint of earnest and constant appeals'
to this free white nation —for the most
part deficient in imagination, but in no
quarter destitute of spirit—to take it as
a sacred duty to avenge the catastrophe
suffered at Asiatic hands and liberate the
captives does not seem to have occurred
to any of the gentlemen.
The catastrophe was avenged and the
rescue effected by other hands.
Although hundreds of thousands of
Australian soldiers, trained until they
were sick of training, were longing to
fight the enemy somewhere, anywhere,
they were kept in mainland camps (except
for a.w.l, cases, which reached terrific
dimensions) years after the danger of a
Japanese descent had passed. Most of
them would have given their ears to serve
in Burma, but their Government would
not let ground troops take part in the
great campaign which liberated that
country.
For the final onslaught against the
Japanese in south-east Asia the forma-
tion of a British Commonwealth force
was proposed by Mr. Churchill. Mr.
Fraser, leader of a Labor Government
which has never been found wanting,
intimated that New Zealand would be in
it, as always, remarking incidentally that
New Zealand “could have followed Aus-
tralia’s decision when danger to her
shores was threatened,” but had elected
to leave Freyberg’s grand division in the
Mediterranean theatre ; “and I still think
that was right.” Mr. Chifley’s statement
on the subject—introduced with an an-
nouncement that the A.I.F. divisions in
the field were to be reduced “from the
present strength of six divisions” (at
which the A.I.F. must have smiled win-
trily) “to a total of three divisions,” and
the R.A.A.F. from “an approved objec-
tive of 53 squadrons to probably 36
squadrons”—is preserved in the Parlia-
mentary reports:
It has further been proposed that a token
force should be associated, if possible, with
British forces in the operations for the re-
capture of Singapore, to avenge the defeat
of 1942, and to contribute to the liberation
of our prisoners-of-war.
Ghastly, but consistent with the record
of Mr, Chifley and his crowd before and
during the wars, in 1916-18 and 1930-32
as well as in 1939-45, though not with
their shrill demands for equality with
Britain and the United States.
Had the party in office had its way
when in opposition no compulsorily en-
listed soldiers could have been sent from
the mainland or Tasmania to take part in
the defence of Papua or the parts of New
Guinea and the Solomons assigned to
Australia under mandate after the 1914-
18 war. Reluctantly, and with consider-
able opposition from Ministers, rank-and-
file members and members of A.L-P.
executives, the Labor Government passed
a law extending the area of militia ser-
vice, but making the Equator the northern
boundary line —this when the echoes of
its frantic appeals to Washington for aid
(which meant, in the main, for the land
fighting in Australian territory conscript
American divisions) had scarcely died
down. As a state of war still exists, the
Militia Hopscotch Act remains in opera-
tion, and it bars militiamen who fought
gallantly in the islands from being sent
to Singapore and Tokyo,
Had the Labor Government’s notions
about Hirohito prevailed, the fighting
might still be in progress and the
prisoners-of-war still in their compounds.
When the Japanese offered to yield on
the terms shaped at Cairo by Presi-
dent Roosevelt, Mr. Churchill and Mar-
shal Chiang Kai-shek and endorsed at
Potsdam by President Truman, Mr.
Churchill and the Chinese leader, the
objects of the war had been achieved
fully, save for the surrender of all
armed forces and arms, the occupation of
Japan and the territories conquered or
overrun by the Japanese since 1894, and
the return of every prisoner-of-war—
American, British, Australian, Canadian,
Indian, Dutch and the rest. But only by
using the Emperor could the surrender,
the occupation and the deliverance be
accomplished without bloodshed. Had
his person been seized, or had he given
orders for a continuance of the war, there
would have been more Iwo and Okinawa
slaughter, and the life of no prisoner-of-
war would have been safe. The decision
to use him rested with President Truman,
and it was given with the idea of pre-
venting a useless effusion of brave men’s
blood.
That it was the right decision, and that
the occasion found the great commanders
ready for anything and everything, the
whole world is now witnessing. In the
history of this country, which owes so
much to his country, the President, to-
gether with Mr. Roosevelt, General Mac-
Arthur and Admiral Nimitz, will always
have an honored name.
In keeping with the new Labor
arrogance, which has no warrant in
the party’s record during the wars and
in between, was Canberra’s perfor-
mance when it received the text of the
Japanese surrender offer, together with
the information —in each case from
Britain —that the United States Govern-
ment had prepared a reply.
The Chifley Government “immediately
indicated its views.” Did it say it would
be satisfied to leave everything to the
President, as it had previously left every-
thing to General MacArthur? Did it
point out tljat, with the enemy confessing
defeat and accepting relegation to
and Allied control of his home islands,
there was no occasion for prolonging hos-
tilities for another day? Did it ask the
President to remember that Australia had
been at war for six years, and that if the
struggle, become useless, went on, the
Japanese, falling back on desperate
fanaticism, their food and medical sup-
plies straitened by the blockade and the
bombing, would have no mercy on the
prisoners-of-war, and that digging them
out from their island strongholds, par-
ticularly the Gazelle Peninsula, would
entail terrible casualties?
Nothing of the kind. In the “views”
there was not a word about the fighting
men or the prisoners-of-war. All the Gov-
ernment could think of was that “the sig-
nature of the Emperor should be re-
quired” and that “any tendency to save
the face of the Emperor or give him
immunity should be resolutely avoided,”
and so on, with amplifications by Dr.
Evatt in the same vein, as if the scoring
of legalistic points was the only thing that
mattered. The “views,” it seems, “did
not reach Washington in time for full
consideration” ; so the President did not
have to choose between rejecting them
with silent contempt and administering
an unmerciful rebuke.
The exact number of Australian ser-
vicemen and civilians who fell into
Japanese hands is not known by any
white man, and may never be known. It
is tragically clear that many will never
see Australia again, and that many
others will come back hospital cases.
From those who return in fairly good
shape there will arise a just demand for
vengeance on the fiends who, in various
devilish ways, did their mates to death
or left them living wrecks. This is an
obligation which must be accepted and
carried out in every case where the
criminal, high or low, can be tracked
down and haled to a hanging place. It
is the least Australia can do in the way
of justice to its sons who took the buffets
of its foe —a foe that armed and became
habituated to the jungle and jungle fight-
ing when Australia was slothful -and
passed straight into Oriental prison-
bells. In the way of making up for the
years that the survivors have lost Aus-
tralia is in honor bound to do everything
it can.
But, though retributive justice, recom-
pense and “ease-after-war” may be
offered, these men, our unfortunate
citizen-soldiers, will want something
more. They will come back in an in-
quiring and critical spirit, determined to
catch up with their newspaper reading
and to put questions which the self-styled
saviours of the country have hitherto
evaded. Not only the men of Singapore,
to whom the Forde-promised relief never
came, but the men of Rabaul, of Ambon
and of Java. The men of Java were
Seventh Division Diggers from the Middle
East, commanded by Brigadier-General
Blackburn, V.C., and composed mainly of
his own South Australians —a machine-
gun battalion, a pioneer battalion, parts
of an anti-aircraft battery and another
unit. When the situation in Java was
hopeless—the Japs overran Java in a
week—they were landed in that island.
As the appalling story goes, they were vir-
tually unarmed, their equipment and
ammunition being in another ship.
Straightway darkness enveloped them,
lifted only on June 15, 1942, when
“Brigadier-General Blackburn was listed
as a prisoner-of-war.”
On February 17 the mercurial Mr.
Joseph Harsch, of the “Christian Science
Monitor,” then in Sydney, had re-
corded with gusto the mission with
which he had been charged by the young
lions of the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
(Brian Penton, editor) and other publi-
cations ;
During the past few days I was requested
by several editors of leading newspapers and
also military observers here to impress on
America the extreme importance of induc-
ing the Australian Government to commit
itself to the defence of the Netherlands
Indies, and to throw every available Aus-
tralian soldier and gun into those islands.
On the same day the “Daily Telegraph”
came out with a front-page article headed
“Fight for Australia in Java!” and with
a string of “musts.”
The Federal Government must give the
lead to Washington and London by making
the maximum effort now to reinforce our
Allies in the N.E.I.
We must do this not only because of our
obligations to the Dutch. To save ourselves
we must help to save the N.E.I. That
should be the basic principle of our
strategy That’s where our men should
be, that’s where we should be fighting the
Battle of Australia.
Brigadier-General Blackburn, V.C., has
survived the rigors of captivity. A
barrister when he joined the old 10th
Battalion, he was the Adelaide coroner
when he returned to the colors. In short,
he is a pertinacious character, skilled in
weighing evidence; and he will certainly
want to know whether or not he and his
men were sacrificed to the scared
“strategy” of a parcel of Sydney news-
paper fools.
War Effort Contrast.
When the Home Guard was disbanded
in Britain an American war correspondent
wrote of the standing down as the most
interesting parade he had ever witnessed.
It took place in London on a dismal wet
Sunday in December, but the day did not
alter its impressiveness to the thoughtful
onlooker. Only the shoulder badges pro-
claimed the disbanding troops a citizens’
army, and, as well equipped as any regu-
lar soldiers, “they swung past their King,
taking the salute in Hyde Park like
veterans returned from victories over-
seas.”
In the ranks of the Home Guard that
Sunday morning marched all sorts and con-
ditions of men: a day laborer in command
of a company which included in its ranks
a 67-year-old ex-colonel; a storekeeper
headed a battalion numbering among its
corporals a man who was once a brigadier,
another who had commanded a battleship.
Some of the battalions had been brought'
to this last parade from far places by train;
some by trucks. Thousands had marched
to London, camping by the roadsides eating
emergency rations. In similar fashion they
marched back, reported to their original
concentration points, and fumed in their
equipment.
It might have been written the other
day of the ending of the Australian
counterpart of the Home Guard, the
Volunteer Defence Corps, which adopted
the British name as its alternative title.
Instead, “it was officially learned,” and
the information published obscurely in
newspaper back columns, that the
organisation would “cease to exist from
this week.” There was a slight compli-
ment to the effect that it had “played a
Vitaliy important part in the emergency
defence service of Australia since the end
of 1941 when Japan came into the war.”
Cease to exist it duly did, without any
further bother. Actually, it had ceased,
except for a few remnants, in advance of
its “obituary.” Its members had long be-
fore been drifting out; minus thanks;
discouraged out of existence. The few
who remained made their way to where
they had to hand in their gear and draw
their final pay. There the ritual went
something like this: “Let’s see, what’s
missing? Mess-tin. That’ll be 3s. Bd.
There’s three guineas coming to you.
That’ll be £2 19s. 4d.”
But the great contrast between the
British and the Australian disbanding was
not in the details but in the general differ-
ence, There was here no sign of any
attempt to arrange a big public gather-
ing and dismissal that would pass, as the
King’s dismissing did in London, as suffi-
cient mark of appreciation. The differ-
ence was in the comparative warmth of
feeling towards men who had done a long
job at very considerable personal incon-
venience and expense. The small pay
that was made here was not asked for
and was not wanted. Some Government
effort at sincere appreciation would have
been ample. All of this applies also to
that other volunteer home-defence organi-
sation the N.E.S.
That perhaps does not matter much,
now that it is done with. But there is
still the question whether it was quite as
accidental as no doubt it will be
described. As far as the V.D.C. is con-
cerned its members, in numbers that
would have been in need a very large and
useful force, came in to do what they
could on an entirely voluntary basis when
the country looked in great danger. They
did a harder job than many realise, and
few growls will be heard from any of
them —so long as this is not typical; pro-
vided it is not to apply to all the rest who
voluntarily served their country, no more
sincerely, though much more dangerously.
There have been other times during the
war when there seemed to be hostility to
some of the forces This may have been
—it may be hoped it was —a wrong in-
terpretation of something which certainly
was a fact all through: the frequent
coddling of home-fronters; the regular
emphasis on the part these were playing
in the war.
There should need to be no more of
this sort of comparison; there can be
none as between the part of the lighting
forces and any others whatever; as the
recently disbanded home units —many of
them old soldiers —would be first to ad-
mit. Publicly, and without any reserva-
tions, it should not only be admitted by
the responsible Government spokesmen,
it should be emphasised by them in some
unmistakable way when they recover
from their apparent stunned surprise at
having been caught napping by the end of
the war and start on getting the men back.
As part of that emphasis —though per-
haps this is too much to expect, all the
record considered —there might be some
public mention of the war effort of one
ex-servicemen’s organisation in particu-
lar: the Returned Soldiers’ League. Ever
since its formation the R.S.L., while
always aiming to get the fairest deal pos-
sible for Diggers, has been, above all,
serving Australia. Its part in the forma-
tion of the lately disbanded home-defence
corps is no more than typical, but should
be a lot better known that it is.
Unlike a much later attempt to get
going what could have been a decidedly
nasty organisation of armed irregulars,
more dangerous to the country than to the
enemy, the R.S.L. aim throughout was to
strengthen the country’s regular defences.
It had pointed to the shocking neglect
of these over many years, and it had pro-
tested at the ending of compulsory
national service. As early as 1937 it de-
cided that the time was then overdue to
do something not merely for peace-time
defence but in view of impending war.
At its annual congress in Hobart that
year it carried a resolution urging the
raising of a national volunteer defence
force “to relieve existing forces from cer-
tain necessary duties in the event of a
national emergency.”
Actually that —in 1937 —was the
genesis of the Volunteer Defence Corps
“disbanded” a couple of weeks ago. There
was, of course, no response, other than a
routine Governmental reply declining the
advice. Six months later —April, 1938
the Federal Executive of the League in
Sydney reaffirmed the congress resolu-
tion and resubmitted it. There was still
no satisfactory reply, though at the end
of that year a Government committee was
set up, with Harry Chauvel as the
League’s representative, “to examine the
possibility of making extended use of the
services of experienced men of 1914-18 as
a potential reserve for war.”
The League kept plugging away, and
a little time before the war which it had
expected actually did get going, there
were the beginnings of results. The idea
of a Reserve on the lines advocated had
taken on. When some of these pre-
liminaries were subsequently made public


there was criticism of the R.S.L. by
people lacking its war wisdom or sus-
picious of its designs. This brought a
statement from the Federal president of
the League, which, as well as answering
the critics, amounted to an epitome of
R.S.L. aims and principles sought and
practised since its formation:
As the objects and ideals of the Returned
Soldiers’ League are synonymous with the'
principles of constitutional government its
actions and conduct will continue to be in
strict conformity with the laws of the Com-
monwealth; therefore any plan designed to
ensure the preservation of the security of
Australia formulated by the Federal Execu-
tive will not be implemented unless it is
approved by the Federal Government.
In due course, after further R.S.L.
representations and negotiations, the
home defence force, at first known as the
R.S.L. Volunteer Defence Corps, was
organised. By the end of 1940 its mem-
bership was approaching 40,000. Later
that figure was reported to have been
doubled, the force having meanwhile—
again on R.S.L. advice —been incor-
porated in the Australian Military Forces,
the change-over from League to Army
control having been conducted by Lieut.-
Colonel G. F, Murphy, the then president
of the League in N. S. Wales.
That, briefly, is the story of a fine Aus-
tralian war effort, and the part taken by
the R.S.L. in building it up. The volun-
teers constructed defence barriers of
various sorts; made gunpits; trained,
and were ready for active service if the
Jap had invaded, as once seemed very
likely; and before they were through
they were most efficiently manning anti-
aircraft and fortress defences. Many
others besides old Diggers served in the
corps. It was a fine citizens’ army, in
the sense of the term as applied by the
American observer to that of Britain, and
it deserved as well of the leaders of the
country as the British men received from
theirs. But when it has come to any-
thing of that sort in respect of the forces
up to now the political leaders have never
been thoughtful, generous or grateful.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Bluff and Bluster.
Odd, but not particularly astonishing,
was the immediate sequel to the out-
break of indignation among Sydney Min-
isters and newspapermen at the brutal
treatment of Australia in the matter of
the Japanese-surrender arrangements by
that nefarious party J, Bull —who, it
transpires, had little or nothing to do with
them, being represented, along with
China, Russia, France, the Netherlands,
Australia, Canada and New Zealand, at
the invitation of Uncle Sam.
It was announced by Mr, Chifley that
his Government’s claim to be regarded
as “a party principal in the working out
of the terms of peace” had been “recog-
nised to some extent” ; but the “recog-
nition” was “not complete,” So Dr.
Evatt was going to London to “partici-
pate in the proceedings” of the Council
of Foreign Ministers, “established with
the function of considering preparations
for and the actual terms of peace, pri-
marily in Europe but now also in the
Pacific.”
“Countries at present represented on
the Council of Foreign Ministers,” Mr.
Chifley proceeded, “are Britain, the
United States, the U.S.S.R., China and
France.” To the newspapers which were
devoured with rage at the base conduct
of J.B. these countries are “the Big Five,”
and Dr. Evatt aspires to make them “the
Big Six.” His Government has “now re-
ceived an assurance from the British Gov-
ernment that it supports Australia’s claim
to take an active part in the Council
work.”
The Government regards this as satisfac-
tory, and it is confident that the obvious
justice of its claim to participate will not be
denied by all members of the Council.
Still it might be objected to by belliger-
ents which have not been invited to join
the Council, and hitherto have made
no fuss about it; and they are rather
numerous Belgium, Norway, the
Netherlands, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia,
Greece, Canada, New Zealand, South
Africa, India and Brazil. That South
American country and all the others had
ground troops in the victorious 1944-
45 European campaigns and Australia
had none. This may be pointed out
with some asperity. Other obvious
objections are that the clear inten-
tions of the major Allies were ex-
pressed at the Potsdam Conference, and
that there would have to be another Tm-
man-Stalin-Attlee meeting before they
could be varied to oblige Canberra ; as
well as that Canberra could not be obliged
without the other United Nations being
obliged also, and that this would make
the Council of Foreign Ministers so un-
wieldy as to be unworkable.
Mr. Attlee, it seems, has “invited” Mr.
Chifley to “nominate a special represen-
tative, able to speak with authority on
behalf of the Government in connection
with these matters.” This is far from .
meaning that it will be within Mr. Attlee’s
power to secure for Dr. Evatt a place
among the Foreign Ministers or that he
will press the “claim” if it is objected to.
If Washington objected Mr. Attlee would
assuredly drop the “claim” and Dr. Evatt
with it. On at least two occasions in
the war years Canberra importunities
tried Washington’s patience severely, and
strident objections to the Potsdam plan
for the Council of Foreign Ministers,
as well as to the Jap surrender terms and
arrangements—objections which strike at
the President, though John Bull was
the target—may bring this country a
tremendous snub.
Dr. Evatt is also to take over from Mr.
Bruce until Mr. Beasley is ready to step
into the High Commissioner’s office, first
as Resident Minister, it being reckoned
advisable to thwart the Lang group’s
passion for a by-election. In giving this
information, less the bit about the by-
election, the Prime Minister, “on behalf
of the Australian Government and
people,” placed “on record the splendid
service rendered by Mr. Bruce during his
long term of office: he has served all
Governments with distinction to himself
; and with great advantage to Australia.”
This is true, and the Sydney dailies came
in with an obedient endorsement, adding,
for their own part, that Mr. Bruce’s in-
fluence with the Foreign Office and the
Dominions Office and the War Cabinet
“as an unofficial member” was enormous.
Yet in the previous week they had asked
their public to believe that “the English
Government” (“Daily Mirror”), in effect
ignoring Mr. Bruce, had plotted to wrong
poor old Austryler, being forced to
abandon its ’orrible design by an Evatt-
Beasley appeal to the United States.
Newspapers in other States did not be-
come parties to what now bears all the
marks and brands of a dishonest stunt.
Secret "Works."
No private person is to have a chance to
examine the schedule of “national works”
agreed to by State Premiers and Com-
monwealth Ministers.
Five Labor and two non-Labor Gov-
ernments are concerned in the decision to
spend £192,889,000 —and the rest —on the
relief of unemployment, which would not
occur if free enterprise were given a fair
go at producing the enormous quantity
of essential things so sorely needed.
Little was said about the land in-
dustries True, irrigation and water de-
partments are to get cuts, and so are
forestry departments; but Mr. Hoy, the
new Co-ordinator-General of Works, saw
the proposed forestry expenditure having
a “vital bearing on future supplies of
material,” presumably for building. This
won’t cheer anybody who has to wait foi
a forest to grow before he can build a
house, nor will it cheer those who know
failing water catchments. Irrigation de-
partments are faced with frightening
problems on established areas, and the
Murray is already being asked to do too
much.
Considering the drought and all the
erosion, it should have occurred to these
Governments that if the present rate of
soil destruction continues all the “national
works” will be ruins in a desert within
a century.
A Plea for Poles.
Dear Bulletin: May I appeal through
you, though it be with a voice in
extremis, for the considerate treatment
of the Polish people who are seeking to
emigrate to Australia. We are a hos-
pitable but a carelessly forgetful people.
These Poles are refugees, not from a
ruthless enemy only but from us, their
allies. I need not quote their outstand-
ing military record. I dare not let my-
self go on the way we have paid for their
service. One almost in articulo mortis
should not pass on with the tongue still
bitter and the heart aflame yet with anger.
In December, 1937,1 wrote you a short
letter, while on a visit to my people, pro-
claiming that it was time to cease “killing
Kruger with our mouths” and that we
should be forming fours (I should have
said threes). In Sydney I was then ridi-
culed for saying that within five years
there would be bombs falling on London.
I now appeal through your courageous
columns for the friends whom, in the
hour of victory, we have disowned.
Yours, etc., Herbert M. Moran.
[Dr. Moran, known to many thousands of
fellow-Australians—chiefly, of course, in his
native N. S. Wales —for his work as surgeon
and radiologist, his service in the two German
wars, his powerful writings and, in earlier years,
his prowess as a Rugby Union international,
captain of the Wallabies, wrote his moving
letter from Cambridge on August 10. The soul
of chivalry, he has always championed “the
cause that needs assistance.” The Bulletin
has already urged that Australia should offer
a home to Polish servicemen, many of whom
in the unhappy turn of events have become men
without a country—-by no means excluding
Polish Jews. Sons of Polish Jews were two of
our greatest and most patriotic Australians,
John Monash and Isaac Isaacs.]
PERFECT TIMING.
“Heme, boys, and just in time to help us with our loan! When our other loans were on the market we had to cash-in on you in your absence.”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
HOUSEHOLDt/RS AND HOUSEOWNERS'
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING. Managing Director.
Weight (approx.) 2\ tons
The “MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm.
MAKS
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS
OF ACCURACY
MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers of Precision Lathes, Shapers,
Millers. Planers
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Distrib. Agents: For N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence St.,
Sydney; Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Bid., 38 Market St., Melbourne.
Stockists: Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
U. O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
In the opinion of many cynics the
atomic bomb has made the United
Nations charter one with the covenant
of the League of Nations ; but, undis-
couraged, or hoping against hope. Dr.
Evatt moved for the ratification of the
instrument when the House resumed busi-
ness. He suggested that “the new
weapon” should be “placed under the
control of an impartial Security Council.”
The Communist view is that Stalin should
be let into the secret. Very obviously,
President Truman is not impressed. He
comes from Missouri, where the bent of
the people for horse-trading has passed
into a proverb.
“Glory to the armed forces of Russia,
America, China and Britain, which have
won the victory over Japan”—Stalin.
Russia first, Britain fourth, and no men-
tion of Australia. And it’s no use Dr.
Evatt appealing to Washington, much less
Whitehall. '
Wells, the Communist president of the
Miners’ Federation, told his mob last
week that henceforth their activities must
be concentrated on gaining better con-
ditions rather than on production, as
had been the case during the war years.
Then one of those nefarious capitalists
came out with coal-production figures:
1942, 14,950,000 tons; 1943, 14,164,000
tons ; 1944, 13,737,000 tons ; 1945 (esti-
mate), 12,000,000 to 12,500,000 tons. This
with Britain and* Europe, as well as Aus-
tralia, in such dire need of coal that many
will perish for want of it; and with coal-
export a steady Australian trade till Left
wing larrikinism arrived.
VJ-Day would have been incomplete
without a comic touch, and Uncle
Joe provided it. Broadcasting to all
the Russias the Czar’s successor said
“We have a special account to settle
with Japan; we men of the older
generation have waited 40 years for
this day—the Japanese began their
aggression against Russia as far back as
1904.” Then he referred to some of the
gains that “vengeance” had brought—all
Sakhalin, the Kuriles, “a direct access to
the ocean,” and so forth, “Waited 40
years,” and while waiting signed a Treaty
of Friendship and Neutrality in April,
1941 (when Britain was contending alone
against Germany and Italy) and a string
of fisheries agreements which assured the
Japs of ample supplies of their staple
food. Czar Nicholas himself, if available,
would have spoken in exactly the same
strain. Yet, as Uncle Joe is well aware,
being a sardonic humorist, his broadcast
won’t affect the devotion of the knaves
and fools throughout the English-speak-
ing world who have made themselves ser-
vile instruments of Russian imperialism.
There has been another development
in the chronic and uninteresting wrangle
between Calwell, the Melbourne poli-
tician, and Penton, the Sydney press boy.
Challenged to bring a libel action in the
argot of the Eatanswill Pott, Calwell with-
drew it on the ground that the challenger
had pleaded “qualified privilege.” Each
party to the dreary feud now accuses the
other of “squibbing it.” People who are
tired of it (and them) agree with both.
The Liberals have had Federal Council
meetings in Sydney, whe r e they have
many diflflculites to overcome, and Men-
zies gave a pretty good outline of their
policy for Australia. Maintenance of the
British connection should be the first
plank. It is being attacked —venomously
by Communists, insidiously in other
quarters —so casual acceptance no longer
suffices.
Conclusion of an atomic-bomb article
by Lord Vansittart as dished up in “S. M.
Herald.”;
Let greatness take warning! Only a
world of respect and conciliation can sur-
vive; its arbitrary predecessor is gone.
Lo, all our pomp of yesterday
Is one with Ninevah and Tyro
And to think that some people called
Kipling a reactionary!
Many people still call him a poet and
would not consider “Ninevah and Tyro”
an improvement.
Russia got a big whack of lend-lease.
Its particular agreement was signed in
Washington on June 11, 1942, by Cordell
Hull and Litvinov, and when the third
anniversary came round Molotov allowed
in “an appreciative message” that “the
extent of aid—arms, war materials and
food supplies—and the effective organisa-
tion of the entire matter played an im-
portant part in the defeat of Hitlerite
Germany.” There followed a suggestion
that Russia would be obliged for
$6,000,000,000 worth of U.S. goods on-
the same basis for post-war use. Now
it is all off, leaving the Communist con-
spiracy a prey to gloomy thoughts, one
being that the cancellation of lend-lease
was part of an Anglo-American plot to
dish the Workers’ Fatherland.
When Casey was appointed Minister to
Washington he gave up his Cabinet post
ANOTHER SURRENDER CEREMONY .
“The Government-controlled mine at Coaleliff (N.S.W.) is idle because youths refused to
work, alleging excessive dust. Examination of the air-pipes showed that they'had been stuffed
with brattice cloth and a piece of coal to block ventilation,”- —Coal Commissioner Mighell. ...
“Mr. Wells, the Communist president of the Miners’ Federation, invited the miners to take
things more easily so that their leaders would be in a stronger position to dictate to Govern-
ment and people.”
and his seat. Beasley is going to London
as “Resident Minister,” “detached,” the
adoring “S. M. Herald” explains, “for
special duty overseas.”
As a result he will not resign his seat....
The expectation is that his position will be
reconsidered before the Government goes
to the country, and his appointment to
London will then be placed on a long-term
basis.
Meantime “no by-election will be neces-
sary.” Pretty rough on the electors of
West Sydney, and the Lang group is
raging ; but “Safety First” is the motto at
Canberra.
The new House of Commons is to
have small concealed loudspeakers, one
for each pair of members. Installed at
Canberra, with an attachment which
would convert assertion, vituperation and
slander made under the cloak of privi-
lege into reasoned argument, the device
would be acceptable to the Australian
public.
Beasley, credited with “ability, vigor and
undoubted gifts for administration” by
“S. M. Herald,” got into a bit of a knot
when replying to Ryan from Flinders,
Bruce’s old electorate, as to whether the
Australian garrison forces in the Pacific
would all be volunteers. He was unable
to “make a definite statement,” but said
the 10,000 for Japan would be volunteers.
They have to be; the Beasley party s
Militia Hopscotch Act prevents the send-
ing of called-up men.
Always ahead of the crowd at Can-
berra, the Maoriland Labor Government
had its demob, plans roughed out in time
for publication on August 20. Service-
women, Peter Fraser said, would be re-
leased “as soon as possible,” first and
second determining factors being length
of service and requirements in essential
industries. For servicemen there would be
a first priority for men “urgently” needed
as farm workers, shearers, musterers,
dairy-factory hands, electricians, painters,
plumbers, carpenters, sawmill workers
and coalminers.
At the same time general demobilisation
will proceed at the maximum possible rate
in the following order of preference: (1)
Those with four years’ service; (2) married
men with children; (3) youths under 2Qj,
men over 35.
The Navy already had a points system
for release, “based on length of service
and marital status.” In all the services
provision is made for release on compas-
sionate grounds and for industrial require-
ments.
Monday was the sixth anniversary of
the outbreak of war with the first of the
Axis Powers. The wars with the Axis
are over, thank God, after incredible ex-
ertions and losses. Out of them came the
atomic bomb and Laski, Laski, braying
in Stockholm, bracketed Britain and
Sweden as second-class Powers, Sweden
having a population of 6,000,000 or so.
The truth is that Britain entered the war
without being attacked, fought Germany
and Italy without allies until Germany
attacked Russia, and emerged from the
wars with its Empire intact and its repu-
tation higher than ever. It will survive
Laski.
An effort to oust the Dunstan Govern-
ment was made by a queer combination
—Laborites who want redistribution with
equal electorates, Agrarians who don’t
want redistribution in any shape or form
and undependable Independents. After a
fierce all-nighter it failed, and the dissi-
dent Cockies are now in a difficult posi-
tion. When the turmoil was at its height
a gallery habitue whispered to a neighbor
“Look at Albert—he isn’t turning a hair.
The Luck of Roaring Camp!”
“Petermac”: When Russomania was at
its height in Australia a woman who was
continually making prejudiced compari-
sons between Russia’s war effort and that
of the effete democracies suddenly ceased
her voluble orations. I asked her why.
She said she had seen a newsreel with
flashes of pre-war scenes showing women
tilling the soil, lumping bags of wheat.
driving tractors —in short, doing all the
heavy work on farms. “Fancy them hav-
ing to slave like that,” she commented.
“And not a ghost of a smile on any of
their faces.” Nor, though the land where
All the Good Things of Life are held in
common (blah, blah, blah) is a land of
fur-bearing animals, has the disillusioned
creature or any other student of official
newsreels and still-life photographs ever
seen a working woman in a fur coat.
U.S. Senators of both parties are trying
to straighten out trade-union law. Their
measure receives qualified approval from
Westbrook Pegler, a writer feared by
union dictators and racketeers:
The bill would forbid unions to spy
on or coerce individual workers; it would
forbid them to boycott or blacklist an
employer in retaliation for any exercise of
his legal rights, and it would compel them
to keep their contracts. But there is still no
limitation on the taxing power of unions;
still no requirement of honest internal
elections or fair union laws.
Other opinions are more favorable. A
New York “World Telegram” writer
points out that the measure is modelled
on the Railway Labor Act, “a sound
Federal law, well administered” and so
successful that in “19 years there has been
no major railway strike.” '
“The half-starved peasants of Japan
know better how to preserve their soils
than do the landowners of America and
Australia.” It’s from The Rape of the
Earth, by Jacks and Whyte, and it ought
to be taken to heart by every Australian
worthy of the name.
“Avon”: Maoriland has become con-
verted to a belief in irrigation, not-
withstanding that all parts of the
Dominion have abundant and regular
rainfall —some parts, such as Westland,
much too much. About the richest land
in the South Island is comprised in the
billiard-table-level Canterbury Plains,
where cereal crop yields run up to 60
bushels an acre, vegetables flourish and
horses, cattle and pigs shine with fatness.
Yet in the heart of that country, on the
Rangitata River, a huge 36,000 h.p.
generator was set in motion this winter
by Works Minister Semple, who said the
main purpose was “not to generate power
but to put more moisture on the parched
fields of the Canterbury Plains.” He
prophesied increased productivity as a
result. Before the initiation of this scheme
over £3,000,000 had been spent on irriga-
tion schemes in other parts of the
Dominion.
“Melbn”: From a description of hous-
ing in Melbourne;
Every sound penetrates the dividing wall,
even to the switching of an electric light.
From our back porch we have a splendid
view of the backs of eight houses built in
a semi-circle around us. Privacy is un-
known. Our front porch looks directly into
a neighbor’s back porch Babies’ wash-
ing, supposedly airing on a back porch,
doesn’t look well in the front of a house.
Another neighbor does her washing in full
view of passers-by, as her laundry faces the
front street. We have two children sleeping
in a room lift. 6iii. by 9ft. and a third in
the living room. We are paying extra rent
for an unlined sleep-out which is useless to
us, because we cannot put. young children
outside a locked house.
And all in one of the Housing Commis-
sion’s new “model” suburbs.
Tito, back in Belgrade after failing to
annex parts of Italy and Austria,
abolished the monarchy by word of
mouth. That was easy, but actual and
permanent dethronement may be difficult.
Tito is a Croat and Peter a Serb, head
of a family which has its roots in Serbian
history. Moreover, the young King now
has an heir, always an embarrassment in
these matters. It was Peter and his fol-
lowers who came into the war against
Germany ; the Croats fought on the other
side. No mention of Tito was made at
that period, perhaps because he was in-
distinguishable from the Communists
carrying hammer-and-sickle flags inscribed
with the words “Down with the Imperial-
ist War!”


GOLD MEDAL
WINES
INVITE YOU TO LISTEN TO THE
A. J. ALAN STORIES
2GB 9 p.m. Thursdays; also 2WL, 2CA, 2HR and Macquarie
Network in all States.
2GZ-KA, 2NZ 9.30 p.m. Fridays.
2LM, 9.30 p.m. Wednesdays.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dr. H. C. Webster, scientist of Queens-
land University, is back in Brisbane after
atom-bomb and radar research overseas.
A 38-year-old Tasmanian, he went to
England in 1941 as C.S.I.R. liaison officer.
Dr. Webster has stated that three Austra-
lians —Professors Oliphant (B. 22/8/’45)
and Money, of Melbourne, and Professor
Burhop, of Adelaide —were members of
the British scientific team which went to
America for the final stages of work on
the atom bomb.
The accompanying sketch is Mcßeath’s
impression of Fritz Hart arriving at a
Melbourne Conservatorium reception, at
which also practically the whole of the
city’s musical fraternity turned up. The
headgear started guesswork as to whether
it was General Montgomery or yet
another paratrooper. The little prof.,
back for a while from Honolulu, is both
one of the best conductors Australia has
had and a composer who has had a
strong influence on musical development,
particularly in Victoria, Since 1931 he
FRITZ HART.
has been conductor of the Honolulu Sym-
phony Orchestra, and holds his professor-
ship in Music at the Uni. there.
William Ernest Dunk, succeeding
Lieut.-Colonel W. R. Hodgson as secre-
tary of the Department of External
Affairs, is a South Australian who spent
his early days in the Commonwealth
Auditor-General’s office, Adelaide. Since
1928 he has held official posts in London
and the U.S.A. and was latterly Treasury
representative in the Department of De-
fence, Melbourne, and Director of Re-
ciprocal Lend-lease Finance. Now 47,
he’s a Fellow of the Federal Institute of
Accountants.
The earliest releases of Australian
prisoners-of-war included Brigadier Cecil
Arthur Callaghan, whose folk live at
Gordon, on Sydney’s North Shore line.
Callaghan, who was top man with the
Eighth Division after Bennett escaped,
had a fine record in the previous war, his
awards including a C.M.G., D.S.O. and
Chevalier Legion of Honor, with four
“mentions.” In that war throughout, in-
cluding Gallipoli and France, Callaghan
was in this one also from the beginning.
When he fell into their hands the Japs
gave out that they had captured a major-
general, and insisted on so calling him.
Colonel W. S. Kent Hughes, M.L.A.,
of Melbourne, who was p.-0.-w. at the
fall of Singapore, has been unofficially
reported alive and well. Victorian Rhodes
Scholar in 1914, he gained an M.C. in
the last war. A brilliant athlete, he won
his lacrosse “blue” at Oxford, was cap-
tain of the Oxford ski team and
represented Australia in the Olympic
Games in 1920. He later declared that,
from his own experience, it was a bad
thing for adolescents to be trained for
Head-of-the-River races as he was.
He is a son of Dr. Wilfred Kent Hughes,
who was one of Melbourne’s most out-
spoken surgeons.
Made a life member of the Air Force
Association, George Mills was its presi-
dent for several years. With the Ist Light
Horse on Gallipoli and Sinai, he joined
No. 1 Squadron in 1916 as an observer,
but was hurt in a crash in early 1917 and
invalided home. In spite of a badly
injured right arm, he learned to fly with
the Aero Club, and later formed the Light
Aircraft co. In 1937 he looked into para-
chute manufacture, and eventually
secured a contract from the R.A.A.F. for
them. The co. made many ’chutes dur-
ing the war. Mills was one of the small
band of Liberal Democratic candidates at
the last Commonwealth elections,
“Bohemian” farewells a showman:
Henry Hayward, who passed on in M.L. own-
ing 60 theatres (B. 29/8/’45), hailed originally
from Wolverhampton (Eng.). Son of an eminent
violinist, he always had a gift for the picturesque
in the way of amassing coin. As a young chap
left to battle on his own, he staggered the
manager of a shipping concern by proposing
that one of its biggest vessels should be turned
into a “floating theatre.” The manager ordered
him off the premises, regarding him as a crank;
but Hayward was so persistent that the co. de-
cided to give it a fly, and it brought in £2OO
a concert. By the time he was 30 Hayward
had also been a tobacconist, a newspaper owner,
proprietor of market stalls and of sideshows,
and other things besides. Turning to the movies,
he eventually cast up in Dunedin (M.L.) with
£BOO, and, after other theatrical ventures—one
12-months’ tour netted £13,000 —he set up the
Dominion’s first permanent picture show. He
became a Rationalist, and wrote many books
in support of his ideas, but was always accepted
by others, including clergymen, as a fine type.
Hayward and his two brothers married three
sisters, members of one of his touring com-
panies. ,
Victor Drury, again re-elected its presi-
dent, has been 33 years with the Queens-
land Ambulance Transport Brigade. He
was chairman of the Dalby (Q.) Ambu-
lance Centre for 25 years, and was several
times mayor there. He’s the second-
oldest solicitor in Queensland, admitted
in September, 1889.
C. P. Mountford, the Adelaide post-
man who spent his leaves with the wilder
tribes of the Centre (B. 29/8/’45), has
been awarded the Australian Natural
History medallion for the current year,
and no man better deserved it. He has
done a lot to make people conscious that
the abo. is a human being rather than a
scientific monstrosity or an economic
problem, and his color films of the art,
customs and culture of the Afuntas are
among the best that have been made.
Mountford is shortly to return to America
on an extended lecture tour for the Com-
monwealth Government.
W. G. Henderson, who graduated
from Queensland University, has been
appointed headmaster of Ipswich Boys’
Grammar in succession to R. A. Kerr.
Himself an old boy of the school,
Henderson has been on its teaching staff
for 22 years.
There are present-day Australian links
with the naming of the R.N. depot here
Golden Hind. It was in the Golden Hind
that Drake entered Magellan Straits,
captured a Spanish fleet, dropped in on
California, and then decided to sail round
the world by crossing the Pacific, refitting
in Java and rounding the Cape. Drake’s
sponsor, Sir Christopher Hatton, Lord
Chancellor to Queen Bess and Crown
prosecutor of Mary Queen of Scots, has
many descendants in Melbourne, two of
them in the R.A.N. One is William
Miller Hatton Symons, able seaman, who
served in the Philippines on the Arunta.
The other is Clive Hatton Miller Symons,
naval writer. Their father was a member
of Melbourne Stock Exchange who traced
his descent through his mother to Drake’s
patron. An uncle was the Australian
athlete Professor Miller, who died in
America.
Lately having some leave in Sydney,
Commander R. H. Mills, who commanded
H.M.S. Brazen when it located the
British submarine Thetis, lost with all
hands off Norway just before the war
started. Commander Mills was C.O. of
the sloop H.M.S. Bittern when it was
sunk by enemy aircraft off Namsos, and
he was also on the job at Dunkirk, being
“mentioned” for good work in those grim
hours.
Ending his long reign as High Com-
missioner in Britain dating from
October, 1933 —Stanley Melbourne Bruce
S. M. BRUCE.
ranks high among the best of Australian
exports. He began heading abroad early,
going to Cambridge from Melbourne
C. of E. Grammar, where he was cap-
tain back at the start of the century. He
was on Gallipoli with the Worcesters,
and badly wounded at Suvla Bay. Again
wounded later on in France, he won the
M.C. and C, de G.; was back in Aus-
, tralia, invalided out, in 1917, next year
was M.H.R. for Flinders, and was Prime
Minister from 1923 till 1929. Abroad he
represented Australia in the League of
Nations and at numerous conferences.
Bruce was probably at his best here, as
far as platform performance went, in the
1929 elections. Nothing quite as deadly
in the way of crushing repartee has since
been heard, except perhaps from Men-
zies. Bruce, whose spats and other sar-
torial splendor led The Bulletin to
christen him Spruce, was Melbourne-
born and has turned 62.
Outsize Lud Mayor:
Francis Ray Connelly, the latest and the
biggest Lud Mayor Melbourne has ever had —
he stands six foot one in his socks and weighs
16£ stone —learnt his pothooks in 12 schools,
gave them up, and went jackerooing on his
father’s station on the Darling Downs. Back
in Melbourne in 1913, he started a grain-store
business, got rather crowded out by the Wheat
Pool, took on motor transport, formed Latrobe
Motors and founded the “Hire-a-car-drive-your-
self” movement. (At this stage the L.M. broke
off and said that The Bulletin had always
been his gospel and was the only political paper
in Australia worth taking notice of, and he
LUD MAYOR OF MELBOURNE.
advocated its policy of unification and the sub-
stitution of regional councils for State Parlia-
ments when he put up for Stanley Argyle’s seat
at Toorak.) Connelly has been in the City
Council for 11 years, is a member of the Metro-
politan and the Peninsula Golf Clubs, the
V.R.C., the V.A.T.C. and the M.C.C. His hob-
bies are golf and racing; or, as he describes
golf, “Foot and mouth disease.” A great traveller,
he went to Canada in 1922 fo study the bulk
handling of wheat, and has since been round the
world three times. His contribution to the Mel-
bourne Centenary celebrations was to get - Tom
Fairbairn out from England to produce “Hia-
watha,” with 2000 voices and full Indian war-
paint, at the Exhibition Building (the first per-
formance outside England), and he is asking
Fairbairn to come out again next' year to pro-
duce “Elijah” in the same place. He is strong in
opposition to overlapping controls which hand
Greater Melbourne over to the mercies of 200
municipal bodies and to the Government set-up,
and wants a Federal Government of 200 mem-
bers and no State Houses. “When Ray Connelly
spoke nobody took any notice of him, but when
the Lord speaks it is a different matter,”
he concluded. He is a brother-in-law of Mrs.
Bernard Heinze, who will act as Lady Mayoress;
she and Connelly’s late wife were daughters of
David Hennessy, Lud Mayor of Melbourne five
years in succession.
Had a half-century in Adelaide Town
Hall, Alec Morrison, who joined as a
youngster under Worsnop, then a noted
Town Clerk, and now holds the post him-
self.
John Clunies Ross, whose father, a
Cocos Governor, was killed in a Japanese
air raid last year, is being prepared at
London University to assume his unique
“kingship.” The group of 20 islands was
annexed in 1857, placed under Ceylon in
1878, under the Straits Settlement in
1886 and annexed to Singapore in 1903,
but the Governorship was vested in the
Ross family in perpetuity by Royal
Charter as a recognition of the solid
virtues of the original Ross, who ran the
islands on his own hook for 30 years
when the official geographers didn’t know
of their existence.
Another fighting family:
Major R. A. Suthers: Brigade Major of the
18th Brigade at Batik Papan. With 2/15 Bat-
talion in Darwin, M.E. and N.G. Before the
war a solicitor at Ingham (Q.).
Major G. O. Suthers; With 2/9 Battalion
at Balik Papan. Enlisted in that battalion as
a private in October, 1939, and with it in
England, M.E. and N.G. Before the war on
Dalgety’s staff in Townsville (Q.).
Capt. A. G. Suthers: With 2/12 Battalion in
England, M.E. and N.G. Mentioned in dis-
patches for gallantry at Buna. Invalided" out
with recurrent malaria. Before the war with
E.S.C.A. in Townsville (Q.), now settled in Syd-
ney.
Capt. D. A. Suthers: Formerly with 31st
Battalion, now Staff Capt. on Base H.Q. at
Tarakan. Before the war a solicitor at Ayr (Q.).
Sister Cpl. Gwenda Suthers, now Mrs. J. R.
Cother, still with W.A.A.A.F. in Brisbane. Her
husband, F/Lt. J. E. Cother, is in Borneo.
The four brothers all enlisted in the
militia as privates before the war. The
family is that of A. O. Suthers, of Coor-
paroo, Brisbane, headteacher of the
Toowong State school.
C. V. Kellway, who becomes Australia’s
first consular appointment as Consul-
General in New York, was in the Trade
Commissioner’s office there for five years
from 1934. In the war he has been look-
ing after supplies procurement for Aus-
tralia in the U.S.A. Now 53, he’s been
with the Commonwealth Public Service
since he was 16.
Adelaide Uni. is to lose J. M. Innes
Stewart, its Professor of English, at the
end of the year. He came from Leeds
fO years ago and is anxious to get back,
though going only to a lectureship at
Belfast. He has occupied his leisure by
writing some jolly shockers, under the
thinly-disguised name of Michael Innes.
Into the silence;
In Sydney, at ,55, Senior Sergeant J. W.
Staniforth, of the Metropolitan police, and one
of the best-known and best-liked members of
the force.
In Brisbane, at 64, Frederick Ibbotson, a
leading city businessman, and a veteran of the
Boer War, in which he served with the Queen’s
Own West Kent Regiment.
At Hawthorn, Melbourne, Francis Hugh
Mackay, solicitor. He helped in the redrafting
of the Commonwealth Constitution.
At 63, in Melbourne, Richard Prior Brennan,
a former senior detective at Russell-street C. 1.8.
He watched the interests of the A.I.F. at Scot-
land Yard in the last war, and was part - of
the Prince of Wales’ escort in 1920. Some of
the worst criminals in Victoria were brought to
heel by him.
At Newcastle (N.S.W.), Mrs. Susan Turner,
who was patroness and only woman member of
the Melbourne Bread and Cheese Club. It was
at her home that meetings were first started
and where they were held for two years.
At Hobart, at 86, H. J. Wise, accountant and
one-time manager of Tongkah Tin Mining Co.
One of the first vice-presidents of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants in Australia, he was
treasurer for many years of Hobart Rowing
Association and Grand Lodge of Tasmania.
At Launceston (Tas.), at 91, William Bowker,
of Bichene. Holder of an Australian record, for
78 years in a shearing shed without a break,
he was noted among the tip-top wool-classers.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Zake”; Press articles about the
mumbo-jumbo surrounding the Japanese
Emperor never fail to bring in the bit
about no subject of this exalted ruler
being allowed to occupy a position
whence he can look down on him. Hay-
ing read the umpteenth dishing-up of this
hoary item in my flapper daily, I turned
to the next page —and there was the
Mikado, sitting up like Jacky in a
barouche or a landau or some such
archaic wagon, and perched a couple of
feet above the royal bean a brace of
flunkeys!
* jfc *
“B. C. Ack”: Re John Brennan’s men-
tion of the 23rd Brigade (B. 15/ 8/ ’45).
Our unit was attached to this brigade in
Darwin, and, although I’ve seen no offi-
cial report, it was generally known that
the 2/21 was lost in Amboina and the
2/40 in Timor, not in Singapore. Some
of the few Eighth Division troops to
remain temporarily in Australia, we later
saw, only too clearly, evidence of the
2/22nd’s fate when we occupied Tol
Plantation (N. 8.). Small groups of skele-
tons and pitiful remnants of Australian
clothing told the tragic story,
* * * *
“Bo”: Anyone who has paused in
Sydney’s Pitt-street in the rush hours and
noted the collection of clanking, high-
stepped anachronisms that surge along,
packed tight with unhappy straphangers
and human doormats, must reflect that
the Harbor City has about the weirdest
tram equipment this side of the Equator.
That this view is shared by the employees
is confirmed by their designation of the
office which has to control the mon-
strosities. They call it the Laughing-Stock
Inspector’s Branch.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Up to 1941 our suburb was
infested by Wheezer, a man of indeter-
minate age, frayed garments, worm-eaten
appearance and an ingratiating manner.
He lived mysteriously in a tumble-down
shack on the outskirts and spent his days
cadging about the streets. Then Man-
power caught up with him and Wheezer
went to work. Somebody discovered that
he was a craftsman. He made good
money, and dressed well, entertained him-
self frugally, lost his ingratiating manner,
walked proudly about the suburb in his
off hours. Three months ago the war
factory which employed him reduced
hands. Wheezer remained, now a fore-
man. “But only till Manpower goes,” he
told us. “I didn’t mind doin’ it while the
war was on, but not for ever. Not me.
Anybody’d think a man couldn’t live
without work.”
* * * *
“Clarrie the Comm.”; It is being put
about that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment plans to encourage the setting-up of
textile and other industries on the N.S.W.
coalfields, the idea being that if a new
element is introduced the coalies will re-
form or something and there will be other
avenues of employment for their sons and
daughters, Dunno about their daughters,
but what young man of Weston or Walls-
end is likely to seek this other employ-
ment? In the coalmines he need work
at most 36 hours a week at the face.
earn anything from £6 to £lO a week,
have a strike whenever he feels like a
holiday, and be sure that whatever short-
ages of beer and smokes other parts may
suffer these amenities will be kept up to
him. I mean to oppose the whole thing
strenuously as just another manifestation
of boorjoice capitalism. Dammit, they’ll
be able to force a bloke to work if they
get away with this.
* * * *
“Norther”: Up in North Queensland a
man is apt to think thoughts not usually
thought in crowded places, so perhaps I
may be pardoned for stating that it
seems strange to me that Miss Mary
Fairfax, a member of a family which
rose to eminence through the news-
paper business, apparently never thought
to earmark any of her money as
an endowment for the encouragement of
native literature. The estate of £482,278
goes, with the exception of the usual
grants to deserving charities and faithful
employees, back into the family. I know
that death duties will swamp a good bit of
it and probably I ought to be told to mind
my own business, seeing it isn’t my
money, but why is it that so few news-
paper people have left little or nothing
to writers?
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: For over a week a
5000-ton ship has been held up in Mel-
“ Isn't that your wife with Prendergast , General ?”
“Yes. Sits a saddle Well , doesn't she?"
bourne, 100 stevedores have been pre-
vented from following their avocation, an
urgently-needed cargo of fodder has re-
mained unloaded, army and civilian doc-
tors, horticultural experts, entomologists
and biologists have been in conclave and
a board of reference has been compell&d
to sit because of the operations of a mite
called Pediculoides ventricocus. P. ven-
tricocus, almost invisible to the naked eye,
raised bumps, ulcers and eruptions on the
skins of lumpers. As I write the mite was
still in full command of the situation, the
wharfies having refused to go down the
hold until a question of penalty rates had
been decided. There is an unconfirmed
report that several miners in N.S.W. have
committed hara-kiri, jealousy being the
ascribed motive.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”; The suggestion has
been made in Melbourne that induce-
ments should be offered to Noel Mewton-
Wood, the young Victorian composer and
pianist who has made a name for himself
in England, to stay in Australia. What
inducements could be offered? There are
no music publishers prepared to look at
work of any importance, no firm that
would record it, and no symphony or-
chestra addicted to performing any new
compositions, let alone Australian ones.
Perhaps the Federal Government, in its
zeal for culture, would give the young
chap a steady job as a liftman in one of
the departments.
% * sfc #
“Boghi”: Pioneer engineering firms
are being asked to help trace the origins
of three ancient lathes, pedigree and
nationality unknown, held by the General
Motors-Holdens concern. One big fellow,
estimated to be 80 years old, was fished
out of the Yarra, though how it got there
is still a mystery. Since October, 1940,
it has turned out hundreds of barrels or
two-pounder and six-pounder guns, lh®
other two were found in South Australia.
One, dated 1861, was probably made m
S.A.; the other, which came from
Fletcher’s Dock, Birkenhead, is dated
1860, and bears the name “New and Co.
Those old lathe-makers had little to learn.
The machines have equalled the pei torm-
ances of the most up-to-date lathes in the
exacting work of gun-barrel turning, and
have still many years of useful life before
them.
*** . *
“Hamer”: The day Macßobertson
showed me round his works I (thougn
20 years younger than he was) puffed alter
him as he took the stairs three steps at a
time ; his athleticism was one of his egot-
isms. As he passed he spoke to em-
ployees (they were an army), each by his
or her Christian name, with an inquny
about family affairs, sicknesses, sports
and even birthday parties. There were a
couple of old fellows who had worked
beside the boss in the factory where he
learnt his trade. When The Bulletin
had a “Man with the Nail-can” article on
its leader page Mac was pleased as
Punch ; he had a pile of pink-jacketed
papers on his desk, and handed one to
every caller.' I got one and was promised
also a complete showcase assortment ol
the Macßobertson productions. That
I’m still waiting for.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland’s Post Office
didn’t wait till VP-Day to think about
preparing an issue of Victory stamps. It
had a series of 11 new designs, some,
very fittingly, representing the serenest
aspects of a land thankful that it has
been spared the horrors of invasion.
Notable among these is the 9d. denomi-
nation, which reproduces the glimpse of
the Southern Alps and the Franz Josef
Glacier that is framed by the window
behind the altar in the little church in
Waiho Gorge. The halfpenny issue shows
mountain-locked Lake Matheson. The
People of Britain receive a tribute on the
issue, the British Parliamentary Sys-
tem is lauded on the penny stamp and
the Royal Family is paid a tribute on
the twopenny. The M.L. Army’s exploits
receive recognition on the fourpenny, the
N.Z.R.A.F.’s on the threepenny and those
of the R.N.Z.N. and the Mercantile
Marine on the fivepenny. Flome-front
workers get their meed on the sixpenny,
and “the service and devotion of youth in
the nation’s cause” provide matter for the
eightpenny. The shilling stamp, highest
in the series, depicts the memorial cam-
panile in Wellington, a tribute to the
fallen.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Modern” art still finds no
takers among film producers, save as basis
for a gag —the old one about not know-
ing whether a picture is hung right side
up or the reverse. When art looms large
in the plot of a film the director is always
careful to stick to what the ratbags scorn-
fully term “depictive” art. In Maugham’s
“The Moon and Sixpence,” a thinly-veiled
story of the life of Gauguin, only the
backs of the pictures are glimpsed till
after the denouement, when a few
hurried shots of the “masterpieces” are
shown —decorative stulf, almost conven-
tional. In “Holy Matrimony,” film
version of Arnold Bennett’s Buried Alive,
which told of an English painter who
took the name of his dead man-
servant, the portraits and landscapes he
is supposed to have painted bear no symp-
tom of modernist hysteria. Currently
showing is Wilde’s “Picture of Dorian
Gray.” A full-length portrait of the
villain of the piece is an essential part of
the film, and a strikingly faithful likeness
of the actor is supplied—the work,
obviously, of a competent painter. Film
producers can’t risk a laugh where a gasp
of admiration is called for.
* * * *
“Two Gulfs” with a parable:
Once upon a time there was a big company
which established a large town around its
works. Being a genial sort of concern with
ideas about keeping its employees happy, it
made and maintained the town’s streets and pro-
vided electric power and lighting free. In time
the town grew and sundry spirits arrived who
declared themselves to be democratic and pro-
gressive and began insisting that the townspeople
should have a voice in the way it was conducted.
“The octopus,” they asserted, “should have its
tentacles lopped.” By and by the people began
to think they were hardly done by, so they
rose up and demanded a say in the* domestic
affairs. “By all means,” said the octopus, and
it was arranged that the people should elect
three commissioners, the company should elect
three, and the king should appoint an indepen-
dent chairman. And it was so. And about the
first thing the commission did was to strike
rates for the upkeep of the streets and for the
use of light and power. The people are now
very angry and wish they’d thrown both the idea
and the originators thereof into the placid seas
that bathe the shores. But they got what they
asked for and there it is. And if you think
it couldn’t happen here, go to Whyalla (S.A.)
and see for yourself.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: I shall attempt no more
friendly jokes. Unexpectedly in a Mel-
bourne suburb I decided to call upon a
friend of my youth, now running a
butchery, “Tell your boss,” said I to the
two employees in the shop, “that So-and-
so from the Prices Commissioner is
here.” One youth shot a look at his mate,
they circled swiftly round the block,
seized me and hurled me into the street.
There, holding the fly-proof door against
me they said “An’ you can’t charge the
boss with it, see, ’cos he ain’t here, an’
we did it off our own bat.” By this time
an intimidating crowd had collected, so
I decided to explain to my friend by
letter.
* * * *
“Traymon”; Whatever gifts a grateful
nation may seek to bestow upon Winston
Churchill, it is unlikely that they will
measure up to the gratuities accorded his
illustrious ancestor. After Blenheim
Marlborough was given a Crown grant of
£lOO,OOO to build Blenheim Palace. Some
years later he received £140,000 more to
complete it. Eventually he was granted
a life pension of £4OOO a year, payable
also “to his heirs and assigns for ever.’
This clause in the grant proved a heavy
burden for posterity, as the pension was
regularly paid for 182 years —from 1702
until 1884—and was then commuted, by
consent of. the existing beneficiary, for a
lump sum of £107,780. In all, rewarding
Marlborough cost the Treasury £835,780
in days when the pound could buy a lot
more than it does now.
ASTROLOGIC DOPE.
“The N.S.W. Anglican Synod carried a motion
deploring the spread of astrology, stigmatised by
one speaker as moonshine and rubbish which has
a pernicious effect on credulous women and people
of weak intellect.”
How hard it dies, the myth that astral bodies
Exert an influence on human lives,
Beneficent or baneful! And how odd is
The fact this mumbo-jumbo mush survives
To meet the eye on many a printed page
In this allegedly enlightened age!
Taurus and Aries and Sagittarius,
Cancer and Scorpio and Gemini,
Uranus, Leo, Capricorn and various
Others we note o’ nighttimes in the sky,
What arrant humbugs are they who would
dower
You with some fanciful and occult power!
Fit stuff perhaps to gull the medieval
Intelligence of centuries ago.
The “boong” or abo. in his haunts primeval,
The unsophisticated Eskimo,
Though even he, one thinks, might' be a bit
Hard to convert, inclined to jib at it.
And yet there’s obviously money in it
For charlatans who only ask the date
When you were born —at just the hour and
minute—
To put you wise about your destined fate,
And, with that detail armed, instruct you what
You should attempt on any day—or not.
Yet cleric wrath will hardly harm your locus
Standi, you readers of the moon and Mars,
While women fall for any hocus-pocus
Whether it’s based on tea-leaves or the stars,
And sober sense is not a gift assigned
By kindly Providence to all mankind.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
THE REAL BENEFACTORS.
“The Federal Government has abolished the re-
strictions on racing promulgated in 1942,
the question of mid-week racing to be decided by
State Premiers.
There are war-time controls that may linger for
years,
According to current reports,
But here’s one at least, you will note, disappears
Almost in a trice to elicit the cheers
Of all sorts and conditions of sports.
Now the punter once more will be given pre-war
Conditions for staking his dough;
But I reckon the lad who’ll be even more glad
Will be he whom they designate Mo,
The Ikey whose surname is Mo.
The trainer approval will doubtless display
At the heartening news which denotes
There will soon be a drop in the idle array
Of cuddies consuming their corn and their nay
With no way of earning their oats.
And the jocks, you may bet, who ve had reason
to fret
At few chances their talents to show
May fairly rejoice, but the loudest to voice
Te Deums, I’ll say, will be Mo,
Vociferous, odds-yelling Mo.
The tipsters, who’re rarely a fortunate lot,
To their work with new vigor will warm,
More racing will give them more chances, I wot,
“Straight griffins,” “dead birds and stone
morals” to spot
As vigilant students of form. ? . t
But there’s no one, I’ll claim, who s attached
the game, v
Be his metier lofty or low,
Who should feel such content as the amiable
gent.
Entitled generically Mo,
The quite indispensable Mo.
Some find in the turf a legitimate source
Of pastime, dull care to surmount,
While others admittedly flock to the c 0^ s ?
Light-heartedly hoping their knowledge of ho -
To turn to financial account.
But I’ll say that the cult with most cause to exu
At the ruing of Chifley and Co.
Are those who rely on a living thereby
And can always depend to come right in the en ,
The tribe of acquisitive Mo,
Of sturdily field-laying Mo.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“S.T.S.”: Some jokes seem to be im-
mortal. Lehar’s “Merry Widow” has
been brought right up to the moment
with meat coupons and banned radio
artists and so on. And yet, when Prince
Danilo is asked to decide between home
and his club he brightly makes the old
reply “If you leave it to me, partner, I
make it clubs.” Very neat and topical
in the days before Auction, but it must
be at least 30 years since bridge-players
could leave the choice of trumps to a
partner.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Mention of President Tru-
man’s first adrlrpsc tn fR
n S ,, A a ,i i C on B[ ess
22/8/ 45) recalls that only snatches of it
appeared in our dailies, though it ran to
“Bridget, why MUST you bring guests with high sales-resistance?”
little more than an average column. In
our Glorious Press horseracing has first
priority, and even “S. M. Herald” has
descended to that idiotic form of carica-
ture in which racehorses are presented
as public characters. In any case, the
devotional note struck by the President
would have jarred on our dashing young
exponents of materialism. The closing
passage:
At this moment I have in my heart a
prayer. As I assume my heavy duties I
humbly pray to Almighty God, in the words
of Solomon; “Give therefore Thy servant
an understanding heart to judge Thy people,
that I may discern between good and bad:
For who is able to judge this Thy so great
a people?” I ask only to be a good and
faithful servant of my Lord and my people.
Rather fine, it seems to me ; but, not
being interested in the weights and ac-
ceptances or the return of Wednesday
“meetings” or the dogs or the lot’ry, I
suppose I am hopelessly old-fashioned.
* -t * *
“Notaden”: “Ceg’s” (B. 22/8/’45)
reference to Ivo Bligh and his Australian
bride recalls the time when the noble
cricketer got bushed for most of a night
in the (fenced) 60-acre Verdon landscape
garden while they were honeymooning at
Mt. Macedon (Vic.). As they sat on the
verandah after dinner a wallaby thumped
in the shrubbery below, and Bligh
strolled down to investigate the queer
noise. An hour later the now-agitated
bride heard him calling from a distance.
She roused the servants and began a search.
Neighbors—including myself, then aged
14 and having a holiday all on my lone
in a relative’s near-by cottage—were
called out and formed search parties. We
cooeed and waved lanterns in the pitch
darkness, got shouts in reply, even heard
the splash when the lost one fell into the
ornamental lake—for the second time, as
it transpired—but could not find him.
Then came silence, and the disturbing
thought that he might have fallen in again
and got drowned. At dawn a deputation
went up to the house to break the news
and to seek materials for dragging. A
sleepy and haughty butler informed them
that the hon. gentleman had got back
some hours before and couldn’t be dis-
turbed —not on no account. But the couple
made it up to the would-be rescuers later,
with a garden party and lots and lots of
refreshments.
* * * *
“Galenus”: A notable additipn to
Queensland’s health-protective effort is
provided by two new railway cars, built
and fitted at the Ipswich workshops, as
dental clinics for work amongst country
children. Staffed from the Health De-
partment’s school health service, they
will tour the west and central-west areas
as part of a scheme for giving every
Queensland child, pre-school ages in-
cluded, full dental service on preventive
as well as curative lines. A flying dentist
and mechanic are already at work in the
Charleville, Longreach and Cloncurry
areas, and it is the intention to extend the
service to the whole of outback Queens-
land when staff becomes available. Not-
withstanding shortages of staff and
materials, the very creditable figures of
60,920 fillings and 30,257 extractions
amongst 26,720 children treated were
registered last year,
* * * *
“Pip” on the Army’s moving days:
About the most irritating job the Army can
produce is cleaning up a camp area prior to
moving out. For weeks or months the soldiery
have been accumulating boxes, home-made
wardrobes, food cupboards, 40-gallon drums
and suchlike tent furniture to make life more
com fortable. Now these must be disposed of.
When it was a case of some other unit shifting
in a pile of the bush furniture was stacked at
the bottom of the area. These days, though, the
camps are not likely to be used again, so the
results of amateur construction, barter and
scrounging go up in flames. Tins won’t burn
and the best way to. get rid of them (from the
camp commandantV" point of view) is to bury
them. Bomb craters and foxholes make good
receptacles, but it is amazing what a large
amount of space a very few tins will occupy.
All sawn timber must, for some unknown
reason, be collected and placed in a central dump.
Bottles are crated and returned to the canteen.
Telegraph poles erected for signal communica-
tions are dug out, old drains and latrines filled
in, cookhouses dismantled. After everything is
apparently in order the duty officer makes an
inspection. His report produces another burst
of activity, repeated sporadically after ensuing
inspections. Only when the whole place is a
charred and dusty mass do the powers-that-be
pronounce themselves satisfied. All is ready for
marching out when orders come through de-
laying everything for a week. Up go the tents
and cookhouses, and down go new holes. The
soldier, hardened by years of practice, sighs
wearily and sets to work, muttering that while
it is great to be messed around, nothing in the
world can equal being messed around by san-
guinary experts.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Mrs. ’Arris’s kins-
man, Ern Malley, is no myth to Mel-
bourne. Jokingly remarking to a casual
acquaintance at the Contemporaries’
show that I missed a portrait of the
eminent poet, I received a look of cold
disapprobation. “Mr, Malley was a very
great poet,” observed my acquaintance,
“I have an autographed copy of his
poems.”
* * * *
“Tasjazz”: Tales of the peace celebra-
tions in various cities of the world fade
into mere stodge compared with Hobart
“Mercury’s” description of the orgy
Mount Wellington looked down upon:
It was the best of days. It was a never-
to-be-forgotten night. Hobart let her hair
down, the traditionally staid old maid, and
more beside, and never again can she lay
claim to sobriety and propriety. No one was
quite the same. Nobody cared. The old
town kicked over the traces for 24 hours
and more, and she was as frolicsome in the
waning hours as in the morning. Joy was
unconfined, and often unbridled. Hobart
awoke with a yawn, and was jolted out of
sleep, caroused and cavorted for 20 hours
and more, and tired, happy, reluctant,
thirsty—and thirsting for more —at last was
coaxed abed.
Having, presumably, conserved a wee
drop in the bottle for the morning.
* * * *
“Angma”: Atabrin, though not a cure,
keeps malaria down. But in doing so it
raises another problem. American Army
doctors, in the course of handling hun-
dreds of men returning from Pacific
areas, have found that a considerable
proportion of those who have had
malaria give either a positive or a dubious
reaction to the Wasserman blood test,
though they have no trace whatever of
V.D. In Australia this may complicate
anti-V.D. campaigns. It will also cause
a lot of trouble in those parts of the U.S.
where pre-marital blood tests are de-
manded by law.
“Collarn”: Collingwood (Vic.) City
Council, after much research, claims to
have located the spot where John Pascoe
Fawkner lived in that suburb. A slab
with brass lettering, similar to the John
Batman memorial in Flinders-street, will
be erected in Smith-street inscribed
Near this spot lived John Pascoe Fawk-
ner. One of the founders of Melbourne.
Arrived on the site of Melbourne 10th Oct.,
1835. Died at Collingwood, 4th Sept., 1869.
Aged 77.
John Howlett-Ross, the elocutionist, now
in his 89th year, is believed to be the only
living link with Fawkner. The Founder
patted the five-year-old Howlett-Ross on
the head.
* * * <s
“Looby”: Saturday, noon. The book-
shop man prepared to slam the doors,
so I prepared to get out. “Thank
heavens tomorrow’s Sunday,” he said,
with hatred-of-everything in his tone,
“I’m sick to death of the look of books.
Books, books, books, I hate the blasted
things! ” “I suppose so,” I agreed. “And
what do you do on a Sunday?” His eyes
glistened as he said “I go to the Mitchell
Library.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Australia in general and the
Army in particular owe a lot to S.A. over
the new drug sulphamerazine. Prof. Mac-
Beth did most of the preliminary work at
Adelaide Uni., with the devoted help of
John Mills and Harold Rodda, ignoring
for months “both the clock and the Sab-
bath,” to the risk of their health. After
three months of day-and-night work they
worked out the formula and were able to
hand it over to 1.C.1. in Melbourne.
Their large-scale production of the drug
for the Army was made possible by the
research and experiments under difficult
conditions of 1.C.1.’s Warren Bonython—
son and grandson of Adelaide’s “Adver-
tiser” magnates.
* * * *
“Melbn”; If plans now before Mel-
bourne City Council are carried out the
Nettlefold dreams for the city will come
true. Proposals include reclamation
of the West Melbourne swamp, libraries
in all wards, a new city destructor, a
horticultural hall, a statue of peace oppo-
site a projected cultural centre, an air-
port, triumphal arches over the city’s
gateways, a maternity hospital, a
new Town Hall on the Exhibition site,
with a children’s community centre, a
commemmorative lookout on Flagstaff
Hill, an auditorium to hold 5000, a green
belt round the city and the removal of
“one of the city’s greatest eyesores,”
opposite St. Paul’s Cathedral —Young and
Jackson’s. There is nothing much to
quarrel with in most of this programme,
though drinkers would regret the passing
of the shrine of Chloe, which isn’t half as
much an architectural eyesore as the
Flinders-street station adjacent.
“Pawang”: Slogans sometimes do
something to compensate for their ex-
pense in posters and propaganda. Ac-
cording to the nutrition committee of the
National Health and Medical Research
Council Victorian city-dwellers are less
deficient in calcium than people else-
where, The “Drink More Milk” cam-
paign is said to be responsible for that,
and, generally speaking, the Australian is
eating more fruit and vegetables, more
bread and cereals, more meat and cheese
and drinking more milk than he did in
pre-war years, despite war-time shortages.
Nevertheless, calcium deficiency is de-
clared by the committee to be the Aus-
“The whole trouble. Commodore, is that the Admirals a blasted
old Woman!”
tralian nutritional weakness, especially in
the Apple Island, which also doesn’t eat
enough apples. The committee says the
Australian has a lazy attitude towards
food, is ashamed of being considered a
good cook, likes butter but dislikes
cheese, scorns rabbit and prefers com-
mercially “predigested” breakfast foods
to porridge. Young women attach a
social stigma to kitchen duties.
* * * *
“Hamer” remembers a historic jubila-
tion ;
Mafeking Day, which gave a new verb to the
English language, in some ways outshone (in
Sydney anyhow) later orgies stimulated by
bigger events. For one thing, there was an ele-
ment of complete surprise when the bells com-
menced to ring out joyously and the guns of
the fleet and the shore batteries (one at
Dawes Point and another at Macquarie Point)
added to the tumult. There was no ball-
to-ball description of war in those days and
pessimists had doubted that relief would come
to Baden Powell’s little stronghold in time.
When the news soaked in utter strangers reached
for one another’s hands, women fell on the
necks of other strangers and kissed them,
crowds fell on the flower stalls to buy up all
the flowers and scatter them like confetti, men
fell into the pubs, and the crowd fell out of
offices and shops into joy-filled streets without
any pre-arrangement; the whole city immediatey
decided on a holiday. Here and there top-
hatted blokes would lift their impressive .lids
and lead the crowd in cheers. The Anthem and
“Sons of the Sea” were sung whenever anyone
thought of it. The crowd soon possessed
itself of squeakers, trumpets and anything that
could make a din, but the first tumult of sound
was that of the bells, strident, thunderous but
beautiful. They started with those of the Post
Office; St. Mary’s, St. Andrew’s, Sf. James’s,
St. Phillip’s and scofcs of churches then in the
city itself took up the tune, and it spread to Sf.
Mark’s at Darling Point and to the few churches
in the bush over on the North Shore in a grow-
ing wave. It was something more gracious to
the memory than the raucous riot of King’s
Cross on a recent occasion.
* * * *
“Corin’’: Queensland’s Shannon family
(B. 18/8/ ’45) is outdone by the Otto
family of the Burnett district (Q.). The
first Ottos arrived in Brisbane in 1874
with five children. Four were born later.
The original Mr. and Mrs. Otto, who
died at 90 and 80 respectively, settled at
Mountain View, Knpaldo, and their direct
descendants number 185.
* * * *
“Visitor”: A deep-sea port to cost a
million (B. 15/8/’45) at Robe (S.A.)?
Perhaps ; but Beachport, its next eastern
neighbor, is in the field with a claim to be
a better port for S.A’s south-east over-
seas trade. Depth and tides will have to
be fought out by engineers, but Beach-
port has a railway—of sorts —while Robe
has not.
* * * »
“C.Q.”: With the sale of St. Hubert’s,
Yering, for a Church of England boys’
home the most historic vineyard in
Victoria has gone out of existence. It
was at Yering that William Ryrie, that
picturesque overlander mentioned by
Rolfe Bolderwood, planted the first vines
in August, 1838, bringing them from
Arnprior, “in far Monaro,” N. S. Wales.
Other vines came from Macarthur’s vine-
yard at Camden. The first vintages, “a
rich wine resembling Burgundy and a
white wine resembling Sauterne, both very
good,” were made in March, 1845. In
1849 Paul de Castella, a Swiss descended
from mountain chieftains, landed at Port
Phillip and soon after bought Ryrie’s
cattle station and extended the vineyard
to commercial proportions. French
cuttings arrived in 1855 and Yering wines
began to acquire a local reputation. In
1861 they won a 100-guinea cup offered
by the “Argus,” and in 1889 they won
the Grand Prix at the Paris Exposition.
Hubert de Castella also started here, and
in 1875 the St.‘ Hubert’s Vineyard Co.
was formed. Yering wines began to be
served at lunch at Government House,
though imported wines still held their
sway at dinner. The vineyard of 250
acres in its prime produced vintages of
over 70,000 gallons every fourth year.
St. Hubert’s became a show place for
overseas notables and gubernatorial
parties. The bursting of the Great Boom
dimmed its glory. Hubert de Castella’s
son, Francois de Castella, the State’s lead-
ing viticulturist, still boosts Australian
wines as president of the Wine and Food
Society in Melbourne.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Bo”: Ned and Harry had been fos-
sicking along the gully for years. On the
rare occasions on which they met —they
worked separate ends of the gully—
“G’day!” was considered a conversa-
tional marathon ; usually a nod sufficed.
Unforgotten by both and resented by one
was a remark made by Ned meeting
Harry coming back from one of his in-
frequent visits to the township ; it was
“How’s things?” Harry, thunderstruck,
gaped and dropped his pipe. Just on a
couple of years later Harry was cutting
a few saplings near the road when Ned
came by. “ ’Day,” he said without stop-
ping or even looking, “How y’ doin’?”
As Ned’s bent figure continued along the
road Harry followed him with a long
quizzical look, spat, glanced at his dog
lolling under a tree, looked along again at
Ned and said t© the dog: “Looks a bit
fishy to me. Why is he takin’ such a
sudden interest in my affairs?”
$ * * *
“B. 4”: For “Plane Creek” (B. 8/8/’45).
In my early days many of the windows cut
in the prostrate trunks of trees by the
abos. were intended to provide a draught
for the very purpose of smoking out a
bandy or kanga-rat. I often watched a
mob of myalls’ mongs yard a bilby into a
log and saw the abos. pile on green leaves
to provide a dense smoke, the in-draught
of which, up to the log and through the
niche, caused the log-dweller to back out,
only to be clouted with a nulla as it
turned to bolt. Occasionally a myall
would chop a large hole, in a shelly log
where his ear located the scuffling rat
stifling in the smoke, and haul out his
prospective lunch. Incidentally, I haven’t
seen a koala-bear or a bilby in this S.Q.
area for many a year.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Some years ago I was look-
ing for horses in that mad tangle of red
sandhills that lies between the gibbers
of the Flinders Range and the salt of
Lake Torrens (S.A.). A bit after dark,
under the light of a glorious moon, I
was headed for the hut about ten miles
away when I rode up a sandhill and
found myself looking over the feathery
tops of massed ti-tree down to a gleaming
reach of still water. That, with its silver
lights and black shadows, its water smell
so exotic in that arid waste of endless
sand, was one arm of the big, horseshoe-
shaped Ti-tree Swamp, then full for the
first time in 40 years. Gordon, a former
manager of Myrtle Springs run, had con-
structed a complicated series of banks
for miles through the sandhills. He left
before the rains came and never saw the
fulfilment of his plan of shepherding the
waters from the homestead range into
the swamp, instead of letting them soak
away in the sand and dry up in the maze
of flats between. I appreciated the swamp
that moonlight night, but I didn’t know
that I had found John McDouall Stuart’s
lost lake. Stuart’s first trip as a leader
was in 1858, when he was sent out to .find
a fresh-water lake reported by the
boongs, who called it Wingilpin, to be
somewhere west of Eyre’s Mt. Deception.
Stuart never found the place and S.A.
dismissed it as a blackfellow myth. It
was probably dry at the time—you could
ride past it, over a sandhill, and never
suspect its existence —for if there had
been water the ’roo and emu tracks would
have led the great bushman to it.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: In B. 4/7/’45 you printed
my appeal for plans to make a crossbow
device for shooting fish under water.
Many replies came by post and a few
appeared on this page. Some were well-
meant attempts to help us, but we had
already tried them put and we are still
waiting for somebody to send us what we
really require—plans for the crossbow,
especially the way in which the line runs
out without deflecting the steel arrow. In
reply to those who sympathised with us in
being unable to procure explosives in an
army establishment: the first arrivals did
dynamite fish. They went right along
the offshore reef and right up all the
rivers and secured some wonderful hauls.
That’s why we’ve had none since and
that’s why A.N.G.A.U. is so annoyed
with people who thus deprive the local
“Now that the War's over , dear. We can get back to our normal Way of
living."
boong of his fish supplies for months —
if not years. It’s the most short-sighted
and stupidly wasteful method of fishing
ever devised. Further, two men lost
their right arms doing it in this area and
another blew himself to pieces. All three
were married. As dynamiting fish is
illegal, inside the Army or out of it, in-
juries sustained while doing it come under
the heading of self-inflicted wounds; so
two Diggers will probably get no com-
pensation and a widow and children no
pension. The-writer has spent the last
four years teaching the troops things like
building fishtraps and getting them with
the spear; while always ready to learn
from those who know, he does not re-
quire any further advice of the type
which instructs grandmothers how to suck
eggs. But he would like to know how that
fish-shooting crossbow is made.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Well, I’ve had
to come to New Guinea to shake hands
with a bloke who’s been to Heaven —and
back. At Sibini village on the n.-e. coast
a native we knew called Zamoon died,
and was duly buried nearby in a shallow
grave together with lap-laps and his total
wealth of eighteen shillings. Then the
villagers returned home to the coconut-
'shaded sands to talk over the deceased’s
estate. Coming on night, the elders were
bewildered to see Zamoon staggering
into the village (the intruder having
come out of a trance and burst
open the shallow grave). The villagers
didn’t wait to ask questions; they stam-
peded bush and the only person Zamoon
could catch up with was a petrified gin.
“You no fright-fright along me,” pro-
tested Zamoon, and poking his chest he
said “This skin belong me all the same.”
So the old gin eventually brought back
the deserters and a public confab fol-
lowed. They asked the resurrected
boong where he’d come from. “Heaven,
he replied seriously. But how did he get
there? He explained he went up to the
skies by a terrifically long ladder, on top
he followed a long white road lined with
betel-nut trees until he came on a big
fella missus.” “She ask name belong
me,” and, producing a big book, began
scrutinizing its pages. Then she said,
“Zamoon, you no stop along this place;
this fella day ’e no day belong you—-
scoot off.” So, confessed Zamoon de-
jectedly, he had to come back!
* * * •
“Blime”; Nothing could convince
Stanway that the accredited shrewd-heads
could tell to within a bob or two what a
beast would make in the saleyards. He’d
been “had” too often to believe in anything
but luck, and he arrived at the
yards with his mixed-conditioned sale
Herefords in one bunch. “Right; I’ll
draft that lot for you,” announced the
agent, arriving busijy to take over. Stan-
way eyed the mob uncertainly. “But,
cripes, y’ve got to have those poor ones
out,” explained the agent. “They’ll spoil
the sale of the others. Keep ’em up, will
you, and I’ll shoot ’em off.” A few
minutes later he surveyed the draft.
“That’s better,” he declared. “Well
shove this poor bunch down the other
end where the good stuff won’t show ’em
up. Good frames those others, and fatter.
Should make.,. .er....” he rubbed his
chin speculatively, “I’d say close on four-
teen quid.” He was busy during selling
hours, but managed to dash over and
hear the auctioneer knock down Stan-
way’s best yarding. After the sale he
sought the seller. “There, what’d I tell
y’?” he grinned. “Thirteen-nineteen.
Now do you believe a man can’t judge
’em?” Stanway nodded slowly, “Well,
I ain’t sayin’ nothin’ ’bout that mob,
Bill,” he replied, “but what about
me poor bunch bringin’ fifteen-two?”
“Gripes, did they?” The agent gaped,
hitched his pants, frowned at the horizon,
then turned back suddenly. “Aw, yes,”
he chuckled, “but then you aren’t allow-
ing for a rise of two quid a head at the
end of the sale.”
* ■* * *
“The 0.D.”: “Moosoo” shouldn’t let
himself be misled too much by sentimen-
tal beliefs about dogs dying beside their
masters if “confined in a room” (B.
22/8/’45). There are plenty of records
of men and women, mainly elderly,
who’ve died alone in some shack and
remained there for days. Where they’ve
owned dogs, almost invariably the dogs
have sought to satisfy their hunger from
the corpse. It is doubtful if a dog, how-
ever loyal to its master or that master’s
memory, recognises a corpse as anything
else but dead flesh.
* * * ' *
“Golden Mile”: “Esk D.’s” Old George
(B. 25/7/’45) must be a very amateur
digger if he plunges through darkness
with a wheelbarrow. Why not stick his
candle in the dirt of the load and so have
a light? And to a man who carried
spurs on his wrists while underground the
provision of a piece of tin to shield the
light from his eyes would be but a minor
thought. The streamlined barrow, of
course, would be a “cousin-jack,” as old
as mining in Cornwall itself, though those
ancient cousins who designed it would
roar at the idea of its being dubbed
streamlined. A handy vehicle, nonethe-
less, capable of being pushed through
the narrowest openings. And its supreme
virtue was its comfort as a couch, under-
ground, night shift. Its flatness, narrow-
ness and slope of both rear and front ends
made it so that it seemed exactly to fit
the human frame,
* * * *
“Old-timer”: I see that a Sydney Sun-
day paper, reporting the disappearance
of a child at Gol Gol, on the Murray,
displayed the usual city-paper’s flair for
Australian geography and placed the
hamlet in Victoria. The place, which
boasted a pub and not much else, was
once the site of the only traffic punt be-
tween Euston and Wentworth ; and on
warm Sundays, in the days before Mildura
acquired its pubs, herds of fruitpickers
and citizens used to make up the river,
cross the punt and enjoy refreshments
free from the ominous eye of the N. S.
Wales police, whose nearest forces were
stationed at Wentworth, 20-odd miles
down-river, and Euston, 50-odd miles up.
Euston and Mildura have acquired
bridges since then, and Gol Gol itself
has degenerated into a haunt of fisher-
men and bagmen, though I’ve no doubt
there’s a small irruption from the Vic-
torian side during illegal hours in hot
weather. I never passed through Gol
Gol, afoot or afloat, without encounter
ing some incident or other, from the
fight of the Blazing Stump with the trio
of Afghans to the Chrismas Eve we stuck
the old Marion on the mudbank, and,
sweating and swearing, pulled down
several river gums with our winches and
poled ourselves to a standstill, until we
got the steamer afloat again about mid-
night, It was only when we were
dropping down the stream to Mildura
that we realised that everything would
be tight shut in Mildura and we’d been
four hours alongside the Gol Gol pub
and never thought of it. Struck a river
poet once who, imbued with the notion
that the place should be enshrined in
verse, was stonkered by the paucity of
rhymes for Gol. I made the mistake
of suggesting alcohol, and before I could
recover, the cow had ordered four bottles
from Bung and said I’d pay for ’em.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Man’s training will go a
long way towards teaching an animal not
to be a killer. In certain seasons bull
camels become extraordinarily vicious
and when two are candidates for the one
female a fight is a certainty. Teeth mainly
are used, though the thrusting with power-
ful neck and shoulders in the effort to
force the oponpent to the ground also
plays a part. But sooner or later one
goes down ; and, stretching his neck and
head out on the ground, he bleats
piteously. This is the moment when the
victor should stamp on the prostrate
head, crushing the life out of it. But he
doesn’t. For possibly a thousand years
there has invariably been a human close
by to shout “Hooshta!” which on this
occasion means “Let him up”! So, even
should the human be absent the victor in
that final moment will refrain from the
death stroke. It would be interesting to
know if among the wild camel herds
that now inhabit many parts of the
desert the same age-old instinct still pre-
vails, or whether the wild bulls fight right
to the death.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Like “B. A. Ker” (B.
22/8/’45), I, too, am firmly convinced
that our hardwoods contain a powerful
dye substance; but I wish he hadn t
brought the matter up. Too many peopie
already are bursting to get at our few
remaining trees and destroy them for
commercial purposes or merely because
they hate the sight of trees, and this
simply gives them another excuse. I m
waiting now to hear of some wheat-
cocky, caught cutting down a tree on a
road, explaining that he wants it for the
dye.
* * * *
“E. 2”: When Dan took his reading
glasses down from the mantelpiece he
discovered a large crack in one of the
lenses. He cursed the clumsy unknown
soanso who had knocked them, then
settled down to a long reading session.
Next evening he donned the glasses again
—and found the lenses intact! Thus set
him roaring afresh about the blasted
alecks having a loan of him, but the mys-
tery remained unsolved. A helpful sug-
gestion that perhaps the glass was seli-
healing was treated to a withering bias
of scorn. Dan mooned about the place
with a perplexed frown for days ; then
he pounced on the hand reading m
one night with glasses, one lens of whicn
was cracked. “You!” he spluttere •
“Skitin’ about yT perfect eyesight, too!
“Yair,” said Harry. “But I found these
specs, an’ it seemed a pity not t’ use em.
I swopped a loan of yours one night
try ’em out, but these are just as good-
I bet y’ ne\jer noticed the difference.
NO SALE.
“So you want to see my farm,” he said;
“To see my farm,” said he.
“Well, there it lies before you now,
With fallow rich from the turning plough,
And the living green of the almond bough
And the homestead warm on the hill.
It isn’t much of a farm,” he said;
“Not much of a farm,” said he.
“But a living dream of forty years,
And a plain old tale ,of hopes and fears.
Of a man’s hard sweat and a wean’s tears,
Are something to think of still.”
“It’s just a bit of a fapn,” he said;
“A bit of a farm,” said he.
“With the young wheat green in the morning
glow,
And the red cows there on the flat below,
And the blue smoke hanging, pale and low,
And the swallows over the sward.
It isn’t much of a farm,” he said;
“Not much of a farm,V said he.
“But a man’s own plan is a precious thing—
Thrice rich to commoner as to king—
And he is rich whom the seasons bring
The prize of his toil’s reward.”
“So you would inspect my farm,” he said;
“You’d look at my farm,” said he.
“Well, there are the fences, straight and good,
And the homestead built of the native wood,
And the cleared land where the scrub once stood,
And the rest is as you see.
It isn’t much of a farm,” he said;
“Not much of a farm,” said he.
“But such as it is, it’s all my own,
Built of my faith and blood and bone,
From the old first toil to the crop new sown
And the grandchild at my knee.”
“So you want to buy my farm,” he said;
“You’d buy my farm,” said he.
“Well, how do you value the light and shade?
What is your price for the dream I’ve made?
And how would you buy—on size or grade—
The children-whose shouts you hear?
You haven’t the money to buy,” he said,
“This bit of a farm,” said he.
“You haven’t the money to buy the worth
Of the joy and prayer, the death and birth,
1 The power that blessed this fruitful earth
And the love that made it dear.”
S.A.
GAWLER ROAD.


“Hurtem leg, missus—him turn all black an' blue!”
“Mat’s Mate”: This atom-bomb busi-
ness reminds me of the day the drum of
carbon disulphide went up on Scotty
Robertson’s place, down in the Victorian
Mallee. Scotty had a small cellar in
which he’d stored the stuff, intending to
use it on rabbits. But the harvest caught
up with him, and when Mat and I arrived
to do a bit of hay-digging before the
wheat ripened Scotty decided that that
cellar would be better occupied holding
a keg of beer. So he opened the door
to it, but caught a whiff of gas and hur-
riedly drew back. I was over by the
stables, Mat was standing on the mound
above the cellar. Scotty, in order to dis-
cover the position, fired a hunk of bag
and chucked it down. There was a
“woomp!” and a cloud of blue smoke
enveloped Mat, who came Out of it gasp-
ing and waving his hands. “Are y’ hurt?
Are y’ hurt?” cried Scotty, while I ran
toward the big bloke. Mat opened his
mouth and a thin sound, between a
whisper and a wheeze, came forth.
“Cripes,” exclaimed Scotty, “laryngitis?”
Mat gulped and sat down. “No,” he
whispered, “fright!”
¥ * ¥ *
“Plain Angas”: The local kids turn
an honest penny by making leg-ropes
and other light lines, with an occasional
more ambitious length of stuff up to
three-inch circumference, from binder
twine. Their machine is a piece of pack-
ing-case board with three holes bored in
it. In each of the holes is a bit of fenc-
ing wire, one end bent to a hook, the
other shaped like a crank. The bearings
or bushes are three cotton-reels. The
three cranks are turned simultaneously
by means of another piece of wood with
three holes in it. A board with three
notches to hold the . strands at the oppo-
site end of the rope completes the outfit.
Results are so good that a naval man to
whom I showed the finished product and
the machine is probably still convinced
that I was pulling his leg.
¥ ¥ * *
“B. A. Ker”; With the fence com-
pleted, Ted hung the gate and gave it
a testing swing. The trial disclosed a
flaw; an antbed fouling the bottom rail
brought the gate to a shuddering halt.
Removal of the obstruction would have
been an uncomfortable business to a mug,
but Ted was a veteran. With socks pulled
over his dungaree bottoms and boots un-
laced so that they “slopped,” the old
fencer promptly cut the top off the
obstacle. The few ants, that were for-
tunate enough to escape destruction as
the loose boot worked against the
Edwardian ankles were apprehended be-
fore they could complete the long climb
to the only vulnerable spots: the neck or
armholes of the old grey flannel. Lean-
ing with chin on hands and hands on the
knob of the spud bar, Ted was staring
intently at the ants swarming in millions
over their desecrated castle when the
boss halted alongside. “Marvellous, ain’t
it?” the old chap murmured without look-
ing up. “What? Their instinct in carry-
ing the eggs back to safety?” the boss
asked, “or their gameness in attacking
anything in sight?” Ted came to earth
with a foolish grin. “I was talkin’ to
meself,” he explained ; “sort of thinkin’
aloud. But it is marvellous to think that
I wasted time and money to go to Syd-
ney for the Peace celebrations when I
could have seen just as much as I saw
by stopping home and stirring up an ant-
bed ! ”
s£ ❖ * *
“Priller”: Let me tell “Zake” (B.
22/8/’45) that old Harry Leslie and I
■opened a mallee hen’s nest between
Tammit and Prill Park (N.S.W.) and
counted 28 of the large, pinky eggs sit-
ting on their ends. They were in three
rings, which may support “Zake’s” theory
that more than one hen was responsible.
♦ ,♦ ♦ ♦
“B. C. Ack”: As a recorder of tempera-
tures the body is a poor instrument. The
waters of Jacquinot Bay (N. 8.), where we
cooled off after a day’s toil, registered
92deg F. 100 yards offshore and 2ft.
below the surface. The well water, which
provided cold drinks, was always around
80deg., and the mountain stream that
chilled us to the bone never varied by
more than one degree from its normal
76deg. Midday shade temperatures
averaged 95, but on the 0400 to 0600-
hour guard shift we shivered in a tem-
perature of 73 deg. One overcast day two
men, clothed in trousers and shirts, were
sleeping on their stretchers. There was
a strong breeze off the sea, and the men
had drawn blankets over their clothes.
My thermometer was registering 80deg.
$ * * *
“Rev. Bungstarter”: It wasn’t the
Hebrews, “Zimple Zimon” (B. 22/8/’45),
who hyphenated the turtle on to the dove,
but the translators of the Authorised Ver-
sion of 1611. In their day “turtle dove,”
or “turtle” for short, was the popular
name for those amiable, affectionate
birds we now call doves, an allied species
of which were those mentioned in the
original Hebrew text. The Revised Ver-
sion did not change terms p f natural
history unless totally and obviously in-
correct. In cases of doubt the more ac-
curate reading is given in the margin—
see Lev. xi: 5, “coney,” for example ; an
error for the Syrian rock-badger. Actu-
ally, there is no reference to wa(er turtles
anywhere in Holy Writ.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: The most unusual headgear
I’ve seen belonged to a Papuan native
dancer. In the form of a modelled pine-
tree, it towered 15ft. above his head, and
was provided with shoulder supports and
waist-low holding arms, by which the
wearer maintained its balance. It bore on
its branches many beautifully modelled
birds, all plumaged with real feathers and
of many sizes and color.
» * * *
“Creel”: In addition to turtles (B.
8/ 8 / ’45) our seas also teem with many
kinds of edible shellfish, extensively used
for food purposes in other countries.
Among these delicacies are the ear-shells
( Halistidce ), the “meat” of which, claimed
to be of high food value, makes a tasty
soup. In pre-war days “fishing” for the
shells was a big industry in California,
China and Japan. They are ear-
shaped and flattened, with small spires
and wide apertures, while on the outside
is a row of perforations decreasing in
size towards the apex. Some Australian
specimens grow up to lOin. in length, the
largest being the warty earshell (//.
ncevosd), brick-red in color, the outside
of the shell having a wavy surface. The
pretty turban shells ( Turbinidce ), so
named because of their shapes, also
yield a nourishing meat. In N.Q.
I sampled a stew made from turtle steaks
and turban-shell meat and enjoyed it. In
the U.S.A. clam meat is popular and
before the war large quantities of canned
clam were exported to Europe and
Asia. The best meat is obtained from
the giant clams (Tridacna deresa), plenti-
ful in our northern seas. The average-
sized clam (sft. in diameter) yields be-
tween 201 b. and 301 b. of meat. Cap-
tain Cook sampled the stuff on August
18, 1770, and described it as “very good.”
* * * *\
“N. Sylvester”: I agree entirely with
“B. Australian” (B. 25/7/’45) that it is
absurd to suggest that a change in the
weather can be foretold from the flight
of black cockatoos. Yet it is odd that
my long-haired mate, who was born in
the bush, has a score of times remarked
“There’s the black cockatoos flying back
to the hills —we can expect some rough
weather”; and I can’t recall an instance
when the rough weather failed to arrive.
Another absurdity of the bush naturalist
is to suggest that because the tiny black
ants are extra busy that is a sign of com-
ing rain. For how should the ants know?
Yet many times on receiving this advice
from the 1.-h. partner I have refrained
from watering the garden, and the down-
pour has arrived all right.
“Prop”; My first introduction to those
yellow-tailed black cockles (B. 15/8/’45)
scared about seven years’ growth out of
me. I was in an S.A. Government pine
forest, the day was gloomy, the cover
dense and the light a sickly grey-green ;
it was the sort of place where, uncon-
sciously, you begin to feel there might
be a dinosaur lurking unpleasantly near.
And then I heard a dry, sibilant noise I
couldn’t place. The weird sound con-
tinued and was presently broken
by a harsh, discordant cry. Pressing my
hair firmly down again I investigated.
The scattered remnants of pine cones
gave me the clue, and presently I caught
sight of one old rascal peering down at
me from the swaying top of a Monterey
pine. I’ve had a weakness for the black
cockies ever since.
* * * *
“J.E.S.”: Daily I see gulls waggling
their beaks in the water coming from the
drains that empty into Port Phillip Bay
and go through all the motions of imbib-
ing with gusto. Now if gulls never drink
(B. 15/8/’45), and as the fairly strong
current of fresh water coming from these
outlets is devoid of anything edible, the
birds must be indulging in a throat gargle
or a mouthwash.
* * * ♦
“Munja”: The “mud magic” practised
by the Kakadu (NT.) tribe is too power-
ful for the medicine-man to exorcise.
Waiting for an enemy to emerge from
the mangrove swamps, a Kakadu will
track his chosen victim until a piece of
swamp mud is left in the tracks. This is
carefully wrapped in paper bark and car-
ried back to camp, where it is dried,
finely powdered, rolled into a ball and
placed in a hole at the base of an ant-
hill. In a few days the victim sickens ;
his feet become swollen and sores break
cut all over them. The toes eventually
fall off and the hands and feet decay. As
the sufferer knows that every medicine-
man from the East Alligator River to the
“Step short in front —there's a couple of sick men in the rear!”
Daly would pronounce him incurable, he
becomes despondent and soon dies. For
use of this magic against a fellow-
tribesman tribal law describes one sen-
tence only death.
*** * *
“Blime”; Jim dug the burrow on a
bit further, hauled out the fox by the ,
legs, and swung its head sharply against
a log. “An’ all for a mangy cuss like
that,” he growled, surveying the twitching
carcase. “No hair on its tail, an’ precious
little on the hind legs. Cripes, a bloke
might get some disease skinnin’ a thing
like that, an’ it’d be worth next to noth-
ing, anyway.” He kicked the animal
back into the 4ft. hole and dug the bank
down level. “See fox skins is up again,”
remarked old Ted that evening. “Them
I sent down’ll catch the rise,” Jim said
nothing, but spent a restless night. Three
days later Ted again brought up the sub-
ject. “Gripes,” he gasped, “ol’ Barney
got fifteen bob f’r a skin with no tail.”
“No tail, eh?” Jim lapsed into a thought-
ful silence, and during the next few days
seemed gloomy and preoccupied. A
week later Ted’s returns arrived. “What!
Twenty-five bob!” gasped Jim incredu-
lously. “Twenty-five bob f’r a blinkin’
eh, Ted, what day was it I dug that
burrer? Over a week? Aw cripes, too
long.” He tossed through the night, re-
membered the burrow was in a cool
shaded gully, and next morning disap-
peared early. Midday found him pegging
a putrid, earth-encrusted piece of fur on
the old tree by the gate as Ted came in.
The pelt was tail-less and minus both hind
legs. “’Bout two bob f’r y’ mornin’s
work I’d say,” sniffed the old bloke,
stepping hastily to windward. “Yair, I
know,” Jim grinned, “but at least a
bloke’ll get a bit o’ peace o’ mind now,
knowin’ he ain’t chucked good money
away.”
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Mr. and Mrs. Jackey
have decided on a new nursery for this
season’s family cares. A white-ant nest
at the end of a big bough-butt broken
off a grey-gum in a last-year gale is their
choice for site and mod. cons., a shady
branch nearby providing a honeymoon-
ing bower and resting place for smoke-
ohs. After a leisurely breakfast, proceed-
ings begin with a few billings and coo-
ings as the pair sit side by side in the
bower. Then one flies up to the nursery
site, hangs on with wings fluttering to
preserve balance and, with substantial
beak used pickaxe fashion, belts out bits
of antnest and riddled wood with hefty
smacks that can be heard 50 yards away,
the other croaking encouragingly from
the bower meanwhile. After a minute or
so the toiler knocks off for a spot of love-
making. I regret to have to admit that
the missus does by far the greater part of
the work, and that until she goes off to
another bough, and stays there hubby
loafs. Only when he finds that no
amount of crooning will kid her
to come back or go on with the job
does he take a hand. Not a very vigorous
hand, either, but she isn’t the driving
sort, and directly his performance during
smoke-ohs takes on a Bing Crosby moan-
ing note she relents and joins him on
the bower branch. While she works he
keeps a lookout for tasty snacks, and
wastes no time in collecting them. Bring
her any? Not on your life! But the
poor, deluded female goes on toiling till
knock-off time. There’s no doubt that
Jacky is the world’s champion kidder if
he can trick his own missus like that and
get away with it.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: “Sinkin’ a duffer at Flan-
nery’s Flat,” said the man with the parrot
nose, “I got the shaft down twenty feet.
I’m pickin’ in the bottom, when a shower
of pebbles comes rattlin’ down an’ an
old-man kangaroo lobs beside me. Well,
that Too gits in first with a half-
nelson an’ I start workin’ a headlock
round t’ a stranglehold. Then he spots
the ladder, kicks me orf an’ shins up like
a possum an’ pulls it after him. Nex’
thing I sees is him come staggerin’ t’ the
edge of the shaft with a boulder about
a hunnerweight an’ toss it down at me.
Yair, hadn’t bin fer Flannery cornin’ to
the rescue with his dawgs wot’d bin after
the Too he’d’ve woodened me. As
it was—look!” He doffed his old felt
and pushed back his tangled locks. “Fair
lump on me napper, eh?”
DUST STORM OVER THE SEA.
Whence came you; Dust? From what bare
plain
Where sunburnt bushmen search in vain,
Each crimson dawn —a cloudless sky
To see your powdered pennants fly?
Maybe you’ve seen the woollies string
Along the stockroutes, loitering
While dozing drovers dog them on
To rumored pastures long since gone.
No doubt that red stain had its home
In Riverina’s russet loam,
Surely the most disastrous yield
That ever came from fallowed field.
There I was born. I went away
To learn destruction, speed the day
No foe would menace that rich soil
You, by abandoning, despoil.
Far from the South that set you free,
Red Dust, above the Banda Sea
We fly to this strange rendezvous—
And I can almost welcome you.
R.A.A.F.
R. H. WEBSTER.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
f
d
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MAN POWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
LYSAG
3T
Si
SSSO£C
PROOF
mm
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK, for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
; r'S<4'
vp:;Sf| : l#;»; ‘;j;?|Sfei
■r::.;: " * I, U tf
.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable * from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Fat Lamb Future.
“R. Ney”; There is a difference be-
tween the kind of lamb acceptable to a
war-time market and that which exporters
demand normally. In war-time almost
anything with wool on is eagerly snapped
up to help both the military and civilian
rations, but it won’t be long now before
buyers will become contemptuous of any-
thing but the best. In any event, the best
always brings the best price. As E. A.
Elliott, N.S.W. sheep expert, points out,
breeders have been encouraged to hold
lambs to a heavier weight than normally,
which brings earlier maturing breeds into
the picture. Further, the quality of the
ewe flocks has fallen off.
Though the demand for any kind of
mutton will continue for some time, lamb-
raisers can’t afford to ignore the return to
normal and to take the first steps to meet
it. Elliott, after a tour of N.S.W. lamb
districts, reported that the ewe flocks
varied from good crossbred to pure
merino, with every variant in between.
It means, of course, a scarcity of good
ewes, and that is about the first trouble
breeders will strike.
In N.S.W. the half-bred longwool cross-
merino type is the best fat lamb mother.
These sheep grow very well, and at 15
months or so the young ewes are good
potential mothers. The pure Corriedale,
of course, is the ideal, but there aren’t
enough Corriedales by a long shot.
Border Leicesters are among the best sires
for mating with merino ewes in warmer
country, and the Romney Marsh fills the
bill in colder parts. The best type of
merino is the plan-bodied, big ewe of the
western plains, but nobody should run
away with the idea that culled merino
ewes will do for lamb raising. They
won’t. Not only must the lamb be up to
standard, but the mother is expected to
grow a good crossbred fleece each year.
One of the troubles of late has been
the practice of selling everything off as
lambs. This way some of the best young
crossbred ewes go to the / butcher and
only stunted or late lambs go on to be-
come mothers. That won’t do, and
lamb-raisers themselves should, by being
prepared to give good prices for the right
sort of ewes, discourage the wholesale
slaughter of good young ewes and the
onset of the nondescripts into their flocks.
The Cattle Dog.
“Beefo”: Only the owner should feed
the pup, and it should be taught early to
respond to its name. A dog that will
follow anyone isn’t worth owning,
especially a cattle dog. When the pup is
about six months old it can be taken out
on the saddle and dropped behind a mob
of bullocks. Never should its first ex-
perience be with cows and calves. Cows
rush back to protect their calves at sight
of a dog, and the pup is liable to become
intimidated. The main thing during the
first few lessons is to keep the pup under
control. When called off it must respond
immediately, and for that reason no other
dog should be present. Some couple the
pup to an old dog for its first few
lessons. I’m against it.
Independent of whether he’s a silent
worker or a barker, a pup will soon show
his aptitude or otherwise, and although
“ Now's the time I give 'em a bath, Ma, seein' We've got 'em both treed."
early failures sometimes make good, no
time should be wasted on a pup that
shows little promise. Once he’s uncon-
trollable and refuses to respond to a call
the pup is useless. Tame cattle harried
by a dog not under control will soon be-
come wild.
Beginning with Bees.
“Bumble”: Best plan is to start with
a moderate number of hives and build
up as stocks increase. Book-learning is
a valuable help, but as the budding
apiarist progresses he will learn to rely
more on his own practical experiences,
and the skill he develops as a bee-keeper
will determine to a large extent his suc-
cess in taking full advantage of the honey-
flows. Modern apiculture is conducted
largely on migratory lines, moving to
fresh fields as honey-bearing seasons cease
in other localities, and a fairly extensive
study of nectariferous flora is essential.
The beginner will find it rather expen-
sive to buy hives in workable condition,
and a start is generally made with a num-
ber of nucleus hives, or transferred
colonies from boxes or natural sites, or
it may be convenient tp purchase swarms
from an apiarist in a near-by locality.
Whichever is chosen it will be necessary
to have frame-hives in readiness before-
hand, and standard equipment should be
used. Home-made boxes and frames will
serve at a pinch, but it will be found
cheaper and more satisfactory to buy
them ready for nailing.
Hives should be painted, the job done
thoroughly with two or three coats of
good-quality paint; treated this way they
should last a lifetime. Neatly-fitting
covers should be used, and a single board
of full width resting on two bearers of
4in. by 2in. timber makes the best bottom
board. It is preferable to use full sheets
of comb foundation in the frames, which
are wired for support.
The first season’s operations will be
confined chiefly to building up the
colonies, and swarming is unlikely to
occur. Consequently, the venture may be
treated as a spare-time hobby until stocks
are sufficient to make a business of it.
When it becomes necessary to buy an
extractor and other equipment avoid as
far as possible buying expensive
machinery that will not fit in with future
plans. A two-frame extractor will do for
a start and will be useful later when a
power-driven machine is installed;
cappings melter, heater, etc., should be
destined for use in the fully-developed
apiary.
Potatoes and Tomatoes.
“Pat Ater”: The potato crop will be
planted from September to December,
according to district. Early December
suits the inland high basalt soils like
those of Batlow and Orange (N.S.W.),
Toowoomba (Q.) and the Victorian table-
lands.
Poor soil is not good potato soil.
When growers let the humus content run
out year after year crops shrink and
acre yields are fewer. Two ways of re-
plenishing humus are by green manuring
or use of farmyard manure. There is
still time for a spring-grown crop of
lupins or field peas, and turn them in at
first flowers. They quickly decompose
and a couple of weeks after turning in
potato sets can be planted. Either cow
or horse manure, old and cool, turned in
at five or six tons to the acre and at least
Sin. to 7in. deep gives the needful root
food. Use the manure in the rows in
9in. bands. A light, early sprinkle of
super, or potato fertiliser along the drills
aids production.
Plant deeply to save a lot of hilling.
On heavy loams Sin. and down to 7in.
on sand is the idea. Little spuds planted
whole are splendid for seed, the larger
should be cut into sets, each with at least
two eyes showing. Rub them in wood
ashes before planting ISin. apart in 2ft.
rows.
Tomato seed can be sown out of doors
as soon as frost danger is past. It pays
in humid areas to get the plants into open
beds, well prepared with.humus and fer-
tiliser, before September is out. Other-
wise the fruit-flies get on to the crop. To
outwit this menace sow either very early
or very late ; mid-season tomatoes are pie
for the fly.
Continuous spraying with tartar emetic
is the only remedy. Encasing the fruit
clusters in bags is effective but costly.
Sow Earliana, Break o’ Day or Chalks
in a seed bed of light to sandy soil,
manure topped and just bury the seed
from sight. Keep well watered. Keep
a wet bag over the soil till germination
if winds are dry.
Turn over the ground and break it
fine, working the fertiliser into the rows.
It should be in good condition for plant-
ing within three or four weeks. Seed-
lings move quickly in beds or boxes if a
light super, dressing is added to the mix-
ture and a layer of manure is put down
an inch or two below the sown seed.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: My neighbor in North
Queensland couldn’t grow pumpkins and
marrows during the summer months be-
cause fruit flies stung all the setting fruits.
So he sowed a pumpkin patch above frost
level in autumn and harvested a bumper
crop. Reasons for his success were the
decayed horse manure in the ground,
soaking rains and the fact that the fruit
flies went for the ripening citrus fruits
and ignored the pumpkins.
“Bennie”: Safest way to give fowls
medicine in liquid form is by a small
syringe. Spoons are dangerous. Pass the
nozzle of the syringe beyond the wind-
pipe and there will be no fear of choking.
Fowls suffering from internal troubles
can be given Epsom salts this way at the
rate of a half-teaspoonful in water a day
for four days, followed by wet hot
mashes. When a fowl’s condition sug-
gests it has been purged give a teaspoon-
ful of castor oil.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Britain’s Foreign Policy.
(In the House of Commons on August 20
the new Labor Government’s Foreign Secretary,
Mr. Ernest Bevin, made a most important
speech on Britain’s present and future foreign
policy. Since the speech was very considerably
reduced in cables, further details of it are here
given at much greater length from the London
“Times” report .)
“I will always be actuated,” Mr. Bevin
said, “by a desire that our foreign policy
should be worthy of the immense sacri-
fices made during the war.” The winning
of the struggle had left Britain extremely
poor and the work of reconstruction
would be a very hard task indeed.
There were two great difficulties in
regard to the occupied countries which
had been liberated. First, the people of
those countries had been taught to dis-
obey and to oppose the authority of the
occupying forces. Resistance had been
the watchword. The result had been
lawlessness, and now the countries were
liberated it was extremely difficult to
bring back a general acceptance of law
and order as a natural thing. There had
been constant appeals to the people to
produce as little as possible in order to
hamper the work of the occupying forces,
and now they were suddenly asked to
acquire once more habits of work, energy
and discipline. This transition from one
state of affairs to another would require
tolerance, patience and determination.
Thousands of displaced persons had
since liberation become nomads, wan-
dering about thieving for their food, com-
mitting murder and rape, and indulging
in all kinds, of practices of an anti-social
character. In addition, there were in cen-
tral Europe millions of displaced Ger-
mans wandering about, or endeavoring
to do so, from one zone to another. In
his report received on August 18 Field-
Marshal Montgomery showed that so
far nearly 1,100,000 displaced people had
been evacuated from the British zone.
Over 300,000 of these were west-bound,
and over 600,000 Russians had been
transported from our zone to the east,
and the movement of 200,000 Italians to
the south had begun. The number of
displaced persons still housed in camps
in our zone was 1,250,000, and perhaps
another 500,000 were still at large. By
the autumn it was hoped only 645,000
would still be left, of whom 500,000
would be Poles.
Mr. Bevin asked for understanding
and sympathy for those engaged in such
duties in Germany, Austria, Hungary,
Rumania and Bulgaria. The House, he
said, should not measure elections in
those countries as if they were a general
election in Britain. It might be that at
the beginning it would be impossible to
ensure that Governments were elected in
accordance with the desires of a free
people. One thing must be aimed at reso-
lutely, however, and that was to prevent
the substitution of one form of totali-
tarianism for another.
In the world just beginning to awaken
from the stupefying effects of war the
great thing to do was to work hard to
get people resettled and earning their
own living. U.N.R.R.A., which Britain
would support as long as it could afford
to do so, could only at the moment be
a kind of dole. Jt ought to be used to
stimulate the efforts of nations, but at
the same time we could not allow the
idea to develop that the liberated coun-
tries could lie down and rely on the
Allied countries for continuous support.
The of his Government’s policy
was in keeping with that worked out by
the Coalition Government. It rested in
the main on agreement and co-operation
between the Great Powers that emerged
front the war. These Powers had im-
poverished themselves in achieving mili-
tary needs, and Britain’s own needs were
great if it was to maintain its standard
of living. This was the moment to *break
the vicious circle whereby trade could
not flourish because of lack of security
and security was endangered through lack
of trade. The Government regarded the
economic reconstruction of the world as
the primary object of its foreign policy.
The war had ended only just in time.
We were on the eve of a great world
crisis in food. We should not be able to
stop this decline this winter, but there was
a chance that the harvest of next year
would at least check that decline. Never
was there a time when economic recon-
struction was so vital to foreign policy
and international co-operation as now.
One of the greatest needs was coal. If
every miner in Britain gave the output
asked for by the Minister of Fuel and
Power, and if the mines of Europe could
be brought back nearer to normal output,
it would be a godsend this winter.
Mr, Bevin said he asked the miners to
help the Government in bringing peace
and bringing succor, health and warmth
to the millions of their fellow-workers at
home and abroad. He asked them to set
the country an example, and give the
extra needed tons.
The Government had accepted the
Potsdam decisions as the basis upon
which the Council of Foreign Ministers
must proceed. “When they meet we must
not be obsessed merely by a desire for
punishment or revenge, but we must ask
whether such and such a course would
make for future peace or would sow the
seeds of future war.” In Europe, he said,
there must be a conflict between security
and economic development, but if we
could remove the war mind from Ger-
many he saw a chance of unity in Europe
where no such conflict need exist.
In Greece the British Government ad-
hered to the policy which the Labor party
publicly supported when Greece was
liberated. It had then been stated that
the object was the establishment of a
stable, democratic Government in Greece,
drawing its strength from the free ex-
pression of the people’s will. Unfortu-
nately, this process was interrupted by an
outbreak of violence, and Labor then sup-
ported a policy of restoring law and order
to create conditions in which the Greek
people could determine their own future
Government and settle the Constitutional
question. He now saw no good pur-
pose in lending assistance to the creation
of a new Government before the elec-
tions, and it was therefore the view that
the Voulgaris Government should carry
on, pending the decision of the Greek
people. Greece would never recover
while her leaders spent their time in con-
tinuously trying to change their Govern-
ment. He trusted that a very early de-
cision would be taken,
“Our own interest,” Mr. Bevin said,
“is to ensure that the solution adopted is
the one most likely to be generally ac-
ceptable by the Greek people and lead
to firm and lasting results.” The United
States, France and Britain had under-
taken to assist in the supervision of the
elections, and he proposed to invite, as
part of the British contingent of ob-
servers, representatives of the Dominion
Governments. The Australians and New
Zealanders, who had fought in Greece,
were well respected there. It was re-
gretted, Mr. Bevin added, that Russia did
not see her way to take part in supervis-
ing the elections.
Serious allegations had been made by
the Yugoslav Government of the treat-
ment of Slav-speaking Greeks in the
northern regions of Greece. These, Mr.
Bevin said, had been investigated, and
reports he had received from British
troops over there did not bear out the
Yugoslav charges. “It is our policy,” he
went on, “to carry out all the undertak-
ings we have given to Greece, but we
look to the Greek political leaders to
play their part in solving these problems,”
From all messages he had received from
the working people of Greece, nothing
would please them more than to be given
an opportunity to return to normal work-
ing life under peaceful conditions.
In Rumania, Bulgaria and Hungary the
Governments which had been set lip did
not, in the view of the British Govern-
ment, represent a majority of the people.
The impression he had got from recent
developments, Mr. Bevin said, was that
one kind of totalitarianism was being re-
placed by another. “This is not what we
understand by that very much over-
worked word democracy, which appears
to need definition.” The form of Gov-
ernment being set up did not impress as
being sufficiently representative to meet
the requirements of diplomatic relations.
The election law in accordance with which
elections were shortly to take place in
Bulgaria was not consistent with the prin-
ciples of liberty. “We,” Mr. Bevin added,
“could not therefore regard as represen-
tative any Government resulting from
such elections.”
The question of making a peace treaty
with Italy would come before the Coun-
cil of Foreign Ministers when they met in
London in September. It was the desire
of the British Government that that treaty
should be made on fair terms, and that
the people of Italy should be given a
chance to revise their life on the basis
of liberty. “While we,” said Mr. Bevin,
“deeply regret and cannot forget the lives
of the men from Britain and Empire lost
in the battle against Italy, the time came
when the Italians joined in the struggle
against the Nazis, to whose defeat they
made a material contribution.” He did
not think it wise to pursue a policy of
revenge. Fascism was now repudiated by
the Italian people. While naturally such
a state of affairs must never be allowed
again, he added, “we have no intention
of approaching the problem of Italy as if
Mussolini and his policy still existed.”
Rather the British .Government intended
to proceed on the assumption that the
country would be re-established on the
basis of free elections and Parliamentary
government.
Mr. Bevin said he was engaged in re-
viewing “the whole of our policy in rela-
tion to France, with which great country
I am most anxious we should always be
on the best of terms.” A detailed state-
ment must await the talks which he was
proposing to hold with the French Gov-
ernment in order to clear away points
of difficulty.
Belgium had made very great recovery.
Her Output appeared to be improving,
and many of the difficulties caused by the
war had already been overcome. It was
clear also that the Dutch were doing their
best to make good the ravages of war.
Mr. Bevin added that he knew he would
be echoing the feelings of the House if
he offered congratulations not only on
the liberation of Holland but the Dutch
territories of the East,
In Norway reconstruction had begun.
With Denmark he had signed a financial
agreement and was looking forward to
“a full resumption of trade.” The open-
ing of the Baltic had permitted resump-
tion of trade with Sweden. The Finnish
Government had been invited to appoint
a Minister to Britain and to regard the
British political representative in Finland
as Minister in Helsingfors.
“One of the great problems which still
faces us,” Mr. Bevin proceeded, “is that
of Poland.” He knew there was some
feeling about the extent of the territory
which had been included in the Polish
zone, “The question of the actual future
area of Poland,” he said, “must be settled
'Detailed studies of the records of
seriously disabled war veterans attending
the American University show that the
men's experiences made them more acute
and serious as students than the average.
At the same time studies indicated that
age and physical handicaps made little
difference in individual capacity of a man
to do his scholastic work. American
• University pioneered in the field of edu-
cation of disabled veterans under an
agreement with the Disabled American
Veterans and the Veterans Administra-
tion to teach special courses to selected
disabled veterans who were preparing
themselves to act as counsellors to other
disabled veterans. The students, drawn
from the war’s early casualties, include
men with major amputations, as well as
others whose records indicated psycho-
neurosis, major malarial conditions,
almost all types of wounds and func-
tional troubles, including those affecting
the heart or lungs. The only noticeable
effect of decorations on the men —and
many have a large number, while others
injured in training have none—was said
to be that “decorations make men more
humble and more fair.” — N.Y. “Times.”
at the peace table,” He admitted per-
sonally always taking the view expressed
by Mr. Churchill of the danger of the
Poles coming too far west. The question
where the final delimitation of the fron-
tiers would rest would depend to a very
large extent on what the population was
that returned to Poland.
There were, Mr. Bevin said, 4,000,000
Poles in the territory that had been ceded
to Russia. Would they return to Poland,
or would they remain in Russia? It all
depended on what happened. He could
not yet judge that. There were many
other thousands of Poles, troops and
civilians, outside Poland. At Potsdam
he and the Prime Minister (Mr. Attlee)
were assured by representatives of the
Polish Government that all Poles return-
ing would be accorded personal rights of
property on the same basis as Polish
citizens. They were also assured that the
elections would be free, secret and con-
ducted in accordance with the 1921 Con-
stitution, and it was hoped to hold them
as soon as possible and not later than
early 1946. They were further assured
that religion was free in Poland, and
would remain so. They had asked for
the right of entry of the press of the
world, and the sending out of uncen-
sored news, and that, too, was accepted.
Establishment of reciprocal air services
between London and Warsaw was
arranged. The British Government would
expect in particular, Mr. Bevin said, that
the principal Polish democratic parties
should be allowed to take part in the
elections with full liberty to make up
their own programmes and put up their
own candidates, and that freedom of
speech and impartial justice should be
guaranteed to all Polish citizens.
Marshal Stalin, Mr. Bevin said, had
assured him that all Soviet troops would
be withdrawn from Poland with the ex-
ception of a small number required to
maintain the communications necessary
for the Soviet troops in Germany. There
was also the question of the prisons gnd
secret police in Poland. That still needed
to be cleared up. But with these assur-
ances he would urge Poles overseas, both
military and civilian, to go back to their
country and assume their responsibilities
in building the new Poland.
In regard to Spain, the British Govern-
ment view, was that the regime there was
a question for the Spanish people to de-
cide. The declaration issued at the Berlin
Conference made it plain that, while they
had no desire permanently to penalise the
Spanish people, they could not accept
Spain into the club unless she accepted
the basic principles of the club—the right
of the people freely to choose their own
form of government. He was satisfied
that intervention by foreign Powers in
the internal affairs of Spain would have
the opposite effect to that desired, and
would probably strengthen General
Franco’s position. The British Govern-
ment would take a favorable view if steps
were taken by the Spanish people to
change their regime, but it was not pre-
pared to take any step which would pro-
mote or encourage civil war in that coun-
try. In that he knew he was voicing the
views not only of himself but of many
ardent Spanish Republicans.
The Government view on Persia was
that its territory, used for the purpose
of defeating the enemy, should be re-
turned as soon as that purpose was
accomplished.
In regard to the Far East, Mr. Bevin
said he was sure it was the desire of every
one in Britain to see China strong, united
and prosperous. In Hong Kong steps had
been taken to receive the surrender of
the Japanese. There might be difficulties,
but they would be overcome, and, Mr.
Bevin added, “in agreement with our
Chinese and American allies our territory
will be returned to us.” •
Speaking of Russia and the United
States in the war, Mr, Bevin concluded;
“There has been forged a great respect
and a great comradeship. We shall have
our differences and difficulties, but in the
interest of future generations we must
overcome them. Our own part was one
of which we can justly be proud. History
might well judge that our place was the
proudest of all. It could fairly be said
that we held the fort and preserved the
soul of mankind. Our policy now must
be worthy of our people.”
Russia and U.S.
(From a “Reader’s Digest’’ article by Stanley
High.)
It is as clear in America as it must
be in Russia that if this end of war is to
be peace—and not just another armistice
—unity of purpose among the three great
Allies is indispensable. Solely from the
standpoint of the self-interest of each
nation, there is no other sound policy.
For the well-being and progress of the
peoples of each nation nothing is so
urgently required as a long peace. Each
nation holds before its people the same
promise of a rising standard of living.
Without peace that promise cannot be
made good.
To Russia, which economically has
farther to go, has a less-developed indus-
trial plant and has suffered greater losses,
need for a long peace is not far short of
desperate.
In their occupation and retreat the
German invaders scorched 150,000,000
acres of the best Russian farm land.
Dozens of Russian cities are from 50 to
95 per cent, destroyed. Totally or partly
destroyed are industrial plants which pro-
duced 61 per cent, of the nation’s iron;
59 per cent, of its pigiron ; 60 per cent,
of its steel; 77 per cent, of* its alu-
minium ; 60 per cent, of its coal; all of
its mercury and a large proportion of its
iron and steel products.
Most of Russia’s still operating fac-
tories are badly in need of repair and
replacement. Machines have carried ex-
cess loads for many years. Many of
them are obsolete. “Everywhere,” writes
Edgar Snow in the “Saturday Evening
Post,” “public buildings have fallen into
disrepair. All new housing, except where
essential to the war effort, ceased in July,
1941. Everybody’s clothes are worn out
or wearing out. Practically no garments
but uniforms have been produced. Many
thousands of people are now walking
on paper soles stuffed in their own shoes.”
“We believe we can restore that de-
struction and build better than before,”
said Molotov at San Francisco, “but the
work is tremendous,”
Russia’s leaders must know how greatly
their immense load would be lightened
and how much their gigantic task of re-
construction speeded up if, through agree-
ment, the United States and Britain could
put their productive shoulders to the
Soviet wheel.
There is no guesswork about that.
Productively and to their mutual benefit.


wm
o*
■tO^ S
ni^-'
p\S'
o**
to
*****
to
00 tV *
‘HIIAMIIiy MINX’
The Greatest Achievement in Light Car design
Since Its inception the Hillman Minx has held a
world-wide reputation as the light car with Big
Car comfort and exceptional performance, coupled
with strict motoring economy.
The Minx, dressed in camouflage, has been serving
on all fronts, but as soon as its present official
duties cease it will be available again to uphold the
reputation of “The greatest achievement in Light
Car design."
A PRODUCT OF THE
Manufacturers of:
HILLMAN . . . HUMBER . . . SUNBEAM-TALBOT
Cars
COMMER .... KARRIER
Commercial Vehicles .
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: John McGrath Lta., Cathcart House, lie Castlereagh
Street. Sydney I temporary address).
Resident Representative!
C. H. HORDERN, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
/.
VSL
f/mk
rM
daifenes-
mysl
rz&H-'
LOOK FOR THE
DATE LINE
Eveready No. 950 flashlight batteries are the first
and only batteries to be stamped with a date-line
that clearly tells you they’re fresh. You can always
count on plenty of light in the dark when you
refill your flashlight with Eveready DATED
batteries. Look for the dateline.
eVEREADy
TRADE-MARK
DATED FLASHLIGHT BATTERIES
2
They toft /or?yet* facaose
the United States, Great Britain and the
Soviet Union have already agreed and
worked together. Their agreeing and
working together laid the pre-war foun-
dation for Soviet industry and netted
the United States many a productive job.
At Russia’s invitation, American engi-
neers built the Dnieprostroy Dam.
Soviet gold bought the turbines from
Westinghouse. American plans, drawn
for a profit, furnished the basis for
modernising the coalmines of the Donets
Basin. Quick to recognise a good thing,
the Soviets subsequently made American
mining practices standard throughout the
Union.
Rigs, drills, refineries and gasoline
plants in the Caucasian oilfields came,
for cash, from America. For the same
over-the-counter reasons, Soviet tractors
are Caterpillar and International Har-
vester models; its best locomotives
Baldwin and American Locomotive
types; the continuous sheet rolling mills
and presses in its steel plants are also
American.
Only two Russian policies are serious
threats to goodwill. First, if the Soviet
Union, with power such as Russia never
before possessed, embarks upon a policy
of territorial aggrandisement, a Russian
collision with U.S. and Great Britain
would be almost inevitable. Second, if the
Soviet Union, flushed with victories,
undertakes to proselytise the world on
behalf of revolutionary Communism —
that, too, would be resisted by the United
States and Great Britain.
It is difficult to believe that either can
materialise. Too much that Russia needs
and the Russian people aspire to would
be lost. At stake is Russia’s present
opportunity to achieve reconstruction and
a resumption of the progress of the Rus-
sian people toward economic and cultural
well-being.
At stake, also, is the opportunity for
the United States, Great Britain and the
Soviet Union, together with all nations
of goodwill, to lift the fear that hangs
over the future and free mankind for the
better destiny that is within reach.
Coming Air Travel.
(From a “Christian Science Monitor” article by
Robert Mullen .)
When I flew over to England recently
my ticket on American Export Airlines
cost $945 from New York to Foynes,
Ireland, and return. In addition, I had
to pay British Overseas Airways $94 for
a round trip from Foynes to London. A
total of $1039.
Now Pan-American comes along with
a post-war offer to fly you all around the
world for $7OO. And I’ve no doubt, trans-
Atlantic rates will be scaled accordingly.
One unconfirmed story is that the air-
lines have a target of a round-trip
Atlantic crossing for $2OO
T he Sikorsky flying-boat that took me
to Foynes carried 12 passengers and a
crew of 10> which hardly seems an eco .
nomic pay load. The food was good—
chicken patties, peas, ice-cream—and
they made up Pullman-style berths at
night. Xhe trip took 16 hours t^ugh
the line has done it in 14
j came back in a p an -American clipper
which had 30 passengers and we had
bunks and d food The td todk m
a full night over the At i ant ic from
Foynes to Botwood, Newfoundland, and
a full day from Botwood down to New
York
By contrast to these passenger loads
and these dit is t F day computed
that tomorrow > s » plane wil j carry F 2 00
passengers the 3500 miles from Am erica
tQ London, non-stop, in nine hours.
thL^tTo^ufder^O
pa J nge d rs> is al L’dy available under the
Air Transport Command, which flies big
, pknes ha^ng plush seat ’ s? such as u>s *
domestic air lines have, from Paris to
. , .1 , iiro
Sq j® t commercial lines that fly
the S At , h anti American Export and Pan
American, won’t have to do much more
when the day comes when they can aban-
don thejr fl * ing boats (han jn the
foots(eps o£ AX C o nly, of course ,
enterprise will want to do it
Apparently the day of the flying-boat
(q N J rly a „
’pianes under discussion are land ’planes,
P mum about
their p|ans / except to F hi ‘ t that land
’planes will be used and that they will be
something pretty good.
A booklet put out by Pan-American
gives a full description of this line’s hopes
and ambitions, Clipper Type 8 is for
relatively short hops, 1500 miles. It is the
four-engined Lockheed Constellation,
carrying 56 passengers at 300 miles an
hour. Type 9 is the Douglas four-motor,
DC-7, carrying 108 passengers at 300
miles per hour. Range, 2500 miles.
Type 10 is for long-range routes. It is
a double-decked Lockheed, four-engine
’plane, L-89. It can carry 128 passengers
and a crew of 11 (one reason rates can
be lowered). It travels 300 miles per
hour, has nine staterooms, 12 berths and
89 reclining chairs.
Type 11 is really something. It is the
Consolidated-Vultee six-engined CV-37,
carrying 204 passengers at 340 miles an
hour. It’s the New York to London in
nine hours job. It will have a wing which
if up-ended on Fifth-avenue would reach
to the 21sf storey of an office building.
“Every comfort,” says Pan-American, “of
modem passenger travel has been planned
for the spacious interior.”
Eight of these clippers, augmented with
three extras for the summer peak busi-
ness, could carry 400,000 passengers
across the Atlantic yearly. “These giant
clippers,” says Pan-American, “will make
possible low fares which in turn will
make worldwide airborne mass transpor-
tation a reality.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
President Roosevelt wrote instructions for the
kind of grave monument he preferred more than
seven years before his death. He directed that
the tombstone on his grave in the rose garden
of the Hyde Park estate on the Hudson should
be: “A plain white monument —no carving or
decoration —to be placed over my grave, east
and west, as follows: length Bft., width 4ft.,
height 3ft. Whole to be set on marble base
extending two feet out from the monument
all around —but said base to be no more than
6in. from the ground.”— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
In Belgrade I learned that both British and
Americans are planning to extend financial aid
to Yugoslavia, but with a significant difference.
It seems that whereas the British are reasonably
satisfied with the way things are going in Yugo-
slavia and are willing to lend money • without
any strings attached, Washington seems in-
clined to demand assurances that no American
money lent would be used for the furthering
of Communism. When I left the country Bel-
grade was reported to be much more inclined
to accept Britain’s no-strings offer than that
of America, although officials believe that the
United States could give far more effective help
in building up the country.— “ Christian Science
Monitor” staff correspondent in Europe.
Eighty per cent, of Britain's youth has left
school at the age of 14 because of the fees re-
quired for attendance in high schools, thus
making secondary education a matter of eco-
nomic privilege. In the future all youth will re-
ceive free high school education. Britain’s school
reorganisation is to be basic and thorough. In
order to attract able young men and women to
the profession salaries are to be increased,
higher professional standards demanded, smaller
classes organised, old buildings remodelled and
many new school plants constructed. One of
the significant lessons of the war is that national
security today depends upon a high educational
level. Britain is tackling the problem with typi-
cal thoroughness. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
After all the drain on U.S. oil reserves made
by the war, these now are reported as greater
than they were in 1939. In the five-year period
1940-44 inclusive 7,320,000 barrels of oil were
drawn from the ground, but during that time
there was an increase of 9,293,000,000 barrels
in proved reserves —crude oil estimated under-
ground in developed or partly developed fields
which can be withdrawn under existing eco-
nomic and operating conditions.-A-F. “Sun."
* * * *
Under the stress of war-time demands and
with schedule frequency and load factors at a
high pitch, 16 U.S. domestic airlines flew a total
of 1,378,454,398 passenger-miles in 1944 with-
out a fatal accident. In previous consecutive
months the same 16 lines had piled up a total
of 4,228,827,611 passenger-miles without a
fatality, or a grand total of more than five and
on-half billion passenger-miles without the cost
of a single life. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
After the death of President Roosevelt per-
haps the most prevalent feeling in Washington
was one of dismay over the man who would
succeed him. The obvious contrasts in the per-
sonalities of two men made speculation on the
Vice-President's capacities inevitable. Could
this plain provincial son of the Mid-west play
the dramatic, spectacular role of a heroic world
figure as Franklin D. Roosevelt had? The
answer has become fairly evident today. It is
“no.” President Truman seems destined to play
the role of Harry S. Truman only. He will not
speak the lines written for his predecessor.
But the quality of his own performance is
rapidly dispelling the early doubts as to his
ability. He is creating a r6le of his own and
playing it with ability and distinction. And there
is mounting confidence that his tenure as Presi-
dent will be marked by determination, soundness
of judgment and clearheaded progressiveness.—
Washington correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The net birth reproduction rate in Britain
has been falling steadily over the last 75 years,
and since 1923 the population has not been re-
placing itself. One alarming estimate based on
current figures shows that if the downward trend
should continue the 46,000,000 population would
fall to 31,000,000 by 1975, and to less than
4,500,600 within the next 100 years .—London
correspondent N.Y. “Times.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HENRIETTA MAY NEEDHAM late of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that HERCULES SAMUEL NEED-
HAM has filed a Motion in Divorce Suit No. 649 of
1925 wherein he requests the Court to make abso-
lute the Decree Nisi pronounced in your favor on
the 15th October 1926 If you desire to be repre-
sented at the hearing of the said Motion you may
obtain a copy of the same and the affidavits filed
in support thereof free of charge from JOHN
CHARLES PAYNTER Solicitor of St. James Build-
ings, 109 Elizabeth Street Sydney New South Wales
DATED this 27th day of August One thousand nine
hundred and forty-five.—(i/.5.) O. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
WARS
DO NOT END
WHEN
THE FIGH
STOPS
Victory is not complete until every fighting man and every servicewoman is
re-established in civilian security; until every prisoner of war is brought home;
until the wounded are healed and the sick restored.
War effort must not be relaxed whilst Australians are still on service. Every man
and woman in the Forces must, if necessary, be trained for productive employment
and be maintained whilst training.
There are many more great tasks to be faced before Australia can truly say that
the war has ended. •
★
The Fourth Victory Loan must be
filled to enuMe our vast responsi-
bilities to be met fully and faithfully.
To every Australian It provides an
opportunity not only for safe and
profitable investment, but to assure
that the fruits of victory may be
equitably shared by the nation
which has so earnestly fought and
toiled that they might be achieved.
★
EXPRESS YOUR GRATITUDE THROUGH THE
FOURTH VICTORY LOAN
Opening Tuesday, September 25th
Start saving now for YOUR Bonds. If you have cash saved, subscribe now in amounts of £lO and upwards. Full loan
interest is paid on advance subscriptions from the day you lodge your money with any bank, savings bank or stock-
broker. Then start saving more to buy more Victory Bonds by instalments when the Loan is open. Victory Bonds are
issued in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO. Fill in the name of your district when making your
application and help your local quota ;
4PV15.113
i
N
5788
CRAVEN
(jouU appreciate t/mt.
cutitaiuUfujf ejpuM&t -
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
f
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy gramophone records of the voices of
French singers Tino Rossi, Yvonne Printemps,
Maurice Chevalier, Guitry and any others. —
3646.
Proof-reading or office work for a returned
soldier of World War 1.—3647,
Information Sought.
Some information about the atom ?
The atoms of any element consist of a
number of electrons surrounding a nucleus.
The nucleus consist's of particles called protons
and neutrons. It is the number of protons and
neutrons contained in the nucleus which dis-
tinguishes the atoms of one element from those
of another. The particles in the nucleus are
usually held firmly together, but' it is found that
atoms of some elements, the best known being
radium, may disintegrate spontaneously, i.e.,
one or more of these nuclear protons or neutrons
may be “shot out,” leaving a smaller number of
particles in the nucleus. Since this number de-
termines the element, this process transmutes one
element into another (say, radium into lead) and
is called radioactive transformation. A large
amount of energy is stored in the nucleus, and
part of this may be liberated when some nuclear
particles are released. Scientists have succeeded
in artificially disintegrating the nuclei of ele-
ments which are not otherwise radioactive by
bombarding the element with small particles
(electrons, neutrons, light nuclei, etc.). If such
a particle collides with a nucleus under favor-
able conditions, some nuclear particles are re-
leased and a great amount of energy is liberated.
If all the nuclei in one ounce of any element
could be split up, the energy liberated might
be of the order of a million kilowatt-hours.
Did the expression “praise the Lord and pass
the ammunition” originate from the Boer War ?
It probably originates from a phrase attributed
to Cromwell “Trust in the Lord but keep your
powder dry.” Publishers of the song claim that
it is based on an actual happening in the Pacific
war.
How many children did Queen Victoria bear,
and when were they born ?
Nine. The Princess Royal was born in Novem-
ber, 1840 (married Crown Prince of Prussia and
was mother of Emperor William II); the Prince
of Wales (Edward VII) was born in 1841. Then
followed Princess Alice (afterwards Grand
Duchess of Hesse) in 1843 ; Prince Alfred
(afterwards Duke of Edinburgh and Duke of
Saxe-Coburg-Gotha) in 1844; Princess Helena
(Princess Christian) in 1846; Princess Louise
(Duchess of Argyll) in 1848; Prince Arthur
(Duke of Connaught) in 1850; Prince Leopold
(Duke of Albany) in 1853 ; and Princess Beatrice
(Princess Henry of Battenberg) in 1857.
A method of washing morocain ?
Morocain can be washed like other rayons.
Rinse in two changes of warm water, same tem-
perature of washing water, squeeze, wrap in
soft towel and dry, evenly damp, with moderately
heated iron. If doubtful, try on unimportant
part with fabric almost dry and iron cool.
How many Australian XI players have played
in every match of their tour in England?
Murdoch, McDonnell, Bonnor, Groube and
Palmer (37 matches) in 1880; McDonnell, Scott,
Giffen, A. Bannerman and Bonnor (32 matches)
in 1884; Ferris (40 matches) in 1888; H. Trott
and Bruce (36 matches) in 1893; W. Bardsley
(37 matches) in 1912.
Brief Answers.
L.F.R. No guaranteed remedy; a paste of
peroxide and Fuller’s earth smeared over the
discolored parts and left in the sun to dry
might help J.E.G. Books on th.e subject are
not at present available L.S. Provided you
have no other assets or income, you are en-
titled to a partial widow’s pension. Application
should be made to the Deputy Commissioner of
Pensions, 114 King-street Melbourne D.G.
The shells would attain a height of 24 miles
Soldier: The Commonwealth badge on the
collar of S.D. uniforms is placed parallel to
the ground G.N.8.; The New Era Herbal
Tablet Co., 77a Strand-arcade,* Sydney
E.S.C.: The Meridian was wrecked on Amster-
dam Island, South Indian Ocean, in June, 1853;
the whaler Monmouth rescued 105 passengers
and crew A.K.: Record number Y 5744 has
on one side “Anniversary Waltz,” on the other
“Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup” D. 8.:
Cost of equipment and installation would be
about £2OOO.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. • No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should he addressed to
the Editor.
W.F.8.: Nearly M.A.: No matter how
much you dislike the “scientific genie” you can
hardly rhyme him with “ennui” J.C.R.:
“She covlv turned round, waved her little hand,
Whilst her lips framed the words ‘goody-good,’ ”
Goody-good Lord L.H.E.: If the verse were
as impressive as the sentiments... .M.C.: Write
out of your own experience and observation....
S.F.: “The Bitter Pill” has been swallowed by
the w.p.b J.A.: Both weaklings W.S.F.:
The appropriate exclamation-marks for the occa-
sion, no doubt... .J.W.: You’d do better with
a New Zealand theme M.L.: Have yet to
see the moon “weeping” C.E.W.: You’re
not really trying L.G.: “Star! twinkling as
thou doth” —conversation with heavenly bodies
should preferably not be archaic and cer-
tainly not ungrammatical.. . .H.S.M.: “Claim”
does not rhyme with “again” J.H.1.: “She
quivered like an aspen leaf.” Then, “She
shivered in ecstasy.” And finally, “She shook
like a jelly.” She seems to need shaking
T.L.: Slight K.C.: Good material and fair
writing, but you’ve missed the point... .F. 0.:
Little visualisation, character weak and plot
mechanical. E.C.L.K.: No 8.L.T.: Come
again S.H.: An extremely ladylike hero
Potch: Too much “manifesting” and “cherish-
ing of hopes.” And why should the shearing
season be “ushered in?”


fd
The Safety and Security
of Your Estate
Are Paramount
What a man wishes to do with
his possessions after death, and
the selection of his executor, are
two vitally important matters.
The faculties of men were never more
strained than at the present, and there
are now fewer competent men willing
to undertake the control of the affairs
of other persons.
In everyday life people usually hesitate
before entrusting their private business
matters to others, until fully satisfied
as to their competency and integrity.
Naturally even more consideration
should be given to the matter when it
is for the sacred and onerous trust of
administering an estate.
The Union Trustee Company of
Australia Ltd. is a company of sixty
years’ standing, with its executives all
specially trained, and with facilities to
undertake the administration of all
classes of estates. Why not obtain the
greatest benefit with the least incon-
venience by appointing the company as
your executor ?
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established ISSS
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor : Samuel Cooke. Genera) Manager : John Larritt.
Manager ; J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay,
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD;
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager ; L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector ; Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Maior-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.c.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager),
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
mm.i
M
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in actipn.
All valves tested to 6001b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1935.. 263,937 5 p.c. = 236,951 25,000 4,421,339
1936.. 298,227 6 „ „ 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
1937.. 342,041 64 „ ~ 308,035 25,000 4,419,231
1938.. 365,975 7 „ „ 331,730 35,000 4,418,476
1939.. 377,454 7 „ ~331,730 35,000 4,429,200
1940.. 889,492 74 „ 355,426 35,000 4.428,266
1941.. 384,589 7* „ ~355,426 35,000 4,422,429
1942.. 377,162 74 ~ „ 355,426 26,000 4,419,165
1943.. 374,098 74 „ „ 355,426 15.000 4,422,837
1944.. 379,823 74 „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,422,234
1945.. 384,777 74 „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,426,585
Under new banking legislation which
came into operation at. the end of last
month the future of the trading
banks rest more on the policy of
the Federal Treasurer than in the
hands of their directors. What the
future holds is obscure and uncertain, and
will remain so until the world which has
lost its old balance regains a new one.
In a clear-sighted and able survey of the
present position, C.B.S’s chairman, E. R.
* Knox, says, among other things:
The most dangerous experiments which
the Government is making are to flout the
experience of centuries and place control
of the banking structure in the hands of the
Commonwealth Treasurer, and to abolish
the statutory reserves for protection of the
currency. The immediate effect of this
control will depend upon its administration.
It could be applied with proper regard
to sound principles, but is more likely to be
dominated by political expediency.
The danger is that administration of the
country’s credit and currency will be
placed in the foreground of political dis-
putation at election time, thus making
management, and therefore value, of the
currency more a matter of political ex-
pediency than of sound judgment. The
final object of party politics is political
power. Faced with the choice between
this and economic stability the very
nature of the party compels it to chose
the former.
Concerning the trading banks them-
selves, Mr. Knox points out that if they
are permitted to compete with the Com*
monwealth Bank on equitable terms they
can continue to share the fortunes of
Australia. What needs to be remembered
is that the Commonwealth Bank, includ-
ing its trading section, is not subject to
faxation; and it can be given over-
whelming advantages in rates of interest
and in overseas currency transactions. It
is plain, therefore, that if the Common-
wealth Bank’s powers and privileges are
used against the trading banks it could
quickly make their business unprofitable,
and in this way gain a monopoly over the
whole banking system.
As for the general outlook, defeat of
the Axis Powers means release of mil-
lions of men and women from the ser-
vices and creation of unprecedented prob-
lems of control and rehabilitation. In
the devastated areas in particular first
pre-requisite to recovery is provision of
food, clothing and shelter and then stable
government. As shortages are overtaken
and the leeway between present and pre-
war living standards made up competi-
tion will become progressively keener.
With cancellation of lend-lease one can
hear the knife being sharpened. It all
looks like, as chairman of the C. 8.5.,
'aptly put it, “a cycle of trading condi-
tions running from ability to sell any-
thing through a period of increasing com-
petition to overproduction.” Hence his
warning that;
In the immediate post-war era loans for
purchase of capital goods will be of vital
importance, but thereafter the widely but
erroneously-held view that finance can cure
all ills may lead the world into further
troubles.
Basis of Australia’s overseas trade,
which accounts for a large slice of the
national income, has been production of
primary products. During the war our
capacity to manufacture in excess of
domestic needs has expanded. Ability to
maintain profitable production in both
spheres will largely depend upon the level
of internal costs. Hence transition from
war to peace is likely to prove more diffi-
cult than did marshalling of our resources
for war, when cost was disregarded.
To meet the exigencies of. war Aus-
tralia’s national credit was expanded by
inflationary means, and at the same time
interest rates were depressed to the lowest
level in our history. To help offset the
effects of this upon the price level and
savings, and thus counter the inflationary
trend, some reduction in taxation and a
rise in interest rates are called for. De-
clared Government policy is to continue
“fundamental controls of the economic
system” for six months after peace is pro-
claimed, and thereafter in co-operation
with the States until rehabilitation is com-
plete. The declaration falls short of the
mark, which should be increased produc-
tion at lower-than-present level of costs.
Any controls unsuited to this end and
incompatible with efficiency and flex-
ability in the conduct of industry should
be removed.
Over the last 12 months seasonal con-
ditions in Australia have, with few excep-
tions, varied from poor to disasterous.
The wool clip fell from 3,600,000 bales
for 1943-44 to 3,100,000 bales for 1944-
45, and the current season’s clip is not
expected to exceed 2,800,000 bales. The
wheat harvest yielded only a little oyer
50.000. bushels. On the financial side
war contracts at good prices were the
saving factor. Recent rains have greatly
improved the seasonal outlook.
The inflationary trend in Government
finance continues, though it is less pro-
nounced, as the following comparison of
C.B.S’s balance-sheet figures suggests;
1939. 1944. 1945.
Notes., .. £13,602 £13,532 £13,526
Bills .. .. 1,154,948 1 81) 703,030 87,121,295
Deposits* .. 53,713,813 j
Liquids .. 20,895,574 58,100,997 65,383,772
Advances .. 42,114,246 31,413,371 29,396,792
Premises, etc. 1,206,620 1,101,441 1,076,576
Other assets.. 439,710 621,992
* Including provision for contingencies.
Last term a reduction of £2,017,579 in
advances was accompanied by an expan-
sion of £5,418,265 in deposits and growth
of £7,282,775 in low-interest-bearing
liquids. These include the co’s special
deposit with the Commonwealth Bank of
£29,316,000 (up £5,917,000), now equal
approximately to the amount of the co’s
assistance to trade and industry. It is an
extraordinarily strong position, but means
low earning power.
Co’s net earnings for the year (up
£4954) were equal to 8.1 p.c. on the
£4,739,413 of capital alone or 4.2 p.c. on
shareholder’s funds (capital and reserves
combined). The div. was kept at p.c.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
'££ £ £
1935.. 22,152 7} p.c. =18,901 3,251 33,210
1936.. 25,143 8 „ „ 20,161 4,982 38,192
1937.. 33,496 10 „ ~ 25,201' 8,295 46,487
1938.. 31,732 10 „ ~ 26,201 6,531 53,018
1939.. 25,875 9 „ ~ 22,681 3,194 56,212
1940.. 21,920 8 „ ~ 20,161 1,759 57,971
1941.. 18,789 8 „ ~ 20,160 56,600
1942.. 15,939 64 „ ~13,860 2,079 58,679
1943.. 29,276 9 „ „ 22,681 6,595 65,275
1944.. 29,270 10 „ „ 25,201 4,069 69,344
1945.. 81,671 10 „ ~ 26,201 6,470 75,814
It has been a mixed kettle of fish since
1939. War bumped up costs, especially
the tax bill, complicated the staffing prob-
lem, and brought rationing of beer amd
spirits and “austerity” meals at ceiling
prices. Still, there were compensating
factors; chiefly a heavy influx of
temporary population and liberal spend-
ing, both assisted by the growth of war
production and lengthening of pay rolls
and stimulated by the presence of large
numbers of our own and Allied service
personnel, who taxed accommodation to
the limit. Then the Government took
steps to check the ugly spiral of inflation,
and the rate at which costs were advanc-
ing slowed down, thus enabling hotel-
. keepers and others to get a little benefit
from the reorganisation and adjustments
constantly being made to cope with
changes in the situation.
For the half-dozen years to the close
of last accounts net earnings averaged
£24,477, compared with an average of
£26,192 for the six immediately preced-
ing years. Conditions last term were very
similar* to those for the preceding year.
The demand for accommodation again
exceeded the co’s capacity in this connec-
tion. And again the catering service
showed a loss, owing to the relentless
pressure of costs, especially foodstuffs.
The spring of £2401 in the profit figures
is more apparent than real. It was due
entirely to a 50 p.c. cut in provision for
deferred repairs and renewals (£4000).
The usual £2OOO was struck off for depreci-
ation and £34,000 (same as for previous
term) was set aside for the taxgatherer.
The £31,671 of profit claimed was a satis-
factory 12.5 p.c. on'capital as against
11.6, 11.6, 6.3, 7.4 and 8.6 p.c. back to
1940.
Over the next,few years the co’s net
earnings will be governed largely by
what happens in connection with Govern-
ment price controls. Ever since Sydney
interests took over for Melbourne
owners early in this century the Metro-
pole has enjoyed a wide and profitable
goodwill as a comfortable residential
hotel with a moderately priced tariff.
Taxation, from which no relief is
promised for the next 10 months or so,
will remain at a higher level than pre-
war, and so will costs generally. And
renewals, always a hungry animal in a
fashionable hotel, will run away with a
lot more than they used to. And, while
first-class dining-rooms are restricted to
present low maximum tariff rates, there
appears little chance of the catering side
of the business making anything worth
mentioning in the way of profits.. Still,
with accumulated savings and contem-
plated Government spending, there should
be plenty of money about, though spend-
ing by service personnel will diminish as
demobilisation comes to an end and
Allied servicemen depart.
Finances are comfortable:
1939. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £252,010 £252,010 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities 9,510 8,004 7,729 8,776
Tax reserve .. 27,579 86,142 36,184
Fixed assets.. 285,317 276,317 274,317 272,317
Stock.. -• 2,608 2,363 1,918 2,266
Book debts, cash,
etc 53,608 88,048 112,110 125,322
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
allowances for depreciation, taxation,
etc., enabled £13,212 to be added to book
debts, cash, etc. Government securities
and cash together total £125,525 (up
£12,830), so the co. is well equipped to
finance deferred renewals and repairs as
soon as men and materials become avail-
able.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.>
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1935.. 76,471 7* p.c. = 50,540 25,931 382,627
From doubtful debts reserve, £193 .. 382,820
1936.. 78,015 10 p.c. = 67,386 10,629 393,449
Surplus on investment, £4044 .. .. 397,493
1937.. 83,108 10 p.c. = 67,386 16,722 413,215
Tax provision written back, £7368 .. 420,583
1938.. 97,101 124 p.B. =84,233 12,868 433,451
1939.. 98,340 124 „ ~ 84,233 14,107 447,558
1940.. 96,705 124 „ ~84,233 12,472 460,030
1941.. 98,636 124 „ ~84,233 14.403 474,433
1942.. 94,273 124 „ ~84,233 10,040 484,473
1943.. 66,350 7.8 „ „ 52,645 13,705 498,178
From doubtful debts reserve, £2500 .. 500,678
1944.. 66,186 7.8 p.c.= 52,645 13,541 514,219
1946.. 65,050 7.8 „ ~ 52,645 12,405 526,624
This holding co. (paid capital £673,862)
and Australian Cement (paid capital
£760,433) are equal partners in Australian
Portland Cement Pty. (paid capital
£2,000,000), and have been since 1930.
The operating co’s two plants have a
combined capacity of some 500,000 tons
cement p.a. The one at Kandos (N.S.W.)
can turn out up to 200,000 tons p.a.
The other at Fyansford (Vic.) has a capa-
city of 300,000 tons p.a., and makes
high-grade potash as well. It is the
largest contributor to the pool at the
moment. Its only serious competitor is
Goliath (capacity 100,000 tons p.a.), a
low-cost producer at Railston (Tas.), and
there is little competition under present
conditions.
During the war demand switched
almost entirely to Government account;
selling prices were, and still are, con-
trolled ; there have been disturbing in-
creases in taxation, wage, coal, oil,
paper-bag, transport and other costs;
and the manpower problem aggra-
vated the position, and is likely to
continue to do so until demobilisa-
tion eases the position. Troubles of
the industry in N. S. Wales are re-
flected in closure, before the end of 1942,
of the Standard Co’s plant at Charbon
as a rationalisation measure. Standard
has since drawn its requirements from
Southern Portland. Total cement produc-
tion in N. S. Wales reached a peak of
460,700 tons in 1938, or not much more
than half total plant capacity. The figure
had dropped to 380,000 tons in 1941 and
has receded further since. Australian
Portland, the operating co. above re-
ferred to, dropped its div. from 9 p.c. tc
6 p.c. in 1942, and has continued to pay
the lower rate since. Hence the cut in
Kandos’s distribution from p.c. to
7.8 p.c., as shown in the table.
The outlook is for increased produc-
tion as men and materials become avail -


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'adder*’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
■ You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAASKASE
All metis-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
SI
JSH
> V
m
Established 1808 In Belgn of Oeorire 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
» ♦ » *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
CATARRH
INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER, CHRONIC COLDS
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, ANTRUM, & SIHUS TROUBLES
These distressing complaints are all caused by germs in the
bloodstream, and lasting relief can only be obtained by defeat-
ing these germs. Vaxos No. 1 is an Oral Vaccine (a Vaccine
which, instead of being injected, is simply taken a few drops
each day in water, by mouth) and is produced by an eminent
medical bacteriologist. Upon absorption into the blood-
stream, Vaxos quickly sets to work destroying the attacking
germs and neutralising the poisons created by them, with
the result that the patient soon feels brighter, headaches and
body pains vanish, and health steadily improves. With
continued treatment, long-lasting immunity to the disease
is established. Vaxos is perfectly safe, even for children
and elderly people to take. Don't continue to suffer need-
lessly; obtain Vaxos from your Chemist to-day.
TWO OTHER VAXOS TREATMENTS.
Vaxos No. 2 (Warren Crowe
type) for Rheumatism,
Neuritis. Sciatica, Myositis.
Fibrositis, Lumbago and
Spondylitis.
Vaxos No. 3 for Boils, Pimples,
Carbuncles, Acne, Psoriasis, Der-
matitis, Eczema, Impetigo, Septic
Sores and most Skin Infections.
"Vaxos" costs only 21 /- a large bottle containing 24
c.c.'s, which is sufficient for several weeks' treatment for
chronic cases. The medium size bottle for milder cases Is
obtainable at a cost of 12/6.
vaxos r i
ORAL VACCINE
Wm&
If your Chemist is out of stocEs, write W
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.). 582 Lit. Collins St,, Melb.
sy
f S
-
Tke&re*'^™’^!
State Express
“THREE-THREES 55 CIGARETTES
X295D-6.48
hmmM
able. Net earnings will be governed
largely by the level of costs, which will
be difficult to restrain from rising still
further. Subject to agreement of State
legislatures, the Commonwealth authori-
ties will continue to exercise powers of
price-control for the next three years. In
addition to the large home and other
building programme now taking shape—
here it will be some years before the lag
is overtaken —Federal and State Govern-
ments propose to spend hundreds of mil-
lions of pounds on public works over the
next few years. Whether the Govern-
ments won’t finally create more problems
than they now set out to solve time will
reveal.
According to the Minister for Post-
war Reconstruction, the value of build-
ing materials available in Australia over
the next 12 months is estimated at
£50,000,000. The value of demand is ex-
pected to exceed £100,000,000, and the
Federal target of 24,000 houses would
call for about half the available resources.
Within the States allocation of building
materials will become a State responsi-
bility as soon as necessary arrangements
are made. Meanwhile Commonwealth
controls are to continue. Shortage of
manpower threatens to bump up wages,
especially for skilled labor. The Master
Builders’ Federation of Australia favors
decontrol of industries to release man-
power for construction, cancellation of
the permit system, making material sup-
plies the sole control, and speeding
up training of bricklayers, carpenters,
plumbers, painters and plasterers. Of all
the States South Australia has made the
best job of its housing quota. Here the
Government has left home-building to
private industry.
£1,000,000 Debenture Issue
Felt and Textile of Australia, Ltd., is
on the market with £1,000,000 of 4 p.c.
debentures, repayable at par. August 31,
1965, or at the co.’s option at the end of
August, 1960, subject to six months’
notice. The return compares favorably
with that obtainable from comparable
securities in the open market. The issue
is to be listed on the Stock Exchange, and
has been underwritten by J. B. Were and
Son, the Melbourne brokers, at 255. p.c.
The money is wanted to finance ex-
pansion of the co.’s existing undertakings
and for the development of new ones.
Principal is secured by a first floating
charge over assets of the parent and its
25 wholly-owned Australian subsidiaries.
When fully subscribed and paid, and
allowing for exes, of the issue (about
£20,000), the net tangible cover per £lOO
of debenture capital will be £261 17s. Bd.
That is on the basis of figures at June 30,
1944. Combined net earnings of the parent
and all subsidiaries and sub-subsidiaries
for 1943-44 covered the annual interest
charge on the debentures 7.7 times. That
was after allowing for taxation in the
subsidiaries’ but not in the parent’s
accounts. Debenture interest is an allow-
able charge prior to taxation of the
parent’s earnings.
A cumulative sinking fund of 2 p.c. is
to be established, thus ensuring provision
for progressive reduction of the debt, as
well as buying support in the market for
the debentures. And, as trustee for deben-
ture holders, the Perpetual Executors and
Trustee Association of Australia, Ltd.,
will watch their interests.
After deducting taxation for the parent
as well as subsidiaries, combined net earn-
ings of the group for 1943-44 was
£208,663, which was over five times the
debenture interest charge. And the de-
benture money can be expected to earn
more than its keep, which means that it
should be helpful to ordinary share-
holders. Leaving out of the reckoning a
tax reserve of £366,943, the £208,663 was
11.8 p.c. on shareholders’ net tangible
funds (capital and reserves combined, less
£267,254 of goodwill, etc.). Paid capital
is £1,419,839 in 40,000 first and 200,000
second prefs., both 6 p.c. cumulative, and
1,179,839 ords.
The co. is the centre of an energetic
and progressive group of self-supporting
and complementary industrial activities in
Australia, Maoriland and S. Africa which
manufacture felt piece-goods, carpets,
footwear and wool tops and yarns, etc.
From the end of 1936—just after the
public first became interested —to the end
of 1942 paid capital advanced from
£119,930 to £1,419,839 and has remained
steady since. Of the increase (£1,299,909)
the public put up £1,039,519, plus
£117,984 of share premiums ; bonus scrip
accounted for £135,500, and the remain-
ing £124,890 was issued mainly in pay-
ment for subsidiary interests taken over.
“Uranium”: Reference “uranium and
Atomic Bomb” (B. 15/8/’45). I was
one of the original shareholders in
Radium Hill. The ore had to be carted
by camels to railhead, thence to Port
Pirie and by sea to the laboratory at
Woolwich,. Sydney. About 250 milli-
grammes of bromide of radium was ex-
tracted over a few years. An Interna-
tional Congress of Scientists was held at
Sydney about April, 1914. The Radium
Hill Co., ascertained that Madame Curie
was likely to attend, and extended an
invitation to her and to Professor Ruther-
ford to inspect the laboratory and the
radium produced. British, German and
other European scientists arrived, but
not Madame Curie. Professor Ruther-
ford was taken over the laboratory,
and, after testing the radium, ex-
pressed the opinion that it was a
very pure specimen. Work continued
at Radium Hill until a few weeks after
World War I broke out. Then, owing
to loss of manpower the works and
laboratory closed down. There was about
200 milligrammes of radium on hand,
which was eventually disposed of and the
co. put up its shutters.
He sfc Hs *l*
Blue Spec (W.A.) is in trouble again.
This time the manager has resigned, and
there is talk about lack of funds. Before
treatment difficulties were officially ad-
mitted admirers tipped Blue Specs, now
quoted at 25., to go to a pound or more.
There is certainly gold in the co’s re-
fractory ore, but so far profitable extrac-
tion has failed.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872. \
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
WoiA, -iJttDlsti*uct&f
~^Ssuj&u/(_,
k TOMATO,
SAUCE
(S?. 1
■*«
■I
cU3L
oie
T ut&
FACING fl PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WEHTWOAIA
m
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
d
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.)»
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Lend-lease Developments
Lend-lease between the United States
and Great Britain terminated with
the end of the “shooting war,” before
the formal surrender of the Japanese.
The Labor win in Britain, the atomic
bomb, the Japanese collapse and the stop-
page of lend-lease aid to Britain have so
closely followed one another that the
repercussions of each have combined to
produce very mixed feelings in the minds
of millions of English-speaking people,
including Americans. The sudden end
of lend-lease has brought a realisation
that “the peace is on” with a vengeance,
After nearly six years of unremitting war-
time sacrifice the majority of Britons find
the sudden outbreak of peace almost
bewildering.
Imports and Dollar Exchange
Subject to any reconsideration of the
decision to end lend-lease, or to the in-
troduction of any peace-time substitute.
economic intercourse between the nations
returns to one of paying for imports out
of exports, out of gold, out of accumu-
lated credits or out of borrowed money.
Lend-lease, at first sight, appears to
have ended even before the inter-
national currency and banking scheme
has started operations. (American
banking opinion is opposed to the plan
as it stands at present.) There is
now going on in nearly every Allied
country a quick computation of external
credits available for the buying of United
States goods. In no country is there
more concern than in Britain, where the
present meagre living standard is main-
tained to a considerable extent by im-
ports of American food and other essen-
tials.
Australia and Maoriland, too, are
affected, but provided U.S. demand for
Australian goods in the Pacific war zone
continues at the present rate there should
be enough dollars accruing to Australia
for some time for the purchase of U.S.
goods. That is assuming that the
Commonwealth does not envisage a big
rise in its immediate post-war demands
on the United States, and that it can
buy what it wants from the U.S. as freely
as it could import before the war ended,
Freedom of import may be affected by
(a) the need for many essential raw and
manufactured goods in rehabilitation
plans in the U.S. (for instance, export
of U.S. cars is at present restricted), and
by ( b ) Britain’s need for dollars accru-
ing to Empire countries. Australia still
largely makes its external financial
arrangements through London, Prior to
the war Australia almost invariably had
a debit balance in trade with the United
States, and the present exceptional de-
mand on Australian foodstuffs by U.S.
forces may taper off rather quickly,
M _ ~
Th * End °f Not the End?
end of lend lease will bring its
problems for the United States as well
as f° r other Allies. Already there are
forecasts of astronomical unemployment
in the Republic within a matter of
months, and already there is talk that the
United States is out to capture markets
for exports in all parts of the world,
Though it may be that the restoration of
civil production will temporarily hold
the growth in unemployment, the spectre
remains in the long run, and production
that is even given away to other nations
may be good international diplomacy
as well as internal political expediency.
In seeking overseas markets the United
States must remember that in order to
buy importing countries must have the
wherewithal in dollar credits or loans,
To make two-way trading eventually
possible it may pay the United States to
help restore devastated industries in
countries such as Britain, Holland, Italy,
Russia, Asia and Malaya. Peace-time
lend-lease could help to get rid of sur-
plus U.S. production, maintain internal
employment and give support to Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s aspirations in the post-
war international sphere, as indicated in
the Atlantic Charter and upon other
occasions.
Many and varied are the reasons
offered in Washington and London for
the sudden termination of lend-lease.
Some say the termination was strictly in
accordance with law. Others say that it
is designed to embarrass Britain’s Labor
Government, or to get Britain at a dis-
advantage in bargaining over Pacific
bases, or to get the upper hand in eco-
nomic agreements, or to “discipline”
the Soviet. It is hardly likely that any
one reason prompted the United States
Government to break off lend-lease
assistance, or that, say, the legal aspect
was considered without the consideration
of many other aspects as well. But it
seems definite enough that had lend-lease
aid to Britain gone on for another six
months that country would have been
much stronger economically, and better
in a position to talk back at the diplo-r
matic or bargaining table,
.
The Basis of Mutual Aid
The legal or “business” basis of lend-
lease itself is a vague thing; the most
definite feature of the scheme was its war-
time realism coupled with its generosity,
The washing-up process after the ter-
mination of its operation was never very
clearly defined. Once “the dollar sign”
was “taken out of international book-
keeping” it became hard to compute
benefits and obligations as between Allied
countries. The United States legislation
on the subject merely provided that the
terms and conditions upon which any
foreign Government should receive lend-
lease aid were those satisfactory to the
President, and “the benefit to the United
States may be payment or repayment in
kind or property or any other direct or
indirect benefit.” According to that
wording, the winning of the Battle of
Britain before America came into the
war might be interpreted as a “direct or
indirect benefit” to the United States
fully offsetting any debit balance that
there might appear to be against Britain
on lend-lease account. The great varia-
tion in costs of the same articles in the
United States and Britain makes the
money computations of the value of aid
given and received very unfair com-
parisons.
Article VII of the Mutual Aid Agree-
ment between the United States and
Great Britain, signed by Lord Halifax
and Mr. Sumner Welles on February 23,
1942, provides;
In the final determination of the benefits
to be provided to the United States by the
Government of the United Kingdom in re-
turn for aid furnished under the Act oi
Congress of the 11th March, 1941, the terms
and conditions thereof shall be such as not
to burden commerce between the two
countries, but to promote mutually advan-
tageous economic relations between them
and the betterment of world-wide economic
relations. To that end they shall include
provision for agreed action by the United
States and the United Kingdom, open to
participation by all other countries of like
mind, directed to the expansion, by appro-
priate international and domestic measures,
of production, employment and the exchange
and consumption of goods, which are the
material foundations of the liberty and wel-
fare of all peoples; to the elimination of all
forms of discriminatory treatment in inter-
national commerce, and to the reduction of
tariffs and other trade barriers; and, in
general, to the attainment of all the eco-
nomic objectives set forth in the joint de-
claration made on the 12th August, 1941
[Atlantic Charter], by the President of the
United States and the Prime Minister of the
United Kingdom.
If these original aims of the Lend-lease
Agreement (as it is known in the U.S.A.)
are not to be abandoned the abrupt end-
ing of war-time arrangements by Wash-
ington is not final so far as the peace is
concerned.
No “Handover”
President Truman has now announced
that lend-lease should, “in the main,” end
with a clean sheet on both sides, and
The Bulletin has always considered that
this was the interpretation that would be
placed on the terms of the agreement.
Truman said the United States had re-
ceived three things better than dollar
settlements, namely, victory, reciprocal
aid and the commitment of lend-lessees
to a policy of lower tariffs. Truman
added that “each of our principal fight-
ing partners contributed to the pool of
armed might in accordance with its full
abilities and capacities,”
From the strictly Australian point of
view, prospects of an end to lend-lease
must add to the increasing problems of
the Labor Administration at Canberra.
During the war it has been shielded from
many economic problems, including those
of external credit and internal interest
rates. In a great number of respects the
Commonwealth was taken under the wing
of Britain and the United States during
the Pacific war because of military
reasons, and the present Government was
in power during the entire period of the
Pacific conflict. It has had almost no
first-hand experience of the problems of
economic independence. World trade
and finance now take over where inter-
national war-time expediency and politics
leave off.
Britain owes something more than
£3500 million sterling to neutrals, Allies
and nominal Allies as a result of this war.
This debt is mostly in the form of blocked
sterling balances, which implies that in
order to get payment the creditor coun-
tries will need to take British goods. The
debt is huge, but the burden is not so
threatening in view of the trading impli-
cations. Britain’s reluctance to add to its
indebtedness to the United States is prob-
ably partly explained by the fact that the
United States has never been eager to
take British goods in payment, even
though there has been a great deal of talk
since the days of the Atlantic Charter
about reducing all international trade
barriers.
Mr. Chifley estimates the value of
reverse lend-lease aid given by Australia
to the United States at about £250 million
sterling. London “Financial News”
points out that had it not been for the
low price of Australian goods and the
undervaluation of the Australian pound
the real Australian figure would exceed
U.S. aid to the Commonwealth. It
quotes the well-known case of Australian
blankets, which have been taken into
account at less than half the cost of
American blankets. It could quote butter
and many other kinds of food also.
* sic « *
Mr. Chifley has announced that the
Government will in peace-time continue
to control inter-State shipping freights,
charter rates, passenger fares, routes and
times of sailing. Inter-State coastal trade
will, with possible Ministerially-approved
exceptions, be reserved for Australian-
built ships, which will not be licensed
when they become 25 years old. The
Ministry is also to consider establishing
an Australian-owned and -operated over-
seas line. The Government’s programme
of controlling existing shipping lines
again represents nationalisation “on the
cheap,” but if war-time controls are any
criterion the public will be bled white by
labor costs and Government expenses
and subsidies. Though the war is over,
seamen continue to draw heavy “war-
risk” bonuses. The Government showed
that it couldn’t face militant union pres-
sure when there was a proposal to abol-
ish the war-risk bonus at the end of last
year. Judge de Baun at that time re-
signed his chairmanship of the Maritime
Industries Commission.
* * * *
Dunstan, of Victoria, has asked for a
repeal of uniform income-tax, or for
a reallocation of payments to the States.
He maintains that Victoria pays £10.5
million in taxes and gets back £6.5 mil-
lion. Victoria’s “subsidy” was £3 4s. lOd.
a head, against £5 6s. 4d. a head for N.
S. Wales. Mr, Chifley agreed to consider
a reallocation of subsidies before expiry
of the Act in June, 1947. He favors con-
tinuance of uniform tax for all time.
* * # *
Entertaining stories are being told
about Professor Copland, Prices Commis-
sioner, against whose prices decisions
there is no appeal. A popular one is that
involving W. M. Hughes; Australia’s
senior statesman is alleged to have asked:
“Well, Professor, what’s the pegged price
of salvation today?” The following one
is authentic. At a gathering in a Sydney
club that had the air of a peace celebra-
tion —and peace has brought up the ques-
tion of post-war price busi-
nessman asked Copland, perhaps hope-
fully, perhaps pointedly: “Are you tired
of price control, Professor?” Quick as
a flash Copland retorted: “Not nearly
as tired of it as you are!”


£l7/10/. ETSSm
Built entirely in Australia by
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
Iheir cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
—■ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE r.
X££P rai/R M/R
Of//
3?
Increase the
growth of
thin and
weak hair.
Effective in
cases of baldness and bald
patches. Permanently re-
moves dandruff. McMahon's
Hair Restorer Is a proven
remedy for men, women and
children.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Altken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
. ;>:■ v 5
f
3 3
3
'-V'
YES.tllf
had everything
while h# lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CENERALINSURANCE CO LTD A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. T. PERKINS, General Manager,
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletelv successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts dke the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22E), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
a
11 your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a courses _ , . , .
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
inn. is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similal
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
THEY MAKE YOU FEEL BRIGHTER
THIS PAINT
13 YEARS
HAS LASTED
SO FAR?
m - ■
m
m
imm
m
•y OLilli
: >X
n n ?
m
m
- - ■ , :■■■'•'
The Grandstand Pavilion at the Sydney
Showground was last painted in 1932 with
three coats of Taylor’s Prepared Paint. The
paint is still serviceable!
The Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W., who own the
Pavilion, have used Taylor’s Paint for all their Showground
buildings for the last 20 years.
For your house —Taylor’s Paint!
At authorised Taylor's Paint agents you will find LIMITED STOCKS avail-
able of: TAYLOR’S PREPARED PAINTS TAYLOR'S ROOF PAINTS
MATTE WATER PAINTS TAYLOR'S KALSOMINE TAYLOR'S SPIRIT
STAINS SILVAR ALUMINIUM ENAMEL.
Due to Government restrictions NO CIVILIAN STOCKS available of:
VARLAC QUICK-DRYING ENAMELS MIRAGLOSS QUICK-DRYING
ENAMELS —TAYLOR'S ENAMEL FLOOR STAIN TAYLOR'S PAVING
ENAMEL.
$ BEST BY THE S YEAR TEST
PREPARED
YUM*
1%
PAINT
TP 6-45
ISinC
jz Three coats of first-grade
9' paint give 5 years' full protection.
Made by Taylor’s Paints Pty. Ltd., Sutherland Ave., Paddington, N.S-W. Tel. FA 2125
PAINT SUPPLIERS TO ARMY, NAVY AND AIR FORCE
The New Wool Agreement
With 10,000,000 bales of the war-time
wool clip on hand at the end of hostili-
ties, the United Kingdom Government
has come to an arrangement with the
Australian, New Zealand and South
African Governments for the “under-
writing” and financing of Dominion wool
clips until all the surplus wool has been
disposed of. This may take 14 years,
Prime Minister Chifley suggests. The first
objective is to prevent dumping of the
surplus in a short space of time and thus
crashing the market. Each year the four
Governments will together decide the re-
serve prices of wool for the following
year, and below these prices the staple
will not be sold, either from stocks or cur-
rent production.
So far as Autralia is concerned, the
war-time system of appraisement and ac-
quisition will continue during the 1945-
46 season on the same conditions and at
the present price of 15.4 d. a pound. After
the end of this sea/son each grower’s wool
will be appraised and the general reserve
price fixed in accordance, with the over-
all reserve price decided by the four Gov-
ernments. This reserve price will take
the place of the war-time appraisement
price. The grower will get the benefit of
any bidding at auction above the reserve
price. The control will buy in wool that
does not go to the reserve price and the
grower will be paid the reserve rate.
The Australian Government will
assume half-ownership of the surplus
wool at present belonging to Britain, and
will be an equal partner in any profits or
losses on realisations of Australian wool.
Our wool industry will bear half the costs
of operating the plan, and the British and
Australian Governments will bear the
other half. The Commonwealth’s initial
capital investment in the plan will be
about £4O million sterling, to be put up
over four years. The sponsors of the
scheme cannot see far enough into the
post-war future to say whether there is
likely to be a profit or a loss on the final
realisation.
The British Empire produces about half
the world’s wool, but a much greater
proportion of the fine wools. Thus the
four Governments concerned in the
present arrangement are better in a posi-
tion to ensure the success of the plan than
in the case of most commodities. The
United States and Argentina are the prin-
cipal producers outside the Empire, but
the United States is a high-cost wool
country. The industry is protected by a
duty of 34 cents a pound on a clean
scoured basis.
If a lower tariff on United States wool
imports is an outcome of the terms of
lend-lease, the Atlantic Charter and the
Bretton Woods agreement it is possible
that United States demand will help to
offset the disturbance to Continental and
Japanese trade caused by the war. (Ger-
many, France and Belgium were large im-
porters of wool before the war.) There
is a great unsatisfied world demand for
woollen goods, but the United States is
the chief market in which there exists the
assured buying power as well as an in-
creasing demand. Much Australian wool
was used in America as a matter of war-
time expediency over the past four years.
It was eagerly sought after, being both
cheaper and better than the Middle-West
product.
There is a foreign-exchange aspect of
this wool agreement that may be impor-
tant. To begin with, no Australian, it
seems, will be able to export wool on his
own account and thereby establish a
foreign credit. All foreign exchange from
Australian wool will accrue to the Govern-
ment pool. Britain’s interest in, say, U.S.
dollars or Swedish kronor derived from
the sale of Australian wool has yet to be
made clear.
Although the referment of price-
control powers for three years to the
Commonwealth by the States has yet to
be approved by the majority of State Par-
liaments, many people are hoping that
during this triennium price control will
be in a process of progressive liquidation, '
each line of goods being freed from con-
trol as soon as available in competitive
quantities. Detailed overall price control
should have no place in a settled peace-
time economy, even though it may be
necessary occasionally for a State Gov-.
ernment to act in the case of a com-
modity that appears to be subject to a
price ring. v
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits grew by £7.6 mil-
lion in July, making the total £574.5 mil-
lion at the end of the month. At the out-
break of war the total was approximately
£244 million. From the beginning of the
war to its end the growth has therefore
been about £330 million, an increase of
135 p.c. This waf-time inflation in sav-
ings—in a measure the word “inflation”
is more applicable than “growth”—is one
reason why we may expect some post-
war rise in the cost of living notwith-
standing price control. Money wages are
also likely to rise, though until per-capita
production increases there is unlikely to
be a lift in real wages.
* * * *
People displaced from war industry are
to get an allowance, for a period of up
to six weeks,' of £2 10s. a week for adults
and married men, £1 -10 s. for unmarried
youths aged 18 to 21, 15s. for persons
under 18 and £1 a week for a wife, with
ss. for one dependent child, child endow-
ment looking after the others. The bene-
fits will not operate after November 15,
and will not be in addition to unemploy-
ment relief. Payment • will be made
through the Department of Social Ser-
vices, subject to a work and means test.
Cost of this “transition money” will
be charged up in the new Chifley
Budget, which is expected to run to £5OO
million in spite of the fact that the war
is over. It is right enough that an em-
ployee who is losing his job through no
fault of his own should be given con-
sideration, but it would be pleasing to
have some real evidence that the Federal
Government is resolved to cut down
wasteful expenditure and ‘ spending that
aims to make people dependants of the
Labor party.
* * * *
The termination of lend-lease, whether
representing Washington’s final word or
not, must cause Australia’s financial
administrators, especially within the pre-
cints of the “new” Commonwealth Bank,
to take careful stock of trading prospects
with the rest of the world, notably in
respect of sources of dollars and other
money that will buy petroleum, cotton,
tea, motor-cars, etc. Britain will remain
our best customer after the war, but
Britain will be a great user of dollars,
and it may be sparing in its allocations
of this currency to the Commonwealth,
as was the case before America came
into the war. It so happened that Aus-
tralia had a fleeting period of trading
with the U.S. (just before the war) that
showed a balance in this country’s favor ;
but over the years the general experi-
ence has been a heavily adverse one. The
United States will remain an attractive
shopping centre for Australia now that
the war is over, for machinery and
similar capital goods as well as for motor-
cars and other luxuries. But without
dollars or temporary financial accommo-
dation we won’t be able to buy. Perhaps
the United States will be a better market
for Australian exports in the peace. In
any case, Britain seems likely to be a
large exporter to the Commonwealth
because of the easier sterling position.
We may again get petrol from Bahrein
Island, in the Persian Gulf. Supplies from
the Netherland Indies will be outside the
sterling area, but we may have a larger
export trade with these islands in the
immediate post-war period. Our purchases
of petroleum and tea used to cost much
more than the value of our exports to
the N.E.I.
# * * *
One plague Australia has avoided dur-
ing this war has been the share shaik.
Not so Canada. Toronto, in which city
Australia’s Woolcott Forbes operated
with Alfred E. Dawson and others, seems
to have become the “headquarters ot
an unusually bold gang of swindlers who
are taking away the reputation of
‘Toronto the good’ until here and there it
is becoming known as ‘Racketeer
Town,’ ” according to a Canadian rural
representative. The game seems to be to
get hold of “sucker lists in the prairie
provinces” and sell hopeless mining scrip
to farmers. Throughout the Dominion
there has been an outcry against Toronto
share sharks.


THE SERVICE MAN
Japan Surrenders.
“Ek Dum”: The process of liquidat-
ing the Japanese war, though it must
have seemed interminably slow to rela-
tives of prisoners in Japanese hands,
moved to its climax with an orderly
swiftness. It was really a wonderful feat
of organisation, astonishing in its smooth-
ness and freedom from the kind of inci-
dent which everybody who knew his
Asiatic expected.
The Japanese apparently everywhere
accepted the situation with a fatalistic
calm, and perhaps with relief. They had
been through a unique experience in the
grim story of great wars, and could rate
themselves the first belligerent nation
which had been brought to actual sur-
render by blockade and aerial destruc-
tion, the bulk of its line armies being
apparently unblooded.
The first glimpses of Tokyo’s environs
from the ground proved that the blockade
had reduced the population to starvation
and to the poorest kind of clothing and
coverings, while the aerial blasts, even
if they had not achieved all that had been
reported by an imaginative d«uh/ < ->-ess —
the centre of the city, destruction of
which had been the suojeci o.
scriptions, was found intact —had certainly
left tens of thousands homeless against
the coming winter and rendered tens of
thousands more of all ages and sexes im-
pervious to the effects of all future
winters.
Newspapers are satisfied to reflect that
this was only doing to a brutal and bar-
barous enemy what, with the tables
turned, he would have done to us. Satis-
fied, in other words, to accept the enemy’s
standards of ethics in these matters and
delighted to have a wealth of material
for bloodcurdling posters and for the
sale of editions full of stories of atrocities.
The men who conducted the war and
those who suffered its travails have a
more reasonable view of the situation.
They have shown no disposition to shock
the anguished families of men held in
captivity for years by releasing horrible
tales of torture. Their aim is obviously
to treat the whole business as far as pos-
sible on the basis of the knowledge,
which they have had all the time, that
Asiatic war is always dreadful, a thing
to be avoided at all costs and to be ended
with all facility before it reached chaos
and its ultimate state of horror.
It was the knowledge of what such a
war would entail which (amid the sneers
and abuse of gentlemen who are now
horrified at the consequences) led Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt to go to ex-
treme lengths to avoid a conflict upon
which Australian and American news-
papers had been hell-bent for years.
Hong Kong Regained
The surrender proceedings moved in
all zones with a clockwork regularity in
spite of the bad weather in the region of
Japan. From all directions Allied might
was moving towards Japanese H.Q. In
the Indian Ocean detachments of the
Royal Navy reached Sabang, the Japanese
island base off the north of Sumatra, so
often bombarded. A squadron headed
by the flagship, H.M.S. Nelson, one of
the few 16-inch gunships in the East
and mentioned for the first time while on
this expedition, moved into the Malacca
Strait, while ahead the minesweepers
worked to clear a passage into Singapore,
From Sydney, Rear-Admiral Harcourt,
flying his flag in H.M.S. Swiftsure (Cap-
tain P. V. MacLaughlin, R.N.), from
which a few weeks ago a Sydney party
over cocktails watched Royal Marines
beat the retreat at sundown, set out for
Hong Kong with the battleship Anson and
the capital aircraft-carrier Indomitable —
whose captain, incidentally, once won the
black belt for judo wrestling in Japan
before the war. On August 26 the squad-
ron entered Hong Kong Harbor (sur-
rendered on Christmas Day, 1941), occu-
pied the island and the dockyard at Kow-
loon and released crowds of excited
prisoners. The naval facilities were found
to be run down, but Hong Kong in the
main was not greatly damaged.
General MacArthur Lands
In Japan, after preliminary landings by
paratroops at Atsugi aerodrome, which
lies about 18 miles south-west of Tokyo,
General MacArthur himself arrived about
3 p.m, Sydney time on August 30, while
the fleet still lay in the outer part of the
bay waiting for security measures to be
completed for its entry.
About 7500 paratroops were landed at
Atsugi during the day, while 10,000
Allied bluejackets and marines went
ashore, headed by a British force of 500,
with Commander H. J. Buchanan, D. 5.0.,
R.A.N., in the lead. The British Com-
monwealth contingent came from
H.M.S. King George V, the R.A.N. de-
stroyers Nizam and Napier, some small
ships and the Maoriland Fiji-class cruiser
Gambia.
Before the day was out General Mac-
Arthur had established his H.Q. in Yoko-
hama at the familiar Grand Hotel.
Admiral Nimitz, who was ashore before
him, was also there. General Spaatz of
the Strategic Air Force came later.
During the day Admiral Carney,
U.S.N., accepted the surrender of the
Yokusuka naval base, at the mouth of
Tokyo Bay. He found it in a bad state
of neglect, with little that was fit for
Allied use.
In the afternoon Tokyo Radio, on its
hill in the south-west of the main city, was
taken over and was ready to begin work
for some of the army of correspondents
who had arrived —they were as numerous
as the first detachment of British naval
men ashore.
Within two days they had been able to
make a reconnaissance of the damage to
Tokyo and Yokohama, within the zone
of 200 square miles which was im-
mediately occupied, and pronounce the
damage tremendous and the whole area
“ That's NOT the Way to discharge 'em!"
filled with frightened people fleeing to the
shelter of shuttered houses at the approach
of strangers. There were whole miles
of blackened ruins, and the general con-
dition of affairs suggested that bombing
attacks had been carried out with im-
punity and at will, there having been no
air defence worth the name.
By September nearly 100,000 occupa-
tion troops, naval, military and air force,
had been landed. The air was full of
the roar of bombers and fighters,
and the ships were gathering for the final
surrender ceremony. On August 31
H.M.A.S. Shropshire, Hobart, Warra-
munga and Bataan joined the Allied fleet
in Tokyo Bay.
On the Missouri
For the surrender ceremony on the
Missouri some Japanese delegates turned
up complete in top hats. Others were in
shabby green uniforms. The British and
U.S. commanders came in the working
white and khaki, without ribbons. It is
on record that General Blarney, with
four rows of ribbons, eclipsed everybody
in the party in color, “not excluding the
Russians.” He was the first arrival.
There was a touch of the dramatic in
the fact that the Japanese were supplied
with terms bound in black, the Allies
having theirs bound in green. “Face”
was not forgotten: the U.S. General
Wainwright, taken at Bataan, and the
British General Percival, taken at Singa-
pore, signed after General MacArthur.
On that day General Yamashita, leader
of the Japanese army on Singapore
Island, gave himself up in Luzon,
Lieut.-Colonel Moore Cosgrave, a double
D.S.O. of the last war, Canadian Military
attachd at the High Commissioner’s
office in Canberra, and a prince of good
fellows, accidentally signed the Allied
document on the wrong line.
Admiral Nimitz signed after Generals
MacArthur, Wainwright and Percival. Sir
Bruce Fraser came in after the Chinese.
Possibly he had heard Professor Laski s
pronouncement that Britain was now a
second-class Power, but more likely the
order was due to the British attitude that
a British signature is important wherever
it appears.
After the ceremony General Mac-
Arthur and Admiral Nimitz broadcast,
as did President Truman. And Marshal
Stalin did himself proud, announcing that
his Russians had had a crow to pluck
with the Japanese for 40 years, without
explaining what detained them. He inti-
mated that the Kuriles and all Sakhalin
would be trophies of his (bloodless) vic-
tories, apart from the valuable assets
which he has acquired in China, The
British Commonwealth took no part in
the speech-making, but its turn will come
when the formal assumption of control
of Malaya and Hong Kong takes place
No doubt the British were delighted to
have a powerful ally eager to take oyer
the northern zone with all its expanding
difficulties, due to the Chinese divisions
and the Russian intrusion, and to con-
centrate on the area which is vital to
them and to us, which covers the lifeline
of the British aggregation of nations from
Europe to Australia and New Zealand,
It is in this area that the potential de-
velopment of resources and communica-
tions for the next few years will be great-
est on the Asian continent.
At the surrender ceremony General
MacArthur’s brief statement crystallised
the Allied policy in the Pacific:
The issues involving divergent ideals and
ideologies have been determined on the
battlefields of the world and hence are not
for our discussion or debate. Nor is it for
us here to meet in a spirit of distrust, malice
or hatred. Rather is it for us, both victors
and vanquished, to rise to that higher dignity
which alone befits the sacred purpose we
are about to serve. It is my earnest hope,
and indeed the hope of all mankind, that a
better world shall emerge, founded on faith
, and understanding, dedicated to the fulfil-
ment of man’s most cherished wish for free-
dom, tolerance and justice. It is my firm
purpose to proceed in the discharge of my
responsibilities with justice and tolerance,
while ensuring that the terms of surrender
are fully, promptly and faithfully complied
with.
“Justice and tolerance.” Sydney editors
found it difficult to restrain their indig-
nation, but, with a great effort, they did.
In a subsequent broadcast General
MacArthur enlarged on his theme. Per-
haps because he was a bit overwrought,
he did not specifically mention the great
contributions to the ultimate triumph
made by the South-east Asian Command
and by the A.1.F., the R.A.F. and
R.A.A.F.
Admiral Nimitz, who drove to the
shores of Japan in the most desperate
type of bloody fighting, and actually beat
the Japanese homeland to its knees, made
a short, modest, seamanlike speech, in
which he paid full credit to those forces
\yhich acted collaterally with him, and in-
cluded a moving reference to his dead.
In previous remarks General Eichel-
berger, a fine commander and a good
friend of the Diggers, recalled their work
in the Buna-Gona region.
Orders Issued
After the surrender the Japanese dele-
gates left the Missouri dejectedly to report
to the Emperor. It was announced that
General MacArthur would hold a victory
parade through Tokyo while the Emperor
was to pay a sacrificial visit to the Im-
perial shrine.
The first order to the Japanese by the
Allied command was issued in the name
of “Imperial General H.Q., by direction
of the Emperor and pursuant to the
surrender to the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers.”
It instructed all Japanese everywhere
to lay down their arms and surrender un-
conditionally :
(1) In China (excluding Manchuria, For-
mosa and French Indo-China), north of
16deg. north latitude, to Chiang Kai-shek.
(2) Within Manchuria and Korea, north
of 38deg., to the Russians. This means that
all Korea north of Seoul is included; all
Korea to the south of that city is to be in
U.S. hands.
(3) All areas on the Asian mainland
south of 16deg. north, including part's of
French Indo-China and Siam, to Lord Louis
Mountbatten or the C.-in-C. Australian
forces, along with Burma.
(4) The Ryukus, Bonins and other Pacific
islands, to Admiral Nimitz.
Other area commanders surrender to
the Supreme Allied Military Command.
And commanders and others were
ordered to prepare the lists which would
enable the Allied commander to take con-
trol of every phase of Japanese defence,
industry and life in general.
For all practical purposes, with the
issue of that order World War II was
over.
The Prisoners-of-war.
“Ek Dum”: Information about
prisoners throughout the war areas of
Asia is still meagre. At the time of writ-
ing about 250 names of p.-0.-w. Aus-
tralians rescued have been made avail-
able from Singapore, Burma, Saigon and
other places, but in no case were the
reports fully official.
It can be expected that within the next
few days names will come pouring in,
followed by the free telegrams for which
arrangements have beeri made.
The job of getting the men and women
out and home will be a long one. Their
camps are scattered, their numbers large.
Very many will be unfit to travel, and
this not necessarily in all cases from de-
liberate ill-treatment. The average
Japanese lives on a diet in normal times
on which a very small Australian would
become a bag of bones. And even the
Japanese have been reduced to starvation
by the blockade and bombing, so that
the condition of the best-treated
Australian and American prisoners
cannot be good. They will need
reconditioning and careful nursing
before they are brought home,
especially where housing, as well as
sanitation, was horrible. The Japs
have been short of medical supplies
for themselves, especially in the
tropics, and, according to their
Oriental traditions of making war,
prisoners were last served.
It is certain that few prisoners
will be fit to come straight home
after years on a basic diet, described
by Major-General Key at Singapore
as “three bowls of rice per day with
a bowl and a half of thin vegetable soup.”
It is calculated that in the Japanese
zone proper, which includes apparently
Korea and Manchuria, there are 123,000
prisoners and internees, among them
20,000 British and Australians and 25,000
Dutch, In south-east Asia there are
reckoned to be 162,000: 150,000 soldiers
and 12,000 civilians. About 20,000 are
in Siam. The numbers in the East
Indies are as yet unknown. The position
is complicated by recent movements of
prisoners and by the fact that there are
large numbers of women and children,
while there have been transfers from
camp to camp.
The Liberation teams of Tokyo have
set Liberation Day for prisoners and in-
ternees 40 days ahead ; but this is merely
an aspiration. The actual time depends
on the condition of the individual
prisoners, their numbers, the position of
their camps and the transport available
to carry them on the first stages of their
journeys to rehabilitation areas.
Flying 20,000 through the monsoon
rains now at their worst from Thailand
to Burma, and then to the camps at
Poona, India, where Seac rest depots
have been established, is in itself a major
job. •
Australian Arrangements
Australian arrangements for rescue and
succour are reported well in hand. An
intensive search for compounds has been
made over the whole Japanese occupied
areas, and where they have been found
supplies have been dropped.
Brigadier J. E. Lloyd, who controls the
operations, was at the week-end lying off
Singapore awaiting mine-clearing opera-
tions and formal entry into the port with
the ships Duntroon and River Murrum-
bidgee and staffs and supplies. Rescue
teams had already gone to Bangkok and
Rangoon by air, and the work of build-
ing reception camps at Singapore will
begin at the first possible moment.
Prisoners rescued from Japan and North
China are unlikely to be brought to
Singapore. They seemingly are being
routed to Manila and then, if need be, to
the great Australian hospital at Morotai.
There is a big job ahead, and there has
been cruel loss of life. At the end o
January, 1942, there were 18,271 Aus-
tralians in Malaya, officers and men tro
the two brigades of the Eighth Division,
and to these had to be added those taken
in Ambon, Java and elsewhere. Man>»


BOOKS TECHNICAL . ..
Consult us for your needs on : —
Position Vacant.
BUNDABERG CITY COUNCIL
Applications for Civil Engineer
APPLICATIONS closing with the undersigned
at 12 noon on Wednesday, 26th September,
1945, are invited for the position of Civil
Engineer to the Bundaberg City Council.
Salary, allowances and conditions will be m
accordance with the provisions of the Muni-
cipal Officers’ Association Award (Q land).
Council Revenue for 1944-45 was £65,000.
Preference will be ' given to servicemen having
the necessary qualifications, which should in-
clude experience in water, sewerage, roadworks,
etc. Successful applicant will be required to
commence duties on Ist November, 1945.
Applications should include information re-
garding Certificates held, experience and per-
sonal particulars, and should be accompanied
by copies of testimonials certified to by a Justice
of the Peace. L j L UCAS,
Bundaberg, 31/8/’45. Town Clerk.
Public Notices.
TO PEARSON CHRISTOPHER BROWN AND ANY
PERSONS CLAIMING THROUGH HlM.—Pursuant
to an Order made by the Supreme Court of New
Zealand you are required to send to the undersigned
before the 31st day of January 1946 your claim to
share in the estate of CLARA JANE BROWN late of
Auckland New Zealand Widow failing which such
estate will be distributed disregarding your claim. —
The Solicitor, Public Trust Office, Wellington, New
Zealand.
I CONNES FELDMAN, of Russian nationality, born
at Odessa, Russia, and resident thirty-four years in
Australia, now residing at 21 Duke Street, Kensing-
ton, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO STELLA EMBLIN AND MICHAEL DELBRIDGE
both of Melbourne Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOHN WILLIAM EMBLIN has filed a Petition No.
3219 of 1945 for Divorce from STELLA EMBLIN
on the grounds of your adultery with each other and
on the grounds of desertion by STELLA EMBLIN
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you or either of you yish to defend
this suit you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney New South
Wales on or before the 12th day of November 1945
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from F. W. REILLY Solicitor 79 Elizabeth Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO EILEEN FRANCES FLOOD formerly of Parra-
matta. —TAKE NOTICE that LEO RICHARD FLOOD
has filed a Petition No. 2067 of 1945 for Divorce on
the grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
this suit you can enter an 1 appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney New South
Wales on or before the 12th day of November 1945
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
F. W. REILLY Solicitor 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO EDGAR FRANCIS RICHARD WALLIS formerly
of Ashfleld N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
MARGARET JESSIE ELLEN WALLIS has filed a
Petition in the Supreme Court of New South Wales
(No. 1318 of. 1945) praying for a divorce on the
grounds of your desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and is asking for
the exercise of this Court’s discretion under Sec-
tion 19 Sub-section 2 You may enter an appear-
ance by the 2nd October 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from MESSRS. A. R.
BALDWIN & CO. Solicitors of 33-39 Hunter Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography-
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Buies
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
d
f
df
d
f
For BEAUTY
and
PROTECTION
Specify
METAL WINDOW
FRAMES
hy
J. CONNOLLY PTY., LTD.,
Sydney
CD
am
of course, escaped. Many are in the far
north. The latest estimate, from which
recently reported deaths and rescues must
be subtracted, totals 13,000 in south-east
Asia and 6000 in Japan, Manchuria and
Korea.
Those in south-east Asia are sup-
posedly distributed as follows: Ambon
(Moluccas), 400 ; Borneo —Sandakan,
100; Jesselton, 500; Kuching, 2000 ;
Macassar, 500; Malaya, 6700; Siam,
4700; Indo-China, 265 ; Sumatra, 243 ;
Java, 1000 ; Timor, 400.
Australian civilians in south-east Asia
number 278, as far as is known —186 at
Singapore, the rest in Sumatra and Java.
Treatment Varied
Official information about prisoners is
as yet patchy as compared with unofficial
information hastily gathered by reporters.
Treatment of prisoners seems to have
varied with the area and general con-
ditions. Submarine crews, bombers shot
down and other prisoners who were asso-
ciated with the implementing of the block-
ade undoubtedly were targets for devilish
fury, as was shown by the stories of 19
Australians who were among those re-
leased from Kawasaki Camp No. 1 be-
tween Tokyo and Yokohama.
A gunner of 2/10 Field Artillery,
escaped from Borneo —the part of
Japanese-held territory of which there has
been least news throughout the war, ex-
cept perhaps for Java —told in Morotai
A.G.H. a horrifying tale of hundreds of
Australian servicemen having died of
illness and neglect. He said that 600 died
of disease between November, 1944, and
May, 1945 ; 550 were marched out of
Sandakan after bombing by the Ameri-
cans of Sandakan on May 29 this year.
In the open spaces of compounds at
Kuching prisoners laid out symbols to
identify themselves to aircraft.
The last previous report about Sanda-
kan came from an escaped warrant officer
who left there late in 1943. He told the
writer of individual bashings and brutali-
ties, but said that in general the treatment
was not unbearably severe ; that the bulk
of the men were in fairly good condition,
thanks in part to the loyal aid of Chinese
residents, and that they were succeeding
in keeping up a fair level of nutrition
through local additions to their diet. He
placed the numbers in the camps at 1500,
as opposed to the 2000 estimated by
Gunner Campbell, the Morotai patient.
Borneo appears to be the area in which
prisoners suffered most, but more infor-
mation is needed before an absolute
judgment can be formed.
From the other areas the news at the
week-end was as follows. In Singapore,
though the formal occupation had not
yet taken place, 21,131 prisoners and in-
ternees had been recovered, including
452 officers and 5107 other ranks. Syme
Road civilian internment camp yielded
4507 civilian internees, including 186 Aus-
tralians and 31 women and 11 children.
Among the womenfolk were Lady
Shenton Thomas, wife of the Governor,
and Lady Heath, wife of the G.O.C.
British Third Corps. The Japs report
that they hold 32,500 prisoners and - in-
ternees of all nationalities in Singapore
—5516 Australians, 6760 British, 4040
Dutch, 88 Americans and 14,000 Indians
included.
Apart from the meagreness of the
ration, there were beatings of prisoners
and overcrowding of quarters—Sir
Shenton Thomas instanced that 2700 mili-
tary prisoners were crammed into ac-
commodation intended for 600, and that
one hospital was used also as an insane
asylum.
The first batches of prisoners from
Thailand included 55 Australian officers,
who were landed at Rangoon. They
were described as being in “high spirits.”
In Shanghai, which the Chinese
National troops entered on August 26, to
find the city placarded with welcoming
slogans for the Communists, it was found
by American and British rescue parties
that 6500 p.-0.-ws. and internees were
safe. Domei declared that most of the
prisoners from Hong Kong had been sent
to Shanghai for release. Reuter’s corre-
spondent declared that they looked “little
the worse for their ordeal.”
New Delhi Radio reported that all
prisoners from an internment camp at
Hanoi, in French Indo-China, were in
good condition. And over Saigon
Radio a warrant-officer and a padre
reported 75 others “all well.”
Atrocities.
“Ek Dum”: With the gradual handing
over of Japanese-held areas press stories
of prisoners in enemy hands began to
come in. Most of them were terrible, and
likely to produce the greatest anguish in
relatives, because of the manner and
atmosphere in which the stuff was relayed
to them.
The Army Command tried to exercise
some supervision over such stories. This
was wise, and in the interests of humanity.
But it did not suit a Sydney press eager
to turn misery and hatred into a few
million extra coppers. Canberra was
importuned and the “Government” im-
mediately gave way.
The result was that in next to no time
brisk boys, no longer subject to censor-
ship, were rushing hither and thither in
search of a prisoner who would tell them
a tale of horror. There were naturally
plenty of tales of horror, as there have
been in every war in Asia. Descriptions of
these, undigested, often given from a sick
bed or by a starved and nerve-racked
patient, and boosted with an overdose of
sensationalism, were served up under
shrieking headlines in hysterical articles
dripping hate and venom.
The testimony of men unlit to testify,
given to men eager for “stories,” was
flung recklessly to the public. It can be
taken for granted that tales of good treat-
ment would be ignored by most of the
guilty rags.
One anguished mother for two or three
days could not pick up a paper without
seeing a picture of a blindfolded Austra-
lian being executed, the accompanying
matter, generally including horrible sug-
gestive detail, intimating that it was be-
lieved that the victim was her only son.
The story of a sick soldier from Sanda-
kan camp was served up in a manner
which doubtless struck the heart of every
relative of a prisoner in Borneo with a
chill of fear and horror. Where there
was no information the worst was pre-
sumed, and there were hints and in-
nuendos which must have been especi-
ally terrifying to the relatives of 18
A.I.F. nurses known to be in the region
of Tokyo.
Seventeen of these nurses were cap-
tured in Rabaul, one in New Ireland.
They were found in a village, all in good
health, save one who will recover with
medical treatment. They reported that
they had been fairly well treated except
that there were cases of slapping and
kicking by cowardly and brutal guards.
Local people had been friendly, and Red
Cross parcels had been delivered, but
food had been very scarce since early
1943, when rations were cut to the bone.
In almost every home where there were
soldiers or prisoners’ relatives the sales
of evening, morning and Sunday news-
papers were all that could be wished for.
Some results of those sales known to the
writer: the collapse of an old man whose
son is in some south-east Asian prison
camp; fainting of a girl-wife, who hours
afterwards was still hysterical; break-
down of a poor soul who sobbed her
heart out on a homing tram, with women
passengers trying to comfort her.
Atrocities and horrors, privations, suf-
ferings and maltreatment of Australian,
British and American prisoners there
have been, obviously. But in many cases
the facts can only be established by care-
ful inquiry on the part of competent in-
vestigators.
Anybody who has dealt with men who
have been through years of confinement
or have been otherwise subjected to great
strain is impressed with the necessity of
being careful in these matters. A
prisoner-of-war from Germany told the
writer when he arrived that he had been
well treated except for food shortage;
the Germans were “very decent” to
him. He now appears to be convinced
that he underwent the most dreadful
treatment and witnessed the most awful
atrocities.*
In New Guinea.
Though there had been no fighting in
the New Guinea area for a fortnight,
there had been no actual surrender there
up to September 3, It was announced,
however, that so soon as the surrender
terms had been signed in Tokyo General
Imamura in Rabaul would send an envoy
to meet Brigadier Sheehan near Rabaul
and receive his instructions.
Meanwhile, the British light carrier
Glorious left Sydney to take General
Sturdee to Rabaul, there to receive formal
surrender of the South Pacific area. One
might have imagined that a Government
which has been shouting its determina-
tion to make Australia a major world
Power would have managed to provide
an. Australian warship, part of a force
which has borne a gallant part in the war,
as the venue of the surrender.
For other quarters it has other ideas.
Though it refused to send a division to
Burma and was content to leave the hold-
ing of New Guinea fighting areas to
Americans for months after the Finsch-
hafen-Finisterre campaigns, it now pro-
poses to spend £85,000,000 on garrison
troops abroad. No “token force for
Singapore if possible,” the surrender
having been signed. “Labor” will show
the world the stuff Australia is made of
as a major nation. It is prepared to send
volunteer troops anywhere and Dr. Evatt
everywhere.
“Sach” on some pre-war feats of
pillage:
Wharf pillaging is by no means a war-time
innovation. Even before the war it was a
fine art. It is the custom in some ports to store
valuable goods in a special caged enclosure
(dead-house) on the wharf. When the owners
of some kegged o.p. whisky came to take de-
livery of it from this enclosure they found all
the bottom kegs empty. They found also a
small hole in the planking of the wharf connecting
with a hole in each keg. Someone had
been under the wharf in a boat, with a brace
and bit. Since then the floors of such en-
closures are usually leaded. A large sedan came
out for a Royal Show. The owners watched
it land, then sent carriers down to collect'
it. They could not believe their ears when
the carrier telephoned and said that the car
had vanished. It was never found. A good
trick, till it was found out, was for a carter
to be checked into a wharf with a case already
on his truck. After a time he would return
with the same case, telling the gatekeeper that
his cargo had not been discharged. The case
he took in was empty, and open at the bottom,
and when he came out he had another case
nestling inside it. An importer who opened up
the case which should have contained a rare
and expensive piano was horrified to find a beer-
sfained, cigarette-burned old wreck inside. A
tyre importer found his cases contained, instead
of tyres, blocks of wood to the exact stipulated
weight of the cases. Cases with a dovetailed
centreboard were always easy meat. The nails
were lifted, the board slid out, the contents
rifled, the board slid back and the nails re-
inserted.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: There is another for-
bidding prospect in “The Times” forecast
(B. 22/8/’45) that by 1960 there will be
12,000,000 cars tooting round England.
A contemporary writer has pointed out
that when motor-cars became general the
Home Counties were deprived of their
supply of horse dung. Artificial ferti-
lisers were introduced, but these, while
they give initial good crops, rob the soil
of humus. The motor-car is also blamed
for smaller families. Big families want
big mutton, but a leg of about three
pounds is sufficient for the average
modern family. The new era has bank-
rupted farmers, put farm laborers out of
work and ended the demand for the big
sheep in the chalk country. With the
disappearance of big sheep more pasture
became depleted. The decline in British
agriculture has been arrested by
emergency measures introduced during
World War 11, but may not stand up long
against a resurgence of motorisation.


A New Windproof
Cigarette Lighter
df
Efficient, sturdy and stormproof, with large
storage space, the GONG is a compact and
durable lighter. It has a screwed base and
a double-cut wheel for quicker and more
dependable ignition. Size IS" x 1".
Nickel finish 7/3
Silver-plated 8/-
(Packing and postage, 6d. extra)
lJsu'Z < lotf/S
112 ST. SYDNEY
Open
9 a.m. to 3 p.m,,
Mon. to Fri.
d
f
CO/oic/ Tim&iM xueca/it
USE
CLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
(Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attach of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have madei
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes* Remember
the name DOAN’S*
Do you need a
Tmonal /
Hauling bills and money worries, in-
cluding medical and dental expenses,
can be disposed of through the Per-
sonal Loans Department of the Rural
Bank. Old debts may be merged and
small loans for any approved pur-
poses are made at a discount of, at
present, only 5 per cent.
Repayments from one to three years,
to suit the convenience of the bor-
rower, e.g., 9/Bd. weekly repays £25 in
one year, including discount.
Call in for a personal discussion of your
requirements.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
Evidently that great mare Tranquil Star is as
good at eight years as ever she was. In winning
the w.f.a. Memsie Stakes from La Patrice and
Tea Cake on a holding track at Caulfield on
Saturday she equalled Ajax’s nine-furlongs’
record for the course (1.5(H). A. Cooper,
trying to steal the race on La Patrice, set the
pace, and about the half-mile was' almost a
dozen lengths ahead of the ultimate winner. La
Patrice was still in front with less than half a
furlong to go, but Tranquil Star had made a
very fast move at the turn, and, continuing with
a remarkable burst of speed, got her head in
front a few yards from the post.
Tranquil Star’s win lifted her stake earnings
to £25,990, and she is the greatest stake-winner
now racing in Australia. Simmering, con-
sidered the one most likely to take over from
her as the best mare racing here, broke a fetlock
joint making the turn, and had to be destroyed.
Simmering had won at her three previous starts,
and already had nearly £lO,OOO to her credit
in stake money. Counsel, who finished a head
behind Tea Cake, was a long way back early in
the race, and should soon win. Lawrence,
reasonably handy to the tearaway leader coming
to the turn, dropped back and finished in front
of only Great Victory.
As impressive even as Tranquil Star’s splendid
win was that of the Dhoti-French Gem colt
Royal Gem in the six-furlongs’ Whittier Handi-
cap. It was the colt’s first run for several
months, yet he defeated the large and pretty
strong field of sprinters by three lengths, easing
up. Back a little early, he broke clear in the
straight, raced past the smart Ava very easily,
and must have run exceptionally fast time over
the last furlong or two. The Golden Sovereign-
Herowinkie four-year-old horse Regal Coin also
passed Ava, to take second money. It was a
good run on Regal Coin’s part, because he had
been away from racing even longer than the
winner. Ava, too, because she is showing some
sprinting consistency, may yet live up to her
Oakleigh Plate promise.
Doubt has been raised as to whether Royal
Gem will stick on as well as the Derby favorite,
Don Pedro; but there is good staying blood in
him, and even at the end of the Whittier six
furlongs (1.125) he was going without apparent
effort, and looked as if he could have gone on.
The meeting of the two of them and Magnifi-
cent, with Courtship thrown in (if they get
her right), and perhaps Euxine included to find
out any weaknesses among them as stayers,
should be something to witness whenever it
comes off.
Euxine ran quite a good race on Saturday to
finish third to St. Fairy and Approve in the
nine-furlongs’ Heatherlie Handicap. The Helles-
pont colt came from well back, and was finish-
ing on behind the other place-getters. The
time was nearly two seconds slower than Tran-
quil Star’s, but St. Fairy carried a lot of
weight (9.9), and with 91b. off his back must
have a Caulfield Cup chance. The also-rans in-
cluded the South Australian stayer Blankenburg,
Duntroon, Queen Midas and Peter. Peter’s
run looked disappointing —he finished second-
last —but he was asked to go fast early in the
piece, and is practically certain to do a lot
better at his first start over a bit more distance.
Divisions of the mile Warriston Handicap for
three-year-old colts and geldings went respect-
ively to the Portofino-Caveshaw colt Attley,
from Fine Fettle and El Banco, and to the
Solar Bear-Chopper colt Leryhen, from Morbell
and Solray. Attley carried over a stone and a
half more than Leryhen, and ran the faster time.
Wondering (Dhoti-Pasal) took the seven-fur-
longs Glen Eira Handicap for three-year-old
fillies, with less than a head to spare from Irish
Gem and Early Love; and Register defeated
Evidence and Codicil in the day’s other event,
the 11-furlongs’ Doona Handicap. '
* * * ♦
Sydney Turf Club’s programme at Canterbury
on Saturday included the course’s big annual
double, the nine-furlongs’ Canterbury Guineas
for three-year-olds at set weights and the six-
furlongs’ w.f.a. Canterbury Stakes, with £llOO
added for the first and £lOOO for the second.
Followers of D. Munro should have been in
the money, that jockey riding both winners. All
round, it was a good day for punters, three
outright favorites coming home and the
“roughest” winner of the day, Puffham, being
at six to one, next in the betting to the equal
favorites.
The Guineas attracted a mediocre field, with
the Midstream filly, Lucky Stream, on the score
of her second to Magnificent in the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, about the best-performed
starter in it; Courtship and Anne Tien Et had
finished behind her at Randwick. However,
although Lucky Stream was passing a few in the
run home there were still four ahead of her at
the post, led by the Le Grand Duc-Mavida colt
Monmouth, with Questing, a Hua filly, second,
and Deliverance (Manitoba-Nightlight) third.
Making his first public appearance in Aus-
tralia, the six-year-old Foxbridge-Lady Lulu
gelding Sleepy Fox, with a very good record in
New Zealand, met a small but select field in the
Stakes: Flight, Victory Lad, Gay King and the
Ajax filly Civic Pride. As usual, Civic Pride
was taken straight to the front, and had a two-
lengths’ lead turning for home, but with Sleepy
Fox going very easily behind her. In the
straight Sleepy Fox moved up, and thereafter
there was never a doubt, the N.Z. horse going
on to an easy win, with Civic Pride next, and
Flight finishing strongly for third money. With-
out much effort Sleepy Fox did the six furlongs
in 1.12, three-quarters of a second outside the
course record, which was established in the same
race by another N.Z. animal, Beaulivre, who
was also ridden on the occasion by Munro.
At his first outing here Sleepy Fox fully lived
up to his reputation and must enter calculations
for the Epsom, though winning against a big
handicap field with top weight of 9.11 is
different from donkey-licking a small field at
w.f.a. Still, in March this year he won the
Auckland Easter Handicap at a mile, carrying
9.5 in a field of 22, and his time was 1.36| —
altogether a pretty fair Epsom trial. He’s
much more a good horse than a good-looker.
A large bunch of those who had hitherto
been either unlucky or unlikely turned out for
two divisions of a three-year-old maiden handi-
cap, and the two who escaped the maiden ranks
were Cavalero, a bay colt by Le Grand Due
from Grumeti (both parents importations from
France), and Warspite, also a well-bred coif,
being by Golden Sovereign from the good mare
Gloriole. Warspite scored the easiest of wins
from Guiding Light and Bourke, a good-
looking Piccadilly colt, but Cavalero was
hard pressed to beat Crusader, a Titan colt
having his second run. Junior was the next
best. The Gaekwar (an also-ran in the first
division, but he needs racing) and Crusader
should both lose their maiden status before
long.
The Lackhara-Powder Puff gelding Puffham,
whose luck has changed for the better, had his
second successive win when he led all the way
and just lasted out to beat Grand Prodige and
Abbeville in the Flying. The latter pair were
equal favorites and Grand Prodige may have
been unlucky ; he struck a bit of bother in the
running. First up after a spell and usually
good when fresh, Castle Frontenac was finishing
strongly on the outside and would have had a
place in a few more strides. The Midstream
horse Murray Stream overhauled and beat the
pacemaker Gauntlet in the 11-furlongs’ S.T.C.
Handicap. Murray Stream, entered for both
Epsom and Metropolitan, has had his last
four wins at 11, eight, seven and 10 furlongs.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Tramway Handicap: Gay King, 1; Removal,
2; Shannon, 3. Three- and Four-year-old:
Young Veilmond, 1; Lakshmi Vallis, 2; Eagle
Hawk, 3. Chelmsford Stakes: Magnificent, 1;
Sleepy Fox, 2; Flight, 3. Spring Handicap:
Wellesley, 1; Turn Again, 2; Kiaree, 3.
Welter: Active Service, 1; Puffham, 2';
Bragger, 3.
* * * *
A Randwick meeting a month or two back,
at which nothing-under-ten-to-one was the order
of the day, seemed to cause as much conster-
nation among racing scribes afterwards as it had
done among punters. One paper came out with
the staggering pronouncement that bookmakers
were saying they wished “the picking of winners
would become a little easier for the public.”
Sundry suggestions were offered towards bring-
ing about that happy event, among them that
fields should be reduced. As to this, there’s
the old axiom “the bigger the field the greater
the certainty”; and on the very day that punters
were having such a tQrrid ttae at
the race with the biggest field at CaulheW
22 starters—was won by the 7-to-4 favorite.
Actually, an explanation of _ w M t „ I vv P ?eems
that decidedly tough day at Randwick seem
easy enough. At Caulfield that same L
going was good, and of the seven ra .
six were won by short favorites or were
favorites. Moreover, three of the se
won by topweights—9.ll, 11-3 • t
spectively—another by the second
and the other three by well-weighted hejrses.
At Randwick that day only one topwe ght sue
ceeded in the seven events; the endresixoth
were won by horses carrying 7.5 or less tn
minimum allotted weight in six of the seven
being 7st. It-would he hard to find a more
conclusive example of results havmg bee P
duced by nothing except track conditions, the
Randwick going having been so gluey as to
represent a lightweight’s paradise. Ha nd capPe f s
—who are pretty shrewd gentlemen—must have
a working basis for their handicapping, itiey
cannot work in with the weather, so must allot
the weights on a basis of practically ideal con-
ditions. Whenever conditions deviate from tne
ideal punters are wise to go easy.
*,* * *
Harold Rowell, who has been acting chairman
of stipendiary stewards in Adelaide since M. J-
Hogan’s ill-health caused retirement, has been
definitely appointed to the post. Drage and
Thompson still act with him. Rowell is a great
military name in S.A. Harold went through the
last war, and lost his son in this one. His uncle,
Col. James Rowell, commanded the Bushmen s
contingent in S. Africa, and his son, Sydney,
was one of the original cadets to enter Dun
troon on its foundation in 1911, and is now a
general.
* * * *
Australians in England:
In the closing big match the Australians en-
listed the help of other Empire players, called
it a Dominions XI, and tackled England at
Lord’s. It developed into one of the finest
matches of the series. In three days 1241 runs
were scored —335 for 13 wickets on the first
day, 404 for 10 on the second, and 502 for 17
on the third day. Sixteen sixers were hit,
Miller’s seven “over the fencers” including
one claimed as the biggest hit from the ground.
Dominions began with 307; M. Donnelly
(of M.L.) 133, Craig 56, Pepper 51. Wright
took 5 for 90 and Hollies 2 for 86. After a
patchy start of 3 for 28, England scored 287
(Hammond 121, Edrich 78). Pepper got 4 for
57 and Cristofani 3 for 82.
Dominions in their second knock scored 336
(Miller 185 in 160 min., Constantine 40). Wright
took 5 for 105, Hollies 3 for 115, and Davies 2
for 35.
Set 357 to win, England scored 311, the last
wicket falling with eight minutes to go. Pepper
got 3 for 67, Cristofani 3 for 64, Pettiford 2 for
45. Hammond’s 102 in the second innings
was his seventh “double” of centuries in first-
class cricket, which made a record.
London “Daily Mail” said of Miller that he
“has earned a place among the greatest batsmen
in the world.” He made the highest score in the
“Tests” (118), and his 185 was only a shade
below the best in all matches (Hassett scored
189 v. Royal Navy, in which match Miller did
not play). Miller, who is 26, has had one
season (1938-39) in Sheffield Shield matches m
which he scored 298, average 29.80. He scored
108 v. South Australia. Grimmett was pasted
in that innings; two wickets for 136. Miller
plays with South Melbourne in club cricket, and
with St. Kilda at football.
* * * *
The final four in the V.F.L. are South
Melbourne, Collingwood, North Mel-
bourne and Carlton, in that order. Next
Saturday it’s North v. Carlton, the win-
ners to play the losers of the South-’Wood
game (Sept. 15) on Sept. 22 and the win-
ner of that game to play the winner of the
Sept. 15 match in the grand final on Sept.
29. All are to be played at Oarlton
oval. Barrackers are requested to bring
both eyes.
Saturday’s V.F.L. games wiped out
whatever hopes Footscray or Fitzroy held
of survival to the final four. Footscray,
which must be the League’s most con-
sistent team in staging early wins and
fading out at the finish, was without the
great Olliver and had nothing else.
Carlton enjoyed the romp and booted
16.19 to 8.14. Fitzroy, praying for a
Carlton or North Melbourne defeat, man-
aged to dispose of Melbourne by 14.22 to
15.11, and North Melbourne scraped into
the four by its eyebrows and a last-minute
goal from Crump against Essendon,
14.17-13.17, in a game of games. Mean-
time South, leaders of the comp., had a
run against Hawthorn for 16.16-11.10,
Collingwood was untroubled to beat
Richmond, 12.15-8.19, and St. Kilda
grimly defended its hold on the wooden
spoon by refusing to beat Geelong, which
won 13.14 to 9.11.
* * * *
The Old Footballers’ Association, which
exists to help the game (Australian Rules)
and to renew old friendships, lately had a
first birthday in Adelaide. The very-
much-veteran Jack Woods, of Norwood,
is chairman, and the Rev. Charles Perry,
of the same club, is a prominent member.
This year’s Sturt XVIII, incidentally, has
included four men who are training for
the ministry.
* * * *
Stated in B. 22/8/’45 that Fanning
(Melb.) was V.F.L. leading goalkickei
for this season, with Nash (S.M.) second
and Fothergill (’Wood) third. But on the
previous Saturday Albiston (Haw.)
kicked five goals, which put him one
ahead, and the barrackers arose like one
man and demanded a free kick. “Tiger”
voices their sentiments;
Albiston ,is on top with 61 goals, good
work for a rover and change forward play-
ing with a team that has won only five
games. Nowadays it seems that rovers and
half-forwards score goals more than the
recognised full forwards. Nash or Fother-
gill may yet overtake the leading pair,
as they will have at least four more games
against the others’ two.
It looks like being between Nash and
Fothergill. After Saturday’s game Fann-
ing led with 67, Albiston had 66, Fother-
gill 58, Burge (Rich.) 55 and Nash, who
has missed games, 50. Melbourne,
Hawthorn and Richmond are “out,” and
neither Carlton nor North goalkickers are
anywhere near Nash and Fothergill.
* * * *
Expecting a comfortable win on Satur-
day after having routed Parramatta 23-6
the week before, Randwick ran into a
storm of fierce tackling and spoiling. It
lost its skipper, Cremin, late in the first
half, but by then Parramatta had the
upper hand, and “Parra.” dominated
play in the second spasm ; winning by 17
to 9. In the other semi-final University
put Eastern Suburbs out of the competi-
tion, 8-3. Varsity’s forwards outrucked
and outplayed the opposing eight, and
East’s backs were never given much
room to move. Randwick will now meet
University in the final, the winner to
oppose Parramatta in the “grand” final.
* * * *
University won the 1945 Rugby Union
premiership in Queensland, beating Past
Brothers 15-10 in the final. Varsity and
Brothers were keen rivals throughout the
season ; the biggest margin in five en-
counters was six points. Brothers had one
win over the Uni. reps.
* * * *
“Nuffin”: The R.A.A.F. Eight in Eng-
land has had as official mentor Dick
Southwood, who partnered Jack Beres-
ford in winning the double sculh at
Berlin in 1936. Spectators at the Wey-
bridge Regatta, where the crew won the
open eights, included Y. D. Middleton,
captain of the air crew that raced at
Henley after the other war. Middleton
described the present R.A.A.F. crew as
“a far better crew than the 1928 Sydney
eight that came to Henley.”
♦ * * *
Leo Robbo is a very game feather-
weight, but he is a thought elderly and
is taking too many hidings. He got
a bad one at Leichhardt, administered by
Joe Bissaker. Beating his opponent to the
punch, Bissaker often had Robbo groggy,
but the youth failed to follow up these
advantages and Robbo was still fighting
back at the final bell. In a daze he saw
the referee point to Bissaker.
Two ill-matched lightweights, Bobby
Fuller and Ron Conybear, were thrown
together at the Sydney Stadium. Deficient
in shape and speed, Conybear landed a
few long right swings which did no par-
ticular damage, and Fuller, though either
lazy or unwilling, won every round. Many
ringsiders quitted the dull show before
the dead finish.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Lean and strong, marching with a pre-
cision that had no stiffness in it, the
lads of the British Navy paraded through
Sydney streets last Friday. Seeing these
1500 R.N. ratings and Marines, drawn
from a British carrier task force and its
supporting destroyers which have been
bombarding Japan’s home islands with
stem efficiency, it was easy to understand
why Britannia rules the waves, and why
there’ll always be an England. Sydney’s
greeting was vociferous and prolonged,
and a drift of torn white paper was scat-
tered by the cold wind, resolving into a
whirl of snowflakes. Captain Hughes-
Hallett, C.8.E., R.N., led the march. The
salute was taken at the Town Hall
steps by Lieutenant-Governor Frederick
Jordan.
Incidental music put the masses of
women in the Assembly Hall last Friday
a « e mo° n in good tune for the speech
of Dame Enid Lyons, which was the
feature of the Liberal party women’s
rally. There wasn’t an empty seat in
the house, and as the rows and rows of
women were of one accord the meeting
was a political “As You Like It.” Dame
Enid, always a good speaker, is a much
better one than she was two or three
years ago. Her Parliamentary experience
has streamlined her approach to her sub-
ject. 'Now the Dame delivers a four-
square address, every word of which is a
brick in the right place of the social
structure.
In her round, clear and nicely-shaded
voice she spoke of the home: the mak-
ing of it, the food values necessary to
build the health of the family living in
it, the inadequacy in today’s conditions
of the basic wage. Homes and jobs, edu-
cation and opportunity for all, are what
Dame Enid said every woman in Aus-
tralia should work for. The speech was
lit with humor. Here is one of her stories
to illustrate a point. One morning a
woman passing her neighbor’s garden
saw one of the small boys of the family
playing. She said “Good morning, John,
how are you?” John replied he was very
well, thank you. Then the grown-up
asked “And where’s your little brother?”
“Oh, he’s inside playing a duet; I’ve
finished my part.”
Crowded houses vibrant with excite-
ment followed Dr. Malcolm Sargent’s
conducting of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra last Thursday, and again on
Monday night. The programme was the
same on both nights, with the amazing
William Kapell the soloist in Rach-
maninoff’s Third Concerto. The slim
young pianist certainly set the musi-
cal pulse racing swiftly. Music
students in the audience just eat him up ;
some ardent little admirers play each note
and cadenza with him —head, lips and
fingers being silent auxiliaries. It’s a
great thing to have moral support.
Schubert’s Symphony in C Major (the
“Great”) filled the second part of the
programme with haunting loveliness.
Last week the Lunch-Time Music Club
had for its singer Robert Wilson, a tenor
from Maoriland. He sang in full, round
voice “II Mio Tesoro” and “Au Pays,”
ending to great applause. His accompanist
was Harold Whittle, also over from
Maoriland on holiday. Everybody was
thrilled at the playing of the accompani-
ment to “Au Pays.” But, indeed, this has
always been one of the pianist’s most
starry performances. It was, concert-
manager Jack Griffiths recalls, a great
favorite with Paul Dufault, the Canadian
tenor, with whom Mr. Whittle (then a
very young Mr. Whittle indeed) toured.
Paul always received an ovation for this
number, and he never failed to lead his
accompanist forward to share in the
applause.
Harold Whittle’s two brothers are big
chiefs of Permanent Trustees. His father
was for long connected with the Bank of
Enzed here and in Maoriland. For many
years Harold has made his home in
Maoriland. He has toured with more
great stars than almost any other accom-
panist. Cisneros, Melba, Ada Crossley,
Amy Castles, in short, all the great of 20
and 30 years ago, were happy to sing to
his playing. With John Lemmone he
gave innumerable concerts throughout the
country towns. His fingers have lost
none of their artistry.
Died in Los Angeles, some little time
back, Mrs. Freddie Shipman. Her hus-
band, under whose concert direction
many celebrated singers and musicians
visited Australia, writing to friends in this
country, tells that her illness was a pro-
tracted one. Mrs. Shipman is buried in
Los Angeles,
Mild whoop-ee was decanted by the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron last week.
The party was a family affair, being
reserved for members. This was a toast
to Peace, and if the nations of the world
could find so friendly and neighborly a
meeting ground as the R.S.Y.S. then the
lamb might indeed lie down with the lion
and the aircraft carrier become as inno-
cent as the dug-out canoe. In short,' there
were cocktails and other drinks poured
from five-thirty onwards, while savories
and sandwiches disappeared as grass be-
fore the locust. The club had all lights
blazing across the harbor front and
the wide verandah looking across to
Cremorne was a popular place on the
warm spring evening.
Miss Nellie Veitch, surrounded by
telegrams of good wishes from Melbourne
and Sydney friends, held birthday levee at
the Neutral Bay home of sister Mrs. Fitz
Searight last Sunday.
The Rachel Forster Hospital had its
23rd annual meeting, and the Anzac Fel-
lowship of Women its 26th annual meet-
ling, last week. These are two of the
women’s movements of which Sydney
may feel justly proud. The hospital hopes
to build a new wing without loss of time.
A new building, too, for the outpatients’
department is also a need. At the meet-
ing the president spoke of the appeal
being made for the Lucy Gullett home.
This will commemorate the work of Dr.
Gullett for this hospital, of which she
was one of the founders. The Anzac
Fellowship comes out of the war with
the fine record of £70,000 worth of
clothes and supplies sent to the bombed
women and children of Britain.
Pianist Noel Mewton-Wood, now tour-
ing his homeland with the A.8.C., has
started a fund to enable Richard Farrell,
brilliant 18-year-old Sydney pianist, to
take up the scholarship with Madame
Samaroff - Stokowski at the Juilliard
School, New York. This was awarded
Dick on the recommendation of the visit-
ing American pianist William Kapell.
Madame Samaroff-Stokowski is Kapell’s
teacher. Noel and William, both just in
the twenties, are generously helping Dick
to take his place in the front rank. Mew-
ton-Wood has donated to the fund his fee
for the two-piano recital that he gave
with Richard Farrell for the A.B.C. on
August 16. As Noel points out, Richard
must be in New York by September 19
to begin the Juilliard course, so the rais-
ing of a trust fund is a matter of urgency.
Cheques may be sent care of Mr. Trig-
lone. Registrar, Sydney Conservatorium.
This is Marjorie Higgins, who has
taken over the job of general secretary
of the N.S.W. centre of St. John’s Am-
bulance Association. As the term general
secretary includes also the work of organ-
ising and business secretary, Marjorie
finds her day a very full one. But she
likes this, as she is a St. John enthusiast.
With other workers of the association she
is proud that they have now their own
home. It is St. John House, next to
Sirius House, in Macquarie-place. In a
short time it is hoped to group all the
activities of the society under one roof.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
Eighty-years-young poetess Mary Gil-
more was a notable guest of honor at
the Women Writers’ latest lunch. There
was one of the best musters of the
year of the sisters of the pen, members
all wishing to add their good wishes in
person. Two absentees sent letters of
greeting—Blanche D’Alpuget, now grow-
ing prize oranges up Gosford way, and
Mrs. Curlewis (Ethel Turner). The key-
note of Mary’s speech was toleration.
And listening to her it was realised that
her© lay the only true weapon to render
the atomic bomb a harmless scientific dis-
covery. Secretary Etta Cowan had seated
all the women verse-writers of the society
at the top table, and most of these swung
a censer of praise before Mary’s genius;
Dora Moore, Marjorie Quinn, Ivy
Moore, Nora Kelly among them. There
were masses of flowers for the guest, and
one bouquet came from Jimmy Bancks’s
Ginger Meggs, whom Mary described
recently in a talk as a true Australian.
From Melbourne
Though the atmosphere is still wintry,
spring flowers are making a brave show,
rivalled in color and variety only by the
hats now flooding the shop windows.
Fashion dictates that even with a floral
frock a floral hat must be in the picture
and for good measure a floral bag. This
spring will be a season for cottons.
Cotton frocks and linen suits will go to
office and shop and will also be worn
for evening occasions. Cotton beach
frocks and swim suits will be seaside wear
—one of our big shops is showing a three-
piece beach set of bra-top, shorts and
skirt jn gay-patterned linen on a white
ground. Summer is so short in Mel-
bourne and weather so variable that
smart beachwear is almost an extrava-
gance. Girls set off gaily for the seaside
wearing beach clothes, but come home
shivering, feeling the need of a winter-
weight coat to make them warm. At such
times Sydney is envied.
By five votes Ray Connelly has been
elected Melbourne’s Mayor. Duties of
Mayoress will be undertaken by Mrs, Ber-
nard Heinze, pictured here by Dermot
Connelly. She is the wife of the well-
known conductor, Ormond Professor
of Music at Melbourne University.
Mrs. Heinze, though often seen in musical
circles, has remained in the background.
Now, as well as caring for her hus-
band and her two boys, Julian and
Adrian, she must take her part in all
matters of civic importance. The new
Mayoress is the daughter of n former
Mayor of Melbourne, knight David Hen-
nessy, who was in office during World
War I.
One of the new Mayoress’s favorite
hobbies is sewing, and she makes quite a
lot of her own clothes. She has a slim,
youthful figure, and on the beach at
Mornington does justice to snappy beach-
wear. She has entertained many visiting
musicians in her home, and the prospect
of her duties as the leading hostess in
Melbourne should hold no terrors for
her, Mrs. Heinze has travelled extensively
and went to school in Paris. She also
travelled abroad with her husband when
he went on a tour as conductor. Mayor
Connelly is a brother-in-law.
Peace celebrations had hardly ceased
when the birthday of the Queen of the
Netherlands came along, and that meant
more celebrations among Dutch residents.
The Netherlands Indies Club was
decorated with flags of the Allied nations,
and members and guests wore'little scraps
of orange ribbon or orange-hued flowers
in honor of Holland’s royal House.
Many small cocktail parties took place
prior to a buffet dinner at the club. One
of these was given by Mr. and Mrs. Van
Panhuys, the latter wearing a formal black
dinner covered by a three-quarter
length fur coat.
A dinner party, whose guests in-
cluded Colonel de Vries, Commander
Kommer, Mrs. Van Diense . and Miss
Lucy Donaldson, was very bright.
The commander spoke in Dutch to his
compatriots, and told them that it was
due to the Queen’s inspiration that the
Dutch folk, tholigh scattered abroad,
were still a united nation. Consul Van
Holst Pellekaan and his wife were with
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Wessells, and the
army and air force were well represented.
Major Jan Bennik arrived from Hol-
landia just in time for the celebrations,
and had many stories to tell of the
manner in which VP-Day had been cele-
brated in his district. He gathered to-
gether all the natives and invited the
Papuan boys to sing for the others. Mrs.
Joffre Breen, Mrs. Simmonds and Miss
K. Oliver, Australian hostesses at the
club, were responsible for the success of
the celebrations.
With peace restored there is time to
admire the beauties that were given to
the world for human enjoyment, so it
came about that the daffodil show at the
Town Hall attracted large crowds. A
blaze of beauty greeted Lady Dugan
when she entered the hall to open the
show. The entries for the children’s party
table attracted many of the visitors.
Eileen Heath won first and second prize
with her entries. In one exhibit a por-
tion of a tree trunk upon which had
grown an extraordinary fungus was set
upon a large mirror. Around the base
of the trunk were set models of frogs
and gnomes and small cactus plants. A
lifelike Bambi of brown felt looked as
though he were leaping from the tree.
For another of her creations Eileen took
a long, curved golden gourd and placed
a long spike of cactus at one end for a
tail, and, by the use of cacti leaves, made
ears and a tongue, with two red persim-
mons forming the eyes. The resultant
fearsome-looking animal gave youngsters
a lot of pleasure. Another unusual ex-
hibit was the large “V for Victory”
formed of golden daffodils.
News comes from Belgrave of the pass-
ing over of Madame Elsa Stralia, who
once looked like challenging the eminence
of Melba. Born in Adelaide in 1881, she
got her musical education at the Marshall
Hall Conservatorium in Melbourne —she
was one of Madame Slapoffski’s pupils.
After training. under European teachers
she made her d£but at Covent Garden
after an audition which so impressed Sir
Thomas Beecham that he engaged her for
bis whole opera season of 1913. She
subsequently sang at the Albert Hall, La
Scala and in Paris and appeared with
Melba, Clara Butt, McCormack and
Caruso. She made two Australian tours
but, for some reason or other, possibly a
plethora of foreign virtuosi, she didn’t
make the hit that her vocal accomplish-
ments merited. In 1925 she got an en-
gagement to sing at a cinema in Mel-
bourne. One of her treasured possessions
was the blood-stained gown she was
wearing when singing opposite Caruso on
the night he burst a blood vessel and
finished his career as a singer.
Latest party for Mayor Nettlefold and
Mayoress Campbell was given in (the
Marina Room of the Hotel Australia by
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell and her Younger
Set. It was a simple, jolly affair, the
Mayor the only male present. He re-
ceived a gift, handed him by Pam For-
ster, on behalf of the girls and the
Mayoress had to return thanks for a
charm bracelet. Mrs. Eric Cottrell, treas-
urer of the Younger Set, read a balance-
sheet which showed that in the last 12
months £5OOO had been raised for various
war funds. Gabrielle Livingston’s hat
aroused interest. It was a fez of red felt
with bows of ribbon in many colors
pinned all over it. It gave uplift to a
black suit. Roma Alpins, another who
chose black, was radiating happiness, hav-
ing received a cheery letter from her
medico husband, who is with the A.I.F. in
New Guinea. Hostess Wallace Mitchell
chose a brown suit and tucked her hair
into a snood. Helen Campbell, daughter-
in-law of the Mayoress, and her sister
Nancy were full of plans for a barbecue
they are arranging for Pam Forster’s
“Miss Australia” candidature.
When retiring Mayor Nettlefold made
a speech of thanks at Menzies the other
day said that a press party given for
the Mayoress, Mrs. Beatrice Campbell,
and himself was unique. It was, for it
was the first time the press of Melbourne
had entertained the civic heads. Over 30
pressmen and presswomen attended. With
Mrs. Campbell was her daughter Mar-
garet, wearing a gardenia, gift of the
members of the press, and also proudly
displaying the wristlet watch presented
to her by Mayor Nettlefold as a memento
of the three years in which she managfed
the home while her mother was busy with
civic affairs. Mrs. Campbell also received
a box of lovely flowers from those present.
The party went with a swing, reaching
its climax when the retiring Mayor toasted
the press people and voted them “jolly
good fellows.”
The Red Cross Roll Call drive for new
members was extremely active during
August. One of the Red Cross workers
is Miss Rachel Harris, of Carlton, who
is 75. She has given over 7000 hours to
the Red Cross, machining five days a
week at the Waste Products section, which
makes clothes for the unfortunate peoples
of Europe. During the first years of the
war Miss Harris made slippers for in-
valid soldiers. During World War I she
spent three years on tailoring work for
the Red Cross.


TAe JUgkt
of JkodeiMp
df
DIESEL FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT, mass produced to microscopic
precision standards, is another Pyrox “Beacon” of progress in fhe
pioneering and development of a great Australian Industry.
Australian production of Diesel Fuel Injection Equipment is a manu-
facturing achievement that further strengthens famous nation-wide
PYROX DIESEL SERVICE.
In all Australian Capitals Diesel Service Depots, under the management
of Pyrox-trained experts, are fully equipped for testing, overhaul,
repair, general maintenance and the supply of Injection Spare Parts
for all makes of Diesel Engines.
Pyrox DIESEL SERVICE
IN SYDNEY - - - - PYROX PTY., LTD.
111
Big Car
Insurance
/
Benefits!
Get details early of this splendid new cover for car-owners,
including FREE ROAD SERVICE and complete protection
from any contingency while motoring.
Compulsory Third Party Insurance also capably handled
for you.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN S SON PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St., and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra) and Alice Springs
THA>
4
ULL
HAVE YOD
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph Mltchet
P. T. W. Black. Manager— h. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: 6 7901. Box 543 ©.P.0., Sydney.
X
\
X
1
HARD
HITTING AUSTRALIANS
Bill Ponsford, long prominent in Aus-
tralian and international cricket as a
consistent run getter. His aggregate
in first-class games was 13,659 {aver-
age 65). A very fine player.
Despite restrictions, limited sup-
plies of 1.C.1. SHOTGUN and .22
RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES are
available to primary producers
for essential pest destruction sub-
ject to police permits. ALL
AUSTRALIAN.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
SMOKE-OH!
V V T V
“Cattle Prices High at Cooee.”
—Hobart “Mercury.’''
Housewives reckon they’re further off
than that!
4> 4> 4 1 4 1
‘ ‘Engagements.—Cock-Roach. ’
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Guests at the wedding are not expected
to throw D.D.T. powder instead of con-
fetti.
•ir 4* 4* 4*
“A woman in slacks is not wearing male
attire—she has simply adapted a male garment
to suit her own figure and needs.”
— Woman’s paper.
Breeches of logic argument a pos-
teriori has been overlooked.
4* 4 1 +
“What tumults were aroused in feminine
breasts when a tactless officialdom added our
birth year to identity cards and ration books!”
“New Idea.”
‘‘One crowded hour of glorious life
Is worth an age without a name” —
‘‘To have a name without an age
Is better still,” amends my wife.
D. H. E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Larger supplies of corset's will soon be avail-
able.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
This should greatly improve the stand-
ing of women in the eyes of the com-
munity.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man, in any woman’s hands, is a mere
plaything.”— “Daily Telegraph.”
A puppet, to be more specific.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“In the critical phrases of recent negotiations
Australia has actually played a detisive part.”
—“Daily Mirror” {Sydney).
Her leaders have certainly not been at
a loss for words.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lady would life furnished room.”
—Suburban paper.
Guaranteed permanent lodger.
“Eyebrow-plucking has been practised by
Chinese women since the early days of the
country’s history.”—“ World’s News.”
But it has been universally frowned
upon.
•E 4* 4* 4*
“You’re not the type of woman a man would
dessert,”—“ New Idea.”
Not in the ordinary course, perhaps,
but he might get sweet on somebody else.
4* 4* 4* 4*
‘Wanted, half daily maid or someone to live
in, no laundry, good wages, arty age.”
—“ S. M. Herald.”
Must be semi-detached.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Two ducks, two drakes, five pullets, com-
menced laying.”— “S-M.H.”
Equality of the sexes.
+ 4* 4* 4 1
“Umbrella, dog’s head, left stalls, Metro.,
Friday morning. Good reward.”
That’s meat rationing in Melbourne for
you!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Cartoonists who helped to put the Tories out
of office have a new grouse. Neat, sober, un-
pretentious, mediocre-looking Mr. Attlee re-
fuses to make a good model.” — Melb. “Herald.”
It’s no lark, let me chat you, when
cartoonists avocet on you. You gannet
duck away from them; they stork you
everywhere ; thrush themselves upon you
at every tern, and crow when they see you
quail.
Now they’re raven about Attlee. They’ve
got a new grouse because they gannet
make a booby of him in their boobooks
sandpipers.
Gannet they sparrow man’s feelings
and leave him a loon?
Hanko.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“Fanny went around sadly for days, seeing
herself in mirrors for the first time as an “over-
oxygenised blimp.”— “New Idea.”
And yet, oddly enough, feeling deflated.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Broadcast.
“She was, foolish enough to tell Mr. Brook
her secret, and, as a result, it was soon travelling
around the neighborhood.”— Magazine story.
In telling him her secret, she
Wise counsel quick forsook ;
She should have realised that he
Would be a babbling Brook !
Nat.
Influence.
“A Chicago professor says the major symp-
tom in the ‘aggressiveness’ of the modern Ameri-
can female is that she now worships at tne
shrine of the fragile, the frail and the impuis-
sant, as exemplified in the Sinatra craze, whereas
formerly she was ‘sent’ by the masterfulness
and mature love-making of the virile type or
actor.”
Humperdinck Z. Hornswoggle, casting
director of Stoopendous Spectacles, Inc.,
rubbed his hands ecstatically the while he
mangled a cigar between his teeth and
gazed on the results of his labors.
Things were beginning to take shape
for the coming production of “Samson
and Delilah,” already billed as the colos-
salist, superbest ever. Now, after an in-
tensive combing of the whole country for
the coveted title-roles, he had, with the
help of a team of talent scouts, unearthed
a pair whom he had described, in that
understating style he invariably adopted,
as “super-dooper.”
Humperdinck’s eyes lit with admiration
as he gazed now on the man he had
selected for the role of Samson, standing
there clad only in shorts. A fine-shaped
head with a strong, handsome square-
jawed face that would suit well the
traditional Samsonian beard which he
would shortly be required to grow ; a
magnificent pair of shoulders topping a
,52-inch chest which carried a thick mat
of black hair; arms along which, as he
flicked his wrists, enormous biceps and
triceps sped like live things beneath the
golden, satin-like skin; a torso tapering
to a spare waist, and nether limbs which
had the solidity of billiard-table legs. As
this Titan among men loosed a laugh at
a remark passed by someone a deep musi-
cal rumble vibrated the surrounding air.
“Boy, oh boy! ” said the exultant Hum-
perdinck to his chief talent scout. “Won’t
he fetch ’em! I can see bunches of hys-
terical dames fighting their way along the
queues just to sit and gaze on him. He 11
make Valentino look like Stan Laurel
when he turns the tough, rough love stuff
on. Why, he’d be a cinch even if he
couldn’t act. And thrown in for good
measure he’s got a robust tenor with a
high C that wouldn’t disgrace Gigli, and
a middle register that’ll durn near buckle
the sound track when he lets it go flat out.
“And look at Vivienne Voluptuous
there! What a Delilah she’ll make!
Packed with soft shapely curves, and
just dripping with feminine helplessness
and appeal that’ll be channelled to luring
the mighty but unsuspecting Sammy to
his rooin. She’ll be a positive riot among
the men fans, and even the women fans
might concede her figger ain’t any better
than their own. We’ve brought off a
great double, Manny. This pair’ll stack
’em in the aisles and”
At that moment Sep Blumenkow, the
studio’s ace producer, entered, followed
by a strangely-assorted couple. The man,
pale, small and painfully thin, had a
stringy neck, cadaverous cheeks and a
canary chest; the woman was big and
beefy, with short-cut hair, a prognathous
jaw, steely eye and an expression of grim
self-assurance.
“Well, Hump,” said Sep briskly, “you
can scrap your he-man and your clinging
dame before you sign ’em on the dotted
line. Those types are atomic bombs
parachuting straight at the box office.
Yes sir!
“The fans are insistin’ on consumptive-
lookin’ howlers as heroes now, and
roarin’ dry-eyed dames as heroines.
Things ain’t like they used to be. Hump,
an’ we gotter recognise it. We’ll have to
alter the title of the fillum to ‘The Runt
and the Amazon,’ and we’ll get the script
writer to rewrite some bits so as to have
the hero blubber on the heroine’s Chest-
er bosom —when he runs to her for pro-
tection from the Philistines. It ain’t
exactly like the original in the Book of
Judges, but you kain’t have everything.
The women want the heroes that way,
and you know as well as I do they run
this country —an’ that includes you and
me, Hump. These two are the new leads.”
Humperdinck gazed pop-eyed for
nearly half a minute. “What the heck,’
he began.
“The Big Chief’s orders. He’s got his
pulse on public opinion. He-men and
viney dames are washed up.”
The casting director in his stupor auto-
matically mouthed one of the cliches
without which no Hollywood opus is
considered complete. “But they can’t do
this to me!” he moaned. “I tell you,
Sep, it won’t woik.”
The a.p. glared hard at his c.d. “It’s
gotta woik!” he said decisively. “Trouble
with you, Hump, you ain’t woke up yet
to a fact that’s starin’ the fillum industry
in the eye. Yuman nature’s changed
since Frankie arrived!”
80.
Sad
When I consider all the little grapes
That have been mutilated, cruelly slain.
To make this glass of wine, a sigh
escapes
From my sad heart in sympathetic pain.
And yet, though sympathy I’ll ne’er
resign,
’Tis my intention to consume the wine.
NAT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2id. per Una.
A Word for the Swiss
I suppose it is useless to suggest that
Mr. Chifley, who rejected Mr. Fadden’s
proposal for a Parliamentary vote o;:
thanks to Mr. Churchill, should send
word of appreciation to the Swiss f
their diligence in getting Red Cro
parcels to our prisoners in Germany. Y
this was the means of saving many
soldier’s life.
The little democracy had its war-tim
difficulties—no petrol, no rubber and on y
so much coal as Germany would allow
Food was scarce—erstwhile providers
France and Italy stopped exporting
Switzerland. The Swiss bought ship
(very hard to come by) and imported foo
from the Americas. The Italians made
wharf available for them at Genoa, b
Italian railways suffered long delay
through Allied bombing. Despite the
own shortages the Swiss gave p.-0.-w
parcels number-one priority on all tran
port.
In 1940 Swiss relief organisations wen
to the streams of refugees in France wit i
food, medicine and clothing. From Ho -
land, Belgium and France they took i
10.000 starving children, and when th
Nazis refused to allow them to admi:
more Swiss families adopted foreig
children in absentia and sent money eac i
month for their upkeep. In the first m'n
months of 1942 some 16,000 chil
refugees entered Switzerland from
southern Europe, and in 1943 in Athen
alone the Swiss Red Cross was feedin :
25.000 children.
The little democracy is hated by Com
munists, but compare its humanitarianism
with the strikes, riots and civil wars engi
neered by Commos.—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Peace and the Serviceman
“Macann,” who wrote an obviously
on-the-spot account of Sydney’s “Ugly
Night” (B. 22/8/’45), probably isn’t aware
how neatly he expressed the thoughts
that were in the minds of the fellows in
the tropics—the six-bob-a-day soldiers
who made the peace possible.
Interested only in the latest news of
the surrender terms', hundreds of us
around Wewak listened to radios in rec.
huts and on service sets through the wild
Prince Alexander country, and expresses
ourselves forcibly when commentators
gave out the news that capital cities were
hysterically celebrating the doubtful peace
with the Japs.
It seemed inconceivable that coal-
miners and wharf-laborers should have
had the downright cheek to wave flags
and cheer. If they only realised in
what contempt they are held by members
of the services they would throw in their
union tickets.
The bobby-soxers and pimply-faced
youth are, of course, different fry. Per-
haps it is too much to expect that they
ghould have followed the voluntary
example of thousands of men in the
islands and gone to church.
The tragedy of it all, of course, is the
fact that the men who fought against the
Japs and have every cause to celebrate
will not have the opportunity. They do
want to celebrate, too. Not because their
enemy is beaten, but because the end
of the war means that there will be no
more patrols, no more M. and V., no
more danger of a stray bullet, no fear
of being mortared while asleep. It means,
too, that they will be returning (by then
peace will be forgotten and by then
people will say “Oh, just another con-
tingent coming home”), and will be able
to take advantage of all the Government
has promised them—housing (maybe),
preference (after unionists), loans (at
ruling percentage), pensions (if lucky) and
£6 10s. suits. They will come back
to a country controlled by a Government
that did not have the guts to do the decent
thing for them when things were black
and keep loaded ships going out and coal
coming up.
Can you wonder that many service-
men are facing the peace far more
bitterly than they ever faced war? — King
J. (A.1.F.),
Post-war Controls
I’ve heard numerous people discuss the
probability of the Government continu-
ing unnecessary controls. Usually they
console themselves with the thought that
returning servicemen won’t stand for it.
But is that certain?
The returned serviceman when he
faces a return to civil life finds he must
make a choice between two apparently
conflicting freedoms—to choose his job
and take his chance of success on his
own initiative and ability or to seek “eco-
nomic security” under Government
auspices.
After four or five years in the services,
where economic security is guaranteed,
the serviceman will probably give uncriti-
cal support to any Government that will
guarantee him a job, even though to ful-
fil the promise the Government takes a
stronger grip on industry.
The civilians cannot rely smugly on the
serviceman to throw his political weight
against governmental controls, which
grew up as by-products of war, and look
like staying on as one of the prices of
peace. It is up to the civilians to carry
the load for the next year or two and see
to it that no Government strangles our
democracy during the period of read-
justment and rehabilitation of our ser-
vicemen.—Bundilla (N.S.W.).
Commas
The threat of erosion to Australia’s
future is as nothing compared with
another menace descending upon this
continent. A handful of Communists
pressed into the fighting services at a
late hour are using every opportunity to
spread their propaganda. Service hospital
patients have Communist newspapers
thrust upon them by these agents.
Where formerly political matters were
discussed with detachment among ser-
vicemen, the advent of Communists has
turned such discussions into occasions for
the dissemination of Red doctrine.
These Communist agents have had a
"I suppose it's havin' no chalk that's makin' a man play crook."
good training in debate, and they are sup-
plied regularly with the latest Communist
propaganda op political events by their
central organisation. Pitted against men
with whom politics are merely a passing
interest, these fellows are in their element.
A favorite activity is to organise “dis-
cussion groups.” At first harmless topics
are discussed, but soon the Communist
element switches on to something like
“The White Australia Policy” and “The
Noorioopta Experiment in Community
Living,” always with the one purpose of’
using these as bait for getting down to
the one and only subject which interests
them —Communism.
The present-day Communist has
abandoned tub-thumping, soap-box rant-
ing tactics for something more subtle. He
talks glibly of water-conservation schemes,
social welfare and the like.
There is time yet to arrest this vile,
foreign influence in our political and
social life. If our political set-up needs
overhauling let us tackle the job in our
own way with British-Australian ideas.
—The Tatler (R.A.A.F.).
Rewards for Education
The contempt of Labor for education
could hardly have been more clearly
shown than it was by Mr. Wise at the
Premiers’ Conference.
Westralia’s Premier was full of bitter
complaints because the Medical Co-
ordination Committee of his State con-
siders £lO6 a year too low a salary for a
qualified medico at a State institution.
Mr. Wise gave it as his opinion that the
committee was “deliberately trying to
raise salaries because of the likelihood of
the nationalisation of medicine.”
Increases in their own pay by Ms.P. or
increases granted by them to strikers on
the demand of tub-thumping unions are,
of,course, on quite a different basis. No
one could accuse these beneficiaries of
having spent years in study to fit them-
selves for their work.
A Tasmanian paper lately printed two
advertisements for Government or semi-
Government positions which illustrate the
distinction. No. 1, for an unskilled
laborer; £6 a week. No. 2, second
librarian in a thriving country townj,
educational qualifications stated, 30s. a
week. — Ulya (Tas.).
Property Sales
Sales of pastoral properties are still sub-
ject to Treasury approval, the reason
given being that all idle money should go
into war loans.
I wonder if it ever crossed the minds
of Treasury officials that a seller is
more likely to invest in war loans than
a prospective buyer. In most cases, in
N.Q. anyhow, men want to sell out be-
cause they are too old to cope with the
work, the labor position being what it is.
These old chaps want something safe
and the purchase money would, in all
probability, go into war loans.
As for inflationary values, Canberra
would hardly have any idea of value of
large pastoral properties.
Valuations should be in the hands of
competent men forming local commit-
tees.—!. S. L. (Q.).
Future of Wool
The question of what is going to
happen to Australia’s sheep economy
should synthetics push wool off the
market worries only sheepmen. Most
other Australians have for years sat back
complacently saying “There will never be
anything like wool.” Yet all the time syn-
thetics have been becoming more and
more like wool, until today one can buy
in Sydney alongside our woollen goods
what appear to be fine wool worsteds but
are really synthetics.
Such fabrics are much cheaper than
wool, because they are made on cotton
machinery and dyed in the piece to pro-
duce check effects. To produce wool
worsteds dyed yarns must be woven into
pattern, and the raw wool is much dearer
to the manufacturer to start with. Syn-
thetics exposed for sale bear such tags
as “cosier than wool,” “warm and
blanket-like” and so forth. Actually,
they can never give the public the
health and safety wool can. - Synthetics
do not warm the body and are inflam-
mable. But they are a lot cheaper.
What is the average grazier doing for
wool? He pays a levy of 2s. a bale and
there is a Government subsidy. In all
about £50,000 is available annually to the
International Wool Secretariat for much-
need world publicity and research.
I maintain that this suin is just a drop
in a sea of ignorance. What is £50,000
to the 5,000,000 dollars said to be spent
annually in America by rayon interests,
and the £500,000 said to be spent annu-
ally by one firm alone in Britain on syn-
thetic research and publicity?
At the root of Australia’s problem lie
the old-fashioned methods used in hand-
ling raw wool. Our greasy wool should
be manufactured into wool yarns and
these should be exported instead of raw
greasy wool. This would save stagnating
inland towns and revitalise some already
dead.— Toroba (N.S.W.).
Money—Servant or Master?
The advocates of a New Order in
finance are very fond of the use of the
phrase “Money must be the servant and
not the master.” Actually money is the
servant when sound financial methods
are followed. It does its .work silently and
efficiently. Industry runs along like a
well-oiled machine and freedom is the
order of the day.
What happens when inflationary
methods come into the picture? It is
then that money is- the master. Its use
and distribution have to be the subject
of control by price-fixing, rationing, sub-
sidies, and there is no freedom.
Money can be restored to its place as
a useful servant by a return to methods
of sound and orderly finance. The per-
petuation of inflationary methods means
the continuance of money as the master
—to become eventually, perhaps, like
Frankenstein’s monster, the devourer of
many more than its creator. — Sound
Finance (W.A.).
Mud Bricks in Rhodesia
“H.C.8.” (B. 1/8/’45) should go to
Africa if he doubts the lasting qualities of
mud-brick houses. In many parts of that
country mud bricks have been used for
centuries.
In Southern Rhodesia, on mines and
farms, mud brick is almost the universal
building material, and houses can be seen
there that have stood for 50 years and
are as good now as when they were
erected.,
I have built and lived in several mud-
brick homes, but never have felt the
slightest anxiety as to their lasting
qualities. Admittedly, the climate of
Southern Rhodesia is not ideal for such
a house. Each year there are about eight
dry months, and the remaining four can
be exceedingly wet.
Of course reasonable precautions are
taken, and no mud-brick house is built
except on a foundation that always will
be above water level. The exterior walls
are given a coat of tar—put on hot—and.
then whitewashed. If the whitewashing is
repeated every few years the house will
last as long as there is a roof to protect
the inner walls, which are plastered with
material similar to that from which the
bricks themselves have been made. The
mortar, too, is made of similar material.
In the Bible we read of the impossibility
of making bricks without straw. No
doubt mud bricks were in the writer’s
mind, but it is unnecessary to mix straw
with mud to make a first-class brick. Still,
straw, or, more usually, grass—in
Rhodesia at any rate —is used to cover
the bricks for a day or two after manu-
facture to prevent their drying too
quickly and perhaps cracking.
One other precaution is necessary be-'
fore making mud bricks in quantity. It
is advisable to make up mixtures with
varying proportions of sand, mould a
few bricks and allow them to dry
thoroughly, for if there is too much clayey
material present and not enough sand
the bricks will crack on drying. Too
much sand will result in a weak brick,
but the correct mixture is easily ascer-
tained, — Hardinge Mill (Vic.).
Eire and the War
Let justice be done to Eire.
At present the Irish Red Cross is
attempting to establish and run a hospital
at St. Lo, France. The Government
is taxing the people to the limit of their
capacity, and with their ready consent, to
supply cattle, tinned meat, butter, sugar,
bacon, condensed milk, cheese, horses,
blankets and stores to the suffering
peoples in Europe. In 1943'£100,000 was
sent to famine-stricken Calcutta. In 1944
another £lOO,OOO was sent to Italy, and
last reports spoke of £3,000,000 worth of
goods awaiting shipment. Such generosity
part of Eire’s thankoffering for her
safety will obviously entail heavy sacri-
fice from a small and poor country.
Eire gave 250,000 of her sons to the
British ranks. She is proud of them,
and when they return with their 400
first-class honors and eight V.C’s they
will get an even more rousing welcome
than did the Maorilanders who visited
Eire. They themselves will be the first
to thank God for the preservation of their
country from devastation. —M. L. M.
Sauce for the Gander?
When Italy hastily joined her ally Ger-
many to be in at the death of defeated
France, Australian newspapers unani-
mously condemned this “stab in the
back.” But five years later, when we have
the spectacle of Russia at the eleventh
hour joining the Allied Nations for the
purpose of despoiling her erstwhile (and
very useful) partner Japan, the same
newspapers hail the somersault with joy.
When Germany overran and enslaved
half Europe it was an intolerable act and
not to be borne, but Russia can do what
she likes. Where, then, are our moral
values, and where our hopes of a just
and lasting peace?—S. E. and O. (Tas.).


II
m
\
rm?
m
.■v*
fe'V
• V <*
*
,*.T-
V,
@
V
w
m
m
ms
m
m
i
i
g
Week by week news is being released of far-reaching inventions and developments in elec-
tronics arising out of wartime research activity. New fields of research in radar, in ultra
high frequency communication, in television, and other applications of electronics to industry
and the home will have a marked effect on our lives.
If the past be an indication of the future, we need go back no further than the aftermath
of World War I. Then there followed in rapid succession the inception of broadcasting,
the development of overseas short wave broadcasting, long distance marine communication,
beam wireless and overseas telephony to mention but a few of the many epoch-making
achievements pioneered in Australia by A.W.A.
Never has the Company been so favourably placed to enter the new era of electronics as
today. During the war its large staff of scientists, designers and engineers has been engaged
in applying its technical knowledge and experience in electronics to the development of
radio equipment for the Allied Forces. Research is regarded by A.W.A. as a guarantee
of continued progress.
The post-war Radiola will gain immeasurably by the increased technical skill of A.W.A.
scientists and engineers developed in war-time production. It will be a superb instrument
of Radio entertainment, worthy of the famous trade mark of Radiola, renowned throughout
the Commonwealth.
f
I
I
I
I
Australia’s Finest Broadcast Receiver
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/sia) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
