

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66-No. 3434
Wednesday, December 5, 1945
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
RAINBIRD
Chestnut mare by The Buzzard (imp.)-Sequoia. Four years.
WINNER OF MELBOURNE CUP, 1945.
MR. C. A. REID, Owner
Trainer, S. EVANS Jockey, W. COOK
Weight, 7st. 7lb. ' Time, 3min. 241/2sec.


This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. 1 ’
My Name
My Address i
S.B. 245 AGE
The Red Page
SHOOTS OF SWEET ANNIAS
“Supposing,” said Mr. Shean, “you
were a hillbilly and you were making
love to the lady of your heart. What
would you say to her?”
“I think,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
would say ‘Sarah, come ’ere! ’ ”
“Is there no poetry in you?” said Mr.
Shean. “Would you not call her your
pretty budgerigar, your painted 'finch,
your nosegay of Paterson’s Curse?”
* “I should like to pretend I would,”
said Mr. Gallagher. “But I would prob-
ably say ‘By cripes, Sarah, by cripes! ’ ”
“I heard ’em a-talkin in the kitchen,”
said Mr. Shean, “while I laid on the
floor flat of my back before the fire. I
heard Uncle George a-callin Aunt Vittie
his wild pigeon and his pretty little
percoon blossom and his shoots of sweet
annias.”
“I think you must have been a-hearin
the fairies,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“According to Mr. Jesse Stuart, whose
novel Taps for Private Tussie has been
published by Peter Huston, Ltd., of Syd-
ney,” said Mr. Shean, “I am a-listenin
to an elderly hillbilly of Kentucky. A
boy named Sid who tells the story in the
first person says he heard Uncle George
a-callin Aunt Vittie ‘all the names of the
wildflowers and the birds.’ ”
• “I am not personally acquainted with
any elderly hillbillies of Kentucky,” said
Mr. Gallagher, “but I don’t recall that
Steele Rudd’s Sandy and Kate ever used
quite such poetic terras of endearment.”
“But surely,” said Mr. Shean, “you
don’t suggest that Sandy was a hillbilly?
It has always seemed to me as inaccurate
as it is vulgar to apply this American
label to Australians who live in the bush.
The essential characteristics of the hill-
billy, as portrayed in Tobacco Road or
in Mr. Jesse Stuart’s novels, are his de-
cadence and his shiftlessness. Dad and
Dave, though they may have been forced
by their poverty to live in conditions
rather like those described in Taps for
Private Tussie, were battlers —pioneers
coming up in the world, not degenerates
going down.”
“Granted,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“granted. Dad and Dave were not hill-
billies. Nevertheless, there is just a trace
of similarity in that they scratched a
hard living from' the soil in primitive
conditions in remote places. I put it to
you that Steele Rudd, making Sandy say
“Aw, cripes, Kate!” was a good deal
nearer the truth than Mr. Jesse Stuart
when he has Uncle George talking about
birds and bees and blossoms.”
“Uncle George,” said Mr. Shean, “who
has had five wives, is an extremely poetic
old gent. He is a master violinist. ‘l’ve
played summers for you,’ he tells Sid and
Aunt Vittie, ‘l’ve played autumn for
you with the wind a-rustlin down the
dead leaves from the trees and a-blowin
through the dead grasses ; I’ve played the
last notes of the - grasshoppers, the katy-
dids and the beetles. Now I’m a-goin to
play winter for you. You’ll be able to
hear the winter wind around this shack
—the winter wind a-blowin high among
the leafless oak tops and a-moanin among
the thick needles on the tall pine-trees.
Winter is a sad time and I love to play
winter tunes. Listen for the snowbirds
a-chirrupin among the dead ragweeds and
pickin up ragweed seeds from the snow.
Listen to ’em a-nestin in the fodder
shocks.’ ”
“Why,” asked Mr. Gallagher, “when
Uncle George says the snowbirds are
‘a-chirrupin’ does he not also say that
they are ‘a-pickin’ up the ragweed seeds?
If you have quoted him correctly he said
only ‘pickin’.”
“Sometimes,” said Mr. Shean, “Mr.
Jesse Stuart forgets himself for a moment.
But would you not like to cross the wide
seas to hear Uncle George a-rustlin and
a-blowin and a-moanin and a-chirrupin
like some Kreisler of the backwoods on
his scarred old fiddle?”
“There is a marvellous ejaculation
which Dad, when greatly provoked, roars
out in On Our Selection,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher. “I am afraid I shall have to
apply it to Uncle George; ‘Dammit, the
man’s mad !’ Certainly, music is of some
importance in the lives of people in re-
mote places ; certainly there are blokes
in Steele Rudd’s stories who can wheeze
out a merry noise on the accordion or
mouth-organ. But I will bet you a grand
piano to a monkey-nut that if I crossed
the wide seas to hear Uncle George play-
ing with his natural genius the great
symphony of winter I should find a
barmy old goat a-scrapin out ‘Yankee
Doodle.’ ”
“Mr. Jesse Stuart,” said Mr. Shean,
“does exaggerate a little. When Sid,
handling a gun for the first time in his
life, goes out a-shootin rabbits, he knocks
over ten with twelve shots, all on the
run. He bags the first one by pulling
both triggers of a twelve-bore, and Mr.
Jesse Stuart does not say anything at all
about the kick of the gun. He doesn’t
seem to know Uncle George and Sid as
well as Steele Rudd knew Sandy and
that marvellous ragamuffin Joe; and he
certainly doesn’t know anything about
shootin.”
“Does he,” asked Mr. Gallagher,
“know anything about writin?”
“This,” said Mr. Shean, “is one of
the maddest books I ever found myself
a-readin. It is all about a family of
hillbillies who, receiving the insurance
on one of the tribe supposed to have
been killed in the war, have a tremen-
dous carnival of lovin and drinkin and
dancin to Uncle George’s magic fiddle
until all the money is gone, whereupon
they return to their natural state of
poverty - stricken villainy. Everybody
shoots everybody near the end (Uncle
Mott, one of nature’s gentlemen, shrewdly
shoots Uncle George’s fiddle) and then
—of course —the soldier who is supposed
to have been killed turns up safe and
well. It’s the first time I have seen a
whole novel built on the O. Henry wow-
ending principle. Mr. Jesse Stuart may
have set out to write a hillbilly novel, but
what he has achieved is an uproarious
parody on hijlbilly novels. As such, it
amused me. In America, where appar-
ently it was taken seriously, it won the
Thomas Jefferson Southern award and
was a Book of the Month; and it is
recommended to Australian readers by
the comedian Mr. Bob Dyer.”
“Gripes!” said Mr, Gallagher.
Islands of the Pacific.
Although it was probably designed for
soldiers serving in the Pacific, Charles
Barjrett’s The Island World (Oxford Uni-
versity Press) has lost none of its interest
with the ending of the war. Mr. Barrett
has gone voyaging around a library to
make an anthology of curiosities of the
Pacific —dramas of history, folk-lore,
nature notes and so on.
It’s not an important book, but pleasant
to dip into. The present commentator,
having met Bully Hayes before, having
read Typee and Oomoo (from which
there are some charming quotations) and
having the opinion that one Polynesian
fairytale is very much like another, liked
the nature notes the best —as, perhaps,
Mr. Barrett did also. The giant robber
crab of the Ellice Islands, for instance,
as recorded in the Rev. Wyatt Gill’s Life
in the Southern Isles: —
Spending a pleasant day once on an un-
inhabited island (Nassau Island) I was
surprised to see hundreds asleep on the
branches of lofty trees. In perfect safety
they hung in rows, holding try their sharp-
pointed “toes” in the shade of a primeval
forest.
The Rev. Gill goes on to describe the
scene when baskets of the crabs were
brought aboard his ship:
At nightf§ll, the crabs, disliking their
confinement, forced their way out and
crawled all over the ship. Some found
their way below and severely bit the toes
of the sleeping sailors; others marched
into the captain’s cabin, compelling him to
attack the intruders. At the expense of
an ebony ruler, broken with repeated
blows, he succeeded in expelling them.
Next morning the men going aloft met with
several on their way to the masthead.
On the same clerical authority, robber
crabs once tried to sink a ship: “A small
vessel engaged in collecting oil sprang a
leak; the craft was hove down and
examined. It turned out that some of
these crabs had got into the hold and,
becoming thirsty, had rasped a small hole
through the ship’s bottom.”
One complaint must be made. It seems
a pity when Mr. Barrett has drawn on
such authorities as Cook, Darwin and
Melville for his prose selections, that he
should have confined his exploration of
the poetry of the Pacific to Cowper and
Tennyson . . . neither of whom really
knew very much about these latitudes.
Some of the best poems in Robert Fitz-
Gerald’s Moonlight Acre were written
in (and about) Fiji; there are Kenneth
Slessor’s “Captain Dobbin” and “Five
Visions of Captain Cook” ; and some
of the salt-water ballads of E. J. Brady
and Will Lawson would also have been
eminently suitable.
Go red by a Bulldozer .
Memo, Red Page: —
Prodigiously regret unable to totally
read, in fact totally unable to read (must
be broken reed, ha-ha) Mr. Michael
Terry’s Bulldozer (Frank Johnson, Syd-
ney). Fade-in style: —
At first this final coating for the road
was loaded by “Chinaman” wherever
enough gravel was found for a pit". That
is, a rough timber tunnel, projecting half
above the ground, was knocked up. Bull-
dozers, pushing dirt in front of them,
encasing the sides, soon established an even,
easy upgrade to the horizontal back of
“Mr. Chinaman.” Simultaneously, down-
grades to the tunnel floor were cut, per-
mitting trucks to descend and halt beneath.
As each did so, the dozer, pushing a pile
of gravel before its blade, tipped a load
down a hole in the “Chinaman’s” back.
Rapid, simple, cheap movement of gravel—
but foreign totally from “Chinese labor”
mentioned beneath a photograph pf a
“Chinaman” illustrating my article in an
engineering paper. Poor, ignorant caption-
writer, reading plurality into “Chinaman”
, (because of many gravel pits) went wild
and debited mechanised roadbuildcrs in
White Australia with the use of “Chinese
Labor.”
Fade-out style.
Poor bewildered reviewer, confronted
with plurality of paragraphs of like nature
(because book runs to 257 pages)
went totally out of senses and debited
Mr. Terry with suggestion that book was
“ghosted” for him by an intelligent bull-
dozer. Bulldozers all very well on King’s
highways, but what about King’s Eng-
lish? Fade-in some more style: —
Then for the first time in Australian
roadbuilding history surveyor Frank Gosden
led a “compass-cu/w-dozer” traverse into
the wilds. Using the easiest going, either
between trees or amongst rocks, about
100ft. to one side where the highway' was
expected (so that during building, transport
could move to and fro without impeding),
our trailbreakers were soon lost to the sur-
veyors.
No sheer bravado that rush ahead. Until
that pilot trail went through no camp
could be established between Belyando and
the Cape. Thus Frank, from sun-up to
sundown uniquely, without proper survey
to hold him true, fought on to where
camps were to be set. Trucks followed
on with huts and stores and gear, crowning
thus his notable victory.
Thus Michael, from first page to last
uniquely, tells the story of “the war role
of the Department of Main Roads, New
South Wales,” foreworded by William J.
McKell Esq., Premier.
Hitherto Mr. McKell has not been
recognised as a master of English prose;
but by comparison with Mr. Terry he is
a Gibbon. Fade-in Mr, Terry on Nor-
folk Island; —
Among humps aqd hollows of Nature,
round peaceful dwelling and rose-
clustered bower, Man had for his pur-
poses created those mathematically precise
surfaces. Sweeping away so much that was
charming because circumstances drove him
to force a secluded place within the orbit
of affairs in the Pacific.
Sweeping away from so much‘that is
villainous here, circumstances drive re-
viewer to force a secluded place within
the orbit of affairs at Darwin: —
Virtually without defence, gambling
bombs were meant for runways, believing,
yet unsure, the Japs would neglect the
gravel pit, thinking their aim would be true,
if never sure of that till detonator hit
ground, drivers stood to their trucks during
the raid. Courage? Obviously!
Interested everyone would have been in
lucid, straightforward account of great,
strategic roads built during war; unfor-
tunately Mr. Terry’s style, seemingly a
blend of Mr. Jingle, Mr. Frank Clune,
popular journalese and talkie com-
mentaries, falling on the ear like gam-
bolling bombs, leaves the reader virtually
without defence. “Slap-bang into it they
rushed” Mr. Terry says of his bulldozers ;
and slap-bang he has rushed into his
book.
For light relief and in order to correct
his prose style (which has clearly suffered
from contagion) your correspondent now
proposes to read the New South Wales
telephone directory from cover to cover.
MACHOOIS.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
In the garret where Jos. Holloway’s
sketch club holds its annual exhibition in
Sydney a Garrett Kingsley nude and a
Tom Garrett monotype are, appropri-
ately, the most striking exhibits. The
limbs of Mr. Kingsley’s ladies still give
the impression that if you lifted an arm
or a leg it would fall back limp and life-
less to the figure ; but he has a nice sense
for color and design and is both ambitious
and promising. The outstanding Tom
Garrett nfonotype is “Nightfall,” which
shows one of his favorite old stone houses
lit by the last warmth of the day and also
by the rich reds and greens of women’s
dresses in the foreground. Mr. Garrett
has also an attractive flowerpiece in sub-
dued but glowing colors. Lance Solomon
has a couple of pleasant backyard land-
scapes —not stating anything very im-
portant —and a subtle bit of snow scenery
from England. Other paintings worth a
second glance (among a good many that
aren’t) are Mary Wilkinson’s “The Blue
Girl,” Arthur Quin’s “Snow at Canberra”
and Roy Thibou’s “Mr. Churnside” and
“The Bay.” In a minor way Mr. Thibou
has a fresh approach to Nature and an
eye for the humor of character. Some
landscapes by Sid Sullivan,' rich at first
glance, vague and muddy on a closer
inspection, suggest a genuine talent mis-
directed by Cezanne.
It is probably the ruggedness of the
subject which makes the portrait of
sculptor William Leslie Bowles the most
arresting picture in William Rowell’s exhi-
bition at the Athenreum, Melbourne. For
the main part Rowell is content to repeat
those academic formulas in which he is
thoroughly proficient, though he loosens
up in some landscapes, especially the
small ones. One or two large vistas of
the Centre are topographically exact, but
somehow or other don’t give the strange,
gaunt mystery of the desert as well as
Albert Namatjira’s. No doubt an artist
would have to live there to do that.
There has lately been an uprush of
interest in ceramics in Melbourne, and
the Australian Ceramic Society held its
first exhibition at the Myer Gallery.
There is some wobbly work by children ;
plenty of high technical ability in the
work of the grown-ups but not much
intensity of feeling. Hie industrial sec-
tion is plain awful. The hand of the
machine is on it.
At the talkies:
“A Medal for Benny” (Sydney Capitol): A
Steinbeck attack on the commercialising of
heroes. As a poor, illiterate, bewildered old
paisano of a small Californian fishing town
who as father of a dead Congressional Medal
winner retires with dignity to his shack after
Chamber of Commerce and press had tried to
transplant him to luxury to receive his medal,
J. Carrol Naish gives a sustained piece of
character-acting of high merit.
“Week-end at the Waldorf” (Sydney Liberty):
Polished sophistication in the vein of Vicki
Baum’s Grand Hotel. It’s lively and amusing,
and Walter Pidgeon gives his usual good per-
formance.
“I’ll Be Seeing You” (Sydney Regent): The
shell-shocked soldier problem intelligently
handled in a domestic setting.
“The Very Thought of You” (Sydney May-
fair): Comedy romance less fatuous than the
title, dealing with the hasty war marriage.
“The True Glory” (Sydney Lyceum): Docu-
mentary covering the war in Europe from
D-Day to V.E.-Day. It’s the work of 1400
Allied war photographers, starting with embar-
kation in England and going on through the
terrific struggle for the Normandy breaches into
open warfare and the capture of Caen, Paris,
etc., to the Rhine, with glimpses of the enemy
and Belsen thrown in. A film that can be seen
more than once.
The Repertory Theatre of Adelaide
ended its 1945 season with a capably
performed Lonsdale play, “Mrs. Chey-
ney”; Joy Watson in the name-part.
Arthur Fay, formerly of Melbourne, pro-
duced. The Rep. announces that it had
to close its membership list with# 2000
but has 200 more on the waiting list, and
now has to give each play five evenings.
“Curtain Raiser”: The A.B.C. ought to
revise its scheme of values. When it
broadcasts the work of some obscure
young Australian composer, it gives him
a miserable pittance. A hundred years
hence, if he is any good, it may be paying
some famous overseas conductor 100
guineas for performing the same music.
Why doesn’t it pay the young composer
the 100 guineas? He might be a dud
but he might be a genius; and a genius
knows what to do with 100 guineas.
“Cauboy”: Melbourne University’s
Union Theatre put on the first part of
Sergei Eisenstein’s film trilogy on “Ivan
the Terrible.” It made a pretty good
historical drama, though with none of
the humanity and humor of Shakspeare.
There was nothing revolutionary in the
technique, and some of it verged on melo-
drama. Russians actors are enormously
passionate and vital creatures, and there
is an excessiveness about them that is
strange to Western eyes. There was a
rich, rabid, barbaric magnificence about
the palaces and the dresses of the fat old
monks and boyars and the singing, like
most Russian singing, was splendid.
There was one singer who intoned a
chant or something with the strength and
volume of ten Chaliapins boiled into one,
and the whole show was of the un-
bridled order. As an attempt to fit Ivan
into the Marxist viewpoint that he was
an objectively progressive ruler whose
role in history was to unify and develop
Russia as a nation, I suppose the film
was successful; but I would very much
like to know what he was really like, as
we know what Richard 111 was like from
Shakspeare’s drama.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
"WHILE I LIVE I’LL GROW’
IlilX 1
X
XX
8
4 *
>• '' -
* M *
*Xjt
> kr • & «r\
! • < \A * !<i
.
V
w
*
V I
i *
\
s'
XX'-
f /
\ y
x/ i \\;
jf I
FROM THE HOME
OF SANTA CLAUS
:» -
lit:
■
/,
mm
mt
/. * M x
//
1
:
■ x
■ X
rp <&
S9
<pj
CJ? J
<9
r % £ or o
%*6* oP (P
% 8 - <*•
<£ f, o<»
8 w /
®o (P
<*» S*
Jk
8$
9 (0
<Pf
& <#
<P <P
sr w
/J,
AttT
&%**■*£-***
/>.
ct
I s *Z%, e %*r c-X •■•■■ ■■Z ro ? y.*l
* 3/^
:k
■\
I
# 4
tl til ft
& s ’ to a. . fire**. .
‘‘‘til.
«W"*I'4 Ml.^"pL/rom
t*m P ' nf ' C/ Ve & JVf * ''r‘o/J ?
***’ <:t„
'W/X »e,Z
e*
It
XXX
otfle
$1101
l;X':f
iiyA«WW»»*
? •
f ~”°Urij * 0&
;i &<*
_ r /L _„
I %/ ke Xx 7 n£% t ys / c te/v a
12/6 /n
Mmr m
Jent
■ XV.-
/
/
u/aM4
TELEPHONE; M2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712C, G.P.O., SYDNEY
FOR ACTIVE YOUNGSTERS
For the lad who likes to "help Dad in
the garden” or go "Messages for
Mum”—a strong all steel. Truck, Body
I7ins. x llins. 5-in. metal wheels.
Price 29/3
Ride to "Banbury Cross” on this
Dapple Grey Rocker Horse. Length
overall, 30ins. Horse, 9ins. high from
platform. Nicely finished. Price, 26/3
• Toys—Ground Floor, Pitt Street
■
m
Hr
mm
■ is
i
w 1 *
m
FOR THE HOME
Brighten the rooms with
Cushions, made of quality Aus-
tralian wool felt, filled with new
wool. Wadded edge. Colours
are Rust, Green, Burgundy, 32/6
• Soft Furnishings —Third Floor
A Parchment Inverted Lamp-
shade gives a finishing touch to ,
any room. Trimmed with con-
trast colour lacing. Green, Rose,
Blue, Grey and Amber, 4/11 ea.
ALWAYS APPRECIATED
Men’s Leather Slippers, iewn soles. Black, Brown 13/9 (no coupons)
Men’s Handkercriefs, fine quality Lawn, coloured border or allover design.
Price, each. Also "Nile” Brand, 1/9 each (no coupons)
Open-end Ties in a variety of colours and designs. 4/11, 5/11 and 6/6
Others are priced at 8/6, 10/6 and 12/6 each (no coupons)
• Men’s Wear—Ground Floor, George Stree'


YOU AIM TO ENJOY THEM
By OLAF RUHEN.
I I “T" AKE her up a piece and We’ll get
in one more drag before, we get to
I that old tree,” Danny said. v
Young Jim nodded and began
to coil the head-line down on top of the
corks. The old man didn’t say anything,
but when most of the rope was fairly
coiled he took the short mooring-line and
stepped out into the deeper water and
began leading the little flattie upstream
again. The mud was still soft from the
fresh of last week, so Jim followed, giv-
ing a push with a hand on the back of the
net-board.
The river flowed greyly enough, and
little spirals of mud went up from the
feet at each step, but elsewhere all the
colors of early summer threw back the
brightness of the sunlight. Old gold
blossom freckled the untidy lattice of
brown boughs that the kowhais threw up
on the top of the bank, and half a mife
downstream where the river met the sea
the gorse carpeted the far bank to the
foot of the dunes, and a girl in a red
dress was building a picnic fire.
A couple of hundreu yards up they
stopped, and Old Ab got creakily into
the boat and took the oars. Ab was
Danny’s brother and not so very much
older as they count age, but he’d lived
two years in one for most of his life and
roamed the world in his time. He was a
simple man with simple appetites and
enormous ones, and what he did always
pleased him. You felt that perhaps he’d
carved life into the shape he liked most
with many small whittlings.
The rope ran out, and then the net
began to slide from the net-board, and
Danny started off downstream, wading to
his knees. Now and again the corks
dipped and the tide ran past them. Jim
jumped to give Danny a hand with the
rope. The old man in the stream bent to
his oars, but he pulled well.
“Too soft,” said Danny, “but the fish
are here all right. How many in that last
haul? Twenty-odd, any way.”
“Twenty-six,”, said young Jim, who’d
put them in the bag.
“This would be something you’d miss
over the other side, I bet.”
“I guess it was.” Jim thought a bit,
wrinkling his forehead. Then he said it
again. “I suppose it was really, but I
never really thought of it. You see, they
gave us such a damn good time.”
“Not all good, though?” Danny’s voice
had a slightly wistful sound. He’d been
a miner in both wars, and he’d have liked
to have made it.
“No, not all good.”
AB was pulling for the shore now, and
Jim strode off down the bank to inter-
cept him. He waded out, and as he
reached for the nose of the flattie the
old man scrambled out and' overside,
spruce and limber enough now in his
movements, and hauled on the line. Ab’s
body did what he wanted it to, although
sometimes when he was relaxed it looked
to move creakily. They all stepped to-
ward the shallow water, and as the net
came into view the water swirled and
boiled behind it. At one place the com-
motion was intense, and there was a flash
of sparkling white.
“Keep her down,” said Ab, “it’s a
canary.” And he shot one swift guilty
look at the bank behind them before they
pulled the net swiftly right up on to the
hard. The salmon was meshed by the
gills. He was a small one, about seven
pounds, and Ab had the* sack about him
before he took him out of the net.
“Will we try for his brother?” Danny
wanted to know, but the old man shook
his head.
“No. We got plenty. And the tide is
turned. She’ll be too hard to pull.”
They took another couple of dozen
flounders from the seine and then sat on
the side of the boat to wait until the tide
should run strongly enough to help Ab
with his pull home up the river. Jim
pulled out a packet of American
cigarettes and the other two took them
eagerly.
“You got many of these?” asked
Danny, and Jim laughed.
“Not as many as I’d like,” he ad-
mitted. “I got these in Honolulu on my
. way back.”
cCO it wasn’t so good at times?”
Danny dropped right back into the
earlier conversation. Jim took a long pull
at his cigarette. “You’ll be glad to be
back —get after the flounders. And the
deer later on?” It wasn’t often that
Danny was insistent.
“No! No, it’s not so good to be back.
I thought it would be. This is all right.
But the rest, no. It’s not what 1 thought
it was.”
“You said though”——
“It wasn’t all good. That’s right. They
fed us better on paper than they did on
the squadron. And it was a bad station.
The mud was bloody that first winter.
But you forget all that. And there was a
feeling there, I can’t explain that. We
had a pretty good time. I picked up a
motor-bike and got about a bit. There was
a little village in Yorkshire. Hell, we’d
drop in somewhere for supper after they
got to-know us, and they’d give us two
eggs on our chop. And God knows when
they d see chop or eggs for themselves.
You should have seen them VE-day. They
shifted tables and chairs out into the
streets and danced there, the whole
village, for three days, with a case of beer
under every table and a bite for every-
one on top of it.” He stopped and
wriggled his heel and watched the mud-
swirl coil around his foot and head off
upstream.
“ Tha t wasn’t all of it either,” he said.
There was something—l don’t know
what it was. But it was pretty good there
where you didn’t expect it to be. And
all the time you looked forward to com-
ing back. And now I’m back. Well.
This is all right, but”——
‘ < T* HE trips over Germany wouldn’t be
I so good?” Danny wanted to know.
“Not so bad. The last part of training
and the time we spent oh the squadron
waiting to start; they weren’t so good-.
I was so scared in case I might show
yellow. But then on the first trip you
saw it wasn’t so bad. You were scared,
but you knew you wouldn’t ever show it.
“And there’s something else. The color.
I saw a fellow once hanging from his
parachute and close. He was lit up in
the flare of his ’plane that had exploded,
and he was yellow, mustard yellow, or
nearer the yellow of the flower of the
turpentine tree there. You could see
every detail. His hands were hanging
limp and his chin was down on his chest.
There were the big fires underneath, and
in the centre their light was rose-red
where the target indicators still showed,
and round the rim, under the smoke, the
T.ls. were dull green. Away behind him
they had a Lane, coned in the search-
lights, and you could see the red tracer
going up the blue-white shafts, slowly,
like little balls in a squirt of water from
a power-hose. One big one, almost verti-
cal and blue, like a diamond. They
always had a big one. There was a bit
of flak about, and one of those big scare-
crows going down, spilling every color
in the world, like a bag of jewels caught
in firelight. They used to shoot them up*
I think, to imitate a Pathfinder going
down with all its target indicator fire-
works burning. Keeping themselves
kidded, I guess. And the night would
be so deep black against the color, and
the stars would still look cold, up above.
Everything else looked alive and hot, but
the stars still looked cold.”
“It wouldn’t appeal to me,” said Danny.
“Not that.”
Jim waited a while. “That wasn’t all
of it, either. You felt pretty good, you
know. Here was everybody trying to get
you, and you knew they couldn’t. Maybe
they could, but you wouldn’t think so.
You just felt cocky. You felt like thumb-
ing your nose at them. You were better
than they were, and they couldn’t stop
you from doing what you wanted to do.
What you had to do, anyway.”
“The world my oyster,” Ab said very
unexpectedly. He looked up and ex-
plained. “I met a fellow once was like
that all the time. He put it like that. He
says ‘The world’s my oyster.’ It stayed
with me.”
“That’s it, I guess,” said Jim. “Well,
that was it, but there isn’t any more flying.
And things don’t feel the same. Even
after we stopped in the Old Country it
wasn’t so bad as this.” He stood up and
stretched, and old Ab climbed painfully
into the boat. Danny and Jim left him to
row upstream with the incoming tide and
made their way to the ,top of the bank
where they’d left the shotguns.
■ \ .* J .
THEY went across the neck where the
river made an S-bend without start-
ing anything from the scattered gorse and
manuka clumps, but under the trees by'
the boatslip Jim picked up a quick brace
of rabbits.
Danny grinned. He’d taught Jim one
Christmas holidays—how far back? “You
can still use it,” he commented.
“I kept it up. We got plenty of skeet—
clay pigeons.” Jim felt better for the shot,
but he was cursing himself a little. He
hadn’t talked that way since he’d got
back. It wasn’t a line-shoot. Somehow
he had needed to say it, but he still didn't
feel good about it. They sat and waited
for Ab and kept an eye on the river for
the little ripples of the whitebait running
though the season was about over.
AB’S house stood back from the road.
It was a two-storeyed frame building
that had once stood pretentious in its
garden, but of the garden only two broken
rhododendrons sprawled against the front
fence. A horse-feeder flanked by churned
mud stood on its four broadleaf posts,
and the old horse that had earned his fair
share of Ab’s contracting money kicked
greasy heels against the broken wire of
the side fence. He was in good nick,
though, and the harness spread on the
front verandah had been laid down care-
fully and was mended. Ab just never
had the time to spend around home.
Danny left them at the gate, but Jim
was glad to accept the invitation to go
in. The old man called out to his wife
when he was still about ten yards from
the house. “Ellie,” he roared. “Ellie,”
and upended the flounders on to the
clumpy grass. He’d picked out half a
dozen of the fattest by the time Ellie was
standing silently in the doorway, one fat
arm extended and a pudgy hand against
the door-edge. She had a slow smile and
bright eyes, and a wisp of hair hung down
beside her cheek, grey and lifeless.
“Bring us a dish, Ellie, and get the pan
on,” Ab told her without looking up,
Ellie said “Hello, Jim. You did all
right ? eh?”
When she was come and gone again
with the fish Ab stretched his legs out on
the verandah, his back against a post,
and started tamping tobacco into his pipe.
Jim sat on the verandah edge and
watched, his eyes on Ab’s movements.
The old rapscallion was at ease and
happy. “He’s been through it, too,” Jim
thought suddenly. “He’s seen more than
I have.”
“How did you find it after the last do,
Ab?” he asked. “You’ve been through it,
too. Was it like I’ve found it? Little
men telling you to do little things? Push-
ing you into little places and wanting you
to watch all their little*rules?”
Ab searched for a match and struck
it and puffed slowly, contentedly. “I
don’t know that it was.” He blew out
a big cloud of smoke, “The rules didn’t
bother me none, anyway. Not that I
noticed. There were some that couldn’t
settle.” He raised his voice. “Ellie, bring
out the beer.”
“I guess things were different, perhaps.”
“Perhaps,” s
Ellie came out with the tray.
“The beer was the same, anyway.” Ab
poured out two glasses and handed one
over. “Here’s health.”
It tasted golden as the, morning looked.
Jim thought the old man’s not interested.
He wants to chfange the subject., I’m a
fool, I guess, talking this way. He said
“I picked a rotten oyster. Oh, well”
Ab had the bottle over the glass again.
“There’s some that like oysters and some
that doesn’t,” he said. “Me, I aim to
enjoy them. But you pick them yourself,
and you can’t pick a bad one. It’s just
in the way you aim to enjoy them.”
“Come in when you’ve finished that,”
Ellie called. “Them flounders is too good
to keep them waiting.”
Jim took the full glass. Ab was looking
at him, his blue eyes nested quizzically
in their sea-wrinkled sockets. He’s ex-
pecting me to say something, thought Jim.
“Here’s health,” he said.
“Your good health,” said Ab.
And the sunlight twinkled in the
bottom of the glass.
HERNANDO GALLEGO
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
THE names of Quiros, Torres, Tas-
man, Bougainville, Wallis, Carteret.,
James Cook, Bligh and Laperouse
automatically associate themselves
with the story of the Western Pacific, but
who knows anything about Hernando
Gallego,' navigating officer of the little
squadron that Alvaro de Mendana led
to the Solomons from Peru in 1567, when
the group first became known to Euro-
peans?. This redoubtable Spanish seaman
deserves a place in the history of the
South Seas quite as eminent as any of
those just listed.
Mendana’s two ships, the Capitana and
Almiranta, made their first port in the
group on Saturday, February 7, 1567,
eighty days out from Callao. It was in-
the large island known as Ysabel.
“The harbor,” says Gallego in his care-
ful journal, “which is in the latitude of
7° 50", we named the port of Santa
Isabel del Estreha ; and we named the
island Santa Isabel
“These peopie, he says of the natives,
“are tawny and have crisp hair. They go
naked, wearing only short aprons of palm
leaves. They have as food some moires
or roots which they call benaus , and
plenty of fish. They are, in my opinion,
a clean race, and I am certain that they
eat human flesh.”
He got this correct idea when a local
chief presented to Mendana the quarter
of a boy, including the arm and hand,
together with some yams, inviting him to
look upon the gift as a goodwill offering.
But so that the islanders might be disa-
bused of any notions as to cannibalism
being a Spanish failing, Mendana ordered
the titbit to be buried in their presence,
which somewhat upset them.
While Mendana "and his soldiers went
exploring in the interior, Gallego and the
carpenters cut down trees and sawed
planks wherewith to build a brigantine.
They began the job on February 10, and
the little vessel was launched at the be-
ginning of April.
When she was rigged and equipped
Gallego was sent forth in her bn a voy-
age of discovery with eighteen soldiers
and a dozen seamen. This extract from
his journal indicates what a “tradesman”
ip seamanship and navigation he must
have been:
“And as we sailed on the mast sprung
and nearly fell on us. Seeing what had
happened, I ordered the sails to be
secured and the tackle to be brought to
the weather side, and in this manner the
mast was stayed. When the night over-
took us we were witnout Krtowieoge of
any port, having much thick weather
with wind and rain. Guided by the phos-
phorescence of the sea, we skirted the
reefs; and when I saw that the reefs did
not make the sea phosphorescent I
weathered the point and entered a good
harbor at the fourth hour of the night.”
Dr. H. B. Guppy, R.N., Gallego’s
translator, comments on this feat: —<
“To find on a dark night arid in thick
weather,” he says, “an opening in a line
of coral reef on an unknown coast is an
undertaking fraught with the greatest
hazard even for a ship possessing steam
power. The only available guide is that
which was followed by this clear-headed
navigator ; but it 'is one which, as it de-
pends on the luminosity of the sea, can
only be of occasional service. When the
sea has been unusually phosphorescent,
each roller, as it breaks on the weather
edge of the reef, is marked by a discon-
nected line of light, reminding one of the
straggling fire of a line of musketry,”
Gallego rounded the south-east end of
Ysabel, and saw afar off, across what is
now the Indispensable Strait, the large
island of Malaita, which he named the
Isle of Ramos, because it was discovered
on Palm Sunday (Domingo de Ramos).
After some skirmishings with the
natives he sailed on to the island of
Florida, which he so named, and where
he was attacked in force by the inhabi-
tants.
He was enabled to repulse them with
considerable loss, and then sailed over
to the volcanic island of Savo —he calls
it Sesarga. From Savo he crossed to the
big island of Guadalcanal, reaching its
coast on April 19, where he had to kill
a few more islanders.- After a brief rest
there he began the return voyage to
Ysabel, where he rejoined his leader at
the end of the month.
When they had been six months in the
islands the ships returned to Peru. And
of all the men who manned them, from
“the General” (Mendana) down, no
figure stands out so boldly as that of the
cool, clever, dauntless Hernando Gallego,
Chief Pilot.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3434
Wednesday, December 5, 1945
CHANGING OF THE GUARD.
“Well, good-bye, Blarney, and you look fine in your eleven-pound rigout, and as to your advice about the Army -we’re not taking it."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 252IBB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington .
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street>
London, E.C.4.
THE RED WRECKERS.
As the long night of an appalling winter
falls on Europe, one gleam of hope for
the stricken continent is perceptible.
Wretched as most of its peoples are, and
more wretched as they must expect to be,
they are rejecting Stalinism in the spirit
in which they rejected Hitlerism. The
Moscow dream of a Slav-dominated
Europe, composed of servile “Soviet re-
publics” in which power and private
property have been seized by minorities
of ruffians invoking the threat of the Red
Army and resorting to Red terrorism, is
already one with the dreams pf Adolf and
Benito. The Red “lamp is shattered” ;
the Red “light in the dust lies dead.”
For 20 years before “the war against
Hitlerite Germany,” which might have
been averted had Moscow been honest with
Britain and France instead of double-
crossing them, and thus bringing the most
frightful slaughter and calamities on its
own peoples —the only thing which
could have prevented the horror was the
old German fear of a war on two fronts,
Britain and France on the west of Ger-
many and Russia on the eastern flank —
the most inveterate opponents of the Rus-
sian system Communism, Oriental
socialism, State capitalism or whatever it
may be called, combined, as it was and is,
with a new variety of Slav imperialism
—were Russia’s immediate western neigh-
bors. Only the synthetic republic of
Czechoslovakia, which, mortally afraid of
Germany, and, in a lesser degree of
Poland and Hungary, had entered into a
Russian alliance which in the event
was useless to it, had a Communist
party, and it yvas a poor thing, with barely
a tenth of the representation in the
Chamber of Deputies and the Senate,
Finns, Estonians, Latvians, Lithuanians,
Poles and Rumanians allowed no Rus-
sian parties within their borders. And,
though events have brought them into
close acquaintance with Moscow, its sys-
tem and methods, and multiplied the
perils to anti-Communists, there is ample
evidence that their feelings have not
changed.
Even Alexander Werth, the Russian-
born correspondent, has had to admit
that there is unconcealed hatred for the
Russian hegemony in Estonia, now a
“Soviet republic,” and in Poland, which
has a Moscow-appointed regime. And
Estonians and Lithuanians interned in
Sweden vowed to destroy themselves rather
than be delivered over to Russia in obedi-
ence to a Moscow demand. Their fate
i touched the hearts of the Swedes,
< and there were popular demonstrations
in their favor throughout the country
and in the legislature itself, but without
I assurance of Anglo-American backing
the Swedes were helpless.
In Yugoslavia an “election” on the Rus-
sian model, from which the Opposition
“withdrew” to save itself from being
“liquidated,” has resulted in a victory for
the Moscow agent Tito ; and Tito has im-
proved the shining hour by declaring
1 that the young king, who led his people
into war against Germany and Italy
when Tito was safe in Moscow, prob-
ably writing articles against “the imperial-
ist war,” has ceased to reign. Yugoslavia
is now a “Soviet republic” in everything
but formal attachment to the other
“Soviet republics.” How long it will
remain so will depend on Tito and his
gang retaining their military ascendancy,
and in a country which has been scourged
by tribal divisions ever since the break-
up of the Austrian Empire their military
ascendancy is very unlikely to last. In
* any case those who live by the tommy-
gun are apt to perish by the tommy-gun.
Another election on the Russian model
was to have been held in Bulgaria,
where there has been wholesale slaughter
of opponents by the Communist minority,
Anglo-American protests against the
“election” have hitherto prevailed. In
neighboring Rumania the position is that
the king has appealed to Britain and
America for deliverance from a “Govern-
ment” forced on his country by Moscow,
and the Communists have been reduced
to firing on “a crowd of between 40,000
and 50,000, which was celebrating the
King’s birthday, despite a ‘Government’
order prohibiting such observances.” The
crowd held its ground, overturning and
firing “lorries and buses loaded with
Communists, who waved clenched fists
and shouted ‘Long live the Groza Gov-
ernment,’ ” and it “tore down posters
carrying Government slogans.” It was
remarked that “the Russians held aloof
from the ‘incidents.’ ” In all the countries
in the Russian sphere of influence Red
Army soldiers sWarm, living on the half-
starved inhabitants and looting like sav-
ages, having a special fancy for watches —
obviously not among the Soviet manu-
factures. of which the world has been told
so much, and with such a liberal allow-
ance of- plain and fancy lying.
“Elections” on the Russian model were
projected also for Hungary and Austria;
Part of Moscow’s arrangements for Hun-
gary was an agreement which gave it full
control of the Hungarian economy. This
brought a united protest from the British
and American Governments, and, having
their own sources of information as to
what was going on in Hungary and Aus-
tria, which is not the case in other Rus-
sian-occupied parts of Europe, these
Governments demanded free elections in
Hungary and Austria. Free elections
being held, both peoples declared for
peasant parties, the one in Hungary win-
ning 59 p.c. of the seats and the one in
Austria 52 p.c. Next to the peasant par-
ties came Socialists or Social Democrats.
The Communists were third in Hungaiy?
with 16 p.c, of the seats. In Austria
they were nearly beaten out of the field —
in a House of 165 members they elected
three.
Hungary had a murderous Communist
regime in 1919, and obviously the Hun-
garians have never forgotten it. Moscow
itself can scarcely have been unmindful
of the bitter memories aroused by the ex-
cesses of the Jews Bela Kun and Szamuel-
sky, and no doubt placed a fallacious
trust in coercion of the people and com-
plaisance bn the part of the Anglo-
Americans. But it must have high hopes
and expectations of the Austrians, many
of whom actively helped the Red Army
when it attacked Vienna and other parts
of Austria. Moreover, Stalin agreed with
Churchill and Roosevelt at Tehran that
“Austria, the first free country to fall a
victim to Hitlerite aggression,” should be
“liberated from German domination,”
and that “the annexation imposed upon
Austria by Germany on March 15, 1938,”
should be “null and void.” In common
with his then partners he likewise averred
that it was his “wish to see re-established
a free and independent Austria, and
thereby to open the way for the Austrian
people themselves, as well as those neigh-
boring States which will be faced with
similar problems, to find that political
and economic security which is the only
basis for a lasting peace.”
Why have the Austrians shown them-
selves so ungrateful for this pious de-
claration of the dictator-god? What hap-
pened in their country between May and
November to cause so profound a change
of sentiment? Sheer Oriental barbarism on
the part of Russian soldiqrs. Rape, rob-
bery and looting on such a scale that the
people were reduced to hunger, and to
worklessness for lack of industrial plants
“removed” to Russia, and those who had
welcomed the Russians as liberators and
kindred souls were transformed into im-
placable enemies.
With the Red tide arrested and turned
back in Europe, not only in Austria and
Hungary, but in Italy and France and,
of course, the Low Countries and Scan-
dinavia (though the Russians are still
hanging on to the Danish island of Born-
holm), Moscow is increasingly throwing
its weight about in Asia and in the Dutch
East Indies and in Australia, which is one
of the countries alleged to be a prey to
“colonial imperialism.” Working for it in
Burma, Indo-China and Indonesia are
“youth, movements,” and Australia has
another, though so far it has done nothing
but spout and march in Communist pro-
cessions. China has a civil war on its
hands, and when (or if) the Nationalists
take over Manchuria they will, accord-
ing to a North America Newspaper Alli-
ance man, find it “an empty shell, whose
vast industrial potential has been stripped
by the Red Army.” And the Persian
Government has had to protest to the
British and American Governments that
a Moscow-supported revolt has broken
out in the northern province of Azer-
baijan, and that the movement of Per-
sian Government troops into Azerbaijan
has been prevented by Soviet com-
manders. Hence severe Notes to Moscow
from London and Washington, and a
Washington proposal that all the Rus-
sian and British forces in Persia should
be withdrawn by January 1, the date
fixed for the departure of the few remain-
ing Americans. Orders for the with-
drawal of the British had already been
announced by Mr. Bevin, conditionally
on the much larger Russian force quitting
the country.
Persia (or Iran) has a guarantee from
the IXS.S.R., as well as from Britain and
the U.S.A., signed at Tehran by the
triumvirs on December 1, 1943:
The [three] Governments are at one
with the Government of Iran in their de-
sire for the maintenance of the indepen-
dence, sovereignty and territorial integrity
of Iran. They count upon the participation
of Iran....in the establishment of inter-
national peace, security and prosperity after
the war in accordance with the principles
of the Atlantic Charter, to which all four
Governments have continued to subscribe.
And Iran is one of the United Nations,
all of which are bound to “refrain in
their international relations from the
threat or use of force against the terri-
torial integrity or political independence
of any State, or in any other manner in-
consistent with the purposes of the United
Nations.”
Of the fighting quality of the Persians
there is no record, but obviously their
leaders are not afraid to stand up to the
indigenous Communists and their Mos-
cow backers. The same is true of French-
men, Poles, Balts, Austrians, Hungarians
and Rumanians, many thousands of
whom in combating Communists have
taken their lives in their hands.
Only in Australia, home of the A.1.F.,
the R.A.A.F. and the R.A.N., have Com-
munist outrages in the domestic and
foreign fields gone unresisted by those
whose duty it is to protect the State and
the nation. “Australian” Communists
spit on the White Australia doctrine ; they
have involved Australia in support for
Javanese who were Jap collaborators and
whose hands are red with the blood of
Australian servicemen, and in oppo-
sition to friendly white people, many of
whom are in peril of murder and muti-
lation ; in larrikin contempt of industrial
laws and agreements Communists have
brought key industries to a standstill, with
dire results to honest workers and returned
servicemen who greatly need jobs and
houses, and with the danger of a whole-
sale collapse of transport, lighting and
fuel services—and all without even a
show of resistance frqm “ ‘Labor’ Gov-
ernments,”
Yet these Communists are a contempt-
ible minority, and their leaders are poor
creatures who fried in their cowardly
fashion to sabotage Australia’s part in
the war against Germany, and, with the
assistance of the Commonwealth “ ‘Labor’
Government,” took refuge in “protected”
callings during the war against Japan.
There' is no more courage in any of these
fellows than there is in a louse. They
could be brought to heel by disfranchis-
ing them, by freezing their bank accounts
and those of their organisations, by
banning their poisonous publications, by
refusing them the use of the mails and
trairls and ’planes, by making it a jailing
matter to aid and abet an unlawful strike.
But “ ‘Labor’ Governments,” whose skins
are in no danger, are afraid to do any-
thing to these creatures. Their Chifleys
and McKells are afraid even to call them
Communists, let alone calling them
wreckers and trumpeters of sedition, who
proclaim their allegiance to a foreign and
bullying and double-crossing crowd at
the other end of the earth.
It Was All Bluster.
What has become of the wordy, ambi-
tious, but in some ways admirable Aus-
tralian-New Zealand Agreement, signed
at Canberra on January 24, 1944, on the
table used by Queen Victoria when she
gave the Royal assent to the Common-
wealth of Australia Constitution Act?
The answer evidently is that, like much
more of Dr. H. V. Evatt’s limelighted"
activity since, it was bluster and nothing
more, and that the thing is now, if not
there already, embalmed, well on its way
to joining the fossilised giant kangaroo
and moa.
The main general weakness of the
Agreement was that it was purely one
between Governments and not one be-
tween peoples. It lacked Parliamentary
sanction. Being-in the nature of “foreign
affairs,” it belonged to a field in public
transactions which, as far as Australia is
concerned, Dr. Evatt has taken over as his
own private preserve. In accordance with
this misconception of his position as
Foreign Minister, Dr. Evatt hatched up
the document —his hair-splitting legalistic
touch is all over its 44 clauses—and in
due course, with some Ministerial signa-
tures appended, it was presented as a final
and accomplished pact between the two
countries.
This high-handed contempt for Parlia-
ment and people, while apparently char-
acteristic of the mental swelling then
already taking place in the Pact’s main
hatcher, was all the less excusable be-
cause, had the contents of the Agreement
been tfiade public and given up to Parlia-
mentary consideration beforehand, it is
unlikely that they would have been ob-
jected to in any vital particulars. As an
aspiration, at least, the Agreement had
unquestionable merits. If it could, in
fact, succeed in bringing the people of
Australia and New Zealand into a co-
operation that should always have been
and should always be natural to them,
that alone would be a worth-while accom-
plishment. If Australia and New Zealand
could by it be bound to act as one in
all matters of welfare and security com-
mon to them, that must be of supreme
benefit to both.
Such co-operation the Agreement pur-
ported to have brought about. The two
countries were to work together hence-
forth as one, and this was to go parti-
cularly for their mutual defence in this
post-war period upon which both are
now entered. They were to stand here
in the south, not, as in the past, countries
foreign to each other, but as a single
Pacific Power, combining their forces to
be together the joint guardian of this area
in a prospective scheme of world secu-
rity. The Agreement 'was specific on the
general area they were supposed to guard:
The two Governments agree that within
the framework of a general system of world
security a regional zone of defence com-
prising the South-West and South Pacific
areas shall be established and that this
zone should be based on Australia and
New Zealand, stretching through the arc
of islands north and north-east of Aus-
tralia to Western Samoa and the Cook
Islands.
It was also declared that
no change in the sovereignty or system of
control of any of the islands of the Pacific
should be effected except as a result of an
agreement to which they [the Australian and
New Zealand Governments] are parties or
in the terms of which they have both
concurred.
That, most evidently, has been completely
abandoned by the Australian “Govern-
ment.”
The two countries were together to
assume “full responsibility for policing or
sharing in policing” the specified areas
or others in the Pacific that might “from
time to time be agreed upon.” For the
purpose, there was to be, among other
requirements, continuous consultation in
all defence matters, interchange of staffs,
development of industries and the like,
not omitting “the organisation, equip-
ment, training and exercising of the armed
forces under a common doctrine."
While the Agreement was here wel-
comed at the time as an aspiration, and
to a limited extent an accomplishment, it
was pointed out that provision remained
to be made for raising the forces that
obviously would be needed to carry out
any such policing programme. That vital
matter was not referred to in the Agree-
ment, nor in any of the blah that ushered
the thing in as the stepping-stone to a
brave new pacific southern world. Hence
it was here suspected at the time that, as
far as Australia’s rising to its obligations
under the Agreement went, reliance was
as good as certain to be placed on the
“voluntary system,” long since thoroughly
exposed as worthless.
The suspicion has now been justified.
Mr. Chifley has been before his and
his “Government’s” political masters,
the A.L.P. conference delegates in
Melbourne, and received his instruc-
tions. In a much closer vote than
anyone going on past performances
could have expected—-18 to 15 —the
masters instructed their servant that the
“voluntary system” must be relied on.
No doubt anticipating, if not hoping for,
that result, Mr. Chifley had given the
lead. In his speech to the conference he
had outlined what his “Government”
pending, of course, its masters’ orders-
tentatively proposed. It favored, he indi-
cated, the voluntary system of recruiting
for ground forces that would be needed
for garrisoning the Pacific.
With the Dr. Evatt Agreement appar-
ently clean out of mind, Mr. Chifley added
that he did not know “for how long that
would be.” Under the Agreement it
would be of continuous duration ; part of
an established defence scheme. In sug-
gesting a possible time limit, Mr. Chifley
obviously could not have had any such
lasting arrangement in mind. In effect,
therefore, he said that the Dr. Evatt
Agreement was dead and buried.
Even for the limited time Mr. Chifley
was thinking about —that needed for
clearing the Japs out of the islands and
back to their homeland —he had to admit
doubts that the voluntary system, upon
which the “Government” had decided,
would provide all the men necessary.
“There is no guarantee,” he said, “that
that can be done” —that is, that the volun-
tary system will provide the men needed
even for a limited period of garrison
duties.
“No guarantee!” Mr. Chifley deserves
a niche to himself among the pastmasters
of understatement. There is the very
opposite of any such “guarantee. There
is the whole weight of past experience to
show that the “voluntary system” em-
ployed for such a purpose is foredoomed
to failure. It failed to gather in even
enough recruits for the mildest possible
training in the best of possible pre-war
conditions. To expect it to succeed in
enlisting enough men to garrison places
which have had the worst possible pub-
licity as climatically inimical and pesti-
lential would have to be written down as
childish if it did not have to be debited
instead to what it plainly is, political ex-
pediency of the most abject description.
“I know,” said Mr. Chifley, “the great
dislike to compulsory recruiting for the
Army.” That is the full strength of it.
It is the rock on which the high-sounding,
no doubt high-intentioned, Australian-
New Zealand Agreement perishes, and
on which the safety and continued
security of Australia must be allowed to
pile jn wreckage, since the alternative


would be a national policy shaped to the
requirements of the world as it is; a
policy that would implement. General
Blarney’s parting advice: “If there is one
thing we have learned from this war, it
is that the whole nation must be ready,
in the event of conflict, with every indi-
vidual in his proper place.”
If Mr. Chifley has even the meagre
faith in the voluntary system that his
words might suggest, he will be disillu-
sioned whenever he manages to pluck up
courage to ask for the necessary recruits.
In the meantime, he could make an ad-
vance check by calling for his volunteers
among all those already doing the garri-
son duties in the “protective arc of
islands” and among all those still in uni-
form in Australia. Their combined roar
in the negative would deafen him. Which
is no doubt why the declaration of the
war’s ending is delayed. The longer that
is held off the longer can the necessary
numbers be held in the A.1.F., they hav-
ing signed on for the duration and 12
months thereafter. It seems to be taken
for granted that the A.I.F. is prepared to
go on being the sacrifice to party political
expediency that it has been more than
once in its career.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Who Cares?
Sydney’s Lord Mayor, who is running
a Food for Britain appeal, was forced
to tell the newspapers on Monday that
two British destroyers with space for 110
tons of food for Britain had had to leave
Sydney with only 40 tons because not
enough money was in hand to buy the
food to fill them. Still, if the destroyers
call at the port of Adelaide, a city
about one-fourth the size of Sydney, and
sometimes referred to by Sydney news-
papers as the capital of a “hillbilly State,”
with “hillbilly” members like Archie Cam-
eron, their space will be promptly filled.
The Sydney fund last week was £lB,OOO,
plus £4200 worth of donations in food ;
the Adelaide fund was £62,500, plus
150,000 surrendered food coupons.
All over S.A. volunteers are working
on events to aid the Food for Britain
appeal. Today there is a public rally at
Adelaide Town Hall; next Sunday is
“Guest from Britain” Sunday, when each
family will set a vacant place and donate
cash into the empty plate ; December 15
is “Sportsman’s Shilling” Saturday; on,
December 19 there are to be street mar-
kets in Adelaide; December 21 is set foi
a State button day. Every publicity
medium in S.A. is giving the appeal full
and free support.
Melbourne has an appeal on, too, but
about all that was heard of it last week
was a reference in the “Argus,” which
itself has collected about £5OOO of the
£34,000 so far in hand, to, the visit of Sir
Henry French, a former permanent secre-
tary of the British Ministry of Food, who
said the British were going even shorter
because of the demands of Europe.
What is wrong with Melbourne and
Sydney?
Melbourne may be awaiting a lead
from the hew Victorian Government; and
it is due to Mr. Cain to note that when
it was announced that Mr. Martin, the
Agent-General-elect, was bearing a gift
of £5OOO from his Government to the
British the Labor leader protested that
the amount was paltry. But Sydney will
get no lead from its “Government,” which
is immersed in plans for Parliamentary
pensions, Wednesday racing and night
“trots,” or from the “Government” at
Canberra, seven of whose 19 Ministers
are from Sydney and thereabouts, and
which is a daisy at evading obligations.
Comparison of Pensions.
Being almost incapable of thought on
any subject other than the nefarious
attacks on its s.-p. monopoly as to
declaration of prices, “S. M. Herald”
could only find an inch or so of print
at the bottom of a column for the state-
ment that the N.S.W. Deputy Premier was
introducing a bill for the payment of
pensions to retired or defeated Assembly-
men: £6 a‘week after nine years’ “con-
tinuous service.” All the same, it set ser-
vicemen talking.
For one thing, it is no particular
mystery that there have been 55 or 56
Labor Assemblymen since the middle of
1941, which, of course, was before
Japan came into the war, and that—
leaving out the few who, as Old Diggers,
fairly earned abstention —not one of them
saw front-line service against the Japs,
who were on Australian territory almost
from the outbreak of hostilities —and still
are.
And there was and is the point of com-
parison with servicemen’s pensions.
A serviceman adjudged “100 p.c. im
capacitated” through a “heart condition,”
tuberculosis or similar illness, and thus
entitled to a “full pension,” is rated at 50
shillings a week, with another 22 shillings
for a wife, if he has one, and nine shil-
lings for each child to the age of 16. If
he can work and if he can get a job, he
is permitted to keep what it brings in.
A serviceman “totally and permanently
incapacitated” is on a “special rate” —
96 shillings a week, plus 22 shillings for
a wife and nine shillings for each child.
If he is short of a limb or an eye there
are also special allowances, not over-
generous. If he uses a crutch there
are a few shillings extra for clothes, which
wear out more quickly.
Of course the “special” rate is restricted
to special cases. A serviceman adjudged
entitled to a pension may be ’awarded
only ss. a week for himself, 2s. (mind
the ha’penny) for the wife and eleven-
pence for a child.
For malaria he gets nothing, unless one.
of the attacks can be proved to have kept
him from work for a time. Then he may
put in for compensation for that particu-
lar period. Anaemia or debility resulting
from malaria may bring him some regular
percentage of the “full pension.”
The R.S.L. wants the full rate lifted to
£6 6s. a fortnight, an increase of 13s. per
week. And it wants to see more liberality
in the granting of pensions, pointing out
that in about 40 p.c. of cases which come
before assessment tribunals on appeal
there are recommendations for increases,
reduction being recommended in less than
one per cent, of appeal cases.
The R.S.L.’s views on the proposal to
give N.S.W. Assemblymen £6 a week on
defeat or retirement after nine years’ “ser-
vice,” have not been sought, but they can
be guessed. No fouler political ramp has
ever been hatched in Australia. The
SUGGESTED BARTER AGREEMENT.
“It is proposed to pay retired or defeated N S.W. Assemblymen £6 a week after nine years’
continuous service. The allowance to the holder of a V.C. is £10 a year.”
“Hey, let’s swap ‘gongs.’”
hatchers must have a very low opinion
of the spirit and intelligence of their
public to imagine that their public will
submit to it.
Our Missing Men.
At the week-end it was stated in Mel-
bourne, on the authority of Mr. Beasley,
acting as Minister of Defence, that 6030
Australian servicemen (3823 Army, 1768
R.A.A.F. and 439 R.A.N.) were still listed
as missing, and that there was “little hope
that rpore than a few would be found
alive.”
To many thousands of Australians this
is the subject of subjects, but they are
fobbed off with scraps of information.
Hence the moving address delivered by
Mr. Sydney Smith, hon. secretary of the
P.-0.-W. Relatives’ Association, from
2FC, but unreported by newspapers which
feed the appetite for starting-price betting.
Mr. Smith, Mrs. Colin Munro and theii
coadjutors have done grand work in a
noble cause.
Since I last talked to you, practically all
rescued prisoners of war have returned to
Australia. There will, of course, be odd
stragglers from both Europe and the Far East
coming in, and mostly those who have re-
mained behind for some special purpose. We
are very disappointed that the authorities have
not yet made any authentic statement regarding
the number of prisoners-of-war who were in
Japanese hands, the number who have been
rescued and repatriated to Australia, the number
of casualties and the number still unaccounted
for. My association asked that we should have
periodical statements. These were not forth-
coming, and we were hoping for a full state-
ment' before this. What is more, we were
hoping that the full statement would be dis-
sected in such a manner as to give next-of-kin
and relatives of prisoners-of-war an idea as
to the numbers from each individual area. We
are still hoping that this information will be
disclosed at an early date.
In my last broadcast I mentioned that there
appeared to be little possibility of any other
survivors being found in Borneo. That has
proved to be correct. Only six men were
rescued from the Sandakan camp.
Of the men who were in Kuching, where
nearly all the officers were transferred from
Sandakan, some died, and those who have re-
turned state that if they had been left in camp
for another three months they also would
have perished from starvation. Even so, they
found documents after surrender indicating
that they were all to have been exterminated
by the , Japanese in about 10 days’ time.
Many relatives who have lost their men in
Borneo have inquired as to how the authorities
obtained the correct dates on which such men
passed beyond. My association has been offi-
cially informed that all the dates were obtained
from official Japanese records; none from
information supplied by recovered prisoners.
As regards men who are still missing in
Amboina and Timor,, the position is still about
the same. And here also we were hoping that
there would have been some official statement
as to the true position before now.
. My association, received a communication
from the Department of the Army stating that
a conference was to be held at headquarters
in Melbourne and that it was hoped a full
official statement would be possible insofar as
missing men were concerned. No statement has
been forthcoming. I am afraid that the powers
that be hardly realise what relatives are
suffering. I venture to remark that those
relatives have suffered more since Japan sur-
rendered than, during the whole of the time
their men were prisoners of war. If they, could
only get something definite it would greatly re-
lieve their feelings; they would know that the
worst had to be accepted. There is nothing
worse than waiting and waiting....
As far as the Rabaul situation is concerned/
it was interesting to learn from newspaper re-
ports that 20 of the 220 Japanese who were
on the prison ship Montevideo Maru reached
land. The vessel was torpedoed by an Allied
submarine near Luzon, Philippines, on July 1,
1942. The report of the sinking and the namqs
of the prisoners of war and civilian internees
who were on board were in the hands of the
Japanese before January 6, 1943, but the
Japanese P.-0.-W. Information Bureau was Still
insisting some little time ago that no prisoners-
of-war had been transferred out' of Rabaul.
.However, on November 4 Major H. S. Wil-
liams, of the Australian Army Directorate of
Prisoners-of-War, received a letter from Lieut ,-
General Tamara, Director of the Japanese
P.-0.-W. Information Bureau, stating that “in-
formation about the loss of 1053 prisoners-pf-
war and civilians on S.S. Montevideo Maru
has not been furnished to the Australian author-
ities. This is sheer dereliction on the part of
bureau, which sincerely expresses its deep re-
grets, and hereby tenders profound apologies.”
What hypocrisy!
There appeared in the Sydney “Morning
Herald” last week a statement from a staff
correspondent at Batavia that Australian officers
frying to establish the fate of more than 2000
Australians missing in Java are giving up hope
of finding any of the men alive. They be-
lieve that urgent steps must be taken if the fate
of many hundreds of missing men is to be
established. He stated that the investigators
were piecing together an amazing story of how
nearly 2000 Australians became guerrillas in
Western Java, and how an A.I.F. captain
organised a widespread intelligence service.
My association immediately asked the author-
ities whether they could supply any information.
The next-of-kin of men who were on H.M.A.S
Perth stilf think that some of them may have
reached the Java coast, and are perhaps among
those mentioned. However, the authorities now
consider that the report is probably a repetition
of an earlier rumor investigated and found
baseless. They add that practically all Aus-
tralians in Java are accounted for, and con-
sider it highly improbable that any large number
is likely to be found there, but the Australian
Inquiry Teams are making further inquiries.
Whilst speaking about the fate of those men
who were on the Perth, and of whom no news
has been received, the association recently asked
the naval authorities why the names of naval
repatriated p.-0.-w. are not published. We
are satisfied that the publication of these names
would relieve to a great extent the minds of
many who have not yet had any final notifica-
tion of the fate of their men. Furthermore,
it would perhaps enable those next-of-kin to
contact men who have returned and who were
friendly with their men, and could perhaps
give them some definite information. The war
is over, and to us there does not appear to be
any reason why the information asked for
should not be published.
As mentioned iti a previous broadcast, rny
association was very disappointed regarding the
non-publication of names of civilian internees
being repatriated to Australia. This non-publica-
tion caused a lot of worry to those relatives who
have been waiting for years for their men to
return. , , _
Information of interest to those whose men
have been missing since the fall of Singapore,
and whose whereabouts were unknown, has
just been received by the association from the
authorities. It states that during the period
of their captivity, the staff of the Second
Echelon A.I.F. Malaya endeavored by inquir-
ing from other prisoners to collect all possible
information regarding those who were unac-
counted for, but beyond the report of “miss-
ing,” shortly prior to capitulation, no other
information was received. Australian War
Graves Units are working in the area in which
the operations of 1942 were undertaken m
Malaya, in addition to other searchers, but it
will be appreciated that their task is one of
great difficulty owing to the nature of the
country in which the fighting took place, and
the lapse of time since then. Inquiries are
still being continued regarding these missing
men, and relatives can be assured that when
any authentic information is received they will
be promptly advised by the authorities.
In conclusion, I wish to advise relatives that
if they require any information or have any
problems to solve, they should not hesitate to
write to their State branch or to the head-
quarters of the association, Cricket House, 254
George-street, Sydney.
Old Cricketer's New Act.
Allegations of “irregularities” in the
Tasmanian Forestry Department are to
form the subject of an inquiry by a main-
land Judge with a royal commission. They
were made by the old international
cricketer Joe Darling, who has been a
member of the Legislative Council for
24 of his 75 years, and who says of him-
self “I don’t belong to any party. Nation-
alist or Labor ; I belong to a party which
is not now in existence the Country
party.”
Mr. Darling began by asserting that
the Labor Government had “wasted more
than £lOOO in trying to avoid a royal com-
mission” (a reference to several inquiries,
the last by a lawyer, at which, he com-
plained, sworn evidence had not been
taken). He then demanded a royal-
commission inquiry and came out with
sweeping charges, which seem to be
covered by -the terms of reference:
(1) Alleged irregularities in the Forestry
Department referred to in the report of
Mr. F. C. Burbury, dated August 24,
1945;
(2) Any matters in relation to the
'administration of the Forestry Depart-
ment .... and any matters referred to by
Mr. Darling in the Legislative Council
on November 17;
(3) The question whether any Minister
“practically made a gift of 6000 acres of
timber land to A. G. Newman, Melbourne
timber man, and some of his friends,” and
all matters connected with the sale of land
to A. G. Newman in or about 1937;
(4) The question whether A. G. Newman
made a gift of £5OO to the Minister of
Forests (Lieut.-Colonel Taylor) under the
guise of a wager on a certain horse in the
Grand National, and all matters connected
therewith;
(5) The question whether Mr. E. N.
West, M.H.A., accepted money gifts from
a Melbourne timber firm on behalf of the
Tasmanian Labor party with a view to
securing favored treatment in the grant of
forest leases or licences;
(6) The question whether it was a
common practice for any Minister of
Forests to accept bribes.
A previous Minister of Forests, though
not in 1937, was Mr. D’Alton, who in
1943 was appointed Commonwealth High
Commissioner to New Zealand. Having
on several occasions been criticised on
the score of his administration of the
Forestry Department, he will no doubt
welcome the opportunity of giving
evidence.
The bill for the royal commission was
supported on both sides of the House,
Opposition-Leader Baker saying that the
Government had “not only acted wisely
but in the only way it could.” Mr. West
said “Not one penny has been received
by the Tasmanian section of the A.L.P.
from sawmilling interests.” Lieut.-
Colonel Taylor offered to pay his own
costs if he lost, provided Mr. Darling paid
his costs if he lost, either loser to
“walk out of the political life of this com-
munity with shame.” Premier Cosgrove
addressed a similar challenge, for his own
part, to the M.L.C. On the subject of
costs, however, he pronounced it un-
reasonable that Ministers should “not
only have to defend themselves against
charges of bribery but find £6OO or £7OO
out of their own pockets for the privilege
of exonerating themselves,” and he asked
Parliament to provide £5OOO for costs
and expenses, which Parliament did.
Of matters now sub judice there can, of
course be no discussion, but obviously the
general question of Parliamentary privi-
lege will have to receive attention. Abso-
lute privilege was right enough in days
when members required protection against
the malice of kings and aristocrats. In
notorious cases like those of Mountjoy,
M.H.R., who defamed the secretary of
the Sane Democracy League, and a lady,
and Aikens* M.L.A., who assailed the
reputation of Dr. Cilento, it is citizens
who require protection, and protection
they have none. Yet even a committee
of privilege, to act as a brake and to exer-
cise investigatory powers, would be some-
thing.


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE-BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
99-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Uudfordj Manager.
Telephone BWIB3I for particulars
Australian Nature Stories, by Ronald K.
Munro, illustrated with a wonderful collec-
tion of nature photographs. 10/6 (post. 4d.).
This is one® of the most delightful books
ever published on Wild Nature’s ways in
Australia.
NEW BOOKS BY FRANK CLUNE.
Pacific Parade. A trip over and around the
Pacific Ocean. 6/- (post. 3d.).
Captain Starlight. First mentioned in “Rob-
bery Under Arms.” Paper Cover. 1/6
(post. 3d.).
The Forlorn Hope. An exploring trip in the
north-west coast of Australia. Paper Cover.
1/6 (post. 3d.).
A HANDY BOOK.
Ten in One Self-pronouncing Dictionary of
Basic Language, in French, German, Spanish,
Italian, Russian, Japanese, Portuguese,
Chinese, Arabic, Esperanto. 3/9 (post. 3d.).
About Education, by C. B. M. Joad. For
the ordinary man or woman. 12/- (post. 4d.).
Leonardo Da Vinci. His Life and Pictures,
by R. L. Douglas. 38/- (post. 6d.).
The Son of Heaven. The problem of the
Mikado, by Willard Price. 12/6 (post. 3d.).
NEW AND IMPORTANT BOOKS
Good Intentions, by Ogden Nash. The latest
verses of the humorist, the story teller, the
philosopher, as witty and barbed as ever.
19/6 (post. id.).
With Wingate in Burma. Thrilling adventures
by David Halley. 9/- (post. 3d.).
The Miracle of Life. Life in the sea, on the
land and In the air. Over 300 illustrations.
120,000 words. 12/- (post. 1/-).
Little Reviews Anthology. Stories, poetry,
essays and criticism taken from twenty-one
Journals. 13/9 (post. id.).
Tanka in the East. A spiritedly written
account of the adventures of the 9th Aus-
tralian Divisional Cavalry Regiment in Syria,
Palestine and Egypt. 12/6 (post. id.).
The Winston Dictionary. Over 100,000 words
defined. 3000 illustrations. 1260 pages
printed In large, clear type, with atlas of
the world (16 pages in colour). 1945 edition.
Wonderful value. 28/- (post. 1/6).
The Philosophy of Bertrand Bussell. This
modern thinker is critically examined in this
work by twenty-one foremost contemporary
philosophers and scientists. 826 pages. 38/-
(post. 1/6).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD.. 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Do you need a
Jlpnit/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
No coal is to be mined in N. S. Wales,
and for the little raised to the surface — 1
production had already fallen about 20
p.c. this year—there will be no ships. It
means that there will be no jobs for hun-
dreds of thousands ; no housing for the
houseless ; no lighting or power, no trains
or trams, except as savagely-rationed
emergency services. And all because
there is no industrial law for Communist
wreckers, who knew from the moment
the “Government” released Ratliff and
Thomas, following it up by the exemption
of Wells (Coalminers), Elliott (Seamen),
Hughes (Clerks), Thomson (Building
Trades) and all other Communist “secre-
taries” and “organisers” from military
service that the “Government” had no
guts.
“Arguing” against compulsory military
training at the Federal A.L.P. conference,
Cameron (the Senator from Melbourne —
not the Old Digger from South Australia)
let it out that “when conscription was
introduced by Mr. Curtin” it was “merely
to placate criticism in America.” So that
was the way of it. To please America!
Doubtless observing the strings tied to
“conscription,” America, judging by its
newspapers, was not a bit pleased. Papers
like the Chicago “Tribune” were distinctly
nasty.
Put it to the credit of young Beazley,
from Fremantle, that he spoke up stoutly
for obligatory military training at the
Federal A.L.P. conference. He said “an
adequate army” would be needed to
defend the White Australia policy, and
that young Australians would be better
off in training camps than in s.-p. shops.
Rebuking Curtin’s successor for taking
the manly and patriotic side, a certain
S. J. Lawn denied that young Australians
frequented s.-p, shops. And Lawn comes
from South Australia where shop book-
makers battened on youths and women
till Playford wiped out the blots on the
name and appearance of his State —
though he has weakened to the extent of
permitting betting shops to be restored
in country towns by local option.
Saying that “the weakness of American
foreign policy has trapped the nation
into two world wars,” and that “a
third is in the making,” Major-General
Patrick Hurley tossed in his job as U.S.
Ambassador at Chungking. He added
that U.S. policy in Asia had been sabo-
taged by State Department officials who
openly advised the Communists to block
unification of their army with the army
of Chiang “unless they were given con-
trol,” and who, recalled at his instance,
were “placed in the State Department as
my supervisors and as advisers to General
MacArthur.” Maorilanders formed a
high opinion of the general when he was
stationed in their capital. From Welling-
ton he came to Australia to charter ships
to run the blockade to the Philippines—
one of the many war stories, and not the
least heroic, which remain to be told.
Washington must take a serious view
of the situation in China and Manchuria,
which “liberated” country has been the
scene of wholesale Soviet looting under
cover of an iron censorship. Taey are
sending General Marshall to Chungking
as the President’s special envoy, with am-
bassadorial rank. If it is possible for
any one man to educe order from chaos
in that quarter Marshall will do the job.
As an organiser of victory he ranks with
Carnot, and all his reports to Congress
have borne the remark of supreme ability.
It is a sign of the times that there were
22 candidates for the Liberal nomination
in Neutral Bay, the late Weaver’s elec-
torate. Had the vacancy occurred two
years ago, or even last year, when middle-
class electors were still dazzled by Labor
promises, never fulfilled and incapable of
fulfilment, the number of aspirants would
have been no embarrassment. Neutral
Bay has never exactly been a Labor elec-
torate, but the same was true of Bondi,
Coogee and Randwick, which have twice
returned Labor candidates—though those
worthies will never qualify for the pro-
jected pension of £6 per week after nine
years’ “service.”
When an Australian Minister, Com-
monwealth or State, is 'defeated in his
constituency, he has scarcely any chance
of winning another at a by-election ; and
not only because by-elections are few
and far between. Things are different in
Britain, as witness the success of Churchill
Ministers Harold Macmillan and Brendan
Bracken in districts other than those
which rejected them in July. Bracken’s
majority in Bournemouth was unex-
pectedly small. It was thought in some
quarters that Churchill was grooming him
as a possible successor, but electors don’t
seem to care for the clever provocative
young man.
N.S.W, “Labor” Ministers are alleged
to be considering ways of stopping book-
making on trotting and greyhound races.
As if they would stop it.
McKell, backing off in horror from a
suggestion that compulsory use of the
secret ballot, provided for in his crowd’s
own Arbitration law, would prevent strikes,
protested that “the practical difficul-
ties” were “insurmountable,” Then Mair
reminded him that the printers’ strike,
which raged for ten weeks, fizzled out
when a ballot was held, there being a
thumping majority in favor of going back
to work. McKell should change his name
by deed poll to McFeeble,
“Avon” on a political rumpus:
Maoriland got itself properly worked up
over the abolition of the “country quota.”
This is a provision that in determlining electorates
a substantial percentage is added to the popu-
lation of rural districts. This percentage was
fixed at 33J p.c. in 1881, when the system
started; reduced to 18 p.c. in 1887, and raised
to 28 p.c. in 1889. There it stood till last
month when the Fraser Government ended it.
There was a stiff fight, in Parliament and out-
side, embittered by publication of 1945 census
figures showing increases of city populations
and decreases —serious in some districts—-of
country populations. Defenders of the quota
pointed to the three-division systems of West-
ralia and Victoria, and some of them claimed
that the principle was recognised in the U.S.A.
and Canada. Farmers’ Union meetings all over
the country passed bitter resolutions, and the
Union’s executive asked the_ G.-G., Sir Cyril
Newall, to veto the Bill or dissolve Parliament.
All in vain. The Bill passed its third reading
by 40 votes to 34.
Most Americans must now regret that
the long-drawn-out deportation proceed'
ings against the “Australian” Bridges
failed in the end. They were launched on
the ground that Bridges was an alien
member of a conspiracy to overthrow
American institutions. He denied that he
was a Communist, and the Supreme Court
decided in his favor by a majority verdict.
Now the fellow has followed the party
line in the matter of “our Indernesian
comrades,” and has further outraged
American opinion by going from San
Francisco to New York to work up a
waterfront strike, in the process trying
to wrest control of the New York long-
shoremen from their anti-Communist
leader Ryan. The “Saturday Evening
Post” once described him as “a typical
colonial” in appearance. He looks much
more like a Whitechapel Jew.
With apparent seriousness Menzies said
in Melbourne that Ward might become
P.M. in “about 15 years’ time,” when
“aged and mellow,” and “probably Right-
Wing.” But the man, if spared, would be
rising 63 then and he couldn’t take the
position if available, being so highminded.
His too-old-at-60 “principle” would for-
bid.
There is no hue and cry nowadays
against one of those “guilty” men of
Munich, Sir John Anderson. Before
Chamberlain picked him for the Minis-
try, in which he was to wind up an excel-
lent Chancellor of the Exchequer, he was
a scientist of distinction. When the atomic
bomb fell he was named chairman of an
atomic energy committee. Lately, at
the P.M.’s invitation, he crossed the
Atlantic for the Attlee consultations with
Truman 1 and Mackenzie King. In some
quarters Sir John Anderson is first
favorite for the succession to Churchill,
Eden’s prestige having suffered because
of his preference for Tito, who has come
out in his true colors as ferociously anti-
British.
These politicians and their war-time
departments are always coming to light
with “points.” Post-war Reconstruction
is hiring acres of space in the newspapers
to proclaim its Ten Points, being
perhaps too modest to call them Ten
Commandments. The “first of a series
of advertisements designed to tell every
member of the community the plans
made for re-establishment of servicemen
and -women” came out when half a mil-
lion civilians were facing loss of work
through Communist-led strikes, organised
in the face of a “Government” too weak
to stop them, and when, from the same
cause, “planning” for the employment
and housing of servicemen, as well as all
transport, fuelling, lighting and export-
trade programmes were being knocked
endways. What timing!
The suggestion of W. McMahon Ball
that Australia should receive 50,000
women and children as refugees from
Java ought to be accepted. If this number
couldn’t be absorbed it would be a reflec-
tion on Australian capacity for organisa'
tion. Many of them would want to stay
and send for their menfolk, and there is
no better immigrant than a Dutchman.
But all Canberra says it can manage is
6000.
On the evidence of a survivor from
H.M.A.S. ‘Perth, the “West Australian”
relates a dreadful story of massacre by
“dirty natives gone mad with bloodlust.”
About 320 of his shipmates landed on the
West Java coast after the warship was lost.
Of “these exhausted, naked and partly
wounded Australians 19 were killed by
West Java Indonesians,” together with 60
Americans from the U.S. cruiser Hous-
ton. “Our Indernesian comrades!”
The Queensland end of the A.C.T.U.
wants to establish three radio stations
north, south and central, to broadcast
“Labor” propaganda. For the expensive
proposition, extraction of £2 a year from
adult unionists and £1 from juniors and
women is “suggested.” Reasons were
given by one Treasy, from Mackay:
It’s an insult that our children have to
listen to tales like radio’s “Harris Family.”
Harris is probably a Jew with a big nose;
the woman a dirty thing; the children a
couple of dills. My young daughter listens
fo Harris running down the Communists. 1
Then the Little dill kid wants to know
why Daddy doesn’t like the Communists.
....We will not take it any longer.
Any Queensland unionist “asked” to pay
£2 a year, in addition to the current
private tax, is given one guess as to where
the proposal originated. «
Whether a pilgrim’s progress from Aus-
tralian Minister to Russia to Victorian
Attorney-General is promotion or de-
motion depends on the point of view.
William Slater, M.L.A. in Victoria since
1917, after war service, went to Russia in
1942 to break the ground for an Austra-
lian Legation. He couldn’t stand it long
and came back to political obscurity—
he had prudently retained his Assembly
seat —out of which he has broken to re-
gain a portfolio which is no novelty to
him —he was Attorney-General in the
Prendergast Labor Ministry of ”2% and
again in the Hogan Labor Ministry a few
years later, as well as A.-G. in the short-
lived Cain Ministry of Sept., 1943. Un-
like Maloney, who succeeded him at or
near the Kremlin, Slater kept pretty quiet
about Russia. There were no undiplo-
matic incidents of the kind Maloney cqn-
jured from the vasty deep when he spoke
“privately” to the Parliamentary Labor
party in Canberra.
Commonwealth Health Department is
appointing a young and active doctor
with special knowledge of tropical dis-
eases for patrol duty amongst nomadic
tribes in the N.T. —a sound and valuable
move. Hitherto too remote and elusive
for systematic health supervision fron
mission or Government hospital services
these nomads constitute a potential reser
voir for leprosy and other diseases. In
other days they were scourged with small-
pox, the infection having been introduced
amongst them by Malayan visitors during
the trepang season. Apart from sue!
risks, systematic medical supervision wil
bring about much-needed improvement in
their general health and conditions of
living.
Recent revelations of the appallingly
unhygienic way liquor is consumed in
Melbourne hotel bars drew the comment
from city health officer Dr. Dale that he
expected conditions to be bad until drink-
ing habits had been altered. 'The chair-
man of the Health Commission added the
remark that bars were sties. Lud Mayor
Connelly wants beer gardens, \vhere men
can take their families and drink in de-
cency and comfort. A golden oppor-
tunity for the new Government to do
something concrete. But no Victorian
political party has ever dared to touch
the subject with anything shorter than an
electric-light pole.
In what it calls a “rough survey” the U.S.
Soil Conservation Service concludes that
“there is no longer an abundance of good
productive land to feed and clothe the
peoples of the world ; in fact, there is not
a single acre to waste,” Australia is one
of the worst eroded countries of the lot.
Thinking no doubt that Australia should
get a bit of recompense for its annual
expenditure of £30,000 on the Lega-
tion that Dr. Evatt set up in Moscow,
which has had relays of Labor politicians
and Pink professors and at least one Com-
munist of military age from these parts,
the editor of the Adelaide “Advertiser”
tried to get permission to visit the Lega-
tion and the city surrounding it. His
account of his experiences, condensed:
I inquired of the Soviet Legation at Can-
berra and was told it was best to act
through the Russian Embassy at London.
The explanation given there and all along
the line was that the application had to be
referred to Moscow. An official of Aus-
tralia House called at the Embassy with my
credentials and passport. The passport was
returned with three forms and a request
for a personal visit. I made the visit, with
forms, arid was told “These will be sent to
Moscow —they will decide.” After nearly
seven weeks without a reply I have written
withdrawing the application for the visa.
The Adelaide Jnan wound up by mor-
dantly quoting what Stalin said to the
U.S. Leftist Senator Pepper: “Judge the
Soviet Union objectively —know us and
judge us as we are.”
Senator Ashley, the Minister for
Supply, has announced that severy
motor-vehicle owner, with the exception
of those who use their cars or cycles
for “pleasure,” can now have their tyres
retreaded. The exception is unfair.
“Pleasure” motorists, rigorously restricted
by petrol rationing, haven’t worn their
tyres down, and many now would save
themselves the cost of a new set could
they have a retread. And a run out into
the country at the week-end is something
more than “pleasure” for worn wives
and mothers who are denied the use of
the family car for hauling foodstuffs and
have to haul loads of eatables from shop
to shop and thence homeward, per foot.
It is doubtful if anyone is shot at more
severely than the private motorist
who, though limited to about 70 miles a
month for years, still has to pay
thumping registration fees and compul-
sory third-party risk insurance and often
has to resort to bribes to get minor
repairs done.


“WE’VE BEEN PALS TOGETHER IN ALL KINDS OF WEATHER.”
"The British Pacific Fleet is shifting camp from Sydney to Hong Kong.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
”Maleesh”: I’ve always had a faint
curiosity regarding these prompt and
efficient Yamcee divorces for the rich.
“Time” now informes me how the pro-
cess works. Barbara Hutton was brush-
ing off Cary Grant, husband No. 3, on
grounds of “mental cruelty.” Asked
to describe the details of his fiendishness,
she testffied:
Mr. Grant and I did not have the same
friends. On more than one occasion when
I gave dinner parties he would not come
downstairs, but would have dinner in bed.
When he did come down he was obviously
not amused, and naturally it was embar-
rassing.
“How did this affect you?” the Judge in-
quired. “It made me nervous.” “Did you
require the services of a doctor?” “Yes,
I did.” “That’s enough,” the Judge said,
“decree granted.” The whole business
took four minutes, after which the lady
posed for photographers.
* * H* jfc
“Erb’s Missus”: When survivors from
the cruiser Perth were washed up on the
beach in Java a number were murdered
by natives and the others transferred to
Burma prison camps. The lads took with
them the white ensign from their ship
and secreted it in the mud walls of a hos-
pital sterilising furnace. When the sur-
render came it was taken out and flown
proudly. A Townsville (Q.) Digger,
Driver G. Glenwright, brought it back
home with him.
* * * *
“Stroller”: News was made in Queen-
street, Brisbane, the other day. A woman
was going one way with a two-year-old
in tow, led by that modern harness copied
from the kennels. Another was coming
from the opposite direction, leading a
furry abomination known as a lapdog.
The leashes became entangled. There
was a mixture of baby and pup. The
baby yelled, the hair-mat yelped; the
mothers danced and screamed. The child
was the first to recover: he —or she —
gathered the wheezing monstrosity in its
arms, hugged it tight and sank its baby
teeth into the poodle’s ear. Then a Solo-
mon in blue arrived. The incident ended
without apologies.
* * * *
“Hist” on rare Australian stamps:
“Craiser’s” par. (B. 21/11 / ’45) sent me to
my catalogue to try to identify the two Van
Diemen’s Land stamps which paid two people’s
fares and exes, to England. Tasmania labelled
its stamps “Van Diemen’s Land” up to about
1870. The first two stamps, an oblong Id.
blue and sextangular 4d. orange, both quaintly
crude, are priced up to £25 used, £B5 unusued
and £l4 and £4O respectively. They were re-
placed by handsome engraved stamps with a
diademed portrait of the young Queen Vic-
toria. An unusued 2d. emerald green of this
type, without a watermark, is worth £lOO or more.
Actually Australia has only one stamp recog-
nised as among the world’s classic rarities —
the Westralian 4d. blue of 1854 with the swan
inverted. It’s valued at about £5OO. There
is a fine specimen in the £150,000 collection
bequeathed to the nation by the late Miss
Vickery, of Strathfield 01-S.W.). Next best is
a N.S.W. 2d. blue stamp of 1856 (Queen
Victoria’s head facing left), watermarked with
the figure 8. In those days it was the practice
for the figure of value of a stamp to be water-
marked in the paper. In this case the printer
ran off a few 2d. stamps on paper intended for
eightpennies. The South Aus. 4d. stamp of 1879,
printed in deep ultramarine blue when it
should have been in- purple, is worth big
money. Later S.A. used a big rectangular Bd.
stamp which can be found with the word
spelled “EIGNT.” In Victoria in 1885 a few
4d. stamps were printed in mauve instead of
magenta. Only seven copies are known, all
unused, and the catalogue puts them at £2OO.
Queensland’s priciest stamp is the 2d. of its first
issue, 1860 —prior to that N.S.W. stamps were
used —a blue, with a large star watermark,
and no perforations. It will fetch £l6O un-
used; £25 to £B5 used. There are no rarities
in the top class among Australian Common-
wealth stamps, but a few freak variations from
normal cost anything up to twenty or thirty
pounds.
* * * *
“Jandow”: It isn’t necessary to blame
German cruelty on Nietzsche and the
Nazis. Take their best-known children’s
book Struwwelpeter, translated into almost
all tongues. Each story concerns a
naughty child who met with a horrible
fate. Conrad sucked his thumb. Sud-
denly in * rushed the “long, red-legged
scissor man,” a hair-raising creature, who
scissored off both thumbs. One funny
picture depicts this scene, with much
dripping blood, while in the next Conrad
forlornly displays thumbless hands. An-
other merry little tale concerns Harriet,
“Sorry, madam, but he's on holidays just now."
who played with matches and so was
burnt to death;
So she was burnt with all her clothes
And arms and hands and teeth and nose.
There is a picture of two cats weeping
over the shoes, all that was left of Har-
riet. We meet here our old friend
Augustus, the lad who was allergic to
soup. His fate is aesthetically illustrated
by a drawing of a grave, on which repose
a cross and a bowl of soup. The only
really bad egg was Frederick, who wrung
the necks of birds, pulled off flies’ wings,
flogged his dogs and also his nurse. He
escaped with nothing worse than a dog-
bite, from which he recovered.
* * * *
“Visitor”: There is the usual strong
difference of opinion in Adelaide City
Council about the Uni. proposal to
enlarge the slice of the city’s parklands
which it holds for sporting purposes. The
opposition says that this is just one more
step in “filching the people’s birthright.”
The claimants say the new bit is npw
used for parking cows, and is traversed
by an unsightly drain. The drain is to be
piped and covered, and the rough ground
transformed into a playing field that will
be a real asset to the city, without any
charge being made to the public. The
indications are that the grant will be
allowed.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Pitt-street”; Not receiving within 20
hours an answer to a “reply-paid” tele-
gram I set about inquiries. Now I’m
prepared to admit I made an initial mis-
take in ringing 8075, but that was the
first number I saw on the advice page
of the ’phone book. 8075 said I wanted
8Y4219 ; 8Y4219 said I wanted 8Y4217 ;
8Y4217 had gone up the road or some-
thing, but I hung on grimly till someone
answered. “Aw,’’said 8Y4217, “you’ve got
no chance here. This is 8Y4317. We can’t
help you.” Frantically I gulped “Well,
could you switch me through to the right
number?” “Hang on,” said 8Y4317.
Time passed, small bells rang, teeth
rattled in the distance, a low monotone
of whistling began, things buzzed, some-
thing went click and —“You ring 8040
and ask for extension 217.” “Thanks.”
8040 got extension 217. “Oh,” said 217,
“you want 455.” More noises off and a
wait, during which I hung grimly to the
’phone, prepared to die by it if neces-
sary. “Hullo, this is 458. Yes?” “I asked
for 455.” “Sorry, this is 458.” “Wait,”
I shrieked, “don’t hang up. Don’t, for
pity’s sake, leave me dangling here. I’m
weary, hungry and desperate. Through
this window is a forty-foot drop to the
pavement. The temptation is almost too
much. If you leave me I’ll never resist
it.” “Heavens!” gasped 458, “what
can I do for you, old chap?” A minute
later, restored to calmness, I resumed the
even tenor of my ways.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Savic.”: I won’t have “Traintrav.”
heaving mud at the Victorian and S.A.
rail authorities (B. 28/11/ ’45). That
Adelaide-Melbourne express has been
running hours late for months, because
shortage of N.S.W. coal f plus greatly in-
creased passenger traffic since the end of
the war has necessitated the desperate
officials piling more coaches on to over-
loaded locos. In both States something
like a miracle has been performed in face
of the never-ending N.S.W. coal strikes
and recurring shortages of fuel in keep-
ing trains running at all. If “Traintrav.”
wants to experience the bottomless pit
of rail travel let him try N.S.W., the State
where the coal should, but doesn’t, come
from.
♦ * * *
“V. Cluse”: In aid of some charity a
fair opened up in a park near our subbub.
with merry-go-rounds, chocolate wheels
and all the doings. Jirnsen and his missus
reached the hoop-la stand, where they
stood and watched the attempts of the
customers to drop the springy bamboo
rings over sundry small articles of glass-
ware, cakes of coap, and the like. Then
Mrs. J. said “Oh look at that little
green vase! It’s lovely. Just I want
for the pedestal in my room.” Jirnsen
bought six rings for a shilling and tried
for the vase. He thought he had it once
and bought another shillingsworth. When
a ring lay all but round the wooden
base on which the vase stood, Jirnsen
frowned. Then, before he could be
stopped, he slipped under the guard rope
and tried that ring on the base. It
wouldn’t fit. The stallholders concen-
trated on him and Jirnsen raised a mighty
howl of protest, struggling strongly. In
a minute the rest of the fair was deserted.
Jirnsen and his attackers upended the
hoop-la tabl6 and there was noise, dust,
profanity, fury until the Law arrived
and pulled them apart, Through a swell-
ing mouth, Jirnsen made his complaint,
the Law tried to fit a ring over the wooden
base (the vase having disintegrated in the
turmoil), and when he couldn’t do it the
crowd began to roar. Hurriedly the
conductor of the racket fished out another
green vase and shoved it at Jirnsen, who,
disliking this notoriety and having no
desire to be a public hero, made off. His
missus he found on the edge of the crowd
and they went home. There Jirnsen
turned the vase over and saw faintly on
its bottom the legend “Made in Japan.”
♦ * * *
“C. 8.”: A wandering correspondent in
Malaya found it worth while cabling to
Melbourne the other day that the “long-
est bar in the world” had been opened in
Singapore—9oft. The Workers’ Club
bar at Mildura is 291 ft, long, and there
are many other Australian drink-counters
that refute the Singapore “record.”
“Pip” on the heart-sickness of deferred
hope;— . ,
Most nerve-racking time in the soldier s
career is while waiting for news of demob.
Rumors fly thick and fast, with points, priorities
and transport the sole topics of conversation.
Getting into the army was easy, but getting
out is a tortuous and an involved process.^ The
pitfalls are unlimited. Being put on the “key-
personnel” list is about the worst setback, and
the soldier breathes a silent prayer every night
that he’ll keep off it, for once the army pays
a man the compliment of making him essential
for the post-war effort his points are worth
nothing. Transport comes next in the line
of difficulties, with New Guinea as forgotten
and remote as Pitcairn Island. Rumors of
boats due to arrive sweep through the camp
every half-hour. Everybody seems to have a
friend in Sydney with the dinkum oil on ship-
ping movement's. The rumors come but the
ships don’t. To the war of nerves, though,
the politicians make the best contributions. On
the same day four of them announce respec-
tively that all troops will be home for Christ-
mas, that no troops will be home for Christmas,
that June, 1946, will see everybody home for
sure, and that troops will be in the Islands
another two years. Most units have a Demob.
Sweepstakes—a deener in and the first bloke out
gets the lot. The date the unit will move is
another object of a bob-in, the man whose
guess is closest collecting the kitty. The
chaps with fewer than 189 points are more or
less reconciled to being away for a few months
yet, but the 189 and overs are eternally jittery
and difficult to live with. “I’ll Be Home for
Christmas” is the radio hit in the Islands,
with a popular parody on it beginning “I’ll
Be Here for Christmas.” Most confident bettor
in our show is Bluey—the date he’s picked for
the crowd to shift being December 1, 1946.
He will probably collect, too, the way things
aren’t going. It was Bluey, incidentally, who
once compared Headquarters with Wirth’s
Circus—fewer tents but more clowns.
* * * *
“Petermac”: A crowd of beribboned
A.I.F. veterans who were lounging on the
grass inside the General Details Depot,
making blasphemous remarks about
Forde and sundry others who were delay-
ing their discharge, rose as one man to
attention when a squad of fresh-faced
young recruits marched in. The rookies
and veterans faced each other across the
parade ground, the rookies embarrassedly
conscious of their new uniforms, lobster-
red boots and hats that as yet adamantly
refused to conform to correct Digger
dints. Parade formalities over, much
chiacking was exchanged and cries of
“You’ll be sorry!” “You poor blank-
ards,” echoed across the square. « Then
some of the hardheads amongst the
veterans decided to dispose profitably of
gear they wouldn’t be needing much
longer. Soon, pugarees, gaiters, hats and
money belts were being snapped up for
cash and accompanying free advice
concerning Army “lurks” mentally tucked
away for future reference. Beaming
happily and with a much more soldierly
bearing the New Diggers then marched
out in their new accoutrements, heartened
by the encouraging cheers of the Not-so-
Old Diggers.
* * * *
“Tiki”: Maoriland’s CJ. (Michael
Myers) raised his expressive eyebrows till
they met his wig when a policeman giv-
ing evidence in a criminal case said he
had asked one of the accused some ques-
tions, and had then told the man he was
not compelled to make self-incriminating
statements. The constable explained to
the Judge that he didn’t think it his duty
to warn a prisoner “until he said some-
thing incriminating.” The constable’s
senior sergeant further elevated the judi-
cial eyebrows by declaring that his prac-
tice was to give a warning only when he
had decided in his own mind that the
questionee was guilty. The C.J. corrected
these misapprehensions, remarking that
the sooner the correct procedure (to warn
before questioning) was understood by
every police officer, right up to the Com-
missioner, the better it would be for the
administration of the principles on which
British justice is administered.
* * * *
“Redouble”: With the onset of peace
some of the old favorite “silly-season”
topics are creeping back into the news-
papers. From Scotland, from the U.S.A.
and from Maoriland have come reports
of bridge games in which one player has
been dealt a complete suit. The mathe-
matical odds against such a happening
are so high (635,013,559,600 to 1) that if
the whole of Britain’s population old
enough to do so played ten hands of
bridge a day the one-suit hand could be
expected to crop up, on an average, once
every 20 years. The frequency with
which the one-suiter is reported t when
the world is in a mood to hear about
such trivialities suggests that in some of
these cases Lady Luck has a little extrane-
ous assistance. As to the possibility of
all four players receiving each a com-
plete suit (a phenomenon several times
reported), it can be demonstrated that if
the entire population of the globe, in-
cluding babes at the breast, devoted its
whole waking time to bridge-playing, get-
ting through 100 hands a day, the “com-
plete four suits” lay-out might be expected
to occur once in a thousand billion years.
CHIFLEY’S COUNSEL.
“Mr. Chifley warned the public that lavish spend-
ing, especially at Christmas-time, would tend to de-
stroy the price-control system and force costs sky-
high. People should not buy things that were not
indispensable.”
A timely warning and a word in season,
Though hardly seasonable, some may chide
Who hold that buttoning pockets up is treason
To the traditions of the Christmastide.
Still it should constitute a weighty reason
For putting prodigality aside
If once you realise the more you buy
The more you’re helping costs to soar sky-high.
All right to tell us, Ben, to jib at buying
Things that are not a pure necessity,
The difficulty is in specifying
What such things are —or what they ought to
be—
A point on which there’s little use in trying '
To get a bare half-dozen to agree.
Such widely differing views exist on what
Is indispensable and what is not.
What isn’t really needful’s dear at any
Price, there’s a good old Latin fag lays down,
Distinctly overvalued at a penny,
Outrageously expensive at a brown;
A sentiment worth pondering by many
Who blew their bunce in city or in town,
But doubtless viewed with inexpressible
Disgust by those whose business is to sell.
What would they do if nobody should place his
Dough down, except to meet some urgent
need, _
The cinemas" the fielders at the races,
The petted boxers of the bulldog breed,
The brewers and the beaming Bonifaces,
The luxury trades in general? What, indeed,
If your advice were followed, one would say,
You’d have a heavy reckoning to pay.
Still, for a pious hope, it’s well worth noting.
But you might bear in mind how often, Ben,
The sight of means to do ill deeds (I’m quoting
Shakspeare of course) makes ill deeds done.
And when
You’ve shown some indication of devoting
Your time to make such Sights less frequent
then
Censures at lavish spending that you sling
Will carry a much more convincing ring.
N.s-w.
T. THE R.


“Bo”: Sydney advertisements are again
boldly announcing the impending arrival
of Santa —now happily de-Dedmanised
at his old stands. The age of speed has
caught up with the old gent., whose sleigh
is now rubber-tyred and mechanised, and
whose itinerary is announced by air grams.
Synthetic ziffs have been shaken free of
mothballs, and the heroes who don them
and the clobber traditional to the benevo-
lent old party are preparing to do their
annual sweat —and it is a sweat. The last
ersatz Santa I struck —in a department
store a few days after Pearl Harbor —was
surreptitiously dabbing with a handker-
chief underneath the mass of horsehair
"I never see that before, mate —five ’ighest cards, all o’ the one shape and
color, in the one ’and."
festooning his features. As the three-
year-old whose head he had just kindly
patted passed out of earshot with his
mother, Santa looked at me and mut-
tered despairingly “I bet I’ve lost half a
stone today, and by the time I’m out of
this get-up the pubs’ll be shut!” My
heart goes out to the head-patting heroes
these times of beer drought.
* * * *
“ Jamwood”; Though bilge about
“socialites” and Hollywood actors and
actorines has always given me a pain in
the neck, I am glad the bilge-papers have
taken to portraying their favorites feed-
ing at dinner-dance joints and the like.
Glad, because it is a real test of manners,
though not of personal attractions (the
retoucher being always behind the scenes),
and it finds the subjects wanting, with
very rare exceptions. Most of them look
silly, even those who don’t give you the
impression of being sozzled.
« * * *
“Pawang”: A formidable array of
“dont’s” with regard to children’s pro-
grammes are included in regulations
recently framed by the Federation of
Commercial Broadcasting Stations in
Australia. Amongst things don’ted are
obscene jokes, songs and oaths ; sacri-
legious expressions; the use of the name
of the Deity except in a reverent
fashion or as part of classical works ;
statements that might be considered
offensive on racial or religious grounds;
any remarks that could be interpreted as
cocking snooks at the Royal family, Mr.
Attlee or Mr. Chifley; stories that don't
inculcate respect for law and order, adult
authority, good morals and clean living,
and any that contain suggestions of tor-
ture, horror (present or impending) and
anything supernatural or likely to arouse
fear. This reminds me of the era in-
augurated by the eminent Dr. Bowdler
who set out to deodorise Shakspeare and
whose name became a synonym for sense-
less expurgation. He was followed by
enthusiastic disciples who bowdlensed
everything, from the Song of Solomon to
the Book of Job. They succeeded so
well that the next generation started put-
ting skirts on the legs of chairs and tables.
* * ♦ *
“Corin’’: Brisbane has a special interest
in the record-breaking feats of the liner
Orion, for she was launched by radio
from Brisbane in December, 1934, by the
Duke of Gloucester. The Orion sailed
round the world from Britain via Panama,
MX., Australia, Bombay and Suez in
74 days (13 were spent in port), beating
the Mauretania’s time of 81 days. Another
record claimed is Bombay-Southampton
in 14 days 21 hours. The Mauretania,
however, has recaptured this one, cover-
ing the journey in 11 days 1 H hours.
* * ♦ ♦
“Cism”: Reading how U.S. troops
gathering for the invasion of N.-W. Africa
were issued with khaki-colored underwear
to guard against any unwary G.I. giving
the show away by hanging out his wash-
ing on a camouflaged position recalled
to me the long-sleeved blue sweaters
issued to the Australian Sixth and Seventh
divvies. It was not until we arrived in
Palestine that it was discovered that a
man wearing one outside his shirt could
be seen from the moon. Followed an
order that they must be worn under shirts.
The Tommies had khaki sweaters all
along, but it was not until well into 1941
that the Seventh Division got them—and
then the makers forgot to make slits and
holes in the shoulders for epaulettes.
* * * *
. “Spasebo”: The motor-ship Orari, as I
write snoozing at her moorings in Mel-
bourne, was struck by a torpedo in the
Bay of Biscay. A second following it
was thrown on the deck minus its ex-
plosive. The ship reached Glasgow
with its decks awash and handed the
marooned torpedo to the Navy’s investi-
gation branch. Date? Friday, December
13, 1940.
* * * *
“Vic Western”: I’ve been in the West
for 40 years now, and I’ve travelled from
Northampton to Peak Hill, south to
Esperance and the Leeuwin. That section
takes in the goldfields and the grazing,
wheat, fruit-growing, dairying and timber
country, but I’ve never yet heard anyone
with ginger hair referred to as a “Jersey
(B. 31/10/’45). If I called a Westrahan
a “Jersey” I’d mean he was a fair cow.
* * * *
“Jesmond”; Take away the “How-to-
vote” cards and the average elector is
lost. I’ve seen it during 20 years as an
official at polling booths. For the recent
Victorian elections our section handled
200 absentee voters; only 43 of them
knew their divisions and only 19 the
names of the candidates. We turned
away 23 people who, when we found
their divisions for them, were surprised
to learn there were no contests there.
* * * *
“G.M.”: The R.N. is in process of
moving from Sydney for Hong Kong
and the matelots are loud in praise of
Sydney’s hospitality. Even if they
couldn’t get as many nips as they might
have liked, they must have felt at home in
places like the British Lion, the Lord
Nelson and the Iron Duke. Besides
there are the Forth-and-Clyde, the
Ancient Briton, the Rose, Shamrock
and Thistle, the Covent Garden and the
Hero of Waterloo. And if they looked
far enough, there were others: the War-
wick Castle, the Vicar of Wakefield, Sir
Walter Raleigh, the Shakspeare, the
Grand National, the London Tavern and
the Bald-Faced Stag, all names redolent
of home.
V * * *
“C. 8.”: Robert Edward Loft, the 73-
year-old anchorite who was found dead
two years ago in a dilapidated weather-
board house at North Melbourne, didn’t
need to live there. A two-day sale of 190
of his properties at the Assembly Hall
realised £26,000.
* * * *
“A Suffra”: A lad who was in danger
of losing his job because of color-blind-
ness was given a series of assorted colored
wools and asked to select all those with
related tints. He did this with the reds,
then the greens and then the blues, which
proved that he was not blind to colors. It
was found then that the teacher who
taught him colors was himself color-blind.
Given a card with the names of the cardi-
nal colors alongside the correct colors he
was able to learn the proper names. There
have very likely been many similar cases
of “color-blindness” passed out of the
Army and Air Force.
* * * *
“Bo”: The Muscovite Soccer team —■
modestly self-styled the Dynamos —must
be pretty good to have held Chelsea
to a draw and beaten Arsenal. English
crowds have acclaimed their play and
demeanor, and this is an excellent augury
for the future. Many thoughtful people
see in the expanding exchange of teams
in all forms of international sport greater
hope for future world peace than in the
interminable conferences of statesmen.
Perhaps the action of the Soviet team in
presenting bouquets to their opponents as
they took the field may seem to English
minds somewhat strange; and no doubt
cordiality might not have been so pro-
nounced had the posies been composed
solely of pansies. Apparently Russia in
the realm of sport is away ahead of
southern European countries. When
Rumania can play Hungary football with-
out some enraged partisan shinning up the
goalpost and shaking a bowie knife at the
referee, and when a visiting Davis Cup
player can with a bullet service ace the
Italian champ, on his own home courts
without herds of blood-boiling barrackers
savagely chanting “Basta! Basta!” and
tossing banana skins on to the other
team’s court, the outlook for international
amity will be brighter. But a good post-
war beginning has been made.
* * * *
“Earpunisher”: Dr. John Dale, Mel-
bourne’s tall city health officer, has re-
ported that hotelkeepers generally observe
the regulations regarding the washing of
glasses in running water, but greater pub-
lic confidence in hygienic conditions
would be created if publicans were com-
pelled to raise washing sinks to counter
levels and to install automatic sprinklers.
I’ll say it would. In the bar I frequent
the beer is served in shining clean con-
tainers and solemnly sunk by all con-
cerned Then the pots are returned lor
a fill-up. They are dashed into some
fluid, given a shaking, refilled and pushed
across the counter, on the hypocritical
assumption that each drinker knows his
glass from all the others. If there are any
germs about it is perfectly certain they
are shared impartially all round. But
Melbourne drinkers scarcely notice such
things. The hoggish methods of drink-
ing which the wowsers have forced upon
them have hardened them to anything.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Yes, Japanese
swords (B. 21/11/’45) are tricky mer-
chandise for the uninitiated, but there
may be a few treasures amongst those
7000 Rabaul releases. An acquaintance
once picked up a genuine thirteenth-
century Yoshimitsu blade for five shil-
lings at a stall in the old Caledonian
Market in London. He sold it a week
later to a wealthy Japanese for nearly as
many hundreds of pounds sterling. Ihe
really valuable ones are made not of
steel but of a soft, elastic, magnetic iron,
“You’ll get it if the attendant sees you —upsetting the animals!"
with a steel edge built on and very care-
fully tempered. The first thing to look
for is its wavy border, half an inch or so
from the edge. Good swords, too, are
not highly sharpened all along the edge,
but only for the last four to six inches,
the part of the 2ft. blade used in old-
style combat. The Samurai went into
action by drawing Tachi, or Waki-Zashi
as it was otherwise called, in an upward
backhand cut designed to open the enemy
diagonally from right hip to left collar-
bone. Katana was a somewhat shorter
and lighter blade. For seppuku {hara-
kiri), the llin. Tan-to was used, but a
kind friend usually helped with one across
the nape from his Tachi as the leading
performer bent forward under the pain.
The most famous of all Japanese sword-
smiths were Munechika (tenth century),
Masamuna and Yoshimitsu (thirteenth)
and Muramasu (fourteenth). Muramasu
blades had the reputation of being un-
lucky to their owners through impelling
them to get into scraps.
**. * *
“Dick Tafone”: That admirable insti-
tution the Travellers’ Aid Society has its
humorous interludes. Meeting a recent
Western mail on its arrival at Brisbane
the “woman in blue” was asked by a
beautiful young blonde passenger to help
her in getting a sick baby to hospital.
As the basket cradle was being gently
transferred from the carriage seat to the
waiting ambulance, the infant woke,
pulled the shading handkerchief from its
face and smiled cheerfully up at the aston-
ished bearers. It was black! Its amused
guardian explained that she was a trained
nurse, daughter of the medical super-
intendent of an outback district hospital,
who had dispatched her to Brisbane with
the little abo. for specialist treatment of
its diseased leg.
* * * *
“Warrawing”; An interesting French-
man who died soon after landing in Aus-
tralia was the harpist Nicholas Boscha.
His playing had soothed Napoleon.
The British also responded to his
harp. Boscha became a protege of
Sir Henry Bishop, composer of “Home,
Sweet Home,” and broke up Bishop’s
home, for when Boscha made a
hasty exit from England Lady Anna
Bishop, a singer, went with him. Coming
to Sydney the pair made musical history
at a concert on December 22, 1855.. Anna
sang “Home, Sweet Home” to Boscha’s
accompaniment, and there wasn’t a dry
eye in the house. But Sydney had httl®
chance to become harp-minded, for
Boscha died a few days later. His tomb,
the most ornate in Camperdown
cemetery, was erected by “his friend,
Anna Bishop.”
* * * *
“Atrax”: Ever since telescopes were
invented, astronomers have speculated
over the reason for the 350-milhon-mile
gap between our next-outer neighbor.
Mars, and the vast mass of Jupiter In-
stead of the fifth planet, which should
reasonably be there, the orbitary space is
tenanted by a few score planetoids, none
over 150 miles in diameter, obviously
some of the fragments of a now-dis-
integrated sphere which once revolved
there on its track round the sun. Philo-
sophers have put forward various in-
genious theories as to how its disintegra-
tion came about. With man’s latest essay
towards his own destruction a new hypo-
thesis seems reasonable. Perhaps that
pulverised planet had the misfortune to
evolve a species of animal which de-
veloped the same self-destructive in-
genuity in which we are so rapidly mak-
ing progress, and the planetoids represent
the end-result. After all, the few-miles
thickness of hardened crust on which we
play about bears such a tiny proportion
to the bulk of our globe that the whole
earth may be regarded as, in effect, a
molten liquid. Carried a few steps further,
our atom-splitting antics may result in
destroying enough of the crust to release
that liquid over an area sufficiently large
to upset the sphere’s balance. Whereupon
the super-heated steam from the oceans
will abolish all life and explode the world.
Really, Dr. Evatt should be doing some-
thing about it.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Zake”: Cooper arrived late at
Broodyhen and found he’d have to share
a room at the hamlet’s only pub. He
turned in, and later on his room-mate,
well sozzled, arrived. His effort in light-
ing a cigarette over the hurricane-lamp
without setting his whiskers on fire was
pretty good, and after taking about ten
minutes to set his alarm clock he held it
up to his face, carefully blew it out and
by great good luck selected the right bed
to fall on to, fully dressed. Cooper
wearily got up and blew out the hurri-
cane-lamp. As he got back to bed his
room-mate heaved himself up on to his
elbow. “Lishen!” he said solemnly.
“You’ve bushted the shpring o’ that lamp
by overwindin’ it. Now a man won’t be
able to hear the blashted alarm go orf
in the mornin’!”
* * * *
“Mulga Grubber”; boss rode
down to the front fence to yarn with the
two travellers camped under the big gum
just outside. They had been talking for
about a quarter of an hour when one of
the campers leaned over the fire for a
twig to light his cigarette. “Anything
doing?” he asked as he got it puffing.
“Yes, there’s a couple of miles of fence
to go over the hill back there if you feel
like it.” “Good, when do we start?”
“ ‘We’!” barked the boss. “ ‘We’ don’t
start. When your mate rolled a smoke
he pulled out a box of matches, and if he
can afford to use matches when there’s
a fire handy he doesn’t need a job. You
can start on your own tomorrow.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Dreamy” Black was one
of the most absent-minded blokes that
ever infested our part of the country.
He did the most fantastic things, and
when others had to sort out the messes
he caused and cursed him, he’d grin
mildly and condemn himself in a humor-
ous way. There was the day when he
was running water from the 2000-gallon
windmill tank into the 100-gallon tank
on the dray, and he drove the dray away
and left the water running. He’d get off
a horse and turn it loose still saddled;
send his dog round the sheep and then
ride back to the station to see whether
the dog was tied up or not; pause over
his breakfast and inquire anxiously if'
anyone remembered him having tea the
night before; write a letter and then
wonder to whom it was written. One
day he and Crowbar were cleaning out
the 40ft. well. With Crowbar at the
bottom, “Dreamy” suddenly thought of
the cattle in a five-mile-distant paddock
and calmly walked there to see whether
he’d left the gate open. Of course, it
wasn’t long before we got used to him,
and when things went askew we found it
simpler to go and right them and say no
more about it, except among ourselves.
But the day he and the boss got bushed
settled us. They were afoot in the big
patch of whipstick up north, having left
their horses back at the boundary hut,
and when he realised they’d become
slewed the boss climbed up on “Dreamy’s”
shoulders and pulled himself up in order
to see over the scrub. Then “Dreamy”
suddenly thought of something and
walked away and left him there. The
trouble was that, when he realised what
had happened, he couldn’t locate the spot.
* * * *
Sarina”: The N.Q. blacks used to
make a drink of green ants (B. 14/11 /’45)
in cold water. The insects are character-
istically tree-dwellers, and are active at
all hours of the day or night. They are
not so common in coastal mangrove
country as in the scrublands, but every-
where they guard their nests with ferocity.
They are a great nuisance when they take
up their abode in citrus-trees, not only
making picking difficult but hampering
growth by securing the leaves of large
branches together. “Nagheer” underesti-
mates the size of the nests ; the smallest,
in my experience, are around football size,
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Henare and Maggie and
their kids were on the slow goods train.
Maggie’s fox-sable fur coat was the centre
of attraction ; but the kids were tearing
up and down the carriage, greatly to the
annoyance of the passengers. Henare at
"Won’t you ladies believe me? I insist there's nothing Wrong with me."
last rebuked them: “You keep quiet or
I put you orf te drain an’ make you walk
home,” he yelled. “When te people see
you have te bad manners dey tink your
murrer she only wear te cheap coat, an’
tat she not te plurry toff at all! ”
1 * # * *
“Narrin”: A short while ago we
planted a vegetable garden, thereby in a
manner too unpleasantly European in-
curring the envy of our neighbors. Their
invading armies moved in: caterpillars
and grubs of every size, shape and color,
alike only in their common appetite for
green things. But now Nature has begun
her counter-offensive. First a few divi-
sions of ants, keen guerrillas who skir-
mished through the contested ground, kill-
ing and carrying off. Then the main
armies: the little red and black digger
wasps. Last night I measured a square
yard of sand in the watercourse below
the garden. In that area there were 29
wasp holes, most of which contained a
grub.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: I was relieved to learn
on reading of “Kasa’s” Van Diemen’s
Gulf buffalo drive (B. 31/10/’45) that
only the immature beasts were to be ex-
ported. How they were going to get
some of those old-man buffalo bulls up
the cattle races had me thinking. A sft.
horn span is common among them, while
odd specimens sport up to 7ft. But what
gave “K.” the notion that those NT.
buffaloes had been left unmolested?
Hasn’t he ever heard of Joe Cooper, the
Territory’s most famous hunter, who not
only collected hides as far east from
Darwin as Arnhem Land, but also went
across and cleaned up Melville Island?
Joe started on the game 60 years ago, and
he had predecessors. Actually, prior to
the late war, buffalo was becoming so
thinned out that it was necessary to ob-
tain a shooting licence and confine one’s
activities to an allotted area. Nor were
difficulties of transport very great, since
the Territory is well supplied with fairly
navigable rivers, while hides form one
of the easiest packhorse loads to be found,
* » *
“Edjudina”: Ours is a diy continent
mostly, yet with the age of mechanisa-
tion comes hope. A few fleets of modern
earth-shifting machinery to travel barren
areas and push sturdy embankments
across every suitable river and creek, all
of them most of the time dry, could im-
pound in a vast succession of lakes rain-
water which now runs to waste by the bil-
lions of gallons. Then around every lake,
in an ever-extending radius, vegetation
would take on new life ; so the arid semi-
desert would be transformed. Someone
raises the bugbear of evaporation. Over
such areas as Lake Callabonna the brazen
sky extorts the maximum evaporation,
but evaporation itself, if constant, soon
tempers such a sky ; the atmosphere tends
to become saturated, clouds form which
soften the sun’s rays. Such lakes, too,
would solve most of the problems of out-
back life, since the greatest agony of liv-
ing in a dead dry area is the lack of
swimming pools and the cool shady rest-
fulness of green places.
* * * *
“L.P.”: Although I agree with “Nigel
D.” (B. 21 /11 / ’45) that a pile standing in
water lasts longer than a telephone pole, I
won’t have it that it is because the pole
is put in butt down and the pile the
reverse way. Water and wet earth are
the preserving factors. I have seen timber
(in the round, sawn and hewn) taken from
the underground workings of wet mines
which, after being submerged in mud and
water for about 80 years, was as solid
as when it was cut. Adze and axe marks
could be seen on it. In wet, abandoned
mining shafts, cut or sawn slabs below
the water level look as if they would last
forever, while those above crumble with
dry rot. Tree stumps in wet, marshy
gullies remain firmer in the ground than
do those on the dry hillsides. To preserve
millions of valuable trees killed by the
disastrous bushfires in Gippsland experts
of the Victorian Forest Commission con-
sidered felling and wet dumping the
timber in huge pits and reservoirs until it
could be put over the saw,
* * * *
“Lub”: I resent “Turon River’s” in-
sinuation (B. 7/11/ *45) that “One-eyed
Willie’s” yarn about being hung up by
the arm in a galah’s nest may have lost
a shade of truth in the telling. I know
Willie too well for that. The reason
he didn’t do his nut when trapped, he
says, was because he knew he’d be able
to prise himself loose inside a month
with the gadgets in the manicure set he
invariably carried. Yes, and when
Willie’d hacked his way out of the big
greybox with a nail-file and pair of
tweezers he brought along the galah,
which had learned to talk well enough by
then, to verify his story.
sk * * *
“Colonial Cove”: The habitat of the
mutton-bird is regulated to a large extent
by the nature of the soil on such islands
as might otherwise be suitable for its
breeding places. Until a century ago quite
a fair sprinkling of islands all along Aus-
tralia’s south coast carried nurseries of
these birds. Then came the Yankee
whalers, working from Kangaroo Island
right around to the Swan River, their
stay often being a couple of years or
more. Ever shrewd, these “blue-noses”
went in considerably for local food pro-
duction. A couple of sows and a hog
landed on a small mutton-bird island
were not only self-supporting but could
be relied on to produce numerous pro-
geny. Food consisted mostly of sea-
wrack along the beaches, samphire, weeds
and herbs, and, most sustaining, mutton-
bird squabs ; the pigs, of course, were
able to root these out of their burrows.
So Westralia’s mutton-bird islands were
despoiled. But none of the swine were
left; those not needed as fresh provisions
were salted down to be used on the long
voyage back to Salem or Martha’s Vine-
yard.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”; “I’m takin’ me team over a
mountain track after a night out at a
bush pub,” said Chris the bullocky. “I’m
feelin’ pretty crook, so I get a bit narked
when we come to a big log across the
track. I takes out me axe an’ makes
a swing, but she don’t ring like wood —
just a dull, leathery sound. Then the log
rises up an’ blinks at me. I don’t take
any notice o’ that—you know how it is
when y’ been neally in the rats. Any-
way, as the axe don’t make any impres-
sion I takes the team out o’ the wagon
and hitches the bullocks onta one end
of the log an’ whips ’em up. Well, they
strain an’ blink, but she don’t budge. I
does me block then an’ use the whip.
Then the log ups on its hind legs an’ sets
orf at a gallop, draggin’ the bullocks
behind in a cloud o’ dust. When I caught
up to ’em an hour after, there was me
bullocks strung up on the fork of a big
redgum—and there they stayed till they
was skeletons. I ain’t seen a goanna
since anywhere near as big as that one.”
* * * ■ »
“Betcha”: Rabbits don’t like water,
but I’ve seen them swim considerable
streams when feed is scarce. Further,
old Jim assures me that down along the
river flats at flood time he has more than
once watched an old doe dive into
a burrow, the mouth of which was already
several inches under water. After an
interval she would re-appear with a kitten
in her mouth, struggle with it to dry land,
then once more dash into the burrow.
On an island that is sometimes covered
the rabbits climb up into the willows and
there remain for days until the water
once more recedes from their downstair
quarters.
* * Hs *
“B. A. Ker”; Derelict cars and theit
history fascinate me. During the depres-
sion I encountered an old wreck being
used to drive a circular saw ; it turned
out to be “Fergie’s traction engine”—
an old Rover car that was ancient enough
to be a source of local merriment ’way
back in ’l5. If, as “Fergie” proudly
claimed in those days, the veteran
was one of the first cars imported, she
certainly had done her bit. A one-horse-
power job driven by a local poultry-
farmer finished up as an unofficial fowl-
roost —after the motor (a. bible-backed
old chestnut) one day grew sick of being
laughed at, and kicked the front of his
encumbrance to pieces. But the derelict
that stands in the beautiful grounds of
Callan Park Mental Hospital (N.S.W.)
must surely be unique. A Studebaker of
indeterminable age, it was brought in by
a voluntary patient, and during his life-
time was kept polished and in good
enough running order to cruise around
the grounds—whenever petrol was avail-
able. Just before he died the owner
parked the old warrior under a shady tree
and jacked the wheels off the ground.
That was ten years ago. Parts of the
engine have “walked,” the elements have
rusted the body, but in the main the car
is still as he left it —tyres and all. And
the back tyres are still inflated. They
won’t fit any modern car.
♦ * * *
“Wonk”: Bert used to short-cut through
a corner of Morrie’s paddock till the day
the old bloke waited for him, and a
warm argument ensued on the subject ol
shutting gates. Next time Bert visited the
spot he found both gates on Morrie’s
property decorated with enormous
chains and padlocks. There was no way
of slipping the chains. An hour later
Bert returned with bag and bottle and,
stirring together a thin mixture of cement,
he poured it into the padlocks. Then,
fetching an iron gate he had recently
bought, he swung it to the road fence on
his own side of Morrie’s boundary.
During the following week Bert burst
into surprising chuckles at the oddest
moments, the only thing that eventually
sobered him being a report of missing
sheep in the far paddock. Inspecting the
boundary fence, he came to the gate on
Morrie’s corner, stopped with an explo-
sion of rage, then bellowed to the old
bloke working along the fence. Morrie
came over. “Yair, I done it,” he ex-
plained nonchalantly, pointing to where
half a gate leaned drunkenly. “Y’ know
our boundary fence is four foot my side
o’ the line, so this bit o’ ground here’s
mine. Somebody put a blasted gate on
it, so I was within my rights taking the
thing orf me property with a hacksaw.”
LORDS OF THE WEDDIN RANGE.
Rattle of hoofs on the mountain road
When the naked moon rides high
And the settler hears from his lone abode
The outlaw gang go by.
He draws the shutters and snuffs the light
And sees that the doors are barred,
For devil’s work is afoot tonight
When Hall and his gang ride hard.
A lantern swings by the shanty door
And its shadowy light is cast
A moment’s space on the gang—no more,
As the riders thunder past.
The law may watch on the plains beneath —
It’s little the outlaws care
When, spurred and booted and armed to the
teeth,’
They break from their mountain lair.
In the dead of the night their hoofbeats
drum
On the road through the foothills-low;
The wakened settlers hear them come
And the settlers hear them go.
They breathe a sigh as the gang go by,
Fearless and fierce and strange,
For none may challenge and none deny
The lords of the Weddin Range.
A glare is seen in the western skies, •
The troopers are riding hard
To a home on the plains when a dead man
lies,
Face-up in the homestead yard.
There’s a smouldering heap where the hay-
stack stood,
The stables are burning still,
And the dead man lies in a pool of blood
As the dawn breaks cold and chill.
Oh, it’s many a year since the ranges rang
To the hoofs of the outlaws’ steeds,
But the bold Ben Hall and his reckless gang
Live on in their lawless deeds.
And still they say on the Weddin Range
When the naked moon rides high,
And the curlews are crying forlorn and
strange,
Ben Hall and his gang go by.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINCION.


“Mat’s Mate”: “It’s funny,” said Mat,
“how y’ learn a new word. I’m toilin’
for a bloke runnin’ a bit of a timberyard
up in the Goulburn Valley, an’ one day
he’s away, leavin’ me in charge. Over
the ’phone comes an order from a bloke
buildin’ a house out on the Shepparton-
road, askin’ me to run him out some skirt-
in’, about a hundred feet of that rimu
floorin’, and some door lintels. ‘Ribuck,’
I says, hangs up the ’phone an’ goes out
inta the yard t’ make the stuff up. 1 just
about got it all ready when the ’phone
rings an’ it’s the builder bloke again.
‘Look,’ he says, ‘eliminate the lintels, will
y’?’ ‘Ribuck,’ says me. Out I go inta
the yard again, scratchin’ me head an’
lookin’ round. I’d heard o’ morticin’ an’
bevellin’ an’ .roundin’ an’ all that, but
eliminatin’ had me beat. I studies all the
tools about the place, but that don’t help,
so I load the timber up an’ take it out,
trustin’ to luck. Everybody’s knocked off
when I get there, so I unload and leave
it. Next day the boss comes out an’ says
‘Look, didn’t Whitton tell y’ t’ eliminate
them lintels on his order yesterday?’
‘Yair,’ I says, ‘but I couldn’t find any
ruddy eliminator round here.’ The boss
sits down an’ starts laughin’ an’ explains.
An’ now,” Mat finishes, “if you’ll elimi-
nate that drink we’ll have another.”
* * * * *
: My sympathy goes out to
“Smoke” (B. 28/11/’45), who had a flush
with two fives in it; but it’s possible the
new pack wasn’t crook. Three days after
I hit Hamley Bridge (S.A.) I got into a
poker game at one of the pubs, and pres-
ently was dealt three twos, a king and a
ten. Held the “little hell” and the king to
get ’em in on a two-pair suggestion, then
got a jack. Stayed with the betting till
two others “looked” ; then I flashed the
trio of deuces, whereupon a non-bettor
started, hurriedly riffled through the dis-
cards and produced a pair of twos. All
that saved me was that the pack wasn’t
mine and I hadn’t, until then, had a deal.
We concluded the odd two got in instead
of one of the usual “ghosts.”
* * * £
“Benita”: Old Bill, the boundary-rider,
lived in a hut ten miles out on the run.
The boss had brought a new radio, so he
fixed up the old one for Bill in the hut,
showed him how to “twiddle” it, started
it off for him and left. A couple of days
later the boss called at the hut. The wire-
less was going full blast, but there was
no sign of Bill. The boss at last located him,
blankets and all, in a bough gunyah half
a mile away and asked why he had aban-
doned the hut. “I couldn’t get any blanky
sleep with that thing bawlin’ all night,”
said Bill. “Well, why didn’t you turn it
off?” inquired the boss. “Soon’s I’d turn
the knob round like you showed me an-
other one p d start,” growled the boundary-
rider. At last the boss prevailed on him
to face the radio again, and marked the
“turn-off” gadget for him. “Now, go and
get your blankets,” said the boss. Bill
spat. “No,” he said, “I’ll sleep down
there” “But you can stop it at any
time now,” argued the boss exasperatedly.
But Bill was emphatic. “No,” he said,
“I wouldn’t get no sleep anyhow ; I’d be
layin’ awake all night expectin’ the blasted
thing to break out any minute.”
* * * *
“M.H.”: “Bughouse” (B. 21/11/’45)
referred to hydrocyanic acid as the most
lethal gas. That dubious honor is reserved
for hydrogen sulphide (sulphuretted hydro-
gen). Atmosphere containing one part per
1000 of air is rapidly fatal, but one part
in 100,000 makes the air unpleasantly
foetid, thus preventing fatal accidents.
* * * *
“C.S.”: .One day we released a carrier
pigeon with a message for our H.Q.
Only other bird apparently within miles
was an old magpie dozing in the sun on
a rail outside our orderly room. The
pigeon made a brief, low circuit of the
camp to get a bearing, then set off. It
had scarcely commenced when a hawk
swooped from a near-by tree and pounced
on it, but not before the maggie had
begun flapping its wings and screeching.
In answer to its frantic calls came quite
a horde of magpies and butcher birds,
which immediately set on to the hawk,
which by now had fastened to the back
of the pigeon’s neck. The butcher birds
lined up tactically like a line of fighter
’planes, and peeling off in turn zoomed
“Thought so — beer!”
down and hit the hawk hard one after
the other, thus preventing it from
gaining height; they then flew around
and took up their place in the line again.
The magpies also attacked viciously.
Finally their concerted efforts were suffi-
cient to make the hawk release the
pigeon. The hawk then flew to a near-by
tree where it was further harassed and
attacked. Finally it flew off slowly. The
original magpie that had called all the
other birds did not take part in the
battle, but stayed on the rail flapping
and calling vociferously for reinforce-
ments. We recovered the pigeon, which
suffered a broken wing and a badly-
bruised neck, both of which we were
able to treat.
* * # *
“Benita”: The blacks usually paddle
across a crocodile-infested Gulf country
river on log rafts, leaving their numerous
dogs to swim. Dog is one of the favorite
titbits of the saurian, and the mongs
either scent him or know by instinct that
he is there waiting for them to cross.
Accordingly the whole pack gallops off
along the river bank for about a quarter
of a mile and, gathering in one spot as
near the water as safety permits, they set
up a terrific barking, yelping and howling
for several minutes till they have drawn
all the crocs, to that spot; then they set
off at full speed back to their starting
point, splash in and swim across in safety.
Many claim that the abos. teach the tykes
this trick, but I am inclined to think it
is a “survival relic” handed down from
their dingo ancestors.
“Koros Tumas”: “Munja” (B.
14/11/ ’45) lets sentiment run away with
hard facts regarding the New Guinea
native —any Chinese market gardener
could run rings round him. He plants
only enough for his bare needs and has
nothing to spare for visitors, “time belong
big feller sun” or any other emergency.
In the past, handouts by whites were
necessary often to carry the native over
“time belong hungry.” Attacks by natives
on prospectors, recruiters, etc., were often
caused by a party staying too long in an
area and their carrier line eating into the
already inadequate food supply of the
locals. Bully and rice have long been
popular with our N.G. friends; our
troops did not introduce it. The suc-
cessful growing of mountain rice by the
Nips in Rabaul will cause large areas to
be planted by village communities in the
future. Like many of our troops,
“Munja” uses “boong” to mean a native.
In “tok pisin,” this word means a market
or a gathering, and the average educated
boy resents its new application, although
he is usually too polite to tell you. An-
other word used slackly to cover any
kind of native canoe or outrigger is “laka-
toi.” This strictly applies to the trading
type running from the Delta country and
in Papua and was unknown in the Man-
dated area, however, I suppose it is all
part of Eddie Ward’s New Deal.
“Blime”: “Doughy” was always on to
the boss to have a new oven built in the
bake-house. The boss could never see it. At
length, deciding his requests were gaining
him nothing, the harassed baker gave up
asking, but the bread became rapidly
heavier and stodgier, and complaints
rained in unmercifully. Then one day
the boss walked into the room and
spotted a couple of badly burnt loaves
on the table. “There, now,” he accused,
pointing triumphantly to the burnt bread.
“Thought you couldn’t get her hot
“Boy, think of the EXCITEMENT when We lob home!”
enough. What about those?” “Doughy”
glanced round ruefully. “Yair; ’sfunny
how I missed them two tins when I put
the others into the oven,” he replied.
“They’ve been standin’ in the bake-house
all afternoon; that’s what’s done it.”
* # # #
“Bo”: Old Griffin’s place stands back
in a clump of trees over half a mile back
from the road. From the gate the rutted
cart track goes fairly straight for a
quarter of a mile. Then it sweeps in a
semi-circle to the left for a few hundred
yards, gets back to the approximate posi-
tion of the original track and continues
on to the house. The whole expanse
from road gate to house is unrelieved
baked earth, so I asked Griffin why the
track diverted. “Used to be a fair stand
o’ cedar there,” he replied slowly. “Ran
the track around it. About twenty-five
year ago I felled it an’ grubbed the stumps
out. A great bit o’ timber it was, too.”
“But why don’t you use the direct route
now instead of going the long way
round?” I said. “There’s no obstruction
at all.” The old cove sucked at his pipe.
“Well, y’ see,” he said, “old Doll’s always
used that track. The mare’s about thirty.
She can’t last more’n ten years or so.
When she goes and I have to get another
younger moke I might take the track
straight through then.”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Mulligan’s death at 80
closed a feud which, to local knowledge,
had existed for 40 years between the de-
ceased and Malone. Reversing conven-
tional procedure Malone spoke only what
was bad of the dead, and so made public
the origin of the feud. He had been
puzzled by a mysterious increase in the
dipping tally over that shown at the shear-
ing, A chance visit to Mulligan’s shear-
ing shed led to the discovery of a dupli-
cate of Malone’s branding “iron,” a beer
bottle the base of which was dipped in
red lead. For years Mulligan had been
shearing on the sly some three hundred
of his neighbor’s sheep, and then pushing
them through the fence to their owner’s
property, after the addition of the correct
brand.
* • * * *
“Bufo”: With the electricity cut off
and the domestic woodheap soaked by
the same fierce storm I agree with the
female child of this hguse that the for-
gotten genius who invented primus stoves
deserves a statue to his worthy memory.
With reasonable care in keeping the nipple
clear and the pump-leather in good condi-
tion, there is nothing to go wrong with
the admirable affair. It will boil a quart
of water within five minutes, and will
keep it boiling for as many hours later
on less than sixpennyworth of kerosene,
even at present extortionate prices. By
adjusting the flame with the side valve
it will keep a pot simmering gently for
a day. Unlike electricity or gas, it evinces
no desire to murder its customers by
short circuits, escapes or explosions. Its
voice is perhaps a little monotonous, but
that can be got over by using the silent
pattern. However, I prefer the old-
fashioned, vocal kind on account of its
convenient and courteous habit of re-
minding one of the need for refilling by
a series -of polite little coughs.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Going across to a shed, the
day nursery of a joey euro, Mrs. D.R.H.
became conscious of a bird some four or
five yards ahead fluttering vigorously
to maintain its position six or seven feet
from the ground. There was a fresh
breeze, but the feathered helicopter
kept station, peering at the ground
as it struggled. The flat was bare and
windswept, and the missus could see no
sign of life. At last, after about two
minutes of watching, she found that the
bird \yas fascinated by its own shadow.
Just then the joey gave an impatient kick,
the spell was broken, and the bird
flipped off to the nearest mallee, where
he sat, apparently in deep thought, for
several minutes. He was a stranger ; per-
haps a white-winged triller, Lalage tri-
color.
* * * *
“Munja”: The motor rail-trike flushed
an old man ’roo, which lit out for Shaw
River (W.A.). For several hundred yards
vehicle and marsupial raced abreast until
the ’roo swerved suddenly, drop-kicked
the unlucky maintenance man neatly into
the spinifex and headed for the wide open
spaces. The trike, doing around 30
m.p.h., careered on through Shaw River,
coming to rest in the flooded Coongan.
. The railway gent., bones intact, was
taken home, the spinifex spines being
extracted by Mum’s only instrument, a
blunt but enthusiastically wielded darning
needle. The crowning blow came when
the unfortunate limped back to work ;
his mates presented him with a signed
petition to the Department of the Army
for the purchase of a machine-gun-—to
protect him in the “dangerous” bush.
THE WALKER.
Somebody walks by the billabong
On nights when the moon is high;
When curlews call from the river swamps
He paces slowly by;
He waves his arms to the river gums
That grow where the shadows lie.
Who is it sings by the billabong
While the frightened bunyips hide?
Who shouts to the stars and the river wind
That goes with .the river’s tide
To meet the sea at the river mouth
Where the lazy steamers ride?
Somebody walks by the billabong,
His footmarks there are plain:
A madman’s boots have printed them
The river folk maintain.
Will his soul not rest? Has misery
Brought fever to his brain?
When the shadows meet on the billabong
’Neath a dark and starless sky,
’Tis I should know, the people say,
Who walks when the moon is high—
They whisper out there in the settlement
That tire man who walks is I.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


I 8U Y WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
st>J
mm?
m
m
f
■ 3S»
8
8
fa jf
si&Bw
asa i
■:
« ■ V,
as
4*.
Kl
- BSfc'
mm
Iff
4#v
■
n
#
©ROf By ffisngrp«s «ft»Rßpya sasoNST
Thomas Hardy & Sons Ltd.; Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne; Makers of
Tintara Gold Label Port, Amontillado Sherry, Gold Label Muscatel; The
Tintara Sparkling Wines:— Champagne, Hock, Moselle, Burgundy, and
Tintara Old Brandy.
BU Y WA R SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Rat Mo.
525
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
Sterilised
To Remedy BON
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
D.D.T. and Cattle Tick.
“Molecule”: In one of the latest trials,
supervised by the C.5.1.R., a 2 p.c. solu-
tion of D.D.T. gave a 100 p.c. kill of
ticks, and reinfestation did not begin until
a month later. A 2 p.c. solution means
201 b. per 100 gallons, compared with 21b.
arsenic per 100 gallons to give the
standard 0.2 p.c. solution used for many
years—lo times as much D.D.T. as
arsenic.
I have before me the latest quotations
for Australian-made D.D.T. ton-lots
11s. 3d. per lb. But this is only 80 p.c.
purity (arsenic is over 99 p.c.), so we
must use 25 p.c. more to get correct
strength. Cost of arsenic is approxi-
mately 4jd. per lb. or 9d. per 100 gallons
of dip fluid. D.D.T., 201 b. at 11s. 3d.
equals £ll 55., plus 25 p.c., equals
£l4 Is. 3d. Taking a fair-sized dip as
3000 gallons, the cost of charging with
D.D.T. would be £421 17s. 6d., based on
wholesale Brisbane cost and not allow-
ing for freight. Actually, it would cost
considerably more, as the D.D.T. must be
suitably emulsified. Let’s assume for
purposes of comparison that this would
not cost substantially more than dissolv-
ing arsenic with soda. Some overseas
grades of D.D.T, are purer than 80 p.c.,
and I have seen a quotation as low as
ss. 6d. per lb. delivered Brisbane, plus
landing charges. But even if a 100 p.c.
grade were supplied to stock-owners at
4s. per lb (entailing a pretty heavy Gov-
ernment subsidy) D.D.T. dipping still
would remain at least 100 times costlier
than arsenical dipping.
Though it is fashionable "to speak of
“the arsenic-resistant tick” as though
arsenic were now impotent against all
ticks, the highest authorities state that
only a relatively small proportion of ticks
actually can resist the 0.2 p.c. standard
arsenical dipping fluid. In other words,
arsenical dipping has not yet proved a
failure. Labor shortages, irregular dip-
ping periods, oxidised dips, failure to
keep dips at correct strength—all these
have contributed to form the erroneous
idea that standard dips have failed and
that only D.D.T. can save us. What we
must bear in mind is that a tick cannot
breed until it has become engorged on
a beast; that when it has become so en-
gorged and escapes the dip it lays an
average of 2500 eggs which hatch almost
100 p.c. under favorable conditions ; that
these little devils can live for months on
the ground without food ; but that they
cannot grow and breed until they find a
"Will you give these a rub while you re there , Ma ?”
host ; that only cattle and horses are suit-
able hosts and the little ticks will eventu-
ally die if none are present. So that if
every dip in our tick areas were magically
charged overnight with D.D.T. hard and
skilful work and regular and systematic
dipping would still be essential.
Finally, there is little chance that the
Government can get any D.D.T. from
overseas. It is in great demand through-
out the world to fight human epidemics
such as typhus and bubonic plague. Aus-
tralia, itself a producer of D.D.T., simply
hasn’t a case for calling on the produc-
tion of other countries to fight a cattle
pest which we should have conquered, or
at least reduced, years ago.
Drift Control.
“Jock”: Some say Wimmera rye grows
well enough in this area (Overland
Corner-Waikerie-Morgan,, S.A.) to war-
rant planting for drift control and fodder,
but trial of another rye—McDougal strain
—indicates that it may supersede the
Wimmera. The 9in. rainfall is not quite
enough for the Wimmera but suits the
McDougal, otherwise they are much alike.
The farming is pretty rough here ; a
bag of wheat and a bag of super, sows
four or five acres, and the McDougal rye
is mixed in the seedbox—a 21b. jamtin
to each bag of wheat. The seed is brought
from the west coast of S.A., where it has
done well on a chancy 9in. of rain.
Three bad years have made it obvious
that the farmer here is to rise or fall on
drift control. In most cases he has de-
pended on wood to get a living these last
years—firewood for Government con-
tracts and posts, particularly box posts
from the river flats, second only to cement
posts for irrigated land. This source
of income is not going to stay as good
as it is now, and the living will have to
come from cropping and stock.
To get a paddock safe it should not be
stocked for two years—and the average
man cannot afford this —a year in wheat
and a year for the McDougal rye to get
a grip. It may be said that this is being
too careful, that it is safe to feed the
stubble and the rye the next year, but
in point of fact no measure has yet gone
far enough for effective drift control. It
seems to me that the only way out is
financial assistance conditional on the
above or similar measures being taken
under supervision of the local agriculture
officer.
Cows on Pasture.
“Myrrhee”; Victorian Journal of Agri-
culture points out that best use can t be
made of a pasture if cows are allowed to
graze it throughout the growing season.
Rotational grazing gives it a better chance
and means an increase in milk yield with
each change to fresh pasture. When pas-
tures are good the average cow will main-
tain reasonable production without sup-
plementary feeding, but a high-producer
might not get sufficient pasture to main-
tain yield to her full A cow
weighing 10001 b. and yielding six gallons
of milk would need to eat about 2001 b.
of pasture daily. In the eight hours nor-
mally devoted to grazing she will con-
sume about 1501 b. of pasture when the
sward is dense and four to five inches
high; this amount is reduced as the length
of pasture decreases. Therefore, for
maximum production, it usually pays to
give high-producing cows a small amount
of crushed grain, pollard or other con-
centrate. Dry roughage in the bail helps
normal bowel activity, but the amount
of dry feed should be regulated so as
not to lessen her appetite for pasture.
Making Every Acre Pay.
“Pat O’Day”; Comparatively small
areas 500 to 1000 acres in Riverina
are proving more lucrative than much
larger holdings when every acre is
improved. The owner has an income
from cereal crops, conserved fodder,
citrus fruits and trees that provide
shelter as well as wood for his own
needs. Riverina hasn’t the summer rain-
fall of north-western N.S.W., so summer
grasses do not thrive, except barley
grass, which cures like hayand retains
its palatability and nutritive value. On
1000 acres near Wagga the owner uses
600 acres, including 100 acres of lucerne,
for fat-lamb raising, and the remaining
400 for wheat and oats. The shelter belts
are of Pinus insignus —a quick-growing
type that requires little watering.
Hints for the Farm.
“Nuffin”; Cans of milk fir cream left
at a pick-up point on the roadside can
be kept cool by setting the cans in tubs
of water and slipping wet sacks over
them. The wet sack acts as a wick set
in the water, which is evaporated from
the bag and cools the cans. This idea
is also worth while where no other cool-
ing system is available for cream.
“Will C,”: Better than an upside-down
harrow for levelling the surface soil over
sown lucerne seed (B. 7/11/’45) is a
heavy wooden roller. It is not a good
idea to sow lucerne as a legume with the
hardier Queensland grasses, such as Pas-
palum dilatatum or kikuyu, since they are
too aggressive. The protein content of
these grasses is very satisfactory in any
case, but their value falls sharply with
age and under difficult climatic conditions.
“Bumble”: In rehiving swarms it’s well
to remember the bees are provisioned for
several days and are in good condition
for building wax. Don’t put them on a
set of fully-drawn comb or full founda-
tions, as this breaks up the cluster and
they may swarm out again. A body of
full combs over an empty box usually
works all right, but they may not go up
on comb foundation. If no combs are
available hive them on frames with
starters, and work these out later in favor
of full foundation.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Undiplomatic Language.
(From the Charles Van Devander and William
O. Ployer column in N.Y. “Post.”)
. L luye/ U uv j.y •*- . * y
Here is the true story of what broke
up the Council of Foreign Ministers in
London: —•
On Friday, Sept. 21, after 11 days of
preliminary feeling each other out on
various issues without agreeing on any-
thing except the general idea of an as-
yet-unwritten International Bill of Rights,
the Big Five finally got around to the
Balkan question.
Soviet Foreign Minister Molotov list-
ened for some time to Secretary Byrnes’s
and Foreign Secretary Bevin’s insistence
that the same freedoms which the U.S.,
Britain and Russia had promised to seek
for the liberated peoples of all Europe
should be equally provided in the Balkan
countries.
Then, all of a sudden, Molotov ex-
ploded. In shockingly bitter and violent
terms, he bluntly charged, in effect,
that, whereas Byrnes and Bevin had been
doing a lot of high-sounding talking about
the things their Governments purportedly
wanted in the Balkans — freedom of
speech, freedom of assembly, freedom of
religion, democracy and the like —what
the U.S. and Britain really wanted in the
Balkans was “anti-Communist” Govern-
ments.
There was a paralysed pause — and
then, equally violently, Byrnes exploded
back at Molotov. Just what he said we re
unable to quote ; but he told Molotov off
in language such as had never before
been heard across an international con-
ference table.
On that note the Friday meeting broke
up. _____
The Nuremberg Trial.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article by
Walter Lippmann.)
The most serious objection to the
trial is that it appears to violate the ex
post facto rule in law. It has been
argued that there were no international
laws making it a specific crime with
specific penalties to commit the deeds
with which these men are charged, and
that therefore to try them under the
forms of law is itself a lawless and arbi-
trary proceeding.
Lawyers point out that, properly
understood, the ex post facto rule pro-
hibits legislation which makes an act
done before the passage of the law
criminal, which was innocent when done.
If, for example. Congress in 1945 passed
a law makiijg it a crime for a physicist
to talk about atomic energy, no physicist
who, had talked about atomic energy in
1944 could be punished under that law.
But these men are charged, among other
things, with the murder of civilians, the
enslavement of civilians, and looting.
These were never innocent acts. They
were crimes under all laws in all coun-
tries, including Germany, when these
men took control of the German State.
In charging Goring, Hess, et al. with
murder, the Allies have not invented a
new crime which was an innocent act
before the murders were committed.
There is a case in English law, I have
been told, which illustrates the problem.
Once the laws of England did not speci-
fically provide for the punishment of
murder if it was committed aboard a
ship on the high seas. A ship set sail
from England on a long voyage during
which one of the crew murdered another
member of the crew. When the ship re-
turned to port the murderer was indicted
and brought before a Court. His lawyer
pleaded immunity on the ground that
to punish him would be to invoke ex
post facto law. The Judge ruled against
him, holding that he never had the right
to suppose that the indubitable crime of
murder was not a crime because he hap-
pened to be at sea when he committed it.
This surely was a sound judgement.
The ex post facto rule stands as a pro-
tection of the innocent. To have let it
be used to protect a man guilty of so
plain a crime as murder would have been
a denial of justice. So at Nuremberg, if
it can be proved that Goring did in fact
commit murder, then no one can ever
argue that he has been condemned for a
deed which was innocent when he did it.
It has been said also that these men
are being tried, not because they com-
mitted crimes, but because they lost the
war. This is a shallow wisecrack. It
amounts to saying that gangsters are
tried and condemned, not for their
crimes, but because they'were not smart
enough, or strong enough, or lucky
enough not to be arrested by the police.
These men have been arrested because
the Allies won the war. But they are
being arraigned before a tribunal for
crimes which are clearly specified in the
indictment and must be proved, in their
hearing, by evidence which must satisfy
not only the Judges of the tribunal but
the civilised conscience of mankind.
I do not believe we have any reason
to feel that we are acting below our own
standards of justice. Certainly it would
have been a mockery of all justice to
give them immunity. To condemn them
by decree, as Napoleon was condemned,
would have been permissible. But to
arraign them before an open tribunal,
and to submit proof which they will be
allowed to challenge and answer, is
surely to exhibit in the circumstances a
profound and extraordinary respect for
the substance of law and justice, and a
willingness on our own part to be judged
by mankind today and by all posterity
for what is done with these men.
J. Bull Changes His Views.
(From an article by Ivor Brown, editor London
“Observer.”)
There is no more foolish idea of a
Briton than that which pictures him as an
obstinate bulldog who never lets go of
an idea.
For example, the British view of other
nations changes not only rapidly but dras-
tically. Other races are the heroes of
Britain one year and their villains and
bugbears the next. Less than a century
ago the Austrian was regarded as the man
of blood and iron, the jackboot swag-
gerer and the terrible tyrant and martinet
of Europe. Soon he acquired for British
eyes the likeness of a meek little music
master chiefly skilled in the manufacture
of waltzes, coffee and rich, creamy cakes.
Meanwhile the German, once regarded
as a dreamy, music-loving, pipe-smoking,
easy-tempered sentimentalist full of Heine
and Goethe if a cultured man, and full
of beer if not, was demoted to the blood-
and-iron status and was public bully
No. 1.
In my boyhood the Frenchman was
regarded as a contemptible “Froggy,” but
within a year or two he had become the
incomparably gallant poilu of 1914.
During the last hundred years the
Italian has been everything by turn, in
British opinion, from the noble liberal,
a true son of republican Rome march-
ing red-shirted with Garibaldi, to a Black
Shirt rolling on his belly in front of the
bullfrog Mussolini,
The heroic defence of Stalingrad, which
was certainly one turning point of the
mighty struggle, marked the greatest ideal-
isation of heroes of the Soviet Union.
How did the ordinary Englishman visual-
ise the hero? The Russian ceased in his
fancy to be a Red —the pre-war “Bolshie”
had entirely disappeared from view—nor
was he now a far-away figure vaguely
Asiatic. He was suddenly a man who
kept his home fires burning. He was one
of us. Possibly the British troops who
are now having closer contacts with the
Russians in Europe will revise the simple
belief of the Stalingrad epoch. John Bull
is always delighted to learn.
Successor to Stalin?
( Prospective candidates reviewed by C. L. Sulz-
berger, N.Y. “Times'' staff correspondent in
Europe.)
There have been only two leaders of
the Bolshevist Revolutionary State, Lenin
and Stalin. At the time of Lenin’s death
many wise observers did not believe Stalin
would be Lenin’s successor for various
reasons. How wrong they were then indi-
cates how wrong one may be in conjec-
ture now.
Allowing for that distant possibility ot
error, one may mention six men as the
most logical candidates and the order of
appearance is merely alphabetical: And-
reev, Beria, Malinkov, Molotov, Zhdanov
and Zhukov.
Together with Stalin, who, of course,
has an immense personal priority and
prestige, Zhdanov, Malinkov and And-
reev are believed to be the other Secre-
taries of the Central Committee of the
Communist party of the U.S.S.R.
Zhdanov is also Secretary of the Len-
ingrad party committee, generally
acknowledged as the number-two party
job, and chief of the Armistice Commis-
sion in Finland. Because he succeeded
Kirov in Leningrad after the former s
assassination, and because many people
felt that Kirov was the closest of the
leaders to Stalin, many thought that
Zhdanov had inherited a favorites
mantle. There is no confirmation of this
belief.
Malinkov is in charge of the organisa-
tional bureau of the party, and as such
has a tremendously important power and
responsibility in the handling of person-
nel and party cadres. He is not an especi-
ally well-known figure in the public eye.
At the time of his visit to the Stalingrad
front it was indicated by the officers that
Malinkov was not particularly popular
with the Army. But that is not infre-
quently the relation between soldiers and
politicians,
Andreev is Commissar for Agriculture
and chairman of the Council of the
Union, one of the two chambers of the
Supreme Soviet.
Beria is head of the N.K.V.D. police,
and as such has special importance. He
was first head of the Caucasus section of
the N.K.V.D.’s predecessor, O.G.P.U.,
and when he took over the organisation
he brought with him a few hundred
trusted friends and lieutenants.
Zhukov and Molotov are already well
known to the world.
The probability would be that when
Stalin eventually is succeeded his main
job as Prime Minister would be taken
over by Molotov, who held that respon-
sibility once before. Molotov has gained
considerable prestige and popularity in
the U.S.S.R. However, it is not thought
likely that he would gain the key job of
controlling the all-important party. The
likeliest candidates for this would be
Zhdanov, Malinkov or Andreev, with
Malinkov in the best position for
manoeuvring and Zhdanov possibly the
closest to Stalin himself.
Beria, through his control of the im-
mensely important police machine, is in
a powerful position, and as a Georgian
he has been close to Stalin, with whom
he can chat in his native tongue. It is
most likely, however, that the next big
man of the Soviet Union will be a Rus-
sian and a Slav rather than a represen-
tative of a minority republic. The tide
of nationalism rides high in the U.S.S.R.,
which, after all, is mainly Russia.
After Stalin and Molotov possibly the
next most important figure in the U.S.S.R.
is Marshal Zhukov. Nevertheless, the
position of the Red Army in politics is
doubtful. During the war the Commu-
nist party has carefully inducted into its
ranks all important officers and heroes,
and one does not know yet whether the
dog wags the tail or vice versa. That
will be a tremendous question of the next
clccctdc
In addition to those mentioned, it is
possible a new man may emerge during
the next few years. One would guess,
though, that no matter what his name the
next Soviet leader will be a Russian and
nationalist.
Germany a Problem Still.
(Condensed from “United States News”)
After the expenditure of nearly
$200,000,000,000 to win a war in Europe,
a figure of $700,000,000 is beginning to
complicate an argument over how to
make that victory stick. The $700,000,000
represents the annual cost of supporting
American forces in Germany.
An issue is arising over the question of
who should pay the $700,000,000, the
German people or the American tax-
payers. On the surface that appears a
simple issue, with American taxpayers in-
clined to be unanimous in nominating the
German people as payers. Actually, the
issue involved is fundamental and is
threatening to upset the agreements signed
by President Truman at Potsdam.
The $700,000,000 a year, to provide
pay, subsistence, travel and other costs, is
a minimum figure for 400,000 men and
assumes that considerable food and some
materials can come from the Germans.
It takes no account of any cost of relief
supplies for the German people.
If Germans are forced to bear the cost,
then the Germans must be permitted
to work hard enough to produce a
surplus of goods for export so that they
can pay for imports required to support
occupying forces. But if permitted to
work that hard, then the Germans must
have an industry in which to work. If
they have an industry that industry can-
not be destroyed or moved to France,
Holland or Belgium and it cannot be
shipped to Russia in the way agreed upon
at Potsdam.
Four years went by before U.S., Britain
and France bumped against that issue
after World War I. It has taken only
months to discover after World War II
that Germany either can pay reparations
on a continuing basis out of exports or
she can be denied exports and then de-
fault on reparations other than those in-
volved in taking German physical assets.
At Potsdam the decision of President
Truman was that German industry should
be stripped down to a level that *would
permit the German people to have a liv-
ing standard no higher than that of the
average of nations in Europe. That de-
cision rested upon the apparent conclu-
sion that the American people would bear
an important part of the costs of occupy-
ing Germany.
Now the President’s decision is being
questioned. A report to General Eisen-
hower, prepared by a committee of ex-
perts headed by Calvin Hoover, Duke
University dean, suggests that Germany
be permitted to redevelop much of her
industry. A committee of Congress,
headed by Representative Colmer (Dem.),
of Mississippi, back from a study of con-
ditions in Europe, comes up with the
same idea. Much British opinion inclines
in this same direction.
The American people soon may be
forced to decide which course they wish
to follow. The decision, which must be
made by February 1, when German
machinery is to be removed, is between
two conceptions of what should be done
with Germany. . .
As seen by the group now questioning
the exact fulfilment of all phases of the
Potsdam plan the problem is one of
assuring Germany an industrial base that
will permit her to sell abroad about
$700,000,000 worth more than she buys
so that she may pay part of the cost of
occupation and have a living standard
equal to the average expected in Europe
by 1949.
The solution offered is to permit Ger-
many to retain a large part of her strictly
non-war industry. It is proposed, for ex-
ample, that Germany retain steel capacity
of about 10,000,000 tons. Present capacity
is 19,000,000 tons. Production in pre-
Hitler Germany of 1932, a depression
year, was 5,500,000 tons. Synthetic oil,
synthetic rubber, most synthetic nitrogen
plants and some machine-tool capacity
would be marked for destruction or re-
moval, So would aircraft, shipbuilding
and armament plants. Coalmining would
be stimulated.
The effect of this proposed solution
would be to encourage industrial activity
in the part of Germany not occupied by
Russia. It would depend upon disarma-
ment of Germany in terms of actual
weapons, rather than in terms of in-
dustries destroyed. It would deny to
Russia important industrial facilities that
she now expects to receive from Western
Germany under terms of the Potsdam
Agreement. Russia gets 25 per cent, of
all machinery and materials tagged for
removal. If few are tagged, Russia’s share
is small.
To the group favoring destruction of
German industry the problem is to reduce
Germany to a level of impotence that will
deny her any chance to come back to
strength for a long time. To do this the
question of whether Germany pays any
part of occupation costs is unimportant.
That cost is regarded as an investment in
security.
The solution offered is to strip Western
Germany of all but the lightest and
simplest of industry. Steel capacity would
be reduced to less than 7,000,000 tons.
Machine-tool industries would be de-
stroyed or moved. Virtually all synthetic-
product industries would go. So would
much of the electrical-equipment industry
and many others. Textiles, ceramics and
some other consumer-goods industries
would stay. In short, Germany would be
reduced to an agrarian State with minor
industries.
The effect of this solution, over a period
of time, would be to build up neighbor-
ing industries in France, Belgium,
Holland, even in Russia, Poland and
Czechoslovakia. Germany, presumably,
no longef would be in a position to make
or even threaten war. The German
people, who have been the most aggres-
sive and ambitious in Europe, would be
left without the means to carry on aggres-
sion or fulfill ambitions. Seventy million
of them would be squeezed into an area
two-thirds as large as it was when Hitler
cried out for more room.
To Russia this is the acceptable solu-
tion to the German problem. Russia is
proceeding to fulfill the terms of the Pots-
dam Agreement, as she interprets them,
by stripping Eastern Germany of in-
dustrial facilities and stocks. The Colmer
Committee and others criticise her for it.
Not even the Allied Control Council can
be sure how much has been taken from
Eastern Germany, for Russia has not yet
permitted Allied inspection or inventory.
But if Russia strips Eastern Germany
while Western Germany is strengthened
industrially the Potsdam hope of running
Germany as an economic unit will fade,
and the political strains between the Allies
will become great. An industrially strong
Western Germany would naturally gravi-
tate economically and politically toward
Western Europe, away from Russia. Eco-
nomic policies for Germany, still in the


The Miracle of
LIFE ASSURANCE
How does it work?
When you were a young
man and took out your first
Life Assurance Policy, at the
same time as thousands of
other young men, did you
understand how your Life
Office would be able to keep
its promises?
Perhaps you wondered
why all the Life Offices
needed to build up such
large Funds as they do?
HE explanation is very
simple. While you were
young, only a few of your
contemporaries died each
year, and so your Life Office
was able to build up a Fund
with all the premiums it
received.
Later, however, more and
more of your contemporaries
-—more and more of t|iose
who assured their lives about
the time that
you did—died. 1 1 1
As a consequence, the claims'
on the Fund increased, and
the number of the original
group paying into the Fund
grew less. But for the
strength of the Fund that
had been built up all the
claims could not have been
met.
But for the strength of the
Fund established by all those
who pay their premiums
regularly, there could be no
security in Life Assurance.
That is the simple explana-
tion of the miracle: the
simple explanation as to why
Life Assurance is the greatest
co-operative institution in the
world. The immense growth
of this institution is based on
the fact that Life Assurance
has the will and strength to
keep its promises.
'rv*. cr-M
•K?' S“J
■v
tr\
? -a
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
H
(yVHjI
Croon
m
Snl
vJS
asr-ss
sS.
i
h>
\p=/
f.
ti
• you will be rediscovering those well-remembered
joys of motoring . . . rediscovering too the satisfaction
of riding on Olympic Tyres.
OLYMPI
RUBBER
w
INSULATED
CABLES
OtympiC TYRES
Production of •
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA i
discussion stage, could have grave politi-
cal consequences.
Compromise may have to be sought in
France’s plan to internationalise the
Ruhr and the Rhineland. The French
idea would be to rebuild them in-
dustrially, to the extent that a workable
European economic pattern required, but
within strict international controls and
under permanent international supervi-
sion. Germans, French and others might
live and work there, European trade
would be stimulated, but the area would
not contribute to German war potential.
This might satisfy the British desire for
an industrially strong Western Germany,
while permitting Russia sufficient plant
removals to satisfy reparations.
It is now plain, as it was not to most
people last August when the Big Three
published the Potsdam Declaration, that
the problem of what to do about Ger-
many is not a simple one.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The new ruling Powers, in particular the
United States, Russia, the British Empire as a
whole, and potentially China, are big and
strong and rich enough to organise world eco-
nomy and peace on a basis that will not only
assure continued progress in their own stan-
dards of living without tribute from the outside,
but also provide a new chance for Europe’s
millions to live by their own labors. But
if this is to be achieved it will be necessary to
make certain that the new balance of power in
the world is saved from fresh upheavals, which
means that it is up to the Americans, as heirs
of European civilisation, to do their full share
in keeping it intact. If they should fail in
this, if they should permit their power to de-
cline as they did after the last war, they will
not only upset the power balance and the whole
new order based on it, but also expose' the
world and themselves to the same fate that has
overtaken Europe.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Obviously the real income of the nation is in
goods and services, not in money. Just as
obviously the real income drops with every
work stoppage. The strikers lose wages, the
employers lose profits, and generally millions
in money are lost by innocent bystanders who
have nothing to do with the controversy. It
is these indirect losses that are rapidly becoming
intolerable. Civilisation has become too com-
plex to permit the disagreements of a few thou-
sand persons to disrupt whole industries and
whole communities. — N.Y. “Times."
* * * *
The first misstep was the Yalta Conference,
when idealism was tossed out the window and
the so-called practical school of thought came
into the saddle. Persons who argued that the
Atlantic Charter was being scrapped were re-
buked and told they were perfectionist's.' Per-
sons who contended that the Yalta Conference
a return to power politics were informed
that public policy must rest on power anyway
■ and that in the interest of Allied unity and
prospective aid of Russia against Japan any
compromise was logical. Today the world is
paying the penalty for such programmes of ex-
pediency. Any agreement that concedes some-
thing that is basically wrong in principle, merely
to gain some temporary end, rests on an un-
sound foundation.— David Lawrence; N Y
“Sun. v
* * * *
“For over four years every meeting of repre-
sentatives of the Great Powers was followed by
a pronouncement which gave the impression
that complete harmony had been achieved.
That was a war diet of soothing syrup. The
reality was that there was unity in so Tar as
it related to joint effort against common enemies.
But there have always been differences which
are now coming to light.”— John Foster Dulles,
who was special adviser to U.S. Secretary of
State Byrnes at the London Foreign Ministers’
Conference.
* * * *
When the British Dominions support Russia’s
piplicy vis-a-vis Japan and against America, which
did the bulk of the fighting in Asia and de-
feated Japan by industrial production, naval
prowess and military skill, America would like
to know whether it is co-operating with the
British Empire, the British Commonwealth of
Nations or only with England, Scotland and
Wales. If it is only the latter, it may not be
worth while. — N.Y. “Sun” writer.
* * * »
From its 1938 volume of $656,000,000 Cana-
dian-American trade increased to $2,600,000,000
in the 12 months ending last June. — Staff
correspondent. “Christian Science Monitor.”
* \ * * *
Russia is losing under Labor Government the
immense fund of British goodwill she accumu-
lated while the Conservatives were in power.
Among the election posters still to be seen in
London is one which reads “Vote for Labor
and friendship with the Soviet Union.” This
is not what is happening. Bevin and his col-
leagues can and do talk much more forthrightly
to the Soviet spokesmen than Churchill and
Eden did. And the public is becoming critical
of Russia. The war is over for one reason,
but another is that in Britain and Europe
generally the important opposition to the Com-
munists, particularly to Communist imperialism,
comes not from Conservatives but from Social-
ists. — London correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * sp
Montgomery told us all about the Normandy
and African campaigns. I tried hard to get
him to agree to write his. memoirs for us. He
replied: “If I ever wrote my memoirs it would
start another war.” — Richard E. Berlin, presi-
dent Hearst’s newspapers.
* * ' * *
To many Americans Mr. Laski may seem to
be the chief spokesman of the British Labor
party because so many of his articles and inter-
views have been printed in the United States,
but his present prominence is largely a political
accident. He is merely one of 27 members of
the party’s national committee who serve one
year each in rotation as chairman. It just hap-
pened that Laski’s chairmanship coincided with
the first complete Labor victory at the polls.
At the end of this year he will drop back to
the bottom of the committee. — Demaree Bess;
‘Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
The United States, to the complete surprise
of no one, has won the race to establish post-
war trans-Atlantic commercial flying and the
second phase of the American venture into
international civil aviation is about to unfold.
Thanks to a combination of forehanded dip-
lomacy and Irish geography and temperament,
three U.S. • companies have established firm
“aviation beachheads” in Europe and are ready
to advance inland as soon as Governmental
negotiations clear the way. The beachhead
from which the three companies will fan out
According to Arab sources the world at
large possesses insufficient knowledge of
their position in the issue of Palestine
and is not enough aware of the potenti-
alities of the Arab Federation in causing
trouble both to America and Britain,
notably in the matter of Middle East oil
concessions, if Washington and London
make decisions against the Arabs. These
Arabs assert that the foreign press is
regularly served by local correspondents
here in Palestine who in every case are
Jewish. Hence, they assert, these corre-
spondents are obliged to put forth the
viewpoint of the Jewish Agency for
Palestine. To prevent the coming into
existence of a Jewish State in Palestine the
Arabs will fight “until we are exter-
minated,” Dr. Hussair Fakhri Khalidi, a
former Mayor of Jerusalem, told this
writer. He predicted, in the event of the
British giving up the White Paper policy,
outbreaks such as took place in the early
nineteen-thirties, only far more bitter.
He said all Arabs were looking for pro-
tection to the Arab League. — A. C. Sedg-
wick, N.Y. “Times” correspondent, from
Jerusalem.
over Great Britain, Scandinavia, Europe and
the Middle Bast is the airport on the west
coast of Eire, where unlimited landing and
commercial rights have been granted the United
States by the Irish Government. — Chicago
“Sun.”
* * * *
As one responsible American officer who had
lived for many years in Japan before the war
said, “The Japanese don’t know whether de-
mocracy is something you slap on your bread
or apply to your hair.” He went on to assess
the problem of Japan’s political education as
follows; “If you can play a radio to a cow,
read books to it, show it colored movies and
then draw gin instead of milk, you will have
democracy in Japan.”— Tokyo correspondent
N.Y. “Times.” '
* * * *
New York is a dark-horse candidate for
headquarters of the United Nations Organisation
and now has the inside track, according to re-
ports in Washington. Great Britain is putting
on heavy pressure for New York. It wanted
headquarters in Europe, picked out the U.S.
East Coast as next best. Russia presses for
San Francisco because the West Coast is closer
to Pacific problems. Other aspiring cities have
little or no chance. — Scripps-Howard Washing-
ton staff.
* * * *
.The current trend at the U.S. State Depart-
ment is to be firm with Russia. The theory
is that the “soft approach” has failed and
the “hard approach” will put co-operation on
a sounder basis. This is at present a popular
thesis in Washington, particularly on Capitol
Hill, When Secretary of State Byrnes came
back from the London conference and developed
it before the Senate Foreign Relations Commit-
tee he was generally well received. The main
questions raised by the committee, in fact, were
not whether the tough line was right but
whether it was tough enough and whether it was
his intention to “be tough” or only to “act
tough.” For example, while applauding the
Secretary’s tactics of standing up to the Rus-
sian Commissar in London on the question of
letting France and China participate in the pre-
liminary peace treaty discussions, the commit-
tee criticised him adversely for letting Russia
in on an advisory committee for Japan. Several
members argued that he never should have sug-
gested the creation of a Japanese advisory com-
mittee in the first place, and proposed that, in
view of Russia’s insistence that the committee
should “control” Japanese policy instead of
merely advising on it, the United States should
forget the whole thing and continue to govern
Japan unilaterally.— Washington correspondent
N.Y. “Times.”
* ■ * * *
A question in many minds is whether the U.S.,
now probing into the emotions and economics
of Palestine, will support her objectives with
Army, Navy and Air Forces should trouble de-
velop. In Congress speakers scoff at the idea
of a holy war, but Britain fears an uprising
if Jewish immigration restrictions are relaxed.
Is the U.S. interested enough in Palestine to
fight if necessary? Britain, seasoned in Pales-
tinian woes, may insist on a specific answer to
that question before she complies with growing
U.S. pressures.—' “United States News.”
* * * *
“We cannot today afford having our re-
sources employed to keep up foreign armies,
to engage in non-productive enterprises, to pay
the debts of foreign nations to other countries,
to subsidise social experiments, to go into busi-
ness abroad in competition with us, or to pay
for propaganda to upset our Government.” —
Former U.S. President Herbert Hoover.
* * * *
The critics of Gen. MacArthur’s handling of
the Japanese and Of U.S. policy in Germany
disregard the essential fact that the United
States does not seek vengeance but peace-
permanent peace. The United States has no
desire to destroy any nation; it seeks only to
convince all nations that it is more profitable,
as it is right, to live at peace with all the world.
—George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun.”


EYE LOTION
Jor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty* Ltd.. King Street. Sydney,
BRANDAUER^S
ofifths
IF*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
o
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
oim on a coui
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
r» t ni/A CONDITION POWDERS 1/P
SKIN LOTION 2/y
lODINE DOG SOAP
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
-/»
BANISH PAN
With a few applications of
McMahon's Hair Restorer.
It leaves the scalp clean
and fresh. McMahon's is
quickly effective for scurf,
scalp dryness, falling hair
and cradle-cap. Obtain-
able from chemists, hair-
dressers and stores.
I
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days*
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOCSSEIi APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
dfgdgdfgdfg
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (.including postage)
are:
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 „ 12 6
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
3„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ~£l9O
U/~C&b
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials
available, increased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So I ]
ask first for Globite! (\
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
TH4>
&
*
\V
Z. H L
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Phllp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - B. J. Noswortby - lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
p. T. \V. Black. Manager—l.. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
*
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 ©.P.0., Sydney.
Igav
[i him hiiiii 11 MiJ
--
5|M
:
'm
... oftrfymt at#
Already from the rich oil lands of North America has
come the NEW CALTEX MOTOR OlL...and soon will,
come other Caltex petroleum products—Motor Spirit,
Lighting and Power Kerosenes, Distillate —each as advanced
in its own sphere as the New Caltex Motor oil, that has
so quickly established itself as .
TOMORROW’S OIL—TODAY!
-
■
m
WmM
■■ • :■; '■■■': ■' >:■ /■ .
iiiili
You’ll apwredate their
•• ■■ " ■ ■■ • . - ■■
; v m v ' SM - ' i
i jj\ - ' /- j - | # J
Obtainable ixt 10% & 20%
- ' s / >, - ? x i j< ' i.'sj f
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
5709
m msm
mx
' -m
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy The Adventures of a Micro Man. —
3679.
Information Sought.
On what principle was superphosphate
rationed to Victorian farmers during the war
years ?
Restrictions were first imposed in January,
1942. Farmers then received 60 p.c. of the
quantity they had bought in the “base” year
1939-40. For the following year—1942-43 —
the ration was reduced to one-third of the
“base” year’s usage, and a supplementary
ration was granted for dairying and irrigated
pastures. In 1943-44 the quota was reduced to
one-quarter of the “base” year. For the 1944-
45 period the ration was increased to one-half
the normal tonnage. For the present season
the ration has been raised to three-quarters of
the normal tonnage. Each year special allot-
ments have been made (on permit) for priority
crops which include potatoes, vegetables, flax
and tobacco.
« * *
How did Parliamentary reports get the name
of “Hansard” ?
Luke Hansard, who was born in England in
1752, acquired!, in 1800, the business of printer
to the House of Commons. He printed the
journals of the House of Commons from 1774
till his death in 1828. His son, Thomas Han-
sard, began in 1803 to print Parliamentary
debates, which were at first taken from news-
paper reports. In 1899 the debates were pub-
lished by the Hansard Publishing Union,
Limited.
Brief Answers.
A.R.: Badu Island is in Torres Strait about
30 miles from Thursday Island R.N.L.; (1)
The only edition of the book was in 1937.
(2) The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is, at
present, awarded for the best Australian work
published in Australia during the year. Authors
are not required to submit their books to The
Bulletin J.E.D.: The book has not yet
been published in Australia R.J.N.-R.:
Various Government departments have con-
ducted tests, but as there is such a wide varia-
tion in type, weight and condition of cattle,
no average can be struck... .G.R.: Ralph
Hodgson composed the poem Beaver: Make
application to the Department of the Interior.
Research: The Victorian Racing Club has
the information you require R.0.W.: There
are no restrictions on the entry into Maoriland
of British-born subjects of foreign extraction
who are in good health and are not dangerous
or disaffected persons. Discharged A.M.F. per-
sonnel are granted rehabilitation benefits only
if tlrey have resided in M-L. for at least ten
years. Further details may be obtained from
the New Zealand Government Trade Commis-
sioner, 14 Martin-place, Sydney R.S.D.E.:
Ida Lupino played that part in “The Road to
’Frisco.” Your other query will be answered
later 8.D.: (1) The Bruce Lowe figure
system of breeding is one by which the descen-
dants of the original taproot mares of the
English Stud Book, are numbered. Know of
no literature on the subject that is available at
present. (2) The best breeding system is a
matter of opinion... J.N.A.: Henry Lamond
has written Tooth and Talon, Amathea, Horns
and Hooves, Days and Ways of a Scottish
Angler, Loch Lomond, A Study in Angling
Conditions, An Aviary on the Plains and train
Tariaro to Ross Roy.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor,
V.G.L.: Clarify and tune-up the final
stanza C.H.N.: Trouble with deliberately
“silly” poems is that they do sound silly
B.F.W.r Room for one stanza of effusion to
Grade Fields:
A little Ray of Sunshine
Flitting o’er the land,
A little Ray of Sunshine
All set to Merry Music
By Nature’s loving hand.
....L.W.C.: “Here where the slavering city
ravens.” You tend to overstatement....
D.H.R:. At least, it does tell a story Z.H.:
Keep coming; make them more definite
W.M.8.: “I am a very sensitive soul.” Then
how could you send us that poem? P. 8.:
Not madly enthusiastic about the dream-life of
bees, but if you’re young it’s promising
T.G.W.: It’s obviously meant to be fine and
delicate as a dancer; but it’s like a ghost in
the boots of a policeman M. 0.8.: Cannot
imagine that even the author would roar with
laughter at them M.D.: “Say, have we aught
of worth to show?” Nay T.E.H.: None
up J.H.: Except that it appears to refer to
coal-miners, poem dedicated to “those beings
who provide with Providence the power to
drive the trains to drench each household with
dazzling light” remains totally obscure.


r
What Would You
Do?
If you were suddenly empowered by a
deceased friend’s will to manage his estate,
what would you do?
On the other hand, what would your friend
do if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems are
avoided by the appointment of The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Ltd. as
Executor or Co-Executor. The Company
has had over 67 years’ experience of estate
administration and offers undoubted security
for the performance of its duties
Full information will be afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and at 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sit Alexander Stewart (Chairman)* D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.s Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colmaa, C.8.E.;
Sit Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jonea.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd
Manager* K. M. Hughes.
Incorporated In Victoria in 1878.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE lO9 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless (Aus.), Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
££ £ £
1935.. 1X9,824 10 p.c. = 74,428 I qn« lfi7 qqi
Staff fund, £15,000 .. | 30,396 167.891
1936.. 109,701 11 p.c. = 81,870 27,831 195,721
1937.. 125,794 12 „ ~ 89,313 36,481 232,202
1938.. 130,198 12 „ „ 89,525 40,673 272,875
Reserves.
Patent rights, £85,811 .. .. 187,064
1930.. 132,578 10 p.c. = 89,035 43,543 230,607
From suspense account, £22,800 .. 253,407
1940.. 110,479 10 p.c. = 90,511 19,968 273,375
1941.. 103,089 10 „ „ 90,511 12,578 285,953
1942.. 125,192 » „ „ 72,408 52,784 338,737
1943.. 133,542 8 „ „ 77,232 56,310 395,047
Investment reserve disclosed, £39,695 434,742
1944.. 140,300 9 p.c. e 86,697 51,603 486,345
Added investment reserve, £3,560 .. 489,905
1945.. 142,901 10 p.c. = 98,552 44,349 534,254
This co. is a splendid example of how
the Government and private enterprise
can successfully run in double harness.
Twenty-three years ago the Government
took up half a million of the co.’s pound
shares, and with them control of the
organisation. The seven members of the
board are appointed three by the Gov-
ernment, three by other shareholders, and
the seventh is elected by the other six
directors. To date the Government has
received some £626,000 in divs., and at
the present market price (68s. a share as
against 61s. 9d. a year ago) its holding
is worth £1,700,000. In addition the co.,
in common with all other traders, has
made handsome contributions to the
public revenue by way of taxation on
earnings, and again divs. are taxable in
shareholders’ hands. This compromise
between the two extremes of the Govern-
ment having no direct interest in business
or having the lot has thus proved highly
profitable to the Government, and, there-
fore, to the people generally. Moreover,
it tends to preserve the incentive essen-
tial to successful enterprise and to reduce
the detailed interference in day-to-day
operations of business by Government
departments, whose methods of adminis-
tration are incompatible with efficiency
and flexibility in the conduct of trade
and industry.
Under pressure of war conditions the
co.’s activities widened and increased con-
siderably. Speed in modern warfare
makes efficient wireless and radio com-
munication essential to successful opera-
tions in all Excepting the broad-
casting and recording sections, the co.’s
effort over the last half-dozen years has
been devoted mainly to research, and pro-
vision of special equipment and training
of technical personnel for the fighting and
ancillary services, including the merchant
marine. Three auxiliary factories had to
be erected, and an ammunition annex was
also built at the co.’s own expense. The
subsidiary co. turned out some 4,000,000
valves, covering 100 different types, in-
cluding intricate radar valves. Many
Australian and Allied ships were fitted
with equipment made in the co.’s work-
shops, and the Marconi school trained
thousands of operators and technicians
for the fighting forces and merchant
marine. Altogether over £13,000,000
worth of defence equipment was manu-
factured. The Beam service is now hand-
ling over three times its pre-war volume
of business; and the new department for
supply and servicing of marine refrigera-
tion equipment is steadily expanding.
Since VP-day the management has
been busy reconverting war-time methods
and layouts to the needs of civilian pro-
duction. The first of the co.’s Radiolas
and other wireless equipment for which
the market is hungry recently came off
the production lines. There will also be
a strong demand for equipment to replace
that lost or damaged in New Guinea and
elsewhere in the islands; and there is
much yet to be done in reconditioning
the co.’s own coastal radio and broad-
casting stations.
Activity on defence account tapered
toward the close of last accounts. There
was a recession of £67,921 in the year’s
gross earnings from all sources
(£1,021,546). But the saving in exes.
(£878,645, including an unspecified pro-
vision for taxation) amounted to £70,522,
thus leaving the net result £2601 better
at 14.5 p.c. on capital, compared with
14.2, 13.8, 13.8, 11.3, 12.2 and 14.6 p.c.
back to 1939, A point was added to the
div., making it 10 p.c. On that basis
the investor at 68s. gets a wink over
3 p.c. on his money, or counts on the
div. being lifted to the pre-war rate of
12 p.c. if he looks for a 31 p.c. return.
There is, of course, always the possi-
bility that the Government might take
over the Beam and overseas wireless-
telephone services. Though this would
reduce total earnings, it also ought to
mean a part return of capital. And re-
maining assets are believed to be satis-
factory profit earners.
Finances are comfortable:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £905,106 £905,106 £985,518 £985,518
Sundry creditors 412,277 1,326,412 862,268 872,506
Freeholds* . j 609,389 628,807 672,270 677,697
Plant, etc.* .. 570,159 639,776 1,012,187 1,081,124
Stocks .. 379,309 1,014,823 583,667 443,062
Beam services 179,718 195,439
Book debts .. 317,164 625,660 802,208 704,063
Cash, etc .. 150,036 244,771 225,289 542,965
Patents .. 85,811 85,811 85,811 85,811
Other intangibles 49,067 49,067
*At cost; subject to specific reserves (now
£859,224).
The year’s reduction of £140,605 in stocks
and of £98,145 in book debts mainly
reflect the tapering of defence business.
Extensions to the Ashfield works and to
Beam stations added £68,937 to plant,
etc., and £5427 to freeholds. The already
substantial holding of- cash, etc., was
further strengthened by £317,676. The
more or less liquid surplus (£817,584)
moved up £58,688.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 23,218 7J p.C.= 21,750 1,468 124,936
1936.. 29,381 10 „ „ 29,000 381 125,317
Contingencies reserve disclosed,
£36,716 162,033
1937.. 42,674 12i p.c.n 36,260 7 2 424 164 457
Pension fund. £4OOO j lb4 ’ 4 '
1938.. 29,404 10 p.c. = 29,000 404 164,861
1939.. 29,628 10 „ „ 29,000 628 165,489
To staff funds, £3OOO .. .. 162,489
1940.. 31,803 10 p.c. = 29,000 2,863 165,352
To staff funds, £2850 .. .. 162,502
1941.. 85,021 10 p.c. = 29,000 6,021 168,523
To staff funds, £6OOO .. .. 162,523
1942.. 29,899 10 p.c. = 29,000 899 163,422
To staff funds, £3769 . . . . 159,653
1943.. 24,042 8 p.c. = 23,200 842 160,495
To staff funds, £3BOO . . . . 156,695
1944.. 26,975 8 p.c. = 23,200 3,775 160,470
To staff funds, £3OOO .. .. 157,470
1945.. 22,388 7 p.c. = 20,623 1,765 159,235
To staff funds, .. .. 158,035
This stoutly-ribbed 57-year-old is in the
stock and station agency, wool- and pro-
duce-broking and pastoral finance busi-
ness in N.S.W. Drought was the trouble
last term. Despite extensive hand-feed-
ing, heavy losses of stock occurred on
many properties, lambs marked showed
poor development, and the outturn of
fats declined heavily. The clip generally
was dusty and lacked robustness and bulk,
while Communist strikes, shortage of
manpower, fodder scarcity and the rabbit
pest made matters worse.
At its Sydney and Newcastle stores the
co. handled 19,533 fewer bales wool, and
in the fat-stock market it disposed of
78,776 fewer sheep and 1211 fewer cattle:
Year to Wool
June 30, Bales. Sheep. Cattle Pigs.
1940.. 184,253 317,177 32,522
1941.. ,141,507 375,530 19,551
1942.. 141,704 411,000 24,690 7609
1943.. 125,817 411,000 24,690 7609
1944.. 128,816 381,624 28,067 5239
1945.. 109,283 302,848 21,856 8402
Brightest spots in the picture were the
steady price (15.4 d. per pound) for wool
under the British contract, and higher
figures for livestock, thanks to the strength
of British and service demands.
After putting aside £7400 (down £6600)
for the taxgatherer, net earnings were
£4587 lighter at £22,388, equal to 7.5 p.c.
on capital, as against 9.3, 8, 10.2, 11.9,
10.9 and 10 p.c. back to 1939. The div.,
which dropped from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c.
in 1943, was reduced to 7 p.c., which is
the lowest rates the co. has paid for the
last 39 years.
As for the current season, rain has
relieved the position over most of the
State —some areas are still dry. Although
this means, generally speaking, better
lambing and a more plentiful supply of
fat stock, further shrinkage in the cur-
rent clip is to be expected, because of
shortage of breeding ewes, following the
effects of drought upon flock numbers.
The current clip will be disposed of
under the existing contract with Britain just
referred to. After that the staple will be
sold at auction, subject to reserve prices
fixed by J.O. —the new Empire joint
organisation for orderly marketing of
wool. It promises to take much of the
sting out of the threat to prices contained
in the war-time accumulated stock-pile of
some 10,000,000 bales. These stocks are
to be used to appease market appetite in
excess of current clips; and it may take
a decade or more to clean up the position.
Meanwhile, growers have the right to
place their own reserves on their own
wool, and J.O. is to buy that part of the
clip, if any, not taken by commercial
buyers at or above its reserve figure.
Success of the scheme will largely
depend upon the skill and judgment with
which reserve prices are fixed. The world
shortage of clothing, owing to rationing
and destruction, and the demand for re-
placement of wardrobes that will follow
demobilisation of Allied and enemy
forces are strengthening factors on the
demand side. On the other side the staple
is faced with competition from synthetic
fibres. The big problem for Australian
growers will be to keep production costs,
many of them outside the grower’s con-
trol, below average selling price.
The co. is well equipped to come to
the assistance of clients when the need
arises, as the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £290,000 £290,000 £290,000 £295,000
Overdraft .. 230,435 207,695 114,974 130,183
Creditors* .. 32,611 41,636 70,324 91,548
Freeholds *. 154,421 280,126 235,604 235,350
Advances, etc. 282,480 247,778 207,890 216,379
Liquid assets 301,103 249,113 220,546 241,963
•Including tax reserve.
Including advances, the more or less
liquid surplus amounted to £237,122
(£6016 less than at the previous balance),
equal to 16s. Id. per pound of paid
capital.
United Provisions. Ltd.
(T-j —Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 67,812 11* p.c. 2 p.c. 68,500 386
1936.. 55,326 8 „ 2 „ 55,000 326 712
1937.. 36,087 8 „ Nil 36,000 87 799
Tax refund, £467 1266
1938.. 70,853 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 6,353 7619
United Provisions and Subsidiaries. '
Nominal
V Dividends N To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
1939.. 57,490 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 164,876
1940.. 55,185 8 „ li „ 47,875 7,310 172,185
1941. .142,589 8 „ 4 „ 74,000 68,589 240,774
1942.. 71,756 8 „ 3 „ 64,500 7,256 248,030
1943. .136,024 8 „ 4 „ 74,000 62,024 310,054
1944. .142,683 8 „ 5 „ 83,500 59,183 369,237
1945. .180,777 8 „ 8 „ 112,000 68,777 438,014
* Including 3 p.c. arrears. t Subject to intangibles
of £641,632.
The two operating cos. —J. C. Hutton
and Foggitt Jones; they welded their
interests through this holding co. in 1927
-—control 10 factories scattered through-
out the Commonwealth and three in
Maoriland, as well as a string of ware-
houses in both countries. Activities em-
brace ham- and bacon-curing and manu-
facture of canned foods, smallgoods, etc.
Five out of the nine years to the close
of accounts in 1939 were dry ones
for the ords., whose average div. for the
period was 1.1 p.c. That was because
destructive competition, ushered in by
slump in the early 1930’5, played havoc
with prices on both the buying and selling
side of the business.
War, with its accompanying price and
other controls, eliminated some of the
old troubles and created new ones. It cut
off the co.’s growing connections with
Southern and Eastern Asia, the N.E.I.
and Philippines; but our own and Allied
service demands and British contracts
more than filled the gap. It needs to be
remembered, however, that since 1940
each year’s earnings have been charged
with the previous year’s tax bill, no speci-
fic provision being made to meet the next
bill when it arrives. Hence the leap in
the 1941 profit, since when net earning
power has been overstated to the extent
that taxation for any year exceeded the
previous year’s assessment.
Last term turnover (£5,000,000-odd)
stepped up £438,920, compared with an
increase of £301,100 for the previous
term. The services continued to take
the bulk of factory output, shipments of
canned meat and processed cheese were
made to Britain, the Middle East and
India, and Australian civilian trade re-
mained curtailed. After handing the tax-
gatherer an extra £14,572 (£104,418) and
allowing £31,223 (up £814) for deprecia-
tion, combined net earnings of the group
sprang £38,094, reaching £180,777. That
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 15.2 p.c. on the £950,000 of ord.
capital as against 11.2 p.c. and 10.5 p.c.


• kt
:a»
~is£SSt*ss
I *rtr s
S, '■!)„,)
fyaio j.
Established 1808 In Belgn of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
(England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST,. SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia A New Zealand.
dfgdgdfgdfg
public'trustee
Acts A.s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
• or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Noll, Public Trustee.
Tenders.
The Agricultural Bank of Tasmania
WAR SERVICE LAND SETTLEMENT
TENDERS FOR CLEARING LAND
ON KING ISLAND
Tenders, endorsed “Pegarah Clearing” and accom-
panied by deposit of one per cent., are invited and
will be received at the office of the undersigned up
to the 20th December, 1945, for the first stage of
the development of the Pegarah Settlement area on
King Island in seven blocks totalling 29,000 acres.
The work comprises the catting, carting and stack-
ing of fallen timber suitable for firewood and fencing
timber at specified depots; the clearing and burning
of all other fallen timber, standing shelly stumps,
scrub and other vegetation and the levelling of earth
mounds.
Separate tenders are required for each of the seven
lots which range in area from 2,280 to 5,820 acres.
Specifications of the work and plans of the area are
available on application to the undersigned.
Inspection of the area and travel priorities may be
arranged on application.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Deposit may be forfeited it tender withdrawn.
• S, R, ADAMS,
Chairman, Closer Settlement Board,
Hobart, Tasmania,
TWVFNTOKS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
„ TT'issel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. A
*** * .
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 18 ),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. Advt.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House S6O Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1 Austra-
E and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advt.
m
m
11.
m
HEAD OFFICE; MELBOURNE.
A Record of
Service and Progress
THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1945 SHOWS THAT THE
T. & G. IS IN THE FOREFRONT OF LIFE ASSURANCE
OFFICES IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
SERVICE— The Society is noted for its service
to Policyholders. All claims are settled with the
utmost promptness. During the last financial year
£3,530,000 was paid to Policyholders—more than
£l 1,300 every working day in the year.
POPULARITY The esteem in which the
Society is held is shown by the fact that during the
year a large number of existing Pohcyholders, in
addition to new members, acquired protection for
themselves and their dependants. In all, 108,597
new Policies assuring £15,241,045 were effected,
while the total Assurances in Force increased to
£128,386.817.
INCOME —The income for the year exceeded
£8,320,000, an increase of more than £495,000
over the previous year’s total.
SECURITY —The Assets, which are held in
trust to meet Policy liabilities, exceed £48,800,000,
of which £35,200,000 is invested in Government,
Municipal and other Local Body Securities.
WAR EFFORT —Over 1 ,800 members of
the Society’s Staff enlisted for War Service. The
Society has continued to invest in the various War
Loans in Australia and New Zealand, £20,320,000
having already been subscribed.
GROUP ASSURANCE The Society
specializes in Group Assurance and Staff Super-
annuation Schemes on terms most advantageous to
Employers and Employees. These plans operate
on the mutual principle.
THE T. & G. SERVES THE NATION
PURELY MUTUAL NO SHAREHOLDERS.
dfgdgdfgdfg
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual life Assurance Society limited.
AU (Incorporated in Victoria.)
for the two preceding terms. The div,
was lifted from 5 p.c. to 8 px., which is
the best for the last 16 years. The £68,7 /
that remained lifted nominal reserves t
£438,014, subject to intangibles (£641,632)
and taxation (estimated at £150,000) on
last term’s earnings.
As for the current term, service require-
ments will ease ; but the British demand
for meats and cheese, and local civilian
requirements—most of the co. s lines are
coupon-free —promise to keep turnover
on the up-grade, subject, of course, to an
adequate supply of raw materials being
available. Meanwhile, revival of the co. s
export trade with Asia and the islands will
call for attention. Buying and selling
prices are controlled, and are likely to
remain so for the current term, at any
rate.
The financial position further im-
proved :
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1944. 1945.
Raid capital .. £1,400,000 £1,400,000 £1,400,900
Overdraft, etc. .. 60,034 233,824 35,181
Other creditors .. 144,413 210,857 249,932
Tax reserve .. 29,358
Suspense account.. 915 11,092
Freeholds .. 395,909 376,108 358,505
Plant, etc. .. 158,204 159,323 172,126
Stock .. .. 371,801 645,925 646,023
Debtors .. .. 236,021 389,263 283,045
Cash, etc. .. 37,344 68,021 98,389
Intangibles* .. 641,807 641,632 641,682
Suspense account.. 4,094
* Mainly difference between book value and par value
of inter co. shareholdings.
Chief movement in the figures last term
was a contraction of £106,218 in debtors’
balances (reflecting the tapering of service
contracts) and a reduction of £198,643 in
the overdraft, etc. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or-less liquid surplus
(£731*252) was £73,639.
■From London: Justice Cohen recently
adjourned a petition foy the compulsory
winding-up of Angler Australian Gold
Development, Ltd.—the first of De Ber-
nales’s flotations here —until November
27. In September, 1941, it was resolved
to voluntarily wind up the co. and trans-
fer its assets to Australian Gold Produc-
tion, Ltd., a De Bernales Westralian-regis-
tered co.; shareholders to be entitled to
103 paid Australian Gold Production Is.
shares, and 51 paid Comet Is. shares and
77 paid 2s. 6d. Yellowdine shares (two
other De Bemales-controlled cos.) for
every 100 fully-paid ss. Anglo Australian
shares. Proposals could not be carried
into effect because the British Treasury
refused to consent to the scheme during
the war. J
* * * «
Lake View and Star’s profit for year
to June 30, 1945, was £276,549 stg. (down
£35,000). Dividend at 37i p.c. (Is. 6d.
a share) is unchanged. Progress reports
are not issued nowadays, which means
that shareholders have to wait for the
annual meeting to know what happened
during the preceding 12 months. The
fact that ore reserves are being main-
tained around the 4,000,000-ton mark,
and that values show little alteration,
suggest there isn’t much to worry about.
* * * *
Hill 50 Gold Mine, N.L. (W.A.), netted
£12,202 for the year to June 30 last, and
£27,310 was carried forward, as against
£30,897 brought in. An interim div. of
6d. was paid. The “considerably reduced
tonnage treated” bumped up costs. The
fall in throughput followed repeated
breakdown of plant, which brought about
suspension of operations for two months.
All units of the plant are now said to
be running efficiently. The new g.m.,
J J. Fox, took over on July 1 last.
♦ * * *
Hansel Mundy has made a call of
a share. The money is to be used to
secure an interest in an option on some-
thing at Hampton Plains, near Cool-
gardie (W.A,)* As said before on this
page, co. has been hither and thither in
the West since 1911, when it left Bull-
finch, where it operated under the name of
Chaffinch. So far its luck has been out.
* * * *
Westralian Auditor-General’s report
shows that, in order to preserve assets of
mines affected by war conditions, the
Commonwealth Government provided
£150,000 during the last three years. Ex-
penditure, controlled by the State Mines
Department, totalled £100,797, leaving a
credit of £49,203. Disbursements included
Triton £35,263, Big Bell £32,459,
Gladiator £7211, Spargo’s Reward £5787
Ora Banda Amalgamated £4575, Gold
Fields Australian Development £3364
Consolidated of Coolgardie £2339 and
Consolidated Gold Areas £1629.
* * * *
Westralian Government’s plans for
receiving the goldmining industry include
(1) examination by State geologists of
likely new gold and mineral areas, sup-
plemented by diamond drilling; (2)
scheme for encouragement of prospecting
in areas considered worth while, (3) ex-
perimental research; (4) preparation of
State batteries to cope with expected
revival of the industry. Of recent months
there has been an upward tendency in
tonnages treated by these mills.


Sr
T
E
e x
p
R
E
S
S
V v\v*:
&
m
*ssmM
6S
£
1
"iy'Xifii
'
mm
v\
Because, as yet, conditions have not returned
to normal—shortages will still sometimes occur.
But “State Express 333V’ are being regularly
distributed, so keep asking for “Three Three’s.”
STATE EXPRESS 333 CIGARETTES
X427D-10.45
EXPERIENCE INSPIRES
CONFIDENCE
INCE its establishment 60 years ago
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
has gone through wars, depressions,
droughts and other periods of extreme
fluctuation. Out of these years it has
acquired a rich experience in the manage-
ment of thousands of estates.
This 60 years’ experience has well fitted
Perpetual Trustee Company to act as
Executor of your Will.
May we suggest that you confer with a
senior officer of the Company? You may
prefer' to study, firstly the Company’s
booklet, “Your Executor and . Trustee”,
which others have found so helpful. A
copy will be gladly posted on request.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.O.
E. R. Knox ; H. Norman Pope;
Allen 0. Lewis; Hon. J. P. Abbott, M.H.R.
H. Y. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £64,000,000.
(The average Estate being less than £10,000.)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: 0. E. Cowdery,
Qurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw,
140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
/ Company Limited
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Social Insecurity
An adverse High Court decision on the
validity of the Pharmaceutical Benefits
(Free Bottle of Medicine) Act has preci-
pitated a “demand” in Labor-party circles
for another referendum, even though the
defeat of Labor’s referendum in August,
1944, was a landmark in the decline of
the “popularity” of the Government and
the deflation of the Big Four to their right
size—vest-pocket (trade-union style) size.
Speaking on the subject of the Govern-
ment’s present dilemma, and referring to
the last referendum, R. G. Menzies said
last week:
The Government performed what it re-
garded as a clever manoeuvre. It thought
that if people had only one vote, and they
were told that unless they voted “yes” cer-
tain social services were in danger, the
majority would vote “yes” and swallow
the pther amendments [l4 amendments
altogether] which they did not like. This
masterly piece of tactics having failed to
come off, and the referendum having been
defeated, the Government is now trying to
behave like a group of people who have a
real grievance.
The attitude of the Opposition is still
completely constructive on this matter, but
if the Government proposes once more to
convert constitutional reform into a game
of party political tactics tve shall have to
consider our own- attitude accordingly.
If we are to have a referendum during
the next nine months, and if it is charged
with as much trickery, distortion and
trade-unionist ear-tickling as was Dr.
Evatt’s last ill-fated campaign, it cannot
but interfere ridiculously with the Gov-
ernment’s feeble efforts to get selfish and
mulish trade-unionists to work. A cam-
paign promising the moon to all those
electors showing a narrow self-interest
(Labor doesn’t know how to conduct a
campaign any other way) would seem
like a deliberate policy of appeasement
of militant strikers in the circumstances.
The proposed referendum is unlikely to
confine itself merely to validating the
Commonwealth gift of “free” bottles of
medicine to those suffering from real and
imaginary ailments. A number of old
(and rejected) requests for additional
Federal powers are to be revived.
The whole principle of the Govern-
ment’s National Welfare Fund is open
to sober doubt. It has been founded in
a vote-catching spirit, without decent
regard to the social, financial and econo-
mic implications, even though an expen-
diture of £77 million a year on it is
already in sight. A breakdown in Gov-
ernment economic “policy” has been seen
in borrowing activities (failure upon
failure without parallel in any other
British or American country) and on the
industrial front. Financial dealings have
been shortsighted, sloppy and political.
The N.W.F. represents such a huge re-:
distribution of people’s incomes—it in-
volves heavy taxation on the one hand, as
well as a dubious but extensive scattering
of “free benefits” on the other—that it
must be planned in equity and adminis-
tered in an efficient and enlightened way if
it is not to become more of a curse than a
blessing. Whilst old-age, widows’ and
similar pensions, unemployment and sick-
ness insurance, etc., have a rightful place
in the administration of any Government,
the free-medicine racket and" the like
represent political quackery tacked on to
a service that is at least in theory legi-
timate.
But it has never been within the Big-
ness of the Big Four (reduced to Three
now) to tell the voters bluntly that they
have to pay for their own “social secu-
rity,” and that the best that can be offered
to them is a form of compulsory commu-
nity saving to look after old age, unem-
ployment, sickness, etc. “Something for
nothing” has been the idea cultivated by
the Labor'Government in the minds of
its adherents, and it has at all times re-
jected any suggestion of a contributory
National Welfare Fund. It has preferred
to levy taxation instead, hoping to dis-
guise the cost of the plan. But taxation.
is such a heavy burden now that it cannot
be disguised in any of its incidences. So
some of it has actually been earmarked
for “social-security” purposes.
The real problem in front of the nation
today is to restore production. There has
been a really serious fall in our produc-
tive capacity since War began, the chief
deterioration being in the quality and
energy of labor, though many factories
have suffered depreciation of plant at a
faster pace than usual. Our civilian out-
put at the present time is not nearly
enough to support pre-war living stand-
ards, let alone to provide lavishly for
“social security.” Yet a great deal of
the Labor-party machine’s present activ-
ities—and, of course, the party runs the
Government—is devoted to playing round
with the paraphernalia of theoretical
“social security” for those who now are
striking at all economic security in their
anti-social industrial behavior. The party,
and, ergo, the Government, are still pie-
dominantly occupied with the doctrine
and dogma of socialistic schemes that dis-
regard the hard facts of our present exist-
ence, notably the falling of national pro-
duction to dangpr point—and this the
work of the very diasses for whose benefit
the national income is to be mortgaged
for all time.
A significant incident was Winston
Churchill’s criticism last week of Labor's
inflation fears in Britain. “Surely,” said
the ex-P.M., “the remedy is in abundance,
Fill the shops with what the public wants,
get the workers from the forces, get the
factories moving, and then purchasing
power will be a blessing.”
Australia is entitled to have a social-
security service that renders every pos-
sible help towards stabilising the economic
existence of its citizens. But it is only
entitled to such a service so long as citi-
zens themselves, in their production and
in their money contributions, pay for it.
And the service will be a sham and a
mockery unless it is designed to help the
really deserving and to give incentive to
the productive capacity of the people
rather than a check to it.
:
___.. . c , „
G. F. Dampney is making a final eiiort
to get his housing plan to move on a
national scale. A cottage is being built
at Palm Beach (N.S.W.) out of concrete
slabs precast at Newport. His system is
to make and cure the slabs before erec-
tion. The structure has a cavity wall, all
uprights are concrete, and the slabs are
fixed to the uprights with a mortar that is
every bit as strong as the concrete. The
slabs may be erected horizontally as im
a weatherboard house, and may be fin-
ished off smoothly, to give the appear-
ance of a plain wall. Ashes are mixed
with the cement to give it special quali-
ties ; Dampney aims at a chemical com-
position rather than a mechanical mix-
in his building material. His idea
in organising a housing system is to have
a controlling company grant licences for
various territories, roughly shires or
municipalities, to approved builders, who
would pay a royalty on each slab. The
holding company would ask the aid of
universities, church bodies, etc., for ad-
vice of a technical and social nature,
Dampney’s aim is that profits made by
the organisation, however substantial
they might grow with a large turnover,
should represent little or nothing in the
cost of each home. He has spent 30
years of his life building and planning
the Dampney home, and he wants
authorities now to come along and say
definitely what they think of his system
and what they are prepared to do to
assist in solving the housing problem,
Dampney has all along claimed a revolu-
tionary reduction in the cost of building
{ b e walls, etc., of a house under his sys-
tem j n tbe p resen t state of housing a
d ecen t home, quickly built, at the pre-
war cost brick should be enough to
arouse the active interest of all respon-
sible authorities,
... * . , .
Potential investors are interested in the
possibility of putting money into »Bitu-
men and Oil Refineries, Australia, Ltd.,
the formation of which was announced
on November 12. With a nominal capi-
tal of £1,250,000, formation has been
allowed by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment on condition that Australian share-
holders take up 60 p.c. of the capital,
California Texas Oil Co. will subscribe
40 p.c. This concern owns large oil con-
cessions in Bahrein Island, in the Per-
sian Gulf, as well as having a monopoly
0 f leases in Saudi Arabia. The plan
behind the Australian flotation is to im-
port crude oil here and produce lubri-
eating oils and bitumen, capacity of the
n. 3. Wales and Victorian refineries in
the second year to be equal to all Aus-
tralian bitumen requirements. It is fore-
cast that the co. will be able to sell bitu-
men a t half the present price of £22 a
ton. From the Australian investor’s angle
one thing to be considered is the nature
of the contracts that the co. will make
w j tb - ts overseas suppliers,. The contracts
may be m ade within the California Texas
g rou p or they ma y not, but the price
charged for crude oil will obviously
have a bearing on profits at the Austra-
lian end. Until a prospectus is issued it
will not be known what contracts have
been entered into prior to flotation, but
if these are subject to ratification by the
Ml . body of shareholders Australian in-
It is likelyj in any case? that, sub j ec t to
pj ans going well, at least a reasonable
re turn should be available to investors
by comparison with present interest levels,
though erection of the two refineries and
the commencement of profitable opera-
tions will inevitably take time.


Cr.
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
5 7/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to—
I.E. LONG&CO.
Wallangarra.
Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1944.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire Dis-
trict and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1944, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance com-
pany not registered in the State; are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales, returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1945.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1946,
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the time
such property was in any Fire District under
the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns 'of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1944.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales, returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st De-
cember, 1945, within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 19W-1944, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January, »46;
sqbject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th SEPTEMBER, 1945
LIABILITIES. £ s. d.
Notes in Circulation .. 81,053 10 0
Deposits, Accrued Interest,
Rebate, Bills Payable and
other liabilities, Including
reserves held for doubtful
debts and other contin-
gencies .. •• ..200,540,055 3
s. d.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Profit and L055£843,911 0 2
Less Interim
Dividends to
30th June,
1945 .. £395,100 0 0
8.780.000 0 0
6.150.000 0 0
448.« i i o 2
-200,621,108 13 7
15,378,811 0 2
215,999,919 13 9
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc., as
per Contra ■ ■ 7,163,702 7 10
£223,163,622 1 7
ASSETS. £ s. d. £ b. d.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and
Cash at Bankers.." .. 19,384,683 10 10
Short-dated Treasury Bills —
Australian .. .. 16,500,000 0 0
Government Securities —
Australian, New Zealand, V,
British and Fijian ..35,173,309 0 4
Due by Other Banks .. 4,078,555 0 9
Bills Receivable and Remit-
tances in Transit .. 7,405,733 11 0
Special Account with Com-
monwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia 61,354,000 0 0
Statutory Deposit with Re-
serve Bank of New Zealand 1,070,847 0 0
—i —144,968,131 2 11
Loans and Advances to Customers .. .. 67,429,788 10 10
Bank Premises .. .. .. .. .. 3,600,000 0 0
All other Assets .. .. 2,000 0 0
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER, 1945
Cr.
— i s. a.
To Interim Dividends as under, paid in terms of
Clause 105 of Deed of Settlement out of the
Year’s Profits; —
For Quarter ended —
31st Dec., 1944, at 6/- per share Australian
Currency .. •• •• •• • • 131,700 0 0
31st March, 1945, at 6/- per share Australian
Currency .. .. .. • ■ • • 131,700 0 0
30th June, 1945, at 6/- per share Australian
Currency .. .. • • • • • • 131,700 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows ;
To Quarter’s Dividend to 30th
September, 1945, at the rate of
6/- per share Australian Cur-
rency . • .. . - •. £131,700 0 0
To balance carried forward .. 317,111 0 2
395,100 0 0
448,811 0 2
£843,911 0 2
£ s. d.
By Amount from last Account .. .. .. 291,003 10 3
„ Balance of Year’s Profits, after deducting
Rebate on Current Bills, Interest on Deposits,
providing for Income, Land and other Taxes,
reducing valuation of Bank Premises, provid-
ing for Bad and Doubtful Debts, fluctuations
in the value of Investment Securities, and other
contingencies, and including recoveries from
Debts previously written off as bad .. .. 552,907 3 11
RESERVE FUND
dfgdgdfgdfg
To Balance (used in the business of the Bank)
carried forward to next year ..6,150,000 0 0
£6,150,000 0 0
£ 8. d.
By Balance brought forward from last year ~ 6,150,000 0 0
£6,150,000 0 0
T. B. HEFFER, General Manager.
A. STEW ART-RICH ARDSON, Chief Accountant.
Audited , 6 th November, 1945. v
S'. D. HOBBS, P. S. CHAPMAN, Auditors.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the annexed Balance Sheet, made up to
the 30th September, 1945, and report that we find the several items
therein stated to conform to the balances in the General Ledger,
and to the Balance Sheets of the respective Branches and Agencies
of the Bank collectively.
We have counted the Cash, and examined the Bills and other
Securities held by the Bank at the Head Office, in Sydney, on
the 30th September, 1945, and hereby certify that we have found
them correctly stated.
The Cash, Bills, and other Securities held in London, and
at the Branches and Agencies in Australia, New Zealand and
Piji, on the 30th September, 1945, have been certified to as being
correct by the usual documents.
Batik of New South Wales, Sydney,
6th November, 1945.
S'. D. HOBBS \
P. S. CHAPMAN/
Auditors.
DECLARATION.
We, Francis David Hobbs and Percy Steele Chapman, of
Sydney, In the State of New South Wales, being duly elected
Auditors of the Accounts of the Corporation of the Bank of New
South Wales, do hereby solemnly and sincerely declare that the
foregoing Statement of Account is, to the best of our several
and respective knowledge and belief, a just, true, and faithful
statement of the Accounts of the said Corporation, and that this
Declaration is made by us after diligent and careful examination
into the state of such Accounts, as far as the same have come
within our cognizance; and we do severally and respectively
make this declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtu® of an Act of the Parliament of the State of
New South Wales, passed in the fourteenth year of his Majesty,
King George V, intituled “ Bank of New South Wales Act, 1923.”
Declared before me at Sydney,, thU 6th November, 1945.
X. LEWIS. J.P. F. D, HOBBS.
P, S. CHAPMAN.
Interest rates on fixed deposits and
savings-bank balances over £5OO were
reduced by ss. per cent, from last Satur-
day. The cut applies immediately to
savings-bank current accounts and from
the next renewal date of fixed deposits.
On three-months fixed deposits only 10s.
per cent, will now be paid, as against
2 p.c. before the war. On two-year de-
posits the rate will be \\ p.c, up to
£lO,OOO and 1 p.c. above that sum. The
corresponding rate in 1939 was 3 p.c.
Savings-bank deposits will now carry
2 p.c. up to £5OO and 1 p.c. from £5OO
to £lOOO. The reduction in rates is
generally condemned in financial circles
as a further discouragement of savings
and thrift and the Government’s first
step to abolish interest on all bank de-
posits.
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits in the Common-
wealth had risen to £6OO million at the
end of October. When war began they
totalled £244 million. Their growth of
146 p.c. in six years—the period is actu-
ally‘shorter than that, as there was a
decline in the total for a stretch after
war began—is an indication of the topsy-
turvy economic situation that has arisen
in this country during the war. Produc-
tion of civilian goods has fallen, while
incomes and savings have grown, even
after payment of taxation. Trade-union-
ists as a body are not, at the present time,
doing much to restore production to a
level where it can take care of the in-
flated purchasing power and give citizens,
including unionists themselves, full value
for their money. The big problem ahead
of this country now is to restore civilian
production to pre-war level and then to
increase our productive capacity so as
to improve our normal standard of living
and increase the economic strength and
population of the country.
* * * *
The Prime Minister has informed
delegates to the A.L.P. conference in
Melbourne that the civil Budget for 1946-
47 will run to £240 million. In addition,
£4O to £6O million will be set aside for
defence spending. For the current year
it is reckoned that the civil portion of
Budget expenditure will cost £l7O million,
including charges on the National Welfare
Fund. Whether these two sets of figures
are truly comparative it is hard to say ;
the National Welfare Fund has been the
subject of many book-entries, and the
last Budget papers were decidedly con-
fusing to the layman. During the present
year it is estimated that charges on the
N.W.F. will run to £65 million, includ-
ing old-age and widows’ pensions and
child endowment. In 1946-47 social-
security charges are estimated at £77
million. Apparently the total civil esti-
mate of £240 million for 1946-47 in-
cludes rehabilitation and similar expenses
which have in the past been charged to
defence; otherwise it is hard to justify
the increase of £7O million. It is not
clear from press reports whether Mr.
Chifley’s latest estimates include expendi-
ture on the post office, etc. ; in previous
official Budget summaries they have done
so.
No loan expenditure is included;
during the war all Commonwealth Gov-
ernment loan expenditure was on behalf
of defence. Total tax and business
revenue during the current financial year
is estimated at £340 million, which, if
repeated in 1946-47, should cover all
civil and defence spending and allow for
the proposed \l\ p.c. cut in income tax
that starts from January 1. But we shall
need to have reductions in some rates of
taxation of more than \l\ p.c. if a
reasonable incentive is to be returned to
many sections of industry. Government
expenditure will have to be cut down
substantially in many directions, and the
net effect of “social-security” scrutinised
much more closely. Labor interests are
only now beginning to realise the extent
to which their pockets will be hit,
through taxation, in paying for this sort
of thing, even though the proprietary
side of industry still pays far more than
its share. For many years people in the
income-tax classes have resented the
abuse of social-services at the hands of
the thriftless and work-shy. Now that
taxation has found its way into the lower
income grades infinitely more people are
becoming critical of the Government’s
redistribution of incomes. A Govern-
ment which has been a shockingly bad
administrator during four years of office
can hardly be expected to do the redis-
tribution well and with full regard to
economic consequences.
* * * *
In Australia the coalminers are one of
the biggest factors in delaying the re-
covery of people’s living standards.
Almost every industry depends upon
power in some form, and nearly all
power is derived from coal in this
country. Now that war has ended the
population is seeking new homes the
need is desperate in many cases —but
coal and man-power difficulties are re-
tarding the rate of manufacture of
bricks. Even at this stage of the post-
war period the output ot bricks in N. S.
Wales is only a small fraction of what
it was in 1939, yet bricks are articles
that should be capable of mass-produc-
tion at a fast rate —if brickmakers were
not in many cases immobilised by
strikes, etc., in associated industries.
Before the war there were often charges
that, even with brick output at a high
level, several Sydney brickworks were kept
closed “by arrangement” ; yet building
was rarely, if ever, held up because of a
shortage of bricks. What a contrast with
the present extraordinary position! The
coalminers have much to answer for in
this shameful situation. Servicemen’s
families, and many other families, are
being deprived of decent housing be-
cause of a set of conditions in which
lack of coal and other materials, prin-
cipally the result of strikes and go-slow,
figure prominently. The steelworkers’
strike comes into the situation as well.
It was announced last week that our
meagre dollar resources were being
drawn on to help buy American steel to
keep the motor-body industry going—
and our own country, when it likes to
work, produces the cheapest steel in the
world under the best working conditions
in the world. Now that trade-unionism
is very obviously in conflict with itself —
it is reducing its own living standard,
destroying its own economic security,
obscuring its own opportunities —a lesson
long overdue may be well and truly
learnt. Labor can be its best friend or
its worst enemy. At the present time
it is its worst enemy. And the Commun-
ists have gleefully helped to make it so.
* * * *
“G.F.D.”: Australian car importers,
brimming over with wishful thinking,
argue that, because an Australian travel-
ling in U.S.A. finds a dollar will only buy
eighteenpence-worth of value by our
standards, we should be able to import
American car chassis at the rate of about
$l3 to the £ Australian, I believe the
purchasing-power-parity in exchange
theories to be a myth. History has always
shown that things are ridiculously cheap
in depressed countries. A natural, free
rate of exchange between this country
and the U.S, would probably be more
like $2 to the £ than the present pegged
figure of $3.29, Dollars would cost, per-
haps, even more than 10s. each if our
imports from America increased in
volume. This is something that the U.S.A.
is afraid of, especially so far as the £
sterling is concerned. America believes
that if it can keep the dollar at 4.03 to
the £ sterling and to our pound
it will help exports and ward off some of
the much-feared post-war unemployment.
But ultimately such tactics will increase
world trade disequilibrium and’aggravate
the eventual economic breakdown. A
nation of salesmen may possibly be ex-
pected to concentrate on exports and for-
get imports, but a nation of shopkeepers
knows that it must buy as well as sell.
* * * *
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.) says it has
reached an agreement with the Common-
wealth Government that, in the circum-
stances, is acceptable to the company.
In June this year the Minister for
Customs “advised” the board of the co.
that anything above a certain maximum
profit “should be paid to the Govern-
ment.” The British Tobacco Co. told the
Government that it could not comply
with the direction —it would have meant
a further reduction in the dividend —and
negotiations have dragged on until now,
apparently with a successful conclusion
for B.T.A.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Bennett Inquiry.
In Melbourne last week Justice Ligert-
wood opened the Commission of Inquiry,
the terms of reference being subjoined:
1 he circumstances of and connected with
the action of Lieut.-General Bennett in re-
linquishing his command and leaving Singa-
pore on or about February 15 and 16,
1942.
Whether at the time Lieut.-General
Bennett relinquished his command and left
Singapore he had the permission of any
competent authority for such action.
Whether Lieut.-General Bennett was at
any material time, and if so, when, a
prisoner-of-war.
Whether at the time he relinquished his
command it was Lieut.-General Bennett’s
duty by reason of his appointment as
G.O.C. Eighth Division and G.O.C. A.I.F.
in Malaya to remain with the forces under
his command.
Whether in all the circumstances Lieut.-
General Bennett was justified in relinquish-
ing his command and leaving Singapore.
Mr. Dovey, K.C., and Mr. Roy
Chambers were briefed to assist the Com-
missioner, Lieut.-General Bennett being
represented by Mr. Brian Clancy, K.C.,
and Mr. F. C. Stephen. Mr. Dovey began
by giving an outline of the position in
Singapore at the time of -the surrender
and of evidence that would be called.
Ihe Eighth Division went to Malaya in the
early part of 1941. It was to have remained
there until additional Indian troops were avail-
able, then it was to have joined the other A.I.F,
divisions in the Middle East. The Commis-
sion was concerned not with those* circum-
stances or with the operations in Malaya ot
Singapore, but with a point of time which began
approximately when Major-General Bennett, as
he was then, crossed with his H.Q. to Singa-
pore^Jsland; February 8.
The major-general at Johore Bahru on
January 29 had said “I am afraid it is the
end....but I am not going to be caught.”
Later, discussions took place between the
major-general and other officers on the subject
of his escape. Although Brigadier C. A. Cal-
laghan, commander R.A., and Colonel J. H.
Thyer, G. 5.0.1, were in almost daily touch
with Bennett the project was concealed from
them.
On February 13 there was a conference of
senior officers of Malaya Command, among
them Major-General Bennett, presided over by
Lieut.-General Percival, G.O.C. Malaya. All
agreed that the situation was hopeless, and a
message was sent to General Wavell urging him
to sanction capitulation. His reply was that
fighting should if necessary continue even into
the streets of Singapore. At the conference it
had been said that the Navy would evacuate
key personnel from various units to give the
Army in Australia a' complete picture of the
campaign.
Later that day Major-General Bennett told
Brigadier J. R. Broadbent, A.A.Q.M.G. of the
division, that the brig, was to take a party to
Australia; he would be able to give a better
general picture of the situation than anyone
else. That day also the major-general instructed
the A.I.F. not to withdraw from its then posi-
tions in any circumstances.
Mr. Dovey quoted a secret signal sent
to Army H.Q. in Melbourne by Major-
General Bennett on February 14.
In this signal, counsel said, there was
not the slightest indication of Major-
General Bennett’s intention to leave
Singapore or of any request by him for
permission to do so.
The critical day was Sunday, February 15.
Some time before 10 o’clock in the morning
Major-General .Bennett attended a conference
at which it was decided to send an officer
to the Japanese to arrange an armistice. The
Japanese refused to treat with anyone but
General Percival.
At a divisional conference at 11 a.m. Major-
General Bennett told officers that representatives
would meet the Japanese about 3.30 to obtain
an armistice. All units would remain intact in
the positions they then held; any enemy attack
was to be resisted, and all officers were to
remain with their commands.
Between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. Bennett, Moses
and Walker made a reconnaissance.
At 5 p.m. Bennett adivsed his officers that
the time of the “cease fire” would be 8.30. At
6.15 he visited the perimeter, and spoke to the
troops. After mess that night he asked Colonel
Kent Hughes, who had replaced Broadbent as
A.A.Q.M.G., for his opinion on the projected
escape. Kent Hughes replied that only Bennett
himself should make a decision of that nature.
Bennett said to the colonel that Callaghan,
Thyer and Kent Hughes himself were to remain
behind: “If you three men can’t do everything
possible that I could do, there is something
wrong with you. I feel I should- try to get
back to Australia if I can. I intend to have a
go.” Kent Hughes said good-bye to Bennett
about 20 minutes before the “cease fire.” Ben-
nett was then in shorts and shirt and without
his cap and badges of rank.
At 8.30 p.m. the “cease fire” came through.
No arms were laid down till the morning of
February 16.
Brigadier Callaghan, counsel proceeded, would
tell the Commission that about two minutes
after the “cease fire” Major-General Bennett
came to him and said he was handing over
command of the A.I.F. and was himself moving
off, wishing Callaghan luck. Callaghan was
greatly surprised. He had heard rumors of
Bennett’s intention to escape, but had not be-
lieved them. The brigadier did not inform
General Percival of the major-general’s escape
until the following morning, having purposely
delayed his report in the hope that Bennett
might change his mind.
At 9 p.m. Colonel Thyer went to Bennett’s
sleeping quarters and found him gone. The
place was disarranged and Bennett’s diary was
on the table with the pages for January and
February torn out. This was the first Thyer
knew of Bennett’s escape. At 7 p.m. on Febru-
ary 16 General Percival called on the telephone
and asked for Bennett. Thyer replied that, as
far as he could gather, Bennett had gone.
Percival expressed surprise and irritation.
At 9 a.m. on February 16 the A.I.F. had its
first direct contact with the Japanese. A
conference between Callaghan and senior officers
at 10 a.m. brought instructions about arms,
the surrender of stores and the concentration
of troops. Troops were to remain under their
own commanders and assemble as unit's. On
February 17 when orders were given officers to
remove their troops to Changi prison General
Percival promoted Callaghan Major-General
and G.O.C. A.I.F. On February 20 General
Yamashita indicated that forces should be con-
trolled as units under the command of their
own officers, who would be responsible for
discipline. * From that day every officer re-
mained in command.
As for the Bennett escape party, it left Singa-
pore some time in the early hours of February
16 and arrived at Melbourne on March 2.
Major-General Bennett attended a Cabinet meet-
ing and afterwards said: “1 told Cabinet that f
left my H.Q. well after the surrender was signed,
sealed and delivered, and after 1 had organised
units and rest areas and collected arms and
equipment.”
The first witness was Captain Adrian
Herbert Qurlewis, who said he first heard
talk of escape on February 11, 1942.
Walker and Moses were to procure a boat;
money would not matter, because “Wearne, of
the Singapore motor firm,” was “in it.” The
witness was in a discussion of escape routes
with Mqses, Walker and Bennett, when Thyer
came into the room, and the conversation was
changed. Bennett turned the map over and one
of the others folded it up. In a later discussion
about clpthes Moses produced a sarong and an
old felt hat. A rendezvous was arranged,
and it was decided to let each other know of
arrivals by whistling the first bar of “Waltzing
Matilda.”
Then Curlewis heard that Broadbent was
being sent back to Australia to give the official
picture of the position. On February 14 he
said to Moses: “Look, Charles, I’m not too
sure, about this business of getting out. I’m
not sure whether it’s in order to leave the
division.” “The important thing,” replied
Moses, “is we must get the Old Man out.”
“But is it right for the general to go?” Cur-
lewis asked.
On the afternoon of February 15 Curlewis
overheard a telephone conversation between
Bennett and Percival. The effect of Bennett’s
conversation was that the Australians were
going to fight on; that they were quite all right;
the Australian perimeter was intact and the
morale of the troops high. Curlewis .was told in
the, operations room that there was to be no
breakaway or escape attempt by the A.I.F.
Then Mr. Moses, now a Lieut.-Colonel
on the reserve of officers, was called.
Moses said he was a liaison officer at' Eighth
Efivision H.Q. He first spoke of escaping from
Singapore on the mbrning of February 11, when
he said tp Lt. Walker “I’m going to have a
crack at getting away;” To this Walker re-
plied “Wouldn’t it be marvellous if we could
get the general away?”
On February 12 came the first actual discus-
sion of the escape project. Present were Walker,
Curlewis, Jessup and Bennett, and they con-
sulted a map on the escape. Moses had no
recollection of any sudden end to the discus-
sion when Thyer came into the room.
On February 13 or 14 he (Moses) spoke
with Thyer, saying that if he had not been
going with Bennett he would have liked to
escape with Thyer. Thyer replied “I don’t
think I would be interested in getting away.”
Moses, continuing, said that on February 15,
before going on a reconnaissance with Bennett
to review the route it was proposed to take,
they had been told an armistice was being
sought, but when they returned he had the im-
pression it had fallen through. About 10 p.m.
Walker went to see if Bennett was ready.
When the three left Moses was in trousers, a
shirt, borrowed boots and a cap with an inch
taken off the brim so that it would not look
like an Australian officer’s cap. Bennett had
on shorts, stockings, shoes, shirt and a cap with
a red band, Moses did not notice if he was
wearing badges of rank.
Asked by Mr. Dovey whether Bennett had
ordered the escape plan or whether it was
the witness’s suggestion, Moses said “I had
always been determined to attempt to escape
myself, but I believed it my bounden duty to
get the general away as soon as I heard he was
willing to join us. I regarded it as a matter
of great national importance that he should get
back to Australia, and I felt I was myself
taking on one of the highest duties in my life
in helping him.”
Lieut.-Colonel Charles Henry Kappe,
Chief Signals Officer of the Eighth, was
examined next: —
At Johore Bahru the last night they spent on
the mainland he spoke with Bennett. Some days
earlier Domei had reported the major-general’s
capture. Bennett said “Once we get across the
causeway we will be caught like rats in a trap.
They will not get me.”
On February 13 Kappe got orders to leave
Singapore with a party of signalmen. He spoke
to Bennett, who “made some remark about
hoping to see him again in a few days.” When
he reached the docks the Japanese barrage had
driven the ships from the waterfront. The
party could not board them. Only two of
his men got away.
On February 15 Kappe received a signal
from Malaya Command about the “cease-fire”
order. He could not remember that it specifi-
cally instructed officers to remairi with their men,
but it did order “all troops to remain in their
existing positions.”
The movement to Changi began on February
17. As far as Kappe knew all the British
general officers remained with their troops.
Three other witnesses:
Captain Henry Ernest Jessup said he first
heard of Bennett’s escape plan from Moses on
February 11 or 12. After a divisional confer-
ence on February 15 he was told that troops
would stay in their positions and officers would
stay with them. He said to Curlewis “That
finishes our plan of escape. We’ll have to wait
now, and take what’s coming.” He discussed
the matfer with Thyer, whose viewpoint was
that no one knew what the future might bring.
There might be a massacre or other trouble,
and it would be better to stqy and assist in
keeping order and control.
Colonel W. S. Kent Hughes said that on
February 15 Bennett asked him his opinion
whether he (Bennett) should remain or try to
escape. “I said he had two main responsibili-
ties on capitulation; first, to his troops; second,
to the Australian Government.”
Asked if Bennett ordered him to stay be-
hind, Kent Hughes said “I can only answer
that by answering the position generally.
Everybody was thinking of escape, but it was
known everybody could not escape. Senior
officers in particular were told they had to stay
there with the troops.” Asked whether he was
told by Bennett to remain, Kent Hughes answered
“Yes.” He took the view and expressed it to the
major-general, that it was for Bennett alone to
decide what Bennett should do, adding that he,
for one, would never utter a woid of criticism
if Bennett should consider it his duty to escape.
“And I never have,” he told the Commission.
He helped Bennett to pack, and after the
“cease fire” went to see his troops. Then he
went into a paddock and “had a good cry.”
Most of them broke down after the strain lifted.
(To Mr. Dovey). Bennett had told him senior
commanders were to remain. Had he been in
Bennett’s position he would have escaped.
“There are occasions in the life of every com-
mander, officer and n.c.o. when he has to dis-
obey an order to a 'great extent.”
Brigadier C. A. McEacharn, acting-officer-
commanding R.A. at the time of the surrender,
said that about 6 p.m. on February 15 he re-
ceived an order from Bennett. It said (1) the
“cease fire” to take effect from 8.30' p.m.; (2)
no arms or equipment to be destroyed; (3)
officers to remain with their men and not to
attempt to escape. About half an hour after
the capitulation he saw Bennett and asked if
there was any objection to his trying to get
away. Bennett told him “You cannot do that
just noVv. 1 am trying to do that. You will
have your opportunity later.”
The venue of the inquiry having been
shifted from Melbourne to Sydney, the
evidence of‘Colonel James Herbert Thyer,
G. Eighth Division, was taken at
Yaralla Hospital:
On the morning of February 15 it was obvious
that surrender; was inevitable; “it was agreed
that it would cause needless slaughter to resist
further.” Major-General Bennett went to a con-
ference at Malaya Command and ordered Thyer
to gather the senior commanders for a divisional
conference. That was held at 11.15 a.m. and
Bennett told them that an envoy had been sent
to the Japanese in accordance with instructions
dropped in. leaflets. There was “a discussion on
‘sauve qui pent,' and it was pointed out that the
result would be chaos on the beaches; irrespons-
ible elements .might engage the Japanese and
bring on a massacre. For the sake of prestige, it
was said, we should surrender as an organised
body, not as a rabble. Major-General Bennett
then issue’cT an order in these approximate words:
‘Perimeter will be held; everybody will stay at
his post and no one will leave.’ From that
moment every man of the A.I.F. in Singapore
was morally and legally bound to remain at his
post until taken into military custody by our
captors. I distinctly remember Bennett’s words
because I had heard rumors of his intention to
escape, and I wondered how he could recon-
cile” here Mr. Clancy objected.
Colonel Thyer further said that the Bennett
order, enlarged and including congratulatory
passages, was issued in written form by Major
Wyatt. It was never rescinded. He last saw
Bennett about 6 o’clock or 6.30 that evening.
Later he was informed that Bennett had left. At
no time had Bennett told him he was going nor
given him instructions what to do in that
event. He left without saying good-bye. They
had worked together in complete harmony.
Later in the evening Garth and Jessup told
him they had intended to escape, but had now
decided to remain. “I told them that was their
duty, and added ‘lt is the duty of every office!
to remain with his men until he is forcibly re-
moved from them, and then, and not till then, it
is his duty to escape.’ ”
When the A.I.F. units marched past the
guardhouse into Changi camp two days later
they first saw Japanese guards, though the
senior commanders had been taken to Japanese
H. previously. In Changi the A.I.F. func-
tioned as a division. An intelligence service was
formed and escape methods discussed.
When interrogated Thyer told the Japanese
that he last saw Bennett on the afternoon of the
15th. “He had gone out with the forward troops
and I had no doubt he had been killed. They
believed it.” Moses had spoken some days
before about getting out. Thyer told him it was
unethical.
Asked by Mr. Dovey for his opinion of the
hazards incident to the escape, witness said
“Planned properly it would have been possible
to get through the islands to Sumatra without
great risk. It was more easy that night than
the previous Wednesday, when the sisters went
out. Then they were bombed and shelled on
the wharves.” *
(To Mr. Clancy). “I have strong feelings
about General Bennett’s actions, but they are
not bitter; I flatly deny that there was any
bitterness.” He would deny emphatically, too,
that any rivalry between “Staff Corps” and
“citizen soldier” existed as between himself and
Bennett.
Major-General Callaghan was giving evidence,
also at Yaralla, when this report had to be
broken off. The major-general said that orders
from the conference on the morning of Febru-
ary 15 were that officers and troops were to
remain at their posts and resist any attack.
Walking towards the operations-room two
minutes after the “cease fire” he met Major-
General Bennett, who said “I am now handing
over command of the A.I.F. to you and am pre-
paring to move off.” (To Mr. Clancy). No
more than that was said. He had no recollec-
tion of Major-General Bennett coming to him.
In Indonesia.
The “ ‘Government’ and the people of
Australia” were copiously mentioned in
resolutions passed by the “National Con-
vention of the Indonesian Republican
Movement.” Their “sympathetic attitude
was stressed, and “the help given by Aus-
tralian Labor,” “Department of Informa-
tion and other broadcasts” and a
story from Dutch Borneo” that Austra-
lian servicemen had been selling arms to
Indonesians were also noted with appre
ciation.
The Indonesian “Premier” said “Aus-
tralia’s democratic outlook appeals to
us,” and claimed that “the Australian
Government made an offer, through the
Australian representative in Batavia, to
send five shiploads of food and medical
supplies fo the Indonesian Government.”
This was denied by “the Australian poli-
tical representative Mr. McMahon Ball.”
At Ambarawa Indonesian troops again
shelled the repatriation and internee
camps, killing eight inmates and wound-
ing 19 others. And there were disturb-
ances elsewhere throughout Java. At
Bandoeng, where there are 65,000 in-
ternees, the majority of them outside the
perimeter held by British troops, “a reign
of terror” began. British forces had to
resort to tanks to drive the insurrec-
tionaries from certain areas of the city
where they were threatening the roads
and the airfield. Fighting broke out again
in and around Batavia, where the Indo-I
nesians are armed with grenades and
machine-guns, and at Sourabaya British
troops put 12 heavy guns out of action.
British patrols searching for traces of
occupants of the R.A.F. transport
which crash-landed on the outskirts of
Batavia exhumed the dismembered bodies
of four British and 18 Indian soldiers
from a shallow grave at Behassi, 12 miles
from the city. The patrols were led to
the spot by an Indonesian woman who
had been imprisoned. She told them that
the 22 men had been kept in the jail 24
hours naked and beaten at intervals.
Then, by the order of the Indonesian
“General” Hadji Darik, they were taken
out and hacked to pieces by a mob armed
with swords, knives and shears.
From Batavia the Australian political
representative cabled Canberra urging a
special effort for the removal of 50,000
evacuees from Java to Australia. He
was referring to a heartrending statement
issued by the chairman of the Batavia
Red Cross, who said there were 200,000
internees “in. constant danger of mas-
sacre, living in insupportable conditions
and enduring sickness, misery and death.”
The Red Cross chairman appealed for
help with shipping for the evacuation,
that having become more important than
the forwarding of relief supplies. The
Chief Justice of Java said that shipping
strikes in Australia had caused a hold-
up in Red Cross supplies—3o,ooo parcels
had arrived in Java, but there were still
70,000 to be loaded.
Brigadier-General Blackburn, V.C., who
commanded the 2000 Australians sacri-
ficed to the “Fight for Australia in
Java!” “strategy,” has testified again and
again, in speeches and in articles, to the
great kindness shown to his men at great
risk by the Dutch. And in a series
of Adelaide “Advertiser” articles a
R.A.F. man, also himself a prisoner,
Flying-Officer Bert Barclay, has added
his testimony: «
“A Dutch woman on a bicycle” became a
legend among English-speaking prisoners in
all camps in Java. Hats off to the
women of Java! It is to them that every
one of the 56,000 prisoners taken in that
country owes a debt of gratitude. We
had not been long behind barbed wire be-
fore baskets of food began to appear mys-
teriously in odd places. How they got the
food past the guards I never found out,
but it came and we ate.
Even at the risk of offending Com-
munists, our “Government” should offer
succor and hospitality to these brave and
unfortunate Dutch people.
War-criminal Trials.
The first Australian military court to
try Japanese accused of war crimes be-
gan its sittings at Morotai last week.
A Captain Tokyo Iwaso was charged
with having ordered the bayoneting of
an Australian flier on Taland Island, in
the northern Celebes, on March 23 this
year. The prosecuting officer stated that
four prisoners were publicly bayoneted
to death “to provide a Roman holiday as
a stimulant to the morale of the Japa-
nese.”
Japanese soldier witnesses said there
had been no trial or court-martial of the
prisoners. One saw.a signal from Lieut.-
General Endo, whose H.Q. was at
Macassar, directing that Allied airmen be
“disposed of.” The executions took place
before four companies of Japanese troops,
one prisoner being given to each
company for bayonetting.
Iwaso was found guilty and remanded
for sentence. The finding has to be con-
firmed by the Governor-General.
At another inquiry held at Wewak a
Japanese officer, Lieut. Tahehiko Tazaki,
admitted that he had helped to dismember
and eat portion of the body of an Aus-
tralian soldier killed in action at Soarin,
New Guinea, in July this year.


Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
*
WHIN it's
I
UPSTART
Our Navy and Merchant fleets depend on Exide
Batteries. Exides are serving the public daily in
over a hundred ways. In your choice of a
battery for your car, be guided by those
who have learned to depend on Exide.
A.
ip*-
Hi
■H
PERSONAL ITEMS
Fields Marshal Lord Alanbrooke, Chief
of the Imperial General Staff, turned out
to be the easiest important man to inter-
view in the experience of the Melbourne
press. Sundry Australian generals had
lunched him at a posh club, but when
reporters tried to have a word with him
they were told it was an ancient rule that
no interviews could be given within the
club’s environs, and the rule couldn’t be
relaxed even for a field-marshal. Lord
Alanbrooke’s solution was to move out
on to the sidewalk, where he calmly
answered a barrage, of questions on
Empire co-operation, atomic bombs, In-
donesians and whatnot, with several hun-
dreds of passers-by enjoying the entertain-
ment,
Queensland, having given the world
Gladys Moncrieff, Bert Hinklqr, the blue
heeler, Bundaberg Barnes and the Golden
Casket, has now let loose a Mullah who
intends “to wage a righteous war against
the preposterous beliefs which are cur-
rent contrary to the admirable human
standards of wharfies.” The war will not
be one of swords and atom bombs, but
of serious poetry, comic songs and “a
unique comedy, with comic songs around
a character called the Gentleman Wharfie,
and I am now making preparations to
portray appropriately this comic and lov-
able character.” The prophet is P. Bembie
O’Dowd, Esq, wharf-laborer, and candi-
date for the Lord Mayoralty of Brisbane.
He claims that members of the “sporting
fraternity say he is a good bet.” He also
claims that in 1922 a tribe of Admiralty
Islanders wanted to make him their “em-
peror.” It is doubtful if P. Bembie
O’Dowd, Esq., will ever wear Brisbane’s
mayoral robes, but somebody ought to
give him a leather medal. A spot of
merriment in anything, to do with the
wharves is an invaluable pick-me-up in
these times.
Brigadier George Hodges Knox,
C.M.G., V.D., M.L.A. for Upper Yarra
since 1927, and Victorian Leg. Ass.
Speaker since 1942 until the recent dis-
solution, got another lease of the posi-
tion without opposition. He had a dis-
tinguished record in the last war, com-
manding the 23rd Battalion on Gallipoli
and serving also in France.
General Blarney finished with his second
world war last week, having improved
even on his record in the first one. Like
so many topnotch military leaders, a
schoolteacher to begin with, he graduated
to the permanent military forces at 22,
was among those who built up the staff
work of the original A.1.F., and when
war came did such a notable job himself
that, his battle orders are still standard
models in British staff colleges. Taking
the Sixth Division overseas for the later
war, he became A.I.F. Corps Commander
in the Middle East, and subsequently was
Deputy C.-in-C. to Wavell, the first Aus-
tralian to hold such an office in a major
theatre of war. Back to cope with the
Jap onrush, Blarney became Commander-
in-Chief of Allied Land Forces in the
South-west Pacific—the first Australian to
hold command of a large foreign field
force. What he did in that post must
stand among the highlights of Australian
history, and competent historians will
not overlook the way Old Tom —as the
Diggers, sometimes adjectivally, speak of
him—stood up to politicians in doing his
big job.
Kenneth Maxwell Douglas starts out as
a solicitor in Queensland with a solid
legal background. He is a son of Justice
E, A. Douglas (Brisbane), a nephew of
Justice R. J. Douglas (Townsville) and a
grandson of the late Justice Virgil Power.
An older brother, Sholto, has just re-
sumed the practice he left for active ser-
vice, becoming an artillery major. K. M.
volunteered for the A.1.F., and when re-
jected on medical grounds put aside his
legal studies to work on aircraft building.
“Jayess” dips his lid:
A Scot, his real name Charlie McCallum,
Charles Coborn was 93 when the final curtain
fell for him in London the other day—about
twice the age at which the average of vaudeville
artists take the last call. Coborn was a good
comedian, who served his time in “legit.,”
musical burlesque and panto, before taking to
vaudeville, where he scored many hits, among
them “The Man Who Broke the Bank at Monte
Carlo” and “Two Lovely Black Eyes.” It was
said Charlie could sing the latter in about nine
different languages.
When a ’pl ane was for the first time flown
upside down, the Royal Aero Club in London
celebrated with an upside down dinner,' be-
ginning with coffee, nexf sweets and so on,
back to the soup. Charlie, there profession-
ally, gave an upside down turn, standing on
his head while singing “The Man Who Broke
the Bank.” Not bad for a man of 57.
Charlie enjoyed a secondary fame on account
of his long holiday hikes from Lands End to
John O’Groats and back, helping many a
charity on his way. Solidly religious, he was
for years a sidesman or vestryman. He was not
a “Scotch comedian,” and he violated the
popular idea in another remarkable respect—
he gave his services free to entertain Britain’s
soldiers of six wars.
Knight William Hudleston Le Flem-
ing, who lately passed on at New Ply-
mouth (M.L.) at 87, carried a title
conferred in 1705 by Queen Anne, but
the baronetcy dates back hundreds of
years before then. Born at Christchurch,
he was a farmer all his life, and the new
baronet, Frank Thomas Le Fleming (56),
now farms the family property at
Otakeho.
Alexander H. Dennett, new member
for Caulfield (Vic.) in the State House,
enlisted in the 1914-18 war as a private
and came out of it as a private. He also
got into the later scrap on that level, but
was a lieut.-col. when discharged a
few months back, after service in Syria,
Palestine, N.E.1., New Guinea and Borneo.
Born in M.L. and educated at Welling-
ton Grammar and Trinity ,and Ridley
Colleges, Melbourne University, he .has
worked on every metropolitan newspaper
in Melbourne, as chief-of-staff, sub-
editor, pictorial editor or the like; he
was “Argus” chief-of-staff before going
into the' army in 1940. Denndlt got in-
terested in politics early, and was a
foundation member of the Young Nation-
alists’ Assoc. As a specialist in agricul-
ture, he pushed into most parts of Vic-
toria on the Better Farming Train, and
MEMBER FOR CAULFIELD.
he was at one time a prolific writer of
Bulletin pars. He has tried his hand
also at almost every sport you like to
mention, from wrestling and boxing to
polo and ice-hockey.
“Gay”: Back in civvies with the Vic-
torian Education Department, Major-
General Ramsay will take' over the head-
mastership of Melbourne Boys’ High in
February. At present his jobs include
visiting High Schools to win recruits for
the teaching service. I heard him tell
boys that the “rewards” of the profession
were not “measured by money” but were
“much more enduring.” True enough,
I suppose, but it won’t win many recruits
these days. A writer in the “New
Yorker” has nicely summed up what is
also the position in this country: “Recent
survey indicates that there is a grave
shortage of teachers throughout the
nation. The many splendid openings in
the field of education should be brought
to the attention of all earnest young
men and women with small appetites.”
L. U. Rusden, due to take up his
appointment this month as assistant g.m.
of the Commonwealth Bank’s London
office, cut his teeth on ledgers and grew
up in an atmosphere of overdrafts —his
father was A. S. Rusden, one-time g.m.
o£ the Ballarat Banking Co. and widely
known about the Victorian Mallee. A
fifth-generation Australian, bora at
Rupanyup (Vic.) and educated at Bal-
larat High, L. U. Rusden joined the Vic.
State Savings Bank, transferring to the
Commonwealth in 1916. A topnotch
administrator, he was largely responsible
for the smooth taking over of Lang’s
N.S.W. Savings Bank. . Latterly he has
been directing Exchange Control —no
sinecure with conserving dollars as part
COMMONWEALTH BANKER.
of the job. Now 46—quite youthful as
bankers go —Rusden will be no stranger
to Threadneedle-street; he paid his
respects to the Old Lady in a tour on
C.B. business which took in South Africa,
Canada and the U.S.A.
P. J. Winston, lately passed on at 79,
could claim to be about the last of the
pioneers of process engraving in Sydney.
His father, C. E. Winston, engraved The
Bulletin’s first title-page illustration.
P.J. was a wood engraver, then process
engraver with the old “Town and
Country Journal,” was next with the Bris-
bane “Courier,” then an original director
of the S. W. Bacon concern when it be-
came a limited liability co., and after that
to the end with Photo Art Engraving.
W. A. N, Wells wins for the third year
the Stow prize in law (founded in memory
of an old-time Judge) at Adelaide Uni.,
and accordingly qualifies for the much
rarer Stow Scholarship. He was the S.A.
Rhodes scholar of 1941, but goes to
Oxford only now, having meanwhile
marked time in Adelaide as associate to
Judge Mayo.
Had an 84th birthday in Hobart, twins
Fred and Charles Burbury. Both are
land men, F.B. still running his own farm;
C.B. retired.
In the M.L. Returned Services’ Asso-
ciation men of the 1939-45 war already
outnumber the veterans of 1914-18 —
48,035 in a total of 90,202, with the
younger members predominating in 40 of
95 branches. Youngest of them all is
thought to be Richard Gould, who
joined lately when a fortnight over 16.
Service in the hospital-ship Maunganui
on two trips up to the Far East made
him eligible. Since then he has sailed in
her again as cadet-steward, this time
bound for England with convalescing
repatriates who have been picking up
in Maoriland.
Brigadier R. G. Loder-Symonds, killed
in an air crash in Sourabaya, was well
known to the Ninth Division in Tobruk.
Battery Commander of the Ist Royal
Horse Artillery, he went on deep patrols
into No Man’s Land in an Australian
Bren carrier to obtain first-hand know-
ledge of the topography. His offsider,
Captain John Goschen, M.C., was equally
aggressive. In a light tank, accompanied
by a section of Australian carriers, he
frequently conducted harassing fire shoots
from well outside the perimeter. Goschen
was wounded after the A.I.F. left Tobruk,
and was drowned when the ship in which
he was being evacuated to Alexandria was
torpedoed. Both Loder-Symonds and
Goschen, who did much to make the
Diggers think highly of the British Army,
often spoke of coming to Australia after
the war. Fate ordered it otherwise.
Charlie Anderson is leaving the S.A.
Railways Commissioner’s chair after 15£
years. Starting in a southeast survey
camp with Graham Stuart, Anderson was
responsible for the Broken Hill-Port Pirie
track when the greatest ore ■ traffic was
pouring over it just before World War I.
When Webb amalgamated the traffic,
loco, and maintenance branches Ander-
son was in charge of Adelaide division.
He selected the first train controllers, in-
augurated the system, then went round
the world, subsequently taking charge
when Webb returned to America in 1930.
The Government extended Anderson’s
term for the recent war, and it is now a
South Australian record for any Com-
missioner. His hobby is the Caledonian
Society,
„ Lieut.-Col. Albert Ernest Coates, who
brought back official documents from
Bangkok telling the story of the amazing
improvisations employed by our m.os.
among prisoners-of-war on the notorious
Bangkok-Moulmein railway, and who was
himself one of the principal organisers
of that brilliant medical achievement,
earlier showed he had the necessary initia-
tive in him. Born in Ballarat in 1895 he
paid for his medical training at Mel-
bourne University sorting letters at the
G.P.O.
Brigadier J. D. Rogers, taking over as
Vacuum Oil’s g.m. in N.S.W., has been
with the company over quarter of a cen-
tury. His war service has included the
Middle East, New Guinea and Nether-
lands East Indies. Head of the Austra-
lian Military Mission to Mountbatten’s
h.q., first Australian liaison officer with
MacArthur and Director of Military In-
telligence under Blarney, Rogers was
Australia’s rep. at the Singapore sur-
render. (
Melbourne University now has a full-
blown chair of the Freudian art or
science, and its first incumbent will be
Wing-Commander O. A. Oeser, R.A.F.
A S’African, Oeser was head of experi-
mental psychology at St. Andrews Uni-
versity, Scotland, and has written a lot
in international psychology journals. At
present he’s chief of the section advising
Monty on psychological and sociological
points in British-occupied Germany.
Oesler’s wife is a practising psychologist
in Melbourne.
Into the silence:
At 86, in Melbourne, John Reid Taylor,
master builder, who put up Stallbridge
Chambers. Craig’s, Fink’s and the stately Mel-
bourne Club, and also executed big building
contracts in S’Africa, one of them the Rand
Club.
In Brisbane, at 80, Edwin Munro, chairman
of directors of Kamilaroi Pastoral Co. and
Hamilton Downs Pty., Ltd., and a Brisbane
“Telegraph” director for 31 years.
Killed by a smoke bomb on the assault
range at Flinders Naval Depot (Vic.), Sgt.
Frederick Powell, Royal Marines, one of the
most popular identities at the depot. Horn in
Surrey, he had 22 years’ service with the R.N.
before coming to Australia. He trained over
30,000 men for the R.A.N, A son was lost
when H.M.A.S. Yarra was sunk off Java in
March, 1942.
In Sydney, at 49, George Bramall, who toured
Victorian country districts with Walter Lindrum
raising funds for the blind, whose interests he
always had in mind. He also did fine philan-
thropic work for Melbourne Children s Hospital
and other children’s institutions. Proprietor of
Bramac Waterproofs, Geelong (Vic.), Bramall on
two occasions made gifts of 10,000 ground-
sheets to the armed forces.
At Te Araroa (M.L.), at 70, Dr. Tutere Wi
Repa, one of the first Maoris to practise medi-
cine, obtaining his degree in 1906. When at
Otago University was an outstanding fullback.
He helped to found the Young Maori party,
which had a marked effect on Maori history,
co-workers being the late knight Maui Pomare,
knight Apirana Ngata and Professor Peter
In Adelaide, at 53, R. M. Fulford, rector
of Trinity, the city’s oldest church; also chap-
lain of Adelaide jail and—during the war—of
the R.A.A.F. He was born at Nagambie
(Vic.), and was at Pyramid Hill, and then at
South Broken Hill, before moving to Adelaide.


VICKERS GIN
LC
$
4r~'
%
v~>
'•y
■&S&.
m
4S)k
\<T m
GIN M
V-&.23
MS>
y
NP4S/39 “The rain wouldn't make you
‘l/Ll'i
u
m
// miserable if you
had a daily dose
of 4 NUGGET f
V/ like I do”.
/' KSpl?/'// ''
1/ C s ’ - /
For 50 years a GOOD polish
M&RM
Ea
f»OM
WATI
The Finest Leather
v Preservative v
dfgdgdfgdfg
Public Notice.
I, Private CHARLES OIOUTTO, N 452121, of Czecho-
slovakian nationality, born at Trcnchin, Czechoslo-
vakia and resident 12 years in Australia, now re-
siding at 2nd A.E.O. Ascot Racecourse, New South
Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Personal.
ESTATE of JAMES CULLEN.
Would the relatives of James Cullen, formerly of
Midland Junction, West Australia, and an ex-mcmber
of the Royal Australian Navy, please communicate
with the District Public Trustee, Invercargill, New
Zealand.
Missing Friend.
TO GWEN SMITH formerly of Flat 5 49 Elizabeth
Bay Road Elizabeth Bay New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that ALBERT LETCHFORD SMITH has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce on the
ground of desertion Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne within twenty-one days from
the Fifth day of December 1945 the case may
proceed in your absence If you intend to defend
this suit you must also file an answer in the said
office within Thirty-one days from the said Fifth
day of December 1945— JAMES HALL & SONS, 17
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN~ THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO VIO MATOSICH.—TAKE NOTICE that GEORGE
JOHN FREDERICK PEACE SILLIER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 314)5 of- 1945 on the ground
of your adultery with his wife MAY GLADYS’
LORRAINE HILLIER If you desire to defend the
suit you may epter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
28th day of February 1946 and obtain a copy of the
petition free of charge from SULLIVAN BROTHERS
Solicitors for the Petitioner 16 Barrack Street Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO RACHEL GRANT WARWICK late of John Street
Oabramatta in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that HAROLD LEONARD WARWICK has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 884 of 1945 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 31st day
of January 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from FRED A. NEWNHAM Solicitor
28 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
BETWEEN JOYCE SHOLL Petitioner and WILLIAM
JOSEPH GEORGE SHOLL Respondent.. To ELMA
WILBEN 4 Kara Street, Randwick. —TAKE NOTICE
that the abovenamed JOYCE SHOLL has filed her
Petition in the Supreme Court of New South Wales
praying for a divorce from her husband WILLIAM
JOSEPH GEORGE SHOLL on the grounds of his
adultery with you She alleges that he committed
adultery with you between the Ist day of June
1945 and the 13th day of September 1945 at Sydney
and other places in New South Wales This Notice
is given to you so that you may have an opportunity
of applying to the Court to be let in to defend
the charge if you so desire A copy of this petition
may be obtained at my office at the address under-
mentioned free of charge on application by you.
DATED this 28th day of November, 1945.—-A. E
BARKELL, Solicitor for the Petitioner, lie Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
BETWEEN JESSIE BLANCHE MacDONALD Peti-
tioner and GEORGE MacDONALD Respondent. To
GEORGE MacDONALD.—TAKE NOTICE that the
said JESSIE BLANCHE MacDONALD has commenced
a suit against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of desertion
for 3 years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or before
the 4th day of January 1946 and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned free
of charge. DATED this 23rd day of November, 1945.
—DAVID DIND, Solicitor for the Petitioner, 67
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce. '
SPORTING NOTIONS
A betting curiosity of the S.T.C. meeting at
Canterbury Park on Saturday was the heavy
backing of Prince Buzzard, a consistent loser
and still a maiden. He was backed to favorit-
ism against Huamight, who had beaten him at
their previous encounter and was now meeting
him only 11b. worse for having done so. Hua-
might (W. Fellows) duly landed the money
from Kingsford and Chatster.
Another betting curiosity of the S.T.C.
Canterbury meeting last Saturday was the heavy
backing of Trimmer in the Flying Handicap.
The gallant old gent.—he’s now rising 11—was
turned out with his mane plaited and his tail
decorated with a green ribbon bow. He did
his best to lead all the way, and was too good
in the running and at the finish for the good
filly Courtship, but .Oriental (G. Podmore) was
too good for both.. Hall Stand was pocketed
in the straight.
The 2 to 1, and sometimes better, laid against
Nightbeam in the 11-furlongs Summer Handicap
might be rated a different kind of curiosity
of the betting, since he seemed a class above
his opponents. Well up all the way, he won
comfortably from Wellesley and Thanks
America, making a double for G. Weate
and the F. W. Hughes stable, they having
taken the five-furlongs Maiden Nursery
(colts and geldings) with the black Titan coif
Euryalus, who narrowly defeated the Law Maker
colt Justinian and the Le Grand Due colt
Flying Duke. One of these youngsters to keep
in mind is the Ajax colt My Hero, who came
from a long way back to finish fourth. Six
furlongs or further for him.
The nicely-bred Sleigh Bells (Enfield-Little
Sister), with J. Thompson up, and Sweet Chhne
(Le Grand Duc-Korimako), ridden by J. Courts,
dead-heated in the five-furlongs Juvenile for
fillies, with the Titan filly Shining Vision third.
Earl Pentheus (G. Moore) and Warspite (W.
Cook) won the divisions of the six-furlongs
Welter.
* * * *
Only eight accepted for the Ascot Cup at
Mentone on Saturday, and Logical and Stene-
laus were favorites at threes. The aged Pan-
theon gelding Temple Chief, though a stayer of
moderate ability, appeared on recent form to
have only the bolter’s chance, but he was sur-
prisingly backed from 33 to 1 down to tens.
Ridden by R. Heather, he stole the race. After
they’d gone a few of the 13 furlongs Temple
Chief was 12 or 15 lengths clear, and the rest,
headed by Stenelaus, were apparently so confi-
dent of his collapse that they simply ignored
him, till, at one stage, he was leading by almost
a furlong. The only one to chase the bolter
was Belle Patrol, who, deprived of her jockey,
whom she tossed at the start, was left to follow
the instinct of her own common horsesense.
The winner came round the turn with 20 lengths
to spare and cantered down the straight on a
tight rein, with Heather grinning derisively over
his shoulder. Belatedly the rest made a grand-
stand finish of it for the minor money, and
Logical, Space and Arduli reached the post
in that order. An inquiry and inspection of
betting sheets was in adjournment at time of
writing.
The win completed a double for Heather,
who earlier won the second division of the
six furlongs Cottenham Handicap for * three-
year-old maidens on the Valiant Chief colt In-
vasion Chief. Second favorite at 7 to 2, In-
vasion Chief finished impressively to beat Filli-
beg and the pacemaker Cheviot. The first divi-
sion went to the Greenwich gelding Noble
Prince (A. Breasley), who downed Tji s ton (one
of Hughes’s Titan colts) and Rosarian.
Heather and Breasley between them accounted
for five of the seven races, Breasley’s others
being Kindergold, a hot favorite for the Nor-
folk Handicap, and Hartnell, also carrying fair
money in the Holyrood Handicap.
A five-furlongs dash for two-year-olds and a
seven-furlongs sprint for their elders made up
the card. Bush Queen (E. Preston), a black
filly by John James and a 10-to-l pop with
the books, cleaned up the babies, and the Law
Maker colt El Banco (S. Ralph) accounted for
a field of half a dozen three-year-olds. Stan-
dard Time, a Greenwich gelding, was close be-
hind El Banco, and is about due to hand in
his Maiden certificate.
* * * ♦
For Canterbury (before acceptances):—
Nursery: Concerto, 1; Justinian, 2; Tamasha,
3. Three-year-old Maiden: Sonning, 1;
Gracious, 2; King Lear, 3. Belmore Flying:
Hall Stand, 1; Cragsman, 2; Oriental, 3.
Earlwood Encourage: Kingsford, 1; Mentone,
2; Chatster, 3. December Handicap: War
Eagle, 1; Wellesley, 2; Invictus, 3. Welter:
Spear Patrol, 1; King’s Glen, 2; King Step, 3.
* * * *
The Services in India:
The second “Test” at Calcutta ended, like the
first, in a draw. Still, there was plenty of vim
in it, fhe daily scores being 266 for 5 wickets,
342 for 6, 320 for 10 and 329 for 5. For the
first time in six spins Hassett lost the toss.
India’s first innings totalled 386 (Mankad 87,
Modi 75 and Hazare 65); Pepper took 4 for
120, Williams 2 for 47, Ellis 2 for 88 and
Roper 1 for 40. After the Services had lost 1
for 49 (Carmody 40), Whitington 155 and Petti-
ford 101 added 218 for the second wicket, and
Miller (82) helped lift the total to 472. Whit-
ington’s big score surprised after his two
“ducks” against East Zone. Pettiford’s chance-
less innings made his aggregate 225 in the
“Tests,” averaging 112.5; in every match in
India he has scored double figures. In their
second innings India’s reps, hit up 350 for 4
wickets (closed), and Services had lost 2 for
49 when time ran out. With Sismey absent
through injuries, and Carmody taking the
gloves, many chances were missed and India’s
aggregate total included 64 sundries.
The Brisbane match;
Down 121 runs on the first innings, Queens-
land beat N.S.W. by four wickets. The visitors
crumpled badly for 141 in their second knock
(McCool, 6 for 36; Dixon, 4 for 47), with
Moroney (22 not out), Barnes (25) and Alley
(20) the best of them. Tallon (78), Morris
(51), Carrigan (38) and Brown (31) got most
of the 270 runs Queensland needed. Tallon
gave away oiily one sundry in a total of 479.
Queensland bowlers did their job well: Mc-
Cool, 31 overs, 9 for 146; Dixon, 34 overs,
5 for 109; Cook, 31 overs, 2 for 56; Watt, 8
overs, 3 for 36. N.S.W. left-hander Toshack,
who had a damaged foot in the second innings,
came out with 41 overs, 4 for 156 (all four in
the first innings). The other wicket-takers were
Lindwall, 27 overs, 3 for 97; Alley, 13 overs,
2 for 48; Barnes, 20 overs, 2 for 65; and
Walmsley, 19 overs, 2 for 53.
The only change made in the Queensland
team for the return match opening in Sydney
on December 29 is left-hander Price, of Uni-
versity, in place of Rogers (unavailable).
Queensland defeated N.S.W. in the first inter-
state match at Brisbane in 1893, since when
there have been 76 clashes, of which N.S.W.
has won 47 and Q. 18; 10 were drawn and one
abandoned. The Northerners best win was by
eight wickets at Sydney in December, 1938,
when Brown scored 95 and 168 and Tallon
caught four and stumped two in the first
innings, caught five and stumped one in the
second, and allowed only two byes in a total
of 478.
N.S.W. selectors picked O’Reilly (capf.),
Gulliver and R. James to replace Woolmer,
Walmsley and O’Brien v. S.A. at Adelaide O
week. All had Sheffield Shield experience in
pre-war years, but Gulliver has played only
one game this season (2 not out and. 3 for
113), and James has scored 216 runs, averaging
43.2 and taken 11 wickets for 194. Young
players in form passed over include C. Graham
(a hard-hitting left-hander whose last foul
innings are 106 on a wet wicket, 151, 45 and
74), A. Clues (a slashing bat) and S. Smith
(’Varsity fast bowler^
♦ * * *
Surely the greatest hat-trick
in international cricket must have been
that brought off by J. T. Hearne in the
Leeds Test of 1899. The victims were
M. A. Noble, caught Ranji, 0; S. E.
Gregory, caught MacLaren, 0; Clem
Hill, bowled, 0. Three great Australian
batsmen dismissed without scoring by
three balls.
* * * *
S.A. amateur athletes, many of whom
are prominent Australian c6de foot-
ballers, are in doubt about the handsome
bonus handed out by the Adelaide clubs
to players at the end of the season, based
on the number of matches engaged in.
The Athletic Union of Australia is being
asked to say whether this present, being
cash, can be accepted in one sport with-
out the amateur status in the other being
lost.
* * * *
Golf in the Mountains:
Katoomba Golf Club had 36 teams competing
for its Gold Cup in the first competition since
the war, Blue Mountains and Sydney dubs
rallying to make it a day. Eastlakes (Sydney)
had eight teams on the job, and one of them
collected the Gold Cup with an aggregate nett
of 563 for the 36 holes, nine under Katoomba
and 25 under Lithgow, second and third re-
spectively. The mountain greens - were too
tricky for the visiting players—the winners got
over that by spending a week on them before-
hand.
The Eastlakes Gold Cup win at Katoomba
was the second, the first being in 1939. Two
of the original team, N. Smith and A. Bieler
played again this time, with H. Tarleton and
G. Bissett to help ’em along. Tarleton, who
'took nine strokes on the par 4 36th hole, would
probably have jumped over Echo Point had his
team lost by a stroke or two.
The Katoomba golf course is a 68 par.
Doug Davies, the Concord amateur who was
second to A. Waterson in the last State
amateur championship, and who has since been
in the R.A.A.F., toured it twice for 142, best
scratch score in the golf carnival there at the
week-end and good going on a course whose
par has seldom, if ever, been broken.
* * * *
“Nuffin”: Former Olympic reps,
George Golding (N.S.W.), and W., M.
(Tickle) Whyte (Vic.), now resident in
Queensland, will coach the State’s star
G.P.S. athletes. Golding, the best quarter-
miler Australia has produced, “repped”
at the 1930 Empire Games (Canada) and
1932 Olympic Games (Los Angeles). He
married Claire Dennis, a winner in record
time in swimming at the 1932 Olympics.
Whyte competed in the 1500 metres in
the 1928 Olympic Games at Amsterdam.
His Imin. 56sec. for the 880 in Brisbane
(1926) is still a State record, and he made
Australian figures for the mile in 1930.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Young Heron, of Sydney, who
was knocked out by Gent in Adelaide,
is convalescent after a month in hospital
there, but has lost all recollection of the
fight, and is naturally advised to take no
further chances of that kind. The Adel-
aide Stadium is arranging a benefit for
him. Incidentally, Adelaide lightweights
are complaining that Sydney form must
be overrated, and demand better repre-
sentatives as opponents.
* * * *
Clem Sands has a terrific punch, and
it was aimed many times at Jimmy
Dundee in the course of a twelve-rounder
at Leichhardt. Only in the sixth round
did it hit the 'target to any noticeable
extent, right swings having Dundee dazed.
In nearly every other round Dundee was
too smart for Sands, and at the end
Jimmy was strong—and victorious.
That the material from which future
champions can be moulded is still in Aus-
tralia was demonstrated when two young
lightweights, Leo Heaney (W.A.) and Les
Fuller (N.S.W.), fought at Sydney
Stadium. For 12 rounds these lads em-
ployed every blow known to the leather-
pushing brigade, and when Heaney was
declared the winner on points spectators
stood up and cheered. Heaney’s cleaner
work, particularly with lefts to the body
—one floored Fuller in the eighth, though
he disdained to take time —clearly earned
him the verdict, but Fuller fought back
at all times, and the bout might have
been declared a draw if Fuller had not
been knocked down. A crowd of 8000
voted it the cleanest and exciting contest
of the year.


Women's Letters
• 1
From Melbourne
Amid chaos and confusion the new
Government of Victoria went into office. ■
Confusion, because so many invitations
had been issued to families and friends
of members that it was impossible foi
them all to get into the Chamber. Corri-
dors were filled to overflowing and ushers
had to push and shove to make room for
the Governor and his suite to get through. ;
Even the reporters were forced to wait
outside, for the press gallery was filled
with sightseers, and but for the kindness
of some of the members presswomen
would have gone without afternoon tea.
Lady Dugan for this occasion was
smart in a blue-and-white patterned frock
over which she wore a long navy-blue
coat. Her wide straw hat was also in
navy. With the Mayor was Mayoress
Heinze, her midnight-blue wool frock
contrasted with a creamy lace collar. Her
natural straw hat had a wide blue riband
with field flowers at the front. Mrs. John
Cain, wife of the new Premier, .chose a
woollen jacket suit in pastel tones. Her
white hat matched the pipings on her suit.
The Robinson lady chose black. A color-
ful figure was Miss Leila Ram-Samui, a
nurse in the Indian Army, whose blue
sari was trimmed with gold and silver
embroidery. With the Chief Justice
Herring was his wife, in navy and
white spotted frock, worn under a navy
coat and accessories. The Governor’s
speech lasted only three minutes.
Every social event in the city has been
centred in the visit of the Governor-
General and his charming consort, whose
programme was long and varied. Often
ihree or four functions were arranged
for one day. Every organisation of note
wanted a visit, and as far as possible
these wishes were granted. In a very in-
formal manner the Duchess met members
of the board of the National Y.W.C.A.
—she is patroness of the Australian
organisation. As those present made
their bow and shook hands with the
Duchess they passed over a basket made
of lavender flowers and in it placed a
rosebud.
The reception hall of the Y.W.C.A.
building was decorated with bowls of
mixed flowers, including delphiniums,
gladioli and stocks, making a colorful
background for the Duchess, whose frock
of ice-blue wool, encrusted with blue
beads, was worn with a small sailor hat
wreathed in ice-blue veiling. National
president .Mrs. F. G. Kumm greeted the
Duchess, her small hat, wreathed in
pastel-blue flowers, brightening a black
frock. Lady Dugan, who accompanied
the Duchess, was in a navy and white
patterned frock and long fitting navy-
blue coat, the ensemble matched with a
wide-brimmed navy sailor hat. Mrs.
Essingt'on Lewis, president of Melbourne
Y.W.C.A., welcomed the visitor on behalf
of the local girls. Her flower-trimmed hat
was worn with a black silk crepe frocx
and matching jacket. The Duchess, who
has gained a reputation for short pithy
speeches, on this occasion showed a
sense of humpr.
The Little Duchess, as Melbourne calls
her, is well liked, and Lady Clive is also
a favorite. These busy people have not
spared themselves since they came to
Melbourne. Recently three engagements
were made for the one morning, the Duke
and Duchess, with their suite, going first
to the Legacy Club headquarters and
next to Air Force House, winding up
the morning at the Wings Club. At Air
Force House the Duke and Duchess were
met by the president, Mrs. J. V. Fair-
bairn, who in turn presented the other
members of the committee and Mrs.
Matthews, who for so long managed Air
Force House. The Duchess favored mist
blue for her frock and a darker shade
for her coat, and wore lovely jewels. Mrs.
Fairbairn’s navy blue-and-white patterned
frock had white accessories. Helpers at
Air Force House who were not on duty,
for the W.A.A.A.F. have now taken over,
lined the various dormitories, and
kindly words about their work were said
to them by the Duke and Duchess. Every
feature of the work was explained, and
the library, staffed and stocked by the
women journalists, the Hospitality
Bureau, controlled by the Victoria
League, and the Canteen were admired
by the visitors.
Garbed in scarlet capes over grey uni-
forms and with white veils flowing in the
breeze, members of the Army Nursing
Service, veterans of the Middle East, New
Guinea and Borneo, marched through
the streets with Sisters of the R.A.A.F.
nursing service and the Navy. It was
their own special day, and the
Duchess of Gloucester, in the uni-
form of Honorary Commandant of the
W.R.A.N.S., took the salute at the Town
Hall. She was accompanied by Lady
Clive, in Red Cross uniform. Chief of
the A.A.N.S., Col. A. M. Sage, marched
at the head of the procession, b»t fell out
at the saluting base to stand with the
Duchess. Floats followed bearing replicas
of a ward in the Middle East and of a
jungle base, with the nurses at their posts.
The R.A.A.F. nursing service was repre-
sented by a model of a large medical air
transport. At the end of the procession
was a float upon which was a model of a
war memorial, surmounted with laurel
wreaths. At the base were many bunches
of flowers placed there by grateful citi-
zens. The words “We Shall Remember”
at the base of the memorial paid a tribute
to nurses who went down in the Centaur
and to those who lost their lives in the
M.E., Malaya and New Guinea.
A Button Day had been proposed in
connection with the parade, but the city
fathers refused permission, so many
women workers and returned p.-0.-w.
stormed business houses and sold tokens
indoors. The Florence Nightingale Trust
Fund for returned Victorian Army, Navy
and Air Force nurses of this war bene-
fited. Pictured here is Mrs. Margaret
Saker, one of the organisers of the “Radio
Riot” in aid of this good cause. This
will be held in the Town Hall on Decem-
ber 7. Margaret is the mother of a son
who saw service in New Guinea. “Radio
Riot” is under the patronage of Mayor
Connelly and Lady Mayoress Heinze.
Aim of the organisers is to raise £lOOO.
At the investiture at Government
House women were near to tears as Mrs.
M. Newton, of St. Kilda, went forward
to receive the Victoria Cross awarded
to her dead son, Flight-Lieut. William
Eric Newton. Melbourne Grammar
School is proud of this former student,
for he was the first old boy in the air
service to win this great honor.
Lighter moments were contributed by
Prince William, viewing an investiture for
the first time. Three-quarters of an hour
is a long time for a little boy to keep
still. Seeing his father and mother on
the dais, he tried to attract, their atten-
, tion by playing a tune on the grille which
forms the musicians’ gallery in G.H. ball-
room. Nurse remonstrated with the little
chap, but he could not keep still. The
last guests heard of Prince William was
a firm voice saying to his nurse as she
led him out “But I don’t want to go.”
The lighter note was struck also when
one of the newly-created Knights Bache-
lor Vvas receiving the accolade. Just as
the Duke of Gloucester said “Arise, Sir
Knight,” a large grey cat came to the
front of the dais, took one hasty look
around and scuttled back to safety. Later,
in brilliant sunshine, the Duke and
Duchess, with Brigadier Schrieber and
his lady, mingled with the guests and
talked to the men who had been deco-
rated and their friends and relatives.
Prince William was seen in the midst of
a group of little boys and girls, and later
busied himself gathering up the leaves
which had fallen on the lawns. In this
-self-appointed task the Prince was assisted
by Rear-Admiral Bracegirdle.
Tradition and procedure went wind-
ward in Tasmanian House of Assembly
recently when, owing to the absence of
the regular officials, Mrs. R. T. Langdale,
the House typist, filled the clerk’s chair.
It was a “first” in Tasmania, if not the
Commonwealth. There were “Hear,
hears” when Speaker Dwyer announced
the temporary appointment.
November 24 saw the 100th birthday
of Mrs. Grace Williams, a pioneer of
Derby (Tas.), who arrived in Australia
in the inevitable sailing ship in 1864. and
whose large family limb comprises 14
children, 87 grandchildren, 41 g.-g.-
children and 22 g.-g.-g.-children.
From Sydney
The admiral wore shorts —that is Ad-
miral Sir Bruce Fraser, of the B.P.F. Fie
suits them very well, too, having a neat
leg. Rear-Admiral Moore, of the
R.A.N., wore his trousers long. Both
admirals were in the speckless white
tropic Outfit that makes the ordinary
housewife think wistfully of the laundry
facilities in the Navy.
The admirals were the stars of the first
annual meeting of the British Centre.
This was held in the Hyde Park building,
and gave president Bartley a chance to
justifiably gloat over the success of the
movement he had launched when he was
Sydney’s Lord Mayor,
By . two o’clock the best places of the
big hall of the Centre wer| occupied.
Ladies arrived and took up positions, and
put handbags and such on adjacent
chairs, thereby pegging out a claim for
friends coming later. Until the hour of
the speeches music pealed forth. And
at the close, against the bright folds of
the Union Jack, Strella Wilson sang in
spirited tones. The Anderson lady was
on the platform, but she didn’t speak—
the men held the floor. The Silent
Service broke its vow, and talked at a
great spate.
Admiral Fraser, who could easily have
been an orator, made another of his de-
lightful speeches. They warm the heart
and the imagination, and make this
hands-across-the-sea kinship the only one
that matters. Fie told a tale of being at the
information office one day when some
lads going on leave were being asked their
preference. One said he wanted to go
somewhere where he could see plenty of
sheep. That was easy. The next said
he wanted to be sent somewhere where
there were beautiful daughters. “That,
of course,” .concluded the admiral, “was
even easier. Looking around this hall
today I see nothing but beautiful
daughters—except their more beautiful
mothers! ”
Norton Trevaire took this photograph
of Barbara Moore, daughter of Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Moore, of Tresco,
Elizabeth Bay, Barbara has announced
her engagement to Lieut.-Commander K.
Leigh Smith, R.C.N.V.R., of Montreal.
On the 29th .December of last year
Admiral Fraser turned the first sod on the
site of the British Centre building, Lord
Wakehurst laid the foundation stone in
February of this year, and in June the
Duke of Gloucester, Governor-General
of Australia, declared it open at a cheery
mid-morning ceremony. In addition to
the city’s hostels seven branch hostels
have been opened at Wollongong, Banks-
town, Mosman, Katoomba, Manly, East
Sydney. Altogether, the report of the
first year’s Work reads as though some-
body had a first cousin to Aladdin’s ring.
The Society of Women Writers is hav-
ing a before-Christmas matinee to aid its
Friendly Fund. This will be in Federa-
tion House in Phillip-street, and will
commence at a quarter past two on De-
cember 11. A one-act play by Sacha
Guitry, “A Villa for- Sale,” is one of
the star pieces of a programme that
scintillates all over. Katie Towers, Evelyn
Gardiner, Bernard Manning, Minnie
Love, Marie Bremner, and Laurence
Godfrey Smith will all appear on the bill.
As flowers seem to become scarcer every
day, a number of pretty youngsters will
sell cakes of scented soap instead—“so
useful to send to friends in England.”
The radiant Lili Kraus brought such
numbers crowding to her piano recital
in the Conservatorium that they over-
flowed on to the stage. This is perhaps
the first time at the Con.'that a pianist
has played against a human background.
One highly imaginative listener said it
had the feeling of a ballet decor.
Anyway, Lili played and started her con-
cert with such promptitude that many
ardent concertgoers were locked out for
the opening Mozart work. One of Syd-
ney’s inveterate music patrons broke her
record. She was heard explaining to a
friend that it was the first time she had
ever missed the first item on a programme.
In spite of the stormy weather —
thunder and lightning and a steady deluge
of rain—the Con. seethed with expectant
multitudes. When the little pianist ap-
peared, elegant in her long black lace frock
with its rippling streams of silver sequins,
gearing a high black turban that hid the
hair, and had in it a suggestion of India,
there was no sign of the bitter years she
spent in a Japanese p.-0.-w, camp after she
and her husband. Dr, Mandl, and their
children had been caught by the war in
Java, where they had been holidaying.
There were grace and beauty and force
in her playing, and there was that tingle
of excitement in the audience that is the
sure sign of profound interest.
In the ballroom of the Australia affairs
went smoothly and merrily last Wednes-
day at the cocktail hour. The drinks
were nicely cooled and the savories had
the right zip, and the U.5.0.W.1. and the
American Library of Information, who
were the hosts, could smile easily as they
did in the persons of Miss Harriet Root,
of the Library, Professor and Mrs. Wecter
and Mr. Robert Burlingame. The party
was given to farewell Dr, and Mrs.
Wecter —he’s been here for six months
or so inaugurating the chair of American
History. Now he goes off, and Professor
Gabriel will probably take his place.
Dr Wecter, as well as “professing - '
American History, is a writer with several
books to his name. His latest, rehabili-
tation its theme, is When Johnny Comes
Marching Home. General Donaldson, of
the U.S. forces, was there, and the
Charley Tildens (she just recovering from
a trying illness). Judge and Mrs. Roper,
the Spenders, the A. B. C. Boyers, Colonel
Wilson, Eric Kennedy (who talked in in-
teresting fashion about his friend Quentin
Reynolds), Sydney Ure Smith, Professor
Roberts and his wife, the Charles Moses
couple and Mrs. G. Spencer were a few of
the many making merry between six and
eight.
The Royal Art Society has a very con-
structive plan for the first year of peace.
It was talked over enthusiastically and in
detail at the annual meeting last week.
This was held in the society’s rooms in
Hunter-street, with new president Erik
Langker in the chair. Retiring president
Howard Ashton was not able to come,
but he sent’ with his apologies a very
graceful and sincere letter of good
wishes to the new pilot and the R.A.S.,
The rooms were crowded, the women’s
auxiliary being there in force with their
C. 0., the Henry' Braddon lady. Among
new ideas were art lectures, to be
given in the Hunter-street rooms, where
there will also be nights for criticism,
when young and beginning artists can
take their works along for helpful
suggestions from older painters. The
R.A.S. also intends to bring out an
art annual. After the business was ended
sherry and savories strengthened the
assembly against the coming dive into the
night’s deluge.
Maoriland, as well as Australia, has an
interest in the concert at which the whole
programme will be made up of the works
of composer Alfred Hill at the Town
Hall tomorrow night. This is an event
in the musical life of the Commonwealth
and her sister-Dominion, for it is the
first time a whole night has been devoted
to the works of one of our music-writers.
Alfred Hill is a genius of whom any
nation might be proud. His music is
vital, it sings and thrills, and has a soar-
ing sweep. Henry Krips will conduct the
Symphony Orchestra, and the Hurlstone
Choral 'Society in a programme which
features the Symphony in E flat (‘ Life ),
concerto for viola and orchestra and
Symphonic Poem, both of which last-
named are having their first performance.
Blodwen Hill is the concerto soloist.
Wedding reception in H.M.S. Duke of
York followed the wedding at St. Mark’s,
Darling Point, of Sheila Cameron and
Lt.-Commander Michael Law, R.N.V.R.
Sheila is a daughter of Dr. and Mrs. H.
D. Cameron, of Hawera, Maoriland.
’Groom’s parents are the A. H. Laws, or
Swanmore, Hampshire, England.
Almost every Well-known Sydney
pianist was in the Conservatorium audi-
ence last Saturday night to hear Lih
Kraus playing with the Conservatorium
Orchestra Mozart’s piano concerto in
E Flat Major (K. 271). To those who
knew their Walt Whitman, enjoyment of
Vaughan Williams’s “Sea” Symphony for
solo voices, orchestra and choir was the
deeper. Mildred Walker and Harold Wil-
liams were the soloists.


THE NEW MIRACLE
INSECT SPRAY
KEEPS ON KILLING FOR WEEKS
When you spray Taylor’s Number 13 D.D.T, Spray on a wall,
wlndowpane or ceiling, or into a cupboard, or on hanging clothes
or curtains, it kills every insect that touches the sprayed surface
/or weeks afterwards.
Y<du have read about D.D.T., the newest miracle in insect exter-
mination, as used in jungle warfare and to prevent epidemics
in re-conquered Europe. Now Taylor’s chemists are making it
available for you—Taylor’s Number 13 D.D.T. Spray. Not a
weak solution but a maximum concentration.
It kills flies, fleas, mosquitoes, moths, sandflies, sllverfish, ants,
cockroaches and bugs. And it keeps on killing. One spraying
lasts for several weeks.
Made by Taylor’s
Paints Pty. Ltd.,
Sutherland Ave.,
Paddington,
N.S.W. (PA 2125).
dfgdgdfgdfg
NUMBER 13
MAXIMUM CONCENTRATION
D.D.T. SPRAY
"UNLUCKY FOR F U eT ~
To men
whose
business takes them inter-state
TjOWEVER you travel, be sure that you’re covered by
1 adequate insurance. In the air, for example, you’ll feel
all the safer for an aviation policy which covers you at
all times, while flying, without the tiresome necessity of
arranging a policy every time you enter a ’plane.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St., and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney. ,
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra and Alice Springs
m&m
-it
¥.
paity
gu^
m
e.
II
Hi;
HOW MANY TIMES DOES THE NAME "CADBURY"
APPEAR on a i lb. BLOCK OF CADBURY'S DAIRY
MILK CHOCOLATE? (Including Wrapper and Chocolate)
7 Times? Q 15 Times? Q 22 Times?
ANSWER —When you've been lucky enough to get a block of
Cadbury's Dairy Milk you've probably been more interested
in the rich creamy chocolate than in the wrapper. So. you
may not know that the name is printed six times on the label;
add this to the "Cadbury" on each square of chocolate and
the answer is—22.
DMPBI2
SMOKE-OH!
“Required urgently by refined couple, two
babies.” —Suburban paper.
If they’re wanted immediately, there’s
only one course to adopt.
4* 4* 4* . 4*
In Hungary, a woman is only allowed to
vote if she is over thirty.”—" World's News."
But only those over 40 claim the fran-
chise.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Casual butcher wanted urgently.”
—Suburban paper.
The sort of fellow who chops his fingers
as he fingers his chops.
HE*
“For Sale. —Large polished double bed tick-
ing.”—“S.M.H."
Shiny with wear?
“Bridle gown, white satin, new beaded yoke.”
—Suburban paper-
Will suit a bride who wishes to take
the bit in her teeth. «
4* 4* 4* 4*
Family Quarrels.
“A war against ‘in-laws’ is being waged in
England by the Society for Suppression of
Family Interference.” —“Daily Telegraph"
They could hardly reach the pitch of
hostility displayed when my mother-in-
law wrote before last Christmas inviting
herself and family to stay with us.
In a brief letter, trenchantly phrased, 1
told her that our house would be de-
fended aggressively against any such in-
cursion ; we then got in touch with the
local ordnance store and prepared for the
worst.
As the hired bus containing my wife’s
relations turned into our street my son
James neatly sniped the driver from be-
hind the gate, whereupon the bus crashed
into a post, spilling my wife’s mother
and father, five brothers and sisters and
seven heavily armed cousins into the
road. My wife was able to wing her
cousin Stephen before they regained the
safety of the bhs.
The battle continued for some hours
with no advantage to either side, although
during one of the truces to count our re-
maining children cousins Edmund and
Athelstane managed to establish them-
selves on the back porch. We sent the
butler out with some drugged coffee, after
which they troubled us no more.
Fortunately, just as our ammunition
was running low the bus company
arrived to salvage its wrecked vehicle,
and my wife’s relations were forced to
retire in disorder, with a few valedictory
cries of “Give my love to Ethel,” “Don’t
forget to write” and “Thanks for having
us.”
I had to admit, however, that my
mother-in-law had a sense of humor.
When a parcel arrived from her at
Christmas we had it opened by the nearest
bomb-disposal squad. It contained a
bottle of pest-destroyer with a gummed-
on label reading; “Shake Well Before
Taking.” p LIM .
*1- -I* »J*
“Your bone structure has much to do with
your weight.” —“New Idea."
You can’t present a pretty picture un-
less you’re suitably framed.
t 4* 4*
Objective.
“He thrashed his wife because she refused
to believe in phrenology.” —Divorce item.
“It’s nothing else but tripe I” she said.
So he delivered on her head
A series of decisive thumps
To prove that he could read ‘her bumps.
Nat.
“Gamer Than Ned*Kelly ”
“The N.S.W. Premier, Mr. W. J. McKell,
speaking at a valedictory dinner to Mr. Beasley,
‘warned’ that ‘certain people’ were attempting
to destroy the foundations on which the Labor
Movement had been built.” — “D-T.”
“You know,” said Jack the Coal Eater,,
known also jocularly among party mem-
bers as the Big Brain, “if things keep
going the way they are now the State’ll
be up the spout. It’s all the fault of these
Co”
“Sh!” broke in Billy the Humble-pie
Eater. Then, after glancing fearfully
around, he dropped -his voice to a whisper.
“There’s no need to go mentioning the
word,” he went on, “I know who you
refer to.”
“You mean these Red”
Billy looked pityingly at the deputy-
ringmaster who runs the Macquarie-street
circus on those occasions when he him-
self feels impelled self-sacrificingly to
take a luxury trip to some far spiggotty
republic to find out how they market
bananas or manage to get their tram
conductors to collect fares or something.
“Don’t be duller than you have to be,
Jack,” he complained. “You ought to
know it isn’t politic to mention aloud
these—well, certain people by name.”
“Well, you can’t mention ’em by num-
ber, can you?” protested Jack. Then,
throwing back his bullet head, he laughed
uproariously at his own unaccustomed
burst of wit. “Still and all,” he went on,
“they’re not much use to us, except for
their preference votes whenever we have
to face our masters.”
Billy looked almost with admiration at
his deputy. “Masters, eh? You do seem
chockful of fun this morning, Jack. Per-
haps,” he added hopefully, <4 you’re con
sidering retiring. You’re getting on a
bit now, you know, for the hurly-burly
of politics. The quiet life of a chicken
farm or something should suit you right
down to the ground. Jack. And it
wouldn’t matter if you didn’t make a
cracker out of it, either; you’d always
have the six-quid pension. You’ve had
nine years’ service, haven’t you? I can
gag the bill through in a week —not that
we need expect any opposition from the
Opposition except a pious speech against
it. They’ll raise a few cheers from the
taxpayers for it, and they can safely vote
against it, knowing we’ll swamp ’em on
a party vote.”
“No, I’m not thinking of retiring,” re-
plied Jack abruptly. “I’ve too much work
to do. I’m due to make another appeal
to the miners for increased production.
And they take a good bit of notice of me,
too. Why, last time I grovelled to them
the loss through strikes during that week
fell from 65,000 to 75,000 tons. But I’m
getting worried about the growing influ-
ence in the industry of these Co —well,
you know who.”
At this second use of part of the first
syllable of the dreaded name Billy got
up from his chair. Then, with face set
grimly, he gave a few smart skips, hitched
his imaginary magenta-colored trunks, ad-
justed his fictitious gloves and started
sparring against an invisible opponent
Pressing home the attack, Billy man-
oeuvred the Invisible on to the ropes, un-
leashed a terrific uppercut, looked down at
his prone phantom adversary while the
fancied ref. counted him out and then
raised both clasped hands in acknowledg-
ment of the national applause.
“There,” he said in triumph, “ that's
what I’d do to the Co —well, the members
of a certain unnameable party that you
and I both know of.”
At that instant the door opened and
Hamilton Knight strode in. Then, seeing
his chief in his familiar attitude, he looked
at him in undisguised admiration.
“There’s no doubt about you, Billy,
you’re a wonder!” he said,
“I am,” agreed Billy modestly.
“Well,” went on the Minister for Less
Labor and Industry, waving his morning
paper, “it looks as if you’ll be pushed
into a real fight soon, if those idiots in
the Federal A.L.P: persist in forcing a
showdown with the Commos. Well —good
heavens, Badly, what have I said? Billy’s
gone clean out to it!” g Q
The Play Way.
“This man was very fond of children. He’d
give them anything they wanted. Once he was
nursing niy three-months-old baby and gave it
his pipe to smoke.” —"Sunday Sun."
Systems of education stray
When boosting up the fool obsession
That youth must have its own sweet way
Without a shadow of repression.
And yet there is a noble field
For those who subtly can disguise
Their aims and, seeming still to yield,
Bring youth to what is good and wise.
So all praise to the cunning bloke
Who with a flash of genius saw
That if he let the baby smoke
It couldn’t help but learn to draw.
D. H. E.
Regrettable.
While granting that an ant community
Reveals an admirable sense of unity,
In spite of their renowned co-operation
They have a fault that checks our appro-
bation.
It is the moral flaw in their psychology;
For scientists who study entomology
Are universally agreed that, ants
Do not wear pants.
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Darwin Raids
Justice Lowe’s report regarding civilian
behavior in Darwin covers only th
commencement of the drama, and tha
not fully. True, there was a wild stam
pede for Adelaide River, but it’s also true
that there were civilians who remained
at their posts.
The Darwin power-house crew kept a
least some of the engines running day anc
night through 57 raids. Jhe power-line
crews, led by the town’s electrical engi
neer, were out working on poles and line
long before the “all clear.” The road
maintenance gang stayed and got to the
job of filling craters in the streets almos
as soon as they were made. I could nevei
decide whom they treated with most con
tempt, the Jap raiders or the men who
bolted.
The mechanical engineer’s crew carried
on as usual, dismantling costly machinery
in the town ready for removal or repair-
ing pumps at Vestey’s plant as an addi-
tional water supply. When the main
supply line from Manton was blown up
—as it was a score of times in a score o]
places—it was these men, plus volunteer
army welders, who worked in shifts unti
the damage was repaired.
At the oil-storage park down by the
harbor —an unhealthy spot—a Depart-
ment of the Interior engineer with an off-
sider named Toni Valeria —brave men
turned up in unexpected quarters—re-
mained at their duties even when some
tanks were already a mass of flame and
fire.
The story was the same on the railway
and in the railway workshops. Through
six months of raids, the driver of the
D. of I. duty car ran to schedule in and
out of town. At least three local con-
tractors carried on with their Govern-
ment trucking contracts. The drivers sel-
dom caught the drone of a raid warning,
but had to wait for the first crash of a
near-by bomb.
A civil censor at Wiley Point refused
to move. The doctor at Khalin hos-
pital remained, and the local Judge
was always on hand. A superintend-
ing engineer out at the 13-mile peg,
with about 50 men under his control and
others he picked up in town, did more
to co-ordinate activities to the end that
town services were maintained and essen-
tial repairs effected than anyone else in
the Territory., As with the others —and
many more-*his work is unrecorded.
Those civilians who elected to remain
behind during the first war on the home-
land made history any country would be
proud of, but it seems as if history is to
bury the record on behalf of those who
bolted. —A. J. Lambert (W.A.).
Prices of Dairy Stock
In plans to build up reserves of stock
needed by soldier-settlers, the suggested
price of £8 for a good dairy heifer 18
months old is far too low to create
any interest among breeders. Some
stock is already being given free to re-
turned men, |n individual gestures of
goodwill. The numbers needed are far
beyond the scope of such gestures or of
the partial philanthropy suggested at £8
a head.
Some favored dairymen may cover
expenses with this amount, but my costs
work out at about £9 10s. for a well-
nourished heifer at 18 months. Here’s
my figuring:
35 gallons whole milk .. .. £1 15 0
200 gallons skim milk .. .. 1 13 0
400 days’ grazing at Id 1 12 0
180 days’ hand-feeding at 4d. .. 3 0 0
Labor on 300 days, 3min. per calf
per day, at 2s. per hour .. ~ 1 10 0
£9 10 0
A Government official in Victoria
quotes £l2 as the cost of raising a- herd
replacement to two years old. A well-
bred and well-grown heifer is worth this,
and more, as a prime factor in the pro-
duction of the best human food there is.
With the market price of forward
springers (runts and all) standing at £ls
to £2O, there is need to offer something
much nearer real value than £8. — Aero-
genes (Q.).
Price Control
After nearly six years of bureaucratic
control relief from restrictions would be
welcome, but not at the price of financial
security. There’s a need for certain con-
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2id. per line.
trols if inflation and the consequent de-
pression are to be avoided. Only pegging
of prices has prevented inflation.
The prices of commodities vary in-
versely with the supply. When goods are
short the buyer will be prepared to pay
pore than the ruling rates for them. A rise
in prices leads to a rise in wages, forces
production costs up, creating a vicious
circle. A man employed in a factory en-
joys big wages, but has to pay high
prices for goods. His pound is worth no
more than when he was on the basic
wage.
We should not forget the lessons of the
last post-war boom. Certainly the slump
which followed was world-wide, and
Australia could hardly hope to escape
scot-free, but with a sound internal
economy the effects would be less felt.
Serious obstacles to financial security
are black markets. They are directly, in-
strumental in forcing prices up. Other
enemies of society when brought to
justice are treated without mercy, but
there are only kid gloves for black-
marketeers. They are fined sums which
in most cases would not amount to a
week’s takings. The only deterrent for
crimes of this nature would be a minimum
sentence of ten years’ imprisonment v/ith
hard labor.—D. J. L. (N.S.W.).
An Anti-Communist Campaign
Asa returned soldier I applaud The
Bulletin’s exposures of Communists in
Australia. The paper has brought to
“ If y' gotter bail out don't forget the ripcord."
"Wot ripcord?"
light proof of the dangerous nature of
this monstrous minority faction in our
midst.
But I have observed with disgust the
indifference of many civilians to the Com-
munist menace, and I am honestly
alarmed to see the appalling apathy which
exists among men in the services. Re-
turned men, nine out of ten, are not alive
to the significance of the present strikes
and industrial unrest, fomented by Com-
munists.
I would like to see the entire press in
an all-out effort to combat this apathy,
to awaken the morose and the indifferent
to an interest in the important question
of the economic safety of their country,
which is in danger of disaster and collapse
because of Communist infiltration. —
Freedom (A.1.F.).
A Futile Strike
If ever a body of men were disillu-
sioned the Adelaide tram men were. Led
by Comrade Garland they left their jobs
and made nine demands on the Tram-
ways Trust. The g.m. said these demands
could not be conceded and reminded the
men they were striking “not against the
trust, but against Federal law.”
Judge Drake-Brockman characterised
the affair as a revolt, not a strike, and
asked “Who’s been pulling the wool over
the men’s eyes?” True, the men voted
for the stoppage, but they were hood-
winked. To tie up a State’s transport sys-
tem is a rotten business, but the Federal
secretary of the Tramway Union termed
it “the best holdup in the State’s history.”
When the men returned to work they
had lost £19,000 in wages. They should ask
themselves just where present-day union-
ism is leading them. What they have
secured could have been had by remain-
ing at work. Over the past decade it
would be interesting to know exactly what
benefits strikes have secured for the
worker.
I believe he could put them in his eye,
—A. Daly (S.A.).
Repatriation Problems
I’ve had a bit to do with rehabilitation
since I came back from a prison camp in
Indo-China, and I should like to com-
mend the staffs of these services on the
work they are attempting to do. Their
personal interest and sympathy are heart-
warming, but they are helpless and inex-
pert in any effort to assist the returned
p.-0.-w. who is apathetic.
Some of us are enthusiastic about the
opportunities in a post-war world. With
a little financial assistance, a little train-
ing, a little mental boost, we should be
able to settle down and look forward to
an assured future. But there are others
who, unconsciously, have been mentally
disorganised by their cruel incarceration.
They had too much thinking time.
They dreamed and planned a bright
future for themselves and their victorious
country. They formulated impossible am-
bitions. Now, in this crazy, badly-run
Australia, they are disillusioned. The
wave of enthusiasm they rode home on
after liberation has been a dumper. They
have quicklv become disinterested in
themselves and their citizenship. Repat-
riation and rehabilitation authorities, in-
terested in those who co-operate, can’t
help these lost men.
It would be a national tragedy if the
problems of this type of returned man
were not investigated before they became
the prey of Red Fascists, who are today
as much our enemy as the Japs we hope-
lessly held out against in February, 1942.
“There is no vulture 1 : 1 despair.”—
Noologist (A.1.F.).
Unexploded Shells
During the war children playing on or
near testing grounds vacated by the Army
and Air Force located “blind” shells, and
playing with these caused them to ex-
plode, involving loss of sight, limb, even
life.
Now that the war has ended many of
these testing grounds and impromptu
ranges, if not thrown open to the public,
will at least not be very well guarded.
Although every endeavor is made to
locate and destroy “blinds,” it is not pos-
sible to discover each one. Unfortunately
such places seem to attract children, and
sooner or later they stumble across and
commence playing with the recumbent
shell. Some of these “blinds” are harm-
less ; others are highly dangerous and
should not be moved.
So that parents can safeguard their
children against such risk warnings should
be given over the radio, through the press
I periodically and by notices on the land
concerned that “blinds” are possibly
present in that particular area. This would
probably prompt parents to report the
presence of a “blind” rather than pick it
up and take it home for a souvenir.—C. S.
(A.1.F.).
The Decline of Honesty
Why blame the war, “WJ.M.” (B.
14/11/’45), for the decline in honesty?
Those whom the war most affected, the
troops, have shown the least relaxation
of honest principles.
There have, of course, been cases of
theft and underhand dealing in the ser-
vices, but, considering the circumstances,
those cases have been astonishingly few.
The impossibility of locking up personal
belongings in most camps, leaving kitbags
and packs unattended during working
hours, and the lack of privacy have all
made the temptations greater.
On occasions, a hutmate has come to
me and said “I lost my soap, so I bor-
rowed yours.” Never has anything, ex-
cept the stated article, been missing from
my kit.
The increase of dishonesty in the
civilian world is due, I believe, to lack
of faith in leaders. The feeling that the
heads are trying to “pull a swift one” has
made many previously honest people
decide that they should also further their
own interests by any means, no matter
how dishonest. —T. P. V. (R.A.A.F.).
Broadcasting Parliament
What could be sillier than, this move-
ment to have Parliamentary debates
broadcast?
Quite apart from the damage that
would be done by parading our political
bickering before visitors and potential im-
migrants, it would involve much more
frequent elections, at great expense. Many
constituents would begin to ask why their
member’s voice was never heard between
elections.
In New Guinea we have had the doubt-
ful pleasure of listening to two politicians.
The facts and figures given in answer to
questions from a not very credulous Army
audience reflected a lack of ability on
the part of the politicians to realise that
they were representatives of the people
as well as party members.
Until our Parliamentary standards are
appreciably raised the less publicity we
give Parliamentary debates the better for
those who take part in them. — Sapper
(A.1.F.).
Old-age Pensions
“Cocky” (B. 21/11/ *45) uses half a
column to describe what a marvellous
fellow he is who doesn’t need a pension
and then asks why he shouldn’t get one.
Answer: He doesn’t need one. .
The O.A.P. is' for those who have
nothing but 60-odd years’ experience
of life. If a man has nothing he
needs assistance whether he has been
a loafer all his life or whether, like
“Cocky,” he has practically carried
the country on his back. There’s
something wrong all right, but the wrong
is rather in the paltry scale of pensions,
which could well be augmented with
moneys used to subsidise useless cockies
who batten on a bit of land and can’t
make it pay.—J. P. (N.S.W.).
Dearth in the Midst of Plenty
Though the price of vegetables varies
very little in the shops there are constant
reports in Melbourne of farmers destroy-
ing their crops because wholesale prices
are too small to make it worth while to
take them to market. A farmer in my
district ploughed in a couple of acres of
perfect cauliflowers for this reason, at a
time when the retail price was about a
shilling.
Recurrent gluts and shortages of food-
stuffs and fodder are obviously due to
lack of storage. Farmers are so used to
existing conditions that it never enters
their heads that the time they spend in
growing things which have to be fed to
the pigs or dumped on the rubbish heap
could be more profitably spent in build-
ing cool stores, sheds and silos.
We have just passed through a fodder
crisis so acute that even racehorses were
threatened with destruction. Now it is
reported that the breaking of the drought
in Victoria has produced such a magni-
ficent crop of grass that there is danger
of terrible bushfires in the coming season.
An enormous amount of this potential
meadow hay is on Crown lands Aid road-
sides. If the councils were supplied with
mowers and chaff-cutting machines by
the Government they could collect
enough fodder to tide the country over
several drought years.— Bumpkin (Vic.).


mm
P
V
■L
m
iS
1111111
H
The “HERCULES” s^in. LATHE
“The little GIANT of the Lathe World”
“MARS” A “ n Machine Tools
5 Necessities in the
Average Machine Shop
“Mars” Machine Tools are distinguished by the
following outstanding features :—
ACCURACY— BuiIt to Schlesinger standards of
Accuracy.
BALANCE — All necessary revolving parts are
Dynamically Balanced, eliminating vibration.
FINISH —All surfaces are machine ground.
SMOOTH RUNNING —All Gear Teeth are
generated.
VERSATILITY AilT^e^
Gap Bridge. I |
%
s
W
i m
VJ w
I
U
w
\
L
r& I iw
trf.lt.
assffßj
a U
.
a
\
?iwa
I* *5
~..m
i
*
a
....
*r-
■ iiii
H
■
■:;:;. ■ ;
(am
mmm
'■•■■■'
H
The “MARS”
I6| in. SHAPER
A High-Speed Machine
for all classes of
Shaping Work
The MARS
10 in.
High-Speed
Engine
Lathe
A masterly
example of fine
lathe building
%
I
■
mm I
Biliilifll
■■ ■.
The “MARS”
Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
MARS” also manufactures Tin.
and Sin. Lathes, Millers,
Planers and Boring Mills. All
inquiries to the makers or to the
Agents listed below.
Lathes
and Heavy Precision
Machine Tools
designed and built
to meet
any Industrial need
The “MARS” 6 in. LATHE
For fine work at hieh speed
AT T. LATHES QUICK DELIVERY
Distributing Agents:
New South Wales; TWOS. HERBERT & CO. PTY. LTD., 139 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
N.Z. MOTOR SPECIALTIES LTD., Anzac AUCKLAND. Branches throughout the Dominion
J. & O'S. Advt
'Sassy
MACHINE TOOL MANFG. C? P’-H 1 - 0
• BRISBANE*
BRIDGE STREET • VALL EY
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE (EXCEPT CANADA AND GREAT BRITAIN)
