

~ - m-mm mwv wrv & Vs t
ROYAt
PURPLE PARA
FINISH
THE JOB—BUY ANOTHER BOND IN THE FOURTH VICTORS
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—-No. 3429
Wednesday, October 31, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
THE “STAR AND GARTER,” RICHMOND.
TUST as the river is the most conspicuous object in the view
from the “Star and Garter,” so the “Star and Garter” is the
most conspicuous object in the view from the river. This well-known
hostelry was built above the terrace on Richmond Hill, close to
the principal entrance to Richmond Park. It literally towers on
its proud eminence above the finely-timbered slopes, and can be
seen for many miles around. The “Star and Garter” was even
more famous, perhaps, generations ago, when Richmond, to quote
Mr. Meredith, was “the Cockney Paradise,” than it is now,
Dickens and Thackeray were very fond of the hotel; and here for
twenty years the former celebrated the anniversary of his wedding.
It is here, too, that Louis Philippe stayed with his family when
in England.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. 146 AGE.
The Red Page
PECULIAR FOREIGNERS.
Reading both Hemingway’s For Whom
the Bell Tolls and James Aldridge’s The
Sea Eagle (R.P. 10/10/’45), it struck me
as extraordinary that, whereas the Ameri-
can or Australian characters were un-
convincing, the foreigners—Hemingway’s
Spaniards and Aldridge’s Cretans —
seemed possibly true to life and certainly
attractive.
It took me some time to lay a finger
on the secret of their fascination and
their basic falsity, but after all the ex-
planation is quite simple. It is a literary
trick which is only a trifle less obvious
than the time-honored one of substituting
a foreign word for a simple English
word. And, like the old dodge, it helps
to build up atmosphere.
Here is a typical Sea Eagle conversa-
tion :
First Cretan : We remain to combat you
people. Listen. The Inglisi will win this
war. It will be in time, but they will win
it. And after it we will be the same in
Greece. You cannot stop if.
Second Ditto : You may think that from
somewhere outside. But you cannot think
that in Greece. All of it will be in blood
against you. This time we know of you.
This time we will be ready fqr you.
First; You will be ready for what we
bring. We will bring an army and all our
forces. With mechanisms...
Second: Your army and your mechan-
isms are of Greeks, aren’t they—if you
have them. They’ll be against you, too.
It will not serve you in Greece. If Greeks
are fighting outside it is against the iron-
heads. Not for thee.
The conversation is presumably in
modern Greek, or some Cretan dialect.
There are many dialects in Greece and
the islands, and even the standard lan-
guage is in a state of flux, roughly split-
ting into two, the democratic and the
literary. But, despite this, the dialects
spring from common roots, and the liter-
ary language has changed less since the
time of Aristophanes than English has
since Chaucer, Therefore, it is safe to
assume that Mr. Aldridge’s Cretans were
speaking a language which was just as
logical and intelligible to them as his own
was to him. Perhaps more so.
But by translating the conversation
partly into legitimate English and partly
literally a certain foreign air is achieved.
A quaintness. There is much more of
that sort of thing. Infinitives are used
freely. And, since Greek is an inflected
language, genitives and datives are util-
ised in rather an odd manner.
The result is to make the foreigners
more foreign, as it were, than they really
are. As becomes immediately apparent
when you treat the language as
Aldridge has treated the Cretan or Hem-
ingway the Spanish. Rendered into Eng-
lish by Ernest Hemingway, Julius Caesar
(“Ccesar in Britanniam transire statuit”)
would appear not as a sensible Roman
general who wrote “Caesar decided to
cross into Britain” but as a funny
foreigner who said “Caesar into Britain
to go across decided.” Mr. Aldridge’s
version of the tag Numero deus impure
gaudet would not bfe “The god delights
in odd numbers” or, liberally, “Odd
numbers are lucky,” but “In numbers the
god odd delights.”
J. F.
Dr. Grundy at Oxford.
If Dr. G. B. Grundy, author of Fifty-
five Years at Oxford, is descended from
the celebrated Mrs. Grundy the strain
has mellowed a little, for he is able to
tell without a blush this extremely daring
Australian anecdote:
Bishop Moorehouse had been in Aus-
tralia, and on his first visit to Hey vicar-
age he told an Australian story with the
word “damn” in it, a word not unusual in
tales coming from Australia. My grand-
further was terribly shocked. He did not
reprove the bishop, because he was the
bishop of the diocese; but he let his
family know that he would not willingly
let Moorhouse come into the vicarage
again.
Grandfather Grundy must have been
a bit of a tartar. However, G. B. Grundy
gives an attractive portrait of him, and
he himself is good company. A typical
anecdote of his school-teaching days—a
master, reproving a botany class for in-
attention, told the 60 boys that if they
were really keen they would collect
plants, bring them to the next lesson and
say “Doctor, I found this little plant in
the neighborhood of the college, and I
don’t know its name” ; whereupon, the
master promised them “I would tell you
the name and you would put it down in
your little notebook.”
The result of this exhortation was start- •
ling. On the next occasion that these
forms attended his instruction the appear-
ance of the science room would have
given anyone who entered it the impres-
sion that one of the fir copses in the
neighborhood had been transplanted into
it. Every boy present grasped in his arms
large and small specimens of the fir trees.
You could hardly see a boy for the trees.
When Doctor entered the room a boy
grasping a sort of Christmas tree about
ten feet high staggered up to his desk
and, producing with some difficulty a little
notebook, said “Please, sir, I found this
in the college grounds and I don’t know
its name. Would you kindly tell me so
that I may put it down in my notebook.”
A portrait of an Oxford don: “Nettle-
ship was in his lifetime almost deified by
the undergraduates of Balliol. He was
famed for his avoidance of the positive.
He is said to have come nearest to it
in the remark: ‘Not but what it may not
be ; possibly it is.’ ” And a glimpse of
Walter Pater at Oxford;
One day when we were going along the
path under Merton wall I noticed the then
newly founded dons’ hockey club was play-
ing on the meadow by the side of it. It
attracted Pater’s attention, and he said to
me “Who are these playing on this field?
I did hot know games were allowed here.”
I told him it was the new dons’ hockey
club. He looked at it for a moment, and
then took my arm and said “Come away.
I don’t think we ought to look.” This
was not a joke. It was the expression of
his sense of the indecency involved in
middle-aged Fellows of colleges engaging in
such a pastime.
Although it’s a bit wordy and a good
deal of it is of special interest only to
Oxonians, Dr. Grundy’s autobiography
makes pleasant general reading. His
special interests are religious, classical,
archaeological and pedagogical, and he
deals also in sport, architecture and (he
wrote light verse for “Punch”) humor.
Some of his travel experiences-in Greece
and the Middle East are unexpectedly
exciting.
In his childhood Maoriland’s Bishop
Selwyn helped him sail his model boats
on a pond—“l am the law in this
diocese,” he once heard Selwyn declare ;
and there is another “link” with Australia
in the story of an uncle, Edward Bailey,
who, Dr. Grundy says, “discovered the
Kalgoorlie goldfield”—“one of the reefs
subsequently worked there is called
Bailey’s Reef.” So Dr. Grundy can be
wrong.
Very Black Seasons.
Henry Treece, recording in The Black
Seasons (Faber) his sensations on observ-
ing “The Crimson Cherry Tree”;
There is no sweeter sight, I swear, in Heaven,
Than blossom on the cherry trees by Clee. •
Ah, dainty brides, you dance on through my
dreams
And in the town bring memory of .a breeze
That blew from Corvedale, down the valley
that
Must have run red with blood when Owen
spoke;
Torturing the air about his council-chair
With shapes of fiery dragons, flaming wolves
That ran through city gates to bring despair
Upon the tow-haired marchers, tearing sheep
And leaving foul the waterholes. I feel
The failure of a people when that wind
Howls through my heart
Ah, cherry tree, so lissom in the wind.
•Matter for poets and the lovesick mad,
I see your virgin blossom splashed with
W00d....
“Listen !” says Shaw Neilson:
Listen! the young girl said. There calls
No voice, no music beats on me:
But it is almost sound: it falls
This evening on the Orange Tree.
Listen! the young girl said. For all
Your hapless talk you fail to see
There is a light, a step, a call,
This evening on the Orange Tree.
It is obvious that Henry Treece, if
he has seen that light, heard that step
and that call, has lost it. Shaw Neilson
saw on his orange tree some light “not
of the sky,” heard what they used to call
“the music of the spheres” ; he brings
that supernatural light and music into
the reader’s mind ; and what he writes is
poetry. The same might be said of two more
recent Australian poems about blossom
trees that spring to mind, Brian Vrepont’s
“The Apple Tree” and Judith Wright’s
“The Hawthorn Hedge.” Treece, who
must have originally been visited by a
similar inspiration, allows the tree to
remind him of a bit of Welsh history,
and so ends up not with a visionary but
a national poem. The cherry tree, as he
says in an unconscious admission of his
failure, is a matter for poets.
It is reasonable —indeed it is necessary
—to ask for one of two things from the
poetry of the day: if not the vision that
makes for great and enduring art, then
at least good entertainment. Mr. Treece,
writing with what seems to be trumped-
up fervor about “the black seasons of
the Welsh, or heavily about religion, or
darkly about his soul, offers, on the
whole, neither. There are attractive pas-
sages on occasion:
A race of singers walked into the mist
And left their bones to whiten on the crags.
What did they leave? A fantasy of stone,
And seven old women singing at the nets,
A half-forgotten festival of song.
And a blue-eyed boy who watches for the boats.
But, the poet having too great an affec-
tion for such words as “festering,” using
a grimy imagery from old history and
mythology and setting most of his poems
in a “black wind,” there is not much fun
in him. He is at his best in a few simple
pieces about war and old age, where, it
he does not say anything new, he at least
says the usual (gloomy) things in a lan-
guage ingeniously modern.
It is not easy to believe that Mr. Treece
feels very deeply about the subjects with
which he busies himself: for every second
Faber poet these days is a rampant
Welshman, obscurely muttering about ob-
scure happenings ; and T. S. Eliot, since
he wrote his religious poems, has set the
whole flock floundering after him. Since
the rank and file of the day always
follows fashion, what English poetry
needs is a leader bigger than Eliot and
broader.
New Guinea Melodrama.
In Burton Graham’s Each New Dawn
(F. H. Johnston Publishing Co.) nine
servicemen survive an air transport
crash in the New Guinea mountains—■
the pilot bales out when “great air
pockets thump at the fuselage” and
the author set out to lead his shadowy
band of stock characters to safety.
An arrow in the back despatches the
first of the nine little white men ; the
second, a “poet,” dies at length of gan-
grene. Mr. Graham has read Heming-
way’s The Snows of Kilimanjaro. The
third, a typical parade-ground sergeant,
is eaten by cannibals. It looks as if the
whole party is to be devoured —the
dumb “I,” the “old school tie pukka
sahib” major and the two Americans
with their Hollywood profiles—but this
happy catastrophe is averted by a timely
landslide which takes the place of the
galloping goodies of cowboy films and
destroys a village.
A note, conveniently written in Eng-
lish by a German spy—the spy is later
found stewing—leads the party to a
radio set in a deserted native village.
The end of the book now appears clear;
surely radio-location will lead rescuers
to the ambushed men. But not a bit of
it. Only the improbable can lift Mr.
Graham’s gloom. A motor-boat comes
chugging up the river manned by the
spy’s father, a good Australian, who pre-
sumably set out that morning through the
Sydney Heads. Before he can become
embarrassing, however, an arrow finishes
him off . . . And so on, till the party, now
reduced to five, makes a sorrowful get-
away in the launch.
And yet —add a little spirit and humor,
a few full-blooded characters, and this
story might make quite a readable
thriller; the improbabilities would be
less glaring. Mr, Graham in his few
objective passages —the clash between two
tribes is well done—has a good narrative
sense.
Fleet Destroyer.
The first paragraph of Petty-Officer
J. E. Macdonnell’s Fleet Destroyer
(Book Depot, Melbourne) has a direct-
ness which Bacon himself might have
approved.
She is long and lean. All destroyers are.
Her high bow falls away from, the bullring
of the fo’c’sle at an angle of 30 degrees.
The graceful line of her deck stretches
aft for 350 ft. Her squat bridge, stream-
lined funnel and long twin guns enhance
the impression of speed and guts.
Petty-Officer Macdonnell is writing
about an Australian destroyer attached
to Somerville’s Eastern Battle Fleet, and,
properly enough, he sets to work to de-
scribe her with seamanlike dispatch.
Throughout 102 pages there is no dearth
of description, either of the ship or her
companions of the fleet. The author has
a knack of exploiting technical details
and making them vivid without sacri-
ficing brevity, though occasionally he is
obscure to a landlubber.
Although the ship is clearly painted
the captain is the only member of her
personnel properly visualised. Fleet
Destroyer, besides being the story of a
ship, is the story of the crew. Petty-
Officer Macdonnell has noted, and has
obviously been impressed by, the rapid
welding of raw recruits into a fighting
team. He has caught something of the
drama of it, but has kept it to himself:
mentioning the facts, but not tracing the
growth of the metamorphosis. This
theme, and the play and clash of char-
acters, would make a story worthy of
Conrad.
The book is at its best in its extremely
lively pictures of naval action and of
ships of all classes. There is some humor
of the special article types and. thefe are
a few chestnuts.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Killara Hall, Sydney, echoed to shots
and shrieks and eerie laughter during the
performance of “Granite,” a play which
owes something to “Faust” and not a
little to the fable' of King Stork. The
setting is Lundy, an island, of which the
principal industry is wrecking, with a soil
which is largely granite and inhabitants
to match. Jordan Morris is master of
Lundy, wrecker-in-chief and a thrifty
farmer. Judith, his wife, wearied of his
thrift and enamored of his brother, prays
to the devil for aid, and immediately there
is knocking at the door which she opens
to admit a half-drowned stranger. She
drives a hard bargain with him for food
and shelter, and he agrees to do her bid-
ding, and to kill any man who lays a
finger on her. When Jordan does just
this the obliging stranger kills him with
commendable promptitude, and Judith
marries Prosper, the brother. The stranger,
however, is a stickler for detail, and later
kills Prosper when he and Judith have
a quarrel—much to Judith’s annoyance.
Melodrama though it is, the play is neatly
written, the stony-heartedness of the piin-
cipals is engaging, as also is the resolute
silence of the sinister stranger —punctu-
ated by an occasional weird chuckle or a
deed of violence. Alfred Race made a
very good job of this part, and Kevin
Brennan was also impressive as the short-
lived Jordan. Lyndall Barbour’s tears-
and-passion scenes, however, often missed
fire, and Colin McAlpin, as Prosper, was
uninteresting and sometimes fatuous.
Somerset Maugham’s “Sheppey,” per-
formed at Adelaide Repertory, is a
Wells-like tract. The hero is shaving
a customer when he wins £BOOO
in the Irish sweep; but, after the
first jubilation, he decides to give it
all away to poor people—bad characters
for choice, whom he takes home into his
quiet household. The family is just about
to get him certified insane when he dies.
Cecil Reed produced, and Don Gilham
had most of the work in the leading role.
The support was good.
At the talkies:
“Now, Voyager” (Sydney Century): Another
of the applied psycho-analysis dramas. A
young woman, after her neurosis has been cured
by a psychiatrist, fights against a dominant
mother. Bette Davis, Gladys Cooper (the
mother) and Claude Rains (the psychiatrist)
make it alive and interesting.
“Escape in the Desert” (Sydney Empire):
Adaptation of Robert Sherwood’s play about four
escaped Nazi prisoners. They hold up a petrol
station on the rim of the Arizona desert and,
when trapped, try to work out all sorts of
desperate ruses to escape. There is also love-
among-the-cactus; and Philip Dorn, as a de-
termined Dutchman out to foil the escapees, de-
livers some pretty but dramatically
sermons about democracy. *
Using a mixed technique of pastel,
charcoal and oils, James D. Watson
achieves some good effects of light and
shade in a breezy show at the Sedon Gal-
leries, Melbourne. One of the most strik-
ing is “The Picnic,” in.which the sun
streams through the leaves on to an al
fresco party. 1 here is also an airiness
about his still-life.
“MacH.”: I tried to inspect an exhibi-
tion of prints at David Jones’s gallery,
Sydney, with the mind of a little child
or a Papuan native, so that I would
receive an entirely fresh impression. But
it was no use. The minute I saw one of
Van Gogh’s cornfield pieces I remem-
bered that he painted wheat exactly in
the way that he painted whiskers that
straight brush-stroke; effective enough,
and pleasant, but hardly exciting today:
not so much a new discovery of nature
as a good trick, a mannerism. I recalled
my old quarrel with Gaugin, that Tahitian
mountains are probably not made of
green and blue paper and that Tahitian
belles are surely not oblong. Picasso’s
“Lovers” looked more dolorous than I
had expected; a sad and spidery pair,
fixed for ever in a motionless contempla-
tion of the housing problem. And
Renoir —Renoir retained all his charm.
He does not fade; he does not suddenly
become tricky, or ugly, or empty; the
girl in pink in “Le Moulin de Galette,
clinging half-laughing to her partner, still
dances as she used to do. She 11 be danc-
in" a long time after Gaugin’s nut-brown
hags have tripped over their own square
feet.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
122 Years of Service
“PALACE” Antiseptic Liquid
Soap is mild, free from Caustics,
and has superior emulsifying and
absorbing capacity.
“PALACE” Antiseptic Liquid
Soap incorporates the most powerful
disinfectant oil, distilled from the
finest species of Australian Tea-tree.
Non-irritating to the skin—Extra-
ordinary healing power.
Unsurpassed Germicidal and Anti-
septic capacity. Eleven to fifteen
times as strong as Carbolic, and
when embodied in a soapy com-
pound its action on germs is quick
and complete.
THE SENIOR STORE'*
99
A cleansing utility incorporating the most
pcnverful disinfectant and germicide.
w
r%s>
«
I*s
A/V\V
S^P
Palace''
antiseptic
liquid "SOAP
* v\
m
n
m
ill
s%*~
vr
-^M'
?/
v*V>
~_-r- u fe ~
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
Its Uses
FOR PERSONAL USE-
Made from purest oils and free from Caustics, it is, there-
fore, pure and soft for use in the bath or shower. Removes
all odours from the body, relieves inflammation and sore-
ness —cleanses wounds, speedily corrects Prickly Heat
and other skin disorders. For personal hygiene it is safe,
sure and satisfactory.
IN THE LAUNDRY—
Its wholesome fragrance and copious lather quickly dis-
solves dirt, removes body odour, and destroys all germs,
thus providing for effective cleansing combined with full
protection. Babies napkins and other garments, linen, etc.,
are not only clean, but free from germs and infection.
CARPETS, FURNITURE, etc.—
Stains and marks are removed readily. Restore the, colours
by briskly rubbing the surfaces with a solution of “Palace**
Antiseptic Liquid Soap. A damp cloth is all that is required.
For Baths, Basins, Tiles, Floors—use a stronger solution,
and by washing all germs, vermin, etc., are dispelled.
Remember “Palace” Antiseptic Tea-tree Oil Liquid Soap
does not cover up offensive smells, it destroys dirt and
germs, and sweetens unpleasant places.
> .
FOR CROCKERY, GLASSWARE, etc.—
A tablespoon of * Palace” Liquid Soap added to the
wash-up water will be sufficient for cleaning dishes, glass-
ware, cutlery, all odours disappear, and ensures cleanliness
with protection. Hotel glasses are cleaner and safer when
washed in this solution.
FOR STOCK USE—
For the treatment of Stock for wounds, etc. The Unsur-
passed Antiseptic and Germicidal capacity of “Palace”
Liquid Soap for healing power will find ready favour with
our country clients.
Where effective cleansing and protection against germs is essential
USE “PALACE” ANTISEPTIC TEA-TREE OIL LIQUID SOAP.
PRICES; 2| gallons ........ 21/- 4 gallons 32/6
CHEMISTRY, GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET.
FAMOUS /LO W PR/C £S
POST TO BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


FACTS and FIGURES TO
PROVE IT..
<0
j, »■' %«*■"'■ i Wm !
: i
'
■
!l**
■
m
- -V
mm
W?
•V •&■■■:.
I>; ; I
■
m
SSH
i
..
■
m
:■:■ ■■/ .
<
r
■
I
•
- -:
-i
m
M
;V
•••
MS
;^ :
PP
i
LJ U LJ LJ
Steelbilt Plan
Cabinets
Steelbilt 4 Drawer Filirfg
Cabinets, Foolscap size.
Steelbilt waste-
paper Baskets.
Steelbilt Storgge Cupboards
6'6" and 3’6" high.
Steelbilt Clothes Lockers—
-4 types. 2 sizes.
Steelbilt Library.
Shelves.
/I
Steelbilt Mobile.
increased PROFITS
quickly follow a
STEELBILT INSTALLATION
% How can you prevent time and labor loss?
How can you save floor space for greater storage?
# How can you speed up production?
Time and time again a Wormald
Brothers check-up in factories,
industrial plants, departmental
stores and warehouses has
proved that bottle-necks such as
these can be eliminated.
Wormald Brothers offer you
this Survey Service without obli-
gation. A detailed recommenda-
tion shows how a Steelbilt instal-
lation, suitable to your type of
business, can open the way to
new methods in the storing and
handling of goods . . . must re-
sult in instant time-savings, labor
savings and floor space savings
. . . will prove just how a speed-
up in production can actually be
made.
Let us have particulars of your
bottle-neck. An expert will be
happy to call and discuss matters
with you.
STEELBILT
LOCKERS. SHELVING. CABINETS. STORAGE BINS. FILING CABINETS & FACTORY EQUIPMENT
WORMALD BROTHERS PTY. LTD.
(Inc. in N.S.W.)
(Fire Protection Engineers since 1889)
Branches in all States and New Zealand.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3429
Wednesday, October 31, 1945
MILLINERY SURRENDER.
“General Blarney is giving up his command.”
“Mister, here’s my hat”!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
„ Box 252IBB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings C opp .
G.P.0.), Wellington,
London: 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
WHAT’S WRONG with RUSSIA?
Wherever there are Communists there
is Stalin-worship. In English-speaking
countries and others not Sovietised it co-
exists with a truculent and threatening
opposition to indigenous political and
economic systems and national and racial
beliefs, and with demands that Emperor-
worship in Japan shall be put down. In
the U.S.S.R. of late it has been carried
to extraordinary and doubtless signifi-
cant lengths.
In Britain on general-election day the
Manchester “Guardian” made a collec-
tion of the most abject examples.
“Pravda” credited Stalin with having
“created all we have and all we shall
have.”
He stands on a pinnacle never reached
before. He is the greatest general of all
times and nations.
To “Izvestia” he was “the greatest mili-
tary genius of all time and nations.” “Red
Star” agreed, but added that the dictator-
god was “the greatest thinker of all time.”
And Ilya Ehrenburg, who had been re-
buked for anti-American utterances in
which he anticipated the twist that Mos-
cow policy was to take, rallied under the
blow with a special effort:
We defended and saved the world. Lenin
sleeps peacefully in eternity. He knows
that Stalin fulfilled his pledge. He knows
that Stalin saved freedom and the world.
The worst of this idolatry for the
peoples directly exposed to it, if not for
peoples perforce associated with them,
is that it makes things so difficult for
the next man. And sooner or later there
has to be a next man. Death lays his
icy hand on dictators, as well as kings
and presidents. Stalin is just on 67, a
great age for revolutionaries. He has led
a hard life and has been under a tremen-
dous strain. He was late in arriving at
Potsdam, and it was remarked there that
he looked ill and spoke in whispers. And
the Council of Foreign Ministers broke
up in London because Molotov had two
sets of instructions, the second of which,
whether or not it came from Stalin, the
British and American Ministers refused
to accept.
The collapse of the London meetings,
first-fruits of the Potsdam conference,
was followed by reports, which whirled
through Europe, that the dictator-god
was dying or dead. They were so rife
in the Red Army, a London “Daily
Mail” man was told in Vienna, that to
the confusion of the High Command
“large-scale desertions” set in, particu-
larly in Rumania, where “bands of sol-
diers,” deserting at the rate of “thousands
a month,” were “roaming the countryside
and making it unsafe to drive after dark.”
This correspondent was told also that
“the marshals” had begun “fighting for
Stalin’s job.” A very probable develop-
ment, whether the struggle has begun or
has merely been delayed, and Zhukov
seems to have the best chance, if not the
greatest claim. From that warrior came
a cryptic statement that illness and pres-
sure of other engagements would prevent
his going on an arranged tour of the
United States.
At this juncture the Soviet Embassy in
London issued “an official denial” that
the dictator-god had gone or was going
the way of all flesh, but it was expressed
in curious terms:
Stalin is in excellent health and is holi-
daying with his daughter in South Russia.
If he died the Soviet would be the first to
announce the news without delay. If he
were ill his doctors would issue a daily
bulletin. The truth is that Stalin has been
under a great strairt for the last few years.
His doctors advised him to take a long
rest in the country.
A man in “excellent health” with press-
ing business to attend to doesn’t need
to “take a long rest in the country.”
Dictator-gods may, of course, be different.
Whatever the underlying cause, or
causes of Moscow’s strange proceedings,
Europe, the western fringe excepted, is
still the Mad Continent, and wherever
Soviet influence prevails it is the Dark
Continent. The advent of the Red Army
from its mysterious steppes in which all
European armies of invasion have
withered away was marked by uncon-
trolled raping and looting and by the
wholesale seizure of industrial plants
regardless of ownership, American, British
and French property being grabbed as
jvell as German, Austrian, Rumanian and
Hungarian. This very free interpretation
of the reparations part of the Potsdam
agreement has, as might have been ex-
pected, been followed by private brigand-
age on a large scale. The brigands are
so daring that they operate outside the
Russian zone of occupation. Witness
the case in which British military police
and German civil police, “supported by
British tanks and armored cars,” broke
up “a busy black-market centre near the
Brandenburg Gate,” arresting, among
others, “more than a hundred Russian
officers and men.” To the reports of
the bad business published in British and
American newspapers a Russian general
objected.
This objection is symptomatic of Rus-
sian suspicion and ill-feeling. To the
Nazi terror there has succeeded a Com-
munist terror, and (he friendship mani-
fested when the victorious armies junc-
tioned in Germany, after a long Ameri-
can halt which has never been satisfac-
torily explained, has disappeared. It is
related as typical that an American
officer drove from Berlin to Helmsteda
with two revolvers and, half a dozen hand
grenades on the seat beside him, “saying
he was ‘not taking any chances.’ ” Again,
“the long double-track highway which
cleaves through Russian-occupied terri-
tory, the lifeline between the British-
occupied section of Berlin and the British
zone in western Germany, has become
silent and almost empty after dark
because of ‘incidents’ between British
drivers and bands of Russian soldiers
who have been holding up cars.”
British women, drivers are not even using
the road in the daytime. The Red Army
chiefs are anxious to en<L‘t|ie brigand-like
activities of a minority of raeir men. We
are trying earnestly to bridge the un-
doubtedly wide gulf that exists between
the Tommies and the Soviet soldiers.
The Tommies went into Germany well
disposed to Russia and the Russians.
They are ideal occupation troops —disci-
plined, good-tempered and kind-hearted.
Only soldiers who have got out of hand
and have taken to crime or soldiers who
are being unfriendly under orders could
fail to get on with them. No orders
inhibit intercourse and inter-communica-
tion between the western Allies: “British,
American and French ’planes fly freely
over each other’s zones in Germany, but
the Russians have virtually closed their
zone to all air traffic except their own.”
In countries where there are no pro-
tecting or checking Anglo-American
forces, and where the Russians have, in
most cases, had things all their own way,
there is a rising tide of opposition to
Moscow and its instruments. This is true
of Poland, Bulgaria, Rumania and Yugo-
slavia, and —in Asia —of Persia and
Turkey, threatened by the massing of
Russian troops in Bulgaria, a sequel to
Russian demands for the “return” of
Kars and Ardahan and control of the
Dardanelles, Rhodes and the Dodecanese.
Even in Hungary, forced by Russia —in
flat repudiation of Stalin’s engagements
to Britain and the United States —to sign
an agreement giving the U.S.S.R. a half-
share in its economy and full control of
its industry and commerce, the spirit of
revolt broke out when the Russians tried
to reduce the Smallholders’ party to in-
significance by grouping it with the Com-
munists on an election “list,” and
the Communists were defeated at munici-
pal elections, after which “demonstrators
marched to the British and American
embassies shouting ‘No Red Budapest!’”
The Italian Communists, for their part,
have been forced to join or pretend to
join in a national protest against the Rus-
sian proposal to give Trieste to Tito as
Moscow’s agent. France, resenting Mos-
cow’s proposal to exclude it from its
rightful share in the determination of
the affairs of Europe, has retaliated by
inflicting a staggering defeat bn its Com-
munists at the national elections and the
twin referendums. Luxemburg and Nor-
way (which had a first-hand acquaintance
with a Russian army of “liberation”)
have also flatly rejected their Communist
parties at national elections, and the
open Dutch contempt for the rabble of
Holland Reds partly explains Communist
championship, “Australian” and “Ameri-
can,” of “our Indernesian comrades” per
lying propaganda and strikes.
Only in Czechoslovakia does there
seem to be no anti-Russian movement.
The leaders of that alleged republic have
bought Moscow’s favor by cravenly sur-
rendering Ruthenia, one of its four
original constituent provinces, by appoint-
ing a Communist Prime Minister, by
forming an imitation Red Army and by
expelling its Sudeten Germans, the most
industrious part of the population, thereby
increasing the probability that millions of
Germans will die of hunger and hunger-
caused diseases this winter. Chamber-
lain was blackguarded in 1938, and still
is, for refusing to entrust the fate of the
British Empire to these Communist Slavs
by giving them a British alliance and
placing the issue of peace or war in the
hands of the slippery Benes and his gang.
How right the old man was!
From Austria to Manchuria comes the
same dreadful story of Russian brutality
to natives who were at first favorably
inclined. Four American military officers
expelled from Manchuria by the Rus-
sians, “last of a team which assisted in
the removal of American prisoners-of-
war,” brought to Peiping “eye-witness
accounts of the Red Army’s behavior in
Mukden in the early weeks of the occu-
pation.” They added up to “a sordid
picture of rapine and other undisciplined
actions against the Chinese population
which have sown widespread antagon-
ism.” Obviously Communism or Oriental
socialism or State capitalism or what-
ever it is is no civilising agency. Com-
munists being what they are, it is not
astonishing that their ferocious system
should be offered to, as an alternative to
being forcibly imposed on, free white
English-speaking peoples; the astounding
thing is that there should be edu-
cated persons, as well as ruffians and
fools, willing to accept it.
The attitude of the British to these
Russian performances is, generally speak-
ing, one of philosophic regret. They are
old in experience of Oriental barbarism
and double-crossing. The Americans, being
new to them, are bitterly resentful, and
th&r resentment has taken many forrfis.
They have refused to let Moscow into
the secret of atomic-bomb manufacture,
refused to recognise some of its satellite
“Governments” or to accept the result
of faked elections, refused credits to
Russia and its puppet Governments
(Russia alone asked for a cool six thou-
sand million dollars), refused to give
Russia a part in the control of
Japan, refused also to countenance Rus-
sian “representation” of the extinguished
Baltic republics, Latvia, Lithuania and
Estonia, at the Nuremburg trials —which
must have hurt as much as anything.
With Russia’s approval or at Russia’s
instance, the Polish “Government,” as well
as the Czechoslovakian “Government,”
has expelled millions of Germans from the
territories assigned to it. This has created
a vacuum in each country, and the results
can only be calamitous. As a result of
the famines and the purges and the fright-
ful war losses, Russia itself seems to be
short of manpower, as well as all manner
of civilian goods. This may account
in part for a policy which suggests
desperation and bluff rather than anything
remotely resembling statesmanship, in-
cluding in the policy the Moscow-manu-
factured strikes in English-speaking coun-
tries, which may be only beginning.
At the census of 1926 there were
147,000,000 people in the U.S.S.R. At the
census of 1939 there were 170,000,000,
among whom there may have been
enumerated the victims of the purges.
Be that as it may, the claimed rate
of increase was small compared with
the actual rate of incrlase in the
Netherlands East Indies, where, despite the
“starvation policy” of the Dutch (read
or listen to any Communist liar), the
population grew from 49,000,000 in
1920 (census) to 60,000,000 in 1930
(census) and an estimated 70,000,000
in 1940. Only a country with im-
mense numbers of people used to being
kicked round could endure the terrible
cycle of revolution, civil war, famine,
counter-revolution and foreign war which
permanently weakened France. Russia
has had the deadly cycle in full measure,
and it had, too, a war-time schism com-
parable to that of the Bourbonists: the
Americans alone captured 350,000 Rus-
sians in German uniforms. And whole
Cossack divisions were gathered in by the
British Eighth Army, which has been cele-
brating the decisive victory of El Alamein.
Plainly there is going to be no Commu-
nist or Slav-controlled Europe. It remains
to be seen how the war-wracked Russians
will respond to the test that comes to all
dictatorial systems, the change from one
dictator to another. Many of them, after
meeting the British and Americans and
seeing what is left of German housing,
vastly superior to their own, have gone
home stripped of their booty, with their
minds cleared of the Communist cant that
they were “the best-fed, best-clothed, best-
housed and best-treated workers in the
world” (“Daily Mail”), and, to the great
perturbation of “President” Kalinin, with
demands for a new order.
Parallel Cases.
The pith of Justice Clyne’s findings on
the Australia First cases has been pub-
lished. The printed report, issued by the
Government during the Parliamentary re-
cess, leaves much unsaid.
In tracing the development of the Aus-
tralia First movement his Honor begins
with the foundation of the “Publicist,”
in which, he declares, “there appeared
from time to time articles and notes
marked by antagonism to Britain and
America.,. .and expressing admiration
of Japan.” He gives extracts “as illustra-
tions of the features I refer to”:
For Australians to be incited against the,
Japanese in the interests of Britain and the
United States might be good perhaps for
the peoples of those two lands, but we are
of the convinced opinion that it would be
bad for Australians. We have nothing to
fear from the Japanese.
Mr. Clyne does not state that this was
written in August, 1936, under the editor-
ship of W. J. Miles, who died in January,
1942, a free man and not an Australia
Firster, as a contribution to the discussion
of the Gullett trade-diversion policy. He
does not state that it was in line with the
attitude of the then Government, whose
P.M. had (amid cheers front both
sides of the House) dwelt upon the
“high honor paid to Australia by Japan
in the sending of the Debuchi mission”
and expressed the opinion that “this
mission and that of Sir John Latham to
Japan have done much to strengthen and
extend the friendly relations which have
at all times existed between Japan and
Australia.” Furthermore, his Honor does
not place the quotation in proper perspec-
tive beside a quotation from a Parlia-
mentary speech delivered on the same
subject two months after the “Publicist”
article by Mr. F. M. Forde, afterwards
the Army Minister who had the Australia
First men interned:
Within a year or so after the Govern-
ment had sent trade emissaries to Japan and
had invited an envoy from Japan to visit
Australia —the visitors were shown that Japan
could not outdo Australia in hospitality-
japan received a smack in the eye. This
was done primarily in the interests of
countries other than Australia No Gov-
ernment, to my knowledge, has antagonised
a foreign nation to the extent that Japan
has been embittered by this (the Lyons)
Government’s recent action, and the nation
antagonised is the second-largest buyer in
the world of Australian wool.
Mr, Forde at that time was ready to be-
lieve that the Gullett policy was a “be-
trayal of Australia’s best interests, due
to a sinister influence,” the British Trade
Commissioner. He added:
Nobody can truthfully level at me the
charge that I lean to Japan, I have always
placed the interests of 'Australia first.
Yet nearly six years afterwards the
Minister who had uttered these senti-
ments as a private member was pre-
pared to turn back the page and instruct
counsel to use exactly similar statements
made at the same time and from the same
cause as contributory evidence that the
writer of them and his later associates
should be interned.
A Judge, of course, has great discretion
in these matters. In the exercise of his
discretion he may not have chosen to
quote from the Parliamentary speech of
Mr. Forde. He may not have been
aware of that utterance. But, touching ex-
amples of “Publicist” propaganda as affect-
ing the internees, it would surely have
been more pertinent to quote from copies
issued during the three months after the
beginning of the war with Japan and be-
fore the internments, when the paper
was under the management of prospective
internees Hooper and V. Crowley.
At that time there were no articles
friendly to Japan, There was instead a
statement of the Australia First attitude
in a leading article of January 1, 1942:
Now war has come between Australia
and Japan. Like all wars it is the result
of a failure of diplomacy; and there is
nothing now for honorable Australians to
do except to stand loyally by their Govern-
ment, to help their Government, to obey
their Government in all things relating to
the conduct of the war. The duty of the
Government is also plain; and there is no
reason to suppose that that duty is mis-
understood.
Or his Honor might have quoted rele-
vantly from excellent articles on the
defence of Australia and the Empire by
the returned-soldier Watts, who was to
die broken-hearted after his internment —
articles in line with the views of the Gov-
ernment and even more so of the heads
of the forces. Perusal of these articles
fill the reader with horror that the man
who wrote them should a few weeks
afterwards have been pitched behind
barbed wire by the same authorities
whom he was supporting, and with aston-
ishment that £4OO should be considered
sufficient compensation for his widow.
That is one of the many aspects of the
case that will have to be considered by
Parliament when it debates the Clyne
report and goes into the whole dreadful
affair. And Parliament will need to in-
quire into the gross discrimination which
was thrown against the Australia First
organisation, existing legally, complying
with the law and submitting its publica-
tion to censorship, by comparison with the
treatment accorded the Communist party,
an illegal body committed to the destruc-
tion of the British Commonwealth, hold-
ing up every employer as a profiteering
traitor, publicly branding members of the
War Council as “guilty men,” slandering
loyal opponents in illegal posters and
operating an illegal press under the nose
of the Security Department —all with im-
punity. Parliament will need to investi-
gate the assertion, made on oath by a
Security officer, that it was impossible
to act against these Communists because
of a special order that their cases must
be referred to the Attorney-General (Dr.
Evatt) in person.
If any of these Australia First men
should have been interned, it is clear
that many proteges of Labor Ministers,
notably Mr. Ward, should have been
with them.
As it is, Ministers have yet a great
deal of explaining to do. It came out
at the inquiry that the Westralian police


had on March 20, 1942, made it clear
that there was no evidence of connection
between the Australia First movement in
Sydney and men and women of the Bul-
lock group in W.A. These ratbags the
Judge describes as “puny conspirators,”
of whom “some of the persons arrested
in Sydney "had never heard.”
The members of the movement in
Sydney were completely unaware of the
conspiracy alleged against the persons
arrested in Western Australia.
The proceedings in Parliament on
March 26, 1942, and the origins of Mr.
Forde’s hysterical statement, resembling
as it did the indictment at the Moscow
trials of 1937, should receive Parliament’s
attention, especially in view of the
malicious Communist campaign against
the Sydney men which preceded and fol-
lowed their arrest, and the association of
Communist union leaders with members
of the Ministry.
Mr. Forde said in Parliament at the
fag end of the last session that the Gov-
ernment intended to accept the recom-
mendations of the Commissioner, which
included one that “the persons wrongly
detained are entitled to a public declara-
tion.” He admitted that “they were, in
fact, wrongly detained and were not dis-
loyal.” But he added a grossly untruth-
ful assertion in his March, 1942, vein:
Members will recall that the detention of
the Australia First members took place at
the time when a Japanese invasion seemed
imminent, and that some members of that
organisation were found guilty of con-
spiracy against their own country.
The Clyne findings show conclusively
that the Westralian conspirators (they be-
came conspirators only after they had
been energised by contact with a police
agent of “Leftist” tendencies whom the
Judge described as “not a passive investi-
gator”) had no connection with the Aus-
tralia First movement whatever, though,
upon the deliberate invitation of the
police agent, who represented himself as
an emissary of the movement under a
false German nom de guerre, they made
unauthorised use of its name.
The whole thing calls for an exhaustive
Parliamentary inquiry .on such a basis
that there can be no sheltering behind the
wall of privilege and that all the facts will
come out. And when it is over proper
compensation must be paid.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Lost. But Not Forgotten.
Still remembered at Canberra is the
indignation aroused among the Evatts,
Wards and Beasleys by accounts of the
campaigns in Greece and Crete. In the
light of subsequent events, these stub-
bornly-fought campaigns wrecked the
German time-table for the invasion of
Russia; but this was not then evident,
and lions of Labor were in a dreadful
state of mind about them. Particularly
Mr. Beasley, whose roars echo down the
corridors of time:
The Australian Government has been
grossly misled by the British Government.
Parliament should impress on the British
Government that Australian troops should
not be used as stopgaps. Australia should
deliver an ultimatum that no more Aus-
tralian troops should go into action with-
out proper equipment. The Prime Minister
should impress on the British Government
that it is most concerned about the way
Australian troops have been used as stop-
gaps and to fight delaying actions without
any chance of getting out of the country
in which they fought or of meeting the
enemy on equal terms. We have a duty
to the Australian soldiers. We should de-
clare that if they are not fully equipped
they will not be permitted to go into
action again.
That was on July 2, 1941. On October
7 the Beasleys, the Evatts and Wards
were in office. On December 7 came war
with Japan. Within three months or so
forces outnumbered by the enemy and
inferior in equipment had been lost in
New Britain, Ambon, Java and Timor.
Indeed, the loss of Australian lives in
battle and in captivity was greater in these
islands than the loss of Australian lives
in Greece and Crete and in the German-
Italian camps to which our prisoners were
taken. One reason is that the British
Navy was present in Greek and Cretan
waters, and in its finest form. By con-
trast the Japanese Navy had control of
the seas that washed the places in which
the Australian forces were isolated in
the Labor Government’s time, contrary
to all Mr. Beasley’s ideas as laid down in
his attack on the British Government.
The full story of New Britain, Ambon,
Java and Timor has not been told. Gar-
rulous on trifling matters, Labor Ministers
are remarkably reticent on this subject,
which poignantly concerns thousands of
once-happy Australian homes.
Mr. Forde has furnished a trifle of in-
formation about Ambon. It is to the
effect that 1092 men were sent there, and
that 407 died and 380 others are not
expected to return. And Mr. Ward has
furnished a trifle of information about
New Britain. It is to the effect that “the
Montevideo Mam sailed from Rabaul on
approximately June 22, 1942, carrying
845 prisoners-of-war and 208 civilians” ;
and that “this ship was torpedoed near
Luzon with a total loss of the prisoners-
of-war and internees.” Further, there
were “316 civilians,” classified as “Admin-
istration officials, missionaries and
others,” who “have not been accounted
for.”
Asked as to the strength and composi-
tion of the forces sent to Ambon, Timor
and Rabaul, Mr. Forde replied that he
could not answer offhand, but was hav-
ing inquiries made. This reply and the
Ward statement were made on the last
day of the session. Since then both
gentlemen have been informed by a Vic-
torian newspaper correspondent that the
holding of Rabaul was assigned to the
2/22nd Battalion and an Independent
Company, who were “attacked by 90,000
Japanese” against whom they had no
“earthly chance.” “Why,” asked this
newspaper correspondent, “was no help
sent to these brave men, placed in an im-
possible position, and why were no ships
sent to try to take them off?” This par-
ticular question was repeated by a sister
of one of the lost civilians, except
that she said ships were there. An-
other newspaper correspondent, also
a Victorian, asked whether the Gov-
ernment had “bothered to send a
reconnaissance ’plane over the area”
of the reported sinking, or “whether
it has just done nothing but accept a Japa-
nese version of a very rare tragedy of
the sea —the unconfirmed word of a race
unsurpassed for trickery and treachery.”
Of Timor and Java the Government
has said nothing. Nothing, though the
commander in Java, Brigadier Blackburn,
V.C., has written in a series of newspaper
articles that “We were a small-arms force
armed with rifles and very few Bren guns.
The 2/3 Machine Gun Battalion had
nothing except rifles.”
A little more than 2000 were disembarked
in Java on February 17 [date of the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph’s” “Fight for Australia in
Java” article]: the 2/3 Machine-gun Bat-
talion, the 2/2 Pioneer Battalion, the 2/6
Field Company Engineers and 105 General
Transport Company men, all of whom had
fought together through the Syrian cam-
paign [their brigadier had accepted the sur-
render of Damascus on June 21, 1941.]
They put up a grand fight against
greatly superior forces composed of vet-
erans of jungle fighting, superbly armed.
Their infantrymen, “many of them drivers
and men on administrative jobs,” had
“only rifles and some light machine-
guns,” besides which there were “three
small mortars and 600 hand grenades,”
there being “no anti-tank or anti-per-
sonnel mines.” But they held out for
12 days.
A great deal is going to be heard about
Rabaul, Ambon, Java and Timor, as well
as Singapore and Nauru. But it looks
as if the ungarnished facts will have to
be dragged out of the Party that Saved
the Country.
"Our Indernesicm Comrades."
From “Feng Shui,” who has studied them
at first hand:
I find it difficult to become all hot and
bothered about Indonesian independence. It’s
quite senseless. I read the other day that,
according to an official Indonesian spokesman,
the Indonesian “Republicans” have more than
100,000 men under arms in Java. A fieabite
in a population of 45,000,000 (70,000,000, count-
ing the outer possessions), but a beginning.
The Javanese used not to be warriors, though
some of the outer tribes were. They were a
race of peasants. Their earliest recorded
masters, Hindus, turned them into builders and
carvers, and they produced a remarkable amount
of architecture until Arab priests and traders
infected them with Moslem fanaticism, and
they started murdering one another with great
vigor and refinement of cruelty.
Under the mild rule of the Dutch the popu-
lation of Java rose from 28,000,000 in 1900
to 41,000,000 in 1930. Commerce expanded
to five times that of the Philippines and three-
fourths that of Nippon. Profound peace reigned
in the archipelago for 200 years. So it has to
be admitted that the people who have treated
the Javanese in the kindliest fashion have been
the Europeans. The Indonesian has been
cruellest to his fellow-lndonesian, and whatever
the Dutch have done to the native is nothing
compared to what the natives have done to one
another.
If the past is any criterion the moment the
Indonesians got their independence and began
to think of themselves as a nation they would
become as exclusive as any other nation. They
would want to exclude Jews, Armenians,
Chinese, Eurasians and Europeans. They would
start making guns and trying to become a
Great Power; and there have been too many
Great Powers in our time. They would cer-
tainly start on a great plan of reconstruction,
as the Japs did; they would build factories
and workshops and begin making big guns
and bombers; and some sarong-clad genius
might become focused on the problem of
splitting another sort of atom. They would
produce a lot of businessmen and scientists and
probably a field-marshal—the Chinese did that.
In the process they would destroy the charming
muddle of their architecture and their crafts
and customs, and everybody would be wearing
billycock hats instead of kain kapalas, and
working in offices or mass-production factories,
doing their best to produce an economic de-
pression.
So I don’t think I will be sentimental about
Dr. Soekarno. 1 see he is mentioned in the very
pro-Asiatic Asia and the Americas, a great deal
of which is written by Pearl Buck, as “turning
to the ways of Fascism,” along with the late
Chandra Bose and Ba Ma, also Jap collabo-
rators —though I don’t suppose this will worry
the Communist union bosses who go nosing
about the camps and boarding-houses in which
“our Indernesian comrades” are sheltered.
Entry Scratched.
Having been informed by the N.S.W.
Agricultural Bureau that it wants to find
“the most progressive farmer in N. S.
Wales, in the prime of life, to observe at
first hand agricultural methods in parts
of the U.S.A. most comparable with
N. S. Wales.” and that the Rural Bank
and Station 2GZ, in what they call “but
another example of the practical interest
of these enterprises in Australian agri-
culture,” will guarantee the exes for a six-
month tour. The Bulletin sent its
M.O.L. man out to the Cowra-road to
see if old Jack Fordcubbin would have a
crack at it. The M.O.L. man made notes
of the dialogue;
J.F.: What, me go traipsin’ off to America?
I can’t leave the place. No hands, no super.,
no duplicates—’strut'h. I’m going night and
day. Got a nasty letter from the taxation
office about some form or other; ’as if a man
had nothin’ else t’ do. Forms! My stars, I
do nothin’ else but fill ’em in and —hey, wait
a minute, did you say six months’ holiday?
M.0.L.: Too right. And you’ll live with
an American farm family and get “right down
to the grass roots.” It says so here.
J.F.: Gripes, that’d be a break. What’ve I
got to do?
M.0.L.: All you have to do is answer one or
two questions and then prove you’re a pro-
gressive farmer. Then
J.F.: What questions?
M.0.L.: Well, first there’s “state of de-
velopment and efficiency of layout.” Then
there’s one about stating your average annual
revenue based on actual production, with the
sources, such as wool, wheat, cattle, lambs,
eggs and so forth, and something about work-
ing costs. Then
J.F.: Here, hold on. I put all that in me
tax return. Those blokes trying, to find out
somethin’? Revenue? As if a farmer gets
any revenue these days. What
M.0.L.: Listen, it’s all for the competition,
to see who’s the most likely bloke to send.
There’s a lot more about your soil and grass
and water and, yes, your business ability, and
they want to know if you keep in touch with
the Agricultural Bureau, the Soil Conservation
Service, the C.S.I.R. and so on. They
J.F.: Don’t they want t’ know what union
I’m in?
M.0.L.: No. Now, are you over-confident
or self-reliant or lacking in confidence or timid?
Do you speak fluently or with some defects, or
without being completely at ease or indistinctly?
J.F.: Strike me up a gum-tree!
M.0.L.: Is your grammar good? Your
spelling? Do you write a good letter, a fair
letter or a poor letter? What school or schools
did you attend? When did you leave? What
exams, did you pass? Do you keep abreast of
current developments by reading and attending
lectures qnd discussions and
J.F.: Hey, thought you wanted a farmer?
That sounds like one of those post-war experts,
full o’ blueprints for the future and all that.
What chance?
M.0.L.: What organisations do you belong
to? Are you interested in people and com-
munity movements or are you a place-seeker?
Have you
J.F.: Reckon Lawrence’ll win the Cup?
M.0.L.; What help have you given to rural
educational associations? Have you taken part
in Government experimental work? Assisted
in Victory Loan campaigns? Are you co-
operative? Do you support
J.F.: Look, mister, I’m a farmer, not a
professor or an organiser. What’s all this got
to do with a trip to America?
M.0.L.: I don’t know exactly. But it seems
you’ll have to make broadcasts and attend con-
ferences when you come back, 50....
J.F.; Look. I got a farm, see! It keeps
me busy all day, moonlight nights and Sundays.
When I’m not busy on the farm I’m filling in
forms, trying to get parts, answering question-
naires, applying for permits, filling in forms
and —and But what’s wrong with Doc Evatt?
Can’t he do the job? Or some of those other
bright blokes at Canberra? By cripes, there’s
enough of ’em to eat all the flamin’ grass
roots in U.S.A. Be better than siltin’ there
sendin’ out forms to blokes like me and tying
up seed and labor and parts and everything.
They ought to put the flamin’ lot of ’em, forms
and all, in a boat, and send ’em all to America.
By cripes, that’d give the Yanks a shock.
They
M.0.L.: Then I take it you don’t care for
the proposition?
J.F.: No, I flamin’ well don’t. Come and
have a cup o’ tea.
M.O.L. report: “Cannot recommend
Fordcubbin, He ain’t co-operative.”
Another Mudslinger.
“Norther”: The member for Munding-
burra, Queensland, is Thomas Aikens,
and he calls himself Independent Labor.
He is one of those members whose privi-
lege to slander should be withdrawn, if
necessary by special legislation, so that
victims may be placed in a position to
bring civil or criminal proceedings.
When the Institute of Medical Research
Bill was being discussed Aikens wanted
an “amendment” that would prevent
Raphael Cilento from becoming chair-
man or a member of the Council of the
Institute. Some of his “reasons”:
I intend to prove that Sir Raphael
is a liar, a thief, a perjurer, a blackmailer,
a false witness and a traitor [here followed
a belittling of Cilentdls medical attainments
and the and honors he has won]
I know that 'the at the insti-
gation of Sir Raphael Cilento, ordered the
Townsville doctors that if Sister Kenny ever
became ill she was to be allowed to die
like a dog The chairman of the Towns-
ville Hospitals Board, George Edwards, a
waterside worker, ordered one of the
Townsville hospital doctors to attend
Sister Kenny.
There was more of this rank lying ; alle-
gations that Cilento had “in his usual
slimy, grimy, greasy, unctuous way,”
“pinched” other people’s writings and
published them as his own, had ‘picked
on” the Irish State and people, was in
Europe serving “Fascist” interests, had
accused first the Americans and then
refugees of bringing syphilis to Australia.
All, of course, in the technique of the
Commo. or fellow-traveller carrying on
a vendetta against someone whose boots
he is not fit to clean.
It was too much for Mr. Hiley (Logan):
Let the member for Mundingburra de-
mand a Royal Commission and submit his
“facts.”
And too much for Home Secretary
Foley, who refused to accept the Aikens
“amendment”; — ,
%
As a result of a request from the Im-
perial Government for a man to super-
vise control and organise a malaria-pre-
vention campaign in the Balkan States, the
Commonwealth Government selected
Dr. Cilento as the one man capable.
The slanderer from Mundingburra.
turned up again ten days later with an-
other bucket Of mud;
When Cilento went to Townsville he
collected all the late Dr. B'reinl’s works,
texts and notes and published them under
his own name Italians in the north have
told me that Cilento went to the Com-
monwealth Government and volunteered
to act as a pimp and a spy on other
Italians in order to save his own measly
hide.
Acting Premier Hanlon: I never heard
anybody make such statements before. Sir
Raphael approached the Fedeial Govern-
ment on many occasions with the request
that he be allowed to go to the front and
fight for this country. He was selected by
U.N.R.R.A. as the outstanding medical
man of the world on tropical diseases....
The statement about Sister Kenny is com-
pletely and utterly absurd
Aikens: He was a trusted Fascist agent.
The Aikens “mind” was revealed in the
use of the term “other Italians.” The
Cilento family was founded in Australia
90 years ago by a follower of Garibaldi,
the knight-errant of his time, friend of
Tennyson and Carlyle. Raphael Cilento
was born at Jamestown (S.A.) in 1893.
His record of achievement:
Educated Prince Alfred College; gradu-
ated from Adelaide Uni. as M. 8., 8.5.,
M.D.; Duncan and Lalcaca medallist of
London School of Tropical Medicine; dip-
loma in Tropical Medicine and Hygiene,
London Uni.; Director Australian Institute
of Tropical Medicine, Townsville, 5J years;
Director Public Health and Quarantine,
Mandated Territory, four years; Direc-
tor Division of Tropical Hygiene and
Chief Quarantine Officer, N.-E. Division
of the Commonwealth, 1928-33; Sen.
Admin. Health Officer, Commonwealth
Department of Health, Canberra, 1934;
(Hon.) Professor of Social and Tropical
Medicine, Queensland Uni., 1937; Presi-
dent Medical Board of Queensland, 1939;
Assessor Medical Assessment Tribunal,
Queensland, 1939; from 1934 to
U.N.R.R.A. appointment, Director of
Health and Medical Services, Queensland.
Enlisted in 1915, transferred to A.N. and
M.E.F., New Guinea; captain in 1918;
hon. lieut.-colonel A.A.M.C. (R.), 1938;
member Commonwealth Army Medical
Directorate, 1940. Author of several world-
famous works on tropical diseases and the
white man in the tropics. He found time
to qualify as a barrister, and was knighted
in 1935.
I don’t know whence the member for
Mundingburra originated, but if South
Australia has any more Cilentos Queens-
land will gladly and gratefully accept
them. It has one Aikens too many.
FROM GENERAL MacARTHUR
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES. PACIFIC
Adv. Boh-
apo socy
23 Sept. 19*5
Dear Ur Brennani
It Is a real pleasure to ms
to award yon the Asiatic-Pacific Service Rib-
bon in view of your long and meritorious ser-
vice in the Pacific Area with the forces of
this command. You have added luster to the
difficult, dangerous and arduous profession
of War Correspondent.
Hr. John C. Brennan
Sydney Bulletin
Sydney, Australis


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
office: 11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
Making
ii!
3,
gCTB
?//VA
6^
PASS'?;
r«£
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE 00. of N.S.W., LTD
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Do you need a i
Jjom?
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
With Moscow’s ratification arriving
very late —it was not referred to “Parlia-
ment”—the United Nations organisation
came into being last week, and President
Truman improved the shining hour by
giving an outline of U.S. foreign policy.
Based “firmly on the fundamental prin-
ciples of righteousness and justice,” it is
to be backed by “a powerful army, the
greatest navy and one of the most power-
ful air forces,” together with preservation
of the secret of atomic-bomb manufac-
ture, though on that subject there are to
be discussions “shortly” with Britain and
Canada, and, “later,” with other “nations.”
For the rest the President made it crystal-
clear that his Government is going to
make a live thing of the Atlantic Charter.
It should never have b*en departed from.
The Truman credo, with additions:
We believe in the eventual return of the
sovereign rights of self-government to all
peoples deprived of them by force.
We shall approve no territorial changes in
any friendly part of the world unless they
accord with the freely-expressed wishes of
the people concerned.
All peoples prepared for self-government
should be permitted to choose their own
form of government without interference
from any foreign source.
We shall refuse to recognise any Govern-
ment imposed on any nation by force of
any foreign Power.
There was a lot more, but that was
enough to give Moscow and its puppets
a very bad quarter-hour.
When General Bennett returned to Aus-
tralia without his division H. B. Collett,
the Old Digger Senator from Westralia,
suggested that, in his own interest as well
as that of the Army, he should be court-
martialled. In the retrospect it would
have been heaps better had this been
done, even if the report laid before the
Government (then in a most confused
state of mind) was that there could be
no decision till all the pertinent witnesses
were examined after the war, and that
meanwhile there was nothing to prevent
the General’s being employed again—as
he was, though he now asserts that he
was sidetracked. A suspended court-mar-
tial would have made it difficult for Gen-
eral Bennett to attach himself to that silly
paper the Sydney “Sun.” What General
Bennett published about General Percival
and what the “Sun” published—in each
case when that unfortunate officer could
not reply—obviously led to the inquiry
from which General Bennett walked out,
with the screaming approbation of the
silly paper and other silly papers.
Excessive shares of Commonwealth
income-tax revenue and payments for the
transport of troops and supplies enabled
McKell to report a succession of
war surpluses £1,141,800 in 1942-43,
£1,183,300 in 1943-44 and £968,000 in
1944-45, and transfer huge sums to rail-
way reserve funds —£4,909,100, £3,030,100
and £680,100, Only Queensland, simi-
larly favored, has been in a comparable
position; Victoria has fared badly under
the uniform-income-tax scheme, and the
other State Governments have had to use
all their special Commonwealth grants to
make ends meet. Rotten is the,only word
for such finance.
The easy-money days are ending for
N. S. Wales and Queensland, and McKell
expects the annual surplus to • fall to
£92,000 this year, with small prospect of
any addition to railway reserve funds.
And the Maritime Services Board is
looked to to furnish the surplus and take
care of the deficit on other undertakings.
Among them are the Sydney and New-
castle tram and bus services, on which a
loss of £305,000 is anticipated. Unsatis-
factory as they are under Government
ownership, free enterprise would jump at
the chance of paying £500,000 a year, plus
all interest and sinking-fund charges, for
a lease.
Rain of enormous value fell in south-
east Australia at the week-end, from
South Australia, where Adelaide was
desperately short of water, to central-
west N.S.W. It was just in time to
save wheat crops in S.A., Victoria, the
Riverina and mid-N.S.W., and meant mil-
lions to stockowners who are beginning
to recover from the 1940-44 drought. The
rain probably saved the people of Adel-
aide, Melbourne and Sydney from further
food shortages, and should encourage the
Governments to see about increasing food
shipments to Britain.
Although it is announced that Australia
will supply Britain with 12,200 tons of
canned meats above the amount it origin-
ally undertook to supply—the release is
due to cancellation of service orders by
Australian and American forces —nothing
has been said about the price. So far
everything with which Australia has sup-
plied Britain has been paid for, and
generously. For once the Common--
wealth Government could be generous
and make the meat a free gift. It could
GOING OUT FOR THE OTHER CUP.
“That nag ain’t got a million to one chance.”
“It deserves to be a million to one on.”
also look into the forthcoming wheat har-
vest and see how much of it could be
spared for Britain, also as a gift.
On Friday a gunman made a desperate
attempt to rob a branch of the Bank of
N. S. Wales in Sydney. A heavyweight
armed suspect was arrested by two brave
policemen, who were threatened by a
snarling crowd, members of which
shouted “Give him a go.” They had to
be held off with revolvers. This came as
the culmination of a long series of armed
hold-ups and batterings which make the
job of being a Sydney policeman perilous
as never before. Especially as sentences,
when inflicted, are so light that it seems
hardly worth bringing charges in most
cases.
The sex that came late to politics is
sure of having one representative in the
next Victorian Assembly, Mrs. Brownbill
(Labor) having been returned unopposed
for Geelong. Mrs. Weber, who was a
fellow-member for five years, has come
out for Box Hill, which is Nunawading,
slightly altered. Mrs. Weber was thrice
elected for Nunawading as an Indepen-
dent ; after the third occasion she made
the dreadful mistake of icsigning to con-
test a Federal electorate. She is sure of
the local-option vote, but her only chance
lies in getting into the final ballot at the
expense of two fairly strong party candi-
dates, Labor and Liberal.
Rupert Ryan, M.H.R. for Flinders
(Vic.), who is related to Casey, announced
last week that Casey would return to
Australia “early next year.” This is taken
to mean that Casey will stand for Flin-
ders, perhaps “early next year,” per favor
of Ryan. Casey has been abroad just
on six years, and has held the most dis-
tinguished offices in which a single Aus-
tralian has ever figured—Australian
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni-
potentiary to the U.S.A., 1940-42 ; British
Minister of State in the Middle East with
a seat in the W r ar Cabinet, 1942-43, and
Governor of Bengal since January, 1944.
McKell had scarcely stepped off the
boat from his world tour when he ran
into the great fish disturbance begun
by his “honorary,” C. Evatt, and his
deputy, Baddeley. That gentleman was
brought to bed of a fisheries bill after the
High Court had disallowed an attempt
to take control of the fish markets under
a National Security Regulation. With
market brawls, fish smuggling and threats
of dreadful punishments going on out-
side, the thing was put through the
Assembly by the docile Labor majority,
but when it left the other shop it wasn’t
recognisable. Thereupon McKell attacked
the Leg. Council, repeating an earlier
threat of an abolition referendum. There
will be none.
Mr. McKerihan, president of the N. S.
Wales Rural Bank, behind which stands
a Government which takes care of its
bad debts, is glad that “Australia did not
fall for post-war credits.” This sentiment
cannot be shared by the British Chancellor
of the Exchequer, who announces that
British taxpayers have £800,000,000 com-
ing to them from the post-war credits for
which Mr. McKerihan has no use. They
are not to collect “until the supply of
goods increases and the risk of inflation
has diminished,” but collect they will.
Australian middle-class taxpayers on fixed
incomes have only the memory of
Labor’s rejection of post-war credits and
of bank balances that have gone west.
The ninety-umpth or umpty-ninth “dis-
ciplinary code” for N.S.W. coalminers has
been delivered, the new addition to the
family coming from the Miners’ Federa-
tion. The code provides penalties “rang-
ing from fines to expulsion,” and there is
the usual preamble which, as usual,
blames the mineowners for the whole
sorry history of coalmining, and insists
that they “must be fought.” This, no
doubt, will be claimed as a contribution
to Peace in Industry, though nothing is
said about digging a bit of coal.
Papua and part of New Guinea have
been blest with a civil administration set
up by Ward and, presumably, his off-
sider Garden. There has been insufficient
time to introduce all the Sydney Labor
Council improvements, but the Legisla-
tive Councils and the indenture sys-
tem have been abolished, and native
laborers are expected to enjoy the 40-
hour week if anyone can induce them to
work. R. W. Robson, of the “Pacific
Islands Monthly,” protests that “the so-
called provisional Government is nothing
more than a socialistic toy,” and that
“all private enterprise on a big scale has
been wiped out.” He must be a “Tory.”
Headlines from the New York “Times”
of August 25, the day on which all the
American papers published the shocked
Attlee-Churchill statements as to the
plight to which the sudden termination
of lend-lease would reduce the British
people, already on short rations:
Evatt Says Britain Decries Australia.
Charges Denial of Equality at Foe’s
Surrender, Corrected by Appeal to
MacArthur.
The New York “Times” is pro-British,
so it can be imagined how anti-British
papers handled the stuff. And who now
believes it?
One aspect of the Bunnerong power-
house strike which Mr. Chifley’s crowd
ought to be thinking about is that, had it
gone on, the “National Welfare Fund” to
provide benefit payments for unemployed
would have been up for at least the best
part of a million a week. The benefits
apply to people out of work more than
one week through no fault of their own,
and weekly payments are more than
the average strike pay. Which can mean
that in future no union boss need worry
about the reactions of other workers if
he pulls his own crowd out on strike and
throws industry idle. Unemployment
benefits are thus apt to become strike
subsidies,
A couple of years or so ago Scully con-
ceived the notion of establishing wool ap-
praisement centres in country districts,
not forgetting his own electorate of
Gwydir. The wool industry condemned
the idea on the ground that such estab-
lishments were unnecessary and over-
costly. The Prince of Optimists went right
on. Two of the “centres,” one at Dubbo
and one at Moree, costing probably over
£lOO,OOO each, are now complete. Like
Scully, they yearn for attention, but no-
body will use ’em. Dedman is ex-
pected to deny that he is planning to cut
them up into ready-made homes for “little
capitalists.”
One of Churchill’s best things was
uttered during and apropos of the mur-
derous Red rising in Greece —“Democ-
racy is not a harlot, to be picked up by
a man with a tommy-gun.” It transpires
that he owed the central idea and ex-
pression to Baldwin. That greatly-abused
statesman, striking at the newspaper
barons Beaverbrook and Rothermere in
1931, said they were “aiming at power,
but power without responsibility—the
prerogative of the harlot through the
ages.” The Manchester “Guardian” hav-
ing dug it up, this was quoted with gusto
and effect at Beaverbrook’s expense dur-
ing the British election campaign.


DEMOBBED.


/
/>
£'"l
111
% te
, felu ts ' I
-;r5%V A
%
,V
\ <S^
\\
05
\
<
Vitally important Air Mail is
N umber I Priority on the
Qantas Empire Air Route.
Millions upon millions of
letters fly the world's longest
air hop of 3,500 miles non*
stop across the Indian Ocean.
—an important link in the
Australia-England air com-
munication chain.
Thus does Qantas carry on
with a once war-time job that
is now so essential to peace-
time development in Empire
Air Communication—on His
Majesty's Service, and yours!
£nv/tfo& f
y&favaua
Australia* s INTER.NA TIO NAL Airline
The Job’s not finished yet—lnvest in the 4th Victory Loai*.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
Proprietors of the
Following Trade Marks
“C.O.R PLUS” MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.O.R” POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE” KEROSENE
“C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM”
“C.O.R” DIESEL OILS; AND
“C.O.R” FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
'*'////',
/
m?
r
mi-
BRAK€ H E SI \ Ah L STATES cr
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Empire’s Dollar Problem
Up to the time of going to press the
discussions in Washington concerning
American financial aid to Britain in lieu
of lend-lease had not brought forth any-
thing of promise. United States politics
are bound to represent a stumbling-
block to any clear-headed arrangement
between the two countries. What is
obvious to economic experts may Be far
from apparent to ordinary people, par-
ticularly U.S. voters in certain States.
American politics, especially so far as
they embrace international affairs, in-
cluding tariffs and financial arrangements,
are often queer. Strange prejudices, as
well as a short view about dollars in the
pocket being worth much more than
dollars cast on the waters of the Atlantic
or Pacific oceans, influence ' high U.S.
policy to an unjustifiable extent.
U.S. Government policy is excep-
tionally vulnerable to current public
opinion, however ill-informed that
opinion may be. There are still popular,
fallacious notions current in the United
States about Britain’s debt to America
after the last war. Anyone mixing with
the rank and file of U.S. servicemen in
the Commonwealth during the Pacific
war must have been surprised to hear
some of the views expressed on Britain
when the boys “let their hair down,”
though the same boys were perhaps un-
usually noisy at the time because they
were nettled in an argument with an
Australian.
Popular opinion, or noisy opinion, no
more represents total opinion in the
United States than it does in Aus-
tralia. Roosevelt, during the war, if
not during the currency of his New Deal,
was capable of leading public opinion in
some directions in the United States.
Since his death there have been many
changes in the international political out-
look as well as in the Washington
Administration. Away from the directly
political, many United States financial
and press interests take a strictly intelli-
gent view of international relationships,
including those having to do with trade
and finance. The National City Bank
of New York has at times expressed the
position surrounding Britain’s fihancial
and other sacrifices during the war in a
fully appreciative manner, and has just
as often dealt sanely with the problem
which Britain’s post-war difficulties repre-
sent to America as well as to the Empire,
But the upshot of all relevant discus-
sions in the United States concerning aid
to Britain in the post-war transition
period has been that, so far, nothing
satisfactory to all parties has come out
of it. There has been frequently a sug-
gestion that Uncle Sam is out to drive
a hard bargain from the long-term point
of view. It seems also that war-time pro-
testations of a desire to facilitate a free-
dom in trading among the nations are
not being wholeheartedly supported in
the United States now that the time to
do something concrete is right at hand ;
though demands, have been made on
Britain for the abolition of Empire pref-
erence, America is not equally clear about
its intentions with regard to its own
tariffs, which in many cases are prepos-
terously high, and all out of keeping with
a policy, of freeing world trade. A coun-
try which represents the greatest accu-
mulation of wealth and industrial might
in the world should be the first to start
doing something in the way of pulling
down uneconomic tariff barriers.
The proposed scaling-down of blocked
sterling balances (America fears a tying
of trade to Britain in these) and reluct-
ance of the Empire to borrow from
America have created matters for con-
tention in Washington, apart from the
question of imperial preference.
If “dollar discussions” in the United
States fail, the British Empire will
assuredly be left to its own salvation,
with imports from the dollar area re-
duced to absolute necessities. This will
cause considerable inconvenience in all
British countries, and will disrupt trading
relationships with America in many
respects ; though the United States may
not restrict imports from Britain by legis-
lation, in the past the U.S. has bought
most from abroad during years of boun-
teous exports and high internal pros-
perity, and a restriction of British pur-
chases now from the dollar area would
probably produce, almost automatically,
a restriction of U.S. buying in sterling
countries,
Australia at present is tied to London
in its exchange arrangements, never hav-
ing enough dollars out of its own exports
with which to pay for its American pur-
chases. This country is, therefore, cer-
tain to be affected greatly by a deadlock
in present Washington negotiations. It is
not yet clear how much petroleum pro-
duction, for instance, there is within the
sterling area available for export, nor
how much tanker space is available. It
is likely to take a long time for the
Netherlands Indies to get into steady pro-
duction of petroleum, rubber and other
raw materials, even assuming that these
things may be bought readily with ster-
ling.
The British Empire, as a result of the
war, has suffered much greater loss to
production capacity and transport facili-
ties than the United States. The external
debt burden of Britain itself, and the
loss of overseas investments, have re-
stricted buying power outside the British
Isles, Britain is not asking the United
States for charity; it simply seeks a
working arrangement based on sufficient
foresight and co-operative spirit to
promise a progressive building-up of
trade between British and American
countries, and hopes to avoid any make-
shift agreement that merely satisfies the
expediency, self-interest, prejudice or
irresolution of the moment. The British
position is not without strength as well
as weakness ; but economics, not politics,
should govern the deliberations.
For the English-speaking peoples (and
many others) tremendous things depend
on how far Britain and America can
eventually co-operate in trade and finan-
cial matters, even though present discus-
sions may come to no immediate good.
As this issue went to press the pros-
pects of a decent response from the
public to the Fourth Victory Loan looked
anything but likely. A people who
haven’t found it within their hearts to
“shoot Santa Claus” have not, on the
other hand, been at all disposed to trust
Santa Claus with their savings to carry
on the work that he has been doing. In
many cases the attitude of wage-earners,
who have benefited most from Govern-
ment war spending, has been one of self-
ishness as much as anything else, and the
poor response to war loans all through
.has been a bad augury for the future.
Australians must be made to learn that
they have big responsibilities as well as
rights ; this is a lesson which Labor Gov-
ernments have never attempted to drive
home with any force, especially m years
before this war. None of the presen
Government’s borrowing operations liave
been fully successful, but if the latest
is worse than previous ones it wi
be a failure for which the whole com-
munity will be badly off in some wa>
or other. The only reliable methods of
financing Government expenditure, ex-
cept that of a temporary character, are
those of taxation and borrowing. Where
borrowing fails to fill the Budget gap the
results can only be nasty.
* * * *
With the relinquishing of Federal con-
trol over building permits from Nov. 1,
the N. S. Wales Government has decided
to enter the field, but will not interfere
immediately with Federal arrangements.
On August 20 the Federal Government
had announced that house construction to
the value of £l2OO would be allowed
without a permit. Since then there has
been a great rush for permits, and the
N.S.W. Government takes the view that
the demand for houses and the supply
of building materials are so out of
balance that controls may have to be re-
imposed. The position is certainly a dif-
ficult one, but any State controls will in
the beginning be regarded with distrust
by those with experience in these things.
It has yet to be demonstrated that service
and justice to homeseekers will be the
result of new controls. In .anything
to do with housing the McKell Govern-
ment up to date has proved itself to be
a calamity. The new powers in its hands
will give it a chance to show that it has
learned something from past failures.
* * * *
Dr. Dalton’s interim Budget, presented
in the British Commons last week, brings
tax relief to the smaller incomes, and
actually relieves 2,000,000 taxpayers out
of 13,000,000 from all income-tax liability
from April next. Substantial reductions
in the rate of excess-profits tax will also
help industry—which needs the utmost
help. The rate falls to 60 p.c. on January
1, the previous rate being 100 p.c., though
of that 20 p.c. was refundable in certain
circumstances after the war. Referring
to the incidence of excess-profits tax at
this stage of the war-and-rehabilitation
period, Dr. Dalton described the tax as
unjust and severe. “Once the standard
profit is earned, it encourages extrava-
gance, wasteful outlay and even down-
right dishonesty. It would be the Treas-
ury, not the owners of businesses, which
would take the money if these expendi-
tures were not incurred. The tax in these
conditions works against incentive.”
Though the greater proportion of tax
relief is denied in cases of higher personal
incomes, it should be remembered that in
Britain the higher incomes were not taxed
so severely as in the Commonwealth dur-
ing the war.


New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 221), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
dim on a course*
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS l/f
SKIN LOTION 2/»
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BT ALL CHEMISTS.
n
BARKO
THE HEW MIRACLE
INSECT SPRAY
KEEPS ON KILLING FOR WEEKS
When you spray Taylor’s Number 13 D.D.T. Spray on a wall,
windowpane or ceiling, or into a cupboard, or on hanging clothes
or curtains, it kills every insect that touches the sprayed surface
for weeks afterwards.
You have read about D.D.T., the newest miracle in insect exter-
mination, as used in jungle warfare and to prevent epidemics
in re-conquered Europe. Now Taylor’s chemists are. making it
available for you—Taylor’s Number 13 D.D.T. Spray. Not a
weak solution but a maximum concentration.
It kills flies, fleas, mosquitoes, moths, sandflies, silverfish, ants,
cockroaches and bugs. And it kee&s on killing. One spraying
lasts for several weeks.
Made by Taylor’s
Paints Pty. Ltd.,
Sutherland Ave.,
Paddington,
N.S.W. (FA 2125).
ŵ
Limited stocks are
available only at
authorised Taylor
agents. 1/6 a
bottle.
ẁ
Have a “Coke
57
• • o
Tudo Vai Bern
(EVERYTHING’S SWELL)
SCT ***'*
sa
5^
its*
fl
0
K
NS
3*
lmuirv===m^
. . or making friends from Rio to
Rockhampton
From Australia to Brazil is a
long way, but you’ll find
many familiar things Ih both
places. A friendly spirit for
one. Coca-Cola for another.
At Rio, to say ‘Have a ‘Coke’ ’
* s “We’re glad to see
you”, just as when you offer
Coca-Cola to a guest in your
own home. In many lands
around the globe, the pause
that refreshes with ice-cold
Coca-Cola has become a
friendly greeting between
neighbours.
#7 sr
- the global
high-sign
It s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That s why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke”.
THE
COCA-COLA COMPANY, U.S.A.
(Liability Limited)
'SYDNEY
Peace-time Taxation
What is the prospect of returning to
pre-war rates of taxation now that the
fighting is over? There is no such pros-
pect, according to the Institute of Public
Affairs (Victoria), which adds: “Indeed,
many feel that we will be fortunate if
we can get the burden of taxation down
to double what it was in pre-war days.
We are forced to recognise that the
magnitude of our taxation in the future
will be vastly greater than ever before
in our peace-time history. So will its
spread —in 1939 only about 300,000
people were paying income tax ; today
taxes are paid by over 1,700,000 people,
and the number may not be greatly less
after the war.”
Why have we fought a long and
arduous war to end up paying more
taxation than when it began? The
answer, says the 1.P.A., is that we have
chosen to allot to the State a position in
the national life of much-increased im-
portance and extent, and we must pay
the price of our decision. While many
people are critical of present and pro-
posed Government expenditure, post-war
planners, “no matter what their political
color or inclination, and however much
they may disagree about the essential
character of the kind of Australia they
want after war, are at one in calling
upon Governments to render increased
services—often without counting the
cost.”
The I.P.A. is not a high-taxation advo-
cate. In its review of the position—
Taxation in the Post-war Years —it ac-
cepts many conditions as it believes them
to be, and does not theorise extensively.
On the question of taxable capacity of
the country, and the effect of taxes on
production, the I.P.A. says:
No consideration of the real burden of
taxation is possible without taking • into ac-
count the size of the national income on which
taxes are levied. On this count it is not un-
reasonable to suppose that Australia will be
in a position after the war to sustain a higher
level of taxation than it could have done before
the war, without incurring any increased strain.
But this would depend entirely, of course, on
whether the per capita income of the nation
is increased through greater efficiency, high
productivity throughout industry and a more
economic application of resources.
It is impossible to emphasise too strongly
that all taxation comes out of the total national
production, and that the original source of the
revenue of the State is the efforts and enter-
prise of the citizens of the State. But if
taxation is raised too high and the individual
finds that a large part of his earnings is sub-
tracted, his incentive to work, his inclination
to take risks and his ability to save will suffer,
and the national income will fall. Taxation
above a certain limit must inevitably fend to
dry up the source from which it is drawn. The
crucial problem of post-war taxation policy
in Australia will be to find this limit, and for
economic statesmanship to see that it is not
exceeded. Nothing could be more disastrous
to the economy of the country and the
standards of the people than a diminution of
the total national production. With taxation
at pre-war levels, the effects on production
were possibly negligible; but with taxation at
the high mark which is probable after the war,
the most rigorous attention will need to be
paid to economic incentives and to the finan-
cial resources left in the hands of industry for
expanding and for improving the efficiency
of its plant and equipment.
“In fact, the central problem of public
finance, and, one might say, of modern
economics, resolves itself into balancing
the advantages to be gained by increas-
ing the expenditures of the State against
those which would accrue if the money
were left in private hands.”
It is pointed out that in Britain and
the United States much more attention
has been given to the real incidence of
taxation than in this country. Taxation
should not be levied in ways that are
merely convenient to the Government.
The effect on production should at all
times be considered. A higher per capita
production reduces the net burden of
taxation, however great the burden may
appear to be by comparison with previous
production standards.
“There is a desperate need in Aus-
tralia,” says the 1.P.A., “for a campaign
of enlightenment to bring home to the
people the supreme importance of effi-
cient work and increased production
‘lncreased Production’ should be made a
national slogan to be rung around the
country again and again. In an expand-
ing, robust economy the size of post-war
taxation, large as it will be, can in a rela-
tively short space of time be reduced
to bearable proportions.”
The I.P.A. believes that “social
security” will cost £lOO million after the
war, compared with £3O million in 1938-
39. Interest and sinking fund will run
to £llO million, compared with £52 mil-
lion. Defence is put down for £3O mil-
lion a year, an£ sundry items, including
price subsidies and assistance to land
industries, at £B5 million, compared with
£64 million in 1938-39. With a post-war
total of £325 million, it is expected that
£275 million of taxes will have to be
raised annually to meet these costs.
It is pointed out that in the future the
new heavy burden of taxes will raise vital
issues concerned with enterprise, produc-
tion, employment and standards of liv-
ing, and the entire problem of taxation
needs to be examined from a fresh per-
spective. An expert committee should, it
is contended, be appointed to investigate
the whole field of taxation policy.
Present uncertainty as to the Govern-
ment’s intentions is restraining prepara-
tions for post-war reconversion and ex-
pansion. The Federal Government
should make its policy clear.
It may be possible to reduce taxation
by about £BO million within three years.
It is suggested that major reductions (per-
haps £6O million) should be made in the
personal income-tax field. Company
taxes should also be reduced by the great-
est extent practicable—a £2O million cut
is suggested. Though this would still
leave a very heavy load of tax on the
population, the I.P.A. believes that we
should have a greater post-war working
population to spread taxes over, and that
the average taxpayer will have a larger
gross income from which to pay his taxes.
Unless personal income-tax rates are
kept in line with those of other English-
speaking countries it is contended that
Australia will lose its best talent and most
ambitious and most enterprising men,
Australian businesses will find it difficult
to bring overseas experts to its new fac-
tories, and for both these reasons over-
seas capital will be shy in coming here.
In making reductions in personal taxa-
tion the I.P.A. suggests that taxes on the
lower incomes should not be so high as
to reduce the income of the taxpayer
below that which will provide a decent
standard of living. But on the highest
incomes it should not be so heavy as
to discourage enterprising people from
making great commercial or industrial
ventures. “It is this type of person on
whom we have depended in the past, and
must continue largely to depend in the
future, for economic and social pro-
gress.”
The I.P.A. analytical and advisory
effort on taxation is, generally, a valu-
able one. Some may disagree with its
forecasts of post-war commitments, in-
cluding the interest bill, but, in the main,
these are near enough to plan upon.
The really striking thing brought out
is the necessity for seeing to it that taxa-
tion of present-day magnitude is levied
with scrupulous regard for economic
consequences. As has been pointed out
in these pages many times, taxation
nowadays is such an important factor in
economic life that in aiming to achieve,
say, some costly but ill-advised “social
security” we may instead engineer total
economic breakdown.
The trade-union movement, where regi-
mented by ambitious and militant minori-
ties, has become such an obvious vested
interest that public feeling is becoming
more resentful than it ever was about any
so-called “capitalistic vested interest.”
Labor is such a vital thing in a nation’s
economy that any corruption of its
motives is bound to have a far-reaching
effect. Labor, indeed, depends so much
upon its own behavior being rational that
it needs to put its house in order to pre-
vent a national economic crisis in which
it would be one of the worst sufferers.
Where an interest in the community rises
to great power it must assume a corre-
sponding responsibility. Certain elements
of the Labor movement have merely “bull-
dozed” their way to power by intimida-
tion, deception and “discipline.” What-
ever Labor has gained by machine poli-
tics it is in danger of losing unless it co-
operates with the rest of the community
in saving our industries and institutions.
A continuously militant attitude only
plays into the hands of the racketeers in
the trade-union game.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Senex”: Press conferences were more
informal in my youth than they are to-
day, The first one I attended seemed
doomed to be a washout. A big manu-
facturing co. had spread itself on food
and drinks, but only a few papers had
sent reporters. The manager looked dis-
appointed, and a chilly constraint seemed
to stiffen ever the waiters. A very poor
show. Then a veteran pressman had a
brain-wave. He slipped away quietly and
’phoned a near-by pubbery. Soon a
number of breezy, affable persons trooped
in. The manager brightened perceptibly
when he saw them, and as he explained
what he had to explain his voice gathered
strength and confidence, the newcomers
vigorously applauding everything he said.
Someone unfroze the waiters, and the
affair went with a swing. “What paper
are you from?” I asked one of the recent
arrivals. He gave me a broad wink.
“None,” he confided ; “me an’ the boys
were down at the Commercial when Joe
rang up to tell us unlimited drinks were
on here an’ on’y a few blokes to lap ’em
up.” ■'
* * * *
“Hamer”: When the Earl of Jersey
was N.S.W. Governor (he had two
separated terms and was very popular) all
redheads ceased to be “Gingers” and be-
came “Jerseys” in his honor; and
“Jersey” remained the name for the
auburn-haired until “Bluey” (origin un-
known) superseded it. Yet the other day
a chap from W.A. referred to “a Jersey
type of man,” and implied that the term
is in general use in W.A. Thousands of
Cornstalks sought gold in the West.
Apparently they took their slang with
them and it has endured.
* * * *
“Tuart”: In a rambling dissertation on
politicians and newspapers, prompted by
a daily paper’s assertion that “the standard
of debate in the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment is exceedingly low in content and
style,” the Labor President of the Senate,
a Mr. Brown, advanced the “argument”
that “Governments” meaning Labor
Governments—“should have the authority
and the facilities to place their point of
view before the people of this country
and to offset the vile insults and slanders
that are indulged in by certain Fascist-
minded interests.” If this means, as
apparently it does, that Labor Govern-
ments should take the power, by law or
decree, to compel the publication of
Labor stuff in non-Labor publications, it
is rankly “Fascist-minded.” It certainly
suggests that Mr. Brown and his friends
are extremely ungrateful for the im-
mense quantities of guff ladled out for
the benefit of “the Big Four” and all the
rest in city dailies and weeklies. “The
organisation to which I belong,” Mr.
Brown said, somewhat sadly, “does not
own any daily newspapers.” It used to
own quite a lot —one each in Hobart,
Adelaide and Brisbane, and two in Syd-
ney. They all went west, with the best
part of a million of unionists’ money.
Going on to the subject of grammar,
which, it seems, “I hate,” Mr. Brown
claimed to have “known Prime Ministers
and Senators who habitually said ‘done’
instead of ‘did.’ ” I admit the Senators ;
but who were these Prime Ministers?
Mr. Brown didn’t come to Australia till y
1912, so he could scarcely have known 2
Deakin, Watson or Reid. I heard all
three on the platform, and I have heard
or spoken to each of their successors,
from Fisher to Curtin, and I can testify
that none of them “habitually said ‘done’
instead of ‘did.’ ” Nor, I am positive, did
any of the British Prime Ministers of
my time and Mr. Brown’s: Lord Salis-
bury, Balfour, Campbell-Bannerman,
Asquith, Lloyd George, Bonar Law,
Baldwin, MacDonald, Chamberlain and
Churchill.
* * * *
“Pookie”: A type of story which seems
to hold a strange fascination for Aus-
tralians is that which deals with colonials
“Ease her down gently , boys , and she Won't even sprain her ankle."
ma king asses of themselves in English
“society.” Now it is the Americans’ turn,
a Sydney daily has a “special” from Lon-
don about a couple of Yanks who gave
c h ase to a fox in a jeep at the first outing
Q f the Northamptonshire pack. The yarn
goe s on to say that they were politely told
“it is just hot done to hunt in a jeep—
particularly without an invitation.” A
favorite with Australian troops in Eng-
land was really a last-war story. It con :
cerned a mythical Australian who was
taken aside by his host after a particularly
high-toned hunt and discreetly informed
that “ ‘Tally-ho’ is what you say, old
chap; not ‘there goes the little brown
bastard.’ ”
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: Another advantage
Chinese cooking has over Occidental (B.
3 /10/ ’45) is the Celestial method of stew-
ing and semi-frying, which avoids low
temperatures and the covering of the
saucepan to prevent evaporation. The
cutting of meat is another important
factor. The ideal Chinese way of sery-
ing is to delay cooking the next dish until
the previous one is eaten, a system that
would produce chaos in the kitchen of the
average Australian cafe. Though the
Chinese use lard, their food is never
greasy, because the dishes are served hot.
The fact that the Chinese seldom serve
sweets accounts for the fact that their
nation keeps its teeth and figure until
past middle age, except iff the case of a
coolie who comes into a fortune, when
he sets to work to make up for lost oppor-
tunities and gets incredibly fat in a short
time.
* * * *
“Adelaide”,: Hospitality went astray
in our holy city when a lady returning
from a late party found two soldiers,
whom she had seen there much earlier,
asleep in her parlor. It appeared that
her sister, talking pleasantly with them
when they were sober, had written down
the address, to “call some time.” Court
accepted the theory that some well-mean-
ing person must have read the address and
guided the soldiers to it. Fined £lO each.
» * * *
“Pawang”: That mediums have never
been able to raise up a spirit (B.
17/10 / ’45) who could give more than the
haziest description of the world of the
departed doesn’t surprise me as much as
that they never seem to be able to con-
jure up one who can give us individuals
still chained to the wheel of existence
any better advice on mundane matters
than can be found in the Melbourne
“Herald,” The widow of an English
author recently announced that her hus-
band was dictating his new novel to her,
but if it turns out to be any better than
the ones he wrote when in the flesh I will
boil my hat for soup and drink it. Yet I
suppose the deceased writer has been hob-
nobbing with Shakspeare, Socrates, Tol-
stoy, Chekhov and Goethe.
* * * *
“D.A.”: Sydney “Herald,” which took
Frith from The Bulletin —he is making
a good showing with “Granny” —and
tried to spirit away other members
of the staff, art and literary, is now
using the type-face which The Bulletin
introduced to Australia a dozen years ago.
The type was designed for London
“Times” and used for the first time
shortly before The Bulletin obtained
permission to use it—the first such permit
granted outside of England. American
typefounders have since made a near copy
of the fount, and it is used extensively in
U.S.A. under different names. To come
back to Sydney “Herald,” which runs a
full-page literary review on Saturdays—
“ Granny” was gracious enough recently
to report this, comment by Sydney Public
Librarian Metcalfe; “There is no good
reviewing medium in the country. I
make one exception—the work of The
Bulletin in its Red Page criticism.”
% sjc
“Cet”: A Westralian State politician
was bewailing the fact that the Perth-
Fremantle train still takes 45 minutes for
the run, as it did 40 years ago. A mem-
ber, formerly a railwayman, interjected:
“That’s only natural; they’re the same
engines.” He was right. More than half
the W.A. locomotives are over 40 years
old. Twenty per cent, were doing service
in the late ’eighteen-nineties.
“Scribe”: Railway engineers in Maori-
land have adopted an idea so simple that
it’s a wonder nobody thought of it sooner
—an automatic weed-killer on wheels.
Expected to save £50,000 a year on track •
maintenance, a “weed-killer special” is
making its first run over the North Island
system. A tank wagon holds 6000 gal-
lons of liquid, sufficient to spray a strip
14ft. wide for up to 20 miles at a speed
of 20 to 25 m.p.h. Crew comprises seven
men, including guard and enginemen, all
accommodated in a luxurious staff car
with shower and a kitchen. Up till now
track maintenance in the North Island
has cost £425 a mile a year, of which £5O
a mile goes on weeding. The automatic
sprayer is expected to save £3O a mile.
* * * *
“Hist”: It has taken a war to put the
Channel Islands into stamp-collectors’
albums. Even after the German occu-
pation the islanders continued to use the
postage stamps of Great Britain until sup-
plies became exhausted. Guernsey was
first to fill the gap with an issue printed
on the island on paper secured from
France. The design showed the island’s
arms —three heraldic lions on a shield.
Jersey followed suit with six stamps de-
picting island scenery, engraved by a
French artist and printed at the Govern-
ment Printing Works in Paris, But in
each case values are stated in pence.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: A quaint ground for
divorce has cropped up in M.L. A young
couple, childless, had been married for
some years when the wife brought home
a prize tomcat, given to her by her
mother. The husband in his subsequent
petition complained that after the arrival
of the cat he had to play second fiddle.
His wife and the cat were inseparable.
She took it to bed with her. One night
he attempted to heave the animal out,
and it scratched him. After that his wife
slept in another room—with the cat.
When he told the wife she would have
to choose between him and the cat, she
went home to mother —with the cat. The
suit was not defended, and a decree nisi
was granted.
“Corin’’: Brisbane aborigines have
formed an association for the advance-
ment of Australia’s colored folk. The
organisation, which aims at becoming
nation-wide, started with 70 members,
and is concentrating on sporting activi-
ties for the present. Eddie Gilbert, the
fast bowler whom Bradman found a bit
of a terror, plays for their Brisbane cricket
team Swifts. Leichhardt Saunders, Aus-
tralia’s first aboriginal commissioned
officer, addressing the Brisbane body, ex-
pressed his intention of establishing a
branch in Victoria.
* * * ♦
“Derby”: Fate (or something else) lent
a hand recently when the old wooden
Bridgewater traffic bridge over the Der-
went (Tas.) caught fire. A bucket brigade
and then a fire brigade fought the blaze
for six hours, when a Public Works De-
partment messenger instructed them to
quit the job. The bridge was erected 70
years ago, and, although condemned in
recent years, was used until 1943, when
the new concrete and steel structure was
ready to take traffic. It is estimated that
the fire saved the State more than £lOOO
in demolition costs.
* * * *
“Sans Changer”: Experiments by
Prof, Mills, of the University of Cin-
cinatti, go to show that hot climates
cause the body to run in low gear, move,
think and live more slowly. Experiments
were made with rats living in tempera-
tures ranging from 65 to 90deg, F. by
requiring them to find their way to food
through a labyrinth. Rats raised in a
cool temperature found their way after
12 attempts, the moderate-temperature
rats required 28 and the tropical speci-
mens took as many as 48, many of them
refusing to carry on. After three months’
interval the cold rat remembered almost
immediately, whereas the tropical rat
carried no recollection whatsoever, and
had to start all over again. Further ex-
periments with a diet low in vitamin B
(Thiamin) resulted in the cold rat break-
ing out of his cage one night and stealing
some dog biscuits from other rats. The
hot rats were too lazy to walk out of the
open door.
HIS PREFERENCE.
“Mr. Chifley, one of the most hard-working of
Prime Ministers, finds relaxation from official docu-
ments in detective stories and,Wild West thrillers.”
—Sydney paper.
Truly the ways are never like to end
In which the great and the near-great unbend,
Seeking where taste dictates the dinkum oil
For hours of respite from official toil.
Gladstone felled trees, a strenuous exercise;
Baldwin with pigs refreshed his tired eyes;
Churchill lays bricks or paints; Truman, they
tell.
Finds the piano irresistible:
Xyhile for his recreation Cnifley looks
To Wild West thrillers and Who Done It books.
Some reckon golf and all the game contains
A matchless stimulant for weary brains.
There they can use on a defenceless ball
The swing and force and wile and guile and gall
That come so natural in hot debate —
With no reprisal to anticipate;
Nor even from a choleric word forbear
Which might in Parliament offend the Chair,
But Ben for needful relaxation strays
Tc» murder mysteries and Wild West frays.
Well, and why not? Whoe’er in fancy goes
To realms afar from any that he knows
Finds in those shadowy scenes in lahds remote
A surely admirable antidote
For all the bane and stress of public life,
The ceaseless clash of tongues in party strife.
So Chifley steals an hour from politics
And its interminable cares to mix
With reckless gunmen under alien skies
Scrapping with other wild and woolly guys.
Some politicians hold the angler’s craft
The finest interlude from wearing graft.
Some vote the turf, and some the fistic ring,
Where bruisers bash, the most congenial thing
To send them back to jobs where they’re en-
meshed,
Giants rejuvenated and refreshed.
Cuique suum. Each knows what suits him best,
And who begrudges Ben the interest
He takes in watching legendary crooks
Trailed by detectives in Who Done It books?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


* * * *
“Combo”: From the firm of Jaques,
London, specialists in lawn and parlor
games, comes a souvenir brochure cele-
brating a century and a half of service.
Every oldster remembers the Jaques pro-
ducts —croquet and ping-pong sets, chess,
draughts, Halma, ludo, tiddleywinks,
snakes-and-ladders and a hundred games
that have gone into oblivion. One of
the most delectable was spillikins, in
which the players had to extricate deli-
cate slivers of bone or ivory from a
tumbled-out pile without disturbing the
stack. Then there was go-bang, alleged
to be of Chinese origin—a sort of com-
plicated draughts in which each player
sought to encircle the other’s pieces.
At the very beginning the Jaques parlor
games were highly moral and didactic. In
one called “Emulation,” issued about
1830, virtues win rewards and vices incur
penalties. “Robbery shall make resti-
tution of six counters to the bank, and
be sent to the House of Correction for
two turns,” and “Gentleness shall advance
one step before the foremost player” are
extracts from the 16-page rule book. Such
games happily filled in long evenings in
the days when there were no cinemas
or broadcasts.
* * * *
“Biter”: It seems a bit of a toss-up
whether the second half of this century
will be known to historians as the Atomic
Age or the Plastic Age, If the latter, this
country will be sure of a niche in his-
tory, for much useful research has been
done in the plastic field by enterprising
Australian manufacturers. One of these
is G. B. Connan, of Preston (Vic.), who
makes artificial teeth out of a compound
he calis “acrylic resin,” which the dental
profession accepts enthusiastically as a
complete substitute for porcelain. Im-
ports of porcelain teeth cost Australia
£46,100 a year. In the twelve months
ended June last Preston made, and sold
wholesale, £14,000 worth of plastic teeth.
* * sH
“Bardist”: “Melbn’s” reference to the
hitching-post outside A. L. Gordon’s
favorite pub in Brighton as a memorial
of the poet (B. 29 /8 / ’45) evidently ap-
pealed to the imagination of U.L.V.A.,
which has stumped up the cash to embed
the post in concrete, surround it with a
steel stockade and place upon it a bronze
plaque bearing Kendall’s tribute to
Gordon:
A shining soul with syllables of fire
Who sang the first great songs this land can
claim.
Daryl Lindsay unveiled the memorial on
October 20, just one hundred years and a
day after the poet’s birth, and 75 years
since the last time Gordon flung his reins
over the old post —he left Brighton in
1870.
* * * *
“Statist”: The wave of war-time mar-
riages has receded in Australia. 'Lhe
peak year was 1942, when there were
88,060 splicings. Last year the figure had
fallen to 68,201, and for the first six
months of this year the tally was only
21,600. But the birthrate is showing an
improvement. Last year produced a
record —153,344 new native-born citizens,
beating 1943’s record by 4049. This
year, up to June, there were 82,800 births.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Avon”: A complex sort of case has
been brought before the MX, Supreme
Court. A youngster of 18, an A.T.C.
member, broke into the Union Airways
aerodrome at Mangere, wheeled out a
Lockheed Lodestar monoplane, started
it, and crashed almost immediately. He
escaped without serious injury, but the
’plane, valued at £40,000, took fire and
was destroyed. Evidence was brought
to show that the accused was a lad of
good character, quite normal, with no
mischievous or criminal tendencies. He
had been obsessed with the idea that it
was his duty to prove he could fly. Jus-
tice Callan, remarking that if the boy
lived to the age of Methuselah he couldn’t
earn enough to pay for the damage he
“Sorry, I’ve just sold the last pair.”
had done, admitted him to probation
for three years and ordered him to pay,
within that period, £lOO as partial resti-
tution.
* * * *
“Benbow”: Reference to broaching of
steamer cargoes (B. 5/9/’45) recalls a
cunning scheme practised on steamers
trading between N. S. Wales and N.Q.
years ago. The brewery was not operat-
ing in Cairns in those days, and the prin-
cipal north-bound cargo was beer, south-
bound empty casks. To obtain free grog
one passed a rope round a cask, tighten-
ing it with the twist known as a “Spanish
windlass.” Under this heavy squeeze the
staves opened up and the barrel leaked.
When sufficient beer had been drained
out the was cast off and the
staves tightened up again. That one
always beat the consignees.
“S.T.S.”: Woodley, nearest to the city
of S.A.’s many wineries, being at Glen
Osmond, just where the Melbourne road
takes to the hills, has had a great fire, with
thousands of gallons of wine running
away down the hillside. But some was
saved through being stored in a tunnel —
S.A.’s first silver-lead mine, extinct for
nearly a century, but with its white chim-
ney still serving as a landmark for ships
at sea.
* * * *
“Celer”: A statement that Britain’s
new jet-propelled ’planes will attain a
velocity equal to or in excess of sound
(600 to 760 m.p.h., according to altitude)
promises a conquest of one of the minor
“I have exactly the same trouble with my bird , Mrs. Tindale, when I
have visitors!”
problems of aerial passenger transport —
silencing the tremendously powerful
motors. If the passenger compartment
is set a little in advance of the jet
mechanism no sound will reach the cabin
once the ’plane is in full flight. Another
odd result at such speeds will be the
marked lengthening of daylight on west-
ward flights. At 800 m.p.h. a ’plane
leaving Sydney at sunrise in mid-summer
and flying due west could circle the
world and land in Sydney again before
noon a day and a half later, having made
the whole journey in morning sunlight.
* * * *
“Nuffin”: The Queensland “Industrial
Gazette” of February, 1925, dipped into
the history of strikes and accumulated a
lot of evidence that they don’t pay. In
2170 b.c., 50,000 laborers on the Great
Pyramid (Cheops) complained of the food
and refused to work. After soldiers had
cut several thousand of the strikers to
pieces the remainder got on with the job.
In 601 b.c. 30,000 laborers employed on
the embankment of the Hwang-Ho River
demanded higher wages, and downed
tools. After 1700 had been beheaded the
rest returned to work. In 29 b.c. work-
men employed by King Herod to rebuild
the temple and palace at Jerusalem struck
for better food and wages. Herod ordered
out his Parthian Cavalry, which
slaughtered every striker. In a.d. 64 strik-
ing masons employed by Nero to rebuild
fire-scourged Rome were rounded up by
the Praetorian Guard: several hundred
were killed (17 were crucified) and the
others returned to work. In a.d. 804
Charlemagne settled a strike at his
palace at Aix-la-Chapelle by hanging
20 ringleaders and sending 80 to the
galleys in Spain. In 1069 William the
Conqueror had trouble with workmen
rebuilding Hastings Castle. The Norman
despot beheaded several, and exiled the
rest to France. Sight of Dutch mercy
ships held up “in the interests of
our comrades the Indernesians” has
made many Brisbane-siders muse on the
ways of Cheops, Herod, Nero and the
rest.
* * * *
“Adron”: After a lively debate, the
Anglican Synod in Tasmania has decided
to give deaconesses a seat in Synod. In
voting they will take their seats with the
laity. Members asked whether later a
female priesthood will be inaugurated.
Last year the Bishop of Hongkong, who
ordained a deaconess as priest (or should
it be priestess?) was chided by the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury and told that his
action was in defiance of church order
and ultra vires. The order of deaconesses
goes back to New Testament days.
* * * *
“Ingar”: Strange that it should be this
late in the day that Robert Lowe’s old
home, Bronte House, should be ear-
marked for posterity while his particular
pal Wentworth’s Vaucluse has been
national property for ages. Lowe would
have understood. In his day here, the
’forties, he noted Australian lack of his-
tory-mindedness, and waxed poetical on
the subject. A reference is quoted in the
Life and Letters : —
Australians, it must be confessed, take
only a languid interest in the brief annals
of their own community. Promising young
men rarely indulge in retrospect, and heed,
for the most part, only the immediate
future.
With smoking axle, hot with speed, with steeds
of fire and steam,
Wide-waked Today leaves Yesterday behind
him like a dream.
Still from the hurrying whirl of Life fly back-
ward, far and fast,
The milestones of the fathers, the landmarks of
the past.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The sensation of the Sydney
orchid show was the refusal, in two cases,
of £5OO for an orchid, the owners main-
taining that they could make more by
keeping the plants for propagation pur-
poses. The war did the orchid-grower
a good turn. A lot of money had been
sunk in securing plants from the East
Indies and in building glasshouses when
florists discovered that they could get
blooms gathered in their native jungle
brought over by air; the blooms being
light, the freight charges were negligible.
The growers were talking of scrapping
their. glasshouses when the Japs invaded
the Indies and cut off jungle imports.
Business boomed when Americans, pre-
pared to pay any price asked for orchids
to please their lady friends, arrived in
Australia. Because of the improvement
in their blooms by careful cultivation the
orchid-growers now feel that they can
stand in the future against any competi-
tion. Beautiful as the jungle flowers may
be, they are to the glasshouse marvels as
a wild peach is to one that has been care-
fully nurtured for show purposes.
* 3= * *
“X.P.8.1.”; I met Andy after he had
been driven through cheering Melbourne
crowds with a dozen carloads of just-
discharged five-year veterans. He affected
to be blase. “That first parade through
Melbourne in January, 1941, before we
went away was a ‘kick,’ ” he said ; “but,
with brigade parades and divisional
parades and the propaganda marches we
did after we came home in ’42, a man
got fed up. I told myself that to get
a thrill out of parading through Mel-
bourne again I’d have to do it in a car
driven by a colonel. Today, sitting back
in a flash sedan, with girls trying to
kiss me, and with people throwing cigar-
ettes and confetti, I didn’t think of that
until it was nearly over. Then I shout
to the civvy driver: ‘Hey, were you in
the last war?’ ‘Yes,’ he roars. ‘What
rank?’ ‘Captain.’ Well that was near
enough, wasn’t it? If the rest of a man’s
dreams come true as close as that he’ll
be doing well.”
* * * ♦
“Laetitia”: Without detracting in any
way from “Alexander’s” human mine-
sweepers (B. 26/9/’45), my nomination
goes to the “Ginger-beers,” particularly
those engaged in drawing the teeth of
new type mines. From the located mine
a ’phone was run back to a safe area.
The sapper at the mine ’phoned back a
full description of the contraption before
he commenced operations. His progress
in unscrewing nuts and other gadgets was
similarly ’phoned back, turn by turn,
before commencing the next operation.
By this means it was possible to ascer-
tain, from the written record made at the
other end, the stage to which dismantling
could be carried on with safety. If, as
frequently did happen, the sapper’s sig-
nals ceased abruptly his successors knew
at what stage to expect trouble in hand-
ling the next specimen of the new-type
mine.
* « * *
“Milton”: A Red Page writer (B.
26/9/’45) describes “a model for a bronze
fountain group based on ‘Waltzing
Matilda’ ” with figures of “three mounted
troopers arriving.” At the beginning
of the century, when the song was in
vogue in west Queensland shearing sheds,
the line “up rode policemen, one, two
three” was taken to mean policeman No.
123. Paterson knew very well that police
in the stock country do not hunt in threes,
especially in a case of a “bagman” help-
ing himself to the squatter’s mutton.
WHY TURPIN?
“Mr. Menzies said that the so-called Bunnnerong
'settlement’ was similar in all respects to that
effected between Mr. Turpin and coach-passengers in
the days of the high toby.”
Highwaymen’s methods, dating from the days
When English travellers would start and shiver,
And booty was removed from coach and chaise
By use of the intimidating phrase
“Stand and deliver.”
At pistol-point they forced their settlements
With victims generally rich and high-born,
Those enterprising and rapacious gents
Whose lives were likely, barring accidents,
To end at Tyburn.
Times change and strong-arm methods slowly
die;
But still, we’re told, our “militants” usurp in
Their modes industrial tangles to untie
The highwayman’s technique. Yet, if so, why
Drag in Dick Turpin?
Why go across the centuries to show
The man behind the pistol can compel his
View to prevail in any imbroglio?
Haven’t we had —not half as long ago—
Our own Ned Kellys?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer” : When the boss brought
20 head of stud Shorthorns to the station
he discovered that Little Curl was one of
those rare specimens who can do any-
thing with cattle. Those aristocratic,
liver-colored cows would bumble off in
all directions when we rode among ’em,
gave us endless troubles in the yards,
could never be trusted. But Little Curl
went among ’em and talked to ’em and
they’d be as docile as a poddy lamb. So
Little Curl was appointed cattle boss and
got half a quid a week rise. The boss
entered the best of the cows for the district
show and, with Little Curl on the job, was
a lay-down misere to sweep the board.
Three months before the show the cattle
boss rode the 28 miles into town, looked
into the brown eyes of a new waitress
at a pub and became another man. He
bought a second-hand motor-bike, and
three to seven nights a week he went to
town, returning in the early hours, and
at week-ends the station knew him not.
The Shorthorns suffered. The boss
ranged from threats to cajolery, but the
carrier of hash was the stronger. Then
the boss thought deeply, went to town
and returned with the charmer, setting
her up as housemaid in the homestead.
Little Curl contracted violent jealousy.
He not only suspected the boss’s motives,
he believed everybody on the place from
the Chinese cook to the wood-and-water
joey had designs on the girl. He wouldn’t
let the homestead out of his sight and
hung around it half the night. Show
week came closer. The boss restored
the girl to her pub, leased 100 acres
against the town, transferred the cattle to
it and arranged for Little Curl to stay
in the town. The boss won his prizes all
right, but he got out of cattle after that;
said sheep “were far less trouble an’ jum-
buck nurses easier to handle.”
* * * ♦
“Broncho”: Northern Territory binghis
have discarded the bone-pointing ritual
in favor of a new type of auto-suggestion
termed “Sunday,” so-called probably
because the name is associated by white
pfeller with sacredness. A certain area
is selected by the tribal witch doctor and
the elders of the tribe. These and a few
bucks who go along to do the work
are the only members of the tribe in the
know. At the chosen place four holes
are dug, one at each corner, and, after
the witch doctor “sings” the holes, the
place becomes “Sunday.” The selected
victim is lured into it, and when it is inti-
mated what has happened he or she
obligingly lies down and dies. This
weird ritual is gradually spreading over
the Territory, and the mounted police
are having a difficult job to check it.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: The local week’s wonder
has been an 1 lin. garfish with a .rubber
ring stretched tightly round its body, just
back of the gill-covers, and grooved well
into the skin. It arrived ashore in a haul-
ing net with a number of unadorned com-
panions. The ring was first supposed to
be a joke, then a special fisheries-investi-
gation mark for tracing migration of that
particular species. It was neither; merely
a plain rubber ring, apparently from
an old-fashioned lemonade bottle, prob-
ably chucked overboard from a ship and
picked up on the creature’s beak as it
poked about for tucker. Specimens of the
same kind are in the Sydney Museum.
In the U.S.A. a broadbill swordfish was
caught with a similar band round its
sword, in which it had made a groove.
Many other instances of “ringed” fish
are on reliable record —the champion, a
shark in Cuba which was wearing a full-
sized motor tyre. If any Aboliar is dis-
posed to doubt that I hereby refer him to
the “Australian Museum Magazine” of
16/4/’35 for a photo, of it.
* * * *
“Anon”: Leslie, one of our boongs,
turned up for work at the battery one
morning with his trousers barely respect-
able. Noticing it, the manager issued him
with a new outfit. That morning Leslie
hopped a truck going to the Alice, no
doubt with the intention of stunning his
fellow-boongs there with his new sar-
torial splendor. On his return a few days
later the manager saw that he was wear-
ing an old rag of a shirt and even worse
trousers than before. When he spoke to
the abo. about it Leslie said “Pfinis
clobber, boss. Them bin wear out at
cards!”
* # * *
“Rover”: The male cassowary is a
formidable antagonist when really
annoyed (B. 10/10/’45). In Cape York
Peninsula (N.Q.), the only Australian
habitat of the big birds, the cassowary’s
worst enemy is the wild pig, which takes
heavy toll of the eggs during the nesting
season. One morning we encountered a
“If you don't eat your vitamin B you'll grow into a scarecrow like that."
sft. male cassowary dealing with a boar
that had apparently been caught nest-
robbing. The big bird brought its right
leg in an upwards-and-sideways swing,
crashing it with great force against the
boar’s head. As the thief fell the casso-
wary’s razor-sharp claws ripped and tore
at the writhing animal; then, catching
sight of us, the bird swung round, and,
with a booming cry, glided off through
the jungle. In the nest —a crude affair of
sticks and leaves measuring about a yard
across —remained only one unbroken egg.
Oval-shaped and of a beautiful pea-green
color, it was equal in size to half a dozen
duck eggs.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; Mat wasn’t the sort of
bloke with whom you could get senti-
mental, but for the benefit of “N. Syl-
vester” (B. 17/10/’45), who asserted that
“few male mateships will survive the
matter of an unrepaid loan of a fiver,” I
have to state that me and the big fellow
never lent each other anything. Ail we
had in the way of cash, tucker, tobacco
and beer was the equal property of both.
When we were in the cash and celebrat-
ing we lasted till the final deener ; when
we were broke and one or the other
raised the wind somehow the result was
a 50-50 affair. The matter of a loan
simply never came into it. He was safer
than myself with cash, and nearly always
carried our roll —when we had it —and
the only time he was reluctant about hand-
ing out a few bob was when I wanted
to entertain some young member of the
other sex. Money spent like that he con-
sidered an awful and inexcusable waste.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Westralia has had plenty
of practical experience with mud bricks.
At the beginning of this century the busi-
ness portion of Niagara, including four
hotels, was built almost entirely with
unbaked mud bricks, and soon many of
the far inland goldfield towns were so
built. Experience showed that where rain-
fall was scanty the bricks did well, though
always inclined to erode under violent
showers. Coating exteriors with a strong
lime-sand stucco gave better results,
though in some places, owing to varia-
tions in the clayey earth, the stucco was
inclined to become d rummy and shed.
Where it was possible to build a veran-
dah all round, the mud bricks gave token
of lasting for a long time. Still farther
north, on the semi-tropical pastoral areas,
where wood not only is scarce but very
hot, mud-brick mansions are built with
walls 18in. thick. Given the necessary
wide verandah all round, they are caves
of coolness on the hottest day.
* * * *
“Blime”: Animal preferences are some •.
times so strong that a beast will
remember them over a period of years.
One old strawberry roan cow was in a
bunch the boss grassed for a down-coun-
try bloke three years ago, and it always
amused me watching her travel to her
special drinking place when she was
thirsty. Just a bit of a soak in a far
gully, that filled a small hollow below,
but she’d refuse good water in several
other places, and make off to it. Then, in
a mob travelling through the other week
I noticed the old roan. The drovers
planned to stop the night, so I gave them
a hand to shove their bunch into the old
agistment paddock. No sooner had we
driven them to water than Strawb. stuck
her head in the air, snorted, then set out
on her own. Twenty minutes later she
lifted her head from her old pool, eyed
me steadily, and after an enormous sigh
dropped one eyelid. Considering Bung's
meagre ration and my two months’
drought, it was with sympathetic under-
standing I returned the old girl’s optical
salute.
* * * *
“Tippy”: The Tasmanian Fauna Board
is buzzing with activity over the mutton-
bird industry. An effort will be made to
check and tabulate all new rookeries
around the coast. Also, C.S.I.R. aid is
to be asked “to investigate the relation-
ship of the mutton-bird and its environ-
ment and the effect of the soil in some
areas of the rookeries becoming too hard
for burrowing.” Perhaps the mutton-bird
union is behind the move. The industry
has grown into a lucrative one ; as well as
the sale of the birds (regarded by some
as a delicacy) there is a ready market for
oil, feathers and fat. The enterprise is
estimated to be bringing to the promoters
a return of £BOOO a year, and under the
new scheme of improvements there seems
no limit to its expansion.
Ht * * *
“B, A. Ker”: Yes, a long-haired mate
can be a “sticker” all right (B. 17/10/’45).
I knew one who was staunch —and
tough—enough to have partnered Mat
himself. When her spouse took a small
fencing contract she did a fair share of
the post-hole sinking. Cutting baker’s
wood, by the cord, she lopped the
branches off the saplings as he felled
them. When he started a little sawmill
she not only “tailed out” but also made
all the deliveriesr—walking beside the
wheel on the outward journey and stand-
ing up in the cart on the return. Then
trouble came: something concerning a
few big trees pirated from a fenced pad-
dock, and a subsequent assault. Both
were sentenced: a month or the option.
After due consideration the male partner
decided that they would go to jail rather
than pay the fine, his duty being keep
the mill going while she was “in,” and
hers to do likewise on her release. The
long-haired mate did her stretch and re-
turned home prepared to take over. But
in the meantime her partner had been
thinking deeply. “It’s like this,” he told
her ; “you can’t run the saw, so I think
the best thing we can do is pay the fine
and let it go at that. Of course, it’ll go
against the grain, but....” 1 don’t think
even Mat’s mate would have stuck after
that. She did.
* * * *
“Narrin”: I “dips me lid” to a
battler; the old black oak. There are
clumps of him here on the stony flats
below the hills, trees from 18ft. to 25ft.
high, with massive trunks and stumps that
have seen the earth eroded nine inches to
a fool since they were saplings. He grows
in the ranges, too, clinging to the shallow
red clay in the barren quartzite screes.
Slowly he has extended till he covers
scores of acres of desert hillside, but here
he is only low scrub, a sea of dead-grey
foliage 6ft. to 10ft. above the ground and
supported on writhing grey stems. He
hangs on, however, and makes a bit of
shade for the euros. And slowly his roots
are digging deep, forcing their stubborn
way into the rock crannies, pioneering the
way for the softer-living plants that will
come after he has gone,
» * * *
“E.J.C.”: Our camp at Allahabad was
kept awake nightly by packs of jackals
which howled like lost, hungry babies.
Even a volley in their direction failed to
shut them up. One day we discussed it
in the mess with an old-timer who had
had years of Indian frontier service and
legend behind him, and he told the cobber
and me that we could stop the nightly
din when it started by turning our shoes
around after turning in on our charpoys.
That night I was sleeping on the verandah
of the billet, Bert inside. The howling
began on time, and after enduring it for
a few minutes I reached out to turn my
shoes, but before my hand touched them
the howling stopped. “Bert,” I sang out,
“did you hear that? They’ve stopped.”
“Yes,” he. answered. “I just turned my
shoes.” I don’t know why it should be;
I merely quote a fact.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Australia must have been
a great country a few thousand years
ago. South Australia’s Lake Callabonna,
now in a region which has its work cut
out to feed the kangaroos, yields the skele-
tons of the great marsupial diprotodon
which must have needed elephants’
rations of green stuff to keep it going.
And the diprotodon lived in compara-
tively recent times. A bit further to the
south and west this particular section of
the Flinders Range is littered with pieces
of iron ore, rich metallic stuff that clings
to a magnet as his father did to the pro-
digal son who came home cashed up.
There is plenty of it, but merely as
floaters, little pieces of what must once
have been a mighty iron mountain. Other
metals are similarly in evidence in
souvenir quantities, as if the country were
trying to point out to us that we have
come too late.
* * * *
“Kasa”: In an effort to replace the
water - buffaloes slaughtered by the
Japanese in the countries they infested
a concentrated drive will shortly take
place in the Van Diemen’s Gulf area.
Sponsored by U.N.R.R.A.’s Rehabilitation
Division of Agriculture, an expedition
led by Major “Buffalo Bill” Grainger has
already covered large tracts: of Arnhem
Land between the Alligator and Adelaide
Rivers. In that area of swampland the
expedition found several large herds
from which it is expected 5000 head
will be taken in the first season’s
operations. This will probably reduce the
number of beasts in the area almost to
the point of extinction, as the size of the
locality in which they are at present
measures 100 miles wide by 60 miles
deep. Brought from Java, India and
Ceylon, the water - buffalo has now
become Australia’s first wild beast of
destiny. Due to the difficulties of trans-
port and the inaccessibility of the country,
coupled with the lack of a stable market
for their hides, the buffaloes have been
allowed to flourish unmolested. Now
they bring up to £lO per head, and most
of the hunters who have volunteered for
the drive believe it will pay them better
to capture the immature beasts rather
than waste ammunition shooting them. It
is proposed to bring the captured buf-
faloes into a central drafting point where
they will be partly broken in by local
stockmen, before being handed over to
Chinese and Filipino herdsmen for ship-
ment.
THE RESCUE.
The guns are silent now,
And the war is done.
Come, then, our rescuers, come
With your flags and ribbons,
The pretty playthings nations give
To the side that won.
The war is over now;
1 should rejoice,
For 1 am young—was young,
Until these years advanced
With all their fanfares to the victory,
Forgetting me.
Now I must march again,
Join the new battle,
And brave the guns of peace.
Ah, soldier, there is no surrender there.
No armistice in intellectual strife,
No stretcher-bearers gathering our dead hopes,
Prayers are not spoken for the little deaths in
life.
The earth is quiet now,
And the sun and sky
Beckon unchanging to the sunless.
Must we emerge? Aye, soldier, aye.
There at the gate stands freedom,
Here stand I.
EIGHTH DIV., A.I.F.
DAVID GRIFFIN.


“X.E.D.”: Joe and Andy, brothers,
used to work a dairy-farm on shares, and
a better pair of leadswingers never pre-
tended to toil together. Joe (or Andy)
would be always finding business or
pleasure away from the place he could
indulge in to dodge a day’s work ; Andy
(or Joe) would automatically take the
day off then td avoid working in the
other’s absence. Only the tyrannical rule
of the cowyard brought them together for
the milking. Then the noxious-weeds in-
spector got down on them heavily to
clean up several large clumps of black-
berries they’d neglected. The inspector
used to travel that road frequently, and
“We train ’em the HARD Way!”
the threat of a summons kept Andy and
Joe on the job. But ingrained habits are
hard to change, and the pair spent most
of the time flat on their backs in the
shade of a near-by clump of pepper-
mints. The ’berries were all pruned
eventually, in short spurts at times when
the inspector’s car was sighted on the
road. Andy and Joe got a lot of satis-
faction poling on the inspector.
* * * *
“Fisho”: Travelling from Perth to
Darwin along the Ninety-mile Beach road,
between Broome and Derby, we could
see through the mirage a few black specks
on the horizon. Three-quarters of an
hour’s travel brought us up to three old
abo, bucks and their lubras. Each lubra
was carrying a sugarbag full of Japanese
frogs which were croaking and crying.
I stopped and asked “What name that
yabba?” “Him only pfrogs,” came from
one fat smiling buck. “Properly good
tucker,” added another, who was badly
smitten with St. Vitus’s dance. One of our
party said to one of the lubras “What
matter belong that fellow?” “Him all
right,” came her reply. “Him only got
shaky beef.”
* * * *
“Munja”: Shorty was annoyed. For
six weeks he had languished in Broome
hospital, his sole diet boiled water and
minced chicken. He wanted to get back
to his ’roo-shooting. The overworked
doctor, hearing Shorty’s groans as he
entered the ward, hurried over. “My
back, Doc.,” said Shorty. “The pain’s
terrible.” Fearing a relapse, the doctor
went over the sufferer carefully with his
stethoscope, followed by the usual finger
tapping over chest and back. “You
haven’t got the spot, Doc.,” groaned
Shorty. “There’s a big swelling under
each shoulder-blade.” “Nonsense, man,”
replied the doctor. “There isn’t a mark
on your body.” “Well, by cripes, there
will be tomorrow,” roared Shorty. “One
more feed of that blasted chicken and
I’ll be sprouting wings!” He was dis-
charged next day.
* * * *
“Rover”; Mention of outsizes in crocs,
recalls “Lutembi,” the famous sacred
crocodile of Lake Victoria, Uganda,
which recently died. Just over 30ft. from
nose to tail, “Lutembi” was known to be
at least 300 years old, and was sacred
to millions of African natives. Fed
daily by the blacks, the saurian became
very tame. On one occasion in 1937
when a native, acting as a guide to a
party of tourists, offered it a. fish
by hand instead of dangling it from a
stick, as was usually done, “Lutembi”
grabbed the fish and also the native’s arm,
promptly opening its jaws to release the
native. It retained complete sets of teeth in
both jaws right up to the day of its death.
Incidentally, has any Aboliar ever seen
a crocodile minus a tooth or teeth? The
dozens I’ve seen killed in N.Q. have all
been equipped with perfect sets of the
formidable six-inch-long molars for which
C. porosus is noted. Abos. of Cape York
declare that when a croc, loses a tooth it
grows a new one,
* * * *
“Betcha”: Wouldn’t say the “awful
southern climate” affects bird intelligence
“Nagheer” (B. 22/8 / ’45) so much as the
northern climate affects humans. Down
here, if birds at first glance recognised
their own hatched offspring the cuckoo
would need to make other arrangements
or go out of business. In your northern
terrain, where things are different, small
poultry farmers wishing to set a hen must
have a worrying time, while as for switch-
ing day-old chicks on a fowl or giving the
old girl turkey-eggs to hatch, are we to
believe this can’t be done? While deplor-
ing the degeneracy of southern fowl, may
we spare a blush for human parents, who,
being presented with a hospital row of
newly-born infants similarly clothed, can-
not at the first encounter pick out their
own offspring.
* * * *
“Old Camp”; It was well for old
George that he did his gold extraction
from that discarded copper plate (B.
29/8/’45) beyond the range of the West-
ralian goldfields police, otherwise he
might possibly have been brought in for
a grilling, it being illegal in W.A. to
operate any sort of a gold-extraction
plant without a licence. In wilder days a
discarded battery plate, far from selling
for 10s., brought just about its weight
in gold. And they were worth it —to the
ingenious gent, who ran a handy little
joint where “parcels” were put through
and no questions asked. After some
stir in London which resulted in the
Great Gold Leak Commission, the police
took to asking pointed questions. It was
then that the discarded battery plate came
into its kingdom.
“Come on , Sluggo—the taxi Won't Wait for ever!”
“Avian”: The pallid cuckoo un-
doubtedly is a big caterpillar feeder
(B. 12/9/’45); nevertheless. I’m still a
cuckoo-chaser. These undomestic birds
by dumping their domestic duties on to
our best insect-eaters often compel the
foster parents to sacrifice their own
numerous young; and insect-eaters are
becoming all too few in our bird life as
it is. Another point is that the cuckoos
are only with us for six or seven months
of the year, while the birds on which
they sponge —wrens, thornbills and fan-
tails —stay all the year through.
* * * *
“Gallup”: Talking of oxygen and car-
bon always making the “good combus-
tion” (B. 26/9/’45), pay day in our foun-
dry was invariably followed by violent
hang-over headaches afflicting many of
the staff. But a visit to the oxywelder’s
shed soon put that right: a couple of
gulps of pure oxygen out of the cylinder
and the “head” vanished. The theory was
that alcohol, being mostly hydrocarbons,
left the blood with an undigested over-
load ; a kick of straight oxygen burnt it
up, and so in half a minute restored the
blood to normal.
“Jo-Jo”: We had laid our bunks be-
tween the truck and a big campfire. A
light breeze was blowing the warmth to-
wards us. Ten minutes after we
had turned in Bill said in a
strangled sort of voice “There’s
something wrong with me. My
heart.” Startled, I watched him
turn on to his left side and then
back on to his right. His face
was set and a hand twitching
open and shut reminded me of
the strychnine baits we had on
board. Several times he tried to
speak, and with some urging
from me he made it at last. “Gas
—move.” We wasted no time
on it, heaving him out on to the
gravel and forcing him to
breathe deeply. In an hour or
so he was right again, complain-
ing only of rough treatment and
a sugary taste in his mouth.
Next day there was an evil smell
about his person as impurities
worked out through his pores. Then he
puzzled it out. The fire had created
an inward draught which pulled carbon
monoxide gas from the truck’s producei
unit towards it and Bill. You’ve got to be
mighty careful with gas-producers.
* * * m
“Zake”: At Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) 1
once saw a railway truck tarpaulin half
full of water (B. 17/10/’45) containing
dozens of tadpoles up to an inch long,
indicating that the infant frogs were any-
thing up to a month old. The train crew
asserted that up till the time they ran
through a thunderstorm at near-by
Murrurundi the day before the truck was
as dry as a Band of Hope picnic. I’d still
like to know how the tadpoles got there.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Mornings in this corner of
northern S.A. are guaranteed to make a
man a confirmed early riser, especially
when the day promises to be hot. From
the pine and gum creeks, from the open
gibber country and the patches of scrub
the birds come in to water at the trough.
The galahs arrive singly or in pairs from
their nests two miles away, the babblers
bustle up in a garrulous mob, the
budgerigars in the undulating green
clouds break all speed records as they
cut comers through the trees, and the
topknot pigeons whistle down, drink and
clatter off again. And provokingly among
the pines flits a tiny red bird, too quick
and shy to be recognised except after
long watching. He’s the little crimson
chat,, the master strategist of them all.
His nest is up the creek, a little cup con-
taining four white eggs with fine, purplish
spottings, placed a few inches from
the ground in a small bush exactly on the
lip of the steep bank. No matter how
carefully you walk along the bank you
cannot hope to see Mrs. Chat —or his
crimson lordship, who seems to take his
turn like a gentleman—slip out of her
home. What you do see is a little bird,
halfway down the slope to the creek-bed,
fluttering along the ground broken-
wing fashion. Inevitably your attention is
distracted from the top of the bank, and
only luck or a knowledge of the little
tricksters’ habits will help you to the nest.
* * * *
“Bo”: Barlow was a large man with
a round, fat face, which didn’t seem to
fit his chronic lugubriousness The resi-
dents of Grubstake were unanimous that
Barlow had never worked two full con-
secutive hours in his life. He lived on
the edge of the town in a two-roomed
slab-and-bark humpy, with the seven-
stone mass of concentrated energy he re-
ferred to as “the anchor” and eight
small Barlows. The last additions were
twins, and Mrs. Barlow had at length re-
belled and demanded that her lord con-
struct a pram. A month after the ukase
had gone forth Barlow finished the job. I
struck him one morning as he pushed the
twins along the rough bush road. The
pram consisted of a beer-barrel split
lengthwise, the two halves being nailed
side by side on to a rough platform which
rested on a sapling axle, the wheels being
four rings of a sawn log. Noting the
infants bouncing about in the contrap-
tion like peas in a pan, I remarked that
it might be a good thing to put it on
springs. At this Barlow looked sideways
at the babies and said “Shut up, can’t y’?
If y’ get puttin’ flash ideas inter their
heads a man’ll be workin’ like hell for
the rest of his life!”
* * * *
“Betcha”; “Yair, I’ve druv an assort-
ment in me time,” murmured old Jim
the drover. “Sheep, cattle, nags, goats,
pigs, even turkeys. An’ turkeys ain’t bad,
either. In the days before foxes come
round these Gippsland parts them birds
raised ’emselves in the fringe o’ the rung
country, an’ every so often we’d put on
a muster an’ walk a mob of them eighty
or so miles to the railway. The track
weren’t so good, an’ we might’ve lorst a
few in the bush, but the dogs managed
’em pretty well. They was good
travellers, too, after we’d paddled their
sprawlers in white lead so they wouldn’t
get footsore. One time I was takin’
eight hundred or so down, an’ the dog
picked out a hen that didn’t want t’ go.
Had a couple o’ rounds with the thing
before we started, an’ kept finding the
same bird for speshul attention all the
trip. The night I turned the mob into
a brush yard at the Crossing I missed
Blue, and, whistling him a couple of hours
later, was answered from a hundred
yards back, I turned out to look. Sure
enough, there he was at the foot of a gum,
with his old hen treed in the top branches.
He camped on the job through a night
of heavy frost, and in the momin’ arrived
with that turkey and a mouthful o’
feathers. Yair, he shoved her back into
the bunch, but there was a wild look in
his eye, an’ Blue was never reely reliable
with turkeys after that.”
NEW ENGLAND CALL.
“We’re going home to Guyra,” were the words
he said aloud,
With a long look and a soft' look, as though
he saw a cloud
Hanging white above Black Mountain where
the grass-hid boulders lie
And the larks in early summer rise and go to
praise the sky.
“The wife is going with me.” And I saw her
eyes were blue,
And they had the same look in them, for she
came from Guyra, too ;
Came from high and clear New England, where
the air is like champagne;
And they left today for Guyra on the north-
bound daily train.
“We’re going home to Guyra and we’re glad,”
was his remark.
Four hundred miles of homing in the daylight
and the dark,
With the sunset gold on Patrick Plains and dusk
at Ravensworth,
And shadows long at Muswellbrook across the
fallowed earth.
They’ll have the moon at Aberdeen, where
horsemen still survive
And white-faced cattle walk the hills above the
Belltrees drive;
They’ll watch the sky to westward as the frost-
white planets change,
With half the journey past at Murrurundi in the
range.
“We’re going home to Guyra and we’re off this
afternoon.”
I know the old Llangothlin road and Mother
of Ducks lagoon;
I know the little river and the poplars on
the rise
Where the track goes up Ben Lomond, standing
bold against the skies.
They’ll be running through Quirindi with the
furnace glowing red
Against the wall of darkness and the steam-
clouds overhead;
And, as the lights of Tamworth show, they’ll
hear the flight of teal
And smell the lucerne blooming on tke flats
along the Peel.
“We’re going home to Guyra”—from Duri to
Walcha Road,
And all the way to Glencoe she’ll be struggling
with the load;
Climbing up New England range when morning
lights are grey
And the homely cry of roosters rings to greet
the coming day.
And blue wood-smoke is rising from the fires
in Guyra town
As daylight gilds the old lagoon and beats the
shadows down.
And here within the city when the lonely night
is past
I’ll see the sun at morning and know they’re
home at last.
N-S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


THE WORLD FOLLOWS DRiTALJVS LEAD..
" ' y - - •■- —^
■■
;-; *'-i)
/ 4
1 • g ‘‘ , .":-
v\
The famous Mulberry
Port, which is a new
world’s wonder, and
helped to make possible
the Allied invasion of
Hitler’s Europe was the
outcome of an idea
evolved by Commodore
Hughes-Hallett, R.N.
30,000 British work-
people were engaged on
the building of this
immense mobile port
A MIRACLE OF PREFABRICATION
IN the present war British ingenuity and resource-
fulness have shown themselves in many ways—
radiolocation, anti-magnetic mine devices, earth-
quake bombs, fresh water distillation for life-boats,
Penicillin the list of British inventions and discoveries
is long. But probably the most spectacular achievement
is the building.and establishment of the pre-fabricated
port which, on the bare beaches of Normandy, enabled
men and material to be landed speedily even in the teeth
of a gale.
Britain has other achievements to display. There is the
establishment and development of the vast rayon indus-
try by Courtaulds an epic of commercial enterprise.
This old-established English company not only initiated
the rayon industry at home, but also established it in the
United States, Canada and other countries. To many
millions Courtaulds rayons have brought a standard of
luxury and. beauty they had never known before. The
war has placed a restraining hand on the supply of rayons,
but new designs and improved fabrics may soon be
available.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics : Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns ; Lustre Fibres, Ltd,, Coventry, England
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
Mr. Bevin Reports.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
(Mr. Bey in, British Foreign Secretary, explains
the British view of the differences at the Foreign
Secretaries’ conference to the House of Com-
mons on October 9. The report is abridged
from the “Times.”)
At the opening meeting I suggested
that it would be inconvenient if some
members of the Council had to be ex-
cluded from some of the meetings. It
would be even more inconvenient, I said,
if some members had to be asked to leave
a particular meeting while some of the
items on the agenda were discussed. I
felt that the business of the conference
could be much more easily arranged if it
could be agreed that all five members
could take apart inwall discussions, even
though on matters relating to the peace
settlement the power to take decisions in
the Council was confined to members
whose Governments had signed or were
deemed to have signed the relevant terms
of surrender,
Mr. Byrnes, the Secretary of State for
the United States, took the same view
as I did, and Mr. Molotov said that he
agreed with my proposal if, as he under-
stood it, it meant that all five members
of the Council should attend all meet-
ings, and, if they desired, participate in
the discussions, but that the decisions
should be taken only by the delegations
representing the Governments which
were, or by the Council’s terms of refer-
ence were deemed to be, signatories of the
relevant terms of surrender. All being
agreed on this interpretation of the Berlin
Protocol, the proposal which I had made
was adopted without dissent.
Hard Work
In accordance with this resolution the
Council held 16 plenary meetings during
10 days of hard work, and it made much
progress, not only on general questions,
but on treaty questions as well. We had
practically reached agreement on a draft
of a treaty with Finland, and had made
provision far the reference of this ques-
tion to the deputies. We had made con-
siderable progress on the draft treaty
with Italy. We had considered and satis-
f^ ctoriI y disposed of several aspects of
treaty. For example, on the diffi-
Cult question of the Italian-Yugoslav
frontier the Council agreed to hear the
views of the Governments of Yugoslavia
and Italy, as well as of Australia, South
Africa and New Zealand,
After these hearings the Council in-
structed their deputies to report on a line
which left a minimum of population
under alien rule. The deputies were also
asked to report on an international regime
f° r the port of Trieste. The cession of
the Dodecanese to Greece was proposed,
hut no final settlement was reached. On
the question of the disposal of the Italian
colonies the United States delegation put
forward a proposal which his Majesty’s
Government instructed me to support,
The American proposal provided for
the placing of these Italian territories
under a collective trusteeship by the
United Nations Organisation as a whole.
It was agreed after discussion that this
question of trusteeship for the Italian
colonies should be referred to the
deputies, who would make the widest
possible use of the American proposal,
and to take into account also the alter-
native proposal of a single State trustee-
ship. Thus on this difficult matter we
had, in spite of divergent views, reached
a general agreement as to the basis upon
which it could be further examined,
Molotov Differs
We had made a start on the draft
treaties for Rumania and Bulgarik.
We took the Soviet proposals as a
basis, and several points raised in
the British proposals were disposed of.
We then proceeded to discuss the United
States proposals regarding the peace
treaty with Rumania. These United
States proposals brought up the whole
question of the recognition of the Govern-
ment of Rumania, since it had been made
clear in them that the United States Gov-
ernment, while ready to discuss a draft,
would not negotiate a peace treaty with
Rumania until a broadly representative
Government had been established in that
country. Much the same issue came up
in connection with the draft treaty for
Bulgaria. Since on this subject there was
a great divergence of view I proposed,
in the hope of easing the difficulties of the
position, that an independent inquiry
should be made into conditions in those
two countries. {Cheers)
I have said enough to show some of
the difficulties of the negotiations in which
we were engaged and also the substan-
tial progress that had been made in our
discussions during the first 10 days of
the Council’s meetings, I was, therefore,
surprised when Mr. Molotov told Mr.
Byrnes and myself on the morning of
September 22 that we had all violated
the Berlin agreement and that he could
not agree to continue discussions on the
peace treaties under the procedure on
which we had been working for 10 days.
I said to Mr. Molotov that I did not agree.
I pointed out to him that we had all
agreed at our opening meeting that this
was the way in which we intended to
work. For the next few days Mr. Byrnes
and I went over the arguments many
times with Mr. Molotov but could come
to no agreement.
Mr. Molotov held that the Berlin
agreement should be interpreted in one
way and Mr. Byrnes and I held that it
should be interpreted in another, the way
in which it had been interpreted when
the Council passed its resolution of Sep-
tember 11. Throughout these discus-
sions I was concerned to urge the wider
interpretation which would have given an
opportunity to the Dominions and other
Governments who had made material
contributions to the defeat of the Axis
to express their views at the peace settle-
ment. {Hear, hear.) Since the three
Foreign Secretaries could not agree on
the interpretation of the agreement, we
decided to refer to the three heads of
government. President Truman and Mr.
Attlee endorsed the view which Mr.
Byrnes and I had expressed. Marshal
Stalin endorsed the view which Mr.
Molotov had expressed. So we were no
nearer an agreement. {Laughter.')
The Berlin agreement lays down very
clearly that the immediate, important task:
of the Council is to draw up peace treaties
with Italy,’ Rumania, Bulgaria, Hungary
and Finland. It lays down that members
other than the signatories of the terms of
surrender will be invited to participate
when matters directly concerning them
are under discussion. The French Govern-
ment had represented that it was per-
force interested in all settlements in
Europe.
, The Berlin agreement also lays down
that the Council may adapt its procedure
to the particular problem under consid-
eration, and we think that all the mem-
bers of the Council, including the Soviet,
agreed that that was what we were to do
when the resolution of September 11 was
drawn up. In fact, it was the representa-
tive of China who presided over the
Council on the day when it was decided
to invite certain Governments to send
representatives to discuss the question of
Trieste, and it was the representative of
China in whose name the invitations were
sent out. He happened to be the chair-
man for that particular session. So on
September 11, and for 10 days after, Mr.
Molotov seemed to agree with us, and
we never thought otherwise. He told us
later that his new attitude was taken up
on instructions from his Government.
Further Impasse
If we had given effect to the interpre-
tation on which the Soviet Delegation
insisted it would have meant that in dis-
cussing the Balkan Treaties we should
have had to say in effect to the represen-
tatives of France and China: “Now you
must leave the room while we are dis-
cussing these matters.” And when we
came to the Finnish Treaty we should
have had to invite the United States to
withdraw as well. Such a request by
some of the Powers to their partners,
would obviously have created inter-
national difficulties which the United
States and British Delegations did not
feel they should be called upon to face.


• 0
J 3 /r,
- V
Cl
When wonderful,
world-wide Radio Pro-
grammes sweep away
the memories of war and brighten your
well-earned leisure —how important then,
to have
“His Master’s Voice”
RADIO
Ills
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD. (Ine. in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
R7/45.
3COM
CftkXS
«.%**
a
.“RowFi
6 Co -tri.
The boilers of Smith, Brown and
Gray have been operating for years.
Smith is easily pleased < “no waste
combustion, never a trace of smoke
from my stack,” be avers, while
Gray, his neighbour, casts many a
satisfied glance at his belching stack,
sure in his mind that his boilermen
aren’t asleep^—“where there’s smoke,
there’s work,” he feels.
Brown’s chimney doesn’t vary much
~-just emits a light smoky haze. He
knows that a smokeless chimney is
easily obtained by using undue ex-
cess air, but he sees no point in do-
ing so and thereby merely heating
the atmosphere at his expense.
Brown “grew up in steam” . . .
he produces the maximum possible
amount of steam for a given expen-
diture of fuel . . . his boiler-room
contains properly designed and cor-
rectly constructed boilers and com-
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS—INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
ŵ
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
I Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages ariose co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
W ithin this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our British
organisation . . . maintain to Babcock
users our world standards of workman-
ship with moderate first cost
time has rk<> i et> the s ehi ice oe hahcuck boiler plant
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE. “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
How could it, moreover, have been recon-
ciled with the Charter of the United
Nations organisation, which lays upon the
five Powers as permanent members of
the Security Council a special responsi-
bility to maintain the peace of the world?
{Cheers.)
When we could not agree the time
came when we had to see whether we
could at least agree on what had already
been discussed. But when it came to the
point we ran up against the same diffi-
culty. Mr. Molotov proposed that in-
stead of one Protocol recording the Coun-
cil’s decisions there should be four sepa-
rate Protocols, one on general questions
which would be signed by all five mem-
bers of the Council, the second on the
Italian Peace Treaty, which would be
signed by the representatives of the
United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, the
United States and France, the third deal-
ing with Bulgaria, Hungary and Rumania,
which would be signed by the United
Kingdom, the Soviet Union and the
United States, and the fourth dealing
with Finland, which would be signed by
the United Kingdom and the Soviet
Union.
After some discussion we agreed to
Mr. Molotov’s proposial, but he then
maintained that before he would sign
any of the Protocols the Council must
strike out from its record the decision
taken on September 11. This no one else
was prepared to do. ( Cheers .) This
would, in effect, not have given a true
record of our procedure. We proposed,
however, that a passage should be in-
serted in the Protocol making it clear
that Mr. Molotov had on September 22
stated that the resolution of September
11 had in the view of his Government
been a breach of the Berlin Agreement.
Mr. Byrnes and I did our best to per-
suade Mr. Molotov that the terms of
reference of the Council were wide
enough to admit of a commonsense inter-
pretation. Mr. Byrnes attempted to find
a way out of the difficulties by propos-
ing that a conference should be called
for the purpose of submitting the Peace
Treaties when drawn up. To this confer-
ence all the five Powers would be invited,
together with other States which had con-
tributed materially to the defeat of the
Axis. But the Soviet representative main-
tained that only the three signatories of
the Berlin Agreement could discuss or
pronounce upon this proposal.
The conference broke up on October 2.
On Sept. 30 Mr. Molotov had said that
he could not sign any of the Protocols it
his point could not be accepted. On the
suggestion of the Chinese Foreign Min-
ister the conference was that night ex-
tended to October 2. I spent next
day until the meeting of the Coun-
cil late that night in consultation
with my colleagues and made every effort
to try to find a way out of our difficul-
ties. But it was clear that there
was little hope. It seemed to me,
as to Mr. Byrnes, that the differ-
ence of view with the Soviet Dele-
gation, technical though it might appear
to be, in reality involved a big question
of principle— to what extent are the Big
Three to exclude other nations from the
discussion of matters of grave concern
to them? This principle, I felt, it was
incumbent on me to defend.
I know the disappointment that'is felt
in the House and throughout the world
at the breakdown of the first meeting of
this Council, which was set up to deal
not only with peace treaties but also with
other matters. Many matters other than
the preparation of the peace treaties were
discussed, even if not settled, at the meet-
ings of the Council. There was, for in-
stance, the question of the inland Euro-
pean waterways, which are so important
when it comes to getting the transport
system of Europe started again and the
people fed. We failed to settle it. Repara-
tions and other problems of Germany
were also discussed. There was the ques-
tion of the Government of Austria and
the feeding of the people in that un-
happy country. On the latter and several
other matters progress was made.
A return to normal and happy condi-
tions in Europe, to which the peace
treaties must be the first step, is what the
world is waiting for. This temporary
breakdown will, I hope, lead to the
further discussion of these matters on the
basis of what is best for permanent peace,
because I am sure that is what the whole
world wants. {Cheers.) Perhaps when
we met in London in September we were
a little too close to two great victories
for us to be able to reach immediate
agreement. For the future I can say with
confidence that, given time, and if we all
continue to apply patience and an under-
standing of each other’s difficulties, we
shall overcome present divergences, and
any others which may reveal themselves.
For our part we shall certainly work in
the same spirit of co-operation with which
the countries united to pursue the war
against pur enemies. {Cheers.)
Attackers of MacArthur.
(From a "Wall-street Journal” article by
Raymond Moley.)
Some American radicals and radical
papers and magazines suggest that the
retention of the Japanese Emperor has
resulted in the ascendancy in his councils
of the business and industrial class. This,
they assert, is the retention of Fascism
and the basis of future trouble.
This effort to use the situation to
further iheir hate campaign is a shameful
business. These writers and speakers
were, before the surrender, all for revolu-
tion in Japan. It was of no importance
to them that a Japanese revolution would,
in effect, continue the war and shed
American blood. Nor did they care
whether the United States, already over
burdened with feeding and clothing the
needy populations in foreign countries,
in case of a revolution in Japan would
have to use ten times the occupation force
for ten times the length of time. In the
view of these critics, a good revolution
justifies any cost.
The simple truth is that Japanese busi-
ness interests have not moved into a posi-
tion of power. The Japanese military
class is being moved out, but the vacancy
thus created is being filled by other groups
much more likely to command the obedi-
ence of the people.
Various authorities on Japan, including
John F. Embree, in The Japanese Nation,
points out the extremely low position the
merchant class occupies in the Japanese
system. Highest of all Jap classes is the
Imperial family. It is “Above the Clouds.”
Then comes the nobility, which provides
Ministers of the Imperial Household.
Following these in recent years have been
the military people, the leaders of the
old samurai families. Embree says:
The big capitalists, despite their great
economic power, have been less important
as direct determiners of governmental
policy than might be expected. This is
undoubtedly due to the old feudal tradi-
tion which placed the merchant below the
farmer in social rank.
The big business families —the zaibatsu
—include the Mitsui, the Iwasaki (Mitsu-
bishi interests), the Sumitomo, the Okura
and the Yasuda interests. Apparently, in
the past 15 years of military ascendancy,
these people have aided the military.
What they did was, no doubt, similar to
the enforced co-operation which certain
German industrialists gave the rising
Nazis. They either used their technical
skill and managerial ability for the pur-
pose of the war lords or they were blotted
out. They had no power to resist, be-
cause several social classes separated them
from the imperial circle.
What has been happening is the assump-
tion of all the power of Government by
the Imperial family and household. By
exceedingly clever propaganda the war
lords built up the Emperor as the supreme
source of power and inspiration. This
position he still holds. And the Imperial
family and the nobility are in the seats
of power. Inbreeding, indolence and in-
temperate living have reduced this class
to incompetence. It will be a blundering
instrument, but it is what General Mac-
Arthur must use to restore and keep
order. The war lords ard on the way
out and must be kept that way. Any idea
that the merchant class can take over is
unthinkable. It could mot command
obedience, and obedience is what is
required in the carrying out of Allied
peace terms.
The Sad Case of Lucien Fabre.
(Condensed from the “Review of World
Affairsissued in London by Kenneth de
Courcy, with the help of a committee over
which Lord Phillimore presides .)
Many people think that the people in
France who are being rounded up, locked
up and shot up are collaborators, traitors,
men who wanted the Germans to win.
The following story shows what is really
happening under the cover of the propa-
ganda.
Lucien Fabre is the author of a book
which earned the Prix Goncourt. He
popularised the Einstein theory in France.
In 1939 he was mobilised as an engineer,
and later became a director of a factory.
In July,'1940, an enemy commission
turned up to demand the continuation
of production for the Axis Powers, Fabre
refused pointblank, and his brother, who
was director of a neighboring factory, did
the same. As the factories were in the
free zone, nothing happened.
Another commission turned up in
November, 1942, when that zone was oc-
cupied. Its leader told Fabre that his
reputation was known. He was accused
of having helped to enhance the reputa-
tion of a Jew by popularising the Einstein
theory, that one of his books had been
dedicated in words hostile to Germany,
that he had been a member of the
League Against Anti-Semitism, that he
had spoken at Salle Wagram against
pogroms and the Nazi theory, and finally
that he had delivered a lecture in which


*/>?#
They’re AMPHIBIOUS
Here’s a watch you can take swimming, fish-
ing, golfing in the rain or for a care-free bath
without the slightest danger to its perfectly-
timed movement. Movado Waterproof Swiss
Watches are expected soon. Order now for
Christmas delivery.
MOVADO
Open 9 to 5
Mon. to Fri-,
SYDNEV 9 75 to u Sat.
112 ST.
SWISS
WATCHES
SPLENDID FACTORY FREEHOLD
Practically Adjoining the Kailway Station at
SPOTSWOOD (MELBOURNE)
WITH UNIQUE RAILWAY AND SHIPPING FACILITIES.
AUCTION SALE, at Scott’s Hotel, 444 Collins Street, Melbourne,
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, at 2.30 p.m. Under instructions from
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Of 333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, Representing the Owners.
Spacious GALVANISED IRON FACTORY
(Formerly the International Harvester Coy.’s WORKS).
73,000 SQ. FT. OF FLOOR SPACE—44 ACRES OF LAND.
Fronting Raleigh Street, The Avenue and Hudson’s Road. Including the Fee Simple
(Subject to Basements) of a RAILWAY LINE CONNECTING WITH SPOTSWOOD
STATION and a Private Spur Running through the Building. Half a Mile from
North Bank of River Yarra, and Close to Several Wharves.
AVAILABLE FOR EARLY VACANT POSSESSION.
Solicitors, Messrs. Abbott, Beckett, Stillman & Gray, 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
For Inspection, Plan and Other Information apply the joint Auctioneers —
ABERCROMBY & BEATTY PTY., LTD., GEORGE G. HENDERSON PTY., LTD.,
314 Collins Street, Melbourne. 352 Collins Street, Melbourne.
STORAGE WALL
AS SEEN FROM
©DOUBLE-SIDED
CHINA CUPBOARD
0 FOOD STORAGE
0 DOUBLE-SIDED
GLASSWARE CUPBOARD
O SEHVERY WITH PLUG
FOR TOASTER OR JUG
0 DOUBLE-SIDED
CUTLERY DRAWERS
© GENERAL STORAGE
© NAPEfIY
© GENERAL STORAGE
VIEW
FROM
KITCHEN
©
6
0
Here is another money-saving
Masonite Storage Wall. This wall,
constructed entirely of Masonite
Presdwood, divides kitchen and dining room, and replaces
the usual brick or timber partition. As our illustration
shows, china and glass cupboards and cutlery drawers are
double-sided, allowing for storage from kitchen after
washing-up, and table-setting from dining room side.
Masojiite Presdwood with its hard, smooth surface, is
ideal constructional material for storage walls. Like all
Masonite boards, it can be worked with ordinary car-
pouters’ tools. Your
nearest supplier will
be glad to give you
all the details.
Manufactured by:
sIASONITE CORPORATION
(AUST.) LTD.
NORTHERN
SATES DIVISION:
369 Pitt Street, Sydney;
and
SOUTHERN
SATES DIVISION:
629 Collins Street, Melbourne
T *lh
he had attacked the policies of Bismarck
and Bethmann-Holweg.
The commission then started to boy-
cott his factory by withholding raw
materials, etc. From the time of the
armistice to the liberation the Germans
did not receive from the firms of Multi-
plex, of Fabre and Viguier (the firms
directed by the two brothers) one single
case of munitions, nor one single uniform
jacket.
Fabre’s private house became the
hiding place»of Jews, anti-Fascist Italians
and Spaniards, refugees from the Saar
and Moselle country, as well as French
registers like schoolmasters and gen-
darmes. Not only were they sheltered,
but they were given new identity papers
and the like.
Fabre’s brother provided clothes for
the Maquis. He collected wool, arranged
for secret spinning, dying and weaving,
and finally for bringing it into the work-
shop for cutting and finishing.
Nearly all movement had to be at
night. There was constant danger from
the S.S., the German Army, the Gestapo,
the field police and the militiamen.
These brothers provided free equip-
ment to the Maquis to the value of two
million francs. One might have thought
that that was a great record of resistance
and patriotism.
In the three months following libera-
tion, during which the Fabre brothers
worked hard to bring their factories back
to normal, a gang of criminals headed
by two characters known as Barbenviande
and Rintintin, was finding the collection
of the fortunes of various collaborators
insufficiently profitable.
On October 6, 1944, the Fabre brothers
and their partner, Viguier, were arrested
without charge or reason. The mystery
did not last long. Rintintin arrived at
the gendarmerie and offered freedom for
a ransom of two million francs. The
prisoners refused.
Then a Monsieur Clovis, a well-
known criminal with a long record of
convictions for fraud and arson, came
with an accusation that the Fabre
brothers had stolen an airplane engine
from a military trailer in 1940, and had
then destroyed it.
The charge was so flimsy that the
Police Commissioner and the gen-
darmerie lieutenant said they must re-
lease the prisoners. Barbenviande and
Rintintin rushed off to the Prefect with
a charge that public opinion demanded
these men should be kept in prison.
They were sent to a camp without
charge or trial, where they remained for
a month. The Republican Commissioner
ordered their release.
But the Prefect, a crook, warned Rin-
tintin, who rushed to the camp with an-
other effort to screw a ransom from the
prisoners. This was again refused.
By graft of one kind and another, Rin-
tintin managed to get the prisoners trans-
ferred to another prison, where condi-
tions were something very near the Nazi
mark.
It was three months after their first
arrest before the prisoners were able to
insist upon being brought before an
examining magistrate, and it was six
months before they were released.
They were received with acclamation
by the people, and carried home in tri-
umph. But so angry were the terrorists
that they completely destroyed the fac-
tories of Fabre and Viguier with bombs.
This is one case of very many of the
same kind. There is nothing exceptional
about it.' It is unfortunately the way
things have been going in France.
In Poland.
(European staff correspondent N-Y. “Journal-
American.”)
Direct news which I have had from
Poland through reliable uncensored chan-
nels paints a sad picture of both political
and economic conditions.
Widespread hunger and much misery
exist, with an absence of clothing and
shoes. •
The head of the United Nations Relief
and Rehabilitation Commission is de-
clared to be Communistic and such relief
as is afforded favors Communist elements.
My sources have expressed surprise and
puzzlement that Polish-American organ-
isations seem to have dropped Poland,
after recognition by America and Britain
of the “Made in Moscow” so-called
Polish Provisional Government of
National Unity.
That Government, in which Commu-
nists hold 14 out of 21 posts, does not
represent more than 20 p.c. of the Polish
people, it is alleged.
“The glove is Polish, but the hand that
is in that glove and which governs Poland
is a totalitarian Soviet Communist
hand.”
Russian Honor.
( From N.Y. “Daily Minor .”)
Resumption of relations between the
United States and Finland drew only a
few sparse paragraphs amid the welter
of world events. Finland used to get
larger and better “notices” each year
when the tiny republic was the only
country that paid its World War I debts
to U.S. . ,
Most Americans will welcome Finland
—or what Russia has left of it back to
the family of peaceful and friendly
nations. Whatever derelictions that demo-
cratic country may have committed, there
is no question they were; forced by the
aggressive and acquisitive attacks of
gigantic Russia. . . .
Though Russia was Hitler’s principal
partner, participated with him in the ruth-
less seizure and partition of Poland and
fought the Axis only when the stupid
Nazis invaded Russian soil, the Commu-
nist Soviets were quickly forgiven and
taken back to the bosom of self-respect-
ing nations, including our own.
Yet Russia, now trusted to live up to
the pledges and principles of the new
World Charter, in 1939 was kicked out
of the League of Nations for welching
on her pledges.
We reprint here verbatim excerpts
from the U.S. Government’s report that
led to Russia’s expulsion:
Oct. 11, 1939: President Roosevelt wrote
President Kalinin of Russia his hope that
“the Soviet Union will make no demands
on Finland which are inconsistent with the
maintenance and development of amicable
and peaceful relations between the two
countries.” _
Nov. 9: Finland again refused a military
base to Russia. . .
Nov. 13: Finnish-Russian negotiations
broken off.
Nov. 29: Russia broke diplomatic rela-
tions with Finland. Finland asked concilia-
tion or arbitration, according to Art. 5
of non-aggression treaty. Secretary of
State Hull suggested good offices of the
the u.s. . , , w „
Nov. 30: Russia invaded Finland. Medi-
ation declined.
Dec. 1: President Roosevelt regretted
Russian attack on Finland. “The people
and Government of Finland have a long,
honorable and wholly peaceful record.”
Russia set up Finnish Soviet at Terijoki.
Dec. 3; Finland appealed to League
(under Arts. 11 and 15).
Dec. 4: Russia rejected League pro-
posals for settlement of the dispute with
Finland.
Dec. 9: Finland submitted aide-memoire
to the League.
Dec. 10: Finland appealed to all civilisa-
tions for help.
Dec. 11: Finland appealed for concrete
help from the League.
Dec. 12; Russia again rejected League
appeal for armistice and mediation.
Dec. 14: League of Nations Assembly
expelled Russia, offered to co-ordinate
world aid to Finland. (“By the aggression
which it has committed against Finland,
the U.S.S.R. has failed to observe not only
its special agreements with Finland, but
also Article 12 of the Covenant of the
League of Nations and the Pact of Paris.”)
That is how Russia was declared an
outlaw nation only six years ago. Has
Russia changed in six years? Only in
growing more powerful, more greedy.
Have we any guarantee that she will
not violate the new World Charter? Only
her “word of honor,” which she broke
whenever she could grab anything.
Russia has already violated many
promises to the United Nations by con-
cluding unilateral agreements with little
countries she raped and Sovietised, much
as she did Finland.
The World Charter, quixotic as it is,
might be workable without Russia, but
with her, we are always faced by war.
Life in Battered Buda.
( Condensed from the Chicago “Sun.”)
Official estimates of the dwellings in
Buda-Pest made uninhabitable are 32 per
cent., while in Vienna it is only 20 per
cent.
The hills and woods of Buda, on the
right bank, are a grisly monument to the
destructive folly of war. Buda consists
of ghost dwellings held together by skele-
tal, fire-blackened roofless walls. The
proud dome of the Royal Palace has been
reduced to a mere framework of charred
beams minus its one-time copper-green
roofing.
All the important official buildings are
burned out. Most of the famous hotels
are mere rubble. The Franz Josef Bridge
has been badly damaged. The Budapest
Technical University is an eerie shell filled
with a pyramid of wreckage.
The city of Pest on the left bank
escaped with remarkably little damage.
The squares and Andrassy-street seem un-
hurt. A few houses on this avenue were
burned out. The rest only needs paint to
look like new.
This capital of the ancient Magyars
is gay and buoyant. Many of the
better restaurants survived and now serve
food which equals the best in Europe. It
is even better than the meals one gets in
Belgrade’s black-market restaurants.
Corn on the cob is served in plentiful
portions. Watermelon and cantaloupes


w
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ol
r%Kiiv their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
wanted cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
£l7/10/- 151' ”Stb Plans. Music. etc.
B.W. .sawlyi" SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
lACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
* SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
you cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All meris-weaT shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
that-
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nusworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
P. T. W. Black. Manager — E. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
■ ■ , . """ "
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0.. Sydney.
BP *■«.
ŵ
BOOKS FOR THE HANDYMAN
Shortages won’t worry handymen with these books! They're crammed
with ideas and instructions for building or repairing. Will save
Enable you to make extra profit in spare time! EneltSle numbers of
books you want on order form and forward to Angus K Robertson Ltd.
ẁ
o POPULAR MECHANICS
WHAT MAKE/
Over 1500 projects! Over 500 illustrations, plans,
drawings. Compiled by editors "Popular Mechanics.'*
Shows how to make furniture
gifts, novelties, etc.
10/6.
nA** *■
post 6d.
OVER
$OO DRAWINGS
DIAGRAMS &
ILLUSTRATIONS
0 HANDYMAN'S
GmfMi,
SEIF INSTRUCTOR
MAIL '
ORDERS
DISPATCHED
DV
.RETURN.
■HK
Covers every practical job from erecting
a bungalow to mending your shoes—from
making a kitchen dresser to repairing an
alarm clock—from servicing your car to
mending your radio! 576 pages, _ with
hundreds of diagrams on Simple Engineer-
ing Metalwork. Radio, Shoe Repairs, Elec-
tricity, Woodwork, House Decorating,
Motor Engineering, Building, Heating,
Plumbing, Watch repairs, in fact, it explains
HOW and WHY
evey job is done
around the
nome. ,
The Handyman s
Complete Self-
Instructor, 9/0
(post 6d).
home.
Everything the CARPENTER
Q and JOINER want
know •
TOR EXPERT
OR LEARNER
fREPAIRiIITI
fYOORSELPII
WITH THESE'
HELPFUL BOOKS
Written in straightforward
language by a team of
specialist authors. Covers
craftsmanship, timber,
hand and machine tools, geometrical
drawing and design, frame and joint con-
struction, wood panelling and doors, win-
dows and skylights, standard joinery, stair-
building, shaped work,
roof construction, and
every other subject the
successful carpenter must
know, 15/3 (post 9d).
)V£R 400
Pft ACT/CAL
ULUSTPAT/OttS
mb
Hi
m
m
Im
[©MOTORISTS
MANUAL
'Complete up to the minute auto
manual every car owner should
have. Whole library of vital infor-
mation! Written by experts!
Everything you need to know to get
your car in tip-top shape! y
AUTHENTIC /
RELIABLE/
A
(6
■ Repairing and'
'maintenance of.
".ignition system, brakes,
~ 'battery, carburettor,,
'radiator, springs. Easy to follow
, instructions. Over 500 illustra-
tions, diagrams, charts. Prepared by
Staff "Popular Science Monthly." 17/6, post 6d.„ ,
10COHCRETE HANDBOOK
Practical information
on using concrete for
home, garden, farm,
workshop. 96 pages,
profusely illustrated.
Published 194}. 8/6,
I _ post 6d.
%
<S V
v
©PAINTING
FURNITURE FINISHING & REPAIRING
Self-help book for craftsmen, home
owners, painters, manual training
students. Spray-painting; restoring
antiques; furniture repairing; up-
holstery; mixing colours; silk screen;
selecting Published 1945
by "Popular Mechanics.” 96 pages.
Illustrated. 8/6, post 6d.
ẃ
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd
89 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
and other fruits garnish the dessert plates.
While beef is scarce, the restaurant
menus show plenty of turkey, goose,
chicken, veal and pork. The prices, while
not excessive for the American purse, are
nevertheless extremely high for the locals.
The clientele of these magnificent
restaurants consists of profiteers, plus
American, British and Russian officers.
The night clubs in both Buda and Pest
still are going strong, though a few were
bombed out. The Arizona, with its rotat-
ing dance floor, is doing a land-office
business.
But after nine at night all night clubs
and restaurants close and it’s no longer
safe to walk the streets. The Russians
love to pop off with their guns, particu-
larly if they have had an exhilarating
evening sparked with plenty of Tokay.
This may seem odd and barbaric, but
it’s an old Russian custom not dissimilar
from the shooting sprees we had in the
frontier era of the Old West.
The Hungarians show no surprise over
these antics. Their own noblemen in the
“good old days” always let loose with
their pistols while night-lifing in the
cabarets.
Mr. Churchill Speaks Out.
(On Aug. 16 Mr. Churchill made an important
and detailed speech in the Commons on foreign
affairs, but it met with the usual fate at the
hands of Australian newspapers which are
strangely inattentive to anything critical of Mos-
cow policies, no matter by whom uttered. The
excerpts which follow are from the verbatim
report in the N.Y. “Times.” They provide
startling confirmation of the worst fears felt
about conditions in Russian-managed Europe.)
We must make clear where we stand
in these affairs of the Balkans and
Eastern Europe Our idea is govern-
ment of the people, by the people, for
the people... .people being free to
express by secret ballot without intimida-
tion their deep-seated wish as to the forms
and conditions of government under
which they are to live.
At present a [Balkan] family might be
gathered around a fireside enjoying the
fruits of their toil when suddenly there is
a knock at the door and heavily-armed
policemen appear. It may be that the
father, son or friend sitting in the cottage
is called out, taken away in the dark
and no one knows whether he would
ever come back again or what is his fate.
All they know is that they had better
not inquire. There are millions of
humble homes in Europe^ —Poland,
Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia—where
this fear is the main pre-occupation of
family life. President Roosevelt laid
down four freedoms, and these are extant
in the Atlantic Charter which we agreed
upon together. Freedom from fear —but
this has been interpreted as if it were
only freedom from fear of an invasion
by a foreign country. That is the least
of the fears of the common man. His
patriotism arms him to withstand inva-
sion. That is not the fear of ordinary
families in Europe tonight. Their fear
is of the policeman knocking at the door.
That is not fear for country. It is fear
for the life and liberty of the individual,
for the fundamental rights of men now
menaced and precarious in so many
lands where people tremble.
The Measure of a Bureaucrat.
(Douglas Larsen paints a picture of the grada-
tions of the breed in Washington, which will
not sound strange to Australians .)
One of the first things a newcomer to
Washington must learn is how to deter-
mine the salary and rank of bureaucrats
by their office furniture and surroundings.
This is how it goes: —
A man doesn’t become an official until
he gets a secretary. If his salary is around
£1400 the secretary usually has a desk in
his office. There’s no rug on the floor,
filing cases are all around. A picture of
his wife and kids is permitted on the desk
but not on the walls. He has to make at
least £2500 before he can hang anything
but bureau pictures on his office wall. If
he’s a comer with a lot of drive he’ll have
an ashtray with a fountain-pen set. He’ll
have one telephone with an extension.
The next bracket is around £2000. He
gets a green rug. His secretary is in an
adjoining office with the file cabinets and
he has two ’phone extensions. According
to his own taste, he can put a leather
davenport in the outer office or in his
own. It depends on whether he wants to
impress visitors before or after they see
him. Infallible clue to this position is a
chromium-plated water-pitcher set. He
wouldn’t be caught dead without this
pitcher in plain view.
The man moves up. He’s getting
around £2600 a year now. This takes two
secretaries, a green rug for the outer
office, a red rug for the inner office and
an inter-office communicating system with
red and green lights. If he has anything
on the ball at all he’ll have a mysterious
little ’phone hanging on an obscure part
of the desk, The implication of this is
that he has direct communication with
the secretary. A sharp gal in the outer
office will know enough to ring this ’phone
once or twice when a visitor is in the
office to set the stage for a low-voiced
aside conversation with “the secretary.
At this stage he can eat lunch a couple
of times a week in the office. A tray with
a half-finished meal is very impressive.
But at £2600 a year the “must” is the
conference table. Like the water-pitcher
set for his assistant, this is it. The option
is to have this table running down from
the other side of his desk or at the other
end of the room, with an overstuffed
swivel chair at one end which, naturally,
is for him. Depending on whether he
took his promotion in stride he might
have three water-pitcher sets strewn
around.
When a bureaucrat gets anything oyer
£2600 he can be more flexible in selecting
his furnishings.
Such variations as a young messenger-
boy at a desk outside the outside door is
considered in especially good taste.
Several of the big-timers who have come
into the Government from private busi-
ness have refrigerators in their second
inner offices hidden behind a screen.
Nobody knows what’s in them, but the
effect on the visitor is astonishing.
Aside from bureaucratic furnishings
there are a couple of other clues to a
man’s importance in the federal system.
The most damaging faux pas a man can
make is to answer his own ’phone. It
the secretary doesn’t ask who is calling
and the nature of the business before con-
necting someone with him on the tele-
phone you can make up your mind he
gets less than £2OOO. If he does his own
calling rather than have his secretary get
the desired person on the phone you can
make up your mind he’s small potatoes.
— N.Y. “World Telegram ”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
“They take their politics very seriously m
those countries (i.e-, the Balkans). A friend of
mine, an officer who was there when the re-
sults of the late general election [in Britain]
came in, told me that a lady said to him
‘Poor Mr. Churchill. I suppose now he will
be shot.’ My friend was able to reassure her
by saying that the sentence might be miti-
gated to various forms of hard labor. Win-
ston Churchill on the British elections.
* * * *
Since the elections of last spring the Helsinki
Government has been representative again. ( As
Secretary Byrnes says, those elections were
freely conducted and expressed through secret
ballot the democratic wishes of the Finnish
people.” As a small and defeated neighbor ot
mighty Russia, manfully paying on hard terms,
Finland is not free in an economic or military
sense. But she is free politically to the extent
that she was allowed unfettered elections, re-
sulting in a non-Communist Government....
Why Russia has been so wise in Finland, but
has imposed puppet dictatorships and pre-
vented free elections in other eastern European
countries, we do not know. We can only
hope that Marshal Stalin learns from his Fin-
nish experiment before too late that a good-
neighbor policy pays, while oppression ot
others undermines the mightiest power.
New York “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
Of all the munitions used by the armed
forces of the British Commonwealth and Em-
pire (8i million men in all) since the be-
ginning of the war no less than 72 per cent,
was produced in the United Kingdom itself.
All this we had to do under conditions of
almost unbelievable difficulty. We were tombed
from the air; against this we had to disperse
our production, to blackout our cities, our
railways, our roads, our factories. U-boats
sank our ships bringing in our lifeblood, food
and materials. Yet with our imports of raw
materials cut by 50 per cent, we achieved the
highest industrial output ever attained in our
history. All men up to the age of 64 and
all women to 59 were mobilised. Our export
trade was deliberately curtailed so that in 1943
and 1944 it was less than one-third in volume
of the 1918 level. This meant hardships for
our overseas customers, but it released 1,000,000
men and women for direct war work.—Oliver
Lyttleton, M.P., in the “Times (26/9/ 45).
* * * *
The trial of Retain was a trial of pre-war
France. Something was wrong with a parlia-
mentary system which produced more than 100
Premiers in less than 70 years. Somethmg was
wrong in 1940, when extremists of the right
sabotaged the war because they preferred Hitler
to democracy and extremists of the left because
they had not received a go-ahead signal from
Moscow... .What Retain secured for France by
what the Paris court called “intelligence with
the enemy” was partial immunity from occupa-
tion for about three years and five months.
He paid in French honor, in the personal
freedom of French soldiers and workers, m the
delivery of anti-Nazi refugees to the Gestapo,
in a French regime built on a Fascist model.
The balance runs against him. But the con-
scious moral guilt of his baffled senility is not
established. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The United States spent more than
$300,000,000,000 directly on the war before
the surrender of Japan. The total will rise
much higher before the last soldier is dis-
charged and the last contract settled. The
$300,000,000,000 went for direct war costs be-
tween July 1, 1940, when the defence programme
began, and the first week in August. By con-
trast, the first World War cost $25,000,000,000
to the middle of 1921. Treasury figures show
how much was spent in each fiscal year, as
follows: 1941, $6,655,000,000; 1942,
$28,266,000,000; 1943, $76,298,000,000; 1944,
$89,721,000,000; 1945, $89,501,000,000; 1946,
fiscal year so far, about $10,000,000,000. — N.Y.
“Times.”


ẅ
PUAN NOW to carry out post-
war rebuilding and repairs in
steel-strong Lysaglit’s Galvanised Iron.
Unequalled for all farm constructional
work because of its great tensile
strength, low cost and exceptionally
long life, it is particularly valuable
where water conservation and fire
protection are important factors.
Deliveries in standard*"
lengths from 6ft. to 12ft.,
and in both 8 and 10
three-i nc h corrugated
widths will soon be ade-
quate for all require-
ments.
KER
EAPER
(if twf
TH ERE l S NOTHING
AS STRONG AS
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
<l*o NET . MELBOURNE.. BRISBANE • ADELAIDE - PERTH 1
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOEEE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
w
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYANOGAS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM” -
Cyanogas blower (Pal’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,
£SStS.'SZ&* 7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
LTD.
SAVES
MANPOWER
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
More Beef for Britain.
“Agric”: Queensland graziers whose
country will carry either sheep or cattle
are urging the British Government to
announce without delay the price it is
prepared to pay for Australian beef after
September, 1946. The British Food
Ministry has contracted to take all our
surplus meat until September, 1948, but
the agreement provides for a revision of
prices in September, 1946. During the
war there was an assured market for
beef at reasonable prices and, in view of
the uncertain future for wool while stocks
were piling up, a grazier who could pro-
duce either beef or wool naturally went
in for beef. About May next graziers on
dual-purpose properties will be disposing
of their fat cattle and they will then have
to decide future activities. The wool
agreement has assured the stability of the
wool market for some years to come,
and without a similarly assured market
for beef for at least two or three years
ahead graziers who can produce either
beef or wool will probably decide on
wool.
Great Britain’s urgent need for beef
needs no stressing. Queensland graziers
are second to none in their appreciation
of the contribution made by the British
people to victory. They want to help
feed the British, but in the absence of any
lead from their own Government they
don’t know where to begin.
“Discharged Moonya”: If Australia
had a wise administration in charge of
her meat industry the problem of feed-
ing Europe would become less difficult,
the man on the land would be able to
dispose of his surplus stock to a greater
advantage and all meatworks within the
Commonwealth would be kept working at
full capacity.
In the Gulf country, as in most other
cattle areas, there are thousands of
cracker cows and bulls which, because
of climate and other circumstances, can
never be fattened. These cattle die at an
incredible rate each year and are a con-
siderable loss to the cattle-owner.
Mustered and brought into meatworks
they would make ideal subjects for bone-
less beef, a commodity which would help
greatly in the world food problem.
The crackers can be handled thrice as
fast as better cattle, boneless beef re-
quires less shipping space and storage
freezers can hold more whilst waiting for
boats to put in for it. Starving people
want meat, irrespective of quality, and
we can give it to them.
Health of Sheep.
“Jumbuck”: No domestic animal
shows sickness more definitely than a
“Dais can't read, o’ course —she only looks at the funny pitchers.”
sheep, yet many owners take little or no
heed of the signs until deaths begin to
occur. A big percentage of losses could
be avoided if the health of sheep were
watched and efforts made to prevent
rather than cure.
A healthy sheep’s eyes are bright with
a redness showing inside the eyelids, the
wool is soft to the handle, the animal o
flighty and walks with a jaunty air. It
does not go apart from the mob. Some-
thing is wrong when a sheep lags behind
or isolates itself from the mob. A dull
eye, a disinclination to eat, a tucked-up
appearance and a general listless air are
enough. If an external complaint is not
apparent it is certain some internal ail-
ment is present. The trouble should be
diagnosed at once, and if doubt exists
affected animals should be isolated in
case the ailment is contagious.
Early and correct treatment is essential.
To be sure of identifying an internal
complaint kill one of the affected sheep
and make a post-mortem. If the ailment
cannot then be diagnosed send for the
stock inspector.
Wattle Bark.
“Hux”: In 1905 Australia exported
£189,700 worth of tanbark. By 1939 out-
put had shrunk to £B6OO ; imports of tan-
bark and tannin extracts were, respec-
tively, £2548 and £81,480. They came
mainly from South Africa., products
of South Australian seed. This country
uses approximately 20,000 tons of bark
per annum. Commonwealth demand for
tannin extract is 5000 tons annually;
practically the whole of this comes from
South Africa, and half of it is absorbed
by N.S.W.
There’s money in wattle growing. The
trees take eight years to reach profitable
stripping. Select an area of ground and
divide into seven equal parts. Prepare
and sow one part only each year. At the
eighth year the first area sown should be
stripped and regular rotation of sowing
and stripping begun. A half-chain be-
tween each block makes for easier carting
and is a protection against fire. ll
possible plant the block in the form of a
windbreak or grove and fence it off to
protect it against stock. Later it can
shelter the stock from heat in summer
and cold in winter.
On present-day value gross returns from
an area worked on this basis would be
approximately £5O per acre at the end of
the eighth year and every year there-
after.
For tan bark, black wattle (Acacia
mollissima) is the best. Plough and
harrow the ground well; extra heavy
soils need cross-ploughing and reharrow-
ing. To speed up germination of seed
place in a bucket, pour scalding water on
it and let it soak 24 hours ; spread on a
tarpaulin to dry off before sowing. Plant
during showery weather or following
heavy rain. Two pounds of seed to the
acre is sufficient, in drills 6ft. apart, 4ft.
between seeds. This close spacing gives
a high-stemmed tree free of branches for
the first half of its length. Alternate trees
should be removed at four to five years.
Broadcast sowing takes at least 31b. of
seed per acre and makes thinning more
difficult.
Mammitis Control.
“Clean Milk”: For some years F. W.
Lock, Sandgate (Q.), has been trying to
convince scientists that the vagina, not
the udder, is the portal area of infection
for mastitis. Lock began experimenting
in the control of vaginitis and mastitis
when his own cows were dying from the
diseases, and he found that as he cleaned
up vaginitis the incidence of mastitis de-
clined. For about 10 years he has been
successfully treating dairy herds, but ap-
parently the idea of a connection between
vaginitis and mammitis is too revolution-
ary for the scientists even to consider.
Lock was not without some scientific
knowledge when he began his experi-
ments. By 1936 he was ready to bring
his theory under the notice of the scien-
tists. In the meantime scientific workers
in America had suspected some connec-
tion between vaginitis and mammitis, but
so far Lock has not received much en-
couragement. He is, however, hoping to
interest the C.S.I.R. Of late new drugs
have been tested as a possible mammitis
control, but all have been tried on the
theory that the udder is the portal area
of infection and no startling results have
been obtained. In their search for veter-
inary knowledge scientists shoulcf not
ignore completely the work of practical
farmers.
Transferring Bees.
“E. 2”: This spring a couple of us trans-
ferred a number of wild bee nests from
trees to frame hives. The colonies were
mostly in trunk hollows of fairly small
peppermints and were not seriously
affected by falling ; the couple we lost
through breaking up were in the tops of
tall gums. Most of the hives had their
combs end on to the entrance, and keep-
ing this in mind we endeavored to drop
the trees with entrance up, preserving the
combs intact and avoiding crushed bees.
With veil on and smoker pouring out a
thick cloud one of us got on to the hive
and flying bees at once and started them
gorging honey; after that they showed
little inclination to sting. We opened the
hollow to allow plenty of working space
and lifted the brood combs, brushed off
the bees and trimmed the comb to fit in
frames. They were then fastened securely
with string and put in a transfer box. The
bees were got on them quickly as possible
by scooping out clusters on pieces of bark
and driving with smoke. Usually we had
no trouble in finding the queen, and, if
she appeared in good order, we clipped
one of her wings. Even slight injury to the
abdomen of a queen renders her useless.
We put the brood frames into a hive
with bees clustered on them, and the re-
maining bees went in the entrance when
dumped on a bag outside. Besides the
brood we put in three or four frames of
empty comb alongside and a wooden
trough feeder holding about lOlb, of
honey in broken comb. We were fortu-
nate in having queen cells from other
colonies for those in which the queens
were killed or injured, but bees with
young brood are capable of raising a new
queen.
None of the transferred colonies
showed any intention to abscond, and in
a couple of days each had its combs built
in nicely and was gathering pollen and
honey. They are going ahead rapidly and


EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Pty„ Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
7
'III!
y „'
7k
y/
r^7
&
z-c
; <3
ff
fair cities on western plains far out
“It is they who will set fair cities
On the western plains, far out;
They who would garden the deserts —
It is they who would conquer the drought.
They see to the dykes on the skyline,
Where a dust waste blazes to-day.
And they hear 'the lap of the waters
On the miles of sand and clay.”
—Henry Lawson.
..
SeSSSffIffiSSBBS K•' S§K3:
m.
a
<v:: x'V :■:: : x x xX
m ■
xi
**. GJsr.
mi
* A * Uz*
m
K 2
PH
WSt*
m
5T i «,
i3O Caterpillar Diesel D 8 with elevating grader
making a road somewhere in Australia .
If Australia is to find a prosperous living for the millions of people necessary
to hold it safe ... we must make plans now for speedy development. The
population, which clings to its seaboards, must be offered a prosperous stake
in a bountiful hinterland made so by water conservation, irrigation and
cultivation. The fear of loneliness and isolation must be banished by quicker
means of communication. Out there where now lie loneliness and waste,
great cities must be built in the future. So that this gigantic task can be done
within our national budget only the most modern equipment should be used.
CATERPILLAR DtESEC
REG. U.S. PAT, OFF
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. ’Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. ’Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
’Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D, McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. “Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St!,
South Brisbane. ’Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail. ’Phone—lnnisfail 475,
BUY
WAR
SAVINGS CERTIFICATES#
<si>
LYSACHTS
* '.it
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
mk
.
Mr
m
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "IYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
should be in top condition to make the
most of an expected mid-season to late
honey-flow.
Fodder Trees.
“Sarina”: According to Queensland
Government botanist, C. T. White,
graziers are in two minds about the value
of the common wilga. Some cattlemen
say stock won’t eat it, but admit that it
makes a splendid shade tree; others swear
by it as a great fodder tree.’ Where stock
eat it they seem to prefer the tall or tree
wilga to the dwarf or bush wilga.
White lists the small- and large-leafed
Yapunyah gum trees, the horse bush,
cattle bush, western rosewood and white-
wood as being productive of good reserve
fodder. He would like to see the Bella
Sombra tree planted throughout the
west. This tree has a stem rather like
that of the bottle tree and hails from
Portugal.
He does not regard trees of the oak
family as being of much value for fodder,
although he points out that it is all a
matter of individual taste. In some places
cattle will tackle all manner of unpalat-
able trees and shrubs while ignoring more
succulent tucker. The felling of coarse,
fibrous scrub for stock is not, however, a
good plan unless things are desperate,
since indigestible grub causes impaction.
The N.S.W. Agricultural Bureau is
looking for a “progressive farmer” to
send to America for a six-month tour.
All expenses will be paid and the tourist
will be expected to live with American
farm families, study their methods and
broadcast his impressions when he
returns. Full particulars can be had
from the Bureau, Farrer-plade, Sydney,
Hints for the Farm.
“Courtcreek”: Best firebreak is made
by ploughing two tracks from 50 yards
to 100 yards apart through the long grass.
The strip of grass between the two tracks
is then burned off about sundown or
before the dew has quite dried in the
morning. After burning off grass go over
the burned area and extinguish burning
trees, roots, stumps and logs, unless you
want ’em to start a blaze around noon.
Overstocking doesn’t make good fire-
breaks in timbered country, for fire will
travel far and fast over fallen leaves,
“Nedher”: A grasshopper plague is
ravaging part of Maranoa (Q.), and
has beaten all methods of combating it.
A few years ago, when my area was
ravaged by ’hoppers, my vegetable plot
was the only green patch that escaped.
Right around the enclosing wire fence I
had growing a border of larkspurs. The
’hoppers chewed up everything outside
the fence, but shied clear of the larkspurs.
So obviously larkspurs are distasteful to
them. In areas where the pest assumes
plague proportions every few years a
thickly-sown row of larkspurs around
crops would be worth trying. They are
hardy plants and thrive in any weather.
“Plane Creek”: If sweet potatoes are
running to vine cut ’em back frequently
and feed the vines with molasses to stock.
Very rank vines may contain dangerous
?.cids, if so the molasses will prevent
poisoning. Molasses adds readily digested
carbohydrates to any fodder and is very
useful for making roughage palatable
and attractive. Given to pigs in small
quantities (large amounts may discolor
the flesh) it helps keep ’em worm-free and
prevents constipation.
“Nuffin”: Tests at the Veterinary Re-
search Institute, Melbourne University,
reveal the efficacy of Strain 19 vaccine.
To date the limited supply of vaccine has
restricted the vaccination to 400 herds,
and the incidence of abortion in the vacci-
nated group is 5 p.c., as against 27 p.c. in
unvaccinated herds. The rate of vacci-
nation will be accelerated as supplies of
Strain 19 increase.
“Myrrhee”: Calcium boro-gluconate
injection or udder inflation is each effec-
tive for milk fever, but the former is less
likely to cause udder injury, often a start-
ing point for mastitis. Dissolve 2jOZ.
boro-gluconate in lOoz. (half-pint) of
water which has been boiled and allowed
to cool Bring the solution to bloodheat
before injecting, using a 10 c.c. hypo,
syringe sterilised by boiling. Inject under
the skin at a site where the skin is thin
and movable. Apply tincture of iodine
where the needle is to be inserted, and
after injection massage the part to hasten
absorption by the tissues. Recovery
should take about 12 hours, but stubborn
cases taking 24 or more hours may need
a further injection. Give the cow a pur-
gative saline drench after she has returned
to normal.
“Bumble”; A bucket spray-pump is
useful in the apiary if swarming gets out
of hand. Keep a good supply of water
on hand and give the swarms a thorough
wetting when they issue. Dispersing some
of the brood combs of swarming hives
among weaker stocks will help, and the
best laying queens, if not too old, may
then be returned with the swarms. Some
apiarists practise exchange of hive posi-
tions between weak and strong colonies
to even up strength in field bees, but a
fair amount of fighting may occur,
Smoking is the remedy.


One thing you can say for Australians—
they know a good cloth. . . . Their judg-
ment has made (Entßaber CGlntlj the most
popular suiting throughout Australia. For
quality, beauty of design and long life,
(Erusafcr CElath is unsurpassed.
Ask your Tailor to show you
(frusaibf ®ot|
FOR QUALITY SUITS
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
m
a
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
“I am as fit
as ever”
a CO Z for
y ea uno ener ?
]To*°r
inning s.
sm
/
1 U *>Sojjfo / PUo
**■*«& *
The revitalising effect of a course of ‘Phyllosan’ tablets must be
experienced to be appreciated. Many thousands owe renewed
health and Vigour to these wonderful little tablets. If you
take ‘Phyllosan’ tablets regularly , we believe the results will
astonish you.
Start taking
PHYLLOSAN
helps to keep you fit after forty
' Phyllosan * tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The read, trade mark ’Phyllosan ’ is the property of Natural Chemicals Ltd., London
SMOKE-OH!
“Neither do 1 approve 6f woman as the king-
pin.”—“New Idea-’’
If she were, man would be shackled.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Ronald, the 14-year-dld son, had two young
fiends staying with him.” — Woman’s paper.
They seem like that, too, when they’re
on holidays.
4 4- 4* 4*
“Wanted, girl under 18 for sandwiches.”
—Suburban paper.
For export to the Cannibal Islands?
Soliloquy.
r nob t u„ t •
. • a t goat over there talking to
nimse h. Yabbenng away 50 to the
dozen! Gesticulating,- too. Probably
isn’t aware he does it. If only he could
see a moving picture of himself he might
realise how ridiculous he looks. Or may-
be he’s too far gone for that to do any
good.
I wonder if there is any cure for that
sort of thing. Wait on—what the heck am
I doing? Great Scott! I’m talking to
myself, too! Well, I’ll be blowed!
T. W. N.
y —Barfier ‘‘Courier
The war is certainly over.
"It's the unaccustomed use of muscles, I suppose. I showed a fellow my
entire stamp collection yesterday !”
“Lady over 45 will go to your home and
make up and model you.” —Suburban paper.
A designing woman out for your money.
4* 4* 4 4
“Stop smoking in three days.”— Ad.
A pipeful of Canberra-subsidised weed
will stop you in three minutes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Reconditioned singers.”
— Ad. in daily paper.
Had a tuning-up?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Your eldest daughter now intervenes. She
is a soulful girl whom Cupid has recently
peppered with a tommy-gun.”
— Woman’s paper.
She has, no doubt, absorbed more than
one magazineful.
Fairy Story.
“Come, let us away!” said the fairies.
“Thitherward let us away!
For thq setting sun shows day is done,
And we cannot longer stay.
So flutter your gauzy wings
Or you’ll find you’re in a fix.
Remember, dears, there will be no beers
If we get there after six !”
T. W. Nathan.
4* + +
“When it comes to a battle of tongues
women public-speakers can hold our own.”
—Speaker at a women’s meeting.
If they only would!
# 4* 4* 4* 4*
Literally Speaking.
“A correspondent in Paris says that exorbi-
tant prices still obtain, especially for food. On
the boulevards one pays up to ten francs for a
bowl of inferior coffee, with a piece of coarse
black’ bread thrown in.”
So the gargons in the Parisian cafes
still come at that!
I recall when I first visited the gay
capital going to a little place oh the
Boulevard St. Bufo. A side-levered waiter
slid up and bowed obsequiously. “M’sieu
will ’ave?” he asked.
I leaned back. “Compree vouse Ong-
lays?” I asked in my pure academic
French.
“A lettle beet, M’sieu,’’ he said
modestly.
“Well,” I went on, “the corsairs who
infest your fair city have successfully
prised me apart from what was once a
robust wad, leaving me with an insuffi-
ciency of wherewithal to do myself proud
at a flash fodder foundry with the slap-
up six-courser and trimmings which my
internal works crave. Consequently I am
reduced to keeping the fibres together
with a noggin of muddy fluid you flatter
by the name of coffee. The addendum
of a junk of sable dodger, as advertised,
has induced me to favor your hashhouse
with my valued patronage. Now trot
’em along; chock’s feet, as you Frencn
say, or the Entente will begin to lose its
alleged cordiality.”
The waiter * stared at me popeyed.
“Comment ?” he managed to stammer at
last.
I took a deep breath to start again, then
my glance fell on the gargon s stupid ex-
pression. Evidently the fellow didn’t
understand English as he claimed. TSkip
it,” I said. Then, “bringez moi a bowl
of coffee.”
Something as close as any foreigner can
get to intelligence at least gleamed in his
eye. “Bien, M’sieu,” he said gaily, and I
feared that in the exuberance of his joy
at the feat of interpretation he was going
to kiss me. “Noir ?”
“Wee,” I said, with that easy confi-
dence that comes with the mastery of an
alien tongue. “But, mind, don’t drown
it with milk.”
The waiter shrugged and disappeared
kitchenwards. He returned shortly with a
handless bowl of what looked faintly like
coffee. I picked it up and was about to
take a sip when something flashed past
my nose. The next instant a geyser of
coffee shot up into my eye. After I had
wiped the grounds out I saw that a piece
of black bread was in the bottom of the
bowl. A bowl of soup for three francs
with bread thrown in. Very funny.
That night I dropped in to the same
cafd and ordered mulligatawny soup,
which was sold under the same conditions
as the coffee, from the same gargon. He
brought a bowl and was putting it down
in front of me when I waved it back.
“Too small,” I said, “I’m very hungry.
A much bigger one.”
He came back with a bowl about 15in.
across. I rejected it. “I am a man, not
a puny gargon,” I protested angrily. “Get
me a vessel worthy of an appetite mag-
nifick !”
This time he returned with what looked
like a jardiniere, which contained about a
gallon of soup. As he placed it before
me I sniffed loudly. Then I quickly rose,
registering disgust, pointed first to my
nose and then to the soup and said “Par
bon. Compree hum?”
As the waiter bent low to get a sniff
of it I let fly with the full loaf of white
bread which I had secreted under my
coat. As the wave of mulligatawny
broke over his head the gargon made in-
stinctively to strike out for the shore.
Then, as he danced up and down, groping
for the bits of soggy celery and cabbage
in his ears and down his collar I raised
my hat —not only the French can be
polite—and said; “Soup with a piece of
refined bread thrown in—but it always
depends, monseer, on who throws first.
Bon soya bean.”
Bo.
Financial Problem.
“South African natives being demobilised are
asking for their gratuity in the form of extra
wives. The Government thought they would
be better off with such things as bicycles,
ploughs, cattle and shop equipment.’^
V —“Daily Telegraph.”
In Africa, when you espouse
The woman of your heart’s desire.
The local custom is to buy her
With fifty or a hundred cows;
But if in sudden pique the maiden
Packs up and marches home to mother
It seems, when purchasing another,
There’s no allowance for a trade-in.
Though sable heroes, home from war,
Would swap their years of service for
C Let’s say) polygamous futurity.
In case hard times should lie ahead
They’ll find it best to take instead
The more negotiable security.
P. M. Lusk.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Towing business, with or without Cottage.”
—“ S.M.H.” for sale ad.
The cottage should be a big draw.
t 4* 4* 4* 4*
“Grey 3-piece man’s suit, made to order, 43
chest, 6ft.” — Suburban paper.
Evidently a man of parts.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An innate complacency is a sort of hallstand
in any man, upon which he hangs the rest of
his personality or character.”—“New Idea.’’
And so he needs taking down a peg.
Piping Times.
“Indonesians Amok in Java”; “Jungle Fight-
ing in Saigon”; “Riots in U.S. Dock Strike”;
“Servicemen Warned of New Racket”; “Mad
Hats Go to Lunch”; “Record Divorce
Figures”; “Child Delinquency Increasing”;
“Steel Strike May Extend”; “Four Bandits
With Five Guns.”
—Sundry headlines for one day.
Revolt’s abroad ;
Spoof rivals graft.
The law’s ignored;
Dame Fashion’s daft.
Truism’s truth;
Love’s wearing thin.
“To hell,’’ says Youth,
“With discipline.”
Mob rules the day.
Thugs flout police . . .
Well, anyway,
Thank God for Peace !
P. O. M. C.


Public Notice.
TO CHARLES CLARK (or Clarke) AND ALL
CHILDREN OF THE SAID CHARLES CLARK
(or Clarke) AND ALL PERSONS CLAIMING
THROUGH ANY OF THEM.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court yr
are required to send before the 28th February, 1941
to the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, your claim to share in
the estate of ALEXANDER CLARK, late of Auck-
land, Labourer, Deceased, otherwise your claim may
be disregarded.—The Solicitor, PUBLIC TRUST
OFFICE, Wellington, New Zealand.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TTuT^ulletxm,.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are:
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 „ 12 6
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
3 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands—3 months .. ..£l9O
1
aiiss
as
SS^jn
m
''A
1
m
wm
Vv
Not Size ... but capacity for work
Small against the sheer bulk of
other carriers, an airplane is a giant
when measured in terms of the work
it can do. In one period of six
months, the 16 domestic airlines of
one country, with only 196 planes
in operation, carried 1,692,000 pas-
sengers, plus heavy wartime loads
of cargo and mail. These planes
were mostly 21-passenger types.
This particular air traffic was of
vital aid to war industry. Yet sim-
ilar air service would have benefited
any other nation equally well. Such
traffic figures also show that in
thinking of future air expansion, it
is the work capacity of air trans-
ports, and not their numbers, which
must be considered. One heavily
populated area may require 500
planes, while in another a half a
dozen planes will provide adequate,
profitable service. However, all
areas, whatever their size or loca-
tion, deserve adequate air service.
With large or small fleets, how-
ever, maximum service calls for
high efficiency. Wright Cyclone en-
gines give that efficiency. In addi-
tion to reliable power and ease of
maintenance, they add a payload
bonus due to lower weight in
pounds per horsepower and low fuel
consumption.
THE SHAPE OF PLANES TO COME
On all types of air routes you will
see the Commando, another of the
Cyclone-powered transports for your
air travel. Medium-range,high-speed
transport, built by Curtiss, it carries
36 passengers at 242 miles per
hour. Its powers two Cyclone 18'$
of over 2,200 horsepower each.
w
CYCLONE ENGINES PAY THEIR WAY
WRIGHT
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
WRIGHT AERONAUTICAL CORPORATION
Paterson, New Jersey, U.S.A. A Division of Curliss-V/right Corporation
REPRESENTATIVES:
AUSTRALIA, NEW GUINEA, AND PAPUA: E. L. HEYMANSON & COMPANY, MELBOURNE
tv
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
For greater
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
%
mm
5794
m
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Wreckage, Sentimental Studies and
Vignettes, by Hubert Crackanthorpe. —3666.
Information Sought.
What procedure is necessary for a person who
wishes to visit the U.S.A. 7
A passport must be obtained from the Depart-
ment of Customs, Customs House, Sydney,
where form of application can also be obtained.
A visa, obtainable from the Consul-General for
the U.S.A., 7 Wynyard-sfreet, Sydney, is also
required.
* * * *
If a widow remarries does relationship with
first husband’s relatives cease to exist 7
Except as to children of the first marriage no
legal relationship existed. Relationship of
mother to children does, of course, continue.
* * * *
Some information about the coral snake 7
Australia has no true coral snakes. A small
land species that is practically harmless is some-
times called the Australian coral snake because
of its bright coloration. These are sometimes
confused with brightly colored seasnakes found
among the coral reefs. The true coral snake
(Elaps fulvius) is found in southern U.S.A. and
is venomous.
« * * *
What were the number of entries and starters,
and winners of the A.J.C. Derby of 1939 and
1940 7
1939 : 421 entries, seven starters; Reading (D.
Munro) 1, High Caste (E. Bartle) 2, Wilson (H.
Badger) 3. 1940: 459 entries, 10 starters ; Pan-
dect (W. Cook) 1, Lucrative (M. McCarten) 2,
Sun Valley (A. Breasley) 3.
* * * *
(1) What are the Rugby Union colors for
each country in the British Empire 7 (2) What
Sydney R.U. clubs have changed their colors
during the war 7 (3) What clubs held the Sydney
R.U. first-grade premiership during the years
1936-4 1 7
(1) England, white jersey with rose emblem on
left breast; Wales, scarlet jersey with Prince of
Wales feathers on left breast; Scotland, navy
blue jersey with thistle on left breast; Ireland,
green jersey with white shamrock on left breast;
South Africa, dark green jersey with springbok
on left breast; Australia, dark green jersey with
Australian coat-of-arms on left breast. (2) St.
George, Northern Suburbs, University’s lower
grades, Parramatta. (3) Drummoyne, Univer-
sity, Randwick, University, Eastern Suburbs.
* * * *
What wto the number of backs and for-
wards respectively in the Rugby Union touring
teams of (1) Maoriland Natives to England and
Australia, 1888-89, and match record of the
tour; (2) English teams to Australasia in 1888,
1899, 1904, 1908 and 1930 7 (3) Australian team
to South Africa in 1933 7
(1) Twenty-five (12 backs, 13 forwards);
played 106, won 78, lost 23, drew five; points
for 771, against 298. (2) 1888, 22 (nine backs,
13 forwards); 1899, 21 (10 backs, 11 forwards);
1904, 24 (11 backs, 13 forwards); 1908, 28
(14 backs, 14 forwards); 1930, 29 (14 backs,
15 forwards). (3) 28 (14 backs, 15 forwards).
Brief Answers.
J.A.C.; Apply to N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment, Farrar-place, Sydney J.F.H. and
G.W.: Kergumyah, “my home”; Koolami,
“near big trees”; Koomanganong, “place of
rest”; Kooroora, ’’home”; Oolyah, “among
trees”; Billabowrie, “good place to camp”;
Gubbanoo, “extensive view”; Kobbadah, “place
on a jjjii”. Mooriong, “facing the sunrise”;
Amaroo, “beautiful place” R.F.; Know no-
thing of any such procedure 5.8.: Arrange-
ments should he made with the Customs De-
partment, Queen-street, Brisbane J.E.W.:
When the discussion of a subject outside the
agenda is necessary standing orders are sus-
pended so that the debate may take place;
when the subject has been dealt with standing
orders are resumed C.R.T.: To obtain a
copyright, apply to the Department of Copy-
rights 341 Pitt-street, Sydney. .J.M A.: The
Repatriation Department makes loans to ex-ser-
vicemen P.J.G.. Victorian Ferns, by R.
Bond,. 25., obtainable from the hon librarian
of Field Naturalists Club of Victoria, 35
Grandview-grove, East Prahran, Victoria
A.D.: 4 p.c. or 5 p.c. D.D.T. - kerosene
solution sprayed over the walls and fittings of a
room has been found effective in discouraging
flies for periods up to three months. —B.C.V.:
Apply to the Prothonotary, Law Courts, Mel-
bourne.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
G.W.8.: Next thing you’ll be discovering
that the clouds have “a silvei; lining” L. 8.:
You’ve said it better before.... Author of
“Melbourne October” (unsigned); A harmless
trilling... .Jack W.: Better not think about fish
if that’s what it does to you... .A.A.M.
Promising if he’s young. ... H.I.McG.. U
LOVELINESS return’ O BEAUTY come
againS.” At any rate, you ve got your type-
writer excited about it... .J.8.C.: Two lines,
then, of justly impassioned protest concerning
the price of beer: —
Ye parasitic hungry crew
Dispensers of a friendly brew . . .
. .A.J.D.: They sound youthful A.E.S.:
Sorry: still thin. Illustrated, they might make
a booklet for children... .S.K.C.: Prosy....
W S F.: Fair dinkum, now, have you ever seen
a weary cloud, after resting a while on the
Blue Mountains, hurrying on with a thanktul
smile”? E.S.; That style was old-fashioned
in Wordsworth’s time.


A Man and
his family
Life Assurance is a vast Co-operative
enterprise for taking care of future needs.
Death comes to everyone. Before death comes, the
earning power of most people declines. Neither of these
can be prevented, but there is a way of safeguarding
families against hardship brought about by old age and
death. That way is Life Assurance.
Life Assurance rests on the principle of co-operation.
A life office is merely the instrument that enables a group
of people to co-operate for' their mutual benefit and pro-
tection.
Like any other co-operative movement, Life Assur-
ance is purely voluntary. No citizen is compelled to enjoy
its benefits against his will. Each citizen is free to decide
what benefits he desires, and to make his contribution
accordingly.
The wise man protects his family with sufficient
assurance to see it through the difficulties that may lie
ahead.
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
0f Tire 3 Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you miserable,
don’t just complain and do nothing about them. Nature
may be warning you that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous waste out of the blood. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters don’t work
well, poisonous waste matter stays in the blood, causing
nagging backaches, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, swelling, pufflness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent and
scanty passages with smarting and burning show there
is something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used successfully by
millions for over 40 years. They give happy relief
and will help the 15 miles of kidney tubes flush out
poisonous waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy that will
make you well and keep you well.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
THE LUCK OF THE GAME
By “STANDBY.”
HE thrust the swinging door aside
and, without a glance at the occu-
pants, strode across the bar-room.
He was a small man, not more
than five feet six in height, but some-
how you didn’t notice his size. It was
his vigorous, assured manner, the keen
look in his grey eyes that attracted your
attention.
Even the barmaid, who believed in
making the customers await her pleasure.
responded and broke off her languid con-
versation with the stout man in the light-
grey suit. With a pat to her elaborately
piled blonde hair she was opposite the
small man almost as soon as he reached
the bar.
“I’ll have a beer,” he stated firmly.
“The longest glass of beer you’ve got.”
He downed the drink and strode out of
the bar.
“Who’s your friend?” the stout man
asked the barmaid.
“Search me,” the girl answered. “Never
seen ’im in me life before. ’E’s a sailor,
I bet, and I oughter know. I see enough
of ’em come in here ; but I never seen
a sailor in such a hurry to get rid of ’is
beer.”
Halfway down the crowded block the
small man’s purposeful stride was halted,
A man—big, broad-shouldered, jovial—
elbowed his way through the crowd and
grasped his arm.
“Whoa there, shipmate,” he said. “Not
so fast. I’ve been looking for you every-
where. What’s the verdict?”
“Hullo, Mac.” The hard face broke
into that quick flashing grin. “Guilty.
Suspended for six months.”
“And you can still grin! But why
should you be suspended? Your damned
mate put her up. He deserves all he gets,
but you had nothing to do with it. Every-
one knows that. We were all sure you’d
be acquitted. It’s a damned disgrace.”
“Oh no, Mac. The verdict’s right. I
was" guilty—the master always is. You
know that. I shouldn’t have trusted that
mate, and that’s all there is to it.”
“But damn it all—oh, what’s the use?
What are you going to do now, George?”
“Look for a job.”
IN the next two years George Carter
1 had several jobs, each one a step
upwards. He started as a wharf-laborer
and when war broke out he was holding
down a responsible position with a firm
of shipping and forwarding agents,
Although he could not bring himself
to ask for a ship again he could never
get far away from the sea. On the wall
of his dining-room hung an enlarged
photograph of his ship, the Coombarra.
It must have been torture for him to look
at it, but he would not have it moved.
Often in the evenings he would stand
in front of it admiring the vessel’s grace-
ful lines and the sense of power in her.
And always he would remember the
ripping grinding crash that had thrown
him from his bunk when she struck the
reef, and the turmoil of his emotions as
he raced up the bridge ladder. He loved
the Coombarra, and he pictured her, not
as she was yesterday—a thing of graceful
lines and buoyant beauty—but as she
would be in six months’ time, a broken,
rusted hulk, stripped of everything of
value.
But she had not broken her back. The
sea ftfr once was merciful and, with the
aid of a salvage vessel, many tons of
cament and a spring tide, they had floated
her off. And now he was the broken
rusted hulk—as far as the sea went, any-
how.
Pearl Harbor was ancient news and
the demand for qualified seamen was
becoming urgent before Captain Carter
was offered another command. Even
with the outbreak of war he had not
sought one.
“When they want me they’ll send for
me,” he had said to his wife. “They
know where to find me,”
When the offer finally came it arrived
in the form of a telegram from his late
owners asking him to call at the office as
soon as possible. He went immediately.
At the office he was taken straight in to
the managing director. The great man,
shook hands warmly and drew up a chair
for him. ?
“Sit down, captain,” he said. “It’s
good to see you again. Cigar? No, I
forgot you were a non-smoker. Well
Captain, we’ve been discussing you and
we’ve come to the conclusion that you
were pretty—er—harshly used—much too
harshly. We have always had a very
high opinion of your capabilities, so we ve
decided to offer you another command.
What do you think of that?”
With characteristic directness Captain
Carter said: “I think it’s taken you a
devil of a long time to find it out, Mr.
„ < , . ,
Ahem! Mr. Armstrong placed his
soft pink fingertips together and managed
a smile Suppose we let bygones be by-
gones, Captain? Er we want you to take
over your old ship, the Coombarra. You II
find she s as good as ever she was before
the—er—as good as ever, in fact. She
will be under charter to the Admiralty.
he d r°exceDtTha W t h it-s su% TooSS
war zone Naturally, they’re leaving the
choice of a master to us and, as we want
an old company man, one who has the
interests of the company at heart”--
You ve evidently no one else capable
of handling he job, Captain Carter
remarked. What s happened to old Per-
guson? He s had her ever since I piled
her up on Bow Reef.”
A/ r A . . . , . ... ,
“ror^?™F rOnS lHe - d t 0 hlde -1 scow |;
Captain Ferguson is a very sick man,
he answered. “I’m afraid he’ll never go
to sea again. Harper, her chief officer,
is an excellent young man, but he lacks
experience. We don’t feel like entrusting
him with the great responsibilities of a
command in war-time. Now then, Cap-
tain, will you accept the position?”
Captain Carter grinned.
A T eight - thirty next morning he
** walked up the gangway. It was like
returning home after an absence of years
to see Knowles, the chief steward, and
gnarled, wrinkled old Chris Johnston, the
bosun, come forward to take his luggage,
“Morning, Knowles. Morning, bos’n,”
he said. “You two still with her, eh?”
“Yes, sir,” old Chris said, displaying
toothless gums in a beaming smile. “An’
it’s nice to ’ave you back with us agen,
sir.”
“Tell the mate I’d like to see him,”
Captain Carter said when they put his
gear in his room.
He sat down in his chair, his favorite
chair, and looked around his quarters,
This was home to him ; he had to admit
it—more home than his own house,
bought with his savings. He was gazing
around at the familiar furnishings, feel-
ing supremely content, wfien the mate
knocked.
“Come in,” he called, and, as the mate
removed his cap and stepped inside,
“You’ll be Mr. Harper, I take it. Sit
dowm.”
In ten minutes he’d sized up his first
mate and the situation aboard the Coom-
barra. Harper was young and ambitious,
obviously a worker. Old Ferguson, he
knew, was fat and lazy. Also he’d been
a sick man lately. He’d probably left
everything he could to his mate, who
seemed to take it for granted that his new
captain would do the same. The airy
way he dismissed certain details with a
manner that seemed to imply “It’s quite
all right—just leave everything to me
and you’ll have no worries,” annoyed
Captain Carter.
“Let’s get this matter straight, Mr.
Harper,” he interrupted. “I’m in com-
mand here and I don’t need a wet-nurse.
I expect you to carry out your duties as
chief officer, and if I want any additional
help or advice from you I’ll ask for it.
Got that?”
Mr. Harper stood up and tucked his
cap under his arm. “Yes,, sir,” he
answered. “I understand.”
“Good,” The hard face broke into the
quick flashing smile.
Captain Carter took his ship away from
the wharf quietly and expertly. The
young third mate standing by the tele-
graph saw a seaman doing a difficult job
with confident ease, but in the small
man’s face he saw nothing of the emotions
that gripped him so strongly. As the
engines thumped slowly ahead and astern
and then gradually worked up to full
speed Captain Carter felt like whistling
or singing for the joy of being under
way again.
The ship—his ship—was coming to life
under his command. He could feel the
power behind those vibrations, hear the
steady throb, throb of the mighty engines
and see the water swirling past her plates.
He gripped the bridge rail with a feeling
of immense pride. “I’ll never let you down
again old girl; never,” that grip said.
His sailing orders were for Horn
Island and Darwin, and long before the
Coombarra reached the Torres Strait her
officers had adapted themselves to their
new skipper’s ways. Old Captain Fer-
guson had hated to be disturbed, but this
man insisted on being called for the least
possible thing. Once, during the second
mate’s watch, he had come on to the
bridge and found that the course had been
altered without his consent.
“We struck a strong cross-current just
after we passed Pine Islet,” the second
explained, “so I hauled her out a bit.”
“So I see.” The small man’s mouth
shut down into a hard, straight line, and
he seemed to speak without opening his
lips. “Can you explain why I wasn’t
called?”
“I didn’t think you’d want to be dis-
turbed, sir. The visibility is quite good,
and”
“Just a moment!” Captain Carter
moved squarely in front of his second
mate. “My orders are that I’m to be
called for every change of course —every
change. Understand that clearly, Mr.
James, You have doubtless heard that
two years ago a mate of mine put this
ship on a reef. That’s not going to
happen a second time,”
Captain Carter made two runs to
Darwin and one to Milne Bay with-
out incident, but on the Coombarra’s
second visit to Milne Bay he saw what
bombs could do to shipping, even when
that shipping was anchored under the
piotcction of fairly adequate shore bat-
teries. In a short but severe daylight raid
he saw two ships sunk and others damaged.
The Jap bombers appeared to prefer
ships to any other target.
During the next few months the Coom-
barra saw a good deal of the New Guinea
coast, and if Captain Carter felt the strain
of keeping his ship clear of reefs in im-
perfectly charted waters he gave no sign
of it. He spent whole nights on the bridge
without ever complaining or becoming
irritable. Others ships were wrecked or
run aground on that treacherous coast,
and every time Captain Carter saw a
wreck or heard of a disaster he smiled
grimly and, in the privacy of his cabin,
told his ship “That’ll never happen to
you, old girl. I’ll see to that.”
BUT it did happen to the Coombarra.
And it was George Carter himself
who ran her aground, in broad daylight,
too.
He had dropped anchor in Oro Bay
after an uneventful trip across from
Townsville. His holds were loaded with


m
E WORLD'S QUALITY OIL
-:w
m
m
-y
m
9
tt
m
m >
A
■
V
r „
S 8
P
mmmmm
1895 - 1945
This year Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.,
marketers of Mobiloil, Australia’s most
popular motor oil, celebrates its 50th
Anniversary in this Country-A Life-
time of Leadership in Lubrication.
MOBILOIL MUST BE GOOD
TO REMAIN THE IFADFR FOR
FIFTY YEARS
Mobiloil
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
■4SS
mmmmmmmmammmmmmmmmmmmmm incorporated in Australia
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
ammunition, and his orders were to
report to the Naval Officer in Charge at
Oro Bay. Mr. Harper had just reported
the ship safely brought up to her anchor
when the N.0.1.C. himself came along-
side in a launch and instructed Captain
Carter to go straight in to the wharf and
embark troops for Morobe.
There were over a thousand A.I.F. men
waiting to embark, and the Coombarra
had lifeboat accommodation for fifty
men only. Captain Carter pointed this
out to the N.0.1.C., who answered that it
couldn’t be helped. They would be in
Morobe before daylight, and there was
very little danger of a night attack on the
way up. After disembarking the troops
the Coombarra could discharge her cargo
in Morobe.
At 4 a.m. Captain Carter signalled him-
self to Morobe signal station, and was
told to anchor inside and await orders.
Just after daybreak the Red Alert
sounded, ■ Captain Carter sent the mate
forward to heave short on his anchor,
and told the second mate to call Naval
Control and ask permission to disembark
the troops.
“Navy says you are to stay where you
are, sir,” the second mate reported,
switching off the Aldis lamp. “Arrange-
ments will be made to take the troops off
as soon as possible.”
Damn the Navy,” Captain Carter
answered. “Tell the O.C. Troops I want
him up here.”
The O.C. Troops must have been on
his way up to the bridge, for he arrived
in a few seconds, and, as he reached Cap-
tain Carter’s side, the heavy battery on
the .point near by .crashed out its first
shots. The men on the bridge stared
upwards.
“There they are!” the helmsman called,
excitedly pointing. “ ’Struth, there’s a
mob of ’em!”
High up and away out to seaward Cap-
tain Carter saw the enemy ’planes like
a score of tiny silver insects against the
blue morning sky.
“Colonel,” he said, “I don’t like the
look of things. I’ve asked permission to
land your troops and have been told to
stay where I am. My holds are full of
high explosives. There’s no need to tell
you what will happen if the ship is hit.
Do you want your men put ashore?” The
colonel glanced from the crowded decks
to the short, hard-faced man alongside
him.
“By God, I do. Captain,” he said. “I’ve
no authority to order you to go along-
side, but if you”
“To hell with authority! I’ll put ’em
ashore for you.” Captain Carter picked
up a megaphone. More heavy guns were
firing now, and he intended to make him-
self properly heard.
“Heave away, Mr. Harper,” he roared.
Without waiting for the anchor to come
up he jerked the telegraph to full ahead.
“Head her straight for that patch, of
mangroves,” he said to the helmsman.
And then to the second mate: “All hands,
mister, and get out your cargo nets. If
you have time hang ’em over the bows.
If not, keep your men out of the way of
the troops. I’m putting the ship ashore.
Jump to it!”
He nodded in answer to the first mate's
hail of “Anchor away, sir.”
“Walk both anchors down to the water-
line, mister,” he called. “When you let
go don’t check your cables. Let ’em run.”
“I’m picking what looks the softest
place,” he explained to the colonel.
“There may be a reef there. We’ll have
to chance that. In any case, I’ll drive her
well up so your boys will be able to
scramble ashore. They can scatter out
and look after themselves when they get
to the beach, can’t they?”
“Just put us ashore and we’ll do the
rest,” the colonel said. And then, realis-
ing the responsibility this man was taking
on himself. “My God, skipper, you’ve
got guts!”
“Guts be damned! Do you expect me
to stand here and see all these boys blown
to hell without trying to do something
about it? Ease your wheel, Jones. Keep
her straight for that tallest clump of
trees.”
The Coombarra was by now fast
gathering headway, charging straight foi
the heavily-timbered shore. On the
fo’c’sle head Mr. Harper was nervouslv
fidgeting with the seams of his trousers
and glancing anxiously from the fast-
approaching shoreline to the figure of
his captain, high up on the bridge. Until
the arrival of the second mate and several
seamen dragging the heavy cargo nets up-
on to'the fo’c’sle head he seemed unable
to grasp the fact that Captain Carter was
deliberately running his ship aground.
THE whole manoeuvre, from the first
ringing of the telegraph gong until
Captain’Carter rang off the engines, took
only a few minutes.
But Captain Carter had no means of
knowing whether there was an offshore
reef ahead of him. The early-morning
sun had turned the calm surface of the
harbor to a shimmering white —as white
almost as the mists rising from the deep
green jungle-covered valleys in the near-
by hills. There could be anything under
that shining surface—hard coral reefs,
jagged rocks or just deep clear water.
He stood motionless, both arms out-
stretched in front of him, hands grasping
the bridge rail and eyes fixed on the
dazzling surface of the narrowing strip
of water ahead. He was wearing a short-
sleeved khaki shirt and a pair of khaki
shorts; and, in spite of his fears for his
men, the colonel noticed the long sinews
standing like cords along the bared fore-
arms and the hard bulging muscles in the
calves of the legs. Was he bracing him-
self to meet a coming jar, the colonel
wondered, or tense with some deeper
fear?
With the ship’s bows a bare two hun-
dred feet offshore, the figure relaxed and
came suddenly to life. Both hands were
lifted from the rail and held palm-upwards
level with the head.
“Leggo your 'anchors!” he roared,
“And don’t check ’em.”
Even before bosun and mate had
opened the brakes of the windlass he had
spun round and rung the telegraph to stop.
The next few minutes were a bedlam of
noises. The heavy cables were racing up
over the windlass, dancing madly across
the deck and disappearing through the
hawse pipes with a clattering roar and
clouds of red rust; guns were blasting all
along the shore ; branches —whole trees —
were crashing and snapping off with
reports like rifle shots as the Coombarra
drove her forefoot high up in the timber.
From somewhere across the far side of
the harbor came the dull, heavy roar of
the first stick of bombs exploding, and
through it all Captain Carter noticed one
thing—a thing that probably no other
man aboard the ship noticed. There had
been no sudden jar, no grinding noise
from underneath. High up on the beach
as her head was, the Coombarra had
come to an almost gentle stop on a soft
bottom. She had suffered no mortal
injury. He picked up the megaphone and
bellowed:
“Over you go, boys! Take to the
bush.” His face broke into the grin of
a happy schoolboy.
DURING the next quarter of an hour
the port took a very severe plastering.
Of the three small ships anchored in the
harbor two were sunk and the other badly
damaged. Having settled the shipping to
his satisfaction the Jap turned his atten-
tion to the shore. Evidently he never saw
the Coombarra with her head rammed
well up among the trees, or, if he did, he
regarded her as an abandoned wreck un-
worthy of his attention. The only
casualty among her crew and passengers
was old Chris Johnston, the bosun. The
mates and the seamen on the fo’c’sle
head had seen the danger of falling timber
as the Coombarra took the ground and
had ducked for safety. The bosun, being
older and slower than the others, was
struck by a branch and had his arm
broken.
With the All Clear came Authority m
the shape of an ancient Navy launch. A
very worried naval officer clambered
aboard. He saw a ship apparently hope-
lessly ashore. Branches of overhanging
mangroves festooned her fo’c’sle head
and cast a shade almost to her foremast.
Of the troops who should have been
crowding her decks there was not a sign.
Captain Carter was sipping a cup of hot
tea and talking to his chief officer when
the lieutenant reached the bridge.
“Morning, lieutenant,” he greeted the
naval man. “Pretty nasty raid, that. Did
he do much damage? Have a cup of
tea?”
“No, thanks.” The lieutenant’s voice
was irritable. “I’ve got no time for tea.
Captain, where the hell are your troops?
You were supposed to have eleven hun-
dred A.I.F. men aboard.”
Captain Carter waved his hand towards
the heavily-timbered shore.
“Don’t ask me,” he answered. “They’re
scattered over there somewhere.” His
grey eyes twinkled and his mouth spread
into his charming grin. “It strikes me
you’re going to have a devil of a time
collecting ’em, lieutenant.”
“But I don’t understand. Is the ship
badly damaged? Were there many casual-
ties?” _ , . .
“None as far as I know. The ship is
undamaged except where the trees
scratched her bows. I’ve got two good
anchors out astern, and I expect to have
her off at high water. By the way, what
time is high water this morning?”
“About eleven-thirty. But, captain, do
you mean to tell me you ran your ship
up here before she was hit?”
“She was never hit. You wouldn’t take
my troops off so I put ’em ashore myself.”
Three weeks later the Coombarra was
back in Sydney. As soon as she was
berthed Captain Carter took his report
up to the company’s office. Once again
he was taken straight in to the managing
director, and this time Mr. Armstrong
was even more effusive.
“Captain,” he said, tapping an official-
looking document with his glasses. “I
have just received this letter from the
Admiralty. The Naval Authorities
express their appreciation for the brilliant
way in which you handled your ship dur-
ing a very severe raid somewhere in New
Guinea. Apparently you were responsible
for saving, not only the lives of many
valuable young Australians, but your ship
as well. May I add the thanks of the
company and my own personal congratu-
lations?”
“Thanks, Mr. Armstrong.” For once
Carter’s grin was slightly cynical. “There’s
just one thing you people don’t seem to
take into consideration, and that is a cer-
tain element of luck. It’s a bit funny
when you come to think of it. My mate
puts the ship ashore and I’m crucified
for it. / run her ashore and I’m a bloody
hero. I wonder what you’d have all had to
say if there had been a reef off that beach
and I’d ripped the bottom out of her.”


All Men Think
All Men Mortal
But Themselves
And that is why so many other-
wise careful and provident heads
of families neglect the most
sacred duty they owe to those
dependent upon them.
That is to ensure by the careful drawing
of a Will that the provision made for
those who follow on passes to them
without loss or inconvenience.
Your wife and family are dependent
on you now; they will be much more
dependent when you are gone. Now
they have your counsel and support;
what they will have when you ate gone
will depend very largely on what you
do before you go.
So, remember that you, too, are mortal.
Have your Will properly drawn and
attested, and be sure you leave the
administration of it in good and
experienced hands.
The Trustee Company—such as the
old-established Union Trustee—is the
ideal executor. It possesses experience
and business judgment. It is com-
pletely impartial; it does not grow old
or die; its charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenhara; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll. ■
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Maior-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager; H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., A.i.c.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, A.F.1.A., A.A.I.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors ; C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
ẃ
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
t , „ Net . . To Re- Re-
Juiy, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 92,751 7J p.c. = 90,000 2,751 641,431
1936.. 108,819 8 „ „ 96,000 12,819 654,260
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 754,250
1937 -• 120,136 9 p.c. = 112,453 7 , q „
Staff fund. £5OOO .. .. j 2,683 706,933
Share premiums, £70,000 .. .. 826,933
1938.. 151,973 9 p.c. = 131 905 7
Staff fund, £5OOO .. 15,068 842,001
Share premiums, £89,051 .. .. 931,052
1939.. 152,287 9 p.c. = 144,327 7
Staff fund, £5OOO . . ] 2,960 934,012
1940.. 170,213 9 p.c. = 155,843 ] „ „„„
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. | 9,370 943,382
1941.. 135,208 9 p.c. = 155,925 922,665
1942.. 143,649 8„ „ 138,600 5,049 927,714
1943.. 149,184 8 „ , 138 600 7
Staff fund, £5OOO ’. . ’.. \ 5,584 933,298
1944.. 149,957 8 p.c. c= 138,600 7
Staff fund, £5OOO .. . 6,357 939,695
1945.. 153,257 8 p.c. = 138,600 7
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. } 9.657 949,312
During the decade to the close of
accounts in 1939 Tooheys added
£1,602,198 to the book value of fixed
assets, largely on hotel account. This
widening and tying of the market for the
co.’s products enabled it to secure and
hold its full share of the war-time increase
in civilian consumption of beer, which
stepped up with the lengthening of pay-
rolls and wage-lifts until pegged at two-
thirds the thirsty Jan.-Feb., 1942, level.
This in order to meet growing service re-
quirements of our own and Allied forces,
which are outside the public rationing
scheme and which account for a large
slice of the increase in total beer con-
sumption.
Some idea of the expansion, as well as
what the amber liquid is worth to the
Treasury, can be had from Common-
wealth collections in excise on beer:
Year to Year to
June 30. June 30.
1939.. £7,342,2577 1943.. £19,632,6957
11,836,8707 1944.. 21,615,9747
19 f 3 -- 174, 2.99,4 U 7 1945.. 21,511,748*
7 Federal Statistician’s figures. * Budget figure.
Until 1942 part of the increase was due
to lifts in excise—3d, per gallon 1939,
9d. 1940, 3d. 1941 and Is. 7d. 1942, a
total of 2s. 10d., making excise 4s. 7d. per
gallon. Advancing turnover eased the
pressure of rising costs, including taxa-
tion, upon the ceiling over wholesale
selling prices. This ceiling has been
punctured only by the lifts in excise,
which have been passed on to* hotel-
keepers and over the counter to
customers. Breweries now hand the Gov-
ernment in excise about 73 p.c. of gross
receipts for bulk beer. The other 27 p.c.,
approximately ss. sd. in the £, has to
cover increased production, distribution
and other costs (including co. tax) as well
as profit.
Despite the apparent drop in excise col-
lections, Tooheys’ gross earnings ad-
vanced £60,572 last term. That was after
openly allowing £27,578 (down £6069) for
depreciation, and maintaining plant “in a
high state of efficiency” out of current
revenue. Arrival of the British Pacific
Fleet helped to keep up demand from
the services, U.S. personnel having moved
north ; and the general experience in the
hotel section of the business was one of
improvement;
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Gross £ £ £ £
earnings 935,661 1,232,538 1,573,261 1,633,833
Exes. .. 772,647 1,088,889 1,423,304 1,480,576
163,014 143,649 149,957 153,257
Exes., which include excise and income
tax, took £57,272 of the gain. That left
the net result £3300 stronger at 8.8 p.c. on
capital as against 8.6, 8.6, 8.3,. 7.8. 9.8,
9.5 and 10.3 p.c. back to 1938.‘ The div.
remained at 8 p.c,, £5OOO was tossed into
the staff fund, and the £9657 that remained
lifted reserves to £949,313.
As for the current term, the Federal
Treasurer has budgeted for an extra
£400,000 or thereabouts in excise on beer.
As demobilisation proceeds service re-
quirements will diminish and civilian de-
mand strengthen. This ought to mean
progressive relaxation of the civilian
quota restriction. Any failure in this
respect will spell encouragement to the
black market. The Government’s pro-
gramme of public spending and a high
level of employment promise to be help-
ful so far as brewery takings are con-
cerned. But, while selling prices remain
fixed at present levels, the big problem
will be to restrain costs. The demand for
a 40-hour week and Labor’s use of the
strike as a coercive weapon in bargain-
ing for it, will add greatly to the compli-
cations, and will retard instead of assist
a rise in the standard of living. Details
of the liquor bill presently to be in-
troduced in the N. S. Wales Assembly
have not yet been broadcast.
When manpower and materials become
available deferred repairs and improve-
ments to hotel properties, etc., will call
for substantial outlay. The board, how-
ever. gives no hint as to the amount likely
to be involved. Here are balance-sheet
figures:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
£,£>£>£
Capital .. 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,732,500 1,732,500
Sundry
creditors! 563,469 727,503 438,752 818,084
Loans* . . 795,301 809,643 804,973 804,973
Brewery,
hotels, etc. 3,339,178 3,492,611 3,282,615 3,182,849
Stocks .. 101,876 141,378 141,434 137,123
Book debts 623,858 581,847 513,907 505,315
Cash, etc... 13,491 11,613 11,450 13,107
Shares in
other cos. 39,212 39,212 40,777 40,777
* Advances by subsidiaries, f Including taxation, etc.
Last term’s reduction of £99,766 in the
book value of fixed assets was nearly four
times the amount visibly allowed for de-
preciation. The amount coming to sundry
creditors, which includes provision for
taxation and other contingencies, was re-
duced by £120,668, leaving it at nearly
half the 1943 figure. Excluding loans
from the finance subsidiary, which are a
domestic matter, the year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£378,238) was £109,422.
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
blot To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. t>erves. serves.
£ £ £
1935.. 102,185 8 p.c. = 72,000 30,185 209,526
1936.. 107,124 10 „ „ 90,000 17,124 226,650
1937.. 109,466 10 „ „ 90,000 19,466 246,116
Share premiums, £49,168 .. .. 295,284
1938.. 105,271 lOp.c. = 96,146 9,125 304,409
1939.. 115,433 10 „ „ 99,834 15,599 320,008
Share premiums, £1826 ~ .. 321,834
1940.. 117,975 lOp.c. = 100,000 17,975 339,809
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.*
1941.. 158,875 10 p.c. = 100,000 53,875 432,939
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 427,989
1942.. 122,922 10 p.c. = 100,000 22,922 450,861
To staff fund, £5OOO 445,861
1943.. 126,287 8J p.c. = 87,500 38,787 484,648
To staff fund, £5OOO ~ . . .. 479,648
1944.. 111,289 91 p.c. = 95,000 16,289 495,937
To staff fund, £5OOO 490,937
Plant replacement reserve, £21,000 .. 469,937
1945.. 111,452 91 p.c. = 95,000 16,452 480,389
Plant replacement reserve, £lO,OOO .. 476,389
* After eliminating outside interests.
Actual trading result last term was about
£35,000 less than the figure claimed in
the accounts. The board puts it this
way;
Owing to the sudden cessation of hostili-
ties and the proposed stabilisation of wool
prices, your directors have decided to adopt
a less conservative basis, although still at
or below cost, for valuation of stocks on
hand and in transit at June 30 last. This
has resulted in an increase in profits for the
past year to the extent of approximately
£35,000,
The £111,452 of profit shown in the table
also includes a windfall of £1374 from
a subsidiary and allows for other minor
adjustments, including deduction of out-
side interests. It was written after charg-
ing taxation paid and provided for
£123,539 (down £7461), allowing £37,392
(up £20,892) for plant replacement and
£29,272 (down £23,395) as ordinary depre-
ciation. The £111,452 was 11.1 p.c. on
capital as against 11.1, 12.6, 12.2, 15.3,
11.7 and 11.5 p.c. back to 1939. The
div. was kept at 9\ p.c., and a further
£lO,OOO was earmarked for special plan
replacement, making the reserve for th
purpose £97,392, which is not includec
with reserves in the table. The whol
treatment of the figures suggests
cautious, forward-looking policy, despit
valuation of stocks on a less conservativ
basis.
Pre-war the parent’s mills at Abbots
ford (Vic.) and those of subsidiary. Glob
Worsted Mills, at Marrickville (N.S.W.]
set a standard in production that hac
long won its own reward. During the
war both plants were engaged about 70
p.c. on service contracts ; the other 30 p.c
of output was mainly civilian lines of
standard quality unsatisfactory to both
the maker and the public. Also, the co
has exported some wool tops and cloth
at prices fixed by Government agency.
Chief trouble at the moment is shortage
of female labor, especially in the juvenile
group, and absenteeism. “We could have
increased our turnover at least one-third
if sufficient labor had been available,” the
board says. Hence the present acute
scarcity of outer-wear materials, which is
due in no way to lack of raw materials
or manufacturing facilities. The problem
appears to have its roots in social aspira-
tions rather than in lack of amenities or
salary attraction, and it is difficult to say
exactly when a solution will be found.
Maybe not until conditions change and
the worker once more “calls for the job”
instead of vice versa will the position right
itself.
Meanwhile the industry is faced with
delay in attaining full-scale production,
with the inevitable effect upon costs, which
will push prospects of developing export
markets further into the background.
Also, unless the production lag can be
overtaken in time, an import trade may
develop on a scale detrimental to the Aus-
tralian industry. And maintenance of
restrictions on types and quality of yarns
and cloth produced threaten to bring
about a hand-to-mouth trading policy by
wholesalers and retailers and consequent
curtailment of manufacture.
Another direction in which the Gov-
ernment can and should help is by grant-
ing some relief from the excessive burden
of company taxation. It tends to keep
cost of production at home high, and im-
pairs ability to meet competition from
countries in which equally steep taxation
is not imposed. Also, the present inade-
quate allowance for obsolescence in com-
puting tax liability tends to retard main-
tenance of plant efficiency, and to check
enterprise and adoption of new processes
by drying up one of the most important
sources of capital for these purposes,
namely, adequate reserves.
And there is the looming question of
a 40-hour week. Briefly, if working hours
are reduced and at the same time money
wages rise without an adequate increase
in the volume of production—which is
more likely to fall in such circumstances
—then real wages and the standard of


INVENTORS—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
*’♦ * •
DAVIES . & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1 Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
I The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
w
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
living will contract proportionately to the
rise in prices, and everybody will be
worse off.
The co.’s financial position further im-
proved ;
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £998,342 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Outside interests*.. 6,460 11
Overdraft .. .. 14,275
Sundry creditors! .. 212,275 390,308 416,342
Staff funds .. . . 6,000 25,000 25,000
Freeholds .. .. 369,031 430,114 418,742
Plant, etc 420,447 274,022 260,590
Stocks .. . . 591,936 805,721 931,633
Debtors .. . . 170,327 204,968 204,054
Shares . . . . 60,174 35,417 37,905
Cash, etc 26,841 240,462 212,208
* Including proportion reserves. t Including tax
provision.
Last term’s growth of £125,912 in stocks
was due partly to disclosure of the inner
reserve already referred to and partly to
retarded output. To help finance addi-
tions and improvements to plant, when
circumstances permit, the co. has £212,208
(down £28,254) in cash, etc. The year s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£969,458) was £73,190.
The Malayan Tin Position
News is beginning to come through
about the condition of some of the tin
dredges in Malaya. As the Jap invasion
progressed down the Malay peninsula,
and the staffs had to evacuate the mines
in Kedah and Perak, in most cases essen-
tial working parts were removed in order
to make it as difficult as possible for the
enemy to get the plants into operation.
Further south the R.E.’s took a hand and,
armed with guncotton, disabled much
more effectively such dredges as they
were able to reach in Southern Perak
and Selangor.
What happened to the dredges after
that is, so far, largely a matter of hear-
say. Working parties going to Thailand
by rail saw some dredges working ; other
parties returning months later saw the
same dredges stopped. Reports froml
native contacts made by Malayans in the
forces indicate that some dredges were
completely broken up by the Japs, and
shipped away for scrap. Other reports
recently published show that in other
cases the steel structure is untouched,
but the machinery has been removed.
From Thailand and Burma there is very
little information, but no doubt similar
conditions prevail.
Two survey parties have now started
for Malaya and Burma, each including
English and Australian engineers familiar
with the country. Their duties include
the task of ascertaining the condition of
the various mines, and therefore some
authoritative information may be looked
for when their reports are received.
These survey parties will find that there
are many dredges almost ready for work-
ing, others damaged to greater or less
degree, and others completely dismantled.
In many cases spares and stores, of
which some mines had large stocks, will
have been looted,‘either by the natives or
by the Japanese.
It is not going to be easy to get re-
placement parts for those dredges which
have been damaged, or to get new dredges
to replace those which have been en-
tirely dismantled. Many dredge parts
are specialised jobs, and the number of
firms in the world capable of producing
them is limited ; general machinery, elec-
trical equipment and structural steel will
be in heavy demand for rebuilding devas-
tated Britain and Europe. Many dredg-
ing companies, therefore, may have to
face long delays and heavy expenditure
before they can have their orders filled
and can get into production. Australia
has a splendid opportunity to secure a
large share of these orders, provided that
labor will give Australian manufacturers
a chance to compete successfully with
overseas manufacturers.
Emperor Mines, Ltd., which originally
had a paid capital of £950,000 in 10s.
shares, returned Is. 6d. per share
(£142,500) early in 1944. It is now pro-
posed to return a further 2s. 6d. per share
(£237,500) to those on the register some
time in January next. This will reduce
paid capital to £570,000 in 1,900,000
shares paid to 6s. each. Together with
dividends paid—they total £570,000, the
last (6d. per share) went out at end Oct.,
1941—the co, will thus have handed
shareholders an amount equal to its
original share capital. Chief remaining
asset will be the 200,000 f.-p. pound
shares in Emperor G.M. Co,, operating
on the Tavua field, Fiji, together with
62.000 £1 shares in Tavua Power Pty. The
power co. supplies current, compressed
air and water to the Emperor and Loloma
mines, now into the sulphides, which, of
course, are more difficult and expensive
to handle. Ore from both mines is being
treated on joint account at the Emperor
mill, to which Loloma’s roaster and some
other equipment were transferred. At
end August, 1944, Emperor’s ore re-
serves were put at 904,000 tons, of which
4000 tons, averaging 5.6dwt., was oxidised
and the balance, averaging 7.Bdwt, sul-
phide ore. Accounts to June 30 last are
due any day now.
* * * *
From London: Claude de Bernales,
controlling a holding of approximately
800.000 shares out of a total issue of
2,500,000, wants Great Boulder’s domi-
cile shifted from London to Australia
without delay. Arguments for the re-
moval are: (1) Australian shareholders
of London cos. operating mines in the
Commonwealth have to pay 10s. in the
pound British tax on dividends ; (2) Eng-
lish taxation authorities treat sinking of
shafts and winzes and the driving of main
haulage ways as capital expenditure,
whereas in Australia such work is an
allowable deduction against income. The
result, it is claimed, is that in the case of
Australian mines operated by London
cos. there is no inducement to sink shafts
and winzes, and horizontal development
is concentrated on as much as possible.
De Bernales and his supporters say that
a Commonwealth Act should be passed
providing that all Australian mines be
controlled by locally registered owners,
and so “eliminate the above stated injus-
tices and damaging incidences.” Others
wonder whether such an Act might not
have a boomerang effect least to be
desired.
* * * *
In a survey of the Westralian economy
for the Industry Expansion Commission,
Professor Mauldon and G. B. Lancaster
say that, with employment reduced to the
level envisaged in the Commonwealth’s
plan for contraction of goldmining, the
State’s output of the yellow metal for
1943-44 declined to 484,018 fine ounces,
a drop of 29 p.c. compared with the pre-
vious year, and approximately 60 p.c.
below production for the 12 months im-
mediately preceding the outbreak of war
in the Pacific. In addition, loss of man-
power has meant severe curtailment in
developmental activity. Broken ore re-
serves have been depleted, and there has
been undue concentration on the mining
of more accessible and higher-than-
average grade ores. To June 30, 1944,
17 mines, closed as a result of the war,
had been given State assistance to a total
amount of £53,000 for preservation of
machinery, equipment, buildings and pre-
vention of flooding.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Ore was transported overseas
by air from Westralia during the war.
Vital strategic minerals were flown direct
from the fields to factories in U:S. during
certain critical stages of the Pacific
struggle. The most extensive airborne
transport of ore during the war occurred
in Sweden, where consignments were
flown from inaccessible spots to nearest
railhead.
Hume Pipe Company
(Australia), Limited
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING,
1st OCTOBER, 1945.
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
The result of the year’s work cannot
be termed satisfactory. It has been a
very difficult year. We have had to con-
tend with rising costs, with inadequate
prices at some centres and a position as
regards manpower which has been more
adverse than at any time during the past
six years. However, with the termina-
tion of the war, and the glorious vic-
tories of the Allies over our enemies in
Europe and the Pacific, we can look for-
ward to the elimination of these difficul-
ties and a brighter future. The expan-
sion of public utilities during the war
period has been confined to Defence and
the bare necessities of civil requirements.
This pent-up volume of national develop-
ment will be spread over the years ahead,
and I look forward to the future with
confidence.
It wiil be appreciated that during the
war years, when all available manpower
and materials were concentrated on De-
fence requirements, little could be done
in the direction of plant improvement
with the object of obtaining increased
efficiency. This position leaves us today
with a fairly extensive scheme of plant
reorganisation, of which you were in-
formed twelve months ago. The Board
also consider that, in order to attract the
best type of workman, steps should be
taken to improve working conditions.
Our position will be made somewhat diffi-
cult by reason of the fact that the reorgan-
isation must be carried out at a period
during which it is anticipated that the
Company’s plant will be taxed to capa-
city. . I have no doubt that we will suc-
cessfully meet the position, but the com-
pletion of our plans may be somewhat
delayed.
New Work Sites have been acquired at
Sunshine and Mildura (Victoria), Regent’s
Park (New South Wales), Eagle Farm
(Queensland), Derwent Park and Laun-
ceston (Tasmania). Hume Steel Limited
has acquired adjoining properties, and it
is considered that importarlt economies
will result in factory working and admin-
istration.
In the Directors’ Report issued with
the Balance Sheet now in your hands
reference was made to the shortage of
labor and material, which for some
months has been acute, and some indi-
cation was given as to the adverse effect
on the trading results qf the past year
and on the Directors’ programme of plant
reorganisation and expansion. How soon
labor and material in numbers and quan-
tity will become available is a matter of
vital interest to industry generally. To-
day the Company could employ an addi-
tional 150 to 200 men. As 1 see the posi-
tion, the number we could absorb will
continue to grow as the Public Works
programmes of Government and other
Authorities expand.
The smooth transfer from war-time to
civil production is a major difficulty, and
the best brains in the country should be
concentrated on it. We have had many
assurances from official spokesmen of
abundant work for every available person
for an indefinite period ahead. It seems
evident, however, that the transfer of
labor to peace-time production has, at
best, been making slow progress. The
termination of the Pacific War at an
earlier date than was expected has pos-
sibly found the controlling authorities
unprepared. It is hoped that the Gov-
ernment is realising its responsibilities in
this matter. A satisfactory solution of
the problem will go far to facilitate pre-
parations for a general industrial expan-
sion and so provide for re-employment of
those displaced from military service and
war-time production. At the moment
the position is a cause for anxiety. A
greater cause for anxiety would be further
hold-ups in production in key industries,
which would cause dislocation in depen-
dent industries, and so retard progress
to a peace-time economy able to absorb
in employment those displaced from their
previous occupations.
Australia is still the highest - taxed
country in the world. I feel justified in
saying that the crumbs recently dropped
from the taxgatherers’ table are quite
inadequate, and I join with those who
express the hope that at an early date
the crumbs will be supplemented by a
good slice of the loaf. Taxes should be
levied on a basis that will have the least
harmful effect on industrial expansion
and on the incentive of men and women
to work at their full earning capacity.
Existing rates of taxation undoubtedly
prejudice the further development of
Australian industries, and must adversely
affect that state of full employment of
which we have heard a good deal re-
cently, and for which we "all hope.
The development of Australia’s sources
of water supply and its conservation,
particularly as regards avoiding the exist-
ing enormous wastage, is, in my opinion,
a matter which should have urgent
nation-wide support. Such a scheme
would not only provide for the imme-
diate employment of a large body of
men; it would convert what are at
present hazardous areas for primary pro-
duction into safe areas. It would go a
long way to provide for increased land
settlement for a much-increased popula-
tion, and for an increased market for
our secondary industries. With a well-
thought-out migration scheme it would
make feasible at a comparatively early
date a population of, what has recently
been mentioned as a target figure,
20,000,000. It is difficult to calculate the
direct and indirect value of such a
scheme; land values in the reticulated
areas, the stock-carrying capacity and
general production of such areas, the
purchasing power of the settlers thereon,
and the avoided loss of livestock and
farm produce which has resulted from
the drought, which is still with us, repre-
sent values totalling many millions. I
was gratified to note that at the Con-,
ference at Canberra in June last, attended
by the Transport Authorities, the con-
census of opinion was that water con-
servation, irrigation and the development
of electricity had a more urgefat claim
for available manpower, materials and
finance than the suggested unification
of railway gauges. In my view the
scheme I have suggested would possibly
at a later date justify some reorganisa-
tion of the railway system, but until we
provide better facilities for the settle-
ment of a much larger population the
expenditure of the amount suggested for
the cost of the railway unification is not
justified. Water is one of the primary
necessities of mankind ; without it pro-
duction ceases. Our present improvident
wastage of available water would not be
possible if we are to maintain a popula-
tion of 20,000,000. It is freely stated
that in some irrigation channels 85 p.c.
of the water which enters those channels
is lost through seepage and evaporation.
The betterment of every man, woman
and child in Australia would result from
the avoidance of that loss.
It gives me pleasure to place on record
the Board’s appreciation of the excellent
work done by the Staff during the diffi-
cult period just passed.
The Directors have decided to insti-
tute a Superannuation Scheme for mem-
bers of the Staff. This also is a matter
which has been delayed owing to the
war, which resulted in the employment
of a number of temporary hands. In
addition to the benefits thus conferred
on the present members of the Staff,
some of whom have already given over
twenty years’ service, the scheme will
provide an added attraction to employ-
ment with the Company.
I am very pleased to be able to state
that we have received a cablegram from
Mr. C. H. Unbehaun from Singapore
advising that he is in excellent health.
Mr, Unbehaun held the position of
General Manager of Hume Pipe (Far
East) Limited, and he elected to remain
at Singapore at the time of the Japanese
occupation. Information received to
date concerning the condition of the
Company’s assets in Singapore is meagre,
but it would appear that whilst buildings
are in reasonably good order a consider-
able proportion of plant and stock have
been removed.


Before You BUILD
or
BUY a HOME
CONSULT
JL T JsL, O
The
Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited
Assets Exceed £44,000,000
Payments to Policyholders Exceed £50,000,000


Crlando
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ambon gave up among its p.-0.-w.
probably the most juvenile of the Pacific
War’s military captives—Leslie Edwards,
of Moe (Vic.), who had his 15th, 16th,
hands a ”t d Ambon b with“th, / iuTem
ISion 1 ?
Adelaide Uni. Economics Professor
Keith Sydney Isles, who takes a post at
Belfast Uni. in the new year, has been
Economic Adviser to the Rationing Com-
mission since its inception. Born in Both-
well (Tas.). he’s a product of Tassie Uni.
and Cambridge, was lecturer in Political
Economy, Edinburgh Uni., 1931-37, then
Professor of Economics at Uni. College,
Swansea, till his Adelaide appointment
in 1939. Now 43, he’s the author of
several publications on economics, and
is lately returned after several months of
important national work abroad.
Scorfield here pictures Colonel Alfred
Spain, architect, yachtsman, chairman
of Sydney’s colorful Anniversary Day
Regatta the world’s oldest and
until December, 1941 for many years
president of Taronga Park Trust, on
the reconstitution of which, by invita-
tion, he became a permanent consultant
to the new Trust. And Colonel Spain
is president of the Royal Empire Society
and takes a prominent part fin the man-
COLONEL ALFRED SPAIN. V.D.
igement of the United Services Institu-
tion, which owes much of its war-time
vigor to his sedulous nursing. With 30
years of military service behind him, in-
cluding service abroad with the First
A.1.F., he was active in forming the
V.D.C. Unit Engineers Battalion during
World War 11, is its honorary colonel
and is entitled to wear, apart from the
old Volunteer Decoration, which be-
comes rarer each year, the Royal Ship-
wreck Society’s silver medal for gallantry
in saving life in Sydney Harbor. In the
time which he does not devote self-sacri-
ficingly Ho his public activities the
Colonel sits on the boards of several
companies.
Deprecating public statements that he
hoped to lead another Antarctic expedi-
tion, Douglas Ma\yson remarked in Adel-
aide that he had an interest in estab-
lishing a permanent connection between
Antarctica and Australia, but it was un-
likely that at his age he would spend 12
months in the polar regions, though he
might make a summer trip there to see
the expedition well established. Mawson
was 18 when he went on his first trip
as a geologist to the New Hebrides, 25
when he went with Shackleton to the Ant-
arctic, 29 when he embarked on his
second jaunt there, and 49 when he took
his last look on the peaks and glaciers of
those frozen regions. He is now 63.
“Uramao”: Just retired after 42 years’
service with M.L.’s Prime Minister’s De-
partment, of which he was head, C. A.
Jeffery. For nearly 20 years he had been
chief private secretary to all the Prime
Ministers during that period. A native
of M.L., he joined the P. and T. Depart-
ment in 1903, and he collected a C.M.G.
in 1936.
Belatedly reported killed in action, Cor-
poral Wilfred McCulloch, one of the
most promising of the younger Victorian
artists who came to the fore during their
term of service in the last war. A Nat.
Gallery student, he attracted the attention
of his commanding officer for some im-
pressionistic studies while training at
Mount Martha, and the Army sponsored
a metropolitan exhibition. Going to
Singapore with the 2nd/9th Victorian
Battalion Field Ambulance, he was one of
four volunteers for a special mission
from which none returned.
“J.K.”: So far, nobody has disputed
the claim made for Charlie Quinton,
who retired on October 5, that his 60
years’ service was a record for N.S.W.
Railways. Starting as a 2s. 6d.-a-week
“pro” at Maitland in 1885, he climbed
the Traffic Branch ladder as high as dis-
trict superintendent. When the Fay-
Raven Commission created area com-
missioners he was A.C., Newcastle, for
four years. Since 1929 he has had H.Q.
at Central station, Sydney, finishing (as
Superintendent of Passenger Transporta-
tion) with the immense job of moving all
defence personnel within N.S.W. and the
civilians who could be crowded into such
trains as the coalminers permitted him to
run.
Flight-Lieutenant Peter Isaacson, is
the first of the R.A.A.F.’s “pathfinders”
to stand for an Australian constituency
—Prahran at the Victorian State elec-
tions. He was the slim (then) 23-year-old
youngster who brought Queenie, the first
Lancaster bomber to reach these shores,
across the world and fly her round in aid
of a war-loan campaign until she struck
a landing field certainly not suitable for
tired old ladies with long and gallant
war records. Isaacson is a youngster
with a manner faintly reminiscent of
Isaac Isaacs, though he is taller and he
has a decisive air of command about
him which will take him far in any
career which he follows. But he is hav-
ing a passage in Prahran which at times
must make pathfinding over war-time
Germany a sedentary occupation.
The Chinese Legation at Canberra has
attached to it one of the most colorful
personalities in that leafy locality—
Group-Captain Garnet Malley, M.C.,
A.F.C., who picked -up his decorations
as an outstanding fighter-pilot in 1914-18.
One of the batch of officers who formed
the Citizen Air Force in 1925, he later
went to China and was Aviation Adviser
to the Nanking Government for 10 or 12
years. When the later war started he
came back to join the R.A.A.F., was
automatically sent to Intelligence, and
went to the same section in Allied Com-
mand when General Mac Arthur took
charge. Retired because of ill-health, he
was granted the hon. rank he now holds.
There are only two survivors of the
18 Senators elected in 1906, and both are
Westralians,, Pearce and Needham.
Pearce, who is 75, is on the Common-
wealth Grants Commission ; Needham,
74 last month, has been M.L.A. for
Perth since 1933. He came from Lanca-
shire and was a boilermaker’s assistant
in Fremantle before becoming its M.L.A.
at 30. A brother went to America, and
the brother’s son, born in Pennsylvania,
has become a notable. During the war,
according to the “Sunday Times,” he was
in control of a powder plant employing
60,000 men, and he is the author of a
plan for revolutionising the U.S. eco-
nomic system which forms the substance
of a bill introduced in Congress by
Senator Wagner.
“Recco” on a versatile veteran:
With his smile as permanent as ever H. T.
(“Bunny”) Hammond, late Grouper in the
RA.A.F., has donned his “civvies” to join
the executive staff of A.N.A. This six-footer left
Australia in 1916 with reinforcements for the
13th Btn., hut was switched to the 54th on
arrival. A Blighty at Fromelles saw him in
England when the R.F.C. sought cadets. He
trained with Charles Kingsford-Smith, and his
first and only squadron was No. 60, with which
he was shot down, spending the rest of the war
as a p.o.w. After the war he was an original
founder of the C.A.F. in 1925, and stayed five
years. Hon. instructor with the Aero Club,
he and Frank Follet formed Adastra Airways.
With Bill Taylor he purchased the first D.H.
Moth to be imported and was first D.H.
agent in N.S.W. During a term in New Guinea
as chief pilot and assistant manager of Holden’s
Airways he got into the picture “Guinea Gold.”
Hammond was with Vacuum Oil when World
War II started, and in the Armored Car Regi-
ment as a captain, although on the R.A.A.F.
Reserve. This started a very vigorous Army-Air
Force war for his “body.” R.A.A.F. won, and
he rapidly rose to command Cootamundra, where
air observers were turned out, then Mt. Gam-
bier, a more expansive training centre. His
work gained him a well-merited 0.8'.E. Com-
mands of Richmond and Laverton followed,
between which he sandwiched a tour of
New Guinea as a senior staff officer. His
total flying time by the time he left the ser-
vice was just on 8000 hours.
Awarded the M.C. for conspicuous gal-
lantry and simultaneously promoted to his
present rank, Captain Graham Marriott-
Thorp was doing fourth-year architec-
ture at Sydney Uni. when he switched
from the S.U.R. early in 1940 and sailed
with the Sixth Div. artillery. . He fought
in the first Libyan campaign and then
in Greece, from which he escaped in the
last destroyer to evacuate troops. Then
on to New Guinea and subsequently
Borneo, where his courageous direction
of naval fire on to enemy positions from
an 80ft.-high observation post paved the
way for an infantry attack that captured
Manggar air strip. Thorp remained on his
lofty perch for two days, and despite
intense enemy fire his coolness in accu-
rate direction was unaffected. He is 25,
and has lived in Neutral Bay (N.S.W.)
all his life.
Major Billy Hill rates two pictures this week
because he is one of Scorfield’s oldest friends,
and one of the few frequenters of The Bulle-
tin office who speak the strange argot which
Novocasfrians are pleased to call English. He
hails from Hartlepool, and the monkey on his
shoulder is a famous one—to wit, the ape which
Hartlepool,is reputed to have hanged in the
days of Napoleon in mistake for a French-
man. Hill celebrates his 33rd. year as an
officer this year, having been commissioned
in the Durham Light Infantry, some of whose
battalions had a glorious record in 1042-45 with
the Eighth and Second Armies, as in many
previous wars. He went to France at 18 in
1914, a full lieutenant, was wounded three
times, decorated with the Belgian Croix de
Guerre and mentioned in dispatches three times.
His wounds did not prevent his return to the
old Hartlepool Rovers which, like all other
northern Rugby clubs, had suspended games
during the war; he played for Durham
County on many notable occasions, and skip-
pered the Rovers on the incomparable day on
which they won the Durham Senior Cup for
the nineteenth time in 1922. It was then that
MAJOR BILLY HILL.
Scorfield’s inset sketch was done for Newcastle-
on-Tyne’s “North Mail.” Major Hill came
to Australia in 1926, joined the A.I.F. in 1939
and served as major with a training battalion,
later with brigade, at Tamworth, Dubbo and
Bathurst. From 1944 onwards he was with the
U.S. Transport Corps at Buna, Lae, Finsch-
hafen and Hollandia. And he still looks as it
he would be an ugly customer to tackle in a
fast Rugby game.
Lusby’s offering is John Adamson,
managing director of the Hardie Rubber
Co., vice-chairman of the Australian
Rubber Manufacturers’ Association, a
MANUFACTURERS’ PRESIDENT.
director of Burnside Orphanages and
chairman of the Council of Knox
Grammar School (Sydney), who, decid-
ing that he has spare time to fill in, has
become president of the N. S. Wales
Chamber of Manufactures, In appear-
ance he is the most impressive president
the chamber has had for many a year
about two yards of very virile and active
Scotsman, with a military bearing ob-
tained as a major in the R.A. in World
War I, terminating on top in a frosty pow
above a ledge of black eyebrows, which
make his eyes look as if they are in
mourning for the adversaries of the
manufacturing industries. Inside, like all
true Scots, he is a soft-hearted and senti-
mental man.
From “C. 8.”:
Melburnians who remember Dr. Maloney
and his clinic in Elizebeth-street, where he dis-
pensed medicine and advice to the needy for
a fee of 2s. 6d. or nothing, were astonished
to learn that the man who carried it on
when the “Little Doctor” was away on
Parliamentary duties is still alive and in
much the same plight as the hundreds whom
he helped to rescue. He is Dr. A. F. Davies,
and his address is Mount Royal Hospital and
the Benevolent Home, Parkville. It is a strange
twist of fate that he may lose his home through
the institution being forced to close down beds
owing to difficulties of staffing. He used to have
a joke for his patients in the days of Maloney,
and he can still laugh while he remarks that he
needs an operation, but it would probably be
one of the kind which are “successful but
the patient died.” He is 82.
Alan W. Mackney, now in the U.S. on
important research work for a Maoriland
company, is another example of a bril-
liant young Australian scientist better
appreciated in other countries than his
own. Born at Grafton (N.S.W.) in 1913,
his high-grade leaving certificate from
Grafton High School brought him a bur-
sary to Sydney University at the age of
16. By 1934 he was a B.Sc. with first-
class honors, and took his M.Sc. a year
later. Joining the C.S.I.R. Forests
Branch in 1936, he left it to become
deputy chief chemist at the New Norfolk
(Tas.) newsprint mills, and last year was
appointed chief chemist of New Zealand
Forest Products. Doing his research work
at a leading U.S. laboratory, he has re-
ceived lucrative offers from U.S. firms to
stay on over there.
Into the silence:
At nearly 80, in Adelaide, Donald Campbell,
an engineer on steamboats half a century back.
He became a Bulletin contributor, owned
S.A.’s “South Eastern Times,” had six years
as a politician in the Assembly, attending Adel-
aide Uni. meanwhile, and taking the LL.B de-
gree at 55.
In Brisbane, at 54, Herbert Johns Redmond,
Inspector of Mines at Rockhampton. An
associate of the Charters Towers School of
Mines in mining and metallurgy, he gained his
practical experience with the Mt. Hope Co.
(N.S.W.), Mt. Perry Co. (Q.), Electrolytic Zinc
Co. (Tas.) and Mt. Elliott Co. (Cloncurry). For
some years he was a shire engineer at Ingham
(N.Q.), but rejoined the Mines Department
(Q.) in 1937. In World War I he saw service
with the Australian Tunnelling Co.


ŵ
as iinish does
In, the post-war home there’ll be lustrous white enamel fixtures
and fittings, glistening snowy surfaces of refrigerators, cookers,
cabinets, suites and appliances. Though it is the external beauty
that will be apparent to all—the finish can, after all; be no better
than the steel sheet which it covers. That is why the best and most
durable as well as the most beautiful vitreous enamel will be on
the special Comrol Enamelling Steel Sheet.
—-r-
m
w
For information about this special sheet, write
to the manufacturers.
9
9.
STEEL SHUTS
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD. ; Head Office and Works; Pori, Kembla, N.S.W.
ARMCO (MIST.) PTY. LTD., GENERAL SALES AGENTS:
SYDNEY: Kembla Building
MELBOURNE: Temple Court
ADELAIDE: C.M.L Building
BRISBANE: Victoria Chambers
PERTH: John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: John Lvsaght Limited
THE SERVICE MAN
Home by Christmas.
Including ancillary troops and ser-
vices, garrisons of Australians outside the
mainland are roughly; Ninth Div. area.
North Borneo, 14,000; Seventh Div.,
S. Borneo, 15,000; Sixth Div., Moro-
tai, 4000 ; Wewak and other New Guinea
areas, 10,000 ; New Britain, Third Div.,
4000; Eleventh Div., 15,000 ; Lae area.
Fifth Div., 12,000; Bougainville, Third
Div., 15,000; Eleventh Div., 5000.
It was expected originally that the
return of the men would be very slow,
shortage of shipping being the excuse.
On October 27, however, it was an-
nounced that through the “efforts” of
Mr. Forde and Senator Ashley, six
“Liberty” ships had been placed at the
disposal of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment solely for troop transport. The
vessels can carry 12,000 to 15,000 men,
and are expected to make two trips
before Christmas, bringing home up to
30,000 troops who otherwise would not
have seen Australia until about next
March. The completion of the final
evacuation —leaving behind units which
are to guard the 250,000 enemy troops in
the Australian zone, who will not be
completely got rid of for two years—is
now expected to be finished by next Feb-
ruary or March.
Officialdom insists that it will be neces-
sary to keep 80,000 troops in the islands
while the Japanese are there.
The alteration of the repatriation pro-
gramme will put a great strain on de-
mobilisation and re-employment agencies.
Forde on Food.
“Ek Dum”; For the benefit of Wewak
infantrymen, extracts are here taken
from one of the numerous “publicity
issues,” preparation of which engages the
attention of large staffs at and around
Army (political) H.Q. —in this case,
“Army Activities Bulletin, No. 3, issued
fortnightly by the Rt. Hon. F. M. Forde,
p - c -» Minister for the Army.” The date
is Sept. 27, about that on which the order
regarding the 50 p.c. reduction of rations
w i s I f ued in Wewak—“mam items
affected tmned meats, milk, beans, mar-
-Bar>ner > ne :
FEEDING TROOPS IN THE TROPICS,
.The calculation and provision of a balanced
diet that is at once generally acceptable and
sufficiently nourishing to sustain a man en-
gaged in warfare under tropical conditions has
bec . n a major essential in the successful prose-
cuii?n of tlie war in tbe Pacific.
The ration scale must provide, in addition
to the desired nutritive content, for the soldier’s
prejudices against foods to whifch he is unac-
customed, and for changes in methods of pre-
ofSS
by means of posters, films, lectures, wall news-
papers, etc., to overcome his prejudices against'
unaccustomed foods or methods of preparation ;
more attractive methods of presentation must
be devised for foods whose increased con-
sumption is necessary ; low-value foods in the
food pattern must be enriched, e.g., the forti-
°f bread with wheat germ.
As the soldier in the tropics expects to be
provided with the foodstuffs to which he is
accustomed, and which he likes, the first step
to be taken by Army dietitians in the design-
ing of a satisfactory tropical ration scale was
to ascertain, by the use of questionnaires, the
foods habitually eaten by troops in civilian
life, i.e., the food pattern. Ihe answers to
these questionnaires revealed such “food habit”
details as that 75 p.c. of troops examined prefer
fresh lettuce to cooked cahoage; 65 p.c. prefer
jam to cheese; 90 p.c. prefer roasted potatoes to
boiled potatoes; 95 p.c. like raw apples, whereas
72 p.c. like stewed apples; 93 p.c. like steak
and kidney pie; only 5U p.c. like pumpxin and
white sauce.
The ration scale was then established, based
on selection from the different popular food-
stuffs in accordance with their nutritive values,
feeding trials held in order that any possible
concessions might be made to meet the likes
and dislikes of the troops, and the suitability
of the various foods for processing, storage
and inclusion in operational ration packs.
There is no mention of vitamin B and
C tablets, or of provision for cures for
"But, sir, I fly LANCASTERS!”
overeating among troops, or for hiccups
due to excess indulgence in sardonic
laughter.
General Bennett Walks Out.
“Ek Dum”: The Military Court of
Inquiry—Lieut.-General Morshead and
Major-Generals Stantke and Wootten—
appointed to go into the matter of Lieut.-
General Gordon Bennett’s escape from
Singapore entered upon its assignment in
Sydney at the week-end. At the first sit-
ting Lieut.-General Bennett and his coun-
sel, Mr. Brian Clancy, K.C., walked out,
the demand being made that the inquiry
be held in public before an “impartial’'
body.
It would be impossible to imagine
a tribunal more likely to be im-
partial than one composed of two
fighting citizen soldiers of 1939-45 and a
professional soldier, all three with high
attainments and experience of com-
mands similar to that held by Lieut.-
General Bennett, and fully seized of the
rights and duties of an officer situated
as was Lieut.-General (then Major-Gen-
eral) Bennett in the last act of the tragedy
of Singapore.
With his statement, Lieut.-General Gor
don Bennett issued an account of what
happened when he vacated his command
at Singapore. In this there was nothing
new, being on all fours with what he
published in his book; but it formed
the basis for a sort of trial by news-
paper, the tribunal consisting mainly of
Sydney rags which have all along favored
Lieut.-General Bennett, partly because of
their hostility to the Army Command ; in
one notorious instance because his criti-
cism of the British Command was in line
with its own.
Red herrings were introduced into the
discussion in the form of demands for
inquiries into the circumstances of Gen-
eral Blarney’s “escape” from Greece
from which he did not escape—and Gen-
eral MacArthur’s “escape” from the
Philippines —under orders from his Com-
mander-in-Chief, who saw to the trans-
port.
These, however, are not the issue.
It is generally represented by the kind
of newspaper concerned about the matter
that returned soldiers of the Eighth Divi-
sion are boiling with indignation at the
treatment meted out to their late com-
mander. The writer has met few who
have expressed any opinion, being with-
out knowledge of the circumstances.
Press agitation, however, is having its
effects both on military and civil public
opinion. During the week knight Gilbert
Dyett, the re-elected president of the
R.5.5.1.L.A., had to deal with motions
that the affair should be discussed at the
League’s conference in Perth. He ruled
that the League must not become in-
volved in military politics.
If a public inquiry is to be held it must
be at the instance of Cabinet, which is
apparently not anxious at this stage to
be involved, though the .Minister has full
power either to stand publicly by the
C.-in-C. in the field or to countermand
his arrangements.
It would be difficult at a public in-
quiry for the Army to give protection to
witnesses or to ensure the attendance of
witnesses out of the forces. And it would
be awkward to hold a court-martial on
an officer on the reserve.
Though a minor Labor M.H.R. has
taken sides, Mr. Forde is silent. Mean-
time the situation is not conducive either
to military discipline or to confidence in
the Army Ministry.
Where else in the world would an
Army Minister tolerate a position in
which it is suggested that an inquiry into
a momentous issue affecting the reputa-
tion of a senior commander is not im-
partially safe in the hands of a court of
which the majority is formed by the two
greatest Australian front-line generals
this war has produced?
Over the weekend the inquiry was
proceeding in camera in Lieut.-General
Bennett’s absence.
From A, C. Munro, Black Knoll, Iza-
neen, North Transvaal:
Will the Aussie who lent me £1 at Alex,
please contact me, as I would earnestly like
to pay him back. I was then a Scottie in
South African uniform, and I would like to
place it on record that all Diggers are 100
per cent, with me.
And all Diggers, after that report, are
likely to say the same about Scotties.


Missing Friend.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of
CHARLES WILLIAM HERMAN, aged about 52
years, whose son has just been released as a p.o.w.
from Singapore, advise him to communicate with
J. W. GALBALLY, Solicitor, 118 Queen Street,
Melbourne ? _____
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO AMELIA ALICE MAY JOHNSTON (formerly
Denman) late of Kent Flats Campbell Parade Bondi
near Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that SALWYN JAMES WILLIAM
JOHNSTON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 310 1
of 1945 On the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three (3) years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 30th day of November next and obtain a copy ot
the Petition without charge from CLAYTON UTZ &
COMPANY Solicitors 136 Liverpool Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) O. K.. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO GEORGE ALFRED KNIGHT.— TAKE NOTICE
that JESSIE DOREEN KNIGHT has filed a petition
in Divorce No. 4161 of 1945 alleging that you the
said GEORGE ALFRED KNIGHT have been guilty
of desertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you desire to defend the suit you
must enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 26th November
1945 and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge
from 0. L. SHEEHY Solicitor of Wingello House
Angel Place Sydney N.S.W. —(1.5.) 0. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce. '
TO HANNAH HENRIETTA HARRIS.—TAKE
NOTICE that WILLIAM THOMAS HARRIS has
filed a Petition in Divorce No. 2117 of 1945 alleg-
ing that you the said Hannah Henrietta Hams have
been guilty of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If you desire
to defend the suit you must enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Third day of January 1946 and obtain
a copy of the petition free of charge from SULLIVAN
BROS, Solicitors for Petitioner, 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO JESSIE MADELINE WILSON late of 69 Elizabeth
Street Redfern in the State of New South Walen.—
TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM FRANCIS WILSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3217 of 1944
against you on the ground of your adultery If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Seventh day of January One thousand nine
hundred and forty-six and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from L. T. BRENNAN Solicitor
for the Petitioner 39-49 Martin Place Sydney—(L.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
AERATED WATER FACTORY
At ATHERTON, NORTH QUEENSLAND
FOR SALE.
Tenders are called for the purchase of a complete Aerated Water
Factory at Atherton, North Queensland.
The plant, housed in iron building, comprises 8-head Syruping, Filling
and Crowning machine. Nile Automatic Carbonising machine, Progressive
Hydro Bottle Washing machine with 15-h.p. motor. Condensing Unit, Water
Storage Tanks, etc., Stainless Steel Vats, Gravity Rollers. Steam Boiler and all
other items necessary for operation of plant. (Approximately 2000 doz.
bottles will be transferred to successful tenderer.)
The factory site is Railway Leasehold, for which a 5-year term can
be arranged at £4O per annum, plus any leviable rates and (axes.
Full particulars and forms of tender can be obtained on application to
H.Q., AUST. ARMY CANTEENS SERVICE, 144 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE,
Tenders close 20th November, 1945. The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted,
No Agency Fees paid by Vendors.
Kyushu in the autumn (October), a period
of consolidation, then a final phase
timed to begin in the spring of 1946. It
is notable that this procedure apparently
was thought necessary whether or not
Russia thought fit to come into the war.
ẁ
Cleric/ ri£2jdsedd
USE
ẃ
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
lie
1/
11
mmm
HARD
HITTING AUSTRALIANS
Bill Ponsford, long prominent in Aus-
tralian and international cricket as a
consistent run getter. His aggregate
in first-class games was 13,659 (aver-
age 65). A very fine player.
Despite restrictions, limited sup-
plies of 1.C.1. SHOTGUN and .22
RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES are
available to primary producers
for essential pest destruction sub-
ject to police permits. ALL
AUSTRALIAN.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA S NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
THE
•wv
GENERAL ELECTRIC
CO. LTD. OF ENGLAND
in War os in Peace
af the service of the Empire
. . 1 1 %' }4 ; -,K.
./ ' ■:*;: - ,
4s«yd(
m*
0
in
\
mMm
&xS?y‘M
When the outbreak of war brought manifold problems of urgent and
phenomenal expansion in electrical traction equipment, the world-wide
experience of Ihe General Electric Co. Ltd. of England, accumulated
in days of peace, prepared the Company for its immense task of helping
to equip British industry.
The G.E.C. —the largest British electrical manu-
facturing organisation in the Empire—then de-
voted its entire technical and manufacturing
resources to the war effort, which brought about
great advances in all applications of electricity,
including the important one of electronics. With
the return of Peace these developments will be
of the greatest value to all concerned with recon-
struction in any part of the world.
—Always in the Forefront of
Electrical Progress.
ELECTRIFICATION
SCHEMES include
'all industries: Air-
craft; Chemicals;
Collieries; Food;
Mining; Smelting;
hoc omot iv e and
Wagon Works;
Ships and shipyards;
Textile and other
Mills; Oi I Fields;
Refineries, etc. etc. •
(Sole Australian Representatives of the O.E.C. of England'),
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd.
General Marshall's Report.
“Ek Dum”: With the war over only
a little more than two months its secrets
are beginning to take an airing in bat-
talions.
Many of them appeared in the report
of General Marshall, U.S. Chief of Staff,
for the two years ended June 30, 1945.
It is made startlingly plain that the
greatest shortage in Allied equipment was
in landing barges. This was a matter of
great anxiety since, with immediate know-
ledge of what the Germans were doing
in the almost neck-and-neck race to pro-
duce the atomic bomb, British and Ameri-
can staffs needed no urging to “open a
second front.” It was their dearest wish
to land before uranium atoms began to
split about their ears. But landing barges
held them up.
The original plan was that the two great
operations against western-held Europe
should be synchronised. “Overlord”
operation on the Normandy coast was to
take place the same day as “Anvil” opera-
tion on the Mediterranean coast in
southern France. But the south-of-France
attack had to be delayed until the barges
used in Normandy could be taken south-
ward through the Straits of Gibraltar.
The same difficulty was encountered in
Burma. As here remarked several times,
Rangoon seemed to be one of the best
avenues of approach. It puzzled compe-
tent military critics why it was not boldly
invaded from the sea and why the ardu-
ous alternative of a passage across the
Chin Hills and the Chindwin was chosen.
The secret is now out. There were not
enough landing barges to equip an amphi-
bious attack force.
The discussions of the strategic plans
of the enemy are full of new matter.
General Marshall suggests that Hitler’s
early successes made him so strong that
there was no objection from the General
Staff to the attack on Russia. But the
supercession of Von Brauschitz was a
turning point of the war, especially since
it synchronised with the beginning of an
era in which military skill was more neces-
sary than in the earlier campaigns, which
were won by sheer German weight. From
then onwards strategy was Hitler-con-
trolled. This factor played a vital role
in enabling the British and Russians to
continue their resistance and to build up
strength for their offensives in the autumn
and winter.
Of the later phases Field-Marshal
Montgomery already had contributed
some information. He has stated that
his action at Caen was a deliberate mag-
netic attack designed to suck all available
enemy forces to the British and then to
send American mobile armor round the
denuded western flank, where the enemy’s
thrust at the Mortain Gorge presently
advised him for the first time that the
Germans intended to slug the battle out
in Normandy.
General Marshall now illuminates the
second of the three great crises of the
western war when he states that, on the
authority of General Jodi, Hitler’s C.G.S.,
the objective of Von Rundstedt’s Ardennes
counter-offensive was Antwerp, and that
ft was believed by the Germans that even
if it failed the Rhine could be held.
If it had not been made sufficiently
plain by Field-Marshal Montgomery that
he wished to keep the British clear of this
struggle, in view of the danger of becom-
ing tangled with U.S. First Army com-
munications, and that his intervention was
made as a matter of urgency, it would be
advertised by General Marshall’s sum-
mary of the fighting experience of the
United States forces. It appear? that
when the Germans surrendered every
American division in existence was in
an operational area, save an airborne
division in reserve with Shaef and a divi-
sion in Hawaii. The reserve position was
such that the last two divisions bound
for the Pacific war were stopped on the
U.S. west coast and transferred to Shaef
to add a last few tons of weight in the
drive to and across the Rhine.
Japan, General Marshall holds, lost its
war when its staff failed to land troops on
Hawaii. The enemy had the opportunity,
and his failure to land has been inex-
plicable to all observers. The tale of the
war undoubtedly would have been far
different if, neglecting everything else
after Singapore, or even before it, the
enemy had established himself 2400 miles
off the U.S. coast and followed up his
advantage in a proper manner. As Gen-
eral Marshall points out, the essence of
victory is to be able to bring the foe
to close combat, to have the men “to
tear his operating bases and his produc-
tive establishments away from him.”
These men the enemy had, or should have
had, together with transport superiority,
in December, 1942. But landing equip-
ment here again was obviously partly the
trouble. The western Allies pursued the
right policy after their initial stern defen-
sives, such as the Battle of Britain, which
the American general pronounces a
brilliant victory, though not of the kind
which had a direct effect on producing
final victory. The “Overlord” invasion
of Normandy was the crucial operation.
It is remarked that both Jodi and Keitel
agreed that Allied air-power was the deci-
sive factor in making that landing pos-
sible, „ ,
Two superior items of attack are con-
ceded the Germans: their 88mm, three-
purpose gun, and their smokeless and
flashless powder.
One piece of news—to some people
only, since the Americans in the Pacific
zone were surely the most open troops
in history about their future plans—is
that, on General MacArthur’s suggestion,
three intermediate landings on the way
to the Philippines were cut out and the
date of the proposed attack on Leyte ad-
vanced from December 20, 1944, to
October 20. .
And the anticipations made on tins
page a few weeks before the Japanese
surrender are confirmed. If the atom
bomb had not been brought to perfec-
tion “by a combination of good luck,
good management and prodigious effoit,
the future plans of the Pacific Command
involved three landings on southern


HILLMAN
MINX
THE WORLD'S MOST
SUCCESSFUL LIGHT CAR
AND WELL WORTH WAITING FOR
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
JOHN McGRATH LTD., Cathcart House, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(temporary address).
Resident Representative t
C, H. HORDERN. 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
A PRODUCT Oft TUB BOOTES CROUP
.j I are n° l
*** , .»I-**'
ve a &0
wE hav *
or\
4rt
&
: V>
Ns
li
*o
-
Every young couple’s plan for
the future centres inevitably round
a home . . . equipped with new
labour-saving devices, artistic fur-
nishings. . . .
FELTE
FELT and TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Manufacturers of Plain Sr Marbled Feltex
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH LOANS
IH*
iJt
SPORTING NOTIONS
More than sufficient rain fell at Moonee Valley
for the club to claim £2OOO insurance, and by
the time of the last race, run in frightful con-
ditions, jockeys, coated with mud, were weigh-
ing in up to 41b. overweight. Naturally the
attendance suffered a bit, but those present put
a record sum of £139,777 through the tote,
including £31,449 for one race, the Cup. The
previous best for a single race was £24,460.
Cup betting was confined to five who had run
well in the Caulfield Cup, with Rainbird favo-
rite at threes and Punctilia, Spearmain, Leonard-
and Huntingdale in demand at sixes and sevens.
Supporters of the youngster Leonard got a
great run for their money, though they were
critical of the rider, Duncan; but the other
four made poor showings.
The complete outsider Clayton got to the
front in the first furlong, and was soon leading
eight or nine lengths from Leonard and Val-
curl, with Rainbird and Spearmain last. He
had blown out at the half-mile, and as he
weakened was tackled by Leonard, who was
followed by Valcurl, with Duntroon making up
some ground from a hopeless position. Cook
drove Valcurl up to Leonard, and the pair made
a great race of it, tickets on anything else
being obviously useless half a furlong from the
finish. Valcurl prevailed over the last bit,
beating Leonard by a head; Duntroon was
third. The margin between second and third
was given as two lengths: if looked closer to
half a dozen, and the form of some of the
unplaced brigade seemed too bad to be true.
Backers of Valcurl, a four-year-old entire by
Valiant Chief from Curlis, collected £7 4s. and
£2 6s. 6d. on the tote. The books had him
at 25 to L
Flight’s first run in Melbourne was highly im-
pressive. She took on Lawrence, Tranquil Star,
Don Pedro and Magnificent at w.f.a. in the
W. S. Cox Plate, and justified the Sydney claim
that she is the best mare in Australia.
Lawrence was first away, with Hoyle, but
Flight quickly took over and was not afterwards
headed. She held off repeated challenges, the
most dangerous of which came from Don Pedro,
who was only half a head away at the finish,
with Russia third. Heavy rain fell during the
race and the state of the track was indicated
by the time—six seconds outside the course
record of 2.2|. These conditions were prob-
ably against Lawrence who, favorite at 10-to-9
on, was never going comfortably, but they en-
hanced the merit of Flight’s win. She is not a
notorious mudlark, and was receiving only 51b.
from Lawrence and Russia, while conceding
161 b. to Don Pedro.
It was the first upset Lawrence has met in his
preparation for the Melbourne Cup. While it is
not anticipated that anything will supplant him
as favorite, Flight, Russia and Don Pedro loom
up as dangerous opponents.
Some of the lesser Derby candidates and
other three-year-olds contested two divisions of
the Greenvale Handicap, of a mile. The first
division went to Leryhen (8 to 1), another all-
the-way winner and too hot for League and Gay
Lad. In the second division a filly by The
Buzzard, Early Love (4 to 1), came from be-
hind to overhaul Lincoln on the post; Royal
Scot was third. Leryhen, League, Gay Lad
and Lincoln are Derby entrants, but seem with-
out much hope. Early Love, however, im-
proved her standing as an Oaks candidate.
Though beaten at his only previous start,
when a hot favorite, Royal Gem’s brother
Crown Gem was a 6-to-4-on for the St.
Alban’s Stakes, and his blood proved con-
siderably thicker than the water which
abounded. The Dhoti colt led most of the way
and finished comfortably ahead of Assam and
Dharmaraja, also Dhoti colts. The time, 1.3 i,
was not bad for five furlongs, on the day.
The two-year-old fillies’ event, the Glenroy
Stakes, went to another favorite, Pam’s Dream,
who was at 5 to 2 on Che score of her previous
win. She, too, led all the way.
The juvenile races were the only bright spots
in the day for punters. Many of them did not
stay for the Phoenix Handicap which Silver
Rocks, at sixes, took from Propontis and Byron.
The field was visible only in the run along the
straight, where the winner was well clear,
though Propontis almost had him at the finish.
They took for the mile.
Sydney’s main hope for the Victoria Derby,
Magnificent, had a run in the Cox Plate and
finished last. Possibly he didn’t care for the
going, and a fall in the float during the week
could have contributed to his poor showing,
but he may have just about had enough racing
for a while. Certainly he will need to improve
a ton to be a chance in the Derby. The other
Sydney entrants, Blue Legend and Questing, are
respectively a promising colt and a good filly,
but they don’t quite measure up to the southern
three-year-olds, who seem to have the race be-
tween them. Don Pedro, Leonard and Attley
should be doing best at the finish.
Can Flight win the Melbourne Cup with 9.17
She was second in the 1944 Metropolitan with
8.10, and third in the last Sydney Cup—not
then in her best form —with 9st. Russia beat
her recently at 12 iurlongs, but the mare, im-
proving at every run, should be the better of
the pair on Cup Day at a difference of 31b.
At the time of writing Silver Link (7.5) is third-
favorite with Russia, but his last couple of-runs
scarcely justify that position.
Win or lose the Derby, Don Pedro will have
a big pull in the weights. He looks an ideal
staying type, and if there is anything wrong
with the going on the first Tuesday in Novem-
ber he should win the Cup. On a dry track
this page will prefer Lawrence to the three-
year-old, with Flight and Russia battling for
third place.
* * * *
Some of the fields for the Rosebery Club’s
meeting at Rosehill appeared very open, but
the books did not exactly have a good day.
Three outright favorites scored including Swan
River, who dead-heated with Melhero, and
other winners were well in the market.
With many leading jockeys absent, J. Thomp-
son had the pick of the mounts, but not the
best of luck. He finished second in three races,
twice losing by only a neck. Still, two winners,
three seconds and two fourths from his seven
mounts was a fair performance.
A bolter, Lady Morse, and the clerk of the
course staged a grandstand finish before the
start of the Maiden Plate. The stewards de-
clared Lady Morse a non-starter and recom-
mended that her nomination be refused hence-
forth. When the rest got away an Ajax filly,
Sonning, showed pace till her condition gave
out, and Open Air, Grapevine and The liger
reached the box with half-necks between them.
Open Air, favorite at 7 to 4, had to survive a
protest.
Taking charge at the top of the straight
Melhero seemed sure to win the Rosebery Han-
dicap, but Swan River came at him vigorously
under punishment and they went over the line
together, with consistent Silent also finishing
well. Only the judge could decide, and he
gave it a dead-heat; Silent third. Swan River’s
price was 5 to- 2, Melhero’s 8 to 1. , All the
Melfort horse’s successes have been scored at
Rosehill. The time, 2.3 i, lopped a half-second
otf the course record for 10 furlongs held by
Easter Time, who finished in the middle of
the field. A very fast-run race, as it rained
throughout the day and other limes were slow.
The verdict drew the usual protests from
those neither qualified nor in a position to
judge a close finish. Such types will always
exist, but these days they have a new pet
notion in the “magic-eye’* camera. One of
England’s sporting peers, asked as to camera-
judged finishes, replied “I’m racing horses, not
microbes.” Still the gadget might be worth
trying if only to hear how the present malcon-
tents would react to being done out of their
money by a hairline on a film.
Felbeam, favorite for the Flying, lost’ his
chance at the barrier, and Tahmoor apparently
lost his when weights were issued. Carrying
9.13, the honest old battler felt his recent hard
races and found the job of giving the others
211 b. and upward too much even on his favorite
track. The three-year-old Tactician, wkh no
Trimmer to run him into the ground, made his
own pace and won soundly from Courtship and
a Newcastle galloper. Warana who was Jt 50
to 1 with the books and paid £3 Us. 9d. on
the nlace tote. Courtship has not regained her
Iwo-yea'cid brilliance, but has shown. steady
improvement at three outings. Tactician went
out at 7 to 2. Fives could be got.
The three-year-old Pentheus colt Pearl Trader
followed success in a maiden event at New-
castle by winning the Three-year-old Handicap,
going to the front inside the distance and hold-
ing off Field Captain and Melos. G Moore,
on Field Captain, entered a protest. The
stewards fined the boy a fiver for being frivolous.
McGrowdie had Darnley handy all the way
in the Welter and, finishing on strongly, that
Beau Pere four-year-old was a shade too good
for Right Royal in a close finish, with Loyal
March a further neck away third. Darnley was
at 9 to 2 with the books, but just on 6 to 1
on the tote.
Ever cautious, the books had one horse at
5-to-2 favorite and three at 7 to 2 for the En-
courage. They proved close to the mark and
certainly couldn’t have lost on the race. One
of the second favorites, King’s Glen, won com-
fortably from Wheatland (5 to 2) and Asset
(7 to 2).
Early two-year-old form is generally honest,
and Sydney bookmakers give punters no chance
to forget the fact, demanding odds-on about
youngsters having their first outing. They con-
descended to “take 11 to 8” Persian Prince, who
had a couple of barrier trials to his credit. A
line-looking colt, he was in front all the way
and only had to clock 57sec. for four and a
half furlongs to beat Bay Rex by a couple
of lengths, with Tragedy again third.
♦ * * *
Persian Prince is wonderfully bred, being by
Manitoba from the El Cacique mare Dark Ele-
gance. First of the expensive colts at the last
yearling sales to justify the high prices paid,
he cost 4000 guineas. Other winners so far
have been Vigaro, a 500-guinea yearling, and
Superfort, who fetched 550 guineas.. The
Breeders’ Plate winner Havoc was not offered
at auction, but, being a blood brother to Mag-
nificent, would have brought a fancy figure
In the same time those who have been unsuc-
cessful include Tengur (5250 guineas), Dynamic
(3300 guineas), Badran (2800 guineas), Tamasha
(2500 guineas) and others at 1100 guineas and
more.
Prices at the last yearling sales did seem
absurdly high, with 54 lots bringing a thousand
guineas and more and a total of 360 lots
averaging 557 guineas, but compared to the
recent Newmarket (Eng.) sales the Sydney prices
look like the proceeds of a church bazaar.
At Newmarket Tattersall’s, as selling agents,
collected £26,851 in commission, representing
the odd shilling in each guinea. In four days
318 lots were sold for 537,000 guineas.
The best individual buyer was the Mahara-
jah of Baroda. The Maharajah handed
over 28,000 guineas for a full brother, by


TOURISTS TO CEYLON.
For dependable and courteous service and
reasonable rates —
Tourist Agency having numerous pre-war
Associations with Britishers, Australians
and Americans. ; : Highly Recommended.
DEP’S TOURIST AGENCY,
19/5 Puvulingam Place,
Borella, Colombo, Ceylon.
Le?al Notice.
M.G.G. clerk, experienced, seeks position good firm
Sydney or neighborhood.—No. 313 Advt. Dept.,
Bulletin, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Positions Vacant.
VACANCIES—NEW SOUTH WALES
POLICE FORCE.
RECRUITS between the ages of 21 and 30 years are
urgently required in the New South Wales Police
Force; special consideration given to discharged men
of the Services. Good pay and conditions, 44-hour
week, continuity of employment, with superannuation,
annual and sick leave benefits. Commencing pay
18s. Id. per day for seven days per week —pay in-
creases with service and promotion. Men with
qualifications as motor-cycle riders, car drivers, wire-
less telegraphists and shorthand writers would hafe
excellent prospects. Physical standards, minimum
height sft. 10in., weight list. 101 b. Apply at the
Police Depot, Bourke Street, Redfern, or by letter to
the Commissioner of Police, Box 45, G.P.0., Sydney.
BOOKS TECHNICAL®**** 5
i ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ min
Oxy-acetylene and Arc Welding. A complete and comprehensive treatise
Wooden and Shipbuilding. Fundamental principles and practical
methods described in detail by Van Gaasbeck . • • •• ••
Netmaking for Seamen, Yachtsmen, Boy Scouts and Others, by Blancixora
The Model Aeroplane Manual. A complete guide to the building and flying,
Photograph Ic an d Formulas. An asset to all darkrooms—authori-
tative and up-to-date, by Wall and Jordon .. .. •• •• ••
Motor Cycles and How to Manage Them. Principles, maintenance, etc.
He Jay Manual. Conversion of old-type motor-car engines to handy
everyday appliances, etc. 110-volt A.C. light plant, 3?-volt grinder and
buffer, and many others .. ..
Problems in Artistic Woodturning, by Bnsinger .. ••
Modern Gas and Electric Refrigeration, by Althouse and Turnquist ..
37/6 Bd.
15/-
5/6
4d.
3d.
13/- 4d.
21/- 6d.
4/9 Sd.
10/6 Sd.
12/3 4d,
37/6 6d.
Lists of
Kst- 1860.
all subjects supplied on
application.
The G.P.O. is opposite.
McG ILL'S AGENCY.
183-185 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
&
//.
{////
£
m
If!
! !
I
\ i I
m
\
%
fA
It takes an old dog
for a hard road
In other words, experience counts, and you get it in full
measure in Top Dog Men’s Wear! That is why it wears so
much longer, keeps its shape and smartness, and gives such
satisfactory service. In cut, fabric and finish Top Dog gives
fuller value for every shilling of its cost. So bring the day
nearer when civilian supplies will be unrestricted by investing
in National Savings Bonds and War Savings Certificates.
■ ‘ . ' , \ .
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
Nearco from Rosy Legend, to the Derby winner
Dante. For others he paid 10,500 guineas, 9500
guineas, 7000 guineas, 6800 guineas and 6000
guineas, altogether he bought 70 lots for 78,000
guineas. He has Australian interests, and
breeders are looking forward to seeing his
cheque-book at next season’s sales.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Novice: Chatster, 1; The Tiger, 2; Four
Square, 3. Two-year-old Stakes: Persian
Prince, T; Tamasha, 2; Te Tana, 3. Flying:
Courtship, 1; Melhero, 2; Nobleman, 3. H. L.
Carter Handicap: Nightbeam, 1; Swan River,
2; Buzz Off, 3. Castle Hill Handicap: Field
Captain, 1; Strauss, 2; Melos, 3. Parramatta
Handicap: Right Royal, 1; Gold Ross, 2;
Wheatland, 3.
* * * *
An England XI will invade Australia in
1946-47, and an Australian XI is expected
in England in 1948. Before the resumption
of Tests an Indian team will go to England
in 1946, and after the present tour of the
Services XI an Indian team may be asked
to tour Australia,
♦ ♦ * ♦
Barnes and O’Reilly are the only N. S.
Wales players among the 36 chosen by
the State selectors to practise for the
Queensland trip, and “business interests”
may prevent Barnes going. There are some
promising colts, including Grieves (Peter-
sham), fast-bowler McLaughlin (Rand-
wick) and S. Smith (Uni.).
* * * ♦
“WJ.E.”; Von Nida seems as superior
to the other Australian pros as Nelson is
superior to his American rivals. “The
Von” is never afraid to back himself with
good money, and if he goes on improving
he might make his pile in the U.S.A. by
“placing” himself advantageously as
shrewd trainers “place” their horses, and
taking advantage of the current craze
for “Calcuttas.” Any old “head” could
tell the young man what a “Calcutta” is.
If you are lucky in the draw you can
back yourself at long odds and scoop a
pool of anything from 10,000 dollars up
—that’s if you are also lucky in the tour-
nament.
* * * v
“Faw”: The 18th hole at our course is
a 185 yd. par 3. McSnitch, who has been
playing for 20 years, teed up, carefully
allowed for the strong cross-wind and
hit a bobby dazzler of a shot with his
No. 2 iron. The ball went out to the
right in full flight, took the draw and
the advantage of the wind and came
round beautifully to land on the fairway
and run on to the green. With a roar
we saw it head straight for the hole, and
McSnitch’s eyes began to protrude as
the white dot slowed down and kept its
line. Then a grey-and-white shape shot
from the hedge by the club-house,
streaked across the green, caught
McSnitch’s ball and patted it on past
the hole into the sharp bunker just
beyond the flag. We managed to revive
McSnitch, but ever since he’s had a ten-
dency to apoplexy every time he sights
a cat, especially a playful cat.
* * * *
“Sevener”: Sydney golf clubs are all
of a dither about abandoning handicap-
ping to par in favor of the standard
scratch score system. Par handicapping,
of course, is done on distances from tee
to green, irrespective of what lies
between. Thus it frequently happens that
a 440 yd. par four-hole on one course is
much more difficult than a 450 yd. par
four on another. The first may have a
water-crossing, a dog-leg fairway
bounded by heavy rough, a thickly-
bunkered green or a blind hole beyond
a hill or bushes, whereas the second is
a straight, level run from tee to green.
Thus a short course with a 68 par could
be strokes harder than a long one with a
71 par. On the standard scratch score
system, which is fairly general outside
N.S.W., the scratch score for each hole
is determined on the general “play-
ability.” It has its merits, but playing to
par is more likely to eliminate careless-
ness.
.“Pookie” with a memory:
Considering the amount of space devoted to
sport in the daily papers there is a singular
dearth of information concerning training
methods, analyses of style and the like. Yet
athletes —particularly young athletes —have an
insatiable appetite for such stuff. When
Holmes, the bnglish sprinter, was out here he
wrote a couple of articles for a Melbourne
paper which were the best of their kind 1 have
seen. He gave full credit for the success of his
training methods to Jesse Owens, the Olympic
champion, whom he met in Berlin in ’36.
Plenty of jog-trotting was an essential of the
system—Holmes said he covered more ground in
the early stages of training than the average
middle-distance man —followed by shorter dis-
tances at a quickening tempo. Holmes had
rather a short stride, and was worried about
it. To his surprise Owens advised him to
shorten it further, thus gaining a smoother
action and avoiding the slight unevenness
which was a result of his striving for a longer
stride. “Run as though you were on hot
bricks,” Owens said; in other words, concen-
trate on the upward lift of the knee, and let the
down thrust look after itself. A novelty was
the use of music—Holmes used a gramophone
when training to aid relaxation and rhythm.
Holmes won the 100 yards at the Empire Games
in 9.7 seconds, and when he finished the 220
looking back over his shoulder to see what had
happened to the rest of the field I would have
drunk a bottle of training oil if he had advised
it as conducive to celerity.
* * * ♦
lyiore on old-time cyclist Charlie
Nalty, who when wheel races were
at their peak won the biggest in
Westralia and elsewhere. To celebrate his
64th birthday and his retirement he
pedalled 25 miles in 1 hgur 25 minutes.
Since then, as an Old Boy, he turned
up at the Central School, Broken Hill,
and the younger generation must have
regarded it as a red-letter day. With
blackboard illustrations, he gave them
the story of the bicycle in general ffnd
how he won a big race at Coolgardie
(no doubt the Westral). Then he played
mouth-organ accompaniment to the
youngsters’ singing of “Silent Night” and
“other well-known songs,” after which
he recited “Memories,” “a poem especi-
ally composed for the trip by Brigadier
Brimblecombe, of the Salvation Army,
Adelaide.” Before he left he “pre-
sented the school with 250 rubbers, a
large edition of Robinson Crusoe and a
big book for the girls, as well as half a
case of mandarins.”
* * * *
Billed to defend his N.S.W. feather-
weight championship against Danny Sim-
mons, a real featherweight challenger, at
Leichhardt, Sid Knight weighed 9st. 41b.,
and it was announced that the title, which
carries no bauble, would go to Simmons,
But Knight won the fight. Simmons ran
second in every round until the end of the
eighth, when he wanted to “retire.”
Ordered to continue, he took a hiding
in the ninth, and a left floored him a few
seconds before the. bell. He was still
“out” when the call came for the tenth,
..••••
jjk: e an old-time boxing match when
stan dards were really high was Miller v.
p uller at t h e Sydney Stadium. Each was
pertinacious an d sometimes brilliant, and
wis( j om c f Solomon would have been
necessary to te u which was in front as
round 10 rang . After that Miller landed
many telling punc hes, so he deserved the
decision that went to him. Slightly
speedier than his opponent, Fuller had an
early advantage, and looked like prevai-
ing when Miller s left eyebrow r egan
bleed in the fifth. Snappy punches often
re-opened the cut, hut the
peeper more than repaid these
lefts to the body. He h a
fight up to form If he didnt he
real match for Patrick, thoug
pounds lighter.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
For weeks before it happened Canberra
simmered with excitement over the wed-
ding of Viscountess Clive and Brigadier
Derek Schreiber. The Viscountess is lady-
in-waiting to the Duchess of Gloucester,
the Brigadier Chief of Staff of the Gov-
ernor-General’s household; so there was
a nearly-royal flavor to the romance. The
daily papers kept the Commonwealth up
to date with an almost minute-to-minute
account of the preparations, details of
arriving presents and of the numbers of
guests invited. In fact, the bed and board
accommodation of the Federal Capital
must have been booked out weeks ahead.
The small and, from an Australian
viewpoint, hoary-with-age St. John’s
Church in Canberra was chosen for the
ceremony, which was dated for last Wed-
nesday, when Archdeacon Robertson
blessed the vows. The day was full of
clear sunshine, and the Viscountess, who
is small, dainty and very good-looking,
aroused a murmur of applause from on-
lookers, not only those in the church, but
from the overflow in the churchyard, and
the throngs of uninvited gazers. She
wore pale-blue hat and frock, and carried
red roses. The Duke of Gloucester gave
the bride away. Her attendants were her
small daughter, Baroness Davina d’Arcy
de Knayth, and Prince William. The
little prince was resplendent in white silk
shirt and cherry-red pants, about the
shade of those of the 11th Hussars uni-
form, the ’groom’s regiment. The brides-
maid’s frock was a dainty affair of white
muslin touched with blue. The bride-
groom wore the uniform of the 11th
Hussars. His best man was his old friend.
Sir Willoughby Norrie,. Governor of
South Australia.
The Duchess’s arrival at the church was
watched with as bated breath as that of
the bride. H.R.H. wore a frock in one of
the deeper shades of blue. Her hat was
biscuit-toned. The Duke and Duchess
held outsize reception at Yarralumla, the
guests coming from all over Australia.
Overseas diplomats were there, and Aus-
tralia’s importants. The honeymoon is
being spent at Palm Beach.
-True friendship was shown by the rat-
ings of the British escort carrier Slinger
to 18 returning p.-0.-w. coming down
from Hong Kong who were without
clothes and money. The Slinger men sup-
plied them with both: clothes out of their
personal belongings and money from the
profits of their canteen. This sum
amounted to £2OO, and was shared equally
among the Australians. That is a true
bond of Empire. Lads who had been in
Thailand and Burma arrived in the High-
land Brigade.
Sydney turned on fine and warm days
for their arrival, and Australia extended
a welcome just as warm. The ex-p.-0.-w.
are coming back more quickly now, but
never too quickly for the friends and
relatives who have longed for years for
their coming home.
The musical achievement of 50 years
was celebrated last week when the Lilian
Frost testimonial concert crowded Syd-
ney Town Hall. Lilian herself played
organ solos with power and artistry, and
it can safely be said that the Town Hall
organ has never been heard by a more
appreciative audience. On the pro-
gramme were leading Sydney musicians
and singers. Frank Hutchens arrived
from Melbourne for the concert. In the
audience was Lilian’s brother, who had
come from Tasmania to be present at
the ovation given to his sister. Impor-
tants on the red carpet were knight
Samuel Walder and his wife and F. E.
Barraclough, and the whole hall was
crowded with old friends and admirers.
Miss Frost wore a very graceful frock
of sand crepes printed in field flowers.
Orchids, sent by a well-known music-
lover, were in the shoulder spray. The
musician proved she could deliver a
good speech and made her audience
laugh when she said “For 50 years I
have played the organ, and I have often
wondered why I didn’t change to a less
cumbersome instrument like' the piano.
But I am not going to worry about that
now, for I feel that the next instrument I
shall learn to play will be the harp.”
Samuel Walder presented Miss Frost with
a cheque for £5OO, a tribute from the citi-
zens of the city which her music has
enriched.
Mrs. Hayward Veal, looking as attrac-
tive as her husband’s portrait of her, was
at the first day of his exhibition at the
Royal Art Society Gallery. He is a
pupil of Melbourne’s Max Meldrum. He
is tall, slim and wears a clipped beard.
He talks well and his ideas are as clearly
formulated as are his paintings, A canvas
that attracted all women was one of
spikes of peach blossom in a bluey-pat-
terned vase against a beige screen. It
had all the atmosphere of a delicate
Chinese poem. There are 41 paintings in
the exhibition in the well-lighted gallery
in Hunter-street. The largest and most
expensive is “Rushcutters Oval,” priced
at 65 guineas. The prices of the rest of
the paintings range from 15 guineas
upwards.
Two other exhibitions attracting atten-
tion are those of Flight-Lieut. Walter
Bennett, R.A.A.F., at Anthony Horderns’,
and Kenneth Macqueen. The flying
man’s New Guinea brings the color and
quality pf the country in which the Aus-
tralian soldiers have been fighting home
to the Harbor city. In this collfection
are portraits of native boys and pictures
of jungle villages. The peacock greens
and blues are very effective.
Kenneth Macqueen came down from
Queensland for the opening of his show
at the Grosvenor Gallery, and brought
with him his small son. Within an hour
or so of the first day many of the pictures
carried red seals. Among the greatly-
admired were “Australian Landscape”
and “Dead Tree Reflection.” Entomolo-
gist de Boulay was at the show and
before the afternoon was over he and
the artist got together and talked beetles
(Mr. Macqueen’s brother is a keen col-
lector). At least one listener learned
that it is in West Australia that the most
gorgeous beetles are to be found, but
many Westralians seem unaware of this
very important fact. The artist also spoke
enthusiastically of the development of
art and the appreciation of art in his own
State.
This is a photograph of Mrs. Ronald
Grant Lyon, formerly Joan Morgan, of
Sydney. Mrs. Lyon is an honors graduati
in arts from Sydney Uni., and before her
marriage was a script-reader and adapter
for A.B.C. In her spare time she pro-
duced and acted for Sydney University
Dramatic Society. After some months
in Brisbane, she is back in Sydney, and
is producing the current S.U.D.S. show,
“The Beautiful People,” by William Saro-
yan. The cast includes Dr. David Monk
Adams, lan Maxwell, Marion Dallison,
Douglas Pollard, Charles Casperson and
Alan Ferguson.
Veterans of this war will find luxury
and beauty in the newly-acquired War
Veterans’ home at Yass. This was for
many years the home of the A. B. Triggs
family, and its cost to the War Veterans’
Committee was so small that it is looked
upon by them as a gift to be truly thank-
ful for. There was a great sale recently
of the art treasures and furniture with
which the house was packed. Auctioneer
Max Lawson was kept busy for three
days, and Yass was filled with visitors
from the surrounding districts and from
Sydney. The buyer of the billiard-table
gave it back for the enjoyment of the
new guests. Max Lawson’s gift was an
exquisite set of chess. One from the
Triggs family was a beautiful example of
Rosa Bonheur’s work. This still hangs
in its old position. The bidding was
keen and offers soared. Nobody took
any heed of auctioneer’s Lawson’s
caution about ceiling prices when the
grand pianos were put up. When the
bidders were brought down to earth seven
drew for one of them oat of a hat.
Book-collectors found the old manu-
scripts and early editions fascinating.
Among these Was a Chain Bible and an
illuminated Book of Hours, the last-
named bringing 300 guineas.
In pre-war days everyone living in New
Guinea was interested in the comings
and goings of the McLaren King, for
the mission launch is part of the fabric
of island life. With the arrival of
war came the commandeering of the
launch by the Army, and then its ground-
ing to make sure it would not fall into
enemy hands. Since then the diocese has
been without a launch, so the dedication
of the St. George by Bishop Warrington
Strong of New Guinea, recently at Hal-
vorsen’s boatsheds, Neutral Bay, was
an event} of interest to New Guinea people
now forced to stay in Sydney, among
them Mrs. G. Aumuller, whose husband
is B.P. representative. The St. George
is not as large as the McLaren King, but
when a larger one is built the St. George
will become the Bishop’s launch, and
the larger one will do the routine work
of the mission.
The new launch is white. On its deck
for the prayers and speeches stood Bishop
Pilcher and Bishop Cranswick, who
handed over the launch to Bishop Strong,
their robes making a splash of color in
the afternoon sunshine. At the end of
the dedication the Bishop’s flag, a red
cross on a white background, was un-
furled and flew bravely in the breeze.
Those witnessing the ceremony stood on
the pier or on the bank, and all took
part in the singing of the hymns.
The Perth Women’s Auxiliary made pos-
sible the building of this launch. Much
of the £lOOO sent by it came from street
collections.
Don’t forget the Furlough House
Younger Set’s Madcap Frolic on Saturday
at the Coronet ballroom, 319 George-
Street.
U.N.R.R.A. workers in Europe are
going to be delighted with the great cases
of woollen goods but lately packed in
the C.W.A. rooms in The Bulletin Build-
ing. The Wool Board gave the wool,
thousands of pounds’ weight of it. The
C.W.A. distributed it, and clever and
unselfish women in less than a month
have knitted garments to the value of
£9OO and over. The small girls and boys
who get these tiny suits —two pullovers
to one pair of pants for Junior, two pull-
overs to one skirt for Junior’s sister —
will be able to have joy in them, they are
so pretty. One or two workers had
sent in smart, full-length knitted coats
for little girls. They have an almost
tailored look. Most of the clothes are
for children, though there are some car-
digans and pullovers for mother and big
sister.
From Melbourne
The Moonee Valley Cup meeting was
not the success of other years owing to
heavy rain. However, the committee had
insured against this contingency, so the
finances did not suffer. The weather
marred the dressing, heavy coats and um-
brellas being the rule. Lady Dugan
braved the elements wearing a short, green
and white check jacket with her hunter-
green woollen frock. The collar and
lapels of the jacket were faced with green,
matching her felt hat and umbrella. Mary
Lisle Johnson, who accompanied Lady
Dugan, also wore a checked suit, in a
more sombre tone of brown and green.
A brown jumper and felt hat repeated the
brown of her suit. A happy little
luncheon party was hostessed by Lady
Dugan in the committee room. Amonjj
her guests were recently returned p.-0.-w.
nurses Sisters V. Bullwinkel, W. Oran,
B. Woodbridge and James.
Every seat, including the organ gallery
of the Town Hall, was filled for the War
Funds concert, for Red Cross this time,
when Pnina Salzman made her final con-
cert appearance in Australia. With her
mother she is waiting for a ’plane to take
her back home to Palestine. With the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, under
the baton of Prof. Bernard Heinze, she
was soloist in the Concerto No. 3 in C
Minor by Beethoven, and the Chopin
Concerto, No. 1 in E Minor., For this
occasion the pianist chose a gown of
palest green tulle. The skirt featured
three tiers, each with the edges ruffled,
worn over soft creamy satin. The bodice
was heart-shaped, and folds of the
material formed the short sleeves. Two
diamond clips were worn. As usual,
Pnina received a great ovation at the con-
clusion of the programme.
Lady Dugan, wearing a long tailored
gown of black crepe with unusual trim-
ming of rust-red on the shoulders, brought
a party from G.H. Her guests included
the wife of the Governor of Fiji, Lady
Grantham, whose long black skirt was
worn with a tunic blouse of grey and blue
lame. In attendance was Mary Lisle
Johnson, whose bright red jacket was
worn with a long black skirt, and Lieut.
Thompson, R.A.N. With Lady Dugan
sat Mayor Connelly and Mayoress Mrs.
Bernard Heinze. With a long skirt of
deep wine tonings Mrs. Heinze wore a
peplurn jacket of ivory taffeta with an im-
print of wine and cyclamen flowers. Over
her frock of cornflower blue Jessie Reid
wore a brown musquash coat. Mary Ward’s
miniature cossack hat was just right with
her short black frock and silver fox cape.
With John Rountree was wife Roma,
whose gown of filmy black net was em-
broidered with tiny mirrors encircled with
silver thread embroidery. Gardenias were
worn in her hair.
It was a great reunion for p.-0.-w.
guests who assembled on the lawns of
Government House for the garden party
given in their honor by Sir Winston
Dugan and his lady. Large marquees
were erected on the lawns, and in their
shelter rested men who had been brought
from hospitals and rest homes, and who
were unable to walk about the gardens.
Their wants were cared for by busy Red
Cross workers, who made tea in the
mobile canteens, and carried trays of
cakes and good things around. A small
reunion took place among Air Force offi-
cers, formerly p.-0.-w. at Stalag Luft No.
3. In their midst was Flight-Lieut.
Easton Thwaites, just out of hospital. He
was shot down and taken to an Italian
hospital, where he was treated for wounds
to his hand. So badly was the surgical
work done that on his return to Aus-
tralia he had to have one of his fingers
removed. Wherever one walked one
heard “Do you remember?” or “Have you
seen?” or “Hullo, there, I haven’t seen you
since ” Looking well, but much
thinner, was Col. Kent Hughes, who was
captured in Malaya ; and there were also
men of the Malayan Volunteer Regiment
present. Back in uniform for the occa-
sion was knight Edmund Herring, who,
with his wife, moved about greeting the
men.
The Foy and Gibson Galleries were
crowded when Lady Dugan, smart
in a black frock and gay little floral ha*
of pink and pastel blue roses, opened a
show of reproductions from the brush
of Mrs. Hudson Eastwood. Proceeds
from the sale of catalogues and of photo-
graphs of the pictures went to the Royal
Empire Society Building Fund. On arri-
val Lady Dugan, who was accompanied
by Mary Lisle Johnson, cool in blue and
white-spotted frock, with white acces-
sories, was met by the Dixon lady, Mrs.
Hudson Eastwood and Janet JJowen Pain.
Large bowls of roses and'arum lillies
decorated the small stage from which
Lady Dugan, who delivered a stirring
speech, was welcomed by president of
the society A. J. Dean. Mrs. Rupert
Downes made her first public appearance
since the tragic death of her husband,
Colonel Rupert Downes, and suited her
lovely hair and coloring with a grey and
white striped suit and matching felt hat.
Mrs. L. J. McConnan chose a brown
frock, and matched it with a small green
and brown straw hat. Mrs. Eric Purbrick
featured a navy blue and white frock, and
over it wore a white jacket. Among the
menfolk present were Dr. Newman Morris,
Alan Mac Kay and secretary of the R.E.S.,
J Holt.
Minister for France M. Auge enter-
tained members of the Diplomatic and
Consular Corps at a late-afternoon party
at Menzies. Also present were members
of the French community in Melbourne-
and others. Mayor Connelly came along
with Mayoress Heinze, whose short-
sleeved black crepe frock was worn with
a large black straw hat. G.H. was repre-
sented by the secretary to their Excellen-
cies, Mrs. A. A. Lord, who sported a gay
red hat with her black frock. The Navy
was represented by Lieut. Laurie Thomas,
R.A.N.V.R., with his wife, Commodore
and Mrs. Showers and Commodore and
Mrs. Rodney Rhodes, the last-named cool
in a grey jumper suit and black acces-
sories.
Commander Loudon Shand, seldom
seen at these affairs, was in a party
which included First Officer Sheila Mc-
Clement, smart in the uniform of the
W.R.A.N.S. Lieut.-Col. Taylor was accom-
panied by his wife, who was another guest
to choose black for her smart outfit. The
Robinson lady popped in for a few
moments. With Brigadier Durant was
Mrs. Durant. Madame Andre de Bail-
leux engaged in earnest conversation with
M.L.’s Trade Commissioner Malcolm.
Letters from Captain Alice Adcock,
A.A.N.S., disclose that with 23 other
nurses she flew from Morotai to Manila
and is now engaged in nursing
prisoners-of-war back to health. These
include not only Australians, but men of
Britain, Canada and other Allied coun-
tries, Captain Adcock says that a month
of freedom and lots of good food have
turned these men into something like
Diggers again. With ideas of shopping
for gifts to bring home, the nurses went
exploring Manila, but found prices in the
shops sky-high. The American nurses
were very good to the Australian girls
and parted with their own luxuries to
make life a little more pleasant for them.
Captain Adcock is looking forward to
Christmas at home, for her work with
the A.A.N.S. has taken her to the Middle
East, New Guinea and now Manila.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4%d. per line; all others 21. d. per line.
Better Name for Communism?
Isn’t it time we stopped using the term
Communism? To many unthinking and
ill-informed people it suggests merely a
redistribution of property and resources.
Opponents of Communism seem to such
people to support injustice and economic
depression.
The term is inaccurate. Both in Russia
and out of it, the Communist party is,
and intends, to remain, a ruling minority;
its political objective is totalitarian con-
trol, clamped down on the majority of the
people and kept in force by espionage
and tyranny. Its economic policy is State
capitalism and slavery—not share-partner-
ship.
I suggest instead that the movement
be called Red Fascism. That cuts nearer
to the bone. The term Communism dis-
guises the reality for many ; Red Fascism
would lay it completely bare. — D. MacD.
(S.A.).
A.E.S. Defended
“Lord Luvus” (B. 10/10/’45) evidently
has not made good use of the Army Edu-
cation Service during his period of ser-
vice with the forces, if any. Had he
done so, he would not use slippery
phrases such as “some young men” and
“holding good jobs.” They don’t mean
a thing, but suggest untruths.
The A.E.S. officer has not a “good
job.” Only the fact that he is an idealist
gives him the will to carry on. In New
Guinea officers of the service took mail,
news, music, gave lectures and short
talks right in the front line and shared
the trials of the fighting man. On lines
of communication, hospitals and base
depots, they gave the benefit of education
to all who would receive.
Army education does not begin now;
its time of usefulness is almost ended.
Post-war reconstruction is now com-
mencing. The man who took advantage
of A.E.S. whilst in the forces is better
fitted to meet the peace than he who was
satisfied to bash the spine or play swy.
The song of “A brave new world” was
sung by politicians. The education offi-
cer, with no axe to grind, preached that
only by hard work and co-operation
would world conditions be improved.
The education officer has done his
job. If he is given his discharge from
the Army he will help in the building
up again of our social organisation.—
Sgt. A. (A.1.F.).
Service Decorations
Before issuing medals to the persons
suggested by “Wanyill” (B. 10/10/’45),
what about clearing up some of the
anomalies governing the issue of cam-
paign stars and medals to the men who
did the actual fighting? The following
examples speak for themselves:
A enlisted in 1939 and sailed for the
Middle East in an infantry battalion with
the first convoy ; was laid up in hospital
at’ Gaza Ridge when the first Libyan cam-
paign was on, but later joined his battalion
in Greece. Fought in Greece and Crete,
where he was captured. Spent over four
years in German prison camps and returned
to Australia in June, 1945. Awarded the
1939-45 Star, slightingly referred to as
E.B.M. (Everybody’s Blanky Medal).
B also enlisted in 1939 and sailed with
the first convoy; fought in Greece and
Crete and afterwards in Syria, where he
was wounded and as a result discharged.
Award —same as A.
C. enlisted early in 1940 and left Aus-
tralia for the M.E. in 1940 with a machine-
gun battalion. Campaigned in Syria, and
afterwards went to Malaya with his unit,
where he was captured. After three and a
half years of hell in Japanese prison camps
returned to Australia. Awards —1939-45
Star and Pacific Star.
D. was called up in 1942 and served
200 miles south of Darwin for six months
during 1943. Subsequently was sent to Port
Moresby, where he served for another six
months in 1944. Awards—l 939-45 Star,
Pacific Star and Defence Medal: two better
than A and B and one better than C.
Everyone knows that the members of
the original famous Eighth Division have
been awarded the identical campaign
stars given to men who did not leave Aus-
tralia until they were sent in 1942-45,
including a man who could have landed
at Port Moresby on VP-Day, and thus
have put in one day’s “active service.”
What is required is a ribbon corre-
sponding to the 1914-15 Star of the
second-last war, the wearing of which dis-
tinguishes the man who volunteered early
and left early the safety of his own shores
to sacrifice his life in any part of the
world where the fighting was on.— Deir
Suneid (Vic.).
“Wanyill” (B. 10/10/’45) wants a medal
for services not covered by existing
awards. He ih on the right track. Epic
instances of cool, calculating courage
quoted by returning p.-0.-w. are being
ignored by authority. Blackburn, V.C.
paid tribute to the grand work of Dr
Dunlop—merely one of many instances
where defiance of the Japs and their
bestiality set an example to all.
Then there are our nurses. For many
of them, held p.-0.-w. for three or more
years, an automatic Pacific Star anc
nothing else is adding insult to menta
and physical injury. It is a case for
special award, granted quickly.
The point I want to make is that re-
leased men giving details of distinguished
service behind the wires are not now in
units. This praise of valor is not recorded
and passed up to brigade, to division, to
corps, to Whitehall. Authority should
spring to it and put some idle I , men on
to recommendations for .awards amongst
p.-0.-w. elements Eric N. Birks
(N.S.W.), _ v
Obsolete?
The Australian Governments intend
spending approximately £200,000,000 on
the unification of railway gauges. In
view of transport experiences during the
war this appears to be a great waste of
the taxpayers’ money. Had the proposal
been adopted 40 years ago it may have
had something to commend it. Today
it is out of date, and Australia will
be burdened for many years paying for
a system that in 20 or 25 years will be
as obsolete as bullock wagons are today.
It has been claimed that a uniform
gauge would facilitate military operations
in the event of another war. This can
be ruled out by reason of the fact that
“All she said was ‘the War's over."
modern bombers could in one day destroy
railway lines and bridges from Brisbane
to Adelaide.
It is obvious that future long-distance
transport will be by aeroplanes. They
do not need lines or bridges and can be
sent in any direction at enormous speeds
compared with railways.
This uniform-gauge proposition appears
to be a means of bolstering up a
transport system that is already obsolete
for long-distance passenger transport
and is becoming obsolete for country
haulage. No doubt employment entered
into the calculations of the people
responsible for the project, but if
half the amount were expended on
water conservation and channeling it
would open up vast areas for intense cul-
tivation, thus placing thousands of
families in a position to earn a good liv-
ing. JDepreciation would be a fleabite
compared with railway depreciation.
The Federal Government should com-
mission scientists and engineers to ex-
periment with and design large transport
’planes; also, to experiment with new
power methods so that in a few years the
need for petrol (at present not obtain-
able in Australia) would be to a, great
extent eliminated.
We appear to be on the verge of vast
improvements in engines and their power-
ing ; and Australia with its great dis-
tances should be with the leaders and not
a delayed follower of other countries in
this respect. — Australian (Vic.).
Railways and Settlement
What has Australia gained' by the
nationalisation of transport? If the
Queensland Central and Northern rail-
ways had been built on the land-grant
system by private enterprise all the coun-
, try out to the end of the 25in. rain belt
(which means over 200 miles back from
the coast) would have been settled in
2000-acre blocks or less, and many of
the settlers would have been making
more money than some of the present
settlers are making off 30,000 acres of
brigalow wilderness.
The aim of a company-owned railway
is to plant people and towns along its
route, but a Government railway seeks
only to put people around Parliament
House. —J, R. Lewis (Q.).
Loyalty to Wool
Allow me to tell “Longun” (B.
3/10/’45) that my observations during
30 years in central and western Queens-
land are that graziers wear as much wool
as, if not more than, other members of
society, and in a much warmer climate
than “Longun’s” Victoria. Anyway, why
attack graziers, their sons and daughters
because of their tennis-court attire? Most
of the daughters wear knitted woollens
in the shape of jumpers and jackets, and
what girl doesn’t eagerly seek the beauti-
ful wool materials? As for the men, they
mostly wear the hard-wearing wool
gabadines and twists for riding-trousers,
and wool is almost 100 per cent, popular
when it comes to suitings. And what
grazier or his son wears cotton or silk
socks?—H. D. B. (Q.).
Parliament in Action
An announcement by a Westralian
organisation that it intends “to see that
dust will not accumulate on the gallery
seats” of the State’s Parliament House
reminds me of an afternoon of leave I
spent watching my own State politicians
in action. There were two other spec-
tators.
Two-thirds of the members were present
for the debate, and more than half of
these belonged to the Opposition. One
Government member surreptitiously read
a sporting journal spread on the floor at
his feet during the whole of the proceed-
ings. An Opposition gentleman, with
head thrown back, and hands clasped
blissfully across his ample stomach,
slept. Four members of the House spoke
in debate on a Transport Bill, the others,
I suppose, having exhausted their oratory
in a spate of pre-election promises.
I suspect that politicians, being human,
need to be supervised while working. If
nobody worries about what they are
doing they are quite entitled to please
themselves, which at present they do.
Perhaps, like a football team, they per-
form best under the eyes of a gallery
packed with adoring fans. — Peter Vin-
cent (R.A.N.).
Pidgin English
“Student” (B. 26/9/’45) complains that
I made no worthwhile deductions from
my observations of New Guinea natives.
I don’t know what deductions he ex-
pected from what was, after all, merely a
string of anecdotes, but he must surely
have deduced for himself that I have a
sincere regard and respect for the natives.
These sentiments he apparently shares,
judging by his objection to the word
“boong.”
I am quite familiar with J. J. Murphy’s
admirable handbook. It was beside me
when I wrote the offending article and it
is beside me now. From the author’s
apologia I recognise not only the para-
graph to which “Student” accords the
honor of quotation marks, but the entire
second half of his letter.
But the lingo quoted by me (and
amended slightly by The Bulletin) was
not intended as Pidgin. “Student’s” ex-
perience of New Guinea is apparently
pre-war. Surely he realises that the im-
pact of 200,000 soldiers on the life of the
natives must bring about modifications in
their speech as in all other aspects of their
life. Soldiers can’t speak Pidgin ; natives
can’t speak English ; but with a little in-
genuity and intelligent effort on both sides
they manage to bridge the gap and get
their meaning across. Further, many of
the police boys hail from Papua, in which
territory Pidgin has always been dis-
couraged. Carriers are from all parts of
the island.
I wrote of things I have seen. The
conversations were reported as spoken,
and neither the natives nor myself claimed
or thought they were expressed in pure
Melanesian Pidgin English.
Throughout this letter I have used the
word native, but that does not prevent me
from regarding it as a stilted, colorless
word. When talking to a boong I shall
continue to be polite—possibly more so
than “Student” would consider consistent
with “wet masta’s” dignity—but when
writing or talking about these good
people I shall always call a boong a
boong without much risk of being
thought to refer to a market or a crowd.
“Student” ridicules the boong’s ability
to smell a Jap. From what New Guinea
Digger did he get that schoolgirl word
“pong”? The infanteer has only one
phrase for the effect of the Nip on the
olfactory nerve —“he stinks.” And, alive
or dead, he does. I’ll never again see a
crowd of Japs on the screen without
screwing up my nose.
As for getting my information from
conversation with “soldiery” who, despite
the fact that, like “Student,” they have
often depended on the boongs for their
existence, “know nothing of the subject,
anyway,” I must plead guilty. During
four years in the A.I.F. I have had little
opportunity for conversation with any-
one else than soldiery—and boongs.—
Jasby (A.1.F.).
Cure for Strikes
Apparently any union which disagrees
with the ruling of an Arbitration Court is
at liberty to strike in an attempt to change
that Court’s ruling to one of its liking.
I have a cure to suggest. If every
union in Australia were compelled by
law to follow the example of the Queens-
land Shop Assistants’ Union strikes
would be a lot less popular. If the
Q.S.A.U. gets involved in a work-stop-
page the union officials receive no pay
until it is over. — Jacob (Q.).
Pre-fabricaled Houses
“L.L.” (B. 10/10/”45) doesn’t seem to
realise that the building trade is still in
the horse-and-buggy stage. Houses are
erected on the site by methods whose cost
has risen right out of the reach of "ordi-
nary folk. Mass-production, with conse-
quent reduction of costs, has never been
introduced into the building of Australian
houses, though some of the fittings and
equipment of the house may be factory-
made.
America has developed mass-produc-
tion of pre-fabricated houses by adapting
the Kaiser shipbuilding technique to
house-building. They mass-produce whole
walls of wood, plastic or other materials,
with windows and doors already hung,
and stoves, sinks, refrigerators, washing-
machines, cupboards, baths, wash-basins,
toilets, plumbing, drainage and wiring
built in. Roofs and floors are cast in
panels of plastic, as also are ceilings,
already colored to save painting. As the
units come off the assembly line they are
carted to the site. It is claimed that a
whole house can be erected and ready
for occupation in four hours.
America points the way to a goal
towards which we would do well to set
our faces. Opponents of mass-production
and pre-fabrication in the past have
claimed that in “thinly-populated” Aus-
tralia there would never be sufficient
demand for large quantities of houses to
warrant the adoption of mass-production
methods. That argument won’t hold water
todayJ, A. L. (A.1.F.).
Liquor Problems in the Speck
I’m heartily in support of “K.H.W.”
(B, 3 /10/’45) as to the absurdity of Aus-
tralian hotel hours. It’s not so bad
in Tasmania, where bars are open from
noon to 2 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 10
p.m. The chief defect here is that our
Government will not concede a licence to
any type of restaurant. Patrons who
would enjoy a light wine with meals must
choose hotels or accept the alternative of
stewed tea and stuff it is a libel to call
coffee.
We boast of and advertise our tourist
attractions, but many hotels, looking for
their profit solely to bar trade,, lack ac-
commodation for visitors. As for selling
bottled ale or Australian wines (apart
from a highly alcoholic sherry), our pub-
licans do it only as a great favor. It is
more profitable to sell liquor over the
bar. — Rub-A-Dub (Tas.),


iBuL,
The “MARS”
6 in. LATHE
For fine work at
High-speed
The
“ HERCULES ”
s^in. LATHE
“The little GIANT of
the Lathe World”
mm
r •
p.
The “VENUS”
Tin. LATHE
High-speed , Sturdy ,
Accurate
AUSTRALIAN
TO DEVELOP
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES
/
“Mars” Machine Tools are distinguished by the
following outstanding features: —
%, ACCURACY— BuiIt to Schlesinger standards of
Accuracy.
2. BALANCE — All necessary revolving parts are
Dynamically Balanced, eliminating vibration.
3. FINISH — All surfaces are machine ground.
4. SMOOTH RUNNING —All Gear Teeth are
generated.
5. VERSATILITY— AII Lathes have Detachable
Gap Bridge.
The “ATLAS”
8 In. LATHE
High-speed
General Purpose
Workshop Lathe
Ui
The “MARS”
PLAIN MILLER
w
isl
K
(I
CP
■t2 - : i
mm*
The “MARS”
SHAPER
mr* '-;
Lathes Quick Delivery
The ‘MARS’ High-Speed
PLANER
The “MARS”
lO in.
ENGINE
LATHE
The “MARS”
Horizontal
BORING
MILL
m ■ 1 ill
m
■ : :
II I mm
: ■
The “MARS”
Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Get full details and illustrated literature from the Manufacturers,
or from any Agent listed below:
Distributing Agents:
N.S.W.: THOS. HERBERT & CO. PTY. LTD., 139 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY
VICTORIA: THOMPSON & WILLIAMS PTY. LTD., 28 Market St.,
MELBOURNE
N.Z. —MOTOR SPECIALTIES LTD., Anzac Avenue, AUCKLAND
Branches throughout the Dominion
Stockists —GOODALL & CO. PTY., LTD., 301 Kent Street, SYDNEY
J. & O’S. Advt.
Ti
m
ŵ
BRIDGE STREET
VALLEY • BRISBANE •
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE (EXCEPT CANADA AND GREAT PRITAIN)
