

w
. The House of Seppelts reminds you to
DO YOUR SHARE BUY VICTORY BONDS
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66 —No. 3395
Wednesday, March 7, 1945
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE STATELY HOUSE OF DISRAELI, HUGHENDEN MANOR.
BUCKINGHAMSHIRE has very many literary and historical
associations. The names of Hampden, Penn, Burke, Disraeli,
Milton Cowper Gray, Waller and Shelley all figure in its annals.
Not the least important of its stately homes is Hughenden Manor,
home of Disraeli when, as Earl of Beaconsfield, he lived here from
1848 until his death in 1881. Wycombe Abbey, once the seat
of Lord Carrington and later a well-known girls’ school, is near by,
as also is Penn, the ancestral home of the family of William Penn.
After his resignation from the office of Prime Minister in 1880
Disraeli spent most of the following year at Hughenden, during
which time he published his book of memories, Endymion. Here,
too, he prepared his last great speech in which he referred to
London as the Key of India. On April 19, 1881, the great states-
man passed away. He was buried in the churchyard at Hughenden
by the side of his wife. The then Prince of Wales, afterwards
Edward VII, attended the funeral and in the church Queen Victoria
had a memorial tablet erected to the memory of her great friend
and counsellor.


w
This Book FREE to YOUI
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 145 AGE
The Red Page
FILL THE FIFE!
Not long ago The Bulletin published
a well-written sonnet by a soldier-poet,
the last line of which was “But who
shall give us back ourselves again?” The
author was Alexander Turner, two
volumes of whose plays have made a
timely appearance on the occasion of his
being placed first-equal in the recent
AB.C. competition.
Through six of the seven recently pub-
lished plays (the six that matter most,
“After Three” being a lightweight crime
play with a “wow” ending) there runs
the one theme. It is the theme of Tuber’s
war sonnet; and in its essence it may
be described with the greatest simplicity
—it is Adventure.
Turner has capabilities beyond those
of the ordinary run of people who are
attempting to write plays in Australia.
He has a genuine writer’s command of
words and dialogue; he is at home in
both prose and verse ; particularly in his
radio plays, he has the freedom of an
assured technician; he has a deep love
for Australia, shown in his plays of
the- Westralian goldfields, and at the
same time, setting one of his plays in
ancient Greece, another in Elizabethan
England and another in Holland at the
time of the Inquisition, he is no Little
Australian ; he writes plays of our own
times, and he responds just as often to
the mighty events of history. And, most
importantly of all, his theme is Adven-
ture ; he is fascinated by the man of
action.
In “Royal Mail” and “The Golden
Journey” he deals with adventurers of
the goldfields; in “Wheat Boat” with
Greek seafarers, ancient and modern;
in “In Thy Most Need” with the struggle
of William of Orange; in “Sea Power”
with a sailor going off to join the
Revenge ; in “Australian Stages” with re-
cruits travelling by train to begin their
training for the present war. And all
these people, from the Greeks to the
Australian soldiers, are splendid material
for drama ; all the events in which they
are engaged are great and exciting.
But, with all his virtues, Turner never
rises to his own great occasions. The
impression left by the plays is not the
splendor of adventure but what Turner
sees as the pathos of it.
The “burden” of “Royal Mail” is that
the adventurer cannot marry. This is
shown directly in the main story, wherein
a promising love affair comes dismally
to nothing ; and indirectly, in a subsidiary
plot in which a gay philandering bank
clerk is shot by‘some surly brute whose
girl he has stolen (with her own hearty
approval), the true understanding of
character is supplanted by conventional
moral values to convey the message that
adventurers deserve to be murdered.
Shorter and more clearly worked out
“The Golden Journey” is even more dis-.
spiriting. The out-of-work breadwinner
comes to the goldfields to be betrayed
into prison by Big Business ; the man
who makes a fortune ends up trying to
cheat an abo. for a pair of dungarees;
the fossicker becomes a madman ; the
miner develops phthisis ; the wife has her
life wrecked because the husband errs
with black gins; the barmaid discovers
that the only man who really loves her
is married; the parson takes to drink;
and the golden-headed newchum, who is
presented as a symbol of Adventure,
summing up in his life the lives of all
who listen to the call of the fields, is
killed under a train.
In the first part of “Wheat Boat” a
sailor’s girl is drowned; and so heavy
ŵ
w
Royal Mail and Other Plays (Paterson’s
Printing Press, Ltd., Perth) contains, be-
sides the title-piece—a three acter for
the stage —a one-acter “The Golden Jour-
ney” and four radio plays, “Wheat Boat,”
“Sea Power,” “In Thy Most Need” and
“After Three.” The other volume, from
Mulga Publications, consists of a verse
play for radio, Australian Stages. Turner
has previously published Hester Siding
and Other Plays.
ŵ
Australians in New Guinea .
Captain Bruce Robinson, a medical
officer, has told what he saw of the New
Guinea fighting in Record of Service
(Macmillan). He is particularly interest-
ing on his own and other men’s reactions
to jungle warfare:
I have often been questioned regarding
my own emotional reaction to these new
and strange experiences and my answer
has been that it was one of intense excite-
ment and elation. The continuous noise
of gunfire, the shouting, the spice of danger
when the bullets whistled through the trees
overhead, the rush and bustle of many
casualties all combined to form a very
heady stimulant
Each one reacted differently, each after
his own way, to the stresses of these weeks
into which we were packing the experiences
of a lifetime. One man I knew had three
remarkable escapes from what had seemed
sure death, and yet these experiences did
not seem to worry him at all. In fact
he was rather proud of them and probably
would have welcomed another to add to his
list.
I knew of one officer who was about to
take a platoon of very young boys into their
first action, when he found that one or two
were crying and all were upset. You
could never guess how he coped with the
situation. He simply took a tin of hard-
boiled lollies from his pocket and handed
them round. The boys were soon munch-
ing happily, their fear and misery for- *
gotten.
Record of Service is no more than
adequately written ; it is scrappy and dis-
jointed. But it has the value of all first-
hand reports of war: that the public and
Australian writers who wish to handle
war themes can learn from it precisely
what the author saw and felt —what the
jungle was like, the fighting, how the
men felt and how they acted. Captain
Robinson sums up:
I often used to wonder why men went
to war; some, of course, went because they
had to —they were conscripted—but most
fit Australians volunteered. I used to
wonder what had made me eager to be in
it. Was it self-respect? Was it because
all those I had thought of as “good types”
were there? Certainly I believed that this
was a war of good against evil and that
our freedom was at stake, but sometimes
1 felt that these were only excuses. It was
something deeper, more primitive and less
tangible, as if it were man’s lust for adven-
ture, excitement and change. Of course,
few of us would have gone for that alone
and fought for some cause that was not our
own, but still I believe that this urge made
us feel that we would “hold our manhood
cheap” if we were not there.
Though he gives one memorable little
picture of fighting which could serve as
an epitome of all the campaigns in the
jungle—-a glimpse 'of stretcher-bearers
giving up their lives in a vain but heroic
attempt to rescue a wounded officer —
Captain Robinson, naturally, has more to
say about medical affairs than about the
actual warfare. He discusses dysentery,
skin diseases and malaria and outlines
the methods that were adopted to deal
with them. “Owing to the new drugs
that are being used,” he says, “malaria
need not be a lifelong disease. In fact
it is confidently expected by medical
authorities that there will be no problem
from recurrent malaria in Australia three
years after the war is over. To achieve
this happy state, though, each recurrent
attack must be properly treated in hos-
pital.”
“W.L.”: The technique of the “stutter
of short sentences,” which I am glad to
see the Red Page has criticised in
Australian imitators of Hemingway,
flourished oddly a few years ago in
American scientific textbooks. The fol-
lowing bit of Hemingwayese comes from
Elementary Psychology and Education,
by Joseph Baldwin:
One or more of the sensor organs is
excited. The motor organs are stimulated
to action by the phantasm. Sleep-walking
is the ordinary form of somnambulism.
Sometimes the thinking faculties are in-
tensely active, and difficult problems are
worked out. The phantasm seems reality,
and the dreamer becomes an actor.
Seldom do somnambulists remember their
exploits.
The extract is taken at random. Here’s
another: —
Ideas fight. Emotions wage war. Appe-
tites and passions clamor for gratification;
egotistic emotions contend for self; love
pleads for others; conscience imperatively
battles for right. Fiercer conflicts rage in
the human soul than on fields of carnage.
But self as choice is sovereign. Reason ex-
amines all the arguments and weighs all the
motives. In view of all the considerations,
self, as choice, decides. Happy he who
chooses wisely!
Since these elegant extracts were pub-
lished in 1901 Joseph Baldwin could
hardly have borrowed his style from
either Hemingway or Gertrude Stein.
Maybe it’s a modem form of “Baconian
compression.”
“Dhas”: Cables have reported Henry
G. Lamond’s Dingo —obviously one of
his animal stories on the lines of those
he has published in The Bulletin —as
selling well -in America. An Australian
edition is to be published. Two other
Bulletin writers have recently scored in
America: Eve Langley and Margaret
Trist, both of whom have had a novel
accepted for U.S. publication. Eve
Langley’s is the Prior Prize-winning
classic. The Pea-Pickers; Margaret Trist’s
is her first novel, Now That We’re Laugh-
ing, which is due on the Australian
market any day now. Margaret Trist has
had a second novel accepted for publi-
cation in Australia, also a collection of
short stories.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Adapted from the Russian by Mar-
garet Kennedy, Sydney Minerva’s
Autumn is the sort of triangle drama
that used to be written by the Norwegian
school of Ibsen and Bjornson- the
humor of character is brought out but
the piece is fundamentally thoughtful.
Fhe emotions are strong—overweighted
at times and the drama as a whole is a
series of problems in honor and morals.
As such, it’s a welcome change from
the feather-brained light comedies which
have been the characteristic Minerva pro
gramme. It falls flat at times, seems a
trifle morbid even, because , Kathleen
Robinson and Bruce Beeby, the one a
K.C.’s erring but passionate wife and the
other her equally erring but gay and
sparkling lover, fail in passion and
sparkle. Beeby has good looks and a
good voice, but too often says his lines
without conviction, woodenly, or in a
curiously resigned tone. Richard Parry
livelier than he has been for a long time’
does full justice to the author’s best piece
of characterisation, the K.C.; and Lesley
Pope—exceptionally pleasing in a diffi-
cult young-girl role—helps him to carry
the show along to a moderate success
Dorothy Whiteley, Charles Tasman and
Daphne Winslow are amusing in minor
roles.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre announces
the most successful year of the 36 that
it has existed. Its membership climbed
to nearly 1500, and its year’s profits,
which again go to the Legacy Club for
children of deceased soldiers, to over
£9OO. It now gives eight plays a year in
Adelaide’s biggest theatre, the Tivoli, and
each of them four times. The Rep. has
re-elected The Bulletin’s old friend
Talbot Smith as its president, and as the
v.-p., Tom Neave, who is also acting
secretary while military duties still claim
Irving Johnston.
At the talkies:
Tor the leading role of “The Impostor” (G.
U. Theatres, Sydney) the director had Jean
Gabin, who had impressively made his Holly-
wood debut as a tough waterside character in
“Moontide.” Richard Whorf, too, a fine actor,
was at his disposal ; also a lot of other charac-
ters who, while answering to names such as
Baptiste, Andre and Jules, obviously have a
terrific inner struggle not' to burst into a “Say,
buddy” or “Okay, pal.” Alas, M’sieu Duvivier,
the writer-director, took his story from the self-
sacrifice file of the studio’s stereotyped plot
bureau, and yet another hero-rogue makes the
Republic One and Indivisible very proud, going,
of course, to the usual hero’s death while his
colonel suppresses manly fears and his comrades
murmur, with Gallic shrugs, “Le Bon Dieu,
rest his soul, he sure was a swell guy!”
The odor of mothballs which hung
about the revival of “The Desert Song,”
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, couldn’t
have been due to the dressing, which was
entirely new, so it must have been due
to the plot—with which Max Oldaker,
Joy Beattie and others struggled valiantly.
Or it might have been the music,
which Anthony Strange and the ex-
Gilsullivan chorus presented with voices
far better than it merited. It might also
have been the wit and humor, to which
Len Getting, as Benjamin Kidd, gave a
mechanical interpretation. Anyhow,
whatever the merits of the romantic opus,
it made Gilbert and Sullivan look like the
pair of geniuses their admirers say they
were ; and that is something.
The resurrection of a number of un-
finished illustrations by William Blake
for Dante’s Inferno in a show at the
National Gallery, Melbourne, makes the
observer wonder how Blake got the repu-
tation for being an artist. He may have
said good things as a philosopher, but as
a depictive artist he was no better than
the average clever student of a conven-
tional art school. His Christmas-panto.
monsters, his clumsy figures with their
expressionless faces, the headless bodies
and the bodies sawn in two or with pro-
truding entrails recall the crude frescoes
of the Buddhist hell in Chinese temples.
“F.S.”: Everything Russian is sur-
rounded by a halo these days, so it isn’t
surprising to find the critics overcome
with aesthetic awe at a show of Moscow s
colored war cartoons and posters at the
Mural Hall, Melbourne, sponsored by
Australia-Soviet House, that strange in-
stitution patronised by bourgeois judges,
bishops and professors. One critic was
lost in wonder at the extraordinary
subtlety and cunning of the Soviet color
printers, though the processes employed
are such as can be seen on any Austra-
lian hoarding. A Melbourne cartoonist
joined the chorus with a lecture, though
his own work is no better and no worse
than his Moscow brothers—in fact, I pre-
fer it, since it has benignity and humor.
The ferocity of the Russian cartoons is
explainable by the dreadful experiences
of the German invasion, but to call in-
dignation art when it is expressed so
crudely is a misuse of the language. I
is perfectly certain that a show of Nazi
war tartoons would be artistically as
like this one as one pea is like another.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
“Truth in Advertising”
Nfn
ONV
On Or
Rn
L n ®Ny
ll
m
M
m
ini
h e i
«n«®»
“*u
THE SENIOR STORE”
121 Years of Service
FAMOUS SLOW PRICES
ll good things are cheap; all bad are very dear, wrote the American essayist
Thoreau in 1841.
N ever was truer word spoken on the subject of value.
ouchstone of economical buying must ever be the price-quality relationship.
Hi igh prices are not necessarily a guarantee of worth.
n the contrary, the wise purchase is very often the inexpensive one.
jE&fcJ o Store has demonstrated this more clearly than Anthony Horderns’ with their
* rr Famous Low Prices” policy.
ou, our valued customers, realise full well that no matter how little you may pay
' for any article from our extensive range, you are getting the utmost possible
value for your money.
Hi
€
ID
ID
IE
ID
N
§
ow is this worthwhile objective achieved?
f course, several factors are responsible.
emember, first and foremost, that we have 121 years of practical experience in
manufacturing and wholesale buying behind us.
uring that long period we have naturally developed a keen eye for distinguishing
the sound from the shoddy.
ach item submitted to us has to accord with rigorous specifications regarding suitability,
durability, and workmanship.
etail prices are then assessed to allow for the barest margin of profit.
ormally our big turnover repays us for passing on to the public the benefit of good,
low-priced merchandise.
atisfaction is finally our own reward and that of the community we serve.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
SYDNEY


The Seagulls of Parson 's Reef
By "STANDBY."
ẁ
to be free for a moment from the
rain that beat incessantly on the dark
ship and the darker sea with its occa-
sional white-caps flashing in the immense
obscurity of the night, he glanced at the
wheelhouse clock.
Ten minutes to twelve. Within the next
ten minutes he would have to make a
turn on dead reckoning alone. It seemed
ages since he’d sent the standby seaman
to call the next watch. The two relieving
seamen were already swallowing their hot
cocoa in the wheelhouse, but the mate
hadn’t shown up yet. What the devil
was keeping him?
Certainly not fear of that reefbound
stretch of water between Thursday Island
and Cooktown; that dark and rainy
wilderness through which the little ship
now plunged and wallowed and in which,
hidden and menacing, alone in the waves
with its weeds and shellfish and seagulls,
lay Carson’s Reef. If the second’s calcula-
tions were correct he would make the
turn and pass Carson’s Reef just over a
mile away on his port hand.
But supposing his calculations were
wrong?
Young, inexperienced and nervous, the
second wanted nothing so much as to be
able to hand over his responsibilities to
the mate and turn in. The mate was
such an unemotional tower of strength ;
always so sure of himself and undisturbed
by any sort of weather. Even those
bombs hadn’t disturbed him in the least.
He’d stood among the wreckage, his
hands thrust into his pockets, giving
orders in his everyday, normal manner
while bombs were still falling.
The second would never forget that
night. He was only third mate then, and
the second mate had been killed —pinned
underneath a falling derrick. His death
had been a shock to the young third,
making acquaintance with violent death
for the first time. He could still see the
limp body the men carried for’ard when
they’d cleared away the wreckage of the
boom.
The sudden death of that officer had
meant early promotion for him. Now he
was second officer, with every prospect of
retaining the job so long as he showed
efficiency. At that moment he was feel-
ing far from efficient. There was the
turn to be made ; and somewhere in the
water that looked so vast but was, in fact,
so perilously narrow —somewhere close
lay Carson’s Reef.
He moved back to the port wing of
the bridge and almost collided with the
burly figure of the mate.
“Steady on, young fella.” The mate’s
hand shot out of the darkness and seized
his shoulder.
“How are we doing?”
“Not too good, sir. I haven’t made the
turn yet. I waited till”
“Hold on a minute till I get my cocoa.”
The mate stepped into the wheelhouse,
got his mug of cocoa and rejoined the
second.
“Who’s on lookout?” he asked.
“Grant’s just coming on now.”
“Right-oh. As soon as they relieve the
wheel and lookout tell him to keep his
eyes skinned while you come into the
chartroom with nie.”
Two minutes later the two officers
leaned over the lighted chart table. The
pool of light on the outspread chart lit
up their faces: the second mate, young,
fresh-faced and fair, with only a slight
frown marring his youthful features; the
mate, older and leaner with the strain of
responsibility showing in his lined face.
“Where do you reckon we are?”
The second mate picked up the dividers
and pointed to a spot on the chart.
“Down here,” he said. “According to
the log we should have made the turn
at ten to twelve, but I let her run on a
bit longer till you came on. It’s been rain-
ing like this for”
“Did you call the skipper?”
“No, I didn’t think there was any need,
especially since he hasn’t had any sleep
for four nights.”
“You should have called him, young
fella. Don’t try to take too much respon-
sibility on yourself. All right. You nip
out and keep a lookout while Grant reads
the log again. Tell him to report it to
me and I’ll check over your figures.”
Five minutes later the mate snapped
off the chartroom light and felt his way
out on to the bridge.
“All right. Second,” he said. “I'll take
over. You can turn in. I’ll let her run
on till ten past twelve before I make the
turn, just to be sure. Good-night.”
“Good-night, sir.”
A BLE SEAMAN PRICE finished his
cocoa and put the empty mug down,
He glanced at the wheelhouse clock and
stood for a moment thoughtfully sucking
his teeth. Two minutes to twelve. At
twelve midnight he was due to relieve
the wheel,
When both hands of the clock pointed
exactly to the hour he stepped across and
placed his hand on a spoke. The helms-
man moved aside, still keeping his eyes
on the lighted binnacle,
“South twenty-three east, and she’s lug-
gin ’ a bit to port,” he said,
“South twenty-three east and luggin’
to port,” repeated Price. He moved the
wheel slightly to get the feel of the ship,
Two hours, he was thinking. Two
hours at the wheel and two on lookout,
At five past four he’d be back in
bed. His job was purely automatic,
Sne was a good steering ship, and beyond
giving her a spoke or two to starb’d to
check that port swing he had nothing
to do and nothing to worry about. Just
keep that “23” on the lubber line. He
had only a vague idea where the ship
was, and he didn’t much care. The only
thing about her movements that con-
cerned him was that each time he came
° n . watc h she was so much nearer to
Brisbane. _
Brisbane to him represented a series o
Pphs. Struth, he hadn t seen a beer for
el §ht months. Oh, well, he and soon be
making up tor that.
Thank God he wasn t an officer in thi
weather. Idly he wondered how the hel
t* l6 ma * e knew . exact Y where they
were-m all that rainy darkness. Bit
beyond him. There was a time when
h / d thought of going ( or a ticket himself,
s f ght c f the volumes of figures
ddi J ms that a sympat hetic third
ha b d offered to le ’ and l i lim had put
h , jd hat jdea Let them as liked
do ~h e figuring and worrying . They
| d j the orders and he’d carry ’em
&
ou^ e , d had a gQod look at the chart yes .
terday while he was doing a job in the
chartroom an d had thanked his lucky
stars that he hadn’t gone for that ticket,
No wonder the Old Man looked so worn
out Reefs , Blime, that bit of coast was
more reefs than water , w hh a narrow,
winding trac k mar ked “Recommended
Course ” s i ap through the middle of them,
why they might be headed for one this
very ’ m j nute , but no one could blame him
if they were. His orders were to steer
south twenty-three east, and south twenty-
three east she was. Let it rain till he
got to Brisbane!
APT AIN JAMES HALL opened his
eyes and listened to the steady thump,
thump of the engines. , ,
God. he was tired; too tired to sleep
“ These , ast ,’ wo weeks had been
fhe toughest he’d ever been through in
fort ye ° rs at seaj he to i d himself, or per-
haps it was just that he was getting old.
That cursed New Guinea coast with its
uncharted reefs and endless rain was
enough to make any man feel his age.
The last five days had felt like five
years. With a damaged ship he’d had to
come round the long way—down through
the nor’-east channel and through the
Torres Strait. It was a course that called
for careful navigation at any time, and
this trip the weather had been against
him all the way. Five days in close, reef-
bound waters and five days and nights of
rain, during which he had scarcely left
the bridge.
It wasn’t that he felt his presence there
was such a help. He was a blue-water
man; had been all his life, and would
never feel at home in narrow waters,
Thank heaven both his officers were coas-
tal men and knew this coast. The mate
was a splendid chap. Such a cool cus-
tomer, too ; always so quietly confident
and unruffled. Must be absolutely devoid
of nerves. Look at the calm way he’d
got the fire under control that night!
Just as if he’d been hosing down and
squaring up ship in peace-time,
Captain Hall switched on his reading
light and looked at the clock on the
bulkhead at the foot of his bed. Ten
minutes past midnight. The mate would
be on the bridge. The captain saw him in
swift vision—the rain, the white-capped
seas and the night; reefs; Brisbane; and
the sturdy figure of the mate. Good,
Nothing to worry about. Yawning
heavily he switched off the light and
settled down to sleep,
THE second mate lay on his bunk with
A his eyes wide open. Ordinarily he’d
have been asleep within ten minutes of
coming off watch, but tonight he felt
that sleep was impossible.
What if he’d made a mistake during
his watch? He’d handed over to the
mate feeling uncertain of the ship’s posi-
tion, and the fact that the mate had
seemed confident did nothing to allay
his present fears. When he closed his
eyes all he could see was a picture of that
stretch of coast as he’d so often seen it
in daylight.
Out on the port hand the large, black
square beacon on Carson’s Reef stood out
plainly with its seagulls resting on it,
and the line of ugly, black nigger-heads
stretching almost to the horizon gave
grim warning of the extent of the sinister
reef underneath. But, as he saw it to-
night it wasn’t away on the port hand.
It was dead ahead.
Desperately he fought back the impulse
to rush up to the bridge and warn the
mate. No ; that would never do. It
would only be an admission of his own
incompetence. After all, the mate had
assumed full responsibility. If the ship
struck now the blame would be the
mate’s, not his.
But what comfort could that be? How
could he ever face the mate again, know-
ing full well that the fault was all his?
Blast the mate!* Why did he always have
to be so calm and sure of himself?
Hadn’t he any feelings at all?
Sleep was out of the question now.
So also was his original idea of return-
ing to the bridge, but at least he could
keep some sort of a lookout from the
deck outside his cabin. Anything was
preferable to just lying here thinking and
waiting. He got up, pulled his wet oil-
skins over his pyjamas and stepped out
on deck. Miserably he wondered what
good his presence out here could do. It
wasn’t that he was afraid of being
drowned in his bunk. To do him justice,
the thought of drowning never entered his
head. It was just that he felt that by
some freak of chance he might be able
to give some timely warning.
Time and time again he imagined he
could see the dim outline of the beacon,
and every white-capped wavetop seemed
to be breaking against an ugly, black
nigger-head. He remembered his earliest
days at sea when his one ambition had
been to get his ticket and become a watch-
keeping officer. In those days he’d fondly
imagined that all the officer of the watch
had to do was walk up and down the
bridge in a nice white uniform. Of
course, he’d occasionally pause to tell the
helmsman to watch his steering.
What an ignorant young fool he’d
been!
THE mate adjusted a towel around his
neck and buttoned his oilskins
securely. In five minutes he’d have to
go up to the standard compass and bring
the ship around on her new course.
Curses on the rain!
He hated this turning blind on a dead-
reckoned position. But no good chewing
it over. The only way to successful
coastal navigation was to double check
all your figures, make a decision and stick
to it. Start chopping and changing and
you were done.
Well, he’d made his decision. Right or
wrong, he would stick to it now.
He stared ahead into the darkness.
Nothing was visible except the dim out-
line of the fo’c’sle head and an occasional
glint of phosphorus from the bow wash.
Lord, it had been a foul trip down.
One of the worst he’d ever had on the
Queensland coast. Up in New Guinea
he’d been thinking how lovely it would
be to be back on a coast he knew, but
no one could call this lovely. It was
just plain hell, though no one must ever
suspect that he thought so.
It wasn’t always easy to keep up this
bluff of being so sure of himself. He
wondered if the men saw through his
bluff sometimes. That night of the bomb-
ing, for instance. He was feeling scared
stiff, and only wanted to dive into a dark
alley-way and lie flat. He knew his
hands were trembling, and had thrust
them into his pockets while he directed
the fire-fighting. Standing out on the
deck in the light of the flames he’d felt
as if the whole Japanese Air Force was
up there watching him and aiming its
bomb-sights at him.
He glanced at the wheelhouse clock.
Ten past twelve. Time to make the turn.
“All right, Price,” he said. “Bring her
round to south eighty east I’ll give you
a ‘steady on’ from on top.”
As he passed the
lookout he said “I’m
bringing her round,
Grant. Get me the
log reading.”
He steadied the
ship on her new course, stepped into the
Chartroom and made a quick entry in
the logbook.
“0010. Altered course south eighty
east. Log 75.6.”
Ten minutes, he said to himself as he
snapped off the light and stepped out on
to the bridge, another ten minutes and
I’ll be sure that I’m clear of all dangers.
Try as he would, he could not shake off
the feeling that the ship was heading
straight for the reef. He found himself
bracing his legs ready to meet the coming
jar. Impatiently he shook the water from
his wrists and stepped into the wheelhouse.
“How’s she steering, Price?” he asked,
glancing down at the lighted binnacle.
“Like a lady, sir,” Price answered.
“South eighty east, right on.”
The hands of the wheelhouse clock
showed twelve-fifteen.
Back on the open bridge the mate
struggled hard with himself. “Blast the
clock,” he said. “I won’t look at it till I’m
sure it’s after twenty-five past. Forget it.”
Easy to say, but so much depended on
the next ten minutes. If he’d been right
in his decision the ship would be well
clear of all dangers by twelve twenty-five.
If he’d made a mistake, by twelve twenty-
five he’d be ruined for life. No Court
of Inquiry would show mercy to a mate
who’d lost a ship through taking respon-
sibility on his own shoulders. Hang it
all, he’d been a fool to take over from
the second mate. He should have sent
him to call the Old Man and let him do
the worrying. That’s what the Old Man
was paid for. More for something to
keep his mind occupied than to perform
a necessary duty, he crossed the bridge
and said to the lookout:
“Let me know if you see a beacon,
Grant. There should be one abeam now
about a mile off.”
Damn fool of a thing to say, he told
himself a few minutes later. Fancy ex-
pecting a man to see anything a mile
away on a night like this! Still, he felt
a little better now. He’d walk right past
the wheelhouse without looking at the
clock. ' It would never do to let Price
see that he was feeling anxious. Surely
to heavens it was twenty-five past by
now!
A shrill whistle from the wheelhouse
made him spring round so quickly that
he crashed into a stanchion. He stepped
inside and jerked the plug from the
engineroom voice-pipe. Just for a second
the warm oily smell and the steady throb
of the engines rising through the tube
sent a rush of self-pity and envy through
him. Down there, in the warm, brightly-
lit engineroom the second engineer would
neither know nor care how thick it was
up here. No amount of rain could worry
him.
The mate put his mouth close to the
speaking-tube and called “Bridge.”
“That you, Jack?” The second engi-
neer’s voice sounded objectionably cheer-
ful. “What’s the time by the bridge
clock? This damn’ thing of ours has
stopped.”
Half fearfully the mate looked round
at the dimly-lit clock ; then, unable to
keep the intense relief from his voice, he
answered:
“It’s exactly twelve-thirty, my greasy
friend.”
“Thanks,” the distant voice floated up.
“You sound very pleased about some-
thing. What’s it like up top tonight?”
“Not bad, Joe.” The mate sounded as
if he hadn’t a care in the world. “It’s a
bit thick, but it could be worse.”
He replaced the plug and stepped across
to the lookout.
“Anything in sight. Grant?” he asked.
“No, sir.” The dim figure swung
round and faced the mate. “I haven’t
seen any beacon yet.”
“No. You wouldn’t see it in all this
rain. We’re well past it now, anyhow.”
“I thought I heard a bird singin’ out
a few minutes ago.”
“Quite possible,” the mate answered.
“There may be a gull resting in the rig-
ging. Keep your eye out for north-bound
shipping. We’re right on the steamer
track.”
ON Carson’s Reef Beacon a small
colony of seabirds settled themselves
down with a few restless mutterings. Two
or three of the more timid ones, who
had taken flight at the approach of the
ship, fluttered back and noisily demanded
their original places. They were annoyed
and justly so. For three years they
occupied that roost without ever being
disturbed, and tonight that ship cam ®
surging past so close that her wash rocked
the beacon.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3395
Wednesday, March 7, 1945
“MISTER, HERE’S YOUR HAT!”
"Though I regard General Blarney as an excellent soldier, he should resign. With a great surge of opinion against him, it would be the best service he could render
Australia.”— Ex-Minister Foll.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings C opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street>
London, E.C.4.
A MOMENTOUS SPEECH.
In the United States Senate on January
10 Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg, Re-
publican, of Michigan, made a speech
that appears destined to stand as one of
historic consequence, bearing upon future
world security from war and Uncle Sam’s
participation therein. The fishermen of
England or anywhere else who think
Uncle Sam is already in the net might do
well to read it more carefully than seems
to have been done.
It was a paradoxical speech, and not
only in that, coming from a Republican
—synonymous in America, as elsewhere,
with isolationism —it made the most ad-
vanced proposals so far put forward for
United States involvement in . keeping
peace secure after the wars are over. It
was also paradoxical because, while cer-
tainly doing that, it could be taken as
the most ominous utterance so far made
on the possibility of recent and no doubt
pending' European political happenings
having disastrous cramping affects on
American foreign policy.
Briefly, Senator Vandenberg proposed:
(1) A military alliance at once to demili-
tarise Germany and keep it disarmed in-
definitely, the alliance to consist of
Britain, France, Russia and the United
States, with the President authorised to
police the pact forcibly without recourse
to Congress. (2) A demand from the
United States to the other signatories
that, in consideration of such involve-
ment, such unilateral action in liberated
areas as any of the victors may take shall
be submitted for review and revision to
the new Peace League after it is estab-
lished, (3) A warning to the Germans
that the price of “unconditional surren-
der” will be less every day than the day
after.
Omitting the third proposal as of only
temporary military significance, the first
two proposals, because they come from
a Republican of outstanding influence in
the Senate, where treaties are agreed upon
or thrown out, are obviously of import-
ance. They need, however, to be read as
one—the first conditional upon the
second. Without question, the first, taken
alone, is more advanced than any other
proposals made by either Republicans or
Democrats. It far outstrips the late Mr.
Willkie’s earnest, though generally vague,
plans for a system of collective security,
and is also a long way in advance of the
proposal put forward by Governor Dewey
at the Republican Makinac Island confer-
ence for a binding military alliance with
Britain, Russia to be admitted if it so
desired.
Because of Senator Vandenberg’s
standing as one of the most influential
Republicans in the Senate —with probable
power to sway the minority of one-third
and one over required to reject proposed
treaties —United States interventionists’
reception of the speech ranged between
hearty applause and stunned surprise.
That is the impression gained from the
latest batch of American publications to
reach Australia. Perhaps by now the
promising proposal has been more care-
fully considered, in relation not only to
the conditioning of it by the second pro-
posal but in relation to other parts of the
speech as since spotlighted by the Yalta
decisions. /
Americans, Senator Vandenberg de-
clared, “still propose to help create the
post-war world on a basis which shall
stop aggressors for keeps and, so far as
humanly possible, substitute justice for
force among free men,” There were, he
said, two ways in which that could be
done —“by exclusive individual action in
which each of us tries to look out for
himself” and “by joint action in which
we undertake to look out for each other.”
The first he described as “the old way
which has twice taken us to Europe’s in-
terminable battlefields”; the second as
“the new way in which our present fra-
ternity of war becomes a new fraternity
of peace.” What, in his view, America
wanted was the “maximum American co-
operation, consistent with legitimate
American self-interest to make the
basic idea of Dumbarton Oaks succeed.”
In honest candor I think we should tell
other nations that this glorious thing we
contemplate is not and cannot be one-
sided. I think we must say again that un-
shared idealism is a menace which we
could not underwrite in the post-war world.
Admitting that he did not expect any
country to act op any final motive other
than self-interest. Senator Vandenberg
questioned notorious current application
of that frequently superficially interpreted
term. Where, he asked, does real self-
interest lie? Using one of “many avail-
able examples” (“I would not presume to
use it except that it ultimately involves
us”), he pointed out that Russia’s present
unilateral plan appears to contemplate
the engulfment, directly or indirectly, of
surrounding buffer States, “contrary to
our conception of what we thought we
were fighting for in respect to the rights
of small nations and a just peace.”
Russia’s announced reason is “her insis-
tent purpose never again to be at the
mercy of another German tyranny.” A
“perfectly understandable reason,” but
with an alternative the collective
security, with United States participation,
aimed at in Senator Vandenberg’s own
first proposal.
Which is the better in the long view
from a purely selfish Russian standpoint—
to forcefully surround herself with a cor-
don of unwillingly controlled or partitioned
States, thus affronting the opinions of man-
kind, as a means of post-war protection
against a renaissance of German aggres-
sion or to win the priceless asset of world
confidence in her by embracing the alter-
native; namely, full and whole-hearted co-
operation with and reliance on a vital inter-
national organisation in which all of us
shall honorably participate to guarantee
that Axis aggression shall never rise again?
Since then has come Yalta, with agree-
ment there on yet another—and not the
least shameful or dangerous—partition
of Poland and practical reversion to
power-politics division of Europe into
“spheres of influence”; and though, as is
customary when momentous issues are
involved, scarcely anything of the Ameri-
can reaction has thus far appeared in the
Australian press, it can be taken as cer-
tain that that reaction has been violent,
with strong impetus given to the isolation
trend implicit throughout Senator Van-
denberg’s downright speech as the likely
alternative to acceptance of the whole of
his proposals. And ahead lies San Fran-
cisco, where our own country’s voice—
particularly with the delegates so far listed
—will be small indeed, though there
should be no question, from a self-interest
point of view, on which side it should be
cast.
What, then, are the sides? At this dis-
tance Senator Vandenberg’s speech reads
more like a careful effort to point them
out than a wildly adventurous promise of
his own, or his party’s, or America’s sup-
port for any kind of peace that may be
produced, so long as it be peace. The
sides, thus interpreted, represent a clash
between American idealism and pragmatic
materialism elsewhere. The basis of the
American position is the Atlantic Charter
—one of our own delegates. Dr, Evatt,
being or having been one of its keenest
propagandists—with its promise of a fair
deal and lasting justice for all nations,
great or small. It may be true that
American involvement in the war was not
in the final decision dictated by altruism
but enforced by direct military attack ;
but, with the open assistance to the anti-
Axis side, particularly Britain, and the
economic measures enforced against
Japan, America had moved far towards
actual involvement before that attack ;
and American idealism was one of the
strongest moving and sanctioning forces.
That idealism still pervades a great deal
of American thinking. When Senator
Vandenberg took his stand on it he took
his stand on the large ground of popular
American feeling. It is an element which
cannot be ignored in the peace-framing,
in the designing of lasting world security,
which is the problem for San Francisco.
Ignored further, as it certainly was at
Yalta, it could lead to such clearly sin-
cere Americans as Senator Vandenberg
using their considerable influence not for
the unprecedented involvement in “en-
tangling alliances” put forward in the
Senator’s first sweeping proposal, but in
the very opposite direction—back to an
isolationism, a refusal to be involved in
the continent from which wars spring,
that would be a repetition of the stand-
out policy engineered after the last war
by the late Senator Lodge and consoli-
dated between the wars by other influen-
tial Republicans. That could well be
disastrous for Britain, and heqce for the
Empire ; for if there is any one thing
certain about the future peace of the
world it is that without American par-
ticipation in ensuring it there is no vestige
of hope. Senator Vandenberg declared :
We are standing by our guns with epic
heroism. I know of no reason why we
should not stand by our ideals. If they
vanish under ultimate pressure we shall at
least have kept the record straight; we
shall have kept faith with our soldier sons;
and we shall clearly be free agents, un-
hampered by tragic misunderstandings, in
determining our own course when Berlin
and Tokyo are in Allied hands. Let me
put it this way for myself; 1 am prepared,
by effective international co-operation, to
do our full part in charting happier and
safer tomorrows. But 1 am not prepared
to permanently guarantee the spoils of an
unjust peace. It will not work.
The Senator’s speech will re-echo down
the corridors of the peace-making, and
distortion in the acoustics there may
easily give it the ultimate sound of
having been an ominously warning alibi
set up in advance.
Our Prisoners of War.
With the laudable idea of giving the devil
his due a Sydney “Morning Herald”
writer, drawing on information patiently
collected by the Malayan Research
Bureau, set down some reassuring state-
ments concerning the treatment of people
in Japanese hands, particularly in Singa-
pore. One was that “for the children
and nursing mothers there were fruit and
milk issues from the earliest day.” An-
other was that “not all civilians were in-
terned” ; elderly Europeans, “thought to
be living in group houses,” had been
“seen going to the Swiss Consulate to
draw rations.” And there were “good
grounds” for believing that “the key men
of the municipal services were left at
their jobs.”
In a propaganda sheet the Japanese spoke
very highly of the men in the fire brigade.
They were all commended for their courage
in dealing with the fires that raged in Singa-
pore at the time of the fall and just after.
For this they were said to have been given
the privilege of walking about the streets,
and some of living in their own homes.
As for hospital accommodation, it
“seems to have been ample”:
The number of army and civilian doctors
was greater than the European civilians
would need, and the wounded from military
hospitals were brought to the Changi mili-
tary camp, where they were looked after
by their own people. In this Changi camp
there were soldiers, mostly Dutch, from
Sumatra, one of whom “had heard of 30
Australian nurses,” interned there at Palem-
bang, being “in good health.”
All this will bring some comfort to
the hearts of the 80,000 Australians with
sons, husbands, brothers, fathers and
sweethearts in Japanese hands, and com-
fort they sorely need. They get some
from the admirable Prisoner-of-War
organisation associated with the Red
Cross, which in a fortnightly radio state-
ment and a monthly bulletin gives the
substance of the news about Australians
in captivity. This is pretty good as a rule
concerning those in Germany, though
camp commandants and staffs vary, and
of late it has been by no means bad
concerning prisoners of the Japanese.
It has been ascertained, moreover, that
£2,500,000 worth of Red Cross food and
comforts has reached Japanese camps,
with a great deal more to go forward ;
and communication by cable with the
captives has been established, though it
is so costly that the Red Cross will need
more money for the service—it should
not have to ask for a penny.
One of this war’s great mercies was
the liberation of internees and prisoners
of war from camps in the Philippines
by intrepid Americans. In the record of
these camps there is no trace of the con-
sideration shown in special cases in
Singapore. Sanitation was vile, there were
a denial of supplies donated by neutral
residents and a withholding of comforts
from all sources, except at fancy prices
extorted by corrupt gaolers, and refine-
ments of cruelty were practised. But
even Mr. Percival, the “S. M. Herald”
man who was one of the internees in
Santo Tomas University, while pronounc-
ing a justly severe judgment on the
Japanese officers responsible for their
treatment, admits that the food was suf-
ficient, though so unappetising and so
poor in quality that “everyone in the
camp suffered from malnutrition,” and
many from disorders which a proper diet
would have prevented. The fact remains
that, like the silent member of the Con-
vention during the Terror, they lived,
and that is the most important fact.
There is no instance of any Manila
internee having been foully done to death.
Even the well-advertised Mr. W. H.
Donald, “confidential adviser to General-
issimo Chaing Kai-shek,” emerged safe
and well from Los Banos, after having
been reported at Santo Tomas, still nurs-
ing an old grudge against Australia. It
is alleged that if the elderly gentleman
had been recognised the Japanese would
have had his blood ; and, having given his
right name and age, he should have been
recognised before he had been interned
a month, especially as generals who knew
him were hanging round. But the
enemy let him alone, without even appar-
ently searching his luggage, and he seems
to have moved about with astonishing
freedom —from Santo Tomas to Sulphur
Springs and back to Santo Tomas; then,
it having “become evident the Japanese
were turning nasty because of their
defeats, I decided it was a good idea
to transfer to Los Banos.” No other
internee is known to have had the privi-
lege of voluntary removal.
From the Government at Canberra
relatives of prisoners of war and internees
get precious little comfort, though it
should have all the ascertained facts at
its fingertips, and should be alive to the
need for keeping hope in their hearts.
Mr. Forde’s statement, made in Parlia-
ment on November 17, after 92 Austra-
lian and 60 British servicemen had been
rescued by Americans from the Japanese
transport sunk in the West Pacific on
September 12, was an example of what
such a statement shouldn’t be, “As to the
fate of the 600 Australians not known
to have been rescued,” he said, “it would
appear that the chance of survival of
any of them would depend on their being
able to reach land.”
That chance was very slender, but it is just
possible that some may be alive.
It came out last month in an official
notification from the Japanese Govern-
ment that 80 more had been rescued.
To the grief of all their connections, they
had been classified in the meantime as
“missing, believed dead.”
Mr. Forde wound up a harrowing ac-
count of the barbarities inflicted on
Britons and Australians set to work on
the Burma-Thailand railway, which un-
fortunately cannot be questioned, with
words which were ill-chosen, words which
every woman whose man or boy was
taken prisoner in the Malay States, the
Dutch East Indies or New Guinea must
have read with agony;
It is deeply regretted that, at this stage,
it cannot be stated how many Australians
have died. An early estimate places the
death-roll in Burma and Thailand at about
2000 out of approximately 10,000 Aus-
tralians. It is hoped this estimate will prove
too high, but unfortunately it may ulti-
mately prove to be an understatement.”
Why give an estimate at all when, in the
nature of things, there can be no docu-
mentary evidence other than that in the
possession of the enemy, who has kept his
own counsel? Certainly the British Sec-
retary of War, speaking on the same sub-
ject on the same day, referred to the
“death-rate” as “appalling,” the “lowest
estimate of deaths” being “one in five,”
but neither he nor Mr. Forde gave the
number of Britons and Australians en-
gaged, if either knew it. Sir J. Grigg con-
cerned himself mainly with Britons who
were employed on the Thailand (Siam)
end of the railway, but his one in five
obviously applied to men of both
nationalities. Mr. Forde’s first stab at
the number of Australians employed was
that “by October, 1942, thousands of
Australians and other Allied prisoners of
war were at work in the jungle.” Both
gentlemen agreed as to the date of com-
pletion, but differed somewhat as to the
movements of the survivors:
Sir J. Grigg.
When the railway
was finished about
October, 1943, those
not' needed for
maintenance work
were moved to
camps in Siam out
of the jungle, and
here conditions were
less intolerable.
From these camps
the fittest were later
sent to Singapore
en route to Japan.
Mr. Forde.
When the line was
completed in Octo-
ber, 1943, the pris-
oners of war who
had constructed it
were withdrawn
through its south-
ern terminus and
accommodated i n
Thailand. Some were
transferred to Indo-
china. It was from
one party of these
that a selection was
made of the fittest
for transfer to Japan.
The Malayan Research Bureau adds a
postscript: “When some of the soldiers
returned from Burma and Thailand to
Singapore in May, 1944, they were in-
terned in a camp beside the ‘Great
World,’ which was still functioning as
an entertainment park ; the music could
be heard until late hours.”
Since the Russians occupied western
Poland and moved into eastern Germany
the hopes of relatives of Australians im-
prisoned there have been raised by some
newspaper accounts and dashed by
others. One incredible story was that the
Russians had notions of putting Allied
p.o.w. found in occupied or abandoned
camps to forced labor. From Canberra
to the end of last week, though Parlia-
ment is in session, there had come no
information on a subject which engrosses
so many worthy people in patriot homes.
Full and precise and unvarnished state-
ments on our prisoners of war every-
where should be submitted to Parlia-
ment, and issued when Parliament is out
of action, at least once a fortnight. Per-
haps a beginning will be made now that
another war loan is coming on me
market —it seems to be almost the only
time when our prisoners of war are re-
membered by people in high places.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Privileged Conspiracy.
Though since the defeat of the powers
referendum, in which Laborites and com-
munists were allies, official Labor has
returned to its profession that it really
dislikes the foreign conspiracy, commu-
nists seem to be able to get anything they
want from it at Canberra and Sydney.
Communist organisations and publica-
tions were suppressed when they were
discovered to be carrying on a seditious
campaign against the continuance of the
war at a crucial period, when the “peace”
for which they fulminated would have
meant surrender to Germany.
The party, however, had the ban re-
moved from its operations by official
Labor after it had brazenly carried on
an underground campaign in defiance of
National Security and censorship regula-
tions, of which it boasted.
Communists were not only allowed
to print their rags openly once more, but
with a greater usage of paper than in 1939,
while loyal publications were severely
rationed. To paper for communist prints
and pamphlets and posters no limit was
apparently set.
And while private citizens were
severely restricted in their investments,
these unblushing breakers of war-time
laws were allowed to spend a king’s ran-
som on new publishing and bookshop
enterprises. While the private citizen
could not obtain the installation of one
telephone the Communist party got half
a dozen for its Sydney H.Q. An Old
Digger with a dead Young Digger son
was fined for making small additions
to his dwelling, but the C.P. was
allowed to spend what was officially said
to be £720, but what, appearances indi-
cate, must have been much more, on the
renovation of its expensive new premises
in George-street, Sydney.
But the crowning example of com-
munist ascendancy is given in a para-
graph in the Sydney “Tramway Weekly
Notice,” an official sheet, always very
copious about the traffic arrangements
for the week-end horse and dog races
and the boxing and the wrestling. The
paragraph reads:
65. Conveyance of Parcels of News-
papers “Tribune” and “Progress” by
Tram. —Commencing on Friday, March 2,
1945, parcels of the “Tribune” and “Pro-
gress” newspapers for delivery to news-
agents on the various lines are to be con-
veyed by tram without charge.
The “Tribune” and “Progress” are
owned by the Communist party. Other
newspapers, of course, pay. During the
newspaper strike the composite sheet
issued from the “S. M. Herald” office was,
with the “Government’s” connivance,
refused carriage on these very Govern-
ment trams which are to *carry commu-
nist offal “without charge,”
Tornado Comes to Tondano.
From John Brennan:
The town of Tondano, on the island of
Celebes, crowds close up to the hills on the
northern shore of Lake Tondano. To the
east ricefields make a checkered pattern of the
floor of the valley, and palm-thatched farm-
houses are dotted about the shores of the lake.
There are fine churches and European-style
dwellings.
Before the war Tondano was a favored
holiday resort of the European residents of
Menado and the other coastal cities. The
Netherlands Indies forces used the lake as an
operational seaplane base. Since the Japanese
occupied the island anti-aircraft guns have been
set up among the trees on the hills north
and west of the town. A powerhouse has been
established where the river comes down from
the mountains; a large headquarters force has
occupied the buildings in the business section
and the godowns built by the Japanese mer-
chant firm which did most of the business in
pre-war days have been used for the central
storage of supplies. They are large godowns
and need to be, for 19,000-odd Japanese troops
are scattered about the island’s northern end.
In recent months, ever since the Allied land-
ings on Morotai, in the Halmaheras, these
troops have lived a harassed existence. Ameri-
can Liberators and Mitchells have rained their
bombs on airfields and docks. R.A.A.F. Kitty-
hawks and low-flying Beaufighters have dive-
bombed and strafed bridges and road transport,
grounded aircraft and gun positions. Towns
have been fired, food stores burned, ammuni-
tion and fuel dumps exploded. At night Spit-
fires have circled the Celebes airfields hoping
that the enemy might some time attempt to
bring in reinforcements of aircraft. For many
weeks now he has been forced to use his
motor transport only at night or when the
weather is such as to keep the raiders at home.
He has not been seen in the air.
But Tondano has been comparatively peace-
ful. The town of Tomohon to the west was
strafed and burned in one sudden, savage raid.
Day after day Kittyhawks dive-bombed the
Langoan airstrip, on the southern shore of the
Meet van Tondano, and Beaufighters tore at the
already badly-damaged aircraft which littered
its edges with their cannon shells. Occasionally
one or two Beaus came whispering across the
treetops above Tondano, fired a few strafing
rounds at an odd motor truck, swooped around
beyond the large, hospital building marked with
its huge red cross, and were out again, swerving,
slide-slipping, dipping to avoid the anti-aircraft
fire. But that was all.
Then came the morning when the R.A.A.F.
decided that Tondano was ready for “doing
over.” For this Celebes town was listed the
largest-scale all-R.A.A.F. raid of the war in
the Pacific. Ninety-odd Kittyhawks and Beau-
fighters were detailed to “bomb, strafe and
hum the Japanese-occupied areas,” already dis-
cernible in photographs brought back by Beaus.
The Kittys went in first. Their primary
targets were the known ack-ack positions about
the town. They were carrying depth charges
for the first time against a land target. At
8.55 on a bright Sunday morning they dived
on Tondano out of a cloudless sky. There was
a little inaccurate anti-aircraft fire; a few black
puffs of smoke: that was all.
It was an impressive sight—lo, 20, 30 ’planes,
sweeping, diving, pulling out and rounding
to come sweeping in again upon the town. The
smoke began to hover in small-seeming patches,
widely-scattered. Almost hidden by the dust
and smoke were the flickering, hopeful flames
of beginning fires.
Then the Kittys swept up and out to the west,
and the Beaufighters were swooping on the well-
marked targets to burn those sections of Ton-
dano. They went down in three waves. Each
wave was fo have ten minutes over the target
area. Hung beneath each wing was a cluster
of fire bombs, filled with a new and highly-
inflammable oil mixture.
Before the first of the ’planes had pulled out
of their dives fires were starting among the
houses and smoke was spreading in a low cloud
over the town.
The ’planes went up and around and in again,
sweeping just above the level of the trees,
climbing up one side of a hillock beside the
town, hurtling down the other side, then wing-
ing back towards Tondano, a few feet above
the watefs of the lake. The rattle of their
automatic cannon was loud and distinct above
the noise of the motors, and ahead there was
the quick, bright, electric-light flash of the
shells exploding in the sides of houses.
Each wave made three sweeps along the town,
and as it began to climb the hill for fhe last
time the wave following was already above
the target, ready to follow out across the lake.
There was a sweep down along the Langoan
strip, 25 feet above the ground. Cannon shells
tore at the fuselage of any ’plane that seemed
at all repairable. A climb through the hill pass,
branches of trees showing up on either side of
the cockpit; a searching, winding, sweeping
rush above the treetops out to the coast, with
here and there a “target of opportunity”; and
then, in the bay, a dip to ten feet to wave at a
grinning, excited family of natives in a canoe.
Already the last of the ’planes had left Ton-
dano behind. The Kittyhawks and Beaufighters
had been there for only 45 minutes. Apart
from those first bursts of ack-ack, a little
machine-gun fire from the sides of Langoan
strip and half a dozen “tree mines,”
exploded in the treetops as the Beaufighters
raced above them, there had been no reaction
from the enemy. But at Tondano the fires
would burn all through the day, and already
the pall of smoke had blotted out the brightness
of the sun.
Crime and Causes.
A veteran newspaperman’s survey;
Probably because so much newspaper space is
found for coarse forms of commercial sport,
Criminal Court proceedings are very skimpily
reported unless the persons in the dock are from
“the underworld,” so even industrious news-
paper readers were probably unaware that four
youths of 19 figured at the same time in cases
in which murder was the charge, two in Sydney
and two in Melbourne. The two in Melbourne
were placed on trial while the two in Sydney
were under death sentences —N. S. Wales being
a Labor State full of yoomanitarianism, the
death sentences are not to be carried out.
One of them was imposed on a youth from
Lithgow, who had two girls. One he took
from a picture show to a park, where he
strangled her, returning from the body of his
victim to the other girl in the picture show.
Horrible; but yoomanitarianism will have its
way, and the chances are that the young
monster will be at liberty in a few years.
One of the Melbourne cases had strikingly
similar features. The accused, a youth from
Stockton (N.S.W.), also had two girls.
Described as a merchant seaman who had
“left” his ship, he picked up the second girl at
Luna Park, took her to a boarding-house and
then camped with her in the bush. They quar-
relled over the other girl; then, according
to a confession put in as evidence for the
Crown, he “got hold of a stone and threw it at
her. It struck her on the head, and she fell
down and screamed twice. I caught her by the
back of the throat and choked her for about a
minute. Then I caught her by the front of the
throat and held it tightly till she stopped mov-
ing. After that I sat on a seat and thought it
all over and decided to ring the police.”
Dr. Wright Smith, who performed the post-
mortem, came to the conclusion that death had
occurred from asphyxia, caused by strangu-
lation, and that considerable pressure must have
been applied. The defence called a professor
of psychology who “after reading the evidence
of Dr. Wright Smith,” was “convinced that the
asphyxia was more consistent with suffocation
than strangulation.” Giving evidence, the
cowardly ruffian accused the girl of having
made amorous advances to him, and asserted
that after hitting her with the stone, “at a dis-
tance of about three feet,” he intended to put
his hand on her mouth to stop her screaming,
but “must have put it on her throat.” The
verdict was not guilty of murder or of man-
slaughter.
Then, in a sickeningly, sentimental “Terewth”
report, “the phlegmatic boy” stepped out of
the dock and “almost fell into the arms of a
pretty, smartly-dressed blonde typiste of 18.
“They remained locked together for some
seconds in a world entirely their own. They
embraced again and again. Their arms still
entwined, they left the Court to look to a
happier future.”
In the other Melbourne case the 19-year-old
(now 20) shot a companion, aged 22, with whom
he had been drinking: shot him in a taxi in the
presence of the other man’s girl—she “jumped
out of the door not knowing whether or not
sire would be the next victim” —and then
shot the taxi-driver, to whom he had said
“Driver, I am going to take your taxi.” The
companion was shot between the eyes, the
driver in the back, and when their bodies were
found they had other bullet wounds. Nine-
teen-year-old gave evidence and put up an
artistic stunt. Once he “swayed in the witness
box, staggered down and had to be supported.”
In “a second breakdown” he “sobbed with his
hands to his face and paused for several
seconds.” He denied that he had told the
police he had bumped both men off.. In each
case the gun “simply went off.” Verdict?
Manslaughter in both cases.
After reading a list of previous convictions,
Judge Martin passed sentence of 18 years—
six years for killing the companion, himself a
member of the new criminal class (“You and
he planned to bring to this city the methods
and technique of the bushrangers”) and 12 years
for killing the taxi-driver. Said his Honor,
“Your counsel suggested that you were a pro-
duct of what he called ‘the firearms age,’ and
should not be blamed for carrying a loaded
revolver. The young man of today has many
privileges which his father did not have, but
being allowed to roam at will with a loaded
revolver is not one of them.”
There have been other recent cases of crimes
of violence committed by very young men,
generally with arms in their hands. This feature
of the crime wave, together with the whole-
sale looting and petty theft, the widespread
black markets, the vogue of aphrodisiac
“pictures” and “illustrations,” the revelation
that cinema shows are haunts of degen-
erates who lay lascivious hands on children as
well as women, the larrikinism among boys,
the delinquency among girls (particularly
those who have consorted with colored men)
and the startling decline in manners calls for
the earnest co-operation, for preventive as
well as remedial action, of churchmen, law-
makers, police magistrates, judges, editors,
teachers and parents. For in a large and grow-
ing section of Che people the influences that
make for decency in actions and bearing, for
pride of country, for the democracy that recog-
nises the other fellow’s rights, for respect for
childhood, girlhood, womanhood and for law
and life itself are being worsted by influences
that are all evil.
And the propaganda of hate to which Aus-
tralians have been exposed for so many years
should receive attention. Hate wagepayers,
non-Labor parties, “the possessing classes,”
the judiciary, the police, national service, “im-
perialist” England, “capitalist” Australia!
By communists, fellow-travellers and the larri-
kin element in the Labor party young minds
have been plied with this stuff, and it was
bound to have ugly effects.
A LIFE FOR THE LITTLE PEOPLES.
Turned 40, George Hamilton Lamb, M.L.A. for Lowan (Victoria), enlisted and
fought the Japanese. He died a captive. Lying ill in his prison camp, he made a
will in which he left a small personal estate, little more than a year’s salary—
though a Country-party member, he had no land —to his twin sister, “in the con-
fident knowledge that she would care for his children.”
To his son Winston he bequeathed his papers and writings “in the hope that
when my son achieves manhood he may be impressed by the fundamental philo-
sophy of liberation and carry on my work of endeavoring to establish the reign of
justice and truth.” And “to the common people of the earth, seeking freedom
and peace,” he gave “gladly” what he was so soon to lose, “my life.”
Lieutenant Lamb was a well-read man, a schoolmaster, head of the Geelong
Grammar prep, school and of Kyneton College, his education having been rounded
off at Melbourne University. No doubt he greatly admired the indomitable war
leader whose first name he gave to his son, but with his knowledge of history and
his devotion to “freedom and peace” he could scarcely have approved of the gift
of a great part of Poland with Lwow (Lemberg when it was part of the Austrian
empire), to Soviet Russia without the consent of the Polish Government recog-
nised by Britain and the United States. Nor would he have accepted Mr. Churchill’s
excuse that the eastern frontier of Poland, arbitrarily fixed at Yalta, would be
“200 or 300 miles farther east of territory which for many generations was Russian
under the Czars” and that Poland would be compensated with East Prussia (, less
what Soviet Russia had picked out for itself) and parts of Silesia and perhaps
of Brandenburg. He would have known that the so-called “Russian territory”
was stolen by a Czar in association with the King of Prussia and the
Emperor of Austria, and that the three partitions of Poland, though perforce
accepted by Governments, were never sanctioned by the public conscience of
Britain, and were, in fact, denounced by great Englishmen of that age ; above
all, Charles James Fox. And, a reverent man, he might have seen in the great wars
in which the robber dynasties were straightway engaged, bringing calamity and
desolation to their countries, and in their final disappearance at the end of the last
war a judgment of God.
Most assuredly Lieutenant Lamb would have interpreted the re-creation of
the Polish State in 1919 as a final judgment of Britain and America on the three
partitions, and as their contribution to an act of retributive justice. He lived to see
the fourth partition of Poland by Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia in 1939, and
he must have been outraged by it. Nor, with the sentiments he set down with a
faltering hand, though his mind was firm, in his last will and testament could he
possibly have subscribed to the fifth partition arranged at Yalta with as little
regard to Polish opinion as was shown by the Romanoffs, the Hohenzollerns and
the Hapsburgs. Rather would he have deeply sympathised with the Polish fighting
men in the service of Britain, most of them condemned, like their forefathers who
fought under Kosciusko, to become men without a country. He would have been
revolted by the language in which the fifth partition has been applauded by news-
papers, above all by-the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” most abject of all crawlers
to Moscow:
Every small nation will have to suffer some pushing around—
Because the great Powers, whether the world likes it or not, are now masters of the
world —
Because small States can guarantee their security only under the protection of the
great ones—
Because the unprotected small State is an incitement to the aggression which
endangers the security and welfare of all —
And, finally, because in modern war the small State, standing alone, has no military
significance.
George Hamilton Lamb was only a child when Richard Le Gallienne wrote
“The Cry of the Little Peoples.” He may have gone to his grave in the prison camp
without having read it. It seems more likely that Le Gallienne’s verses helped to
make him the man he was, loyal and honorable, and, when he could have claimed
exemption because of his age and calling, a soldier in the war for the liberation
of humanity, his life given “gladly” to “the common people of the earth seeking
fieedom and peace.” They are here transcribed for the truth they express in ringing
lines, for, unlike the principles of the Atlantic Charter —already abandoned by its
authors and no doubt bitterly mused on by the Governments brought down in
Persia and Rumania —the principle of nationality is independent of time and the
caprices of the great:
The Cry of the Little Peoples went up to God in vain;
The Czech, and the Pole, and the Finn, and the Schleswig Dane.
We ask but a little portion of the green and ancient earth ;
Only to sow and sing and reap in the land of our birth.
We ask not coaling, stations, nor ports in the China Seas:
We leave to big child-nations such rivalries as these.
We have learned the lesson of time, and we know three things of worth:
Only to sow and sing and reap in the land of our birth.
O leave us our little margins, waste ends of land and sea,
A little grass, and a hill or two, and a shadowing tree ;
O leave us our little rivers that sweetly catch the sky.
To drive our mills, and to carry our wood, and ripple by.
Once long ago, as you, with hollow pursuit of fame.
We filled all the shaking world with the sound of our name;
But now we are glad to rest, our battles and boasting done,
Glad just to sow and sing and reap in our share of the- sun.
Of this, of this, will you rob us with a foolish mighty hand,
Add, with such cruel sorrow, so small a land to your land?
And what shall you gain if you take us and bind us and beat us with thongs.
And drive us to sing underground in a whisper our sad little songs?
Forbid us the very use of our heart’s own nursery tongue —
Is this to be strong, ye nations, is this to be strong ?
Your vulgar battles to fight, and your grocery conquests to keep,
For this shall we break our hearts, for this shall our old men weep ?
What gain in the day of battle —to Russ, to German what gain,
The Czech, the Pole and the Finn, and the Schleswig Dane ?
The Cry of the Little Peoples goes up to God in vain.
For the world is given over to the cruel sons of Cain;
The hand that would bless us is weak, and the hand that would break
us is strong,
And the power of pity is naught but the power of a song.
The dreams that our fathers dreamed today are laughter and dust,
And nothing at all in the world is left for a man to trust.
Let us hope no more, or dream, or prophesy, or pray.
For the iron world no less will crash on its iron way ;
And nothing is left but to watch, with a helpless, pitying eye.
The old kind aims for the world and the kind old fashions die.


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners'
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director
HOW MUCH WILL IT COST
TO HANDLE MY ESTATE?
\S"
Some folk hesitate to appoint a Company as Executor and
Trustee of their Wills, because they imagine that by so doing they will inflict a heavy
burden on the Capital of the Estate. Such a fear is groundless, so when drawing up
your will appoint the Permanent Trustee Co. as your Executor and Trustee.
The Company’s charges are extremely reasonable for an administration backed by over
50 years experience in the management of all types of estates, the investment of funds,
and the knowledge of the technicalities involved in Trusteeship.
The charge on the gross capital value of an estate up to 50,000
is 24 per cent., i.e., £2/10/- for every of capital.
AND —You are assured of integrity and financial stability. Through its permanence,
the Company’s administration is guaranteed until completion of the Trust.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO.
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders' Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
When the Governor-General arrived at
a State dinner in his honor at Common-
wealth Parliament House, he may or may
not have noticed that the President of the
Senate and the Speaker of the other place
were absent. Both had stayed away be-
cause their objections on the point of pre-
cedence had not been met by the P.M.
Precedence is a small matter to get huffy
about in the fury of a desperate war. It
never seems to worry the fighting men.
After speaking with feeling of the last
fight of H.M.A.S. Perth, Navy Minister
Makin left Canberra at the week-end,
bound for a Sydney hospital where his
old father is a patient, and became him-
self a hospital case. His car, one of the
new Ministerial Chryslers, swerved to
avoid a small boy in Strathfield, got out
of control and hit a telegraph pole. The
Minister and his driver each suffered
broken ribs, other injuries and shock ; the
Minister’s secretary escaped with a shak-
ing. The car remained on the footpath
it had mounted till a repair gang took
it away. It is one of a very expensive
fleet which has aroused widespread dis-
cussion, though not in Parliament.
The unheard melody of national unity
must have done as much as Churchill’s
oratory to get his Government a unanimous
vote from the Commons for the Yalta
agreements, though it had been 396-25 on
an amendment objecting to the sacrifice
demanded from the Poles. Greenwood,
Beveridge and others who refused to join
the 25 dissidents, all Conservatives, voiced
their uneasiness at the fifth partition
and the way it was arranged, so reminis-
cent of the arrangements for the other
partitions, and a non-voting objector re-
signed from the Ministry—H, G. Strauss,
Parliamentary Secretary for Town and
Country Planning. If the course of the
planning for Poland doesn’t run smooth
—and the President admitted to Congress
that there has been unrest in that un-
happy country—there are sure to be
many more objectors.
To go from Australia to the San Fran-
cisco conference, which is to settle every-
thing (world conferences always do, as
our Mr. Drakeford learned at Chicago):
Forde, Evatf, Pollard, Nash, A.L.P. presi-
dent Walsh and Mrs. Jessie Street (Labor).
McLeay (Lib.).
McEwen (C.P.).
Put that way, it looks like Fal staff’s
tavern bill. Anyway, why Jessie Street,
and why not Enid Lyons?
A.B.C. is losing its chairman, W. J.
Cleary. So far he has refused to give his
reasons for resigning, but when two
vacancies occurred on the commission
two Labor worthies were appointed, and
Labor Ministers and members figure in-
creasingly in the A.B.C. “news,” and
there is a mostly-Labor Parliamentary
broadcasting committee with, as chair-
man, one of the “A” group of N.S.W.
Senators who holds that the programmes
don’t appeal to the peepul, who want
more swing or racing or something. It
can be understood that Cleary objected
to becoming an instrument of Labor pro-
paganda and materialism.
Melbourne “Age,” whose editor is
going to San Francisco with the Forde-
Evatt party, had an article on looters
and black-marketeers, in which Ministers
were handled with kid gloves, being “as-
sured of public support in applying more
efficacious measures.” The heading was
“Checking the Vultures.” “Vultures” is
right; but the one way of checking vul-
tures is to shoot them.
If the projected world peace organisa-
tion is to work it will be necessary to
touch men’s hearts and minds. Accord-
ing to Curtin, “the paramount aspect will
be the adequacy of the machinery to
provide security... .the effectiveness of
the structure that will be built.” He
proceeded to juggle with big words—“the
maintenance of continuity,” “policies
broadly based,” “collective security on a
world basis integrally associated with the
maximum co-operation of the interests
of the British Commonwealth as a whole,”
“major aspects of the maintenance of
international peace and security and in-
ternational co-operation in the solution
of international economic, social and
other humanitarian problems.” This rig-
marole might be called Curtinese, as Dr.
Johnson’s worst style was called John-
sonese. Old Samuel said of a play “It
hasn’t wit enough to keep it sweet,” and
then, translating the terse and telling
judgment into Johnsonese: “It lacks suffi-
cient vitality to preserve it from putre-
faction.”
In parts of Sydney, municipal affairs
have been run verv well, and in other
SECRET WEAPON.
“Mr. Forde denied Senator Mattner’s ‘extravagant allegations’ about ‘the shortage and poor
quality of equipment for the Australian forces in New Guinea’... Mr. Makin, replying to
Mr. Abbott, who had complained that munitions plant had been engaged in producing handcuffs,
said that ‘production of handcuffs’ was ‘in accordance with urgent requisitions by the
Defence authorities.’ ”
“Bring ’em back alive, Digger.”
parts very badly. Examples in the first
class are Woollahra, Strathfield and Bur-
wood, their services being efficient and
their rates low. The Burwood rate is
3id. in the £, of which id. goes to the
Main Roads Board. On the other side of
the municipality, which has a great honor
roll and has stood steadily for soldier
preference, is Concord, one of the bad
examples, with a rate of 6|d. in the £. If
the Local Government “Amendment” Bill
is passed, Burwood may be tacked on to
Concord and perhaps subjected to Con-
cord ideas of finance and ratings regard-
less of the Burwood ratepayers, at the
whim of the Minister, a Mr. Cahill.
Burwood is Liberal; Concord, Labor.
The most idiotic example of State pater-
nalism on record was the pensioning off
of N.S.W. coalminers at 60. It began in
February, 1942, the month in which the
British Empire suffered the worst defeats
it has experienced since the loss of the
American colonies, and Australia the
greatest disaster in its history. Even
before General MacArthur, then 62,
arrived to take command, nearly 2000
coalminers had been pulled out of the
mines by the egregious Baddeley, some
of them even before Baddeley had legal
authority ; and when fine old boys wanted
to go on working for their country there
was a raft of strikes. It came out last
week that the pension fund is hopelessly
insolvent already. The Baddeley intellect
is incapable of dealing with matters
above the level of “that good and use-
ful sport dogracing.”
At one point in his speech on the Yalta
agreements Churchill had the House with
him. Referring to the scotching of a mur-
derous communist rising in Greece, he
said:
There is no subject in my recollection
from which British policy received more
complete vindication. 1 am sure we rescued
Athens from a horrible fate. I feel that
the Greek people will long acclaim our
actions, both military and political.
Yet “our actions” were opposed not only
by communists throughout the English-
speaking world but by Labor Left-
Wingers, trade-union Leftists and news-
papers like the “Times,” the Man-
chester “Guardian” and the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph.” Nowadays even
papers which were supposed to be Con-
servative and Liberal have Reds and
Pinks on the premises in positions of
authority.
“Following reports received by the
Government in regard to the large-scale
pillaging on the wharves and the dis-
posal of the stolen goods on the black
market, a special sub-committee of Cabi-
net has been appointed to investigate and
make recommendations.” That is how it
came from Canberra. “Reports,” “a
special sub-committee,” “investigate” and
“make recommendations.” Worlds away
from the man who said his forte was
“action, placed at the service of a great
idea,”
Canberra startled the nation by reviv-
ing an ancient furphy—in this case that
girls harvesting opium poppies at Armi-
dale (N.S.W.) under dry-weather condi-
tions show signs of intoxication. Chemist
Russell Grimwade, who presented Cap-
tain Cook’s cottage to Melbourne and
whose firm established the war-time
poppy industry in Australia by growing
seeds at Frankston and erecting a £60,000
factory for the extraction of the mor-
phine, laughs at the notion. Pickers do
not, or should not, work in a field with
poppy flowers, as they harvest the seed-
pods only, and the drug is in the cap-
sules, not in seed or flowers. If the girls
are affected, the workers in Melbourne
who extract the morphine in concentrated
form should by now be confirmed opium
addicts. Evidently the Canberra officials
have never heard of hay-fever—or auto-
suggestion.
The latest lung-constriction proposed
in Melbourne is alienation of 40 acres
of parklands in Batman-avenue, which is
under the control of the City Council and
the Stale Government conjointly, for the
new Institute of Technology. Education
Minister Hollway made the lame excuse
that the area was of no use for children.
London has more than double the area
of parklands within 10 miles of the Bank
of England than Melbourne has within
a radius of ten miles from its G.P.0.;
this is due to the British National Trust,
whose powers cannot be superseded even
by Parliament. Incidentally, the an-
nouncement of the grab came on the
same day that Professor Thomas Cherry,
the cancer research man, published a
brochure with statistics proving that the
incidence of the disease in Melbourne is
highest in the suburbs which have the
least fresh air and sunshine— i.e., open
spaces.
“McKell Puts Foot Down on Shearing
Strike,” The bold, black words were
splashed over three columns of Sydney
“Sun,” and a few trusting innocents had
mental visions of the mighty man grimly
staring down a bunch of burry greasies
and daring the ringer to a round or two
for a pound or two. But, alas! it was
merely the “going quietly” Premier mut-
tering something about making “every
attempt to prevent a shearers’ strike in
N.S.W,” Recalling the chronic strikes of
Homebush slaughtermen, who are em-
ployees of McKell’s Government, the
populace went sadly home to tea, having
been sold another pup.
Queensland is to have an Institute
of Medical Research: estimated initial
cost £60,000; annual cost £15;000. It
will enable the State to look into the
“Q” fever, scrub typhus, leptospirosis, the
high incidence of kidney disease among
young Queenslanders, virus and tropical
diseases and so forth. Dr. Derrick,
Director of the Micro-bioldgy and Path-
ology Laboratory, who made the report
advising the institute, recommended
world-wide advertising for a director:
Remuneration to be such as to attract a
man with a first-class mind, thorough train-
ing and experience.
On past performances the Government
will probably offer a tenner a week and
a free ticket to the Zoo every second
Sunday.
Queensland is no less gentle with the
sexual beast than N.S.W. or any other
State. A ruffian caught interfering with
a 12-year-old boy -was given 12 months’
jail, though he had two convictions for
the same thing.
The British Minister of Information
to the Royal Empire Society in London:
Unless a country has a sound banking
system its industrialists and traders cannot
hope for long-term prosperity. Confidence
in the integrity and judgment of our
bankers will bring much post-war busi-
ness to London.
If an echo of this reaches Canberra it
will be dismissed as “imperialist.”
It is claimed as part of the excuse for
Government-owned airlines in Australia
that it will mean savings in administra-
tion, traffic staffs, supervision, workshops,
air crews and ground engineers. A poor
lookout for the men of the R.A.A F.,
hundreds of whom expected to continue
their air careers in company flying after
the war.


”—
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
On March 3, 1885, “500 volunteer in-
fantry and 250 trained artillery,” raised,
“organised and equipped with awns and
ammunition, horses and guns” in 16 days,
set out for Suakin, on the Red Sea coast,
aboard two improvised troopships, Iberia
and Australasian, to take part in the
Sudan campaign—our very first expedi-
tionary force. The Bulletin was fiercely
opposed to the undertaking, ascribing it
to “the precipitate decision of Dictator
Dailey with his head in a whirl.” When
the expeditionaries returned to Sydney it
greeted them with a famous “Hop” car-
toon, “The Roll Call.” But they long ago
forgave it, and “The Roll Call” was
delightedly exhibited on their 59th anni-
versary.
On the 60th anniversary there was a
round of ceremonies in Sydney, including
the laying of a wreath on the Cenotaph.
State Governor and Government paid
their respects to the survivors. They are
wonderful old Australians: many served
in the Boer War and some in the Great
War as well. Their surviving leader,
Colonel A. J. Bennett, severely wounded
at Driefontein as an officer in the 3rd
N.S.W. Mounted Rifles, was wounded
again at Lone Pine ; on Gallipoli he com-
manded the 4th and Ist Battalions, and
1918 saw him in France. Eighty on Jan.
10, Colonel Bennett was educated at the
Wagga Wagga public school and Fort-
street (Wagga was his birthplace), spent
most of a busy civil life in the N.S.W.
Education Department and wound up as
Administrator of Norfolk Island (1929-32).
Surviving members of the N.S.W.
Sudan contingent, as far as is known:
G. Anderson (Woollahra), R. Ashworth
(Manly), A. C. Barratt (Marrickville), A. G.
Bennett (Richmond), A. J. Bennett (Randwick),
A. O. Butler (Hurstville), J. H. Cambridge (Pen-
rith), H. R. Campbell (Roseville), E. T. Cane
(Paddington), C. Chapman (Warrimoo), T. F.
Coleman (Bondi), W. J. Cox (Guildford), G. F.
Davies (Bexley), G. E. Douglas (Marrickville),
R. Eather (Grafton), P. J. Eppell (Cronulla),
J. J. Finn (Sydney), J. Fraser (Fairfield), T.
Gunning (Mosman), P. Hallett (Lane Cove), W.
Hamilton (Young), R. W. Holt (Petersham), W.
Johnston (Broadway, Sydney), C. J. LeMaire
(Glenbrook), W. E. Lober (Lindfield), P. B. Mc-
Cabe (Paddington), C. S. McKenzie (Vaucluse),
W. Muggleston (Kogarah Bay), W. J. Murray
(Orange), E. Paine (Marrickville), H. Parkes
(Ashfield), G. P. Rauchle (Orange), B. Rhodes
(Waverley), W. D. Russell (Manly), A. R. Seguss
(Daceyville), G. W. Teasdale (St. Peters), S.
Thornton (Manly Vale), B. Tucker (Auburn).
And in other States: P. J. Mahoney (Spring
Hill, Q.), B. Mowbray (Upper Hawthorn, Vic.),
C. F. Weame (Moonee Ponds, Vic.), J. A.
Walker (Brisbane).
The Duke of Gloucester’s ceremonial
sword, presented to him as Grand Prior
by the Order of St. John, cost the tidy
sum of £350. It was turned out by the
Wilkinson firm, which made the Stalin-
grad Sword.
Only death could have stilled Jack
Fihelly’s restless spirit, and it has come
to him in Brisbane, at 61. In his youth
Fihelly was a fine footballer, and he
wrote copiously, and with no mean force,
for the Sydney “Catholic Press.” Going
into Queensland Labor politics, he be-
came a member at 28 and Minister of
Justice three years later, holding other
portfolios under Ryan and Theodore, with
a year (1919-20) as acting Premier, till
1922, when he was sent to London for
two years as Agent-General. Returning,
he had to be content with three years
in the first Greater Brisbane Council,
after which he faded out of notice and,
during one period, fell on evil days. It
used to be said that of all the Australian
public men whom the Heir Apparent,
afterwards the eighth Edward, met in
1920 he liked Fihelly most, but Jack’s
sociability was to become an insuperable
handicap to his ambitions.
A last-war Digger, with an M.C. won
with the 48th Battalion, R. E. Cameron
replaces the late Lt.-Col. J. H. Hill as
acting head of St. Peter’s, Adelaide.
Educated at Geelong and Melbourne’s
Ormond, Cameron graduated in Arts at
Adelaide Uni., and joined the teaching
staff at Saint’s in 1912.
General Harry Chauvel, who passed
on in Melbourne on Sunday at 80, had
been long ill —so much so that he was
lately unable to be present at the greeting 1
of the Duke of Gloucester. Bora in
N.S.W. of Queensland squatting stock,
Chauvel joined the N.S.W. Cavalry Regi-
ment in 1886, went to the S’African War
as a major and later did brilliantly as
C.O. of a mounted infantry battalion.
But it was in the Sinai campaign in the
1914-18 War that he came into his
own —not merely the greatest cavalry
leader Australia had produced but prob-
ably the greatest of his day. On his
retirement in 1930 it was here said of
him: “He has struggled desperately
against the tendency of successive Aus-
tralian Governments to hamstring land
defences, and he leaves the Army with the
embittered knowledge that the politicians
have virtually smashed it.” His spare
figure will be remembered particularly by
those he led. A splendid fighting soldier,
an administrator of the first-class * and a
“straight bloke.”
Wing-Commander Donald Donaldson,
the Geelong flier who captains the Duke
of Gloucester’s air-liner, isn’t the only
member of the family who has had such
associations. His uncle, Herman Donald-
son, a leading Brighton (Vic.) yachtsman,
was one of the crew of Lord Stone-
haven’s yacht Corella when its owner
was Governor-General.
Artist and fellow-airman Lusby has
thrown in what appear to be a couple of
sheep to indicate the peace-time preoccu-
pation of Flight-Lieut. Les Falkiner, of
Wanganella Stud. Born in Melbourne
in 1900 and educated at Geelong Gram-
mar, Falkiner was subsequently jackeroo-
ing till 1920, then managed Tapel station
till, in 1923, he went to India as hon.
A.D.C. to Birdwood. Falkiner played
polo there, and got mixed up in North-
west Frontier affrays. From 1925
he managed Wanganella—and judged
FALKINER OF WANGANELLA.
merinos at shows from Longreach to
Perth —till 1940, when he got into the
R.A.A.F.
From R. Hambridge:
In B. 14/2/ ’45 1 was reported as having
rowed for Cambridge. This is incorrect. The
only Australians to whom this privilege was
extended during the years when I was at St.
John’s were D. J. Wilson of Clare, W. A. T.
Sambell of Pembroke and T. S. Cree of Jesus.
All three hailed from Victoria, I believe, and
all three were in winning crews.
Lieut.-Col. Austin George Fenton,
assisting Official War Historian Gavin
Long, has been posted missing in New
Guinea, the ’plane in which he was flying
between Port Moresby and Lae having
failed to arrive. On Newcastle (N.S.W.)
“Herald” before the war, Fenton was for
a while with the A.M.F., then joined the
A.I.F. and saw service in the Middle
East, Greece and Crete as a captain. He
was mistakenly reported missing after
the evacuation of Greece. His later work
in New Guinea earned him a mention
in dispatches. Loaned to the military
history section, he was travelling a great
deal by air up North interviewing units
serving in widely-scattered parts to gather
Official War History material.
Led the Papuans;
Herewith both the kind of phiz and the kind
of man that Scorfield likes drawing—Captain
Ernest P. Hitchcock, M.C., D.C.M. and the
U.S. Legion of Merit. Hailing from Melbourne,
Hitchcock won his D.C.M. as an A.I.F. private
on Gallipoli, his M.C. as an officer in France
and the American decoration for “exceptionally
meritorious conduct in the performance of out-
standing services in New Guinea,” where he
recruited and trained Papuan Infantry.
To quote further from the citation, which
bears the President’s odd signature (not
one letter in the Roosevelt part of it could be
sworn to on oath as being the letter if pur-
ports to be; the “R” is, if anything, an “N,”
the “o’s” are “u’s” and the rest you guess at):
“Captain Hitchcock and his company rendered
invaluable service in patrol and reconnaissance
work during the Salamaua operations, securing
PAPUAN INFANTRY’S LEADER.
information which was highly important to
operations of our troops. He personally led a
great number of these patrols through enemy-
occupied territory in order to secure vital in-
formation. By his exceptional bravery and
technical skill Captain Hitchcock contributed
materially t'o the successful completion of our
mission in the Salamaua area.” That Hitch-
cock and his “boys” did not restrict themselves
t'o gathering information is revealed in a typi-
cal Hitchcock statement (typical in the fact
that he leaves himself out): “All my boys were
magnificent jungle fighters, but Matpi and Ben-
garri, a Manus Island and Warria River boy
respectively, were outstanding. Matpi killed
117 Japs and Bengarri sent 110 t'o their an-
cestors.” Hitchcock was mining at Wau when
the Japs began swarming south. He joined
the New Guinea Volunteer Rifles arid so was
with the first troops to fight in New Guinea in
this war. In a total of 16 months’ service
he and his “boys” were officially credited with
killing 770 Japs. All of which is not bad for-
age 50.
Australia has lost yet another fine air-
man —Flying-Officer Dudley Francis
Ward, of Sydney, who was posted miss-
ing last May and is now presumed
dead. Ward got an immediate award of
the D.F.C. when he brought a Lancaster
home on one engine after a raid on Ger-
many. They had just got rid of their
bombs when two night fighters came at
them. Ward put the Lancaster into a
steep dive. It shook the fighters off, but
when they came out of it one of the
engines failed. A little later another
engine failed. Then, with the coast still
100 miles ahead of them, the third engine
petered out. Over the sea Ward un-
feathered the port outer motor, and it
worked just enough to relieve the strain
on the other motor. In this fashion, with
an escort of three Spitfires which had
ranged up in answer to their distress
signals, they landed on the Spitfires’ aero-
drome.
Professor Alan Burn, chosen as Vice-
Chancellor of Tasmania’s Uni., is head
of the Engineering Faculty and has been
off and on —mostly on —the Uni. Coun-
cil for the past 20 years. By no means
the proverbial absent-minded prof., he’s
expected to be a strong supporter of
Chancellor knight John Morris in lifting
the Uni, out of the rut into which it has
been forced by financial difficulties over
many years.
F. J. Morgan, Queensland manager of
the National Bank of Australasia, now
retiring, is a son of the Arthur Morgan
who was Premier of Queensland from
1903 to 1906, and one-time owner-editor
of Warwick “Argus.” The banker went
from Warwick to Brisbane Grammar,
and from there joined the old Royal
Bank. After the amalgamation with the
Bank of North Queensland produced the
“Asia” he was loaned to run Queens-
land Wheat Board, then returned to be-
come Queensland manager in 1931. A
cricketer of some renown in the north,
he took to bowling and good works in
his latter years and will probably con-
tinue them. His successor is Ralph
Dobson, Brisbane branch manager for
some years and lately State manager in
S.A.
H. P. Christmas, of Sydney, managing
director of Woolworths and its subsi-
diaries since their inception,, has called
it a day, though he’ll retain his seat as a
director. Theo Kelly, g.m. for a number
of years, takes over the top job.
From John Brennan:
Three days after the first big raid on Jap-
occupied sections of the town of Tondano
in Celebes, the largest ever staged by the
R.A.A.F., the Beaufighters went back again,
dipping in over the hills to the north of the
town to attack an industrial area grouped by
the powerhouse, warehouses and gun positions.
On the first occasion the anti-aircraft defence
had been half-hearted —dive-bombing by the
Kittyhawks which led the attack had done
much to discourage it—but this time the eighteen
Beaufighters flew into an intense, accurate
barrage. Half a dozen ’planes were hit. The
’plane flown by Flight-Lieut. Jack Entwhistle,
of Adelaide, commanding one of the squadrons,
received twelve direct hits from a twenty-milli-
metre gun. Portion of the rudder and controls
were shot away. Two of the shells exploded
in the fuselage and blew away the air bottle
which controls the braking system. The naviga-
tor, Flying-Officer David Beasley, of Orange
(N.S.W.), suffered minor shrapnel cuts. Ent-
whistle thought his ’plane was doomed and
headed for the lake to the south of the town,
but before he put her down decided to make
the bid for home and headed for the coast.
Pilot-Officer George Press, of Melbourne, flying
as navigator with Flying-Officer Don Cameron,
of Maryborough (Q.), was hit also by part of
a shell which destroyed his wireless. Flying-
Officer Tom Ellis, before the war a District
Officer in the Wewak area of New Guinea,
had one of his motors shot out, but turned
for home, fondling the ’plane along. Once
over the coast an R.A.A.F. Catalina shep-
herded them in. Ellis had to make a belly
landing, but' the others got down nicely.
“King’s Pawn”; Twenty-three-year-
old “Bob” Wade, of Wellington, is M.L.
chess champion for the third time (he
has figured three times at the top of the
championship congress results, but on
the first occasion lost in a play-off with
the > equal leader). The congress was
notable for the presence of Dr, Elizabeth
Mayer—the first time there’s been a femi-
nine contestant for the national cham-
pionship of any British country. She fin-
ished eighth, but had bad luck, losing a
won game on the time limit because of
a faulty clock. A 16-year-old boy,
Mervyn Stewart, of Christchurch, ran
into fourth place. Wade will probably
be in Sydney at the end of the year, when
a special invitation tourney to celebrate
the jubilee of the Sydney Chess Club
should draw all the best players to what
will be, in effect, an Australasian cham-
pionship contest.
Rev. Arthur Wesley Amos, new presi-
dent of the Methodist Conference of Vic-
toria, has a musical and South Sea island
background. An enthusiast for choral
singing, he organised the first Tongan
and Maori choirs to visit Australia, and
he labored in the mission vineyard in
Fiji for 12 years. He was born at Rock-
ley (N.S.W.) in 1883 and educated at its
State school.
The ship that brought out the Duke
and Duchess brought also Rev. Donald
Campbell, 8.A., from Bradford (Eng.),
to take charge of the Congregational
Church at Glenelg (S.A.). He’s a native
of N.S.W,, where his father, Rev. A.
Campbell, is Congregational Moderator.
Into the silence:
In London, suddenly, Wing-Commander J. R.
Ratten, a Kingston Beach (Tas.) man, and
one of the first R.A.A.F. pilots under the
Empire Air Training Scheme. He was also the
first Empire A.T.S. trainee to command a Spit-
fire wing in Britain and first to command an
R.A.F. station.
At 59, Harry Chase, in his time one of the
fastest and cleverest centres of Australian Rules,
playing with Victoria in many inter-State
matches. When John Wren arranged a profes-
sional footrace and offered £5OO in prizes to
draw the best Chase was on 12yds. He slipped
at the gun, almost fell, recovered and won
brilliantly against such company as Donaldson
and Postle.
At Auckland (M.L.), Dr. E. H. B. Milsom,
sporting medico. Educated in Christchurch and
at Guys, London, he returned to M.L. and
practised the greater part of his life at Auck-
land. He was a breeder of racers, and from
Hyades bred the well-known mares Predice,
Phaola and Proloxo. Ammon Ra was one of
the doctor’s breeding.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED
MIRN WIMBLES INKS
“Tutnmas McNark”: A big, well-
dressed man in the bus seat ahead of
me burst into rich laughter, leaning back
and shaken to his boots by a vast amuse-
ment, Curious, I leaned forward and
saw what had caused it, a four-column
black headline in his paper which an-
nounced “Government to Launch All-
out War on Black Market.” Black type
went on to say that Canberra, “alarmed
by the growth of black-marketing,” had
appointed a sub-commitee —Doc Evatt,
Dick Keane and Old Bill Ashley—to
deal with it, and told them to spare
neither cash nor persons. Why this
should cause immoderate mirth puzzled
me all the way home, till it dawned upon
me that I had fulfilled one of my minor
ambitions —to see in the flesh a real-
dyed-in-the-wool black-marketeer.
* « « *
“Bo”: Beautiful and touching
examples of a faith that base infamy can
be eradicated from human nature by
gentle admonition and indulgent action
is provided almost daily by courts which
deal with racketeering offences. Coles,
M.H.R., cited four cases of successful
appeals. A coupon offender’s six months’
jail sentence was reduced to a £2O fine;
another’s two months’ stretch was
knocked down to a tenner; two other
awards of a month were reduced in
one case to a £2 fine and the other to a
£1 fine. I now deem the time ripe to
pinch a holdful of dolls’ eyes from a ship
and sell ’em on the black market at a
modest 1800 p.c. profit. If I am caught
I should, all the signs indicate, be con-
victed and fined 10 bob or “the rising.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: I see where Judge Markell,
of Sydney, dismissing an appeal against
two fines of £25 each for overcharging
inflicted on a fruiterer, remarked, in
reply to the defending counsel’s plea that
the shop wasn’t making big profits, “1
suppose if they did make a profit it
would be taken away in taxation,” Well,
here’s how a retired tax-man put it to
me:
One cove we found was working in with
a bookie. He went out to the races and
got from his bookie pal a blank ticket.
If the amount he wanted to cover was say,
£5O, he waited until a five-to-one winner
turned up, filled in the ticket for £6O, pre-
sented it and was paid, the bookie later
entering the bet in the right column. Later
on they adjusted their business and the tax-
dodger took his money home and put it in
a drawer. Then, if we happened to drop
on to it, he simply claimed it as a betting
win and that was that. If we checked up
further he could remember the bookie and
the bookie could show the bet in his book,
see?
“Yes,” I said, “but how did you drop
on to him.” The official grinned. “He
made it too hot because it was so easy,
got muddled in his accounts and in a
year when his returns showed his busi-
ness was losing money bought a £3OOO
farm. That set us to work.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The good old yarns continue
to reproduce themselves. “To Inker-
man is not a Crimea” (B. 21/2/’45) is
told as the yarn of a long ago Perth
man about something that, he said, hap-
pened even before his time? Probably
the pun has been made ever since 1855,
each time that anyone was reported as
slinging an inkpot at someone else. And
in S.A. this has really happened twice,
once half a century back, once (by a lady
lawyer) only 10 years ago. The first
occasion really asked for the joke, as the
scene was the country town named in
Crimean days Balaklava.
* * * *
“Rozzer”: In these times of some law
and more disorder, a place like Sydney,
where looting, black marketing and
sundry other criminal occupations are
organised, with gun play in back streets
and a traffic in smuggled artillery and
ammunition, the copper who is expected
to squash it at the risk of life and limb
(as in two recent episodes in Sydney and
Blayney) is expected to do so on a screw
ranging from 18s. a day for a new begin-
ner to 245. 6d. for a first-class sergeant
with over five years’ service as such. Yet
in a Sydney court the other day a
wharfie convicted of pillaging told the
court he earned £23 a week, had a bad
record and had been declared an habitual
criminal. He got three months and,
when he comes out, will presumably go
back to the wharves and his £23 a week
and spread amongst his fellows that
hatred for the police which is so marked
in Australia, even among apparently re-
“ Ain't you got a pair with a check pattern to match me coat ?”
spectable people. I’ll stake my chances
of promotion that no civilian is expected
to risk his life on a quid a day and be
called a “greasy cop” for doing it.
» • * •
“V. Cluse”; My war-weariness has
vanished. It won’t be long now, for
after Turkey and Egypt, Syria has de-
clared war. As in a vision I see all the
Syrians surging in from the outback,
their vans and bundles forgotten, clamor-
ing for arms to get in for the death. By
the time the Tierra del Fuegans come
in Hitler will be convinced that he hasn’t
a friend in the world and will apply to
W. 0.1. for permission to form a Ger-
man band to play round the shearing
sheds.
♦ * * *
“Hamer”: “Ceg’s” artist who “earned
his daily lunch by doing a picture a
week for Politzer” (B. 21/2/’45) was one
of many. In the thin days practically
every artist in Melbourne was able to
appease his hunger at some time or an-
other owing to the cafe-keeper’s liking
to meet artists and acquire their work.
The practice was for the hungry painter
to drop into the cafe with a canvas under
his arm. It was left as a pledge for a
meal, and the artist’s credit remained
good until Politzer suggested that the
value of the work of art had been* cut
out. The cafd-keeper’s reward came to
him after many years when, in the ’twen-
ties, he opened an art salon practically
on the strength of his cafe gleanings.
There were pictures by men who had
“arrived,” and whose work was sold
directly it appeared on a wall. Some
of the big fellows groaned a little at the
display of potboilers of their immature
days selling at guineas for each bob’s
worth of benefit they had been given ;
but nobody really grudged a good bar-
gain to the dapper little man who had
shown so many painters kindness in the
hungry days.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: That Stalin consumed 20
glasses of vodka “without turning a hair”
was considered of sufficient importance
to justify a cable from Yalta. The
national Russian tipple, distilled from
rye, barley, oats, maize or potatoes, con-
tains 95 p.c. of alcohol at full strength,
and is usually broken down to 50 p.c.
for consumption. Twenty nips of the
stuff in the old days would equal a quart
bottle of Scotch, a considerable dose to
take at a sitting, but the Slav has a time-
honored reputation as a hard drinker.
During World War I the Czar endeavored
to enforce prohibition, and when Russia
had to pull her belt in during the depres-
sion Soviet leaders opened a campaign to
water down the country’s drinking. So
possibly vodka is not what it used to be.
s(e * * *
“General Prac.”: Neville Cardus has
been breaking a lance with a Sydney
psychiatrist. The latter, who writes
chatty bits for “S.M.H.” about the physi-
cal and mental failings of the Great, said
that Beethoven suffered from the “red
scourge,” a genteel label for syphilis.
For good measure, the writer added that
the composer was a bounder and an in-
sufferable boor. The indignant Neville
pooh-poohed the possibility of the syphi-
litic infection and asserted that he himself
“had sifted all the known evidence and
found no proof.” But the fact is that
Beethoven’s body, at a post-mortem ex-
amination, was found to be a museum of
lesions which made a diagnosis of syphilis
virtually certain ; and amongst the vast
Beethoven literature are some prescrip-
tions containing anti-syphilitic drugs. Mr.
Cardus dismisses the charge that Ludwig
was given to uncouth and unseemly
behavior. Still, a great musician who
pelts his cook with eggs, nearly brains
his patron with a chair, sloshes water
about his bedroom and chalks rude
words on gateposts cannot expect to be
regarded as a stickler for etiquette.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland has been experi-
encing a Shakspearean revival, sufficiently
different from others it has seen to occa-
sion a flutter. Two years ago Ngaio
Marsh, of Christchurch (M.L.) (she writes
thrillers) produced a modern-dress ver-
sion of “Hamlet” for Canterbury College
students. It was intended to be strictly
a college affair, but public interest was
aroused, and wider audiences were
catered for. So successful was the season
that next year the company (of 36
players) went to Auckland and presented
modern-dress “Hamlet” and costumed
“Othello” to good-sized audiences. This
year Wellington is the venue. The mod-
ernisation of “Hamlet” has rather shocked
the Auckland and Wellington critics, who
can’t accept a Prince of Denmark who
puffs cigarette smoke into his uncle’s
face or a Laertes who flourishes a Colt
automatic (which the king promptly
grabs and impounds), but they agree that
there is life and spirit in the presentation.
A remark by Wellington “Dominion”
that Hamlet looks “like any young man
walking down Willis-street” (which has
evoked scandalised letters to the editor)
should interest Prof. Walter Murdoch,
whose theory it is that Hamlet is Every-
man.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Australians, and especially
those who live in Sydney, needn’t imagine
that discourtesy from shop hands, wait-
resses and public servants is peculiar to
this country. The “Saturday Evening
Post” had a cartoon showing a cafe
manager surrounded by his male and
female staff and saying to them “The
question is, ‘Shall the conversion from
Cheeky Arrogance to Post-war Courtesy
be sudden or gradual?’ ”
* * * *
“Traymon”: “Kanberry” (B. 21 /2 / ’45)
who claims that Yarralumla is free from
the possibility of spectral visitations ap-
parently hasn’t heard of the unsigned
document headed “Written near Yarra-
lumla, 1881” which was found when the
Government took over the homestead.
It relates the history of a diamond stolen
by a convict in 1826 and bequeathed by
him to a groom who, in turn, left it to
his son. The last heir, a practical young
man, promptly set out for Sydney, “in
company with a trusty blackfellow,” to
realise on his legacy. On the outskirts of
Canberra they were set upon by a gang
of bushrangers who murdered them both
but not before the abo. had swallowed
the diamond. The screed ends with a
challenge to the sceptical: “Scoff if you
will, and leave the jewel in its hiding
place among his bones, beneath the
deodar. Believe, and receive a fortune.”
Apparently the believers, if any, were
overcome by Canberra’s inertia, because
the fine old deodar, said to be well over
a hundred years old, is still standing and
there are no signs that its roots have
been disturbed,
* * * *
“Visitor”; An interval for refresh-
ments is a new feature in funerals. But
it was an incident of a recent red-dust
storm in Broken Hill, when, as noted by
the “Barrier Miner,” “a few who
attempted to drive in cars in the main
street were lost within a few minutes, A
funeral pulled up outside the Palace
Hotel, as further progress seemed impos-
sible. Some of the staff came out with
lights and assisted the mourners to the
lounge, where they were given iced
drinks. Ten minutes later the undertaker
decided to move on again. The cortege
groped its way on again through the in-
tense darkness, but again had to halt at
the Globe Timber Mills.” From start to
finish the funeral took 2i hours.
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
“I believe Mr. Anthony Eden is the greatest
Foreign Secretary in the whole history of Great
Britain.”— Mr, Curtin in the House of Reps.
A feather in your cap, my worthy Tony,
A bouquet sent you from across the seas,
Worth more than all the regular boloney
You’re handed by Conservative grandees,
The tributes from a colleague or a crony,
The faithful fan’s intensive eulogies.
The value placed on an encomium
Largely depends on whence the same may come.
Figures of eminence, both Whig and Tory,
Before you did their bit and went their way;
Palmerston, Salisbury—each suo more
Outstanding —Rosebery, Curzon, Balfour,
Grey.
But yours shall be a name to shine in story
Brighter than any of them. Anyway
Our Mr. Curtin’s certain that it’s so,
And may be right, dead right, for all I know.
A bouquet, Tony, not from influential
Circles in which ’tis known you may depend
On being ever counted an essential
Leader and guide and counsellor and friend,
But just an unsolicited credential
Wafted towards you from the Empire’s end.
Considering its source, a compliment
To gratify the most exalted gent.
Blush not, remembering the good intention
Behind the words, ev’n should you feel a
quick
And momentary touch of apprehension
The butter’s spread a little bit' too thick.
The homage yet may prove well worth a mention
When Labor votes look like to turn the trick
In an election. If alone for that
’Twould be as well to paste it in your hat.
N.S.W.
MIDFOBD.
PASSING THE BUCK.
"Customs Minister Keane told the Senate that it
was no easy matter to deal with certain scoundrels
running N.S.W. hotels, as their conduct comes under
State laws.”
"Premier McKell reminded the N.S.W. Assembly
that National Security regulations covering price-
fixing and black-marketing were a Commonwealth,
not a State responsibility.”
What an instance you’ve here of the wriggje-
some ways
Conveyed by an apt metaphorical phrase,
That pungent expression for which we’ve to
thank,
I take it, some never identified Yank
Who couldn’t have dreamt, his diversions
among,
He was coining some slang for enriching our
tongue,
Wherever it’s spoken or heard, when he struck
That eloquent brevity “passing the buck.”
It might be defined as to shelve or to shelf
Some job you’re reluctant to tackle yourself.
“Not mine,” you may . often hear someone
declare,
“But patently somebody else’s affair.
When you dodge, though, that’s up to you,
devil a doubt,
A duty, a devoir, a speech or a shout,
From framing a statute or driving a truck,
You should never forget that you’re “passing
the buck.”
. Why something’s not done, you indignantly ask,
To be told it’s another authority’s task,
And you’re left with the comfort to solace
your soul
That the mix-up is due to divided control.
For the Federal powers, it’s established, woulo
To be charged with infringing State rights, while
the State, , ~ , ,
Resolved that no oar of its own should be stuck
In Commonwealth problems, is “passing tne
buck.”
With a brace of authorities, equally prone
To snavvle the cushiest jobs for their own
And shoulder on others the ones that deter.
Such tangles as these, 1 suppose, must occur.
And it’s clear that whatever our statesmen
have lacked .... ,
In punch and in foresight, in vigor and tact.
There’s none can belittle their patience an
WherWhey turn their attention to “passing the
buck.”
N.s.W.
T. THE R.


“Melbn”: If the Melbourne authori-
ties responsible for the Duke of Glouces-
ter’s reception were out to beat their
Sydney rivals in the matter of impres-
sive surroundings they could not have
gone about it better than when they
staged the ceremony in the National Gal-
lery. The backcloth provided was the
enormous canvas measuring 139 feet by
97 feet illustrating Cleopatra quaffing the
dissolved pearl, painted by Giovanni
Battista Tiepolo, which cost £32,000.
Looking on from an adjoining alcove
were the Rembrandt self-portrait (£25,000),
the “Colonel Wardrop” of Raeburn and
an assorted collection of Tintorettos,
Gainsboroughs, Reynoldses, Titians and
Van Dycks, while the world-famous
£30,000 Van Eyck was just round the
corner. Fronting the ducal couple were
a couple of Canalettos, a Constable, a
Turner and the most comprehensive array
of primitives and post-impressionists (in-
cluding Cezanne, Manet, Van Gogh and
Gauguin) in Australia, while from her
pedestal Rodin’s Minerva surveyed the
scene in all her serene beauty. The
original cost of the scheme of decoration
must have been in the region of £200,000.
Of course, it was a private individual,
the chemist Felton, not the State Gov-
ernment, who provided the money.
* Jjc * *
“Johnnie Cake”; “C.Q.’s” Encyclo-
pedia of Biography (B. 14/2/’45) was
just one of many literary hoaxes per-
petrated in the land of ballyhoo! One
of the most interesting dates back nearly
a hundred years, when an enterpris-
ing New York editor engineered what
was afterwards known as “The Great
Moon Hoax.” He created a fictitious
correspondent, equipped him with a
hypothetical giant telescope, and pre-
tended to send him to South Africa. After
some careful building-up, articles began
to appear picturing life on the moon as
observed by the correspondent telescopi-
cally—a weird and terrible world totally
different from ours. Flying men dashed
with gay abandon among trees as big as
mountains, and fantastic animals careered
about in nightmare surroundings. Sales
of the paper increased so much that at
one stage it claimed the greatest circu-
lation in the world.
* * * *
“S. Guram”: In this war, which has
seen many daring actions, there has been
none more daring than the attack on
hvo Jima, which is 750 miles from any-
where. But the landing was in good
hands, those of the United States Marines.
Their commander is a witness that in their
168 years of history, “from the halls of
Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli,”
they have never been in a hotter fight.
Victorians have a special fondness for
the Marines of the First Division, who
were their guests after the great job done
in Guadalcanal. The Bulletin’s John
Brennan, who was with the First, testifies
that their Peleliu letters to and from
Victoria weighed more than their U.S.
mailbags.
* * *
“Ad Rem”: The 54-page “Who’s Who”
in the new Daily Mail Year-Book gives
Australia a fair share of space. Archbishop
Henry Le Fanu is our only clerical entry,
appearing under his ecclesiastical title
“Australia.” Bradman and Lindrum are
our only two sportsmen, the latter getting
as much space as Stalin. A brief note on
David Low mentions his “success with
The Bulletin, Sydney.” S. M. Bruce gets
half as much space again as Anthony
Eden and three times as much as R. G.
Casey. Apt, but not always quite accu-
rate, thumbnail sketches are given of Billy
Hughes (by alphabetical coincidence
placed next to Jack Hulbert), Evatt,
Scullin, Menzies and Curtin. Sadness
overtook me when I waded through the
”F’s” to see such names as Fields, Gracie;
Formby, George; Fraser, Sir Bruce ;<
Fraser, Peter ; Frankau, Gilbert; Franco,
General —but never a trace of Fadden,
Artie!
* * * *
“Toe Don” debunks a Sydney legend:
That tale about James Milson arriving in
Sydney in 1804 and, on Governor King’s ad-
vice, accepting a grant of land on the north
shore because, although it grew no grass for
cows, it abounded in stones for ships’ ballast
(B. 7/2/’45) has had a good innings, and it is
time it was bowled out. Milson arrived, not
in 1804, but' on August 20, 1806, in the Albion,
a week after King had retired and Bligh had
taken charge. Milson went dairying at the
Field of Mars, and in 1810 married the 15f-
year-old currency lass Elizabeth Kilpack,
daughter of David Kilpack, a First Fleeter who
died in 1797. Milson’s Point (so-called) was
never a grant to James of that ilk. It was a
grant of 120 acres to Robert Ryan, a private
in the Marines, in 1800, and included an earlier
grant of 30 acres to Samuel Lightfoot—the
first grant on the northern side of the harbor
(very likely the “farm across the water,” bought
by Thomas Muir, the Scottish martyr). Mil-
son rented Ryan’s holding in 1822 from Robert
Campbell, who had taken it over, and this
appears to have been his first connection with
the land which afterwards received his name.
In 1823-24 Wilson was “keeper” of Govern-
ment House, Sydney, at two bob a day (Syd-
ney “Gazette,” 3/10/T825), and as Governors,
short of cash, were prone to pay for services
with grants of land, Milson received 50 acres
at Careening Cove, Neutral Bay, as additional
payment. Here he built his home. “Cockle
Bay,” referred to in the paragraph, was not at
Milson’s Point, but was the original name for
Darling Harbor.
* * * *
“X.S.”: You can’t fault a woman’s eye
when dress is in question. A Middle
Park (Melb.) house was broken into and
“ ’ Urry, Bert—here he comes!”
jewellery and clothing were stolen. A
month later the housewife spotted a man
and a woman walking along a street in
her suburb and thought she recognised
the dress the woman was wearing. After
tracking the couple for two hours she
called a policeman. Subsequently a house
in North Melbourne was visited and
property “suspected of being stolen” dis-
covered.
* * * *
“Katiti”: John Blank, wearing a six-
pence with a hole bored in it, was told
by a workmate at the Gear Meat Works,
Petone (M.L.), that he was liable to pro-
secution for defacing a coin. Blank
emphatically denied that he had broken
the law, and after argument made a bet
on it. Stakes having been handed over,
a certificate from the Mint was produced
authorising John Blank to bore a hole
in one sixpenny piece dated 1906. The
explanation was that Blank was an ex-
employee of the Royal Mint, and on leav-
ing was given permission to bore the last
coin he had struck, to keep as a memento.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Decision of the Anglo-
Greek Chamber of Commerce to erect
a statue of Churchill in one of the main
squares of Athens raised an aesthetic
problem for the sculptor. Mr. Churchill
without his cigar would look incomplete,
and, anyway, it would be well nigh im-
“Now before you start on the team I better give yez a few lessons in
bullocky talk.”
possible for the sculptor to catch his sitter
without it. Yet it would require a genius
as overpowering as that of Rodin to force
on the Greek public the effigy of a dis-
tinguished statesman sucking a Havana.
The French master incurred a mass of
trouble when he represented Balzac wear-
ing a dressing-gown, but the statue is
now regarded as one of the finest in Paris.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” on Chinese diet:
I see that U.N.R.R.A. made the discovery
at Lapstone that, the world rice shortage being
“terrifying,” there is no way of feeding China
and other “native” races except by a widespread
educational programme aimed at teaching them
to substitute wheat and maize for their tradi-
tional rice diet. Bunkum! The Chinese have
fewer prejudices with regard to food than have
the races most of U.N.R.R.A.’s delegates be-
long to. Recurrent famine has taught them
to eat almost anything. Moreover, unlike most
Occidentals, they are artists in cookery, and an
artist is not ruled by prejudices and associa-
tions. Reasons why rice is a Chinese staple—
though that doesn’t apply to western and
northern China —'are that it is cheap in 'normal
times and that the damp, hot coastlands of
Asia are eminently suited for its cultivation.
But given the means the Chinaman becomes
the most catholic of eaters. The Chinese tow-
kay in Singapore thought nothing of sitting down
to a dinner of a dozen courses, with as many
as 70 ingredients, drawn from any source he
could get at, while his British brother solemnly
gave himself indigestion with a pale imitation
of an English three-course dinner, mostly out
of tins or cool store. That the Chinese coolie
“lives on the smell of an oil rag” is an oft-
repeated legend, but an English social worker
who investigated the diet of the rickshaw-
pullers of Shanghai found that they not only
had a greater variety of foodstuffs than the
white man, owing to their habit of using cer-
tain weeds, as the French do, but that their
diet had a greater vitamin content.
* * * *
“Spokeshave” : Some Melbourne broad-
casters have no more tact than had the
Pentridge chaplain who, when he con-
ducted the Christmas service in the
prison, selected as the anthem Mendels-
sohn’s “Oh, for the Wings of a Dove!”
An announcer was sending out a birth-
day-greetings message to an elderly lady
who was sick in hospital, and after wish-
ing her happy returns of the day started
off the record of “How Beautiful You’ll
Look in Heaven!”
“T. 5.8.”: Where does “Strict Veg.”
get the idea that Pasteur was regarded
as a charlatan and a quack (B. 14/2/’45)?
Pasteur began his scientific career at
20 by solving problems in crystallo-
graphy, which had previously baffled
chemists and physicists. .A small experi-
ment with tartrate crystal logically turned
his mind from physics to physiology. In
1885 at the Academy of Science M.
Vulpian, on behalf of the medical pro-
fession, expressed his admiration of. Pas-
teur’s achievement. M. Bouley, chair-
man of the Academy, said he considered
Pasteur’s preventive vaccination the most
glorious advance in French medical his-
tory. It was his researches in bacteri-
oscopy, then a new science, and preven-
tive inoculation that brought Pasteur in
conflict with the Academy of Medicine,
whose members later had his germ theory
pushed down their throats. But Pas-
teur’s genius was acclaimed and recog-
nised all over the world long before he
died, and for the greater part of his career
he worked in close collaboration with
scientists who would scarcely have asso-
ciated themselves with anyone they
deemed a fraud or a quack.
“Fed”: A Sydney schoolmaster
has been testifying that the old
penalty of “writing lines” has been
wiped out of Australian school prac-
tice, being retained only for the repe-
tition of words mis-spelt in dictation
• tests. Teachers of old were very
fond of the imposition, but it never
worried me. My last impot. (500
lines) was worked off by a hundred
written by myself and 400 by school-
mates at a halfpenny a hundred —the
master apparently didn’t look beyond
the first sheet. The line-writing pun-
ishment lingers in Britain, where a
13-year-old youngster has scored an
anonymous fame by writing to the
“Times” arguing that the practice
wastes paper, ink and pens, and is
likely to spoil handwriting. The
“Times” added an editorial comment
that its young correspondent was
absolutely right. One of those dis-
cussions, into which Britons are still
able to enter with delight, while
robombs are falling in the next street,
was in full blast when the last mail
arrived from Blighty.
“Pawang”: The old “Latin or no
Latin” controversy has been revived in
Melbourne with the outbreak of the new
school session. In the discussion nobody
seems to have recalled that Latin’s place
in the curriculum dates from a time when
all the books Englishmen read were
written in Latin. A person who could
not read Latin was illiterate in those days.
Though all that is altered there are still
scores of schoolmen- who believe that a
knowledge of this dead language is neces-
sary to what they call a “liberal” educa-
tion, and the Victorian higher-school sys-
tem still works on the assumption that
Latin is the language of literature and
culture.
* * » *
“Tuart”; Further to the affair of
Rabbi Schenk (B. 21/2/’45), I quote a
“Hebrew Standard” report of “a special
general meeting of the congregants of
Temple Emanuel,” Waverley (Sydney),
premising that the editor of that publica-
tion was refused admission, “because, ex-
plained Mr. H. Chirlian, hon. secretary
of the Temple, the meeting was not open
to the press.”
There was an estimated attendance of
over 500. Occasionally feelings ran high.
The first major matter-discussed was the
sequel to the resignation of Rabbi Schenk,
voiced from the pulpit some weeks ago.
The chairman read a letter from Rabbi
Schenk in which the latter withdrew his
resignation and apologised to Mr. Tuber
(president of the congregation and chair-
man of the meeting) and to members of
the Board of Management for statements
he (Rabbi Schenk) had made. It was an-
nounced that' the apologies were accepted,
and a vote of the meeting permitted Rabbi
Schenk to withdraw his resignation.
The other major issue decided was the
salary of Rabbi Schenk. The meeting voted
against a proposal whereby an unnamed
member of the community would himself
contribute £7 10s. a week, bringing the
salary up to £4O a week. By secret ballot
the meeting decided that the salary should
remain at £32 10s. a week.
And very generous, too. Many a rector
of a fashionable Christian parish would
be glad to have half the stipend, and
would be lost in wonder if a communi-
cant offered to throw in another thirty
bob, let alone seven-pound-ten.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Arbitration Court Judge
Kelly has had a clock presented to him,
for reasons which, for a Judge, may be
unique. It came from the National Foot-
ball League (Australian code), S.A., in
recognition of Kelly’s primer, definite but
simple, elucidating the League’s compli-
cated rules. The first edition of the book,
20,000 copies, has gone to all States and
to most places where Australian troops
are stationed. Some optimists even hope
that the book may be studied in the
U.S.A.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: After the drums and
tramplings have ceased and the captains
and leaders have departed and the Big
Three have been gathered to their fathers,
Yalta, the picturesque seaside town in
the Crimea, with its imperial palace of
the ex-Czars and its cliffs and casinos
and bathing boxes, will be remembered.
It is the town where Chekhov lived, and
one of his most-admired short stories,
“The Lady with the Dog,” has Yalta
for a setting.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; The big cod was cruis-
ing slowly along the mussel bank when
something wriggled by above his head.
The cod backwatered quickly, eyed the
wriggler suspiciously, then fanned himself
slowly along the bottom, keeping low
and watching the wriggles above. There
was white sand upstream from the mussel
bank and the cod knew it, and since the
wriggler was making that way he was
content to cruise below. When the white
sand came beneath him, the cod was in
clearer water with a reflecting base and
he surged upward and got about two feet
of that brown snake down his throat
before the snake realised what had hap-
pened. Then the fun began. The snake
was a big one and/when it turned and
tried to wrap itself round the cod the
cod tried to disgorge what it had, but
its rows of fine inverted teeth weren’t
made for disgorging. The water swirled
and frothed as cod and snake rolled and
flapped' and worried. Old Ben, washing
his shirt upstream, saw the flurry, caught
glimpses of the gleaming bodies and
rushed for his gun. The blast came as
the snake raised its head, and it blew
that head away; the cod, stunned,
turned its white belly upward and began
to float away. Ben floundered in and
captured it. As he told us afterwards
he wasn’t sure “whether it was n flamin
bunyip, a cross between a catfish and a
eel or one of Jimmy Beggs’s'nightmares,
but it tasted damn’ good.”
* * * *
“Swanlo”: The first colonists to people
New South Wales were mostly of the
stocky English type, a type that per-
sists today. So when the first genera-
tion of Australians arrived and grew to
adulthood they were noticed to be
strangely tall and straight—as tall and
straight as the cornstalks along the
Hunter River valley. So New South
Welshmen became Cornstalks. Victoria,
when overrun by goldseekers, became
rather a hungry place for a good many,
so many a young Victorian nourished
himself by eating the sweetish gum of
the wattle. Hence Victorians became
Gumsuckers. The overland track from
Adelaide to Ballarat was long, dry and
hungry: so hungry that the first big
party that got through was obliged to
supplement meagre rations by shooting
crows. Arrived at Ballarat the leader,
during the inevitable newspaper inter-
view, rather incautiously told of this alien
food. The hilarity of the diggers was
roused —henceforth all South Austra-
lians were Croweaters. To the gold-
seekers pouring into Westralia in the
’nineties the native-born there became
Sandgropers. No mystery about that
name—a glimpse of Perth and Fremantle
50 years ago showed a population liter-
ally wading through an ocean of loose
white sand. Queenslanders became
Bananialanders —an appellation without
mystery or color. But did the inhabi-
tants of the Speck ever have a nickname
other than the rather trite one of Apple
Islanders?
* * * *
“S.G.”: A horse in Queensland used
to pull a horse-works beam that churned
up the town’s ice-cream supply. Every
sixth round the nag stopped for an issue
of ice-’cream. “No ice-cream, no work,”
was his motto. What a help he’d have
been to N.S.W. coalies!
* * * *
“E.H.S.”: On the western N.S.W.
property where I was raised there was a
waterhole 60 yards long and about Bft,
deep which contained yabbies, frogs, etc.,
but no fish. My brothers and I had to
drive about five miles to the nearest
river to fish. The stream was fairly well
stocked with cod, golden perch, eel-tailed
catfish and blacklist, and one day we
decided that instead of throwing back
undersized fish we would transfer them
to our waterhole ; we barred cod on ac-
count of their cannibalistic tendency. The
experiment was eminently successful. I
revisited the property many years later
and found the catfish and yellowbellies
stiff going strong, but the toothsome
“greasies” had gone out of circulation.
There must be hundreds of waterholes,
lagoons and dams on the western side
of the Dividing Range suitable for the
introduction of these excellent table fish.
Water-lilies and similar fresh-water
“Now that Syria and Lebanon have declared War , Colightly , I might
have to recast my entire campaign!”
plants would bring insects they feed on
and provide against evaporation.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Our birds, particularly the
indigenous sorts like the ibis, are usually
given exclusive credit for the natural
destruction of grasshoppers. Yet during
a plague on the N.S.W. south coast it
was a treat to watch the eels in the
creeks snapping up the pests as they
hopped into the water. Caterpillars also
fall victim to the eel when attempting to
cross streams.
■‘The’ 0.D.”: That old Gippslander
who was always on the look-out for
“slack wires in his fences” and carried
a claw-hammer and half a dozen staples
to fix ’em (B. 28/2/’45) must have had a
job to keep his bull confined. No respec-
table bull would consider stapled wires
as legitimate wards ; he’d simply lean on
’em and be free. Anybody too lazy to
bore holes in his posts and use a Spanish
windlass or iron-roller strainer when the
need arose deserved to be rushed by the
meekest old milker on the place.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Only rarely did “Pickets”
Plumb, the fencer, wobble off the
straight path of sobriety. When he did
a latent repression invariably took con-
trol. All kinds of fences were repugnant
to it: it hated post-and-rail, wired varie-
ties, paling jobs ; picket fences above
all. Any one - of the type that
unblurred itself before his bleary eyes
en the way home became subject to a
“she-loves-me-she-loves-me-not” action
until (a) Morpheus, or an irate house-
holder (necessarily robust), intervened;
(b) the rails, were bare as an ancient’s
gums. Next morning, full of apologies
and repentance, he always revisited the
scene, hammer in hand and repaired the
damage. Thus, it was a surprise to the
district when, the morning after a birth-
day celebration, he sought out “Thirsty
Bert,” tore off his coat and proceeded to
give a sorry exhibition of erratic punch-
ing and shocking timing. After the
seventeenth miss Sam broke up the
battle and tried to arbitrate. “Matter!”
shouted “Pickets” ; “didn’t you help me
home last night?” Bert it.
“Didn’t you know what you was doin’?”
Bert had known. “Then you knew I was
pullin’ pickets off that fence?” “Yair,
you always puff pickets off,” Bert pointed
out. The next second he was sitting on
the ground. “Take that, you cow,” hissed
“Pickets” ; “that’s for • lettin’ me pull
every blasted picket off me own fence!”
4c
“Mat’s Mate”: “The only woman I
ever had any time for,” said Mat, “was
one I struck when I’m workin’ for a
circus travellin’ through the Croweater
country. Far’s I could see she went
about 23 stone. Yair, she was the fat
woman of the show an’ useter sit in the
tent knittin’ while all the mob poked
past an’ paid their deeners t’ geek at her.
’Course, there’s no chance of her tryin’
t’ snare a man, so me an’ her gets
friendly an’ swaps opinions an’ ideas.
One day I asks her if she ever thought
o’ gettin’ married. ‘No fear,’ she says.
‘While I’m like this I can earn a good
livin’ without doin’ much. If I got mar-
ried t’ some feller I’d never be sure but
what he wouldn’t want t’ exhibit me, an’
even if he didn’t I’d be worryin’ about
him cornin’ home late an’ gettin’ drunk
an’ lookin’ at other women. How long
d’ you reckon I could keep me weight
up if I had to worry like that?’ she asks.
‘And if I lose me weight I lose me job.’
Yair,” said Mat thoughtfully, “she had
her bloomin’ head screwed on right, all
right.”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Even in calm conditions
there is something oddly amusing in the
flig h t of a blue crane, but to see one
battling against a strong wind (B.
14/2/’45) is just plain rib-tickling. Nath-
vS U ”omam™?aT te Te e e
„, • , u a’ a i a
a wiUow- handed p,aol and
L . ‘ would P have cherished Daubers
° m k f *V r
note that the white-fronted heron
P on ly ic se tings.
„ . . „ _
Anthropo : Like many another who
h. as . tried to solve the mystery of abo-
rigmal eugenics, Mark Six (B.
31/1/ 45) weaves a lot of knots concern-
ing a member of this tribal division
marrying or not marrying a member of
this or that tribal division. Actually the
abo. didn’t worry his head about such
complications. Nor did he keep the
tribal genealogical tables written on bark
in a hollow tree, as would have been
necessary had he followed the compli-
cations so often credited to him by many
whites. By having family names, as I
have already said, and by children tak-
ing the family name of their mother,
and by a man being careful not to marry
a woman of his own family name, the
whole system of eugenics worked auto-
matically and with the minimum of
trouble. A powerful warrior might have
six wives, several of them stolen from
other tribes. Thus in his family there
would be six different family names, as
well as his own name, should any of
his children care to indulge in a little
hyphening, as they occasionally did, all
of which was sufficient to ensure that
blood dispersion which the abo. is sup-
posed to have so jealously and intelli-
gently guarded.
* * * *
“Zake”; Probably the tallest telegraph
pole ever erected in Australia was a 112-
footer at Tindall, on the Manning River
(N.S.W.). The bottom half was of iron-
bark, ten feet of which took the grip
that kept it vertical; the top part was ot
Oregon. It had been up 30 years when
I saw it, and it looked good for as long
again.
* * * *
“Katiti”: Farewell Spit, a strip of sand
running from the tip of Golden Bay
(M.L.) for about seven miles to the light-
house on the far end, was for many years
the curse of shipmasters, because v when
approaching from the Tasman Sea they
were to some extent behind the light, and
thus found it difficult to pick up the spit,
particularly if it were a bit misty. Hear-
ing of this, one lightkeeper made it a
practice to carry on each trip from the
mainland a bag of soil which he deposited
in a hole somewhere along the spit. As
the hole was filled —and each took about
two hundredweight—he would plant a
pine-tree in it and dig another hole a few
yards further on or to the side. In the
course of years quite a fair-sized planta-
tion grew up, covering the entire length
of the spit and about eight trees wide.
These trees can now be seen clearly from
Nelson, many miles away, and often in
mirage upside down.
=H * * * .
“Bo”; The sulphur-crested cockatoo,
an institution in the Duffy household,
had disappeared, having been last
seen taking its usual morning stroll
up near the road sliprails. For days
old Mick Duffy searched vainly for
his pet; then he got a whisper that
some newcomers on the other side of the
township had a sulphur-crested cockatoo
in a cage on their side verandah. Mick
went in, recognised his bird and de-
manded its return. The fowl’s custodian,
a large, aggressive individual, wound up
a heated denial of Mick’s ownership by
loudly telling Duffy to hop to hell
or he’d get heaved over the fence. Old
Mick thought regretfully of his three six-
foot sons away with the A.1.F., and took
out a summons. When the case was
heard the Bench got the defendant to
address a few remarks to exhibit A, which
ended with a wheedling “What does
Cocky say?” The bird meditated
morosely on its perch. Then the J.P.
asked Mick to say something. “I’ll keep
me mouth shut if it’s all the same to you,
y’r Worship,” said Mick, “and I’ll just
do this.” Upon which he got about ten
yards away from the cage, put his hat
on the back of his head, then lurched past
the cockatoo humming “Killarney.” Im-
mediately the bird started swaying from
side to side. Then it cocked its head on
one side, gave a loud screech and roared
“Ole Mick’s lobbed back, Ma, an’ full as
an egg!” Verdict for the plaintiff.
* * *
“Aichess”: We dropped in at a goat-or-
galah pub in a little western N.S.W.
town. My cobber, who was on a no-meat
diet, called for boiled eggs. A bowl of
about a dozen was set in front of him.
“ ’Strewth!” he exclaimed, “I on’y wanted
a couple.” “That’s all right,” the waitress
smiled reassuringly; “you won’t get more
than two good ’uns out of that lot!”
* * H= *
“Ned”: “Y're flamin’ well wrong,”
Sam told the bloke at the saleyards who
said there was no opportunity in the
bush. “Not so long ago,” he went on,
“I’m re-sheetin’ th’ bark roof o’ the big
barn up at old man Harvey’s, when I
wakes up that Rosie, his only chick, is
more interested in me than in me handi-
craft. That sort o’ runnin’ suits me, and
I’m gettin’ round the curves nicely when
Higgins starts the fire that burnt the
dividin’ fence. The old man hires a
couple o’ jokers from over the ridge to
split posts, and they’re soon wise to
Rosie’s future prospects. Bein’ experi-
enced opportunists, their technique’s neat,
but I get back on to me tucker when 1
hear Rosie sayin’ she can’t make up her
mind who she likes best. That’s me
opportunity, and by me employin’ a bit
o’ strategy the other two agree to stage
the elimination bout next Sunday
mornin’. It was a ding-dong go until
they knocked over a couple o’ buckets
o’ separated milk I’d left handy just as
the old man and,Rosie come around the
corner. I heaved a bucket o’ soapy water
over the pair o’ them and went them
properly f’r spiffin’ a poor, struggle
farmer’s milk when they ought t’ know
that city people was beggin’ fr bacon
and breakfast sausages. Rosie made up
her mind on the spot.”
DELIGHT.
Who made delight?
It waits by all earth’s ways
Sudden and dear, a gay world-wandenng sprite
To glad our days.
There is no wrong in all the world, no sin
Save what man’s will brings in,
Yet joy like his . .
No other heart can hold, so deep it is.
Though none but man has known
Sorrow on earth that sears the heart,
Beauty is shown
To human eyes alone;
Only for us may Fancy prank her part.
What is delight? . ,
It is the glittering streets of heaven at night,
The song that eyes in love sing, .
And the soft footfalls of returning Spring,
The hawk on the height;
It is the daffodils,
And the moonlight’s dim designs,
And the evening light on hills,
And the mist .among the_pines;
It runs with the young winds of dawn, floats
In the noon blue,
Rides the advancing storm’s terrible lines.
The diamond-sparrow’s four notes
Intimate it; the cricket, too,
Shrill little filer of the grass,
Expresses it to torment, but, alas,
Only unconsciously. •
Never can else of earth know it as we.
All beauty is delight,
The heard, the seen,
The cold fire of moonrise ghostly white,
The chiming discord in the rush of rain,
Scents of the forest faint and clean,
Wild swans in flight .
In the hushed evening over hill and plain.
But more than these, immeasurably more,
The heart will store
Those dear delights we find
In our own human life and kind;
Joys that belong _ .
Only to mind and mind companioning:
But I have known that is too deep a song
For me to sing.
QUEENSLAND.
JAMES DEVANEY.


“Moyhu”: Old Harry, who lived by
himself in a stringybark kipsey on the
outskirts of a small Gippsland town, was
rarely seen by the townsfolk except at
the monthly euchre and dance, where his
long bow legs and drooping yellow-grey
moustache were conspicuous features. At
the annual fancy-dress dance Harry came
dressed as an outsize hunger. Jibed at
by the village louts and fired by snake-
juice, Harry accepted a challenge to make
himself into a real firework, and retired
to his hut. Next morning a smoke-stained
but quite obstructionless piece of land
marked the site of Harry’s late residence.
Portion of the hunger and an elastic-
sided boot adhering to a distant tree satis-
fied everyone as to his fate. Chief
mourner was the licensee of the wine
joint, who bemoaned the fact that Harry
had passed out owing him “a packet.”
A year or two later, while putting up at
a pub in an Upper Murray town, I was
awakened by an earth-shaking explosion.
Next morning the publican told me a
hatter, dressed as a hunger at the
fancy-dress dance, had blown himself up.
"A long, bow-legged bloke,” mine host
described him. “Used to. do a bit of
trappin’ along the river and drinkin’ in
his spare time.” “Sorry to hear it,” I
sympathised. “So am I,” remarked the
publican sourly. “The old coot kicked
out owin’ me a fair swag.”
* * *
“Old Camp”: Fictioneers are always
ready to start their characters fist-fighting.
But my half-century’s experience of
life among all sorts of characters is that
the great majority of men. hesitate long
before starting a fight, while even the
tough, bullying sort that might be very
willing to take on somebody about half
their size are usually very reluctant when
faced with someone their own weight.
I haven’t seen half a dozen real stand'
up, bare-knuckle fights during my adult-
hood. Actually, bare-knuckle fighting is
a pretty serious affair, the clenched fist
being no insignificant projectile when
crashed into the human face. I’ve seen
a man’s face gashed in half a dozen
places by no more thgn _ hard, bony
knuckles, and a face blacken and swell
until the victim was hardly able to see
out of his eyes. What sort of men they
were in the Georgian period who could
stand up to 50 rounds and more of such
plugging can be imagined. Little
wonder that the Englishmen of those
times sallied, out and grabbed nearly half
the globe. Of course, I’ve seen any
number of drunks’ fights—a lunge and a
miss and a fall on the floor.
*e * * sc
“Betcha”: Though I’d still back the
bunny for a waterless existence, second
place goes to the jumbuck, provided he’s
been reared that way.' With no feed and
"Henry, how many more times do I have to tell you not to drop your
ashes on the carpet?”
little water in the good country last year, I
shoved a decent mob of wethers outback
where feed was plentiful and water non-
existent. On the fresh grass they held
their condition all through the hot
summer, but except for a few heavy dews
they received no moisture for months. A
neighbor for years ran a few hundred
wethers in waterless paddock. It was
his custom to turn the homebred young-
sters into the dry area after weaning,
and there they remained till sold fat or
three- or four-year-olds. A few years
ago, thinking to help them along, he put
a dam on the dry area, and the jumbucks
soon became accustomed to their daily
draught. Now, when the dam dries the
thirsty animals hang round bleating, till
after a few days of watching them fast
losing condition old Jake cursefully
drives them down to water to save their
lives.
* * * *
“Roley Poley”: That was a good gag
by “Heth” (B. 31/l/’45) of the mounted
Digger drawing twin fountains from the
camel’s hump with his spurs; yet it per-
petuates the fallacy. The hump is not
a water-storage tank. Actually the size
of the hump is an indication of the oont’s
condition. When fat the hump is quite
large, declining as the animal falls off in
condition ; very poor camels show prac-
tically no hump. The fat of the hump
is of the same class as the fat of a bul-
lock’s brisket.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: I find it difficult to
believe that Melbourne waited till 1851
before seeing its first prefabricated house
(B. 31/1/ ’45). When the Swan River
Settlement started in 1829 the Peel Colo-
nisation Co. brought several large build-
ings in the prefabricated state, which were
erected at Clarence, the capital of
the co.’s principality. When Peel’s second
ship, Rockingham, went ashore in a gale
off the site of what is now the town of
Rockingham the walls of a prefabricated
four-roomed house were thrown over-
board to serve as rafts. Several free
settlers also brought along houses in
made-up parts, ready to erect, though
some were of only one room. In 1832
Marshall Macdermott, first W.A. man-
ager of the Bank of Australasia, and later
of Adelaide, brought a dozen such houses
to the Swan. Constructed in Sweden,
they returned him a handsome profit of
£l2O apiece. Adelaide was founded in
1836. Being a “synthetic” settlement,
with everything ready made to order in
England, Adelaide had its full share of
prefabricated buildings.
* * * *
“Bill C.”; Non-venomous though he
may be, the carpet snake can make good
use of his excellent teeth. When I found
three of my dogs in holts with a 14-
footer he had Skinny, the foxy tied
up, but had been prevented from
flattening that loudly-howling hound by
the two cattle dogs, one of which had
him by the head and the other by the
tail. Regretfully I settled the champion
rat-killer's career with a bullet. When
Skinny crawled out of Joe’s constricting
coils he was a mass of blood from a
wide, deep gash in his offside foreleg.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Mum had accepted Mrs.
Banker’s invitation to call next time Dad
was in with the cream, and it was with a
touch of awe she surveyed the town
house. Silently she took in the colored
walls, the furniture, the lace curtains
and the cushions. On the trip home
again she was very quiet, sitting along-
side Dad in the old trap and sighing
several times. “Y’ know, Dad, it must
be lovely to have a home like that,”
she murmured as they turned into the
home stretch. “Did y’ notice, they’ve
even got linoleum in the kitchen.” Dad
looked up surprised. “Now don’t you go
gettin’ dissatisfied, Mura,” he cautioned.
“You’ll have a nice house y’rself some
day, only you’ve got to crawl before y’
can walk, y’ know.” “Oh, I’m not com-
plaining, Dad, I ” “Well, I sh’d hope
y’ ain’t,” he interrupted. “Not with what’s
“ ’Struth, tinea!”
cornin’ t’ y’. Cripes, the rate the world’s
goin’ I wouldn’t be surprised if we have
electricity through here in another 20
years or so ; then you’ll be able t’ have
good lights, an’ a iron, an’ everything.
But it’s no use alterin’ things till we see,”
He flicked the mare impatiently. “Yair,”
he went on, “I promised y’ when we wus
married that if y’ put up with things f’r
a few years I’d add some improvements
later, an’ I ain’t never done anything
to make y’ think I’ll go back on me
word, have I? Of course I ain’t sayin’
y’ haven’t managed awright these last
40 years or so,” he conceded, “but f’r
goodness sake, Mum, don’t start gettin’
impatient.”
* * * *
“Carnie”; Re Brian James’s story
“Gant and His Horses” (B. 31/1/ ’45).
Twice I have a pair of horses stung
to death by bees, and each time they
have halted in a stolid daze and stood
till they fell dead. My husband had a
spell in hospital suffering from bee stings
received while trying to make an at-
tacked horse gallop to safety. Any horse,
even an elephantine draught, should be
able to outstrip slow-flying bees. I have
asked many experienced horsemen ; none
has known a horse, after the restlessness
caused by the first few stings) do other
than stand stockstill until it falls.
* * * *
“Aster”: When Dad in “Aratta’s”
story (B. 17/2/’45) boasted that at the
same hour every morning the clock’s time
coincided with the appearance of a star
at a certain spot in his window he was
really saying that his clock was inaccu-
rate, because it is an astronomical fact
that, owing to the difference between
solar time —the time kept by clocks—and
sidereal or star time the stars rise 3min.
56sec. earlier every night. If, therefore
the clock'were left unaltered a star ap-
pearing above the windowsill daily at,
say, 4 a.m. (clock time) would a week
later appear at the same spot approxi-
mately 28 minutes earlier, and after
several months would appear hours
earlier in the evening, until eventually it
rose before nightfall. If he watched the
same star, Dad, even without astronomi-
cal knowledge, surely could not be so
dumb as to fail to notice a regular nightly
discrepancy between his clock and the
rising time of the star.
* * * *
“Diamond Bar”: Was interested in
“Betcha’s” discourse on sheepdogs (B
7/2/’45), and agree with him that biting
is an unpardonable sin. The well-bred
and well-trained dog will never bite, since
his early lessons on sheep should be the
wide seeking cast, with the dog under
control: in short, he must learn to work
sheep before he learns to force them
In most cases biting results from en-
couraging young dogs to do forcing yard
work before they have learned paddock
work, especially since yard work is lots
more fun for the pup, with plenty of
camps under the gate and abundance of
water handy. As an indication of the detail
which can be bred in or bred out; Border
Collies can be line-bred to give cock or
lop-ears, and I have no doubt that effi-
cient line-breeding would quickly elimi-
nate a biting strain. I note also that
“B.’s” colleague, old Mick, committed the
(to me) unpardonable sin of sitting his
dog down by call instead of by whistle—
a sure sign of a badly-trained dog.
.
“Blime”: Old Prosser stood on the
house verandah watching Andy’s mong
race the stud ewes in the hill paddock
For the next half-hour he walked up and
down inwardly fuming; then, seeing the
hand returning, he went out to meet him.
“Didn’t I tell you not to disturb them
lambing ewes?” he bellowed savagely
“Cripes, boss, it weren’t my fault,” de-
fended Andy. “Well, y’ shouldn’t go near
’em with a mong that ain’t under con-
trol.” “But Blue is under control, I tell
y’,” Andy stood his ground, “only—well
y’ know how the flamin’ gate inta that
paddick drags? Yair, an’ I’m just off me
nag 1’ shut it when there, right in the
middle o’ the track, I spots the biggest
snake I ever seen. Gripes, was he a
beaut.! ’Bout four inches ’cross the back
an’ ” “Yair, I know, I know,” snapped
Prosser, “and he stood up and hissed at
you.” “This bloke didn’t, boss,” Andy
corrected hastily. “He’s too big f hiss.
That black just whistled. Stood up near
level with me dial t’ do it, too. Now
cripes, c’d I help it? I tell y’, before
I c’d find a stick t’ shut up his flamin'
whistlin’ old Blue had the whole blinkin'
paddick mustered.”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Bill Brumby took pride in
his haystacks. To him they were no!
mere piles of fodder; they were struc-
tures of hay. The walls sheered out from
the bases; the eaves overhung, and their
roofs were high and steep. Bill batted
in the butts so that his stacks seemed
moulded. They were raked of rubbish ;
not a wisp of loose stuff waved ; they
were groomed. Fireproof, waterproof
and windproof, Bill skited. Once an
agent wanted him to insure them. “What
against?” asked Bill. “Any damage;
fire, f’rinstance,” said the ajgent. “Them
stacks won’t burn,” said Bill —“ain’t
nothing ter ketch alight.” The agent
laughed. “They’ll burn,” “My hay
won’t,” said Bill, and, stooping, he set
fire to the stubble. The blaze crackled
merrily and harmlessly against and
around the stacks. The insurance agent
was so impressed, so mortified that he
didn’t move till the petrol-tank of his
motor-bike exploded.
H: * *
“Solitude”: We had delivered the cattle
and were returning through the township
when Seventyfiver suddenly stopped in
front of the store. “Ain’t got a bag, have
y’?” he inquired. “I got t’ git a noo pair
o’ workin’ pants, an’ old (Teorge don’t
wrap nuthin’ now.”* “Can’t you tie ’em
on your saddle?” I asked. “No,” he
replied sorrowfully, “not these days
What about the bag under y’ saddle? Aw
don’t matter. I’ll use me own.” Pulling
out his saddlecloth he strode into the
store, made his purchase and rammed it
into the bag. Then, lifting it, he glanced
round the counter expectantly, searched
the floor, grunted and came out. A few
hours later we arrived at the hut, and
shovin’ the rabbit traps, harness spares,
bolts, crockery and miscellaneous eat-
ables up a bit, Seventyfiver upended his
bag over the table. There was a small
tinkling noise. “There y’ are,” he crowed
dropping suddenly to the floor and crawl-
ing rapidly to the corner ; “told y’ y’ve
got t’ use a bag nowadays if y’ want t’
beat them flamin’ buttons.”
* * * *
: “Blue G.’s” interesting
observation (B. 21 /1 / ’45) re the pouch
of the marsupial wolf (Tasmanian tiger)
opening backwards, or downwards as it
would be in a kangaroo, probably sup-
plies the missing link in that ancient
controversy on marsupial birth. The
most difficult part to account for was the
long distance the immature joey had to
climb to reach and enter the pouch, and
how during the evolutionary process he
ever learned the trick. But if in the
earliest forms of marsupials all pouches
opened downwards his route of travel
would have been short and easy. Then,
as the kangaroo branch of the family
gradually assumed a more upright car-
riage so that eventually it became neces-
sary for the pouch to open at the top,
the whole process of change would have
been so slow that the thousands of suc-
cessive generations of immature joeys
had no difficulty in adapting themselves
to the slowly lengthening climb.
THE BATTLE HOUR.
From benches of their dull and weary toil
Where, galley-chained; like recreants they
peered
Beyond the bars for glimpse of sand or soil,
Of cloud or bird, or some black Arab’s beard,
Wrathful they rose, and burst the clinging thrall
And fought in lands which tyranny had trod,
Like one of old who wrecked a banquet hall
And slew the feasting enemies of God.
This was their hour, supreme and fierce and
proud.
When life that gave them nothing gave them
all.
Courage and comradeship, the heads unbowed
Beneath the breaking waves of death, the call
Of bugles in the night, and shouts of men
And faces glimpsed and never seen again.
R.A.A.F.
K. COLLOPY.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE 00., LTD.
Smooth, Strong, Hard...
F.fS 11° m „ /, '.Vm.' L ,r ” f
CONCORD HAR»^_
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is an exception-
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended for dadoes and other wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a smooth, glossy, pure white, sanitary
finish of great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers or sa-
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base for receiv-
ing any decoration as soon as the wall dries out. Special
grinding and .processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
Packed in Jute Bags.
mm
:
mm
h J
wk
m
>
m
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANV LTD., Building Materials Division
SYDNEY . . MELBOURNE... BRISBANE. ..ADELAIDE. ..PERTH
E6ELABRA MERINOS
Four *moot matters of ffce Cup. Wmssera of Ist aod
prizes on two occasions. Abo winners of Grand Champion «“«
Ewe, Sydney Sheep Shew, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE
Orders are now being booked for the
Rams to be classed before the end of
February.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gns. per head.
I fSi
U
i id
t. KATER & SON - - - Egelabra, Warren, N-S.W.
Telephone: Warren 10
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ẁ
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit mena .
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogAS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanosis blower (Fat'd).
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
■7.11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
" DONT WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
Pasture Management.
“Graz”: Investigations into pasture
management at both Kybybolite Farm
and the Waite Institute (S.A.) revealed
unexpected results when, over four years,
merino wethers on continuously grazed
pastures cut lib. per head per annum
more than those on rotation grazing.
Sound grazing management is neither to
stock too heavily nor too lightly for pro-
longed periods.
Six sheep to the acre on short rotation
led to a marked reduction in perennial
grass and a big increase in weeds. Peren-
nial grass maintained its vigor under long
intervals of heavy stocking, and weeds
were kept down. When spelled after five
years this pasture recovered remarkably,
though the sub. clover tended to become
replaced by weeds.
Some people advise cutting surplus pas-
ture for hay. At Waite cutting for hay
two seasons running reduced the propor-
tion of perennial grass to 9.1 p.c., com-
pared with 44.9 p.c, when cut very green
for silage. However, the experimenters
advise cutting to avoid rank growth.
At Gilruth Plains (Q.) an experiment
in light, medium and heavy stocking re-
sulted: One sheep to 1\ acres gave
111 b. 3oz. of wool per head, 1-5 gave
101 b. Boz. and gave 91b. 13oz.
Sheep on the heavily-stocked area had
to be given supplementary fodder towards
the end of the year. No appreciable
difference resulted between grazing pas-
tures continuously and spelling them six
months alternately.
Mr. Scully Somersaults.
Mr. Scully having suffered a
sea change or something, “wheat for
starving sheep is to be made available
on a strictly rationed basis in the expec-
tation that the drought will break soon.”
Mr. Scully’s reason for this is that “more
accurate estimates of final deliveries of
the current crop and of stocks” have
been made by the Australian Wheat
Board.
Since the A.W.B. has a mighty staff of
experts in all four wheat - producing
States, and since those experts have
had ample time to make accurate esti-
mates of both current and old wheat, Mr.
Scully ought to find out what they’ve
been doing in the meantime. This is
early March, at least two months after
the last of a very poor harvest was
gathered, and everybody except Mr.
Scully and his Wheat Board knew that
wheat was short before Christmas. They
knew it when the August and September
rains failed.
Mr. Scully had a lot more to say, in-
cluding the item that growers of 1945-46
wheat may grow as much as they like
and will get 4s. 3d. a bushel as a first
advance for it. What good this will do
at a time when most of the seed-beds
are dust or blown away and with seed-
ing time but a week or so away is doubt-
ful. It will cheer some farmers, but
whether it will induce new ones, who
won’t be able to get fertiliser, parts or
labor, is another matter.
The truth is that Mr. Scully represents
a type of politician totally incapable of
“ Doesn't matter if it IS running over —turn the tap off and don't waste it.”
handling agricultural matters, whether
times are good or bad, and so long as
he and his colleagues have the destiny
of Australian land industries in their
hands so long will those industries be in
a state of confusion.
Mint-Weed.
“Sarina”: Mint-weed is getting plenty
of attention from the C.S.I.R. in Queens-
land. The blue-flowered pest is now well
established in the Clermont (C.Q.) dis-
trict, as well as in many other pans of
the State. The C.S.I.R. officials are
in full agreement with experienced men,
who know that the spread of mint has
been greatly heightened by overstocking.
All weeds are encouraged by over-
stocking because, while the grass is eaten
down, they’re allowed to thrive un-
touched. Another obvious cause of
weed growth in pastures is repeated grass-
hopper infestation. Imported grasses in
particular suffer very badly from grass-
hoppers. I’ve seen couch grass on good
C.Q. coastal country put back about
four months by an infestation of grass-
hoppers that only lasted a week. By the
time it got back to normal the paddock
was a mass of assorted weeds. The grass
wouldn’t have lived through the ensuing
“dry” if I hadn’t scythed those weeds.
“Outback”: The seriousness of the
mint-weed threat to Queensland pastoral
areas was admitted by Dr. J. Griffiths
Davies, chief agrostologist of the C.S.I.R.
The weed has spread at least as far north
as Logan Downs in the Clermont dis-
trict. Emphasising the difficulty in getting
natural grasses re-established on over-
grazed areas dominated by mint-weed.
Dr. Davies said that the C.S.I.R. had an
enclosure on the Pittsworth stock route
from which stock had been excluded for
eight years, and yet the natural grasses
had been unable to oust the mint.
In one place Dr. Davies saw a large
block of land completely dominated by
mint. This block had been seriously
over-grazed by sheep, and 99 p.c. of the
growth at present and for several years
past was mint-weed. Across the fence,
however, was a good stand of weeping
Mitchell grass, with a complete absence
of mint. Heavy growth of mint-weed
was found around stock watering facili-
ties, but the general conclusion reached
by Dr. Davies and his assistant, N. Shaw,
was that the native pastures, where not
over-grazed, prevented the entry of wild
mint. Dr. Davies added that his obser-
vations suggested that mint was a poten-
tial danger wherever weeping Mitchell
grass was found.
Growing Kurrajomgs.
‘‘M.W.H.”: I’ve grown many trees in
the past 50-odd years, purely as a hobby.
In March-May, 1930, I sowed 12,000
kurrajongs in beds, 60 plants to the row,
2fm apart'. Some of them were 9ft. high
by 1933, the average being 3ft. to 4ft.
There are two left in that plot, both 20ft.
high, the rest have been planted far and
wide. I’m in the Narrabri (N.S.W.) dis-
trict and keep the surface up to 12in.
high round the trees; with a stone kerb
to hold the soil, which comprised a mix-
ture of mother soil from under an old
kurrajong, black soil and tree litter.
I’m convinced the best way to grow a
tree is from the seed. With both kurra-
jong and wilga I’ve proved that the tree
will follow nature as to direction, whereas
when a young tree is planted in a hole
it is guided more or less by the shape of
the hole and the hole itself becomes
waterlogged. The best way to start a
young, transplanted tree is to pat down
a bed of fine gravel about 4in. thick, hold
the tree on that and build up firmly with
good soil, finally using the stone kerbing
to hold it. The planter can make a
certainty of it if he gets the soil from
round an older tree of the same species.
But grow from seed if possible. That’s
Nature’s way, and Nature did a pretty
good job with the trees; it took man to
murder them.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: Guinea grass has many
friends amongst N.Q. beef-cattlemen. It
can stand tremendous knocking about
by large and hungry herds, and has good
food value. Practically any fairly moist
soil suits it fine, but it has a great liking
for light, sandy creek flats. Heavy frosts
hit it badly, however, so it is not a suc-
cess inland where winters are severe.
Beef cattlemen grow it in conjunction
with molasses grass, but it will also mix
well with giant couch and elephant grass.
All three make excellent green chaff, and
should have attention on the S.Q. coast,
particularly on the Burnett.
“Plane Creek”: There’s always impac-
tion in cattle herds when herbage is dry
and the waterholes stagnant. Dry grass
lodges in an indigestible mass in the
bovine “bible” when cattle drink too spar-
ingly of muddy water. A trick that often
works is to pour a fair quantity of clean
water into the stomach through a hose-
pipe passed down the gullet. Such a tube
is suitable for evacuating gas in cases
of hoven. The water should soak into
the impacted mass and render it soft
enough to be broken up’ by patient
massage.
“Myrrhee”: If separated milk is short
feed meatmeal to pigs, fib. per pig daily
from weaner to baconer stage, combined
with grain and either pasture, green feed
or lucerne chaff. Dry sows need fib.
daily and sucking sows up to lib. In the
absence of separated milk or meatmea
pigs grow slowly and have to be fed more
grain for each pound of pork produced
than pigs on a full diet. Breeding sows
produce smaller and weaker litters, and
don’t milk so well. Pigs on a milkless
diet need a lick of 3-1 ground limestone
and salt.
“V.G.L.”: A drain running through
a line of sties can act as a conveyor of
disease from the higher to the lower
pens. Run a drain from each pen to a
common drain built in front of and out-
side the line of sties. It can be dis-
infected without risk of poisoning the
pigs.
“Bill C.”: Either alum or chloride of
iron will clear dam water more quickly
than slaked lime (B. 31/1/’45). Twenty-
five pounds of alum will clear 50,00(J
gallons of water in 48 hours, or 171 b.
of chloride of iron will clear the same
quantity in 24 hours. To apply, dis-
solve either chemical in water and spray
the solution upon the water.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Corns, and Poland.
v httlc of American reactions to the
Yalta decisions has been published in Australia,
the slightly condensed N.Y. “Sun” article by
ueorge E. Sokolsky here given is typical of
much feeling on the Polish “settle-
ment, and moderate feeling at that.]
Poland was the very first of the United
Nations to be in this war. Yet Poland
p conquered, absorbed, Russified.
1 oland is losing her national existence.
Lor not only is the Lublin Government a
puppet, as much a puppet as Nanking or
Mukden, but Poland is being integrated
mto an offensively abhorrent alien way
ot life. True, one wishes to send gar-
lands to Stalin for his fight on the Ger-
mans, and yet are we to forget Poland
altogether?
The Lublin Government is unmistak-
ably communistic, even though some of
Jts component parties go* by less ugly
names. For no Pole can forget that from
September, 1939, until June, 1941, these
communists were allied to Nazi Germany.
Nor will mothers in Poland permit their
children to forget this, even though the
conqueror now becomes Russia and no
longer Germany.
Soviet Russia first organised the Union
ot Polish Patriots. That was translated
mto the Lublin Committee of National
Liberation. The head of the Union of
Polish Patriots was Wanda Wasilewska.
Although she performed yeoman service
for Soviet Russia, her name has disap-
peared. She is not in the Lublin Govern-
ment. The name of Gen. Berling, who
headed the Soviet-sponsored Polish army,
has disappeared. Such Polish leaders as
Andrew Witos, Boleslaw Drobner and
Emil Sommerstein, who had been in the
Lublin Government, have apparently
been dropped. These were well-known
Polish names known before 1939.
Many other names which were on
Russia’s side of the Polish question no
longer appear in the lists of those accept-
able to Stalin.
Yet one sees this picture: The Minister
of Propaganda of the Lublin Govern-
ment, Stefan Matuszewski, is a commu-
nist with a long history in the party, and,
although he is by birth a Pole, his poli-
tical activities have generally been Rus-
sian and his history in these matters goes
back to 1917. Obviously, a man who
has been a Bolshevik since 1917 does not
become a Polish nationalist suddenly in
1944. And were that miracle to happen
would Stalin have appointed him his
Minister of Propaganda of the puppet
Polish Government?
I might list others who are in this
Lublin puppetry, but what is the advan-
tage of piling name upon name, exotic,
difficult to spell, impossible to remem-
ber? Suffice it to note that there is a
repeated pattern in all this: the appear-
ance of what the communists hail as a
“people’s Government,” the united
front coalition in the early stages to in-
clude well and favorably known (or
should one say, less unfavorably known?)
individuals; their disappearance when
the communist victory is sure. Finally
the communists take over completely.
That has already happened in Yugoslavia
and Bulgaria, probably in Rumania and
now in Poland.
One might ask, “So what?” And
another might say, “What can be done
about it?” And another says: “If
Roosevelt protests and Stalin tells him to
mind his own business, what are we to
do? Sign up with the Nazis? Withdraw
our troops from Europe?”
Well, there it is. We have jockeyed
ourselves into the position of being voice-
less and powerless and politically impe-
cunious if we are no longer able to
speak out against injustice—injustice to
a valiant people who are our allies and
are still, on the western front, fighting
alongside our own troops. It is impos-
sible to believe that we have sunk to so
low an estate in the politics of the world.
Even those Americans who can say
that they don’t care what happens to
Poland as long as we have a victory over
Hitler must realise that this pattern of
conquest, this transference of conquered
countries from Hitler to Stalin, instead
of their liberation, must prolong the war,
for it substitutes civil war and revolu-
tion for a peaceful solution of world
problems. *
Mr. Roosevelt’s Terms.
(Condensed from a N.Y. “Times” article by
Arthur Krock.)
Mr. Roosevelt’s terms are separable in
historical appraisal, even though the
thread of one political philosophy has
run through them all and the spool is still
turning.
In his first four years—from March,
1933, to March, 1937 —he was wholly
nationalist. In his next four years—from
March, 1937, to January, 1941—he moved
slowly, reluctantly and at times deviously
from nationalism to internationalism and
the beginnings of armed intervention in
the European war. His third term fixed
intervention as a deliberate policy (lend-
lease, armed convoying of aid to Great
Britain before we were at war, etc.) and
was less than a year spent when the
Japanese attacked at Pearl Harbor and
Germany also declared war on the U.S.
As the President’s third term merged
quietly into his fourth the forecast was
for a momentous departure from the
past.
That departure—unless all signs fail-
will be the formal association of the
United States for the first time in an inter-
national alliance to which the use of the
United States Army and Navy will be
pledged to keep the peace when it is
made. This may even be preceded by
temporary military pacts with two sets
of the major anti-Axis Powers to dis-
mantle the war-making establishments of
Germany and Japu.i by force, and to
assume part of a joint obligation to main-
tain this situation by force until all peace-
keeping nations can share the responsi-
bility.
Four years ago the President entered
upon an unprecedented third term in the
midst of«an unprecedented situation for
the country: the prospect, admitted by
the 1940 Republican national candidate
as well as by himself, of attack by both
Germany and Japan after they had dis-
posed of all other nations strong enough
to resist them. He begins an unprece-
dented fourth term in the midst of
another unprecedented situation: the
prospect that the United States will sign
those “entangling alliances” against
which American public orators and
writers have warned the nation since it
was established.
The annals suggest two widely spaced
eras and a score of Presidents. But they
are those of only 12 years and one man.
Not Exactly Matey.
(From a report by the Istanbul correspondent
of N.Y. “Times.”)
In his inaugural address President
Roosevelt said; “We can gain no lasting
peace if we approach it with suspicion,
mistrust and fear.” Every American and
every Briton in Sofia, Bulgaria, who
heard these words over the air certainly
wished hard that the President would suc-
ceed in convincing our Soviet ally that
suspicion, mistrust and fear would be the
greatest obstacles in the way of a durable
peace.
It is no secret that the Soviet authori-
ties in Bulgaria are suspicious of their
Anglo-American Allies there and treat
them accordingly. Perhaps it would be
more correct to say that it is the British
whom the Russians really suspect of poli-
tical designs in Bulgaria. The Soviet atti-
tude towards the Americans is rather like
that toward inoffensive, harmless nui-
sances who have to be tolerated.
But since the Russians consider it un-
wise to show preference for the Ameri-
cans, the latter must endure all the re-
strictions imposed by the Russians, re-
strictions that in fact are meant for the
British. So strong is the Soviet suspicion
of the British that they are not making
any attempt to hide it. The movements
of the British—and consequently the
Americans —in Bulgaria are restricted by
the Russians to within a few miles of the
Sofia town area. Any Briton or Ameri-
can wishing to travel beyond these limits
must be accompanied by a Russian
officer.
Major-Gen. Okley, head of the British
Armistice Mission, was on two occasions
stopped by Soviet military guards when
he wished to proceed by car a short dis-
tance beyond what the Russian soldiers
believed to be the line of demarcation
for Britons and Americans.
Major-General John Alden Crane,
chief of the. U.S. Armistice Mission
in Bulgaria, and Maynard B. Barnes,
American Minister there, had a similar
experience. They were proceeding in a
car to the house of Bulgarian General
Ivan Marinoff, Commander in Chief of
the Bulgarian Army, for lunch. But in
the opinion of the Russian soldiers guard-
ing the highways General Marinoff’s
house was outside the area in which the
Americans are permitted to circulate.
General Crane and Mr. Barnes were
forced to return and prevented from
attending lunch. Although neither Gen.
Crane nor Mr. Barnes ever uttered a word
about the incident, nearly every one in
Sofia knows about it.
The British and American Armistice
Missions in Bulgaria experienced enor-
mous difficulties in obtaining Russian
permission for ’planes bringing in supplies
or personnel to land at the Sofia airport,
American or British officers who were
assigned to serve with the respective mis-
sions in Bulgaria had to wait for weeks
before the Russians granted them entry
permits. United States and British news-
paper correspondents were not allowed to
enter Bulgaria unless they had permission
from Moscow.
This writer, who visited Bulgaria re-
cently, got the impression that all kinds
of difficulties were being created by the
Russians to keep the British and Ameri-
cans out of Bulgaria.
It is American prestige that has suf-
fered the most from this hostile Russian
attitude. The Bulgars are simple people,
but they are not stupid. They like and
admire the Americans. They have the
highest regard for American humanitarian
Russia’s five-year non-aggression
pact with Japan can be terminated
by either signatory in April. The
pact, concluded in April, 1941, re-
quires either contracting party,
should it desire to terminate the
treaty, to give notice of its intention
one year in advance of the termina-
tion date. Failure to give such
notice automatically renews the
treaty for another five years. A
Domei commentary on January 13
declared that with the April dead-
line for termination of the pact
approaching, Anglo-American dip-
lomacy would seek to create a
Russo-Japanese rift and insisted
that Russia had “everything to lose
and nothing to gain” by forthright
action against Japan.—New York
“Times.”
ideals. They believed that American aid
to its Russian ally was extanded for the
sole reason of defeating Hitlerism, with-
out any thought of immediate or future
gains. •
The Bulgars saw the Russian armies
riding in American cars, American jeeps
and American trucks. Now when they
see the way the Americans are being
treated by the Russians they are puzzled.
They are beginning to doubt America’s
power.
U.S. to Help Britain.
(Condensed from “Collier’s.”)
Big lend-lease changes are scheduled
for June, when the present law expires,
and Congress is expected to renew it for
another year.
The Administration has not publicised
in detail the changes it wants made in
June. But the changes asked for will be
based on these propositions: (1) Britain
has taken a body blow to its entire
economy in this war, a blow from which
it probably could not recover unassisted ;
(2) it is to U.S. interest to see Britain
recover as rapidly as possible after the
war.
These lend-lease changes, if adopted,
will turn lend-lease into a mechanism for
keeping British efficacy at peak during
the rest of the war and for aiding British
economic recovery after the war. That’s
the long and short of it, and why not?
How hard Britain has been hit in this
war was indicated in detail by a White
Paper issued by the British Government.
The war has rowelled every part of
Britain’s economy. More than one-third
of all the United Kingdom’s men between
14 and 64 are in the British armed forces;
almost half of its women between 14 and
59 are in the armed forces, in full-time
civil defence work, or in industry.
One out of every three houses in Britain
has been either destroyed or damaged in
air raids or the roblitz. No new dwelling-
houses have been built during the war,
and no major repairs have been feasible.
Civilian casualties to August 31, 1944,
totalled 57,298 killed and 78,818 wounded.
It is in the foreign-trade and finance
departments that Britain has been hit
most pertinently to this lend-lease discus-
sion. its exports (lifeblood of Great
Britain) fell in value by 50 per cent, be-
tween 1938 and 1943, and in quantity by
71 per cent.
The war has gutted Britain of huge
amounts of real wealth at home; and, in
addition, the British have had to liqui-
date $4,260,000,000 worth of overseas
assets, and have piled up new overseas
debts totalling $9,200,000,000.
Had Britain not held out it is any-
body’s guess where the Allied cause
might be today.
In the years just following the war it
is pretty generally agreed that the world
will most likely be rolling along an ex-
tremely rocky road. If world trade can-
not be revived swiftly after the war the
situation will probably deteriorate into
chaos, with more and worse wars hatch-
ing.
Well, Britain will have its Common-
wealth of Nations and the trade routes
linking those nations. British business
and financial talents are world famous.
The U.S. will have a lot of merchant
shipping, huge production facilities and
it§ own able business and financial leaders.
Here would seem to be a couple of
economic organisms which, teamed up
loosely together, could be expected to
get world trade going in a hurry and keep
it at a satisfactory tempo for a Jong time
to come.
On the other hand, if we go in for a
trade war with Britain after the shooting
war stops we can pretty well paralyse
both Britain and ourselves, and can
wreck any hopes of setting up a world
organisation to keep the peace.
So what the Administration is aiming
at is to help Britain get back on its feet
after this war as a matter of cold dollars-
and-cents advantage to the United States.
Soviet Family Laws.
(Condensed extract from a “Saturday Evening
Post” article sent by Edgar Snow from Moscow.)
Who would have predicted that it
would become harder to get a divorce in
Russia than it is to buy ice skates in
Singapore?
Last July’s ukase promising generous
additional State provisions for mothers
and their children was linked with such
stringent new regulations concerning the
dissolution of wedlock that it cannot be
said to have been received with unmixed
feelings. The fact is that no one yet
knows how the divorce law is going to
work. In Russia thousands of divorces
formerly were granted to dissatisfied
spouses when they merely signed post-
cards making the request to the marriage
bureau. Since the new law has been in
. effect there has been only one divorce
granted—a case hardly typical enough to
judge future practice. It involved a
married lady already living with an extra-
marital mate who had become the father
of her child.
Of all the recent moves in the direction
of increased stability in Soviet policy, of
all the war changes that have occurred
in between crisis and victory, none is
more fundamental in the social c cheme of
things here than the July edict. Not
since the prohibition of so-called “free
abortion” in 1936 has there been a re-
form which so vitally concerns the family.
And in no country at war, as far as I
know, has any Government adopted
legislation which attempts by such com-
prehensive means to recover a normal
rate of population growth and to govern
marital and parental dilemmas.
According to its own preamble, the
new law is a further step toward “con-
solidation of the Soviet family.” The
Moscow press even refers to it as the
“charter of the Soviet family.” It is
asserted to be the logical consequence of
experiment and experience over 25 years.
There are foreign critics who maintain
that the whole thing is simply “another
reversion to capitalist practice” and
“another move toward conservation.”
On the face of it, the present Soviet
marriage and divorce statutes do seem to
resemble our own more closely than be-
fore. The law provides for increased
solemnity in the ceremony itself—and the
church is a good place for that. There is
an increase in church wieddings here.
The Vatican itself must certainly note
with favor some aspects of the new law.
But there are innovations in it which may
shock the clergy more than ever, and
which make the Red family like no other.
The basic thing is, of course, the key
relationship adopted by the State to-
ward the mother and her offspring. The
Soviet Government now assumes such
broad responsibilities, quite independent
of the male in the case, that fatherhood’s
age-old duties of bread-winner and pro-
tector of the brood seem largely usurped.
At first glance, too, the male appears
to get off almost scot free, as far as
accountability for his deeds is concerned.
He can no longer be named in court as
the father of the children of an unmarried
mother. He can no longer be sued for
alimony. He cannot be socially discrimi-
nated against.
“But,” a Russian of the presumably
emancipated sex assured me, “if you ex-
amine the law more closely you see that
a man’s apparent freedom of action in
one respect is more than counter-balanced
by his strict responsibility for his oath of
matrimony.” The male may have his
extra-marital fling, but if he wants a legal
change of spouses that is another matter.


The World follows Britain's lead
\SB
i
it
i
GEORGE
STEPHENSON
Born 1781. Pioneer of
railway locomotion.
His famous engine
“The Rocket” made
history in 1829 by
pulling a train at a
speed of 29 miles per
hour.
RAILWAY TRANSPORT
RAILWAY locomotives, which have hauled the major portion
of the world’s land traffic for the best part of a century,
were invented in Britain, and British steam trains are still the
fastest and safest in the world.
Not least among the many other discoveries and inventions for
which the world owes a debt to Britain is the development of
rayon by the firm of Courtaulds. It is almost entirely due to the
enterprise shown by Courtaulds that the development of rayon
has advanced with such giant strides. The pioneer work done by
this British firm has been the means of creating a vast industry in
England, the United States and other countries.
Today, rayon has won universal acceptance and admiration. As
a factor in raising standards of life and comfort, Courtaulds
rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from it, deserve a prominent
place in the regard of all nations. The necessities of the war
have restricted the available supply of Courtaulds rayons. But
when victory is won, the results of unceasing research and experi-
ment during the war years can be translated into even more
beautiful and more versatile rayon materials.
In the post-war years the British Commonwealth will demonstrate
that in the future, as in the past, British brains and industry can
guide the world towards fresh achievements for the well-being
and happiness of the human race. To this great ideal the firm of
Courtaulds dedicates its vast store of technical skill and experience.
The World's greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics
distributed overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd,
K22OD-7.44
i*
t%P& SS
■n
w,.
m
s*s
It’s your fight—your money is needed nou>.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
No. 1 wife can now feel very secure in-
deed —especially if she is a mother.
Again, the woman who desires children
without being encumbered by a male
dropping cigarette ashes all over the place
or entertaining' undesirable friends can
legally have offspring, and the State will
accord her honors and upkeep. She has
more freedom than before, because she
has more security. Theoretically, the in-
stitution of old maids might go out with
the same broom that sweeps away
divorce. Yet if you know Russian women
you realise that they prefer the male
with his ashes and bad company to no
male at all. Unmarried motherhood
holds no more real attraction for them
than it does for any other women.
Then why the law? The answer must
be sought elsewhere —in the State’s
primary concern for the Soviet child, of
whatever origin. Profound interest in the
birthright and welfare of Ivan, Jr., is, in
fact, held to justify the entire ukase.
Formerly Soviet law supported the
view that “marriage and divorce are pri-
vate and personal affairs.” But it always
considered that whenever children were
involved the State had a right to inter-
vene. In now establishing all marriages
as matters of public interest and concern
the new law greatly emphasises Soviet
paternalism toward the child.
The iponetary awards of motherhood
begin with the birth of the third child,
when the State makes a gift of SBO in
cash. This is in addition to the layette
fee, raised to $25. With the birth of a
fourth child, by a mother of three living
children, the State makes a down pay-
ment of $260, and beginning with the
second year of the baby’s life the mother
receives a monthly subsidy of sl6 for
four years. From then on the gains
mount on the following scale:
With the arrival of the fifth child cash
payment $340, monthly allowance $24;
sixth child payment S4OO, monthly allowance
S2B; seventh payment SSOO, allowance S4O;
eighth payment SSOO, allowance S4O; ninth
payment S7OO, allowance SSO; tenth pay-
ment S7OO, allowance SSO. Thereafter,
SIOOO for each future president, and S6O
monthly allowance.
The triumph of ten births is further
accorded prestige by the bestowal on the
author of the impressive* family of the
Order of Mother Heroine, with an
appropriate decoration. The Glory of
Motherhood medal, in several classes,
will be given for lesser attainments.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
U.S. had contributed in lend-lease goods
and services up to last June 30 a total of
$28,270,351,000. This figure breaks down ,to
$13,300,000,000 to the British Empire,
$5,900,000,000 to Russia and $1,000,000,000 to
China, and is offset in part by $3,348,000,000
in reverse lend-lease from the British Empire
nations. — “Colliers:”
* * * *
Britain and Russia come into conflict in so
many places in Europe’s seething cauldron of
racial and ideological hatreds that unless spheres
of influence were clearly defined there could
be no lasting peace in a world that still waits
for an alliance as strong to enforce peace as
to make war. And it is felt here in Britain
that the militant idealism of the United States,
unreinforced or buttressed by positive action, is
a feeble reed on which to lean. The British
want to continue their war-time association
with America in the days of peace, but they
are afraid to put all their eggs in that par-
ticular basket' until they know whether the
United States will approach its responsibilities
in the post war world as a duty or make its
co-operation with the other Powers in the Grand
Alliance a boon conditional upon their good
behavior. —London correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
“Great Britain is so constituted that where
she sees a situation which can become desperate
if not tackled she throws herself in head, body
and legs with or without any other member
of the team; she has stood alone at Dunkirk
and she will stand alone anywhere she has
strength to stand.” —British Minister to the
U.S. Sir Gerald Campbell.
* * * *
Navy-minded U.S. Congressmen are not
happy about reports that some sort of an Allied
commission is being organised to administer
Pacific islands taken from the Japs by U.S.
forces. These islands, they believe, should be
ours, to serve as part of our defence system
until our military leaders decide they are no
longer necessary. Joint administration, they
fear, will mean divided responsibility, a chance
that proper harbors and defences will not be
ready if we need them years hence to protect
ourselves and our Pacific supply lines. — Scripps-
How'ard Washington staff.
* * * *
The United States and England have up to
date liberated Greece, Italy, France, Belgium,
Holland, Luxembourg, North Africa and are
engaged in liberating China, Java, Malaya and
the Philippines. Russia has up to date con-
quered or is about to conquer Estonia, Latvia,
Lithuania, Bulgaria, Poland, Finland, Rumania,
Hungary, Austria, Yugoslavia and Czecho-
slovakia .— N. Y. ‘ ‘Daily* Mirror.”
* * * *
In the modern world only the Great Powers
command the effective force to police a settle-
ment. For the settlement to be stable they
must maintain their friendly alliance. But no
alliance will be lasting which ignores the ele-
mentary rights of the smaller nations. —London
“Economist.”
* * * *
“To express his own views of the duties and
sacrifices that are imposed on him, not com-
pelled to obey without being heard, these are
the rights of the citizen which find in democ-
racy, as its name implies, their expression.
When, however, people call for ‘democracy
and better democracy’ such a demand cannot
have any other meaning than to place the citizen
ever more in the position to hold his own
personal opinion, to express it and to make it
prevail in a fashion conducive to common
good. The State does not contain in itself and
does not mechanically bring together in a given
territory a shapeless mass of individuals. The
people and a shapeless multitude (or as if is
called ‘the masses’) are two distinct concepts.
The people lives and moves by its own life
energy; the masses are inert of themselves and
can only be moved from outside. The people
lives by the fullness of life in the men that
compose it, each of whom —at his proper place
and in his own way—is a person
his own responsibility and of his own views.” —
Pope Pius XII.
* * * *
With a string of buffer States along his
southern border from the Atlantic to the Pacific,
and with much of Europe and Asia directly
within his sphere of influence, Stalin is reported
to feel more secure than if he had to depend
upon a world organisation composed of nations
some of which, at least, he instinctively dis-
trusts. For reasons not unconnected with this
Russia is expected to enter the war against
Japan at a time of her own choosing, after
the defeat of Germany. Her European flank
satisfactorily protected, she will need to bul-
wark herself in Asia. She wants a say in the
disposal of Manchuria, Port Arthur, the Chinese
Eastern and South Manchuria railways, Sin-
kiang, Inner Mongolia and Korea. §he wants,,
in short, to strengthen her position in China
and throughout the Middle and Far East. — Wil-
liam Philip Simms; N.Y. “World Telegram.
* * * *
So great is the shortage of women who are
volunteering to nurse the sick and wounded
that the U.S. Army has had twice to lower its
standard of nursing care. In 1941 the standard
called for 120 nurses and 500 enlisted men in
each general military hospital of 1000 beds. By
1942 the Army had to reduce the number of
nurses to 105. In 1944, when casualties were
mounting, the Army was driven to reduce its
theoretical standard to 83 nurses and 450
enlisted men. Instead of one nurse to eight
beds, the Army had to come down to asking
(though not getting) one nurse to 12 beds.—
U.S. syndicate writer Walter Lippman.
, * * * *
“Intrigues and graft on the part of politicians
and the generals in the field, inflation and
other economic ills, the chronic shortage of
military supplies and equipment, war-weariness
after the long and terrible retreat, and distaste
for seeing China become the battleground for
Allied and Japanese armies—all these have con-
tributed to the malaise which has affected too
many of Chiang Kai-shek’s Ministers and set
too many generals playing politics for personal
ends,, in the traditional manner.” —British
Bureau of Information statement, quoted in
N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
The Canadian farmer nowadays is not con-
tent to be an efficient producer, leaving some-
one else to market his products. In the last
15 years a great many farmers’ co-operative
associations have sprung up, and they now
supply feeding-stuffs, fertilisers, farm imple-
ments, day-old chicks and seed corn. Other
associations grade and market eggs, poultry,
apples and run flax mills. In the province of
Quebec alone there are 560 societies with 41,000
members affiliated to the Co-operative Federee,
with headquarters in Montreal. The annual
turnover is £7,000,000. In all the provinces the
farmers’ co-operative movement is encouraged
by the Governments. —London “Times” agricul-
tural correspondent, visiting Canada.
* * * *
Canada has entered 1945 with a surplus ol
wheat expected to be around 500,000,000 bushels
Argentina started the new year with an esti-
mated 225,000,000-bushel surplus. The United
States, based on available consumption data for
the latter* part of 1944, is indicated to have
a reserve in excess of 350,000,000 bushels.
These three countries, therefore, possess a com-
bined surplus of over 1,075,000,000 bushels.
Deducting end of crop season reserves of
roughly 125,000,000 bushels for Canada,
200.000. for the United States and a mid-
year reserve of 125,000,000 bushels for Argentina,
these countries could still export around
630.000. bushels during the first half of
1945. — U.S. “Journal of Commerce.”
* * * *
The Moscow plan to set up the Lublin Com-
mittee as a puppet Government in Poland
friendly to Russian claims- is not what U.S.
troops fight for. This is simple and crude par-
titioning of territory by dictators who, like the
monarchs of old, cry out that “to the victor be-
long the spoils.” It means that wars of con-
quest to acquire territory constitute still the
dominant policy of certain nations, notwithstand-
ing their professed adherence t'o the Atlantic
Charter. — U.S. syndicate writer David Lawrence.
* * * *
East Prussia is the most fanatically national-
istic province of Germany. It has a population
of 2,500,000. Nearly all are Germans or
Germanised Slavs and the great majority Pro-
testants. More than any other Germans, East
Prussians regard the Polish Slavs with con-
tempt as an inferior and incompetent people.
The Poles have always responded with a feel-
ing of bitterness which as a result of the events
of this war has now arisen Vo positive hatred.
To suggest that 2,500,000 Protestant Germans
.be incorporated in a Catholic Polish State is
not to apply the lessons of the past. It is to
give the revived Poland a very bad start. — Dr.
Stephen Duggan , Director of the U.S. Institute
of International Education.


Divorce Notice.
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALFRED LARKINS late of Narraudera.—TAKE
XOTICE that ROY BUTSON has filed a petition for
divorce Number 3194 of 1944 against his wife LEAH
MAY BUTSON on the grounds of, her adultery with
you If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 31st of March 1945 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from ADEIAN
C. R. TWIGG Solicitor 160 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG. Solicitor for
Petitioner. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
"WALES — -In Divorce.
TO REGINALD HUGH BROOME late of Summer
Hill labourer.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY MAY
BROOME has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3405
of 1944 on the ground of your dessertion If you
wish to defend the suit you should enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 2nd April 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from OSBORNE
MITCHELL ALLEN Solicitor 56 Hunter Street Syd-
ney. —-(1.5.) C. K. BODY", Registrar.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ALEXANDER CUNNINGHAM —agedV about 60 —and
until recently employed in Perth, W.A., is asked to
write to TRUMBLE & PALMER Solicitors, Nhill,
Victoria.
Appointment Books for All Professions.
Covers i-hour periods every day for Over One
Year’s Appointments. Size Min. x Min.
Strongly Bound. Ledger Paper.
Price 12/6 post and tax free.
Don’t delay, post today and Save Office Worry.
WILLIAMS & WILLIAMS (Dept. B),
147 Liverpool Road, Burwood, N.S.W.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAA§EASE
All metis-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drumihoyne, N.S.W.
uotinpunO'f
ptjos v uo
Smpijn^w
He is only a little fellow, but his good
sense tells him you can’t build a
cower of blocks on a wobbly founda-
tion. We, as grown men and women,
know that it’s our responsibility to
create a solid foundation on which to
build our lives. It takes courage and
sound sense to tackle such a problem,
but, whether you’re a romantic house-
wife or a hard-headed business man,
you will realise that you are making a
solid contribution to the future when
you invest in Victory Bonds.
The Commonwealth needs the loan
of your money to win the war. It
offers you Australia itself as security
for your loan. Whether your motives
in lending are patriotic or personal,
it is sound commonsense to put your
savings into Victory Bonds.
While Australia is using your money
for urgent war needs, your war bonds
are earning a better rate of interest
for you than you can get elsewhere.
Bonds issued for 16 years earn 3£%
and for 5 years At the same
time, by resisting the temptation to
spend frivolously and, instead, lend-
ing your money to your country, you
are helping to protect Australia from
inflation.
When your Victory Bonds mature in
peace-time, you will have the money
to fulfil postponed desires ... to buy
a home, to equip it as you want, and
to create a really solid foundation
upon which you can build the im-
portant things of life. For the sake
of the future, moke if o promise
to put your savings into the Third
Victory Loan.
The Third Victory Loan opens on March 13. Start raving now for Y OUR Bonds. If you
have cash saved, subscribe now in amounts of £lO and upwards. Full loan interest is paid on
advance subscriptions from the day you lodge your money with any bank, savings bank or stock -
broker. Then start saving more to buy more Victory Bonds by instalments when the Loan is open.
Victory Bonds are issued in denominations of £lO, 250, £lOO, £5OO and £1,009.
3PVI3-JIS
m
ms*
%
V*KAVEN Al
You’ll appreciate their
louts tan di h g Quali^B
Ohhitxtable lit jH
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS *789
m
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Experienced typist wants work such as novels,
stories and technical treatises. —3585.
To buy Rose Innis’s Beginner’s Dictionary of
Chinese-Japanese Characters and Compounds
and a Japanese-English dictionary.—3580.
Copies of The Bulletin from Jan.-July (inc.),
1944, and Nos. 3322 and 3323 (October), 1944.
—3582.
To buy Phantom Crown and Golden Fleece,
by Bertina Elarding.—3583.
Information Sought.
(1) Size and population of Lord Howe
Island? (2) Industry? (3) Who administers it?
(1) Area 5 sq. m. Pop. 165. (2) Gathering
and export of palm seed (Kentia). (3) N. S.
Wales Government.
Names, types and nationalities of warships
visiting Sydney during Australia’s sesquicen-
tenctry celebrations?
The Maoriland cruiser Achilles; the United
States cruisers Trenton, Memphis, -Milwaukee
and Louisville; the French sloop Rignault de
Genouilly; the Italian cruiser Raimondo Monte-
cuccoli; and the Dutch sloop Flores.
Would it be harmful to bathe the eyes in a
weak boric acid solution?
The bathing is pleasantly stimulating to the
eyes and can do no harm.
Have Paderewski, Schnabel, Friedman, Rubin-
stein and Cortot ever visited Australia ?
Paderewski made several visits, and Arthur
Schnabel one, just before the war; Ignaz Fried-
man, who had previously made several Aus-
tralian concert tours, is now domiciled in Syd-
ney. Anton Rubinstein, Arthur Rubinstein and
Alfred Cortot have not played in Australia.
A method for keeping pests out of carpets ?
The two main pests are the carpet beetle and
moth grub. Both of these can be easily kept
in check by a thorough vacuum cleaning weekly,
using plenty of weight and working against the
pile and paying particular attention to the carpet
underneath the furniture. Use an upholstery
nozzle around the walls where the carpet is
qlose-fitted.
A method of cleaning wool for mattress-
making ?
Test first with small sample. Melt one table-
spoon alum with equal quantity salt in small
pot; add enough cold water to cover wool and
soak for 12 hours. Squeeze thoroughly, dry
and tease wool. If successful, use 11b, alum and
lib. salt in larger quantities of wool.
Brief Answers.
N.L.C.: Serum is not yet available to the
public, but is understood to be on trial in
Australia... .S.M.P.; Legal position is a trifle
obscure, but it would be advisable to keep in-
surance up....J.G.: Send name and address.
J.G.: The cable got its name from a nine-
teenth-century German scientist A.P.: Air-
Marshal Sir Arthur Coningham is son ot
Arthur Coningham who died at Sydney, June
13, 1939, aged 73... .J.G.C.; (1) The 25 p.c.
surcharge is not applicable to you, (2) The
amount of your earnings between July 1, 1944,
and June 30 > 1945 J.W.: It m valued at
16s. gd. to 21s. per bottle; other query will be
answered later... .F.J.: Provided you have no
dependants, your assessment this year seems to
be about right ; P-:®- tax on £290 is £5l, and
property rate is higher T.C.E.: Communi-
cate with the Queensland Department of War
Organisation.of Industry.. ..M. A.. Only text-
book available is Dyball s Biology Course for
_ 7s. 9d V.S.H.. Both N.E. and
N.W. winds may precede thunderstorms ; the
N.E. wind would give more assistance to the
development of the storm, owing to its higher
moisture content.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions 'voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
D.T.: The usual thought's expressed in the
usual way F.M.: Keep at it A.C.: One
line, then: “The runs outback would profit
much if they possessed canals.” W. 0.5.:
Yarn a chestnut; verses indescribable M. 8.:
“Oh! I would walk on to the crest of the
hill.” Off with you, then D. 8.: It seems
hardly polite to refer to England’s daughters as
“fearsome”... .G.C.: Not interested in Injuns.
... .B.B.: “Have you ever sat on the edge of a
cliff?” Frequently... .G.8.W.: Tame and trite.
K.H.: “In an endeavor to increase my in-
come I have taken up writing poems.” Brother,
you haven’t an earthly... J.T.McC.: Try your
hand at Abo. pars F.W.H.: “I flit o’er the
bay where the Bear Cubs play.” You
are, presumably, Shelley’s cloud... .F.H.A.:
Conventional ruminations... .C.M.McC.: The
simile is strained and the rhyme-scheme has a
lost, helpless look about it.


J, .4*.,' ‘**..l •ri’V’ ;
lyp, 1 '
»»ffi»
*.v *^>mv»As
3 ? ' A
%-KX
V-'
NA
s 5
“'»sip 1 „ ,£dK-fW
v'- .»■/*%;■•■
fe5S
«HKB
ft- y
mai
* -
,f.
"A
/V„, -.1
Bombers for War—Airliners for Peace. For 30 years Handley Page aircraft have
been conspicuously successful in the “heavy” class. Latest of the line is the Halifax
night bomber—now in quantity production—shown above in its Mark 111 version
equipped with four Bristol Hercules engines
BOMBING IS A TRICKING * PROBLEM
It would be considered an astonishing feat to deliver by
road, exactly to schedule, thousands of tons of goods to a
point hundreds of miles away.
Complicate the problem by the factors of total darkness,
unknown territory, a speed of hundreds of miles per hour
plus the effect of intense cold arid the destructive endeavours
of a determined, ruthless and powerful enemy —and such a
feat becomes the more astounding,
Yet such conditions as these apply to the finest concerted
actions in engineering history—the wholesale “ trucking ”
of bombs night after night from Royal Air Force bases.
Continuously since 1915 the British Industry has built big
aircraft to handle the manifold problems of efficient trucking.
The industry produced the world’s first four-engined air-
liners—many of them in uninterrupted service for ten years.
To-day British four-engined bombers carry a destructive
load far in excess of any other aircraft in service in the
world, with proportionately a minimum of crew
In good time the British aircraft industry will apply this
wealth of experience in design, manufacture and operation
of big aircraft to the problems of world transport in peace.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
YOUR FAMILY’S FUTURE
|J| OWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
* “ under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many.
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desired to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trustee with the
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility; that can guarantee
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 59 years’
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the Company s
service and what it costs. '
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox:
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis ; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others. Administrator, e c.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £63,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET,* SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends serves. Reserves.*
£ £ • £ £
1934.. 35,861 8 p.c. = 29,600 6,261 74,309
1935.. 39,481 9 „ ~33,300 6,182 80.490
1936.. 43,948 10 „ ~37,000 6,948 87,438
Share premiums, £8692 .. .. 96,130
1937.. 47,690 10 p.c. = 39,178 8,512 104.642
1938.. 51,875 11 „ „ 44,000 7,875 112,517
Goodwill disclosed, £30,429 . . 82,088
1939.. 59,891 12J p.c. = 50,000 9,891 91,979
1940.. 56,173 12 „ ~ 48,000 8,173 100,152
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
Added goodwill, £33 .. •• 131,663
1941.. 55,348 12 p.c. = 48,000 7,348 139,011
1942.. 53,720 12 „ ~ 48,000 5,720 144,731
1943.. 54,552 10 „ ~ 40,000 14,552 159,283
1944.. 55,751 10 „ ~ 40,000 15,751 175,034
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,508 at Sept. 30,
1944.
An efficient and enterprising under-
taking, whose history has been one of
progress. Those on the register have
shared in the growing harvests, and so
soon as it is freed from the Government
straitjacket of war-time controls pros-
pects of the co.’s further development
appear encouraging. With the change of
emphasis in war production from equip-
ment to food, the co.’s factories have been
hard pressed to keep abreast of demands
placed upon them. There are two in
Victoria, another pair in N.S.W., a fifth
in South Australia and a sixth in Tas-
mania, all turning out high-grade canned
fruits, jams, condiments and other tinned
foods.
Service demands, including those of
Allied forces and Britain, have severely
curtailed both volume and variety of
local civilian packs. A couple of years
ago about 80 p.c. of the co.’s output was
on Government account, and more has
been asked for from the same quarter
since. A limiting factor has been short-
age of suitable labor, particularly women,
required for seasonal work. Another
feature, and one that strikes at the heart
of efficiency, is that the Government de-
cides what lines are to be processed, and
allots the raw materials. Among the
consequences are broken time, with little
opportunity to effect major savings in
labor costs or to process to maximum
capacity.
Last term there was no improvement
in volume or range of products available
for civilian consumption in Australia. A
pleasing feature was that limited ship-
ments were made to India on a quota
basis. Still, with practically everything
more or less controlled, from the cost of
raw materials to the rate of net earnings,
little variation in profits need be looked
for under existing conditions. After making
“full” provision for depreciation, the net
result (£55,751, up £1199) was 13.9 p.c.
on capital as against 13.6, 13.4, 13.9, 14.1
and 14.2 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c. The £15,751 that remained
lifted nominal reserves to £175,034, which
is subject to £30,508 of intangibles. In a
business of this kind, however, it is the
efficiency of plant, the chief earning asset,
that counts most.
If Australia is to become a source of
supply of processed foods for Britain,
Asiatic countries and the islands, as it
certainly should, then the time has arrived
when restoration of the industry to full
efficiency has become a problem of im-
mediate importance. While the Govern-
ment’s intentions toward secondary in-
dustry are heartening, in so far as they
foreshadow the “lifting of restrictions as
soon as practicable,” it remains to be
seen when and how these general inten-
tions are to be translated into specific
performance. With the stimulus of war
removed a very different psychological
background will emerge, and both Gov-
ernment and traders have many headaches
in prospect.
What is clear is that the level of costs
will largely govern the success, or other-
wise, of the rehabilitation of industry,
particularly in export markets. During
the war the co. has had no opportunity
of studying technical progress in food-
processing methods in U.S.A., or else-
where, or of installing the most recent
labor-saving devices. Because of its age,
type and lack of adequate servicing, the
board considers that much of the co.’s
present equipment should be scrapped
and replaced by new plant as soon as
conditions permit. Undue delay in these
matters could easily mean failure to re-
gain the Asiatic markets which the co.
was profitably developing pre-war. Simi-
lar remarks also apply to the British
market for processed foods. It is up to
the Government forthwith to loosen con-
trols sufficiently to enable Australian
manufacturers to commence export re-
habilitation work. It will be the early
bird which catches the worm.
Government contracts still dominate the
financial structure. Here are consolidated
figures for the co. and its subsidiaries:
1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Capital .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 177,266 161,385 241,164 225,801
Property .. 186,305 186,946 186,733 193,543
Plant, etc. .. 54,421 50,289 47,032 58,846
Stock .. 364,594 244,642 485,487 440,705
Debtors .. 84,346 109,053 90,470 73,055
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 44,,150 132,725 234 44,178
Stocks (down £44,782 last term) consist
largely of manufactured goods for the
services not delivered at the time of stock-
taking. The more or less liquid surplus
(£335,027) was £2890 stronger than at the
previous balance,
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934 .. 4,477 64p.c.= 4362 115 . 16,790
1935 .. 4,247 5 „„ 3965 282 17,072
1936 . . 5,957 71 „ „ 5947 10 17,082
1937 .. 7,126 8„ „ 6344 782 17,864
1938 .. 6,592 7i „ „ 5947 645 18,509
1939 .. 5,627 7 „ „ 5551 76 18,585
1940 .. 8,272 8 „„ 6344 1928 20,513
1941 .. 12,644 8 „ „ 6344 6300 26,813
To “contingent taxation,” £3652.. 23,161
1942 .. 13,892 8 p.c.= 6344 7548 30,709
1943 .. 10,513 8 „ „ 6344 4169 34,878
1944 .. 12,280 11 „„ 8723 3557 38,435
This old-established tanning business—
it was set on its feet by John Charles
Ludowici as far back as. 1858 —now
turns out a wide range of leather belting
and industrial leathers, and does a sub-
stantial business as power transmission
engineers as well. War reduced demand
for leather in the upholstery and fancy
and travel-goods trades, and cut off the
growing export business the management
was developing with Asia. The gap,
however, was much more than filled by
war-time growth in local demand for
belting and other industrial leathers, etc.
For the five years to the close of last
accounts net earnings averaged £12,276
as against an average of £5910 for the
preceding quinquinnium. Substantial
additions have been made to the tannery,
belt-making factories and power-trans-
mission engineering plant since war broke
out.
Last term activities of each produc-
tive unit were well maintained, despite
man-power difficulties. And turnover
was augmented by acquisition of further
suitable lines in power transmission
equipment. The board wrote net earn-
ings £1767 better than the previous year’s
at 15.4 p.c. on capital as against 13.2,
17.5, 15.9, 10.4, 7, 8.3 and 9 p.c. back to
1937. A couple of points were added to
the div., making it 11 p.c., which is the
highest distribution since the public
became interested in 1911.
Immediate post-war prospects for
tanners appear bright enough. A strong
deferred demand for leather for uphol-
stery of cars, furniture, etc., and for
fancy and travel goods will replace
present war priorities. Also, overseas
competition for Australian raw hides can
be expected, with a possible rise in buy-
ing prices. Much, therefore, will depend
upon what the Government does in con-
nection with controls affecting costs and
selling prices. One way in which the
Government can and should assist the
industry is in rehabilitation of exports.
Trade export groups and the Government
should now get together for the purpose
of firstly defining and secondly imple-
menting a policy which will enable Aus-
tralian exporters to meet competition
from other countries, particularly in re-
gard to financing overseas sales. Unless
early action is taken in these matters
not only will Australian manufacturers
be handicapped in recapturing the pre-
war export: markets they were develop-
ing, but these and new markets will pass
to competitors, and this at a time when
economic expansion, not restriction, is
the avowed aim of the Government.
Much also remains to be done in eradi-
cating loss in value of hides due to tick,
branding and horn marks and bad flay-
ing. It costs just as much to tan a badly-
branded, flayed, tick or horn-marked hide
as it does to tan a flawless one, and the
difference in both demand and selling
price is considerable.
There is nothing to worry about in the
co.’s finances:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Capital .. .. £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities.. .. 27,929 71,951 49,529 48,100
Freeholds .. .. 58,978 62,519 63,219 66 984
Plant, etc... .. 10,391 16,653 14,926 Is’lOS
Stocks . . .. 38,956 57,675 50,542 45*121
Book debts .. 17,918 38,516 35,219 36*762
Cash, etc... .. 5,584 10,683 7,669 8*690
When the books closed more or less
liquids, including stocks, exceeded the
amount coming to outsiders by £42,478,
or £1423 less than at the previous balance!
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 3,706 6 p.e. = 3,150 556 8,184
1935.. 4,691 8 ~ „ 4,200 491 8,675
1936.. 9,425 10 „ „ 5,250 ( aarr
Staff bonus, £1720 .. j 24jj 11 « 130
1937.. 8,859 12 p.c. = 6,300 ( 100 Q
Staff bonus, £1559 .. | IUUU 12 - 130
1938.. 11,376 12 p.c. = 6,300 1 3076 u 206
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. j ’ ,
1939.. 5,928 11 p.c. = 5,775 153 15,359
1940.. 5,746 9 „ „ 4,726 \ ~.,n
Staff bonus, £lO2l .. j “ 15 > 359
1941.. 9,017 14 p.c, 7,350 1 ......
Staff bonus, £3OOO .. j ~ 14 ’ 02b
From tax reserve, £1675 .. .. 15,701
Loss.
1942.. 83 5 p.c. = 2,625 12,993
Unexplained reduction, £5OO .. 12,493
Profit.
1943.. 3,482 6 p.c. = 3,150 332 12,825
1944.. 2,035 5 „ „ 2,625 12,235
Earnings of this Sydney real-estate
business reflect the vicissitudes' of the
metropolitan property market. Follow-
ing the boom of the mid-1920’5, slump
and Langism in the early 1930’s destroyed
confidence in the future of property as
an investment for a while. Then, just
as the market was getting on to its feet
again came war, -and with it restrictions
and controls that have brought new
building practically to a standstill and
reduced sales of existing properties to a
small fraction of what they used to be.
Consider these figures, which show
Sydney property sales since 1926:
City. Suburbs. City. Suburbs.
’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO
1926.. £7,000 £3,750 1938.. £1,185 £5,083
1928.. 2,750 £4,816 1939.. 575 4,925
1931.. 364 484 1940.. 326 6,176
1933.. 786 794 1941.. 1,739 6,509
1935.. 1,238 2,339 1942.. • 187 1,933
1936.. 1,174 2,994 1943.. 422 2,294
1937.. 887 4,868 1944.. 398 1,878
The 1941 figures were inflated by wind-
fall city deals aggregating £1,400,000-odd,
handled by Richardson and Wrench. The
shrinkage last year is reflected in a con-
traction of £1447 in the co.’s net earn-
ings (£2032), which were 3.8 p.c. on capi-
tal, compared with 6.6, a loss, 17.1, 10.9,
11.2 and 21.6 p.c. back to 1938. A point
was chipped off the div., reducing it to
5 p.c., and reserves were tapped for £590
to pay it.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1939. 1941.- 1943. 1944.
Capital ~ £52,500 £52,500 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities.. ».. 10,720 27,911 28,872 29,491
Advances 27,361 24,130 22,822 22,376
Shares in other cos. -- 2,966 2,966 2,966
Cash, etc 49,22 1 69,268 61,047 66,386
Commission,
suspense, etc. .. 2,869 9,660 4,984 1,618
Sundry debtors . . 4,338 4,242 5,246 4,589
When the books last closed cash, etc.,
alone more than three times covered out-
side liabilities.
Interest now centres mainly in what the
future of real estate is likely to be. As
for demand, it has been estimated that
about 22,000 houses a year need to be
built in N. S. Wales for five years after
the war before present leeway is made
up. The State Housing Commission is
hopelessly behind the current programme
allotted to it, and by building sub-
standard dwellings the Government is
laying the foundations of future trouble
and potential slums. In its wisdom


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain CoiuwonweaJth and loreign patents. —Auvi.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888>,
hydiauhe, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of ail classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. —Advt.
* * « *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Aovt.
w
DUPLICATOR
£l7/10/-
AGENTO
WANTED
ALL STATES
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
fiuWi entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
■ ■ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE Tr7aSEi.SSrr7-i;B
RUPTURE
l NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
nets
LIKE THE HflllD
The latest invention of Ur.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placet!
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-dny tor
FREE LITERATURE.
BARKEKK DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lß), EM/ABF.TII ST.. SYDNEY
ARE YOU GETTIMG
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
Filter
g C^'ig'i
Cylinder
i
ŵ
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BRANDALERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BEJjtDAVBX * CO, LU. SIRMUIOHAH. UNO
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castlereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at all branches
DoYou Travel Bp Air?
Air travel is known to be safe
BUT—
You can make it safer for your family and
self if you effect an aviation policy through
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
formerly
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
It covers you at all times, whilst flying, without the worry
and trouble of arranging a policy before entering the ’plane.
i
War risk included if required.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and at Melbourne, Hobart, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, A.C.T., Alice Springs, N.T.
Telephone; BW 2131 (IS lines).
Do you know?
In the Philippines the
natives stain their teeth black
and bleach their hair for
beauty! But we admire that
sparkling Kolynos Smile!
Kolynos is made from the
formula of world-famous den-
tal surgeon. Dr. N. S. Jenkins.
That’s why Kolynos takes such
extra good care of your teeth.
’V'x
m
i
Vf
5©
/-■
7/>*
sc^fi
£SC
«
Mayan Beauties of South
America led the fashion
to have teeth inlaid with
precious stones. The den-
tists of those days were
oral jewellers of great
artistry and skill. You can
help to keep your teeth
shining brightly by twice
daily brushing with Koly-
nos Dental Cream. Kolynos
polishes your teeth enamel
to its natural whiteness.
Wood Struck by lightning was
a favourite ancient Greek charm
against toothache. Kolynos swirls
right through crevices where your
toothbrush can’t reach and floats
away dangerous food particles.
Hindus clean their teeth with
a fresh twig every day, except on
certain religious days when they
must not brush the teeth bn pain
of hell. Kolynos has been
awarded the Gold Seal of the
London Institute of Hygiene for
constant purity and quality.
If you’re interested in trying new ideas, try Kolynos in powder form. Ail
of the special properties of Kolynos that give your teeth that famous
Kolynos polish and sparkle are contained in Kolynos looth Powder.
jo®?®.}
sktx®:
u
In England, 1600, a wise woman in Lambeth sold for
a penny a charm of Saint Apollonia which was sup-
posed to prevent toothache for the life of the wearer!
Toothache is caused by dental decay —that’s why you
should keep your teeth antiseptically clean by brushing
them with Kolynos after every meal. Next time you’re
buying toothpaste, change to Kolynos Dental Cream.
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDa
W. 0.1. infrequently permits private enter-
prise to build a home, measuring 24ft. by
35ft,, giving, roughly, three rooms each
Bft. by lift. 6in. R. and W’s chairman,
E. Telfor Simpson, says:
As a motive apart from war-time re-
strictions, the Government has made the
purchase of homes extremely difficult to
justify its contention for the necessity to
set up an enormous post-war department
to control construction of homes.
After considering man - power and
materials available, Federal authorities
make a quarterly allocation to each State
of the number of cottages to be built.
The whole history of Government
housing in N. S. Wales, including the
earlier Daceyville scheme, is a sorry ad-
vertisement for bureaucratic planning and
control. The sooner present controls are
relaxed and private enterprise is allowed
to enter the field the sooner will the pre-
sent mess begin to straighten out. Not
until then will the people get better and
cheaper homes, designed to meet their
own particular needs. The Government
can best assist by helping to make finance
available and by encouraging private en-
terprise to turn out essential materials.
Until hostilities come to an end war needs
must be a limiting factor, of course.
Meanwhile, the N. S. Wales Government
should call in the undertaker and arrange
for burial of its misadventure in housing.
Mount Isa Mines, Ltd.
The co.’s big silver-lead-zinc-copper
deposits are on the Mt. Isa field, Clon-
curry (N.Q.), A 2000-ton-a-day milling
and smelting plant started up in May,
1931, and production of zinc concentrates
began in Oct., 1935. The silver-lead bul-
lion was shipped to the co.’s Britannia
refinery at Northfleet, on the Thames.
Owing to anaemic metal markets —for a
while zinc in the ore didn’t pay for re-
covery—and advancing costs and other
difficulties, original estimates got astray,
and shareholders (paid capital £1,944,202)
have not yet received a div. The man-
agement, however, has put up an excel-
lent technical performance. In front of
shareholders was a debenture debt of
£2,462,026, including accrued interest, at
June 30 last. Still, the mine has meant
much not only to Isa itself but to the
people at Townsville, the Government
railways, the State coke ovens at Bowen
and the coalmines at Collinsville, as well
as wholesalers, etc., in Brisbane.
War so aggravated the co.’s troubles
in connection with man-power, costs and
shipping that it decided, with the bless-
ing of the Federal Government, to switch
from silver-lead-zinc, to an all-copper
output. A substantial tonnage of com-
mercial-grade copper ore had been dis-
covered in the Black Star section. So in
April, 1943, production of silver-lead bul-
lion and zinc concentrates ceased and out-
turn of blister copper began. The change-
over was made at a cost of nearly
£250,000 in development and plant (capa-
city 12,000 tons blister p.a.).
Soon Allied demand for copper tapered
sharply, and the Government in Nov.,
1943, told the co. that its copper would
not be accepted on the Australian market.
When it was realised that this would
probably mean suspension of operations
at Isa bureaucracy changed its mind and
assured the co. of an outlet for 12,000
tons blister during 1944. Now the Gov-
ernment has decided to stabilise the co.’s
copper production for 1945 by purchase
of all blister existing plant can produce.
Annual metal output over the last five
years compares as follows:
Silver, Lead. Copper. Zinc.
June 30, oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1940.. .. 4,169,769 47,906 293 29,455
1941.. .. 4,096,882 46,085 Nil 29,577
1942.. .. 3,437,580 38,926 351 23,886
1943.. .. 2,322,808 26,171 2,138 15,154
3944.. .. 85,552 Nil 16,539 Nil
Last term was the first full year of copper
production. Metals obtained were ex-
tracted from 250,325 tons sulphides,
averaging approx. 4 p.c. copper (mine
average is 3.75 p.c.), and 18,098 tons sili-
ceous fluxing ores, including purchased
ores, flue dust, etc.
The next table shows milling results:
Concentrates.
A __
r~
Assay Assay
Tons c.y. c.y. Recovery,
milled p.c. Tons. p.c. p.c.
1942 .. 20,250 2.92 2,394 20.20 81.8
1943 .. 70.323 3.64 10.901 21.05 89.6
1944 . . 250,325 4.01 39,640 23.60 93.2
Operations were handicapped last term
by lack of development work, owing to
acute shortage of labor. The 93.2 p.c.
recovery reflects the efficiency of the
flotation section in dealing with a higher-
grade concentrate.
The smelter charge was 70,670 tons,
from which 21,782 tons matte, yielding
10,694 tons blister copper, was obtained.
Development of operating technique and
plant adjustments, as well as the labor
problem, hampered production during the
first half of the term. In 1944 the co.
lost 172 employees through man-power
releases and absconding. Since these
losses were not made good, excessive
overtime had to be worked to ensure con-
tinuous production. All-in costs, includ-
ing rail and handling charges, were 475.
4d. per ton of dry ore treated.
After allowing £132,920 for deprecia-
tion (nothing in the previous term), profit
was figured at £76,980 (down £9154),
equal to 9.5 d. per pound of paid capital.
Sales, however, included £934,407 from
silver-lead bullion and zinc concentrates
delivered in previous periods. The profit
lifted p. and 1. balance to £105,563. When
the books closed there was £1,657,012
coming to outsiders. Current assets
totalled £1,633,741, including stores
(£274,907). Mine and plant figured at
£4,667,983.
Ore reserves at June 30 last were:
copper section 2,361,514 tons sulphides,
averaging 3.75 p.c. copper, and 25,702
tons oxides, assaying 7.1 p.c. copper ; lead
section 7,055,210 tons sulphides, assaying
7.70 z, silver, 8.6 p.c. lead and 8.5 p.c.
zinc, and 61,530 tons carbonates, mostly
assaying 1.20 z. silver and 14.4 p.c. lead.
The board is considering a plan for
dual' copper-lead mining, milling and
smelting post-war. This will call for
substantial expenditure for development
and additional copper mining and smelt-
ing equipment, and approx, twice as many
employees as now The decision
'will depend largely upon prospects in the
metal market. At the moment the out-
look is least promising for copper.
Acting Premier Hawke (W.A.) says
agreement has been reached between
Commonwealth and Westralian Govern-
ments whereby Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.,
will be given a further subsidy of £75,000,
of which the State has agreed to find 25
p.c., or thereabouts. The new subsidy
will enable the company to take out re-
maining arsenical ore, which is expected
to yield 1400 tons arsenic. After that re-
treatment of a big tailings dump, esti-
mated to contain millions of tons of
material, will begin. The work is ex-
pected to take from six to seven years,
and will provide employment for from
60 to 100 men. The State Government,
always friendly disposed toward the co.,
built a railway from Meekatharra to
Wiluna town site, a distance of over 100
miles, and gave the co. various freight
concessions.
* * * *
Claude de Bernales’s agents have taken
an option over Baker’s Surprise leases on
Hampton Plains Gold Mining Areas
Block 59 (freehold), six miles south-east
of Coolgardie (W.A.). Several crushings
taken out by the vendors yielded an ounce
of gold per ton over battery plates.


ẃ
i::
Did you know this wheel
was made in Australia?
Benson Wheels .... made in Australia .... are
original equipment for the 2-pounder Anti-Tank
Gun, Bofors Anti-Aircraft Gun, Twenty-five
Pounder Pack Gun, Jeep Trailers, Bomb Trains.
Whether the chassis of your post-war car is made
in or out of Australia, it should certainly be fitted
with the Australian-made wheels which have
proved themselves under the gruelling tests of
battle! ,
BEHSOH WHEELS
o
Wholly Made By
AUSTRALIAN STEEL SPLIT PULLEYS PTY. LTD,
ARTHUR STREET, HOMEBUSH, N.S.W,
From War
to Peace
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairmanj F. W. Dvesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : HTSfll. branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
r ,M ?i ——
m i
'
m
f:;
The "MARS"
Plain MILLER
A Sturdy Machine of Great Accuracy,
Maximum Output and High Quality
Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
Manufactured by
ẅ
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty.Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents for N S.W.: Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney;
Vic‘oria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd.. 28 Market Street, Melbourne; New Zealand: A. M.
Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street, Christchurch. Stockists: Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd.*
301 Kent Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Need for Honest Co-operation
A “free medicine” service is to be in-
troduced to the Australian public from
July 1 onward. A “national welfare
fund” has been instituted by the present
Government that is costing £3O million
a year—the money coming out of the
pockets of taxpayers. “Full employment,”
a thing concerning which the Labor Gov-
ernment has made a great mouthful, is
being maintained in the Commonwealth
only at a cost to the nation in an inflated
defence expenditure as well as misdirected
and wasted effort that is a charge upon
living standards. On all sides there is
evidence that the Government is taking
money out of one packet of the commu-
nity in order to put somewhat less money
in the other, a certain amount being lost
in “administration” charges, waste, etc.,
during the transfer from pocket to pocket.
Politicians have made a big show about
what they have been doing “for the
people” in the way of “social security”
without explaining to the people the cost
of this “security.” The only benefit that
the spending by a Government of a citi-
zen’s money is likely to bring to him is
through bulk buying or better investment.
But politicians in Australia have rarely
shown themselves to be good buyers or
investors. A Government-produced article
or service is almost invariably dearer than
that offered by private enterprise.
Although politicians have tried to arrange
it that the “rich,” by paying heavier taxa-
tion, subsidise the cost of Government
services made available to the “poor,”
they have taxed the “rich” so much that
the “poor” are rapidly approaching the
stage where what they are “given” by
the Government will be paid for dearly
by themselves.
The present Labor Government, and
more especially the more radical Mini-
sters in it, have long since ceased to place
reasonable emphasis upon the need for
greater production in order to raise living
standards and ensure social security in
old age. They have ceased to emphasise
the need for efficient and frank public
administration. They prefer to play upon
class-friction and to employ party politics
of an extreme kind. Radical Labor’s policy
is to keep the nation divided, to keep the
minds of its adherents away from realities
by blackguarding the employer and the
banks and by advocating inflationary
methods of meeting Government expen-
diture.
Nothing is truer now than to say that
we have the most delicate economic
machine governing our ordinary lives,
and that at the same time we have in
almost supreme power the most sophis-
tical set of political showmen in our his-
tory. The advanced state of present-day
industrialism calls for able administrators
and impartial minds in government.
Our Government refuses to face the
real problems of the country, and
instead pays all heed to political pressure
groups. The delicate economic machine
is in danger of ultimate breakdown
through ignorant handling and political
strain.
The United States has somewhat simi-
lar problems. Accelerated by the New
Deal legislation, there has been increas-
ing reliance on the Government for the
solution of all civic problems. The Gov-
ernment has too long posed as Santa
Claus. The First National Bank of
Boston has made a lengthy study of the
problems in its country.
Here are some of its conclusions ; they
will be found to apply to Australia also
in an extraordinary degree:
Many of the trying tasks facing the nation
are consequences of the forces that have been
at work over a long period of time, and these
have formed patterns along lines that are not
in keeping with our tradition and objectives.
A combination of factors has been responsible
for our tendency to resort to political expedi-
ency and to lean on the Government instead of
trying to solve problems in stride through per-
sonal initiative. Some of these forces naturally
develop in a rapidly expanding industrial nation
and result in a conflict of interests among various
groups. But whatever their origin or the under-
lying causes of the power they have exerted in
shaping the course of events, we must' under-
stand these forces, neutralise or temper their
influence, and direct them into constructive
channels.
At the time of the Revolutionary War about
95 per cent of the population lived in rural
areas. During the Civil War period this figure
had dropped to around 80 per cent. At present
it is about 40 per cent. When such a large
proportion of our people is dependent upon
the factory system and related lines for a living
any break-down in that system, as happened
following the. crash of 1929, throws millions
out of work and compels the Federal Govern-
ment to assume the responsibility for relief.
We have reached the stage where the economic
system must be permitted to function smoothly
and efficiently in order to provide a high level
of employment. Otherwise, business enterprise
as we have known it may not survive.
The population is growing older. In Mas-
sachusetts, for instance, the number of persons
65 years of age and over constituted 6.5 per
cent of the population in 1930. At present
they represent around 8 per cent. By 1960
they will constitute more than 11 per cent. On
the other hand, the proportion of young people
is steadily declining. About the same pattern
prevails for the country as a whole. Author-
ities feel that this ageing trend in the population
Will have a profound effect upon our economic
system and upon our thinking. Among other
things, it will accelerate the demand for social
security. Unless this demand is to become an
overwhelming burden, we should endeavor to
extend thfe usefulness of those advanced in
years and to make our economic system more
efficient to offset the drag caused by a nation
of older people.
The dominance of the feminine influ-
ence has been an outstanding reaiUie of
American life. In Australia the growing
feminine influence was noticeable in the
pre-war daily press ; it colored both news
and editorial matter. The Boston bank
again;
For a quarter of a century the feminine in-
fluence has been growing, and prior to the
war was approaching the stage of being the
dominant factor in our life. The women control
about 40 per cent, of the wealth of the country,
receive 65 per cent, of estates left by deceased,
and account for around 85 per cent, of the
family spending. Moreover, they set the pattern
for much of the national thinking and policies.
This influence has been responsible for bring-
ing about an air of refinement and culture and
the development of the art of living, but with
it has gone a tendency to shy away from reality
and to seek the sheltering arms of the Govern-
ment. In order to deal with the hard problems
that will confront us after the war it will be
necessary to toughen our national fibre and to
become more realistic. In other words, we
need to strike a better balance between hard-
ness and softness.
The feminine influence has dominated the
schools. More than four-fifths of our teachers
in the public elementary and secondary schools
are women. They are a fine group of public-
spirited citizens, but as a group they have no
real conception of the requirements of the
workaday world. The public schools are under
the sped of what is known a? the progressive
educational system, which sprang into being
more than two decades ago. Its fundamental
creed seems to be to provide a “scut” curri-
culum, to gloss-over the fundamentals, and to
neglect the hard drilling and concentration of
effort that develop accuracy, thoroughness and
diligent application, while discipline and punish-
ment are frowned upon as being relics of a
barbaric past.
According to a pre-war survey made by
Columbia University, it was found that' nine-
tenths of the courses offered in the public
schools were inadequate and failed to fit the
student for adjustment to a democratic society.
But it remained for the war to reveal the
shortcomings of our schools and colleges. Our
military organisations have adopted new tech-
niques in teaching that are reported to be most
effective. Leading educators have accepted the
challenge and it is believed that new trails will
be blazed in the educational field that will have
a far-reaching influence.
The world of unreality:
Prior to the war we as a nation dealt with
economic issues in a superficial manner instead
of reading serious books and articles that would
provide a background and serve as a guide to
an understanding and solution of our problems.
According to a national poll taken of the read-
ing habits of the American people, it was found
that about 5 per cent, read the unancial column
of a newspaper and 15 per cent, the leading
editorial, but 62 per cent, read the best comic
and 90 per cent, the picture page. As a conse-
quence of the lack of understanding of funda-
mentals a large proportion of the people have
accepted fantastic plans without questioning
their underlying soundness. Our national fiscal
policy, for instance, is based upon the theory
that a mounting Federal debt is of no concern
since we owe it to one another. With this as
a premise we proceed to arrange for all sorts
of grandiose plans, including the guarantee of
security from the cradle to the grave for all of
our people, as well as to play the part of Santa
Claus to mankind. Yet for more than a year
the experts in Government and in business
have been striving to devise a tax measure that
would meet the heavy requirements of the post-
war period, but so far no satisfactory pro-
gramme has been found. The time has come
to compute the monetary capacity of the
country before making further commitments
far beyond our ability to carry the load.
Pressure groups:
Among the most serious threats to the
country’s welfare is the domination of national
affairs by pressure groups. These have been
established over the years and include all major
interests. For the most parts the programmes
advocated are high-minded and worthy in pur-
pose when each one is considered on its indi-
vidual merits. But the aggregate result of
pressure group action is most detrimental to our
national well-being. It not only divides the
nation into classes and cults but prevents the
necessary adjustments being made, with the
consequence that there is created a distorted
and weakened economy that throttles initiative,
places a damper on enterprise and risk-taking,
and hence thwarts the development of a dy-
namic and expansive economy. In many
respects the same forces are at work in this
country—although not so far advanced —as
wrought such tragedy and disruption in France
prior to the war.
The survival of our private enterprise system
and democratic form of Government in this
country is dependent upon an understanding of
the forces at work shaping our destiny and an
over-all constructive approach to our basic
problems. We must find a basis for co-opera-
tive action in the areas of common interests
which fortunately are more numerous and
fundamental than the fringes of disagreement
among the various groups. The monetary
burdens that confront us are of such magni-
tude that selfish interests must be submerged
so that we may work together on a national
level and place emphasis upon increased pro-
ductivity, around which all can rally in effective
co-operation.
Nearly all of this United States analysis
has a bearing on Australian affairs.
Something in our present outlook to which
much more attention should be given is
the fact that with the growing specialisa-
tion of production there is a greater de-
pendency by our entire economy on the
effective working of each one of its parts.
A failure to produce coal in Australia,
for instance, would soon lead to an
almost complete breakdown of transport
and industrial production.
But coal is not the only industry that
is essential to the rest of the community.
An anti-social political doctrine intro-
duced into any essential service which
results in an unjustified slowing-down in
that service retards all dependent indus-
tries. No country can a r >rd strikes that
are based on sheer selfishness or preju-
dice. While industrial development places
before us the prospect of much improved
living standards, it also imposes on us
a greater obligation to behave rationally
amongst ourselves. The industrial anarchy
and financial fallacy advocated by mob
orators and larrikin politicians are the
greatest obstructions to steady employ-
ment, better living standards and social
security.
A charge often made against B. S. B.
Stevens, former N. S. Wales Premier,
who succeeded Lang, was that he did
not repeal the legislation passed by Lang
which he objected to so violently when
in Opposition. A version of Lang’s
depression-time moratorium legislation
is current in N. S. Wales even to the
present day. Menzies would help his
Liberal party along considerably if he
made a promise to review, upon obtaining
office, all controversial legislation passed
in the Commonwealth sphere during the
life of the Labor Government. Ad-
mittedly portion of Labor’s legislation
may have involved the Government in
contracts with civilians that will be diffi-
cult to break. But the whole politically-
loaded legislative programme of the party
should be reviewed, and the country will
be a great deal better off for the amend-
ment or repeal of it. Mr. Menzies might
also promise a revision of the law gov-
erning trade-unions, if possible making
a secret ballot under Government super-
vision compulsory. Thousands of trade-
unionists should appreciate the provision
of a secret ballot.
* * * *
At the opening of the Federal Parlia-
ment the Duke of Gloucester said that
Australia’s annual expenditure on food
for the services now exceeded £lOO mil-
lion a year. Farmers are still thinking
it over.
* * * *
Lord Macaulay, in his History of Eng-
land, says “In every age the vilest speci-
mens of human nature are to be found
among demagogues.” In case there are
some Australians who don’t know what
a demagogue is, in the sense used by
Macaulay, the Shorter Oxford Dictionary
says the word means “A leader of a
popular faction, or of the mob; an un-
principled or factious mob orator or
political agitator.” Macaulay knew his
demagogues.


EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Ply _ Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a conrsei
w
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant sciatch-
in? is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Oog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE 1)00 SOAP .. —/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.'
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O'Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0..),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tube*
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get rid of
3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles of kidney tubes
and filters become clogged with poisonous waste and
the danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puflinetß under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent or scanty
Passages, with smarting and burning, show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their boweLs, tfiiich contain
only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect the kidneys,
which contain 15 miles of tiny tubes ar d filters.
Don’t delay! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS i. . . used
successfully the world over by millions of people.
They give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. GET DOANIS BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILES at your chemist or store.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
, All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Wooiworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
"V- '
r r mwm
to m eommw.
A"' Jl Jk ' \
(/* FfV£ YUM)
'K/
PS
42 AVERAGE AIR-MAIL LETTERS
COST YOU 10/6
AIRLINE OPERATORS GET 4'3
For providing the planes, the millions of gallons of petrol, the huge
hangars, maintenance and service depots, the trained airmen, engineers,
mechanics and office staffs. Airline Operators receive lid. of each extra
3d. you pay for the modern, speedy airmail service you enjoy.
GOVERNMENT REVENUE GETS 6'3
Because they own the airfields and supply navigation facilities (in the
same way as they do for shipping) and administer the service. Govern-
ment Departments get—apart from the 2Jd. postage which is the P.M.G’a
established right—lJd, out of every 3d. surcharge you pay to airmail a
letter. In the last 5 years this has amounted to £1,109,230.
If the Socialisation of Airlines Bill goes through, you will have red tape
operation as well as red tape administration. Australia’s Airways will
trail far behind those of free countries. The Government revenue pro-
vided by Australian Airline Operators will cease and you will be taxed
to make up for the loss. Talk it over with your friends . . . start dis-
cussion groups ... deal with It at your political meetings ... remember
the Government is endeavouring to side-step the people’s verdict in the
last Referendum.
Released by THE AIRLINE OPERATORS SECRETARIAT
An appreciation by Senator Keane,
who, while abroad, paid a visit to
Canada:—
The Mutual Aid Act, which became law
on May 20, 1043, was designed to ensure that
the flow of supplies from Canada to her allies
should not be impeded by financial difficulties
arising from the shortage of Canadian dollars.
Under the terms of this Act Canada has, since
April, 1943, assumed the whole cost of train-
ing Australian airmen in Canada. This was pre-
viously a substantial item of Australian over-
seas expenditure, and, by taking over these
charges for the past two years, the Canadian
Government has eased both our Budget and
overseas exchange difficulties. As Australian
airmen are no longer being sent to Canada for
training, this particular form of aid will ter-
minate in the near future, but we shall not for-
get the Canadian Government’s generosity in
this matter, nor the friendliness and warmth of
the hospitality extended to the many thousands
of young Australians who have passed through
Canadian instruction centres.
The first shipments of equipment and supplies
to arrive in Australia under the terms ot the
Mutual Aid Act reached Australian ports in
November, 1943. Most supplies have been
transported free of charge in Canadian Gov-
ernment-owned ships
Up to November, 1944, the Canadian
Mutual Aid Board estimated the value of goods
and services supplied to Australia under Mutual
Aid at about 60,000,000 dollars.
It remains to be added that Canadian
help to Australia is made free of any
expectation of reciprocal aid.
♦ * * *
The Government’s cheap-money policy
continues to be pushed. The rate of in-
terest on Treasury bills is being reduced
to 1 p.c., against 255. per cent, previously.
In this case the Government does not pay
its own central bank so much as hitherto.
Treasury bills in most cases being dis-
counted at the central bank, though the
trading banks carry £65 million of them.
The Commonwealth Bank has obtained
part of the wherewithal to discount Treas-
ury bills by forced levy of the trading
banks’ deposits under the banking regu-
lations. Recently these special deposits
with the central bank totalled £217 mil-
lion ; it pays interest on them at the rate
of only 15s. per cent. Total Treasury-
bill debt on January 3 was £3Bl million.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
The Commonwealth Bank has been
making a very high rate of profit during
the war, especially in its note-issue depart-
ment, which has had a record volume out,
the demand for currency arising partly
from income-tax evasion by certain mem-
bers of the public, exceptional use of cur-
rency by black-marketeers, etc., and the
normally higher demand for notes that
is a feature of war-time conditions in
most countries. The yrofits of the Com-
monwealth Bank last /ear exceeded the
total earnings of all the trading banks in
spite of the fact that the trading banks
render a far more detailed, active and
personal service to the business commu-
nity. The central bank has been collect-
ing most of the “easy” money that
accrues from unusual war-time financial
activities. And that may be fair
enough; it should be the right of no
private person or enterprise to “make
money” out of war. But full credit should
be given to the trading banks for the
splendid service they have rendered to the
community in regard to the more every-
day banking duties in spite of the reduc-
tion in staffs owing to call-up of man-
power. The trading banks, too, have
helped greatly in the matter of rationing,
especially in regard to clothing, and in
the case of war-loan campaigning,
♦ * * ♦
The next war loan is to be of £lOO
million. Past loans have carried 2\ p.c.
for short-term subscriptions and 3i p.c.
for long-dated issues. The previous loan
was for £l6O million, including a £47-
million conversion.
* ¥ ¥ ¥
Maoriland is finding its Government
revenues buoyant and its expenditure,
mostly so far as it concerns war, on the
decline. For the nine months to Dec.
31, 1944, war outgo was below both the
average for the preceding year and the
estimate for the current period, even
allowing for £6.2 million paid off (out
of revenue) the war loan made by Britain.
During the nine months expenditure out;
of the social security fund was £11.9
million.
* * * *
Rationing has had little visible effect
upon the overall scale of beer production
and brewing profits, the cut in civilian
supplies being largely offset by increased
deliveries to the services. The incidence
of restriction, however, has not been uni-
form as between States;
Beer Production.
(Million Gallons.)
Year ended June >
1940-41. 1942.43. 1943-44.
New South Wales.. 38.0 34.3 36.1
Victoria .. .. 33.3 26.3 26.8
Queensland 7.9 11.8 12.7
South Australia .. 7.0 7.1 7.3
Westralia .. .. 7.8 9.0 9.4
Tasmania .. .. 2.0 1.9 2.0
Total .. .. 96.0 90.4 94.3
£m. £m. £m.
Commonwealth excise 11.8 19.6 21.6
Average duty, gallon 2s. sd. 4s. 4d. 4s. 7d.
Because of population-shifts and the ban
on inter-State freighting of ale and stout,
loss of a little fat by N. S. Wales and
Victorian brewers has been Queensland
and Westralian gains, while in Tasmania
the Cascade co. has maintained its turn-
over by stepping into the former trade
connections of Melbourne breweries in
the north of the island. Excise on beer,
which has almost doubled since 1940-41,
now furnishes 8 p.c. of Canberra’s net
taxation revenues.
* * * *
The “Times Trade and Engineering”
for January records that the Clyde ship-
yards were closed down for four days at
New Year, ‘The longest New Year holi-
day which shipyard-workers in the Clyde
district have had since the war began.”
Rather a contrast with what has been
happening on the N. S. Wales coalfields
at Christmas time. But Britain is not
without its labor problems. From the
same journal, same issue;
The views of Labor politicians become
more confusing almost daily. The Labor
conference in the teeth of their executive
decided that the next general-election pro-
gramme should include the transfer to
public ownership of the land, large-scale
building, heavy industry, and*all forms of
banking, transport, fuel and power, and
legislation to ensure that the national
asset’s, services and industries should be
democratically controlled, with representa-
tion of the workers and of consumers. Mr.
Shinwell explained that their object was full
employment, and that meant more jobs
available than there were men and women
to do them. He wound up by saying that
the element of private profit must be
eliminated. The members of the confer-
ence should read what Dr. Dalton, presi-
dent of the Board of Trade, said to the
National Union of Manufacturers. The
world, he thought, was hungry for British
goods, but a great deal would depend on
ourselves. Much would depend upon what
we were able to do to increase the technical
efficiency of our industries, but that again
must for the most part be left to private
enterprise.
It remains to be seen whether the elec-
tors of Great Britain, which is confronted
with the realities of world trade to a
much greater extent than Australia, will
be deluded into committing themselves to
a fool’s paradise at a time when the ces-
sation of hostilities signals the end of
lend-lease assistance and the beginning of
world-wide competition in trade. Most
Labor objectives include the spinning-out
of work over a shorter working week, and
this in turn means lower output per head.
Lower per-capita output kills a country’s
export trade. And without exports a
country cannot pay for imports. British
living standards depend a great deal upon
imports,
* * * *
In spite of the prospect of further
capital outlay in order to make the plant
effective, the Federal Government con-
tinues to back the Glen Davis shale-oil
project. Two completed wheat distilleries
are out of action —one in N. S. Wales and
the other in Victoria. The Government
is having difficulty in keeping certain
classes of unionists employed, but short-
age of wheat and coal has settled the
fate of the distilleries.
* * * *
Output of Canada’s aluminium industry
is being reduced to less than 40 p.c. of
the 1943 figure because of the virtual
discontinuance of orders from the United
States and a cut in war-time buying by
the United Kingdom. But the industry
still employs three times as many people
as before the war. Australia is still
planning its aluminium enterprise. De-
fence is the main argument for its exist-
ence. It will be a miracle if it is economic
under Government ownership.
* * * *
Apart from the talk of monetary
theorists, corns., etc., The Bulletin has
heard criticism of the trading banks on
the ground that the nine Australian in-
stitutions together make £2,000,000 or
thereabouts a year in profit “merely as
money-changers.” The last time this
charge was heard it came from an im-
porter who before the war did a big busi-
ness in “Eastern” goods. Away from
the fact that the banks render a far
greater service than that of mere money-
changing—they are one of the principal
facilitating factors in all world trade —
the importer seemed to consider the
£2,000,000 profits without appreciating the
capital employed—on shareholders’ funds,
bank earnings in Australia are about
p.c. p.a. And obviously, as an importer,
he did not weigh up his own economic
importance in the community. As a mere
middleman who arranged for the transfer
of goods from one country to another,
sometimes never even seeing the goods,
his rake-off was far larger than 3£ p.c.
on funds. Importing concerns with
specialty lines in peace-time frequently
make 10 times that rate of profit. The
banks render a much more skilled and
useful service than an importing middle-
man, And there are many other critics of
the banks who stand on equally vulner-
able ground.


THE SERVICE MAN
lwo and Tokyo.
“Ek Dum”: After the first four days
of sharp fighting on Iwo the U.S.
Marines’ campaign became a bitter clean-
ing-up operation.
On February 28 the Marines burst
across the central plateau and captured
Motoyama, a sulphur-producing town
which nestles round the edges of the
Moto crater. Next day it was reported
that advance guards of the U.S. forces
were within a mile of the northern tip
of the little island and were tightening
their grip on the third airfield —they had
captured two and the western end of the
island.
The enemy and his commander, Lieut.-
General Tadamichi Kuribayashi, evi-
dently knew that the end was certain.
They began to fire on warships instead
of conserving their ammunition. Tokyo
Radio trumpeted its noisy claims to the
destruction of considerable U.S. forces,
both land and naval. The idea apparently
was to distract the attention of Japanese
opinion from the salient fact that once
more Allied organisation had shown itself
capable of effecting a landing from the
sea with large forces, and of storming,
with limited landing spots, a fortress to
which the approaches were over open
water with reefs and other obstacles.
Heavy casualties on Iwo were inevit-
able, as every Marine knew. The enemy
positions consisted mainly of dozens of
heavily defended pillboxes, from which
everything from automatic small arms
up to 25mm. autos and 755, as well as
the new German-patterned mortars in
the four-inch class, could throw down a
solid curtain of fire, with heavier guns
in support from the rear.
Naval barrage fire could only mitigate
this storm of projectiles, and had to be
carefully applied in view of the fact that
the defences were packed right up to
the “beaches” —jagged marges of black
volcanic rock so high that amphibious
vehicles as often as not could not nego-
tiate them —and that any effective fire
must sit close in front of a concentration
of Marines as intense as could be ex-
pected in the attack on any fortress. The
Fourth Marine Division landed on a
2000-yard front facing a defence belt of
which the primary zone was half a kilo-
metre deep and consisted, apart from
foxholes, of 87 concrete pillbox posi-
tions, unbreakable except by direct hits
from heavy shells. The fire of this zone
was supported by that of heavier guns
and mortars on the flanks.
It certainly was no wonder the U.S.
losses were heavy, though they certainly
did not run to the 13,000 estimated by
Tokyo. Running true to form Tokyo
also claimed to have knocked out 226
American tanks up to March 1, and to
have sunk two aircraft-carriers, a battle-
ship, a battleship or cruiser, four cruisers,
seven other warships and six large land-
ing vessels.
To March 4, 12,864 Jap dead had been
counted.
Iwo’s Importance
Iwo becomes of immediate importance
both to the sea and air campaigns. Pos-
session of it will make the next stage of
the advance in the Pacific eastern zone
easier since the attack on the Bonin
Islands, the next stage, will have the help
of nearly-based land aircraft.
The heart of the Bonins ( Bu-nin in
Japanese means “Without population”)
lies 250 miles nearer to Tokyo. The
tiny isles cover only about 175 square
miles, all bearing family group names —
Chichi Jima (Father Island), Haha Jima
(Mother Island), Miko Shima (Bride-
groom Island), Yomi (Bride), Ototo
(Younger Brother). But they are more
fertile than the sulphur knobs of the
Kwazans, with some luxuriant growth,
a temperate climate and at least one
sheltered harbor.
The capture of Iwo and its organisa-
tion will give the 829 s bases half-way
nearer to Tokyo than Saipan. The
Bonins are only 500 miles from the
Japanese coast. Thus Superfortresses
operating from there would be nearly as
close to industrial Japan as they would
be based upon the nearest points of the
Chinese mainlahd coast. What this
means could only be told in terms of
bomb-load.
At present each of the Fortresses
operating from Saipan can be carrying
little more bomb-load than the 40001 b.
R.A.F. Mosquitoes take to Berlin. This
salient fact and the knowledge that not
more than 200 Fortresses have taken part
in any raid on the Japanese mainland
produce caution in regarding newspaper
claims that the great industrial centres
assaulted are in ruins. Even the raids by
up to 1500 aircraft from carriers can
scarcely have burnt out and devastated
the centre of Tokyo, as has been sug-
gested. And carrier-borne attacks can
only be sporadic.
Tokyo a Large Target
While much of Tokyo is flimsy and
burns easily—it can also be replaced
easily—the commercial centre round the
Marunouchi area is about as bomb-proof
as any industrial district in the world,
since most of the buildings are erected
to withstand earthquake. Much of the
heart of Tokyo moreover has some of
the same characteristics as Berlin —wide
streets and open spaces. Berlin was still
functioning after 70,000 tons of bombs
had been thrown into it. And it must
be remembered that 829 bombing is
high-level bombing.
Real effects from bombing cannot be
expected until machines are able to deliver
loads comparable with those carried
against the European continent by British
Lancasters, Halifaxes and Stirlings. These
are still the world’s heaviest and most
deadly bomb-load carriers. They could
probably be used to better advantage
than the heavier machines over 500-mile
ranges, over which they can carry nearly
as much as the 829 at considerably less
petrol consumption and with fewer men.
But the problems of night raiding for
which they are designed are greater in
trans-ocean warfare than over land. At
the same time, one of their main routes
back from Berlin and other German
cities is across the width of the North
Sea. On that course they cross water as
wide as that from the Bonins to Japan.
Tokyo was again raided at the week-
end, but visibility was so bad that the
attackers operated at very high level by
instruments and could not judge the
effect of their cargoes. No Japanese
fighters attempted to intercept.
On Palawan.
“Ek Dum”: The landing of U.S. troops
on Palawan Island in the Philippines was
calculated to raise mixed feelings among
Australians with minds above Saturday’s
racing and where to get unrationed
coupons and black-market alcohol.
Palawan is the long sliver of an island
which runs down the western side of the
Sulu Sea. It is about 250 miles long
overall, no wider than about 28 miles at
any point and between Fish Bay and
Honda Bay, halfway down its length,
almost cut in halves by the sea.
Just south-west of Honda Bay, which
eats into the south coast, is Bancaoban-
coan Bay, which is something like a
miniature Manila Bay. This is the hub
from whose capital, Puerta Princesa,
roads run towards both ends of the island.
The island is important because it lies
athwart the main routes to the China
coast from the South. Ships moving to
and from Australia to China and Japan
used to call at Sandakan, British North
Borneo, only 150 miles south-east of the
southernmost tip of Palawan.
The Japanese apparently never have
had any large garrison on the island.
Elements of the U.S. 41st Division went
straight to Puerta Princesa, a sleepy tropic
town of about 10,000 people. The small
Japanese garrison took to the hills:
Only One Australian
There was only one Australian present
at this operation—Lieut. Asher Joell,
R.A.N.V.R., liaison officer attached to
the South-west Pacific Command. And
it is this fact which might excite the in-
terest of Australians.
Palawan is only 100 miles from North
Borneo. And somewhere in North
Borneo there are or were about. 1500
prisoners of the Eighth A.I.F. Division.
These include nurses and some over-age
Diggers of the last war, among them A. M.
Blain, M.P. for the Northern Territory,
who lied gloriously about their ages and
enlisted to fight the Germans and Japa-
nese while young men were intent on
playing politics and the races and the
football.
General MacArthur’s forces have
seized Ticao and Burias, two strategic
approaches to the south-eastern peninsula
of Luzon, which is about the most fer-
tile part of the island.
The communique declared that this
move would result either in the enemy s
evacuation of the peninsula or “his de-
struction without major effort.”
Lubang, between Luzon and Mindoro,
commanding the Verde passage, also has
been seized.
The enemy still occupies some positions
s.-w. of Cavite and the southern shore
of Manila Bay, but is there being en-
veloped and wiped out.
The rest of his forces are ensconced in
the Luzon Mountains where, according
to General Krueger, they can do no
harm. The Japanese have lost at least
64,000 dead in the Manila campaign ac-
cording to U.S. estimates. U.S. casualties
are about 14,000.
There was heavy air activity against
Formosa in the week-end.
Australian Operations.
“Ek Dum”: Australian forces, “com-
mitted to their present role under direc-
tives from five Governments,” according
to Mr. Forde, and with their equipment
“increased tenfold in the past three
years” (this in answer to Senator Mattner,
who has served in this war and in the
last, and who criticised the equipment),
proceed with their piecemeal operations
in Mandated Territory.
They now hold 150 miles of the west
Bougainville coast, have killed about
2000 Japanese since they took over Joio-
kina in November, and on the mainland
continue the weary push into the rear of
the Torricellis.
It must be a heartbreaking business for
a proud, strong force, and it will be a
jubilee day for the lads when the campaign
achieves some focus, its leadership is pro-
claimed and it becomes a cohesive corps
dealing with a centralised body of the
enemy instead of scattered elements.
At the moment the campaign has no
known form, no known field leader or
leaders and no known specified objective.
In a war in which everything worth
while has been achieved by concentration
and the destruction of definite forces by
hard blows, this is a most discouraging
and demoralising position for any troops,
especially when Rabaul (powerful enough
to be worth aerial attack virtually every
day by N.Z. Air Force squadrons, which
often meet with a warm reception),
Kaevieng and other prime objectives still
await assault.
And all “under directives from five
Governments.” Has the Government
which complacently accepts this position
any hand in the “directives” issued in
respect of other campaigns in the Pacific,
in Italy or in the Rhineland?
The R.A.A.F. continued its blasting of
island areas north of New Guinea, but
its operations are almost as detached
from the main body of the war as those
of the land forces.
Perth's Brave End.
A statement made by Navy Minister
Makin on March 3 did not add much
to general knowledge of the fate of
H.M.A.S. Perth on March 1, 1942.
It confirmed the statements of prisoners
that the ship was sunk in the Sunda
Strait in company with the U.S.S. Hous-
ton, during an attempt to make Tjilatjap,
on the southern coast of Java, after the
battle of the Java Sea. From that battle
the two cruisers formed the sole capital
remains out of a force which consisted
of H.M.S. Exeter and Houston (Sin.),
H.M.A.S. Perth (6in.), H.M.N.S. De
Ruyter ansl Java (two 5.9 in.) and nine
British, Dutch and U.S. destroyers which
apparently had sunk an eight-inch Jap
cruiser and a destroyer out of five cruisers
and 13 destroyers. Exeter and Encounter,
damaged in the battle, were lost on the
night of Feb. 28 en rpute for Colombo.
H.M.A.S. Voyager and Armitage were
sunk in Timor operations. Only four
U.S. and one Dutch destroyers survived
the Java Sea battle.
Perth’s captain, H. M. L. Waller,
D. 5.0., ordered the remnants of the
Allied force to withdraw, after the Dutch
admiral in command was lost. He threw
off the enemy by a feint, made Tanjong
Priok on February 28, took on fuel and
ammunition and, in company with Hous-
ton, tried to pass the Strait at night.
The cruisers were waylaid by a
superior enemy force round midnight.
They fought a grand action which saw
three enemy transports and a converted
aircraft-carrier down by the stern next
morning and practically beached. But
Perth was destroyed by an overwhelm-
ing force about 12.30 a.m. on March 1
and Houston sank soon afterwards.
was hit by three torpedoes—two
on the starboard side, and the other in
the forward engipe-room. Captain Waller
was last seen uninjured on the bridge
giving the order “Abandon ship ; every
man for himself.” The fate of this very
brave and cool-headed officer is un-
known, but the survivors of the crew are
in prison camps, and one or two who
were in torpedoed Jap prison ships have
reached Australia.
Mr. Makin said that during the war
Australia had lost 21 naval vessels and
gave the comparative strengths of 1939
and the present time:
Outbreak
of War. Present.
Eight-inch destroyers .. 2 2
Six-inch cruisers .. .. 4 1
Destroyers .. .. 5 8
Sloops 2 2
Corvettes 50
Other vessels .. .. 3 243
The “other vessels” include 70 Fairmile
motor-launches and three infantry land-
ing ships.
Of the eight destroyers, six are on loan
from the Royal Navy.
On Mandalay Perimeter.
“Ek Dum”: The Second British Divi-
sion was in the van of the Kohima fight-
ing far across the Chindwin last year—
Royal Scots, Lancashires, Norfolks, Berk-
shires, Durham Light Infantry, Royal
Welch Fusiliers, Camerons, Worcesters
and Dorsets. Its commander is Major-
General C. G. G. Nicholson, a veteran
of North Africa, who fought the
Kasserine Pass battle and brought
General von Arnim to England.
The division now has the honor of
being in the van of the advances on Man-
dalay, on March 4, 30 miles from the city,
having made the fourth important cross-
ing of the Irrawaddy, on the approaches,
and linked with the hard-pressed 20th
Indian Division, which has staved off
many counter-attacks.
The Second Division is the centre of
three drives on Mandalay, with the 20th
Indians on its right, in the west, and the
19th Indians pushing down the east bank
from their original bridgehead, 50 miles
to the north of their objective.
The advance will soon take the spear-
heads to the perimeter of the main de-
fence area and the real battle for central
Burma will begin, giving a full indication
of the strength or weakness of the enemy’s
position.
So far the Japanese have shown no
sign of abandoning the approaches to
Mandalay as they did those of Manila.
Monty Clears the Rhine.
“Ek Dum”: Because the recording eye
is always best attracted by something in
swift movement, the Battle of the West
Bank of the Rhine is being reported
upside down.
The bulk of the heavy fighting—
nearly all of it—has taken place in the
Canadian sector. But in the U.S. Ninth
Army sector there has been life and
movement, engendered by the fact that
the Germans have not resisted there to
any great extent, save to fight occasional
delaying actions while demolitions were
carried out, retreats effected and river
crossings made.
The battle which is being fought by
the Twenty-first Army Group has a true
Montgomery flavor. One has only to
liken the western bank of the Rhine to
a seashore to note the resemblance in
method to Alamein, where the first move
was made by the Ninth A.I.F. Division
and its neighbors, and the German flank
was mauled to bits and made to absorb
strength from other parts of the line so
that the main blows might be struck
further south against a weakened front.
There was also a strong family likeness
to the Mareth and Tunisian battles. But
the resemblance was closer in detail to
Caen, where British and Canadians
sucked up the German strength like a
mustard poultice to the point where it
was obvious that there would presently
be such a break in the German defences
that would lead to the cutting off of very
large armies and the disorganisation of
their communications.
In all Montgomery’s battles suction to
one flank so weakens the other flank that
the Allied troops upon it break through
with comparative ease while the main
Montgomery force holds the main enemy
forces by the throat.
The Montgomery Touch
The process by which the present
happy series of events has been brought
about has been somewhat as follows;
Field-Marshal Montgomery attacked the
Germans on their right flank west of the
Rhine at the point where it would take
least penetration to reach the river, where
the German power of manoeuvre was
most circumscribed and where success
would find him sitting heavily on the
enemy’s northern flank, with the Roer
and Erft defences outflanked.
Against an attack of this sort the
enemy depended on heavily-mined roads,
flooded flats, intensive forest defences m
the Reichswald and the Hochwald, whicn
he defended to the last, and powerful
mobile mortar and gun defence combined
with very strong anti-tank positions.
F.-M. Montgomery’s answer to this
was amphibious heavily-gunned trans-
port to with flooded areas, fast
powerful mobile guns, a vast concentra-
tion of artillery and strong air support
from rocket aircraft and heayily- a rmed
troop and transport strafers. The wor
. of these was combined with tactical sup-
port from the heavy bombers and^


Divorce Notices.
in the Supreme court of new south
WALES— In Divorce.
TO NITA MARY STOUPPE late of Gertrude Street
Fitzroy.—TAKE NOTICE that PAUL STOUPPE has
filed a Petition, for Divorce No. G7O of 946 on the
ground of your desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 30th day
of April 1945 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from HAROLD MUNRO Petitioner’s
Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K.
pouv Poo-ict-<ir in Di'orce.
li\ inr. tMJPxiuME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM THEODORE TREVOR-MAY late of
23 Womerah Avenue Darlinghurst.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARIE STUART TREVOR-MAY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 196 of 1943 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 11th day of April
1945 and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. R. THOMAS Solicitor 39 Martin
Place Sydney.—(l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO EDWARD ALLEN LEE late of Dubbo.—TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY MAY LEE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2022 of 1944 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse tor three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an Appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the thirtieth day of
April 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from WILSON & CLAPIN Solicitors 14
Martin Place Sydney.—(l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
CD
am
well-synchronised strategical attacks on
rearward, enemy routes.
Even at this the enemy’s resistance was
about as heavy as it was possible to con-
ceive.
The triangle Goch-Cleves-Calcar, be-
tween the Maas and the Rhine, was liter-
ally won yard by yard over a countryside
pounded to rubble by the barrages and
cleaned up by the nut-cracking moving
heavies—tanks armed with everything up
to the 95mm. howitzer, mobile artillery
much heavier, flame-throwers, mortars
galore and fields full of automatic arms ;
finally with bayonet and the tommy-gun.
The Suction Begins
The battle, however, gradually drew
enemy troops from further south, for
German reserves had to be committed
to hold the flood once the Rhine bank
had been reached. . It was not, however,
practicable to commit the troops from
the east side of the Rhine.
The fighting was on such a scale that
the capacity of the cross-river communi-
cation routes was stretched to the limit
to provide the necessary supplies for
existing defending forces.
It was not safe to continue to allow
the British and Canadians of General
Crerar’s army to continue their drive
southward, since that would have cut
down along the rear of the Roer defence
lines and assailed the Erft defences on the
flank, at the same time getting control,
too quickly for comfort and safety, of
the great crossing places of the Rhine
at Xanten, Wesel, Duisburg, Diisseldorf,
Cologne and other points.
So the Germans had to fight back with
all their strength. And when they
weakened their forces along the Roer
F.-M. Montgomery threw in his southern
force, the U.S. Ninth Army, which, once
it crossed the Roer, found the going com-
paratively easy beside that of the
Canadians and British further north.
General Bradley’s First Army, belong-
ing to the Twelfth Army Group, was
slammed across the Roer and the Erft,
south of the Ninth Army’s flank, in an
attempt to prevent reinforcement of the
Germans from the south-west of the
Rhine by the Coblenz routes or escape
of those to the north of Cologne by the
same routes. The First Army found itself
checked at the line of hills which blocks
off the Erft Valley from the plain along
the Rhine, on which Cologne itself
stands. That veteran among bombed
cities—it was the first to be hit by a
1000-bomber raid in June, 1942, and it
has been taking heavy medicine ever
since—lay below, a heap of ruins. The
First Army was not able to force a way
into it, though by March 4 it had closed
the great Hohenzollern rail-road bridge,
and was within a mile or two of the
outer western suburbs and marshalling
yards.
The Ninth Army was now moving
northward towards the Crerar force and
north-east to the Rhine with increasing
momentum, swallowing up towns and vil-
lages at a great rate and spitting out
streams of miserable prisoners, mostly of
poor quality, behind. Venlo, Rheydt (the
birthplace of Goebbels), Miinchen-Glad-
bach, Krefeld, all largely reduced to
rubble piles through Allied bombing,
were in their hands within a few days.
Nearly all had lost their populations
save for a few thousands ; and all were
nearly undefended. The defence was re-
served for particular points which plugged
access to the German crossing places on
the Rhine.
“Retreat! Retreat!”
An order of Von Rundstedt’s which
stressed the need to defend the Ruhr—
which, of course, is directly east of the
Rhine —so that the Reich might not be
robbed of its lifeblood of huge coal and
arms production, showed exactly what
was happening.
The Germans were withdrawing behind
the Rhine while the going was good. Ail
sorts of dilemmas and difficulties con-
fronted them as they gazed at Mont-
gomery’s whirlpool centre on the north
and reflected on the unused weapons, to
his hand.
Behind those Canadians and Scottish,
advancing so firmly with an enormous
weight of. tanks and guns against one of
the most powerful and concentrated de-
fences ever implemented in war, were two
great unused formations —the refreshed
and reorganised and powerfully armored
Second British Army of General Demp-
sey, whose quality the enemy had learnt
at Caen, and at least one whole airborne
army.
That air-borne force might come down
any day behind Wesel or Diisseldorf or
across the main railway into Essen ; or
perhaps again in the Arnhem region,
where it would lay the foundation for
cutting off the invaluable Dutch ports and
the flying-bomb dispatch area.
Weather, as usual, favored the Ger-
mans, so that they did not feel the full
force of the Allied air blow in the battle
line. And though they were battered,
bleeding and robbed of large quantities
of material, and though some of them
were still in the area west of the junction
of the Ninth and First Canadian armies,
they had by the skin of their teeth gained
their minimum objectives—to escape the
closing jaws of Montgomery’s Army
Group; to cross the bridges of the Rhine
and destroy most of them before the
Allies could reach them, and to avoid
combat with British reserves at a point
where they might be cut off from their
own reserves by the destruction of the
Rhine bridges. These bridges the Allies
would not destroy while there was a hope
of taking them intact, as the valuable
Nijmegen bridge was taken earlier, mak-
ing the present operations possible. In
any case, bridges of the Rhine type are
not easy to destroy till artillery concen-
tration against them becomes possible,
since they are ringed with serried ranks
of flak defences of every description,
which make the low diving necessary to
bridge-blasting a chancy business.
Monty’s Next Plan
F.-M, Montgomery’s was one of the
neatest battle plans put into operation.
It was one which will probably live in
the textbooks as a classic in the economi-
cal use of major force against major de-
fence, and also in the choice of alterna-
tives in a congested battle area where
many are offering.
It cleared the enemy at one blow from
a belt of country which might have been
the scene of many weeks of bloody fron-
tal fighting. It took over 50,000 prisoners.
It brought the Allies to a river line from
which they could pump shells into all
Germany’s greatest Rhine ports, Duis-
berg, Diisseldorf, Cologne, and into its
greatest industrial area, of which the
fringes at the week-end were under fire.
It forced a withdrawal further south to
prevent a break in the line where Ger-
man defences left the Rhine on the west
bank to sweep down east of the Luxem-
bourg border to the Moselle and the
Saar, behind the Kyll River, which was
gradually abandoned.
Here there was a general retreat, at
least as far south as the Moselle, but in
manner it was far different from the hell-
for-leather retirement in the area between
the U.S. Ninth and the Canadian First
Army. Trier was given up and the Third
Army spearheads pushed forward up the
Moselle valley towards Coblenz, which
is 60-odd miles away by crowfly. The
whole of the frontal defence from the
Saar northward was abandoned south of
Bonn, of which the Allies on March 4
were within long artillery range. The
second main line was on the point of
being attacked.
It was as U.S. troops entered Trier that
the defence along the road northward up
the Prtim river valley to the Schnee Eifel
mountains began to crumble, and Bit-
burg, a crossroad town 20 miles north
of Trier, fell. But it was noticeable
that along the main route on the water-
shed from Cologne to the St. Vith
Plateau, along which Von Rundstedt came
in December and went in January with-
out meeting disaster, progress was not fast.
Neither was there more than a tighten-
ing of the muscles behind the push of the
Americans further south towards the
Saar defence island and the Lauter, on the
Rhine side.
On the north of the Allied line Mont-
gomery’s armies had closed on the river
almost all the way from just north of
Cologne to Arnhem, though Wesel and
Xanten west bridgeheads were on March
4 still in enemy hands, held by desperate
rearguards covering the last phases of
the retreat.
From south of Cologne the Allies still
needed to push through from ten to 70
miles of mountain, valley, forest and river
to reach the Rhine.
The Gateway to Victory
It was plain where the crucial area lay,
and must continue to lie, for the area
held by the British and Canadians is the
most direct gateway to final victory, even
if, in the south, the Germans retire to
the river. This they are unlikely to do in
view of the value of the Saar region for
its products, and of the Middle Rhine as
a traffic and industrial area.
The salient fact about the results of
the new victory is that it has driven the
Germans finally inside their shell, except
in the south in Italy, where all prepara-
tions seem about to be made either for
desperate adventure or for retreat inside
the Alpine Line. Gunfire woke up all
along the Italian front at the week-end.
It was announced that fighting had flared
up in the Eighth Army’S sector. Various
sources reported that all heavy vehicles
had been commandeered in the German-
held Italian north.
The meeting of Field-Marshal Alexan-
der with Marshal Tolbhukin, of the Red
Army, seemed to suggest that the foot-
hold of Greece or of the Yugoslav coast
would be used for some fresh British or
Allied adventure in the still unconquered
territory of the all-conquering Tito which
would link British and Russian flanks.
Perhaps if there is a German retreat in
Italy, the Eighth and Fifth Armies will be
transferred to Yugoslavia.
A retreat from Italy would find the
Germans curled up inside their ring of
sea and mountains in an area with opposite
points on the Russian and western fronts
in the same latitude —say, Cleves and
Guben on the Neisse —380 miles apart.
From the Baltic to the Southern Alps line
is about 550 miles.
Outside this there are the Pomeranian,
Latvian, East Prussian and other islands
of defence to be held. And the defence of
Norway and Denmark on a heavy scale
is necessary if the German Government
does not wish to wake up one fine morn-
ing to find British naval task forces in
the Baltic and fresh landings threatened
on the wrong side of the Elbe.
The period of German retreat has been
brought to an end. The period in which
the capacity of the Germans to defend
themselves will be decisively tested has
arrived, but the test may take a good
deal more than the few weeks which opti-
mists write down as the inevitable remain-
ing period of the war.
Germany may be finished, but its
operations against the Canadians and the
U.S. First, Third and Ninth Armies in the
past few weeks and against Zhukov
on the Oder, Koniev on the Neisse and
the Russian Baltic armies have not been
those of the routed and disorganised.
The retreats have been skilfully con-
ducted, and it is stupid to treat them lightly.
They still show all the characteristics of a
desperate and formidable enemy.
The Russians Regrouping.
“Ek Dum”: News from the Russian
front has been more concerned with the
future than with the present. The one
substantia) movement has been that of
Marshal Rokossovsky in Pomerania,
to the Baltic coast.
Though the country is relatively open,
this expedition has been represented as.
having taken the Germans by surprise.
It rather seems that surprise would have
been impossible beyond a certain point,
since the advance had to cross several
main east-west traffic roads. If there had
been any Germans on these roads they
certainly would have discovered the Rus-
sian spearheads and their direction of
attack very early in the drive.
The only condition consistent with sur-
prise would have been the desertion of
the countryside by the enemy. He had
not deserted it, at least along the coast in
the Kolberg region, where he fought
Stiffly on a 35-mile front until Kolberg
was stormed and the coast reached by two
spearheads there and at Koslin.
The movements of Marshal Rokossov-
sky’s group have brought it into linkage
with Marshal Zhukov’s group, whose
northern flank is below the lakes south-
east of Stettin and 40 miles to the west
of Stettin itself.
The Germans still appear to have
command of the Baltic ports of moment,
but Moscow correspondents were confi-
dent at the week-end that the Russians
had trapped a further 200,000 to 300,000
troops in the Danzig area. Already over
200.000 are supposed to be trapped in East
Prussia in a space which seems to be
about 30 miles long by 20 miles deep.
And whatever remains of 30 divisions in
the Latvian peninsula have been trapped
since October.
There are supposed to be another
100.000 or so in the garrison of Breslau,
and about 50,000 in various pockets in
the east, and 60,000 in the French
ports. All in all, on Moscow-corre-
spondent calculations, the enemy seems
to have 1,000,000 troops in traps in
the east alone. But though this
would be expected to settle any army,
especially when it comes on top of
the destruction of, or wounding of,
20,000,000 men on the Eastern Front
alone—nearly a third of the enemy’s
total population from the cradle to the
old people’s home —the enemy continues
not only to fight on but to fight with new
and fresh divisions.
The Russians on the Silesian front were
reported once more to be building up
supplies and regrouping for the final drive
on Berlin. Marshal Zhukov, it was said,
had served out to his officers maps of that
unfortunate city. The maps are unlikely
to be much use to them, much of central
Berlin having been shifted by contractors
to the British and American Governments
with the help of some thousands of tons
of high explosives. By road at their
nearest point in their bridgehead below
Kustrin the Russians are a little over 50
miles from Berlin, and a bit less by air-
line.
Along the Bober the Russians claimed
fresh crossings. But everywhere on this
front there were stubborn counter-attacks,
which showed that there was still power
in the thrusts of German armor.
Despite devastating air support given
to the Russians by the western Allies,
who continwe to bomb supply routes and
cities incessantly and to strafe road
columns, the enemy has brought up
strong formations, and the situation is
gradually developing which will bring
the main combat teams to grips and de-
cide the fate of the Eastern Front. This
may take some time, but it will see all
available first-class troops on both sides
committed. The results should be deci-
sive if the skilful strokes of Marshal
Montgomery on the west have not already
decided matters.
The matter would be more quickly
settled if blows on east and west could
be synchronised. It is a singular fact
that all through the war Russian blows
have followed those of other Allies. The
story of the war would have been dif-
ferent if the Russians had attacked the
Vistula Line in October instead of
January. If Marshals Zhukov and
Koniev open another main offensive with-
in the next few days and the Italian front
flares up at the same time, it will put an
almost unbearable strain on the Wehr-
macht, unless it is much stronger than
correspondents both on the Moscow and
western fronts believe.
The fight for Breslau swept over more
suburbs, but only the industrial fringes
of the city were being fought for. The
fate of Breslau promises to be that of
Budapest. While it holds out it blocks
an important Russian communication
network from the Bober-Neisse front.
The Danubian fronts were quiet save
for local fighting, which was fierce in
spots. The Russians reported the fall of
several more'Czechoslovak towns. Ger-
man resistance remained strong enough
to falsify the assertion that the fall of
Buda had cleared the way for an advance
on Vienna. The Russians in some cru-
cial sectors of the front facing the Aus-
trian gaps are further back than they
were in mid-December.
The thaw is beginning to clear up
slowly on the Eastern Front, but it takes
longer than on the west, and the Russians
will have to carry on their communica-
tions a little longer across flooding rivers
and bogs. The weather, in fact, cannot
be relied upon until May.
In the meantime advantages of
terrain are with the enemy. The
operations of the R.A.F. and U.S.A.F.
in dropping about 45,000 tons of
bombs each on German targets in
February seem to be causing more
concern in the Reich than any other
attack. There is an obvious fear that
public morale will crack under the strain
of listening for the blast which, when it
comes, sweeps whole acres of buildings
and the helpless humans in them into
nothingness. _____


X
i
a
x
*
\
\
m
\
Agents; M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY.
W.S. 169.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
illll'ai M l
I. !|W «n
"itfii in
Hill
|M'
Modern accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates—
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless.
“ METROPOLE Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
85363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
The winning of the Oakleigh Plate by a
maiden performer (Ava) at Caulfield a few
weeks back was all-but doubled at Flemington
on Saturday in the Newmarket. Fifty yards
from the post the leader was Wonder Bird,
whose previous best had been a recent second
in maiden company. Wonder Bird went out at
100 to I, and had it come off the double
event would have been further highlighted by
the fact that, like Ava, though not so much
so, he carried overweight.
As it was, the Newmarket brought little cheer
to the great majority of backers. With the last
50 yards to go, Three Wheeler (33 to 1) ranged
up to Wonder Bird and went on to beat that
gelding by half a length. Also finishing bril-
liantly, Simmering (2u to 1) —like the winner,
from the Lou Robertson stable —was a further
neck away third. It was a splendid finish, at
least a dozen of the 27 starters being possible
winners over the last bit. A Manitoba-Tricycle
four-year-old (the second horse is by the same
sire), Three Wheeler had not hitherto been
noted as a sprinter, and only recently was
threatened with banning for bad barrier be-
havior. Her best previous wins were The Oaks
and the Wakeful Stakes as a three-year-old.
The Sydney horses Tribal and Versailles failed
badly, which may possibly throw light on com-
parative form. Backed down to 4-to-l favorit-
ism Tribal never raised a gallop and finished a
long way back, after getting away well from his
good barrier position. He has been costly so
far on Melbourne tracks. There was some
excuse for Versailles. Having his first Mel-
bourne run, he drew near the outside fence, and
his rider, the Adelaide jockey H. Bastian, staled
afterwards that he “ran about a lot.” How-
ever, the winner also drew wide out (19), but
was close to the other rail at the finish. Though
Unfurl, in the middle of the track, appeared to
go very fast early and in the first few furlongs
had a lead of up to four or five lengths, the
time was not remarkable —1.12|.
Because La Patrice did not win the New-
market (she finished seventh in the spread of
horses passing the judge), New Yorker, in the
same ownership, was scratched from the Aus-
tralian Cup, for which he had been ruling favo-
rite for weeks past. His owner had “warned
backers well in advance that the Cup start was
conditional upon La Patrice winning. New
Yorker would have been an even shorter Cup
favorite after he had comfortably outstayed
Bootle fo win the St. Leger from that horse,
with Provoke a distant third. The Actor-Bon
Cretien colt never gave his 5-to-4-on backers a
moment’s worry, winning so well that an even
richer cup may be ahead of him. He was
bought by his present owner for 550 guineas
as a yearling.
Bettering the sound performance that had
taken him into places at his three previous
starts. Tea Cake (yet another Manitoba) downed
St. Fairy and the 10-to-9-on favorite, Tranquil
Star, at w.f.a. in the Essendon Stakes. The
champion stake-winning mare was in front at
the turn, but was passed in the run home by
the second and then by the first horse. Pre-
cept, one of the three other starters, came in
very lame. Saddled up again in the last event,
the Brunswick Stakes, St. Fairy dead-heated
for first with Byron, the still consistent Drum
Net faking third money.
Lincoln (Manitoba-Lipstick) went out an even-
money favorite for the Sires Produce Stakes,
but was beaten in a neck-and-neck finish by
the Caithness colt Nestor (first) and the Gay
Lothario coif Don Pedro. The other event for
two-year-olds, the March Nursery, was won
by the 7-fo-4 favorite River Hero, by Hellespont
from that great mare Rivette, winner of the
Caulfield and Melbourne Cup double in 1939.
Bred by Rivette’s owner-breeder, H. Bamber,
River Hero was not over-priced at the 1200
guineas he cost his trainer, E. J. Willmott, as
a yearling. Smartly away. River Hero was
headed at one stage by Cheviot, but was a good
length and a half clear of Greensborough at the
end, with Ironheart about the same distance
third.
* * * *
At the Sydney Turf Club’s Canterbury meet-
ing last Saturday a crowd estimated at 25,000
put the course record sum of £65,296 through
the tote; and, at that, the tote couldn’t cope
with hundreds of customers on each of the seven
races.
Another Canterbury record —Mohican’s and
Tel Asur’s 1.28 lor the 7\ furlongs—was
equalled by Hall Stand in the Flying Handicap.
It was yet another sprint and betting plunge
success for the Queensland combination of
trainer H. T. Plant and jockey A. B. Sinclair.
Hall Stand, certainly a credit to his trainer,
dominated the field in the mounting enclosure.
At five years old, a big, powerful red chestnut,
he could not have looked fitter. A heavily-
backed favorite, he carried top weight (9.6) and
won by two lengths from Britannic and the pace-
maker Martheus.
With Hall Stand, Hedui and Repshot, Plant
has now turned out the winners of a whole
“On my right, Mrs. McCillicuddy, fourteen-seven ”
string of main suburban sprints in the past few
months, all with heavy backing, and Sinclair
has been on most of them. It has been noted
here that Sinclair evidently is a past-master of
sprint riding, while failing repeatedly over
longer distances. Yet in his own State he was
a noted distance rider. Anyway, he’s a most
capable horseman. The Plant outfit, a hideous
nightmare to McShortodds, has only flopped
about once—when Cooringvvang beat Fine Art
at Randwick.
The club named its main event the Soudan
Handicap in honor of the old contingent’s
jubilee. The event was won by Flying Cloud,
owned by club treasurer G. E. Ryder. Flying
Cloud, a probable and needed addition to the
serried ranxs of Sydney stayers, beat Beau
Monde comfortably, with Neta Linette third, and
Boomanuila a close fourth. Beau Monde is last
improving. Neta Linette ran a fair race. On
the small side, she’s likely to down a better
field under a lighter weight. The win started
a treble for joexey A. Mulley: he ended the
day «by winning both divisions of the Welter,
respectively on Sir Francis and Western
Monarch.
Having his first run in a race, the Nuffield-
Kalyanm colt Field Captain —a striking replica
of his sire- -had a fine win in the
Handicap, from Impudence and Lisp. The
poor time (1.15) said little for Impudence, who
was placed to win all the way, but simply
couldn’t do it. On the other hand, Field Cap-
tain was far back and hemmed in nearing the
turn. Queensland rider G. Moore, who was
on the winner, suffered a broken leg and other
injuries when half the field galloped over him
after he’d fallen from Ducal Gem in the last
race. A Randwick winner at his previous start.
Dance Time, a Closing Time fhree-year-old
gelding, won the Trial in most promising style.
The three-year-old crop has latterly been doing
exceptionally well. Another of that age, the
Le Grand Due filly Czarina, added to their
good score in the Maiden Handicap.
* * *
For Randwick on Saturday (before accept-
ances); —Diggers’ Encourage: Portosanto,
Mentone, Silver Clare. Services Handicap;
Anne-Tien-Et, D-Day, Chaytor. Ihree-year-
old: Accession, Prince Verity, Beau Monde.
Quality: Flight, Vermeil, Cold Shower. Com-
forts Fund Cup: Craigie, Russia, Castle Fron-
tenac.
* Mt * *
Racing in Sydney just now has its quaint
moments, not to say horse laughs. Lately one
of the crop of war-boom owners scratched one
of his string from a field of 11 on the ground
that the field was too big! Then, leaning on
the Wailing Wall with the Scribes gathered
attentively around, he unburdened his soul of
a load of sorrow, to the effect that he couldn’t
understand why his horses were always being
interfered with in races, and he wanted to start
one of them in a small field to see what hap-
pened to it. Failing the provision of a special
Walkover Handicap, it occurs fo this Philistine
that anyone who can’t see what happens to his
own horse in a field of 11 should change his
glasses. Also, it is the business of the stewards
to watch for and check interference, and they
certainly have been doing so to some tune in
recent months. They might have called for an
explanation of the implied reflection on them
if they were not very patient men (and, it
should be added of the present ones, competent,
too). The complaining owner trains his own.
Wonders can sometimes be worked by a change
of trainers.
Another oddity of current Sydney racing also
has to do with scratchings. Horses are now
scratched on the course because they have
been backed off the map the day before by
parties in the know. The backing, as reported
freely in the press, is done in what it is the
fashion to call the “black market.” Nothing
apparently is done to check this “black market”
betting, though it is as patently illegal as its
transactions are evidently well known. Press
reports even give the “black market” betting
conditions. Some of the bookmakers have the
Christian conscience to guarantee a start'; with
others you get half your stake money back in
the event of a scratching; and with others it’s
“all-in” —that is, with a scratching the stake
is lost. In the latter case the temptation to a
little collusion is obvious. No doubt all the
reported scratchings on this particular ground
have been by owners who, naturally, are not
going to run their horses for the benefit of
illegal bettors who have got in the day be-
fore and spoiled the course market; but a
“black mamet” bookmaker holding a large
sum on a particular horse on the all-in or
even the half-back principle could well afford
fo make a scratching worth while.
* * * *
“P.McM.”; War-time shortage of
cricket balls has been a drawback to
modern medium-to-fast bowlers who rely
mainly on the sheen of the new ball for
flight and swerve. Which reminds me that
the flighty-off-break type of bowler seems
to be dying out. In all grades of cricket
this season I have seen old balls with
raised seams that would have made
Blackie’s or Oxenham’s eyes gleam with
anticipation. These bowlers could float
the ball disconcertingly in any atmo-
sphere and make it “tizz” off the pitch.
After the opening overs most of the
present-day trundlers are innocuous as far
as flighty bowling is concerned.
* * * *
“M.”; Australian Test men will have
no trouble recalling James Cannon, whom
Warner called the “King of Lords.”
Cannon retired a while back after 65
years’ continuous service with the M.C.C.
He started when he was 12 as a ball boy
for the tennis courts, and eventually
became chief clerk. He was for many
years the first man to whom a greet-
ing was extended at the beginning of
each season at Lords. Australians will
remember him and his buttonhole, and
perhaps also the fact that the one thing
he couldn’t stand was crockery on the
table in the “long room.”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: The great cricketing tfame
V. Trumper appeared on the board in a
recent Manly-Balmain grade match.
Young Victor emulated some of his
father’s scoring speed with 38 in 14
minutes —but the style was missing. It’s
not inconsistent that young Vic (there’s
a third Vic in line of succession now)
should be a speed merchant. Victor of
immortal batting fame for a few overs
could work up express pace,
* * * *
“Golesneek”: It looks as if Victorian
Premier Dunstan is about to encounter a
lot of deputations, interviews, suggestions
and demands from football nabobs repre-
senting V.F.L., Association and Vic-
torian Amateurs, all because Melbourne
“Sporting Globe,” a Murdoch sheet,
thinks that Victorian football smells, and
its only hope is for the Premier to bring
about “unity” or “one control.” So far,
Albert hasn’t uttered his war-time slogan
—“ln times like these, when unity is so
essential, it is deplorable that such a con-
tentious matter should be brought for-
ward” —but if he’s as wise a politician
as he’s believed to be he’ll steer clear
of newspaper writers who think they per-
ceive problems and then show how they
can be solved. “Single control” would
mean building up big city teams at the
expense of country leagues, and for that
reason alone it ought to be fought to the
last ditch.
* * * *
Luck and pluck are boxing essentials,
and had not Sid Knight shown plenty of
both when defending his N.S.W. feather-
weight title against Jack Hiles at Leich-
hardt he would have been licked. Hiles
was much the superior boxer, but, new
to three-minute rounds, he was dead tired
in the tenth. Working the lad into posi-
tion in that round, Knight shot a one-
two to the chin and Hiles dropped for
the count.
On an “off” night at Sydney Stadium
Alf Gallagher stopped Bob Turner in
the tenth round, and George Cook was
adjudged to have lost to Owen Moase
on points, though he mauled that pug
severely. Gallagher and Turner are
heavies; the others are middles. Turner
and Cook are not in the same class as
the departed worthies their namesakes.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The last function the Gloucester
attended in Melbourne was the reception
given by Mayor Nettlefold and the
mayoress, Mrs. Beatrice Campbell. It
was a purely civic reception, the
guests being mostly suburban mayors
and councillors and their wives.
Though it was a Monday morning
crowds lined the streets. At the
Town Hall Mrs. Campbell presented the
Duchess with a glorious bouquet of roses,
chosen by the National Rose Society. In
the main hall the guests stood at attention
as a fanfare of trumpets heralded the
arrival of the Royal pair. For this occa-
sion the Curator of Melbourne’s Parks
and Gardens had excelled himself. A
large drop-curtain, upon which was
painted a scene from the Fitzroy Gardens,
completely veiled the organ. On a mossy
slope masses of rose-pink petunias,
begonias and phlox in all tones of pink
were set in beautiful profusion, with here
and there tall groupings of pink and white
gladioli. In the centre of this beauty a
waterfall cascaded into a pool around
which were grouped more of the glowing
flowers. Graceful saplings and tree-ferns
and a tiny rustic bridge added to the
beauty and naturalness of the scene.
Groupings of Allied flags were hung be-
neath the murals and around the galleries.
In front of this floral setting the Royal
party stood on a dais, and for over three-
quarters of an hour the guests filed past
in excellent order to receive a bow from
the Duke and a shy smile from the little
Duchess.
That same afternoon the Duke and
Duchess went to Point Cook on a tour
of inspection, the Duchess wearing her
uniform as Honorary -Air Chief Com-
mandant of the English W.A.A.F. She
has now accepted a similar rank with
the Australian W.A.A.A.F. The Duchess
spoke to many of the girls, and showed a
keen interest in their work, impressing
the girls with her knowledge of the tech-
nical points of the duties they were per-
forming.
Though the Duke and Duchess of
Gloucester have left Melbourne for Can-
berra, they are still the main topic of
Melbourne’s conversation. stories
are being told of happenings during the
visit. On the way home from Flinders
Naval Depot those travelling ahead in the
police car noticed that the Royal car had
stopped. The police car turned and went
back to find that the keen eyes of the
Duke had noticed some fellow-passengers
off the liner that brought him to Aus-
tralia. He ordered the car to stop, jumped
out into the road and was busily engaged
talking when the police arrived on the
scene. When the Duke and Duchess went
to choose aq Australian terrier pup they
gave another dog-lover a lift home to
continue a conversation on puppy-
management.
From Adelaide: The new Government
House family seems likely to be a happy
one, and popular. -General Norrie and
his young second wife, with infant, are
already mixing in everything political,
religious, charitable or sporting; a racing
trainer has been appointed to be in readi-
ness. The Governor’s 1 daughter Rose-
mary, lately from school, has a cousin
Eleanor of the same age as companion;
and they are on the regular roster for
washing dishes at the Cheer-up Hut. The
aides, Michael Farebrother (Eton and
Oxford) and John Richardson (Harrow
and Cambridge), are both young, though
old enough to have been captains and
wounded in the war: both are keen
cricketers, and are practising at the Oval
with the idea of getting into one of the
district elevens.
It was not revealed to the public until
the third day of the Royal visit that Lady
Elizabeth Scott, niece of the Duchess, was
in Melbourne. She had been here over
three weeks before her presence was an-
nounced. Lady Elizabeth, daughter of
the Duke and Duchess of Buccleuch, is
a very pretty girl. She holds rank as
third officer in the Wrens, and has been
too busy to accept invitations to the
receptions given for her uncle and aunt.
But she did have time to slip across to
Government House for a quiet cup of
afternoon tea with them before they left
for Canberra.
St. Christopher’s College, Finch-street,
Malvern, was dedicated recently by
Archbishop Booth. This college, “the
only one of its kind in the Southern
Hemisphere, trains women as specialists
in religious education and youth leader-
ship. It is named after St. Christopher’s
in London. The principal is Miss Con-
stance Tisdall, M.A., who lectures on
Old and New Testament, psychology and
English. The college is a large, pleasant
two-storey building with bright airy
rooms. At present there is accommoda-
tion for 14 students. Their rooms, up-
stairs, include library, sitting-rooms and
a sun balcony. The library has been fitted
as a study, with desks and blackboards.
One large room has been converted into
a chapel. Out in the large garden there
are four roomy bungalows, and these,
when ready, will take more students. The
resident students, who come from every
State in the Commonwealth save N. S.
Wales, will remain at college until gradua-
tion, the course taking two years. A
special advanced course of theology for
graduates is provided.
The publicity committee of the
Y.W.C.A, staged a buffet luncheon to
welcome the new Melbourne president,
Mrs. Essington Lewis, and incoming
members of the various departments.
Mrs. Hector Greig, chairman of Publi-
city, was absent through indisposition.
Reta Findlay, a vision in blue and cycla-
men, filled her place and received the
guests. The food was cooked on the
Y.W.C.A. premises at Russell-street, and
was a fair sample of what business girls
eat when they lunch at this most useful
institution. Miss Lillian McKay is acting-
general secretary pending the arrival from
U.S. of the newly-appointed Miss Helen
Bocker. Dr. Violet Eddy finds time to
give her aid to the running of the
Y.W.C.A., and another busy woman with
q daughter of 12, already a well-known
horsewoman, Mrs. N. Leon, is a
member of the publicity committee. By
the way, it is rumored that the Duchess
of Gloucester has accepted the office,
until recently filled by Lady Gowrie, of
general president of Y.W.C.A.
The U.S. Library and Information
Bureau in this city has been a success
from its inception. Well stocked with
reference books on many subjects and
staffed with well-trained assistants, mostly
Australians, the attractive library is kept
well filled. When it was decided in
Washington to establish these bureaux in
the various great cities of the Empire
Mrs. Hazel Brown (pictured here) was
detailed to come to Australia. Experi-
ence as an assistant-director of the U.S.
Information Service in Washington had
equipped her for the job. With Mrs.
Brown came Miss Harriet Root, a direc-
tor of the same service in Washington.
Mrs. Brown went first to Sydney, where
she remained for three months, and was
then transferred to Melbourne. Now after
fifteen months’ Australian service she
has left Melbourne to return to her
home and husband in Washington.
Mrs. Brown intends some day to write
a book about this country. Not on its
scenic beauties or political life, but on
the quite ordinary people who visited the
library in search of knowledge. She was
confronted with many problems. For
instance one day a man came into the
bureau and said he was about to write a
book with an American background. He
wanted the bureau to help him to a back-
ground. Patiently he was told of the size
and the many States and cities of
America and how life varied in the towns
and the country. Did he want to write
about the city, the country, the timber-
lands, the oilfields, the coal-mining dis-
tricts, the east, the west or the middle
west? In the end the prospective author
decided to write about city life in
New York and went away happy with a
map of New York, a list of smart cafds
and the latest arrived issue of the “New
Yorker.” America had a useful ambas-
sador in Mrs. Brown ; she adapted herself
easily to Australian manners and customs
and her courtesy and good humor were
unfailing. Back in America she will prob-
ably return to her old job with the U.S. L.
and 1.8. in Washington, until the war ends.
From Sydney
The looked-forward-to visit of the
Duke and Duchess of Gloucester to Syd-
ney is just upon us. Tomorrow they
are due to arrive at Admiralty House, and
for five days they will pay a round of
inspections and visits. Social Sydney is
looking out long dresses and white gloves
in case an invitation to a reception in
honor of the Governor-General and his
Duchess should find its way into the
family letter-box. Star event of the visit
will be the reception given by the Gov-
ernor and Lady Wakehurst. This will be
at Government House on Friday night.
Guests are bidden for nine o’clock. Two
memorable events will be the Town Hall
reception and the Investiture the follow-
ing Monday.
The men who left Sydney on March 3,
1885, to fight for England in the Sudan
brought their bugle back with them. It
blew out its sad and solemn notes at the
Cenotaph 60 years afterwards, when the
brave and upright survivors of this land’s
first overseas force gathered in Martin-
place to lay a wreath on the Cenotaph.
They were received that day by Lord
Wakehurst at Government House, and
on Monday the old comrades-in-arms
(there are 42 survivors, it is believed) were
the guests of the N.S.W. Government
at Parliament House., Here pictured is'
the leader of the grand old group, Colonel
A. J. Bennett, C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D., with
12 British decorations and with scars of
wounds in South Africa and Gallipoli.
Fort-street claims Colonel Bennett as
almost its oldest son, and the N.S.W.
Education Department and Norfolk
Island (where he was Administrator and
Chief Magistrate for three years) have
had the benefit of his fine talents and
character. Though in his 81st year, he
is still physically active and full of in-
terest in affairs, particularly, of course,
the war; and with his fund of remini-
scences of many campaigns he is excel-
lent company.
Most popular at the moment in the
scheme of decorations are lions and
crowns. A very heraldic king of beasts
defies the world from the royal-blue cover
of the Loan Exhibition of paintings now
on show in David Jones’s gallery. This
was opened by Rear-Admiral G. D.
Moore last Thursday afternoon to the
applause of crowds of servicemen and
-women and British Centre workers. The
silver coins charged for admission go
towards making the B.C. a real home
away from home for overseas service-
men.
If the onlooker is one who approaches
art with the idea that all things are not
what they seem, then this collection will
be disappointing. Here on the walls are
59 paintings of trees in blossom of
clouds, fleecy and white, blown across
blue skies. Here are curving beach and
fluent shining waves. Here is the mel-
low richness of Brangwyn’s “Furling the
Sails.” After the lapse of years George
Lambert’s work, as in the lyric beauty
of “Half Moon Bay,” is still something
for Australia to be proud of. J. R. Mc-
Gregor, Charles Lloyd Jones, Mrs. F.
Nesbitt and B. J. Waterhouse are among
the public-spirited who have lent their
treasure. Works by Gruner, Syd Long,
Conder, John Banks, Streeton shine out
in company with those by very distin-
guished English and Continental artists.
Dobell’s portrait of Lord Wakehurst over-
looks the room from its position over the
dais.
Two Melbournites whom Sydney took
to its heart last week were the Alan Carey
Taylor couple. Mrs. Taylor is slim, dark
and French —that is, if the natives of
Brittany are French and not really Celts
in a French setting. Like her tall hus-
band, Mrs. Taylor lectures in French at
the University of Melbourne, and also
is associated with him in his short-wave
broadcasts. Dr. Taylor was a student at
Sydney University before going to Paris.
It was at the Sorbonne he and his wife
met. Their special enthusiasm is the pub-
lication of a French digest called the
“Spirit of France,” of which Dr. Taylor
is the editor. Its articles relate to the
France of art, of letters, of music, and
will be of help as well as interest to the
French student. They are written in Eng-
lish, and are from Australian as well as
French writers. The magazine is spon-
sored by the French Office of Information
in Sydney. The cover design of the first
number shows a mail-clad Joan of Arc
mounted on a spirited charger.
A vivacious doll dressed in many-
colored ribbons will be a striking exhibit
in the toy collection at the Victoria
League Young Contingent’s fair next
month. This dolly came out of Italy in
the early invasion days, sent by a soldier
father (since killed on active service) to
his small daughter in Australia. The chil-
dren of Britain’s High Commissioner
Ronald Cross are sending some of their
toys to the exhibition, and Trixie McGirr
is adding her set of doll nationals—a man
and a woman from each country sister
Mrs. Molyneux visited during her tour of
Europe. Of course, these toys are only
on loan, and will be definitely marked,
just as paintings are in such collections,
N.F.S.
A wedding of interest to every young
Australian was that of Edward G.
McCartney and Heather Gibson.
’Groom’s father, A. E. McCartney, is
managing director of Peter’s Ice Cream
Co. St. Philip’s, on Church Hill, was
decked with early autumn blooms to
welcome the bride, whose flowing white
satin frock was misted over with a tulle
veil. Her bridesmaid was graceful in
lobelia blue frock and a pink rose in her
hair. Her posy also was in pink tones.
Lieut. Colin McCartney, the ’groom’s
brother, was best man. Heather is the
only daughter of the W. T. S, Gibsons.
Mrs. Gibson hostessed at the following
reception wearing frock and hat of del-
phinium blue. ’Groom’s mother bright-
ened her black ensemble with a toque of
Parma violet feathers. Taree will be the
E. G. McCartneys’ address.
Once or twice on street-collection days
button-sellers have been noted asking
sailors to buy a badge. Servicemen,
the lads of the A.I.F. included,
aren’t paid very lavishly, and to expect
them to hand out shillings even in
patriotic causes may easily strain their
resources. These lads are generous (aren’t
they offering their lives?) and only too
willing to spend. If they come to a
seller and ask to buy a badge, well and
good, but collectors should be reminded
not to invite servicemen to contribute.
Senator H. S. Foil squired daughter
Margery to the altar of St. Philip’s on
Church Hill, one night last week. Mar-
gory, a corporal in the W.A.A.A.F., for-
sook her uniform for the occasion and
shimmered in satin and tulle. Lieut.
C. K. Crichton, A.1.F., was the bride-
groom, and he had Major Jim Calder for
best man and Lieut. Jeffrey Stephenson
for groomsman. Sisters Mrs. J. R.
Richardson and Jean Foil attended the
bride. Senator and Mrs. Foil later enter-
tained at the Pickwick Club.
The public is being invited to choose
its own programme for a concert at the
Sydney Town Hall, on Tuesday, April
10. Selections of an overture, a concerto
and a symphony should be forwarded to
the A.B.C. concert manager, 96 Market-
street, Sydney, by Saturday, March 17.
This concert is being arranged by the
A.B.C. Staff War Funds committee to
help the Red Cross Rehabilitation Farm
at Menangle, where returned p.o.w. and
other servicemen who are not well
enough to return immediately to civil life
can recuperate under medical supervision.
The Royal Hospital for Women in
Paddington is prepared to welcome even
more little Australians this year than it
did last. The total then wasn’t so bad—
-3000. The hospital aims to add 2000 to
this number next year. The good work
will be helped by the two new blocks
opened last week by Lady Wakehurst.
One of these is named Macquarie House
and will be furnished with 44 beds. Its
neighbor, Herford House, named after
the president, will supply accommodation
for nurses. Lord Wakehurst laid the
foundation-stone of the extension in 1941,
and now, before this popular vice-regal
couple all-too-soon leave Australia, Lady
Wakehurst has made the opening speech.
The Cymmrodorion (Welsh to the Sas-
senach) Society had great doings to cele-
brate St. David’s Day. For their national
festival, Welshmen and -women in Syd-
ney rallied in the society’s rooms in Clar-
ence-street, and had a grand time speak-
ing their mother tongue and listening tc
a programme of music arranged by Idwal
Jenkins and Jack Lyndon-Jones. Supper
was served, and mostly supplied, too, by
the women’s committee of the society.


a scrap
of paper
. . but In the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
k AND CtNEBAIIHSUHfiHCE CO.ITD- . ]
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. I'EKKIJIS, (ienerai Manager.
_,, ywr
rj
Promote new growth with McMahon’s
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes in a
few applications. Harmless to -the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon’s,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Altken Pty. Ltd..
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
Missing Friend.
TO HERBERT ARTHUR RAYHAM formerly of 435
Burwood Road Hawthorn Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife GERTRUDE MARY RAYHAM has
instituted proceedings against you for Divorce on the
ground of desertion Unless you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the 4th day of April 1945
and tile an answer on or before the 14 th day of April
1945 the case may proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pay costs.—ALAN H. WELLS
443 Chancery Lane Melbourne Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
6
6
to get at the
last few drops of
BRYLCREEM
All the Brylcreem at present being made is going to the
Services. So that with Brylcreem being difficult to get,
those last few drops in your jar have become very precious
indeed. And because Brylcreem has such excellent tonic
ingredients, there's a lot of good in those few drops. So
we suggest you get them out by adding a teaspoonful of
clean, cold water and shaking the Jar vigorously. You'll find
every drop of cream will come cleanly away from the jar*
— i
Save or Slave—Buy War Savings Certificates.
How can 1
make the most of
the Back Hrandah ?
m
m
IT
VA
nr
4
j
v.
DO
■3
V\
5!?!
The back verandah can become a family
recreational centre. Bevelled panels of
sturdy Masonite Presdwood with its natural
nut-brown colour make an excellent wall
finish. Tempered Presdwood is used for
the ping-pong table top and wainscoting.
Masonite Flooring provides a high grade,
attractive and durable floor finish at
moderate cost.
lie&
•PRESOWOOD
•‘TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE
QUARTRBOARO
/
Manufactured by;
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.,
SALES DIVISION. 369 Piii Street. Sydney, and
5 29 Coll ini Street, Melbourne.
* Limited supplies rune available from all leading hudders
*upnhers. timber merchant* and hartbror « *tnre<
END THE FIGHT WITH VICTORY BONDS
SMOKE-OH!
“Black Widow was left at the post.”
— “Sun” racing report.
Horse gents, evidently also prefer
blondes.
4* + 4*
“He spoke with enthusiasm, but he kindled
no spark in Celia’s face.— Story.
It just stayed like flint.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“You’ll find it’s nice to introduce her as ‘My
fiancee.’ ” —“ New Idea.”
Quite engaging, in fact.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Taylor pasteured his cows on the grass where
the fires occurred.” — “Sun.”
To sterilise their milk?
4* ■4* 4*
Forward.
“Is it all right for a girl of 16 to start her
glory-box?”— lnquirer of Dorothy Dix.
Of course it is, sweet; and I cite
This saw from the past to confirm
Or demonstrate that it’s all right —
The early bird catches the worm !
Percy.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Plan to Box Horses at Barrier.”
— “Sun” heading.
To prevent jockeys sparring for posi-
tions?
4* 4* 4* 4>
“At one stage this small British force was
reduced to living on edible roots.”
—Daily paper.
In those long hours of digging for their
dinner
They may have solved one puzzling
mystery:
The reason why, throughout our history,
The Thin Red Line was always growing
thinner.
Traymon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Bathroom Incident
Oh, the night was being slaughtered
by a Bacchanalian revel, and the worship-
pers of plonk were fiercely glad: they
were rolling on the carpet, they were
roaring like the devil, they were driving
the unhappy neighbors mad.
Old David, reeling merrily around the
rolling flat, veered sideways like a ship
that’s hit a rock ; he hurtled to the bath-
room, where he sprawled across the mat,
and when he rose he gave a cry of shock.
Theffe, crouching in the bath-tub, he
beheld a puce goanna with wings and
claws of terrifying size; it blew its nose
with vigor and an orange-hued bandana,
then it gazed on him with red and bale-
ful eyes.
Recoiling into Henry, who was sway-
ing close behind, he cried;
“Do you shee that?”
With bleary stare his comrade strove
the cause of his anxiety to find, and —
yes, there certainly was something there!
Twas a yellow rattlesnake that seemed
continually growing till it turned into a
huge and leprous rat, with a dash of
armadillo, and a beard profusely flowing ;
and, strange to say, it wore a lady’s hat!
As Henry, seeking safety, made a sud-
den reeling skid, “Ish there all right!”
he cried. “I shaw it plain! ”
Old David stammered with relief,
“Thank heavensh that you did! I
thought I had the darned d.ts. again! ”
T. W. N.
4* v •5*
“He walked slowly out of the dining-room,
conscious that people were turning to stare at
him.” — "Woman.”
The only man who’d been game
enough to tackle a second helping of Mrs.
Mulligan’s stew.
•i* 4* •»*
“Wool Talks in London.” — “D.T.” heading.
All right, so long as its yarns are
clean.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
Breaking Point.
“By exposing canaries to certain gases
scientists have found that they become bilious
and throw up their digested food, which is
used as a basis for anti-malarial serum.”
One would think that in these days,
with resources of man-power and material
so strained, scientists would adopt simpler
methods for making canaries turn a vivid
pea-green about the gills as a preliminary
to regurgitating their breakfasts.
Admittedly, canaries have strong stom-
achs. I have seen one sit on its perch,
apparently suffering not the slightest
stomachic disorder when a political
speech blaring from a near-by radio has
been followed by a number from either
the Inkspots or the Andrews Sisters.
However, an experiment I conducted
with my own pet whistler Rufus demon-
strates that it is possible to make a
canary’s innards revolve to a satisfactory
conclusion without having recourse to the
industrial chemist.
One morning, after having attended a
successful reunion, I awoke with the feel-
ing that some fiend was pulling the top
off my head, grabbing a handful of grey
matter, stretching it out like elastic and
playfully letting it fly back before heavily
banging the skull-top on again. To make
things worse, Rufus must pick this morn-
ing to whistle with a shrill, care-free
blitheness that seemed to be indecent.
As he rebelliously kept it up despite
my orders to desist I determined to have
my revenge by making him as bilious as
I was. Gloatingly I rushed to the pantry,
returned with a greasy pork chop and
held it up in front of his cage. Rufus
possibly would have been sick could I
have kept it up; unfortunately, I hap-
pened to look at the thing myself and
had to make a bolt for the bathroom.
But my determination to teach Rufus
a lesson waxed. I grabbed the paper and
read to him some of the lenient sentences
handed out to offending black-marketeers
and violent criminals. That, I thought,
would be enough to make anyone or any-
thing sick. But the bird merely broke
into fresh coloratura cadences.
It struck me, as I pondered my next
move, that Rufus had never been to sea.
Were it possible to trick the bird into
believing he was on a ship for the first
time in blue water with a big sea running,
his eyes, I felt sure, would quickly get
that faraway, glassy look that is the
prelude to diving for the gun’l.
Showing him-an enlarged photo, of
the Queen Mary, I did a sailor’s horn-
pipe while I swung his cage around in
that pitch-and-rolling motion that had
ever proved disastrous to me whenever
I had been at sea. Rufus seemed to
enjoy the unusual movement.
There was, I savagely felt, only one
thing left. If this didn’t turn him up
nothing would. Grabbing his cage, I
hurried him to a gallery where they were
holding a modernist art exhibition.
Eagerly searching the walls, I came at
last upon a surrealist effort which de-
picted wnat appeared to be half a mus-
tard-colored corpse bisected by a bright
saffron garbage-can lid, with a fulvous
drainpipe and a liver-colored octagonal
cabbage flanked by a square cadmium
moon and a sulphur-colored trombone,
and titled “Love’s Empyrean.”
“There,” 1 said furiously to Rufus,
pointing to the thing. “If that
doesn’t”
1 paused, even in pity, as the poor
bird bent one short, agonised look on
the horror. Then his eyes drooped, and
with a low moan he rusfied to the side
of his cage, put his head out and heaved
up his breakfast.
There is a limit to even a canary’s inter-
nal equilibrium.
Bo.
Drought.
“An article in the ‘Lancet’ says that two
specialists were unable to provoke attacks of
gout by giving alcohol.”
Though medicos have pointed out
That alcohol in frequent doses
Will generally cause cirrhosis
Of half your innards (and no doubt
There’s some will still insist on gout)
No< single one of them elects
To analyse the ill-effects
Of being forced to do without.
So, granting that the bloke who lent
His turn for that experiment
May have acquired a lot of pluck.
Considering the treatment, I
Cannot suppress a heartfelt cry
In wistful accents: “Half his luck!”
P. M. Lusk.
Explained.
When interviewed the ancient sighed
“A century soon passes.”
He paused, then quavered on with pride
‘‘l’ve never yet used glasses:
Lad, man and centenarian.
Each time I’ve wet my throttle
I’ve swigged my booze as I began —
Directly from the bottle.”
F. M.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
State Housing in Tasmania
As a State-proud Tasmanian I regret
that your editorial references to State
housing schemes (B. 14/2/’45) did not
recognise the Speck’s very creditable
achievements in that field.
The Tasmanian Housing Scheme h
been described by those with wide inte
State housing experience as the most ac-
vanced, progressive and comprehensiv
in the Commonwealth. The S.A. stanc-
ard of 4500 sq. ft. has been mentionec.
Tasmania insists on a minimum area o:;
6000 sq. ft. for each home. Dwelling
are designed by an architect and averag
114 squares per home, indicating greate
room space and amenities, such as ha ,
laundry, porch, absent from the S.A
designs, which average about 10 square
per house.
When I visited housing subdivisions i
Adelaide I was astonished to find that on
standard design was in use for each siz
of house, with a coat of paint on alter
nate houses to relieve the monotonoi
sameness of straight rows of red brie c
dwellings, all cast in the one mould. I
Tasmania ten standard designs are in use
each of which has three elevations, givin
a wide range of exteriors. The homes ar
staggered on the allotments in such a wa
that maximum sunshine is obtained i
the living rooms, and neighbors ar
unable to overlook adjacent houses
In all but the very small subdivision
playgrounds are reserved for the chi -
dren.
Each tenant in Tasmania has th
option of electric, gas or fuel stoves, anc
each house is planned for electric hot
water service, electric refrigerator anc
electric stove. For cooking, 90 per cen
of the tenants prefer electricity, which i
available in practically every centre in th
State.
Even for war-time housing our Stat
has refused consistently to lower stan
dards in any way, and average costs o
foundations owing to uneven terrain ar
lower than in any mainland State. “Hous
ing bears the full cost of roads, kerb
and footpaths constructed on the subdi
visions ; in Adelaide these costs are con
cealed by forcing the local authority to
foot the bill in excess of £6 per house.
Emphasis is, and has been for many
years, on individual home ownership in
Tasmania, and all homes erected are foi
disposal on a rent-purchase basis over
long period. Our Adelaide cousins have
no option but to remain tenants.
After inspecting Government housing
in three States, I am of opinion that Tas-
mania leads the way.— Draszi (Tas ).
And in Queensland
The Queensland State Advances Cor-
poration which, admittedly, did a good
job in pre-war days, now adopts a de-
featist attitude and uses unseasoned tim-
ber and fibro-cement sheets. Houses of
these materials are costing scandalous
figures—for instance, three being erected
in Townsville will deprive the owners of
£ll3l each.
Just recently, in an effort “to keep down
costs,” tenders were called for “50 dwel-
lings of timber and fibre construction in
Brisbane,” preference to be given to the
contractor willing to erect the lot. Fibre
sheets are suitable only for fowl-houses,
and the impossibility of obtaining sea-
soned timbers for perhaps years to come
is so evident that it is time Queens-
landers became interested in concrete.
The Victorian Housing Commission is
erecting three concrete homes each week
at a cost equal to that for similar houses
in timber, and the vice-chairman (F. O.
Barnett) says that with an extension of
existing plant the commission will soon
be building 100 houses per week, and
then the cost will be reduced by £lOO.
Enough sand and gravel are available
in Queensland to build tens of thousands
of concrete houses, and one Brisbane
cement-manufacturer could produce all
the cement required.— Mark Patch (Q.).
Credit and Inflation
The use of the word “inflation” with-
out a qualifying adjective leads to con-
fusion, even among experts. If, however,
\ve say “monetary inflation,” we have
something definite. A short, clear and
inescapable definition of monetary infla-
tion is that it consists of that state of
affairs where the value of the paper
pound has fallen in relation to the value
of the sovereign. This is brought about
by the over-issue of unredeemable (or in-
convertible) paper money.
Owing to there being no free market
for gold in Australia, we must go outside
to get a comparison. In free gold sales
in India, Egypt, Argentina and Greece
£5 in English notes, equal to £6 ss. Aus-
tralian, is given for a sovereign. This
demonstrates that a considerable inflation
of paper money exists: and it will pro-
ceed to a much worse state of affairs if
banking is brought under political control.
The worst sufferers are the holders of
long-dated contracts, such as life-insur-
ance policy-holders, friendly society mem-
bers, superannuation fund members and
pensioners; but wage-earners, holders of
saving-bank accounts, hoarders of paper
money and others also suffer.
During the nineteenth century, with
redeemable paper money convertible to
gold on demand, accompanied by bank-
ing free from political control, the value
of our currency was maintained, so that
a pound note was always worth a
sovereign. Inconvertible paper money is
a modern curse, as well as a very ancient
one.-—A. T. Traversi (N.S.W.j.
Servicemen and Civil Life
1/A.1.F.” (B. 21/2/’45) appears to
overlook that the majority of servicemen
We prepared to “lend a hand” in rehabili-
tating themselves. Their readiness to
endure the sacrifices and restrictions im-
posed by war are surely a reminder of
“If only a swing band was playing this'd be like the real thing!"
what may be expected of them in peace.
But what of opportunity?
The economic depression which re-
duced so many Australians to living on
or near the breadline was no respecter
of persons. Many ex-Diggers, far from
complaining about the irksomeness of
work during that sorry period, were un-
able to find work. The future they had
been promised as “fit for heroes to live
in” never came.
Given earnest assurance that they will
not have to suffer the disillusionment
which many of their fathers before them
faced, and given confidence in what they
can accomplish of their own free will,
unhampered by muddling bureaucrats and
twisting politicians, I believe that most
servicemen would experience little diffi-
culty in adjusting themselves to civil life.
But the errors perpetrated after the last
war must not be repeated.— Pip-Ex (Vic.).
Moral Degeneration
It is alarming to note how morals have
degenerated during the war. No one is
surprised to find a man or woman whose
reputation for honesty could not be
doubted a few years ago now dealing on
the black market, buying coupons from
neighbors and scrounging generally.
These people are still honest in one
sense, for they pay for what they get, but
they ask no questions as to where goods
come from. Another queer twist in their
sense of honesty is that while they would
not stoop to rob an individual they will
help themselves to public property with
a clear conscience. Often one hears the
excuse “We pay our taxes, and, after all,
this belongs to us as much as to anyone
else.”
This pilfering of Government prop-
erty, despite the recent tightening-up
of administration, is perhaps worst of all.
It makes one wonder what the outcome
will be„ The lack of a public conscience
at the end of the war may be as danger-
ous to our country as any foreign enemy.
—Beja (Q.).
Cheap Electricity in W.A.
While I plead guilty to living in Perth
and riding occasionally on its “rattle-
trap trams,” may I inform “Hothamite”
(B. 24/1/’45) that the electricity that pro-
pels those trams was up till 1930 the
cheapest produced in the British Empire,
with the exception perhaps of Canada,
for which figures were not given.
I get my household supply at 3d. and
2|d. per unit —six lights and a power
plug for less than ss. a month. That
current, produced at the Perth power-
house, reaches 20 miles and more in all
necessary directions. Power can be
bought for less than 2d. per unit. This
means that market gardeners, by instal-
ling electrically-driven pumps, can, with
wells and sprinklers, literally produce
artificial rain, giving Perth and Fremantle
an unsurpassed supply of vegetables.
With cheap electricity such a boon no
proposal should be turned down without
a proper hearing. Although the Vic-
torian Electricity Board had unlimited
coal at Yallourn it still availed itself of
water power at Rubicon and other places.
Too many country towns achieve an elec-
tric supply by some individual installing
cast-out, obsolete machines, bought as
scrap and capable of producing current
retailable at lOd. per unit, as in' another
place where I sometimes dwell, not far
from Hotham Valley— Charlie (W.A.).
Reflections on Yalta
The communists seem to have gone
such a long way from their founder that
I doubt if Karl Marx would recognise
them if he saw them. Unlike Hitler, who
is a National Socialist, Marx was an
international socialist. His whole theory
was based on the assumption that human
beings are economically determined. So,
according to him, the Germans are no
more responsible for their system than
the Russians for theirs, and he would
certainly not have thought that the Ger-
man children were.
Hence Stalin’s policy, outlined at Yalta,
of punishing the Germans for doing
something, which, according to Marx, it
was inevitable they should do because
of their economic system is quite con-
trary to communist theory, as is the
notion of forcibly transporting millions of
German workers, who, Marx would say,
are the Russians’ brothers, to rebuild
Russia. This can’t be done without hurt-
ing the children, and even a communist
would hardly say that the children are
responsible for the suffering and destruc-
tion caused in Russia.
The most sinister portent for the future
prospects of world peace appears to me
to be the attitude of Russia, which one
authority at Yalta described as the great-
est Power in Europe today. Russia is
only just starting to become a world
Power. Britain has long been one and
is possibly declining. Most Englishmen
are more or less disillusioned about the
advantages bf being the world’s police-
man or protector. The Russians are full
of illusions which the British have dis-
carded. They obviously believe that a
Red Army of 20,000,000 and a field-
marshal are glorious things for a country
to have ; so it seems as inevitable as any-
thing can be that they are destined to
tread the track other empires have
trodden in the past, which leads always
to the same martial goal.— Feng-Shui
(Vic.).
Waste Lands Research
A place should be found in Australia’s
post-war reconstruction plans for ex-
perimental work on waste lands, follow-
ing an example set in many European
countries. For instance, valuable work
has been done on the island of Lewis, off
the coast of Scotland. Before he lost his
reason Mussolini reclaimed some 200,000
acres of the Pontine Marshes. During
the Battle of Britain England brought
150,000* acres of marshy country into
production.
Much of our poor land, hitherto ig-
nored, will need to be productive if Aus-
tralia is to carry a big population. Year
by year our depleted farm lands show
drops in yields per acre, increasing the
need for extending cultivation over a
wider area.
With experimental stations established
and the problems particular to the
various types of poor land thoroughly
understood, farmers whose properties ad-
join such country (and many in Tasmania
do) would, under direction, be enabled
to bring a big percentage of it into use.
Apart from agricultural and grazing pos-
sibilities, certain types of land are suited
to afforestation, and even a few acres of
timber, either soft or hard wood, is help-
ful in a country whose percentage of
forest land is so low. —Maryrose Rue
(N.S.W.).
“Free” Medicine
Government control will, after July
1, be extended to medicine. Patients
will still have to pay the doctor by whom
a prescription is written, but they will
be able to hand it to a chemist and get a
bottle of what-you-will “on the house.”
The B.M.A. has rightly refused to pre-
scribe within the limits of a set for-
mulary, and its members will order what
they consider appropriate. But what will
the patient get?
Chemists’ costs, calculated to the deci-
mal point of a penny, will be based on
the cheapest obtainable quality of each
drug or chemical. But variations in cost
of different grades of the same drug are
considerable, and the loss in efficiency by
using the cheapest grade may defeat the
intention of a prescription.
The Pharmaceutical Benefits’ Act is a
half-baked, vote-catching scheme of no
real value, although it will cost the coun-
try millions of pounds each year. It is a
social service started at the wrong end.
Hospital beds are far more urgently
needed than is free medicine. — Pharma-
cist (N.S.W.).
Liquor Reform
The whole business of selling alco-
holic liquor is in a mess in Australia.
Here’s my plan of reform:
(1) License breweries, not pubs. Make each
city brewery lay down a £lO,OOO deposit, 1 p.c.
interest allowed. Inflict a £lOOO fine, for any
adulteration or other offence. Country breweries
on lower terms. Prohibit brewery advertising.
Continue the excise duty.
(2) Construct brewery premises so that pro-
duction and distribution can be efficiently super-
vised by customs officers.
(3) Abolish tied houses and hotel and retail
licenses. Allow the sale of alcoholic liquor by
the glass at any refreshment shop, cafe, board-
ing house or hotel seven days a week, with
meals or without. Allow grocers and other
providers to sell beer, wines and spirits as freely
as sauce or vinegar.
The benefits to be gained by my plan
are:
(1) No black market or sly-grog shops.
(2) No necessity for police supervision of
hotel bars “after hours.”
(3) Hotels restored to their status as inns,
not “booze joint's.”
(4) No crowding into pubs at six o’clock,
packed like sardines and guzzling like hogs.
—Canoozer (N.S.W.).
Beer a Necessity
Though a teetotaller I am convinced
that beer is an absolute necessity of life
to at least 40 p.c. of the Australian adult
male population. To get it they stand for
hours waiting for a pub to open ; they
struggle and push to get served at the
bar in a way which would call forth
indignant protest in any other place, and
they pay ridiculous black-market prices
when legitimate channels fail.
Many people cannot feel normal and
happy without a certain amount of
alcohol in their bloodstream, and beer
provides the most pleasant way of achiev-
ing this end. So instead of saying beer-
drinking is immoral, as if that settled
everything, the position must be faced
as it exists.
The best way to avoid the “evils of
drink” is to brew a lighter beer than we
have at present. Breweries don’t like the
idea because it means less profit; the
Government is opposed to it because
excise revenue is based upon alcoholic
content. But a beer containing less alco-
hol than the present brew might do some
good by enabling men to sink a few
drinks without becoming drunken nuis-
ances as a result. Light beers are always
popular. Germany used to export her
lager all over the world, and the only
thing I ever heard said against it was
“There’s nothing wrong with the flavor,
but you have to drink such a lot of it to
get tight.”—Ess Ecks (S.A.).


THE SUN SHINES ON A FAIRY-
LAND OF BEACH, AND ARNOTT’S
MILK ARROWROOT BISCUITS ARE
PLENTIFUL ONCE AGAIN.
m
.
A
J:!
m
mmm
m
i M
mm
■ HU
ill
19* ifrv :
/
1
5 \ vj;"
' ;j
mm
iliii
* i
it .... *
m
ill'.
» I
iW
mm i
' l-x I
*
■
dmotts
m - ■ FAMOUS
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
THE FIRST FAVORITE OF EVERY CHILD—EASY TO CARRY—EASY TO SERVE
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND NATIONAL SAVINGS STAMPS
