

NEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 66—No. 3413
Wednesday, July 11, 1945
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WELBECK ABBEY.
il/ELBECK ABBEY, four miles from Worksop, Nottingham-
* * shire, and close to the border of Derbyshire, is the seat of
the Duke of Portland. Before the Conquest Welbeck was held
by Sweyn; afterwards it formed part of the Manor of Cuckney,
and passed to the Flamings. The Abbey was founded by Thomas
de Cuckney, and here, in the reign of Henry 11, he planted a settle-
ment of White Canons from Newhouse in Lincolnshire: the first
establishment in England. The present mansion was begun in
1604, though it was afterwards much altered and enlarged. In the
reign of Charles I it belonged to the Duke of Newcastle; and
when the King was lying at Worksop Manor, on his way to the
coronation in Scotland, the duke entertained him at a cost of
£4ooo—“which His Majesty liked so well,” the Duchess of New-
castle wrote, that a year later he desired to be again entertained,
and on this occasion the duke spent £14,000. The late Duke of
Portland inherited at least one eccentricity from Bess of Hard-
wick, to whom the magnificences of the “Dukeries” are chiefly
due, namely the craze for building. A story is told of how he
destroyed an archway directly the architect left it, setting the men
to work all night. When the architect returned the next morning
no vestige of his work remained. The duke had not wished to hurt
his feelings by telling him that his arch was detestable. The title
was given by William 111 to Bentinck, one of his personal friends
from Holland,


kj
1 his Look FK&Jb to XUU i
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE ANt MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
Uy Name
My Address
S.B. 145 AGE
The Red Page
MAN AND SOCIOLOGY.
The theme of the novelist who finds
himself temporarily unable to write—or
the painter who can’t paint or the com-
poser who can’t compose—rarely makes
an interesting novel. In the first place, it
is a stock theme, almost invariably fol-
lowing the same pattern as Eleanor Dark
has used in The Little Company (Collins)
—the writer frozen and dismal, becom-
ing progressively more dismal, waking up
with a love affair and returning to his art
to write a “novel” about the troubles he
has just surmounted.
And, in the second place, the theme
can hardly be of more than clinical in-
terest. It is the history of a disease, a
mental or spiritual ailment —“creative
paralysis” somebody in The Little Com-
pany calls it —and as such, besides being
familiar, is likely to become as tedious as
any other long-drawn-out account of an
illness. To read 319 pages about Gilbert
Massey’s writing-trouble is not vastly dif-
ferent from reading 319 pages about
somebody’s kidney-trouble.
Good art, said Matthew Arnold, does
not depress ; and, even if the patient re-
covers at the end, it is hardly possible
for such a theme not to be depressing.
At the most, the disease is interesting
precisely to the extent to which it stirs
the sufferer to action: a sick man who,
because of his sickness, goes on a
glorious spree around the town may
make a good figure for tragi-comedy ; a
sick man who hits his devoted grand-
mother on the head with the leg of a
chair and is hanged for murder may
evoke the proper wonder of tragedy.
And The Little Company is moder-
ately interesting in this way. Gilbert
breaks up his marriage, has an affair with
a girl and drives his wife into an attempt
at suicide.
The affair is dolorous—neither of the
parties being in love with each other;
the suicide doesn’t succeed ; and, painting
the wife as stupid, Eleanor Dark has
missed the powerful drama that might
have resulted if the lady had been made
a more attractive victim to the ruthless-
ness of the creative artist —for Gilbert,
in his secret frenzy of bafflement, might
have sacrificed Helen of Troy. It is
drama in a minor key: but at least some-
thing happens—human beings love, hate
and act. It is a “triangle” ; a domestic
drama ; and as such is readable.
A domestic drama, however, is just
what Eleanor Dark has tried her hardest
not to write. At one point in The Little
Company Gilbert is thinking of writing
a novel about a Left-Winger named
Laughlin and is embarrassed because his
mistress (also a novelist) has the same
subject in mind.
She would never recognise [he meditates],
and therefore could never express, the frag-
ment of social evolution which had worked
itself out in that man; she would never
give his story the dignity of its broad,
human significance. She would reduce it fo
a novel of personalities, a little domestic
drama.
Gilbert’s novel is to be a kind of social
history in which “Phyllis’s cc#:osive
hatred and Elsa’s futile escapism” are
seen as “small things, having importance
only as manifestations of a greater
malaise” ; and, although Gilbert is not
to be identified with Eleanor Dark, it is
reasonable to assume —indeed it is
obvious—that The Little Company is an
attempt to put that theory into practice.
The title refers to the “little company”
of the Australian people amidst the vast
confusions and dangers of a world at
war; the period is 1941-42 ; the setting is
Sydney and the Blue Mountains; Gil-
bert and some of the other characters,
though their activities are never described,
are stated to have joined war organisa-
tions of one sort or another ; an attempt
is made to record the history of the war
in newspaper headlines:, and clearly the
plan of the whole is to show that the
actions of the characters are a result of
the war, or at least spring from the same
“social malaise” as, in the author’s
opinion, does the world conflict.
And yet the war is astonishingly remote
in this novel. That is partly due to the
rigidly Leftist propaganda Eleanor Dark
submits as history. Instance after in-
stance could be given of this: one will
suffice—it is recorded that Matsuoka
visited Moscow and the comment is made
“He won’t get much out of that” ; and
nowhere is it added that what the Japa-
nese “got” was a non-aggression pact of
no trifling importance to Australia.
The Leftist novelist, hurling such chal-
lenges not only at non-Leftist readers but
at plain historical truth, asks for a con-
siderable exercise of what T. S. Eliot has
called “the willing suspension of dis-
belief.” If that effort is made, however,
the war is still remote in this novel, for
the reason that it is skimpily, and some-
times incorrectly, reported.
It is strange to read of an airman who
“didn’t come back from Dunkirk”—
though, of course, the writer may mean
that he was shot down over the beaches.
It is stranger to read that on the night
the Japanese subs were in Sydney Harbor
“the air was full of the roaring of ’planes”
—no ’planes were up that night. It is
fantastic that Tobruk, the great triumph
of Australian arms, is not mentioned at
all (unless in some obscure paragraph
that has escaped the present commenta-
tor’s notice), and that the great disaster
of Singapore is dismissed in a few lines.
Nothing is conveyed of Sydney’s excite-
ment on momentous days of the war. On
the morning after the submarines affair
(when the whole town, as everyone
knows, was wild with excitement) Gil-
bert’s daughter asks him, quite casually,
“Was there much disturbance last night?”
and the novelist’s only response is:
“A lot of noise, that’s all.”
Men were killed on Sydney harbor that
night. Eleanor Dark could hardly have
meant to *show that her Leftist novelist,
portrayed elsewhere as spending hours of
his lime in gloomy meditation over the
sufferings of humanity, is, in fact, so
immersed in his own private concerns—
his Leftist politics, his stultification as a
writer, his domestic discords —that he
is utterly indifferent to the tragedy and
the strangeness and the excitement of that
memorable occasion. Yet that is what
she has done ; and that is the “social sig-
nificance” of her novel —if one is to be-
lieve it.
But, dull and cold as he is, it is not
humanly possible to believe' Gilbert so -
inhuman. Eleanor Dark is not seeing her
characters correctly, that is the trouble.
She fails in this —the prime concern of
the novelist—for two reasons. First, she
is too earnest a Freudian (particularly with
her minor characters and her villains), so
that her people are less like human beings
than like specimens on a dissecting table ;
and, secondly, she insists on looking at
life through the distorting lenses of Left-
ist spectacles, seeing man as a kind of
cipher in a departmental report, a “mani-
festation of a social disorder”; which is
at once a denial of human dignity and a
reversal of the simple and obvious truth
that social disorders are a manifestation
of man.
Ah Fu and Others.
The most interesting personality to us at
present was Ah Fu, the Chinese cook, Aii-Fu
smoked opium, but apparently he could stand
if. He was fat, oily, and his whole personality
exhaled contentedness. His face was dull and
empty, his long pigtail was plentiful, interwoven
with horsehair, and draped in wreath fashion
round his shaven cranium.
He got this job because people think every
Chinese is a cook. He seemed to lack any am-
bition except to be eventually buried in China.
The gins worshipped him. He. reigned in his
culinary domain as the sole boss, and he took
no notice of anybody—not even the manager.
When we entered the kitchen we saw the Mon-
golian busy basting a roast in his own way.
He took a mouthful of water and squirted it
artfully over the hissing roast. “Makes it
crisp,” he remarked. Then he spat in his hands
and rolled little bread balls.
“That’s nothing” remarked the manager, in
response to my exclamation of disgust. “You
are too finicky tor this place.”
The which is a typical anecdote from
Stefan Kotze’s Australian Sketches (Pan
Publishers, Melbourne), translated by
L. L. Politzer, Kotze was a German who
worked and travelled about the Austra-
lian bush for some years round about
1890. He wrote novels, verse and travel
notfes —taking Papua and the South Seas
into his orbit —and, as Mr. Politzer
rightly points out, was a keen and
humorous observer.
Dealing ‘chiefly with Kotze’s experi-
ences as jackeroo on a cattle station, with
some additional observations on mining,
Australian Sketches is a lively and enter-
taining survey of the period. In a general
way the material is familiar —the hatters,
the yarning bullockies, the avaricious
shanty-keepers, the great bush liars, the
fires, the floods, the snakes and the
blacks —but first-hand information on
such subjects is always interesting. As,
too, are the author’s reactions to the
Australian Scene —hating the place at
first sight but gradually—if never willing
to find the bush “romantic”: that’s for
later generations who don’t have to eat
Ah Fu’s cooking— at least coming to feel
rather proud of himself for having sur-
vived the discomforts of pioneering.
A few of his bush yarns are chestnuts.
There is even the 2000th version of the
“loaded dog” story, told as solemn truth.
A note on the literature of the period,
in which a tribute is paid to The Bulle-
tin, has the observation:
In prose less has been achieved. Marcus
Clarke, Boldrewood, Lawson and Becke
hardly range above mediocrity.
Which shows that in Kotze’s day, as in
our own, it was hard to pick winners.
Two for Children.
Mary Finnin’s The Book of Bauble
(W. A. Hamer Pty.) is a book about cats
for children. Bauble, the belle of Ratten
Road, grows up and meets the fascinat-
ing Marmalade, who was “boss of all
the dustbins in Ratten Road, and knew
where to go for the best fish-heads and
meat scraps.”
In due course she bears him a son.
Doodle, and a considerable portion of
the book is then taken up by the doings
of Doodle in kittenhood.
Other cats wander in and out the story
at random: Marmalade’s offsider, Basher
the Manx, “chief dustbin-minder for Mar-
malade and a very good boxer” ; Bess
Tortoiseshell, who is Doodle’s ’grand-
mother ; Fantom the Persian, who
“minced” ; Albert the Albino, who, when
he got tired of the meals at one house
would give himself to somebody further
down the street.
The book should suit the very young;
but Mary Finnin —she has published
several books of verse and is a Bulletin
contributor —might have attempted some-
thing much more ambitious. The story
is weak ; the author’s illustrations very
weak.
The Story of Shy the Platypus (John
Sands, Ltd., Sydney), though not in the
class of The Wind in the Willows, is a
step in that direction. There is the right
touch of personification and incident to
hold a child’s interest and at the same
time the life history of the platypus is
developed in a casual, natural manner.
The author, Leslie Rees, succeeds in
being informative without becoming ped-
antic. Colored illustrations by W. Cun-
ningham give a splendid underwater illu-
sion; indeed, the book would be worth
having for these alone.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Cauboy”: If Benjamin Fuller suc-
ceeds in obtaining from Russia a com-
plete company of Soviet artists and musi-
cians for a grand opera season he will be
assured of a packed house the first night,
irrespective of the quality of the enter-
tainment, Australian Leftists being almost
piously eager to support anything Rus-
sian. The Fuller record in opera is small
compared to the Firm’s, but it is not
without splendor. While opera was raging
at the fashionable His Majesty’s in Mel-
bourne in 1934 Fuller staggered theatri-
cal circles by importing a company whose
“star” was Florence Austral, opening at
the unfashionable Apollo, and further dar-
ing precedent by putting on Wagner.
The season was financially a failure,
as Fuller himself admitted, but artistically
it was a success. As most of the cast was
Australian, the critics came to sniff but
remained to admire, and the house was
packed for the Wagnerian items. If Fuller
had plumped entirely for Wagner and
completed the gigantic circle of “The
Ring” it might have been a box-office
triumph. Muriel Brunskill, Walter Wid-
dop,‘ Thea Phillips and the veteran Horace
Stevens were amongst the singers.
Malcolm Sargent’s second concert at
the Town Hall, Melbourne, had for its
highlight the Elgar Symphony, No. 1, in
A Flat major, which modern audiences
know well, though it was a new thing
by an obscure English composer when
that wonderful Yeteran Gustav Slap-
offski, still battling along in Melbourne,
directed, its first performance by the Syd-
ney Symphony Orchestra at a time when
English composers stood low in prestige.
Another exciting item was the Tschaikov-
sky Violin Concerto with Jeanne Gautier
as soloist. The French lady’s serene play-
ing was as near perfection as music-
lovers can expect in this world.
The intensely dramatic requiem Verdi
wrote at 61 in commemoration of
the death of his friend, the poet Man-
zoni, was given an airing at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall by the Philharmonics
and the Symphony Orchestra under Ber-
nard Heinze’s direction. Verdi’s long
association with the theatre may have in-
fluenced the writing of the more declama-
tory sections, but his feeling for his
friend must have accounted for the
sombre, solemn and emotional stanzas,
which lift the work into the company
of the best of oratorios. The terrific open-
ing and the finale taxed the Philharmonic
gents and ladies to the utmost, but they
and soloists Thea Phillips, Elizabeth
Coates and Harold Williams stood the
test. John Fullard’s lyric tenor wound
its way through the proceedings, and
showed that a long course of Gilbert and
Sullivan opera had done no harm to its
owner.
At the talkies:
“A Song to Remember” (Sydney State):
Pleasant screen play by Sidney Buckman on
Chopin’s life, with emphasis on his association
with George Sand. There are waltzes, mazurkas,
preludes and nocturnes by the dozen, excellently
played by that fine exponent of Chopin
Jose Iturbi, who “ghosts” for Cornel Wilde,
who does very well as the great Polish com-
poser. - Paul Muni makes Joseph Eisner,
Chopin’s teacher, a likeable figure, but doesn’t
show the musician’s known vigor and ability.
“Hotel Berlin” (Hoyt’s Theatres): Vicki
Baum’s novel, hastily telescoped into 1945 to
cash in on Nazi underground activity in the
German capital. The amended plot deals with
the frantic effort's of the Nazi high-ups to get
out from under as the final crash appears
imminent. Raymond Massey as a Prussian
general with a contempt for Gestapo ways, and
George Coulouris as a secret police chief
with an uncanny knowledge of everything that
goes on in the hotel, raise a rather ordinary
plot to a level of good entertainment.
“Meet' Me in St. Louis” (Sydney Liberty):
A musical, with Judy Garland, set in the early
part of this century. Some pleasant family
scenes, and there is a really intelligent child
actress (Margaret O’Brien).
“Molly and Me” (Sydney Empire); Domes-
tic comedy with Monty Woolley as a bad-
tempered ex-politician. Bubbling with good
humor, the opus is remarkable for a directorial
boner —Gracie Fields sings very nicely a lullaby
to Woolley’s sick son, who is a lad about 16.
“In Society” (Sydney Lyceum): Abbott and
Costello in a screwy slapstick as a pair of very
funny plumbers who get into the mansion of
one of the Four Hundred.
“I Love a Soldier” (Sydney Victory): In-
credibly turgid sentiment covering every con-
ceivable situation. Paulette Goddard plays the
part of the girl oxy-welder who doesn’t believe
in war-time romance, and Sonny Tufts is her
victim.
“The Morning Star,” by Emlyn Wil-
liams, put on by the National Theatre,
Melbourne, is a little different from the
usual London blitz play in that it com-
bines with that already hackneyed theme
the older stock subject of a young doctor
who has to choose between devotion to
science and commercialism. Mr. Wil-
liams doesn’t make you feel the situation
so much as know it, and the general
awkwardness of the players didn’t help
him to get his message over. Peter
French as the doctor was the most sen-
sitive of the performers, but his trick of
expressing comas, semi-colons and full
stops by pauses of immense duration has
something the same effect on a hearer
as the dripping of water on the heads of
malefactors in old-style Chinese execu-
tions.
The Australian Art Society’s show at
Farmer’s Gallery, Sydney, marks an ad-
vance, in quality if not in quantity, over
former years. It comprises worth-while
examples of the works of Jerrold Nathan,
John Salvana, Walter Rayment', Clif Peir,
watercolorist W. M, Whitney, Garrett
Kingsley (his “Idle Moments” is a lead-
ing feature of the show) and miniaturist
Daysi M. Brookes. H. A. Hanke, Lance
Solomon, Elaine Coghlan, Dora Toovey
and G. V. F. Mann are well represented.
There is some fine work also by painters
not so well known. Alex. Edwards’s
“Tranquil Day, North Ryde,” cleverly
painted, exactly expresses the suburban-
rural atmosphere; K. Harrison’s “Bronte
Gully,” broad and direct, is vigorously
expressive ; J. D. Johnson’s “Late After-
noon” and Leonard Wood’s “Morning
Across the Bay” appeal as sincere impres-
sions.
Daryl Lindsay’s water-colors (18 of
them) at the Macquarie Galleries, Syd-
ney, are travel gleanings from England,
Ireland and the Continent. All exhibit
the sensitivity and the complete command
of the medium which are looked for in
this painter’s work. Sketches made along
the Thames and a couple of glimpses of
Dover are among the most successful.
A show of pictures at George’s Gal-
lery, Melbourne, by Corporal Geoffrey
Anderson. R.A.A.F., varies from precise,
factual presentations of Australian wild-
flowers to captured enemy guns and Mel-
bourne suburban landscapes. One or two
show the influence of Rupert Bunny. The
best is a bush scene with a considerable
degree of penetration.
The Miniature Camera Group’s show
at Farmer’s Blaxland Gallery, Sydney,
showed that war-time restrictions on the
use of “minnies” and occasional shortages
of material have not daunted the en-
thusiasts. There were 224 pictures in the
show, all (with the exception of some
medical colon-prints) straight bromide
enlargements. Cazneaux, Walter Burke,
Keith McClure (who dabbles in montage
and “modernism”), J. Pinnock, H. James
and A. Thomson (animal studies) were
exhibitors whose work was worth a second
glance.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
"THE SENIOR STORE"
Indoor Tennis. Played on miniature
Tennis Court, with darts. A game for
young and old. Rules as in tennis.
Price 5/11
The New Game o! Table
Cricket, played exactly as
on the field. Contains green
cloth marked out as cricket
field, with metal pitch, bats-
men and bowler and 10
fieldsmen. Bowler and bats-
man are operated by play-
ers, fieldsmen can be placed
by bowler in any position.
Price 27/2
Crazy Tops. A game for the
young people. Spinning a
top which rests in slots or
circle in box and which are
numbered. Highest score
wins. Price 2/-
Target lor Tonight, contains
target and bomber. Bombs
are released by hand on to
target which is set on floor.
Sections on target are num-
bered. Price 5/11
• Games—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
FREIGHT NOT PAID
Dart Board, 14” x 14".
Double sided. Sections clear-
ly indicated. Price ... 8/9
Darts. Prices, sd„ lOd. each
Games. Utility Game Kit contains 4
games, Draughts, Acey Ducey,
Bachgammon, Crown and Anchor.
Good quality boards, and nicely
boxed. Complete with instructions.
Price 15/- set
wmr
F;
'r : -
OeT*
fjgis
1
(»
SI
\
V >
a
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


CHICKEN
By CECIL MANN.
RACING comes along there in
cycles. It may flourish for three
or four meetings, or for Saturday
afternoons over as much as three
months or more.
That depends both on the enthusiasm
of the moving spirit and on the possibili-
ties inherent in itself. The moving spirit
is invariably new to the River. A new
publican or solicitor or such fresh from
the city. He will feature for the time as
the leading sporting identity in the
“Star.” Citizens of repute will find them
selves importantly on the Committee
Fred Clarke will be automatically re-
appointed stipendiary steward. The mov-
ing spirit will bustle around the town,
buttonholing, cajoling, organising, arrang-
ing.
Then, it may be, the River will get
hold of him. Instead of rushing about
in an urgency of busyness, he’ll be lean-
ing on a verandah post or on a counter,
half an hour and longer. He’ll maybe
go on quoting remembered scraps of
Gilbert and Sullivan. Maybe he’ll run
for alderman. Sometimes he might talk
horses, and make plans for a revival.
In time he may sell out or die. Then,
if his successor has the right revivalist
spirit, and isn’t some bowls or cricket or
football fanatic, racing will come for a
while into its own again.
Or it may be the blank interval will
come in like the present one, through
the inherent possibilities—or probabili-
ties. .
When the barrier went up for the Fly-
ing all three starters unanimously sat
back on their haunches. Mouths open,
they sat there for an appreciable time,
as bewildered as the riders on top of
them. It was as if they had been elec-
trocuted or caught firmly by a hidden
hand and held there. Then they leapt as
one, and it wasn’t a bad race at all.
It inspired profanity and blasphemy in
the connections of the winner, and, as
the relevant number of the “Star” testi-
fies, the worst demonstration in the his-
tory of racing on the River. They tore
down the grave-like fence of palings sur-
rounding the judge’s box. Most unfairly
but with great enthusiasm they threw
them at the judge. They threw bottles
from the beer-case counter of the booth
on to the tin roof of the committee room.
They yelled to high heaven and the Com-
mittee :
“Robbers!”
“Sludgers!”
“Rub ’em out!”
“Give ’em life!”
“Disqualify the lot of them!”
“What d’ we pay for?”
“One, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, nine—OUT!”
Major Garton, holding to his clipped
Sandhurst moustache and his Eton soft-
ness of speech despite the River, summed
up what the rest of the Committee might
have worded differently: “For myself,
gentlemen, I should call it the worst
confounded bit of bad staff work I’ve
ever seen.”
They duly rubbed out the lot of them,
connections as well. Subsequent reaction,
when infectious heat had cooled down
and public opinion sorted itself out, was
that the Committee’s action had been
overdrastic and hasty. Prognostication,
most accurate, was that “the game” had
been killed. By the Committee.
It would be an over-simplification to
deduce from this that the people of the
River are a nest of rogues and scoun-
drels. By a large majority they are
honest and respectable: They would be
quick to agree that some of the language
used that afternoon was perhaps a bit
over the fence, with women there. Throw-
ing the bottles —some of them full —was
a bit rough. But for the vital matter,
the Committee’s action, Deans the
Butcher had the word: “Sure,” said Deans
over Gillam’s counter, “it’s a poor heart
that nivver rejoices. They shoulduv
given the boys a cartion,”
“You’ve got something there,” Gillam
readily agreed, pulling at the beer-pump.
“Best flamin’ laugh I’ve had since I
come here,”
In fact, survey of a cross-section of the
general public opinion as representative
as the cross-section of the animal king-
dom hung in strings on silvery hooks in
Dean’s butchery would have uncovered
a vigorous condonation of the brazen bit
of open roguery. Of all open roguery
of the kind, for that matter. A simple
—or, if you prefer, a complex—issue of
social codes and the interpretation
thereof. Straight as dies, honest dealing,
reputable ; but with it a vicarious interest
in crookedness, in criminality stopping
short of the violent.
Outing the connections, the Commit-
tee overdid it. The owners were most
clearly implicated. But they were three
upright citizens. They still are.
AND what about comparative justice?
If those River citizens deserved out-
ing, what about the crowd from up north
that deadened Silver Queen the same
day? D’y’ mean t’ say she wasn’t in the
cart? Strike a light, she was stiff as a
crowbar. Redhot favorite, an’ beat be
old Ramile. At the stud now. Up on
his hind legs in the “Star” stud notices.
All care and no responsibility. Stone the
crows, even back that day he was old
enough t’ vote.
There was an inquiry into Silver
Queen’s running. Explanations accepted.
Heavily backed by her connections.
Tripe! The boy they brought down
from up the coast with them pulled her
head off. An’ right under their eyes!
An’ what d’ they do? Censure the boy
f’r ridin’ an ill-judged race.
This could also be taken as simple or
complex, according to fancy. Or accord-
ing to knowledge. Up north, where the
mare came from, was only a couple of
rivers further up the coast, but far
enough to make her and party foreigners.
That had a lot to do with it. Knowledge
might have corrected it, and even added
to the pride of the River. But actually
only one had that knowledge; and,
though gabbling isn’t the long suit of
any of them, probably the least talka-
tive of the lot.
The mare had won every Cup and
Club Handicap up the coast. Giving
her 9.3 and old Ramile 8.10 was an open
invitation. She should have beaten him
by half the furlong length of the straight
and the rest by the whole length of it.
Paradoxically, though none of them
profited by it and all were riotously
vocal about it afterwards, a popular de-
feat. The certainty that she was dead
eclipsed by the fact that the triumph of
old Ramile and Chicken Cocks was a
triumph for the River. Fair horse in his
time. Ramie. Second in a Newcastle
Cup. Bred, like Chicken, on the River.
By Pharoah Lad from a Darter mare.
Fee 10 guineas.
Great rider. Chicken. Ridin’ up in
Bris. these days. On that Leger winner
in Melbourne. An’ the Metrop.
As a matter of genealogical fact, there’s
no abo. in him, as his dark visage might
suggest. If the point matters, it may
have been gipsy. Not so many of them
on the River now as there used to be.
Only a few strays. Once there used to
be a whole camp of them out by the
showground.
Anyway, Chicken has had that dark
visage since he was knee-high to a grass-
hopper. Up in Bris. he gets himself
shaved at the barber’s down the lower
end of Queen-street daily. If there’s any-
thing on that night, twice daily. The
black growth cut back to the skin leaves
his cheeks, jaw and chin blue. Remark-
ably large eyes; very dark. A shade
under five feet. Still able to weigh out
at 7.11 without getting into the sweat-
box. Steady, or comparatively so. Dif-
ferent from the flash, drinking, betting
jocks of the other day, who’d rather
have a' tenner for losing than a hundred
for winning.
And what a rider! Not, as some have
hastily thought, seeing him force some
sluggard home with the whip, just a
bullocking flogger. They don’t know
Chicken. He can flog ’em, but that’s by
necessity. Heady. Balance. Stuck there
on the withers like a postage stamp. Part
of the horse. The thinking part..
In his pictures, admittedly, he does
look evil. Have you, by any chance had
your own photo, in the papers? Like it?
Or on a passport? Pretty? Or perhaps
you stood with your face stuck in a
wooden frame with an army number
under your chin? What did you think
of that criminal thug they stuck in the
back of your paybook?
But, giving the camera its dues of that
sort, it still has to be said that Chicken
looks decidedly evil. Full-face, side-on,
hat on, hat off, sac suit, riding rig. No
difference. That striking sardonic leer
always. Positively baleful. Sinful. Like
a glimpse of Sin itself. Not malicious
Sin. Not vicious Sin. Not at all. Some-
how, likeable Sin. Sin looking pleasant
for the photographer. But, all this
allowed, you still can’t get away from
it —Chicken does look damn’ evil.
Hq’s now been north, with his trips
south, since racing on the River last sank
into the doldrums. He’s ridden many a
heady race in the meantime. Not one
of the brainless lot that ride the same
race over and over in endless repetition,
or follow instructions come hell or high
water. Even so, it’s probable that in
some of his subsequent wins he has
plagiarised himself. Plagiarised his last
ride on the River.
IN the Cup that day the hesitation of
I the six bay geldings, the chestnut mare
and old Ramile wasn’t like the sit-down
strike that happened with the three in
the Flying. It was the almost impercep-
tible moment of immobility before the
leap. Then they were away, the line,
with fluttering colors, bounding as one.
In the first of the eleven furlongs —
one and a quarter times round the track
out on the reclaimed peat of the Big
Swamp—Ramile was cut back to last.
Chicken was bustling him along with the
whip. Two furlongs, and the mare had
gone to the front, cantering. The boy on
her was sitting still, having an armchair
ride, looking back with contempt at the
strugglers, letting them close up on him,
going out again for a two or three
lengths* break, easing down, waiting for
them. An exercise gallop.
Chicken’s green and yellow halves
moved up methodically. He passed four
of the field with more than half the dis-
tance to go. He ranged up beside the
bay lying third. They raced side by
side, close together. Half a furlong on
the bay dropped back. The boy on the
mare was looking over his shoulder grin-
ning. He held her back to them, letting
the bay in second place bridge the gap.
A squeeze on her withers, and she shot
out again. Kidding to them.
Chicken ranged up beside the next bay
gelding. Side by side, close. About
another half-furlong, and Ramile had
passed him into second place. He stayed
there, Ramile’s black head close to the
mare’s rump, beside her flying tail. The
boy on the mare laughing back at
Chicken. Enjoying himself. The field
ten lengths behind them.
Head to tail the old black entire trailed
her for two furlongs. Chicken felt the
tugging drag on the reins. He kept his
face down on Ramile’s neck out of view.
Sinful, those photos of Chicken?
They’re flattering! Taken before or after
the race. Never a close-up in one. That
would be a picture to look at. It stays
between Chicken and his Creator; or,
not to be extravagantly hyperbolical,
between Chicken and the strongly sus-
pected blood of his swarthy ancestors,
cOme by caravan to the River. It is Evil
in person. Demon Evil. Cunning, sinis-
ter, triumphant. Evil sighting through
black ears and long stretched black head
the flying chestnut tail, the close chest-
nut rump, the lilac jacket and white cap,
the flash grin over the shoulder.
At the turn, with the bare furlong to
go, the slight drag on the near rein, the
easing of the off. Black head coming up
to her. Level with her flank. Level with
her girth. Left hand set to keep him
from savaging her. Out of the left side
of the cocksure mouth: “That you,
Chicken? Right-oh! Come on, chase
me, Chicken!”
Light touch of the whip on the mare’s
shoulder. Dig of the spur.. Then the
whip rattling like a flail down her side.
Black head coming up to chestnut neck.
Up to her head. Trying against the steady
pull of the near rein to snap at her neck.
Ten yards from the post. Chicken’s
whip cutting down twice. Enough to
get the black head clear in front.
“And,” as the rhyming Englishman
who rode three steeplechase winners at
Flemington and got a niche in the Abbey
put it, “that’s how the favorite was beat.”
QR that’s how it seemed to the flash
w boy on the mare; how the running
looked to those taking a superficial view
from the narrow, tin-roofed stand.
Among them Ramile’s owner, McMahon.
There was something more to it than
that.
Before the race Chicken said to him:
“Here’s fifty, Mr. Mac. It’s me sum
total. Get it on for me. Please y’self
what yer do y’self, Mr. Mac, but I’m
goin’t’ beat that mare.”
Reversing the order, he gave .the owner
the instructions. “When y’ go inter the
enclosure keep him tailin’ her. Keep
him there all the time, Mr. Mac. Keep
right there on her all the time.”
Chicken mounted as the boy mounted
the mare. He had the black horse trail-
ing her out of the enclosure on to the
track. She broke into her prelim., and
he broke with her,' keeping the black
head against her rump.
He was three away from her in the
barrier draw, but he held the old entire
standing behind her. The starter bawled
at him, and he moved in beside her. He
ignored the starter’s orders to go to his
right position. “You’ll bring a fiver,”
the boy on the mare commented. Chicken
might have been deaf. A couple of the
geldings on the outside were playing
up. Chicken wheeled around, stood the
black’s head again at the mare’s flank.
Moved in beside her.
“You’ll win this in a walk,” he told
the boy on the mare.
“You’re tellin’ me!” said the boy.
Chicken was satisfied. Flash as striped
paint. That part of it was all right. He
slacked the off-rein; let the stamping
black nudge his nose against her neck.
Bared teeth nibbling the chestnut jaw.
That part of it all right, too.
That was strategy. The rest, ordinary
tactics. Four of the field wouldn’t raise
a gallop in any case. By arrangement
with the management. Chicken.
Morris was on the gelding he ranged
up to with halfway to go. Not such a
bad rider, but a hell of a lot to learn.
Chicken got close to him. Elbow out,
knocking against the other’s arm. Just
bumping it. Knee bumping against knee.
Hitting it back. Nothing wrong with
that. Can’t be helped when you’re that
close together. If you can’t beat the horse
beat what’s on him. Anything wrong
with that?
The gelding dropping back. The peak-
capped grin op top of the chestnut mare
easing her down, waiting for them.
Course he’d wait. Flash as hell.
Chicken ranging up alongside the Scott
kid on the other gelding. Elbow out,
bumping. Knee jambed there, grinding.
Pressure on the off-rein forcing him over
against the fence. Direct into the Scott
kid’s white face from a foot away:
“Back, y’ little bastard, or I’ll put you
over it!”
The gelding dropping back. The lad
on the chestnut mare reining her hard,
laughing over his shoulder.
Chicken felt the bounding power under
his knees. That was all right. He didn’t
doubt the kid on the chestnut mare being
flash enough. They came on, black head
to flying tail and chestnut rump to the
turn.
Chicken eased the off-rein, squeezed on
him with his knees. He felt the black
bound under him. Up to her flank. Up
to her shoulder and neck. A couple of
hands higher beside her. Dominating.
Heady rider. Chicken. None headier.
Can nut things out. What’s Nature for
if you don’t use her? That fair enough?
McMahon’s ham of a hand gripped on
the cold, clammy paw. Proud owner.
Holding the black head of the Cup
winner. Telling the world: “Never rode
a better race in y’r life, Chicken. She
was a bobbydazzler! An’ they reckoned
we was mugs t’ start him! Too old, eh?
Too old, Ramile, old boy?” He stroked
down by the savage turning near-eye.
“Too old, eh, boy? Still lick the best of
them, can’t y’? Y’r booked f’r th’ rest
of his starts, Chicken. Strike me, hell
win in Sydney.”
Chicken dragging the saddle and flap-
ping girths down. Looking up at excited
McMahon. Leering up at him. Saying
through his thin lips “Please y’self, Mr.
Mac. He’s your horse. If he was mine
I know what I’d do. I’d put him straight
to the stud. What sorter price did y
get about him?”
A Tip for Saturday.
I met Jack on a Friday night,
Headway was medium, in spite
Of lurching walls in the spinning town,
Taxis that sought to mow him down,
Strange girls that dashed into his arms,
Then cursed him in no uncertain terms.
The air was still, the sky was grey.
I thought of tips for Saturday.
The navigator's task affords
Small safety from a spate of words.
He pointed me to starry skies
On stilts of queer philosophies.
While oaths made rapid cubic gain.
Like roly-poly on the plain.
I quote one mighty thought on wars:
There’d be some friction if the stars
Were like us, macrocosms jammed
Edgeways like sardines on this damned
Insignificant little planet:
Figuratively, literally, he spat on it.
Meekly surrendering to the shocks
Of war, religion, politics.
My voice could not attempt a breach.'
Jack filled the road with noisy speech,
With gusto, verve and animation
From Windsor pub to Town Hall station.
The air was still, the sky was grey.
Reluctantly I turned away
Without a tip for Saturday.
R.A.A.F.
F. WEBB.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3413
Wednesday, July 11, 1945
“ONE LONGING LING’RING LOOK BEHIND.”
“Gray’s ‘Elegy' was John Curtin’s favorite poem. Like Mr. Scullin, he knew it by heart.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street >
London, E.C.4.
JOHN CURTIN.
Death came mercifully to John Curtin,
fourteenth Prime Minister of Australia.
Though he had his vicissitudes in youth
and in young manhood, his life was for-
tunate, and in his latter years dis-
tinguished. He was happy in his choice
of a helpmate and of a career. Thrice
defeated at the polls before he became
a member, and defeated again after three
years, he became, to his own astonish-
ment, party leader a year after his return
at the subsequent election, Prime
Minister five years later, and in the en-
suing year the single Labor P.M. who has
won a general election as such, and
that with the greatest House majority on
record and with party control of the
Senate assured.
As party leader and P.M. Curtin was
spared the internal strife which convulsed
the Labor Administrations, of Mr, Hughes
and Mr. Scullin and sickened Watson of
Labor politics. He was spared, too, the
physical tragedy that befell Deakin at no
great age, and the decay of his own intel-
lectual powers. Like many elderly men
still living, and one at least still in Parlia-
ment, he developed a heart condition for
which rest is the only treatment. The
rest he could have had ; it would have
been granted to him ungrudgingly. It was
by his own decision that he carried on,
and by his own decision also, arrived at in
1940, that he bore an undue burden of
responsibility and worry. Last week he
failed rapidly, and before dawn on
Thursday, after a “tough day” (his qwn
expression), he passed away without pain
in his sleep.
Nine of the fourteen Prime Ministers
have been native-born Australians. Not
the greatest though not the least of them,
Curtin loved his country, and labored for
it faithfully according to his lights. He
had endearing personal qualities which
brought him friends like Mr. Menzies
and General MacArthur, so different in
so many things. A strong man he was
not, though a press uncommonly indul-
gent to him (it had been hostile to each
of his Labor predecessors) paraded him
as Strong Man John, the Personality, first
among equals in the Big Four.
He repaid this support by gathering
the young lions of the press about him at
frequent conferences, after the fashion of
Mr. Roosevelt. These conferences must
have taken a great deal out of men
already fully occupied. Matching of wits
with a large party of newspapermen, and
that as a regular thing, would tax the
endurance of younger men with less ex-
acting duties to perform. It is signifi-
cant that Mr. Truman is not continuing
the White House palavers, and Mr.
Churchill who, with his colleagues, has
stood up to “the strain of war-time Ad-
ministration evidenced by all the leading
members of Cabinet” (“S. M. Herald”)
for a longer period than the Administra-
tion at Canberra, has never had any use
for press conferences. He takes the view
that policy should be announced and
elucidated, when elucidation is necessary,
in Parliament.
A far greater mistake was made by
Curtin when he refused the offer of a
national Government, made to him by
Mr. Menzies in 1940, with himself as
leader. On home policy the parties were
divided but, as the event has shown, to
no greater extent than the parties to the
splendidly successful coalition in Britain.
In this vital matter Curtin gave up to the
party what was due to the country, re-
fusing it a continuation of the valuable
administrative experience gained by Mr.
Menzies and his associates in two years
of struggle, during which the fighting
services had been moulded into effective
instruments of warfare, finance had been
grappled to the war effort and muni-
tions were coming out of the factories
and plants in an ever-swelling stream.
With Mr. Menzies as Attorney-
General, Mr. Fadden as Treasurer, Dr,
Page as Minister of Food, Mr, McLeay
as leader of the Senate and Mr, Cameron
in a post worthy of his unsurpassed
courage and knack of penetrating to the
heart of a matter (Army or Man-power),
and with Curtin as leader of the House and
the pick of his party (his own pick) as
colleagues, the country would have been
well served. Acceptance of Mr. Fadden’s
plan of post-war credits alone would have
been a great matter, preventing the emerg-
ence and exploitation by union bosses of
the only form of “industrial discontent”
which is at all reasonable. And with Mr.
Fadden holding the purse-strings there
would have been no crazy prodigality
such as has made Mr, Chifley himself,
whilst still submissive to Caucus de-
mands, very uneasy. And there would
have been no swift release of communists
convicted of sabotaging the war effort,
nor any easy pardoning of the whole out-
fit. Against workstoppers in general
Government and Parliament, with public
and service opinion solidly behind them,
would have been united, except for a
small minority of powerless Left-wingers.
When Japan came into the war the
country, save for the trouble-making ele-
ments, was ready for a national Govern-
ment. It was then, for Mr. Curtin to give
the word, and he could never find it in
his heart or conscience to give it. The
defects of his education as a public man
came out. He was grounded in a bad
school, his preceptors being two clever,
stbrmy, uripractical characters, Tom Mann
and Frank Anstey, and his education was,
at it were, completed during the con-
scription campaigns. To him the party
was the State, and to Mr. Menzies, Dr.
Page, Mr. Fadden and Mr. Cameron he
greatly preferred “good” party men who
were to be proved inexpressibly bad
administrators, adding immeasurably to
his cares.
Curtin had no idea of the doctrine of
Cabinet responsibility. It was his fashion
to let any of his Ministers say or do any-
thing they were pleased to say or do, and
if what they said or did alarmed the public
or ran counter to Government policy or
even conflicted with his own election
pledges he never publicly rebuked them,
much less asked for their resignations.
He must have known when Caucus elected
the Ministry that half a dozen of those
thrust on him were duds, but their
“loyalty” to the party or to him over-
rode all their shortcomings and imperti-
nences. He must have known also that
industrial anarchy was not only wicked
but dangerous, and at first he denounced
it strongly, characterising coalfield work-
stoppers as traitors; but all his denun-
ciations, threats and reproaches subsided
into a weak-kneed acceptance of a posi-
tion which, in the case of coal-produc-
tion, drifted from bad to villainous. If
worry shortened his days, as Mr. Scullin
believes, the cause of it came not from
the Opposition, which treated him always
with courtesy and consideration, or even
from the war situation (it was remarked
in The Bulletin office, which he visited
from time to time, that he never looked
better or seemed more at ease than in
the spring of 1942, when the war was not
going well anywhere), but from his own
side, and particularly from a quarter he
had always previously championed with
special fervor.
Curtin’s last speech in the House, de-
livered on April 18, was on the death of
President Roosevelt, to whom he gave
full credit for the great measures taken
and the heartening personal messages sent
when Australia was in dire need. It was
unfortunate that, through want of imagi-
nation, not want of feeling or courage, he
never went to see the troops, Roosevelt’s
and his own, when they were fighting on
Australian territory at bitter cost (the
Americans were very nice about it in
public, but they must have made private
comparisons); it is sad that these two
eminent and amiable men should have
been fated not to witness the complete
triumph of the cause in which they
expended themselves. The President
never knew “that eternal want of pence
which vexes public men.” Curtin lived
simply and died poor. It will be Par-
liament’s duty to make a generous provi-
sion for his widow ; and in this the nation
will assuredly concur.
New Province for Caucus.
Observations of a Bulletin man who
has been studying the New Guinea native
at close quarters:
The impressions I have formed are favorable.
Short in stature, but well built, the native
carries himself well, holds his head high, looks
you straight in the face and seems to have his
share of pride of race. He is intelligent and
faithful. Mr. Ward would no doubt frown on
his habit of addressing the Digger as “master,”
but when a passing boong says “Good-day,
master,” there is no trace of servility. It is
just his customary form of address to any white
man.
Two of our signallers were staggering uphill
bowed down under the weight of a wireless,
batteries, packs and weapons. There is a limit
of 301 b. on a native carrier’s load but no limit
for “white boongs.” Our chaps were wet
through with sweat and panting hard. A boong
on the way down passed them and said, a
wealth of compassion in his voice, “Poor white
master! ”
In this climate walking is an effort and hill-
climbing a purgatory. A track marked boldly
on the map is just a footpad through kunai or
jungle, and most of the time it is muddy and
slippery. The boongs are a great help, and,
to our patrols, invaluable. They can actually
smell a Jap. In dense country a native scout
can get to within a couple of yards of a party
of Nips, come back and report without the
Nips knowing they have been observed.
One police boy, rather famous for these one-
man patrols into the enemy’s lines, was noticed
to have a brand-new set of Jap dixies and was
asked how he got them. He said “This boy
lose dixies. This boy go out bush, im see
two times three Japan man eating kai. Japan
man have new dixies. This boy watchem.
Japan man finish kai, wash-wash dixies putim
down. This boy pickim up. Japan man look
round, no see dixies. Japan man talk-talk other
Japan man what man fake dixies. Other Japan
man talk-talk ’im no take dixies. Japan man
lookabout. No see this boy. This boy come
back. Japan man dixie good dixie.”
Speaking of Japs, if a boong says there are
three times ten and three more you can rely
on there being more than 30 and fewer than
40. To one I said “You Wewak boy or Aitape
boy?” He replied “Me Aitape boy. Wewak
boy go along Japan man.” He waved towards
the hills. “Australee come. Boom! Boom.
Japan man finis’. Wewak boy finis’.” Be-,
tween “man” and “finis’ ” and between “boy
and “finis’ ” he interposed a word which can
be found in the dictionary. It is perfectly good
pidgin.
Another native I met spoke very good Aus-
tralian. Watching shells fall on the hills he
said, contemplatively “Japan man no like.
Japan man say ‘What a bastard! ’ ”
Natives working for us have numbered iden-
tity discs and are very proud of them. On
the beach one of our chaps read the number
on a native’s disc and repeated it, 817. The
boong then recited “eight and one is nine,
one and seven is eight, eight and nine is 17,
eight and one is nine and seven is 16.
Having thus demonstrated his knowledge he
gave a contemptuous wave of his hand, as
thnnch dismissing the subject, and said “Mission
talk!”
An interesting and useful race, and the
same is true of their brothers and cousins
in Papua. In their condition or conduct
there is no apparent occasion for any
heart to bleed on their account; but Mr.
Ward’s heart bleeds for all of them.
Transferred nearly two years ago from
Labor and National Service to External
Territories, Mr. Ward straightway dis-
covered that they were “Fuzzywuzzy
angels” and had been victims of “shabby
treatment”; and he has entered upon
their emancipation, in the first place,
like Alderman Mike, by inthrojuicin’ a
bill.
He has called it the Papua-New
Guinea Provisional Administration Bill,
and it is to rain “benefits,” most of them
to be prescribed “by regulation.” Among
them are “a greatly improved ration
scale,” wage-increases (50 p.c. in Papua
and 200 p.c. in New Guinea), reduced
working hours in both territories to the
44-hour week as in Sydney, a “maximum
employment period” (12 months), with
“repatriation to home villages at the em-
ployer’s expense,” extinction of the in-
denture system “within five years or even
less,” and “a vigorous programme of
education in its broadest sense.” Licenses
to engage labor are to be issued only to
“persons approved by the Administra-
tion.”
Until further notice the public service,
like the Administration, is to be pro-
visional and to execute orders from Mr.
Ward’s department in both territories.
“Officers of the former services,” many
of whom have been busily engaged
against the enemy, are to “remain sus-
pended from office,” but “will be entitled
to join the provisional Administration.”
A rotten return for deeds which, in many
cases, deserve to be written in a golden
book; but Mr. Ward and party-
are not more interested in these faith-
ful servants of Australia and of the
natives than they are in the many ser-
vicemen who joined up from the trading
banks, and whose future is also darkened
by “Labor” measures.
In other years Mr. Ward was not at
all interested in the natives except when
he was railing at “British imperialism”;
then it might occur to him to bracket them
with the natives of India, Malaya and
other British possessions as brutally
treated serfs. At the outbreak of
the German war he - tried to prevent
their being protected by called-up
men from Australia, as well as by the
A.I.F. —he had no use for the A.I.F. or
for any fighting part in the war, although
he was keen on Australia making money
out of it. The view held in the army
was that the defence of Papua, New
Guinea and the Solomons was vital to
the defence of Australia. Mr. Ward’s
idea was that if “the exploiters” wanted
to defend these territories “the ex-
ploiters” should be left to do it them-
selves. He allowed that there might be
a call-up of “exploiters” and officials and
one was made at Moresby on January
27, 1942, his Government having been
in office since October* 7, 1941. In the
words of the Administrator, quoted by
Mr. Barry, K.C., “the call-up paralysed
the administration and the ordinary
civilian life of the town. ’
Mr. Barry is Mr. Ward’s counsel. He
was commissioned by Mr. Ward to “in-
quire into the circumstances relating to
the suspension of the civil administration
in Papua in February, 1942,” and he
took evidence from 40 witnesses: at Mel-
bourne (three days), at Sydney (nine
days), at Townsville (one day, there
being one witness), at Moresby (two
days), at Sydney again (one day) and at
Melbourne again (two days). One of
the many subjects dealt with was the
training and conduct of A.M.F. troops
who arrived in Moresby in January,
1942, and another the state of the army
at the end of March, 1942. The Moresby
chapter and a quotation from a Blarney
report are distinctly unflattering to Mr.
Ward’s Government, although its respon-
sibility is not mentioned, and they in no
way support Mr. Ward’s frequent boasts
in 1943, the election year, that his Gov-
ernment put everything to rights—restored
morale, altered the “Tory” strategy which
contemplated a retreat behind “the Bris-
bane line,” wrested order from “Tory”
chaos and Saved the Country.
There has been some marvelling among
members on both sides of the House as
to why Mr. Ward should have called for
such a report, which he did on November
17, 1944, and published it while incu-
bating the Papua-New Guinea Pro-
visional Administration Bill. Anyway,
the Moresby lads have found a sturdy
champion in Opposition Senator Man-
ner, a veteran of two wars, who served
in Papua himself. Said Senator Mattner:
It was indeed unfortunate that many of
the men were only 181 years old and had
had only a few days’ training. They were
ill-equipped, and provisions were not plenti-
ful. Before civilians were evacuated from
Moresby these militiamen treated white
women, nurses and natives alike with
respect. Considering all the facts, their
behavior was remarkably good.
And he “praised highly the conduct
and discipline of the 13th Field Regi-
ment, in which he was second-in-corn-
mand to Lieut.-Colonel Fox, afid the
Eighth Field Ambulance,” both South
Australian units.
About the only good thing that can be
said for the introduction of the Papua-
New Guinea Provisional Administration
Bill is that it will furnish an opportunity
to have the Barry report debated, though
the opportunity may be thwarted. R. W.
Robson, who has forgotten more about
the islands than the Minister of External
Territories will ever learn, has charac-
terised the Ward Plan as “a socialist
trick.” Certainly it looks like a scheme
for “socialising” industry and govern-
ment (plantations are to be under “con-
trol” and the local legislatures are abol-
ished) and introducing a counterpart of
the class war that rages on the N.S.W.
coalfields, with Mr. Ward’s warm
approval, often expressed. Mr. Ward
asserts that his satrapy is to be “made
an example of the principle of trusteeship
respecting dependent peoples proposed by
Australia at the UNCIO Conference”;
and a lot more will be heard of that when
or if the “principle” is explained.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Shocks from Wool.
Australia is due for a couple of finan-
cial shocks from its greatest wealth-
producer, wool.
The wool cheque for 1944-45 was
£62,602,408, a reduction of more than
£11,000,000 on the 1943-44 cheque. The
clip for 1944-45 was 3,123,112 bales, the
smallest since the war began. Average
weight per sheep was down at least Hlb.
The 1945-46 season is unlikely to re-
cover the lost ground. More than
20.000. sheep are dead. In many
places ewes were not mated, lambing was
badly knocked and there were costly
communist shearing strikes. A great
many “small” men will be stuck for the
means to rebuild their flocks. Good feed
from now until next year’s shearing will
to some extent offset the drop in aver-
age cut per sheep, but at least two good
seasons will be needed for “normalcy to
return.
The country has wonderful recupera-
tive powers. In 1890 it depastured
98 000,000 sheep. In the 1902 drought
the numbers fell to 70,500,000, but by
1910 they had risen to 92,000,000. The
1914 drought reduced them to 70,000,000,
and the 1919 drought held them back to
78 000,000; but by 1926 the country
was running 104,000,000, by 1938
113.000. and by 1942 125,500,000.
It is a grand country for wool, the
best in the world ; but it never had a
worse doing than in the recent drought.
Cities and Treasuries will feel the effects
for years. Yet Governments, above all
the Commonwealth Government, are
blithely spending as if the loss of
20.000. sheep and a drop of ? over
£11,000,000 in value of a single year’s clip
didn’t matter a dump. At Canberra the
state of the greatest Australian industry
gets little more attention than the claim
of a bunch of wharfies for more beer.


Ungarnered Sea-harvests.
What is it that has prevented even mod-
erate development of Australia’s vast and
varied fisheries? At the present season
enough mullet and sea-bream are passing
northward along our eastern coasts on
their annual migratory voyage to afford
loading for hundreds of food-ships to
hungering Britain and Europe without
substantially diminishing their incalcul-
able numbers.
Some of the world’s richest trawling
grounds lie off the N.S.W. and South
Queensland coasts. Shoals of sardines,
square miles in extent and equal in flavor
and processing-quality to the best Nor-
wegian kinds, pass up the Barrier Reef
every spring. Great schools of tunny
and giant mackerel come southward every
summer through the same waters. Tas-
manian, Victorian, South Australian and
Westralian waters are almost equally rich
in commercially valuable kinds of fish.
A year before World War the Second
descended upon us Australia was im-
porting 355,249 cwt. of fish, valued
at £1,540,522, and exporting 5834 cwt.,
valued at £25,724. It represented a trade-
debit balance of 60 to one against Aus-
tralia in an article which she has in pro-
fusion at her very doorstep for the mere
trouble of picking it up.
In normal times Britain has a yearly
consumption of 421 b. of fish per head of
population as against Australia’s 131 b.
This has been used as an argument that
Australians are not fish-eating people. The
argument is unsound. The truth is that
they will eat as much fish as their British
cousins do—if they can get it. The total
take of Australian fish for the last avail-
able statistical year was 574,115 cwt.,
which works out at approximately 91h.
per head of population.
The pitifully small scale on which the
industry was conducted is shown by the
fact that the 5002 boats engaged in it
employed 8342 men amongst them all, a
few over three men to every two boats.
This means in practice that the offshore
fisheries, most valuable and productive of
all, were not being developed or worked.
Yet there is hope that a solution will
be reached after hostilities cease. The
C.S.I.R. made a promising beginning in
1938-39, and the information then col-
lected from experimental cruises of a
special trawler and from the research
station at Port Hacking (N.S.W.) will still
be available. Unless company taxation
chokes off investors, processing plants
and seagoing fishing fleets should
afford profitable returns, as they have
done in Britain and Europe, Better means
of transport by road, rail and air to
inland areas and other hitherto inacces-
sible markets will be available for fresh
fish, and the new methods of quick freez-
ing at very low temperatures will enhance
keeping quality.
Meanwhile, every thinking Australian
can put in useful work for his country
by extracting from his Federal member a
promise of active support to all C.S.I.R.
and other organised efforts toward the
development of Australian fisheries. For
if we do not develop them ourselves it
will not be many years before we will
lose a substantial part of them. Beyond
the three-mile limit the seas are free to
all, and much of our best fishery-ground
lies there
In Sarawak.
From John Brennan:
Lutong, Sarawak, was the oil-refining and
shipping centre for the fields at Seria, 23 miles
north, and Miri, just four miles south. It was
the largest oil refinery in the British Empire, as
Seria was the Empire’s largest potential oilfield.
From Lutong can be seen the forest of derricks
on the low, flat coastal country and on the
escarpment behind Miri.
For the landing the recipe was as before —a
concentrated naval bombardment culminating
in the searing, sweeping barrage of the rocket
ships as the tractored landing vehicles churn a
way to the beach. The bombardment clouds
the land in the smoke and dust of the explo-
sions. The rocket ships head directly for the
beach, the assault craft spread between them,
and then they are lost from sight, wreathed
around in belching flame and smoke as the loud,
hard roar of the salvoes from the destroyers
gives way to the soft, swishing chase of the
rockets, tearing at the air.
The dense black smoke from a burning oil-
tank is blown low along the coast above the
trees. The surf is rolling in along the shallow
beach. The tractored landing vehicles grind a
way up on the sand, but the light and shallow-
draft landing boats are tossed about in the sea.
Within two hours of the landing the assault
troops had occupied all their first objectives—
the airfield, such as it was, with the usual litter
of wrecked Jap aircraft; the refinery; the
greater part of Lutong township. By the bridge
over the Miri River they found food prepared
and still warm. There was a brief exchange of
fire with a party of eight Japanese who fled
back beyond the river. That was the only
contact with the enemy during the day.
During the night six canoes, each carrying
two or three Japs, made to cross the Miri
River. They were sunk by machine-gun fire.
Patrols pushed out towards Miri town.
It was obvious that the enemy had made
great use of Lutong during his occupation. The
refinery had been almost completely destroyed
by the bombing, but the attacks, finely concen-
trated, had been confined to the plant and the
tank farm. Living quarters and warehouse
buildings were almost untouched. There were-
new supplies of every kind in the warehouses —
tools, pipe fittings, nuts, bolts, ropes, cables,
electrical supplies. There were abandoned
motor vehicles, a dozen heavy machine-guns and
a great deal of technical aircraft equipment.
And in a prison camp just beyond the re-
finery there were 150 Indian prisoners-of-war.
They had been captured in Singapore. From
the 17th Field Co. Royal Bombay Engineers
and the 13th Pioneer Battalion mostly, they had
been brought to Lutong on May 5, 1942. They
had worked as engineers in the refinery and
on the building of oil-storage tanks.
Big, bearded, handsome fellows, quiet and
reserved, but now faintly smiling, they were in
a pitiable condition. Some of them were
stretcher cases; and 68 more were in immediate
need of dressing for wounds in the legs and
feet. Preliminary examination at a dressing-
station suggested that in four cases amputation
would be necessary. The great majority were
undernourished, their arms and legs just sticks.
Some could move only by shuffling on their
haunches.
In their three years at Lutong they had re-
ceived no medical treatment. Beri-beri and
malaria cases and wounded alike had been worked
long hours on ten ounces of rice per man per
day without sugar or tea. Of the 300 brought
from Singapore 16 were known to have died.
Their wounds, caused by beatings with wooden
sticks, had left large ulcers, which in most cases
had eaten to the bone. If a man refused to
work because he was too ill to stand he would
be lifted from the ground and beaten. They
were given neither clothes nor blankets. Most
of them were in rags, but some had managed
to save items of their uniform, and a number
had odd musical instruments and other small
personal articles.
The Japanese had begun to leave about ten
days earlier, when the first Australian landings
were made in the Brunei Bay area. They had
taken some 70 or 80 of the Indians for bearers,
the rest being abandoned.
There had been no work on the refinery
since December, when the first American
Liberators bombed the airfield and mechanical
plant. A number of Japanese were killed about
the airfield, and the survivors were very soon
unnerved by the continued attacks. At first
notice of a raid, the Indians said, the Japs would
drop their arms and run for the jungle. Their
condition and morale deteriorated rapidly. They
seemed themselves to be short of food, and
when they left Lutong many were weeping;
some were too ill to travel.
A few days before they went a motor convoy
had staged through Lutong from the north. It
carried some Australian and British p.-0.-ws.,
but the Indians were unable to say what their
condition was. It stayed in the Lutong area
overnight and then pushed on farther south.
"Democracy" at Work.
A few vignettes of a type of life in the
great Soviet Union democracy which is
frequently discussed in other English-
speaking countries, never in Australia’s
Pink press:
Quentin Reynolds in Only the Stars are
Neutral : —
A few miles outside Kuibyshev we passed
one of the big concentration camps reserved
for political prisoners. Beyond them we
saw a long line of them working on a new
road. There were about 800 of them
On their faces there was no sign of hope.
A few soldiers with rifles guarded them
carelessly, for there was no place for them
to run, Steele and I looked at each other
and winced... .Those 800 prisoners were
women.
Wendell Willkie: —
We drove to Yakutsk in a heavy black
Soviet limousine. Between the airfield and
the town we looked, for the usual concen-
tration camp we have seen in some other
cities —half barbed-wire fences, with sentry
boxes at the corners. But there was none,
or at least we never came across it.
Walter Graebner, chief correspondent
of “Time,” in Round Trip to Russia: —
On the way we passed hundreds 0f....
barracks inhabited by labor battalions and
political prisoners. It is impossible to get
any accurate report's as to the number of
prisoners, why they were arrested, etc. In
many places I noticed high-roofed plat-
forms, on which rifle-bearing guards stood
to see that no one escaped.
Alice Leone Moats, in Blind Date with
Mars, reporting a conversation with a
Soviet citizen, who said:
Do you realise that as the result of a
great purge there is not one person in this
country who has not either been locked up
himself or has had some member of his
family in a concentration camp? Right
now there are some 15,000,000 people in
work camps and prisons.
Philip Jordan, an English correspon-
dent, in Russian Glory :
It was at Ryazan that we saw something
which, had I seen it at home, would have
filled me with indignation and disgust, but
which, because its victims seemed not to
care or object, was no concern of mine.
Standing beside our train was a long line
of flat cars intercepted here and there
by barren prison vans. On the flat track
opposite our window were perhaps 30
women guarded by an N.K.V.D. man with
a tommy gun. They were squatting like
dummies there, and had not moved for
hours, for against their exposed flanks the
first snows of winter had driven, and there
they now rested. One of the women had
a baby in her arms.... The others were
monoliths of sorrow. There was something
terrible about them. They looked like the
last inhabitants of a world they could
remember to have once been populated by
a race of happy men who existed no longer.
There is plenty of corroborative evi-
dence in the books of other impartial
visitors. ’ Walter Kerr told in The Rus-
sian Army how British crews landing
munitions at Murmansk burst into cheers
at the first sight of the wharf-laborers of
the Workers’ Fatherland. They were
silent. The silence was explained: the
“free” dock workers saluted were “prison
laborers far from their homes, guarded
by police with rifles and fixed bayonets.”
William A. White relates how beyond
the Urals last September the Johnston
commercial mission met a long, four-
abreast column of “ragged women in
makeshift sandals.” Fixed bayonets behind
them, in front of them and on either side
of them, they were marching along an
icebound road to a munition factory.
Except for the last two instances, the
extracts are quoted from a book called
The Real Soviet Russia, by David J.
Dallin, published by the Mather Foun-
dation in the University of Yale. It
quotes an American engineer, John Little-
page, who was employed by the Soviet
Gold Trust for ten years until 1937, as
saying that even then there were 1,000,000
to 5,000,000 labor slaves in Soviet Siberia,
and that “the recent purges, which
affected hundreds of thousands of
persons, undoubtedly added to the labor
army.”
Yet for over 20 years the “Australian”
Communist party has avowedly received
its instructions from the H.Q. which oper-
ates this system. No wonder it hates the
White Australia policy.
"Easily the Strongest"?
The office historian writes:
A communist verdict on the San Francisco
conference is that “Dr. Evatt and Mr. Forde
placed Australia on the map.” In the same
vein Mr. Forde burbled that “the Australian
delegation was easily the strongest ever sent by
this country to an international conference.”
and that “Australia came away from the con-
ference with its international reputation at a
higher standard than we have ever previously
achieved.” Highflown impertinences which can
be excused only on the score of ignorance of
Australian history, a working knowledge of
which the gentleman who is now P.M. has had
ample time and opportunity to acquire.
A landmark in Australian history was the
1887 Colonial Conference in London. To it
Victoria alone sent an eminent delegation:
Graham Berry, thrice Premier; James Service,
twice Premier, and (above all his fellows) Alfred
Deakin, only 31 then, but persuasive in argu-
ment with his peers and endowed with gifts of
oratory which were matched by few Britons of
that generation and have not been surpassed
in Australia since. The British rulers of the
period had ceded part of New Guinea to Ger-
many and were arranging to hand over the New
Hebrides to the French. Chiefly because of
Deakin’s eloquent protests, the latter project
was abandoned, and a British naval squadron
,was established in Australia. In a real sense,
Deakin secured for Australia a permanent role
in Pacific politics. »
He was back in London in 1900, accom-
panied this time by other eminent Australians,
Edmund Barton, Charles Cameron Kingston,
J. R. Dickson from Queensland and Philip Fysh
from Tasmania. They were charged with the
duty of seeing the Commonwealth Constitution
Bill through Parliament. S. H. Parker, Q.C.,
afterwards Chief Justice, was there with a
watching brief for then-reluctant Westralia.
Deakin, Barton and Kingston were the chief
plenipotentiaries, and they had to reckon with
Joseph Chamberlain, a man of great parts and
influence who didn’t care for vital features of
the bill. By sheer force of intellect and charac-
ter they overcame his opposition, and induced
him to address an appeal to the Westralian
Government to come in, which was effective.
The work those Forde-forgotten Australians did
then and there has had an influence which will
last to the remotest generation of Australians.
And there were the men who represented Aus-
tralia at the last Peace Conference: William
Morris Hughes, Joseph Cook (himself always a
fighter) and, with them as advisers, Robert
Garran, a man who, without ever seeking fame,
has left his mark on the political thought of
two generations, and John Greig Latham, then
a naval lieutenant-commander, afterwards
Attorney-General, Minister of Industry and Ex-
ternal Affairs and now Chief Justice of the High
Court.
The Forde-Evatt job was child’s play com-
pared with what Hughes had to undertake in
1919. He had to battle for a place at the Peace
Conference (even Lloyd George and Churchill
were “not enthusiastic”), to face down a Japan-
ese threat to the White Australia policy, to
secure the mandate over New Guinea (the
formula was drafted by Latham), and in the
process overcome the conscientious doubts of
President Wilson, obsessed with his Fourteen
Points. The little man came away with every-
thing it was humanly possible to gef, except
absolute Australian control of Nauru. The
Nauru mandate was conferred “upon his Britan-
nic Majesty,” but to Australia was assigned
the appointment of Administrator for the first
five years, and Australia found Nauru a very
valuable property until the Japanese seized the
island in 1942.
Mr. Forde ought to read Ernest Scott’s
account of Hughes’s exertions at the Peace Con-
ference. He was not desultorily occupied for
nine weeks, as were the gentlemen who went to
San Francisco; from June to December, 1918,
he “regularly attended meetings of the Im-
perial War Cabinet,” and for the ensuing six
months he was engaged on the peace treaty.
When the treaty came up for ratification in the
Commonwealth Parliament S. M. Bruce was on
hand to testify to what his leader had done:
It was freely stated from one end of Eng-
land to the other that the Prime Minister of
Australia was imperilling the whole treaty
by the policy for which he stood and
fought, and with respect to which he would
not give way in the smallest degree. In
securing this mandate he has gained a great'
thing for us.
Bruce himself has represented Australia at
international conferences with considerable
effect. His efforts, too, seem to have been tor-
gotten. _ _____
At a Government Bureau.
“Ek Dum”: For those puzzled tax-
payers who wonder at the cost of govern-
ment, I submit a report on a mission to
the N.S.W. Tourist Bureau, Martin-place,
Sydney. Object: to ask for copy of
pamphlet advertising the beauties of Can-
berra. Time: 10.28 a.m., July 5.
There were three persons at the counter
when I arrived. One wanted to know
whether and when accommodation could
be obtained for a fortnight in Canberra.
Time occupied, four minutes. Second cus-
tomer was a lady who was anxious to
change a time of booking something
already booked. Attendant read forms or
receipts produced by lady, explaining how
very difficult it was to do these things,
until the lady had been reduced to abject
state of mind.
Then attendant walked slowly across
room, opened large brown-paper parcel
tied with string, took one document, com-
pared it with lady’s form, tied up parcel,
paused deep in thought, untied parcel, in-
dulged in meditation, tied up parcel
again, walked five steps, returned and
untied and tied up parcel. And so to a
table occupied by another civil servant.
Both looked at watches. Conversation —
time, six minutes. Conversation com-
pleted, attendant walked back to parcel,
then walked to counter, explained at
length difficulties of situation ; after four
minutes 30 seconds promised to try to do
something if new form filled in and lady
came back next day.
Attendant filled in new form. Walked
round room calling at several desks,
forms in hand. Paused at table, sat down,
had further conversation, walked to win-
dow recess and appeared to indulge in
silent prayer, returned to desk near
counter, indulged in some mysterious
operation with another public servant,
strolled across room, holding conversation
on the way, soldiers, sailors and airmen
and women having meanwhile gathered
at counter. Returned to consider, stood
as one in a daze, back to customers.
At that stage my self-control gave way,
and I asked loudly if attendant was too
busy to hand me a pamphlet about Can-
berra. Attendant searched languidly
under the counter and produced it. it
had taken me just over 29 minutes to get
it.
The N.S.W. Tourist Bureau is the win-
dow through which strangers often catch
their first glimpse of Government effici-
ency in Australia.
The Land Industries.
The fourth report of the Rural Recon-
struction Commission, like the first three,
is a very fair summing up of the troubles
afflicting Australian land industries and
offers constructive suggestions for their
cure or removal. A valuable appendix
is an account in detail of the various mar-
ginal wheat schemes.
About the best thing in the report is
the exposure of the fallacious notion that
farming can be restored to a sound
economy by Government doles. The
fallacy of it was always obvious to people
familiar with the land and its ways, for
to make grants of tax-money to bad
farmers and to maintain disproportionate
high costs and foolish “controls” of farm
produce never succeeded in any country.
As the Commission points out:
Artificial aids to prices may be necessary
at certain times and in certain circum-
stances, but a vigorous and continuous
policy of adjusting unsatisfactory cases by
individual treatment according to circum-
stances and necessity will considerably
lessen both the demand and the need for
artificial aids and ultimately prove far less
costly It is remarkable how ready to
the tongue is the cry “Give us a price and
we will be right.” Of course they will be
right. Any individual or business in a posi-
tion to alter prices at will would never
have to worry about efficiency or faults in
establishment and organisation... .Pro-
ducers are apt to lose sight of the fact that
as prices rise markets tend to shrink^
The Commission concludes, and
rightly, that subsidies are merely pallia-
tives, and that land industries will
. remain in trouble until means are found
of eliminating useless farmers and those
who murder the soil, applying the lessons
of the tremendous national losses arising
from bad agricultural policies and gener-
ally making the education of farmers and
the solution of their difficulties a national
rather than a variegated State affair. To
which it might be added that the less
party politicians have to do with it the
better, though when they do insist on
“control” they have an obligation to see
that farmers get a fair price for their
produce.


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land:
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SfcLWYN KING. Managing Director
The“ATLAS”
8-inch Lathe
With
Gap
Bed
f
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS. SHAPERS. PLANERS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
Built to
SCHLESINGER
STANDARDS
of
ACCURACY
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of
accuracy followed by English anil Con-
tinental lathe manufacturers are rigidly
observed in the building of all “MARS
Lathes. In addition, all necessary
revolving parts are DYNAMIC ALLY
BALANCED and Gear Teeth are
Generated. Hence the smooth vibration-
less running of “MARS” Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “Mars” Lathes Is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert
& Co. Pty. Ltd.. 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd.,
2S Market St., Melbourne.
STOCKISTS;
Qoodall & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
M. C. Alder. A.LA.,
General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
Lyons was the first P.M. to die in
harness, and, having to establish a prece-
dent, Lord Gowrie commissioned Page to
form a Ministry. Following the prece-
dent at Curtin’s passing, the Duke of
Gloucester handed a commission to
Forde. Page came in on April 7, 1939,
and went out on April 26, Menzies, who
had resigned as Lyons’s Attorney-General
and Minister of Industry on March
20, being sworn in as leader of a
Ministry restricted to U.A.P. members.
It is not clear at the moment that Forde,
the 15th P.M., will last as long as Page
did, but he has hopes.
If all the votes can be mustered at the
Caucus election of the P.M., N. S.
Wales will have 26 out of 70. For that
reason alone Chifley will start favorite
—if he starts: he will be 60 on September
22, and his health could be better. He
might be able to help N.S.W. members
in doubtful electorates, which would be
beyond Forde’s power.
If Chifley succeeds Curtin he will
be the seventh P.M. from N. S. Wales.
There were three, Barton, Watson and
Reid, in the first four years of Federa-
tion ; then came Cook (1913), Hughes
(1915) and Page (1939), None of the six
lasted a full Parliamentary term as a
P.M. from N.S.W.; for over five-
sevenths of Hughes’s period he was
M. for Bendigo. The record is not
flattering to N. S. Wales, considering
that it has two-fifths of the population.
New Yorkers during the same period
have filled the Presidential office for
nearly 20 years (it would have been
nearly 24 years had the second Roose-
velt lasted out his fourth term) and have
rarely been without candidates for the
Presidency or Vice-Presidency. New
York has one-tenth of the U.S. popula-
tion.
Archie Cameron on the War Gratuity
Bill, which he supported as a member
of the all-party committee that made the
recommendations:
I did not favor the payment of a gratuity
for home service. 1 regret that the armored
division, which had no scope in the Pacific,
did not take part in the fighting on the
Western Front. Although 1 cannot quote
actual figures, for security reasons, the
public should know that more than half the
army has not been abroad.
And all with an election due in twelve
months or so, if not earlier. Why, the
man is incorrigible!
The extraordinary mortality among
Victorian Assemblymen has been added
to by the passing of John McDonald
Ellis, member for Prahran. Whereas the
N. Assembly, with 90 members, has
had only three death-caused vacancies in
four years, the Victorian Assembly, 65
members, has had seven in a little over
half the time. Like H. M. Cremean,
who died in May, Ellis qualified for
Parliament by municipal service as coun-
cillor and Mayor. Normally Prahran is
a bit more Labor than Liberal, but the
Prahran workers never forgot Ellis’s great
hearted efforts for them during the
depression.
Joseph Cook was a member of the
Allied commission which drew up the
boundaries of Czechoslovakia, incorpora-
ting in the synthetic republic Bohemia,
Moravia, Slovakia and Ruthenia. A
racy historian, Harold Nicolson, has re-
called Joseph’s contributions to the dis-
cussions while paying a tribute to his
“sense.” M. Cambon asked the man
who was P.M. in 1913-14 to state the
, official British Empire view, hoping for
some difference of opinion. “Well,”
replied Joseph, “all 1 can say is we are
a happy family, aren’t we?” Somewhat
staggered, the French started an argu-
ment about the Delbriick nationality
law, and again asked Joseph for “the
official view.” “Damn Delbriick!” said
Joseph. “How right! How true!”
Nicolson recorded in his book, appre-
ciating the fact as a Foreign Office man.
The French had to give up Joe as a bad
job.
By private arrangement the servile
Czechoslovakian Government has handed
over 800,000 Ruthenians, with about
5000 square miles of territory, to Russia.
The Prime Minister, one Fierlinger,
asserted with utter abjectness that the
sacrifice would have been consummated
in 1919 “if Russia had not then been in
difficulties.” Perhaps Jocook now regrets
that he had anything to do with the set-
ting up of the republic for which the
editors of “S. M. Herald,” the “Daily
Telegraph” and the “Sunday Telegraph”
were with difficulty restrained from going
to war in 1938.
The Shop Assistants’ Federation has
come out strong against communism. At
the instance of the Queensland branch,
it has been provided that no communist
or fellow-traveller (the definition seems
“KEEP YOUR EYE ON THE CALL BOY!”
wide enough to include fellow-travellers)
may be eligible for union office or for
appointment as delegate to any Federal
conference, and that “these rules shall be
registered in the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court.” Under a law of the
United States, known as the Hatch law,
communists are barred from all Federal
civil-service appointments.
According to Premier Dunstan, it is
the high cost of conversion approxi-
mately £769 —which has caused the State
Cabinet to reject the offer of used
army huts. According to L. C. Burne,
president of the Master Builders’ Asso-
ciation, the high cost is attributable
to building operatives bowing to union
policy of restricted production. Accord-
ing to D. Thomson, secretary of the
Building Trades Federation, the nigger
in the woodpile is the wasteful and primi-
tive methods employed by master
builders, Thus, house-hungry people
have a wide choice of explanations, if
no houses.
Maorilanders are asking anxiously
when the officers and men of Freyberg's
great division may be expected to return
and what the future holds for them. They
were last heard of in the Trieste region,
where, on the evidence of the N.Z.E.F.
war correspondent, a platoon of the 23rd
Battalion was “pocketed behind the re-
adjusted Yugoslav line for nearly a week.”
When about to move back to territory
assigned by Tito and his conquering
hosts and hostesses to the Eighth
Army the platoon was “stopped” by the
Yugoslavs, who had established a double
roadblock and refused to allow the New
Zealanders to move beyond these points.
The Kiwis killed time by playing Rugby
football, and Tito and his conquering
host and hostesses finally relented. How-
ever, a party of “British” soldiers, who
may have been Maorilanders, has since
been accused of “insulting the majesty of
the Slovene people,” and it is still un-
certain whether Tito and his male chorus
and corps de ballet will not declare war
oh the British Empire and the United
States,
In a review of the San Francisco con-
ference, “Newsweek” had the face to
assert that “honors for all-round effi-
ciency went to the Canadian delegation,
a supple, keen, matter-of-fact team,” Isn’t
this lese majeste or something?
A deputation from North Queensland
has ventured to Canberra and told the
“heads” of the shortage of stocks and
foodstuffs. It said Townsville’s normal
inward cargo requirements were 9000 tons
a month, but only 7000 tons had been dis-
charged during April and May. Then it
added that there were 1400 empty beer
casks in Townsville awaiting shipment
south before full ones could be sent north.
If that doesn’t bring action nothing will.
McKell turned up in London the other
day, borne to Britain from somewhere
in H.M.A.S. Australia. When reporters
discovered who he was he told them he
was “investigating”:
Investigating town and regional planning,
housing, land utilisation, location of in-
dustry, pub’lic-works policy, educational' re-
construction, employment policy, and local-
government reconstruction. “The New
South Wales Government has already pre-
pared extensive programmes.”
For “t” read “p.”
As a preliminary to the meeting of
Churchill, Truman and Stalin at Berlin,
London and Washington “recognised” the
Polish “Provisional Government of
National Unity,” which is three-fourths
communist. The free and unfettered
election promised at Yalta, though men-
tioned, was not made a. condition of
recognition. Maoriland is caring for
many Polish children, and Australian
hospitality should be offered to soldiers
who refuse to go back to what is left of
Poland and the part that has become
Russian. Ninth Division veterans can
vouch for the good qualities of their old
pais of Tobruk.
One of the A Senators, Armstrong, has
seriously suggested that tax-money should
be used to set up “a chain of luxury
hotels, with floor shows and bathing
beauties, to attract tourists.” What's
wrong with advertising the Canberra
■Vaudeville Show, run already on tax-
money and with luxury accommodation
laid on?
Maoriland, like Australia, is to have a
general election next year. Since the
Labor landslide in August, 1943, public
opinion in the Commonwealth has not
been tested, but Maoriland Labor has had
to fight a couple of by-elections and been
worsted in both. It had great hopes in
May of recapturing Hamilton, a city elec-
torate, putting up C, A. Barrell, the mem-
ber for eight years (1935-43), but Barrell
was beaten by a lady, Mrs. Ross, who
doubled the late Findlay’s general-
election majority. Health Minister Nord-
meyer, one of five Cabineteers who cam-
paigned for Barrell, had said that the
result would have “a tremendous effect
on the outcome of the general election.”
It is not to be imagined that Brisbane
politicians aren’t awake to the stir for a
northern State. They’ve offered the
northerners a plan for 25 “regions,” to be
run by regional councils, all under State
Government control. The offer reached
a Local Authorities conference at Innis-
fail and was promptly heaved out.
Communists were pleased with Peter
Fraser when, parting company with Dr.
Evatt for once, he voted against the
admission of Argentina to the San Fran-
cisco conference, but their pleasure van-
ished when he voted against the veto
granted to the five major Powers, being
“opposed to it from the beginning to the
end.” When his opposition proved fruit-
less he came out for “a new conference
in years to come, at which no nation will
have the right to veto amendments, and
at which a new form and a new life will
be instilled into the organisation.”
I give all credit to great nations like
Britain for their ability to rise in times of
international stress to the side of good
against evil and right against wrong. But
trust is not a one-way traffic.
So Fraser is no mean phrase-maker.
“Trust is not a one-way traffic” is a de-
cided improvement on Litvinov’s “peace
is indivisible,” now become as wearisome
in leading articles as “Stalin is a realist,”
though it won’t bear analysis.
Senator Keane is out with a plan for
the manufacture of 30,000 refrigerators.
The average housewife would like to
know what she is going to put in them.
A lot more of her is wondering what a
refrigerator amounts to if she hasn’t a
house to put it in.
There is a man who is quite satisfied
with the existing state of affairs in Aus-
tralia. He has no complaints about taxa-
tion, housing, transport, N.S.W. coal-
miners or meat coupons. Neither beer
nor cigarettes worry him, nor is he scared
of inflation or the effect on his wife of
having to tramp round food shops all
day and lug heavy parcels home. He
never objects to the fact that half the
population lives in the capital cities or to
Government interference with business
and industry and agriculture. He is, as
was said, satisfied with the existing con-
ditions here. He lives in Redfield, South
Dakota.
Seven was once a magical number.
There were Seven Champions of Christen-
dom, Seven Churches of Asia, Seven
Sages, Seven Principal Virtues, Seven
Wonders of the World and Seven Sins.
There were also a Seven Weeks’ and a
Seven Years’ War and Seven Sleepers.
The last was probably a prophetic refer-
ence to the seven Governments of Aus-
tralia.


dfdfd
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lately in Sydney on leave from his
Fijian troops. Padre Cowled, who hailed
originally from Junee (N.S.W.). A
Methodist missionary in Fiji when war
broke out, he is now senior chaplain to
the Fijian Military Forces. He served
overseas with the First Fijian Battalion
for a period of 16 months, which included
eight months on Bougainville. On one
occasion he went by ’plane to an outpost
maintained by the First Battalion behind
the Japanese lines in Central Bougain-
ville, and conducted services for troops
there. The citation for the recent award
of the 0.8. E. said “No task was too
great for him.”
Southport (Q.), home town of a long
list of decorated servicemen, has yet an-
other Squadron-Leader Alan John
Radcliffe, D.F.C., whose father, G. M.
Radcliffe, was a Rhodes scholar. Rad-
cliffe, sen., was a British Army captain
in the last war, and won the M.C.
Chairman of the Australian Wool
Board Douglas Boyd has announced the
appointment of Dr. Edgar Booth, Warden
of New England University College, as
Australian rep. on the International Wool
Secretariat, London. An A.I.F. artillery-
man from 1916 to 1919 in the last war,
winning the M.C. and being “mentioned,”
Dr. Booth was for a time senior lecturer
in physics at Sydney Uni., where he gained
his Doctorate of Science.
First awards of the Gowrie Scholar-
ship Trust Fund include two to service-
men—Wing-Commander C. S. Davis,
D.F.C., R.A.A.F., of Sydney, and Lieut.
L. N. S. Thomas, R.A.N.V.R., of Mel-
bourne. Davis, who’s 29, graduated B.Sc.
with first-class honors in both maths and
physics in 1938, next year took his M.Sc.
He qualified as a pilot-officer in the
R.A.A.F. in 1938, enlisted in the
R.A.F. in England in 1940, served in
England, the Middle East and Greece,
and, transferred to the R.A.A.F., last year
was on active service over New Guinea
and Pacific islands. Thomas in 1937 ob-
tained first-class honors (Melb.) in Eng-
lish language and literature, and won the
Professor Morris Prize for literary criti-
cism. Subsequently he went to a lecture-
ship in English literature at the Univer-
sity of Westralia, In May, 1941, he en-
listed in the R.A.N.V.R., and was later
Naval Intelligence Officer in forward
areas of New Guinea. He founded and
produced the monthly naval bulletin
“DIT,” of which he is editor. Davis will
head for Cambridge, Thomas for Oxford.
Charles E. Wheeler has done 40 years’
continuous reporting of the doings from
the ML. Parliamentary Press Gallery.
Now 65, he first footed it as a pressman
in Wales.
Both of them ex-A.1.F., war corre-
spondents, John Elliott and Bill Smith
were killed together by a burst from a
Jap machine-gun at Balik Papan. Eng-
lish by birth, Elliott, before taking to
journalism, was a boxer who turned pro-
fessional after being runner-up in the
light-heavyweight championship at the
Paris Olympic Games. Subsequently he
fought in the ring in America ; brought
the lightweight Ernie Izzard to Aus-
tralia ; had a number of fights here, in-
cluding a very game points defeat by the
Australian champion George Thomp-
son ; took Australian boxers to England ;
and succeeded W. F. Corbett as boxing
editor of the old “Referee.” In the sterner
arena, he fought with the Finnish Air
Force against the Russians in 1939, next
year joined the A.1.F., and saw El
Alamein and other Middle East fighting
before returning to write a novel and
join A.B.C. Smith had four years’ A.I.F.
service before being snapped up by De-
partment of Information, and lately his
factual broadcasts of the A.I.F. in action
up North were among the best things on
the air.
Passed his 90th milestone in Melbourne,
Arthur Peck, doyen of practising archi-
tects, one-time crack steeplechaser and
a yachtsman to whom other yachtsmen
bow in reverence. The love of the
sea bit him early. Having to go to
school at Cambridge, he elected to sail to
England in a windjammer. Returning, he
read an advertisement for volunteers to
go on a gold-hunting expedition in New
Guinea. With other youthful adven-
turers he signed on in the 57-ton schooner
Dove, and 17 of them set forth. They
prospected round the Astrolabe Gulf, got
more malaria than gold, were raided by
piratical Malays, drifted to the Equator,
were picked up by an American sailing
ship and finished their voyage in Yoko-
hama, Peck has a grandson with the
R.A.N.
The good man gone:
My acquaintance with John Curtin goes back
to his early days in Perth (W.A.). He was then
32; well-set-up, newly married, keen to make
good (as he did) as editor of the “Westralian
Worker,” but rather overwhelmed by the change
from the anti-conscription atmosphere of the
parts of Melbourne in yffiich he had moved.
The Perth feeling for conscription extended even
to Labor constituencies, and Curtin realised that
the Commonwealth election of May 5, 1917,
would go against his party.
Our newspaper offices adjoined, and we used
to discuss the war and the election on a
THE LATE PRIME MINISTER.
common footpath. “If Labor could only get
one man in,” he groaned. Labor didn’t get one
man in; the Nationalists —eight, five of them
Labor conscriptionists—swept the boards. No-
body could have imagined then what destiny
held in store for him.
Curtin soon surrendered to the spell which
Westralia exercises over Victorians. He made
his home in Cottesloe (one of his fellow-villagers
was Andree Hayward, afterwards The Bulle-
tin’s “T. the R.”), and from the scene of
his political successes he always went back to
it gladly. But war feeling died hard, and when
he stood for Perth in 1919 he was badly de-
feated by James Mackinnon Fowler, the member
since 1901.
Writing and speaking, he worked too hard at
that election and had a breakdown. He was
one of a party of pressmen invited to tour the
Murray irrigation areas by the ill-fated Jack de"
Gads. Anxious Mrs. Curtin asked other news-
papermen to take care of him on the train
journey. He could not make it; af an outer
suburban station he had to be helped out and
taken back to the city.
He was a candidate again for Fremantle in
1925, but suffered an even worse licking, his
conqueror being big-hearted old William
Watson, whom Bruce was to call the Abraham
Lincoln of the butter trade. One term was then
enough for Watson, and in 1928 Curtin became
M.H.R. for Fremantle, being re-elected when
Bruce —unfortunately for him —decided to go to
the country again in 1929.
But after the Scullin period Watson was in-
duced to come out again, and again the electors
sent Curtin back to his editorial chair. It was
then Jack said mournfully “I can beat anyone
for Fremantle but Bill Watson!” But only in
the years when the pendulum swung hard to the
left, 1929 and 1943, did the Fremantle electors
spare him anxious days and nights. In 1934,
and again in 1940, he was saved by preferences,
actually on the latter occasion because careless
Nationalists voted down the ballot paper. Be-
fore the preferences were counted he seemed so
certain to be defeated that a Labor member,
himself sure of election, sent out telegrams
asking big guns in “the movement” —one was
a State Premier and another the secretary of
a great union—to come to Canberra and help
in the choice of a successor.
It was a blow to Curtin to be left out of the
Scullin Ministry. Far from blaming Scullin
—who, in fact, was blameless —he sought the
P.M.’s friendship, and when he formed his own
Ministry was to make Scullin his closest confi-
dant and adviser. And the time that lesser men
gave to departmental duties he spent in studying
Parliamentary procedure, mastery of which was
to serve him well from 1935 onwards.
One of those weeklies which go in for
character sketches of the vulgarly intimate sort
has asserted that at one period of his career
Curtin drank to excess. I never saw him the
worse for liquor, and I doubt whether he could
have carried much. Until he contracted the
coronary occlusion which carried him off, as it
did Joseph Lyons, his only known trouble was
an astigmatism. An eye-doctor told him it
was the result of reading and writing too long
in the one position, and he used to advise
friends not to do it.
His life after he became P.M. is no particular
mystery. He gained and held the position be-
cause he was straight, not' because he was
strong. He suffered fools gladly, and paid for
this amiable weakness —so did the country.
Withal he made staunch friends, from General
MacArthur to Tracey, his car-driver, and his
manner was the same to all —he never put on
airs. He had the blessing of a good wife,
daughter of a student of affairs who was himself
no mean writer —he contributed to The Bulle-
tin, she once recalled with pride—and the
picture of her grief-stricken face will remain
fixed in the memory of those who took part
in the moving ceremonies at Canberra and
Karrakatta.
“Ex-Loco.”: The writer first met Ben
Chifley as a youth, a laborer in his late
’teens in Bathurst loco, depot in the early
1900’s. A shy chap then; efforts to in-
duce him to join the local debating society
were not successful for some years, but
later he found no difficulty in thinking
and expressing himself “on his feet.” He
had a good mentor in his father, recog-
nised in Bathhurst as a level-headed man
of spirit. It seems a long way from the
young Ben of those days to Rt. Hon.
Ben, P.C.
The Archibald Watson Prize, awarded
in S.A. annually to the medical student
most proficient in applied surgical
anatomy, goes this year to Roland
Maurice Georges Beard. A product of
St. Peter’s College, he’s a son of Dr.
Jack Roland Stanley Beard, lecturer in
gynaecology at Adelaide Uni., whose re-
searches into the mechanics of child-
birth have earned him world-wide praise.
G. C. Remington, selected by
U.N.R.R.A. as its Chief Administrative
Officer, South-west Pacific Area, is a
fifth-generation Australian with a fine
record of civilian, war service. When
Japan barged in he was given the job of
organising the Queensland activities of
the then new-born Allied Works Council,
with nothing to start from in men or
materials. Within four months he had
a staff of 430, with 15,000 men at work
and more coming in every day. Despite
that, when a “strike” was later staged in
his Brisbane headquarters over an ap-
pointment, he was shoved out. Wax
Organisation of Industry received him
gladly, and when U.N.R.R.A. came into
activity he became liaison officer between
them.
“Ek Dum’s” farewell:
Rear-Admiral Charles Gerard Muirhead-
Gould, D.F.C., looked anything but an invalid.
He was always apparently in rosy health. Yet
a heart affection debarred him from much of the
exertion which he loved, and held him back
from the high promotion in the Royal Navy
which he assuredly would have had if he had
been well. He was a Northamptonshire man,
one of the last of the old guard who entered the
Navy via the old Britannia, and in his 55 years
had seen the world thoroughly.
He had commanded a naval armored train in
France in the last war. He had been present
at the Allied occupation of Constantinople. He
had served with the Russian White Army as
N.L.O. in the campaign against the Bolshevists
in 1919, and had also served on the East India
Station, He had commanded one of H.M.’s
ships on the China Station; had been N.L.O.
with the Shanghai Defence Force in the troubled
year of 1927; had been staff officer to the
C.-in-C.; Captain (D) Third Destroyer Flotilla
in the Mediterranean; was then naval attache
at Berlin and in the Baltic countries during an
exciting three years before the Spanish civil war;
commanded H.M.S. Devonshire with the Medi-
terranean Fleet fill 1939. He left the position
of Director of Tactical Studies at the Admiralty
to become officer-in-charge of Sydney Naval
Establishments, which he held right through the
exciting period of the war, including the anxious
months of 1942, when the defence of Sydney
Harbor against the inroads of Japanese sub-
marines was part of his duty..
In Sydney he identified himself with public
movements. He was a regular attendant at Legacy
Club functions, and his voice was well known
on the radio —a clear voice, and the matter was
always interesting. He was an excellent teller of
tales and had plenty of material to work on —
his st'ory of the sidelights of the opening of .the
Hindenburg memorial at Tannenberg was one of
his most amusing. During his years in Ger-
many he had come into contact with the Nazi
leaders and used to boast ruefully that he owned
a signed portrait of Adolf Hitler which he
proposed to return “when opportunity offered”
—Hitler was dead before he returned to accept
the surrender of Heligoland and of the remnant's
of German squadrons. His sense of chivalry
sometimes got him into trouble as when, while
condemning Nazism from the bottom upwards,
he admitted that Hitler had done some good
for the German people, and even more so when
he accorded the Japanese naval men killed in
the raid on Sydney Harbor the honors of
war in burial. And he had a sense of humor.
The writer once secured for one of his
sailors’ funds a Lusby drawing of a naval
officer wearing 12 stripes on his sleeve, leaning
negligently on a bar and telling the barmaid
“I started as an Admiral-of-the-Fleet and worked
upwards.” M.-G.’s comment was ‘‘Lucky
fellow —a flag officer, able to drink in a bar,
and in Sydney and alone \” It was a tragedy
that he should have died when a little leisure
was due to him.
W. L. Sanderson, manager for the
Elder Smith Co. in Perth, moves across
to the head office in Adelaide to suc-
ceed T. E, Field, who has been g.m.
for 16 years and in the company’s ser-
vice for 64. Perth seems to be a good
training ground; Field was himself in
that office from 1903 to 1929.
Though his father was Premier of S.A.
and so is his son, the Thomas Playford
who passed on in Adelaide at 90 the
other day had no taste for politics, but
kept up the family tradition of fruit-
growing in the Adelaide hills. All three
were christened Thomas, The first
Thomas Playford fought at Waterloo ;
and a fifth was born to the present S.A.
Premier a few weeks back.
Harold Mercer, Bulletin contributor
over many years, is secretary to the new
council of the Australian Chess Federation.
If all the State bodies consent the winner
of the big Sydney Chess Club Jubilee
Tourney, to start on September 3, may be
recognised as temporary Australian cham-
pion, but the real revival of the Aus-
tralian championship congress will be
next year, Koshnitsky is the present
holder of the title.
Major-General J. E. S. Stevens, in
command in the Wewak zone, has been
appointed Assistant Public Service Com-
missioner, but military duties are likely
to debar him from taking up the job for
some time. He got into the 1914-18 war
at 18, was an A.I.F. subaltern when it
ended, and at 30 was a militia lieutenant-
colonel. Getting into this war with the
Sixth Divvy, Stevens was made major-
general in April, 1942, after command-
ing his Victorian Brigade in the early
Syrian dust-up. In New Guinea he led
the final Australian drive that won
Wewak Peninsula and airfield.
C. T, White, Queensland’s Govern-
ment Botanist, is on loan to the British
Government for a timber survey of the
Solomon Islands Protectorate. The job
is part of a general survey of forest re-
sources of the Crown colonies.
Into the silence:
At 65, while on retiring leave at Southport
(Q.), Dr. Joseph Mason Baldwin, Victorian
Government Astronomer, Educated at the old
University High and Melbourne University, he
won a scholarship in natural philosophy and
spent it at the Cape Observatory and at Pots-
dam, Germany. His grandfather was chief
assistant astronomer at Cambridge.
In Sydney, Miss Jeanie L. Ranken, authority
on the early pioneers. She was also active in
art and stage drama, and was a good critic of
both.
In Sydney, at 64, Wilfred E. Johnson, of the
Smith, Johnson chartered accountants firm, and
a great worker for the Diggers through Red
Cross, A.C.F. and Repat. A Londoner, he had
his education at Sydney High and University.
Johnson was one of those men whose staffs
swear by them as courteous and considerate
employers.
In Adelaide, at 84, Thompson Green, former
M.H.A. and one-time president of the Trades
and Labor Council in S.A. From Glasgow he
came to Australia in 1886, and spent many
years at Islington workshops until elected
member for Port Adelaide in 1910. He was
secretary of the Boilermakers’ Society for 20
years, and Mayor of Thebarton four times.
At 86, in Melbourne, Henry S. Higginson,
former assistant Secretary of the Board of
Works. A public servant for 54 years, he was
one of the original officers at the foundation of
the board on its present basis in 1891.
In Adelaide, Emily Williams, who half a
century back gave up work in the Education
Department of S.A. for politics. She was, in
her prime, secretary of the Single Tax League
and of the Women’s Land Reform League;
and claimed to be the last surviving original
member of the league which was prominent in
giving S.A., so early, women’s suffrage. She
never married.
At Brisbane, af 72, W. J. Affleck, a pioneer
of Jersey cattle-breeding in Queensland. Born
at Glentanner on the Darling Downs, he estab-
lished the Grassmere Jersey stud, cattle from
which held the Australian record for butter-fat
production for many years*


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: A Queensland firm obtained
from Mr. Dedman’s department the
release of 73 lawnmowers on the under-
standing that they were to be used “to cut
feed for poultry.” I had often wondered
why poultry farmers have such spacious
buffalo lawns surrounding their proper
ties. Now I know —they not only love
the exercise which strenuous and endless
mowing gives them, but they have even
trained fowls to prefer buffalo and couch
chippings to lucerne. Say what you like
about bureaucrats,j they do give the
harassed businessman a chance. I am
applying for the release of 250 poker
machines so that I may sell them to the
natives in New Guinea as practice cash
registers to fit Mr. Ward’s boongs for
the New Order.
* * * *
“Avon”: A notion that may commend
itself to Australian branches of the Navy
League, and that certainly will have the
enthusiastic support of artists, has re-
sulted in the wardroom of the M.L.
cruiser Gambia being brightened by an
array of land- and sea-scapes depicting
various aspects of Fernland. Wellington
Navy League, recognising that a warship
is a home as well as a fortress, and that
men fight no worse for a reminder of the
beauty of the land they defend, spon-
sored the idea, and was able to buy an
excellent selection of pictures, which was
gratefully received.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The head serang of a big
Sydney co. was asked to invite members
of the staff to dispose of tickets in an
“art union” for patriotic funds. He ex-
pressed enthusiasm, and was handed a
dozen books of tickets, which he distri-
buted among his staff. The staff also was
enthusiastic —until it discovered that from
each book the four free tickets given to
the seller had vanished.
* * * *
“Zake”: An Old Digger, happening
to be in Jerusalem on Anzac Day last
year, decided to rake up as many fellow-
Diggers as he could and hold a com-
memoration service. He succeeded in get-
ting together 140, among them veterans
who had stayed in the Holy City after the
last war, some near-the-top public servants,
including the Director of Public Services
and the Director of Health Service, a.nd
a few dozen servicewomen. The High
Commissioner for Palestine was present,
and the Chief of Police did the gathering
proud by stopping all traffic along the
Jaffa-road during the 40 minutes of the
service. At night a slap-up celebrations
shivoo—a purely buck affair —was thrown
by one Fred Auburn, a Y.M.C.A. official,
which 110 Diggers, Old and New, attended.
Highlight of the party was the display
by the proud host to all and sundry of a
long thigh scar, result of a potent jab by an
Australian bayonet on the morning of the
Landing. Yes, Fred Auburn was a Turk!
* * * *
“Clooter”: History has her records of
men cast alone among women, fiction and
the cartoonist have made play with the
theme, and young men have dreamed of
being marooned on a lonely island with a
chorus troupe. But no such visions
occurred to disturb the fancies of a group
of Australian p.-0.-ws. in an Austrian
stalag. Fed chiefly on cabbage soup and
required to do 14 to 16 hours a day heavy
physical labor on the diet, the men looked
forward only to the night’s rest and
thought only of food. Then the guards
announced that a man was needed for
work in the kitchen, which was beyond
the prisoners’ view, and they chose the
thinnest and weediest Australian of them
all. Presently his mates began to notice
that the kitchen-worker not only was put-
ting on weight but was wearing a some-
what happier expression, whereupon it
came out that there were women working
in that kitchen and generous helpings of
scran for the only male in sight.
* * * *
“Norther”: * Brisbane police have
opened a blitz on opium-smoking, being
newly armed with legislation which allows
them to use force either to gain entry
or to pull down walls or other suspected
hiding-places. Under the old Act they had
to confine themselves to demanding the
opening of doors, and the Chinese pur-
veyors made sure of time to clean up
evidence by having the smoking-den
behind four or five doors. Police might
know that opium was concealed under a
“Gosh, just on closing time!”
floor, but were powerless to tear the
floor up. Now they can operate effec-
tively, and in one day they landed four
Chinese, who brought £2OO in fines; an-
other got three months. Of the last 43
charged either with smoking the stuff or
having it in their possession four got jail
and the other 39 paid fines totalling
£3651. A notable thing about the fines is
that though they range up to £250 they’re
always paid on the nail.
*** ' ♦
“Visitor”: Enter for the merry mis-
print competition Adelaide “Advertisers”
Biblical reference of 26/5/’45 to “Elijah
the Fishbite” (1 Kings, 17, 1).
* * * *
“S.T.S.’: One of the few advantages of
getting old is that every good story seems
to recall two others. A recent one about
classical quotations which were (or
seemed to be) coarse recalled a Bulletin
curate long ago, reading Macaulay aloud
and toning down the battle of Ivry into
“for never saw I promise yet of such a
—er —blanky day.” And at one of Adel-
aide’s leading schools they swear to this:
When playing “Macbeth,” which opens
with a blood-stained messenger arriving
from a fight and being hailed accordingly,
the boy who had to speak the line didn't
like it at all. He was assured that it was
quite in order, but he remained doubtful.
“On the night” he got stage fright, could
remember only that there was something
awful to be said, and made the King of
Scotland inquire “Who is that bludger?”
* * * ♦
“I. Swan”: In the United States a dead
man can have as many adventures as a
live one. When an Indiana man died an
undertaker called to collect his remains,
but found another undertaker already in
possession, whereupon a blue began. The
dispossessed undertaker’s brother stopped
a bullet, so did the alleged claim-jumper’s
wife and nephew, and he himself was shot
dead. When last heard of the corpse was
being withheld from burial by the police
while they attempted to sort the squabble
out.
=N # * *
“Lao-dah”: Mempakul, scene of an
Australian landing in Borneo, was the
terminus of the Eastern Extension’s cable
from Singapore and was worked from
Labuan. It served the whole of British
North Borneo, but the traffic was small
and the place was run by one Indian
clerk, who was superintendent, operator
and messenger. One day the short cable,
which was laid over shallow coral reefs,
developed a fault and telegraph com-
munication became impossible. Some
bright lad suggested connecting the cable
up to the office telephone in Labaun but
the device didn’t work. The clerk’s
voice could be clearly heard but, although
he was vocal enough on the cable, he was
hopeless on the ’phone. He had a stutter
a mile long.
* * * *
“Gyuil”: Fatalists will find evidence
for their belief in the brief life-story of
William Pester, A. 8., R.N., a Bourne-
mouth (Eng.) man, dead at 26. Pester
was in the submarine service, and away
back in August, 1940, was the sole sur-
vivor of the Spearfish, sunk on active
service. Rescued by the enemy, he was
a p.-0.-w until released by the Anglo-
American surge into Germany and even-
tually went home on leave. One day last
week he put his girl on the pillion of a
motor-cycle, jumped on it himself and rode
smack into a bus. Pester and his girl
were killed.
“Popper”: That source of innocent
merriment the “S. M. Herald” art critic
is at it again, this time after viewing a
Sid Long show in Sydney:
If Sydney Long learned that even simple
passages must be regarded with subtlety,
and delicately varied to animate the spaces;
if he only forgot his cleverness and
attempted to understand the value of each
shape; if, finally, he would only regard
Nature with a little sympathy, he would
gain immeasurably.
The artist to whom this patronising advice
is given owns to 67.
* * * *
“Melbn”: In Morrison-place, East Mel-
bourne, the trees on each side lean in-
wards at an angle of 45deg. A “Herald”
photographer recently drew attention to
the phenomenon. Now, I suppose, the
authorities, with their passion for uni-
formity and exactitude, will want to re-
place the trees with nice straight ones,
thus destroying one of the most attrac-
tive vistas in Melbourne. But can any
arboreal expert tell me why the trees do
it? Are they trying to see their reflec-
tion in a stream that modern progress has
forced underground?
* * * *
“Lexer”: An unusual case before the
Maoriiand Supreme Court has defined,
rather more exactly than ever before,
some of the duties and powers of an
executor. An elderly Hokitika solicitors
will named his brother as sole executor.
I: was given in evidence that testator had
expressed to his brother a wish to be
buried in the family burial plot in Hoki-
tika. The executor arranged for burial
accordingly. The widow had the body taken
to Christchurch for cremation. The execu-
tor informed the cremation society that
his permission was necessary and would
be given, but applied to the Court for an
injunction against burial anywhere but
at Hokitika. Northcroft, L, granted the
injunction, holding that it was not only
the authority of the executor but also his
duty to say where the body should bo
buried and how it should be disposed of.
He hoped the parties would find a way
out of the difficulty. If the body could
be cremated, then the ashes might be
placed in the family plot.
* * * •
“F.S.”: Now that the Venus de Milo
has been returned to the Louvre, perhaps
the Melbourne National Gallery’s Aphro-
dite will be returned to her place in the
rotunda. There are those who consider
her a better bit of sculpture than the
Venus de Milo. The Melbourne Aphro-
dite isn’t as famous, but she is probably
as distinguished.
* * * *
“Fungbung”: There is a smell of
special pleading about the assertion of
General Cholitz, late commander of the
German garrison in Paris, that he saved
the city from destruction, disobeying
Hitler’s orders. The American corre-
spondent who elicited this testimony also
says that the general and other high
officers of the garrison were hand-
picked aristocrats with a cosmopolitan
background, who would naturally have
more regard for the City of Light
than the Nazis had. As a matter
of fact, it was neither Hitler nor the gen-
erals who saved Paris. The French saved
it by declaring it an open city. The French
are the most artistic people in Europe,
and, from greengrocer to general, I doubt
if a dozen of them would have preferred
a tactical military advantage to the de-
struction of their beloved Paris.
* * * *
“P.K.”: A review at Lae of the Royal
Papuan Constabulary by the Duke of
Gloucester recalls that this force and the
Canadian Mounties are the only two
police organisations with the right to use
the prefix “royal”—an honor conferred
specifically by Royal Warrant. TheR.P.C.
received it in August, 1939. Inaugurated
on August 25, 1890, by Sir William Mc-
Gregor, first Lieut.-Governor of Papua,
with a membership of 14 trained Fijian
natives, the R.P.C. is today more than
1000 strong. Oldest serving member is
Sergeant-Major Bagita, who has been with
the force for close on 30 years. Several
members who joined the Papuan Infantry
Battalion to fight the Japs have won deco-
rations for gallantry in the field.
* * * *
“Clooter”: It is suggested in “Wilson,”
the technicolor picture now on the Aus-
tralia circuit, that Woodrow Wilson’s
dream of a successful League of Nations
would have prevented this war had it not
been destroyed by his own countrymen
after his return from the 1919 Peace Con-
ference. But H. G. Wells, in his Outline
of History, presents another view. Wells
holds, and with much truth, that Europe
had come to look upon Wilson as a sort
of Messiah of peace and freedom, a
vision which held until Wilson went to
Europe. That, in Wells’s view, was the
President’s “gravest error”:
He brought his wife with him Quite
a number of the Americans brought their
wives. Unhappily, a social quality, nay,
almost a tourist quality, was introduced into
the world settlement by these ladies....
Most of them arrived in Europe with a
radiant air of privilege. They came as to
a treat Important interviews would be
broken off to get in a visit to some his-
torical old mansion It was such small,
human things as this that threw a miasma
of futility over the Peace Conference.
In a little while Wilson, the Hope of Man-
kind, had vanished, and all the illustrated
papers contained pictures of a delighted
tourist and his wife, grouped smilingly with
crowned heads and such-like enviable com-
pany.
Wells points out that the men Wilson had
to deal with —Clemenceau, Lloyd George,
Orlando —were hardened old politicians,
far too wily to let the American put any-
thing over them. Paris at the time was
chockful of representatives of every
nation under the sun, “come to watch and
wait for the dawn.” Clemenceau domi-
nated the conference, and Clemenceau saw
it as the revanche for 1870. Thus Wilson,
an innocent abroad, emerged with his 14
Points “pitifully torn and tattered” and
with “a little puling infant of a League
of Nations.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”; Bemarr MacFadden, that
old exponent of nudity as a means of sell-
ing magazines, wants a divorce at 76 so he
can “marry and have more children.” I
daresay Mac. made millions out of his
“Physical Culture Magazine,” which used
to guarantee the reader a form to please
the gods provided he or she followed
certain rules, and published pictures of
posing ladies and gents, to prove it. It’s
well over 20 years since young Aus-
tralians made the acquaintance of the
American chest-chucker’s publication
and some of his allegedly perfect speci-
mens of woman became the original pin-
up girls of many an outback hut. Mac.’s
magazine used to carry short stories and
serials proving MacFadden disciples as
heroes and heroines who, when they mar-
ried, achieved perfect union. Mac.’s own
marriage in 1913 was hailed as such, but
by 1930 the couple were parted.
TWO VOICES.
“Questioned about some recent remarks of Senator
Cameron to the effect that a levy on capital might
yet be necessitated in Australia, Senator Keane said
that any Minister had the right to express his indi-
vidual views.”
Should you ever land a Lab. portfolio, brother,
Two voices in your spruiking you may use:
One for your Ministerial whoops; the other
For telling all the world your private views.
Though you’re part of Cabinet in one citation,
In the next one it can easily be shown.
If your sentiments arouse some perturbation,
You were voicing them entirely on your own.
It might obviously obviate confusion
If some straight-out indication you should give
Of which role you’re in. But Mr. Keane’s con-
clusion
Appears to be it’s not imperative.
You’re at' liberty to leave your audience guessing
If, in the various nostrums and the cures
You advocate, the views you’ve been expressing
Are those of all your mates —or merely yours.
Should your suggestions win agreement hearty
From Labor ranks in general, well and good;
’Twill serve to raise your standing with the
party,
Give you a lift inside the brotherhood.
If, on the other hand, no warnings heeding,
You venture upon ground unsafe to tread
And leave embarrassed colleagues grimly read-
ing
Things that you may have thought but
shouldn’t have said;
If you discover that you’re blamed for setting
Sour Opposition tongues upon the wag,
And charged with being the agency for letting
The cat from out the Ministerial bag,
Well, you have still a plea may prove effective
When you submit, though one of a cabal.
Your dictum in this instance wasn’t collective
But definitely individual.
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Take the Weight a mo., Steve — I'm goin' to sneeze!"
“De Chapeau”: Winston Churchill’s
collection of headgear has attracted the
attention of Americans, which, in the
case of a nation habituated to outlandish
lids, takes some doing. A collection of
photographs of the P.M. in everything,
from a sombrero to a fez, has been pub-
lished by an illustrated journal with the
comment that “He is possibly the only
living male who owns more hats than his
wife.” The rest of Winnie’s wardrobe
makes a fairly lively display, too. Apart
from civvy clobber for every occasion,
he can (and does) wear the uniforms of
the Fourth Hussars, the Oxford Yeo-
manry, Scots Fusiliers, 21st Lancers, a
Punjab unit, a South African regiment, the
Essex Regiment and the Royal Air Force.
As a Trinity warden he has choice of
two regalias, and he can assume the mag-
nificent dress and undress of a Privy
Counsellor and a few odd academic cos-
tumes, But his favorite seems to be that
one-piece zipper garment which mowed
’em down in Moscow, and which he (or
somebody else) coyly refers to as his
“siren” suit.
* * * *
“Peter Piper” : In an idle moment a
member of an A.I.F. unit up North
wrote (with his longue in his cheek)
applying for membership of the Frank
Sinatra Club, and telling how much he
had always admired the causer of
swoons. Back came a prompt reply ad-
vising the devotee that as he was a ser-
viceman he had been given a free life
membership. The new life-member
grinned fiendishly. A little later one of
the members of the same unit, a
musician who prided himself on his
classical taste, was horrified to receive a
letter from his family asking if he had
gone troppo—they had read in a news-
paper that he had become a life-member
of the Sinatra Club. The leg-pulling con-
tinued until the C.O. became the unwilling
recipient of swooner-crooner honors.
That tore it.
*** , , *
“Ex-Cav”; The proposal to release
Bren carriers at £5O apiece to farmers
who are prepared to submit a report on
experiments with them promises a lot of
fun. It takes six weeks’ practice under
skilled supervision before anyone can
take a Bren abroad without breaking his
,neck or materially altering the shape of
the landscape. In ordinary nick they’ll
go over, under or through anything at
a steady 50 m.p.h. Tuned up, they’ll get
near a mile a minute and will knock trees
up to 4in. diameter spinning. Petrol
consumption is four miles to the gallon,
the price to be paid for a high-revving
90 h.p. V 8 engine. Will the Government
provide petrol or hasn’t it thought of
that? Bren carriers come in two types.
Type 1 is operated by two joy-
sticks acting independently on the
tracks; Type 2, a much later job, is
handled by a steering wheel not unlike
that of a ship. Before putting the family
aboard for a jaunt into town remember
that only ace army drivers are permitted
to drive either type,
« * * *
“J.L”: Though it’s a mere 157 years
since Governor Phillip anchored in Farm
Cove, Sydney has developed a school
tradition. Royal Australian Historical
Society members by the hundred blew into
Sydney Grammar, in College-street, for
a look-see round one of the oldest schools
in Australia. Society President Guy
Blaxland could claim that kinsman
Gregory B. and Parson Marsden, his
great-grandfather on the distaff side, had
both been at the inaugural meeting of
the school council in 1819. Forbears of
Secretary Alfred Stephen had been
among the first pupils. Veterans
scanned the desks for tokens of dexterity
with the penknife, for many could boast
grandfathers who’d been pupils more
than a hundred years ago. The College-
street site was cleared by Macquarie’s
73rd. Regiment. Governor Brisbane took
time from star-gazing to set the founda-
tion stone of the school. Mrs. Governor
Darling, who liked planning things, planned
the assembly hall. Financial depression
temporarily put the school out of action
in 1847. Then Sydney University took
over until its own buildings, on the old
Grose Farm site, were ready. Actually,
the first degrees conferred by the Uni-
versity were handed out from the Gram-
mar assembly hall dais. Headmasters
Cape and Weigall of the long reign are
names great in Grammar history.
* * * *
“Traymon”: Like the Warner brothers
mentioned by “C. 8.” (B. 20/6/’45), the
Singer twins, P.L. and A.M., of Gisborne
(M.L.), have stuck together in this war.
Enlisting together in June, 1941, on their
21st birthday, they went overseas and
were trained together, were simultane-
ously promoted through the various ranks
from A.C.2 to' Flight-Lieutenant, joined
the same Lancaster squadron, were given
command of identical bombers and were
eventually awarded D.F.Cs. on the same
day for separate acts of heroism. Return-
ing together early this year, they have
now been discharged and have been given
appointments as second pilots with Union
Airways.
* * * *
“Jurumudi” describes a Malayan
marriage ceremony:
If welcoming the Little Stranger is an ex-
pensive business in U.S. (B. 27/6/’45), it is
more expensive still in Malaya and places where
Malays abound, but the money doesn’t go
to doctors, hospitals and nurses, though the
bidan, or midwife, may get a trifle. It is shared
by the whole community in festivals which
begin •at birth and recur at stated ages,
especially at the circumcision which every
Malay youth has to endure. These exactions
sometimes make the parents debtors for the
rest of their existence, if they are not already
ruined by the cost of their wedding; after which
come the dowries of marriageable daughters.
The whole white coramuriity in Labuan was in-
vited to attend the marriage of the offspring
of a patriarch of the Kadayan tribe who owned
a neighboring island. There was a smell of
roast meat in the air when we landed. It
came from a dozen bullocks cooking on spits
at huge open fires. In a house on stilts in
the centre of the village the bride and her hand-
maidens awaited the arrival of the bridegroom,
who could be heard aproaching at the head of
an armed bodyguard of his own relations. At
the foot of the house ladder was a bodyguard
of the bride's relations, armed with swords and
lances, but nobody who knew his Malay ex-
pected bloodshed. Tire Malay is an enthusiastic
actor and an adept at mock warfare. After a
frantic struggle the bridegroom’s party forced
their opponents step by step up the ladder until
all were accommodated inside the dwelling,
which shook on its legs as if it had the ague.
There were a few minutes of silence, then the
two parties, inextricably mingled, emerged at
the far end with the couple, expressionless
but, no doubt, happy, hoisted on their
shoulders. They were set on two ornate thrones,
and, after a few hours of eating and drink-
ing, we left them to sit without moving a
foot or an eyebrow for the three days and
nights of the bersanding. What we had. seen
was a genuine representation of that ancient
institution marriage by capture. Shouts,
laughter, singing and music were still floating
from the island a fortnight later.
“Matelot’s Dad”: When a Navy ship
is going into action the captain calls on
the chaplain for a prayer. If the ship
does not run to a chaplain he performs
the duty himself. Just before the attack
on the Bismarck the chaplain of the
battleship King George V offered up a
supplication. It was brief:
Lord, Thou knowest how busy I must be this
day.
If I forget Thee,
Do not Thou forget me.
I have been told that this prayer is very
old ; that it cheered the Saxon troops who
opposed the Normans.
* ■ * * *
“Derwent”: In 1953 Tasmania will
celebrate the 150th anniversary of the
founding of Hobart and the first settle-
ment, also the centenary of Launceston
and Hobart municipalities. Basil Rait,
the historian, is urging immediate prepa-
rations, as it will take years for details of
historical research to be completed and
for publicity work to be properly carried
out. He is anxious that a wrong impres-
sion about Tasmania’s past be corrected,
too, and that instead of the Apple Isle
being regarded from the convict-prison
historic standpoint, prominence should
be given to its pioneering achievements.
Rait claims that Tasmania possesses the
oldest secondary school in Australia with
a continuous history, the oldest Royal
Society, the first Australian museum
building and the first Australian public
library ; also that it produced the first
Australian plays, inaugurated the first
Colonial Registry Office for births, deaths
and marriages, started royal tennis and
bowls in Australasia, held the first inter-
colonial cricket match, used anaesthetics
for the first time in the colonies, established
the first hydro-electric scheme in Australia
and was the jumping-off point for the
colonisation of Victoria. Also, Tasmania
gave Australia the first two V.C. winners
(Colonel Wylly and Lieut.-Colonel Bisdee)
in 1901. There is quite a formidable list
of other “firsts,” and it looks as though
the Speck will need a new hat by the
time Rait has completed his researches.
“SMILE!"
“Pip” on the Army and the hat;—
Most valued article of the soldier’s clothing
is his hat. Army orders lay down a regulation
shape and size and method of wearing the lid,
but it is a poor soldier who cannot keep reason-
SAt ™ S*
were knocked into some weird and wonderful
designs, immortalised in the designations “Le
“ B A ck O nMT k «nL‘Tn o n o o l iTTh o 6° rot
but some of th? last-war veterans still insist
the best treatment for a new hat is putting it
under a lorry. The present-day soldier is mostly
w o a"S m fo t r% So 4u/;h h f e |fo g “ s r knefd
it into shape. Once he is satisfied, bits mangled
out of the crown, cigarette holes along the
brim or the lining adhering to the forehead.like
a halo all mean nothing. It is only a direct
order that sends him to the Q store to replace
his battered relic with a stiff and ugly mon-
strosity officially described as “hat, fur felt.
The most reticent individual will proudly out-
line the campaigns his dome-piece has been
through and the leaves and places it has seen.
Puggarees, are prized, too, as old friends, and
are only discarded when they fall to pieces.
Given an ancient slouch hat, a ragged puggaree
and a patch that is a mere dim memory of
unit colors the fighting man feels adequately
dressed. The chin strap, of course, is worn
looped over the back of the brim these days
to prevent skin irritation. Even so, it is a
strong wind that can dislodge a slouch hat worn
by an expert.
* * * *
“Jay”: A bit of judicious leg-pulling
put rainy Robertson (N.S.W.) on the map.
The town today has a deceptive air. Stone
fences and hoary-looking buildings sug-
gest penal times. Actually its origin was
as recent as 1861. The Robertson “Selec-
tion Before Survey” Land Act brought
settlers to Yarrawa, all eager for a slice
of its rich volcanic soil. They got it, and
delved there, only to find that there was
only a rough bridle track between them
and Wollongong, their only market. A
pioneer settler, one Hanrahan, took the
first fruit of the soil, a bag of spuds, by
pack-horse to Wollongong. There he got
a tip that a spot of blarney might not go
amiss. Led by Hanrahan, Yarrawaites
presented John Robertson with a petition
begging leave to call this Eden of theirs
that would grow anything on earth after
the great, wise and good statesman who
had enabled them to settle there. And
(as an afterthought) surely such a place,
named after such a man, deserved a
decent road! It worked. Yarrawa be-
came Robertson, and the road from the
coast by way of Macquarie Pass was
made,
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A parson at Scots’
Church, Melbourne, had had an odd
experience. In the middle of prayei
he became speechless, and another gentle-
man of the cloth had to deliver the
“Amen.” Subsequent investigation dis-
closed that his open mouth had proved an
irresistible temptation to a moth.
* * * *
“Snoop”: That schoolboy legend of
gold in the pennies of a certain date (B.
20/ 6.f ’45) is probably as old as schools.
Certainly ft was still going strong 10 or
12 years ago, the tale then being that the
metal for a batch of pennies had been
melted down in a crucible previously used
for gold. My pocket money for several
weeks was converted into these fabulous
coins, but eventually I read something
about mint methods that convinced me
the yarn was highly improbable, and I
resold at a slight profit. But there was
an Australian coin issue which did carry
a surplus of gold. In 1852 Adelaide
merchants complained that coins were
being drained from S.A. to buy Victorian
gold-dust, and they petitioned then CjOv-
ernor to receive and assay this dust and
coin R Thjs was agreed t 0; without con-
suiting the British Government and d.es
were made for coins or to and LI. Umy
ba jf a dozen of the £5 pieces were
struck, but 25,000 of the others were in
circulation before someone discovered
that their gold content was worth
£j jQ d They were quickly bought up,
and most of them were sent to England
as bullion.
ONE FOR THE DOCTORS.
“I should like to see a medical prescription written
in true Latin, not a mumbo-jumbo of distorted,
abbreviated English, weird hieroglyphics and illegible
caligraphy.” —-Letter to “S. M. Herald.”
Now then, you medicoes, brush up your Latin.
Enlarge your knowledge of the ancient tongue
That Caesar and his friends were wont to chat in
And Cicero at list’ning Senates flung.
Study the numbers, smooth as silk dr satin,
In which illustrious Virgil’s songs were sung.
Some sense of shame for your deficiencies
Should be aroused by insults such as these.
What virtue lies in clinging to prescriptions
That only pharmacists can understand,
In shorthand codes, truncated words and clipped
ones,
As dubiously by patients to be scanned
As hieroglyphs designed by the Egyptians
Or cuneiforms in some Assyrian land?
We cannot all of us accept, you know,
Omne ignotum pro magnifico.
Your curious practice, I’ve a dark suspicion,
Was used originally to ensure
Conviction of your massive erudition
In those whose ailments you were called to
cure.
It helped to feature you as a magician,
A role you’re still reluctant to abjure.
But surely now, with education’s spread,
Your claim to such a pose is forfeited.
“Doctor your Latin,” comes a voice appealing
To all you followers of Hippocrates.
At least ’twill save you from such gibes unfeel-
ing,
Such acrimonious sneers and snarls as these;
And clearly it’s as much in need of healing
As any physical infirmities,
Nor is there any reason to surmise
’Twill make the mystified a whit more wise.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Jimmy had served
the station faithfully for many a long
year, and when he developed all the signs
of acute appendicitis the boss was frantic.
We had a ’phone from the out-station to
the homestead, but the nearest hospital
was 98 miles away. Then somebody
thought of the air, and the boss rushed
to the ’phone. Two hours later a small
two-seated ’plane landed on the claypan.
Bad as he was, old Jimmy nearly died
when he realised he was about to leave
the ground for the first time in his life.
“How’ll 1 hang on to it? How’ll I hang
on to it?” he quavered. The boss ran
to his saddle, removed the monkey-strap,
tied it into the ’plane and said “Shut your
eyes an’ hang on to that, Jimmy. You 11
feel at home.” It worked. Weeks later,
when James was himself again, he told
us that once he got his hands on the
monkey-strap he knew he couldn’t be
shifted “even if the blanky thing turned
upside down.”
* » * *
“Lub”: “Them black cockies are
knowin’ fowls,” said Tommy the Toiler.
“As a sign of rain y’ can’t beat ’em. Had
it in f’r ’em oncet, them hangin’ round me
place an’ me bein’ worried with floods
an’ cows gittin’ bogged ev’ry day.
Reckoned they was Jonerlng me; so one
day I ups with the old scattergun an’
blows the tail feathers orf of one. Cocky
lets out a helluva screech, circles the joint
three times an’ heads orf flat out up the
crick valley. Nex’ day he’s back with the
biggest mob I ever seen, an’, keepin outa
gun range, they hang round me place
f’r a week. I’m wonderin’ wot it’s all
erbout, when up comes a hailstorm which
flattens me crops an’ busts the glass in
the winders of me shack. Funny thing,
it’s one of those strip hailstorms wot
misses all the other farms. Y might call
it cwincidence or sumthin, but I reckon
it pays t’ show them cockies a bit of
respeck.”
“Naturala”; Many of the fresh-water
lakes of south-west W.A. are well stocked
with a pigmy turtle, the carapace of a
full-grown adult averaging the size of
a man’s open hand. At one time these
were a staple food of the aboriginal,
even now an occasional hard-pressed
white dines on them alongside the swamp,
but unhappily these small shellbacks have
a rather repellent odor when taken from
the water. Periodically the female comes
ashore in true turtle style to deposit her
. eggs—small spheres, the size and shape
of a ping-pong ball; and with a shell
seemingly of the same texture. Method
of locating the nest is the same as that
practised by the abos. from immemorial
ages, the prospecting of likely spots with
a pointed stick, a strike of yolk spelling
success. Twenty or thirty of these
“bantam” eggs broken into a hot, well-
greased pan make an omelette that goes
well with a rasher of fat bacon,
* * * *
“Wippegong”; Having pored, as a
youngster, over the “Lecture” as well as
the exact descriptions that ran through
Leach’s Bird Book, I can’t forget that
while we have parrots, honey-eaters,
fruit-pigeons and mound-builders un-
approached anywhere else in the world,
there are two outstanding bird families of
which we have no representative—wood-
peckers and vultures. So it was that, reach-
ing the land of these fowl, I was keen to
see what we’d missed, and there wasn't
long to wait—the vultures are everywhere,
and a mangier mob of scavengers I’ve
never clapped eyes on. The white vul-
hire was first seen —he’s about as white
as a “white” sheep, and for much - the
same reason—wheeling over town and
village, street and hovel, in company with
pariah kites. Graceful on the wing but
ugly at close quarters, he is well to the
fore in any scramble for refuse. The
Bengal vulture, a dirty, grey-black fellow
bigger than our wedgetail, has a naked
neck, at the back of which he sports a
sort of moth-eaten muff; and there is
nothing in the bird world to resemble
the way these huge fowl surge down
beside carrion, lumber across with wings
outstretched and brawl for the best places
at the table. Occasionally they are joined
by a king vulture or two —so named for
a quantity of red regalia round its neck.
Largest of the family, this one is not so
pugnacious as the lesser members. Have
seen one woodpecker only, the golden-
backed variety—red crest, speckled face,
green feet, gold back. He was hammer-
ing hell out of a coconut palm in Bengal.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Dingoes have become a
really serious menace to the sheep industry
in north-west Queensland. During a
recent period of three weeks they killed
over 900 sheep from a total stockage of
4600 on one property at Mackinlay.
Similar experiences are being reported
from other holdings, and local
pastofalists agree that never in living
memory have they been so numerous and
venturesome. They come down in packs
from the timbered hill-country, and it is
no unusual thing to find anything up to
“Doing a bit of Weeding?”
20 torn and mauled carcases in a quarter
of a square mile after a single night’s
raid. Graziers have established syndi-
cates to combat the pest, but although 150
scalps have been paid for in a year and
an unknown additional number presum-
ably killed by baits, the depredations con-
tinue. Reasons: practically all the good
“doggers” in the district are in the ser-
vices or on man-power allotment; short-
age of tyres prevents adequate supervi-
sion, and for some mysterious reason the
price of ,303 cartridges has recently
jumped from £6 a thousand to £2O, and
in short supply at that.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Touching that Bulle-
tin advt. “No one has ever seen steam
(B. 6/6/’45), invisible steam under a very
high pressure will dissolve away the
highest-grade glass much as 4 hot water will
dissolve away ice, though, of course,
taking a much longer time. Firing boilers
running to 250 pounds pressure, we had
constantly to be on the look-out for burst-
ing gauge glasses. Some would last only
a few days, others weeks. When removed
before bursting the inside of the tube
would be found to be scored and pitted,
as though acted upon by some powerful
acid. Yet the same erosive steam had no
visible effect on the iron steam pipes.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Possibly I used the wrong
expression when I wrote of skin divers
“groping” for shell (B. 6/6/’45), though
I have known them to do plenty of it
where the shell banks have been so over-
grown with sea-grass that in the few
brief moments of their stay at the bottom
they have been obliged to pull out the
vegetation in handfuls to sight the shell,
And more than once I have seen an abo.
boy rise to the surface clutching a flat
stone, under the impression that he had
lifted a shell. As for “Nagheer s”
Barrier Reef clams being so lackadaisical
about closing when disturbed, such clams
are to be congratulated. Over on my side
of the continent the clam is much preyed
upon by the octopus, whilst the giant cray-
fish wouldn’t be beyond taking the c am
on for a meal. So the big shellfish, lying
at half-gape on the rec .^, a sac
can and does close with a snap when
alarmed hy a splashing approach such as
is made by a man More the hps of
its shells are raz °‘ p J
an intruding * the multi-tentacled
one is likel/to los? a digit.
“Mat's Mate”: We caught the mixed
train out of Murray Bridge for Pinaroo
(S.A.) about 9.30 a m. aid then, sat in
the thing while it trundled slowly into the
scrub. Eventually noon came along,
passed slowly and the train crept into the
afternoon at a furious 12 miles or so an
hour. By late afternoon I was in a state
of somnolent weariness, but Mat was
spouting sarcasm at every animate and
inanimate thing that heaved in sight. As
the sun went down we pulled into Pina-
roo, gathered our gear and were about
to depart when we saw a porter assisting
a venerable old gentleman from the car-
riage. The guard caught Mat’s look of
interest and said, with that importance
of the servile who know the upper crust,
“That’s old Mister Burnely; he owns
Little Rivers; just turned eighty-three.”
Mat turned slowly and looked at the
guard. “Gripes,” he drawled, “that’ll tell
y’. How old was he when he got in the
train?”
* * * *
“Blime”: It would be difficult to find
a fox poisoner who hasn’t his own pet
method of “getting ’em,” yet the more
so-claimed infallible schemes I try the
more I am convinced the main factor in
the game is luck. There’s the bloke who
swears by a pinch of baking soda mixed
with the strychnine, another who’ll use
nothing but white strychnine, while the
baiting selection ranges through rabbits’
heads, kidneys, parrots, magpies, raw fat,
butter, sardines (when procurable) and
ancient fowls. There is the book-learned
inspector who insists on the dragging of
a trail, the old hand who asks nothing
better than the carcase of a dead sheep
or cow around which to place his baits,
or the personally favored method of bait-
ing at selected spots, on sheep pads, pre-
ferably those leading down main spurs
or towards water. A rabbit’s head buried
deeply with a couple of kidneys nearer
the surface is the secret of one hunter I
know to prevent the bait being carried.
Unable to take the lot, the fox, he claims,
will swallow the kidneys. Watched a
fellow broadcasting dozens of poisoned
kidneys up a gully recently. “The only
way” he informed me. “And I never
have t’ look far for ’em.” A week later
I ran into him bewailing the loss of his
dogs. “It’s the flamin’ limit,” he snorted
indignantly. ‘Poisoned, Both of em.
Gripes, it don’t seem t’ matter how fussy
a bloke is with his own strychnine, there’s
always some silly cow that’ll leave baits
about carelessly.”
* * * ♦
“Cypress”: “Plane Creek” (B. 20/6/’45)
should examine with a magnifying glass
a leaf of the N.Q. stinging-tree. He will
see that the Gympie-Gympie is covered
with countless thousands of minute hairs,
with here and there larger ones scattered
among them. These larger hairs take the
form of hollow brittle tubes filled with a
strong acid; -they usually arise from
raised mounds or cushions and taper
gradually to the apex, where they are ter-
minated by a small head which breaks off
at the slightest touch. When the sharp
broken point of the hair pierces the skin
it pours out the acid which causes the
torment referred to by “Plane Creek.”
The best cure for the “sting” is the dock-
weed, which is usually found growing
alongside the stinging-trees: a few leaves
of the weed crushed and rubbed over the
affected part bring speedy relief. Our
Army patrol when moving into N.Q.
was issued with printed instructions on
the treatment of the stings : “The stings
should be rubbed with ashes (if obtain-
able) and then with some mucilaginous
plant such as cunjavoi.” An old-timer in
the Cairns district told us of the dock-
weed.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: “Had a job t’ go to in the
Shivery Isles once,” said Sam. “Near
Auckland it was, an’ when the ship
pulled in I went f’r a stroll down the
street an’ had a few tastes of their beer.
In one pub I struck a bloke who offered
t’ show me the sights, an’ I don’t reckon
we missed a pub. I shook him orf finally
an’ started t’ make back t’ the ship. Then
I go t’ cross over where a John is makin’
funny passes—an’ nearly get bowled over
by a blasted train cornin’ down the street!
I came back on the ship ; y’ wouldn’t
expect a cove t’ stay, with beer like that,
would y’?”
* sH *
“Rover”: Mention by “Naturala” (B.
20/6/’45) of the locust’s digging tool
which resembles a two-bladed post-hole
digger recalls other articles of the kind.
The Sirex sawfly uses a gadget exactly
like a gimlet for boring holes in wood to
receive its eggs. Another sawfly has two
tiny saws at its tail fitted with sheaths,
employed for cutting slits in stems or
leaf veins, wherein the fly inserts her
eggs. In the insect world nothing re-
sembles a pair ,of nut-crackers so much
as the forelegs of the praying mantis.
The creature uses them, too, like nut-
crackers ; when it sights a victim it
creeps within striking distance, and then
the nut-cracker-like legs flash down to
crush the victim, which is then torn apart
and eaten. Many of the wasps and
ichneumon flies employ tiny implements
like miniature hypodermic syringes to
inject a preservative into their prey to
form a future supply for their young
when hatched. Man-made fish-hooks are
similar to the hooks which the spider-
crab of N.Q. waters grows on its back
for attaching pieces of seaweed, etc., to
disguise itself.
•-S * * ' *
“D.R.H.”: The term “Stone Age
Egyptians” in “Anthropo’s” par (B.
20/6/’45) is rather vague. Before the
beginning of the last glacial period there
was in Europe an unknown race of
hunters who used stone weapons of the
types known as Chellean and Acheulean.
.Archaeological maps show the distribu-
tion of this culture in what are now
U.S.A., Northern'Africa, Southern Africa,
India and Australia. As far as Egypt is
concerned the next arrivals were Nean-
derthal “men”; a sub-human race which
some writers like to picture as dining ex-
clusively on steaks of mammoth and
cave-lion, but which, by reason of semi-
erect stature and slow movement, must
have lived mainly on vegetable foods,
small game and carrion. These mon-
strous brutes were, probably, driven from
the fertile North African region by the
Cro-Magnards, a splendid hunting people.
Considerably later came another race,
short, small-boned, long-headed, who re-
lied largely on fish and shell-fish food.
These may have been the ancestors of the
people who, in the Nile valley, became
the world’s first cockles. Even when
Egypt had become a civilised country it
was still for long in the Stone Age. In
fact, the manufacture of neolithic tools
of polished stone followed the intro-
duction of copper, and was a general
practice till about 2000 B.C. The whole
business is like a jig-saw puzzle with most
of the pieces missing. However, Mrs.
Daisy Bates mentions the bobmerang
murals of Thebes, and the use by central
and south-western abo. tribes of Egyp-
tian burial practices and the name of an
Egyptian spirit.
AFTERWARDS.
When you are very old, my friend,
With an armchair clamped to your hinder end,
Through the rising wreaths of a long cigar
Will you see the truth of the man you are,
Or will breadth of belly and pride of place
Give a fat “Hear! Hear!” to the Croesus face?
When you meet in the mirror that codfish stare.
Will you think of the eagle that glinted there
When truth was truth and lies were lies,
Ere you waxed wealthy on compromise?
When you float in your bath with a steaming
tide
Of scented suds round your precious hide,
And lather your ribs with a lavish hand
—Remember the bite of the driving sand?
You were ragged then, cheeks fallen in.
Leeches and lice on a half-flayed skin,
And your gut was tied in a knot with fear,
But your aim was steady, your eye was clear;
And your sinews ached and your bones re-
belled,
But you damned and drove them, and still they
held .. .
As you blow in the bar at the nineteenth hole,
Remember that body? It housed a soul.
R.A.A#.
LINDSAY CARROLL.


“The 0.D.”: These riding masters with
their instructions about how to sit a
horse and ail the rest of it (B. 4/7/’45)
remind me of Billy Smale. Billy was
putting a novice through his paces, and,
after attending to stirrup lengths, seat,
balance and so forth, was walking away
when the rider asked “About the hands,
Mr. Smale. What’s the best way to carry
’em?” Said Billy: “Look, if you’re going
to be chucked orf your hands won’t save
you, so you might as well put ’em in
your pockets. They’ll be warm, any-
way.”
* sH 4 *
“Betcha”: The rabbit displays a fair
share of sense in some things, yet when
he is being smoked from a log he dashes
out, nine times out of ten, through the
fire. When he makes a run for it the
dogs are not keen on picking up the
smoking, squealing apparition, and
he sometimes escapes on this account.
Ran one into a culvert the other day, and
lit a pile of dead leaves at one end.
Presently out streaked his nibs, all smok-
ing hot, and, with an undecided grey-
hound sniffing his rump all the way, he
executed a wide circle, then again per-
formed his fire-diving act, this time to get
back into his hiding-place. Though the
further end of the culvert was clear and
unguarded throughout, his second, and
final appearance was also made through
the blaze.
* * * *
“E. 2”: Was helping Jim Cass and
Nome Peters shift a mob of wild Here-
fords to the flats at Cranky Joe’s Creek,
and acted as a sort of go-between for the
“ Sh—Fm A.W.L., too!"
old-timers. The first day they glared at
each other and -didn’t speak beyond
grunted question and equally grunted
reply. Next day Norrie waited till he
and I were well away from Jim and
opened up. “Jim’s ratty at me f’r not
goin’ the Top Hut way an’ lookin’ f’r
the pocket-knife he lorst near the old
yards.” “Well, I’ll be goin’ back that
way,” I said. “I could pick it up f’r
him. How long since he lost it?” “Aw,
that’s the part that caused the argument,
Y’ see, Jim reckons it was five years back,
but I’m certain it was longer. I wouldn’t
mind huntin’ f’r it if it was on’y five
years; but, cripes, a man wouldn’t have
any charnce if it’d been lorst six years,
would he?”
* * * *
“Bufo”: After the floods on the Clar-
ence River (N.S.W.) a farmer noticed
a platypus washed up on the river
bank amid a litter of cornstalks.
Thinking it was dead, he picked it up,
whereupon it grabbed his little finger with
its hind feet and drove the sharp spurs
with which each heel is armed, through
the skin. Ten minutes later the hand and
arm became numb, his lips, tongue
and throat began to swell, and a white
lumpy rash came out on his face, head*
and hands. The acute symptoms passed
off in a few hours, but the shock and de-
pression persisted until the next day.
Platy’s spurs are needle-sharp, and reach
their greatest development in adult males.
Each is provided with a small
poison sac at its base. Instances are re|
corded of dogs having died after being
punctured on the nose.
■4 * * *
“Zake”; It seems that while some birds,
especially the smaller types, need to drink,
others can go without water. I
have never seen a seagull take a drink,
and the fact that they can stay out of
sight of land for days on end seems to
lend confirmation to the theory that they
can do without it. An old sailor I knew
maintained that they got what moisture
they needed from low-lying clouds. The
wedgetail eagle,also seems to scorn water.
Years , ago a captured eagle was chained
up outside a pub in an outback Queens-
land town. It steadfastly refused all
offers of water for several years. Fed
on raw meat, it probably obtained suffi-
cient moisture from this for its needs.
“Tiki”: The war t in the Pacific has
been noted in ornithological circles, ac-
cording to Maoriland naturalists. To the
bird sanctuary at Cape * Kidnappers (a
few miles south of Napier) garnets have
been resorting in increasing numbers in
the last three years. This year their
colony numbered over 10,000. These
large sea-birds (their average wing-span
is close on 6ft.) chase the summer, spend-
ing half their time in Siberia and the other
half in the far southern Pacific, where
they mate and breed. At one time vari-
ous sorts of migratory birds came to Cape
Kidnappers, but the garnets have stopped
all that. It’s their breeding-ground and
intruders meet a fierce reception.
tfc % H*
“Blower”: Cry sorrow for poor old
“Bogaduck,” up on an island and sur-
rounded by fish which can’t be hooked
or speared or netted (B. 4/7/’45). Cry
sorrow for poor old “8.,” stuck in an
army establishment and can’t raise a bit
of explosive to stun the flamin’ fish!
4 * * *
“Propalong”: “I see by the papers,”
growled “Uncle ” Jeff, “that they’re nose-
printin’ sheep in South Africa. Why, all
the big squatters out on that real good
water-course country along the Strzelecki
was doin’ that when I come through with
15,000 ewes, travellin’ fr feed, in the ’29
drought. Soon’s I heard o’ this nose-
printin’ I had the mob shorn and, not
likin’ to look outa date, didn’t brand ’em.
Well, it wasn’t my fault that we got
boxed with 5000 station ewes in the best
paddocks on McTaggart’s run ; but the
old cow went dead crook just the same.
Anyway, we started to draft out, and it
was pretty to see the way Mac had
things organised. A coupla blokes was
catchin’ and passin’ each ewe to a cove
with a woolbaleful o clean handker-
chiefs. He blew the sheep’s nose for ’er
and swabbed it orf with metho. and
water. Then a rousie hauled ’er to the
bloke with the ink and another boy
passed ’er to a cove with a magnifyin’
glass. This cove made sure there was
just the right amount of ink on the ole
girl’s snout—if there wasn’t it had to be
fixed. Then the flamin’ ewe went to
Mac, who took the prints. After he’d
got seven or eight smudges and a passable
print he’d number the paper and I’d ear-
tag the ewe with the same number. Then
the paper went to the laboratory to be
photographed, and the photo was sent on
to the records room, where five or six
“I don't mind you having him as best man , Jim, but I'm Wondering if he ll
clash with my dusty pink!?
blokes with microscopes and things com-
pared it with the station records. Well,
y’ mightn’t believe it, but some days we
got through as many as 50 sheep, although
a couple o’ the microscope chaps had
nervous breakdowns an’ everybody got so
interested they felt like fathers t’ the fat
lambs I sold half way through the job:
5000 at 25 bob a head. Anyway, it was
a good way o’ passin’ the time on the
road and I was real sorry when Mac, just
as shearin’ was cornin’ round again, got
impatient an’ bought the lot, includin’ all
the ration sheep we’d et since the trip
started.”
*%' * *
“Kelly’s Hat”: As one who has stood
up a few posts here and there between
the Yarra and the Queensland border,
I’ve been following this argument about
putting the small end in the ground (B.
4/7/’45), but I can’t see any sense in it.
The men I contracted for would have
thrown several sixers if they’d sighted a
top-heavy post in the line. As for the
idea of repelling moisture to stop rotting,
it’s all my eye. I’ve seen fences running
across swampy ground, then up over a
sandhill and across a claypan. Where
does the rot set in? Up on the dry sand-
hill every time.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Mullins put a flying-fox
over the river to his maize paddock, and
thus George was able to cut off a mile
each way on his fortnightly jaunt to the
township. One evening, returning well-
stonkered, George propelled himself oyer
and dropped off to sleep in the box.
Waking from the cold in the early hours
of the morning he hopped out and went
on his journey. Daylight found George
back in Ten-mile looking for a piece of
the joker who’d pulled him back over the
river and turned him round.
* * * *
“Bo”: Powley, who was having a
struggle to get a dairy herd together, had
been trying to hang up his hat to the
impish, flirtatious Lily McCaffery. Old
man McCaffery, large, aggressive, a
tyrant under his rooftree anc* reputed to
own half the district, took a violent dis-
like to Powley, and warned P. one day,
having come upon the pair walking
hand-in-hand along the road, that if he
caught P. again much as casting a
mushy eye in the direction of his daughter
he, McCaffery, would proceed to put the
Powley face through a long and painful
process, the end of which would be its
complete unrecognisability. One morn-
ing three weeks after that incident Mrs.
McCaffery informed her lord that their
chick had flown the nest and had left a
note saying that in the arms of her loved
one, whom she was to marry forthwith,
she would get that affection which she
didn’t get at home, and so forth. Mc-
Caffery gave a roar and disappeared
over the rise. Ten minutes later he ap-
peared at the Powley homestead, fell upon
Powley, who was about to feed some
poddies, and, after he had left his nine-
stone opponent lying by the woodheap,
rushed to the door and yelled Come
on home, Lil, and don t be a dam fool
Getting no answer he went in and
searched the house. When he emerged at
last Powley sat up and said to him I told
y’ she wasn there If she s nicked off it s
probably with Mick Tannei
meetm’ him m town a few times this
week.’ McCaffery exploded agai •_ *
she ought to have been here he roared,
‘ Now. a man has to go to all t
of beltin Tanner up. Am t y
consideration for a cove.
* * * _u mit
‘ Sou -west : ®°- Y, , hlinrl
“Shortcut Sid and the cocky s blind
stumps (B. 6/8/’45) reminds me of a
stump that I assisted in removing at
Mandurah (W.A,). For the sake of the
logs a timber firm brought the big tuart
down and also took away all sizeable
limbs, quite a few of which ran 18in. in
diameter, branching out some 20ft.
from the ground. That left us the
stump, 4ft. in diameter, 3ft. above
ground. Starting like mugs close to the
stump, we eventually finished with a pit
some 20ft. across and not less than
10ft. deep in most parts. Roots ran
from the thickness of a wrist to
15in. through. We axed them, and we
sawed them ; we even tried dynamite,
though that was a failure, for the tough
green roots merely tore a little and left it
at that. The taproot we never severed.
We appealed to fire, using the whole
of the giant’s upper limbs, twigs
and leafage. Ultimately, a full month
from the lifting of the first shovelful of
sand, we looked down into a pit of white
ash and glowing embers. Then the rains
came, two inches in one night, and we
were able to fill the pit in and get on
with the building we had in mind.
!jc * '* *
“Pip” on the piscatorial lore of the
infantry:
Most soldiers are partial to fish, but as the
army issue from the Fishing Platoons is meagre
the only way to get a real feed is to catch
your own. Fishing with a line is slow, and a
stick of dynamite or a hand grenade is used
whenever possible. With a bit of luck a
grenade can be relied on for half a dozen
reasonable-sized specimens. Fish traps pay
the best dividends, and once the trap is built it
is merely a matter of wading out occasionally
to gather the haul. But there is no proper
respect for the ownership of traps, and the
irate proprietors soon become accustomed to
pitched battles in three feet of water. Netting
with a couple of camouflage net's joined together
and weighted with iron pegs is hard work but
good fun. Most sweeps produce nothing, but
an occasional really large fish makes the system
worth while. For a consideration of about half
the catch the cooks are always willing to pre-
pare the harvest. The fishermen dine on the
soft white flesh and golden batter while less
enterprising soldiers toy with a mess of M. and
V. and watch them enviously. Fish are essen-
tially a “no-mates” commodity, and all the
hints and flattery in the world are vain. The
query “Do you think you can eat all that? ’
invariably produces the heartless reply “You
watch me do it!”
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: We had a clearing contract
to last us through the winter, and Sam
reckoned we’d be better off in a hut than
tents. So I helped him put up the frame-
work, but he insisted on roofing it over
with bark in a style of his own. It kept
dry for the next month, and as the sheets
qf bark curled and shrank Sam added
more bark to cover the cracks. Then I
got a call to go away for a week, and
the weather broke during my absence.
On my return I found Sam squatting
dejectedly in the sparse shelter of a lean-
ing gum near the camp. “Get in out of
the rain,” I said pointing to the hut.
Sam goggled at me and then grinned.
“YTe a stranger in these parts, p’rhaps,”
he said. “It’s a damn’ sight wetter in the
hut than out here in the rain.”
WINTERSCAPE.
Old man July peers over fog-clouded glasses
And steps from his frosty doorway carefully to
lower
His shutters of ice across the bright shop
windows
Of little scrub creeks ... And now when the
boy-wind passes
He feels no wish to loiter slower and slower
With his hoop of the sun—for now it’s too late
to flatten
His nose against the water’s sparkling glass
To watch the fish gleam golden along a pattern
Of printed weed and a strange quicksilver of
grass.
Decay is under the myrtles; the animal glitter
Of its phosphorus eyes is menacing now as it
crunches
The bones of boughs that lie in the lichened
litter
Of stump and boulder and purpling bracken
bunches.
Over the ridge are the gums, and their lean
dark shadows
Are blacktrackers trailing the trees where their
track is twisting
In a spoor of roots. The crows make a dis-
sonant clanging
Beyond the hill, where the webs of spiders are
listing
With their weight of frost —wrecked ships with
their salt shrouds hanging—
Mother-of-pearl the saplings, sluggishly thawing
Sound a slow stalactite music, a monotone
dripping.
Now comes a flash of scarlet warmly down-
dipping,
A robin flung like a rose from winter’s window.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


VICTORY
SERIES
WAR
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
m
THIS engine-room is the “heart” of a 106 ft. Army Supply Ship built
in an Australian shipyard for supply work in the S.W. Pacific Area
It shows three Ronaldson-Tippett 832 Marine units, which are the
prime movers of the vessel. ’
These powerful engines are complete with gear boxes Their
dependability of operation is guaranteed by the Ronaldson-Tippett
background of experience in the building of engines. W
fitr,n! U rL«J e f eoSnit !? n , Of R on «ldson.Tip P ett engine excellence is
fitting reward for, and climax to, 40 years of specialisation.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
QTaud Distributors; Ronaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK.
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
f
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Drought and Beef.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Outback”; The drought, now broken,
caused a serious decline in beef produc-
tion. One company with cattle proper-
ties in Queensland, the Gulf and the
Northern Territory will not turn off 50
p.c. of the fat cattle they turned off last
year, even with the Wyndham works
operating, as last year they sold below
the age at which they usually sell. An-
other company, which last year sold in
the vicinity of 32,000 head of fats in
three .States, expresses doubt whether it
will have any fat cattle for sa]e this year,
and north of Hughenden buffalo flies are
worrying the cattle and causing them to
lose condition.
The rain may give a two-thirds turn-
off in the Alpha-CIermont district com-
pared with last year,,but without good
feed the turn-off will not be more than
one-third of last year’s. Another pas-
toral company anticipates a reduction of
8000 head in the number of fats they
will market this year, and it is estimated
that fewer than 5000 head will be railed
from Quilpie, which last year railed
about 70,000 head. The Prices Branch
should make the price as attractive as
possible, in order to encourage produc-
tion, and leave it to the Taxation Com-
missioner to adjust matters should pro-
ducers make a profit. It takes’ four
or five years to produce fat cattle,
and a policy which might suit the manu-
facturer of dolls’ eyes is totally inapplic-
able to the beef-cattle industry.
•
D.D.T.—Its Uses and Abuses.
“J.R.D.”: There has been a lot of
impatience in awaiting its appearance on
the market, but the Government must
find out through its experts whether the
uses to which it may be put are likely to
have harmful effects or not. A certain
amount of control must be exercised in
the sale of the chemical.
D.D.T. was discovered as far back as
1874, but its potentialities were not
realised until recently. It acts as a con-
tact and also as a stomach poison on
insects and is greatly impervious to
water, but can be dissolved in a number
of oils. This allows it being sprayed as
a liquid on to a surface and staying there
for a considerable time in spite of
weather influences. A window pane
sprayed with a D.D.T. solution has re-
mained effective for many months. It
may also be used as a po%der against
fleas and lice a and for protecting stored
goods.
The publicity D.D.T. has received has
caused people to think that it is only
necessary to spray a room with it to
make the room insect-proof for a long
time. This is true to a certain extent,
but D.D.T. does not kill insects imme-
diately it comes in contact with them.
The ordinary house-fly may walk over
a window pane treated with D.D.T., and
"You're right, Ma—We should've 'ad 'em christened years ago."
though it were on that pane for 30
seconds death might not occur for 36
hours. This point is of particular im-
portance with regard to D.D.T. in com-
bating blowfly strike in sheep. D.D.T.
will not prevent a fly alighting on a sheep
and laying its eggs there, although a
sheep that had been treated with D.D.T.
might cause the death of that parent fly
at some later period. When the eggs
hatched out D.D.T. would have no effect
whatever on the larvae, so that for all
practical purposes it will not have any
primary effect on blowfly strike at all.
But there is good reason for its inclu-
sion in sheep and cattle dips, for a D.D.T.
dip should give protection against keds
and lice for a very much longer period
than derris. Nevertheless, it is unlikely
to oust derris and they will most likely
be. used in conjunction.
Life in the country will be made easier
by the use of a D.D.T. spray on walls,
windows arid other surfaces on which
flies alight. One of its chief uses, how-
ever, promises to be in the control of
insect pests in fruit and vegetables, but
it is here that the greatest danger exists
in its misuse. For instance, while D.D.T.
will kill fruit-fly if on fruit-trees,
it will also kill bees and other useful
insects which keep down noxious insects,
and which are also relied on for pollinisa-
tion. In U.S.A. it has been found that
.general spraying with D.D.T. killed not
only the insects it was intended to attack,
but many other useful insects and also
fish which ate the poisoned insects.
Another result was that the use of D.D.T.
as an orchard spray was followed by a
heavy infestation of aphis, which
unchecked because the predatory insects
which usually keep them in check had
been wiped out. We still have to learn to
what extent lettuces, cabbages and cauli-
flowers sprayed with D.D.T. will affect
human beings who eat them.
Winter Soil Cover.
“Pat Ater”: Clean farming doesn’t
always pay in hilly orchard country like
Batlow or the citrus slopes about Gos-
ford (N.S.W.). Where autumn and
winter rainfall is heavy and constant and
soil cover is absent, sheet erosion and
gullying can soon reduce productivity.
Unless contour planting was done during
the layout of the orchard and check banks
provided, either annual weeds should be
allowed to grow between rows (across the
slope) or a nitrogen-producer such as
sub-clover, vetches or barley be sbwn.
Sub-clover is best in districts of
autumn rainfall, where it can be sown in
early autumn between the rows of trees
following autumn ploughing. When heavy
rain is near, or has begun to sprout soft
annual weeds the ploughing can be
omitted. In dry areas where germina-
tion is a gamble a weed cover is doubly
desirable.
Soil movement begins with removal of
soil cover. Weeds between the tree rows
can have more than a cover value, too,
providing they are not noxious. Later,
after the winter-cover value is past, they
can be ploughed in for green manure.
Their value in that regard is very high.
Sub-clover can be sown if early-
autumn ploughing is necessary, or it can
be hand-sown along the roots of trees
alternating with the strips of weed
cover. In that way it provides a useful
contribution to the soil’s nitrogen con-
tent.
Being self-sowing, it can be relied upon
to come up again and compete with the
weed strips to give a nitrogen-rich soil
cover. The spring cultivation (across the
slope) with a mouldboard plough wi
work the weed, clover 'or vetch cove
into the ground, increasing its organ
content. Sub-clover in the strips can b
harvested or used as green manure.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gip”: Chinese sunflower, a tenaeiou
weed on the Atherton Tableland (N.Q.
is a menace in cultivations and pastur
land. It grows to Bft. or 10ft. in heigh
with a single* stalk. One unwary farmc
cut poles for his beans from the stalks
but the poles sprouted and choked ou
his beans. It is useless to grub it, fo
even if the roots are upturned the plan
roots from the top end just as quickly
Spraying with pentoxide is the only sur
way of killing the pest, and even thei
seedlings are still a menace.
“Sarina”: Handle nitrate of soda care
fully. Being highly inflammable, it shoulc
be stored in an isolated building where
there is no risk of fire. Allow no smok
ing or use of naked lights near it. Empty
sodium nitrate bags are dangerous unti
they have been thoroughly cleansed in
several different lots of water. Use the
water in which the bags were washed as
liquid manure for leafy vegetables. Keep
nitrate of soda out of reach of all stock
“Hux”: Tell the condition of a dog
by his tongue. If it’s pink all over health
is normal. If it’s bright red, he may be
in a fever or sickening for pneumonia
distemper or something equally serious.
The tongue that’s furred or coated indi-
cates some form of stomach trouble,
gastritis—possibly due to worms —bil-
liousness, indigestion or liver disorders.
When it’s furred following an illness
don’t worry. A dry tongue may indicate
heart, kidney or stomach weakness. If
at the same time the dog shows signs of
diarrhoea, sickness or difficulty in breath-
ing get. a vet.
“Plane Creek”: Though most scrub
trees will succumb to a strong dose of
arsenic pentoxide, it’s no good using
pentoxide on the native-figs, which aren’t
in the least affected. Only way of killing
off figs is to go to ’em with shovel and
pick. After rooting out the trees waste
no time in ploughing the ground and
cropping it to beat the fig suckers.
“Farmer Bill”: High temperatures,
humidity, an open instead of a closed
neck and a break in the parchment skin
will cause stored onions to shoot. To
ensure safe storage leave them in the
ground till the neck die's down and closes,
then cure off under a shelter to expel
excess moisture. Store in as low a tem-
perature as possible. Victorian Late
Brown and Long Keeping Brown Spanish
are two of the best storing varieties.
“L.C.”: Don’t give dogs bones of rab-
bits, poultry or fish. They pierce the
intestines and cause peritonitis and death.
“Zimple Zimon”: For round worms in
poultry mix tobacco dust with the morn-
ing mash in the proportion of 11b. to
every hundred birds. Starve the fowls
the night before so that they will gobble
up the treated mash, which is rather hot
to their taste. Repeat in three days, then
in five. After that dose the flock every
second Sunday morning as a preventive.
Another method is to use Black Leaf 40,
one teaspoonful for every 60 birds, or
one tablespoonfu! for 250. Mix Black
Leaf with water used for mixing the
morning mash. Treat four days in suc-
cession. Lesser quantities for chickens.
After using Black Leaf 40 treat every
second Sunday with tobacco dust.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S. Anti-Russian Reaction.
(From an article by Thomas L. Stokes in the
N.Y. “World-Telegram.")
Russia is losing goodwill in the U.S.
in Government and in Congress among
people who hitherto have been sym-
pathetic.
This reaction expresses itself volun-
tarily, which makes it impressive. It is
impressive, too, because it comes from a
middle ground, a liberal and progressive
stratum which, since the last war, has
been separate from the anti-Russian
group that never has changed, and from
the communist element that accepts every-
thing Russian blindly.
This tolerant middle group is frankly
disturbed by successive incidents —Poland
and the arrest of the 16 Poles, which broke
like a thunderclap over the San Fran-
cisco Conference ; Russia’s usurpation in
Austria; her closing of the Balkans to
outsiders. Russia’s rough-and-tumble
diplomacy at San Francisco also was diffi-
cult to comprehend.
Some members of Congress who have
been friendly toward Russia are getting
mail from constituents demanding an
explanation. They are hard put to ex-
plain. They want to give Russia a break.
They are grateful to her for her tremend-
ous contribution to victory in Europe.
They would like to see her make her con-
tribution to the future peace hand in
hand with the U.S. and Great Britain.
At the present time Russia appears as a
grabber, brusquely collecting smaller
nations into her orbit.
President Roosevelt made a number of
concessions, by no means minor, to get
Russia into the Sgn Francisco Confer-
ence. The question is asked whether it
is not time to call a halt before the policy
develops into appeasement. This is the
solution suggested in Washington now
that other means have failed. Policy
seems to be moving in that direction, and
will be interesting to watch.
The Russians have made it impossible,
beyond their press conference, to dis-
cover their viewpoint on developing issues
by the secrecy they have thrown con-
stantly about themselves, and the sus-
picion of American newspaper reporters
asking questions in the usual American
way. One of the most penetrating obser-
vations on Russian diplomacy came from
a British newspaper correspondent.
“Russia asks for five things. She wants
only one. But.you don’t know which
one that is.”
Somehow somebody must build a
bridge of understanding by which Russia
and the U.S. can reach each other. That
is becoming most important.
A Review of Monarchy.
(From an article by the N.Y. “Times” London
correspondent, Clifton Daniel.)
It is, paradoxically, in those very coun-
tries that are strong and confident in their
democracy that one finds the institution
of monarchy also weathering the revolu-
tionary storms of Europe —Britain, Nor-
way, Denmark and the Netherlands.
It is in the politically unstable coun-
tries that the future of monarchy is in
doubt.
Belgium is in a separate category be-
tween the stable and unstable countries.
There the monarchy itself seems to be
Looking over the San Francisco
Conference one is tempted to the
conclusion that the breaking of the
malodorous Polish affair was not an
unmixed misfortune. It had the
effect of causing the impression in
many quarters that other nations
must learn to play their cards close
to the chest in dealing with the Rus-
sians. In other words, there is the
sentiment that if the Americans and
British have not learned a lesson it
is just too bad. And there are
plenty of indications that the lesson
has been learned. —Edwin L. James,
N.Y. “Times” manager, in his
weekly article.
valued as a means of unifying diverse
elements, but the monarch, King Leopold,
has come under a cloud despite his earlier
popularity.
Applying the rule of the resistance
movements, King Leopold can be judged
to be innocent of collaboration, because
he was imprisoned by the Germans, but
his conduct at the time of the German
invasion, and his subsequent marriage to
a commoner, seem to have reduced his
personal popularity.
In Greece and Yugoslavia both the
institution and the sovereigns have a ques-
tionable future, Young King Peter, whose
family has been royal only a century, and
who regards himself as a democratic king
sprung from the people, has scant hope
of returning to the throne, which he actu-
ally occupied only a few weeks in 1941.
He has been promised an honest plebi-
scite to decide whether or not he shall
return, but he has the handicap that Tito’s
Government, which has been confirmed
in its authority by all major Allied
Powers, is openly and harshly anti-mon-
archist. There is na room in Tito’s plans
for a king.
King Peter’s uncle by marriage, King
George of the Hellenes, would appear to
have a better chance of going back to
Greece. His fate also depends on a plebi-
scite.
Behind the screen of Russian censor-
ship the present status of King Peter’s
cousin, King Michael of Rumania, cannot
be plainly discerned. One can only guess
that as long as he serves his purpose he
will remain on the throne —but no longer.
Book Leftists Denounce.
(“Saturday Evening Post” editorial comment.)
The chorus of denunciation by re-
viewers of Bill White’s much-debated
book Report on the Russians alarmed us
a little, for two reasons.
The first is that there seems to be a
disposition to put Russia in a special
category as the non-discussible Ally.
Hardly a week passes without the an-
nouncement of a book whose thesis is
that it is about time we took China apart
and put it together under new manage-
ment. Reviewers get into lively argu-
ments about the facts and the policies
involved, but they don’t work themselves
into a rage over the “tone” of such books
or charge the author with lending aid and
comfort to the Japanese.
Books also appear which denounce
Great Britain either for hanging on to
India or for allegedly planning a post-
war economic policy detrimental to the
United States. Here again we find critics
engaged in merry little tiffs over the
merits of the charge against Britain. But
hardly ever do we hear anybody say “This
proposal to destroy the British Empire is
bad because it may hurt the feelings of
an Ally which, after all, stood alone
while we (and Russia) were neutral.”
The other reason why the anti-White
“line” taken by critics and intellectuals
worries us is that it suggests that too
many of the people who tell the public
what kind of books it ought to read are
a little touchy about having the nature of
the communist set-up understood.
Day and night we are subjected to
persuasive propaganda by people who tell
us that we must have a “planned eco-
nomy.” Therefore, we are entitled to
know whether it is true or false that in
the fanciest planned economy on exhibit
it is inadvisable to talk to a citizen in the
street lest you put the finger on him for
the spy system; that even in peacetime
this economy has not been able to pro-
duce a decent diet, except for the bossing
minority ; that hordes of political prison-
ers worked in forced-labor gangs under
armed guard.
Those are some of the statements Mr.
White makes, and we are entitled to know
whether or not this is how a planned
economy works; whether the Russian
system —not for war, but for peace—is a
working model for us.
Maybe Mr. White did write as if he
had one eye on some particular irritating
worshipper of communism. That isn’t
the question, since it is always open
season for sneering at other Allies, But
he did make clearer what it would be
like to live in a country without civil
rights and without private competition.
Maybe that is why he got such a going-
over.
France a Stripped Ruin.
(From a report by Paul Scott Mowrer, European
editor N.Y. “Post.")
The material condition of France is
little short of appalling. The birthrate is
down and the death rate up. The
population has fallen temporarily from
41 to 38 millions.
The French Army has lost 100,000
killed. One hundred and fifty thousand
civilians were shot by the Germans.
Held in Germany were 780,000 war pris-
oners, 225,000 volunteer workers, 600,000
political and racial prisoners, 750,000
forced laborers, 300,000 Alsatians —a
total of more than 2,500,000.
The dwellings of more than 2,500,000
others have been destroyed. They are
refugees dependent on private and public
aid.
In these circumstances you would
think that France would be shorthanded.
However, despite a million men in the
army and 130,000 workers allocated to
the Allied armies, there still is unem-
ployment, because industry is paralysed.
During four years the Germans sys-
tematically stripped the country of stock-
piles and machines They removed 7000
locomotives, 200,000 freight cars, 300,000
trucks and nobody knows how many
machine tools. Individual Germans
helped themselves to household goods.
In retreat they took or destroyed as much
as they could.
Furthermore, I find to my surprise that
property damage in this war far exceeds
that in the last war.
The havoc is general. Some cities are
wholly wiped out, like Le Havre and
Brest. A total of 60,000 buildings have
been razed, and 800,000 more damaged.
Nineteen hundred railroad bridges are
wrecked and 1500 miles of track. Ports
are in ruin, machinery toppled, blasted
basins full of sunken ships.
All power lines have been cut, and
many power stations hit. Canal locks
are broken. In short, three-fourths of
the transportation system is shattered
and of the remainder two-thirds had to
be put to military use. Even the sur-
Aggression in this world is not
confined to the old-fashioned threats
or military action, or even to
economic pressures. Our experi-
ence with the Nazis, who infiltrated
their poisonous propaganda and
fifth columns into the lands of
peaceful neighbors, should indicate
there is a new form of aggression in
the world. Therefore, the San Fran-
* cisco charter should have a defini-
tion of aggression to include direct
or indirect subsidised Governmental
propaganda in other nations. En-
forcement of such a provision
would help cure that cause of wars
which grows out of crusading faith,
political or otherwise. —Former U.S.
President, Herbert Hoover.
viving third of France’s merchant fleet
couldn’t be used to supply France. It
was all in the Allied shipping pool.
After the fighting had ended in France
undamaged factories could not function
for lack of raw materials. There was
only a third enough coal for industrial
uses, let alone private heating. Dairy
herds were depleted and poor.
Nothing could be imported for lack of
ships and docks. The prolongation of
the war took all available shipping and
dock space and most of whatever rail-
roads could be restored. There was little
complaint, for everyone understood that
war needs must come first.
On top of it all, the last winter was
bitter cold. Canals froze. Snowdrifts put
out the fires of charcoal-burning trucks.
People’s hands were so numb they could
not work. Gas and electric shortages
added to the misery.
The average Parisian still is underfed,
short of wine and tobacco, cannot buy
clothes, shoes, furniture, linen or house-
hold utensils.
American Ambassador Caffrey says it
will take 20 years of hard effort to re-
build France. I hope he is wrong, but
at present I am unable to contradict him.
Britain’s Strategic Needs.
(From an article by leading U.S. war
commentator Hanson W. Baldwin.)
The technological revolution in the
nature of war that has made the British
Isles, at least potentially, an insecure
base has served merely to sharpen the
traditional English policy of opposition
to the unification of Europe under any
one flag, power or system, and has, at
least in British eyes, emphasised the
necessity of strengthening rather than
weakening the bonds of Empire.
The principal strategical requirements
of Britain in the post-war world, as seen
by Americans, are:
(1) A European continent of indepen-
dent States. Britain, of course, would
welcome friendship with all Europe,* but
she cannot tolerate hostility—particularly
collective hostility—from western Europe.
Her insular position, close to the coast of
a great continent, while historically it has
conveyed strength by enabling her to
dominate the sea approaches to Europe,
also has implied weakness —economic as
well as political —whenever most of
Europe, or most of western Europe,
combined against her.
As long as Britain possessed a superior
navy there was then no military threat.
Today robot bombs, rockets and ’planes
have bridged the Channel; British
security requires friendly, or at the very
least harmless. Powers across the Channel
and the North Sea. In the future, there-
fore, Britain’s insular position would be
greatly weakened militarily —as well as
politically and economically —by the
domination of Europe by any one State
or system or by the extension of the
power of a hostile or potentially hostile
State or system to any sizable section of
the Atlantic coast of Europe.
Britain’s vital interests, therefore, de-'
mand friendly relations at least with
western Europe, if possible with all
Europe, and allies—as strong as possible
—on the Continent. If she cannot get
them singly she will try to get them col-
lectively, regardless whether this is
dubbed a “western bloc” or a “sphere
of influence.” For much of Britain’s life,
and certainly her relative power position
in the world —which has already been
reduced by this war —are dependent in
major measure on the continent of
Europe.
(2) But Britain’s strength is also in
major measure the strength of her
Empire. She has long been a world
Power and her Empire has been the
source of great wealth and, in war, con-
siderable strength, as well as major weak-
nesses. Strategically, any threat to any
major portion of the British Empire is a
threat to Britain, and British policy must
be directed toward the maintenance of
the security of the Empire and of the
routes of communication to the Empire.
But this task, in this war and the
First World War, has been beyond the
military* potential of Britain alone. Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Canada are par-
ticularly dependent for security on the
military power of the United States.
India, the British position in the Middle
East and the so-called “life-line” through
the Mediterranean are the strategically
exposed or vulnerable parts of the
Empire, particularly the Mediterranean-
Middle Eastern area, as this war has
shown.
The Egypt-Suez Canal-Persian Gulf
area might be called the “cornerstone”
(strategically) of the British Empire. The
Mediterranean “lifeline” to this area,
which was cut during this war, can no
longer be defended by naval bases at
Gibraltar and Malta and in the eastern
Mediterranean. Extensivf bases for air
power —not concentrated and exposed to
neutralisation bombing from near-by con-
tinental bases, as the airfields at Malta
were —are probably essential to effective
British protection of the Mediterranean
lifeline.
This explains (strategically) the British
interest in the former Italian colonies in
North Africa. But British strategic re-
quirements in southern Europe, like
British requirements in western Europe,
demand friendly or non-hostile Powers
along the Mediterranean’s northern
shore. This explains to a considerable
extent British policy in Greece, in Italy
and to a lesser extent in Spain. It may
be the "background to present British
actions in Trieste and to possible future
British actions when the status of the
Dardanelles and of the Dodecanese and
the TEgean Islands come up for dis-
cussion.
War Victims in Europe.
(From a “Christian Science Monitor” special
article.)
Of all the people who have suffered
and succumbed in this war none have
suffered and succumbed to the same de-
gree as the Jews. Their estimated number
of 16,000,000 for the entire world in
1930 has been reduced to about
11.000. the greatest numerical loss
they have experienced in all their tragic
history.
As for the other peoples of Europe,
about 10 per cent, of the total popula-
tion of certain subjugated nations have
been killed. In Poland and Greece the
proportion is much higher.
To these must be added the numerical
losses occasioned by the shifting of mil-
lions of people. In 1938 Hitler started
mass shifts by recalling Germanics for
man-power and financial reasons ; he ex-
tended it mainly by agreements with
Soviet Russia for the forced exchange
of minorities, and ended by ruthlessly
intermingling and killing off the rival
populations of Europe so as to improve
the numerical superiority of the Herren-
volk. Increasing need for man-power was
not forgotten and in September, 1944,
12.000. forced workers were toiling in
defence works in Germany, if not de-
ported to the front lines.
The demographic removal of Europe’s
populations has not ended. The Russians


l/jmSH/PSSAIL
aossTomcsmsL
sSk
¥K
S 3
tr
Little ships keep close to the coast-
line, so when storms and trouble
threaten they can make for the
safety of sheltered harbours. Danger
lies in the open seas; close to the
shore there is practical protection.
Your ship is sailing down the
oceans of the years. You are the
Captain, and Life is the course you
steer. The seas ahead may be
rough and treacherous, so avoid
getting into "deep water" keep
to the safe channels inshore. A
Savings Account will provide
handy protection and tide you over
many a stormy passage. Open an
account to-day, and smooth the
journey to the Port of Security and
Independence.
The right time to save money is
now, when you have it. There is
no excuse for risking the hazards of
hiding money under the mattress, or
in an old tin. The safe, effective
channel fop saving is the Common-
wealth Savings Bank. The friendly
service of this vast Australian Institu-
tion simplifies saving and offers
=0 every facility.
commonuHAiTH
SPUIDCS BflllK
• Of AUSTRALIA CBI2BB
r.
w
New Guinea
BY AIR
MOB?
Twice weekly from Sydney, Qantas, operating D.C. 3
aircraft, provides a fast, modern civil airline service
to New Guinea, via Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Cairns and Port Moresby.
Accommodation is available for passengers holding
permits, priority freight and mails.
was ■:
Australia’s INTERNATIONAL Airline
sians already have begun to transfer Ger-
mans and Poles to the Soviet Union, but
have not yet said a word about the re-
patriation of an unknown number of
western peoples previously “transferred”
to the Soviet Union.
If the demands of Russia and other
United Nations for more than 10,000,000
reparations workers are granted another
disruptive factor will be added, and it
will be a considerable time before a
normal demographic situation can be
restored in Europe.
Front casualties far exceed those of
World War I. But the really salient char-
acteristic of this war is the decimation of
civilian populations. It is to be hoped
that precautionary measures taken by the
Allies will, to a certain extent, curtail
epidemics. However, we must antici-
pate the consequences of six years of
living under appalling war conditions:
starvation, bombing, flight, evacuation,
overland mass transportation like cattle,
particularly of women and children, and
so on. In certain countries the mortality
rate has risen to what it was centuries
ago.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
A few of the problems facing U.S. immigra-
tion authorities: (1) More than 70,000 wives of
servicemen, married abroad, who await passage
to America. (2) Nearly 1000 refugees living in
a Government camp at Oswego, N.Y., most of
whom want to stay but who are legally required
to return to Europe as soon a§ shipping is
available. (3) More than 250,000 foreign
laborers from Mexico, Jamaica and other West-
ern Hemisphere countries, brought to U.S. to
work in war-time agricultural and industrial
projects, who are not eligible to remain as
citizens. — N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
The ill-informed rubbish [on Greece] which
both English and American papers published
aggravated the situation to a large degree. It is
ridiculous that a number of uneducated school-
boys should be able to control public opinion
in this way .—From a letter written by a British
soldier who was subsequently killed in fighting
the communist forces in Greece; printed in
Washington “Post.”
* * * *
The man who, there is some reason to be-
lieve, is the most important Polish communist
is Saul Amsterdam. He has operated in the
Polish political underground and in international
communist circles under the political “klitchka”
or nicknames of Jan Henrykowski, Amsterdam-
ski, Saulski, Comrade Jan and Comrade
Krzysztof. Although he holds no known posi-
tion, his influence is said to be much greater
than that of President Boleslaw Bierut, especially
in Moscow. M. Amsterdam was born in Nowy
Sacz in western Galicia, which gave the com-
munist world many leaders, including Karl
Radek. During the first .World War he joined
Poalej-Syon, the Jewish Socialist party, and be-
came leader of its left wing. In 1919 he joined
the Polish Communist party and became a
member of its executive. His friendship with
Radek helped his prestige. He was arrested by
the political police but went to Moscow in ex-
change for a Pole held by the Russians. He
A number of white girls in Aus-
tralia, where there is no color line,
married negro soldiers and came to
the U.S. to live with their parents-
in-law. Shocked by American
segregation, they are now tearfully
pleading for return passage home. —
N.Y. “Daily News.”
became a member of the Comintern executive,
and became acquainted with Molotoff At one
time he sat on the executive of the Polish Com-
munist party in exile in Prague. M. Bierut, his
subordinate and a paid communist organiser,
attended meetings of the executive. During the
purge year of 1937 in Russia the Polish Com-
munist party, rightist and leftist, was dis-
solved. M. Amsterdam disappeared and it was
rumored that he had been shot. He emerged
ready to act in 1941. There are unconfirmed
rumors that he came from a penal labor camp.
_ N y « Tjmes „ |Vrf cor / espondent abroa %
C. L. Sulzberger.
* * * *
“During the war Britain sent to the Soviet
Union £120,000,000 of civil goods—materials
no t strictly of a military nature. Among these
supplies were 257,000 tons of foodstuffs, more
than 3,000,000 pairs of boots, £1,250,000 worth
Q f industrial diamonds and 3,000,000 yards of
khaki cloth , 0 f the total, 628,000 tons of sup-
pii e s were sent overland from the Persian Gulf;
the rest by ocean convoys, and losses were only
2\ p.c.”— Sir Francis Joseph, chairman of the
y Commercial Corporation.
* * * *
The Japanese probably still maintain 900,000
to 1,500,000 Japanese soldiers in China, For-
mosa and Hainan (exclusive of Manchuria and
Korea), plus perhaps 500,000 to 750,000 Chinese
auxiliaries of the puppet Government they have
established, plus some labor troops. The re-
ported Chinese successes around Foochow mifsf
be read against the background of such figures
and against our own combat experience with
the Japanese in the Pacific islands; if Japanese
soldiers rather than Chinese puppet troops were
holding Foochow- and wanted to hold it—
they could not have been driven out with the
rapidity represented m the Chinese commum-
ques.—Hanson W. Baldwin; N.Y. Times.
, * . * , , * ,
Speaking in New Yoik, Representative Clare
Boothe Luce, Republican, said: No thoughtful
person can look at the pronouncements out ot
Moscow and not realise that to the men of the
Kremlin the truth is what Stalin says it is on
Monday, but it may be something else again on
Tuesday. In the communist ideology truth is
not an absolute. If the Nazi treatment of the
Jews is called murder, then when the Rus-
sians do the same thing we ought to call that
murder, too. The Russians are using murder
as an instrument of political policy. This policy
is being used by the Soviet Union all over
Europe today.” To those who shrug off the
Russians with the contention that they have a
right to do as they choose, Mrs. Luce retorted
that “if the Russians have that right, then the
Nazis had it. I don’t think the Nazis had
it, and I don’t think the Russians have that
right, either.” — N.Y. “Herald Tribune” report.
* * * *
Being recently of and for Congress, President
Truman will project the Congressional view
further into the international field than has
been done in the past. He knows how far Con-
gress is willing to go toward international co-
operation. The distance may not be as far as
Mr. Roosevelt might have been able to take
the United States. Mr. Truman likes to achieve
an appearance of unanimity. As chairman of
the Senate War Investigating Committee he
directed inquiries into many controversial sub-
jects. His committee was composed of Re-
publicans and Democrats of varying views. Yet
every report that came from his Committee bore
the unanimous approval of its members. There
were no minority reports. But the middle
ground of any subject, at which unanimous
approval can be had, is at a lower level than
can be reached by the driving fight that forces
a measure through over the objections of a
minority. The application of this rule to the
Presidency would mean that Mr. Truman would
have more solid backing in Congress for his
international policies, but those policies would
not reflect the utmost that a majority of the
people were willing to do. — “United States
News.”
* * * *
There’s beginning to be a faint suspicion that
U.S. has gone through one more European war
without settling more than the fact that Ger-
many can be beaten. Maybe at $300,000,000,000
a war, that won’t be possible again.— “United
States NewsF
* * * *
One of the most difficult of the basic prob-
lems of European recovery will be to relieve
the liberated peoples of psychoses caused by
the Nazi occupation, according to an article
published in “Lancet,” the British medical
journal, by Lieut'.-Col. A. M. Meerloo, a doctor
with the Royal Netherlands Army. Colonel
Meerloo lived over two years under German
rule before he escaped. Since the Allied in-
vasion he has travelled extensively in France,
Belgium and the liberated portion of his own
country. “What I saw there,” he wrote, “con-
firmed my thesis that these people need rest and
must be handled with patience, for nearly all
are slightly neurotic or psychopathic.” The
principal victims have been children. “For
five years murder, treason, deceit, black market
and perverted bestiality have belonged to the
real world of the child,” Colonel Meerloo wrote.
Living in the adult company of saboteurs, pas-
sive resisters and underground secrecy, the
children had no normal moral directive. In
the colonel’s opinion, “this partial demoralisa-
tion will lead to extremely difficult educational
problems.” There are three groups of symptoms
in the psychopathic attitude of liberated people.
The first is general mental paralysis, the second
intense suspiciousness, the third increased aggres-
siveness, the latter the result of “involuntary
mental infection of German propaganda,” no
matter how intensely resistant the patriot was to
Nazi domination. During the occupation, indi-
viduals who suffered from it had found satisfac-
tion in common hatred and action against the
enemy. After the liberation the hatred remained
unsatisfied and is converted into jealousy and
aggression against everyone els t.-— London corre-
spondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune."
* * * *
During the early years after the close of the
first World War there was a widespread out-
burst of Oriental nationalism. Those years
marked the Egyptian revolt, a bitterly contested
rising of the Syrian people, the elimination by
the Persians of all vestiges of foreign domina-
tion, the first of the Iraqi rebellions, the attack
by Afghanistan upon British forces in India,
extensive nationalist agitation in India and in
Burma, as well as in the Netherlands East
Indies, and long-continued hostilities between
the new Turkey and the Allied nations. Now
a far more powerful surge toward freedom
among peoples of the East will be inevit-
able. Compared to the forces which it will
unleash, the outbreak of the 1920’s will be
trivial. The symptoms are unmistakable. Dur-
ing the period between the wars nationalist
leaders in most of the colonial areas have
steadily gained popular support. There has
been a constantly growing demand for self-
government. The clamor for liberty has taken
on the tinge of a religious fanaticism. — Former
U.S. Under Secretary of State Sumner Welles.
* * * *
The U.S. Department of Commerce estimates
the savings of U.S. individuals in 1944 at about
$40,000,000,000. This is an all-time record.
The abnormality of this volume of savings is
indicated when it is compared with a pre-war
peak of less than $59,000,000,000 in the boom
year of 1929. In fact, savings of individuals
last year were equal to about half of the U.S.
national income in 1929. This peak volume of
savings has been created because the; war has
been financed mainly through bowowing rather
than taxation.. In addition, the combination of
price control and rationing has made it diffi-
cult to spend these extra funds, and many per-
sons have refrained patriotically from going on
a spending spree.— N.Y. “Times.”
» * * *
If one will look closely he will see that it is
not the rank and file of union labor who are
enthusiastic about “planning.” It is the so-
called leaders of labor unions. There can be
no economic “plan” without its compulsory
features. If the worker is to receive a “guaran-
tee” from the Government he in turn must give
one, and it will be to work where and when he
is told. Possibly the leaders of labor expect
to be on the committee giving the orders. Most
enthusiasts for “planning” do seem to proceed
on that assumption.— “ Wall-street Journal.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — If Divorce.
TO GEORGE WILLIAM FOGGO late of Newtown
N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that NEA MAY FOGGO has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1235 of 1915 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 6th
August 1915 and obtain a copy of the Petition
from M. B. Byles & Co of 40K3astlereagh Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar.
Public Notice
I, IRVING JOSEPH FREDERICKS, of Polish
nationality, born at Brody, Poland, and resident six
years, five months in Australia, now residing at 1
“Chiswick,” 28 William Street, Double Bay, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
HM®
jujstbbub®*
Jack Dyer, captain-coach Rich-
mond, well known to football fans
as one of the best big men in
the Australian Rules game today.
Despite restrictions, limited
supplies of 1.C.1. SHOTGUN
and .22 RIMFIRE CART-
RIDGES are available to
primary producers for essen-
tial pest destruction subject
to police permits . ALL
AUSTRALIAN.
lAMCB
IMPERIAL
OF AUSTRALIA
CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
They’ve FREEDOM NOW.
but they still need CLOTHING!
m
mm
m
■mm m
* SS*
» J*
mm.
mm
m
I
VmSm
u
mm
mm
mmmmm
ms®
*
i j
mmm
•«
!*?J fiu\V\c°»e
VJar M\cW«s *•".
vouv unvianteo
CIOTHIHG
Photographs, news-reels, eye-
witness accounts, cannot describe adequately the
utter destitution of the 125 million people of the
liberated countries of Europe.
Now they’re free, they’re obtaining a reasonable
amount of food, but unless you help with gifts
of unwanted clothing, they face another cruel
winter, dressed in rags—miserable with cold.
Please, will you help U.N.R.R.A. to provide these
war victims with clothing? Go through the house
now and make up a parcel of the clothing you and
your family can do without. Any kind of clean
clothing, footwear or bedding in reasonably good
repair is welcome. But do it now—all clothing
must be sorted, packed, and shipped by U.N.R.R.A.
for distribution in Europe before winter begins.
GIVE YOUR UNWANTED CLOTHING TO
The Australian National Clothing Collection for Over-
seas Relief is a united effort on the part of U.N.R.R.A.
and forty Australian relief agencies, which comprise
UN.R.RA
THE AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL FOR THE UNITED NATIONS RELIEF AND REHABILITATION ADMINISTRATION
Ring your Local Council now . . . theyil tell you what to do
Issued by the Government of Commonwealth of Australia.
U 2.83.65
■■;
m
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA”
Obtainable In 10*s & 20’s
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
mm
5786
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy eighth edition of Alfred Marshall’s
Principles of Economics. —3622.
To buy Stars of the Southern Cross, by
Nangle, The Sun, by Samson, The Sun, by
Abatle, and Know Your Weather, by Mares. —
3623.
To buy publications In Riksmal —1938 ortho-
graphy preferred—for student of Norwegian.—
3624.
Information Sought.
If a natural British-born subject became an
American subject would he on returning to
England to take up permanent residence be per-
mitted to resume British citizenship?
He may, on complying with the same conditions
and adducing the same evidence as other aliens,
apply for a certificate of readmission to British
nationality. The granting or withholding, of
such certificate is a matter within the discretion
of the Secretary of State.
On what days should flags be flown in Sydney
on public and private buildings ?
First January, New Year’s Day, and anniver-
sary of establishment of Commonwealth; 26th
January, Anniversary Day; 21st April, Princess
Elizabeth’s birthday; 25th April, An,zac Day;
28th April, anniversary of Capt. Cook’sTanding
in Australia; 12th May, anniversary of his
Majesty’s coronation; 24th May, Empire Day;
26fh May, Queen Mary’s birthday; 4th August,
Queen Elizabeth’s birthday; 11th November,
Armistice Day; 11th December, anniversary of
King’s accession; 14th December, King’s Birth-
day (also to be flown on the day observed as a
public holiday and on days appointed for official
celebrations). In all cases flags should be flown
from 8 a.m, until sunset. Books dealing fully
with the flying of flags can be seen at the
N.S.W. Public Library.
Some facts about the British Council?
It was established in 1934 at the instance of
the Foreign Office, supported by a number of
other Government departments. A charter was
granted in 1940 under the terms of which the
Council exists for the purpose of promoting a
wider knowledge of the United Kingdom and
the English language abroad, and of developing
closer cultural relations between the U.K. and
other countries. Almost the whole of its funds
are derived from a grant voted by Parlia-
ment. Apart from its work overseas, the
Council does work in Great Britain for the
recreational welfare of United States and
Dominion personnel. The headquarters of the
British Council are at 3 Hanover-street, London,
W.l.
Brief Answers.
H.O.L.: The trade method to .clean and
brighten furs after tanning is to drum the skins
in clean, carefully-dried sawdust for periods
ranging up to two hours, the exact time de-
pending on the type of fur, in a drum rotating
at a speed of about 25 revs, per minute....
D.C.: Victorian Producers’ Co-op., 578 Little
Flinders-street, Melbourne, are sole Victorian
distributors of the Case tractor J.D.: In-
formation can be obtained from the Publicity
Officer, Government of Alberta, Edmonton,
Canada W.J.B.: It is collected from the
male Sellars: If the Department of Army
were satisfied that the wife was a dependent
ghe would be entitled to the allowance....
G.W.S. (1) The Bulletin accepts verse. (2)
Know of no such agent. (3) Writers and Artists’
Year-Book F.E.S.: The book, is worth 5s.
A.M.H.: The values are 5s. to 10s., 5s. and
10s Digger; You may drive the cpws out,
drive them to the local pound, or impound
them' yourself; the owner of the cows is liable
for any damage done by reason of their stray-
ing.... E.L.: You-should now be able to re-
gain possession of your home. When the new
Landlord and Tenant Regulations have been
gazetted get a solicitor to draft the necessary
order to quit I.C.: The first Australian pro-
duction of “Chu Chin Chow” was at the
Grand Opera House in Sydney in 1920; Oscar
Asche appeared in a revival in 1923, Pearl Ladd
playing the part originally played in London
by Lily Brayton... .C.M.C.: (1) Consultation
with a solicitor is advisable. (2) Information
is unobtainable... .I.D.McI: There are no
trade papers devoted to wool and sheep class-
ing, but such subjects are occasionally dealt
with ip daily papers that run a “Land” page,
and in such publications as The Bulletin and
“The Pastoral Review” Anzac Cove: The
Emden was never salvaged, but a good deal of
her equipment was taken to various naval
depots; Captain John Glassop was awarded the
C.B. for her sinking.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
J.G.A.: Close; more correct form would
help, and you haven’t quite made those mush-
rooms sprout J.McE.: Far too obviously
borrowed from a poem in Australian. Poetry
PJ.R.: Like the spirit S.E.: Good theme
flimsily and carelessly treated E.K.: A
trifle sententious E.S.: How handy the word
“pelf” is when one is stuck for a rhyme for
“self” W.C.: Should suit a religious journal.
E.A.: “Australians all!” —and here follow'
the usual impeccable sentiments G.W.8.:
Nice little bits of nothing very much....
G.C.: If you mean that the sun dried up the
creeks you really shouldn’t say that a “fierce
virile orb” has “dehydrated lorn runnels”
0.R.: Be careful about talking to pens
J. : “The Bushranger” wouldn’t hold anyone
up for very long L.G.: Of purely specialist
interest; study magazines you think most suit-
able... .N. 8.: Slight.... M.FJS.; Try* a
woman’s paper P.H.8.: Pleasantly feeble
L.S.: Strained R.E.F.: Sentimental t...
K. : Try a daily A.F.8.: Come again.


in the 333 s blend
“ ‘Three-threes’ always please—the secret’s in the
333’s blend.” Because so many smokers prefer
“Three-threes,” shortages sometimes occur under
wartime conditions.
But keep asking your usual supplier for State
“333 ”
State Express
★ Buy War Savings Certificates.
3 3 3
CIRETIES
X29ID-8.4S
ACCUMULATED WISDOM
IN ADMINISTRATION
TPHE experience garnered by a Board of Directors, and a group of highly trained officers,
in the administration of many estates, results in an aggregate wisdom that no one
man could ever acquire. For this reason the appointment of Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor must commend itself to you.
If you cannot arrange for a personal interview, write for particulars. A booklet,
""four Executor and Trustee," covers the matter very fully. A copy will be sent you on
application.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T, H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon, T. A. I. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and other/,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £62,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street,
Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord's Place, Orange.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off or
Provided Added
Total Ex- Oontingen- to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’34.. 9,714,268 5,353,985 1,017,985 51,044 3,291,264
’35.10,179,608 5,565,654 1,135,176 29,172 3,449,606
’36.10,747,661 5,445,849 1,203,947 119,285 t 4 n7B r)80
From conting. res., £lOO,OOO .. j
’37.11,197,066 5,681,864 1,291,292 60,166 1 , 91 „ 744
From conting. reserve, £lOO,OOO .. S ’ ’
’38.11,629,215 6,436,313 1,279,263 74,244 3,839,395
’39.12,182,925 6,200,352 1,324,168 671,168 1 o Sl2 9 q 7
Additional tax provision, £175,000 j
’40.12,711,226 6,411,681 1,263,920 671,890 7 4 188 735
Additional tax provision, £175,000 | ’ ’
’41.13,113,267 6,638,662 1,523,970 207,226 4,743,409
’42.13,299,107*7,428,662 1,493,428 85,010 \ 4 204 r, 07
Additional tax provision, £87,500 ) ’ ’
’43.13,691,7917,431,300 1,833,818 528,757 4,397,916
’44.14,410,742 7,009,339 1,457;834 574,532 5,339,087
Industrial Department.
Written Added
Ex- Off, to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Etc. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’34.. 2,310,472 853,034 533,936 5,651 917,851
’35.. 2,460,767 964,512 582,580 4,280 90)?,395
’36.. 2,679,507 1,095,085 641,792 1,558 941,072
’37.. 2,943,122 1,162,121 753,995 15,124 1,011,882
’38.. 3,220,576 1,233,996 791,728 13,298 1,181,554
’39.. 3,444,913 1,518,872 823,260 47,699 1 j ogo og2
Provision for taxation, £25,000.. j ’ ’
’40.. 3,682,750 1,586,091 851,757 80,540 1 . , qq „ fi9
Provision for taxation, £25,000 | ’ ’
’41.. 3,866,840 1,632,056 907,385 38,508 1,288,891
’42.. 4,079,872 1,525,080 933,175 16,474 ) , - q9 fi4 o
Provision for taxation, £12,500 J ’ ’
’43.. 4,294,091 1,562,482 939,028 16,214 1,776,867
’44.. 4,550,853 1,807,507 985,776 13,598 1,743,972
Through hard-earned savings we have
become a nation of mostly small capital-
ists. And the big mutual life offices —the
A.M.P. is Australia’s largest and oldest —
have played an important part in the
democratisation of wealth. They repre-
sent a system of collective security which
provides both a sheet anchor in the realm
of domestic finance and a stabilising in-
fluence in the social and economic struc-
ture. They have been the largest contri-
butors to war and other Government
loans, while the thrift of policy-holders
through payment of premiums has helped
to ease pressure of accumulated spending
power on pegged prices in a market where
goods are in short supply. Thus the State
benefits, as well as policy-holders and
their dependants.
Also, the system has withstood the tests
of time, including the strain of financial
depression and the crises of two world
wars. Because the mainspring of saving
is to provide incomes, and not least to
provide for old age, a strong and growing
demand for the protection that life assur-
ance thus affords can be expected to con-
tinue into the future. The life offices
cater for a wide variety of personal wants
outside the scope of social security legis-
lation, and such catering warrants the
minimum of Government interference.
The A.M.P. has continued to gather
strength and make progress, despite the
crop of actuarial and managerial prob-
lems that war, financial controls, cheap
money, higher taxation, rising costs and
man-power difficulties have brought
about. And the latest accounts disclose
healthy margins in all matters upon which
soundness of a life office depends.
Despite depletion of staff and absorp-
tion of the younger lives into the services,
the amount of new business written last
year was a record £32,710,954 (up
£6,417,624), of which £26,225,728 (up
£5,563,289) was in the ordinary and
£6,485,226 (up £854,335) in the industrial
section. Group assurance, now a promi-
nent feature of staff superannuation
schemes of commercial organisations,
accounted for an increased slice of accept-
ances.
The year’s claims on account of war
deaths exceeded £730,000, making the
total since war began approx. £3,600,000.
Here the strain arises from the difference
between the sum assured and the reserve
accumulated in respect thereof, which is
comparatively small at the earlier ages.
Still, in the ordinary department all mor-
tality was only 59 p.c. of expectation
under the tables used, as against 67 p.c.
in the previous year. So the war strain
hasn’t been very serious.
Heaviest blow came from the Govern-
ment’s policy of cheap money combined
with high taxation. This reduced the net
return from investments —which used to
be chief source of surplus earnings—and
with it bonuses to policy-holders. And
the need to protect the society’s future
bonus-paying capacity by strengthening
actuarial and other reserves further aggra
vated the position. Here is a comparison
of surpluses declared available for divi-
sion among policy-holders—there ate no
shareholders:
a BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1938.. 3,094,348 350,516 3,444,864
1939.. 1,996,493 377,033 2,373,526
1940.. 2,053,491 409,718 2,463,209
1941.. 1,055,801 192,514 1,248,315
1942.. 1,791,984 210,796 2,002,780
1943.. 1,826,367 809,735 2,186,102
1944.. 2,493,222 334,049 2,827,271
The amount distributed in bonuses in the
ordinary department last year (up
£666,855) was equal to 27 p.c. of pre-
miums on participating contracts, com-
pared with 21.4, 21.7, 13.2, 26.3 and 26.7
p.c. back to 1939. Since 1939 no less than
£5,350,000 (£500,000 of it in respect of
last term) has been added to special actu-
arial reserve for contingencies (now
£6,000,000) in the ordinary section.
Bonuses on industrial policies were main-
tained at the same level as for the previous
year, when the rates were strengthened a
little.
At the end of 1944 the £148,690,078 (up
£7,083,008) of assurance funds, which in-
clude the special actuarial reserve just re-
ferred to, had the support and assistance
of an investment reserve, etc., of
£4,000,000 (up £500,000), a tax reserve
of .£BOO,OOO and a fidelity guarantee fund
of £6857. The rate of interest realised
on the mean of all these funds was
£4 os. sd. p.c, (down Is. 2d. p.c.) compared
with £4 7s. Bd. p.c. in 1939. Over the same
period the tax bill shot up from £324,931
to £443,209.
Although the society continues to value
its policy liabilities on a 3 p.c. basis, it has
more than sufficient actuarial reserves in
the assurance funds alone to cover the
increased liability that would arise from
valuing these liabilities in both depart-
ments on a 2\ p.c. interest basis by the
latest published mortality tables. Policy-
holders are, therefore, well protected
against the effects of the faff in interest
rates and rise in taxation.
And the business is handled at low cost.
Including taxes, exes, took 9.7 p.c. of
total income in the ordinary department
as against 9.6 p.c., 1943, and 10.7 p.c.,
1939. On the same basis, figures in the
industrial section were 20.4 p.c., 20.9 p.c.
and 22.4 p.c. for corresponding years.
Last term the amount invested in Gov-
ernment securities was increased by
£10,413,369, making total addition since
1939 £40,864,768. The item now repre-
sents 71.6 p.c. of total assets as against
58.1 p.c. five years ago:
194.3. p.c. 1944. p.c.
Public securi-
ties ..£101,686,070 68.2 £112,099,439 71.6
Mortgages . . 29,670,037 19.9 28,206,313 18.0
Loans on poli-
cies . . 13,553,646 9.1 12,470,995 8.0
Premises . . 1,429,394 .9 1,352,651 .9
Other assets. 2,387,360 1.9 2,437,877 1.5
Total assets £148,726,507 100.0 £156,567,275 100.0
Liabilities*.. 2,812,781 3,070,340
Net assets £145,913,726 £153,496,9^5
* Other than under policies.
The year’s growth in net assets was
£7,583,209. Post-war, more attention is
to be given to home mortgage business.
In this connection one of the co.’s officers
is now investigating policies and methods
being adopted by life offices in Britain,
Canada and U.S.A. But the incidence of
land tax in Australia renders large-scale
purchase of real estate for development
purposes unattractive, the chairman says.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ,To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1934.. 32.131 7f p.c. 7| p.c. 19,375 12,956 68,922
1935. 7| „ 7| „ 19,375 10,449 79,371
Insurances surrendered, £2OOB .. 77,363
Written off, £2900 ! 4 ’t 6 2
1936. 7f p.c. 7f p.c. 22,822
1937. 7| „ 7s ~ 24,412 7,415 80,188
1938.. 29.437 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 4,637 84,820
1939.. 32.338 8 „ 8 „ 24,800 7,538 92,358
1940.. 32.730 9 ~ 9 „ 27,900 4,830 97,188
Depreciation written back, £15,000. .112,188
1941.-27,909 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 9 112,197
Written off intangibles, £442 . . 112,639
Directors’ fees adjusted, £l6OO .. 111,039
1942.. 29 964 9 p-.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 2,064 113,103
19,8 "145?Vd, !7,M0 !
Pref. div. subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act
from 1/10/’3l.
There was little alteration in basic con-
ditions under which hosiery manufac-
turers operated last year. But the out-
look is changing. The weight of service
demands became less pressing as the year
advanced, enabling a bit more of the
output to be diverted to the hungry civilian
trade, where a tight market still prevails.
Briefly, the position is one of restric-
tions imposed for the purpose of de-
veloping maximum war effort. Now
that the struggle in Europe has ended
speedy readjustment of British and
American manufactures to a one-war
basis can be expected, with a partial shift-
back to peace-time production and hunt
for markets. Unless the greatest pos-
sible degree of freedom in production
and marketing is granted to Australian
manufacturers at an early date they will
be placed at a serious disadvantage com-
pared with overseas competitors. Local
manufacturers find themselves unable to
look ahead with any degree of confidence
pending some knowledge of what the
Government proposes to do in relaxing
and/or maintaining restrictive controls,
both in the immediate and not so imme-
diate future.
It is all very well to say that
controls of commodities and of finance
must march in step; but they need
to move in echelon rather than in
line. The right kind of commodities can
only be produced when the appropriate
machinery is ready. Besides covering
prices of raw materials and finished
goods, present controls restrict the pro-
duction of new lines and purchase and
installation of new equipment. In many
cases existing plant has been worked
almost to destruction, while overseas
much technical and other progress has
been achieved. Lustre and other Austra-
lian manufacturers cannot turn out stock-
ings as sheer as those produced in U.S.A.
And changes and developments are tak-
ing place in production of new fibres and
rayon yarns in both U.S.A. and Britain.
This means that modernisation of local
plant will call for installation of some
entirely new, as well as adaptation of
much old, equipment. And since the
outlook is for a period of intense com-
petition, nothing but the most efficient
equipment will be adequate, if the indus-
try in Australia is to maintain its com-
petitive position in the post-war set-up.
Alive to its problems, Lustre has sent its
mill manager abroad to investigate de-
velopments in plant, processes and raw
materials.
The increased cost of raw materials in
the trade is being met by Government
subsidy, not by lifts in selling prices. The
increases are therefore being borne by
taxpayers generally in proportion to the
rate of income and other tax paid. What
will happen when the subsidy is with-
drawn, or substantially reduced,' will
depend largely upon the level of costs,
including the cost of imported yarns.
The only thing that stands between a
large section of the public and a de-
creased standard of living is increased
production at lower-than-present costs.
No substantial drop in overseas prices is
expected. The difficulty will be to pre-
vent local costs from rising, especially
if wageapare unpegged ; hence the import-
ance of plant efficiency.
Last term Lustre’s gross earnings
(£118,625) improved £6697. Including
£22,874 (up £143) allowed for deprecia-
tion and an unspecified provision for
taxation, exes. (£87,068) took all the in-
crease and £1932 besides. The net result
(£31,557) was sufficient to give the prefs.
their full contract rate (10 p.c.) and show
10.2 p.c. on the £226,667 of ord. capital,
as against 1L 9.9, 9 and 10.7 p.c. back
to 1940. An Ml-round 9 p.c. distribution
was repeated for the fifth successive year,
the prefs. being subject to the long out-
moded N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act. After paying the div. and sending
£2OlO to the staff fund, £1647 was put on the
shelf, lifting the lay-by to £112,339, equal
to 10s. 2d. per pound of ord. capital.
Output of the Newcastle factory,
opened in 1941, further expanded, and


Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney. .
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'solders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Bellevue Hill-Rose Bay.
CITY of SYDNEY’S PREMIER
RESIDENTIAL LOCALlTY—commanding
uninterrupted HARBOUR VIEWS.
NQARITA”
No. 77 Cranbrook Rd,
GENTLEMAN’S RESIDENCE of brick on
stone, tiled roof, wide verandahs and bal-
conies, imposing entrance hall, 4 recep-
tion-rooms, cloak-room, 5 bedrooms, 2
bathrooms, 2 dressing-rooms,, sun-room,
maid’s dining-room, well-appointed kitchen
and offices. Hot water service.
A SPECIAL FEATURE is the woodwork
and superb fittings throughout. Double
Garage and Turntable.
LAND: 97ft. 6in. x average depth of about
235 ft., rear line 140 ft. to Cranbrook Lane.
Torrens Title.
Note : Magnificent Billiard Table, Re-
frigerator, superior Carpets and Curtains,
may be purchased at valuation.
PRICE: £I2,SOOCASH or TERMS.
Vacant Possession.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, Ltd.,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
RAINE & HORNE, Ltd.,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
Agents in conjunction.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
DAVIES A COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collin*
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
m
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box, Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Company, Limited
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
29th June, 1945.
Chairman: MR. K. M. NIALL.
The Balance Sheet
You will have noticed that there has been a
further increase of over half a million in invest-
ments in Government Loans, etc., which in the main
is represented by reductions of £225,000 in cash
and deposits by the Company and £ 160,000 in
trade debts, etc., and also the increase in creditors.
The increase of £34,000 in trade deposits is due
to an amount being deposited with the Taxation
Commissioner in connection with deferred main-
tenance. I referred to this matter at our last
General Meeting.
Stock in Trade
These figures are less by £30,000, which is due
partly to there being practically no station wool
unsold on hand this year, and also to sheep numbers
on the Company’s stations having’ been reduced sub-
stantially owing to drought.
Profit and Loss Account
The profit earned has declined by £65,804 as
compared with last year—by far the major portion
being due to adverse seasonal conditions on the
Company’s own stations. Considering the smaller
turnover suffered by all wool brokers and stock
agents in a year of drought, our agency profits have
been well maintained. As regards stock, I have
pleasure in stating that during the year we sold
over 3,900,000 sheep, nearly 180,000 cattle and
120,000 pigs—in spite of the seasonal conditions.
Value of land sold exceeded £1,000,000.
Wool Appraisements
Appraisements for the sixth season of the existing
Wool Purchase Agreement are now practically con-
cluded. Under the agreement the clip was again
acquired by the British Government at the average
price of 15.453 d. per lb. greasy (Australian
currency).
Generally speaking, owing to seasonal conditions
the 1944/45 Commonwealth wool production was
mediocre in standard, with the result that the average
price per pound for wools appraised in the Com-
monwealth to the end of May was 13.87 d. per lb.,
which is <elightly lower than was the case at the
corresponding date in the preceding season. How-
ever, the flat rate adjustment payment to be made
after the close of the season’s operations will bring
the appraised average into alignment with the basic
acquisition figure.
By the end of June , payments to woolgrowers
throughout the Commonwealth since the inception
of the scheme, covering six seasons, will aggregate
nearly £400,000,000, representing the disposal of
some 21 million bales. Efficiency and success have
characterised the appraising of the Commonwealth
clip by the Central Wool Committee and the various
State Wool Committees, and tribute must be paid
to the able men who have occupied the position of
Chairman of the Central Wool Committee for various
periods since its inception, but it must not be over-
looked that brokers, buyers and shippers are
primarily responsible for the practical working of
the purchase arrangement, and the machinery used
is identical with established practices of the Trade.
These practices are the result of perfecting pro-
cesses which are always at work when free enter-
prise and fihe competitive spirit have been allowed'
full play. There is almost , a century of such work
and experience behind the history of the Australian
Wool Trade.
The British Government purchase agreement con-
tinues for the duration of the war and one season
thereafter, but in the meantime it is just as im-
portant to us as to Great Britain that a policy be
decided on in regard to the accumulation of stocks
which will permit of their orderly disposal side by
side with the marketing of subsequent clips. A
point in connection with these accumulations is the
fact that the greatest percentage is composed of
descriptions of low clean content, which may ulti-
mately have considerable influence on the position.
They will not represent in clean content what one
might be led to expect from the figures quoted of
stocks held, which are given on a greasy basis.
We are hoping to get more light on future plans
when the delegates to the recently held Empire Wool
Conference return from London.
Wool Use Promotion Act
This important measure, which was introduced in
the House of Representatives on 15th March last and
which has since been enacted, repeals the Wool
Publicity and Research Act of 1936, reconstitutes
the Australian Wool Board and establishes a Wool
Consultative Council whose business it will be to
advise the Government on matters concerning the
wool industry. In effect, the Wool Board are to
handle such portion of the monies received out of
2/- a bale, paid by the growers as wool tax, as the
Government may determine: the balance of the
monies received from this tax goes into a research
account, which account is controlled by the Govern-
ment. The Treasurer undertakes also to put into
this research account a sum equal to the amount
received by the Commissioner of Taxation from the
2/- a bale wool tax. All interested in the industry
will be glad to see that such substantial funds are
in course of being made available for publicity and
research purposes and workable machinery set up to
ensure this being utilised to best advantage. The
members of the Consultative Council are to include
all sections of the trade, with the exception of a
brokers’ representative. Not much is known at
present as to the scope of this advisory council, but,
at first glance, it certainly seems rather an over-
sight not to include brokers who, after all, are in
the best position, through their expert knowledge
and contacts with buyers, to supply information as
to the wants of the wool users —particularly those
users who are domiciled abroad. However,
whether members of the Consultative Council or
not, the Government possibly feels that assistance
from the brokers will at all times be readily avail-
able when called for.
Banking Bill
This Bill, which is at present being debated in
the House, has for one of its main objects the regu-
lation of banking, and we are somewhat concerned
as to its possible bearing on our own Company’s
business. One of the provisions has attached to it
the following official explanatory note
Pastoral Companies, travel agencies and other
firms often conduct, in conjunction with their
main business, certain banking transactions for
their customers. It is not intended that authority
to carry on the general business of banking shall
be granted to persons whose main business is
not banking. The clause permits examination
of these cases and the granting of exemptions
from any or all of the provisions of the Act
where considered desirable by the Treasurer.
Exemptions may be subject to conditions.
It would seem from this that it will be entirely
for the Treasurer to decide whether and to what
extent pastoral companies shall in future be per-
mitted to transact what is described in the Bill as
banking business. The Bill does not attempt to
define what constitutes banking business, and it may
be said to include our ordinary business of lending
money to primary producers against land, stock and
wool. The pastoral finance companies form an
integral part of the Australian financial system—
the total of their capital and reserves (I quote from
the report of the 1935 Banking Commission) is over
36 millions —and it is important that their services
and funds should continue to be made available to
Australia’s primary industries. A very large por-
tion of the total overdrafts granted are to pastoralists
in uncertain rainfall areas, and it is extremely un-
likely that the gap could be filled if such trans-
actions are interfered with. The financing of such
propositions is a special business, and only those
with expert knowledge of the country and conditions
are qualified to identify themselves with the hazards
involved.
Business Conditions
The outlook is not good at the moment as, apart
from the uncertainty of the season, we are faced
with a big reduction in turnover as regards both
our wool and stock business, owing to the large
decrease in sheep numbers which has taken place
during the past 12 months. There is, of course, the
possibility of greater activity in other departments
as the war reaches its concluding stages. Due to
shortage of supplies during the war, all pastoral
requisites will be very much in demand, and we
may expect sooner or later, perhaps, freer dealings
in properties, which is all in the way of helping to
keep our organisation profitably employed.
From the point of view of taking advantage of
any appropriate business opportunities that may de-
velop in the post-war period we have been giving
consideration to the provisions of the Company’s
Memorandum of. Association which, for the most
part, has not been revised since it was drawn up in
1893. The present view of the Board is that the
Company’s objects should be expressed in more
modern form, and it is contemplated that a special
meeting of shareholders may be called later in the
year to deal with this subject.
Company’s Properties and the Season
During the period under review the pastoral in-
dustry has had to contend with extremely adverse
conditions, due to prolonged drought over practi-
cally the whole of Australia and particularly the
Eastern States. The difficulties were accentuated by
the manpower, shortage and fodder scarcity, also
delays in procuring trucks for fodder supplies and
sheep transfers. This period has been, in fact, the
worst in our memory.
Unfortunately, shearers’ strikes in both Queens-
land and New South Wales have aggravated the
adverse conditions to a considerable extent by dis-
organising crutching and shearing operations.
The whole position is overshadowed by the graVe
shortage throughout the country of young breeding
sheep. A contrast to this generally depressing picture
is the north-west of Queensland, which area hat
experienced an excellent season for two consecutive
years.
It is doubly unfortunate that drought should have
occurred at a time when it is so necessary for us
to assist the Empire and the world with food and
other commodities, which assistance we would so
gladly make available to the utmost extent.
During the last fortnight there have been wide-
spread rains, accompanied by mild weather condi-
tions, greatly . improving the outlook, but we shall
have to get reasonable follow-up falls in the Spring
before it can be said that the drought is definitely
broken.
Staff
During the year we have given much attention to
the question bf the re-employment of our service
men, and plans for. their re-absorption and training
are well advanced. We hope sincerely it will not
be long before they are back with us again.
the three subsidiaries —Lustre (N.Z.),
Siltex and Sphinx Engineering —all
operated at a profit.
The financial position improved:
1938. 1940. 1943. 1944.
Ord. capital.. £226,667 £226,667 £226,667 £226,667
Pref. capital.. 83,333 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages .. 31,928 31,928 26,500 26,500
Overdraft . . 72,740 163,243 112,775 52,002
Creditors .. 37,016 68,855 42,423 60,775
Tax provision 16,597 37,731 26,800 28,110
Freeholds . . 122,381 122,847 120,545 117,500
Plant.. .. 164,725 133,485 92,121 76,119
Stocks . . 159,158 832,250 312,074 287,311
Debtors . . 108,275 115,820 75,750 80,036
Cash, etc. . . 509 3,287 20,440 20,500
Shares subsid. 10,452 15,206 25,210 25,210
The year’s allowance for depreciation,
etc., together with a reduction of £24,763
in stocks and increase of £18,352 in the
amount coming to outsiders enabled
£60,773 to be lopped off the overdraft.
The more or less liquid surplus (£245,670)
was £20,694 stronger than at the previous
balance.
The new production programme at
Mt. Isa (Q.) can be implemented inside
18 months, says chairman Kruttschnitt,
subject to scheduled delivery of plant and
materials and to a further 250 men being
made available by man-power, making
total employed at the mine 1100. The
co.’s plans provide for production of
3000 tons silver-lead bullion, 1000 to
1200 tons blister copper and 3500 tons
zinc concentrates per month, and will in-
volve temporary suspension of copper
production (now about 1000 tons blister
per month), owing to alterations to exist-
ing, and introduction of new, equipment.
War so aggravated the co.’s troubles in
connection with man-power, costs and
shipping that it decided, with the bless-
ing of the Federal Government, to
switch from a silver-lead bullion and zinc-
concentrate to an all-copper output in
April, 1943. The changeover was made
at a cost of nearly £250,000 in develop-
ment and plant (capacity 12,000 tons
blister p.a.). Soon Allied demand for
copper tapered sharply, and the statis-
tical position of the red metal consti-
tutes a threat to the price of the stuff
post-war. The position of lead is much
more encouraging, and that of zinc,
though not so good as lead, is better
than copper. Ore reserves at end June
last were: copper section 2,361,514 tons
sulphides, averaging 3.75 p.c. copper, and
25,702 tons oxides, assaying 7.1 p.c.
copper; lead section 7,055,210 tons sul-
phides, assaying 7.70 z. silver, 8.6 lead and
8.5 p.c. zinc, and 61,530 tons carbonates,
mostly assaying 1.20 z. silver and 14.4
p.c. lead.
*•* * *
The big silver-lead-zinc mining cos. at
the Barrier will presently add a dental
clinic to the many other low-cost ameni-
ties they have provided for the benefit of
miners and other employees and their
families. Equipment is to be supplied by
the cos., and it is expected to finance
the service at a charge of 3d. per em-
ployee per week, subsidised by the cos.
to a like amount, plus a low-scale fee for
dental work. When the lifting of re-
strictions permits a suitable building is
to be erected, temporary premises being
provided meanwhile. Treatment is to be
restricted to Co. for the first
six months, after which the service is to
be extended to employees’ families.
* * * *
One of the most interesting achieve-
ments of S. Aus. mining during the war
has been development of the talc de-
posits in the Gumeracha district. This
followed cessation of imports of high-
grade talc from Manchuria, India, France
and Italy. And these S. Aus. deposits
now supply Australia’s requirements of
the stuff. To help local producers hold
the market against foreign competition
post-war, C.S.I.R. and the Bonython
Laboratory, S. Aus. School of Mines, are
investigating a treatment process for
removal of impurities and production of
a uniform high-grade product. Three
horizontal drillholes west of the main
workings of John Dunston and Sons
(W.A.), Ltd., have disclosed encouraging
results so far as tonnage is concerned.
In Australia, where the uses of talc have
not yet been fully developed, chief con-
sumer is the cosmetic trade, followed by
the rubber industry, foundry facings and
paint. In U.S.A., the world’s largest pro-
ducer and consumer, consumers in order
of importance are the paint, ceramics,
roofing materials, paper, rubber and toilet
preparation trades.
* * * *
The repercussion of war-time develop-
ments upon goldmining on the South
African Rand is seen in the following
table:
r~* ►— Per Ton N
Ore Crushed, Dwt. Yield. Cost. Profit.
Tons. Gold. s. d. s. d. s. d.
1940. .64,515,350 4.196 35 5 20 8 14 9
1941. .67,255,450 4.130 34 9 21 2 13 7
1942..66,979,700 4.053 34 2 21 2 13 0
1943. .59,952,900 4.097 34 7 21 11 12 8
1944. .58,504,400 4.039 34 1 22 10 11 3
Shortage of equipment, declining output
and rising costs were the trouble, as they
have been in Australia and elsewhere.
The number of natives employed at end
of 1944 was 281,741, compared with
367,000 two years earlier. Aggregate capi-
tal of the producing mines is £65,010,000.
Divs. paid in 1944 totalled £13,058,422
(down £1,700,000),
* * * *
Operations at Hill 50, Menzies (W.A.),
ceased in Dec, last and were resumed in
Feb., following overhaul of the power
plant, which had been giving trouble.
Loss of milling time, owing to stoppages,
has occurred since with resultant reduc-
tion of output and shrinkage in profit.
The board says the financial position
doesn’t permit payment of a July divi-
dend. The position as regards ore re-
serves and development is unchanged.
* * * »
Goldfields Australian Development is
testing some of the leases on its 300-acre
reservation east of Coolgardie (W.A.).
Costeens have exposed the cap of a load,
and a 500-ton parcel is to be sent to the
Coolgardie State battery for crushing.
* * * *
London liquidators of Associated
Mining and Finance have distributed 6s.
stg. a share from sale of a variety of
assets, which included parcels of Lake
View, Wiluna and Gold Fields Australian
Development shares. In November last
total disbursement was expected to exceed
Bs. a share.
* * * #
From Jo’burg; Minister of Mines Col.
Charles F. Stallard said in the Union
Assembly recently that unless those en-
gaged in the industry were allowed a fair
profit new mines would not be opened.
Continuing, he added, ultra-deep mining
might call for investment and risk of
£20,000,000 stg.; but who would risk so
much unless there were assurances about
profit, native labor, taxation and costs?
Taxation of goldmines had reached a
stage where revision was necessary. There
would have been no possibility of build-
ing up a great programme of secondary
industry but for the foundation of wealth
and the aggregation of technical skill
which the mining industry had brought
to S. Africa, and was using in such a
generous way for the benefit of the whole
population. The S. African Ministers
remarks apply, in general, to Australian
mining, too.


LOOKS GOOD!
The glossy surface of Taylor's Paint
stays fresh-looking for years. The
colours are permanent and brilliant.
STAYS GOOD!
Sun, rain and extremes
of weather cannot de-
stroy this iron-hard, pro-
tecting film of Taylor's
Paint. It does not fade
or chip or flake.
vt , BEST BY THE
V FIVE YEAR TEST
e
Made by Taylor's Paints Pty. Ltd., Sutherland Ave., Paddington, N.S.W. Tel. FA 2125
|tgrAYlO«j/
hVaTSt
!
'l% pami give a years mu pi
PREPARED
TP.345
Paint Suppliers to Army, Navy and Air Force
r \
At authorised Taylor's
Paint agents you will
find limited stocks
available of:
TAYLOR’S PREPARED
PAINTS
TAYLOR’S ROOF PAINTS
MATTE WATER PAINTS
TAYLOR’S KALSOMINE
SILVAR ALUMINIUM
ENAMEL
TAYLOR'S SPIRIT STAINS
•
No civilian stocks yet
available of:
VARLAC QUICKDRYING
ENAMELS
MIRAGLOSS QUICKDRYING
ENAMELS
TAYLOR’S ENAMEL
FLOOR STAIN
TAYLOR’S PAVING
ENAMEL
To men
whose
business takes them inter-state
HOWEVER you travel, be sure that you’re covered by
adequate insurance. In the air, for example, you’ll feel
all the safer for an aviation policy which covers you at
all times, while flying, without the tiresome necessity of
arranging a policy every time you enter a ’plane,
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD-
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN 6 SON PTY. LTD.
Tngiiranne House, 263 George St., and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne. Adelaide. Brisbane. Perth, Newcastle. Canberra and Alice Springs
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Hopes of Industry
With nearly six years of war and war-
time restrictions behind them, Australian
businessmen and investors are wondering
when their initiative will be restored to
them and when competitive conditions
will return to the commodity and money
markets. They are also awaiting the re-
moval of a large part of the war-time
taxation burden.
Business conditions within the Com-
monwealth remain subject to war require-
ments and war-time methods of Govern-
ment. Most manufacturing is still being
carried on in conformity with Govern-
ment war-time standards, and no new
products may be turned out without per-
mission from Mr. Dedman’s department.
A number of industries have their out-
put limited to the amount of basic raw
materials they are allotted by depart-
mental controllers. Newspapers, for in-
stance, are given a certain quota of news-
print each quarter, and they may not use
beyond it. Where other raw materials
are scarce the dependent industries are
usually subject to similar controls.
Man-power is another essential con-
sideration in business activity at present.
Some industries have a surplus, but many
others haven’t enough. The printing
trades are short of staff, and there seems
to be a dearth of man-power in the cloth-
ing industries. In textile manufacturing,
too, output of woven and some knitted
goods has been held back by insufficient
hands. It is mostly in the heavy industries
that there has been a growing surplus of
man-power. The munitions effort brought
a flood of dilutees into the ironworking
and similar trades, and now that muni-
tions output is being reduced there is some
unemployment, as well as marking-time
on the job, amongst unskilled laborers.
Skilled technicians, nevertheless, are still
scarce in most trades.
Where there is either a scarcity or a
surplus of labor in an industry it usually
means difficulty. In the first case the
problem is obvious ; in the second the
difficulty arises from the departmental
and trade-union attitude towards excess
labor. It is often difficult to put off men
in a protected industry, employers are
finding, and the official attitude toward
the dismissal of unionists in non-protected
enterprises is not generally favorable
even where the effect on costs is obvious.
Within the production limits imposed
by supplies of raw materials, labor and
finance, and the consumption limits im-
posed by official rationing in some cases,
the majority of industries engaged in
“essential” work are busy. Some, how-
ever, are becoming afraid of continuing
the manufacture of standardised pro-
ducts in view of the present stage of the
war. Already there is a great surplus of
women’s cheap stockings made to Ded-
man specifications, and these are being
disposed of coupon-free. The time is not
far distant when the man-power position
in some industries will warrant a full re-
turn to peace-time designs and patterns,
and a number of manufacturers are
pressing for what amounts to permission
to cease making bad stock.
Leaving the production side of industry
we come to the selling. A great deal of
manufacturing output is going to the Gov-
ernment at prices arranged by the Prices
Branch or some other department. For
two or three years after Japan entered
the war there was a ready market for
most production, especially food and
clothing, as well as whatever luxuries
were available in a reducing supply. As
indicated, the course of the war has
changed the position in a number of
cases. But, generally, manufacturers of
civilian goods and food and clothing re-
quirements for the forces have no diffi-
culty in disposing of their stocks.
Turnover of most industries has risen.
Even retail stores have shown high war-
time sales, though rationing has affected
clothing and furnishing drapery. But
price control operates throughout essen-
tial industries, and sometimes it works in
an anomalous manner. In the case of
British Tobacco (Australia) the Govern-
ment has gone beyond a policy of price
control and has set out to control profits.
This after all sorts of denials from the
Government and from officialdom.
Price control has by no means been un-
fair in all cases. Its basic principle was
unquestionably right. But there are serious
doubts within industry as to whether ulti-
mate Government policy in respect of
prices administration has any regard for
the future of healthy private enterprise.
And too often the carrying-out of price
control has gone beyond the idea of
stabilising prices and preventing war-time
profiteering, which were the prime inten-
tions of the measure. The Prices Com-
missioner has indeed had a difficult job,
but in some cases his officers have made
it more difficult for all concerned than
need be. The Minister, too, inspires no
confidence among the majority of busi-
nessmen. Like most of the Ministry, he
plays the political game too deeply for
productive people to follow.
Taxation of industry is particularly
stiff. The Government early in the
war adopted a policy of taxing the pro-
ductive side of industry more heavily
than the consuming public, a procedure
which was opposed to all economic
commonsense. Taxation rates have since
been stepped up among consumers,
especially among those on higher in-
comes, but company taxation is still too
high by comparison, especially when it is
remembered that shareholders get no re-
bate of taxes paid by a company when
dividends reach their hands. In the case
of proprietary companies, undistributed-
profits tax may be as much as 18s. 6d. in
the £. In any case, every company has a
high rate of tax —at least 6s. in the £,
and usually more —on all its earnings,
and shareholders pay as well. High taxa-
tion, in this instance double taxation, on
productive industry has been an obstacle
to a full effort by those engaged in it.
The official attitude in this connection has
been inconsiderate and uneconomic. Little
regard has been paid to the post-war need
of new plant or of reserved profits to
finance the cost.
In addition to all these actual present
difficulties and burdens with which indus-
try has to cope, there is the problem of
Labor’s attitude towards industry when
the war is over. Although Mr. Forde
and the late Mr. Curtin sometimes spoke
up for private enterprise, as a rule their
voices were in contradiction to their Min-
isterial behavior. Though Forde is re-
puted to have supported the rights of
private enterprise while in London, it
appeared to be a case of harmonising his
politics with his geography, as actually
Forde is one of the oldest advocates of
nationalising B.H.P. There are other
Ministers nowadays more open than
Forde in their desire to do away with
private enterprise piecemeal.
The Government’s banking legislation
threatens to make the path of industry
more difficult than hitherto. Under the
reconstituted Commonwealth Bank there
will be virtually a monopoly of credit
policy in the hands of the central bank,
and it is well known that bank accommo-
dation forms a vital part of the resources
of many industries in the Commonwealth
today. Denied that accommodation, or
offered it subject to a giving-in to the
demands of some trade-union, private
enterprise might find its future extremely
hazardous. The fact that the Government
has made the concession of political con-
trol of banking to the radicals in the
Labor party suggests that it may make
even more extreme concessions at a later
day. The passage of Labor’s banking
legislation will represent a singularly bad
omen for industry..
It is already being hinted that the con-
trol of capital issues will be continued,
after the war is over. All that can be
said of this control during war-time is
that in some cases the granting of permis-
sion has been most odd, as in the instance
of Consolidated Press about the time of
the referendum. Industries more essen-
tial than that run by Consolidated Press
have been denied the right to raise capital.
Stock Exchange quotations are still
fixed by Government action in all Aus-
tralian investment centres. This unneces-
sary control is another factor that has
caused investors and industrialists to view
the future with doubt and discourage-
ment. So much “control” that serves no
purpose except that of appeasing radical
elements in politics has been thrust on
the business life of the country that some
observers see no hope of responsible Gov-
ernment until Labor is thrown out at a
general election.
There has lately been a small recovery
in the rate of company earnings. In
relation to shareholders’ investment Com-
monwealth Bank statistics show profits
of '5.8 p.c. for 1943, with 6 p.c. in
1944. A figure, roughly corresponding,
for 1939 was 6.8 p.c. Australian indus-
try has thus shown a fall in earnings,
after taxation, during the war, in distinct
contrast to United States experience.
United States company earnings in rela-
tion to shareholders’ funds were 4.7 p.c.
in 1936, 4.9 p.c. 1937, 2.3 p.c. 1938, 4.3
p.c. 1939, 5 p.c. 1940, 6.9 p.c. 1941, 7.8
p.c. 1942, 7.5 p.c. 1943 and 7 p.c. 1944.
Those interested in Australian industry,
including Wool, wheat and other land pro-
duction, feel that they have been repeat-
edly double-crossed by the Government.
The Ministry speaks with so many voices
and does so many contradictory things
that there can be no faith in it. Yet Aus-
tralian industry must survive, and to sur-
vive there must be free private enterprise,
competitive and efficient, with any restric-
tion of power or initiative to be plainly
in the public interest, not merely a matter
of theory or dogma. But to achieve
this freedom and efficiency the present
brand of Federal politics must go under.
And after that a good deal of patience
and hard administrative work will be
needed to restore to strength and stability
a stupidly-abused economic system.
Many company officials are finding a
new worry this year; in the cleaning-up
of affairs after June 30 there may be
matters in connection with newly-
inaugurated staff-provident schemes that
need attention. In the majority of cases
the funds have as a basis the issue of
life-assurance policies to selected mem-
bers of the staff, premiums being paid
partly by the company and partly by em-
ployees. Premiums paid by the company
are an allowable deduction for taxation
purposes so far as the company is con-
cerned provided (a) the terms of the trust
deed have been approved by the Taxation
Commissioner and ( b ) the premiums are
not in excess of £lOO for the year, or
5 p.c. of salary, whichever is the greater.
In connection with the premiums paid by
the company, the Taxation Commissioner
in Canberra has informed one life office
that these will not be taken to be assess-
able income in the hands of the employee
provided the commissioner is satisfied
that the scheme under which the
premiums are paid is not merely a
roundabout way of increasing the em-
ployee’s salary.
* * * ♦
Up to May 31 the present war had cost
Australia £2075 million, of which £1367
million was met out of borrowed money
and £7OB million out of revenue. In
nearly six years of war the cost has been
equal to two whole years’ national in-
come. The burden has been heaviest
over the past four years.


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
fd
only „ ge >,T
£l7/10/- STS*.
Btnlt entirely in Australia by
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National'’ Rotary Dupfr
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE:
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
' - ' ■ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
fd
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course"
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAKKD
Condition Powders and apply BAKKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BAKKO lodine Hog Soap.
CONDITION POWDEHB Pf
SKIN LOTION S/h
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 ShlTei
of tiny tubes or filters •which help to purify)
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
pf waste.
An excess of adds or poisons In your blood
lire the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging hack*
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feel)
hnd ankles, puQness under the eyes, head-*
pches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day hnd
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat*
ter, your body will taka up these poisond
Causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
feour chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-*
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
five quick relief and will help to flush out the
5 MILKS of kidney tub°s. G°t DOAN’S
[BACKACHE KIDNEX FILLS, at £Ol% chemlat
IDS or q, ‘
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEOKGI! AMD HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R, KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. O. DAWSON, General Manager. ' T. C. REYNOLDS, Asst. Gen. Manager.
Made by
FORD SHERINQTON
LTD
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Case®
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA!
ofi
V
A.
rIASHUGHT BATTERIES
Why should a flashlight battery have a dateline?
Flashlight batteries should be
stamped with a date for the same
reason that eggs should be
stamped with a date . . . The
fresher they are when you get
them, the longer they’re going to
last you. Eveready is the first
and only flashlight battery to be
stamped with a date that clearly
tells you that it is fresh. So, look
for the dateline on every Eveready
No. 950 flashlight battery. It’s
your constant guarantee of light
at any time anywhere.
When you can sec, you’re safe
—so keep that flashlight you
bought for the “blackouts” in good
working order. If its batteries
have gone weak, refill it with
Eveready dated batteries. Then
you’ll ALWAYS be sure of a
strong beam of light ... in the
garden at night . . . from your
bedside . . . walking along that
dark street ... in the car.
eVE READY
TRADE-MARK
DATED FLASHLIGHT BATTERIES
They last longer because you always get them fresH
Maoriland Commerce Stirred
Growing rebellion in Maoriland busi-
ness circles against the stranglehold im-
posed by war-time controls, many of
which, it is claimed, could be safely
abolished, is beginning to find expression
in organised resistance. A recent state-
ment by the Minister of Supply, Dan
Sullivan, that some 40 war-time regula-
tions had been ended failed 'to impress
commercial men, and the Minister was
careful not to enumerate the regulations.
The tocsin has been sounded by the
associated Chambers of Commerce, which
have launched a campaign to raise £25,000
for publicity, to be spread over the next
18 months—significantly enough, up to
roughly the date of the next general
election. The case against the groping and
tightening tentacles of State control is
put in a nutshell by the president of the
Auckland Chamber, H, J. Lichen-
stein, who states. “Since VE-day the
socialists, by word and deed, have clearly
indicated that the gloves are off in the
bout between individualism and collec-
tivism. If we value the right of man to
develop his own individual needs and
bents, if we value tolerance, if we value
the existence of British commerce we
must accept the challenge. The total
resources and Dominion-wide organisa-
tion of the Chambers of Commerce are
to be utilised in this campaign.”
Previously the chambers had refrained
from openly attacking the Fraser Govern-
ment and had confined their activities
mainly to commercial reforms and needs,
coupled with frank criticism of State
activity or inactivity where it had
been thought necessary. Before the
war a similar movement designed to
draw public attention to the menace
of socialism developed into the for-
mation of the N.Z. Freedom Asso-
ciation. However, apart from providing
a whacking good job for Ron Algie,
ex-professor of law at Auckland Uni-
versity College, and now Nationalist
member of Parliament for Remuera
(Auckland), the organisation accom-
plished little. Overmuch publicity was
given to the fact that it was financed by
a small and influential group of Auckland
businessmen and was far from represen-
tative of the whole Dominion.
On the other hand, the Chambers of
j Commerce represent small, big and
middle-sized businessmen, and have
wielded wide influence for years. Mini-
sters of the Crown have lately shown
themselves inordinately sensitive to criti-
cism, but have studiously avoided being
drawn into academic discussion on the
perennial topic—free enterprise versus
State control.
Heavy selling of war loans was a
feature of all Australian Stock Exchanges
last week. In Sydney nearly £300,000-
worth was traded, while in Melbourne the
total was slightly larger. Income-tax
assessments this year have compelled con-
siderable liquidation of bonds by individual
businessmen and investors and by com-
panies. Main buyer of Government stock
on the market at present would appear
to be the Treasury, buying on behalf of
the National Debt Sinking Fund. The
note issue, largely invested in Govern-
ment stock, is now on a decline, and is
of small assistance in stabilising the bond
market.
* He * * *
Harry Hodgetts, the Adelaide stock-
broker, failed for £82,854, according to
his affidavit. Liabilities were £114,933
and assets £31,179, plus contingent assets
of £9OO. Don Bradman, a former em-
ployee, is owed £762. Hodgetts claims
that his bankruptcy is due to business
losses. Largest creditor is Guy Fischer
for £34,576.
» ■ ♦ * *
W. 0.1. Minister Dedman has denied
that he or his department was responsible
for the introduction of single-weft cloth
and the prohibition on the manufacture
of double-weft fabrics. Only State Gov-
ernments had power to order these
things, he said. Mr. Dedman has already
denied that he ever closed any bank
branches, though hundreds were closed
as a “W. 0.1. measure” during his period
of office. A third denial from Dedman
and we may expect the cock to crow.
* * *
’One of the latest “Dedmans” is that
the Directorate of War Organisation of
Industry is reviewing all war-time con-
trols, with a view to their relaxation.
Dedman says that “recent relaxations”
were a prelude to “more important re-
laxations soon.” All this subject, no
doubt, to the possibility of subsequent
denials.
• * * *
Maynard Hedstrom, chairman of
Morris Hedstrom, Ltd., the Fiji mer-
chant and owner of island plantations,
has told shareholders that the pro-
nounced war-time boom in the co.’s ac-
tivities has now ended. Sales have been
falling off recently. But very substan-
tial provision has been made within asset
values for post-war fluctuations in prices
and values.
* * * •
It is now permissible to borrow up to
£l5OO on mortgage without Treasury
consent, provided that, where the security
is land, the rate of interest is not more
than 4| p.c. The £l5OO relates to a
period of 12 months. If more than one
such amount is borrowed in a year the
Treasurer’s permission is still necessary
for the excess.
« * * *
Mackay, the C.Q. town that is the
centre of the sugar industry, and with a
fine harbor for which the people of
Queensland at large paid, is anxious to
embark on a coal-export industry, seeing
that there are big deposits within a couple
of hundred miles of its backdoor —Blair
Athol is one. The railways not being a
big local market, and there being haidly
any industries in Central and North
Queensland that would consume the large
amounts of coal that could be raised, it
is likely that Blair Athol would be in
sympathy with Mackay’s aspirations. The
Government of Queensland, having a big
surplus of coalfields once, thought it
would be a fine thing to export coal. So
it sent a two-man commission, Messrs.
Thomas and Austin, some few years back
to range from the East Indies to China
and cozen a few orders for surplus coal.
They came back without writing an order,
and told the boss that for every ton of
coal sent up there it would cost the State
a subsidy of 15s. It would be well for
Mackay to consider this report and to
realise that in the south and N.Z. its coal
would never compete with Greta and
Newcastle coal after the war. On several
coalfields of North Queensland, while yet
the noonday sun is not much past its
zenith, able-bodied young miners can be
seen going home, having by then raised
the amount of coal their dargs allow
them. They start at 8 a.m.
* * * *
Only the name of the character in this
story is fictitious. If any person feels
that there are references to himself he
can do what he likes:
Bill Smith was finding that his “carry-over”
of necessities bought before the war was run-
ning out. A retread of his motor-car tyres was
expensive and of inferior rubber. Poorer petrol
was affecting his already small mileage. Repairs
to his house were in arrear, and he couldn’t
get a permit from W. 0.1. to spend enough to
do a proper job. In any case the material avail-
able was of inferior war-time quality. His suit'
was shabby; his tailor told him it would
take anything up to six months to make a new
one, and there wasn’t much to pick from in the
way of cloth. Higher living costs were becom-
ing embarrassing. His wife complained daily
of the difficulty of shopping, and the meat,
bought after queueing-up at the condescending
butcher’s, was good catsmeat —no more. There
was a threat, too, that the coal-strikes would
mean a restriction of cooking hours. He stood
in a queue for his smokes, and afterwards was
robbed by a fruiterer —sd. each for apples.
Feeling rather depressed, Bill called in at the
pub on the way home, but the beer was “off.”
He shoved his way into the crowded train and
stood all the way home. At home there was
some mail for him—from the income-tax depart-
ment. Because of “provisional tax” arising
from the 25 p.c. “surcharge” he would have to
find £75 more than he’d set aside —though his
tax deductions at the job represented nearly
two days’ wages a week. Bill switched on the
radio, hoping to restore his spirits. There came
to his ears a persistent voice stressing the “rights
of the working class.” “if,” said the voice,
“the Government has found all the money to do
this for you in war-time, why cannot it ensure
the same prosperity in the peace?” Almost'
wincing at the penetrating “edge” on the
speaker’s voice, Bill slowly assimilated its im-
port. “Prosperity?” he said grimly. “Pros-
perity! Well, if this is prosperity I’ve
had it!”
Eddie Ward has said, in expressing his
v j ews Dn banking, that the national debt
should be d and further eX p endi .
, , U 4 *L_ 11 ij
Hire that ordinarily creates debt should
be paid for out of national credit. Use
of the national credit without borrowing
means that it is taxation. Eddie
apparently wants bigger and better taxes,
J °°
*** * .
On March 31 the Australian national
de bt totalled £2588 million. Interest pay-
. , • fIA ■> mminn o voar an averaee
able 1S 4 - 3 m " hon a y ear ’ an aVerage
ra4e OI £3 US. Bd. per cent,
* * * *
R Keith Yorston’s latest publication
• A uvtra j: n „ Cnmniorrinl Dirtinnarv
tne Australian commercial Dictionary
(Law Book Co., 18s.) of 343 pages, ihe
commercial lexicographer has not con-
fined himself to mere literal definitions ;
nr „ rtirn] p Yn i„ n; ,tinn« arp thr> rule He
practical explanations are tne rule. rl
takes a wide view, too, or the business-
man’s possible recourse to reference ;
“ decree absolute” and “decree nisi” are
.r- . , • „ „ -p, „_i
defined, and SO IS alimony. The VOl-
ume is likely to be equally useful to the
businessman of inexperience as well as of
ex p er i ence- Accountancy students will
And it handy, and it makes a good desk
book.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: Though overshadowed in
public interest by the Balik Papan land-
ing, the fighting in the Wewak and South
Bougainville areas has been just as fierce
and, all told, on nearly as large a scale
on the ground.
In neither the Wewak nor the Buin area
can the enemy afford to give away terrain.
In South Bougainville, in the positions
which he holds on the western banks of
the Mivo, the last formidable river line
of the enemy, the Australians are within
long artillery range of the fringes of
Buin itself, which is 13 miles away. They
are only ten miles from Kara inland air-
strips and only 16 miles from much-
bombed Kahili.
The enemy is reacting to the continual
heavy pressure in the usual way. He
yields in steady rearguard actions and
then hurls in fierce, reckless, sometimes
deadly, attacks in the hope of preventing
consolidation.
West of the Mivo Third Division
men had three hours of these onslaughts
last week, with strong forces of the enemy
hurling themselves into the face of a
copious hosing with automatic weapons,
those who survived into a shower of
grenades and lighter types of small-arms
fire.
The first storm of this sort was beaten
back from inside the Australian
perimeter, leaving a trail of bodies be-
hind. But this did not prevent the
Japanese from regrouping during a
couple of hours, letting out another series
of yells, surging backward, decimated, and
then, for an hour, flinging out short jabs
like a man poking at a hole with a stick
to measure the bite of the animal inside.
The bite was hard from the island of
Australians every time it was tested, until
Matildas and two infantry detachments
worked their way into the defence area
and provided sufficient insurance against
any chance of Japanese success. The (
enemy, however, did not run. He clung
on to the edges of the defence area,
working up to the vicinity of the Aus-
tralian weapon pits until artillery was laid
down on him, shells often falling only
100 yards from Australian troops. Well
over 100 of his dead were counted.
After this the enemy confined himself
mainly to nuisance operations—isolated
soldiers sneaking up on tanks to attach
explosives to their tracks, dropping ex-
plosive charges into the many pools of
water which the recent heavy rains have
left, laying ambushes and sending patrols
aimed to test perimeters which usually
finish in a rain of mortar shells.
Australian patrols were increasing their
activity on the east coast, but resistance
is still strong in the mountainous country
of the Numa Numa trail, which leads
across the island from Torokina to the
central east of the island. At the mid-
week it was reported that patrols had
killed 175 Japanese on the eastern side
in a few days.
To July 2, 5600 dead Japanese had been
counted on Bougainville, but this does
not represent the full total.
Around Shiburangu
In the Wewak area the Sixth Division’s
task is reaching its bitterest and most
difficult phases as the coastal forces work
their way into the Prince Alexander
Ranges. The enemy here clings by toe
and fingernail to every peak and village,
and each part of his forces seems to be
capable of survival in scrap form until
blotted out. Thus, though the peak of
Shiburangu fell some days ago, posts
which were not actually caught in the
Australian units’ forward drive hung on
with m.-g. and mortar individually on
the slopes, and each post has had to be
methodically fought for.
One consummation which had been
longed for was achieved early in the week
—the junction on the Sauri track of,
eastern and western A.I.F. forces. It gives
Major-General Stevens an over-all attack
line of five miles on elevated ground,
though in actual terms of ground travel
up hill and down dale the line is 15 miles
long. The position runs from Sauri vil-
lage to Alexander Peak and eastward for
some distance. *
The main pressure is being exerted on
the Sauri and Koigin tracks. Villages
are being almost every day occupied both
in the north-east and inland on the edge
of a strong Jap defence zone ten miles
south-east of Maprik, where several more
villages were reported captured early in
the week. The “Big Road” was reported
clear from Maprik for several miles. But
there is no form nor shape in this cam-
paign, no tangible mass of resistance
against which concentrated force can be
hurled to make one mouthful of its de-
struction. With better guns, with Beaufort
bombers, which are doing a good job in
advance preparation and in ground sup-
port, with command of all communica-
tions with the outside in their hands, Aus-
tralian troops feel a little like a man
chasing a lunatic in the dark, pulling off
a bit of his shirt-tail at every lunge, but
not yet close enough to get him by the
back oi the neck and pull him down.
This stage will not be reached until the
range country has been cleared and the
superior mechanisation of Australian
forces can be made to tell on the flatter
ground beyond. The enemy still has had
enough artillery to shell Australian posi-
tions round Brandi plantation in return
for a hot plaster of 25-pounder ammu-
nition dropped on Jap bunkers south of
Koigin.
Jap dead counted in Wewak area by
the Sixth Division total 5808. It is esti-
mated officially that there are still 10,000
of the enemy in the Solomons and 11,000
in northern New Guinea, apart from
40,000 in Rabaul and 10,000 in New
Ireland.
Balik Papan Falls.
“Ek Dum”: The Seventh Division
landed outside the harbor of Balik Papan
on the morning of July 1. By July 8
it had captured the town and the two air-
fields up the coast —Sepinggan, six miles
from the town, and Manggar, about 12
miles —and pushed well inland,
Balik Papan lies just inside the north-
eastern head of a deep bay. By crow-
line from the A.l.F.’s landing place was
about two miles to the edge of the town.
On the left a point juts out to form
one side of the entrance to the harbor,
near Klandasan, where most of the
European population used to live to catch
the sea breezes. From here, first east-
ward and then north-east, the coast sheers
away, in small-scale outline resembling
that of the south-east end of Africa.
Sepinggan airstrips are where the trend
to the north becomes pronounced;
Manggar is in a bay where the northing
is even more marked. A pipeline hugs
the coast through the two air centres,
then swings away inland across the head-
waters of some little rivers to the edge of
the hills, the pumping station at Sam-
bodja and the Serimban oilfields, 60 miles
“up north.”
The beach on whicli the Seventh Divi-
sion and its allied units landed is narrow
and stony. Behind it the terrain is any-
thing but inviting. Hills become an im-
mediate feature of the landscape. They
are not reasonable and ordered hills but
a job lot, thrown in at the wrong angles
to the coast. The countryside grows grass
only matched in the MacArthur River
country of North Australia—more than
man-high. Forefront defences consisted
of three depths of barbwired zone, a wide
tank trap and many posts and coastal
gun positions.
The wily Jap had preserved the grass
cover with loving care. In the hillsides
among it he had bored his usual curious
timbered tunnels, faced with well-hidden
bunkers, armed with the retractable
double-barrelled ack-ack and naval guns,
used point blank, which he pioneered in
infantry war in the Pacific.
Apart from this, the coast was studded
with emplacements for heavy batteries,
m.-g. posts, snipers’ posts, mortars and
the usual selection of booby-traps and
mines, though not in the same variety
as on Tarakan.
All the forefront where the defences
were in greatest profusion had been under
heavy bombardment from air or naval
weapons for over a fnonth. After the
doing-over before the landing, of which
the grand finale was a shower of rockets,
the beachhead showed on a cinema film
like a picture of bad smallpox at close
quarters.
First Waves Ashore
When the fateful morning came the
tremendous smoke and flame columns
from the oil refineries and storage tanks
across the peninsula threw a curtain over
what was in store for the landing parties.
The habitues of coastal battle lay off the
approaches—Manoora, Kanimbla and
Westralia, those veterans of every land-
ing since Tanahmerah Bay, with buzzing
“landing craft, vehicles and personnel”
and L.C.Ms. The beautiful diesels of the
L.C.V.Ps, revved up. They made for the
beach under cover of naval fire, which
sought to keep down the Jap artillery
and nearer light coast-position weapons.
All the bombardment of the previous
month had failed to quench these.
As the first wave went ashore the
R.A.N’s two commando units made their
bow. These consist each of 150 officers
and men.
They are veterans of sea warfare across
the world. Their commander, Com-
mander R. S. Pearson, has, from a British
naval viewpoint, seen every kind of action
from Abyssinia and Spain to Brunei.
Tough, picked men to whom combined
operations are meat and drink, they are
armed with a mixed bag of tommy-guns
and rifles, but have little chance to use
them. They are the traffic cops and har-
bor control of the main operation.
So soon as the commando units reached
the beach they began unconcernedly
wading in the rather rough surf with
their sounding poles. They established
approaches and signals and flagging posts
to guide the coming waves of boats to
the right points. Then they dug-in
quarters for themselves, as sheltered as
possible, and proceeded to function as a
port authority. All this has to be done
coolly and in exposed positions under fire.
Meanwhile the A.I.F. parties were
making good headway. One set of de-
tachments was designed, in its sections,
to make different approaches to Balik
Papan over its hills ; the other to work
its way up the coast as quickly as possible
and take over the pitted airstrips of
Sepinggan,
The landing itself was not easy. Land-
ing craft could not push close in. There
was the usual coral reef beyond the stony
beach, and the surf made it wise to throw
guide ropes from the ship ramps to help
heavily-laden wading troops ashore.
Balik Papan in Sight
The advance was careful and methodi-
cal while the guns came ashore. Then
each area as it was approached was gone
over thoroughly with an abundance of
25-pounders and mortars, the sore spots
being blasted out by naval batteries from
the sea with the aid of bombers. There
was resistance, fierce, but not heavy. And
the P. 8.1., as it moved from hill to hill,
had cause to be thankful for the earlier
shelling, for the need for a “better hole”
was often pressing on the hillsides which
enemy fire swept in gusts.
As the troops absorbed territory they
named the hills. Newcastle Hill, some-
thing about a mile inland, lay towards
their left flank ; beyond it Signal Hill and
Cape Toekoeng (Tukung). Some hills
were more difficult than others. A South
Australian battalion—in name only, since
in it there are troops from other States —
had about the hardest fight of the day that
Sunday. It swept over its objective,
Santoso Hill, where the Japs had con-
structed defence barracks, to the next
ridge, Parramatta Hill. From here, be-
fore the first day’s fighting was over, it
was vouchsafed a sight of devastated
Balik Papan itself, with its oil pipes project-
ing into the bay and flaming ruin behind.
In the foreground was a plateau form-
ing the eastern extremity of a long ridge.
On this there was a great accumulation
of oil installations which were going up
awesomely in flame and explosion.
Sundown saw the beachhead firmly
established. The advance forces over-
looked their first main objective. Klan-
dasan, the European quarter on the sea-
ward side on the left flank, was in A.I.F,
hands. The. coastal force, making for
Sepinggan, had moved cautiously three
miles from its starting point, naval sup-
port and boat-borne reserves keeping
pace with it. The U.S. Seventh Naval
Force and the veteran Australian ships
were still thundering from out in the blue.
The enemy was not taking the advance
lying down. His coastal batteries and
double-barrelled ack-ack and naval guns
were still at work. But Australian casual-
ties were comparatively light, and each
hour the dock companies put along the
shore, on which heavy seas still beat,
more equipment and improved landing
facilities. This soon made it possible to
increase the force of the drive and ac-
celerate its speed as it leapt from ridge
to ridge, sometimes menaced by terrific
bursts of flame and smoke as shellfire
exploded oil tanks, which spewed their
contents over the landscape in enormous
flaming geysers. It seemed miraculous
that some forward forces were not
engulfed.
The fighting was more economical in
men than on Tarakan considering the
nature of the prize and the terrain.
Largely this was due to improved equip-
ment and a countryside in which it could
be expeditiously used. There was an
abundance of tanks, including flame-
throwing tanks, which make all the dif-
ference in a war of bunkers and grass-
hidden posts.
On to Balik Papan
By July 3 Sepinggan aerodrome had
been overrun and its pock-marked air-
field made serviceable for the little scout
aircraft which are the eyes of artillery
and general reconnaissance.
The beachhead was seven miles long
and two miles deep, and though if was
clear that the enemy was only fighting a
persistent rearguard action, 500 of his
dead already had been buried.
Balik Papan fell. There was no actual
fighting for the remains of the town, but
on approaches there had been some will-
ing bursts of resistance —at Nail’s Ridge,
defended bitterly by enemy marines, and
on the south-east.
Balik Papan did not look much of a
prize. It stank of fire and blood, and it
seemed like a laboratory of the gods
which had suffered extermination in one
mighty and fire-seamed explosion. Its
huge grotesque installations lay molten
and distorted by a heat which reduced
lighter metals to water and twisted huge
blocks of steel into fantastic shapes, or
blew them to smithereens in the explo-
sion of oil tanks. The charred piers still
existed out in the sea along the water-
front.
Despite their condition, the capture of
the town and port equipment was a great
move forward, since it enabled the estab-
lishment of a sheltered dock system
secure from the insistent hammering of
breakers.
Airfields Captured
The beachhead was now eight miles
long. It had been pushed inland oppo-
site the first landing point about 3000
yards, where the frontal spearheads over-
looked the Pandasari River, whose
estuary is in the shore north of Balik
Papan, and the Pandasari refineries, one
of the world’s largest plants of its kind.
These were the next objective, and they
caused little trouble. There was sporadic
fighting, but by July 6 the river had been
crossed. The northern port installations
and Baroe Peninsula were in Australian
hands along with the Pandasari refineries.
And the Seventh Division was moving
northward on two roads —one makes for
the pumping station at Sangaiwan,
nearer the coast of the gulf; the other,
further eastward, swings and swoops
through the hills across the watershed of
the two river systems of the Balik Papan
Peninsula.
Meanwhile the coastal force, headed
by Victorians and moving from Seping-
gan, soon took the second aerodrome
area at Manggar after a fierce fight, in
which it came under attack from double-
barrelled naval guns and heavy artillery,
as well as mortars and m.-gs. in some
variety.
The heart of the defence was blasted
out by U.S. Liberators. The Australians
moved in and forced their way after-
wards 3000 yards into the hills in the
wake of the retreating enemy, all of
whose forces appeared to have a com-
mon destination the Samarinda oil-
fields.
The whole of the oil installations of
Balik Papan had been destroyed, either
by the enemy or by bombing and shell-
ing. The area is a charred, melted and
blackened waste. But within a week of
the landing the first steps were in train
to restore production.
The Seventh Division was well pleased
with its success. Its equipment was the
best, its support the most copious, the
A.I.F. ever has enjoyed; and the objec-
tive was the most important taken by an
Australian force since the days of Syria.
Also it was the best-equipped enemy
base as yet taken by Australian troops,
and the booty included many formidable
guns, including twin-barrelled naval four-
and five-inchers.
But, as on the other side of Borneo,
the main forces of the enemy have yet
to be caught and fought, probably in
an area out of reach of naval support,
the assault of which will make a heavy
call on transport by air and road.
Casualties Light
On July 9 Seventh Division troops were
fanning out north of Balik Papan and
pushing up the Serimban road toward
Sambodja, 28 miles from the main port
and joined directly by pipe and highway
to the coast at Mahang, near which the
enemy reported an unconfirmed landing
early in the week. Up the gulf from
Balik Papan A.I.F. units had moved be-
yond the estuary of the little Soember,
had cut off the remaining pockets in the
Padansari refinery area and were well
on the way towards the Soengaiwan
pumping station. In whatever direction
the troops were advancing resistance was
stiffening.
Meanwhile, before the week-end, fresh
landing forces had secured control of the
western side of Balik Papan’s bay, estab-
lishing a beachhead “one to two miles
deep in three directions.” Heavy bomb-
ing and naval support had not slackened
along the coast.
There has been virtually no Japanese
air activity worth the name.
The Ninth Division units continued
their advance in the north along the rail-
way from Beaufort, and on July 8 was
reported to be only 30 miles from Jessel-
ton, one of the two administrative resi-
dency centres of British North Borneo.
They have reached Membukat, 11 miles
from Beaufort.
Casualties in all Borneo operations: 214
killed, 22 missing and 420 wounded to


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ESMOND THOMAS FERGUSON late' of Nar-
randera.—TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE AMY
FERGUSON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4404
of 1944 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 13th August 1945 and obtain copy of peti-
tion without charge from LEONARD C. ABBOTT
Solicitor Belmont Building Berrigan or MESSRS.
WALKER GIBBS & COOK Solicitors 17 Martin Place
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
July 6, against 3031 Japs killed and 274
taken prisoner.
The R.A.A.F. campaign in Borneo,
covering the whole coast of the island,
apart from the battle areas, with special
attention to Kuching and Pontianak
and Banjermasin, is the heaviest on the
force’s record in the Pacific. Squadrons
are operating from Tawi Tawi, off the
north-east end of the island, as well as
Labuan and other fields, and fighters
have done especially good work in the’
north. The powerhouse, Victoria Bar-
racks and shipping round Jesselton have
in particular had a bad time.
The Pacific Offensive.
“Ek Dum”: Apart from the steady
Superfortress bombing of Japan’s main-
land, fighting has given way in the North-
east Pacific to preparations for the next
phases.
Japan continues to be subjected to'
attacks from the sky, varied with infes-
tations of Black Widows, whose pilots
sail round Tokyb’s suburban aerodromes
knocking off grounded aircraft and beg-
ging somebody to come up and fight.
No Japanese seems to show any inclina-
tion to respond to coat-trailing, though
this is probably due to a policy of con-
servation. The Germans must often wish
they had been less reckless with their
fighters earlier in the European war.
The air aggression covered a 3500-
miles arc from the Celebes coast to
the Yellow Sea, sinking small ships, delay-
ing others and finally gaining its greatest
strength in Japan proper. Further north
of this, Rear-Admiral Fletcher's U.Sji
squadron pushed into the sea of Okhotsk
and shelled Shikuka in Sakhalin, the first
time inner Japan has been hit by U.S.
naval shells.
On July 3 four cities —Tokushima,
Takamatsu and Kochi, on Shikoku, and
Himeji, on Honshu, collected 2900 tons of
bombs from between 450 and 500 Super-
fortresses. Takamatsu had particular
attention as the ferry terminus of the link
with Honshu. This was followed by a
steady increase in fighter operations, due
to the advance of the bases of the-35th
U.S. Fighter Group (which began its
Pacific war backing the A.I.F. on the
Kokoda trail) to Okinawa.
Tokyo now reports regular fighter
drives from Okinawa and Iwo, and
General MacArthur’s communiques have
begun to mention operations by his air-
craft over Kyushu and neighboring
regions, while across their routes fly the
squadrons of Admiral Nimitz’s com-
mand on Guam and the Marianas, aim-
ing at shipping and air targets in Korea,
at the Amami group, in the north of the
Ryukus, and at bases in the Kuriles,
apart from the Japanese mainland.
Damage in Japan
On July 7 heavy bombing was re-
sumed in increased strength, and five
Japanese cities were hit hard—Shimotsu
(oil refineries), Akashi (aircraft engines),
Kofu (railway engines and trucks),
Chiba (engine parts and machine tools)
and Shimizu (aluminium and allied
metals). Both high explosives and in-
cendiaries to the tune of 4000 tons were
used by 600 Superfortresses. Accounts
of desolation wrought dwelt on 125
square miles of main cities burned out
and of Tokushima, the biggest city of
Shikoku, laid waste to the extent of 74
per cent, of the built-up area.
If such accounts may be held to be sup-
ported by Japanese admissions, the ad-
missions can be quoted, being made
almost with an air of gaiety. One on
July 3 was that 4,900,000 Japanese had
been killed, wounded or rendered home-
less in Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Yoko-
hama and Kobe up to May 31—as the
result of an expenditure of well under
40.000 tons of bombs. It was added that
1.135.000 houses, of which 707,000 were
in Tokyo, had been destroyed.
But Tokyo salted the story with asser-
tions that most of Japanese industry was
already underground, that a giant ring
of subterranean fortresses was being
completed round the whole coast, that
the whole population would fight to its
last gasp in case of a landing, and that
shipping would be subjected to mass
attacks by improved suicide aircraft.
According to U.S. War Secretary
Patterson, 2,282,000 tons of enemy ship-
ping was sunk in the first half of the
present year, and the industrial value of
Japan’s six greatest cities has been
already virtually destroyed, leaving 40
secondary cities as primary targets, ten
having already been attacked. At tht
beginning of the year it was estimated
that only about 2,000,000 tons of Japan’s
pre-war mercantile marine, plus build-
ing at a maximum of 400,000 tons per
annum, could remain.
Meanwhile, several Pacific fighting
leaders appear to be taking brief rests
in the United States, while the engineers
go over their bases in preparation for
greater campaigns to come. Each of
them haS had something to say.
Lieut.-General Holland Smith, who
commanded the Marines at Tarawa and
Iwo, declared that the Japanese indus-
trialists could stop the war at any
moment they cared, and that “good judg-
ment would eventually prevail.” He did
not believe it would be necessary to clean
the Japanese out of China, since the sol-
diers would give up when their homeland
fell. Admiral Mitscher said in San
Francisco that victory would come only
after hard fighting on Japanese soil.
On Okinawa and other base islands
work continues feverishly. Colonel
Mayo, air engineer to the Army Air
Forces, said that airfield construction was
becoming the greatest concentration of
military engineering ever seen, that the
paved aircraft parking areas, taxiways and
service aprons on the island would soon
equal 400 miles of two-lane highway, and
that twice as many aircraft engineers
would be working in the Pacific as ever
served in the European and Mediter-
ranean zones. British aerodrome ac-
commodation must have been the equiva-
lent of thousands of miles of highway,
though not as concentrated as on
Okinawa.
Certainly, very large developments will
be needed, for, in spite .of heavy opera-
tions already in progress, the expansion
of Pacific air forces in general and even
of General Spaatz’s new U.S. Pacific
Air Army, consisting of the Eighth Force
under General Doolittle and the Twen-
tieth under General Lemay, has only
begun and cannot reach full fruition until
facilities have been greatly extended.
Tokyo continues to announce increas-
ing concentrations of Allied shipping, the
strength of which it estimated on July 2
to be: Off Katrin Island, three battle-
ships, 50 transports and 60 landing craft;
off Kerama Island, three cruisers, 20
destroyers, two float plane tenders and
180 transports; in Nakagasuka Bay, two
float plane tenders, over 40 transports
and 60 landing barges.
British Strength
British strength in the Pacific increases
every day. The sea routes from Britain
contain a steady stream of ships of all
classes, whose progress the Japanese are
powerless to interrupt. Australia already
has seen three major battleships, King
George V., Howe and Duke of York—
Duke of York was a recent visitor to
Sydney— most of the major carriers and
such a smaller-ship navy and supply train
as has never before come from Europe to
south of the Line.
In India and Burma, the organisation
is heaping up at the end of an endless
chain of ships and transport aircraft,
which reaches from the British Isles.
It is so huge that almost all parts
of it are in sight of some other part, and
with it are coming men who contributed
greatly to the victory over Germany.
Less is heard of this part of the Asian-
war effort than of the American section ;
but it is vast and ominous for the
Japanese.
The Rear-Admiral’s Answer
Before one of the early Sydney con-
ferences with a rear-admiral commanding
aircraft-carriers, it was whispered know-
ingly among newspapermen that the
British carriers were old-fashioned and
not fast enough to operate with the modern
U.S. craft. One correspondent had the
courage to ask the rear-admiral on his
own quarter-deck whether his ships, of
the very latest Royal Navy vintage, could
make the pace with the U.S. ships. The
rear-admiral said mildly that he believed
they would give quite a good account of
themselves —at least he hoped so.
Rumors of the good news that easy
prey was on the way seems to have
reached Tokyo, and the enemy’s recep-
tion off the Sakishimas was warm. British
ships were hit, but the enemy was sur-
prised to find himself against a terrific
blast which exceeded anything he had
met, from men who had learnt their tech-
nique against German defences which
they proclaim far more deadly than any-
thing they encountered in the Japanese
waters outside the sporadic kamikazes.
They hit Indefatigable twice in a single
day and Victorious —veteran carrier and
instructress to the Americans in the early
days of the Pacific war —once, and Illus-
trious as well. They merely caused slight
interruptions to the work and did not
hamper operations or deplete fleet strength
for any effective length of time. The
only ship rendered inoperative during two
months of patrolling and aggression was
the destroyer Ulster. Total British casual-
ties in the operations were 70 men killed
and 34 seriously wounded.
The suicide bomber, however, is no
laughing matter. Captain Lambe, R.N.,
of Illustrious, who saw as much of him
as anybody, describes his method:
Usually the suicide bomber pilot dives
from 10,000 ft., rolling over on his back to
crash with his bombs. There is very little
time to deal with him Our gunners
knocked a piece off one machine as if
approached and then made another hit, but
he took a bit of the bridge with his wing-
tip within nine feet of me before he crashed
into the sea None of our carriers was
put out of action for more than a few
hours try this type of attack but it lasts
only 11 seconds and is very difficult to
deal with.
Philippines and China
In the Philippines the campaign is
reckoned to be about over, with only
14,000 Japs remaining in, Luzon, 12,000
in Mindanao and 500 in the Visayas.
The Chinese drive along the coast from
Foochow was reported at the week-end
to have reached Chenghsien, 60 miles
south-east of Hangchow, but out of con-
tact with the enemy. The enemy at last
appears about to take some measures to
resist the advance, and, apparently from
Formosa, has landed at Marines, on the
Chinese rear, 35 miles south-west of
Amoy and 140 miles south of Foochow.
Counter-offensive in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: The feature of the
Burmese campaign during the week has
been the bold sorties by Japanese forces
to attempt to relieve their troops west of
the Sittaung, in the Pegu Yomas,
and to set the Indian Division,
which has reached the hills on the
Toungoo-Mawchi drive, back on its heels.
The Sittaung drive was made with quite
a fleet of boats, which proved an easy
prey for the Spitfires and Thunderbolts
patrolling the river. But the enemy came
in such numbers that considerable forces
got across and fanned out in several
columns, some reaching positions two
miles south-east of Myitko, about six
miles west of the river.
The Toungoo-area attack was com-
prised in vicious onslaughts from hill
positions on the Indians’ flank, perhaps
intended to be diversionary to help keep
British troops in place while the rescue
work on the Sittaung proceeded.
In each case the Japanese had efficient
artillery cover, but this did not help
them, though heavy floods have been
hampering operations in general.
Many ambushes had been laid and,
before July 8, the enemy spearhead,
below Myitko, which it had cut off, had
been badly blunted. It had been pushed
back into the flood area, but appeared
to be trying to consolidate in positions
west of the river.
Tokyo seemed to have little hope from
the drive. It was more interested in
ominous operations off Car Nicobar,
where, it reported, 16 British warships,
including two A.Cs., were busily mine-
sweeping in the 125-mile-wide channel
between the island and the northern
Sumatran island base of Sabang, which
so often has been hammered in recent
months by British ships. Car Nicobar is
about 120 miles south of the Andamans.
The islands have an area of about 635
square miles and possess a very fine naval
harbor between Car Nicobar and
Camorta (Nancowry). And this is less
than 400 miles from Siamese territory,
and from the narrow and waterlogged
Singora isthmus, possession of which by
an Allied force would cut Malaya off
from Siam,
It is no wonder that urgent steps have
been taken to evacuate Japanese civilians
from Singapore and Java.
British submarines, too, are causing
the Japanese worry. Trenchant (Com-
mander A. R. Hezlet, D.S.C., R.N.) sank
a 10,000-ton cruiser in shallow waters,
drawing congratulations from Admiral
Nimitz, and from the U.S. officer under
whose flag Trenchant is operating the
remark that “By your smart, aggressive
action you have avenged the Exeter and
the Houston.” The Jap ship was about
the last heavy enemy cruiser known to
exist southward of the North China coast.
In Berlin.
“Ek Dum”: The British occupation
forces, headed by the Seventh Armored
Division’s 11th Hussars, moved into the
south-western suburbs of Berlin on July
3. On the way they met thousands of
Russians driving westward, in almost
entirely American transport, to take over
Magdeberg and a large slice of country
occupied by the U.S. Army in the south.
Simultaneously there were small adjust-
ments to the advantage of the Russians
in the adjoining zones of the north.
The Russians withdrew a few of their
forces from Czechoslovakia contempo-
raneously with the southern moves, which
have the effect of placing Czechoslovakia
in a Russian vyce between Russian-occu-
pied Austria and Hungary and Russian-
occupied Germany.
Thp U.S. Second Divison was later in
arriving at its Berlin enclave than
the British, having been delayed by the
flood of Russian traffic moving westward.
Central Berlin was found battered to
bits by R.A.F. and U.S.A.F. bombing,
but some parts of even the inner suburbs
were remarkably intact.
In Berlin it was found that not only
were the Russians fraternising freely with.
Germans but advising them by flam-
boyant signs that only Hitlerism, and not
the German people, was the enemy of
the U.S.S.R. —in May Moscow Radio was
fiercely denouncing the idea that British
and American soldiers might be allowed
to fraternise with Germans since all
Germans were guilty.
It was found also that the Russians,
controlling the food areas from which
Berlin has drawn its supplies, proposed to
let the British feed the 900,000 people in
their zone, many in a bad way, from
their own scanty resources. The British
thereupon refused to take over their zone,
in which the largest working-class dis-
tricts are included.
About 1150 p.-0.-w. of the A.I.F. and
R.A.A.F. reached home on July 7 from Ger-
many. Mjiny of them wore as many as six
chevrons; they had an unimaginative and
bungled “welcome.” For all officialdom
appeared to care, their homecoming might have
been the unloading of a consignment' of cattle.
It is about time the Lord Mayors of Australian
ports took a hand and saw to it that returning
p.-0.-w. have the same sort of rousing recep-
tion as Britain and America give their heroes.
* * * *
R.A.A.F. figures give R.A.A.F. casualties
to May 31 at 13,842 —6566 in Europe, 4745 in
the South and South-west Pacific, and 1571
in the Middle East. These included 7167
casualties in air operations, 4420 due to air
accidents, 1473 to ground accidents and other
causes, 462 in ground battle and 320 deaths
from illness. May losses were the lowest in any
month since Japan entered the war—l 33, in-
cluding 20 in Europe.
Urging the establishment of an inter-
Allied committee of scientists to examine
and, if necessary, prohibit Germany’s use
of discoveries dangerous to mankind.
Lord Vansittart told the House of Lords
that if the VI, V 2 and V 3 bombers had
been in action a year earlier it would have
meant the end of Britain, and if they had
been in action at the beginning of the
war it would have meant the end of
civilisation. With agreement among the
Allies, the prohibiting of German use
of lethal scientific discoveries would
be easy. But it wouldn’t prevent the
development of weapons dangerous to
mankind.


IT WON'T BE LONG NOW!
—we hope, before you’ll be able to buy all
the tyres and petrol you want —or a brand
new Masse. But, meantime, a fortnightly
check-up from your nearest Masse dealer
will keep your battery in service and an
occasional re-charge may mean many extra
months of life.
"Masse
ARE I I 6 E R 8
f
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
4-44
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BAREERE acts *ike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22A), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
—S’ I
ri«iu
StS&jui
FACING A PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park ... yet
it is merely “round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THF WENTWORTH
ut
ne
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
1
SPORTING NOTIONS
With three miles to travel and 15 hurdles to
add variety and excitement to the journey, the
11 starters set out in the Grand National at
Flemington on Saturday; and if any idle old
kookaburra felt inclined to chuckle at the fact
that the vast assembly had installed as a
5-to-2 favorite one of the least experienced
hurdlers of the field like a wise bird he sen-
sibly kept his mirth to himself. For Grand
National Day is, of course, a serious, if not
a religious, occasion; and, anyway, the favorite,
Solvent, lost no time in falling over a hurdle,
which was no laughing matter to many thou-
sands of worshippers thereby rendered less sol-
vent than they had hoped to be.
Greer Garson, with nothing on her back, as
might be expected with a name like that, look
the lead. The topweight, Isambard, making his
third attempt to win a Grand National, loped
along last in the very heavy going. Well for-
ward in the field, as they settled down for the
long trip, was Bay David, son of that grand
Australian stayer David, whose progeny, Cheery
Jack, Saul, Claudette and Zalmon, had won
tour of the last five Grand Nationals. Also
going stoutly along were two others of the
David breed, Just Jill and Quixotic, and an-
other, Walladale, from a David mare. Hiatus,
of whom much was expected, was jumping
awkwardly.
Possessing only something of the dash and
less of the stamina of her namesake, Greer
Garson gave over the leading role to Gay
Invader, and shortly retired from the cast,
pulled up. Never worse than third or fourth as
they travelled along, Bay David moved easily
into second place a couple of lengths behind
Gay Invader, and old Isambard was coming
doggedly along from the rear. For the rest of
the way, till they came into the straight the last
time, it was Gay Invader out from Bay David,
with Isambard steadily improving. Bay David
led after the last jump, and though Isambard,
plugging on, made a good race of it up the last
furlong, the David line saw it out, with three-
quarters of a length to spare; Gay Invader in
third place. The David breed now had won
four Nationals in succession. The latest of
them is a five-year-old gelding, from Linderana,
and this is his first year as a jumper.
It was a first Grand National to trainer
D. S. McCormick, who has had a wonderful
year with hurdlers and fencers, and a second
to rider L. Meenan, who has had ditto. And
next Saturday the one will saddle up and the
other will ride the Grand National Steeplechase
favorite Winterset.
However the Steeple works out, Winterset is
no false favorite. He will carry top weight,
12.7, but would have more if there wasn’t,
mercifully, a limit. He looks the par-
ticularly with Zalmon gone, Parentena appar-
ently giving some trouble in training, and the
South Australian, Lime Rock, suffering the
effects of a rough passage across. Winferset’s
one disadvantage will be that, because he’d have
been called on to lump over 13st. at any start
in the meantime, he will be lacking that one
run that might have helped; but even so it will
need a horse as sound as a brass bind to beat'
him. One such, it happens, showed out in the
Kensington Steeplechase on Saturday; Hearsay,
turning on a display in Winterset’s own most
dashing style, well out in front throughout the
two miles and half a furlong, with Victory
March and Tente giving good, solid perform-
ances to get into the places. Hearsay has to
be taken a little on trust over three miles;
and, also, it might be risky to try to repeat'
that dashing run in Winterset’s company, even
with the pull in the weights Hearsay (9st.) will
have, since it’s a style the champion excels at,
and there is no gamer nor headier rider for
that sort of fencing than L. Meenan.
So for the Grand National Steeplechase:
Winterset, 1; Parentena, 2; Hearsay, 3.
In the other run over the jumps on Saturday
Silgaro (33 to 1) just beat Night Life (10 to 1),
with High Flash (16 to 1) third, and the favo-
rite —Meenan’s mount, Azores —down the track.
Thirty-three starters spread across the “straight
six” course for the Myross Handicap (two-year-
olds), and the only two on the 7st. limit, Solray
(50 to 1) and Hereward (20 to 1) were first and
second, too far apart to be on neighing terms,
with Solitas (14 to I) third. Oatcake (yet
another to leading jockey A. Breasley) beat
Codicil and Field Balloon in the 12-furlongs
July Handicap; and Gay ness (H. Hall; he was
also on Solrayj went to the front and kept on
doing so in the 10-furlongs Three-year-old,
Orthodox and Logical filling the places. Among
them, horses and riders in the afternoon
travelled a total of a shade over 10J miles.
* * * ♦
About the best of the fields at Saturday’s
Rosehill Club meeting contested the two-year-
old fillies event —or rather contested the minor
places. Conceding from 121 b. to 301 b., the
Ajax filly Civic Pride took the handicapper’s
opinion in her stride, and lead all the way to
a cantering three-lengths win, giving vigorous
D. Munro one of the easiest armchair rides he
has ever had. Even Time and Steianova filled
the places. Having her first race, Sarchex, a
chestnut daughter of Sarcherie, rather took the
eye with a smart run from last to fifth in the
field of 17, though possibly some of those she
passed in the last couple of furlongs had de-
cided that chasing the leader was a waste of
effort.
Ajax’s hefty daughter looks better every time
she’s produced, and, like Magnificent, is a
tribute to her sire and the Heroic blood. Though
previously vanquished by Courtship, her next
meeting with that game galloper will certainly
be interesting.
At Rosehill Cragsman is the proverbial “stone
better horse.” He registered his fourth win
on that track in the seven-furlongs Flying, cut
out in 1.26. Running behind Cargeonel to the
straight, he was half a length ahead of Brazier
at the end, though conceding the Brazen geld-
ing 271 b. Bruce Wood, Lunar and Cargeonel
passed the post in a bunch, the first two named
dead-heating for third. It looked like'very good
handicapping.
The aged Wee Warrah gelding Goose Boy is
on the smallish side, as his breeding suggests,
and, as a Doncaster winner, has been getting
a shade more weight than he can manage. In
the 11-furlongs July Handicap he carried 8.7
(71b. allowance), against the weakest field he
had struck in a long time. It seemed a now-
or-never opportunity. Getting away fairly well,
he gradually worked forward, and, in front at
the Leger, he seemed well home. However, it
was also the day for the Midstream gelding
Yarras, at the other end of the weight scale.
Last early in the race, he sighted a lucky short
cut on the rails which put him in striking dis-
tance, and on the post he drew level for a dead-
heat, Gauntlet third. Another Midstream geld-
ing, Murray Stream, confirmed long-standing
promise by taking the Three-year-old handicap
from Laudus and Twice Royal; and Young
Veilmond (Veilmond-Little Mutt) very easily
beat Strauss and King Lear in the Juvenile
(seven furlongs; colts and geldings).
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Two-year-old Encourage (fillies): Stefanoya,
1; Questing, 2; Volley, 3. Two-year-old En-
courage (colts and geldings): Personality, I;
Montrose, 2; King Lear, 3. Three-year-old
Encourage: Spearex, 1; Pennicuik, 2; Waralah,
3. Moore Park Handicap: Petulance, 1;
Kingsdale, 2; Removal, 3- July Handicap:
Prince, 1; Gauntlet, 2; Invictus, 3. Maroubra
Handicap: Balmore, I; Martheus,2; Valaire,3.
* * * *
The Doomben Newmarket next Saturday
could provide something of a pointer on com-
parative current N.S.W.-Queensland form, since
Hall Stand is on the spot, and appears to be
less severely treated in the handicaps than he
would have been in Sydney. Maa Leesh, how-
ever, is a greatly improved sprinter, and Repshot
always goes well at Albion. Still, the seven
furlongs seems right to Hall Stand’s taste with
9.1; he’s a big fellow these days, and has won
over seven and a quarter furlongs with more
than that on his back. For the Newmarket:
Hall Stand, 1; Maa Leesh, 2; Repshot, 3.
* * * •
Veteran owner-trainer and latterly successful
breeder, John Patterson has passed on in Adel-
aide at 82. He claimed to have seen every
Adelaide Cup since the S.A. Jockey Club was
revived just on 60 years ago.
* ¥ * *
For the Melbourne Cup, to be run on
November 10, there are 309 entries, up 54 on
last year. For the Caulfield Cup (October 20)
entries total 284.
* * * *
Since the AJ.C. fodder-shortage restrictions
(B. 4/7/’45) were given out it has been decided
to include among the eligibles horses that have
won a race valued to the winner at' £lOOO or
more or two races aggregating £l5OO or better.
It keeps on the tracks several past good per-
formers who were close to the end of their
tether under the arrangement barring older
horses unplaced in six starts.
* * * *
Australian cricketers kept up “form”
in England last week. At Eastbourne
the Services XI (at almost full strength),
played Leveson-Gower’s XI, the latter
getting 220 (Allen 88 and Scott 55), to
which the Aussies replied in 2\ hours
with 193 for six wickets —Hassett (55),
Whitington (50) and Cheetham (41).
Pepper (4-84) and Price (3-88) bowled
well. The other clash was at Lord’s be-
tween R.A.A.F, and Army. The Austra-
lians rattled up 253 (Craig 61, Workman
46, Pettiford 48 and Cristofani 42), and
then crashed the Army team for 70 (Cris-
tofarii 4 for 3, Ellis 2 for 18 and Roper
2 for 23). Bill Bowes, having his first big
match since coming home from a p.o.w.
camp in Germany, got a great cheer, and
took two wickets for 76.
* * * *
It was heavy going, with rain, in the
V.F.L. games on Saturday. Footscray,
at home to Richmond, which was battling
to get into the “four,” was almost
swamped in the first quarter when the
Tigers made it an aerial game and ran
away to a 3-goal lead. After that, with
Olliver playing an inspired centre game,
’Scray came back with a rush, took the
lead after half-time and won as it
liked, 15.12-11.8. Collingwood and North
Melbourne made it a hard go all the way,
but ’Wood stayed better, and got there
by 13.5 to 11.11. Match of the day was
the Carlton-Melbourne affair; the
Fuchsias got hold of monkey glands or
something, and ran the astounded Blues
to a point, Carlton 12.9, Melbourne 12.8.
At Fitzroy Geelong took a hiding by
17.27 to 4.9 ; St. Kilda, 6,14, was belted
by South Melbourne, 14.22; and Haw-
thorn jumped heavily on the once-mighty
Essendon, 15.17 to 7.12.
Saturday’s Melbourne games left
South Melbourne and Footscray together
on top of the “four,” Collingwood
North Melbourne and Richmond eight
points behind ’em, and Fitzroy and Carl-
ton about the only chances among the
rest, Collingwood and South Melbourne
next Saturday will have the air of a semi-
final about it, the “first” against the
“third,” and if Richmond can down North
the Tigers will be “in” again.
* « * *
Randwick’s fine Rugby Union , team
broke North’s winning run on Saturday
12-nil. The ’Wicks used their weightier
pack to good purpose, and it wore the
Northerners down. University notched
four tries to two to beat Drummoyne
14-9, a last-minute try by five-eighth
Johnson making victory certain, St.
George was never in the hunt against
Parramatta, that side, which has a great
following, scoring 19-6. Gordon for-
wards won a plethora of possession to see
it wasted by their loose backs ; West 17,
Gordon 10. East routed Manly 24-5.
Randwick is on top, three points ahead
of Parramatta and East (equal second),
with University next and then West.
* * * *
Although beaten 6-1, 6-2 by Lieut.
Adrian Quist in the Army Services tennis
singles championship at Sydney on Satur-
day, Cpl. Earl Sieler, of Goulburn
(N.S.W. junior country tennis champion
with W. O’Brien in 1938 and 1939), made
a good impression. In the earlier rounds
he outclassed the opposing players in
straight sets, excelling particularly in back-
hand strokes, but Quist’s pace left the
youth standing in the final. In the Services
doubles Quist and Sergt. E. Holst de-
feated Sieler and Cpl. Wightley 6-2, 6-3.
In exhibition matches Pails overcame
veteran Crawford in the singles, and
Crawford and Pails accounted for Quist
and Brown in the doubles. Crawford lasts
well; he first shared the doubles title in
1929, and in 1931 won the Australian
singles.
* * * «
• “S.T.S.”; One of the curiosities of
modem sport is the enormous increase in
scoring in both football (Australian Rules)
and lacrosse. The modem attack
apparently can’t be kept out. In the last
premiership lacrosse final in Adelaide one
side threw 13 goals. In my time any
goal-keeper who gave away as many as
that would have lost his job, but here,
in the brief interval of University losing
the 13 goals at one end, they were making
at the other the incredible score of 28
a successful shot, one way or the other,
every two and a half minutes. I asked
a very old player if he could account for
it. “The defence isn’t allowed to do to
the attack men what we used to do to
them,” he said grimly.
* * * *
J. H. (always called “Jimmy”) Gosse,
head of George Wills and Co., and one
of Adelaide’s leading commercial and
financial authorities, becomes chairman
of S.A. Football League (Australian
Rules). He was a great Norwood foot-
baller himself 40 years ago. The chair
was vacant by the death of Tom O’Hal-
loran, K.C. —until now the idea has for
many years been to have a lawyer
occupying it.
* * * *
“S.A.”: Jacob Knopp, who recently
passed on at 88, was the former Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) teacher who in the
’eighties*? achieved cricket notoriety by
bowling Dr. Grace three times in one
match, Englishmen v. Goulburn. Grace
took strike to open up, was bowled by
the practice ball, then bowled first ball.
In the second innings Knopp again
secured the doctor’s wicket first ball.
* * * *
Leichhardt (Sydney) was itself again at
the conclusion of hostilities between
middleweights Dal Conway and George
Elliott. Conway was the better boxer,
but Elliott did most of the work and won
most of the rounds. The referee, Pear-
son, however, declared for Conway. Then
the crowd showed its displeasure in the
grand old Leichhardt fashion and sabre-
cuts of Sydney-Saxon speech were still
cutting holes in the atmosphere when it
melted out into the wintry night.
Out of pugilism for five months, con-
sequence of a bike accident. Jack Mc-
Namee did too much boxing for
safety against Jim Gray at the Sydney
Stadium. Gray was aggressive, and this
quality earned him the decision. All 12
rounds were pretty much alike, with Gray
trying to make things interesting and
McNamee trying to stop him. They and
the management divided far more than
the show was worth; there must have
been 6000 spectators.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Australia was saddened last week by the
death of John Curtin. The earnest, sensi-
tive-looking Prime Minister was admired
by all his countrywomen. Had he not
shouldered the responsibility when their
hearths and homes were threatened with
invasion? So, in regret for a life ended so
soon, and in sympathy with his widow
and family countless thousands listened to
the service, broadcast from Canberra, and
later from Westralia,
In the King’s Hall, Parliament
House, the Prime Minister lay in state,
and was attended by his Ministers for the
last time. At the head and foot of the
bier stood a guard of the fighting forces,
with reversed arms. The Duke of Glou-
cester had flown from the North to
attend the service, and with the Duchess
was among those who paid the last
solemn tribute. Mrs. Curtin and other
members of the Prime Minister’s family
were the chief mourners. Then came the
long last flight across Australia. ’ The
Douglas ’plane in which the coffin was
flown was escorted by fighters. At dif-
ferent points on the long journey the
R.A.A.F., the Australian Army and the
R.A.N. paid the tribute of escort. Mrs.
Curtin followed in that strange, sad aerial
journey across the continent in the Duke
of Gloucester’s own ’plane.
In the bright winter sunlight of last
Sunday afternoon the country’s former
leader was buried in Karrakatta ceme-
tery, not far from his home in Cottesloe
(W.A.). All the Commonwealth’s great,
the representatives of overseas nations and
his family were there by the grave ; so
were his neighbors and friends —in their
thousands. The coffin was covered with
the Union Jack and Australia’s flag.
There, amid the green trees and the
bright flowers, with prayer and with cere-
mony, John Curtin was left to his final
sleep.
The Duchess of Gloucester showed
great interest in piles of attractive clothes
and padded quilts ready to go off to Eng-
land’s bombed victims when she visited
the rooms of the Royal Empire Society
last week. . The Women War Workers’
Unit of the society has been busy making
these warm clothes for six years. The
members have never flagged in their en-
thusiasm, and they were pleased to learn
from the Duchess that she had met Mrs.
Costly White, wife of the Dean of Glou-
cester, who has charge of the distribution
of the gifts in England. The families
of soldiers, sailors and airmen are the
chief beneficiaries. Since the outbreak of
war about two tons of clothing have been
sent every three weeks. Mrs. A. Spain,
vice-president of the unit, welcomed the
Duchess, who had Miss Eileen Phipps
with her. H.R.H.’s feather-trimmed hat
and frock were in a soft shade of tan.
Captain Benstead, R.N., uncoiled the
almost seven feet of him after the Insti-
tute of Journalists had fed him lunch,
and up and told many stories of the air-
craft-carrier which had been his home
from the crack of the war till just a while
ago. This ship, it would appear, was
very, very old, but from what the captain
told she must have had the cunning
of the serpent and the wisdom of old
Nile. She had the Nazis bluffed, but what
enraged her inhabitants was the fact that
even Goebbels attributed some, of “the
old lady’s” scraps and scars to her more
glamorous sisters.
Once when the old lady was caught in
a Norwegian fiord by some nasty Nazi
airmen and could only, so to speak, pray
that heaven might protect the working
girl, the commander would call when a
particularly close bomb came roaring
down: “Turn up your collars, lads, here’s
something coming!” Neat and concise
was the narrator’s description of a very
slow and old-style ship his carrier was
helping to convoy. She was always
lagging behind, and every now and then
would belch forth a great column of black
smoke. They called her “the fifth
columnist.”
The opening of the Roland Pope exhi-
bition by Public Library’s head John
Metcalfe brought Sydney’s book- and art-
lovers to the Education Galleries. The
display furnishes both galleries, and is a
delight to the eye. Just to finger some
of the books (they’re under cover) would
be such a joy that it is realised why rare
books were chained to their shelves in
olden times. From the delicate air of
Conder, Hilder, Minns and Conrad Mar-
tens to the paintings of Gruner, Sid
Long, Lambert and Julian Ashton and
the works of many Australian artists in
between and after, the show (comprising
210 pictures), is a sort of cavalcade
of this country’s progress in art. Sydney
Ure Smith’s “Roof Tops, Macleay-street,”
was among drawings admired.
Birds pictured under the glass of
long cases down the middle of the
galleries threaten to spread delicately
tinted wing or flash glowing plumage at
any moment. These books are really
lovely. When they are housed with the
rest of the collection in Newcastle it is
to be hoped that, if still under glass, the
pages will be turned each day, like the
pages of the Book of Kells, in Dublin,
though probably it will have to be with
less ceremony. There are well printed
and illustrated works on cricket, fishing
and other sports. The doctor and New-
castle’s Mayor smiled from the platform
during the speech-making. Giver and’
receiver seemed equally pleased.
Jeanie Ranken, tall, slight and clever-
looking, has been one of the noteworthy
figures in this city’s writing and drama
circles for a time long enough to make
many friends, too short a time to bring
to! flower many of her hopes for the
causes so dear to her heart. Jeanie died
last week of pneumonia. She had been
ill for a week or so in hospital, and
friends thought she had turned the corner
back to health. When the end came little
groups in libraries whispered it to one
another. Members of the P.E.N. and the
British Drama Club, to both of which she
belonged, looked stricken. “Belonged’?
—rather “belongs,” for Jeanie, with the
half-quizzical smile, who might have been
a modern Jane Austen if she hadn’t been
so tolerant, will live on..
This is a last week photograph of the
wife of the State’s Chief Justice Frederick
Jordan, now Acting Governor of N.S.W.
The Jordans still live in their own home
at Vaucluse, but she comes in to Govern-
ment House every morning. Already
active in many welfare movements, as
wife of the Lieutenant-Governor many
new duties and offices have been assumed
by her. The Jordan lady and her hus-
band are both interested in languages and
music, and she is also keen on gardening,
Norton Trevaire photograph,
Pianist Noel Mewton-Wood has a sen-
sitive profile, and hands that obey his
every shade of feeling. He embarked on
a music-making voyage around Australia
under the A.B.C. flag last week. It was
gratifying to see the Town Hall so
crowded for an Australian returning to
his own land. Mewton-Wood left his
native Melbourne when he was 15. He
has studied with Schnabel was at the
1938 Salzburg music festival, has played
for Beecham and has received from that
great musician high praise. He has
already quite a list of compositions from
his own pen. These include sonatas, ballet
music and works for strings,
Dr. Bertie Schlink and his bride left
Sydney on a honeymoon that was to fake
in Canberra, and then Kosciusko, where
he would teach his wife to ski: They
have all sorts of plans for their return to
the city. To begin with they will live
in a roomy flat which has been newly
decorated and is lush with blue rugs
Mrs. Schlink, who was Dr. Margaret
Mulvey, will still be active in her profes-
sion.
Ruth Mason, an ex-tramee of the
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children,
Camperdown, recently arrived in Eng-
land, has announced her engagement to
Grenville Richard Ayres (Paratroop,
Royal Engineers), only son of the late
Mr. and Mrs. V. Ayres, Leicester. They
expect to live in Toronto, Canada, after
their marriage. Ruth is at the moment
in Cheltenham visiting her nonagenarian
aunts, who still bicycle. Her father
served with the Light Horse in World
War I.
From Melbourne
The “Sons of the Sea” Ball, for which
so many worked so hard, was a great
success. The Town Hall was transformed
by the nautical decorations and group-
ings of flags. The stage took on the
appearance of the bridge of a ship and
a large seascape hung directly behind it.
The orchestra wore plain blue suits and
white sailor caps, and the presence
of many officers, both R.N. and R.A.N.,
added to the nautical atmosphere. Minia-
ture flower warships and colorful bal-
loons, masks and caps decorated the large
official table, and other tables had Union
Jacks, Stars and Stripes and the Austra-
lian flag done in gay flowers. Glittering
gold-colored shavings from naval shell-
cylinders were also among the table
decorations.
The beautiful gowns of the women
made splashes of color, Eileen Hattam
danced in soft ice-blue satin, a flower in
her hair. She is the younger daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. B. J. Hattam and a great
worker for patriotic causes. Eileen will
portray Lady Emma Hamilton in a forth-
coming “Cavalcade of Famous Women.”
Pamela Forster was a striking figure in
flame-colored georgette. Marjorie Spry
chose white satin, cut on lines reminiscent
of the “Gay ’Nineties.” Mrs. H. A.
Showers, president of the ball committee,
was with her husband, Commodore
Showers. Her white gown was patterned
in rose. Another who chose white with a
fringe trimming was Mrs. J. Phillips. Her
wrap was of sable with a white ermine
lining. Sylvia Green, who assisted Mrs.
Phillips on the lucky dip (a great success),
wore black, and Mrs. David Baker chose
a deep crimson satin gown. The Hyde
lady, in deep rose and silver lame, was
one of the well-dressed women present;
also in lame, pink and silver, was Mrs.
Saul Aarons. Mrs. Harold Myslis looked
bridal in her wedding gown of white satin
lavishly trimmed with seed pearls. With
her was her husband, Lt.-Col. Harold
Myslis.
One of the pre-ball dinner parties was
given by Mr. and Mrs. Bert Hotchkiss for
Shirley Watts, who was having her nine-
teenth birthday. Twenty guests gathered
in the Marina-room of the Australia for
this occasion, among them Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Watts, parents of the guest of
honor, and Mrs. W. Horsfall, smart in
flame georgette trimmed with matching
beads. Mrs. Horsfall was accompanied
by her husband and son Hedley. Mrs.
S. Thompkins was in shrimp-pink georg-
ette decorated with bronze beads. Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, honorary organiser of
the ball, covered her long black gown
with a three-quarter-length coat of glit-
tering black sequins. Admiral Rivett
Carnac, R.N., was at the official table,
and Commodore T. B. Drew was with
Mrs. Drew. All the proceeds from the
ball went to the Jack’s Day Appeal.
Gracie Fields’s arrival in Melbourne was
kept a close secret, and the visitor was
able to get to her hotel without fuss. But
the following days were full. A press
conference at Menzies was fantastic. Into
a small room were crowded photo-
graphers, presswomen and artists, and for
over an hour the comedienne sat quiet and
dignified as cameras clicked, light bulbs
flashed and questions were hurled at her.
For this interview she wore a knitted suit
in Parma violet, with the jacket featuring
a deep yoke in pale mauve. Just when
the party was at its maddest two love-
birds managed to. escape from their cage,
and instantly a hunt was on. Windows
were hurriedly closed, and finally the
birds decided to rescue themselves, and
perched on the fair curls of Gracie.
Gracie disclosed that her clothes come
from Hattie Carnegie, in New York. The
patients at the Heidelberg Military Hos-
pital were enthralled with Grade’s per-
formance, and the huge We,st Melbourne
Stadium was crowded with 8000 members
of the forces, who greeted every item with
wild enthusiasm.
Although Mayor Nettlefold was de-
luged with requests *for invitations to the
civic reception he gave for Gracie Fields,
guests numbered only 250, comprising
city fathers and their wives and a few
representative citizens. Among the guests
who shared the platform with the visitor
was the Mayoress, Mrs. Beatrice Camp-
bell, wearing the smart black suit which
is her favorite apparel, and a small black
hat. The wife of Premier Dunstan was
another smart figure. Mrs. Frank Tail
donned a squirrel coat over her black
frock and wore a gay little hat of blue
feathers. Gracie Fields was well-tailored
in a long coat of indigo, and wore a
matching felt hat. Mrs. Norman Myer
set off her coloring with a leaf-brown
ensemble, and also wearing brown was
Janet Bowen Pain. Her hat was of brown
silk straw, most attractively made to stand
upright on one side of her head.
The girls of the Land Army, least
glamorous of the services, are seldom
seen in the city. But Lady Dugan, then
Hon. State Commandant, has not for-
gotten them, and to help gather money
to give these girls more of the comforts
of life has formed a committee to assist
at a. gala night later in the month at the
Tivoli Theatre. An informal afternoon
tea was hostessed recently at Government
House by Lady Dugan to this end.
Among those who took tea were Harold
Clapp’s lady, a member of the committee,
and Valerie Purves, smartly tailored.
Valerie is a member of the Publicity
Committee, a fellow-member being Mrs.
Geoffrey Smith. Rosemary Knox is one of
the ticket secretaries, and assisting her are
Mrs. John Howse and Alison Grant-Hay.
Representatives of the Tivoli manage
ment attended and promised that the
whole entertainment would be free of
any expenses to the committee. Tivoli
headline stars will be selected for the
performance. After the price of admis-
sion has been paid there will be no
further expense to the patron. That will
be a change, for usually there are raffles
and other attractions which make the out-
ing rather an expensive one. Sir Winston
Dugan will accompany his wife, and the
theatre will be gay with decorations.
A function which helped to pay the ex-
penses incurred by the committee of the
Sons of the Sea Ball was a late-afternoon
party given by Mrs. Roy Wales at her
lovely home in East St. Kilda. Her
friends gathered round and cheerfully
paid the guinea which entitled them to
a buffet snack and dancing. Marea Lucas
doffed her uniform of the W.A.T.C., and
was attractively garbed in black. Mrs.
George Haines gave her services as pianist
and played from an early hour till late
at night. The men were well in evidence,
and while Hedley Ladd carved the ham
Lou Green manfully struggled with a very
large turkey. Mrs. Roy Wales hostessed
in a warm b,lue angora suit and was hat-
less. One very smart woman wore a
deep,, close-fitting cap of white ermine
with the tails bunched on top of the cap.
Dr. Bill brought his wife
Anne to the party. Her small black hat
was trimmed with black ostrich plumes
and went well with her well-cut black
frock. When all expenses were met, Mrs.
Wales handed over to the committee the
neat little sum of £lOO.
Joy Youlden, who produced the Uni-
versity “Stop Press” revue, has entered
another realm and will present for the
University Dramatic Club “A Murder
Has Been Arranged.” Marjorie Mehaffey,
formerly of the Canberra Repertory
Players, will have the leading role, and
Lola Russell another star part. Playing
opposite Marjorie is returned soldier
Stephen Murray-Smith. Pat Hanna’s
daughter, also a Pat, will be another
member of the cast,
Melbourne women donned their best
finery for the opening night of the ballet
at His Majesty’s Theatre. It was almost
a pre-war gathering in atmosphere, and
many long frocks of the formal type were
seen. Following tradition, the programme
commenced with the evergreen “Les Syl-
phides,” which caught the imagination
of the many sub-debs, present. It seems
only a few months since Veronica
Syme was wearing her hair in two long
plaits. Now she is a very smart young
lady. Others who have grown overnight
are the daughters of Dr. and Mrs. Robert
South by, Judith and Deidre. Lynette
Dickenson, smart as usual in black, was
with a party arranged by the Bowen
Pains. Also in this party was Patricia
Gibson, cosily tailored in mist-blue;
Betty Stewart decorated the midnight blue
of her gown with bronze sequins ; and
Sylvia Offen’s formal shrimp-pink gown
had trimming of crystal beads.
Those women who wore short frocks,
high-lighted them with attractive hats,
the gayest yet seen in this sober-minded
city. Lillian Wightman topped off her
black ermine-covered frock with a feather
hat in shades of cyclamen, lime-green and
turquoise. Isobel Kennedy was a dis-
tinctive figure in an all-black model frock
with matching hat. Flowers were ram-
pant ; if they were not worn as hats they
were pinned in the hair or worn as a
corsage. Major Aldridge C. Rumsay
came to see his bride (Dorothy Steven-
son) among the dancers. Sheila Help-
man was very soignee in black, with a
new hair-do which revealed brother
Bobby’s newest gift of earrings.
First night was graced by the presence
of Lady Dugan, as usual, sartorially per-
fect in pastel green. With her in her box
was Mary Lisle Johnson, in black. In
the opposite box was the pianist from
Palestine, Pnina Salzman, who snuggled
into a brown seal coat. With her was
the Titian-haired Mrs. Frank Tait, who
wore an ergaine coat over her distinctive
black gown. Also in the audience
Major John Allen and Captain George
Astley.


THAT-
ft
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and' your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nos worthy - Lewis Armstrong • Joseph Mitchel
P. T. W. Black. / Manager—L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
- . - sm* 1 '
7 BRIDGE gniET, BYDN.EY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 ©.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4-44.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prfempt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
the storage wa11...
an idea for every Australian home
There Is hardly a home anywhere that doesn't need addi-
tional storage space. An American organisation thought
about the problem, then commissioned two prominent archi-
tects to attack It scientifically result, THE STORAGE
WALL, the most valuable and practical Idea In home build-
ing of a decade. Most practical
material for construction of the
storage wall Australian-made
Masonite Fresdwood, a hard,
steel-smooth board that comes
in sheets up to 12ft. x 4ft. and
which Is worked with or-
dlnary carpenters’
tools.
%
r
STORAGE CUPBOARDS
OPENING OTHER SIDE
BUILT-IN RADIO
•« • •
£
WRITING DESK
RECORD STORAGE 1
RECORD PLATER
CUPBOARD OPENING
OTHER SIDE
The space-saving, space-giving storage trail replace* the
ordinary between-room trail. It provides cupboards (usually
12" deep) throughout the entire length and height ol the
trail. Some cupboard* and shelves open Into one room-
name into the other—depending on the need* ol the Indi-
vidual rooms.
Our main Illustration ohotr* the Living Room side ol ■
Storage Wall between Living Room and Hall. On the un-
seen side is space lor umbrellas and raincoats, goll clubs*
tennis racquets and other sporting equipment. Our small
sketch shows a “Between-bedrooms storage wall”.
IF YOU'RE A HANDYMAN...
PRESDWOOD—
STANDABD AND TEMPERED
Northern Sales Division:—
369 Pitt St., Sydney.
Southern Sales Division: —
529 Collins St., Melbourne.
df
IUIT-4I
SMOKE-OH!
Some of these triangles necessitate a
lot of squaring off.
4* 4*
“Most babies bawl when first born.”
— “Sun” short story.
They get over it, though, the second or
third time.
“Squeeze, knead and roll up the fleshy skin
with your hands, pressing up the flesh firmly
between the fingers and palms of your hands,
working always in an upward direction.”
— “New, Idea:”
This will improve your scone-making
technique at the same time.
•b *b 4* *b
Eternal Enigma.
“I am good and fair to look at. Yet still no
sign of a wedding ring. Will I have more
chance when the boys come back?”
—lnquirer of Dorothy Dix.
H’m —I should say your likelihood
Or not of early triumph would
Depend on what you mean by “good”!
P. O. M. C.
•b *b *b 4*
Wonderful what a big hit can be made
by a near miss.
•b *b *b *b
“Put on an act for Steve’s sake, will you?
He still believes marriage is akin to heaven.”
— Women’s paper short story.
Well, there is certainly plenty of harp-
ing in both.
*b *b # *b
Sidelights on History.
“Japanese scientists are busily engaged in
gathering fireflies and other minute creatures
to become weapons in the destruction of Britain
and America.” — Tokio Radio.
Historical researches disclose other in-
stances of the use of such ingenious
secret weapons.
The annals of Rhinoceros the Elder
describe how the Athenians defeated the
hosts of Cambyses of Persia by introduc-
ing a colony of termites into the Persian
camp the night before the battle. The
willing insects were so effective in ren-
dering tent-poles, spear-shafts and general
chariot equipment useless that there was
actually no battle recorded in any history
of the period.
The historian Copius Mucus gives an
account of how the Romans countered
the Carthaginians’ use of elephants. As
soon as they recovered from their initial
fright they procured from North Africa
a covey or clutch of 10,000 porcupines.
These, liberated among the bare-legged
troops of Carthage, led to a complete
rout, which was followed in the usual
manner by a satisfying massacre.
A previously unpublished account of
the defeat of the Spanish Armada divests
Drake of a good deal of his former glory,
and bestows it instead on one Hob Hob-
kins, an armorer’s assistant polisher, who
released 5000 trained beavers against the
Spanish fleet. With dozens of his ships
severely perforated and many more in
an advanced stage of being converted
into dams, the Spanish admiral was
forced to retire.
Only one case of failure is recorded
in the use of such powerful weapons.
Theophilopomenistocles of Crete tells in
his diary how the Macedonians liberated
500 swarms of artificially maddened bees
against the army of Sparta. However,
the only result seems to have been a
complaint by two rather sissy Spartan
corporals that the mosquitoes were a
little troublesome that day.
Plum.
4* 4* ■4* ■ 4*
“Color has a great influence on people’s
spirits.”— Woman’s paper.
Amber particularly.
*l* 4*
“Yard or tethering ground four nannies, eats
blackberries.” —Suburban paper.
Fruit disposed of by the yard.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The brighter your dress on such an occasion
the more you will stand out.” — Woman’s paper.
Shortness of frock will help, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Special police patrols are on duty every
night to catch the thief who has stolen hun-
dreds of pairs of trousers.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Though bent on bringing him to book —
The tide of stolen pants to stem —
They found, to their despair, the crook
Was several strides ahead of them.
P. S. C.
4- 4* •j* .. .
“Top Coat man’s, boy’s top coat, 11 and
13 years, shirts like new.” —Suburban paper.
Obviously pre-war quality.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Warming Up.
“At Sydney Quarter Sessions a man found
guilty of having had ‘housebreaking instruments’
—a piece of concrete, a brick and a paper bag
—in his possession in a city street at 3.40 a.m.
claimed that he was carrying them to keep
warm.”
There are several schools of thought
regarding the best way to keep warm
while out of bed in the early hours by
the use of these strangely assorted yet
ingeniously contrived instruments.
One maintains that it is best to strip
to the waist and, discarding the paper
bag, put the brick under one armpit and
the hunk of concrete under the other and
stand perfectly still. In course of time the
upper portion of the body will be ren-
dered quite numb ; it will then be impos-
sible to determine whether sufficient pres-
sure, or indeed any at all, is being exerted
by the biceps to keep the brick and the
concrete clasped to the body. You will,
therefore be unaware when pressure does
actually slacken enough to allow either
the brick or the concrete, or both, to slip.
When it or they does or do (isn’t English
an awful language?) and the housebreak-
ing instruments lob on your ankle you
will immediately and involuntarily start
hopping about like mad. The exercise
thus gained will cause an immediate rise
in your temperature, even though the
surrounding air is blue, not necessarily
with the cold.
Another school holds that, paper being
a medium of warmth, as Domain dossers
ever on the lookout for a Saturday’s “S.M.
Herald” as a blanket can testify, and
bricks being well known for their powers
of absorbing heat —who has not known
the night-long comfort of a hot brick
wrapped in three-ply or galvanised iron
and placed in the bed?—the placing of
the brick in the paper bag will work
wonders. The bag mouth must be tightly
closed to prevent the cold air entering.
When the brick is considered to have
absorbed sufficient of the paper’s warmth
it should be taken out and hurriedly
slapped on the chest inside the singlet,
Provided this is repeated often enough,
the sponsors of the met hod claim, it will
cumulatively hot that those who
f : ,
suffer from water on the chest, as a change
from brain or knee, will have dense clouds
of stea ™ r ‘ sm S shortl y- T'osc who do
not suffer from water on the chest, and
who do not sport thick hirsute chest mats,
have to be careful, otherwise they risk
being scorched.
Experienced cracksmen have an infal-
lible method of keeping warm with the
aid of theS£ house £ ea | ing im pi em ents.
On bitterly cold nights they wait until a
policeman or a watchman is withm ear-
shot, and then start using the brick to
pick the lock of the safe (junks of con-
Crete are never used for this delicate
work the surface usually being too
smooth to allow a grip on the tumblers),
The anxiety thus engendered causes the
cracksman to break into a violent sweat-
ing. After all, tell any man he’s not
warm when he’s sweating profusely and
u-»ii nrnmrvtlv call von ’a liar
similarly Tat burelars would never
Similarly, cat burglars would ne
think of shinning up a drainpipe to the
fourth floor without holding a brick in
one hand and a hunk of concrete in the
other. Not only are both essential if a
latch has to be slipped—l myself always
keep a large concrete slab secreted on the
front verandah in case I ever get locked
out —but constant wondering as they
make the perilous ascent what would
happen if their elbows gave way leads
to their shivering with fright, a form of
exercise which rapidly sends a glow
through them.
Yet another method of keeping warm
with these housebreaking instruments is
to press the brick hard against the torso
and the concrete against the small of the
back and use them for massaging. A
better degree of warmth will be obtained
if the brick is badly chipped and the
concrete has sharp metal screenings
sticking out of it here and there.
Perhaps the most effective modus
operandi is to place the paper bag on
the head and the brick on the concrete
and throw the two latter articles high
above the head. You mightn’t exactly get
warm, but for some time you will be
quite unaware of the cold, and the bag
will lessen the severity of the collision —
slightly.
80.
Little White Lies.
“A man won an annulment of his marriage
because his ‘mail-order’ bride was 20 years older
than she had said.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
A girl who is compelled to try
Her luck with Cupid through the press
Is always likely to suppress
A bit of Anno Domini; '
The catch, once landed, might ignore
An understated year or so ...
But there was one discerning beau
Who couldn’t overlook a score.
Then, from the stricken field of love
With bruised and battered heart arising,
Helped by a shrewd judicial shove.
It would not be at all surprising
If he became enamored of
The motto “Truth in Advertising.”
P. M. LUSK.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TTuT^ulleixvt-
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are; — v
13 months £l4 0
6 „ 13 6
3 „ 10
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
13 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
3„V 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands—3 months .. ..£l9O
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed hrst is paid
4£d. per line; ail others 2£d. per line.
R.A .A.F. Promotions
With the return of large numbers of
Australian airmen from England it should
be realised that Australia owes to these
men. who have won for the R.A.A.F. a
reputation second to none, a tremendous
debt which can only partly be repaid, and
that not in flowery speeches, but by
doing something practical to help these
men to find their place in the country
they have served so well.
Those who wish to remain in the
R.A.A.F. should be given No. 1 priority
for commands and positions.
After World War I, when there seemed
little or no future in the Air Force, most
returned airmen got out of the service
as soon as possible. Their records of
achievements, including the founding,
organising and running of most of our
civil airlines, show what a strength they
would have been to the Air Force. Things
are different now. Australia just cannot
let her proven best airmen be lost to the
service.
Many officers in the administrative and
special duties mustering of the R.A.A.F.
in Australia today had only to qualify
from an administrative school of a few
weeks’ duration to hold their present
positions. There is surely no reason why
returned men should not now have a
prior claim to qualify for these positions,
should they want to continue to serve in
these branches.
The air, more than any other, is a
young man’s service, with aircraft, tactics
and procedure continually changing.
Surely this dictates progressive changes
in personnel, from the highest rankings
downwards, so that the R.A.A.F. of the
future will have as its directing force
men with war experience.—X.A.F.C.
(N.S.W.).
A.I.F. Equipment
Apparently I misinterpreted the re-
marks of J. G. Gunner (B. 13/6/’45) on
the Owen, but it did not occur to me
that he would bother about correcting a
Senator as to comparative weights of
such arms. Having seen two Parliamen-
tarians point to a 25-pounder and ask if
it was a Bren gun, I haven’t much respect
for their opinions on such subjects.
“J.G.G.’s” implication that a carbine
is a substitute for a tommy is absurd—
they are two entirely different weapons.
The carbine is light, with a fair rate of
fire and an effective range .of 200/300
yards. The tommy has a terrific stop-
ping power, very high rate of fire and a
short range.
“J.G.G.” has picked out isolated items
with which to support his case. As I said
before, the 25-pounder is a far better gun
than its counterpart, the 105 mm. From
these guns we have far less “blinds” than
do those who use the 105 mm. Our
grenades have better splinter and blast
effect than the American. To prove this,
I have seen an American, whose grenade,
hanging on his‘ belt, exploded. It blew
a hole in his anatomy, but he lived.
Compare that with the killing power
of our grenades. The British ser-
vice rifle is superior to* the Springfield
in range and accuracy. I reiterate that
the Owen is superior to the tommy, not
in stopping power, but in simplicity, re-
liability and weight of ammo.
I am fully aware of the Yank souvenir
complex, but what I did not say, when
mentioning the offer of exchanging a .45
Colt for my .455 Webley, was that the
Americans expressed the opinion that my
weapon was the better and that supply
of ammo, was part of the contract.
Granted that the Yanks have better
equipment than we have in some cases,
it is still true that in many respects our
equipment is better than theirs. In my
opinion our superiority is in the things
that matter. —1940 Sucker (A.1.F.).
Unification of Gauges
On July 14, 1883, rail communication
was established between Sydney and
Melbourne by the opening of the railway
bridge over the Murray at Wodonga.
During 1887 Melbourne was linked by
rail to Adelaide via Serviceton, and on
May 1, 1889, with the completion of the
Hawkesbury River bridge, direct rail com-
munication was established between Bris-
bane and Adelaide.
Since then numerous conferences be-
tween the several Railway Commissioners
and Premiers of States have been con-
vened for the purpose of discussing uni-
fication. This question is still being dis-
cussed. In February, 1911, a conference
of officers of Commonwealth and State
Governments was held in Melbourne
under the presidency of the Minister for
Defence to consider matters of defence
as affected by facilities for transport.
The council recommended the adoption
of a uniform gauge of 4ft. B|in. on the
line linking Brisbane and Adelaide.
Thirty-four years later we still have
(Commonwealth- and State-controlled)
7323 miles of 4ft.' Byin. gauge, 13,658
miles of 3ft. 6in. gauge and 6118 miles
of sft. 3in. gauge, with which to concen-
trate rolling stock for the transport of
men and material in the event of a sea-
board invasion.
We still, at times of periodic or ab-
normal activity, suffer from lack of roll-
ing stock. By adopting one overall gauge
we could at any time call upon idle roll-
ing stock from other States.
The time is surely past when differ-
ences of local and State policy should
be permitted to delay a work so essen-
tial to national development and security.
—John V. (Vic.).
Forgotten North Queensland
That part of the Clapp report which is
against extending standardisation of rail-
way gauges north of Townsville calls for
comment. If standardisation is not
meant for all Australia —and North
Queensland is an important part of it —
it would be far better to forget the whole
scheme. Rail unification is supposed to
be for defence. How can there by any
“ What'll I Write me occupation down , warder?”
sound strategy in depriving North
Queensland of swift communication with
the south?
There is also the point of production.
North Queensland contains rich agricul-
tural, mining, dairying and stock-raising
country, but without easy communica-
tion with Brisbane and Sydney markets
its industries are doomed. Even under
existing conditions the north is Queens-
land’s Cinderella district. It is already
being put out of the minds of post-war
reconstruction officials as non-existent.
In the words of Acting-Premier Hanlon
—“there is nothing in North Queens-
land.” No, there is nothing if he, and
others like him, purposely forget that it
contains roughly 250,000 square miles of
excellent country, peopled by almost
300,000 loyal, virile Australians.
How would the southern capitals fare
without North Queensland meat, butter,
sugar and other agricultural products,
mining of essential metal§, timber-getting
and a dozen other useful activities?
It will be surprising if the “New
State for North Queensland” movement
does not get an overwhelming number of
supporters. —Gip (N.Q.).
Power From the Sun
Scientists in Europe have driven large
power plants by concentrated rays of the
sun. Using powerful concave mirrors
they focussed the sun’s heat upon large
boilers and produced a good head of
steam, with the water heated to several
hundred degrees above boiling point.
What about a few extensive plants on
these lines somewhere in places like the
“Back o’ Bourke,” where the sun is so
much stronger than in most places in
Europe? Couldn’t we, then, with a sigh
of relief, close up our disagreeable and
unsatisfactory coal industry?—G. A. B.
(N.S.W.).
Australian Books
Will Lawson’s scoring of a few de-
bating society points on my statement
that while Australian fiction mostly
gathers dust on library shelves pure narra-
tive receives a very good hearing won’t
go far towards building up fiction writers’
bank accounts.
The fact is that most Australian fiction
is dull. I subscribe to a library which
carries practically every Australian book
of* the last 15 years. Except for the
narrative class they seldom leave the
shelves. My opinion on this is that since
most Australian writers have graduated
through The Bulletin they are over-
shadowed in their#attempts to write popu-
lar fiction by fear of the Red Page, They
simply are afraid to let themselves go.
Having followed The Bulletin for
nearly 50 years I have long realised that
in its fiction pages ,it appeals only to a
limited audience. An intelligent audience
certainly, but not bulky enough to pro-
vide a profitable market tor fiction
written to The Bulletin formula. This
was shown when The Bulletin itself
entered the publishing business.
If any Australian fiction-writer hopes
to make even a living wage he should
devote himself to the writing of popular
stuff—build up an Australian Wild West;
roaring blood-and-guts stuff about the
mines. Flimflab about publicans, poli-
ticians and hard-up cockies merely repels
the possible reader, —W. C. C. (W.A.),
Answers to Correspondents
“X.Y.: If you are less than eight years old
it may be worth your while to persevere
Y.Z.: Sentiments understandable, article un-
touchable.”
Remarks like that often appear in The
Bulletin’s “Answers to Correspondents”
column. To a sensitive person such semi-
public castigation would be almost un-
bearable, and it is hard to see what useful
purpose is served by unsympathetic jibes
at the expense of diffident beginners.
Everyone has to learn his trade, and the
job of learning is not made easier by
having mistakes held up to ridicule.
Admittedly a newspaper is run as a
business and not as a training-ground for
raw recruits. Admittedly space is more
valuable than ever in these days of ration-
ing. Admittedly staff cannot be employed
especially to provide free courses of in-
struction. Still, a newspaper such as The
Bulletin needs writers almost as much
as it needs readers, and for that reason,
at least, should encourage new writers.
It is plainly foolish to kill a goose until
one is quite sure none of its eggs will be
golden.
The Bulletin manages to cram a lot
of useful—and usable —advice into the
small space allowed for its “Answers to
Correspondents.” If the writers of these
pertinent criticisms could be allowed a
little more space, and told that their job
is to build up a reserve of continually im-
proving writers, they could do a great
seivice, not only to their own paper and
its contributors, but to the whole com-
munity. To write well one must think
clearly, and as more people learn to write
better the nation will contain a larger
percentage of clear thinkers. Then editors’
jobs will be a lot easier, because the
standard of writing will improve.— Sarge
(A.1.F.).
Cricket and Cartoons
Recently a Great Daily, old enough
to know better, published a cartoon re-
ferring to the resumption of Test cricket.
A sneering kangaroo was reminding an
old lion of the time when “my old man
licked your old man.” That spirit is
definitely not cricket.
Soon afterwards a Bulletin cartoon
depicted Roo and Leo going out arm in
arm to play in the rea.l cricket atmosphere.
That’s as it should be.
There is no call for nastiness towards
Leo. He is doing his bit and helping
us do ours like a good friend.
Men of old Leo’s breed lived and
fought and died beside me on Gallipoli
and in France and I resent mean-mindec
slaps at them. We sadly need some o;
their spirit here. — An Anzac (N.S.W.).
Pise as Building Material
I see that C.S.I.R. is investigating th
use of rammed earth for the constructio
of homes in inland areas where the cos
of other materials is heavy. An office
of the Council reports that rammed eart
has been used from the earliest tipies fo
the walls of houses and other buildings
I’ll say it has, and there is no need fo
research. I can show the Council no
only houses of rammed earth built in th
early days and still standing, but house
erected only a few years ago, which
helped to build myself, and which I wil
back against any modern type of building
for durability and appearance, as well a
suitability to the Australian climate.
One of the leaders of the Hume anc
Hovell expedition looked down from the
mountain on to the plain on which Mel
bourne stands and noted in his diary
that the soil was, “eminently suited for
the erection of pise (rammed earth;
houses,” “and that he expected that tha
was the material the first settlers woulc
use. Many of them did so, and there ar
relics of their work still scattered about
the State.
Thirty years ago an architect revived
the method in the Riverina, and many
handsome station houses are built of earth
composed of sand, clay and coarse aggre-
gate. Many Roman houses exist buill
of the material, and some of the finest
chateaux of France are made of earth.
As the research officer says, earth
houses are cheaper by half than brick.
If there is any need of research it is into
how the job can be organised so that the
houses can be expeditiously built. —
Homer (Vic.).
“The Kids” and Their Elders
Do “most ’teen-age Australians have
a more comprehensive knowledge of poli-
tics and social justice than the average
adult” (B. 16/5/’45), or is it only that
they are more vocal, with the hardihood
of inexperience?
True, the older generation may not
have youth’s “sensitiveness,” but this
sensitiveness seems so often to be merely
distaste for advice or criticism. As for
idealism, a good many of the older people
had enough of it to risk their lives in
the last war, and too much of it when it
came to a choice between the idealism
of Wilson and the realism of Clemenceau
afterwards. Even when Hitler and Musso
started talking big they retained enough
idealistic faith in reason to believe that
no nation would be foolish enough to
provoke another great war.
Add to this the experiences of this war,
with “friends” as well as enemies, and is
it much wonder that the older folk are
a little cynical about people’s inherent
goodness, reasonableness, “sensitiveness”
and “idealism”?
Certainly none of our older genera-
tion can feel particularly proud of the
world they helped fashion between wars,
but at least they did keep the British
Empire a place which they and their
children thought still worth fighting for.
I wonder whether the same will be true
in another 20 years if some of the sensi-
tive, idealistic young minds of today get
their chance to create their planned and
regimented “better world.”? —R. A. I.
(S.A.). _
Discouraging Thrift
There was a time when thrift was re-
garded as a virtue. Now the squanderer,
the spendthrift and the wastrel are in
their element, and the frugal self-respect-
ing citizen is regarded as an enemy. Yet
thrift, more than any other virtue, has
helped to build up our nation.
The decline is clearly traceable from
the advent of the “Labor” Government,
dispensing pensions, doles and endow-
ments on a platter. These “hand-outs”
are sapping the self-reliance of the people.
The pioneering spirit of our forefathers
is only fiction to the present generation.
In the post-war years thrift will be
essential to make good the wastage of
war. Warnings on our carnival attitude
have fallen on deaf ears. The fate that
befell the Prodigal Son will surely be ours
unless the lesson is heeded. What we
have to learn, read, mark and inwardly
digest is we can’t have our cake and eat
it too. — Madalyn (S.A.).


tf' n
m
m
nr A
UrL
8S
£
■
lllMfikisi
VttAtii
It)
0
m
M
UNDER COVER NOW.
The enormous quantity and types of wireless equipment designed and
manufactured by A.W.A. for the fighting services of the Allies of course
cannot be stated. It is, in effect, “under cover.”
However, when security restrictions are lifted, there will be revealed a
remarkable story of how A.W.A. built up its peacetime organisation to war-
time proportions and met the insistent and pressing needs of the services
for wireless equipment of every type.
Time was an essential factor speedy deliveries to the forces a vital
necessity. Scientific research workers and experienced wireless engineers
concentrated by day and night on production. Their one and only objective
was increased production, and yet more production, in the speediest possible
time.
This was achieved peak production reached, and a flow of progress
deliveries made to the Navy, Army and Air Forces of the Allied Nations.
With the coming of peace . . . A.W.A. will enter the electronic age with an
unrivalled record in the Australian wireless industry.
Definitely the post-war Radiola will gain by the increased technical skill of
A.W.A. scientists and engineers developed in wartime production. It will
be an instrument of entertainment worthy of the famous trade mark of
Radiola, renowned throughout the Commonwealth. •
#
RAD I OLA
Australia’s Finest Broadcast Receiver
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’SIA) LID.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
