

GRAPE
AR
The House of Sep pelts reminds you tc
DO YOUR SHARE BUY VICTORY BONDS
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3394
Wednesday, February 28, 194 S
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.,
The Bulletin
Seppelts
FAMOUS BIRTHPLACE OF WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, STRATFORD-ON-AVON.
NOT only was Shakespeare born at Stratford-on-Avon, but he
lived here for the greater part of his life; at Stratford he
spent his last years, and at Stratford he died. Alter he had let
the town and made for himself an unrivalled fame in London
he came back in middle age to his home town and settled down
among the burghers and yeomen with whom he had been to school,
just as if London, the Globe Theatre, the Court, the plays ana
the sonnets had never been. In the words of E. K. Chalmers:
And when with stately brow and friendly tread
He sought the little streets of Stratford town
That knew his dreams and soon must hold him dead
I like to think how Shakespeare pruned his rose
And ate his pippin in his orchard close.
The reputed birthplace of Shakespeate, in Henley Street, contains
a number of interesting Shakespearean relics. _ The grave and
monument of Shakespeare are in Stratford’s fine crucitoim
fourteenth-century church at Holy Trinity, and beside his grave is
that of Anne Hathaway, Stratford’s magnificent fourteen-arch
bridge is another feature of the town, as also is a well-
preserved old house which belonged to the father-in-law of John
Harvard, one of the founders of Harvard University.


tiui
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney ‘‘Bulletin/’ f
My Name
My Addrets
S.B. 245 AGE
The Red Page
CHAMPION OF THE ARTS.
It was said of Wellington in the Peninsula
that in moments of doubt and anxiety the sight
of his nose was worth ten thousand men. Scott',
too, had a lion’s heart. He has encouragement
in his voice and presence. He stirs the heart
like a trumpet.
One might have expected W. Macneile
Dixon thus to respond to Walter Scott.
The great man had his faults, certainly:
his impossible heroes and heroines, his
slovenly construction, his occasional
lapses—especially in his poetry—into
theatricality. But also he had tremendous
virtues; and the greatest of these, his
love for the heroic in man, is a quality
sadly lacking in contemporary literature.
As Macneile Dixon perceives.
“Our century,” he says in a striking
phrase in An Apology for the Arts
(Edward Arnold ; Angus and Robertson)
—“Our century ponders, like Hamlet with
.the skull in his hand.” Despite all the
achievements of science, “disappointment
with life, aversion from life, even hatred
of it are plainly written in the books of
our times.”
. What, then, has happened? To say all
m a word, Scott was a Romantic and a
hero-worshipper, and we have ceased to
be Romantics and hero-worshippers. He
was a poet. We have lost faith in poets,
and transferred our allegiance from poetry
to science.
He looked out upon the great panorama
of human life with unconcealed delight:
we regard it with anxiety and misgiving.
He was quick to love, to believe, to admire.
We are sceptical and critical, quick to
doubt, to decry and to defame.
He came before Darwin and Freud, and
was persuaded of man’s kinship with the
angels. We are persuaded of his much
closer kinship with the animals.
He thought nobly of the soul. “The
soul?” _we ask. “What is that?” Honor
and chivalry were for him words of pro-
found depth and meaning. Words such as
these occur but seldom in the vocabulary
of modern authors. They have dropped out
of use.
He praised glory and patriotism. With us
glory and patriotism are both under sus-
picion." He had a passion for valiant deeds.
“I, Walter Scott, of Abbotsford, a poor
scholar, no soldier, but a soldier’s lover,”
he called himself. He never doubted that
death in his country’s cause was the
noblest a man could die. “Never let me
hear that brave blood has been shed in
vain,” he cried, “it sends an imperious
challenge down through all the generations.”
We speak of wars and battles with loath-
ing, and declare the lives they take as wholly
thrown away, as madly wasted. One might
have imagined that at least the magnificent
heroism, the fortitude, the self-sacrifice dis-
played by men of all nations in the late
war would have inspired modern writers.
Not so, they have no eyes for them, do
not rejoice in them or praise them, but are
plunged in the deepest dejection.
Such generalisations can never be
wholly true. The novels of Conrad and
the poetry of Yeats—proud, aristocratic,
seeking always to dignify man and at the
last to make him gay—would have to be
admitted as honorable exceptions ; and
even among the most recent writers,
among the generation of weeping poets,
Oecil Day Lewis has always been at-
tracted towards the heroic. Macneile
Dixon has the one failing—common to
all elderly observers since Adam’s hair
turned grey—of imagining that the entire
youth of the world is going to the dogs.
Also, it might be argued that the gloom
of modern writing is no more than a
fashion ; which will pass as all fashions
pass. One that is gone already, if Law-
son Glassop’s We Were the Rats and the
general movement towards gaiety and
courage in Australian and New Zealand
writing can be taken as indications. Glas-
sop evaded no tragic fact of war ; but he
was certainly not plunged in dejection ;
he did rejoice over the heroism, the forti-
tude, the self-sacrifice of the A.1.F.; and
Scott would have liked his novel.
Nevertheless, Macneile Dixon’s gener-
alisations are true enough, and far too
true. “Our century ponders, like Hamlet
with the skull in his hand” might have
been written expressly of the surrealist
movements in poetry and painting that
seem to be making some headway in Aus-
tralia while the men are away at the war.
And stories, plays or poems about Aus-
tralian soldiers are still more often than
not merely dismal. It is true enough, as
Macneile Dixon says, that:
Ihe world today is full of clever writers,
immensely cleverer than Scott. He was not,
thank God, a clever writer. He has no
witticisms. Yet not a man of them, for
all their glitter, can bend as he bent the
great bow, the bow of Ulysses. When I
ponder it I cannot avoid the conviction
that it is not so much talent as the great
soul that makes the great writer.
“It is the great soul that makes, the great
writer.” That is the core of Macneile
Dixon’s thought: and he thinks better
about the arts, in the present commen-
tator’s opinion, than any other contem-
porary critic. He is a man and a brother
in the way that T. S. Eliot, that eminent
icicle, has never been. He stands with
Llewelyn and John Cowper Powys as a
worshipper of life in literature and,
though lacking something of their force
and builds a stronger and more
complete 'fhclh' Llewelyn .andA.more
coherent c|ne than his brother. Reading
him, one remembers Hazlitt and Matthew
Arnold. ?
An Apology for the Arts repeals to
some extent, and in a slighter way, the
arguments' put forward in Macneile
Dixon’s Memorable The Human Situa-
tion. Bu| readers familiar with Ms line
of thought , will find plenty of fresh in-
terest in his application "of-dL iQ«,.4pch
figures as Scott, Wordsworth, Tolstoi*
Thomas Campbell and Chatterton —Ol
each of whom he submits essays—and in
his chapters on “English and Scottish Bal-
lads” and “The Romantic Revival.” It
says enough for his critical acumen to
record that he has unearthed from the
vast morasses and mountain ranges of
Wordsworth (“The greatest enemy of
materialism”) a verse as lovely as:
The stars of midnight shall be dear
To her; and she shall lean her ear
In many a secret place
Where rivulets dance their wayward round,
And beauty bom of murmuring sound
Shall pass into her face.
His appreciation of the ballad—and
the same sort of revealing contrast could
be found by placing passages of “Banjo”
Paterson beside the more pretentious
verse of his period—is indicated by the
comparison of one of Pope’s “most ad-
mired epigrams”:
’Tis from high life high characters are drawn:
A saint in crepe is twice a saint in lawn —
with “the antique vigor of the ballad”;
The King sits in Dumfermline town
Drinking the bluid-red wine.
Macneile Dixon is thoroughly consis-
tent in his point of view—that is one of
the great pleasures in reading him. He
knows his subjects, but all professors
know their subjects: this man also knows
his own mind. He is for Scott and against
the sad little men with the skulls in their
hands. He is for Wellington’s nose and
against Salvador Dali’s liver. He can
say with Browning,
Aeschylus’ bronze-throat, eagle-bark for blood
Has somewhat spoilt my taste for twitterings.
He is for the king and his blood-red wine
and against Pope and his epigrams. He
is, in short, as he is proud to admit, for
the Romantic and against wdiat is mis-
called the Classic:
If we would sum up our infpressions we
may think of the Romantic Revival as the
revolt of the natural man against the arti-
ficial, the revolt of the imagination and the
feelings against the insolent domination of
the intelligence in the literature of England
from Dryden to Dr. Johnson.
And why—after paying due tribute to
their measure of technical skill—should
he be against Pope and Dryden and the
rumbling platitudes of Johnson? Why
should he take his stand with Keats and
Shelley and Byron and Wordsworth ; with
Browning and Shakspeare and those re-
markably unclassical classics Aeschylus
and Euripides? The test, again, is great-
ness of soul; natural man as against arti-
ficial, living art against the mechanical
exercise of a faculty.
Dryden and Pope and Johnson exhibit the
qualities of simplicity, repose, precision,
and these have been named as classic
qualities. But they attain them by limiting
the scope of their undertakings. They are
simple because they deal only with the
familiar facts of life; calm, because they
have never known what it is to be pro-
foundly moved; precise, because they
merely repeat in terser phrase "the current
opinions of the time. Simplicity, repose,
precision are only admirable and precious,
are only classic, when threatened by, im-
aginative wealth, emotional fervor, intellec-
tual profundity. But the poets of the
Augustan age were in perfect security from
these splendid dangers.
The greatest art, Macneile Dixon be-
lieves, is that which deals in “splendid
dangers.” Not squalid dangers, petty
dangers, miserable dangers; but “splen-
did” dangers. And that is because life
itself, of which art is more than the
mirror—the secret meaning manifest—is
both dangerous and splendid: “We are
taking part in cosmic affairs, of a magni-
tude beyond all imagination to compass
or language to express.”
When you enter the temple of the arts
you enter a building dedicated to the
Muses, and the soul is there disturbed by a
sense of how great and terrible, how
strange and beautiful is this universe of
ours. Make human life as trivial as you
please, there remains the simple, positive,
undeniable fact among the other facts—
the eating and drinking, walking and talk-
■ ing—that we are taking part in cosmic
affairs, of a magnitude beyond all imagina-
tion to compass or language to express. All
finite things have their roots in the infinite
and if you wish to understand life at all you
cannot tear it out of its context. And that
context, astounding even to bodily eyes,
• is the heaven of stars and the incredible
procession of the great galaxies.
The artist, then, is to attempt to com-
pass the infinite, to express the inexpres-
sible, to remind man that he is taking
part in cosmic affairs.
There is, of course, a certain danger in
this definition ; for the humorist is not
to be expected to keep his eyes on the
heavens, except in momentary glances to
remind him that it is because the butcher,
the baker, the housewife and the politi-
cian..flic possibly exiled angels that he
finds their antics so ludicrous; nor is the
poet always to be looking for spirits,
spooks- Or fairies. But of these essential
Macneile Dixon is well
aware.
The rirtist, he says, is to show that
while fimnly on the earth, “eating, drink-
ing; Milking and talking,” man is taking
part in cosmic affairs. To show, in effect,
•-that -Wellington’s nose, fixed to his face
though it is, extends miraculously among
the stars.
This is the sense in which Macneile
Dixon finds the arts divine, “essentially
religious.” And man, he declares, knows
in his heart that the arts are of the most
profound religious significance to him.
In all of them —poetry, painting, music,
sculpture—there is the mystery of rhythm
to which a man’s whole being surrenders
as his mind does when listening to a
tune: rhythm that “illuminates the world
in the passage of light, controls the winds
and the waves, all the organic processes
of our bodies, the sleeping and waking,
the pulsing of the heart and lungs,” and
moves mysteriously through the arts,
holding man spellbound ; rhythm that is
“the soul’s native tongue and needs no
learning.” When a man comes face to
face with a great work of art, he says—
It is then that suddenly the whole scene
of existence is perceived in its overwhelm-
ing immensity, its true dimensions. What
may it or may it not contain? It is then
that the values of this fleeting world are
weighed in the balance. Even the plain man
is exposed to this strange peril. He finds
an inexplicable fascination in these enig-
matic arts. He may not take them seriously.
Yet some secret sympathy, some inborn
loyalty draws him, do what he will, to
admire, to listen and to gaze.... How sur-
prising its presence, how serene the pas-
sage of that star—the love of loveliness-
through the cloudy and tempestuous heavens
of human history.
It sounds a sentimental phrase, that
“love of loveliness.” And yet, if
it is remembered that there are tragic
loveliness and gay and splendid love-
liness, it is precisely what the arts
are concerned with. Man is con-
cerned with it, in love with the sublime
and terrible loveliness of the universe and
its reflection in the fine arts, or his life
on eafth has no meaning—is l “nasty,
brutish and short.” Civilisations are con-
cerned with it, or they are not civilised.
“It is at least my own conviction that
for civilisation, in any shape or form
worthy admiration, the arts are the main
pillars or, rather, the architects and
builders,” says Macneile Dixon. “Without
them it has never arisen and cannot arise ;
without them it cannot and will not
stand.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Norman Lindsay water-colors sold at
high prices at an auction at Lawson’s,
Sydney: “Madame, My Wife” (11 x
10in.), 90gns.; “Felicities of Afternoon”
(24 x 19), 115gns.; “Afternoon Ladies”
(204 x 184), 115gns.; “The Sultan is
Indisposed” (12 x 114), 105gns. ; “The
Fountain” (19 x 16), lOOgns. A Heysen
water-color “Pastoral” brought 90gns.;
a Gruner oil, '“The White Road, Mt.
Lofty, 5.A.,” 150gns.; and two Conrad
Martens paintings —“The Old Govern-
ment House, Melbourne,” and “Flagstaff
House, Melbourne” —sold at 220gns. and
Isogns. respectively.
“C.R.”: Noel Wood, Valerie and
Yvonne Cohen and Charles Martin, who
people two islands between them on the
Great Barrier Reef near Dunk Island,
have been showing tropical landscapes
and still life at George’s, Melbourne.
Gauguin wooed his Muse in something
the same sort of isolation, but with a dif-
ference. He was interested in human
beings and portrayed them with a pas-
sionate intensity. Human interest is
almost entirely absent from the pictures
of the present quartet, which makes
for a slight monotony of subject,
contributed to by the fact that all four
paint very much alike. Some of Noe
Wood’s observations of wild weather ar
effective.
“J.RA.”: “MacKootsV’ par (Sundry
Shows 7/2/ 45) was a true report o
what happened in this town when a meet
mg decided that it was unsafe these day
to have the retiring mayor’s portrai
painted. But I think it should be known
that the Mechanics’ Institute sports a por
trait in oils of one of our civic fore
fathers by none other than Joseph
Wolmski. It was painted in 1939, and i
a recognisable portrait of a strong anc
hearty old man.
Recent gifts to Adelaide National
Gallery include some work of his studen
period from Hans Heysen, together with
a studio nude from Paris and some farm-
yard pastels, also an effective hasty im-
pression of an approaching bushfire in
his own Hills home. Daryl Lindsay has
presented a watercolor of Venice. From
the Waterhouse family, of Adelaide
comes an English collection: a seascape
by Dudley Hardy, a C. G. Lawson land-
scape and work by Marks (George)
Wimperis and Reginald Jones. The Gal-
lery has bought Adrian Feint’s “Happy
Landing,” a fantasy of flowers and sea-
shells ; and a pleasant mother-and-child
painted by Arthur March.
“F.S.”: In the exhibition of Australian
Present-day Art from N.S.W. and other
States sponsored by Melbourne “Herald”
and hung at the Town Hall the most
striking panel is the 14 by Dobell, though
there is nothing in them as telling as his
C.C.C. pictures. He appears to have
studied the technique of the old masters,
and this gives a certain richness to his
colors. Dobell likes long necks, while
Russell Drysdale likes everything long and
peoples the inland with melancholy stick-
insects. The bulk of the show *is stodgy.
Provided it was based soundly in char-
acter, the problem of a serviceman’s re-
adjustment to civil life should be a good
theme for a play. But had Maurice
Francis, in his “They Never Come
Back,” at Sydney Assembly Hall, deli-
berately set out to discredit the difficul-
ties of the returned man he could not
have made a better job of it. The over-
emphasis of gloom piled upon gloom
showed lack of observation and psycho-
logical insight rather than lack of tech-
nical skill, though the play abounded in
crudities. Only the dark side was pre-
sented, the returned man’s main relief
from morosely drinking being to bury his
head in his hands and say “This is hell.”
It is.
At the talkies:
In his screen version of “Arsenic and Old
Lace” (Sydney Regent) Frank Capra has laid
greater emphasis on farce than comedy by keep-
ing the spotlight more on the harassed dramatic
critic Mortimer Brewster than on the two gentle
old maiden aunts who dispose of tired old gentle-
men and inter them in the cellar with reverent
ceremony. The pace is a cracker from the word
“go.” Despite the greater speed which the
screen allows and the cast of top-liners such
as Cary Grant, Edward Everett Horton and
Priscilla Lane, the Warner Bros, production,
good as it is, in no way overshadows those of
the Minerva and Royal.
“Sensations of 1945” (Empire) has some ex-
cellent specialty vaudeville turns, including one
incredible slack-rope walker and a troupe of
tumblers and jugglers; on the other hand,
Woody Hermann’s wood notes would make
anyone wild.
Hollywood’s favorite idea of a newspaper
office is that it is a madhouse run by a shriek-
ing, cursing fellow with a permanent blood-
pressure of 250, who anticipates news breaks by
intuition and the help of a beeutiful goil re-
porter. In “You Can’t Escape For Ever” (Civic)
the managing editor is demoted to a lovelorn
column and restored to the “chair” with be-
wildering rapidity, depending on how his
“hunches” work out. George Brent, a ham,
and Brenda Marshall, whose lean and hungry
look is awful to contemplate, make a bigger
mess of the thing than even the author in-
tended.
“Jupiter Laughs,” a play by A. J.
Cronin, put on by Brett Randall’s Little
Theatre at South Yarra, Melbourne, con-
cerns an obsessed young scientist who
is on The eve of a discovery more impor-
tant than penicillin. Except for an old
doctor, everybody is against the single-
minded young man, even his fiancee,
who wants him to go as a medical mis-
sionary to China. Presumably to pre-
serve the young man from this tempta-
tion —a sort of intervention by the gods
—the lady is blown up in a laboratory
explosion. Later the doctor does go
to China ; he has achieved fame but,
faithful to his Muse, chooses to investi-
gate an outbreak of cerebro-spinal
meningitis rather than stay home and
“cash in.” The strong part of the play
is the young doctor’s devotion to his
ideal. Amateurs, generally speaking, play
this sort of intelligent drama better than
professionals and David Reid, as the
young doctor, Wilma Harrison as his
fiancee, Norman Tucker as the Pecksnit-
fian superintendent, Jeanne Nash as his
wife and Loveday Hills, Dick Daniell and
Lance Nicholls did it very nicely.


'‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
100 Standard Textbooks
That have helped Australians to Responsible Jobs
’Phone your Order to M 2401
any time, day or night, or Mail
your Order on the Coupon at-
tached, quoting the Item Num-
bers of the Books you require.
Al.
A 2.
A 3.
A 4.
A 5.
A 6.
A 7.
AB.
A 9.
AlO.
All.
Al 2.
Al 3.
Al 4.
Al 5.
Al 6.
Al 7.
AlB.
Al 9.
A2O.
A2l.
A 22.
A 23.
A 24.
A 25.
A 26.
All,
A2B.
A 29.
A3O.
A3l.
A 3 2.
A 33.
A 3 4.
A 3 5.
A 36.
A 37.
A 3 8.
A 3 9.
A4O.
A4l.
A 42.
ADMIRALTY HANDBOOK OF WIRELESS TELEG-
RAPHY (1938). Volume I —Magnetism and Elec-
tricity. (Postage sid.) 7/ “
ADMIRALTY HANDBOOK OF WIRELEM TELEG-
RAPHY (1938). Volume 2—Wireless Telegraphy
Theory. (Postage 10-id.) Jl/o
ADMIRALTY NAVIGATION MANUAL (1938).
Volume 1. (Postage I/O-].-) 10/
ADMIRALTY NAVIGATION MANUAL (1938).
Volume 2. (Postage 7-i-d.)
ADMIRALTY MANUAL OF SEAMANSHIP (1937).
Volume 1, (Postage 6-id.) ,-17 ”
ADMIRALTY MANUAL OF SEAMANSHIP (1932).
Volume 2. (Postage 5-id.) •/-
ALTERNATING CURRENTS, by Leo T. Agger, B.E.
(Postage 4-id.) 11/o
METALWORK, by H. M. Adam and J. H. Evans,
A. Mech. Eng. (Postage 7-id.) 17/6
MODERN WELDING PRACTICE, by A. D. Althousc
B. M.A., and C. H. Turnquist, B.S. (Postage
10-id.) 36/ "
PRACTICAL SHEET AND PLATE_METAL WORK, by
E. A. Atkins, M.Sc. (Postage 6-id.) 16/6
ECONOMICS: A General Textbook for Students, by
F. Benham. (Postage sid.) 16/6
THE THEORY OF MACHINES: A Textbook for
Engineering Students, by T. Bevan, M.Sc. ( Po s J-
age 11-id.) 31/ "
ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL PHYSICS, by N. H.
Black and H. N. Davis. (Postage 1/0-i) ... 20/-
ENCINEERINC SCIENCE; Vol. 1., Applied Mechan-
ics and Hydraulics, by H. B. Brown, B.Se., and
A. J. Bryant. B.Sc. (Postage 6-id.) 13/6
ENGINEERING SCIENCE: Vol. 11., Heat and Heat
Engines and Elcetroteehnies, by H. B. Brown, B.Se.,
and A. J. Bryant, B.Se. (Postage 6-i-d.) ... 14/3
BROWN’S RULE OF THE ROAD MANUAL. The
Rule of the Road at Sea Illustrated by coloured
diagrams. By W. K. Stewart, Extra Master.
(Postage 3-i-d.) 1
CONSTRUCTION AND USE OF AUTOMATIC SCREW
MACHINES. Brown & Sharp Mfg. Coy. (Post-
age 7-id.) IM-
PRACTICAL TREATISE ON MILLING AND MILL-
ING MACHINES. Brown & Sharp Mfg. Coy.
(Postage 7-id.) HZ-
PRACTICAL TREATISE ON GEARING. Brown &
Sharp Mfg. Coy. (Postage 5-id.) H/-
THE BROWN & SHARP HANDBOOK. A Guide for
Young Machinists. (Postage sid.) 8/6
MACHINE TOOL OPERATION. Part I.; The Lathe,
Bench Work and Work at the Forge. By Henpr
D. Burghardt. (Postage 6-id.) W-
MACHINE TOOL OPERATION. Part II.: Drilling.
Planing, Milling and Grinding. By H. D. Burg-
hardt. (Postage 10id.) 22/-
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE, by J.
Burke, A.F.I.A. (Postage 3d.) 5/-
THE PRACTICAL WIRELESS ENCYCLOPAEDIA, by
F. J. Camm. (Postage sid.) 13/3
ADVANCED ACCOUNTS. (Australian and New
Zealand Edition.) Edited by R. N. Carter, M.Com
F.C.A. (Postage 1/Oi) 16/6
THE ELEMENTS OF ASTRONOMY FOR SURVEYORS,
by R. W. Chapman. M.A. (Postage sid.) .. 13/6
THE PERFORMANCE AND DESIGN OF DIRECT
CURRENT MACHINES, by A, E. Clayton, D.Sc
(Postage 6id.) 29/9
AUSTRALASIAN BUSINESS PRINCIPLES, by C. M.
Collins, 8.A., J. C. McLaren, A.1.1.A., F. C. Max-
well, F.1.1.A., and W. Fenton, A.1.1.A. (Postage
7-id.) I°/6
AMERICAN MACHINIST’S HANDBOOK and Die-
tionary of Shop Terms, by F. H. Colvin and F. A.
Stanley. (Postage 10-id.) 327-
DISPENSING FOR PHARMACEUTICAL STUDENTS,
by J. W. Cooper, Ph.C, and F. J. Dyer, Ph.D.
(Postage sid.) 28/6
AN INTRODUCTION TO MONEY, by W. A. L.
Coulborn, B.Sc. (Eeon.). (Postage 6-id.) .. 13/-
A FIRST COURSE IN BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
By Cunningham and Heaver. With numerous Illus-
trations and Diagrams. (Postage sid.) .... 11/6
STEAM AND OTHER ENGINES, by J. Duncan, M.l.
Mech. E. (Postage sid.) 14/3
COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING, by W. L. Ever-
Itt, E.E., Ph.D. (Postage 1/0-i) 40/-
DESICN OF MACHINE ELEMENTS, by V. M. Faircs,
M.E. (Postage 1/li) 36/-
PLASTICS: Scientific and Technological, by H.
Ronald Fleck, *KI.Sc. (Postage 11 id.) 40/-
SHOP THEORY. Prepared by the Shop Theory De-
partment, Henry Ford Trade School, Dearborn,
Michigan. (Postage 9id.) 10/-
AUTO MECHANICS. Prepared by Instructors of
the Henry Ford Trades School. (Post., 5-id.) 7/-
PHYSICS COURSE. Prepared by Instructors of the
Henry Ford Trades School. (Postage 5-id) .. 7/
CHEMISTRY. Prepared by Instructors of the Henry
Ford Trades School. (Postage 8-id.) ...... 10/6
MECHANICAL DRAWING. Prepared b« the In-
structors of the Henry Ford Trades School. (Post-
age 10-id.) 14/
METALLURGY AND METALLOGRAPHY. Prepared
by the Instructors of the Henry Ford Trades School.
(Postage 6-id.) 8/6
A 43.
A 44.
A 45.
A 46.
A 47.
A4B.
A 49.
A5O.
A5l.
A 52.
A 53.
A 54.
A 55.
A 56.
A 57.
A5B.
A 59.
A6O.
A6l.
A 62.
A 63,
A 64.
A 65.
A 66.
A 67.
A6B.
A 69.
A7O.
A7I.
A 72.
A 73.
A 74.
A 75.
A 76.
A 77.
BACTERIOLOGY FOR MEDICAL STUDENTS AND
PRACTITIONERS, by A. D. Gardner, D.M. (Post-
age 5-id.) 14 /6
PROSPERITY AND DEPRESSION: A Theoretical
Analysis of Cvclical Movements, by C. Haberlcr.
(Postage 1/1-i) 23/
AUSTRALASIAN SHEEP AND WOOL- From paddock
to loom; from shearing shed to textile factory.
By A. Hawkesworth. F.S.T.C. (Postage lOd.) 25/-
THE RADIO ENGINEERING HANDBOOK. Prepared
by a staff of twenty-three specialists. Keith
Henney, Editor-in-Chief. (Postage l/Oi> .. 40/
FORCING PRACTICE; A Practical Treatise, by C.
C. Johnson. (Postage sid.) 12/
PRINCIPLES FOR SECOND MATES, by T. C. Jones,
Extra Master. (Postage 4-id.) 15/6
KEMPE’S ENGINEER’S YEAR BOOK, 1944, A Com-
pendium of the Modern Practice of Civil, Mechani-
cal. Electrical, Gas, Marine, Mine and Metallurgi-
cal Engineering. (Postage, l/10i) 68/9
ALTERNATING CURRENT ELECTRICAL ENCI.
NEERINC, by Philip Kemp, M.Se. (P. 1/2-i). 33/3
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS’ HANDBOOK. Data for
the Design and Construction of Steel Bridges and
Buildings. By M. S. Ketchum, C.E, (Postage
1 /si) 56/-
THE GENERAL THEORY OF EMPLOYMENT, IN-
TEREST AND MONEY, by J. M. Keynes. (Post-
age 6i-d.) 13/9
NON-FERROUS FOUNDRY PRACTICE, by J. Laing,
A.M.1.8.F., and R. T. Rolfc, F.I.C. (P. 7-J-d.) 33/3
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ON THE CONSTRUC-
TION AND OPERATION OF DIESEL, SEMI-DIESEL
AND OTHER INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ETC., by J. Lamb, M. Inst.
Mar, Eng. (Postage 4id.) 17/9
ELECTRICITY APPLIED TO MARINE ENGINEER-
ING. by W. Laws, M.Se. (Postage 4-id.) .. . 13/-
PRINCIPLES OF ALTERNATING-CURRENT MA-
CHINERY, by Ralph R. Lawrence. (Postage
1/2i) 44/-
PRINCIPLES OF ALTERNATING CURRENTS, bv R.
A. Lawrence. (Postage l/Oi) 32/
PRINCIPLES OF DIRECT-CURRENT MACHINES, fay
A. S. Langsdorf, M.M.E. (Postage 1/2-J-) .. 44/
HYDRAULICS AND THE MECHANICS OF FLUIDS,
by E. H. Lewitt, B.Sc. (Postage 10-id.) ... 20/
HEAT ENGINES. Embracing the Theory, Construc-
tion and Performance, etc. By D. A. Low, M.l.
(Postage 11 id.) 30/
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS’ HANDBOOK. Edited by
L. S. Marks. (Postage l/0i) ... 56/-
AUSTRALIAN COMMERCIAL LAW AND PRIN-
CIPLES. By C. L. Mayman. (Postage sid.) 10/-
THE MODERN DIESEL. Transport, Marine, Air-
craft. (Postage 4i-d.) 9/-
CEOMETRICAL DRAWING FOR ART STUDENTS,
by I. H. Morris. (Postage 3-jd.) 5/9
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING PRACTICE, by James
Nangle. (Postage 7-id.) 25/
NORIE’S NAUTICAL TABLES. With Explanations
of Their Use. By T. W. Norie. (Post. l/2i) 39/6
SHOP MATHEMATICS, by Oberg and Jones.
(Postage 1/0-i) 30/6
THE DIESEL ENGINE, by A. Orton. (Postage
3id.) 4/3
DIESEL MAINTENANCE. Servicing the Modern
Transport Diesel. By T. H. Parkinson, A.M.I.A.E.
(Postage 2d.) 9/
SHEEP, FARM AND STATION MANAGEMENT, by
E. H. Pcarse. (Postage 9id.) 17/6
PITMAN’S SHORTHAND INSTRUCTOR. New Era
Edition. (Postage 3id.) 8/3
PITMAN’S SHORTHAND INSTRUCTOR. Third
Australian Edition. (Postage 3id.) 6/6
PULL’S WORKSHOP PRACTICE. Revised and En-
larged. By F. Johnstone Taylor. (P. Hid.) 25/9
REED’S SEAMANSHIP AND NAUTICAL KNOW-
LEDGE. Illustrated with 179 Diagrams. (Post-
age sid.) ' • 19/
REED’S PRACTICAL MATHEMATICS FOR MARINE
ENGINEERS. First and Second Class. (Postage
l/3i) 55/-
A MANUAL OF CARPENTRY AND JOINERY, by
J. W. Riley. (Postage 6id.) 12/9
STEELS FOR THE USER. Highly practical; the re-
sult of a long experience of the metallurgical in-
dustry. By R. T. Rolfe, F.I.C. (Post. 7id.) 40/-
Book Department—Second Floor.
A7B.
A 79.
ABO.
ABl.
AB2.
AB3.
AB4.
AB5.
AB6.
AB7.
ASS.
AB9.
A9O.
A9l.
A 92.
A 93.
METALLURGY FOR ENGINEERS, by E. C. Rollason.
(Postage sid.) 17/9
THE RUNNING AND MAINTENANCE OF MARINE
MACHINERY. Published by the Institute of
Marine Engineers. (Postage 6id.) 14/6
COMPETITIVE DESIGN OF STEEL STRUCTURES, by
P. Russell. M.C., and C. Dowell. (P. l/3i) 41/3
PRACTICAL ALTERNATING CURRENTS AND
ALTERNATING CURRENT TESTING, by C. F.
Smith. (Postage 10-id.) 21/9
INTERMEDIATE ACCOUNTANCY, by E. B. Smyth,
A.F.1.A., and J. P. Glasheen, Dip. Eeon. (Postage
sid.) * I*/ 6
ANALYTICAL CONICS, by D. M. Y. Sommerville,
M.A. (Postage sid.) 30/-
MARINE DIESEL OIL ENGINES. A Manual of
Marine Oil Engine Practice. By J. W. M. Sothcrn,
M.I.E.S. (Two volumes.) (Postage l/10i set.)
Price per set £5/13/9
INORGANIC AND THEORETICAL CHEMISTRY, by
F. Sherwood Taylor, Ph.D. (Postage 1 27/
THE OUTLINE OF WIRELESS FOR THE MAN IN
THE STREET, by R. Stranger. (Postage 7-id.) 17/6
LECTURES ON PREVENTIVE MEDICINE, by Harvey
Sutton. (Postage 27/6
MERCURY ARCS, by F. J. Teago, D.Se., and J. F.
Gill, M.Sc. (Postage 3-id.) 5/6
DISEASES OF WOMEN, by Ten Teachers. (Post-
age Hid.) 31/-
TOD AND MacCIBBON’S ELEMENTARY QUES-
TIONS IN ENGINEERING KNOWLEDGE FOR
MARINE ENGINEERS. Steam and Motor. By A.
Martin and H, Barr. (Postage 9id.) 25/-
PRACTICAL MATHEMATICS, by L. Toft, M.Sc.,
and A. McKay, M.A. (Postage 10-id.) 24/6
STATION BOOK-KEEPING. For Pastoralists and
Farmers. By F. E. Vigars, F.C.P.A. (Post. 7-i-d.) 21/-
AN OUTLINE OF AUSTRALIAN ECONOMICS, by
E. R. Walker and R. B. Madgwick. (Post. sid.) 5/-
Speclal Books for
Women Students
A 94.
A 95.
A 96.
A 97.
A9B.
A 99.
AlOO.
BAILLIERE’S NURSES’ COMPLETE MEDICAL DIC-
TIONARY. Revised by M. E. Hitch. Pocket size.
(Postage Sid) 5/-
MIDWIFERY FOR NURSES, by A. W. Bourne, M.A.
With 111 Illustrations. (Postage sid.) ... 14/3
SURGICAL NURSING AND AFTER-TREATMENT.
A Handbook for Nurses and others. By H. C.
Rutherford Darling. (Postage 7 id.) 19/-
FURNEAUX’S HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. New Edi-
tion completely revised. Nurses’ Edition. (Post-
age sid.) 8/6
PRINCIPLES OF GARMENT CUTTING, by E. L. C.
Cough. (Postage 4id.) 10/-
CROVES AND BRICKDALE’S TEXT-BOOKS FOR
NURSES. Anatomy, Physiology, Surgery and Medi,-
cine. By E. Groves, M.D., and J. Nixon, C.M.C.
(Postage 1 /34f) 40/-
PRACTICAL NURSING, including Hygiene and Diet-
etics. By W. Pugh, M.D., and A. Pugh. (Post-
age 1/4-i) 23/9
ORDER COUPON <A)
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.,
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me the books whose numbers
I list below:
Name....
Address
Cash , £ enclosed. ) Strike cut
Charge to my account. J one.
Signed.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS 9
LOW 1' CES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Wheel in the Hawthorn
By J. H. MELVILLE.
THE wheel is still there, wired into
the hawthorn between Clouston’s
old windmill and the cutting. I saw
it again, half-hidden beneath a new
season’s foliage, as the train rattled in
along the branch line one morning last
spring. Memories of the old place—Tim
Clouston, Ezekiel, Jack the Rabbiter and
the rest —came surging back; memories
of the old days when I worked for Tim
Clouston and his sister.
I had begun to hear about the hawker
Ezekiel as soon as I came to work for
Tim, but I did not learn much from him
directly ; nor from his sister. I heard
yarns about Tim—who was considered a
bit simple—and about Ezekiel when I
went over to see Sally, the youngest of
Puddler Grigg’s girls. Sally’s mother
gathered the gossip of the countryside,
and hinted at knowing of a secret sorrow
that had embittered Miss Clouston. There
were rumors, too, of Tim’s having been
involved in a scandal of some sort —
though I found it hard to picture him,
with his meekness and sing-song drawl,
his jerking head and fatuously earnest
manner, as either the hero or villain of
any kind of romance.
Puddler had something more substan-
tial. He’d been doing plumbing work on
Houston’s roof and saw Miss Clouston
comer Ezekiel among the sheds and flail
into him with the yard broom until her
hysterical collapse had allowed the old
hawker to bolt, yelling and bleeding, for
the refuge of his caravan. Puddler was
an excitable little man, and used to act
the incident in a histrionic masterpiece
that started among the cupboards in the
scullery and finished at the front door.
“I sold her nothing; she’s a mad
woman!” was said to have been Ezekiel’s
retort when roguery was suggested as the
motive for Miss Clouston’s onslaught.
Anyway, he never came near the house
again. The few times his ramshackle
outfit had creaked past me on the road
I’d spoken no more than a dozen words
to him.
THEN one morning, when Tim sent me
to spread gravel on a roadside gate-
way before the cows were let out, I saw
Ezekiel’s black caravan emerging from
McQuilkan’s Bush, a belt of pines fring-
ing the quarry and providing shelter
where he often camped overnight.
He walked his horse along and hailed
me as he approached. “You’re just the
laddie I’ve got to see.”
As he turned into the gateway he drew
his knees up into his paunch, pawing out
for a foothold and dragging his trousers
skin-tight over his thin legs while he eased
himself out. The hat he wore had faded
into the same greenish hue as his long
coat. He had deep-set eyes. He slid
down to the road beside me and stretched
himself. The mustiness of damp hay
came off him.
“This frost’s a cruel, cruel thing when
you’re old,” he whined.
We talked of the weather for a while,
and then he showed me the picture of
a girl. She was a beauty.
“My daughter Mildred,” he explained.
“And it’s a favor for her I’ve got to ask
of you.”
I asked him what he was getting at,
and he said that his daughter was always
keen to hear news of his rounds when
he got back home. “And she’s been hear-
ing things about you.” He winked a
sticky-looking eyelid at me. “Eighteen,
she is, too ; just about your own age.”
The description of me with which he
claimed to have charmed his daughter
outdid even the fantasy that Tim offered
me later as a reference —drafted in the
hazy, maudlin depths of a farewell tangi
and destroyed when he sobered up.
“ ‘Father,’ my little Mildred says to
me, ‘take my camera and ask him if he’ll
please let me have his photo.’ ”
The girl in the picture was the kind that
wins favors from a flying start. I posed
against the gate, with the homestead in
the background, and he took my photo.
Self-assured with conceit, I asked about
Mildred. He was eager to oblige, and
pictured her bustling round singing
merrily as she brightened the month or
two of life that was left to a wealthy,
doting aunt whom she tended in sick-
ness. She was discontented with city life
and had few friends, her demands being
so idealistic as to eliminate all but one
or two of the many offering. He touched
on the qualities she sought in friendship.
Then he credited them to me.
We laughed together over his poor
guess at my height and chest measure-
ment.
“I hope she likes the photo.,” I said.
He promised to bring a message from
his daughter on his trip, and at his request
I agreed to say nothing in the meantime
about her interest in me ; there was her
good name to be considered, he explained.
He climbed back into his caravan and
waved me good-bye as he drove away.
He had turned off up the top road
before Tim came sauntering along behind
the cows. They scrunched in over the
new gravel. Tim hung over the gate,
gazing across to the swamp paddock.
Behind a line of poplars Ezekiel’s cara-
-van crawled up the hill.
Tim commented gloomily on rain
clouds banking up. “It’s a dreary hole
in winter, all right,” he said. “A man
might be better out of the game alto-
gether.”
That morning I’d heard Miss Clouston
sneezing from down at the byre, and it
was a pretty safe bet that Tim was suf-
fering another bout of her hay-fever.
She’d be pestering him again to sell out
and get away from the dampness of the
Flat. He didn’t say anything about it
just then, but I could see that it bothered
him.
Myself, I was deep in a dream about
Mildred, and Tim’s troubles meant about
as much to me as my previous devotion
to the rough-and-tumble Sally Griggs—l
put her out of my mind and stayed home
at nights and thought about Mildred.
“WOU’RE well?” Ezekiel asked, ap-
-1 praising me keenly when next we
met.
“Yes.”
“That’ll be dandy news to take back
to my Mildred.”
He was in a morbid mood. His horse
had a bad leg, and one of his best cus-
tomers had died. From the mournful
account he gave of his travels it seemed
that his horse, handicapped as it was,
had just been managing to keep him and
his caravan ahead of advancing plague.
“A present from my little girl,” he
explained, and gave me a parcel.
There was a first-aid kit and a bulky
textbook on anatomy. Also a note,
couched affectionately, expressing con-
cern for my health and her own pleasure
at getting my picture. She wrote that
her father had agreed to let me have her
gift at cost price.
Ezekiel said he had been ordered not
to influence me in any way. He pointed
out an inscription inside the cover of the
book. “But she’d be heartbroken if you
was to refuse her little present.”
Even cost price, I supposed, would be
high for a book that size. He waited
while I dodged up to my hut with the
parcel and brought back payment. Before
he drove away he insisted again on our
relationship being kept secret, observing
piously that when the time came he’d be
proud to make it known.
A few scratches that had already healed
to a disappointing extent offered the only
excuse to use Mildred’s outfit that night.
There could be no recovery to
vindicate her regard. The book was heavy
going. Its illustrations were old-
fashioned, and some of the pages were
gummed together with mildew. But it
was Mildred’s choice.
FROM the dairy, the washhouse and
amongst the lilacs in the front garden,
sneezes resounded that early spring like
the shrieks of a haunted owl. Tim put
the place on the market as a going con-
cern, and agents and buyers called and
went away baffled by his own indiffer-
ence and his sister’s quaint sense of
values.
One night, while I was laboring over
Mildred’s book, there came the sound
of tapping from above my bunk. I looked
up and saw Ezekiel peering through the
back window of my hut. He beckoned
me out.
“It’s your message boy here again,”
he whispered to me outside, and gave a
low chuckle as if afraid his voice would
carry over the garden to the house.
With a springing tiptoe trot that gave
an odd effect in the darkness, he led the
way over a paddock to the road,
“Mildred said something about sur-
prising you,” he said, and gave me a
letter from her.
I read it under the glow of his caravan
lamp. Mildred said she expected to be
coming up with her father on his next
trip. When I told him, he complained
that she should have let him know first.
“Deceivin’ her own father, that’s what.”
After some persuasion he consented to
her coming.
Her letter mentioned, too, among other
things, that she hoped to see me wear-
ing a suit of clothes she had chosen for
me and had sent up with her father. It
had been made from measurements he
had supplied.
“I’ll get along to my bit of bush for
the night,” he yawned.
I reminded him, of the suit, and he
climbed down from his seat, reproaching
himself as a forgetful old man unworthy
of his daughter’s trust. He fumbled
round in the back of the caravan and
found my parcel. At his insistence, I
tried it on as best I could by lamplight.
The tightness across the shoulders, he
assured me, was a good fault that would
soon use up the slack of a flapping surplu;
length of sleeve. In fact, this give-and-
take adjustment was just what Mildred
had planned. And he explained that her
recommendation saved any embarrassing
reminder that no credit could be allowed
on cost-price goods: “Don’t you dare
think for one minute he’s the sort who’d
run up debts,” had been her rebuke in
my favor.
I had just enough cash in my hut to
keep faith with her.
We talked of arrangements for her
visit, and then Ezekiel wished me a cheery
good-night.
L_J APPY though I was at the thought
* 1 of meeting and pleasing Mildred, 1
still couldn’t work up much enthusiasm
for the suit’s appearance by daylight. The
material was a grey-green check.
Miss Clouston was the first to see me
wearing it. She doubled up instantly in
a fit of sneezing.
Tim came to the door. “A new rig-
out?” he asked, sounding wanly hopeful
of being contradicted.
When she had dried her eyes Miss
Clouston grabbed me by the lapels and
shouted “You bought it from that horrid
old hawker! It’s just a sack; it fits you
like a cow-cover!”
Tim asked why I’d bought it.
His sister rounder! on him then. “Why
did he buy it? Why do you think he’d
buy it?”
Their criticism nettled me. In a half-
hearted sort of protest I asked what they
had against Ezekiel,
Miss Clouston listened to me with her
lips sucked in against her teeth. “He
once deceived somebody very cruelly,”
she said, and podded at Tim as if con-
firming some arrangement.
She left us together, and Tim sat silent
on a bench for a while, staring down at
his hands.
“you didn’t know Jack the Rabbiter?”
he asked.
I replied that I’d never heard of him.
This Jack the Rabbiter, Tim told me,
had been trapping round the hills a few
years before and had fallen foul of
Ezekiel’s roguery. The old hawker had
interested him in a fictitious daughter,
using this influence craftily to get rid of
all sorts of trash at exorbitant prices by
representing it as tokens of the girl’s affec-
tion. Jack the Rabbiter had made a
downright fool of himself before he
learned that Ezekiel was a bachelor with-
out relatives of any sort in the country..
“And you don’t have to pretend that
he hasn’t been pitching you the same
tale,” Tim said to me. “The look on
your face says it plain enough.”
After what I’d heard I wasn’t in a fit
state to make denials or excuses or any-
thing else.
“He paid pretty bad for being a* mug,”
Tim went on. “So bad he never talked
about it afterwards.’
I warmed in sympathy towards
Ezekiel’s earlier victim and asked what
he’d done about it.
Tim said “I reckon he’ll have been
planning for a long time to do some-
thing. He’ll be just biding his time.”
Nothing more was said about the suit
after that. I never wore it again. Mil-
dred’s place in my mind was taken by
plans of revenge, most of them hope-
lessly boxed up by the same sense of
shame that had kept Jack the Rabbiter
quiet. Nevertheless, there was a piquant
suspense in awaiting the old hawker’s
next visit.
BUT my next sight of him was fleet-
ing and final.
Heralded by the clang of cans, and
hooves beating at a runaway rate, Calla-
ghan’s milk-cart went racing past towards
the township one morning. A man sitting
propped up in a corner swayed help-
lessly with every lurch of the cart. His
clothes were plastered with mud. His
head hung loosely, and there was blood
on his face and shirt front. It was Ezekiel.
Young Syd Callaghan yelled something
at me as he urged on his horse. “.... the
quarry . . . hell of a mess!” were the
only words I caught.
Along at the quarry I looked down
and saw the wreck of Ezekiel’s caravan
at the bottom. It had apparently re-
bounded off a ledge about halfway down.
Its black hood was flattened over the
bodywork, and a pair of shafts pointed
out from underneath like antennae. One
wheel had run on ahead and settled in
a pool of water. Two others were twisted
underneath the wreckage. Entrails of
drapery had been caught up in tufts of
gorse sprouting from the worked-out face
of the quarry, and cakes of soap lay scat-
tered around like mushrooms. Ezekiel’s
grey horse was grazing unconcernedly
among the trees of McQuilkan’s Bush.
Up in a clearing in the manuka Tim
and McQuilkan and others were noisily
discussing wheel tracks.
“How he got out of that quarry alive
is a mystery,” I heard McQuilkan de-
clare, as I went over. “There’s somebody
lucky not to be wanted for murder this
minute.”
Young Callaghan had found Ezekiel
floundering about stupidly in the road-
side ditch and bleeding badly from a
gash in his head, Tim told me. The boy
had summoned McQuilkan’s aid, and to-
gether they had got enough sense out of
the old hawker to learn that he had
unyoked his horse and put on the hand-
brake before going to sleep in his cara-
van as usual. But what happened be-
tween that time and when he was dis-
covered flopping about in the ditch, with
the hazy purpose of finding his caravan,
Ezekiel didn’t seem to know. He had
been hoisted into the cart and rushed
along to the doctor.
Ruts and shaft holes showed where
the caravan had been parked on level
ground before being manoeuvred to a
slope and allowed to run into the quarry.
Obviously it had been no accident. Some-
one said that Ezekiel doped himself to
sleep, and there was speculation about
another set of hoof marks and a scar on
a near-by pine-trunk that might—though
I thought it improbable—have been made
by a rope.
At dinner that day Miss Clouston said
that anything short of death was no less
than the old hawker deserved. Tim told
me in confidence that he wouldn’t be
surprised if Jack the Rabbiter had some-
thing to do with it.
ONLY a month or so later I was told
over at Grigg’s place that Ezekiel
had been seen up north prowling about
with a pack on his back. When Miss
Clouston heard this she said it was a pity
he hadn’t died in the quarry.
Unreasonable though it seemed. Miss
Clouston began to take a doleful view of
moving when Tim did eventually find a
buyer. She maundered over nostalgic
finals of routine. It was always the last
time this or the last time something else.
The auction was only a day or so away,
and the stone shed still remained to be
cleaned out. A bag of blood-and-bone
manure that had burst near the door kept
: Miss Clouston from coming in and pok-
ing round. She stood at the door check-
ing the junk that Tim and I unearthed
and carted out,
“It’s hardly been used,” she kept say-
ing, as the ruins of coal scuttles, churns
and beehives were added to the rest of
the rubbish piled up outside.
A shelf broke away and books came
tumbling down in a cloud of dust. Tim
moved over to them quickly and began
to rip out the fly-leaves. Reassuring him-
self that his sister was busy outside, he
showed me one. It was inscribed “To Tim
with love.” The writing was Mildred’s.
“You, too!” was all I could think to
say.
He grinned and whispered, “Jack the
Rabbiter.”
“He’s you?”
“I’m him.”
That admission of Tim’s jolted me into
an awakening. Sally Grigg’s mother and
the rest of the township’s gossips would
have given their false teeth to have learned
of its significance: the answer to all their
rumors and the quarry accident, too.
Unable to concentrate on what I was
doing, I was rebuked by Miss Clouston
for my clumsiness in assembling an
ancient bedstead. “It’s just what some-
body’ll be looking for,” she said.
It wasn’t till Tim and I were coiling
up wire in a corner of the shed that I
had the chance to say as casually as I
could manage, “I don’t suppose they’ll
ever know who dumped the old hawker
in the quarry?”
“Not unless you split on me,” he
: chuckled.
Patching the fences was one of the last
jobs we did round the place. Tim brought
fhe caravan wheel out of the quarry, and
we wired it into the hawthorn. A train
passed, and a fat boy leaning out of a
window gestured derisively at the wheel
in the hedge. Tim laughed. A strange
laugh, it was, that rose boisterously above
the clatter of the train.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3394
Wednesday, February 28, 1945
ANOTHER MOPPING-UP OPERATION,
(“Tears, idle tears, I know not what they mean.” — Tennyson .)
“Attacked by Mr. Ward during the Caucus discussions on preference, Mr. Curtin was greatly moved, and two other Ministers had tears in their eyes."
“If you don’t mind doin’ a bunk, gents., I’ll mop it up.”


ť
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
■New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE NEW LEAGUE.
With a truce declared in the political
war among the Big Three in Europe—
which is what the Yalta document, stuffed
with cynicism and humbug, amounts to
—the way is clear for the World Security
Conference to begin its deliberations at
San Francisco on Anzac Day. Australia’s
delegation to the conference has been
picked, and is to include Dr, Evatt, who
knows something about foreign affairs
and the purpose of his mission, and Mr.
Forde, whose sense of both might be
gauged from the characteristic statement
he made on his selection as a delegate.
Mr. Forde’s view of the conference is
that “very beneficial results to Australia
will accrue from the discussions and from
the opportunities of meeting representa-
tive Americans and the delegates from
so many other countries.” The confer-
ence “will enable our delegation to do a
great deal in making Australia known to
the world, and also to learn many things
of value to our own country,”
Ineffable, inimitable; yet in view of
what has happened among the Allied
coalition, with the war in Europe and
the war in the Pacific still to be won, per-
haps unconsciously prophetic. For if a
raging military war could be delayed, as
the one in Europe evidently was, in order
that political ends could be attained and
territorial ambitions realised what better
prospect is there of the same parties con-
tinuing indefinitely to work harmoniously
together when war is done with and
peace apparently prevails? Going by
this recent experience, Mr. Forde could
yet turn out to have summed up the
whole future of mankind and its hopes
of lasting peace in a mouthful of plati-
tudes signifying futility.
There were times in this war, as people
of the British Commonwealth in particu-
lar know, when it required heroic faith
and all the traditional courage of the
race to refuse to admit the possibility of
defeat and to see victory somewhere
vaguely ahead. That sort of faith on a
vastly wider scale, spread over the whole
world, is required again now. Instead
of such piffling rubbish as “making Aus-
tralia known to the world” —which will
look after itself, as it always has done,
when Australia’s deeds are big enough—
the delegates from here are going on the
huge and difficult mission of trying to
help arrange for the securing of peace,
when it comes, even beyond the “forsee-
able future.”
The San Francisco Conference is to
take up from where the Dumbarton Oaks
Conference left off. It will have before
it the Dumbarton Oaks proposals and
recommendations; its own job will be
to carry those on towards a concrete
means of preventing future war—at any
rate, as war is now known. It has the
task of furthering the forging of an in-
strument of some kind that will, first, be
approved by the peace-seeking nations
whose delegates will compose it, and,
second, will then work.
Taking the line from Dumbarton Oaks,
what will be aimed at will be an incom-
parably improved League of Nations,
with, of necessity, new powers, new
methods and a new name. Among the
changes to be considered will be the set-
ting up within the new organisation of
what Dumbarton Oaks termed a Security
Council. The idea so far is that this
should be composed of the U.S.A.,
Britain, Russia, China and France as per-
manent members, with six other members
elected by the rest of the members of
the organisation, fresh election of these
to be held every two years. On this
Council will rest the responsibility for
maintaining peace.
It will be the Council’s function “to
examine and prepare for any aggression
by anybody, to take into consideration
any circumstances which may lead to
aggression, and, if it be so desired, to
declare that aggression is threatened or
has actually taken place.” Then it would
have “the power to call on the members
of the new organisation to provide an
armed force if this is necessary to
maintain peace.” Details of how such
an armed force is to be provided are
among the almost countless and certainly
difficult points yet to be ironed out.
Another of those points, on which no
agreement was reached at Dumbarton
Oaks —rather the contrary —has to do
with how many of the Security Council
will be required to make decisions. Are
decisions to be made by majority vote or
must the voting be unanimous? So far
Russia has stood for unanimous voting,
and if that stand is maintained the dele-
gates at San Francisco might as well
start at once packing their bags, prefer-
ably with small arms for self-protection.
It would mean, as one of the staunchest
of all League supporters. Lord Cecil, has
pointed out, that “if one of the Great
Powers was itself accused of aggression
no coercive action could be taken by the
organisation without the unanimous con-
sent of the Five Powers,” Which would
be a grand arrangement for any one of
the Five that might have designs hatched
for some time hence.
Perhaps these and the other difficulties
with which the vast problem bristles will
all be overcome. If they are it will not
be by delegates spouting puerile plati-
tudes. It will be done over the dead body
of narrow nationalism, with all mutual
fears and suspicions and the causes of
them removed —and that, particularly in
view of what has only lately been happen-
ing in a coalition waging desperate war,
is asking a lot.
_ Looking at the proposals the San Fran-
cisco delegates have to begin on, and
finding them on the whole fairly good—
indeed better than the League in which
he once had so much faith —Lord Cecil
pointed to one important omission from
the Dumbarton Oaks Draft. In his view,
whatever the scheme finally decided upon
by this coming or any subsequent con-
ference, success or failure will entirely
depend upon the support it gets from
the public opinion of the world;
If you are to have*public opinion behind
you, you must inform public opinion of
what the dispute is about and what you
want the members of the association to do.
Therefore, there must be publicity... .We
must get public opinion into such a posi-
tion that, whenever a call is made upon it,
in any country, it will respond and be
ready to take action, with force if neces-
* sary, in order to suppress aggression before
it has become formidable. That means
education of the people, as well as mere
publicity. This must not only be accom-
plished by private organisations, it must
be done by Governments.
And if Governments persist in using
censorship not merely as a temporary
war-time measure—as British countries
are doing—but as a fixed instrument of
governing, what then? Well, then, accord-
ing to this authority in peace organisa-
tions and most peace-minded of men,
there will be no peace.
Altogether it would seem that, so far
from permanent peace being ensured, the
world is as yet only touching on the
fringes of it. There is more ahead of the
delegates to San Francisco than Mr.
Forde could possibly dream of. They
have the task of trying to change the
whole sorry scheme of things entire; of
giving the whole world a new direction;
of doing what, if only they can do it,
will deserve the name of a miracle. What
they have to avoid is foisting on the world
another hollow sham ; an imposition that
will be a delusion for one generation and
a shambles for the next.
Coal and "Controls."
Though it may be suggested without dis-
respect that the Duke of Gloucester will
find himself more at home among ser-
vicemen, of whom he has already seen
many in Queensland, than among poli-
ticians, he emerged from his first engage-
ment as Governor-General at Canberra
with flying colors. There was nothing
wanting on the social side, and the
Governor-General read a very long
speech very well. If in parts it awak-
ened memories of pledges made and
broken, of sins of commission and omis-
sion and of passages in the Governor-
General’s speech at the opening of Par-
liament on September 23, 1943, his Royal
Highness was, of course, in no way to
blame.
The claim was made that “Australia’s
annual expenditure on food for the ser-
vices now exceeds £100,000,000, or more
than the total Commonwealth revenue
in the pre-war year.” But not all this
money is being or will be spent in the
country, for, “unhappily, many areas of
Australia have been laid waste by
drought.”
Crops have failed, and fodder reserves
have been depleted to a dangerous level.
For the first time since 1914 the Common-
wealth is importing grain.
“Crops have not failed” everywhere.
Westralia had a pretty good season, and
its 15,000,000-bushel wheat harvest could
have been doubled, bringing it to
10,000,000 bushels below the 1939-40
figure, had the farmers been encour-
aged to “produce, produce,” instead
of being handicapped at every turn.
Farmers in Westralia and the other
wheatgrowing States were actually paid
huge sums out of the Treasury for not
growing wheat. In the first Ministerial
statement to the new Parliament it was
airily mentioned that “compensation for
compulsorily reduced wheat acreage in
i W.A. during the 1943-44 season” would
“require a further sum of £550,000.”
As for Queensland, a new farmer-
member, Mr. Adermann, pointed out
that “until the introduction of the Gov-
ernment’s policy of restricting the pro-
duction of wheat” Queensland had
“always been given the right to grow
enough to meet the requirements of its
home market.” As a consequence of the
restriction policy and of the accompany-
ing deprivations of man-power, farm
machinery, parts, tractors and fuel, it
had been found necessary to send large
quantities of southern wheat to Queens-
land, “up to 400 tons a day,” with in-
jurious results to the other policy of
“conserving transport.” A Labor mem-
ber, Mr. Langtry (Riverina), protested
that with cost of production up quite Bd.
a bushel, 4s. a bushel for the first 3000
bushels wasn’t nearly enough to speed the
plough, and “urged Mr. Scully to give
immediate consideration to payment of a
higher price.”
Mr. Scully delayed “consideration”
until the drought hit him in the eye and
he was reduced to the desperate, and in
the circumstances disgraceful, expedient
of importing. In his blithe days, when
the idea of drought never entered his
head, huge power-alcohol factories were
set up in selected districts to take care
of the “surplus” wheat. The power-
alcohol factories are not working because
(1) there is no wheat, and (2) there is no
coal. And there is no more talk of the
Commonwealth being “peculiarly fitted
to make a greater contribution to the
war effort of the United Nations in the
case of foodstuffs,” which was enlarged
on, with the implied promise that the
matter would be attended to at once
(“the time is now due to reconsider those
classes of production which have been
unduly depressed the need for this
review is particularly pressing”), in that
opening-of-Parliament speech.
And although his Royal Highness was
called upon to utter thousands of words
even a condensed report of the speech
ran to three full 22-inch columns —there
was not among them the word of fear
“coal.” Yet the coal position remains an
incessant worry to every Australian with
any degree of responsibility for carrying
on services and industry for the fighting
men and the civil population; and,
though not now so inimical to the
national safety as it was throughout 1942
and at least part of 1943, it continues to
be a stain on the national honor. And
before the seventeenth Parliament settled
down it was the subject of a Curtin
speech which startled new members,
being charged with passionate indignation
at the knavish tricks of union work-
stoppers and promises of stern action.
The Prime Minister said, in effect, that
for nine months of that year there had
been another tragic fall in N.S.W. produc-
tion. The causes were the same as in 1942,
strikes and “absenteeism,” and the main
offenders were war-dodgers: “youths of
military age, taxi-drivers, starting-price
bookmakers, billiard-room proprietors,
dog-trainers and the like who have en-
gaged as miners in order to obtain protec-
tion.” He had given orders that these
fellows should be drafted out of the mines
and put to war service, for “unless more
coal is produced it will be impossible to
maintain the tempo of the war.”
The order soon became one with the
litter of national-security regulations de-
signed to compel loafers and strikers to
labor at their vocations or some vocation.
The union bosses, at the head of whom is
a communist of military age, objected to
it, and it was- dropped. Now, as then
and before, with the demand for coal
mounting every week, N.S.W. miners,
under their communist leadership, work
and strike and loaf when and as they
please. In 1942, despite a great deal of
striking and loafing, N.S.W. produc-
tion amounted to 12,205,915 tons. In
1943 it fell away to 11,473,499 tons, and
in 1944 to 11,042,739 tons. This though
hundreds of men had been taken out of
the services to mine coal, and though the
Government annexed the Coalcliff mine
to show the capitalists how to do things.
The Treasurer, himself member for a
coalmining district, has confessed that
with more men employed the Coalcliff
output dropped heavily, and that the Gov-
ernment itself dropped about £40,000 in ■
about 10 months or so, not reckoning an
admittedly large though unspecified
amount spent in making the mine a
miner’s dream. Turning to the State Gov-
ernment coalmine at Lithgow, in his own
electorate, the Treasurer said it had “a
sad and sorry history.”
The general Labor prescription for
union disorders in war-time is “Give
the men everything they ask for,” and
when unions fall out and Labor has to
declare itself Labor sides with the larger
crowd. A Sydney waterfront hold-up,
brought about by the refusal of the Build-
ing Workers’ Industrial Union, backed
by the Trades Hall Council, to work
alongside members of the Shipjoiners’
Society, a registered union, led to the
Attorney-General’s Department sending
counsel to the Arbitration Court to point
out that 18 unions were in the boycott
the Court being invited not to punish
these unions or any of them but to de-
register the Shipjoiners for honoring their
obligations to the industrial law and
the nation. This Judge Kelly refused to
do, with appropriate remarks about the
8.W.1.U. boycott being “indefensible”
and apparently a breach of the relevant
National Security regulations; but the
immediate sequel was that “no gangs
could be obtained for two ships,” and
when these were manned by servicemen
“tally clerks were called off by their
union.”
There had previously been a strike of
wharf-laborers in the Prime Minister’s
electorate of Fremantle throughout what,
for reasons sufficiently well known’
though of no consequence to the pre-
dominant union mob, should have been
the busiest month in all its history. When
the shameful thing was over the fair-
minded “West Australian,” leading news-
paper of the State in which Federal
Labor swept the boards last year,
summed it up as a strike against “the
roster system, imposed by a Labor Gov-
ernment under the most favorable imag-
inable auspices, for the purpose of mak-
ing the best use of the man-power avail-
able, to the end that the war should be
finished in the shortest time possible”; a
strike in which “the lumpers sought for
four weeks to enforce the right to work
when they liked and stay away when
they liked—to their own detriment and
to the grave injury of their country at
war.” For nearly a fortnight “service
personnel numbering between 600 and
800” loaded and unloaded ships, but
even when the lumpers agreed by a
narrow majority to return to their won-
derfully well paid work the storage sheds
remained congested because “members of
the Transport Workers’ Union refused
to handle cargo delivered to them by
service personnel.”
Though the coal situation was ignored
in the speech prepared for Lord Cowrie’s
successor, “the heavy demands on ship-
ping resources and port facilities” were
emphasised. Drought-caused require-
ments in South Australia, Victoria and
N. S. Wales, the demands of operational
areas in the South-west Pacific and in
“the eastern and western theatres of war”
and liberated countries and the difficulty
of getting more tonnage from the
northern hemisphere were listed as
reasons why “all concerned” should
“make the greatest possible effort to
speed the dispatch of vessels and elimi-
nate all causes of delay.” But there was
not a word of reproach for or warning
to walterfront workstoppers, though a
repetition of “the 1917 upheaval” is
threatened in Sydney. Neither was there
any promise of a campaign against
looters of ships’ holds, wharves and sheds,
though their looting warrants recourse to
the death penalty, which would snuff out
a national scandal, or against the brig-
ands of the black market, who have
become so bold in Sydney—laws, regu-
lations, police. Judges and magistrates
being laughed at —that in the course of
a few days a lorry laden with 14,0001 b.
of butter disappeared and 800,000 butter
coupons were stolen from the N.S.W.
Rationing Commission’s head office.
But something was said about pref-
erence to servicemen, without reference
to the first of the strings to be tied to it,
the seven years limit. And the Govern-
ment, it seems, “is not unmindful of the
great need for relief in the existing
shortage of homes, and proposes to keep
this matter under close review.” Mr.
Chifley’s tale in the 1943 Budget was
that “thl acute shortage of dwelling ac-
commodation, which is growing more
serious with every month of war restric-
tion, must be remedied as soon as our
war commitments permit; the Housing
Commission is already working to this
end.” Xnd W.0.1.’s last recorded pro-
ceedings before it was merged in Post-
war Reconstruction were to sanction ex-
pensive additions to communist H.Q. in
Sydney and refuse an Old Digger, a per-
mit for trifling alterations to his cottage
to accommodate a son and a daughter-
in-law —another son is dead in this war —
and to have him fined £2O for going
on with them.
And though Mr. Curtin gave an elec-
tion pledge that “my Government will
not during the war socialise any indus-
try,” there is to be “a statutory authority
to control inter-State airlines,” and “con-
trol” of the trading banks is to be ex-
tended and made political. There
is to be a Commonwealth Bank
despotism by a Governor without a
Board, subject to the despotism of the
Treasurer, subject to the despotism of
Caucus. “Control” of the trading banks
has been urged on by N.S.W. Labor mem-
bers. Six of these worthies—four are
members of the Curtin Government
were docile followers of Mr. Lang when,
in the words of the Commonwealth Year-
Book, “prepared under instructions from
the Honorable the Treasurer,” his Gov-
ernment “announced its default oni in-
terest payments due in London, New
York and Australia,” and its Savings


Bank “decided to suspend payments to
depositors.” What is in what they are
pleased to call their minds can only be
guessed at.
Whatever it may be, another war loan
is about to be placed on the market, and
a worse preliminary than the threat of
political control of banking, however dis-
guised, cannot be imagined. However, the
Government knows it can rely upon the
loyalty of the hated “financial institu-
tions” and their depositors, which is a
very different brand of loyalty from that
which actuates the unpunished mobs of
workstoppers, looters and black-
marketeers.
PLAIN ENGLISH
A Communist Strike.
When drought rules in western Queens-
land, as at present, it is necessary to
shear the sheep early so that they can
better bear shortage of feed and water
and may have time to grow some wool
against cold snaps. Necessary also that
shearing be completed in one zone so that
shearers may move on to the next on time
and keep zoning running to schedule.
But communists, who have no pity for
animal life and no respect for industrial
law, stop at nothing in their efforts to
cause the shearer’s union, which has so
far defeated all communist attempts to
control or destroy it, as much trouble as
possible, and the country as well. Hence
the strike in western Queensland, where
23,000,000 sheep await the shears.
The A.W.U. has no illusions about the
real cause of the strike, or the identity
of the instigators. When the organised
Graziers and Selectors asked the Queens-
land Industrial Court for a resumption-
of-work order, which was granted, C. G.
Fallon had this to say for the A.W.U.:
Out of 23 meetings 17 were against the
strike. Men went from place to place with
strike votes. The A.W.U. knows that the
strike committee is bogus, but it is well
organised and seems to have plenty of
money. It is well equipped with cars and
petrol. It is going to cause a lot of indus-
trial trouble this year and is preparing to
disrupt the sugar industry. The A.W.U. is
ready for that. It is convinced that 90
p.c. of the men want to work, but the
majority were intimidated by the minority.
That was on February 15. On Feb-
ruary 21 the strike committee applied to
the Industrial Court for increased rates.
It knew it wouldn’t get a hearing, and it
didn’t. But that doesn’t worry com-
munists. What must worry everybody
else is Mr. Fallon’s warning about the
threat to the sugar industry and his state-
ments about the amplitude of strike
money, petrol and cars.
If there were a real Government at
Canberra the words of Mr. Fallon would
be sufficient to bring instant and effective
Government action. But communists
fear Canberra about as much as a snake
fears a mouse.
Short Way With Strikers.
“There should be no room for strikes,
slackness or sectional claims while men
are still dying for the freedom of man-
kind. The more united we are in pur-
pose and effort the sooner will the day of
victory come.” An eminent Anglican
churchman said that.
On the same day a stipendiary magis-
trate spoke in grave and severe terms to
36 striking trade-unionists who were
charged with having failed to comply
with a direction from the Ministry of
Labor and National Service to resume
work. Their counsel declared that the
Ministry of Labor and National Service
had “adopted a coercive attitude” in prose-
cuting them, and that they were “not in
the Army,” To this the magistrate
replied “They are in the industrial army,
and the Army has to depend on civilian
activities for its supplies.” Then, address-
ing the 36 trade-unionists, he said:
You have been working on the main-
tenance of services, extremely important
work, and thousands of other war workers
are inconvenienced when the supply fails.
Your counsel has mentioned coercion.
This is a necessary coercive regulation for
carrying on the defence of the country.
Your brothers and sons are fighting your
battles and are dependent on the industrial
workers of this country for their supplies.
Your grievance cannot be allowed to pre-
dominate over everything else. It does
not entitle you to upset the whole of the
war effort or a portion of it because you
wish your grievance to take precedence.
You are not men who are not getting good
pay, even though it is not as much as you
think you ought to get.
This is a serious matter, and I shall fine
you each £lO. But if such a case comes
before me again I shall not hesitate to send
everyone to prison. Maintenance of essen-
tial services must be enforced.
Nobody need imagine that the eminent
churchman was Bishop Burgmann, who
has never been known to condemn
“strikes, slackness or sectional claims
while men are still dying for the free-
dom of mankind,” though he is very
voluble on the necessity of our crawling
to communists, lest worse befall us. The
eminent churchman is the Archbishop
of York.
Nor is there any warrant for sup-
posing that the direction from the Minis-
try of Labor and National Service was
issued by Mr. Holloway. Or that the regu-
lation under which the 36 unionists were
prosecuted was an Australian National
Security regulation, though the counter-
part exists and has been associated with
much useless expulsion of Canberra air.
Or that the unionists live and have their
being and votedn Sydney, Newcastle or
Kembla, and were dealt with by one of
Mr. McKell’s magistrates. They are
Manchester gasmen, and the magistrate
who held that the regulation was unassail-
able in law and equity—it was subscribed
to by Labor members of the Churchill
Government and has been endorsed by
the leaders of British trade-unionism —
and that in violating it they had dealt a
felon blow to the fighting men was a
Manchester stipendiary, Mr. J. W. Orr.
The extracts are from the Manchester
“Guardian” of November 11.
Stormy Weather Ahead.
Australia has been warned by a man
who writes for the Adelaide “Advertiser”
that it “could make no graver mistake
than to imagine that the Yalta agree-
ments will be unquestionably accepted
in the United States.”
Mr. Roosevelt faces a Wilson-like fight,
and must give convincing explanations.
As a result of the November elections
the President’s party has a good majority
in each branch of Congress. But, as in
the last Congress, anti-New-Deal Demo-
cratic Senators are showing a disconcert-
ing tendency to work in with Republicans,
and there will be November elections in
1946, for all the 435 Representatives and
one-third of the 96 Senators have to
retire every two years. In the interven-
ing months exasperated Polish Americans
may be expected to exert constant pres-
sure in States where their vote is strong.
The Presidential-election figures are
worth studying. Though Mr. Roosevelt’s
majorities in the Electoral College and in
the constituencies look immense on
paper, no great turnover would be needed
to place Republicans in control of the
House next year, if not of the Senate.
Much more than half of his popular
majority over Mr. Dewey (3,577,268 ;
25,594,824 to 22,017,556) came from the
South —that is, from 10 of the 48 States.
State. Roosevelt. Dewey.
Alabama .. .. 198,918 44,540
Arkansas .. .. 148,965 63,551
Florida .. .. 339,377 143,215
Georgia .. .. 268,187 59,879
Louisiana .. .. 281,564 67,750
Mississippi .. .. 150,829 11,587
North Carolina .. 527,399 263,155
South Carolina .. 90,601 4,610
Texas .. .. 821,605 191,425
Virginia .. .. 242,276' 145,243
In 19 Roosevelt States returning 213
Ms.H.R. there was surprisingly little
difference between the totals.
Connecticut .. 435,146 390,527
Delaware .. .. 68,166 56,747
Idaho .. .. 107,399 100,137
Illinois .. .. 2,079,479 1,939,314
Kentucky .. .. 472,589 392,448
Maryland .. .. 315,490 292,949
Massachusetts .. 1,035,296 921,350
Michigan .. .. 1,106,899 1,084,423
Minnesota .. .. . 589,864 527,416 ,
Missouri .. .. 807,357 761,175
Montana .. .. 112,556 93,163
Nevada .. .. 29,623 24,611
New Hampshire .. 119,668 109,916
New Jersey.. .. 987,874 961,335
New Mexico .. 81,389 70,688
New York .. .. 3,304,238 2,987,647
Oregon .. .. 248,635 225,365
Pennsylvania .. 1,940,479 1,835,048
West Virginia .. 392,777 322,819
It is not for Australians to complain
that the crippled President, whose photo-
graphs taken in the Crimea show a
startling change in his appearance, should
have had to go to Tehran and then to
Yalta to meet Marshal Stalin. There are
no doubt Americans who will protest and
make comparisons with journeys to Godes-
berg and Munich, if not to Canossa.
DOING THE SALOME WALK.


SELECTED OUTSTANDING BOOKS
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When people, generally, understand that all
such fatal diseases as Fistula, Ulcer of the
Rectum, Fissure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of this trouble. DOAN’S
OINTMENT is unequalled for every form of
Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Protruding, and Blind
Piles, and hundreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective remedy right from
the start', because at such times a single tin has
often effected a cure, while in the old deep-
seated, chronic cases several tins are some-
times necessary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing, antiseptic
and soothing. That is why it is equally suc-
cessful in overcoming Eczema and other skin
complaints. But be sure you get DOAN’S.
Ten Years In Japan. The Remarkable
Record of Joseph G. Grew, United States
Ambassador to Japan, 1932-42. An important
historical casebook, which no student of inter-
national aflairs should neglect. 275. 6d. (post.
9d.).
Thesaurus of the Arts. Facts at your finger-
tips on every field of Art, Drama. Music,
Ballet, Radio, Motion Pictures, Literature,
Painting, Sculpture, Architecture. By Albert
E. Wier. 690 pages. Size 10 x 7 inches. 425.
(post. Is.).
The Geographical Basis of Government.
Specially applied to N.S.W. By J. Macdonald
Holmes, Ph.D., Professor of Geography, Uni-
versity of Sydney. With valuable maps. 12s. 6d.
(post. 4d.).
Science Remakes Our World. New products,
new Industries, new jobs. By James Stockley.
10s. 6d. (post. Cd.).
A Desk Book of 25,000 Words Frequently
Mispronounced. By Frank H. Vizetelly. 14s. 6d.
(post. 10d.).
The New Wonder Book of Knowledge. Com-
piled and arranged by H. C. Hill. Modern
Industry and invention come alive in this
book. Size of volume 9i x 7 inches. 648 pages.
With Illustrations on nearly every page. 21s.
(post. Is.).
Dictionary of World Literature. Criticism,
Forms, Technique. Edited by J. T. Shipley.
The only book of its kind in any language.
All new material —by 260 authorities. 50s.
(post. Is. 3d.).
The Story of the Moon. The most complete
book ever written on the subject. By Dr.
Clyde Fisher, illustrated. 21s. (post. 10d.).
The World’s Great Speeches. A superb col-
lection from earliest times to Churchill. 17s. 6d.
(post. 10d.).
A Treasury of Science. The great scientific
writings- of all time. Edited by Harlow
Shapley. 255. (post. 9d.).
Evolution. The modern synthesis. By Julian
Huxley. 425. (post. Is.).
Rates of Taxation, 1944-1943. Common-
wealth and States of Australia. By J. M.
White and W. Benjamin. 7s. 6d. (post. 4d.).
The Civilisation of the Renaissance in Italy.
By J. Burckhardt. Phaidon Press, Pocket
Edition, with 100 illustrations. 12s. (post. 6d.).
The Best One-act Plays of 1943. Edited by
M. Mayorga. 195.6 d. (post. Gd.).
Present-day Art in Australia, No. 2. Edited
by Sydney lire Smith. 21s. (post. 4d.).
The Federal Story. By Alfred Deakin. 12s. 6d.
(post. 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months:
grantea ulluiuims
with a corresponding reduction in the
instal ments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
A report from Canberra had it that
there were “bitter exchanges” between
Curtin and Ward over the latter’s oppo-
sition in Caucus to preference for ser-
vicemen, and that the P.M. “almost
broke down,” there being “tears in his
eyes.” Another report said “Two other
Ministers were visibly moved ; their eyes
were glistening as they announced their
support for their leader.” Diggers will
read of this emotion with dry eyes. They
will want to know why the “leader”
hadn’t the pluck to dismiss his ill-con-
ditioned colleague, who publicly boasted
of having been a non-starter in the last
war, and who tried in this war —certainly
with the concurrence of all his colleagues
—to make it unlawful for all Australia’s
island possessions to be defended by
called-up men.
The question of giving the A.C.T. some
representation looks like being raised
again this session. The N.T. has Blain,
though the faithful fellow has been a
prisoner of war since February 15, 1942,
and a delegate from Alaska and an-
other from Hawaii sit in the House at
Washington. Each can speak on any
subject and introduce motions, but may
not vote. Though Hawaii has a popu-
lation of 450,000, that of Alaska (72,500
in 1940) is smaller in proportion to the
general total than Canberra’s.
Delegates from all the Arab countries
have been meeting at Cairo, where Lord
Moyne was shot by Jews from Palestine,
and they had scarcely concluded their
proceedings when the Egyptian Prime
Minister was shot by an Egyptian.
It was claimed that the delegates
spoke for 34,000,000 Arabs, and the
Egyptian Foreign Minister said “All
the Arab States” would “shun any foreign
Power standing in the way of the indepen-
dence of any Arab State.” This was
taken as addressed to France, whose
Foreign Minister has been saying that
his country would “defend its preroga-
tives in Syria and Lebanon.” But since
Arabs from Palestine were present it
must also have been meant for the people
threatening forcible conversion of Pales-
tine into a Jewish State, According to the
latest (1942) calculations there were in
the Over-Promised Land 987,985 Mos-
lems, 126,344 Christians and 478,449
Jews, though 8000 or 9000 Jews have
come in since.
It came out of Washington when the
fourth-term President was on his way
back:
To the end of December the U.S.S.R.
received ,J’rom the U.S.A. 12,000 ’planes
and 362*000 motor vehicles, and from
Britain 8500 ’planes and 80,000 motor
vehicles. The U.S.A. sent also 1945 loco-
motives, 7160 flat cars, 1100 dump cars,
100 tank cars, 478,000 tons of rails, 110,000
tons of wheels and axles, 330,000 field tele-
phones and more than a million miles of
field-telephone cable.
And that is only part of the story. From
both countries went also about 20,000
tanks and prodigious supplies of food and
clothing, as well as ammunition. Alto-
gether a withering commentary on the
statement to which the President sub-
scribed at Yalta, that the German expul-
sion from Poland was wholly the work of
the Red Army. He has noble qualities,
but of that particular assertion he will
never hear the end.
There has been a rumpus because De
Gaulle declined a meeting with Roosevelt
on the latter’s return journey. Possibly
he was afraid that the President might
put in a claim for Dakar, as being neces-
sary to the defence of the U.S.A. It
would be in keeping with the Yalta
argument that Russia is entitled to a huge
hunk of Poland, with places that were
never Russian even under the czars, “as
a result of the complete liberation” of
Poland “by the Red Army.” If this pro-
position is sound, then the forces of
Britain and the U.S.A. effected the com-
plete liberation of France, and as com-
pensation the Americans may fairly ask
for Dakar and the English for Calais
and Dunkirk. Both were once Eng-
lish, Calais for over 200 years, and
it might be held that the re-occupation
of both is necessary as a safeguard againsl
flying bombs and rockets and other fiend-
ish missiles from the Mad Continent.
James Turner, leader of the delegation
of British farmers in Australia, told Bris-
bane reporters that his members were
concerned at the evidence of soil erosion
they had seen. Almost every visitor with
eyes sees it and is horrified. All that the
Governments—seven of ’em —do is talk
vaguely about plans.
BANG GOES AUSTERITY!
“When Mr. Dedman formally resigned as Minister of W.O.I. and became Minister of
Reconstruction, Mr. Curtin said ‘Well done’ to Mr. Dedman and his staff.”
“We have pink icing, lolly pigs, ‘hundreds and thousands,’ bull’s-eyes with stripes,
‘humbugs’ caraway seeds almost anything you fancy.”
Discoveries by one James Vance Mar-
shall, J.P., “chairman of the Abbey divi-
sion of the Westminster Labor party, a
native of N. S. Wales, who began his
political activities in the Australian Labor
party,” communicated to “World Re-
view” :
A dual loyalty has always been a difficult
outlook for a very isolated land like Aus-
tralia to maintain. The slogan of the Aus-
tralian is not “St. George and Merry Eng-
land,” it is “Australia First.”
Not in these times, James. Anybody
caught using that slogan is liable to be
arrested and detained without trial, while
communists blackguard him and boast
that they had him put inside.
The trouble about bureaucratic govern-
ment is that the bureaucrat becomes an
impersonal machine which can’t think
outside the rules and regulations. Wit-
ness the case of a Melbourne woman, an
expectant mother, who asked the Liquid
Fuel Board for a little more petrol “to
ensure our car being available to take me
to hospital.” Petrol refused, the lady
being told to get a taxi. “Perhaps,” she
wrote bitterly, “the board could explain
the saving of tyres and petrol in bringing
a taxi eight miles to take me a mile to
hospital, then returning eight miles to the
city.” Boards never explain.
Admiring Canberra newshound, back-
ing Forde for the San Francisco trip:
Mr. Forde may not be a silver-tongued
orator, but he has a genial, likeable per-
sonality and the standing of a Minister
who carried the Prime Minister’s mantle
ably during his leader’s sickness.
Almost as oleaginous as Frank himself
could make it.
Cheers were heard in the Commons
when the Government was tackled on the
fifth partition of Poland and a member
called it a surrender to power politics.
A full-dress debate was arranged. At
Canberra Menzies said “the invasion of
Poland was the causa causans of the war,”
and asked a string of questions, all very
awkward. From Spender came the state-
ment that “the proposal to make the
Curzon Line Poland’s western boundary
is against the principles of the Atlantic
Charter,” and that “Parliament should
express its views.” Dr. Evatt, for the
Government, denied that there was any
repudiation of the Atlantic Charter, add-
ing, perhaps unnecessarily, that “in this
matter we have accepted the advice and
leadership of Mr. Churchill.” The ghost
of Chamberlain was not present on either
occasion.
That profound and mysterious body the
Australian Agricultural Council, at a
deep conclave in Canberra, discovered
that (a) there is or has been a drought,
(b) soil erosion is going on, (c) there is a
grave shortage of cereals. So it urged the
“co-ordination of activities by States and
Commonwealth,” and recommended the
setting up of a whaling industry “to
procure stock feed.” It is expected that
whale seed will be imported, adequate
compensation to be paid out of the
Treasury if whale crops fail.
In one of its Sunday war “sessions”
2FC returned to the uninteresting subject
of Haylen, its favorite Labor M.H.R.
The Sydney dailies’ pet is Fraser, another
young gentleman with a shaky seat.
They extolled him for suggesting that there
should be a Department of Civil Liber-
ties, which would mean relieving mem-
bers of one of their prescriptive duties
and setting bureaucrats to watch bureau-
crats. At it again last week on tire
address-in-reply, Fraser blithered that
“there can be no individual freedom
without individual security.” It’s lucky
for Fraser and all the rest of us that the
early navigators and explorers and settlers
had other views.
The flags and the fustian were out
again in the Big Cities on Red Army
Day, and in Rumania, after a “Pravda”
attack on the unfortunate Government,
there was an “anti-Fascist” rising. Fleeing
fromhis “attacked” office to a radio station,
presumably well guarded, the unfortu-
nate Prime Minister announced that
“Stateless and godless people led by
Anna Pauker and a Hungarian, Lukas,”
were “attempting to establish a reign of
terror under the mask of ‘democracy.’”
Presumably Anna Pauker is “Stateless”
and Lukas is “godless.” The affair is
scarcely calculated to soothe the
feelings of the Americans, already ruffled
by Yalta and informed by Stalin that
“the first consequence of the Red Army’s
winter offensive” (begun Jan. 12) was
that “the Germans’ winter attempt to
seize Belgium and Alsace” (i.e.. Von
Rundstedt’s advance in the Ardennes,
begun Dec. 16 and well on the way back
days before Jan, 12) “was thwarted.”
At a mass meeting of indignant citizens
at the Town Hall, Melbourne, it was
mentioned that Victoria needs 70,000
houses and that about 20 are being erected
weekly, at which rate of progress it will
take 70 years to make up the leeway, not
allowing for a possible increase in the
population or of housing - authority
officials. When it was suggested that the
war came first and that Government had
neither materials nor man-power to do
anything about it a speaker pointed out
that Maoriland had built 25,000 houses
since the outbreak.
Recording that “the chances of a rocket
bombardment from the Continent were
publicly discussed” before Chamberlain
signed up with Poland, the Manchester
“Guardian” pays an unusual tribute to
the old man with the umbrella, still a
target for Leftists of the vicariously belli-
cose breed.
It may yet be found that in giving our
pledge to Poland when we did, instead
of waiting until our preparations had gone
farther, we acted not only honorably but
with prudence.
The interpretation of the pledge which
gives three-sevenths of Poland to the
Socialist Sixth of the World (and then
some) may be called prudence without
honor.
It is unfortunate that Russian attacks
on Switzerland, marked in the first place
by an eleventh-hour withdrawal from the
international air conference because the
Swiss had been invited, should have been
followed by the sending of an Anglo-
American delegation to Switzerland to
conduct an inquisition, it being alleged
that the Swiss are trading with the enemy.
In Switzerland there are German-speak-
ing, French-speaking and Italian-speak-
ing cantons, all loyal to the little re-
public. In fact, Switzerland has shown
a distracted world that races whose quar-
rels have convulsed the Mad Continent
and dragged in other continents can live
in peace under a pure democracy with-
out harming any neighbor, Britain,
America and its allies are to have the
job of wrestling with a problem of in-
finite complexity, with at least half Europe
for theatre, which the Swiss have solved
on a small scale within their boundaries.
Shouldn’t the Anglo-American gentlemen
have gone to Switzerland to learn rather
than to berate?


Keep the home lights burning . . .
Take every possible care of the Exide Batteries of your house-lighting equipment. Refer
regularly to your wall chart. Should the need for expert opinion arise, report the
matter to your Exide distributor or write to us immediately. By taking care of your
Exide house-lighting, car and radio batteries, you not only get months of longer service
from them, but you help Fight-
ing Services, who need all the
batteries that Exide are able
to supply.
ssai&a
■
5535
Wk
■
Pil
:v--y>:
.
♦
LIGHTING
CO
UJ
ee
UJ
aS
oa
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN
THE RESP HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Duke of Gloucester got off a pun
in Melbourne in conveying to knight
Hughie Devine an hon. fellowship and
the diploma of the Royal College of Sur-
geons. He remarked that the value of
the work of the distinguished Melbourne
sawbones had earned his counsels the
name of the “Devine Precepts.” The
ceremony was unique, the diploma having
been conferred in 1939 for original con-
tributions to abdominal surgery, but,
owing to the war, had to wait for the
Duke to transport it here. The famous
surgeon was born at Little River (Vic.),
educated at St. Patrick’s College, Bal-
larat, and finished off at Melbourne Uni-
versity.
Press photographs aren’t always the
most reliable guide to anyone’s appear-
ance, but, with that reservation, Presi-
dent Roosevelt certainly looked the most
worn of the Big Three in photos of the
Yalta meeting. When he started as
President he was 51 ; he’s now 63, and
even before he made his latest long trip
the “United States News” stated that he
“shows the difference.” The publication
added; “He is a bit more nervous in his
reactions. His weight is 61b. to 81b, less
than 12 years ago. Yet the President,
after 12 years, still puts in 11 hours of
hard work each day, six days a week,
and four hours a day when on vaca-
tion.” A United Press report also re-
ferred to the President’s heavy work,
adding that “his face shows it plainly.”
Voicing months ago what will now be-
come a general public outcry, syndicate-
writer David Lawrence strongly opposed
the then contemplated trip. Public opposi-
tion will probably now prevent the Presi-
dent attending any further such meetings
outside the U.S.A.
Henry Havelock Cornish, K.C., Maori-
land’s Solicitor-General, goes up to the
Supreme Court Bench. Born in the coal-
mining township of Kaitangata, he was
educated there and at Dunedin, graduat-
ing with first-class honors in 1910, and
was nominated M.L.’s Rhodes scholar
by Otago. Another Supreme Court
Judge, Kennedy, was Wellington’s nomi-
nation at the same time. For a while
Cornish took up teaching, but dropped it
for the law. Ten years of practice with
Webb and Richmond and lecturing on
law at Wellington’s Victoria College pre-
ceded his appointment as Solicitor-
General in 1934.
It’s only a matter of mentioning Lord
Nuffield’s presence in Sydney to say that
he dipped south and brought up £lOOO
for the British Centre that’s giving a
friendly hand to British sailors and troops
in the Harbor city. His big benefactions
—or some of them —are known; but he
does much also in a “smaller” way that
gets no publicity. For instance, R.A.F.,
R.A.A.F. and other British Empire air-
men on “ops.” in England when on leave
all get ss. per day from his pocket, a
very tidy addition to ordinary leave
allowance and pay. Also, the same air-
men can stay free for a leave period at
hotels scattered all over Britain, their
wives (if any) accompanying them at a
very low charge—the same generous giver
footing this considerable bill also.
The Australasian Institute of Mining
and Metallurgy Medal for 1944 has gone
to J. F. Thorn, g.m. of Lake View
and Star, Kalgoorlie. It’s the highest
honor the Institute bestows. A. H P.
Moline, g.m. of the Mount Lyell Mining
and Railway Co., is to represent Tas-
mania on the Institute Council.
Attending on Lloyd George in his ill-
ness at his farm in Carnarvonshire, Dr
Sydney Wentworth Patterson took his
degree at Melbourne University in 1907
and later became director of the Walter
and Eliza Hall Institute. He went tc
England and became physician and bac-
teriologist at Ruthin Castle, a private
hospital devoted to tne investigation and
treatment of disease. Dr. Patterson is
consulting physician to the Welsh Sana-
torium.
Like so many of Victoria’s head-
masters, Dr. Martyn Arnold Buntine,
head of Geelong College in subcession to
the Rev. F- W. Rolland, is a soldier. He
enlisted in the A.I.F. in the last war when
he was 18, but was too late to leave Aus-
tralia. A militia major when the present
war broke out, he joined the A.I.F. as a
captain, went through Tobruk as com-
pany commander of the 2/28 Battalion,
served through the Syrian campaign,
was next in W.A. and Darwin with the
11th and was an acting-brigadier when
released to be principal of Hale School,
Perth, where he had been a junior
teacher. Son of a former head of Caul-
field Grammar, Dr. Buntine had a bril-
liant career there and at Melbourne Uni-
versity, and got the degree of Doctor of
Philospphy and Education at Edinburgh
University, as well as a “blue” in athletics.
In 1937 the Carnegie Corporation handed
him a “visitor’s grant,” which gave him
entry to leading schools in U.S. and
Britain.
Dr. W. J. Tuckfield, of Melbourne —
“Tucky” to a legion of dental men —has
been president of the Australian Dental
Association, senior lecturer in his subject
at Melbourne Uni. and dean and pro-
fessor of the faculty. His work has found
recognition in the U.S.A. with a D.Sc,
and F.A.C.D. Some years ago Melbourne
IJni. recognised him with an hon.
M.D.Sc., and, despite His having stepped
across the three-score-years line, he
lately graduated D.D.Sc. (Melb.). A
recently published book by him is re-
garded as “the last word” by dental men.
Group-Captain Clive Brewster has had
a career even more colorful than
Mcßeath’s picturing of him might hint
at. Born in Fiji and educated at Mel-
bourne Grammar, he gained the M.C.
as an Australian airman in the last war,
when he was credited with bagging eight
enemy ’planes. Back in Fiji afterwards,
he was A.O.C. to the Governor, but
turned in that job to become head of a
big South Seas trading concern. Mean-
while he kept up his soldiering, as a lieut.-
col. commanding the Fijian Battalion, its
strength made up of Europeans, Fijians
and half-castes, and in that role he and
a 6ft. chieftain (sarrie height as himself)
provided a spectacular display for Pic-
GROUP-CAPTAIN CLIVE BREWSTER.
cadilly and Bond-street. In 1935 Brew-
ster was awarded the French Legion of
Honor, and in 1937 the Order of St. Olav,
Norway. In 1938 he was elected under-
writing member of Lloyds, and in be-
tween times received the 0.8. E. and E.D.
Soon after the present scrap started he
was in the R.A.A.F. as flying officer, and
in 1942 was Air Intelligence Officer on
MacArthur’s staff. Next year he was
mixing it with the Japs over Timor, fly-
ing as a wing-commander air-gunner in
Liberators. For the past two years he’s
been Commandant R.A.A.F. School of
Administration, during which time over
2000 ground staff officers have passed
through his hands.
Stanton Hicks, Prof, of Physiology at
Adelaide Uni., being away on war
service, Squadron-Leader D. H. Le Mes-
surier has been released to be acting-
prof. His 32 years have been well filled:
B.Sc. and D.Sc. at Adelaide, work under
Dr. Keilaway at the Hall Institute of
Pathology in Melbourne and under Mar-
shall at the John Hopkins in the U.S.A..
M.B. and Ch.B. at Edinburgh in 1940 and
since then back in Australia in the
R.A.A.F.
Commodore T. B. Drew, who has the
responsibility of launching all the young,
and not so young, Australian sailormen
“dipped a couple of rings” to take over
the dual control of Flinders Naval Depot
and the Royal Australian Naval College.
A Conway product, he has served the
R.N. with distinction in two wars, being
awarded the 0.8. E. for his services in
COMMODORE T. B. DREW.
H.M.S. Revenge at Jutland and in Janu-
ary, 1944, the C.B. for his efforts in the
current struggle. Commodore Drew
served on the China station from 1922
to 1925, and was promoted to captain in
1929 from the flagship of the East Indies
Squadron. A first-class sportsman with
k great eye, he can sink his putts from
anywhere on the green, and handling a
pack of cards he knows more tricks than
Hoyle knows games.
From John Brennan* —
Flying together in combat necessarily breeds
a close union between the members of a ’plane’s
crew. With the two-man Beaufighter the union
between pilot and observer is of
They tram together, live together, fly together,
think together. The crew which fitted me in
as a passenger for the Tondano raid has been
together for more than a thousand hours in the
w’ At n 6 ’ l he H p !i?rnd Fy fthe
Wemyss, has had almost tour years in tne
R.A.A.F. Before that he was managing a
garage in Winton (Q.). His first job after he
learnt to fly was as an instructor in Bostons.
Wemyss teamed with the 20-year-old navigator,
Flying-Officer R. S. Woodgate, in 1943, shortly
after Woodgate had shut up his law books in
his father’s office in Cessnock (N.S.W.) to come
into the R.A.A.F. Together they went to Tadji
field at Aitape, flying a Boston first, and fol-
lowed up through Noemfoor to Morotai. Their
Boston was one of the eight to make the only
low-level attack yet attempted on shipping m
the strongly-defended Ambon F<^ r
Jap ships were sun £ ,° a . tba ° f .. d
though ack-ack tore holes in ma Y after-
the planes got back base ; ,|) 1 .. y R t n
wards Wemyss and Woodgate traded Boston
for a Beaufighter. There s a third member of
the team, though he doesn t Ay Y r T
C‘mu r e’’rHe a yco C x “Blue” >af bem kecping
Earlfer °he W S S e S d S after®
Squadron-Leader Ron Rankin, one-time Rugby
Union full-back for Australia.
; ... T--t t. i
As recordeq here a while back, BULLE-
tin short-story writer Gavin Casey left
the Department of Information to return
L,;/ rvotUm Wpctrnlin and tackle
to his native Westraiia ana tacKie
a job on the editorial start ot Fenn
“News ” He’d have been there now if
he hadn’t had to wait for transport in
Sydney. While he waited the Director-
ship of the Aus. News and Information
Miip ui j
Bureau m New York fell vacant, and on
the strength of his recent D. or 1. work
Casev was offered the post. The way
thev travel these days, he may be rolling
nicy uavci n y ’ , ufr
his sleeves up in the New York office by
the time this is printed.
t r -TTiio UoA
Because James Bannatyne Lewis had
been in retirement tor 20 years
his death in Victoria passed almost
unnoticed. Yet he was in his day one
of Australia’s foremost engineers—one
of a batch of all-rounders in that line
who did a great deal for Australian de-
velopment towards the end of last cen-
tury. A Melbourne University Master
of Civil Engineering, Lewis was respon-
sible for the design or construction of
such works as Falls Bridge, Princes
Bridge, Richmond Railway Bridge and
many railway works in Victoria and
Tasmania. The Emu Bay railway in
Tasmania was a particularly difficult line
to design and construct, its awkward
curves, grades and bridges making it per-
haps without an equal elsewhere in the
Commonwealth. A Lewis boy was killed
in the air force in the last war; three othei
sons fought in that war and a fifth is in
the present fighting. Lewis was a lifelong
friend of Monash.
Fred Thomas, M.A., Dip. Ed., secretary
for 11 years to the Victorian Teachers’
Union and due for retirement, is carry-
ing on for another 12 months. President
D. R. Brown testified to his “outstanding
service, tact, determination, honesty of
endeavor and ability.” During his term
Thomas’s screw has been raised twice
without any appeal from him.
Inspector T. Tetterington, of the
Westralian Police, is Chief Inspector
in succession to Police Commissioner
Doyle. The new chief is an Irishman who
served in the Irish Guards. Joining the
Westralian police in 1912, he was called
up as a reservist with the First Battalion
of the Irish Guards in 1914, was on active
service by December of that year and
was several times wounded before the
war ended. .
“H.W.M.”: F. Arthur Moule, solicitor,
who passed on in Melbourne at 90 (B.
17/1 / ’45), was the last living link between
the old Bread and Cheese Club and the
present club. Out of the old club,
founded in the middle of last century, the
present Law Institute of Victoria was
formed. A photo, of the old club is on
the walls of many Melbourne solicitors’
offices.
The estate of Mrs. Phelia Maude
Grimwade, of Victoria, was valued for
probate at £143,184. Her Macedon prop-
erty goes to her husband, Edward Norton
.Grimwade, of the chemical firm of Fel-
ton, Grimwade and Duerdins, with dis-
cretiopary powers to hand it to the Chil-
dren’s Hospital as a nursing home for
sick children. This firm of chemists has
bulked largely in Victorian public bene-
factions. One of its founders, Alfred
Felton, changed the whole course of art
affairs in Australia by leaving a bequest
to the National Gallery which is now
worth close on a million. Russell Grim-
wade gave Melbourne a present of Cap-
tain Cook’s cottage, and the University
has cause to be grateful to other members
of the Grimwade family.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 83, George Napier Deven-
port, veteran bookseller. Born at the old
Talbot Inn, Gouger-street, Adelaide, he joined
Cole’s Book Arcade in Melbourne and managed
the Collins-street section. Later he joined the
George Robertson co. His father was associ-
ated with explorer Charles Sturt in S.A.,«N.S.W.
and on Norfolk Island.
By the time it is all over this war will have
robbed Australia of more promising young men
than this sort of country can afford to lose.
To the number already gone has to be added
R.A.A.F. Sgt. B. J. T. Johnson, killed in a
bomber crash in W.A. He was a son of F. P.
Johnson, known to all bookish people who have
ever been in Sydney as Dymock’s staff man-
ager.
At 85, in Melbourne, B. H. Altson, of Alt-
son’s Comer, a part of the Block where the
old identities of Melbourne went for their
smokes as far as 60 years back, in the days
when the front of the shop had to be stacked
with sandbags to keep out the Elizabeth-street
floodwaters. Altson was a leading philatelist,
and had a library of historical Victoriana. The
business has branches all over Australia, but
it's founder continued to serve in his first shop
until a few days before his final sickness.
Altson’s Corner was Melbourne’s No. 1 allot-
ment and was bought by Batman.
In Adelaide, at 55, John Hill, the backbone of
St. Peter’s school for many years. He was
acting headmaster between Bickersteth and
Pentreath and since the latter’s departure, as
well as for sundry years during the absence
of either. The school’s constitution requires
a clergyman as head, or Hill would certainly
have had the post. He led the party of Aus-
tralian schoolboys who had a world tour in
1936. In France from 1915, he was finally
posted to a New York regiment, with which
he earned the American D.S.C. In the present
war he rose to be lieut.-colonel.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Little Bill”: It was on a Syd-
ney tram in the peak hour —
“Minimum fare, 5d.” The man
in front of me tendered five pen-
nies. Said the conductress, “We
can’t take more than four
coppers. It’s a new rule.” The
passenger was struck dumb for a
moment, then he said “Rubbish.
Nobody can make a rule about
legal tender except the Common-
wealth Treasury.” “I dunno
about that,” she snapped, “It’s
been down to the union and
they” “Madam,” he interrupted,
“no union can dictate, as yet, whal
is or is not legal tender, and no
union can, as yet, dictate what coins a
passenger may offer as payment of a
fare.” Obviously unable to understand
such precise language and somewhat
awed by it and the passenger’s bearing,
the conductress replied in a tearful voice
“But it’s been down to the union
and” “And I say to hell with the
union!” he roared. Then, seeing her
distress, he tendered a trey bit and two
coppers. On the trip, every time she
passed him she studied him covertly, evi-
dently greatly intrigued by anyone in
Sydney who was not only unafraid of
a union but also unafraid to declare
it publicly. But can a transport union
make rules about coinage used for fares?
* * * *
“J.J.”: It was a radio “quiz” session
and five bob was to be won by naming
three birds beginning with A. “Alba-
tross,” said the first candidate promptly.
Silence. “Apteryx.” Some prompting
by the announcer. Silence. Then said
the candidate triumphantly “ ’Awk.” A
howl of laughter from the audience in
the studio and then the announcer got in
with “ ’Awk, ’orrible! ” which set the
audience roaring again, radio audiences
being easy to set roaring. The candidate
was, as it were, laughed out of court,
but it has since struck me that what he
meant and said was “auk,” in which case
the joke’s on everybody.
* * * *
“Lack”: The squadron was moving
gingerly up towards Torres Strait. The
day was hot and the steel decks were
like the top of an oven. “Lucky,” idling
on a lower deck, noticed a line from the
upper rail trailing down, taut and dis-
appearing into the sea at the side of the
boat. Leaning over the rail he noted
“Blue” holding the upper end, his back
turned as he engaged in conversation
with his cobbers. “Lucky” grabbed the
cord. Exerting even pressure in a down-
ward direction to allay suspicion, he drew
the sea-going end with his free hand. A
silver-topped brown bottle emerged.
“Must’ve been cooling ’er off,” reflected
the fisherman as he replaced the bottle
with a handy iron bolt.
** f * *
“Blue P,”: According to the Stock-
holm correspondent of London “Daily
Express,” the “Volkischer Beobachter”
has published a two-column story
describing how London is being method!
cally destroyed by a ceaseless rair
of flying-bombs. The paper says that
everyone who can is leaving southern
England, and all foreigners are return-
ing home. “V. 8.” got this story from its
correspondent at La Linea (Spain), who
claims to have got it from a “traveller
from London.” This, says the “Daily
Express” man, shows how “well-informed
travellers who do such a roaring trade in
neutral capitals have been having fun
with earnest German correspondents.”
I’ll say it does, and they have fun, too,
with British and American correspon-
dents in places like Stockholm, for that
London story is exactly the kind of thing
we’ve been hearing about Berlin from re-
porters who got it from “travellers just
arrived” in Stockholm, Istanbul, Madrid
or Lisbon.
* * V *
“Syd. Side”: One of Sydney’s earliest
experiences of pre-fabrication of build-
ings is still on view—the Legislative
Council building in Macquarie-street, the
cast-iron facade of which was shipped
from England in handy-sized chunks.
”Bai love, the blightah can sleep without a pillow!”
Style of architecture is faintly Graeco-
Roman and the building is not at all im-
pressive, Not that it is out of keeping
with the tout ensemble of the legislative
pile. The Ma State has possibly the
dingiest Parliament Houses in the world.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Reference to pounce (B.
24/1/’45) set me remembering. My
young days in the Law were rather a
transition time. Parchment was still
almost universal, but every young lawyer
could save money on pounce by using
the rather better dry cuttlefish, found
anywhere on the Adelaide beaches. Old
lawyers still covered a whole sheet of
parchment with a Power of Attorney,
setting out in careful penmanship every
action that might possibly need doing,
till a young one claimed —and got away
with it —that a typed half-sheet of paper
would be enough, with “Everything I
might do if personally present.” The
typewriter battle continued for years.
Typing can be delicately erased and
altered where a mistake has been made;
and the open door for fraud did seem
obvious. One old friend of mine made
a compromise: type if you must, but
not for a will, because the testator won’t
bo here to speak, if and when an erasure
is alleged. Finally my friend became a
Judge, and Supreme Court clerks told me
joyfully that the very first will case that
came before him was over a typed docu-
ment made in his own office, and in his
own day, but by a partner who had less
dread of the new machine.
* * * *
“Arter”: An American visitor (he
came here as an officer of the U.S. Army)
has contributed an article to the U.S.
periodical “Art News” on “present-day
Australian art.” He manages a long dis-
quisition on the subject without, appar-
ently, having ever heard of the Ashtons,
Gruner, Heysen, Long, Leist, the Lind-
says, Buckmaster, the Rowells, Max Mel-
drum or Roland Wakelin. But he is en-
thusiastic about G. R. Drysdale—'“his
colors have become complex, as ilfjl as.
organ notes over the surface of more
literal, less expressive shapes” ; Dobell —
“he sees far around the comers of the
human soul” ; Elaine Haxton —she paints
“with a little mockery, a little forgiveness
and a sense of willing fellowship” ; and
Donald Friend—whose “hair-trigger sen-
sitivity and sense of adventure” have
“stocked him with creative ideas.” There
is also a faint pat on the back for Mar-
garet Preston and Douglas Annand, but
they just “paint clearly and well.” Aus-
tralian artists should now have a pretty
clear idea as to what they must do to
win the approbation of literary aesthetics,
* * * *
“Clooter”: An American savant has
arisen to declare that the curves of civil-
ised women’s calves are the result of
wearing high heels, which allegedly cause
the muscles of the calf to bunch up. He’s
a chiropodist, and the National Associa-
tion of Chiropodists has been persuaded
by him to advise American women to
wear flat heels and thus gam straight,
trim legs.” A glance at the calves of any
normal small girl up to 15 should be suf-
ficient to blow the chiropodist’s notion
sky-high. Anyway, who wants to see
clothes-prop legs?
* *’ + *
“Uramao”: Shakspeare is being trans-
lated into Maori by a native interpreter,
Pei Te Hurunui Jones. He has done
“The Merchant of Venice” and “Othello,”
and others are under way. Though they
haven’t translated him before, the Maoris
appreciate the Bard. A cherished memory
is of a performance of “Othello” in a
native pa. lago was poisoning Othello’s
mind concerning Desdemona’s handker-
chief found in Cassio’s possession.
Othello: “Fetch me the handkerchief;
my mind misgives me,” Desdemona tem-
porises. Othello: “The handkerchief!”
Further shuffling. Othello: “The hand-
kerchief!” Desdemona still dallies.
Othello (savagely): “The handkerchief!”
Whereupon an impatient Maori at the
back of the hall snorted; “Wipe yer nose
on yer sleeve, Othello, and get on wit’ te
play!”
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: According to the Rev.
Robertson McCue, who is trying to per-
suade the Victorian Government to
undertake another liquor referendum,
drink is too accessible to the people of
Melbourne. New York, faced with a
rising wave of alcoholism brought on by
war conditions, dealt with the problem
from an opposite view-point. Now every
groceiy shop, drug store and delicatessen
can have a license to sell beer at a cost
of a mere 25 dollars. Licenses are so
numerous that the man who has a few
unexpected friends to dinner can send
out for beer, whisky or wine to the drug
store on the corner. In addition, there
are in N.Y. State 63,000 “package”
stores, corresponding to wine and spirit
stores in Australia. “Tied” houses
are disallowed, and most of the liquor-
vending is in the hands of individuals.
Saloon licensees are compelled to serve
food where they dispense liquor, and
30,000 uniformed inspectors see that they
do so. Bars are open from eight in the
morning till four the next morning, so
nobody in New York has to fight his way
into a bar at a quarter to six and have
six quickies before rushing home to his
liquorless family. The result has been
an enormous decrease in the amount of
drunkenness and drinking; in a State
oi ,‘13.000-000 people, last year pnly
23,000 persons were charged with being
under the influence.
* * » *
“Jasby”: After three years’ service with
an army unit, composed of men from all
parts of the continent, I am impressed
with the general homogeneity of Austra-
lian speech. X have come across very few
dialect words. The archaic “oftentimes”
used for “often” was favored by a lad
from Broken Hill, who could not say
when or where he had acquired the word,
but had been familiar with it all his life!
More intriguing is the use of “evening”
for afternoon. This I have found fairly
common among chaps from the N.S.W.
North Coast, particularly from Clar-
ence River. Today I picked up Tom
Sawyer and found the word used in the
same sense. Either Mark Twain or his
editor had seen fit to insert a footnote
“common usage for afternoon in the
south-west.” lam not suggesting that
the Clarence is a tributary of the Missis-
sippi, but Jack Abbott might be able to
trace an historic link,
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; Intramuros, reported to be
the scene of the stiffest Jap resistance on
Luzon, is the city-within-a-city which the
Spanish grandees built for their protec-
tion in the days when they would have
sooner died in their boots than give up
one item of their European clothing. It
was designed as a huge fortress, with walls
so thick that houses could be built on
top of them and with gateways closed at
nightfall, a safeguard against the amok-
king of fanatical Sulus. Inside the wind-
less city the Spanish garrison, with wives
and families, the merchants and the
priests and their acolytes sweltered and
died like flies from malaria, cholera and
other tropical diseases. After they ousted
the Dons the Americans let light and
air into Intramuros, and provided it with
modern sanitation, but they didn’t demol-
ish the walls, which seem to be proving
as difficult to destroy as the Siegfried
Line, If the fighting swings to China
there will be dozens of “Intramuroses”
to be encountered in the walled provincial
cities.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”; Alcohol as a poison?
A man of 86 told a Melbourne doctor
that he feared he wouldn’t have a long
life. “Why not?” asked the physician.
“Your father lived to 101.” “Yes,” said
the discouraged octogenarian, “but he
was a drinker.” “Well, you’re pretty good
at it yourself,” retorted the physician.
“Oh, yes,” replied the patient. “But the
old man drank all his life. I didn’t start
till I was fifty.”
* * * *
“Bo”; The latest “revelation” of the
Duce’s love-life, culled from an “intimate
diary dug up from the garden of a police
station,” discloses that his most tena-
cious “fairy” was one Claretta Petacci,
daughter of a Roman medico. In 1937
Claretta saw a squat, paunchy, ageing
man with a sagging chest, bow legs and a
billiard-ball head emerge from the water
at Ostia. This Figure of Romance so
wrought upon her girlish imagination
that she straightway fell violently in
love; in fact, she got it so badly
that she sent some love poems to him.
His stooges thoughtfully intercepted and
w.p.bd. them. But Claretta kept at it,
the sight of her Benno bobbing up and
down as he tried to ride a horse inflaming
her passions anew, and eventually she was
installed in the Palazzo Venezia, with
her sister Miria. On Miria Benno pro-
ceeded to cast most unfatherly eyes; but
when his comic-opera empire started
crashing about his water-wing lugs it was
to the passionate Claretta that he turned.
The diary “reveals” that he used to
’phone her “every quarter-hour through-
out the day,” his remarks sometimes
being “I have a bad headache” (he’s
telling us!). “What do I care about the
world?” and “I have no one but traitors
around me! ” And then Claretta must go
and sneak into a police yard and bury
her diary so it wouldn’t be found!
♦ * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: Dean Langley,
of Melbourne, has thus stated his five-
point programme for liquor reform:
(1) Fight’ to maintain six o’clock closing
as a milestone of progress. (2) Try to estab-
lish the Continental system of drinking in
the open. (3) Remove hotels from the city’s
front doorway. (4) Educate children to re-
gard drink as a poison and a menace. (5)
Shame women out of queueing up for
bottles and drinking in lounges.
If this is the best the dean can do he is
mentally back in 1545. As .everyone
but non - drinkers knows, six-o’clock
closing has increased, not decreased,
drunkenness in Melbourne. And as
for shaming queueing women, most
of them are trying to get bottles to pacity
their munition-worker husbands, who
have gone home dry and bad-tempered
because of six o’clock closing.
ROSEVEAR AND BROWN.
One Brown, you’ve heard, keeps Senators in
order
And sees decorum’s bounds that none o’er-
steps;
One Rosevear fills the role of watchful warder
Over deliberations in the Reps.
Sing, Muse, the blow that’s getting Rosevear
down.
The bitter cup they’re proffering to Brown.
It makes one gasp—it almost beggars cre-
dence—■
To learn these highly estimable gents
Are being cheated of their just precedence
At social sprees and similar events
Run by officialdom, denied the dues
That should be theirs at swarries and shivoos;
That they should be assigned a lower rating
Than mere War Councillors and such as these
Is naturally found humiliating
To their refined susceptibilities.
Sing, Muse, in sympathy with Brown’s distress,
And drop a tear for Rosevear’s ruefulness.
Deem not with wounded amour propre they’re
burning,
Or paltry vanity’s behind their cry.
Not so. The hurt they feel is that concerning
Hie eminences which they occupy,
The posts whereto they have contrived to mount
Being accounted of such small account.
Through their two selves they see the Senate
snouted,
The Reps, sustaining undeserved offence,
A slur and stigma cast on those undoubted
Strongholds of national intelligence,
Over whose wisdom, eloquence and wit
As dominoes in Canberra they sit.
Sing, Muse, as you were wont to sing aforetime
On injuries, injustices and woes!
“But no,” I seem to hear you say, “in war-time
I’m looking for more stirring themes than
those
Indigmucs that set an angry frown
"On Rosevear’s forehead and embitter Brown.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Curtain Raiser”: Councillor Beaton,
Mayor of Footscray, Melbourne, has in-
formed a startled public that 200 listen-
ing-posts have been established by indig-
nant citizens of ’Scray to detect dis-
paraging remarks about their subbub by
radio entertainers, a typical example
being: “I don’t use ‘Evening in Paris’—
I use ‘Morning in Footscray.’ ” There is
a threat that if the abuse doesn’t cease
the official censor will be appealed to to
delete references to the alleged smellful-
ness of the district. But it has taken a
long time to arouse Footscray. The odori-
ferousness of the place has been part of
the stock-in-trade of music-hall comedians
for two generations. And now it is urged
that they were wickedly unjust to Foot-
scray, as all the tanneries and other in-
dustries that smell are outside the “city’s”
boundaries.
* * * *
“Zake”: Listening to the Symphony
Orchestra performance of Bridge’s suite
“The Sea,” one movement of which por-
trays vividly wind and rain beating on
tempestuous billows, I was reminded of a
wet Sunday afternoon when Ernest Truman
was giving his weekly organ recital at Syd-
ney Town Hall. A few items in a quiet
vein had lulled to sleep a little old man
sitting in the back of the hall. Then
Ernest burst into “The Storm.” As from
the great pipes there pealed the simula-
tion of crashing thunder and lashing rain
the old chap suddenly woke, grabbed the
gamp that was still between his knees,
opened and hoisted it!
* * * *
“Melbn”: A wreck that has a niche
in Victoria’s maritime history took its
final plunge to Davy Jones’s locker when
a heavy storm split what was left of the
hull of the Orungal off Barwon Heads,
near Geelong. She was the first marine
derelict to receive the attentions of
Whelan, the wrecker. Having had his
tender accepted, Whelan put his “bulls”
aboard, and for two years they ran a
race with Neptune for possession of the
vessel, obtaining a considerable percent-
age of the loot despite winter, wild
weather, sharks and other misadventures.
None of the men had had previous ex-
perience of this sort of salvage.
* * * *
“Pro. Eng.”: I’m a fairly well-known
figure at the local pub on Saturday after-
noons and after work hours during the
wedk. The other day I began my annual
holidays. Travel being a messy business
these days, I put them in at home, doing
up the garden, a bit of fishing and so
forth. Early one afternoon I went to
the pub, where a hearty person looked at
me and cried “Hullo! How y’ doin’?
On strike?” I suppose it’s the natural
assumption these days when somebody
is seen away from work.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Is there a justifiable preju-
dice against first-nights in the theatre (B.
“Well, I cant tell them I only bought the Wood to mend the fowlhouse!”
10/1/’45)? I can remember when the
dailies used to say pleasantly, after prais-
ing a new play, “And when the little
hitches inseparable from a first perform-
ance have been smoothed down it
will . . .” etc. Robert Brough stopped
that: “The public doesn’t pay to see a
dress-rehearsal,” he said. What a social
gathering the dress-circle bar used to be
at the long interval in any first night-
before 6 o’clock closing! Still, it is
reasonable to suppose that the acting im-
proves a bit as the cast settles down.
Anyway, the public must think so, for
Adelaide Repertory, giving each play four
times, gets three good houses, and then
for the last such a bumper attendance
that it has to turn money away,
* * * *
“McPibroch”: “Kashmiri’s” wizened-
faced old native piper who played Scot-
tish airs (B. 24/1/’45) is a fairly common
Indian character. Some of the best pipers
outside Scotland and Canada are in the
bands of native regiments of the Indian
Army. There are, or were, about 40
native Indian regiments having pipe
bands, all of them pretty good. The tar-
tan is worn mostly as covers for pipe-
bags and pipe ribbons. The 17th Indian
Cavalry (Bengal Lancers) has a horse-
mounted pipe band, the only one, I be-
lieve, of its kind. Many of the sons of
these native pipers, and daughters too,
can gie a bit skirl on the pipes, and
“Kashmiri” need not be surprised if he
hears a native youngster doing “The
Road to the Isles” creditably on an im-
provised chanter. The performer will
most likely be either the son or younger
brother of a fully trained member of a
native regiment’s pipe band.
:p * sis *
“Cine Ma”: It is perhaps fitting that,
as Sydney has a Sinatra Club, Mel-
bourne should have an Anti-Sinatra Club,
Melbourne being the Commonwealth’s
self-appointed hub of aesthetic culture.
Melbourne’s club, which has 150 mem-
bers, is pledged to resist the debasing
influence of the more effeminate crooners,
has as its main platform “intelligent oppo-
sition to the pandemic of erotic hysteria
which has followed the hypothesis (sic)
of Sinatra,” backs the robust Bing Crosby
against this attenuated gurgler, and has
• decided to launch a magazine called “In
Fealty to Dorogokleepetz,” Dorog., etc.,
being an heroic youth who threw eggs at
Sinatra. A symptom which encourages
the anti-Sinatrans is the complete flop in
Melbourne of the goofy songbird’s film,
“Higher and Higher.” The new club,
which proposes to give Bing a great re-
ception, has adopted a badge bearing the
emblem of a scarlet raspberry on a white
field.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; An expensive hobby is
that of a citizen who simply has (he says)
to sing in the street. The Law won’t have
it; but this doesn’t stop him. On his
22nd conviction for the same offence he
just explained “I felt like singing.” It
cost him £7 12s.
* * * *
“Benbow”: The sartorial splendor of
the Royal Navy is to some extent the
responsibility of the outfitting firm of
Gieves (pronounced Jeeves, like Wode-
house’s character), of Portsmouth, Malta
and elsewhere. Practically every naval
officer for a century and a half has had
dealings with this firm. It is said that
the producer of the film “Mutiny on the
Bounty” wrote to Gieves asking for
“ideas” as to the uniform Bligh might
have worn. The reply was a case contain-
ing a full outfit and a covering letter stat-
ing: “We are forwarding a duplicate of
the uniform supplied by us to our late
client, Lieut. William Blight, R.N., prior
to his departure in command of H.M.S.
Bounty.” Fancy asking Gieves if they
had any “ideas” on a simple matter like
that!
“C.Q.”; Imitating an Ameri-
can periodical, Melbourne
“Herald” startled its public
the other day by reproducing
photographs of “Australia’s
six most handsome men,”
selected by a committee of
alleged physiognomy experts.
The list comprised artist
Charles Wheeler, actor Max
Oldaker, R. G. Casey, Major-
General Vasey, Lance Nicholls,
the amateur who took the part
of Ned Kelly in the recent pro-
duction of Douglas Stewart’s
play in Melbourne, and city
health officer Dr. John Dale.
Devastating was the judgment
expressed by a reader: “No
wonder the women rushed U.S.
servicemen! ”
* * *
“Benbow”; “Tarry Rope”
(B. 8/11/ ’44), who gets his sea-
water temperature from the
tingling of his hide £tt Bondi,
says it sometimes approaches
freezing. This is a common delu-
sion. It is routine in every navy ship to
take the sea temperature every four hom s
for entry in the log. Over years I can
find no greater variation than two degrees
Fahr. in N.S.W. latitudes over the whole
year, marvellous though it may seem.
* * * *
“Sparrow”: Those poor Big-city people
with their heat-waves we’ve been reading
about have stung us, the inhabitants of
Longreach (Q.), to deep compassion.
Here for the first 14 days of January we
enjoyed shade readings of between 100
degrees and 105 degrees. There was a
scramble for topcoats and woollens —
and the mercury dropped to 90 degrees
for two days. Then it became pleasant
again at 105 degrees for about another
fortnight. It must be awful in Sydney!
* * * *
“Hist” on commemorative stamps:
Reference (B. 14/2/’45) to a French stamp
commemorating the visit of the King and Queen
to Paris recalls that' the head of a British
sovereign has appeared on the stamp of a
foreign country. In 1940 Mexico marked the
centenary of the postage stamp by an issue in-
corporating in the design a replica of Britain’s
“Penny Black” —the world’s first stamp, put
into service on May 9, 1840, and bearing the
head of Queen Victoria. Foreign countries
have also given postal honors to British com-
moners.' A Greek stamp of 1924 paid tribute
to Byron for his part in Greece’s fight for inde-
pendence. Not so well known is Sir Edward
Codrington (Greece, 1927), who commanded
the British-French-Russian fleet against the
Turks at the battle of Navarino, October 27,
1827. Bulgaria in 1921 remembered the help in
“ Offhand, I'd say he Was rather partial to intoxicating liquo r!”
her fight for freedom given by the “Times”
correspondent J. D. Bourchier. The low values
of the set show him m Bulgarian costume, the
middle values are a full-face portrait and the
high values illustrate his resting-place at the
Rilo Monastery. Chilean (1915) and Peruvian
(19 21 ) stamps recall the chequered career of
Admiral Lord Cochrane, a freelance of the sea,
who served in four navies. Accused in 1814 of
participating, for speculative purposes, in a
false report of Napoleon’s death, he was dis-
missed the British Navy. He took his talents
abroad, to organise and lead the Chilean fleet
in the war of independence waged against Spain
by that country and Peru. In 1823 he had
changed employers and was Admiral-in-Chief
of the Brazilian navy, with Portugal as enemy.
Later he took on the job of licking the Greek
navy into shape. In 1832 he was back in Eng-
land, exonerated and restored to all his honors.
Irish-born William Brown (Argentine stamp,
1891), was somewhat in the same tradition.
Starting as a merchant seaman, he achieved
command of the Argentine fleet in an unsuc-
cessful war against Brazil (1825-27), but re-
covered prestige when he broke the Spanish
blockade of Monte Video (1842-45).
* ♦ ' ♦ *
“Q.Q.”: Back in 1938 Murray C. Mc-
Conville, of Williamstown (Vic.), ar-
ranged with one Murphy, of Aerial Sur-
vey, England, to be his tutor in a course
of draftsmanship involving stereoscopic
drawing and map drawing. The war
broke up that arrangement. McConville
enlisted, was captured in Greece, and was
sent from one prison camp to another
until he landed in Stalag 383, Austria,
in 1943. He hadn’t been there long when
he found Murphy, a fellow-prisonef. The
interrupted course was resumed, and Mc-
Conville has now become assistant lec-
turer in his subject in the camp education
curriculum.
* * * ♦
“N. Sydney” on the founding fathers;
The names Berry and Wollstonecraft are
attached for all time to certain localities on the
northern side of Port Jackson, whilst that of
Wentworth is variously distributed over N. S.
Wales. It is worth remembering that the
pioneers who bequeathed these names to their
adopted country were closely related to one
another before ever they came to Australia.
The picturesque Mary Wollstonecraft, author
in her own right, wife of another —Godwin —
and mother of another —Mary, Shelley’s second
wife — was an aunt of the wife of Alexander
Berry, of Shoalhaven and North Sydney, and
of the wife of his partner, Edward Wollstone-
craft. The latter’s father and D’Arcy Went-
worth, grandfather of William Charles, married
two daughters of William Dickson, of Bally-
gannon. A step-sister of that D’Arcy Wentworth
married John Shields, and their descendants
were always knovyn as Wentworth Shields.
The Anglican Bishop of Armidale (N.S.W.) was
one of them. The Berrys and the Wollstone-
crafts have died out in Australia, but there
still remain Wentworths and Wentworth Shields,
•i*
“Avon”: These are great days for
youngsters in M.L. Rev. Harold Irving,
vicar of Inglewood, Taranaki, believes that
travel broadens the mind, so he assembled
350 school kids from various parts of the
cow-cockying province and wafted them
off to Wellington for a stay of several
days, during which they were taken
everywhere and shown everything. Those
who wanted to go went on a steamer trip
to Marlborough Sounds as part of the
outing. Cash required by each kid
ranged from £2 15s. 6d. to £4 10s., accord-
ing to age and itinerary. The tale of
how the parson wrestled with problems
of coupons, travel priorities, accommo-
dation and supervision would fill a book.
Of course, the idea isn’t new or peculiar
to M.L., but to pursue it under war-time
difficulties indicated uncommon enthusi-
asm. Next year the Rev. Irving (he’s a
bachelor) proposes to take a juvenile army
to Christchurch, 300 miles to the south,
across Cook Strait.
« * * *
“Spokeshave”; At a recent mixed show
of paintings a bright young womaii
waltzed up to a Melbourne artist who
doesn’t like to be associated with “move-
men£S” and w ho was contemplating one
_ , . “Ob cmnrl afternoon
ot his own pictures Oh, good atternoon
Mr. Palette,” she burbled. Is that one
G f y our works?” “Yes, it is,” replied
the painter> “ Is it mo dern art?” the
, • . Th tj t shifted his
damsel queried. me anisi sum
contemplation to her for a moment,
“Quite,” he answered. “I painted it last
i. »
wcc *“
A HIGHER PLANE.
“Premier McKell undertook that suggestions for
the control of dog-racing, by some authority exer-
cising the same powers as the A.J.C. with regard to
horse-racing, would be considered by the N.S.W.
Government.”— Parliamentary item.
How harrowing to hear this sport enthralling,
Where long lean hounds are seen in hot pursuit
Of metal hares, should rapidly be falling,
As addicts tell us, into disrepute
Because of all the “rigging” and the ramps
Effected by a bunch of crooks and scamps.
On to the rescue, you who’ve never doubted
What wholesome sport to countless thou-
sands means!
You wouldn’t have “the poor man’s racehorse”
outed,
The sturdy worker’s galloping machines
Incontinently forced to take the knock
Because black sheep have crept into the flock.
Perish the,thought! Whole crowds will watch
you gladly
Pouring on troubled waters dinkum oil;
Firmly they look to you, McKell and Baddeley,
As tireless champions of the sons of toil,
To lift the pastime, purged of‘smirch and stain,
(As someone terms it) “to a higher plane.”
True that a war to win we still are waiting,
Nips to be dealt with yet in stealthy swarms,
But that’s no reason for procrastinating
With social needs and popular reforms.
And, for a crying grievance, emphasis
May very fittingly be laid on this.
“What was the task you did in war-time,
father?”
I seem to hear some eager youngster cry
In days to come, eliciting the rather
Evasive but quite relevant reply ;
“Well, among things that needed to be done,
I cleaned the fin-hare racket up, my son.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Barton leaned his swag-
loaded bike against the fence, walked
down to the homestead and asked for a
hand-out. The cocky gave him a bit of
bread and a hunk of cold mutton.
“You’re pretty tight,” growled Barton.
“You get orf me land,” said the cocky.
“I’ve had enough of feedin’ the travellin’
population.” “All right,” snarled Bar-
ton, “you wait, y’ mingie old cow.” He
withdrew to his bike and rode a mile or
two, then made camp. Early next morn-
ing he rode back, put a match to a hay-
stack in that cocky’s paddock and fled.
That day, camped 20 miles away, he saw
the cocky coming towards him on horse-
back. He grabbed his tucker-bag and
hopped on the bike. The cocky yelled
and spurred the horse. Barton pedalled
like mad, drew away and was about to
lose his pursuer when the front wheel hit
some heavy sand in a rut and over Bar-
ton went. He got to his feet as the cocky
rode up, and prepared for defence. But
the cocky was grinning. “Cripes, what’d
y’ run away for?” he cried. “That stack
was riddled with mice an’ no dam’ good
for anythin’. But it was insured against
fire. I’m an honest man, but by cripes I
know when t’ keep me mouth shut.” And
he shoved a quid into the astonished in-
cendiarist’s hand, then turned his horse
for home.
***:!=
“Blime”: The district was bucking a
heavy drought when Tim went over to
give Cocky Saunders a hand for a few
days. Paddocks were naked and scorched,
dams dry and blistering, while all round
in hopeless dejection stood the frame-
work of a once admirable mob of ewes.
“Yair, things is bad, Tim,” mourned
Cocky, glancing over the paddocks. “I
c'n keep the milkers an’ nags goin’ awhile
yet with the bit o’ wilier I’m failin’ for
’em, but I don’t see how the sheep’s goin’
to make out. Can’t git a bite o’ cheap
feed nowhere.” Tifn scratched his head,
suggested several unlikely prospects, and
half an hour later was still tussling with
the great problem when he entered the
feed-shed to find it stacked half-fuil of
maize. For a minute he stared unbeliev-
ingly ; then slowly he walked in and
fingered the grain. “Good Lord, Cocky,”
he gasped, “you’ve got several ton o’ the
best feed goin’. Whassa matter? Won’t
the jumbucks eat it?” “Too bloomin’
right they’d eat it,” protested the old
bloke; “but, cripes, Tim, don’t y’ foller
the markets? Y’ know it’s the first time in
twenty years I’ve grown a decent crop,
an’ with the price maize is this season,
well, I can’t see meself feedin’ it t’
starvers ’n’ getting nuthin’.”
>e * * *
“Sari”: There has been much ribaldry
at “Eureka’s” expense since he advocated
tossing pebbles at charging bulls; but
Ferdinand can be discouraged with some-
thing equally harmless, provided one has
the right Vantage. When I was attacked
by bull I sped to the nearest
tree —a ringbarked gum carrying half a
dozen sizable white-ant beds—and I
“Is was quite simple—all I did Was to plant the seed and Water it
occasionally."
swarmed up it to the first fork. Some
hours later, with the bull still at the foot
of the tree, I had an idea. Yelling to the
bull to make him look aloft, I threw a
handful of the “cement” with which the
white-ants cover their communication
tracks. Next moment Baldy, shaking his
head and bellowing blue murder, was
charging towards the horizon. A week
later his owner was still searching for the
nest of the wasps that had “near blinded
old Baldy.”
“Jindivick”: In my Gippsland days old
Jim had the best method of dealing with
rushing bulls I ever saw. Always on the
lookout for a slack wire in his fences,
Jim invariably carried a dozen or so
staples in his waistcoat pockets and a
claw hammer hooked in the strap at the
back of his pants. When his bull rushed
—and he never failed to attack anyone
foolish enough to venture into his pad-
dock—Jim would await the onslaught,
sidestep and crack the brute behind the
ear with the hammer. Very effective but
too spectacular for me. I relied on speed.
* * * *
“Balander”: Sometimes war-time regu-
lations, through ignorance of officials or
by a doubtful word, rebound to the ad-
vantage of the humble citizen. When all
Australian rice was frozen in order to
feed the troops and the Pacific Islanders
who’d suffered from war effects on their
normal food supply, employers of abo.
labor in North Queensland and the Terri-
tory suddenly found themselves entitled
to 31b. of rice per abo. per week. But
the boongs won’t eat the stuff, so the
boss, who has to take it anyhow, gives
it to the cats or plants it in the
station garden or gets rid of it somehow
—maybe uses it for weddings; anyhow,
he gets rid of it.
$ 5|C
“X.E.D.”: The batteries in Sam’s
wireless are pretty sick and Sam has to
wait three months for new ones. As he
listens to the war news three times a day,
Mrs. S. has had to cut out her favorite
serials, with her a sore point, not alle-
viated by Sam’s accusations of tuning
them in while he’s at work. The other
morning he returned home unexpectedly
and, as he passed the window, he heard a
monotonously-toned female voice going
at full blast. For a half-minute he
listened ; then, “Hey, Ma,” he yelled from
around the corner, “switch her orf, can’t
y’? What’s the idea, listenin’ to a hag
with a voice like that maggin’ at y’ f’r
half the day? I told y’ things were bad
enough without switchin’ on to that
tripe.” It was* about the only time Sam
didn’t get himself into bother for jump-
ing to conclusions ; Ma had been trying
tactfully to get rid of old Mrs. Martin
for the past couple of hours.
•* * *
“E. 2”: Symptoms of snake-bite in
dogs usually show up too late for a cure
to be effected, but old Dan assures me
there is a good chance of saving the dog
if you get him soon after being bitten.
In the case of a suspected bite immerse
the hound in water, warm and soapy for
* preference, and wash him thoroughly.
If the bite can be seen, scarify or excise
the punctures, encourage the wound to
bleed freely and keep on with the wash-
ing around the affected part. Reason
for the ablutions is that the hair and
skin close to the bite are usually satu-
rated with venom, which is afterwards
absorbed in the wound. Only rarely is
sufficient venom injected directly in the
punctures through a dog’s protective coat
to cause fatal results. .
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: At least one South Aus-
tralian dust-bowl cocky can still raise a
grin, as this advertisement in the “Lost
and Found” column of the “Murray
Pioneer” (Renmark) shows: “Left my
farm on Wednesday of last week, and
seen travelling north in a southerly direc-
tion, some of my best fallow. Anyone
knowing its whereabouts kindly communi-
cate with ‘Soil Erbsion Cocky,’ Myrla,
S.A.”
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: The queerest place in
which I have encountered expatriated
Australian gum-trees (B. 14/2/’45). was
10,000 feet up on an icy Javanese moun-
tain. Some Dutch engineer had intro-
duced it because it was believed to be a
prophylactic against malaria. The natives,
however, valued it more as a fuel, and
stripped every tree of its lower branches
until it looked like a betelnut palm. They
burned the leaves in their chimneyless
dwellings and to enter one was to get a
demonstration of the adaptability of the
human species. A couple of dozen men,
women and children would be squatting
round the smouldering bonfire and the
room would be so full of smoke and euca-
lyptus that no ordinary animal could
live in it for five minutes. The natives
however, didn’t seem to mind it
* * * '*
. . “Esk D.”: The springs and waterholes
in the hill country behind Mullins’s had
dried up, and the shortest cut to water
for the wombats was through his pad-
docks. The boundary-fence was netted
against rabbits, but the wombats made
great holes getting through and nearly
as many to get out again. Mullins, mad
at having to patch the fence and cope
with the rabbits that got in, mustered a
dozen hounds and his raw offsider for
a moonlight drive on the pests. Shortly
after starting out the dogs put up a wom-
bat and brought it to earth under their
combined weight, and Mullins finished it
off with a waddy. Circling the rise over
the flats, the “hand” saw dim shapes
moving near the creek and decided on a
swift charge. Mullins’s horse stumbled
and tipped him off, but Alec, yelling
wildly, went into the fray at a gallop
with the pack. Amid the din of dogs and
squealing victims he hopped off his nag
and gave battle, swinging a stirrup-iron
at full length of the leather. Five of
Mullins’s pigs and one dog had passed
on before Mullins got there.
* * * *
VH.R.M.”: Had often watched the
Moresby natives eating or chewing both
betel-nut and very green young coconuts
and dipping them in lime to counteract
their acidness, but never guessed the
origin of the lime until I saw a lone native
squatting near a burning log, on the hot
coals of which were several thin cockle-
shells. When these began to show signs
of disintegrating the native removed them
between two clean sticks and placed them
on a big green leaf to cool. After being
crushed in a small bowl kept exclusively
for this purpose the lime was ready for
use.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Rambat Singh lifted the
door-flap of his van. “Thee Bengal
razorr,” he droned, “thee dungaree trous,
seelika hangorchef, a-larming clock.” The
station hands needed but little coaxing.
Big Joe selected a white-handled razor
and an ornate mirror. Little Joe got a
pint bottle of hair oil and six tablets of
scented soap. Fly-veils, mouth-organs,
shirts and pain-killer sold abundantly.
Jackie Snowflake lurched away with a
shaving mug, a box of skittles, a magni-
fying-glass, a red hankie and, trailing be-
hind him, a fathom or so of white elastic.
“Have yer bloomers come adrift?”
cackled Big Joe, stamping on the
wriggling elastic. “No,” sniggered Little
Joe, hacking at the stuff with a Brum
knife, “he’s goin’ to shoot flies with it.”
In the huts everyone got busy admiring,
playing with or using their new extrava-
gances. It was then that the abo. sneaked
on Big Joe and shot him a stinger behind
the ear with a length of elastic. Big Joe
was trying out his new razor at the time.
Snowflake went “walkabout” for a week.
* * * *
“Sarina”: One hopes that “S.G.” (B.
7/2/ ’45) didn’t tar his fowl-house roof
immediately prior to a downpour of rain.
Water caught in tanks off a newly-tarred
roof will poison poultry. A friend of
mine treated his hen roosts with crude
creosote, but foolishly did not remove
v %nd thoroughly dry them. Result was
that the poultry suffered badly burned
feet. Some of ’em snuffed out, and the
survivors thereafter roosted in a citrus
tree.
* * * *
“B-gar”: Two of the greatest myths
associated with horses are the times
credited to the buckjumping capabilities
of some outlaws and the ability of prads
to walk five or six miles an hour. Popu-
lar fiction often has it that some horses
have bucked non-stop for anything up to
a quarter of an hour. Actually, it isn’t
possible, for a horse to buck non-stop for
one minute ; the longest time I ever saw
a horse in action inside or outside the
buckjumping ring was 47 seconds by
Carrandotta, a champion Queensland-bred,
owned by the late. Tom Hyland of show
fame. Odd horses can walk four miles
an hour for a few miles, but I’ve yet
to see the one that could keep that pace
going for the best part of a day. It’s an
exceptional walker that can get over 25
miles in eight hours.
% % * *
“M.U.R.”: “Betcha” (B. 21/2/’45)
wonders why a blue wren savagely attacks
its reflection in a glass. Others have
wondered about other birds doing the
same thing. The explanation is that the
bird thinks it sees a member of its tribe
caged up and immediately wants to de-
stroy it. I’m sure “Betcha” knows or
caged birds pecked at through the bais
by their free fellows, and he must have
heard of what wild cockatoos, magpies,
crows, etc., will do to tamed ones. Bu
why the free bird should wish to destro}
the captive bird is beyond me, unless it
is that they feel the captive is setting a
bad example.
WARRUMBUNGLE MAN.
I saw, in Coonabarabran, a girl with red-gold
hair
And eyes as deep as lucerne bloom that grows
in mountain air.
She came down from the ranges where the wool-
white cloud-ships sail,
Astride a flashing silver horse with jet-black
mane and tail.
She pointed to the tumbled peaks and said I’d
find her there,
Had I the courage and the skill the mountain
tracks to dare.
She rode from Coonabarabran; her promise
made me glow;
“If you can find me there,” she said, “well,
then —you never know.”
And forth from Coonabarabran with rifle, horse
and pack,
I climbed the Warrurabungle hills to find the
range-girl’s track.
I saw the dim blue gorges and the peaks against
the sky,
And stood alone and tiny as 1 heard the wedge-
tails cry.
I peered from ridge to distant ridge and at the
gulf between.
And saw by night, like distant stars, the lights
of Baradine;
And heard the words that spurred me, on the
night wind, clear and low.
“If you can find me there,” she said, “well,
then —you never know.”
My rifle rang on silence that had ruled for many
an age,
The startled rocks caught up the sound and
hurled it back in rage,
And, all the wild and broken heights, affronted,
frowned on me,
An alien in that waste of rock and precipice
and tree.
The mountains flogged me with their gales and
whipped me with their sleet;
The shifty shale lay waiting for my horse’s
stumbling feet;
But ever through the storms I’d hear and ever
onward go,
“If you can find me there,” she said, “well,
then —you never know.”
In time the weeks had changed to months, the
months to years have grown,
And I have seen the red-haired queen and seen
her mountain throne.
And I have found the eagle’s nest and learned
the eagle’s ways;
I know the glens where dingoes hide and where
the ’possum plays.
From Egmont to the Nandewar the blue hills
hold me fast
In a freedom that I never knew in the unre-
gretted past.
And in my dreams is still the voice I heard so
long ago:
“If you can find me there,” it. says, “well,
then —you never know.”
I know the mountains looked at me in Coona-
barabran
And sent her down to make of me a Warrum-
bungle man,
Her red hair made of sunset glow, her eyes
of deep blue sky,
Her voice the wind that croons at night where
mountain shadows lie.
I know that when my body dies my soul will
ride a storm,
As she rode one, that distant day, that took
a horse’s form.
And how I’ll laugh above the peaks and mock
here with my “Ho!”
“If you can catch me here,” I’ll cry, “well,
then —you never know.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Lub”: It was a popular belief along
Widgee Creek that there was bushrangers’
loot buried on the Brady farm, it being
hinted that Grandfather Brady, who’d
selected the place, had been in league with
the bail-up merchants and knew where
the hoard was planted. The old gent,
had gone the way of all flesh long ago,
but not before—so the rumor went —
passing on the secret to his favorite son
Charlie. And now Charlie had returned
to the old home after an absence of 30
years. Early on the first morning of his
visit Tim watched him stalk warily to the
old grey-box near the cowshed and line
it up with another across the creek. Then
he stepped off 25 yards at right-angles
and waited until Tim came over. “The
exact spot,” he said. “W-what, Uncle
Charlie?” spluttered Tim in excitement.
“The b-bushrangers’ hoard?” “Hoard me
eye,” snickered the old bloke. “That’s
where the chaff-shed useter be. By hokey,
we had some fun here catchin’ mice when
we wus nippers!”
n • h* s?
“First Blue”: This being a total war,
it’s only natural a man should bump
against some of his old track cobbers in
one or other of the armed services. Still,
I must admit I was surprised when a
hoarse voice smote my ear in a North
Queensland town and I turned to see
“Ingham” Joe confronting me ip the full
glory of an M.P.’s uniform. Last time I
saw Joe was in depression days, when he
was adorning the interior of a lock-up
after a prolonged bout with rum,
during which he’d plucked a fowl with
his teeth on the steps of the council
chambers. Joe was the only ’tilda-carrier
I’ve ever met who used visiting cards.
On one of his infrequent trips to the city
he had a couple of hundred of the things
printed with the legend “Ingham Joe, Esq.
Wanderer by Necessity.” The unusual
spectacle of a swagman handing out visit-
ing cards appealed to the romantic
imaginations of outback womenfolk.
“Poor fellow,” was the frequent com-
ment. “Obviously some high-born gentle-
man who has come down in the world.”
I didn’t agree then, but now, after Joe’s
booked me for failing to have a leave-
pass, I endorse the latter part of his
former clients’ remarks.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were making to our
camp from the town one bright moonlight
night and took a short-cut round a hill by
Ted Illmann’s hut. This Illmann was a
Dutchman or a Scowegian of some sort,
who used to work like a tiger all the
week, get thoroughly molo at the week-
end and suffer recovery in a silent and
sombre mood that kept people away from
him. This night, as we rounded the hill,
we saw a white figure floating in the air.
It scared us stiff for a minute or two,
then we saw the rope and found poor
Illmann, stark naked, hanging from a
tree. Well, we got the police, and there
was a lot of talk and action, and pre-
sently old Illmann was buried. “Well,”
remarked Mat solemnly after it was
over, “whatever else he was, the poor old
bloke musta bin one of the honestest
blokes about the place.” “What are you
cornin’ at?” Tasked. “Well,” Mat said,
“I reckon he remembered that he come
into the world with nothin’ and when he
made up his mind t’ leave he took nothin’
out, not even his clothes. So he’s square
on the deal.”
* * * *
“A.M.C.”: Guiseppe, the “co-belliger-
ent” farm help, was riding back to the
homestead from the far paddock. When
he dismounted to open the gate the horse,
an ancient crock, suddenly collapsed and
died. Carefully removing the saddle
Guiseppe tied the carcass to the gatepost
and finished his journey on foot.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Tell “Simon the Saddler”
not to waste paper on “Sur Cingle” (B.
21/2/’45). Any man who complains that
sweat rots the buckle stitches of his girths
and advises others to follow his lead and
insert copper rivets, and then cheerfully
explains that he “favors short-folded
girths” with buckles that come below the
saddle flaps, should be left to himself.
Any sensible horseman would see that his
buckles were protected from sweat by
the saddle flaps, and that his horse was
protected from tjtie buckles hy the saddle
flaps, but not “Sur Cingle.” If that man
had to walk through heavy Bathurst-burr
country he’d waste time and effort on
making wooden stilts rather than put on
a pair of leggings.
* * * *
“Larry”: When old Shipston took ill
Bartholomew, the bag-sewer, agreed to
look after his farm, feed his livestock and
milk his cow, which Shipston assured him
was “a quiet old pet.” Bart, consequently
didn’t bother to bale Jess up or put the
leg-rope on, and she seemed placid enough
when he washed her udder, but when he
“Remember, she's got T.N.T. aboard, so no smokin ."
leant-his head against her side and started
milking Jess suddenly took off, with
bucket and stool going in different direc-
tions and Bart, somewhere in between.
Afterwards he could not get near her, and
when Bart, conveyed the news to him
it was all they could do to keep Shipston
in bed. After conjecturing what might
have happened to Jess, the sick man eyed
Bart, up and down, and then burst out
“Gripes, it’s yer hat!” “Me hat,” said
Bart., taking off his battered tile and
looking at it. “Yair,” replied Shipston.
“Look at the flamin’ bag-needle y’ve got
stuck in it!” •
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: A stranger in the rural
district, I was following directions
towards my destination when a woman
emerged from a bush track. Get
the fire brigade!” she panted ; “the whole
of MacCreadie’s bush is alight and two
h-h-houses are in danger! ” Remembering
where I’d passed the fire station I made
record time (for me) and nearly shook
the bell off its post. The volunteer fire-
men arrived with incredible speed ; the
blacksmith undoing his apron as he ran ;
the grocer arriving breathless —a pencil
still stuck behind his ear. Delivering the
message, I helped to crank the engine,
“Go away, Prendergast—cant a man rough it for a bit without you
barging in ?”
piled aboard with the crew and en route
assisted an overexcited fireman to re-
adjust his belt and tunic so that his
hatchet-handle didn’t push his helmet off.
A bush unreeled on our right, broken
twice by small clearings around cottages.
On the brow of a hill we came to a halt,
and the captain, turning from the wheel,
fixed me with a ve." ’la eye. That,
he said ominously, j« -it g a thumb back-
wards, “was MacCx bush.” Before
I could answer the blacksmith cut in.
“These kids’ll know where it is.” Four
boys, who had obviously run a long way,
came puffing up. Their first —and only
—words were “Where’s the fire, mister.
An aristo taking his last ride in a tum-
bril might have felt happier than I did
on the journey back. Just as I was pluck-
ing up courage to make a dash for it
the captain (still with the pencil behind
his ear) asked grimly “Where did
you meet this woman, and what was she
like?” Desperately I supplied the infor-
mation. For a full minute he scratched
his head judicially with the pencil, then
announced the verdict; “0.K., you can
go. Old Mum What’s-er-name must be
on it again.”
* * * *
“Esk D.”: The Sayers brothers, Tom,
Charlie and Joe, were bringing a big
mob of wild-eyed Herefords down from
their summer lease on the high country.
At the Double Fork Tom went on ahead
with the pack-horses to prepare camp
for the night. A mile further down the
creek a couple of yearlings, taking fright
at the sudden bound of a wallaby, startled
the baldies, which tore off in a wild
stampede. Joe and Charlie, tailing along
behind the thunder of their hooves, came
on Tom’s hack snorting and trembling
beside the track with bridle-reins
dangling. Horrified, they saw a piece
of Tom’s shirt stamped into the mud
where the cattle had passed, further
prospecting revealed the battered remains
of a riding-boot. They were starting to
poke fearfully with sticks into a muddy
spring where a leg of Tom s trousers
floated when a yell came from the direc-
tion of the creek. “Y’ blasted goats!”
roared a familiar voice. “A bloke can’t
trust y’ with the cattle f’r more’n five
minutes!” The brothers stared open-
mouthed at Tom’s naked form. “Can’t
even have a swim in peace,” Tom
growled. Then he grabbed the hack
and set off at a canter to find the pack-
horses and a spare shirt and pair of
trousers.
* * *
“D.R.H.”: We had a lad here who
was shaping pretty well until he read
“J.C.’s” correspondence course on how
to train a stockhorse (B. 20/12/ ’44). He
told us all about it and the boss threat-
ened to kick his pants up over his ears
if he fooled around with any of our
prads like that. However, he wouldn’t
be told, and one day he applied Lesson
Five to old Boko —“a tight hold is taken
of his head and he is raked three or four
times.” I think he got in two rakes
before the earthquake that put him to
bed with a sihashed-up shoulder. Didn’t
anyone ever tell “J.C.” that to be hauled
up and spurred has the same effect on
a bush horse as “thumbing-up”?
* *
“Zake”: The old whiskered prospectot
came into the township butcher’s. As
the sausages he ordered were being
wrapped up he said to the butcher, “Y’
can shove an extra bit o’ that white
wrappin’ paper round it, will y’?” When
he was getting his change he looked at
the parcel again and said “I just re-
membered —I think y’d better put another
sheet o’ that paper round it.” “But noth-
ing can come through,” the butcher re-
plied. “It ain’t that,” said the old cove,
“but it jus’ struck me —I got two letters
to write!”
* * * *
“Uramao”: AtWaimana, in Maoriland’s
North Island, one Robert Fleming put
his mount at jumping gates on his way
to the township. At one his horse fell
heavily. He remounted and went on,
apparently unhurt. In the township,
while talking with a friend, he turned his
head to look at his horse and immediately
fell down dead. Verdict: a broken neck,
the break declaring itself when he sud-
denly turned the tensed muscles.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad had a local reputation
as a student of politics, and never missed
an opportunity of airing his views. One
afternoon, to his secret discomfort, he
was introduced to the member for the
district. “I am very pleased to meet you,
Mr. Wheatsheaf,” said the member cor-
dially. “I’ve been told that you are quite
an oracle. Now, what is your candid
opinion about the present political situa-
tion?” Half a dozen of Dad’s cronies
had hurried up to listen, and Dad eyed
them sourly. There was only one way
out. He glared at the member. “Look
here,” he said in a loud, angry voice,
“don’t think you can catch me with that
old stuff. He’d have to be a shrewder
bloke than you to suck my brains an’
then use ’em for himself, especially when
yT paid to run the, country.” He stumped
away, leaving an astonished politician
gazing stupidly after him. Dad is still
regarded highly as a political student in
his district.
* * * *
“E. 2”: In thick eucalypt forests I have
noted closely-related varieties flowering
simultaneously, with inter-pollination car-
ried on by myriads of insects. Yet the
main identifying features of each kind
were clearly defined, though, on botanical
reasoning, in similar circumstances a
merging of the species would have oc-
curred in almost any other forms of plant
life. Why don’t the gums hybridise, any-
way?
* * * *
“Bo”: For years Morrison had been
talking about putting up a hut, and when
Aubrey lobbed in as the new hand con-
gestion in the house forced him to it.
Forthwith he and Aubrey wrestled with
the job, the youth’s part being limited to
carrying materials or holding them in
position while his boss did the rest. After
a few days the skeleton framework was
in position, needing only the boards to
be nailed on ; the door Morrison intended
to make after the walls were up. He was
called away on business, so he showed
Aubrey how to nail the boards on, and
instructed him to go ahead while he (the
boss) was away. Morrison came back
after dark. Aubrey modestly admitted
that he’d “made a good job of every-
thing.” “Well, y’ might as well grab
y’r gear an’ put it in—no use dossin’
on the verandah again when you’ve got
a flash hut all to yerself,” said the boss.
Two minutes after Aubrey left he was
back. “I think somethin’s gone wrong
with yer architectin’,” he opined. “I can’t
get into the joint.” Morrison investigated
—yes, Aubrey had nailed it up all round,
including the door opening.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: The primitive aboriginal
was no arithmetician. In 1838 Governor
Stirling decided on a census of W. A. tribes.
An interpreter, Armstrong, was given the
task, and he took as assistant Migo, a
native who knew the names and foot-
prints of every native, male and female,
within 50 miles, but couldn’t tally them
off Armstrong supplied him with a
bushel of pebbles. Laying these out, one
stone one name, Migo ten ,
but that was his limit. Migo, was flum-
moxed.
THESE WERE THE HILLS.
These were the hills I knew,
Cool with tall trees,
Dark where the black-butts grew,
Grass to their knees.
Where have the bird notes fled?
Where the fat sheep?
Once, in that thirsty bed,
Wafer ran deep!
Whose flagrant hands would kill
Hills red with good?
Who broke the surging will
Of earth to grow wood?
Was it a poor starved man
In bitterness bred?
Or was it the one who ran,
The blind man they fed?
N.S.W.
PATRICK MCKEE WRIGHT.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
J Sterilised
i,R.»ed, bone flour
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tn-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane. 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
EGELABRA MERINOS
Four times mraars of (be Cup Wieners of Ist and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also wnmas of Grand Champion Ram and
Bwe, Sydney Sheep Sham, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE
Orders are now being booked for the
Rams to be classed before the end of
February.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gns, per head.
H. E. KATER & SON - - Egelobra, Warren, N.S.W.
Tdepbaae: Warren 10
/
rSR
CERTAIN DEATH
[I
to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
A boy can use tbe 81b.
Cyanqgas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from aty
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Woolclassing Trends.
;
j
“Murrawong”: Complaints of over-
classing are still heard, but everyone con-
cerned seems to be more anxious to pass
the buck than to do something construc-
tive about it. The Table of Limits and
the cloud of secrecy with which it was
shrouded undoubtedly caused much over-
classing. Men set out to handle clips
with the firm conviction that wool had
to be sorted strictly according to the
types, and with over 1000 types in the
Table it is understandable that oVerclass-
ing occurred. No attempt was made by
brokers or Central Wool Committee to
advise classers as to what extent they
could blend, so those bodies must
shoulder most of the blame.
Another cause emanates from the sys-
tem of wool training at some pre-
war technical colleges. Students did not
have access to wool in bulk during their
training, and most of their sorting was
confined to separating one staple from
another. This gave students a wrong idea
of the purpose of practical classing, and
slowed their work to such an extent that
at the conclusion of their course they
were not even competent piece-pickers.
The slogan for classers today seems
to be “work on pre-war lines,” but it
needs much qualification, and there
should be advice on the subject from
others interested. The broker wants a clip
divided into as few lines as possible, but
his idea of lines of demarcation may not
always coincide with those of the ap-
praiser. The broker is guided to a cer-
tain extent by .costs. For instance, if
six clips of 300 bales each are classed
into five fleece lines and four lines of
oddments in the main catalogue the
broker should be highly delighted. It
would mean ten entries for each clip, or
a total of 60 entries in his catalogue.
However, overclassing or even thorough
classing under the circumstances, af they
happen to be mixed flocks, might result
in as many as 20 lines which could not.
be interlotted and would need pages of
the catalogue and possibly ten times as
much space on the showfloor. All these
bales have to be broken out of stacks,
taken to the showfloor and opened up,
then repacked after appraisement, while
the cost of printing catalogues is fairly
severe.
In addition, there is the extra clerical
work involved, so the broker must always
be influenced by these factors. There is
a great need for some sort of post-
graduate course for classers and much
useful and interesting information could
be passed on to them by an independent
body, which could interpret the require-
ments of the Table of Limits, This point
must not be lost sight of in post-war
years when talk of reducing costs of wool
production comes up.
Merinos for Small Men.
“Sheepo”: Except where breeding of
fat lambs is possible, small holders should
stick to merinos. Reasons for this are
many, chief ones being (1) uniformity is
easier to attain and maintain, (2) culling
and subsequent classing of the clip do
not present such difficulties, (3) returns
per head from a uniform flock are always
higher than from a mixed one, (4) being
better adapted for light-carrying country
merinos wifi hold condition better during
dry periods, (5) merinos are less trouble
than crossbreds.
With a merino flock, periodical intro-
duction of fresh blood and culling of
“Wish them birds Would leave is tail alone — they're spoilin is
appearance."
nondescript ewes will permit even the
least experienced to obtain a uniform
flock, but with crossbreds every care must
be taken, or within a few years the flock
contains every breed from comeback to
strong-woolled three-quarter bred. Such
a flock can never be payable.
Another strong argument for merinos
is that when wool values slump good
merino wools suffer less than crossbreds,
and whereas crossbred wool values are
more or less controlled by fashion,
merino wools will always be in demand.
For the inexperienced or the small grower
merino sheep invariably prove the best.
T.B. in Pigs.
“Plane Creek”: No other ailment is so
widespread and serious. Bacon factories
reject thousands of t.b. carcases every
year. Dairy cattle commonly infect pig-
geries. Milk from t.b. cattle contains the
germ, which is also passed out with the
manure. Pigs pick up t.b. by consuming
germ-carrying milk or by rooting in
cattle dug-heaps.
Prevention is the only thing. Tucker
should always be nourishing. Young pigs
shouldn’t be allowed to lag in their
growth. To be certain of having strong
suckers, farrowing sows should be given
the best of food and plenty of minerals
during pregnancy. Keep pigs free from
internal parasites, and the ailments that
lower bodily resistance. There should
be neither draughts nor dampness in the
shelters. Most important, all milk should
be from healthy cattle and cattle pad-
docks should not be open to the pigs.
The trouble is characterised by loss of
weight, “panting” and enlargement of the
lymphatic vessels of the neck. These
swellings interfere with normal respira-
tion. Sometimes matter escapes from the
enlarged glands and causes the disease in
other healthy pigs. Pigs that show these
symptoms should be killed and buried in
quicklime. Suspects should be tuber-
culin tested. But t.b. is a stealthy disease.
Generally, it comes on slowly and has
gained a firm hold by the time symptoms
appear. On the other hand, pigs may be
horribly diseased within a month from
infection.
Trees and Soil.
“Pat Ater”; “Tummer” (B. 7/2/’45)
isn’t alone in the error that all trees are
sacrosanct for the purpose of preventing
erosion. Discretion in removing or plant-
ing them is as necessary as in other farm-
ing operations. It’s the trees on steep
slopes and hilltops that guard against the
rush of stormwaters after a long dry
period, when nothing else stands in the
way of washing and gullying.
There is shocking evidence of what tree
destruction can do at Batlow (N.S.W.).
Rich basalt soil has been shifted and
spread on the Gilmore Valley flats over
natural black silts. How muqh went to
sea has never been estimated.
All along the slopes from Gundagai to
Tumut and beyond can be seen hilltops
clothed in native gums. That mat of
leaf and limb to break the heavy autumn
and winter rains (before pastures shoot)
has enabled latter-day farmers to follow
the pioneers in cultivating the gentler
lower slopes, or to graze the steeper ones
below the protecting leafy canopy above.
Here and there a hungry newcomer
has ringed the “useless trees,” and ugly
gouges through his paddocks are the
result. Efforts to patch up the damage
(by stupendous soil-cartage) and establish
lucerne patches have brought some suc-
cess, and the sucker gum-growths along
the ridges are being allowed to stay,
Pasture grasses, carefully managed and
stocked with discretion, will stubbornly
resist water erosion. The danger lies in
over-stocking.
When a long drought arrives and the
stock get almost to the roots, hills and
slopes are in fine fettle for sheet erosion
at its worst. Average annual rainfall
doesn’t matter then. It’s how much falls
in the first downpour that counts —with
soil on the move from the higher levels.
The man is lucky who gets soft showers
till green shoots appear; none can count
on it.
Improved pastures with sub. clover,
Phalaris, ryes, cocksfoot and clovers to
provide all-the-year-round soil cover are
the answer. Those and a two-thirds capa-
city stocking. Only then can a man
dispense with some of his ridgetop and
hillside trees. Some should be left on
slopes, river and creek banks and else-
where for shade and windbreaks.
Hints for the Farm.
“Prof”: A very simple test of purity
of any woollen product can be made by
submerging a small sample of the fabiic
in dilute (2 p.c.) sulphuric acid for a
minute or two, then rub over it with a
hot iron. Any vegetable or synthetic fibre
will be charred by the process, and
can be brushed or shaken out, leaving a
network of woollen fibres only. A good
deal of ash would indicate a fairly im-
pure sample.
“H.C.”; Avoid losses in sheep-skins by
stretching carefully. In hanging, place
neck and tail on the rail. To stop weevils
paint with disinfectant while the skin is
green. When packing for market place
skin to skin and wool to wool.
“Sarina”; Peanuts are a profitable side-
line. They grow in shallow, clay soil on
a minimum of moisture. Deep soils
tend to lower peanut yields. Drill shelled
seed in 18in. to 2ft. apart, and allow 3ft.
between rows. Don’t over-cultivate, be-
cause peanuts favor stiff soils and resent
interference with their roots, but check
all weed growth. The vines are extremely
nutritious and can be fed to stock. The
nuts contain 25 p.c. protein and 24 p.c.
carbohydrates, plus over 30 p.c. fat—a
useful combination.
“Mooney”: To protect tobacco
from harvesting ants, cover beds with
medium-grade river sand to a depth of
iin. Approx. \\ kerosene-tins of sand to
100 s. ft. of seed.
“Cubberlie”; “The South Australian
border” is pretty extensive, and I’d like
“Pat O’Day” (B. 7/2/’45) to specify his
portion of it. I am familiar with the salt-
bush country on the edge of the Nullar-
bor Plain, and unquestionably it is good
sheep country. Water at 75-80 ft. is
scarcely “easy” depth, but it’s there. So
are rabbits. Not in drought years, of
course. They usually come in swarms to
counteract the bounty of the good year
following. But ti-tree and saltbush to-
gether! It’s mulga, sandalwood and
peach (or quandong) in “my country,”
as the blacks say. As for sub. clover,
that requires a 16in. rainfall, and Goyder
took the line of saltbush to mark the
outside edge of 12in. rainfall.
Land Writers.
Whenever possible state annual
rainfall, climate, altitude and type
of soil. This information helps the
reader to understand the article or
par. by comparing it with his own
conditions.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
A Word for Italy.
(“ Wall-street Journal” editorial comment.")
Putting on one side the debate over
the German and Japanese peoples, it
should be clear to anyone with any ac-
quaintance with the history of the Italian
people that to hold it, as a people, guilty
of the crimes of fascismo is totally to
misunderstand that history.
If there is one thing which is definitely
not an element in the Italian character
or genius or whatever one chooses to
call it, it is fanaticism of any kind.
Secondly, the political experience of the
people of the peninsula has been until
less than a century ago one of decen-
tralised government.
The political unity of Italy under the
House of Savoy never reached the stage
attained by the Germanies after 1870,
nor did the Italians ever dally with the
“blood and soil” nonsense of Gabineau,
Chamberlain and their followers, much
less adopt it as a national slogan. Fas-
cisrao in Italy was at bottom alien to
Italy’s traditions. At best it was a tem-
porary manifestation of the disillusions
and disappointments following World
War I, and succeeded in establishing itself
mainly for lack of any opposing political
force of national character and scope.
This is abundantly demonstrated by the
fact that its defeat has left in Italy what
is called a political vacuum.
What we have to deal with is a half-
dozen “parties” who agree in little more
than rejection of fascismo, a desire for
peace and a people generally closer to
actual starvation than it has ever been
in its long history. In the light of the
plain facts what justification can be
found for punishing this people for the
sins of fascismo?
Whether there is or is not “a method
of drawing up an indictment of a whole
people” may be debated, but that the
Italian “facts” are such as to warrant
such an indictment is not merely not
demonstrated but also not even a plaus-
ible hypothesis. There is no sign that
many Americans entertain it even as such.
Report on Belgium.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Demaree Bess, now representing the
“Post” in Europe.)
Belgians today have three sound rea-
sons for believing that their nation is one
of the luckiest in all Europe. To begin
with their cities and towns have escaped
most of the devastating bombardments
of this war. By another stroke of luck
their people have a supply of food ade-
quate for most of this winter. And for
the future, Belgians understand that their
little country already has been placed
under very special British protection.
Indeed, if the British have their way,
Belgium, with its 8,000,000 people and its
rich Congo colony, will soon become a
valuable addition to the British imperial
system, another British Commonwealth
in fact if not in name. British troops
played a predominant part in the libera-
tion of Belgium, and the British are wast-
ing no time in solidifying their predomi-
nant position here.
In talking with these Belgians who
have just been liberated after four years
under German rule, I find them prepared
to acknowledg#dependence upon Britain
more readily because they are confronted
with difficulties which they know they
are helpless to solve unaided. The Ger-
mans transformed this country into a
German colony, replacing the former
civil administration with a totalitarian
apparatus. They annexed outright two
Belgian districts —Eupen and Malmedy—
as well as Luxembourg, which is closely
tied to Belgium. They drafted 70,000
prisoners of war and 400,000 other work-
men to labor in Germany. They vastly
inflated Belgian money, and they bought
controlling interests in many important
enterprises, often in the name of dis-
guised middlemen. Today the titles of
ownership in Belgian heavy industries,
mines and most commercial companies
are so scrambled that nobody knows just
who owns what. Before Belgium can put
its house in order t again it must have
substantial outside assistance, and Great
Britain has guaranteed that assistance.
American and British soldiers in Bel-
gium are astonished and puzzled by the
pleasant living conditions. They had
heard so much about Belgians suffering
under the German occupation that they
expected to find the people living in ruins,
dressed in rags, and dying from starva-
tion. What they are seeing convinces
some of them that they have been fooled
by their own overzealous propagandists.
It is not surprising that some of our
soldiers are mystified by this situation,
and suspect some kind of monkey busi-
ness. But there was no monkey business
here. The compassionate Americans who
declared that Belgians would starve if
they could, not import food were correct
in their assertion that Belgium did not
have enough food in 1940 to feed its
people. It was not illogical to assume,
on the basis of experience during the first
World War, that the Germans would not
do much to assist Belgium. The world
outside was unable to learn then how
Belgium was getting along, but now that
the country is liberated it has at last be-
come possible to explain this mystery.
Belgians who stayed in their country
all through the German occupation tell
me that when the German army smashed
through Western Europe in 1940 it was
accompanied by another army of econo-
mists and administrators, some of whom
were food experts. These German special-
ists carried blueprints outlining the re-
organisation of all Western Europe into
a single economic unit, to be directed
from Berlin. Thus reorganised, the Ger-
mans calculated that Europe could be-
come almost self-sufficient, at least for
the duration of the war. The Germans
regarded Belgium as an important sector
in their scheme for a “new European
order.” As long as the war lasted the
Germans needed to keep the Belgians in
condition to produce for the German
war machine. After the victory which
they were counting upon the Germans
wanted the Belgians to fit docilely into
their own plans for post-war Europe. So
the Germans entered Belgium with de-
tailed plans for feeding the people and
keeping them at work. They had antici-
pated Belgian food requirements just as
carefully as the Allied armies anticipated
them when we entered this country four
years later. The people in Belgium and
in the United States who were so worried
about food in 1940 did not appreciate
that the Germans were going to make
sure that the Belgians got through to the
next harvest, even if they had to nourish
them from their own German hoard.
The Germans located huge Govern-
ment food reserves in France and Holland,
which they promptly confiscated and
placed in a common pool under German
control. The Dutch Government, for in-
stance, had prepared for a long war by
prudently laying in reserves sufficient to
supplement Dutch crops for seven years.
When I visited occupied Holland in the
winter of 1940-41 Dutch officials com-
plained to me that their food supply was
being utilised by the Germans to feed
other countries which had been less fore-
sighted. Belgium was one of those grass-
hopper countries. Simultaneously, the
Germans supervised a ruthless reorganisa-
tion of Belgian agriculture which enabled
the country to increase its own grain pro-
duction. This cereal increase was accom-
plished, however, at the grave expense of
the meat and dairy industries.
In thus reorganising Belgium and other
occupied countries the Germans appar-
ently were calculating that they could
regiment other peoples as efficiently as
they had regimented their own. Their
estimates did not foresee the develop-
ment of the notorious black market,
which became as widespread in Belgium
as it did in France and elsewhere, upset-
ting all German plans. By the end of
1941 the black market was so well organ-
ised in Belgium that its manipulators
could provide almost any kind of food
or clothing to anyone willing to pay fan-
tastically exorbitant prices.
This black market was popular because
it defied German regulations, and it was
considered unpatriotic to denounce black-
marketeers. It is still defended today by
most Belgians, on the theory that it kept
scarce commodities out of German hands.
But the black market also favored the
rich and hurt the poor. After it got
organised well-to-do people lived almost
as well as they had lived before the war,
while poorer people had to sell their most
precious possessions in order to buy
necessities in the black market.
Studies made by Belgian doctors show
that persistent undernourishment, especi-
ally among adolescents, has resulted in
serious increases of many diseases. For
example, recognised cases of tubercu-
losis rose from 31,000 in 1939 to 131,000'
in 1943, while the incidence of tubercu-
losis among children aged ten to fifteen
rose from 25 per 100,000 in 1941 to 200
in 1943.
The contrast between these undernour-
ished children and the plump patronisers
of the black market has left a heritage of
social unrest in Belgium now which is
likely ko plague the Government for many
years to come. It is complicating the task
which Great Britain has undertaken in
its ambitious plan to transform Western
Europe into a virtual sector ot the British
imnpriai cuct P m
The Western European federation
which the British are now attempting to
establish is receiving its first test in Bel-
gium. but the British hope to extend it
later to Holland, the Scandinavian coun-
tries and to France. If this is achieved
it will result in a financial and economic
system under British control such as Jan
Smuts publicly advocated. As Marshal
Smuts explained, the British Empire
needs some such additional strength to
equalise its position vis-a-vis the United
states and Russia to enable it to play
it f„u nnrt in a Three Power world
Acfordingly, Sdsh IdLSistrators
Belgium since its h •
sssssass
These points now stand out in
the light of experience: US. mili-
tary commanders seriously under-
estimated German strength. They
went in for over-optimism, over-
confidence, too much wishful think-
ing. ' A serious mistake probably
was made in allocating US. man-
power, in too great emphasis on ait-
forces, too little on developing in-
fantry in needed amount. Roose-
velt, Churchill, Stalin blundered
terribly, in lives of US. youth, by
turning to political squabbles in
midst of war, by carving up Ger-
many before her defeat, by using
troops for gaining political , not
military, objectives.—“ United States
News.”
Hugessen. In contrast to this large and
very active British embassy, Washington
has sent only a token embassy staff to
Brussels, and it has suggested its indif-
ference to developments by appointing
as fiist American Ambassador to liber-
ated Belgium a Middle-Western politician,
Charles Sawyer, who has had no previous
experience either in Europe or in diplo-
macy. The U.S. Government’s attitude,
therefore, has persuaded the Belgians that
America is giving the British a free hand.
There is, however, more doubt here
concerning the intentions of Soviet
Russia. Belgium is only a pawn upon the
European chessboard, but it is a pawn
which the Russians are not expected to
sacrifice without a quid pro quo. The
communists in Belgium, as their recent
activities have indicated, may throw a
monkey wrench into the machinery the
British have set up for dealing with the
Belgians. They act on orders from Mos-
cow and they certainly constitute a for-
midable obstacle to British designs.
Belgium communists were very active
before the war, and they are even more
influential now. Their strength is con-
centrated in the coalmining and indus-
trial regions, where they controlled one
of the largest and most effective of the
resistance groups, in which they incor-
porated other Left-wing factions to revive
the popular front. Some Belgians ex-
pected this group to lead a violent revolu-
tion after the departure of the Germans,
and these conservatives were greatly re-
lieved when Allied armies moved in and
took a firm stand.
However, Belgium is still a middle-
class country, even though its middle
class has been generally impoverished by
the war. The farmers and white-collar
workers are generally conservative, and
they share with the British people a de-
votion to the principle of constitutional
monarchy.
There is little doubt that if and when
King Leopold is released by the Germans
he will return to the throne; for the
position of the Crown has been strength-
ened in Belgium by the King’s admirable
conduct in 1940 and through the succeed-
ing trying years. In the absence of King
Leopold, his younger brother, Prince
Charles, is acting as Regent, and he is a
popular and obliging one. He is not per-
sonally ambitious, and there is no fear
that he will try to undermine his brothers
position.
With the Belgian people themselves
generally agreeable to the British pro-
gramme for a federation in Western
Europe ; with the United States appar-
ently indifferent; and with Soviet Russia
apparently exchanging tacit consent for a
similarly free hand in Eastern Europe, the
greatest obstacle to the British plan seems
to be France. Because, of course, there
can be no effective Western European
federation, no true Atlantic Community,
without France. French politicians, both
of the Right and of the Left, have pro-
claimed ambitions of their own to lead in
the reorganisation of Western Europe.
This is one reason why the British are
moving so rapidly to establish themselves
in Belgium.
So, while American politicians continue
to speak in glittering generalities about
vast world-wide schemes for peace and
prosperity, the British are trying to build
a workable system in their own sphere,
brick by brick. And Belgium is one of
these bricks.
Similarly, the British are quietly con-
solidating their influence in Holland and
Spain and Portugal and Italy, taking ad-
vantage of the unparalleled opportunities
which victory in war has brought them.
They are firmly convinced that Western
Europe’s future will be best served by
close ties with the British Empire, and
they are counting upon Frenchmen even-
tually to recognise this fact, especially
if it becomes apparent that British pre-
dominance in this region is not opposed
by either the American or the Russian
Government.
U.S.-Britain as Exporters.
(Condensed from a “Christian Science Monitor”
article by Harold Fleming.)
There is a vital need of Britain to
expand its exports very sharply as soon
as the war is over, for the simple pur-
pose of financing vitally needed imports
into the British Isles. Conflicting with
this, however, is fast-growing evidence
that Washington also contemplates very
heavy exports whenever the war ends,
though for a radically different reason.
And there is no indication that the rest
of the world will be willing or able to
buy the volume of goods which the two
great nations together feel it necessary to
export, even with the pre-war competi-
tion of Germany and Japan eliminated
in the immediate post-war years.
Perhaps it could be said that while
British export desires are due largely to
the damage and cost of the war to the
United Kingdom, American export de-
sires seem to arise out of the opposite
reason, the great stimulus the war has
provided to American industry.
In a sense the British have to export
because they are so poor {i.e., they are so
badly in need of imports), while the
United States wants to export because
it is so rich {i.e., its industrial cr racily has
so far outrun its consuming habits).
While the war has probably raised
British production costs, it has probably
lowered them in the United States, so
that the American industrial machine can
turn out its pre-war volume of goods with
millions fewer employees, and so looks
to exports to keep these millions busy
after war ortJers cease. Thus, American
post-war export plans are largely based
on the desire to maintain full employment.
Britain, on the other hand, has no such
immediate problem, since reconstruction
will employ all her people if they can
only get the necessary food and raw
materials.
These contrasts were well stated by
Lord Halifax in Chicago. Pointing out
that the United States wants to export
in order to take up the slack of industrial
capacity which cannot be absorbed after
meeting the needs of the American con-
sumer, he said in contrast, “If we
[British] do not export, we do not eat
and we cannot work. The problem is as
simple as that for a country like mine,
smaller than many of your States, thickly
populated, highly industrialised, lacking
in most natural resources, and therefore
largely living on what it has to import
from overseas. The crux of the matter
between you and us,” he continued, “is
how to adjust your need to find overseas
markets for your surplus goods with our
need to obtain the wherewithal to buy
what is indispensable for our national
existence. That is putting the problem
in very simple form.”
German Break-through
Mysteries.
(As considered by Washington “Post”)
One of the great mysteries about the
Western Front is how the Germans were
able to mass a half-dozen panzer divi-
sions and seven or eight infantry divi-
sions opposite the lines of the American
First Army wholly unknown to the Allied
intelligence.
One explanation was the weather; the
dense pea-soup fogs which made recon-
naissance impossible by keeping the air
forces grounded. The explanation, of
course, was fully satisfactory to those
with short memories. Others remem-
bered that the art of reconnaissance con-
siderably antedates the development of


PLAN NOW FOR
fabm
Specify Lysoghts
RED ORB for
rigidity: BLUE
ORB for curving.
8 ond 10 Corrugo-
iions; cut costs by
using the wider
sheet wherever
possible.
1
i I
In oil gouges
ond lengths
6ft. to 12ft.
m
"n
I IREPROOF—economical —
easily handled by any handy-
- for water
conservation—and possessing
great tensile strength—Lysaghts Galvan,
ised Iron is the only really satisfactory
building sheet for farm reconstructural
work. Specify it in your rebuilding pro-
gramme ! Supplies of guaranteed pre-war
quality available with Victory.
fi&SSt
-_.....»«.*11v«a II C V O A t I A t D T >
JOHN LYSAGHT ( AUSTRALIA) PTY.
iSYONEV * MELBOURNE • BRISBANE . ADELAIDE
LTD.
PERTH
mm
Have a “Coke”
Welcome, Friends
•7 sS;
tj\o\l
rtaV o -L-
- <&. 4^ : .
WSfgßr^
•or how to get along in Alaska
or Alice Springs
The American soldier in
Alaska, meets up with a
hundred little things that
remind him of home. One
of them is Coca-Cola. Have
a “Coke ” says he, and it
clicks in the Yukon as it
does in Yass or Yerrinbool,
Australia. From pole to
pole, Coca-Cohji stands for
the pause that refreshes
has become the high-sign
between kindly - minded
strangers.
y>
—the global
high-sign
“Coke” = Coca-Cola, It’s natural
for popular names to acquire
friendly abbreviations. That’s why
you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, U.S,A
(Liability Limited)
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDa
air-power and is thus not entirely depen-
dent on it. Accordingly, that explanation
has been dropped. And the U.S. Army
now reports that the Germans’ prepara-
tions were fully observed but were dis-
missed as training exercises for the men
who had been dragged up from the
bottom of the German man-power barrel.
Another mystery is how the Germans,
so often described as inferior in numbers
and weapons in the west, could have ac-
complished the breakthrough in the face
of much greater American strength and
fire-power. The answer seems to be this:
the notion that the Germans are weak in
weapons was merely a part of the chronic
self-delusion of a congenitally optimistic
people. It was never, it appears, shared
by the experts and professionals. This
should comfort all those who forget that
a few months ago it was precisely the
professionals and experts, including the
U.S. Ordnance Department, who were
boasting that our weapons were the finest
in the world.
There is, furthermore, the mystery of
why the Germans, who seem to have
abundant reserves of first-rate battle-
seasoned troops, should so recently have
employed the elderly and the very young
in their front defence lines. The answer
seems to be that the Volkssturm was
mainly a device for lulling the American
home front into a false belief that Ger-
many was at the end of her resources.
This, too, is quite plausible, unless one
remembers how much the Signal Corps
photographers and the American war
correspondents helped to promote this
dangerous illusion.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The recently defeated isolationists will be
supplanted by other isolationists more power-
ful than their predecessors if the United States
is made the catspaw of power politics in Europe.
—“United States News” editorial comment.
*** * *
The Royal Institute of International Affairs
has published a pamphlet called Fact and Fic-
tion in Japanese Imperialism. The writer be-
lieves that the Imperial Throne, though at
present used by the militarists as an instrument
of their policy, is the one “focus of national
unity” and that military defeat will not neces-
sarily lower its authority. He argues that it
would be extremely dangerous to repress this
loyalty, which might as easily be made to work
for good as for evil. The Emperor obviously
cannot be considered in the same way as Hitler,
and this is a question which the Japanese might
be left to decide for themselves. —Manchester
“Guardian.”
# * * *
Although work for the Royal Navy has en-
gaged some 55 p.c. of the facilities of the
British shipbuilding industry, the mercantile
tonnage launched in the four years 1940-43 was
4.415.000, compared with. 3,770,000 in the period
1915-18, when there were more yards and more
men available and no intensive attack from the
air on both the places of work and the homes
of the workers. Major war vessels with a total
tonnage of 1,183,501 were built between Sep-
tember, 1939, and December, 1943, while a
tremendous work of repair has been continu-
ously proceeding on both fighting and merchant
ships. —London “TimesN
* * * *
The first step following a decision to make
peace would be to invite France to participate
in Mediterranean affairs as an equal and princi-
pal Power. Nothing can be settled in the
Mediterranean without France, and all pro-
posals of settlement will have a far better chance
of acceptance if they do not come from the
English-speaking nations alone. In partnership
with France we should then undertake to end
the hopeless contradictions of Italy’s position
—that of a country which is at once a “co-
belligerent” and a defeated enemy. The only
way to end the contradiction is to make peace
with Italy, to supersede the armistice by a treaty
which fixes definitely the Italian frontiers, the ,
Italian colonies, and the reparations to be ma'de
by Italy to Greece and to other victims of
fascist aggression. —Walter Lippmann; Wash-
ington “Post.”
* * * *
A paradox of the realistic trend in France is
that, though the French accept the Russian idea
of creating a larger Poland by expelling
8.000. to 10,000,000 Germans from East
Prussia, Pomerania and Silesia they regard this
as a Hitlerian device that violates all their liberal
traditions. They fear that it may intensify
German nationalism in the future and the Ger-
man demand for living space that Hitler so
successfully exploited. —Paris correspondent
N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Some of the White House inner circle now
admit that the President made one of the
great psychological mistakes of the war when
he told a press conference that the Atlantic
Charter did not exist as a formal document.
When you read carefully the stenographic record
of that press conference, as this writer has, it
is easy to see that the President was only trying
to give some interesting history as to how the
Atlantic Charter was scribbed on bits of paper
by him and Churchill and radioed back and
forth between ships. He did not mean to throw
the Atlantic Charter overboard. He was trying
to steer his press conference, as he frequently
does, away from the dynamite-laden question
of Poland by telling them some other human
interest background information about the
Atlantic Charter. Unquestionably he did not
mean to imply that the Charter no longer ex-
isted as an ideal toward which the U.S.A. and
the world should strive. —Drew Pearson; Wash-
ington “Post.’’’
* * * *
Stalin is placing a very high price in terms
of U.S. war materials on any participation by
Russia in the war against Japan. —“ United States
News.”
%
In order to., protect England and Western
Europe from communistic domination from
Moscow Mr. Churchill has been reluctantly
compelled to acquiesce in the fourth partition
of Poland. The tragic irony of the situation
is this; England and France declared war on
Germany in 1939 because of Germany’s invasion
of Poland, which England and France had
pledged to protect. Two weeks after that in-
vasion Stalin, in a pact with Hitler, took his
“divvy” of half of Poland as the “pay-off”
for remaining “neutral” while Hitler enslaved
not only his half of Poland but the rest of
Europe as well. Concretely, that is what this
war is about —the rape of Poland by both Ger-
many and Russia. Have our men fought and
died to free Poland from Germany so that
Russia could steal her? — N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
China is in much worse shape
than even the pessimists realise. A
brave attempt at partial democracy
has failed, partly because other
world democracies failed to lend
support. Inflation has swept the
country like a typhoon. Millions
starve while a fortunate few live
off the fat of the land. China’s en-
tire economy is bankrupt. Whether
the receivership is Japanese or Rus-
sian makes small difference. A
dream is dead. —Upton Close ;
N.Y. “Journal-American.”
For General MacArthur’s invasion of Leyte
U.S. merchant ships had to deliver 500,000
tons of supplies and 30,000 men in the first
three weeks—not 3000 miles from home, as in
France, but 7000 miles away. The vastly greater
Pacific invasions yet to come will need more
than triple the amount of shipping used in
the Atlantic for the European war. We’re get-
ting the ships. But we aren’t getting enough
men to run them all. At least three new ships
are added daily to the War Shipping Administra-
tion’s 3570 vessels. That means that three new,
crews must be ready to go to sea every day;
that a total of 5000 new merchant mariners
are urgently needed each month. So pressing is
the emergency that any physically qualified man,
17 to 50, may now apply for Maritime Service
training if not already called for Selective Ser-
vice induction. Discharged war veterans, if
physical disabilities are not too great, are wel-
come, and a considerable number have joined.
— ‘‘Reader’s Digest.”
!p * !* »
When the Spanish civil war ended in 1939
an estimated half-million Republicans—men,
women and children —streamed across the Pyre-
nees into southern France. All that is left of
them now are 80,000 ragged, starving and sick
shadows of human beings, according to Ameri-
can observers back from Toulouse, the centre
of the region where the Spanish refugees are
existing. Nobody knows what happened to
some 400,000 of these refugees from the Franco
regime. That figure represents the difference
between the original number who escaped and
those that are left now. A few thousand
managed to find their way to the Dominican
republic and other Latin-American countries.
Others may have filtered back into Spain. The
Nazis undoubtedly deported many to Germany.
The best guess is that the largest group would
be those who died-*-of sickness, of starvation
or in Gestapo torture chambers. — Paris corre-
spondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
The British and American ideal is govern-
ment which includes freedom of speech, press
and religion, and a legislative body elected by
the people. The Russian pattern is govern-
ment which does not practise these principles.
Which of these types of government shall be set
up in conquered and liberated countries makes
the greatest possible difference to the three
Great Powers, to their peoples, and to the
world. — Mark Sullivan; Washington “Post.
* * * *
There are 701,678 Negroes in the U.S.
411,368 of them overseas. — N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
The path to victory in the Pacific will be
stained with blood and sweat and tears. Few
at home have any real conception of how
savage is the foe or any true understanding
of how tremendous are the obstacles of dis-
tance and of nature that must still be overcome.
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune” war correspondent.
# * * *
London “Economist,” utilising the recent work
. of Notestein and others on “The Future Popu-
lation of Europe and the #Soviet Union,
observes that if pre-war population trends
should continue the Soviet Union in 19 A)
would include 25,000,000 more people than
would be found in Germany, France, Britain,
the Low Countries, Scandinavia, Austria,
Czechoslovakia and Hungary combined. Ibis
is in contrast to the actual situation on the eve
of war, when Russia had 4,000,000 less than
the other nations named. _ The war, transfers
of population and shifts in fertility and death
rates (factors which Notestein had no means
of calculating) will affect this prediction,
but the effect may well be to exaggerate rather
than diminish the discrepancies which it indi-
cates. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
We ought not to have been surprised by
it; we should have known France better; but
to find that England, above all countries in g
world, is loved and honored in Pans still takes
an Englishman’s breath away. This tnenuu
ness is a new political fact of great SI^ fica £ff’
and France’s mood, as she re-emerges into free
dom, cannot be understood independently of it-
It is a friendliness of reason as well as or
emotion—London “Times” special correspon-
dent.
* * * *. .
Correspondents in Moscow are restated in
their ability to evaluate the
capitalistic civilisation upon theßussian
our opportunities to move with th . d
Army in its advance westward are limited
But certain definite conclusions
from what we have seen in Poland and the a
republics and from what we have read ®
“Pravda” from the pen of Leonid
His series of articles from Bucharest justly
could be called an appeal to Red Army
“ be loyal in tie way o£ "S
them and not to be impressed with , a rg
Sons of capitalist prosperity jhich they am
encountering in even a country so [}
tive of western progress as 3"™^ azinc .”
Lawrence {Moscow), in N.Y._ 1 mes mug .


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO CHARLES GEORGE GLANYILLE HARRIS
formerly of Croydon—TAKE NOTICE that your
wife Doris Mary Harris has filed a petition in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its Matri-
monial Causes Jurisdiction (No. 4817 of 1944)
praying for a divorce on the ground of your deser-
tion for three years and upwards Your wife con-
fesses adultery with one Thomas Osborne and asks
that in exercise of its discretion the Court will grant
a divorce notwithstanding such adultery You may
enter an appearance on or before the 31st day ot
March next and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from Messrs ALLAN UTHER & MANS-
FIELD, Solicitors, 350 George Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
Public Notices.
I, DIMITRIOS KOUIMANIS, of Greek nationality,
born at Chios, Greece, and resident six years in
Australia, now residing at No. 32 Fletcher Street,
Bondi, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ALBERT LANGSCH, of German nationality, born
at Danzig, Germany, and resident over five years in
Australia, now residing at “Overland,” Bogan Gate,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Bridging the Rivers
mm
v»v
mm
* -*-
«
* «
': SSS' : '
wws-JwwfX
Sow^wWWm
hi. Sr
WITH
tt#?
ENfIUS
■
marin*
There's only one "Caterpillar"
The name "Caterpillar" is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria,
manufacturers of the original traclc-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
illar
CaieK
Wide rivers cannot hold up wars any
longer. Until permanent bridges
can be built, ferries powered by
“Caterpillar” Diesel Marine en-
gines take guns, tanks, fighting . . ,
men and supplies across to pursue the enemy. And from airfields, formed
or repaired by “Caterpillar” Tractors and Earth-Moving Equipment, the
giant bombers go out to harass the foe and cut communications. It is all
part of a pattern of mobile war in which “Caterpillar” Diesel power has
played a distinguished part. What has been learned by “Caterpillar” in
war will contribute to the rebuilding of a better peace-time world in a
fraction of the time of pick and shovel methods.
CATEBPIILAR D/CStt
EARTH - MOVING
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR
Distributors for New South Wales and Queenslandi
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
EQUIPMENT
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone—LA3 321. Marquis St.. Gunnedah. 'Phone— Gunnedah 325.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie,
'Phone Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. “Phone—2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
Fight, Work, Buy War Savings Certificates
CT •7-33-44
V
CRAVENA
ttm/be always,,
smooth * (iedt!
Obtainable In 10’s & 20‘s
■
C *
m
fA
m
4
5787
■Mm
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy nine centimetre lens and viewfinder
for Leica camera.—3584.
To buy Private and Nervous Diseases, pub-
lished by Freeman and Wallace Medical Insti-
tute, and Maladies of Mankind, published by
Dr. Watson’s Medical Institute.—3s74.
Information Sought.
Were Kalians freely admitted to Australia
under pre-war legislation ?
Italians were treated in the same way as
Other European aliens, being required to obtain
landing permits from the Department of the
Interior. The only restrictions imposed were m
certain areas such as canefield districts in N.Q.
* * * *
Where is the steepest railway grade and what
is its ratio in (1) N. S. Wales , (2) Australasia *
(1) For a half-mile on the Camden Line ratio
is 1 in 19. (2) The Camden line grade is the
steepest worked by adhesion locomotives,
there are, or were, examples of 1 in 15 grades
operated by rack rail and the Fell system in
Queensland and M.L.
* * * *
Some facts about New Caledonia ?
New Caledonia, where neither malaria nor
other endemic diseases are prevalent, has a
population of 52,000, comprising 23,000 whites,
18,000 Kanakas, and 11,000 Asiatics. It is rich
in nickel, chromium, iron, manganese and
cobalt, and its export products are coffee and
copra. As its crops have not yet been developed
cultivation plays but a small part. The penal
settlement was abandoned in 1900.
* * * *
In case of a wife’s death, can a husband, who
has not. lived with or supported her for years,
claim property otherwise willed?
If the husband is left without adequate pro-
vision for maintenance he can make an applica-
tion to the Equity Court for an order for main-
tenance. In the circumstances referred to his
chances would be slim.
* * * *
Some information about the archceological
field of Carchemish?
Carcheraish was an important city in North
Syria between three and four thousand years
ago. It commanded a crossing of the Euphrates
and through it passed people moving between
Mesopotamia, Palestine and Asia Minor. There-
fore its archaeological remains show influences
from all these regions.
Brief Answers.
E.A.J.: From personal exertion (1) £8155,
(2) £17,405; from property (1) £8455, (2)
£17,707 E.E.C.: The Census of the Com-
monwealth of Australia published by the Com-
monwealth Government.... M.J.; Send t y° ur
question to the Health Department... .H.C.-
McMahon Point was named after an early
mayor of Sydney... .E.C.: Masonic Speech-
making and Lodge and After-dinner Speaking,
from Angus and Robeirtson, Sydney.. ..A. 1.:.
The method would not be suitable... .P.J.M..
The taipan ( Oxyuranus scutellatus) is also
known as the giant brown snake... .W.McK...
This is a case for expert examination; if a vet. is
not available consult a doctor, as asthma cannm
be ruled out... .W.G.: The story is set m
Woolloomooloo and surrounding districts....
Tag- Apply to the Police Commissioners or
the various States...-W.H.: The times are as
follow: Brisbane 6.43 p.m., Sydney /.06 p.m.,
Melbourne 7.43 p.m., Hobart 7.50 P-m.....
GXL; The subject is discussed m Heredity ana
Politics, Introduction to Modern Genetics and
You and Heredity. .. .R.P.W.: The. secretaries
of the British Medical Association in Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide will furnish the infor-
mation. .. J.McG.: Only remedy is to apply to
Equity Court to restrain “musician •••••»"••
Cairo Opera House was opened December It,
1871, with a performance of “Aida, specially
written by Verdi for the occasion.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
E.S.: Why is the moon-maiden wandering
in the ravine where the Red Indians have
hoarded their g01d?... .Ariel: Some nice de-
scrintion that’s all R.A.R.: Having
sprained’ my ankle and with nothing to do
1 send you this sonnet.” Sorry you sprained
your ankle... .F.M.C.: It’s about time to weed
from the garden all fairies, mermaids, angels,
dreamers and magicians... J.M ; I Shakspeare
beat you to it... .M.P.T.: You 11 have f° say
something more original about the sunset than
that its “everchanging hues” your drooping
spirits raise”... .M.R.R.; “I don’t know
whether you print doggerel.” Now you do.
M.M.: “Truth” rhymed with “roof” is as
painful as toofache 8.T.W.: Might do for
a Happy Thoughts corner in a kindergarten
magazine... .M. 8.: The clay’s too heavy....
WP ‘ Sentiments irreproachable; verse un-
approachable. .. .R.N.: Every time it reaches
one of those half-hearted truncated lines it falls
flat.


m
That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED? *
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 66
years’ specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur>
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet,
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sit Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D, Stuart Murray; Sit Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.; G. S. Coltnan,
C.B.B.; Sic Alan Newton, M,S. Melb., F.R.C.S. Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
1.44
The MARS High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the "MARS" Planer is of
a proved design and capable
of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED. ALL GEAR TEETH
ARE GENERATED.
• - SMSSS
Illustrated literature from
ţ
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence
Street, Sydney. For Victoria; Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 28 Market
Street, Melbourne. For N.Z.: A. M. Satterthwalte & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street,
Christchurch. STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Ply. Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Net Pref. * Towards Nominal
Sept., Profit 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
1937.. 238,365 104,459 74,993 58,913 222,392
Staff fund, £2OOO 220,392
Surplus liquidation S. Bennett, £876.. 220,768
1938.. 242,086 104,459 74,993 62,634 283,402
To staff fund, £2OOO 281,402
1939.. 236,920 104,459 74,993 57,468 388,870
To staff fund, £5OOO 338,870
To reduce intangibles, £182,921 .. 150,949
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1940.. 202,334 89,536 64,280 48,518 199,467
To staff fund, £5OOO 194,467
6.4 p.c. 5.4 p.c.
1941.. 180,956 80,956 58,120 41,880 236,347
To staff fund. £5OOO 231,347
3 p.c.
1942.. 115,624 80,956 32,140 2,528 233,875
To staff fund, £2290 231,585
5.4 p.c.
1943.. 186,941 80,956 58,120 47,865 279,450
To staff fund, £7331 272,119
1944.. 207,323 80,950 58,120 08,240 340,365
To staff fund, £15,000 325,365
* Pref. div. subject to statutory cut of 221 p.c. from
October 1, 1931.
This associated co. has had an expan-
sive and eventful but not very prosperous
career. At the end of the first three years
the ords., who had been shown an empty
basket, agreed to jettison half their capi-
tal. For the dozen years since they have
received annual distributions averaging
5.7 p.c., and when the books last closed
the whole of their remaining capital and
£103,466 besides was represented by that
will-’o-the-wisp goodwill etc. (£1,500,157),
That leaves out of the reckoning pro-
visions for depreciation
£598,092 against fixed assets with a book
value of £1,536,790 (cost).
At the start £3,135,930 of the co.’s own
scrip was exchanged for the shares, or all
but a fraction of them, in Sun News-
papers (paid capital £900,000) and S.
Bennett (paid capital £425,000). Last-
named was publisher principally of the
“Evening News.” Then goodwill of the
daily and Sunday “Guardians” was
bought from “Smiths” for £575,000 —
£400,000 in prefs. and the balance cash.
Slump arrived, shareholders became criti-
cal, and, to protect the chief earning
assets (daily and Sunday “Sun”), the
‘‘Guardian,” “Telegraph Pictorial” and
“Evening News” were knocked on the
head. It was to bury the corpses that
shareholders accepted the cut of 10s. a
share (£1,052,021) in their capital. Mean-
while, the “Telegraph” had been revived,
to be sold in 1936, after a halting career,
to Consolidated Press for £125,000 in the
purchaser’s ords. shares, plus a further
35,000 ords. and £95,000 cash for the
“News” plant and building respectively.
Consolidated paid its first ord. div., 2\
p.c., in 1940, followed by 7, and 3
p.c. to 1943.
Associated’s earnings continued to
climb until the outbreak of war. Since
then the co. has been faced with new and
keen competition in the Sunday and
previously-exclusive evening fields from
the “Telegraph” and “Daily Mirror”
respectively. There has been drastic
rationing of newsprint, with consequent
shrinkage in the size of publications and
curtailment of advertising revenue, which
have tended to reduce the “Sun’s” com-
petitive power. Also, the cost of paper
and of gathering war and other news
climbed with extraordinary speed, while
censorship of news and man-power and
other call-ups added to the management’s
troubles. Over the last four years net
earnings have averaged £172,711, and the
average rate of ord. div. has been 4.8 p.c.,
compared with averages of £229,926 and
6.75 p.c. respectively for the four preced-
ing years.
Circulations of the co.’s seven publica-
tions have behaved in this way;
1941. 1943. 1944.
Daily “Sun” ~ . . 175,000 215,524 245,257
“Sunday Sun” .. .. 300,000 835,934 371,631
“Woman” . . . . 160,000 268,828 304,080
“Fix” 180,000 216,104 248,025
“World’s News” .. 57,000 78,059 91,772
“Pocket Book” . . 22,100 25,931 30,685
“Radio and Hobbies” . . 14,900 18,934 17,793
The * improvement last term reflects an
increase in the supply of newsprint. Still,
the 12 big metropolitan dailies in Aus-
tralia are now consuming less than half
their pre-war tonnage of newsprint. An
extra 30,000 tons is to be imported during
the current year. Australian Newsprint
Mills (Tas.), in which Associated is sub-
stantially interested, is turning out
approx. 22 p.c. of Australia’s present
consumption, quality is improving and
plans for extension of the mills are in
hand. It paid 4f p.c. last year, too late
for inclusion in Associated’s accounts.
Despite the censorship rumpus and
the newspaper strike,, gross earnings
(£475,685) improved by £39,618. The
strike lasted 13 days, during which the
co.’s publications were not issued.
Financial terms of the out-of-court
settlement of the censorship trouble
were not announced. . Exes. (£268,362,
including provision of £48,763 for de-
preciation and £141,925 for taxation)
moved up £19,236, leaving the net result
£20,382 stronger at £207,323. That was
8.1 p.c. on capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined), or enough to pay the prefs. their
full contract rate (7 p.c.) and show 9.6
p.c, on ord. capital. The board, how-
ever, kept the div. at an all-round 5.4
p.c. The prefs. are subject to 22\ p.c.
cut under the now outmoded N.S.W.
Interest Reduction Act, with the right to
advance with the ords. beyond 5.4 p.c. to
their original contract rate.
The financial position improved:
1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £2,563,601 £2,568,601 £2,563,601
Overdraft . . . . 324,240 138,826 153,593
Other liabilities*. . 228,850 256,797 319,494
Provident fund . . 7,710 7,069
Deprec. reserve . . 508,105 549,075 598,092
Freeholds .. .. 752,175 ' 752,644 759,769
Pijjnt, etc 794,681 775,408 777,020
Shares . . . . 419,970 418,970 419,003
Stocks . . .. 288,762 229,741 326,378
Debtors, cash, etc. 186,475 193,484 267,805
* Including tax provision.
Last term £96,637 was added to stocks
and £74,321 to debtors’ balances, etc. The
growth in debtors’ balances was due to a
tax refund, not written back to p. and 1.
account. The amount coming to out-
siders, etc,- —the etcetera is provision for
taxation —was increased by £77,464. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£540,097) was £101,194.
Equity Trustees Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1936.. 12,875 12 p.c. = 10,800 2,075 95,600
Staff fund, £1339 .. .. 1
1937.. 15,925 12 p.c. = 10,800 [- 1,255 96,915
Written off premises, £2531 J
Staff fund, £1499 .. .. 1
1938.. 15,984 12 p.c. = 10,800 j 1,185 98,100
Written off premises, £2500 J
Staff fund, £1625 . . .. j
1939.. 15,344 12 p.c. = 10,800 } 919 99,019
Written off premises, £2OOO J
Profit sale investments, £5Ol .. 99,520
Staff fund, £1692 . . . . 1
1940.. 13,907 11 p.c. = 9,900}- 315 99,835
Written off premises, £2OOO J
Staff fund, £l7Ol . . .. 1
1941.. 13,149 10 p.c. = 9,000 }- 448 100,283
Written off premises, £2OOO J
1942.. 11,872 8 p.c. = 7,200 }
Written off premises, £2OOO f 928 101,211
Staff fund, £1744 . . . . J
1943.. 12,197 8 p.c. = 7,200}
Written off premises, £2OOO } 1,247 102,458
Staff fund, £1750 .. J
1944.. 12,367 8 p.c. = 7,200}
Written off premises, £2000!- 1,243 103,701
Staff fund, £1924 ..J
Never has the need for revision of
wills been greater, and never have the
advantages of the corporate over the pri-
vate trustee been thrown into bolder re-
lief. This because of economic changes
and uncertainties and the maze of taxa-
tion and other legislative and quasi-
legislative controls that war has brought
about. For these and other reasons more
business is being placed in the expert
care of the trustee cos.
Their moderate corpus and commission
charges are anchored by legislation, as
they always have been, which means that
the cos, have been unable to pass on war-
time costs inflation. At the same time
financial controls have forced down in-
terest rates and kept rents low. This has
meant only moderate returns for the cos.
from investment of their own funds,
which are represented mostly by rent-
producing freeholds, Government securi-
ties and advances to estates. Further, the
said controls have retarded realisation of
estates and affected corpus and other
commission earnings.
The Equity, which set up in Melbourne
56 years ago and has very strong connec-
tions, doesn’t broadcast the volume of
trusts on its books. But gross earnings
from all sources and exes, have moved
in this way:
.Tune, Earnings. Exes. Earnings
1920 .. £26,673 £14,775 55 3
1930 .. 52,328 34,364 65 6
1935 . . 50,300 38,327 76 1
1937 . . 54,961 39,036 71.0
1939 .. 57,281 41,937 73 2
1940 . . 57,288 43,381 75 7
1941 . . 59,226 46,077 77 7
1942 .. 59,293 47.421 80 0
1943 .. 58,508 46,311 79.1
1944 . . 60,289 47,886 79.4
Of the improvement of £l7Bl in last
year’s takings £1613 came from commis-
sions (£54,636) and the balance from
rents, etc. (£5653). Exes, took £1576 of
the increase, leaving the net result (up
£l7O, after allowing for reserve ad-
justment) at 13.7 p.c. on capital as
against 13.5, 13.2, 14.6, 15.4 and 17.3 p.c.
back to 1939. The div. was kept at 8
p.c., the usual £2OOO was struck off the
book values of premises and £1924 was
sent to the staff fund.
The £90,000 of paid capital, which has
the support and assistance of £103,701 of
reserves, is in 180,000 50s, shares paid to
10s. each—the other 40s. is callable only
in the event of liquidation, thus enhanc-
ing protection for clients. Together with
£564 coming to outsiders—the remnants
of an overdraft raised to assist erection
of the co.’s Bourke-street premises—the
lot was represented by freehold, etc.,
£115,192, Treasury deposit £lO,OOO, and
debtors’ balances, etc., £74,672.
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Sj £ £ £
1934.. 90,953 5-J p.c. = 34,997 55,956 149,174
Written off fixed assets, £20,000.. 129,174
1935.. 75,670 5J p.c. = 34,9971
Written off fixed assets, [ 20,673 149,847
£20,000 .. ..J
Written off fixed assets, £18,650 .. 131,197
1936.. 68,055 5i p.c. = 34,997 33,058 164,265
Written off fixed assets, £6891 .. 157,364
1937.. 67,928 5i p.c. = 34,997 32,931 190,295
Written off fixed assets, £29,830 .. 160,465
1938.. 48,191 p.c. - 34,997 13,194 173,659
Written off fixed assets, £5171 .. 168,488
1939.. 50,056 54 p.c. = 34,997 15,059 183,547
Written off fixed assets, £15,908 .. 167,635
1940.. 52,039 5J p.c. = 34,997 17,042 184,677
Written off fixed assets, £23,609 .. 161,068
1941.. 49,505 5* p.c. = 34,997 14,508 175,576
1942.. 48,722 54 „ „ 34,997 13,725 189,301
1943.. 47,427 54 ~ „ 34,997 12,430 201,731
Written off fixed assets, £27,154 .. 174,577
1944.. 45,253 5J p.c. c= 34,997 10,256 184,833
Net earnings of this big Maoriland
freezer averaged £48,589 for the five war
years to the close of last accounts. For
the preceding quinquinnium the average
was £61,980. The contraction is the re-
sult mainly of Government interference
and the rise in costs, including taxation.
Pre-war the co. bought in the crowded
local markets and sold at Smithfield
(Eng.). Since the outbreak Britain has
taken the Dominion’s exportable meat
surplus at very satisfactory prices, which
have been adjusted from time to time to
meet increased cost of production. And
reverse lease-lend on account of Allied
forces in the Pacific has stiffened both
demand and prices.
But sheep- and cattle-growers and
others in the meat trade haven’t benefited
to the extent that might have been ex-
pected. In 1942 the Government set to
work to stabilise conditions locally. This
by means of various controls over wages
and other incomes, prices, costs, etc. Ex-
ports are permitted only under licence,
and the overseas credit arising in connec-
tion therewith must be sold to a N.Z.
bank for local currency. The idea was
to protect the fall in the Dominion’s over-
seas funds, and, with imports controlled
too, some success has been met with in
this connection. Under the stabilisation
scheme one idea is to prevent farmers’
incomes from rising above the 1942 level.
So far as meat producers are concerned
the Government has withheld the first
and biggest rise granted by Britain in the
price of Maoriland’s meat exports, and
placed the money in the meat pool. Sub-
sequent and smaller export-meat price
rises have gone into the stabilisation fund
account, which also has a lien over any
further increase in income from meat ex-
ports. Costs, however, have not proved
amenable to such simple restraint. Hence


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Rupture
Worries/
ť
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
ŧ
t
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a courses
mm on a com ao .
nf RARKO Condition Powders. Constant sciatcn-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap. ... ~
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
tL (
e FINE HOTEL
A Hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading Hotels, Hut different to
every otHer in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
- atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
In
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
s
£v>
i.j’
Ni
n
P
omething he’s learning
The boy on the post-war bicycle will learn to
respect the strength and lightness of its frame of
Reynolds Quality 531 Aircraft Quality Steel Tubes.
He’ll understand then why progressive manufacturers
use Steel Tubes to supplant other materials in furni-
ture, fittings, tools and sporting equipment; for there
will be, many new applications of Steel Tubes when
tubing for war planes and other
important munitions no longer take
precedence at British Tube Mills
( Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Kilburn, South
Australia.
ţ
ť
R Be Me.
839
The Australian Gas Light Company
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS AT ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING OF PROPRIETORS
At the Annual Meeting of Proprietors of The Australian Gas Light Company,
held on February 22, 1945, in Sydney, the Chairman of Directors. Sir Samuel
Cohen, in the course of his address said.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —I desire to place on
record the deep regret felt by the Directors at
the death, on 6th July, of our colleague, Mr.
James Vicars. The late Mr. Vicars rendered
valuable service during the 13 years he was a
member of the Board. The vacancy was filled
by the appointment of Mr. C. G. Crane.
The expenses in connection with the inter-
connection of the distribution systems of our
Company and the North Shore Gas Company,
Limited, having been met, the temporary in-
crease in the selling price of gas of ,012 d. per
unit was removed as from 24th July last.
The contract with Messrs. Mcllwraith, Mc-
Eacham, Ltd., for the supply of coal terminated
on 31st December last. I am pleased to inform
you that following upon negotiations a further
contract has been entered into with that Com-
pany.
The general position in regard to stocks of
coal has been very unsatisfactory, and on
several occasions the stage was reached where
it appeared doubtful whether the supply of gas
could be maintained. As an instance of- this,
on 16th August last our stock of coal was re-
duced to 1476 tons which, at that time, was
only sufficient to produce one day’s supply of
gas. The position regarding stocks, however,
has been constantly before the authorities, who
have done everything within their power to
supply us with our requirements.
During the year the Housing Commission of
New South Wales commenced building opera-
tions, and it is indicative of the nature and
quality of the service which the Company fur-
nishes the community that in respect to each
estate under development the Company has been
requested by the Commission to lay mains.
So far the Company has been requested to make
supply available to approximately 500 houses*
In December last the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment abolished the permit systein in respect
to gas appliances, with the exception of re-
frigerators, so that it is now unnecessary for our
customers to obtain permission to purchase
most of their requirements. Unfortunately, the
quantities of appliances for sale fall extrernely
short of demand, so that we are not anticipat-
ing any immediate improvement in sales. Re-
frigerators, particularly, have constituted a prob-
lem because of the large volume of demand
which arises in general from the wide public
acceptance of gas-operated models, and the
problem was accentuated during last year by
the disruption on a number of occasions of the
city’s food supplies. The matter of increasing
the number available to our customers has, how-
ever, received and will continue to receive, our
constant attention.
Commonwealth Government control of the
sale of by-products operated throughout the
year, coke being controlled by the Common-
wealth Coal Commissioner, tar by the Tar Con-
trol Committee and sulphate of ammonia by
the Ministry of Munitions in conjunction with
the Department of Agriculture. Restrictions on
the sale of coke were temporarily suspended
in October, and many customers with lower
priorities availed themselves of the opportunity
of procuring supplies.
During the year the new Coke Screening Plant
at Mortlake Works was put into commission.
This plant has enabled considerable improve-
ment to be made in the screening of coke
for sale and has enabled the loading of coke to
be expedited.
Certain of our plans for the future concern
the Company’s organisation. Perhaps the main
one in this Category is the project to build a
new depot at Lidcombe, where we have 15
acres of land, so that workshops and stores now
located at various sites can be centrally housed
and administered. It is estimated that savings
in rent and other expenses which will be made
by transferring these activities, when taken in
conjunction with proceeds of sales of various
properties, which will become unnecessary, will
probably meet capital costs involved. It is also
anticipated that there will be reductions in
operating costs. We hope that when the time
comes to carry out the project it will prove
a valuable avenue of employment for labor
which will require to be absorbed as men are
released from the Armed Services and war-time
employment.
I had hoped to have been able to inform
you that the Benzole Plant had been com-
pleted and was in production. Unfortunately,
however, owing to circumstances entirely beyond
our control, such is not the case. Owing to the
acute shortage of labour, together with an
inter-union dispute which commenced in Novem-
ber, 1943, and which is still not settled, progress
in the 'erection of the plant has been disap-
pointingly slow. In this connection it will be
appreciated that the gas-making operations
and the maintenance and extensions of such
plant must receive first consideration as regards
labour. It can be stated that on several occa-
sions, notwithstanding that the maximum
amount of overtime was worked by day em-
ployees, it was with extreme difficulty that full
gas production was maintained. Although
numerous approaches have been made to the
Man-power authorities and advertisements in-
serted in the daily press, very little relief has
been forthcoming.
Excellent progress is being made with the
erection of the extension of No. 6 Retort House
and auxiliary plant which is required for the
purpose of meeting future increased demands
for gas. It is expected that this plant will be
producing gas by the end of September of this
year.
The sales of gas have shown further increases
during the last year oyer those of the previous
year, the increase being 26.7 million unks.
On the occasion of our last annual meeting
reference was made to the appreciation in the
market value of the Company’s shares, which
at that date had increased from £3 17s. 6d.
in 1942 to £6 per share. It is pleasing to note
that at the date of the closure of the Transfer
Register they had further appreciated by 15s.
per share, resulting in an increase in market
value of the total shares of the Company from
£3,138,750 in 1942 to £5,467,500, being equiva-
lent to 74 p.c. This position must be a source
of satisfaction to shareholders, and it substan-
tiates the statement made by me to the press
in August, 1940, to the effect that shareholders
should not be unduly alarmed by the payment
of the then rate of dividend of 4 p.c. per annum.
LEND NOW-SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDa
the equitable and widespread demand
from farmers that the Government make
its stabilisation policy flexible enough to
enable producers to be compensated for
increased costs. Furthermore, meat pro-
ducers are concerned as to when, if ever,
they will get the money held in the pool
and stabilisation accounts, which they
regard as rightly theirs. The Government
has never bought meat outright, as it does
dairy produce.
An unfavorable season and shortage of
fertiliser interfered with the efforts of
graziers to send more and heavier stock
to the meatworks last season. After mak-
ing unspecified provision for taxation and
other contingencies, this N.Z. Refrigerat-
ing Co.’s gross earnings (£87,565) were
£4329 lighter. Exes. (£42,312) were got
back £2155. That left the net result
(£45,253, down £2174) at 7.1 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 7.4, 7.6, 7.7, 8.1 and 7.8
p.c. back to 1939, without reckoning
£27,154 spent on fixed assets and written
off against reserves for renewals, etc. The
div. has remained steady at 5£ p.c. for
the last decade.
The financial position improved:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £636,310 £636,310 £636,310 £636,310
Debentures .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 160,000
Sundry creditors,
etc 784,107 980,031 978,736 1,038,558
Premises and
plant .. 562,251 561,524 534,059 505,635
Stocks, etc. .. 354,692 206,180 254,557 189,647
Debtors .. 318,419 108,937 64,949 59,122
Cash and
investments 454,731 765,354 1,087,761 1,230,297
Pukeuri deben-
tures . . 100,000 60,000 60,000 60,000
Sundry creditors, etc., include provision
for taxation and other contingencies.
Altogether on fixed assets £28,424 more
was written off than was spent, and stocks
were reduced by £64,910. Cash, etc., was
strengthened by £142,536. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£350,508) was £11,977.
As for the current season, a mild
winter and ample spring feed have en-
abled more better-weight stock to be for-
warded earlier than usual. For the first
three months the average weight of lambs
handled was 35.251 b., compared with
34.481 b. for the first quarter of the previ-
ous season. Every pound of average
weight added to lamb carcases and main-
tained throughout the season means an
additional 5000 tons in the quantity avail-
able for export.
At Lake View and Star’s annual roll-
up in London at the end of November
last, chairman G, Goldthrorp Hay said
the year’s development totalled 8701 ft.,
or 2833 more than for the preceding 12
months. Results were encouraging. Fall
of 15,100 tons in ore reserves was due
to a reduction in broken ore of 39,700
tons, and increase in positive ore of
24,600 tons. Positive and broken ore at
3,779,500 tons, average value 4.9dwt., re-
present 92.2 p.c. of total ore reserves. This
satisfactory result was brought about by
concentration of development in the most
promising sections and by disclosure of
new ore in working slopes that needs
little or no development. Approximately
76.7 p.c. of the ore reserve is in the
Western Group (Chaffers, Hannans Star,
Horseshoe and Ivanhoe) and 23.3 p.c. in
the Eastern Group (Lake View, Associ-
ated and other areas). To concentrate
operations in areas most easily worked,
56 p.c. of the tonnage mined last term
came from the Eastern Group, where the
Lake View produced nearly 40,000 tons
more than in the preceding year. The
plant, at Chaffers, treated 315,175 tons of
ore, averaging 5.27dwt. for a 90.78 p.c.
recovery, and 794,935 tons of residues,
averaging 0.86dwt., were handled by the
retreatment plant. Slags and matte were
re-treated instead of being shipped to the
smelters. A recovery of 99 p.c. of slag
values was effected, and matte residue
values have been reduced to the point
where re-treatment is no longer profitable
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) treated 79,159
tons (down 29,506 tons) during 1943,
which was about 40 p.c. of normal
throughput. The mill feed averaged
6.948dwt. (down 0.54dwt,), and gold out-
put was 27,500 fine ounces (down 13,200
fine ounces). Cost of mining the reduced
tonnage was 12s. 6d. a ton, compared with
10s. 10d., while treatment costs were 12s
9d., as against 13s. Working profit was
£71,228 (down £55,690). Taxation, in-
cluding £14,200 unprovided for in pre-
vious years, took £48,871, and £12,372
was set aside for depreciation, leaving
£9985 net, equal to 9 p.c. on capital. A
div. of 74d. per 2s. share (31i p.c.) was
paid, as against 50 p.c. for previous year,
both less U.K. income tax of 10s. in the
pound. Positive ore reserves are put at
975,537 tons (down 45,085 tons), averag-
ing 6.38dwt., and probable ore at 395,370
tons (up 4750 tons), averaging 5.35dwt.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie’s
announcement that it is increasing paid
capital to £614,750 by the issue of 9500
f.-p. 10s. shares to Lake View South
(G.M.K.) in exchange for leases and
, other assets recalls memories. At the time
of Lake View South’s liquidation in 1940
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie held all but
80.000 (handed to vendors) of the South’s
240.000 ss. shares. It was then officially
stated that, as development and explora-
tion indicated little possibility of any
further considerable extension of the pay-
shoots, ore in sight would be taken out.
The Lake View South block adjoins Lake
View on the south, and in the early days
was considered one of the best positioned
areas on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile-
Its gold-bearing resources, however, fell
short of expectations. It was first worked
by a London co., and, before Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie became interested, the last
to search for gold in it was a local co.,
in which the late Dr. Laver had an in-
terest.
* * * *
From London: Westralian goldmining
cos. domiciled here consider they are
getting a raw and heart-breaking deal
from Commonwealth authorities in
regard to (1) man-power and (2) obtain-
ing additional vital stores and replace-
ment of worn-out plant. They say that
if these matters continue to be side-
tracked and ignored there is a very poor
prospect for goldmining in the West for
some years to come. On most mines
the man-power position, according to
managerial reports, is steadily getting
worse, efficiency is on the down-grade,
and stores, such as essential chemicals
used in extraction of bullion from the
ore, are becoming increasingly difficult
to get,
• ♦ • •
A series of high assay reports from
Blue Speck Gold Mines N.L. (W.A.) has
been followed by official announcement
that ore treatment has commenced, that
the bin contains very low-grade ore (ton-
nage not stated), and that until this has
been treated average-grade feed will not
be put through the mill. Shareholders
are guessing what the next report will say.


—yet some people say
the war’s nearly over...
Don’t you believe it—there’s still plenty
of tough, hard fighting between here and
Tokio.
That’s why your money is needed now —
more than ever —to give our fighting
forces the power they need to smash our
enemies. Put your money into Victory
Bonds, the safest, most readily negotiable
security Australia offers. Interest of
£2/10/- a year for each £lOO lent for 5
years or £3/5/- for each £lOO lent for
16 years is paid half yearly.
If you should need your money in an
emergency your Bonds are readily sale-
able at any time.
Every one you buy strengthens your own
financial position and serves Australia at
the same time.
Make if a promise now to buy Victory
Bonds to the limit.
The Third Victory Loan opens on March 13. Start saving now for YOUR Bonds. If you have
cash saved, subscribe now in amounts of £lO and upwards. Full loan interest is paid on advance
subscriptions from the day you lodge your money with any bank, savings bank, or stockbroker.
Then start saving more to buy more Victory Bonds by instalments when the Loan is open.
Victory Bonds are issued in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
3 P y 10.83
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Taxation Now and After the War
The growth of Commonwealth Gov-
ernment civilian expenditure during war-
time, as well as interest on the debt
arising from loan expenditure on the
present war, has led some people to
believe that there will be no possibility
of a reduction in taxation rates when the
conflict is over.
Let no one fall into this error. It is
an error which will help the totalitarian
to further his political propaganda, since
one of the objectives of communists is
to have the State spend most of the
citizen s money for him. And there are
many branches of the Labor “grapevine”
which aim to attach themselves to a simi-
larly socialistic support in order to climb
to their objectives. Excessive taxation
strengthens the hands of all bureaucrats,
while weakening the resistance of the
citizen.
In 1938-39, before the war began, the
Commonwealth Government raised £77
million in taxation, including £2.8 million
of miscellaneous revenue. In 1944-45 it
expects to raise on its own behalf £293.8
million, including £7.8 million miscel-
laneous. The increase between 1938-39
revenue and that for 1944-45 is £217 mil-
lion. That is obviously a huge increase,
even if an increase thoroughly justified
in war-time.
In addition to loan-money spending,
during 1944-45 the Commonwealth ex-
pects to spend out of revenue £177.6 mil-
lion on the current war. The allocation for
this purpose in 1938-39 was £B.B million.
The 1944-45 figure includes interest on
the Commonwealth debt incurred since
the present war started.
The interest bill on the national debt
as it stood at June 30 last (£2366 million)
was £7O million a year, an average rate
of £3 Is. 7d. per cent. When war began
it was £46 million a year, average rate
£3 16s. per cent. Nearly all the war-
time increase has been on Common-
wealth account.
If, when peace comes, all defence ex-
penditure ceases, barring interest payments
on war debt, it would seem as though
(on June 30, 1944, figures) taxes could
be reduced by about £145 million a year,
put two unknown factors must be taken
into account when considering what the
position will really be when the war
finishes. In the first place, the war debt
will be bigger than on June 30 last, with
a larger interest bill; and, in the second,
if the £3OO-£4OO million bank-credit debt
is funded by public borrowing it will
carry interest at at least double the
present rate of 255. per cent.
Assuming, however, that the national
debt reaches £3OOO million before war
ends, and that it costs £95 million to
service, then we have £25 million to add
to Commonwealth outgo as at June 30
last. That would reduce the taxation
surplus “released” by the ending of the
war to £l2O million.
All this is assuming that no more is
spent on defence after the war than was
spent before the war. But it is also
assuming that civil expenditure, apart
from increased debt charges, is £52.4
million higher than pre-war, largely be-
cause of £3O million set aside to finance
a non-contributory national welfare fund,
nearly £l2 million for child endowment,
an extra £6 million for old-age pensions,
etc.
Here is a comparison of estimated
Commonwealth expenditure from revenue
during 1944-45 with actual figures for
1938-39:
+
Estimate, or
1938-39. 1944-45.
£mil. £mil. £mil.
1914-18 war & repat. .. 19.4 20.1 +0.7
Defence and war (1939-?) 8.8 177.6 +168.8
Invalid & old-age pensions 16.0 ; 22.0 +6.0
Child endowment .. 11.9 +11.9
Widows’ pensions .. 3.0 +LO
Other statutory payments 4.5 3.8 -0 7
Departmental votes .. 4.0 7.2 +3.2
Miscellaneous services .. 1.4 1.1 —0.3
New works .. ..0.5 1.4 +0.9
National welfare fund .. 30.0 +30.0
Territories .. .. 1.8 1.7 —Ol
Payments to or for States 15.6 13.5 -2.1
Relief to primary pro-
ducers 2.0 1.9 -0.1
74.0 295.2 +221.2
Although it is financially advisable to
pay for war expenditure out of taxation
as far as possible, and true that our
present war outlay could be cut by £328
million a year—the extent of our borrow-
ing—without relieving taxpayers of a
penny in the £, it is unlikely that Aus-
tralia, when th,e world returns to peace,
could effectively spend £177.6 million a
year—the amount of our present defence
expenditure from revenue —in a purely
military manner.
Effective defence preparation when this
war is over is most likely to be found
in the development of our industries in
conjunction with up-to-date defence plan-
ning, well-financed research and training,
maintenance of naval, military and Air
Force establishments capable of quick
expansion, but not in heavy expenditure
annually so as to keep the country on a
war footing.
Our defence preparations, in other
words, promise to be most effective when
dovetailed in with our peacetime devel-
opment and occupations, and in that way
do not threaten to become so much a
burden on the taxpayer. They are not
likely to be effective where the money
is spent in a political manner, as so much
of the funds raised during the present
war have been spent.
Taxation revenue from various sources
has risen as follows since 1938-39;
+
Estimate, or
1938-39. 1944-45.
£mil. £mil. £mil.
Customs and excise .. 47.6 67.0 +19.4
Sales tax 9.3 27.5 +18.2
Flour tax .. .. 1.8 1.9 +O.l
Land tax .. .. 1.5 3.8 +2.3
Income tax .. .. 11.9 167.3 +155.4
Estate duty .. .. 1.9 2.8 +0.9
Gold excise .. .. 0.3 +0.3
Payroll tax .. .. 11.0 +ll.O
Entertainments tax .. 4.2 +4.2
Gift duty .. .. 0.2 +0.2
Miscellaneous .. ..2.8 7.8 +5.0
76.8 293.8 +217.0
In addition to the £167.3 million of in-
come tax which the Commonwealth aims
to raise this year, the States are collect-
ing £32.7 million. Taken together, they
have foregone nothing during the war,
and have accumulated large cash
balances.
It will be seen from the table that
Commonwealth income tax has risen
from £11.9 million to £167.3 million, an
increase of £155.4 million. Present rates
of taxation are said by the Government
to represent the highest possible during
war-time. This paper is all for the
highest possible taxation necessary to
finance a maximum war effort. It has led
the way in that kind of thinking. But it is
dead against any unnecessary dr badly-
distributed taxation in peace-time.
. has been shown that, if our main
increased post-war Budgetary commit-
ments are the increased interest bill and
the growth in “social service” costs, there
will be excess taxation levied when the
war is over of £l2O million a year on
the basis of current collections.
Particularly if social-service costs are
put on a sounder basis —the system in
the main should be contributory— and
other departmental economies are intro-
duced, there should be ample room for a
big reduction in income-tax rates when
the war ends.
We should remember at all times that
taxation burdens are relieved by prosper-
ous industrial conditions and increasing
output by the individual. The higher
the national income, the lighter the rela-
tive taxation burden. It is sound econo-
mics, therefore, to remove as far as pos-
sible the excessive taxation that dulls
initiative, and for industrial laws and
economic conditions to be shaped so as
to give an incentive for higher produc-
tion per man. For many years, and
especially during this war, increased out-
put per head has been directly and
indirectly discouraged.
Dr. Evatt has been discussing Com-
monwealth life-assurance legislation be
fore Caucus. He said there should be a
uniform law in all States, with a paid-up
(reduced) policy obtainable after three
years and a surrender-value after six
years. A stringent standard of actuarial
valuation should be adopted and control
of premium charges should be introduced
so as to eliminate reckless competition in
bonus distribution and policy-selling
respectively. Power should exist to ap-
point a judicial manager in the case of
threatened or actual insolvency of a life
office, where there were improper prac-
tices or where the cost of conducting the
business was unduly high in relation to
premium income. It was proposed to give
policyholders some voice in the manage-
ment of “proprietary” life companies,
and to consider whether life-assurance
investments should be confined to trustee
securities. Where a co. carries on life
business as well as other insurance it
should be required to keep the life section
distinct from the rest. Companies should
be required. Dr, Evatt added, to deposit
substantial sums with the Treasury, ac-
cording to the size of the business trans-
acted. Provided any legislation resulting
from the Caucus discussions is not poli-
tically loaded, a standard life-assurance
law throughout the Commonwealth
should be welcomed. So far as the lead-
ing life offices are concerned, their invest-
ment policy has in the main been highly
successful over the past 40 years. It was
some of the post-1914-18-war offices that
were chiefly noted for rash selection of
securities. Restriction on investment
selection generally would be of doubtful
value.
* * *
The McKell Government is persisting
in its aim to regiment N. S. Wales ac-
countants and auditors. A job is to be
found for someone as “chairman” of a
“board” that is to conduct examinations
in lieu of the present recognised institutes.
The board will also “regulate” the profes-
sion. The atmosphere surrounding the
Government’s dealings with the bill is
more appropriate to dog-racing or
League-football “politics” than to the
control of a profession which for 50 years
has given honest and effective service to
the community. There has been no pub-
lic demand for the proposed legislation.
The objectives of the bill are political, and
many of those acquainted with the way
of N.S.W. Labor politics realise how the
State will be the worse off for this party-
political intrusion. The black-marketing,
wharf-pillaging and crime in general for
which N. S. Wales is at present noted are
indicative of the effectiveness of N. S.
Wales Government “controls.”
* * *
A striking feature of Canada’s war-
time Administration is the number of
Scotsmen (or Canadians of Scottish ex-
traction) who fill Ministerial positions or
high administrative posts. Canada’s in-
dustrial war effort has been magnificent,
in spite of the big French-Canadian popu-
lation, which might reasonably have been
expected to be a problem during certain
phases of the European war. In Aus-
tralia’s Ministry and war-time depart-
mental directorship there are many Celts
but comparatively few of Scottish
origin. Most Scottish names are on
the Opposition side —Menzies, Archie
Cameron, McLachlan, McLeay, McEwen,
McDonald, Stewart and (Independent)
Adair Macalister Blain, now a prisoner
of war.


THAT-
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTOR —James Burns - R. J. Nos worthy - Lewis Armstrong • Joseph Mitche i
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 9-44.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below .
SOLDIER —24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER—I4th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—7th April, ’42; “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelinanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER —17th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, '42; “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years.... I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer,
i applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established In
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the haif-niUlian Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people, A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-?
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 8 Gloucester House,
386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.’'
Name
A ddrest
157
Political Control of Banking
Labor’s banking legislation will be
before Parliament very soon, and it will
apparently take the shape forecast by
those who feared the worst. There is
to be abolition of the Commonwealth
Bank board, with a governor in charge,
subject to the direction of the Treasurer.
There is to be legislation to make perma-
nent most of the war-time banking regu-
lations.
The politically-controlled central bank
will dictate the credit policy of the trad-
ing banks. It will continue to have power
to requisition their deposits “up to 100
p.c.,” paying only a maximum of
17s. 6d. per cent, interest. It may
not be able to dictate the indivi-
dual dealings into which banks may
enter, but it will be empowered to obtain
whatever information it pleases about the
business affairs of the banks. It will
have the right to decide what classes of
advances the trading banks may make.
There will be a separation of the
central-banking and trading activities of
the Commonwealth Bank. The trading
section will be encouraged to compete
with the trading banks, and there will be
a branch devoted to small industries. The
bill will provide for housing loans, and
there is a suggestion that competitors in
this loan business, such as building
societies and life assurance offices, will
be “controlled” by the banking regulations.
On the surface it would appear that the
credit policy of the Commonwealth is to
become a one-man show. There seems,
indeed, to be only one man who could
be described as a banking expert —and
he the governor—who has a say in the
credit matters of the nation. The Treas-
urer bows to the will of Caucus (or else!)
and there are no banking experts in
Caucus, though any amount of cocksure
and dangerous economic ignoramuses.
Australians have seen what happened
to our defence programme under the con-
trol of a Labor Government. Caucus
dictated the limitations itf respect of the
area in which the militia might serve, and
it has dictated other matters of policy
which have embarrassed Australia during
the most desperate period in its history.
But the damage done to our war effort
by the decisions of Caucus are a trifle
compared with what may happen to our
peace-time economic life where there is
no Commonwealth Bank board composed
of men versed in the ways of industry
and finance to check the whims, fancies
and prejudices of a notoriously fanciful,
prejudiced body of trade-union bosses
and party politicians.
Of course, the Labor party will not be
in power for ever. But it is in power at
a most vital period. Our economic posi-
tion has been greatly weakened by the
strain of war. We have incurred a huge
debt and have borne severe taxation.
Whilst there has been a harvest of easy
money for a section of the population,
the nation as a whole has grown poorer.
The essential industries of the country
have generally been weakened, while a
vicious communist element is adding to
the difficulties of those industries by anti-
social action and propaganda. In this
state of industrial and economic strain,
ever since Mr. Curtin’s “without inhibi-
tions” appeal to the United States, we
have had an orgy of Labor politics inter-
fering with the nation’s business. The
proposed political control of banking
may prove the last straw to a war-weak-
ened nation that should be doing every-
thing possible to renew its economic
strength and to restore economic order
where political confusion and prejudice
have reigned far too long.
Banking is not a matter to be left en-
tirely to the discretion or indiscretion of
any vested interest. It should be kept
sufficiently free to allow the forces of
competition as well as the expert know-
ledge of trained financiers to shape the
economic policy of the country.
A strong central bank, left in charge
of a board of experts removable only by
legislation approved by both Houses of
Parliament, should be the pivot of the
country’s credit policy. The central bank
should have final control over exchange
matters, and it should be able to influ-
ence in a positive way the expansion and
contraction of bank advances, as well as
interest rates. But it should be free from
political control.
The Labor party in Australia has a
hatred of having to pay its debts. In its
latter-day history it has revealed a belief
that it is possible to wipe off debts with-
out cost; that there is such a thing as
costless credit, and that this remarkable
agent is not taxation or a charge on living
standards.
Just as it runs recklessly into debt —
where it can —and later on blackguards
.those who lent it money when they want
j their interest or their principal, so it en-
courages inflation and discourages real
efforts to check inflation’s ravages. It
seeks to reduce hours of work and out-
put per man and yet expects living stand-
ards to rise. It resents discipline except
where it exercises “discipline”—often of
a tyrannical variety—itself.
The Labor party has a history of poli-
tical interference in essential industries
and financial functions. The fruits of
that policy in latter days have been in-
dustrial anarchy and inflation. Let us
for a moment consider the importance of
the function with which the party now
proposes to interfere. The most striking
way, perhaps, is to consider what would
happen if all the bank officers went on
strike and the banking services closed
down. What confusion, what alarm, what
economic paralysis! Fortunately, mem-
bers of the Bank Officers’ Association are
not the striking kind.
A strike is not the only thing that might
cause a banking system to break down.
But, though strikes are unknown in bank-
ing circles today, we have seen what
Labor politics have eventually “achieved”
in the case of N.S.W. fire brigades, trans-
port services and abattoirs —all under
Government “control” and free from
effective private competition.
Progress Without Socialism
Inspiring passage from a monthly letter
sent out by the Royal Bank of Canada:
So industriously have Canada’s Hi million
people explored the wilderness, probed the
rocks, tilled the plains and built dams to operate
their factory wheels that their country is among
the world’s leaders in supplying the world’s
needs.
Canada is first in the production of nickel,
newsprint, asbestos, platinum and radium, and in
supplying food for the United Nations. She
is the world’s second-largest producer of alu-
minium, woodpulp and hydro-electric power,
and second in the building of cargo ships.
Canada is third in producing copper, lead and
zinc, third among the United Nations’ sea
powers, and the third trading nation in the
world. She is fourth among the world’s air
powers, and fourth in production of United
Nations’ war supplies.
Canada’s scanty population has been achiev-
ing mightily through inventive genius and enter-
prise. These have developed the benefits in-
herent in the Dominion’s strategical geographi-
cal position, her abundant and varied natural
resources, her wealth of cheap water-power,
her thousands of miles of transportation facilities
by rail, highway, waterway and air. Her
people have kept her credit and exchange sound
in the markets of the world.
And all this, you may think, has been
achieved by the Aberhart and succeeding
Douglas-credit Governments in Alberta
and by nationalisation of banking. Well,
if you think that you are wrong. After
dealing with Canadian affairs ranging
from racial stock, external political asso-
. , , • * • onH
ciations and kinships, seen Y
national finances to broadcasting and tne
Canadian Mounted Police, the bank's
letter goes on to say:—
Canada is noted the world over for the
strength of its commercial banking system.
b£Sches, re and toy
of the public. Security of deposits in the diffi-
cult years begot a corresponding security of
mind and 3e * s « f Canada
wide scale the banks have been in a position to
provide great support to Canada’s war effort,
Their-experience, resources and organisation
have been placed unreservedly at disposal of
the Government, and they have been of great
assistance in carrying out much of the admini-
strative work connected with controls, ration-
admi^ister^the 1 with foreign
exchange.
The Bank of Canada, a central bank, com-
menced operations in 1935. It acts as a
Government, and it does not accept deposits
from the public or compete with the chartered
banks. Just recently there was established the
Industrial Development Bank, under the man-
agement of the board of directors of the Bank
of Canada, to lend or guarantee loans to in-
dustnal enterprises. Mam purpose of this bank
j s t 0 a ff or d credit to businesses which could
not o bt a in it from established institutions be-
cause of long-term requirements,
It will be seen from these comments
that the Government of Canada has less
control over banking than the Govern-
ment of this country already possesses
The central bank in Canada does not
transact commercial business as does the
Commonwealth Bank. Yet Canada has
had less industrial trouble than Aus-
tralia, and it is making much greater
industrial progress. Today it is the most
j countrv i n t h e world,
progressive cuunuy nr uic wunu.
The proposed movement against bank-
j n g iri Australia is a political racket. It
serve nQ soc i a u y advantageous pur-
pose, though it may strengthen the hand
of the vested interests of Labor politics.
Australians are in grave danger of find-
• themselves sewn-up in legislation that
is of no advantage to anyone but trade-
union bosses and politicians who believe
j n regimentation of the people and gran-
for themselves A too-easv-going
diosity lor ine . y g &
nation is being politically exploited.


THE SERVICE MAN
On Iwo Jima.
“Ek Dum”: After a huge Allied fleet
had bombarded Iwo Jima for three days,
and. after Tokyo had alleged that two
attempts at landings had failed, Lieut-
General Holland Smith’s Marines went
ashore with their usual dash in the face of
more than usually strong opposition.
The operation was one which a decade
ago would have been considered to be
impossible in the face of heavy emplace-
ments, powerful shore-based batteries and
land-based fighter defence. Today it is
all in the week’s work. But never in all
history has such a battle been fought in
such a spot.
Iwo Jima is one of three islands which
lie 3000 miles from Hawaii and an equal
distance due north of Cape York.
Grouped along the Tropic of Cancer in a
north-south line, these “Volcanic Chain”
islands, which are in sight of each other,
are named Kita Iwo Jima (North Sul-
phur Island), Iwo Jima (Sulphur Island)
and Minami Iwo Jima (South Sulphur
Island), The north and south islands
tower to about 2500-3000 ft. Iwo Jima
is the central one.
In normal times they were barren and
uninhabited until they became a centre
of Japanese naval defence. After that
nobody knew what population or what
defences were upon them until U.S. aerial
reconnaissance gave some clue.
Iwo Jima is five miles long and any-
thing from a few hundred yards to
two miles wide. It is shaped somewhat
like a very broadheaded club, of which
the head is at the north-eastern end.
A few descriptive Japanese names are
written round it —Nishi (West Port),
Kitano (North Port), Tabiishi (Stepping
Stone), point on the south, Tachiiwa
(Standing Rock), point on the east, Mt.
Furu (Shaky), Mt. Moto and Mt. Osaka
in the broad clubhead plateau, about
300 ft. high, which forms the northern
part. Its only industry is its sulphur
mines. •
The northern half is a volcanic mass
presenting a forbidding sight from the
sea, with bare, prominent rocks, some
showing up white where sulphur seems to
have poured down the volcanic slopes of
the hills. Round the edges of the mass
are the three northern volcanoes—Moto,
Furu and Osaka. South-west of this the
land tapers away, narrowing down until
it reaches a flat neck of land only hun-
dreds of yards wide. Out of this at the
extreme end of the island Mt, Suribachi
(644 ft.), a partly live volcano, rises like
a knob on the base of the club-handle.
It forms a sort of Gibraltar, covering, all
round, the approaches from the sea and
dominating West Beach and Futatsune
(Secondary) Beach. On either side of
the flat isthmus between the mountain
and the main body of the island the
Japanese had laid out airstrips.
The Marines went ashore with the
cool daring for which they are justly
renowned. The landing was no light
matter, since there are shields of ugly
breakers round portion of the approaches,
making it necessary for the boats to
follow circumscribed routes which the
enemy must have had ranged to the inch.
It was the hardest and bloodiest assign-
ment which that rough fighting corps has
been given in this or any war.
Tanks Ashore
The battering of 16-inch guns from
the newest U.S. battleships, and the
heavy contemporary bombing, follow-
ing 70 days of constant air attack, had not
inhibited the power of the Japanese to
defend themselves, even without air-
power. The landing parties, after 7000
tons of shells and h.e. had been pumped
into the island, experienced a short Tull,
then hails of shells and mortar fire.
The beaches consisted only of narrow
fringes of sea silt, over which the sea
beat on terraces of black volcanic rock,
which stopped amphibious “buffaloes”
and “alligators” at the water edges.
With the island aflame from end to
end, the air thick with the stench of sul-
phur and the whole horizon reeling with
the impact of 16-inch broadsides, the
attackers must have felt that they were
entering the gateway to hell itself.
Nothing, however, stopped the stream
of landing men, though once or twice
there were pauses. Parts of the beach-
heads were widened to 250 yards, then
extended across the narrow neck of the
island in the face of intense mortar and
artillery interference.
Tokyo reported at the end of 24 hours
that 20,000 Americans had landed, with
150 tanks, but claimed to have, killed
3500. These statements proved to be
less fanciful than those which usually
emanate from Tokyo— at any rate so far
as the land fighting was concerned. By
nightfall on the first day 300 tanks were
ashore and doing a great deal to stabilise
the position by smashing guns and m.-g.
nests nearer to the American-held beach-
heads, and shielding infantry advances.
The shells and rockets continued to
scream overhead all day and all night,
but morning found the Japanese ability
to fight unimpaired. At noon on Feb-
ruary 19 Admiral Nimitz announced that
mines and pillboxes had been overrun for
700 yards during the previous 24 hours.
The Fifth Marine Division had bypassed
the southern end of the fighter airstrip
on the western side of the southern neck.
The Fourth Division was driving to
the centre of the Futatsune (Secondary)
strip on the east side, while another brave
band of Marines, apparently from the
landward side, was assailing the steep
slopes of Mt. Suribachi.
Every fresh advance was marked by
the same features—a hail of mortar, shell,
m.-g. and rocket fire from the Japanese
positions ; a rush over broken pillboxes
blasted out by tanks, sometimes smashed
by rocket-fire and flame-throwers, and
fanatical counter-attacks hurled by the
Japanese at the new U.S. positions in the
hope of breaking them up before the
Marines could consolidate.
In the first 27 hours or so the Ameri-
cans lost 150 officers and 3500 men killed
and wounded, of whom 3063 wounded
had been evacuated. This was not sur-
prising, seeing that the airstrips which
wore the main primary objectives were on
open ground, overlooked from the north
by the timbered hills running down
from the north and on the south by the
cave- and gully-riddled slopes of Mt. Suri-
bachi.
Suribachi Falls
Within the next few hours substantial
elements of the Third Marine Division
joined their comrades of the Fourth and
Fifth. Battleships continued to throw
shells and rockets ashore at the rate of
thousands of tons in the day. But the
enemy fought on viciously and skilfully.
His Suribachi positions were cut off by
the linkage of U.S. forces across the
isthmus. The best of his three airfields
was in U.S. Hands. But he had not run
out of courage or ammunition.
Each new movement to the beach was
greeted with a fresh barrage; each new
advance with a torrent of small-arms fire.
The misery of the fighting was made
worse by storms, which swept the island
With a howling gale every couple of days,
lashing the sea to fury on the reefs and
impeding naval and air operations.
At 10.35 a.m. on February 23 the flag
of the 28th Regiment of Marines was
hoisted on the summit of Mt/ Suribachi,
their adversaries diving to death over the
lip of the crater.
Firmly Ashore
The victors looked down on a fearful
scene. The beaches were a tangle of
broken barges and vehicles and cranes.
For the first 48 hours the Japanese
fire and the terrain had combined to
defeat the use of any vehicles save the
tanks. Even the jeep, for once, was use-
less. There had been times when
it seemed as if the heroic venture must
fail, but the discovery of a route through
the southern airfield where the heaviest
part of the enemy gunfire could not reach
tipped the scales definitely.
The final turn of the tide came on
Thursday, when heavy enemy counter-
attacks were beaten off on both flanks.
Supplies by that time were flowing ashore
in great quantities. But casualties had
continued to mount. Against 1222 dead
and one prisoner counted to 6 p.m. on
February 21, the U.S. casualties totalled
644 killed, 168 wounded and 560 missing.
By Feb. 25 2799 Jap dead were counted.
It was clear that losses were not over,
and that the rest of the island would be
bought dearly, since the terrain was so
narrow and restricted that there could
be no manoeuvre with divisional-sized
forces. It was a case of head-on colli-
sion with highly-defended Japanese
fortress positions until all of them had
been butted down.
The speed of the advance, however,
increased as more forces became avail-
able and the bombardment put more gun
and mortar positions out of action.
The advance on February 24, made in
the face of heavy mortar and rocket fire,
carried Marines to the centre of the
bomber airfield, which is well up on the
top of the northern plateau. Others
pushed along the west coast towards the
main settlement of Nishi, at the end of
the trans-island roads through the bomber
area, and also along the east coast.
In places 100 or more cemented posi-
tions, sometimes with four-foot bulk-
heads, had to be dealt with in a few
hundred yards. Often these strongholds
were 40 feet deep.
Tokyo Again Raided.
On February 25 Tokyo and Yoko-
hama, which lie along the same side of
Tokyo Bay, were attacked by 200 Super-
fortresses and about 1600 of Admiral
Mitscher’s fighters from carriers. The
assault was made in a snowstorm, and
seems to have been designed to disrupt
efforts to assist the defence of Iwo Jima.
The hearts of the 829 pilots would cer-
tainly have been in their job. The 3000-
mile flight at high altitudes from Saipan
and back must be a great strain on pilots
and crews. Capture of Iwo Jima will
halve the distance and the fuel load on
the Tokyo run. What that means can be
estimated by the fact that to fuel up a
829 takes 160 55-gallon drums of petrol.
Burma and Manila.
“Ek Dum”; Hostilities round Manda-
lay are confined to consolidations for the
main assault on the city. The lines of com-
munication —longest and most difficult
of any interior campaign of the war —
impart many headaches to the task of
bringing up supplies sufficient for an
assault on a major objective surrounded
by river barriers and defended by well-
emplaced artillery, at least up to six-inch
guns, and abundant mortars and m.-gs.
A new bridgehead has been established
at Myin Mu, across the Irrawaddy, to
the west of Mandalay, by elements of the
20th Indian Division, strongly supported
by Hurricanes armed with 40m.m. a.-t.
guns, which knocked out 13 enemy tanks
during the engagement.
The 36th British Division to the south-
west—in the Chauk area, near the
northern tip of the Burma oilfields —
spent the week cleaning up tough little
pockets, while the 19th Indians, 40 miles
north of Mandalay, cleared the edges of
their bridgehead across the river.
In the battle of the Kangaw Road
Block, below Akyab, the 25th Indian
Division, co-operating with British units,
had the better of terrible fighting
in which parts of the battlefield were
sometimes covered knee-deep by the sea
in abnormal king tides. The Japanese re-
tired to the jungle, but their last hope of
escape except through infiltration seemed
to have faded.
Walled City Falls
The week-end saw the end of the
battle of Manila. The last remnants of
the Japanese, trapped and suffocating in
the tunnels of Corregidor, had been
blown up or had blown themselves up
in ail explosion which shook the island.
And the Walled City had fallen. The
thick Spanish walls were breached by
Major-General Griswold’s supporting
artillery. The small space inside, about
a half-mile square, was plastered with
shells and bombs till little remained
standing.
The First Cavalry Division pushed up
from the south. The infantry rushed in,
the bulk making their way down one of
the Passig canals in assault boats. They
found a terrible scene —broken walls and
hundreds of civilians weltering in their
blood, or blown to pieces by the blast of
the guns and bombs or by Japanese
mines. Many had been murdered by the
enemy, who had refused to allow them to
leave the city before the attack.
Everywhere round Manila it has been
the same. Streets, wherever the Japanese
have defended them, are left a smoulder-
ing ruin, strewn with innocent dead—
men, women and children —and the last
pockets of the enemy immured in cellars
protected by electrical mines. These gar-
risons expect and get no quarter.
General MacArthur’s forces have now
begun to push out against the mountain
lines on the north and east of Luzon.
The new campaign will soon be in full
swing, and will test the real strength of
the enemy forces on the island.
One of the first operations to the south-
east of the capital was a daring and skil-
ful raid on Los Banos prison camp,
which rescued 2146 prisoners, including
329 British, 33 Australians, 56 Canadians
and 89 Dutch, from a fate like that of
the captives of Intramuros.
This gallant episode stands to the
credit of the troops of the 11th Division,
who crossed the broad Laguna de Bay in
assaults boats from the west, and a de-
tachment of the 511th Parachute regi-
ment, who were dropped into the prison-
camp area. Philippines guerrillas helped.
The rescue cost only two Americans
killed and two wounded. The Japanese
garrison of 243 was wiped out.
Luzon Casualties
Enemy (estimated), 92,000; U.S.,
2676 killed, 10,008 wounded, 245 missing,
a total of 12,929.
The U.S. killed and wounded have
therefore been heavier than in the Buna-
Gona campaign. Losses in the defence
of the Philippines were 1101 killed, 1690
wounded, 14,933 missing and 12,892
prisoners.
Moves Towards Rabaui.
Australians on Bougainville continue
their arduous patrol drives, which are
widening their hold on the outer fringes
of the Japanese positions. In the north
they stormed Downs Ridge, a companion
defence position to Tsimba Ridge.
The greatest gains, however, have been
on the New Guinea north coast, where
there was a general advance in most of
the fighting areas of Aitape and the break-
ing down of positions in the nether Torri-
celli region. There, where the campaign is
very similar to that in the Finisterres last
year, operations consist in driving small
Jap forces off what seem to be an end-
less series of razorback ridges. It is
gruelling and bloody work, with much
dinibing of cliff faces and hand-to-hand
fighting in gullies and crevices.
In the Barif area the forward troops
are 60 air miles from Aitape, where they
took over in November.
Shots on New Britain
In the first real fighting reported from
New Britain, land artillery, with the
R.A.A.F. and a naval ship, bombarded
Japanese positions at Wide Bay, and
native infantry picked up a patrol of 60
of the enemy in flight, killing 25.
In the Open Bay region, on the north,
Australian troops began a forward move-
ment, crossing the Sai River. When last
heard of they were making a steady ad-
vance against strong and bitter enemy
counter-attacks.
With these movements the battle for
the approaches of Rabaul has begun.
R.A.A.F. Liberators and Kittyhawks
made their usual patrols of N.G. waters
and destroyed some small ships.
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: The debate in Parliament
on the ground fighting assigned to Aus-
tralians did not enhance the Govern-
ment’s military reputation or calm the
general disquiet.
Mr. Menzies pointed out that the main
amphibious drive towards Japan from the
South-west Pacific was being made by
American forces. The role allotted to
Australians since the drive had begun was
the secondary one of cleaning up by-
passed areas which could no longer be
regarded as of primary military import-
ance. The British race, he said, was
vitally interested in the rescue of Burma
and Malaya, and Australia had a primary
interest in the relief of the Dutch East
Indies;. While it was not for a member
of the House to determine military Ques-
tions, it was always open for the Govern-
ment to decide in what theatres and under
what command Australian forces should
be engaged.
The Prime Minister said that he
“agreed entirely,” but:
The Government has made the decision
that Australian ground troops shall all be
assigned to the command of General Mac-
Arthur in the South-west Pacific area. The
Government made the assignment with the
concurrence of other Governments under
a directive given to the Commander-in-
Chief, and his appointment was made in
agreement with other Governments,
The position is surely unique. For the
Constitution provides that the Governor-
General shall be commander-in-chief.
General Blarney is titular commander-in-
chief land forces in the South-west
Pacific, but he is not commander-in-chief
Australian forces, cannot issue his own
communiques and cannot be held to any
military responsibility for the supreme
control of war taking place on Austra-
lian territory.
In fact, the Government is in the happy
position that neither it nor anybody else
can be pinned down to responsibility for
what happens to Australian troops under
the present arrangement. The forces
have been placed under the control of
General Mac Arthur, a very fine soldier,
but not accountable to the Australian
Parliament or the Australian people.
While his H.Q. was on Australian soil
and his supplies were being routed
through Australia or were mainly derived
from Australia the position had some
justification. Now it is different.
Every newspaper-reader was told with-
in the past fortnight what American divi-
sions were engaged in the advance on
Manila and whence they were advanc-
ing, and who was in command of them,
and where exactly they were at given
times. From the moment troops were
landed on Iwo Jima the world knew the
names of the divisions involved and the
names of their commanding officers.
But the name of the field-commander
in Australian Mandated Territory is an
official secret. The names of divisional
commanders are hidden under a blanket.
And nobody seems to be able to explain,
or want to explain, why it is that a com-
mand which seems to be unified both “in
chief” and in regard to the land forces
feels it perfectly safe to give detailed


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN DELANEY of Lismore Soldier. —TAKE
NOTICE that FRANCIS CHAUVIER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2322 of 1944 against his
wife JESSIE MONA CHAUVIER on the ground of
her adultery with you If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by 17 th April next and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from THOMAS
EDWARD RUMMERY Solicitor Woodlark Street
Lismore or his Sydney Agents MESSRS. HILL,
THOMSON & SULLIVAN Solicitors 115 Pitt Street
Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— -In Divorce.
TO EDYTHE VERONICA CALLOW and JAMES
ANDREWS late of Cattai near Windsor. —TAKE
NOTICE that JAMES WILLIAM CALLOW has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 352 of 1945 on the ground
of your adultery and TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Court on or before the 29th
day of March next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwithstanding
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 19th day of February, 1945.
T. L. BLATOHFORD, Solicitor, 81 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ALEXANDER CUNNINGHAM—aged about 60—and
until recently employed in Perth, W.A., is asked to
write to TRUMBLE & PALMER Solicitors, Nhill,
Victoria. .
CONNELL, Frank, formerly of Torrens Terrace, Wel-
lington, New Zealand, will hear something to his
advantage if he communicates with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice. <
T FRANCISOUS EVERARDUS CORNELLS AN-
THONIES ELIE, of Dutch nationality, born at
Rotterdam, province of South Holland, in The Nether-
lands, and resident 83 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 72 South Street, Grenfell, New South Wales,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1986.
CD
am
information about the American com-
manders and formations —sometimes even
units —but imposes security silence when-
ever Australian forces are involved.
There is probably no previous instance
of a self-respecting English-speaking
country as powerful as Australia allow-
ing an Allied commander to direct from
foreign soil a campaign against an enemy
within its borders, carried out by its own
land forces. There is the less excuse be-
cause Australia possesses senior officers
with fighting experience scarcely surpassed
in any Allied army.
For the present position there is no
excuse save that this country has a Gov-
ernment which has so odd a sense of
responsibility that it is not evert ensuring
the safe delivery of parcels and comforts
for its soldiers in New Guinea bases,
which are the prey of unwhipped bands
of looters.
The country also has a Parliament of
sorts. If it is a real Parliament it will
press for drastic action to clear New
Guinea under Australian command with
the use of Australia’s own resources, and
for Australian participation in the rescue
of the Australians taken prisoner in the
Dutch East Indies and Malaya.
The Road to Cologne.
“Ek Dum”: With floodwaters subsid-
ing and commands reorganised Allied
armies have gone over to the offensive
all along the Siegfried defences.
At the week-end the exact status of
the drives in the north had not yet been
established. But, as the Canadian First
Army burst through Goch, the thunder of
a tremendous barrage broke out along
the fronts of the U.S. Ninth Army,
which has been seconded to Field-
Marshal Montgomery’s operational com-
mand, and the U.S. First Army. This
barrage assailed the Germans in the
positions across the fast-subsiding Roer.
It was one of the heaviest bom-
bardments of the war on the Western
Front. Then on February 23, about 3.30
a.m., the passage of the river began.
In its wake in the northern sector U.S.
Ninth Army tanks broke across the
stream north of Linnich, while infantry
crossed south of the town. Further
south-east the river was breached at
Jiilich, where the main highway from the
west splits into two arms, one making
for Cologne and the other for Diissel-
dorf. At the same time a crossing was
made at Diiren by First Army troops.
All three crossings were carried out
with great difficulty. The rivers were
staked and mined. Prefabricated bridges
were thrown sky-high so soon as they
were down. But by the use of amphibi-
ous vehicles and boats and barges hauled
along cables, after the technique used by
the Canadians on some of the Scheldt
canals, bridgeheads were established.
The defence of Jiilich collapsed. By
Sunday most of Diiren was in U.S. hands.
Some forces had penetrated five or more
miles and were within 13 miles of
Cologne, but on Feb. 26 no detailed in-
formation was available, owing to the
security silence imposed along the front.
The Ninth Army in the first 24 hours
took about 2700 prisoners. The main
force of the drive was obviously between
Diiren and Jiilich, which is eight miles, to
the north, in the space between the two
great highways which pass through those
towns and then converge on Cologne.
But the two U.S. armies were over the
Roer on a front over 30 miles long.
Roer Line Doomed
The resistance had been less than it
had been against earlier offensives on the
Roer. Previous fighting on the north had
shown the enemy the writing on the wall
so far as the Roer Line was cpncerned.
The determined Canadian First Army
was poised right across the German flank,
45 miles or so to the north, south of the
Goch-Calcar road. An advance of a
few more miles from the Goch area
would see direct access to the Hamburg-
Bremen railway cut off for German
troops to the south, even if the bombers
have not cut it off already.
Below the Canadians and their U.K.
support General Dempsey’s army waited
along the Maas. An announcement on
February 25 that Dutch troops had ad-
vanced near the Dutch border suggested
that this front, on the east side of the
Roer, was coming alive.
Main German counter-attacks had yet
to come, but it seemed that the enemy
was reconciled to falling back across the
first section of the Cologne Plain to the
main defences of Cologne along the Erft
River, which probably are very strong.
Meanwhile General Patton’s army
further south beyond the Eiffel Range
pressed on on several miles of front to-
wards the Trier-Moselle road and the
•Kyll river defences beyond. South of the
Moselle, beyond Trier, this U.S. Third
Army seized the heights near the junction
of the Saar and the Moselle which look
down on battered old Trier,
Other formations of the Third Army
again crossed the Saar, south of Saarburg
and north of Mertzig, seemingly aiming
for the made-road system which leads to
the Rhine at Mainz, Bingen and the
Moselle valley road to Coblenz, at Bem-
castel. Tough country and tough defences
lie ahead here, as they do further south
beyond the defence island of the Saar
proper, where, on the Rhine side of Saar-
guemines, the Seventh Army is across' the
headwaters of the Saar, bound for the
German border.
From the region of the Erft, which
flows into the Rhine south of Dlisseldorf
to the Lauter, which flows into the Rhine
beyond the Moselle and the Saar district
above Strasbourg, the Allies are only
approaching the main German defence
lines west of the Rhine, and until enemy
counter-attacks are in full swing their
strength and intentions cannot be judged.
Berlin declared on February 24 that the
High Command expected to be involved
simultanequsly in massive attacks from
east and west, in which the fibre of the
Wehrmacht would be tested to the full
in the biggest battles of the war.
Relative Strengths
Unless it has been necessary for the
Germans to deplete the forces on the
Western Front, it is not safe to suggest
that the Allies are superior there. In
December they had 40 infantry and
4j airborne divisions on the front. Their
armored divisions known to be there were
three British, nine American, two French,
one Canadian and one Polish, which
meant an average of only two divisions
per army on the whole front, use of some
of them being restricted by the flooded
nature of the country. The German
divisions on the front numbered 70, and
their disadvantage in armor and trans-
port and air-power was offset by their
superiority in shortness of communica-
tions and in fixed defences.
The enemy’s central position and
borderlines of great rivers and mountain
ranges stand to his advantage, while on
the Russian front he has something on
his side in the magnitude of the Russians’
communication problem.
Nevertheless, the months from March
to September, 1945, are months which
Europe will have cause to remember
and mourn for generations to come. Un-
less there is a complete internal collapse
in some crucial sector or German moral
strength breaks, the borders of Germany
will be painted black and scarlet from top
to bottom and strewn with hundreds of
thousands of dead and wounded.
The Eastern Front.
“Ek Dum”: Marshal Stalin announced
on Red Army Day (February 23) that
800.000 Germans had been killed and
350.000 captured on the Eastern Front in
40 days. If the wounded are on the
Western Front scale this means more than
2,000,000 casualties. Aggregates claimed
total just on 10,000,000 of the enemy
killed or captured, apart from wounded.
If Russian totals are accepted the male
population of Germany between 17 and
50 has been wiped out and only boys,
old men, cripples and females are left.
Yet Germans are still fighting like fiends
on more than 1000 miles of front.
Progress on the Russian front during
the past week was slower. Some of it
unfortunately, was backwards.
In East Prussia the Russians obviously
have had setbacks. It is ’nearly a
month since they were supposedly across
the Pregel, within 3| miles of the centre
of Konigsberg, which was said to be on
fire. The East Prussian area was then
supposed to have been completely iso-
lated by road and rail from west Ger-
many and Danzig. But Konigsberg does
not now seem to be isolated.
The fighting for its defences seems to
be taking place on its outer perimeter.
To the north-east, in Samland, where the
Russians claimed to have swept up
opposition, it was admitted early last week
that a Russian withdrawal had been
necessary, though the extent of it was
not clear. The Germans claimed to have
surrounded and wiped out “divisional
forces” in the region.
In Courland, far across the Niemen trt
the Latvian Peninsula, the Germans
locked up there since October were still
holding out in the fifth battle for the
area. It was announced that Marshal
Cherayavsky, Commander of the East
Prussian Army Group, had died of
wounds. Nothing was said of the circum-
stances of his death.
Though Graudenz, behind his lines, still
held out, Marshal Rokossovsky made
some progress to within 60 miles of the
coast west of the Vistula, taking the town
of Preussich-Friedland.
Posen Taken
On the southern flank the drives from
the Vistula pushed forward with great
speed, sweeping round such fortified areas
as Posen and inducing the ever-hopeful
pea-hen press to believe that there was
nothing to stop an uninterrupted rush to
Berlin. But on the south, as on the north,
the German flank held.
Posen, however, has been taken,
opening another main road; the stiff
enemy defence had produced an awkward
situation. According to Moscow 25,000
officers and men of the garrison were
killed in the fighting for the place, and
at the end 23,000 were taken prisoner.
But this was the one real success re-
ported last week. At a time when
Zhukov was rolling on and Koniev
pushing all before him at the rate of
miles a day the forces which were trying
to cut off the outstretched German arms
on either side of the Russian armies of
advance were pushed back by counter-
attacks so soon as they approached
crucial positions. This happened at the
Stettin hinge when the lake positions
were reached ; at Konigsberg, and to the
north of it; in Silesia, on the Ratibor
front; across the Carpathians and the
Sudeten Ranges, north-west of Buda, and
at Komamo, in the Danube Bend. Though
the enemy has lost Buda he is still in
north-west Hungary stubbornly defend-
ing approaches to Bratislava and Vienna.
Main Battle Approaching
The shape of German defence remains
as it was when the Warthe and the Upper
Vistula were its bottom, with claws flung
out along the Baltic coast to the Niemen,
on the north, and along the Carpathians,
in the south, towards the area south of
the Pripet Marshes.
But the defence area has been drawn
westward so that the bottom of the
defence bucket now seems to be the
Lower Oder and the Neisse.
When the Lower Oder was reached
resistance toughened. The Germans
threw in limited reserves, and the
Russians in places were stopped and
in others fell back under the blows.
The Germans did not attempt to
follow through. * So soon as they came
up against main Russian forces they
appear to have withdrawn and allowed
the tide to flow back after them.
This kind of elastic defence is an old
game of the Wehrmacht, but it can be
played only for a limited time. It must
lead to a main battle when reserves (if
they exist) come out.
The strategic shape of German defence
has a good reason. The maintenance of
the coast strip in the north, and of the
Carpathian-Danube strip to the south,
ties up more Russian troops and trans-
port than German troops and transport,
particularly since the enemy has the ad-
vantages of better road and rail com-
munications and is able to supply the
troops by sea on the Baltic side. The
enemy forces in these areas constitute a
threat to the Russian rear, while communi-
cation lines from Russia are still imperfect.
The northern German-held area
stretches from the Araswalde joint,
below Stettin, to beyond the Niemen, and
then, after a break, to the Courland Pen-
insula. The Germans have not given up
any Baltic port between Riga and Warne-
mlinde of real use for the defensive or
offensive purposes of the Red Army.
Berlin’s Fire Curtain
The “bottom” of the German defence
system —the fire curtain which hangs in
front of Berlin —is the Oder-Neisse Line.
The Upper (South) Oder, save for its
headwaters, which open the way to the
Moravian passes, has been abandoned for
the bend south of Frankfort, leaving Bres-
lau a surrounded area blocking the main
communication routes to the Neisse,
which flows into the Oder near the bend.
By selecting the Neisse instead of the
Upper Oder pn which to stand irt the
south the Germans have saved consider-
able length of central front —probably
leaving them 60 miles less to defend on
the part of the front on which a break-
through would be fatal to Berlin.
The southern half of the main “cur-
tain” covering inner Berlin along the
Neisse is 60 miles, as the crow flies, from
Gorlitz and the foothills of the Sudeten
Ranges to Ratsdorf, at the junction with
the Oder south of its great bend. The
main towns from north to south along
this sector are, first, Guben, taken by the
Russians and recaptured by the Ger-
mans. But this place is on the eastern
side of the river, and its capture does not
mean a great deal. Second, Forst, which
is west of the river, on the main road to
Kottbus and Berlin, Third, Muskau, also
on the west bank, as is (4) Gorlitz. Forst
was under attack on Feb. 23 and Russian
forces were reported across the river.
To the south of Kottbus the country
begins to rise. To the north it is low-
lying and swampy, and there is a laby-
rinth of lakes covering the approaches
to Berlin interspersed with timber.
North-west from where the Neisse joins
the Oder the German defences seem to
run in the region of the river to Kiistrin,
thence across the eastern base of the
great bend which the stream makes west-
ward on its way to Stettin, to reach the
Dammischer See.
There is another chain of lakes here
to the east of the river. Before them
and south of them the Russian advance
temporarily has been stopped in fierce
fighting. On the west bank, in the north,
in what is known as the Ukermark, there
is another chain of lakes covering Berlin.
The northern half of the main frontal
German defence line seems to be about
80 miles overall. The total “curtain”
front from terminal hinge to terminal
hinge, north to south, is about 160 miles
overall; with the curves and meander-
ings of the line following natural features,
about 200 to 230 miles.
It is here that the decisive battle of the
Eastern Front will be fought—unless the
Russians can throw sufficient troops south
of the Carpathian and Sudeten Ranges
to break through the Vienna Gap.
Towards the week-end the fighting for
Breslau became fierce. The Russians
claimed to hold most of the southern half
of the city.
The Air War
The Russians at the week-end were
striving to pound the front to pieces along
limited sectors, and the fights for
Neisse west-bank bridgeheads, and for
the extension of those along the central
Oder in Marshal Zhukov’s area, were
getting into high gear.
The Anglo-Americans have given air
support which has reached every great
railway and road junction and oil centre
in the Reich during 12 days of almost in-
cessant bombing and strafing up to
February 23.
The coming fortnight should be a
crucial one in the east, as in the west. It
will prove whether or not the Allies are
on the last hard crust of German resist-
ance or whether the enemy has real power
to fight still left in him, even if there are
no decisive events.
The thaw is beginning to clear, and
from now onward weather and ground
should improve everywhere.
After a warning to the neutrals that they
would need to come in and look sharp about
it if they wanted to be represented at the
United Nations Conference (April 25) Uruguay
and Turkey declared war on Germany, and
Egypt followed suit. The Egyptian Premier,
Ahmed Maher Pasha, was assassinated as he
was leaving the Chamber of Deputies after he
had announced the king’s decision. The
assassin was a 26-year-old lawyer, believed to
be associated with the Young Egypt party.


VICKERS. ..VICKERS GIN
0 9®
icKers
in
Q}[
'l/icket
S;
m
m
Of 4
/■/
l
a*
Si
4A
T*
*12
mV
«•/.
*’.*r..
f'*
•-.*
pr*
S&tf
Kfis
JvP 14
SPORTING NOTIONS
Among the better-class horses unsuccessful
at Randwick last Saturday, Flight, Cold Shower,
Melhero, Castle Frontenac, Accession, Prince
Verity and the 4500-guineas filly Anne-Tien-Et
ran well enough to suggest they will improve
before the autumn racing. A crowd of 44,000
put £139,333 through the tote.
Flight—now four years old and beautifully
developed—had the severe task of carrying 131 b.
over wi.a. in the smart Glenfield Handicap
company, but even under her 9.10 might have
won if the six furlongs had been seven.
Actually, the distance was a shade over six, so
the lightly-weighted Cooringwang’s three-
lengths defeat of Fine Art in 1.11 —a second
outside the track record for the true six shared
by Gold Salute (1940) and Soho (1942) —was a
capital run. Had he not lost ground early
Fine Art, backed to favoritism at 9 to 2, might
have brought off yet another sprinting coup for
the patently shrewd Plant stable. Game old
Trimmer (third) led the field from 17 barrier
position.
Despite her weight Flight was a well-backed
second-favorite. Drawn close in, with a swarm
of fast beginners outside her, she had to be
pushed along early to be in it at all. Thomp-
son evidently decided that the only hope, with
her burden, was to keep to the rails, but the
result was that Flight never had galloping room
till too late, and between the three furlongs
and the two was considerably hampered. It
would seem that Flight’s hard tussles with
Katanga and others last year have not affected
her. On the other hand, Tea Rose (seventh)
has not done at all well this time up. She had
had several runs to fit her, and was a handy
third at the turn. The Derby field she beat was
the weakest for many years, but her Craven
Plate success was over Mayfowl, Katanga,
Flight and other fair horses at their top. She
is certainly not running up to that form.
Though Cold Shower has yet to win at over
six furlongs his every recent run has suggested
that he now needs a longer journey. Fourth in
the Glenfield, he again finished strongly, and
must have Doncaster prospects. Melhero (fifth)
also came home well; but a lot depends on the
Doncaster weights, which won’t be out till
March 13
In the H-mile Warwick Handicap, War
Eagle (third) again failed, backers once more
falling for the boom. A factor in the success
of Cooringwang was racing condition, it was
his fourth run in about a month, and he met
a lot of lately lightly-raced horses. War
Eagle’s race appearances would have made it
no surprise if his prelim, had shaken loose a
flock of moths. There does not seem to be
much wrong with the horse, a fine-looking
Manitoba four-year-old, and Thompson was on
him. Moreover, the opposition was not strong.
It included only one with any claim to staying
ability —the winner, Night Parade, whose pre-
vious distance best was to be placed at 1 mile
5 furlongs. Every other starter has been a
middle-distance performer at most. The second
horse. Flying Cloud, showed staying possi-
bilities. When Cook took hold of Night
Parade soon after the start Flying Cloud was
left to make the pace all the way, so his second
placing was rather good.
On the strength of his promising fourth at
Canterbury—his only previous start —the
Harinero-Our Legion colt Chaytor was a short
favorite for the Inglebum Nursery; the only
favorite to deliver the goods on a day when
the fast-falling notes must have seemed like the
manna of their ancestors to many in the ring.
Considering his lack of racing experience and
the way he ran about, Chaytor’s win was very
sound. The Golden Sovereign filly Anne-Tien-
Et, from that fine mare Feminist, looked as if
she could be improved, and Translucent (third),
a smallish daughter of Titan, staged a grand
finish. Though never in the hunt, The Gaekwar
took the eye as a typical son of The Buzzard.
Double Gift should trouble only slightly
weaker company. Having his first run, the
Pure Gold colt Gold Caste showed a fine turn
of speed while his condition lasted.
Petulance (Duncan) had a runaway win in the
mile Berala Handicap (three-year-olds). King
Step bridged the gap at the turn, but Petulance
easily drew away to beat him by two lengths,
with Good Idea third. Accession (fourth) was
having his first run since October, and Prince
Verity (fifth) was having only his second outing
since his third in Tea Rose’s Derby.
Active Service’s finishing burst, to cut Beau-
head out of second money and get within half
a length ; of Prince Hua, who had a seven-
lengths lead at the top of the straight in the
Sunnybrook Welter, pointed to a mile or
middle-distance win ahead. Another in need
of racing, Castle Frontenac should soon return
“Duck over on his other flank, Bert, and We'll attack together .”
a dividend; and the Queenslander, Brown
Dragon, carried his top weight (9.10) decidedly
well in fourth place. »
Felberta won the first Novice from Dinkum
Aussie and Regal Step, and Dance Time the
other division from Kingsford and Chatster. In
each event, restricted to apprentices, a lad bid
a hasty farewell to his steed, one of the rider-
less pair, Puffham, bringing sweat, tears, etc.,
from his many backers by leading the field
home.
For Canterbury (before acceptances). Maiden:
Portosanto, Ceylon, Dinkum Aussie. Two-
year-old: Anne-Tien-Ef, Bradant, Double Gift.
Flying: Vermeil, Brown Dragon, Cragsman.
Soudan Handicap: Flying Cloud, Skip Bomber,
Dick Whittington. Trial: Puffham, Western
Monarch, Thanks America.
* * * *
Pierre enhanced his Newmarket prospects by
nicely winning the Moorabbin Handicap at
Mentone on Saturday from Solon and Spanish
Legend. Although rehandicapped 51b., he is
still well placed with 7.10 in the V.R.C. sprint,
in which he will again be ridden by H. Olsen.
Pierre had been off the scene for almost three
years before reappearing in the Newmarket last
year, and at the age of six he is living right up
to his juvenile promise. Oakleigh Plate runner-
up, Aggressor, started favorite, but ran a
disappointing sixth, and will have to do much
better to have a Newmarket chance.
Punctilia was awarded the J. L. Reilly Stakes
on protest after Cavallo had defeated her by a
neck. The race was one of the roughest for
some time, and the stewards’ decision to alter
the judge’s placings met with general approval.
Cavallo’s rider, R. Finger, was suspended for
two months for allowing his mount' to crowd
Punctilia on to Private Chat (third) and Bootle,
who collided with the rails and almost fell.
Punctilia has won at her only two starts since
her sale several weeks ago for 2100gns, and,
having been heavily backed on each occasion,
is already a bargain.
Punctilia’s success earned her a 51b. penalty
for the Australian Cup, but according to her
owner she is unlikely to start. Peter Con,
favorite on Saturday, finished only fourth, but
did not lose many Cup admirers. He struck
trouble and lost ground near the half mile.
Bootle would have finished closer than fifth had
he escaped interference, but he still has the job
ahead to defeat New Yorker in the St. Leger
next Saturday. He is not engaged in the Cup.
Don- Pedro, racing for the second time, and
starting less fancied than his stable-mate,
Liberty Law, outstayed Macready and Kinder-
gold in the Bass Juvenile. Don Pedro was
entered for the Sires Produce Stakes, but at the
time of writing it was intended to keep him
for something easier.
Arduli was not rehandicapped for the Aus-
tralian Cup after her runaway defeat of Bal-
moral and Hiatus in the Frankston Handicap.
The V.R.C. handicapper evidently is of the
opinion that she will find the Cup much harder
than the moderate field she defeated on Satur-
day, but she stays well, and may be a Cup
possibility with 6.13.
For Flemington next Saturday (before
acceptances). St. Leger: New Yorker, Bootle,
Provoke. Sires Produce Stakes: Lincoln, Fine
Fettle, Lord Campbell. Newmarket Handicap:
Millais, Mysticus, Pierre.
* * * *
Touching the recent questioning here of the
effects of hard racing on youngsters, especially
fillies, in Australia, the best filly of last year
in England—Lord Derby’s Hyperion filly Sun
Stream —is not to contest the Guineas or the
Oaks. Winner of the Queen Mary Stakes, she
now goes straight to the stud. Here she would
be raced until she stopped winning. As against
the £ s. d. aspect which counts so heavily here,
in England the breed is still the thing.
* * * *
Now over 90, a contemporary of Fred Archer
is still on deck in England—Charlie Wood,
who won the Derby on St. Blaise in 1883 and
on Galtee More in 1897 and dead-heated in
the same race on St. Gatien in 1884.
# * * *
“Pat Ater”; Not many batsmen of
class are showing up among the young
brigade in Sydney, Saggers is a brisk
run-getter when his eye is in, but this
season it has failed him repeatedly. The
youth is a brilliant keeper in any com-
pany*; but then his State is rich in bats-
men-’keepers: Sismey (away with
R.A.A.F.), Easton, Livingstone and
Englefield are others. Alley plays the
kind of knock bred of quick scoring in
one-day matches and deplored by the old
diehard “straight-bat, pack-up, pick-your-
ball” conservatives. Laird does, too, but
Bruce Dwyer can’t resist “nibbling.”
Barnes stands out. One disgruntled first-
grader says he shines only because of the
mediocre company—including bowlers.
It may be. Barnes has confidence plus
ability.
* * * *
“Petermac”: As Samuel Johnson once
said “No man was ever great by imita-
tion,” and this can be applied to other
spheres besides bowling (B. 21/2/’45).
In O’Reilly’s case I think “devil” allied
with perfect control of his deliveries is
his main asset. He can bowl a good-
length fast outswinger or a slow curly
one with equal ease, and with the long
run he takes the batsman never knows
quite what to expect. Speaking of “devil,”
Maurice Tate possessed a remarkable
nip otf the pitch. Tate was unlucky in
that many of his best balls repeatedly
shaved the stumps; all the same, his
record for the most wickets taken in a
Test series (38) in 1924-25 still stands.
Arthur Mailey is next on the list with 36
in 1920-21.
* * ♦ *
Two Australians, Flying-
Officer Simmonds and Sergeant B. J.
Young, both N.S.W., played for the
R.A.F. against French Services at the
Parc des Princes, Paris, in a match which
made Rugby Union history. The R.A.F.
won 26 to 6 —two tries, both scored
by General Jacques Delmas, who
captained the French side and was
as much its outstanding player as Young
was outstanding for R.A.F. At 29,
Delmas is the youngest general in the
French Army. Young, who also scored
two tries, got into the side by accident.
In a previous Army v. R.A.F. match at
Coventry, the English Services star
player, Sergeant J. Lawrenson (Wigan),
was unavailable at the last moment.
Simmonds was already in the R.A.F.
team ; Young was put in as substitute,
and he and Simmonds played such a fine
game that they were picked for the match
in Paris. Subsequently, on the strength
of his Paris showing, Young, a three-
quarter, was chosen to play for England
against Wales. Incidentally, the R.A.F.
fifteen in Paris included thirteen inter-
nationals !
* * * *
“Golesneek”: Melbourne “Sporting
Globe,” doubtless copying its Sydney con-
temporaries in trying to “give the people
leadership,” is urging Premier Dunstan
to “mediate” in the row brewing between
the V.F. League and the Association, and
to try to bring about “one control of
football in Victoria.” Nobody seems to
have consulted the country leagues about
it, though “one control” for them might
mean a steady drain on* their best
players for city teams. There is big talk
of “buying” players, of feuds and general
skullduggery—deplored by the “Globe,"
for, look you, “we as a nation are fighting
for our existence.”
* * * *
Having been the active party most
of the time in such fighting as was seen,
Tommy Ward earned a decision over
Max Cameron, but Cameron got it. The
customers signified their disgust, with
exhibition and decision in the grand old
Leichhardt fashion.
The brothers Kimber, ten-stoners,
figured in matches at the Sydney Stadium
and had mixed luck. A 1 stopped Ron
Heron in five rounds. Jack Samuels, a
molly-hander, knocked out Len in the
seventh, after having himself looked a
beaten pug. A nasty facial cut, result
of a butt, caused Heron’s retirement, en-
forced by the referee.


Woman's Letters
From Sydney
Already letters whose envelopes are
bright with the new postage stamp are
being dropped into suburban and city
mailboxes. The stamps are to celebrate
the Duke of Gloucester’s term of office
as Governor-General, and they bear full
face pictures of the Duke and the
Duchess. Both in service uniforms, they
look out on their new domain in amiable
fashion. The design rather suggest:
photographs set in the two sides of ar
open locket. The first issue was rushed,
sales making G.P.O. history. One man
bought nearly £5OO worth. Before 1C
o’clock on the first morning they were
on sale several £lOO lots had been sold
over the G.P.O. counter.
All things working together for good
the British Centre should be ready to
provide shelter for' British servicemen
before the cold winds of autumn wail too
mournfully. Lord Wakehurst got busy
last Thursday afternoon and laid the
foundation stone in a manner that en-
titles him to a high place in the Founda-
tion-stone Layers’ Union. There were
speeches surrounding this ceremony.
There were flags set about the spot for
invited guests. These billowed out only
once or twice to a little stray breeze, for
the day was heavy with humidity, and
there was the threat of thunder in the air.
There was a band. In the crowd (not
so large as might have been expected)
the speckless white uniforms of the Navy
shone out. The Governor wore his khaki
uniform. Later there was tea set in three
marquees with cakes as gay as an art
exhibition.
When the Centre becomes the nice,
compact building of the plans it will
be a Hyde Park neighbor to St. Mary’s,
and will have the Anzac Buffet near at
hand for meals. Just down the avepue
from its doors it will have the trees, the
lawns and those old Hyde Park peren-
nial guests the pigeons, for such lads
as like a sylvan setting. Diana and the
Minotaurs and the tortoises of the Archi-
bald Fountain are also in a position to
give a welcome to the lads from over-
seas. Chairman of the Centre R. G
Bartley, the Governor and State Premier
McKell were the speech-makers. Lord
Nuffield and Mayor Neville Harding
were among the importants.
Australia is going to miss a group of
American friends who have been with her
during some of the grimmest war days.
U.S. Minister in Canberra Nelson T.
Johnson and his wife are on the eve of
departure. U.S. Consul-General Ely
Palmer and his dainty little wife are on
the trek, and the Wilson Flakes will soon
be only a pleasant memory. They go off
to Washington, where he will be attached
to the Department of State.
Next Saturday at eight o’clock Dr.
Bainton will swing his baton into action
and unleash the Conservatorium orches-
tra in its first concert of the season.
Maureen Jones will be solo pianist in the
Rachmaninoff Concerto No. 2in C
Minor. Works by Handel-Beecham and
Brahms are listed.
Table-mats supply scenic effects and
blue and white striped window curtains
a dashing atmosphere in the dining-room
of the new Women Officers’ Club at
No. 4 Elizabeth Bay-road. Women offi-
cers of all services and nationalities will
be welcome here—3s to 40 at a time.
The fees are small; the club is very cen-
tral and its furniture is both attractive
and comfortable. An interested house
committee has done wonders with hes-
sian window curtains. There are long,
raspberry hangings in the first lounge
and jade in the second. The furnishings
of the bedrooms are lagoon-blue; the
walls throughout the club are ivory- tinted.
Even a uniform does not make a
woman superior to “doing a bit of wash-
ing.” ' And the guests will fihd this
ever - present desire of the female
heart has been catered for —tubs and a
copper are among the amenities of the
club. There are also ironing and sewing
rooms. In addition to resident guests,
the club can be used by the girl in town
for the day who wants a meal, a shower
and a brush-up. The girls are free to
invite guests for meals. Also there’s
no curfew. Latchkeys will be sup-
plied for those who won’t be home
by 11. The carpet in the hall is Aus-
tralian-made. Mrs. C. P. Johnson is
president of the club committee. Lady
Wakehurst declared the premises open
and a going concern yesterday afternoon,
and a cheery assemblage of A.C.F. en-
thusiasts, servicewomen and servicemen
applauded.
The Young Contingent of the Victoria
League is out to help its pals of the
Navy and the bombed children of
England. As a result of meditations
on how to make money, the gardens of
Ghinagulla (Miss Mary Fairfax’s home)
at Bellevue Hill will bloom with toys
on Saturday, April 21. These will be
the entries of a widely-publicised toy-
making competition: the prettiest, the
most amusing and so on. In addition to
the toys there will be all the usual attrac-
tions of a faff —many of the well-known
girls’ and boys’ schools are furnishing
and manning the stalls. President of the
effort is Mrs. Tom Bateman ; secretary,
Mrs. Edward Chauvel.
The C. R. McKerihans, of Rose Bay,
had a wedding in the family one night
last week. Elder daughter Dawn, her
frock a lustrous satin, her veil a great
swathe of tulle, became the wife of
Flight-Lieutenant Bewick Hack, R.A.F.,
in St. Stephen’s Church, Macquarie-
street. The frock had previously been
worn by mother for her presentation at
Court- The bridegroom is the elder son
of Colonel and Mrs. W. S. Hack, of
Worthing, Sussex.
Sydney’s new Mayoress, Mrs. Neville
Harding, is already busy with the affairs
of her office. These include leadership in
many good causes, and among these Mrs.
Harding is giving, by her example, splen-
did impetus to the anti-T.B. appeal.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
The A.C.F. has got an inspiring title
for its new appeal. Could anything be
more stirring than “Salute to Valor”
for the rally to a campaign? This year’s
objective is £BOO,OOO as against last year’s
£500,000, but A.C.F. wings now spread
over large numbers of British servicemen
as well as Australian. Mayor Neville
Harding launched the appeal, and
deputy administrator R. G. Clark
pointed out that it would take a
per capita hand-out of five shillings from
shires and municipalities to garner the
desired amount. Two days have been
settled on for special effort. They are
May 18 and September 7. On those
dates celluloid instead of metal badges
will be sold, thereby saving the A.C.F.
nearly £3OOO.
Australian soldiers, sailors and service-
men generally of the last war and of this
know of and have experienced kindnesses
at the hands of Ethel Campbell, the
“Angel of Durban,” and they will be sorry
to learn that she has had a very serious
nervous breakdown. Miss Campbell has
been overworking getting poems and the
biography of her father ready for publi-
cation. The biography she has just com-
pleted. Her mother, Mrs. M. W. Camp-
bell, of Mucklrenk, Marriott-road, Dur-
ban, has written to an Australian friend;
A huge mail comes regularly from Aus-
tralia —telegrams, air-mail letters, etc.;
many letters have no addresses, and I
cannot answer half of them. Could you
have a notice put in your papers excusing
Ethel for not replying?
Of interest in Maoriland was a morn-
ing wedding at St. Canice’s, Darlinghurst.
The bride was Bettina Welch, now play-
ing lead in “Claudia” at the Royal;
’groom was Dermot O’Brien.. A party
'hostessed by the bride’s aunt, Mrs. M.
Welch, and the bridegroom’s mother, Mrs.
O’Brien, rounded off the ceremony.
Bettina comes from Taupiri, Maoriland;
Dermot from Toorak, Melbourne.
North Shore line bowlers are proud of
George E. Blackmore, a foundation mem-
ber of Wollstonecraft Bowling Club. Both
he and his wife, who celebrated their
diamond wedding last week, were born
in Australia, he at Ipswich (Q.), she at
Braidwood (N.S.W.). They were married
in St. John’s, Darlinghurst, in 1885.
From Melbourne
In glorious sunshine the Governor-
General the Duke of Gloucester and his
Duchess drove through the streets of
Melbourne. The crowd who had waited
hours to see the royal couple waved flags
and cheered. From windows high up on
the city’s tall buildings silver paper and
rose petals fluttered down in the pathway
of the slowly-moving car, and, looking
upwards, the Duke and Duchess smilingly
waved a greeting, A special smile of in-
terest greeted those who stood at the
windows of The Bulletin office, for
here a picture of the Queen was dis-
played, and the Duke turned his head for
another glance.
Essendon was the first to greet the
royal couple, who arrived from Canberra
by ’plane. They were met by the Mayor
and councillors, and the warm sunshine
encouraged the Duchess to remove her
fur wrap, displaying a frock which suited
her coloring to perfection. It was a light
woollen material in a shade of hydrangea
blue, verv simply made. The Duchess’s
ornaments were a double string of pearls
and three diamond clips set in the neck-
line of her frock. A straw hat with a
high crown, swathed in blue veiling, com-
pleted her ensemble. There is no doubt
about the impression the Duchess has
made on the folk of Melbourne. She is
the most-talked-of person since the visit
of the Queen, and her shy smile, gracious
bearing and charm of manner have en-
deared her to men and women alike.
Main point of interest on the drive
through the city was the Town Hall,
Here with ancient pageantry Lud Mayor
Nettlefold, in his robes of office and gold
chain, welcomed the royal pair on behalf
of the citizens. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Beatrice Campbell, presented the Duchess
with a bouquet of roses specially chosen
by the National Rose Society. Mrs.
Campbell then presented her daughter
and the wives of councillors. At Gov-
ernment. House, where Sir Winston and
Lady Dugan were waiting for them, the
Duke and Duchess faced a barrage of
■cameras. After a short respite and a
rapid change of attire, the Duchess and
Lady Dugan went off to visit Red Cross
House •
To be Governor's lady in war-time is
no easy job, and Lady Dugan (pictured
here) has not spared herself in any way.
It was by her instructions as president
ot the Victorian Red Cross that the ball-
room a» O.H. was cleared and work
tables and sewing-machines installed.
Women volunteers were called for, and
a few hours later garments were being
turned out. Through the good offices of
her Excellency, the Lady Dugan Hostel for
Army Nurses was acquired, and she took
a great interest in the furnishings and fit-
tings of the home. Army nurses passing
through Melbourne from other States
have found the hostel a delightful place
in which to spend a few hours.
Lady Dugan is also president of the
Victoria League. Through this organi-
sation service personnel in Australia have
befen able to send parcels of food to rela-
tives in Great Britain. The Duke and
Duchess of Gloucester are keenly inter-
ested in the League, for they came in con-
tact with some of its work in England.
Lady Dugan has also taken a great in-
terest in the Women’s Land Army since
its inception, and due to her interest a
comforts fund was established. An
Amenities Van, the first in Australia,
was bought and stocked and this travels
the width and breadth of Victoria.
Sir Winston and Lady Dugaif are
hosts to the Governor-General and
Duchess of Gloucester while they are in
Melbourne, Lady Dugan has personally
sunervised the arrangement of the
Prince’s suite, which will be occupied
by tfie Duke and Duchess. A special
sitting-room has been arranged for the
Duchess, the decor being chosen by Lady
Dugan. She has selected a light mush-
room-pink carpet; walls deep cream, with
curtains matching. A couch and two easy
chairs are covered in deep shrimp-pink
and two smaller chairs are in pale blue.
It was a happy idea to have the State
Government reception to the Duke and
Duchess of Gloucester at the National
Gallery. Here with masterpieces of
art as a background the guests waited to
meet the official party, and then, having
made their bow, wandered through the
long galleries to admire the pictures. For
almost three-quarters of an hour the
Duke and Duchess stood on the dais with
the Premier and Mrs. Dunstan, Sir Win-
ston and Lady Dugan and members of
the royal household. The Duchess was
a gracious and youthful figure in a long
dress and. long-sleeved jacket of aqua-
green, beautifully embroidered with spark-
ling sequins and pearls. She carried a
bouquet of deep red roses presented by
Mrs. Dunstan. As the heat of the room
grew more intense, the Duchess removed
her jacket, showing the deep yoke of her
dress, heavily encrusted in a scalloped
pattern with pearls and sequins. A grace-
ful sash broke the line of the skirt, which
was cut on straight lines, and in her ears
glistened diamonds. Long flesh-toned
gloves were worn. Throughout the cere-
mony of presentations the Duke, who
wore the summer uniform of a general,
mopped his forehead.
Lady Dugan was gowned in mist-blue
lace made with a matching jacket. Her
gloves matched her frock and she wore
two diamond clips in the square neckline
of her frock. Mrs. Dunstan’s frock was
of pale-pink satin, and it was worn with
a hip-length brocade jacket shot through
with silver. Miss Eileen Phipps, lady-in-
waiting, wore a deep-cream moire frock
cut on full flowing lines, the bodice
shirred in front. Tuber roses were pinned
in her hair. Most of the women guests
favored long gowns and elbow-length
gloves. Very few flowers were worn,
and those in short frocks dispensed with
hats.
With Mrs. T. J. Ryan, who was gowned
in pale-heliotrope chiffon, was Mrs.
H. A, Bruce, wife of Queensland’s Min-
ister of Public Works, and het daughter
Jean. Mrs. Bruce’s Chinese-embroidered
jacket surmounted a black frock. Jean’s
midnight-blue gown was embroidered in
crystal beads. Mrs. Raymond Lambert
was in white crepe ; the Hyde lady in
flame red, with gold lame forming por-
tion of the full skirt. Mrs. Eric Harri-
son’s black taffetta was trimmed with
frills of narrow lace, and Mrs. Clarence
Weber, in black, wore long tight-fitting
sleeves trimmed with gold sequins.
Those bidden to the reception given by
the Governor of Victoria and Lady
Dugan in honor of the Duke and Duchess
made it a memorable occasion. Over
1000 guests were invited to G.H., and
at one stage it took cars 30 minutes to
travel from St. Kilda-road to the doors.-
The scene in the ballroom was one of
color and movement, and in spite of the
war women guests managed to look as
though there was no worry over clothes
rationing. A feature of the dressing on
these two State occasions has been the
use of heavy gold embroidery. Sequins
or gold thread have been used in great
profusion to highlight a black or colored
frock. Jackets have had the lapels and
shoulders decorated, and on dresses a
pattern in fern leaves or flowers is often
seen on one side of the bodice. The
whole range of colors has been called
upon, and all the women have worn
gloves, some reaching almost to the
shoulders.
Most homely of all the welcomes the
royal pair have received took place at
Flinders Naval Depot. When the Duke and
Duchess left their car and came up the
gangway on either side were children in
their Sunday best, eager to meet them.
Little Barbara Steele was all keyed up
to present a bouquet made of rqses, car-
nations and phlox grown in the garden
at the depot. Barbara is the small daugh-
ter of Bandsman John Steele, who was
in the sinking of the Canberra but luckily
a survivor. She made her curtsey and
presented her flowers, but was overcome
with shyness when she looked at the
Duke. A royal guard under the com-
mand of Lieut.-Commander R. J. Hodge
greeted the Duke and Duchess, and was
then inspected by the Duke. For this
occasion the Duchess wore a simple frock
of mist-blue silk made with a straight
skirt, the bodice featuring a double yoke.
A small upturned straw hat of cinnamon
brown was simply trimmed with a bunch
of autumn-toned fruits and finished with
veiling. Accessories were cinnamon-
toned, Miss Eileen Phipps’s heavy lace
frock was pale pink, with a pink straw
hat banded in navy blue and blue acces-
sories. Admiral Royle and his lady, with
Commodore and Mrs. Drew, welcomed
the Duke and Duchess, and then accom-
panied them to church, Lady Royle in
a green-and-white patterned frock with
small black flower-trimmed hat, and Mrs.
Drew in blue-and-white frock with small
white hat and white accessories.


HAIMS
Circular Charts i« all type* of
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN SIREEt PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. OTO.
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
rapport for everyman’i
everyday wear.
All men’s-tvear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
ţ
Cl</vtc/' m
USE
toec^.
At
CLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
.
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
Australian-made
2-pounder Anti-Tank Gun
War
Peace
From
□k
Si
m
Did you kriow this wheel
was made in Australia?
Benson Wheels .... made in Australia .... are
original equipment for the 2-pounder Anti-Tank
Gun, Bofors Anti-Aircraft Gun, Twenty-five
Pounder Pack Gun, Jeep Trailers, Bomb Trains.
Whether the chassis of your post-war car is made
in or out of Australia, it should certainly be fitted
with the Australian-made wheels which have
proved themselves under the gruelling tests of
battle!
BENSON WHEELS
r* S G
■o
Wholly Made By
AUSTRALIAN STEEL SPLIT PULLEYS PTY. LTD.
ARTHUR STREET, HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
FOR BLOOD. VEINS.
ARTERIES, ETC.
What is ELASTO? . . . What can it do for me ?
t
t
Here are the Answers !
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness; if you
are the victim of chronic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
Elasto, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be”, you might well
say, when so many things have
failed...
Here is how ELASTO works
It has long been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Elasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to work at
this source —it revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries.
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing.
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble is bad circulation.
This is more fully explained in
simple language in a free book-
let— see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say:
The fact is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Elasto. Here is
what a few of many grateful
users have said:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
Wf/A
SMOKE-OH!
“For Sale, two fur rugs, one Tasmanian
Possum, one Wallaby.”
—“Great Northern” (Sydney).
But does his offer include instructions
on how to feed the animals?
-I- -I- -b -1-
The modern tendency in dress is toward
elimination.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Even the fundamental garments have
become' scanty.
a * .j.
Two pairs black men’s shoes, size eight,
almost new.”— Clarion” (Willoughby, N.S.W.).
Black or nigger?
•I*
“Sixteen ribs left in train.” — “S. M. Herald.’ 1 '
Carriage seriously affected.
•h 4*
“A Chicago woman recently stabbed her hus-
band to death because he accused her of steal-
ing his cigarettes.” — “World’s News.”
She will now have to draw on her own
resources.'
4* 4* 4* 4*
A sidelong glance frequently scores a
direct hit.
intermezzo.
“Cuddles, a Pekinese dog, sings the musical
scale in perfect tune.” — “Sunday Telegraph.”
Our pseudo-Persian cat Slinker easily
eclipsed this performance. When my wife
was learning singing Slinker, who
habitually slept in the piano, picked up
the rudiments of music in no time.
Realising that we owed him a chance
to develop his talents, we persisted with
his lessons, and he soon developed a fine
baritone voice. He was at his best sing-
ing in Italian or German, as this made
his rather quaint accent less obvious. His
taste in music was a decided one, and
such songs as “Caller Herrin’ ” and “The
Flea” had a prominent place in his reper-
toire. His rendition of “Three Blind
Mice” left nothing to be desired in the
way of sadistic enjoyment.
It wasn’t long before Slinker’s influ-
ence was felt among the musically in-
clined cats of the neighborhood. The
small hours of the morning were often
enlivened by the “Soldiers’ Chorus” from
“Faust,” to which the rhythmic tramp of
badly-aimed boots lent a realistic note. A
rival performance of “Frankie and
Johnnie” by some of our suburb’s more
ribald fummies was the only discordant
note.
Came the day when Slinker heard por-
tion of a Sinatra recording on the radio
before we could shut it off. That night,
when a repeat performance began in the
backyard. Dad took his elephant-gun
silently from the wall and went out. We
waited sadly for the shot, but none came,
although the Sinatra imitation increased
in intensity. Finally Dad came in again,
relief written on his face.
“The resemblance is purely coinciden-
tal,” he told us, “Slinker’s not singing—
he’s fighting.”
Plum.
4* 4* +
“Johnson’s mind went back over the months
to that disastrous March which had seen the
beginning of his downfall.” — Magazine story.
A wedding March?
+ + 4*
“During the course of the party, Belle
shocked a number of the older guests by danc-
ing on the table in her bathing costume.”
—Short story.
A brazen Belle.
4* 4*
“Wanted, boy, 17, for baling up and feeding
cows.” — Advt. in suburban paper.
A liking for pressed beef essential?
Bad Business.
“He tried to set himself up in the little town-
ship as a corn-cure specialist, but he ruined
the business by his flair for offending people.
—Biographical item.
The sufferers who came around
Were very much misled:
Instead of curing corns, they found
He trod on them instead.
Nat.
.j. .j. 4.
Bemusing the Buffalo.
“UNNRA conference has decided that Aus-
tralian wild wafer buffaloes are to be tamed
and trained and sent to liberated countries in
the Far East to be used as domestic working
animals by the peasants.”
The widely-held belief that our
Northern Territory buffaloes have up till
now been merely targets for buffalo-
shooters is an erroneous one. Our
peasants long since learned the art of
taming and training them.
First of all, the peasant has to approach
the great landholders, forelock in hand,
and crave permission to capture some
of their buffaloes. He has to pay
hoofage to his liege lord and gets no
“compo” if he is gored or squashed.
A covey of wild water buffaloes when
grazing on the roots of the geebung grass
will become even wilder when they dis-
cover that the termites have beaten them
to it and left only the shells of the roots.
On such occasions angrily-twitching tails
will be clearly visible abovd the high grass.
Then does the buffalo-wise peasant
sneak towards the grazing covey and
make a noise like an unmown buffalo
lawn. As he withdraws, still making
this noise, the buffs.’ sense of vanity im-
pels them to follow and sample a grass
which has been named after them. They
are thus easily led into a specially pre-
pared fenced lake. Here their taming
and training begin.
When an untamed buffalo starts to
roar it is immediately roared back at
very much louder by an old Poona major,
an ex-schoolmaster or a former union
organiser. Astonished at being out-roared,
the buff, is thus chastened right from
the start, and from this it rarely recovers.
If it still thinks it can use the hardness
of its face and appendages to get its own
way the animal is confronted with the
visage of a Sydney suburban greyhound
urger. This is usually enough to cow even
the hardest buffalo bull.
The buffalo’s natatory training is con-
sidered by our northern peasants to be of
paramount importance, as so much of its
domestic work is marine and submarine.
It is, therefore, taught the Australian
crawl. The buff, uses naturally the scis-
sors kick, but with.this it is likely to
foul snags and fences. To alter the. scis-
sors to the six-beat kick a native skin-
diver is employed. Not only can he stay
under water to supervise the leg action
much longer than the white peasant, but
if he gets an accidental kick in the head
from a thrashing hoof he won’t notice it
so much.
This swimming proficiency is vital
when during the wet season the boundary
fences around the paddy fields along
the Roper and the Murchison have
to be ridden. The boundary-rider, astride
his amphibious steed, wears water goggles
and trunks. When he wishes to inspect
the fence he gives two short sharp heel
kicks. The well-trained buffalo imme-
diately up-ends his stern and dives, en-
abling the boundary rider to strain the
wires, chip barnacles off the posts or lay
baits for the platypus, giant toads and
yabbies that play havoc with the young
rice shoots. One long, hard dig mid-buf-
falo is the signal to rise.
The tamed buffalo has more uses than
this, however. With the week’s washing
held taut on a rope between their homs
two buffaloes can be depended on to take
it to the windiest part of the district,
stand quite still while it is drying and
bring it back without drabbling a sheet
on the ground. The buffalo is placidly
at home also on the treadmill while grind-
ing the peasant family’s humble meal of
flummery. At threshing the peanuts off
the vine the buffalo has no equal,
and is steadier than any stock-
horse during the dangerous work of mus-
tering purinthies during the mating
season.
What is more, the buffalo is in great
request for leaning against the n.-e.
side of fences when willy-willies blow
from the s.-w. By far the most popular
use for the buff., however, is for scaring
snakes to death by bellowing down wells
prior to the owners’ going down them
to recover buckets.
It being expected that buffalo-taming
and -training will be declared a pro-
tected industry, strikes are being arranged.
80.
Defiance
I really think I must have shot
An albatross for such a lot
Of dark and dire calamities
To follow me across the seas!
And yet, 1 still can sing and dance.
And, if I ever get the chance.
In spite of all my woes and losses.
I’ll shoot a flock of albatrosses —
Also a few confounded bosses!
T. W. NATHAN.
Potty.
“They rocked with laughter, and Plant, tears
ip his eyes, proclaimed that it called for another
pot.”— Serial story.
This horticulture ties a man in knots!
It seems I’ve always had a crooked
slant
On it—l thought that plants were put in
pots.
Whereas in this case pots were put in
Plant!
P.S.B.C.
Appeal to Arms.
“Servicewomen planning now to be home
girls when war ends.” — “Sunday Sun . v
Though sick of war our sister’s grown,
E’en now her heart’s inclined to plan,
When Mars is toppled from his throne,
To nab a cottage and a man
And start a battle of her own!
PERCY.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Tipping
This form of blackmail has reached
proportions that make corrective action
imperative, It is beginning to permeate
all forms of Government- and private-
owned utilities from railway systems to
back-street pubs.
It is practically impossible to get ser-
vice nowadays unless the hand that serves
is first crossed with silver, whilst luxuries
such as a tot of Scotch whisky over the
bar call for a handsome consideration.
The practice is doubly immoral, for it
is based on the ability of the employee
to cheat the customer of the service for
which he pays and to cheat the employer
of the service which he pays to have per-
formed.
Further, tipping has no virtue on the
donor’s side, for it is not largesse gladly
given, but represents the price the donor
is prepared to pay to feed his self-import-
ance by securing a preference to which he
is not entitled.
The remedy will be difficult to devise
and more difficult to apply, but the matter
calls for action by the Government, em-
ployers and the public.—S. K. C. (Vic.).
Sydney
Let me give my reasons for disliking
Sydney. A returned ’l4-T8 A.I.F. man
with four and a half years’ service and
holding gilt-edged credentials, I arrived
here from North Queensland in April,
’4l, 18 months of war having ruined a
business it had taken me 18 years to
build up.
I found a city of cold, callous, ill-
mannered ignoramuses, who didn’t care
a damn who won the war so long as
they could find, the cash for beer, the
races, the pitchers and the dogs. I found
people who would knock old men,
mothers carrying babies and cripples into
the gutter in the fight for seats on trams,
buses and trains.
One employer nearly engaged me for
an executive job, but suddenly asked
“What school did you go to?” I told
him “Winchester.” He looked at me
wondering if Winchester was some bush
centre at the back of Bedourie, and then
froze. Had I said “Shore” or even
“Reform School” I’d probably have
clicked. As it was I became a public ser-
vant. I had never before sunk so low,
and after four and a half years’, experi-
ence of the loafing incompetence of public
servants I have resigned in disgust.
I am returning to N. Queensland, where
people act like decent human beings and
believe in honest dealing.— Eromeno
(N.S.W. —but not for long!).
Stock-design Houses
An objection always advanced when
stock-design houses are mooted is that
the Australian is an individualist who
wants to have a say in the design of his
own house. How many have any say
at present?
Most live in a house built originally
for someone else or as a spec, which
they chose, like as not, solely because
rent or price suited them. It’s generally
like any one of a hundred in the district,
except for a slightly different arrangement
of the usual excrescences. Those who
build, barring the odd exception, select
a stock plan submitted by a builder who
is his own architect or has chosen it from
a book of designs without regard to
climate or orientation. The minor altera-
tions which the client is permitted to
make frequently detract from the few
merits the plan possesses.
The average Australian, after all, lives
in much the same manner as his neighbor
in all relevant respects. Isn’t he likely to
get a cheaper, more convenient and more
beautiful house if he buys a well-studied
stock design by a competent architect
than if he acquires a place by the present
haphazard methods? —R. A. J. (S.A.).
Average Soldiers
“Methuselah’s” reference (B. 14/2/’45)
to treatment of over-age and B 2 soldiers
with war service is timely. Medically
boarded to B 2 from a 7th Division fight-
ing unit, I was drafted to a works com-
pany, nearly 50 p.c. of whose personnel
was made up of A 1 men under 30 ; prac-
tically all call-ups who had never seen
action.
Discharges to “return to industry” are
fairly frequent, classifications of “store-
man” and “bottle-washer” featuring
among the beneficiaries. A nice case was
ffiat of an A 1 man, aged 25, called up in
February ’44, granted discharge in
December, ’44, to go to Queensland to
work on a cane farm. But a B 2 7th Divi-
sion soldier, aged 38, a Middle East and
N. Guinea veteran, had his application
to return to his country property knocked
back.
Why are these things never referred to
in Parliament? — Trail Eye (N.S.W.).
A Lesson from Army Hygiene
Those of us who have experienced life
in the north and outback before the war
and are familiar with the droves of flies
and mosquitoes which infest country
towns and station homes appreciate the
good work of Army hygiene squads and
malarial-control units. It has been an
eye-opener to see what has been accom-
plished in the way of keeping disease-
carriers in check.
Country towns in the south could learn
a deal from Army methods. In many
towns there is little attempt to eliminate
flies and mosquitoes ; there are neglected
drains, lack of garbage disposal, crude
sanitary systems. Shire and muni-
cipal councils, health officers and local
papers could do a fine piece of work in
making people fly- and mosquito-con-
scious.—Alpha (A.1.F., Vic.).
Farm Relief
I have great respect for the country
man, for his courage when things go
wrong. I sympathise with his long hours
of work and comfortless existence. As
a businessman and taxpayer, however, I
“Perhaps We ought to let this one go by, Bert, and ’ave a crack at the next. ”
get very tired of his periodical howl for
and apparently is
cost the other taxpayers about £7,000,000.
It is time the farmers realised that pro-
ducing is half the battle and selling the
other half and that both halves require
equal effort. If they wish to stop the
drift of their labor to the cities they
must provide decent accommodation and
wages. It might help if they lived in
reasonable comfort themselves, instead
of making their domestic lives a misery,
If farming is ever to be put on a self-
supporting basis the farmer will have to
stop exploiting his soil and timber. His
property will have to be revalued at a
sensible figure. To prevent a re-inflation
of country values and a subsequent de-
mand on the rest of the community to
pay for it, future loans to farmers should
be made only through the Rural Bank
and strictly limited and controlled.
A last word of advice from a business-
man: When buying a property seek ad-
vice from the Weather Bureau as to rain-
fall, from the Department of Agriculture
as to soil and crops, from an accountant
as to capital required, gross and net
profit ; and have a glance at the seller’s
income-tax returns.—' Townie (N.S.W.).
ivt »r u ‘— T-
Some N.T. Handicaps
Those who are thinking about taking
up a block of N.T. land after the war
ought to know the pros and cons of the
outlook.
Before the war very few cattle stations
were paying, even with native labor. Pea-
nuts, of excellent quality, could be
sold elsewhere in Australia because some
black labor was used in production.
Cotton had been grown and neglected
because farmers could not find means to
organise a small ginnery. Tomatoes
ripened so quickly, and communications
were so slow, that most of the crops were
wasted.
There has been mining for a hundred
years, but it is past its heyday. The same
could be said of pearling. In places the
temperature climbs to 130 deg. F. At
Katherine children sit listlessly under the
school in the hot weather. Darwin never
gets hot like that, but is unbearably
muggy from December to March. For
the rest of the year the climate is reason-
able. Inland residents shiver under three
blankets for six months of the year.
On the other hand, though feed is poor,
there is enough fertile soil near perma-
nent water for hundreds of farms. Most
things grow readily. The new roads will
help a lot. So will the airport and the
wharves. And we might trade a bit more
with N.E.I. Come here and settle, by
all means, but get your facts right first—
Nodup (N.T.).
A Charter for the Aborigine
Westralia’s Natives (Citizenship Rights)
Act, 1944, gives any adult aborigine the
right to obtain a certificate of citizenship.
Certain requirements must be met
before an aborigine has a right to make
an application. For two years he must
have dissolved association with his tribe
and other natives except lineal descen-
dants or native relations of the first
degree. He must show that he has served
with the armed forces and has received
that h i fl t and proper perso „
to be declared white.
Magistrates or Residents have to de-
cide whether a native is . entitled
to a certificate. Amongst other things, the
Court takes into consideration the appli-
cant’s ability to speak the English lan-
guage and that he is industrious and
reasonably capable of managing his own
affairs. A clean bill of health as far as
leprosy, syphilis, granuloma or yaws is
concerned must also be presented,
The certificate of citizenship is a cross
between a passport and an identification
card, and contains a photograph of the
proud owner. Hotels are no longer out
of bounds; the use of the ballot box at
State and municipal elections is an ac-
quired right. All the advantages and dis-
abilities of being free, white and 21, are
conferred.
The Legislature has tied a few strings
to its grant. There is power in the Court
to suspend or cancel a certificate if the
new freedom proves too much for the
recipient. If he reverts to type; if he is
twice convicted of offences against the
native law; if he is declared to be an
habitual drunk, or if he contracts a dis-
ease fr° m which he was first certified to
be free he can lose, temporarily or for-
ever, his white status.
This legislation has a counterpart in
the U.S.A. The chiefs, warriors or heads
of families of certain Red Indian tribes
have had the right for a long time to
obtain a decree of citizenship. A system
similar to the Westralian idea is followed,
and the aborigine makes application to
the district court.
The Westralian legislation is a social
experiment which will be watched with
interest throughout the Commonwealth.
No doubt knotty problems will arise and'
the administrators will be faced with un-
foreseen difficulties, but it seems to be a
move in the right direction. —E. A. D.
(W.A.).
Law for Laymen
The laws of the land affect the ordi-
nary citizen more and more every day,
yet the average person has very little legal
knowledge. Why should we be left igno-
rant of our responsibilities? Would it
not be possible to give the rising genera-
tion some grounding in law in the
schools?
It is an anomaly that the legislation
which governs social and public relation-
ships is the one subject upon which
people receive no education. Yet we are
told by those in authority that ignorance
of the law excuses no breach of it. Such
an attitude is illogical and unfair.— Cecil
Brown (N.S.W.).
“Controlled” Coalmining
There are more glaring instances of the
failure of State enterprise in the field of
coalmining than in any other, yet it is
in this industry that State control is most
often howled for.
In N. S. Wales both “miners’ control”
and “State control” have been tried —
with very unpleasant results. The demand
for “miners’ control” reached its zenith
under the leadership of A. C. Willis
(now the Commonwealth Central Coal
Authority), and the experiment was tried
at Balmain colliery, which was handed
over in full working order to the Miners’
Federation.
The first “Miners’ Mine” commenced
operations with everything in its favor —
the best stean. coal in Australia, most
modern equipment and a situation in a
metropolitan area, right on the water-
front. Yet within six months the scheme
failed and was abandoned, and never a
word has since been heard about “miner-
controlled” mines.
Then the N. S. Wales Government en-
tered the field with a mine at Lithgow
in the most favorable part of the field.
The operating authority was changed
three times, and the “enterprise” is
described by the Federal Treasurer (and
he is member for the district) as having
“a sad and sorry history.” Privately-
owned mines on both sides of this State
mine have operated successfully for 50
years, and are still doing so.
The recently-taken-over Coalcliff col-
liery, a splendidly-equipped and modern
mine, operating under ideal conditions,
has also been described by the Federal
Treasurer as a failure, resulting in a
heavy loss to the Government and a
reduced output of coal.
In Maoriland efforts made to operate
State coalmines in the Greymouth and
Seddonville areas proved costly failures,
ending with the 1913 “Red Federation”
strikes. Attempts now being made in the
North Island by the Labor Government
have had, so far, economically disappoint-
ing notwithstanding very high
war-time prices for coal.
In Victoria, too, there has been bitter
disappointment with the results of State-
controlled coalmining. The Wonthaggi
mine, controlled by a quasi-Governmental
commission, has had “a sad and sorry
history.” The accumulated loss on pro-
duction to date is-well over £1,000,000,
while the capital loss on liquidation will
probably prove to be higher still.
Comparing Wonthaggi with the aver-
age of privately-owned N. S. Wales mines
in a recent year: —
Cost of Output Average
Coal at Per Weekly
• Pit. Employee. Earnings.
Wonthaggi .. 40s. 15cwt. 125s.
N. S. Wales .. 15s. 60cwt. 155s.
—Mining Engineer (Vic.).
Australian Novels
“NX Gunner” (B. 24/1/’45) is experi-
encing the same sort of thing that peace-
time librarians suffered. When I ran a
big library I found it difficult to induce
members to take, even on trial, books by
Australian authors.
And yet, coincident with the persistent
refusal of members to read writers like
Katherine Prichard and Mrs. Gunn (poor
old Lawson was never asked for), there
was a vociferous demand for the works
of a very prolific young Australian
author. Here, I should say, is the very
definite link with the American best-
sellers. This author understands publicity.
Personal readings of his latest novel
over the radio performed wonders in
Adelaide.
In the U.S.A. a publisher would think
nothing of spending £6000 to boost a
book’s sales. Show me the Australian
publisher who will do likewise and “NX
Gunner” will not have long to wait
for his Australian best-seller.-
SANS
CHANGER (S.A.).


f 44t/
OTHER FAMOUS FRODDCTS INCLUDE
CREME de MENTHE . . . CHERRY BRANDY
ADVOCAAT ORANGE & WHITE
CURACAO CREME de CACAO
GILBEDENE . . , , ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY . . RUM . . GIN SLING
BRONX AND MARTINI COCKTAIL . . SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH AND GAUNTLET WHISKY
n. & 1 1111 BEY LIMITED
ROSSLYN ST. WEST MELBOURNE
Telegrams & Melbourne
REGENT STREET, SYDNEY
Telegrams & Cables: "Gilbeys” Sydney
