

ŵ
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3422
Wednesday, September 12, 1945
Price 6d*
Registered at the General Post Office. Syifuay, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
PENRHYN CASTLE.
JWIEAR Bangor, in Carnarvonshire, Wales, stands this compara-
tively modern castle, where, in the eighth century, stood the
palace of the then King of North Wales. That ancient castle was
levelled by Meredith ap Owen at the end of the tenth century.
The land was later granted by the great Llewelyn to, Trahaiarn,
from whom it descended through the female line to William ap
Gryffyd. He, in the reign of the sixth Henry, rebuilt the seat. A
Pieis Gryffyd, who possessed this house in the time of Elizabeth,
fitted out a ship at his own expense and joined Sir Francis Drake
in the defeat of the Armada. The drinking horn of Piers Gryffyd
is still preserved at Penrhyn Castle —an ox horn ornamented with
chased silver. The Castle staff on grand occasions were allowed
to drink from this relic. It was a strict rule that the drinker had to
empty the horn at one tip and instantly sound a note. The penalty
for inability to conform with this rule is now not known. In more
recent times Penrhyn Castle came into possession of the family
of Douglas-Pennant and from it is descended the third Baron
Penrhyn, Edward Sholto.


ẁ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Bvoklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.' ’
My Name
My Addrets
S.B. 245
The Red Page
STORIES WITHOUT SPEECH.
Whatever else may be said about
Eudora Welty’s The Wide Net (Bodley
Head ; Angus and Robertson) her short
stories certainly have two great merits:
style and imagination:
He had fishes ready, too, wrapped and
cooking in a hole scooped in the ground.
When she ate it was in obedience to him,
though he did not say “Eat” or say any-
thing, he only smiled at the fire, and for
him it was all a taking freely of what was
free. She knew from him nevertheless that
what people ate in the world was earth,
river, wildness and litheness, fire and ashes.
People took the fresh death and the hot fire
into their mouths and got their own life.
The prose is smooth, with a queer tang
to it; the thought is profound ; the por-
traits, whether of an elderly female Don
Juan —haunting the gaming tables in a
monstrous purple hat—or of an old nigger
dying with his “small gold smile,” are
clearly and richly drawn; the landscape
is often lovely:
Then green branches closed it over, and
with her next step trumpet and muscadine
vines and the great brig-leaved vines made
pillars about the trunks of the trees and
arches and buttresses all among them. Pas-
sion flowers bloomed with their white and
purple rays about her shoulders and under
her feet. She walked on into the streaming
shade of the wilderness, and put out her
hands between the hanging vines. She
feared the snakes in the sudden cool. Like
thousands of silver bells the frogs rang
her through the swamp, which then closed
behind her.
It is a craftsman’s writing; and there
is shown, too, in the conception and
presentation of mass scenes —festivals
often bizarre and dramatic —a crafts-
man’s power of construction; as when
the farm people of Natchez (the Southern
American district where all the stories are
located) parade a town in triumph with
all the fish they have taken while dragging
the river for a woman supposed to be
drowned:
The whole town of Dover began to throb
in its wood and tin, like an old tired heart,
when the men walked through once more,
coming round again and going down the
street carrying the fish, so drenched, ex-
hausted and muddy that no one could help
but admire them.
William Wallace walked through the town
as though he did not see anybody or hear
anything. Yet he carried his great string of
fish held high where it could be seen by
all. Virgil came next, imitating William
Wallace exactly, then the modest Doyles,
crowded by the Malones, who were holding
up their alligator, tossing it in the air even,
like a father tossing his child. Following
behind and pointing authoritatively at the
ones in front strolled Doc, with Sam and
Robbie Bell still chanting in his wake. Brucie,
making a twanging noise with his lips, had
shot forth again, and he was darting rapidly
everywhere at once, delighted and tantalised,
running in circles around William Wallace,
pointing to his fish. A frown of pleasure
like the print of a bird’s foot was stamped
between his faint brows, and he trotted
in some unknown realm of delight.
“Did you ever see so many fish?” said
the people in Dover.
And yet with all these merits the
stories as a whole are curiously lifeless.
Astonishingly so, when one recalls that
Eudora Welty’s contribution to the an-
thology Horizon Stories, reviewed on the
Red Page about a year ago, stood alone
in its vitality. Throwing in for good
measure a fantastic comedy of the loves
of a professional Petrified Man, she des-
cribed the life of women in a beauty
parlor with a rich, affectionate irony and
with a realism which (to a mere male)
would have been almost intolerable but
for the author’s high spirits. The story
excelled in dialogue. In The Wide Net
there is practically no dialogue; —•
She sat down and made a clover chain
that would never get long because the
cloverheads slipped out, and while she made
it she kept looking with assuring looks into
his illuminated eyes that went over the
landscape and searched the sky for clouds.
She could hold his look for a moment and
then it would get away. She did not say
a thing to him, for nobody can say “It is
a heavy heart that makes me clumsy.”
Her eyes were telling him this but if he
knew it or felt a threat in it, he never gave
a sign.
In Synge’s plays, the simplest people,
peasants and fishermen, found words for
their emotions. In Eudora Welty’s “The
Petrified Man” the women bubbled with
words ; and with their speech they came
to life, and with their life they moved.
The action in most of The Wide Net
stories is vague and cloudy, as if perhaps
it never really happened at all; the inar-
ticulate people are only half-real, pegs on
which to hang a style, a method
and a philosophy. Dream-people,'moving
heavily in silence. Only in the story of
the dying negro—his young wife and bel-
iever watching him—is the action clear,
the characterisation fully effective. It is
not a wildly original situation ; but at
least it is satisfactorily conveyed.
Eudora Welty, perhaps, is writing too
much for the highbrow magazines;
which means writing for writers. In the
search for an ever-deepening sublety of
technique, she has forgotten that crafts-
manship should be unobtrusive and that
the greatest writers are always the great
entertainers.
Ninth Division Man .
Colin Kerr’s Tanks in the East (Oxford
University Press) records the activities of
the Ninth Div. Cav., A.1.F., in the Middle
East.
While Kerr has obviously set out to
write a regimental history, the book is
good general reading.
Though, lacking visualisation of the
tragic aspects of war, it gives an incom-
plete picture, its lightness of tone is very
far from being a bad thing. Men on
active service do not, as a rule, entertain
those at home with letters concerning
horrors; and in many ways Tanks in the
East resembles nothing so much as a
string of well written and entertaining
letters home, with a history of the unit
running through it.
When writing about men of his unit
Kerr is obviously inhibited by the know-
ledge that he is writing about actual per-
sons, and so they become unreal and
conventional —merely “fine chaps” or
“keen officers.” Who's Who could say
as much. Foreigners, concerning whom
he lets himself go, develop a vitality out
of all proportion to their importance:
“Moustache,” the Syrian giant who drinks
arrack neat; “Joe the Interpreter,” an
Armenian who tolerates no nonsense
from Arabs and “talks like a Dutch uncle
to the shaggiest of sheiks” ; Free French
and Vichy French; cafe girls who drink
colored water and go home with their
husbands, and cafe girls who don’t;
primitive hillsmen, Syrian aristocrats;
Poles, Egyptians, Greeks and coal-black
Senegalese who fight fiercely and play
ring-a-rosy for exercise.
The Middle East has been described
before, and at times it has been described
better, but *Kerr’s little sketches never
become wearisome. It is not the place
that matters so much, but the observer,
and. Kerr is a shrewd one:
Once I was sharing a bottle of white
wine with a pretty Jewish woman, a Vien-
nese blonde, although she came from Berlin,
which she still considered the best city in
the world She said her husband was a
roof-spotter, and that if he would join
the army she would join the A.T.S., but
she was sure that he would not. I met
the husband later and asked him what his
people would do if Germany won the war.
“I suppose we would go somewhere else,”
he replied apathetically.
Many of the more recent arrivals m
Palestine are like that. They have been
through so much agony that any fineness
they may once have had is dead in them.
Tel Aviv is a place of refuge for them, but
they are exiles even in their own homes.
They still dream of Berlin or Warsaw and
the life that has gone.
On the whole, a fair and balanced
judgment. In a chapter called “On Loving
One’s Enemies —and Other Matters” Kerr
interestingly expresses his own views on
war:
Knowing the record of our enemies in
the countries they have occupied, it seems
both weak and foolish not to indulge in
hatred of them, yet quite early in the war
I found that I was incapable of hating
the brutes, so I decided not to let it worry
me further. Perhaps my attitude sprang
from a conviction that it is emotionally
wasteful to feel concerned about .the stupid-
ity and viciousness of the human race;
and that it is best to remain as detached
as possible when contemplating their mass
follies. #
Concepts of Time.
Physical science, concerned nowadays
as much wfiii the structure of the atom
as with the mechanism of the universe,
has now had thirty years in which to
explore the paths opened up by Einstein’s
Theory of Relativity. The nature of the
various researches and the extent to which
these can be reconciled is inferentially
epitomised in Time, Knowledge and the
Nebulce (Faber and Faber), by Prof.
Martin Johnson, who occupies the Chair
of Physics at Birmingham University.
Hr. Johnson is especially interested in
finding an escape from the evidence (spec-
troscopic) that nebulae are rushing away
from the earth at terrific speed —the
further the nebulae the greater the speed.
Eddington has laid it down that the reces-
sional speed of these nebulae is 1000 miles
per second for every million light years
that separates us from the nebulae. One
of the consequences of this theory is that
if there are nebulae 1900 million light
years distant they are travelling away at
a speed of 190,000 miles a second. As
that is in excess of the speed of light no
light from these nebulae could reach us ;
moreover, their behavior would infringe
Einstein’s law that the speed of light is
the maximum that can be attained by
anything in the universe.
Eddington himself admits that this
theory of an'expanding universe is “in
some respects so preposterous that we
naturally hesitate to commit ourselves to
it. It contains elements apparently so
incredible that I feel almost an indig-
nation that anyone should believe it —
except myself,”
Among counter-theories one of the
most ingenious is that of He Sitter, who
postulates that the passage of time itself
is retarded by a factor depending upon
distance —that somewhere there is a
fringe or horizon, millions of light years
distant from any terrestrial observer,
where Nature (including time) stands still.
Hr. Johnson does not accept this, pre-
ferring the alternative suggested by Prof.
E. A. Milne, that the time-scale applic-
able to the atom is not the time-scale
applicable to astronomical phenomena.
But Milne’s brand of relativity casts
back to the concept of infinite space, and
almost all modern physicists fight shy of
that solution, which raises more difficul-
ties than it allays. Hr. Johnson’s discus-
sion is impartial, and, as far as a lay
reviewer may judge, well balanced.
Sounds of Revelry.
ẃ
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Cauboy”: Mewton-Wood, the young
Melbourne prodigy, made a return to the
Town Hall with a programme of Chopin,
Debussy and others, which he played with
his usual extraordinary ease and relaxa-
tion. Then he launched into the Lusus
Tonalis of Hindemith, written, it is said,
by that composer to illustrate his theories
on harmony and composition. It lasted
50 minutes, and the audience received it
with traditional Melbourne politeness but
without the enthusiasm it accorded the
pianist’s other numbers. One was heard
to murmur: “It must be difficult to
play.” “Pity it isn’t impossible,” rejoined
his neighbor ; and another remarked that
it was the first and probably the last time
the piece would be heard in Melbourne.
Still, it oughtn’t to be forgotten that the
introduction to the main movement of
Beethoven’s First Symphony seemed so
audacious to a contemporary conductor
that he omitted it from his performance.
The Australian composer:
“A.W.”: For the Australian composer of
chamber music and the more elaborate orch-
estral forms ■of choral music and opera the
most crying need is publication. There are
Australian composers who have cupboards full
of compositions: Alfred and Mirrie Hill, Mar-
garet Sutherland, Clive Douglas, Alexander
Barnard, Frank Hutchens, Lindley Evans-
the list could easily be expanded. Failing
publication, or supplementary publication,
valuable assistance can be given by the broad-
casting and recording of such compositions.
When 8.8. C. undertook to broadcast some Aus-
tralian music it made recordings and sent 50
sets of records out to various countries that
might be interested. A start has been made
with recordings of Australian orchestral music.
The Queensland State String Quartet’s ren-
dition of Alfred Hill’s favorite quartet (No. 11)
is now available, and doubtless other worth-
while instrumental works will follow. Songs by
Australian composers figure on many overseas
gramophone record lists. Publication and/or
recording provide the opportunities for the
study and repetition that is necessary before
art-form music can win recognition. _ There’s
just one other point which A.B.C. might con-
sider. Instead of segregating Australian music,
as if it were infected or stood in a different cate-
gory from all other music, why not let it out into
mixed programmes, to rub shoulders with Beet-
hoven or Berlin? Australians capable of judg-
ing think it is good enough to stand on its
feet anywhere, and they can’t be proved wrong
without a trial.
The Melbourne Conservatorium of
Music’s jubilee symphony concert at the
Town Hall went off with a grand slam
under Fritz Hart, now of Honolulu and
33 years ago its director. One of the
most effective items was the conductor’s
symphonic suite, “The Bush,” an expres-
sion, to quote the composer, of his
emotional reactions to Nature, with the
physical aspects unreported, hence the
absence of the kookaburra and the mag-
pie. It was a charming piece of music.
Una Bourne, for many years Melba’s
accompanist in world tours, was avail-
able at the piano, and gave a masterly
interpretation of the solo role in Franck’s
Symphonic Variations; but if the shade
of the diva was hovering round the Town
Hall it must have wondered why a singer
or two wasn’t included in the celebrations,
since the Conservatorium, which she
joined in 1915, might almost be said to
have been her baby. There are enough
Melba proteges about to make an effective
chorus.
At the talkies:
“The Unseen” (Sydney Victory): Excellently-
contrived mystery thriller. In tension it is a
distinct improvement on “The Uninvited,” in
which Gael Russell did, as in this present
film, such a good job of work. Joel McCrae
and Herbert Marshall are sure in roles which,
handled less skilfully, could have led to the
picture’s deterioration into a potboiler.
“Lake Placid” (Sydney Lyceum): Ice. Re-
plete with a girl (Vera Hruba) who dances with
the grace of a Pavlova, a ballet which marches
on the thin steel edges with the precision of a
Guards’ battalion, and two apache dancers who
enact the traditional Parisian low-life scene at
a terrific bat. Shakspeare would hardly have
cared to sign his name to the plot.
“Thunderhead, Son of Flicka” (Sydney
Plaza): Mary O’Hara’s follow-up to the original
story of the boy and the horse. This time
emotion is played down instead of up, resulting
in a better-balanced yarn. The setting, in color,
is in the same beautiful country, with virtually
the same cast. The horseflesh is a joy to the
eye of even a non-punter.
“Music for Millions” (Sydney St. James):
Jose Iturbi playing Debussy, Chopin, etc. The
story is feeble and sentimental, with an objec-
tionable little chee-ild who irritatingly interrupts
good music.
“When Irish Eyes Are Smiling” (Sydney
Regent): An f.a.q. musical, in color, “revolv-
ing” or tottering around the life of Ernest Ball,
who wrote “Mother Machree” and other senti-
mental ditties. The film has two notable and
gratifying features —the absence of Mother
Machree and the presence of Monty Woolley.
At Adelaide Society of Arts gallery is
the first local Camera Club show to have
international competition. Adelaide
National Gallery, however, claims to
have been the first in Australia to recog-
nise photography as a branch of real
Art, and Hans Heysen, one of its board,
has done the judging in this show. The
best Australian award goes to Harold
Casneaux, that for overseas to Bentley of
Canada. Casneaux is prominent through-
out, and other minor awards go to
Dupain, Monte Luke and visitors from
the U.S.A., India, Natal and Papua.
“C.R.”: T&e mystery of “H.H.,” the
artistic discovery which has succeeded
Ern Malley as an item of aesthetic interest
in the columns of “Angry Penguins,” has
been deepened by the revelation of Clive
Turnbull, Melbourne “Herald” critic, that
he has found another masterpiece in a
store in Tallygoopna which bears the
primitive genius’s full name —H. Hearing-
As with the five extant works previously
discovered in a bike shop in Melbourne
by the president of the Contemporary
Society and hailed by him as carrying the
unmistakeable mark of the natural artist,
the subject-matter is that eccentric cyclist,
the late “Professor” Tipper, riding a five;
inch cycle, “the smallest in the world,
and the work is dated 1925. Nobody
knows who H. Hearing was. Possibly
he was a small boy or a couple of smau
boys working a hoax on the modern an
movement.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
%
{5
v
-■
' s
0"
c>
o''
y
V \
V *
\V
m
01
<r
Net Crossover Curtains with frilling on two
sides and base. Frilled Valance'attached.
Complete with ties. Green only .... 35/- pair
No coupons.
m 1
1/
%
£
% l
r i
wwm •••,
■
m
H
m i m
m
I i
iiiilliii
:
j&Um ' '
2T v.-:r.:*v„ b
■
HH p
■
I
■
mt
m
«/
I
C^s
'
j|| .
■if'■
fs
m
W
m
1
■
■i
i
BHBnl
■I
\d
M
■ ; &
xs
!■£
\
n
i
m
n
I
• Furnishing Drapery-
Third Floor.
Famous Low Prices
iC;*>
OS
/3
: O,
r>\
a
?#K
m
* 2*Jf (I
wmdM
pi
m
t’JB
m
Amm
f:
m
-*.l
m
m
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C G.P.0., SYDNEY
Tapestry Curtains o!
heavy weight material.
Ready made for hanging
with pleated heading and
pocket for rod. Green,
Rust, Burgundy, Fawn and
Blue. 6 ft. 6 in. drop, 99/6
No coupons.
36-inch Cotton Tapestry, heavy
weight cloth with a toughness that
makes it suitable for furniture
covering. Green, Burgundy or
Fawn 8/11 yard
No coupons.
56-inch Art Silk and Cotton Repp
of heavy weight. British manufac-
ture and excellent draping fabric.
Burgundy, Rust, Green or Blue.
Price, yard 23/6
No coupons.
Double Bed Size Fitted
Bedspreads of a modem
and attractive two tone
print in Rose/White, Blue/
White, Burgundy/White
and Rust/White. Two
pillow covers to match.
Price £6/6/-
No coupons.
40-inch Curtain Net in
Cream shade. A very-
open mesh of the Fisher
type. Durable and long
wearing qualities, 5/11 yd.
No coupons.


MR MINTY’S SILVER PLATE
By BRIAN JAMES.
MANY years ago the doctors put a
silver plate into Mr. Mirny’s
head. The doctors apparently
were very proud of the job, and
so was Mr. Minty. Not everyone had a
silver plate in his head —or had such a
head as you could put a silver plate into,
if you wanted to.
Besides its being an ever-fresh topic of
talk, and its performing the useful func-
tion of keeping bone off his brain, that
silver plate was an asset in other wavs as
well. J
. Mr - Mi «ty didn’t assist with the milk-
ing on account of that silver plate i it hurt
his head to press against the cow’s flank,
and he held that no one could milk pro-
perly unless he dug his head into the
cow s side. So, when the others were
milking Mr. Minty stayed inside; and in
the mornings he just stayed in bed mostly;
which was commonsense.
He couldn’t work in the heat, for that
expanded the silver plate, and made his
head ache “something awful,” and he
daren’t work in the cold, for that con-
tracted the metal, and made his head even
worse.
So he just managed things generally,
and that didn’t hurt his head at all. In
fact, his head seemed to like it.
In the intervals of managing he found
time to drive into town with the cream
and to deliver the “orders”—dressed tur-
keys and fowls—and look up old friends
at the three pubs. Anyone he met at the
pubs was an old friend. It didn’t seem
that beer, or stronger stuff, hurt the silver
plate in the least. Did it good, really;
which was an advantage, and bespoke
greater credit still to the big specialist
who had done the operation.
The Minty family was something of a
mystery to the district. The only thing
really plain about it was the silver plate
in Mr. Minty’s head.
Of course, the district loved a mystery,
but hated being unable to solve it and get
right down to “the bottom of things.”
There were some points no one seemed
able to explain properly. The Minty
farm was the best on the creek, but how
Mr. Minty had come to get it none could
well understand.
It had formerly belonged to the Barrels,
who had come, many years before, from
nowhere exactly. And when Barrel died
Mrs. Barrel married Mr. Minty, who had
come from nowhere in particular. The
marriage was celebrated at no known
place; and after it the four little Barrels
became Mintys, and Mr. Minty appar-
ently took possession of the farm.
Mrs. Minty was a strong, thin, angular
woman of amazing activity. What that
woman got through in a day was a
miracle —and a blessing.
Her face was uncommonly plain,
leathery, in fact, from being so much out
of doors. She scorned the adventitious
aid of cosmetics and lipsticks and such
like, saying that she was good enough as
she was, and if people didn’t like it they’d
have to lump it. Her hair was black,
sheenless and done up according to no
known principle. Her forehead was
wrinkled, and her eyes screwed into a
kind of intent peering, as though she
were perpetually picking small ants out
of brown sugar. In attire she ,was not so
much careless as hurried.
After all, it had to be hurried, for it
was no vain boast of hers that she could
come out of the fowl-pens, dress, and be
driving off to town all in four minutes.
Undoubtedly a world’s record, and she
was justly proud of it.
y HREE times a week Mr. Minty drove
* the four miles to town with the cream.
The cream was in two ten-gallon cans,
and the cans fitted into the extra long
tray of the, sulky, behind the seat.
At half-past ten the sulky and cans
would be ready, and Mr. Minty would
take his place in the vehicle. For one
with such a bad head, Mr. Minty looked
remarkably well on setting out. His
freshly-shaved face was redly bright; his
moustache was trim and fitting; his suit,
spick and span, and his black velour hat
gave him quite a distinguished appearance
—far too good for a sulky with cream-
cans at the back. He certainly should
have been in a car.
But there was no false pride about Mr.
Minty. Besides, he really didn’t like cars.
“Give me a good horse every time,” he
used to say. “You can trust a horse.”
There was something in that; after all,
a car won’t bring one home in certain
circumstances, and a good horse will;
The horse took him to the Lillipilli,
the town’s best hostelry. Perhaps it was
here that Mr, Minty shone best: at home
h® might be inclined to authority and
criticism, but at the Lillipilli he was all the
graces. Mrs. O’Hare, very fat and pleas-
antly domineering, would welcome him
Sure, and it’s Silver himself!” And Mr.
Minty would wish, so he would, that he
was ten years younger ; and add as com-
pliment that it would make no difference
if he were ten years older, so it wouldn’t.
‘Hist, Silver, you old reprobate! There’ll
be murder done if Terry chances to hear
you.”
There was a good table kept at the
Lillipilli—turkeys. Mrs. Minty supplied
these, always killed and dressed —and a
bit extra for that, of course. Mrs. Minty
herself did all the killing and cleaning:
for Mr. Minty, what with his head,
couldn't stand the smell of blood. But
Mr. Minty delivered the finished article,
as he did the cream. Very reliable he was
in such things. ,
In due course Mr. Minty had a “bite” in
the dining-room He made his usual
effort to kiss the two maids and was
severely called a “terrible masher” by
Mrs. O’Hare.
Then Mr. Minty returned to the bar
and discussed matters with those who
came and went: dairy farmers and
orchardists, with whom he was learned
and informative in all things pertaining;
the local blacksmith, who came in with a
client after every horse he shod —with
him Mr. Minty was reminiscent, and re-
gretted that the horse should be so de-
clining ; several vegetable-growers in a
big way, and Mr. Minty discussed the
pros and cons of the rotary hoe; some
commercial travellers, and these found
Mr. Minty very conversant with business
and the country trade.
There were a few he didn’t know, un-
classifiable, philosophers mostly, and with
these he ascended to the higher and more
abstract planes of politics and morality.
Then there was always someone who
would ask, “How’s the silver plate?” And
Mr. Minty would always reply, “Did I
never tell you about that silver plate?”
And, without waiting for answer, he
would give a very complete account of
the operation, and of what “all the
doctors” had said ; and what the specialist
did; and what he himself could do (and
couldn’t do) after the marvel of the
insertion of the plate.
A T last Mr. Minty would look very
dreamily at the space between the
produce store and the blacksmith’s, to the
stretch of green flat beyond, and vaguely
see that the shadows of the three iron-
barks were simply enormous, and that the
magpies were flying westward to the tim-
bered ridges—with a disreputable blue
cattle dog chasing them, as he always did.
Then Mr. Minty would say, “Breaksh
m’heart! —mush go, though.”
Mr. O’Hare would inform him that the
sulky was ready, and Mrs. O’Hare would
say she was expecting “them fowls” to-
morrow.
Mr. Minty would then be given assis-
tance into the sulky, for by now that
silver plate would be troubling him a
deal. Mr. O’Hare would then fasten the
reins securely to the lamp-bracket, see
that Mr. Minty’s head was comfortable
on a bushel of corn, or something similar,
and inform the horse that all was fixed
and snug. The dutiful horse set off.
“Whoa! ” Mr. Minty relapsed into
consciousness.
“’S baker! Mush shee baker.”
“He’s shut.”
“Will you shee him — and tell him?”
“Yes! yes!”
“Jus’ tell him—from me, min’ you,
from me, that heesh a cow.”
“Righto!”
“Cow. Tell him I forgot to tell him.”
Mr. Minty had had a serious quarrel
with the baker some time since, and had
withdrawn his custom. It was the baker’s
loss, for Mrs. Minty, in her spare time,
baked bread for the family—better bread,
too, than any baker ever made.
The horse headed into the setting sun,
and the golden haze of evening. He took
his responsibilities easily, for he knew the
rules of the road perfectly. He liked the
journey and set his own steady pace of
jogging, and just crawled up the steep
hill at Walker’s, zig-zagging the last
pinch near the top, then he “brichened”
down the pinch on the other side, and
jogged again for the last mile or so to the
gate. He would stand at the gate till one
of the boys came from the separator to
help “father” in, and get the cans.
Then “father” would be put to bed
after his long and trying day.
Mrs. Minty, executing fowls at the
woodheap, would call out “Is your father
any worse?” And the boy would reply
“Don’t think so!” It wasn’t convincing,
and Mrs. Minty would say that He U
have to see the doctor again, I’m afraid.
INTO this happy home there had crept
* at times certain disturbing influences.
Not really bad, but still, quite discern-
ible rifts in the lute, as it were.
At times —certainly not over-frequently
—Mrs. Minty stalked about the place
carrying the leg of an old iron bedstead,
with a wicked-looking knob at the end of
it.
This, she said, she would use —“Just
let him try it on and say that again.”
For a quiet woman her voice, when
raised, was very shrill and carried ex-
ceedingly.
Then Mr. Minty would appear on the
side verandah, sharpening his butcher’s
knife with the steel. Somewhere in be-
tween the boys silently and thoughtfully
loitered, casually bearing stout sticks in
their hands. Mr. Minty would at times
pause in his sharpening and tell Mrs.
Minty what he thought of her. On such
occasions he really didn’t think too much
of her.
He made, too, cryptic references to
family history which no one could under-
stand. The ownership of the farm would
be glanced at, though that matter seemed
settled. Neighbors, near and far, would
pause and listen for such details as might
be new to them, and wonder if anything
would happen this time. It never did.
Eventually the knife would be put away,
the leg of the bedstead would be placed
behind the chimney, and peace would
return to the happy home.
Bob Grieve, an uncommonly cantan-
kerous Scot, who was the nearest neigh-
bor and living just over the creek, was
most unreasonable about these little out-
breaks. He was outspokenly scornful of
silver plates ; and, being .a practical man,
summed up a very desirable ending like
this: “One day she’ll knock him oot
with that wee bit bed-leg—and he' 11 be
dead. Then, they’ll hang her; and we ll
be rid of them a’.”
Sometimes he reversed this hopeful
prophecy—but the happy ending was the
same: he would “get” her with his knife,
and they would hang him. Bob didn’t
seem to mind much which way it went.
DERHAPS the greatest division in the
1 home was caused by the arrival of
Peter the Fourth; and this nearly
brought about the first part of Bob’s de-
sired fatality.
“Peter the Fourth” has the sound of
royalty, about it, and rightly so. Peter
was a great grandson of King Peter, and,
of course, was a Jersey from the great
Woodga Stud. Mr. Minty, in the inter-
ests of an improved dairy herd, had
bought Peter the Fourth for eighty
guineas.
Mrs. Minty had not approved of the
venture, and, in her general ignorance of
eugenics, said that Walter was good
enough for them. Walter was a nonde-
script animal whose chief feature was
his skill in breaking fences. Mr. Minty
had his way; Walter was shamefully
treated, after all these years, and finally
sent to the butcher. And Peter the Fourth
arrived.
From the first a distinct undercurrent
of hostility existed between Mrs. Minty
and Peter the Fourth: they simply did
not like each other; and Mrs. Minty
made no effort to conceal her feelings.
Peter the Fourth was really most tract-
able and docile. Mr. Minty often walked
to him in the paddock and put his arm
over his neck, or rubbed him between the
horns, or scratched the butt of his tail.
And Peter the Fourth greatly appreciated
these little attentions.
One morning, as Mr. Minty was warm-
ing his slippered feet at the kitchen stove
—it was early sumirrr, but an unseason-
ably raw morning—the sounds of grum-
bling were heard approaching the house.
The grumbling came from Mrs. Minty,
and resolved itself into threats: “Either
that bull goes, or / do!”
“What’s wrong now?”
Mrs. Minty entered the kitchen. She
looked the worse for wear. From head
to foot she was covered with dust and
dirt; her faded black blouse was ripped
and torn into tatters; her usual velour
hat—one that Mr. Minty had long dis-
carded—was gone; and her lustreless
black hair was hanging down in mats and
tangles.
Mr. Minty surveyed her with mild in-
terest. “What have you been doing?”
“That bull of yours!”
“I observe” —said Minty with the
icy politeness he could assume on occas-
sions, “I observe. But what did you do
to provoke him?”
“Provoke — I’ll provoke him! lam
going to shoot him!”
Mr. Minty intimated that even the
thought, much less the attempt, was
dangerous (for Mrs. Minty), Again he
demanded to know what she had done to
Peter the Fourth.
Mrs. Minty was not very coherent, but
it seemed that she had hinted broadly to
Peter the Fourth that his presence in the
yard was not appreciated at milking time,
and she had attempted to drive him out.
Peter, knowing his high status on the
place, not unnaturally resented this, and
with a screwy sort of toss of his head
had ripped his horn through Mrs. Minty’s
blouse. She had fallen on her face, and
Peter was proceeding to deal further with
her when one of the boys belted him off
with the yard shovel, and drove him out-
side the yard.
There Peter stood under the coral tree
and pawed the dust over himself—as an
expression of annoyance, no doubt.
Mr. Minty was very annoyed, too, and
said so. The bull was quite right in acting
as he had done, and nothing less could be
expected from an animal so highly bred.
Mrs. Minty had undoubtedly provoked die
bull beyond all endurance, and it was all
part and parcel of her attitude to him all
along. He only hoped that no damage
had been done with the yard shovel—
he’d look into that presently. In the mean-
time, he’d much prefer not being dis-
turbed further —on account of his head.
\/lEWED impartially, it was a great
* pity that Mrs, Minty should have
quarrelled with the bull, for he was a very
fine animal. In a way, too, it created
something of an atmosphere of misunder-
standing in the home, and led, to a far
greater extent than was necessary, to a
brandishing of the “wee bit bed-leg” and
a sharpening of the butcher’s knife.
It was no good at all for Mr. Minty’s
head ; and what with that, and his man-
agement of the farm, and the taking of
all the cream to the factory, and the
poultry to the pubs and other places, and
the unreasonable attitude of the baker,
and the breach between the bull and his
wife —he declared he was tired of every-
thing.
Bob Grieve considered the signs were
more than hopeful, and was heard to re-
mark that it wouldn’t be long now.
Bob was right in a way, though not
quite in the way he meant. One morning
soon after Mr. Minty set out for town
with the cream. It is sad to relate that on
this, of all mornings, he and Mrs. Minty
should have had words that echoed up
and down the creek for miles, and that
Mrs. Minty should have hastened to the
chimney for the bed-leg. But so it was.
At the Lillipilli that day Mr. Minty
was never better company, and Mrs.
O’Hare afterwards often declared that he
“shone like a light, so he did, all the day.”
Then she would grow tenderly serious
and say, “Och, if we had only known!”
It had been blowing from the west all
day—one of those hard dry westerlies
that so often curse the summer.
What happened on the way home could
only be conjectured, though the marks
and signs were fairly evident of the
cause of the mishap. Just over the top
of the hill at Walker’s, where the horse
would be carefully “brichening,” a very
large limb from a bloodwood sprawled
halfway across the road. The horse had
swerved sharply to the right—perhaps
awakened out of some reverie by the
crash of that limb—and the sulky over-
turned in the deep gutter on that side of
the road. Then the horse, maddened now
with terror, bolted off and scattered the
remains of the sulky down the hill. The
boys found him snorting at the gate.
A rapid search discovered Mr. Minty
and a bag of chaff, together with a box
of groceries, in the rocky gutter. The
empty cream-cans were a little farther
down the hill. Mr. Minty was quite dead
—his neck had been broken. But the
silver plate was undamaged.
Mrs. Minty took it very hard. “He
was a real man —say what they like,” she
repeated over and over again. She grieved
much over the unfortunate parting on that
morning, and contritely held herself much
to blame, feeling that it mightn’t have
happened at all but for the words they
had. She said—over and over again—
that she didn’t feel she had much to live
for now —and nothing to work for.
As to Peter the Fourth, her heart
softened towards him. “I wouldn’t part
with him now, not for worlds, would I!”
The boys worked on and didn’t seem
aware of any great difference.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No, 3422
Wednesday, September 12, 1945
FIRST—AND LAST?
“Chifley, P.M., has been delivered of a tax-cut, to take effect on January 1, which has been widely objected to as undersized.”
“Oh, Mrs. Frankie Gamp, I ’ad a norful time, and that there Dr. Caucus was more ’indrance than ’elp.”
“Never you mind, dearie! P’raps you won’t never ’ave to go through it no more.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: '252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
AUSSIES, GOOD AND BAD.
Looking back over the events of the past
six years, Australians who love their
country can take honest pride in the
achievements of their servicemen who
fought the enemy in many lands —Egypt,
Cyrenaica, Libya, Greece, Crete, Syria,
Malaya, Java, Amboina, Timor, Papua,
New Guinea, the Solomons, Borneo —in
the skies above three continents and Aus-
tralia itself, and on the Seven Seas. For
various reasons, some of which go back
many years, these sons of Australia were
never more than a minority of the
nation’s manhood fit for service, but they
exhibited it at its best. In spite of neglect
in the wasted years, all the services had
skilful and daring leadership, and the
fighting quality shown by junior and
non-commissioned officers and the rank
and file was unsurpassed.
Often in a desperate emergency some
Australian went forward in the spirit of
Arnold von Winkelried, who gathered the
Austrian spears against his breast to open
a way for the patriot Swiss. Tfiis is true
of nearly all the V.Cs.; of the latest pair,
Chowne and Kenna, no less than of Der-
rick, Edmondson, Middleton and New-
ton. Most of the V.Cs." came from the
Bush, where the spirit of mateship in
which these gallant fellows were bred
shines as bright as ever. If in the course
of events, dictated by the atomic bomb
and the possible emergence of weapons
as deadly or deadlier, a redistribution of
population, of such patent necessity on
material grounds for the striking of a
proper balance between city and country,
becomes a matter of safeguarding the
very existence of the nation, there need
be no fears for the character and self-
reliance of the new children of the Bush.
Indeed the case for peopling the outback
and the rampart of northern islands
which the Japanese found virtually un-
defended rests in part on moral grounds.
For although a great deal of good and
useful work was done in cities, volun-
tarily as well as for ungrudged rewards,
mortifyingly large numbers of people
herded there —in Sydney above all —proved
unworthy and, at the worst, unfaithful.
There was an epidemic of theft in
ports and distributing centres which
spared neither war materials nor service-
men’s belongings and comforts. There
were black markets in foodstuffs, cloth-
ing, beer and spirits—almost everything.
There was a Communist conspiracy, sedi-
tiously anti-war until Russia was attacked
by its 1939 partner, venomously anti-
British when Russia, with more than
twice the population of Germany and
more than four times the population of
Britain, had weathered a single cam-
paign. The cry then changed from “Stop
the Imperialist war! ” to “Open a Second
Front in France!”, Britain, reeling from
many blows and bleeding from many
wounds, being alleged to be betraying
its ally by not rushing to the rescue with
“its idle army of 4,000,000 men.” Though
Australia itself had at this period been
heavily defeated in battle, had suffered
severe northern bombing attacks and
seemed to be so certain to be invaded
that a bit of a panic set in, this Second
Front agitation had astonishing support,
Sydney papers swelling the chorus.
There was a plague of strikes, mostly
in essential industries with Communist-
controlled unions, and all marked by
larrikinism, with N.S.W. coalmining the
most infamous example—it still is. There
were racing, boxing and professional
football as usual, and more Government
lotteries than usual, all competing with
war loans. There was an astonishing
number of sturdy fellows about, all in
mufti and with ample funds and leisure.
And there was a cynical and reckless
spirit abroad, unchecked by any hearten-
ing or uplifting utterance from Canberra,
such as the British people had from Mr.
Churchill after Dunkirk and during the
blitz. And, youth being impressionable
and imitative everywhere, this cynical
and reckless spirit spread to young
fellows in camps.
In Sydney and other cities it was no
mystery that a.w.l. soldiers abounded.
Difficult to avoid, they ranged from
bored-stiff • youngsters who enlisted to
fight and saw no prospect of being accom-
modated, the Government being what it
was, and beer-humming loafers not
averse from a spot of garrotting. It was
common talk in bars and other places of
public resort that they “had the brass-
hats beat.” All the same, few people
were prepared for the figures given by
Old Digger Colonel Murphy, Director of
Military Prisons and Detention Barracks,
in evidence presented to a board of in-
quiry headed by Justice Reed.
The subjoined extracts are from the
Sydney “Telegraph,” famous for its
strategy and for its orders to the effete
British (Fight for Australia in Java, We
Must Have a Second Front in France in
1942, Expel the Blimps from Egypt,
Send for Timoshenko, Five Hundred
Australian Airmen Wanted for Vladi-
vostok, Return Hong Kong to the
Chinese), and, with its subsidiary pub-
lications, for educating its public in
the truths revealed by Mandrake the
Magician, Superman, the writer of the
astrology column, the chroniclers of
Hollywood luv-lives and the scribes who
furnish all the winners.
Colonel Murphy said that during the year
ended December 31, 1942, 20,685 soldiers
were arrested by military police in New
South Wales alone.
In the next 12 months 26,069 were
arrested, 20,086 of whom were charged
with having been a.w.l. In 1943 14,848
warrants were issued for a.w.l. soldiers in
New South Wales.
Following the influx of troops into metro-
politan areas towards the end of 1942 and
early in 1943, two guard compounds were
opened in Sydney and Melbourne, one in
Brisbane and one in Townsville. On June
30, 1943, 35,902 soldiers were under arrest.
In 1943 the number of soldiers a.w.l.
for periods in excess of 21 days fluctuated
between 8000 and 10,000. These figures
covered a period when Australia was in
grave danger.
To guard the men, a staff of 63 officers
and 1096 other ranks had to be employed.
Strength of the military police was almost
doubled.
A typical week’s figures of men in deten-
tion taken in August, 1943, showed that
•of 2555 men, 1165 were from the A.1.F.,
1294 from the C.M.F., 69 from the
R.A.A.F., 25 from the R.A.N. and two
from Allied Services. Their offences were:
a.w.l. 2303, other offences, 252. The prob-
lem was essentially one of dealing with
a.w.l.
The “D.T.’s” morning contemporary
carried Colonel Murphy’s statement into
other years:
In 1945 there were 40,737 under arrest
and 11,393 committed to detention. Figures
for 1944 were 66,431 under arrest and
18,434 committed to detention. Thus the
detention-barracks system had been justi-
fied.
The deliquency rate at August 12, 1944,
was 2.8 p.c. of the total male A.M.F. The
percentage of men who returned to deten-
tion a second time was estimated at 14.1
p.c. of first offenders.
The men had regular hours for work and
sleep, Colonel Murphy said. They enjoyed
a measure of social security which had
not been enjoyed by the decent loyal soldier
in the front line. Few of them had any
sense of shame that they had not played
their part in the defence of Australia.
Excerpts from the “Argus” which wind
up a rather dreadful story:
At June 30, 1945, there were 360,877
men and 23,627 women in the A.M.F. on
full-time duty. Of that number 8580 men
and 21 women had been illegal absentees,
and 3078 men were in detention barracks.
Psychology tests revealed that most de-
linquents were in the 18-to-24-age-group.
A census taken on January 13, 1945,
showed that only 35.2 p.c. of men in deten-
tion had been off the mainland. The major-
ity of the remaining percentage had spent
most’ of their service since enlistment either
a.w.l. or in detention.
“Most delinquents were in the 18-to-
-24 age-group” —that is to say, when the
German war broke out the youngest were
children and the oldest in their ’teens.
What sort of instruction did they get at
school? If it had anything to do with
manners, patriotism jand reverence, it
could have had no influence worth speak-
ing of.
During their period or periods of
desertion all these “delinquents” must
have come across American servicemen.
The Yanks, taken by and large, were no
plaster saints. There were sad dogs
among them, as there are among all men
in uniform, whatever their nationality.
But no Australian who talked intimately
with any of them or any number of them,
whatever their racial origins—English,
Scotch, Irish, Welsh, German, Italian,
Jewish, Slav —was left in ignorance of
the fact that they loved and honored
America and desired nothing more than
to get back to it as soon as their war-
jobs were done. And he must have been
dull or superficial if he did not carry
away the impression that they were
taught to love and honor America, and
to walk as if Old Glory floated above
them —as many of them did, especially
fine fellows from Texas and the Deep
South.
Is the counterpart of this instruction
given to our children? If there is any-
one with sufficient knowledge or assur-
ance to answer in the affirmative, let him
come forward. He will need to be
prepared with very convincing evidence
as to the practice or trend in N. S. Wales.
In that State, which is never free from
larrikin strikes, and from which so many
“delinquents” hailed, Teachers’ Federa-
tion delegates, working in with Com-
munists and fellow-travellers, tried to
boycott a University Extension lecturer
because he had reviewed the Russian
Revolution objectively instead of ab-
jectly.
From the same quarter came a syllaous
for a course of social studies in Govern-
ment schools in which “Soviet Pacific
Russia” was placed first on a list of the
Chief Pacific Countries,” Canada being
ninth and the U.S.A. tenth. In a com-
panion syllabus, teachers being privileged
to use either, “the Russian Revolution
was No. 1 in a study of “the World-wide
Interplay of Political and Economic
Forces,” “farsighted planning” and
“arresting features of ‘A Worker’s State
being among the points emphasised. In
both improvisations there was very little
about Britain, nor was there any indica-
tion that the anti-social character of
gambling would be inculcated in the social
studies, it having perhaps been remem-
bered that the Government runs lotteries,
set up a horse-racing club in war-time,
is kind to bookmakers and goes out of
its way to encourage “that good and
useful sport” (its Deputy Premier’s
description) in which hounds fed on rump
steak course the tin-hare.
Mr, Menzies, who has been much ex-
posed to young yahoos—ill-informed, ill-
conditioned and credulous, and thus easy
meat for bookmakers, lottery-promoters
and Communist agitators —has been say-
ing in Parliament and at Liberal party
meetings that root-and-branch education
reform is the greatest and most necessary
reform that could be undertaken. Mr.
Dedman seems to agree with him ; at all
events, Mr. Dedman has appointed a
Commonwealth Director of Education in
the person of Professor Mills. Though
the Professor’s duties, as scheduled, are
mainly to be advisory and consultative,
the appointment is welcomed as an ad-
mission that there is a grea!t deal wanting
in the existing educational set-up or chaos
and as a step towards national control —
which doesn’t mean “nationalisation.”
Handling the Japs.
Maybe it is just as well that the man of
the sword and not the boys of the pens
has the handling of the winding up of
the war with the Japs, and will have the
handling of the Japs themselves in now
trying to ensure a lasting peace. And
it may be as well, too, that the man of
the sword is an American backed by the
great prestige of his country in this war,
from the early sea battles, through some
of the most savage and costly of the rest
of the campaigning, on to the use of the
atomic bomb.
In sensibly leaving Hirohito at the head
of things Japanese—as the one person
capable of directing the Japs to lay down
their arms on all fronts, including their
home front, and deliver all their prisoners
—General MacArthur began a line of
distinctly American action which is cer-
tain to be carried through despite protests
from any quarter. That is an American
right, in any case, since Americans would
have still had to do the biggest job, and
suffer the greatest casualties, if the bel-
ligerent boys of the “Hang Hirohito”
breed had had their way. As well,
Americans particularly those of the
calibre and the experience of General
MacArthur —are probably the best fitted
of all for tackling the huge job still to
be done.
The way pen and pencil boys have
been performing anyone might imagine
that our American friends were bent on
letting the Japs off light. They have
not forgotten Pearl Harbor, or what
the subsequent fighting cost them in
good American lives. In charge of things,
they are not the least likely to be lenient
with murderers or tormentors of war
prisoners. Guilty nation and guilty in-
dividuals, the Japs will be told to take
their medicine and make the most of it.
By any reckoning, it must be a bitter
dose to them, considering where they got
to and where they are now. They are to
lose their conquests since 1894. They are
to go back to their home islands, to be
stripped of armaments and their army and
their air force and navy, to have their
industries rearranged to prevent rearma-
ment, and to be subjected to other
curative treatment as well.
It does not add up to anything like
“light” treatment. At the same time it
does not rule out General MacArthur’s
description of the formal surrender cere-
mony as being not a meeting “in a spirit
of distrust, malice or hatred,” but one
in which “both victors and vanquished”
might “rise to that higher dignity which
alone befits the sacred purposes we are
about to serve,” with his “earnest hope”
that from the “blood and carnage of the
past” might emerge “a world founded
on faith and understanding, a world dedi-
cated to the dignity of man and the ful-
filment of his most cherished wish for
freedom, tolerance and justice.”
That none of this warranted being
interpreted as any “softening” was
quickly shown by General MacArthur’s
demands for full information regarding
war prisoners and his first orders, duly
relayed by Imperial Headquarters. These
called for the surrender at once of the
Jap home islands and others, of Korea
and the Philippines. Jap ’planes were all
ordered to be grounded, and all military
installations and all forms of factories
and the like associated with war were to
be made immediately available to the
now controlling forces. There were orders
on the general laying down of arms, and
other directions amounting in all to an
indication of strict firmness—a very good
beginning on the indefinite occupation
and the attempted curing of Jap mili-
tarism.
How that attempt is going to work out
perhaps even General MacArthur would
not be able to say. An American mis-
sionary in Japan for 19 years, Rev. Willis
C. Lamott, who has written on that well-
beaten country with more sense than
many of those who have been there a few
hours have been doing, has set the ques-
tion “How deeply is the Samurai men-
tality ingrained in the character of the
Japanese?” and answered it:
From my own knowledge of the younger
generation I should reply that about 99
per cent, of committed to Bushido
and all that it implies of brutality, arro-
gance and suicidal nihilism. Re-education
of Japanese youth is just as necessary and
perplexing a problem as re-education of
young Germans.
Nevertheless, this same observer be-
lieves —as General MacArthur apparently
does —that the job is not hopeless. Rev.
Lamott bases his hopes very largely
where other Americans appear to base
theirs —on knowledge of Japs as Ameri-
can citizens and soldiers. The “Reader’s
Digest” has an article condensed from
the “American Mercury” in praise of
American servicemen of Jap ancestry.
One lot of them —the 100th Infantry Bat-
talion —is described as “probably the
most decorated unit in the history of the
U.S. Army.” And there is praise in the
“Mercury” article for the 17,600 others
who enlisted in the U.S. Army, Navy
and Marines and have served “on every
Pacific front from Saipan to Okinawa”:
These Japanese-American boys have
volunteered to fight for their country, and
are officially rated among the best soldiers
in the world. After this war they will walk
with honor among their fellow-Americans.
The American missionary quoted takes
that still further. Holding that “there is
nothing in their blood that makes the
Japanese a warlike, cruel, cunning, un-
reliable, crafty and generally loathsome
people,” he puts forward this line of
possible hope;
We have only to look at American citi-
zens of Japanese ancestry to realise the
falsity of the tainted-blood theory It
is amazing to realise that so many of the
traits ordinarily ascribed to blood and age-
old tradition can be so completely sloughed
off in one generation. Many, perhaps
most, of the Nisei (first-generation Ameri-
cans) come from the peasant class, the
backbone of the Japanese Army.
Rev. Lamott, on this basis, believes
that “given the right environment and
education there is no reason why the
Japanese should not become the raw
material of democracy.” Among his other
grounds for hope—one which would
appear to have been borne out by events
—is that “no other Japanese trait is so
characteristic as that of suddenly giving
up the struggle and relapsing into
apathy.”
It is quite possible that the lower-class
Japanese will shrug his weary shoulders
and forsake the grandiose imperialistic de-
designs of his breastbeating rulers for prob-
lems nearer home —the omnipresent land-
lord, exorbitant taxes, soaring prices and
the scarcity of the staff of life.
Rev. Lamott further believes that the
Jap reaction against militarism may, in
defeat, be terrific. He also believes, how-
ever —and this would seem to have been
General MacArthur’s guiding principle—
that the changing of the Japs can only
be brought about among themselves in
one way:
There will be riots, perhaps rebellions, on
the part of returned soldiers, peasants and
industrial workers, but we can hardly expect
a mass revolution. The Japanese simply
are not made that way.
Whatever may be in the minds of those
who now face the job of attempting to
shape Japan’s destiny to the ends of
peace, the missionary observer considers
that long, extended occupation of the
country, “unless we intend to remain
there for ever,” may only serve to “in-
crease the power of imperial mysticism
over the people,” while “token” occupa-
tion and administration over a limited
period “may tend to make them incline
to our side.” Finally, he believes that
what the Japs now are represents some-
thing that has been “sold” to them; that,
necessary restrictions and limitations
having been enforced and the rigat sort
of guidance given, they should be per-
mitted to work out their own saltation.
The writer quoted expects, of cd urse,
that the Japs will be thorough l / headed
away from military aggression; t& a ‘
having lost their place as that sort of
a Power they will never regain it. 'l ne
alternative he thinks may he offered to
them is possibly the one General Mac*
Arthur also has in mind—-that of allow-
ing them to become, instead, “a goo
third-rate Power.” It Will represent a
vast come-down for the n ; certainly yefi
far removed from letting them off ligbi>


PLAIN ENGLISH
Canberra "Diplomacy."
The Evatt-Beasley outbursts concerning
the alleged British plot to exclude Aus-
tralia from the Japanese surrender
ceremony—lndia was excluded, which
shows that Britain had no hand in the
arrangements—emphasise the shortcom-
ings in a diplomatic system long due for
overhaul.
Normal diplomatic procedure is not fol-
lowed at Canberra. “Diplomacy” is a
word imperfectly understood by “the
greatest Minister of External Affairs Aus-
tralia ever had” (Comrade Makin).
According to Evatt practice, grievances and
misunderstandings, real or alleged, are
best settled by ventilating them publicly
with some heat rather than by adjusting
them amicably in private. In consequence
of this attitude foreign legations appear
to be of little use.
If a good agreement for the purchase
of wool is arranged with Britain the
public is told by some member of the
Government how skilfully that Govern-
ment conducted the negotiations in the
course of truly remarkable proceedings.
If the price is not so attractive we are
still told what a wonderful job our Gov-
ernment has done, only in this instance
the inferences are designed to leave the
impression that we had to deal with an en-
tirely unsympathetic British Government.
The British High Commissioner is
never invited to place the views of his
Government before the Australian people.
Consequently we are never told of the
very real sacrifices made by the British or
of the difficulties which sometimes render it
Impracticable for them always to buy from
us in excess of the world’s market price.
Since they are so rarely used for dip-
lomatic purposes, it may be a matter of
earnest inquiry what purpose the foreign
legations in Australia (and some of the
Australian legations abroad) are now
serving. Those in Canberra certainly vie
with one another in the matter of lavish
entertaining, but as all our under-secre-
taries, controllers, director-generals and
co-ordinators cannot be accommodated
at any one of these feasts, this feature of
legation life tends to produce bad rather
than good feeling.
Foreign Ministers may attend Parlia-
ment and listen to the debates. Many of
them do. Sometimes they get useful in-
formation for their Governments with-
out giving any away.
It would be most entertaining to know
what the Americans think of our finances,
what Russia reports about our Com-
munists and what construction Britain
places on the official playing of “Advance
Australia Fair” in place of the National
Anthem. Nobody tells. It is interesting
to note that the appointment of neither
a British High Commissioner nor of a
United States Minister has been an-
nounced, though both posts have been
vacant for some time.
In a Persian Bear-garden.
After the Tehran conference, held in
the first week of December, 1943, the
then triumvirs, Mr. Roosevelt, Mr.
Churchill and Marshal Stalin, issued a
special declaration to the people of the
country of which Tehran is the capital,
now once more called Persia. In this
declaration they recognised “the assist-
ance of Persia in the prosecution of the
war”—the only war in which one of the
triumvirs was then interested —“particu-
larly in providing facilities for the trans-
port of supplies to the U.S.S.R.” They
promised economic assistance to Persia
during and after the war, and undertook
to preserve its “independence, sovereignty
and territorial integrity.”
Not long afterwards the Soviet repre-
sentative at Tehran began throwing his
weight about. Though Russia is credited
with possessing 53 p.c. of the world’s oil
supplies, it developed a craving for oil
concessions in Persia. The Tehran Gov-
ernment objecting, the Tehran Govern-
ment fell, the immediate occasion of its
fall being the performances of Com-
munist mobs, banded together in a party
called Tudeh (“The Masses”).
In a “delayed” message from Tehran
a New York “Times” man gave some in-
teresting particulars of Tudeh, its leader,
and the situation in Persia as “the war
against Hitlerite Germany” drew towards
its close:
Within the last two years Tudeh has
organised labor unions comprising 100,000
members among the workers of Isfahan
and Tehran, as well as in the northern pro-
vinces within the Soviet military sphere
under the 1941 agreement. Tudeh was
largely responsible for the overthrow of the
Said Government because of its attitude to-
wards Russia’s requests. Its most important
leader, Irei Iskendiri, a 37-year-old deputy
from Mazandaran, in the north, studied in
France, where he was associated with the
Communist party at Grenoble. Mr. Isken-
diri is “for collaboration with the anti-
Fascist Powers,” and, “on the subject of
Soviet desires for oil concessions,” he and
his Tudeh “favor” such a grant, together
with a mutual defence alliance with the
Soviet Union and also with Britain.
To secure the safe delivery of the
wonderful war cargoes carried in British
and American bottoms, which altered the
Russian war situation so materially,
especially in the domain of transport, the
Russians haying previously been de-
pendent on horses, mules, bullocks and
camels, the U.S.A. sent considerable
forces to Persia, In the spirit of the
Roosevelt pledge they have been nearly
all withdrawn. Withdrawal of the other
armies of occupation is an article of
British policy, promised for the U.K. by
Mr. Bevin in the foreign-policy speech
he delivered on August 16, and therein
put squarely to Russia. The sequel was
conveyed in an A.A.P. despatch from
Tehran, the date being September 3.
The Persian Government has sent an
official note of protest to the Soviet Embassy
demanding a free hand to move troops and
gendarmerie in its own country. As a result
of serious disturbances in northern Persia the
authorities, a Persian Army spokesman
said, sent 200 gendarmes from Tehran to
restore order, but Soviet troops stopped
them halfway. In Mazandaran members of
the Tudeh party murdered a peasant, and
peasants attacked Tudehists by way of re-
prisal. Tudehists were deliberately provok-
ing incidents in order to give the Russians
a pretext for staying on. Telegraph com-
munication between Tehran and most parts
of the Soviet occupied northern provinces
was interrupted.
The New York “Times” has noted that
“Iran, with its great mineral wealth
and its vital geographical location, be-
tween Russia’s southern borders and the
Indian Ocean,” which washes the West-
ralian coasts, “and athwart the East-West
road between Britain and her Indian
Empire, is necessarily a key area in the
post-war world.” And in the Baltic, the
Adriatic, the Dardanelles, the China Seas
and on the shores of the Pacific as well
as the Indian Ocean, the new Russian
imperialism, whose Communist veneer
wears thinner every week, is after as many
key areas as it can get away with, with
the servile support of knaves and fools
throughout the English-speaking world.
HOME, DIG.!
Graziers and ComnuinfSts.
A. W. Cameron, a grazier, of Inverell
(N.S.W.), joined the A.I.F. in 1940 and
trained for six months with the 2/18th
Battalion. He was then compelled to
apply for discharge in order to look after
his property, which was drought-stricken,
and the properties of his father and uncle,
both of whom have since died. Cameron
now manages all three. His application
granted, he said “It was with very mixed
feelings that I left the A.1.F., the finest
body of men I’ve ever been associated-
with.”
Early this year a shearing team arrived
at Warranilla, near Inverell, K. E. Buck-
nell’s property. There was a shearing
strike on, engineered by Communists.
After a couple of days the “local strike
committee” which was adequately
equipped with money, motor-cars and
petrol—“persuaded” the Warranilla men
to strike. The Graziers’ Association
prosecuted one of the “local committee”
and he suffered a dreadful penalty—
“bound over” for 12 months, with costs,
£l3.
Bucknell, an old Digger, had three
sons and two daughters. Two of the sons
were killed abroad while serving with the
R.A.A.F. The surviving son came
through Tobruk with an M.C., returned
to Australia to train new troops, and was
subsequently discharged and is now help-
ing on Warranilla. Both daughters are
in the services.
After the Warranilla and Newstead
North strikes Cameron and others were
deputed to interview Mr. Scully, Minister
of Agriculture, by a graziers’ meeting.
Cameron also assumed the job of organ-
ising volunteer labor for Warranilla. The
volunteers got the Warranilla sheep shorn
by going there one day a week, though
shortage of labor, a wave of blowfly
trouble and the necessity to get some crop
sown demanded every hour of their time
on their own places.
As for the deputation, it carried the case
to Mr. Scully, mentioning, incidentally,
the K. E. Bucknell family’s record and
adding that N. C, Bucknell of Newstead
North had also lost a son over France.
Mr. Scully replied in “sympathetic”
terms —and then forgot all about the
strike ; scurried away from the subject
like one of the greyhounds he used to
judge before he entered public life.
Inverell is part of the Scully electorate
—Gwydir,
1890 and 1945.
Discovery by N, P. Carver, civil engi-
neer, while engaged by the N.S.W. Rail-
ways Department on survey work
throughout the State:
The observer may be pointed out by the
older and more observant stockmen
spots in our rivers, once their deep-fishing
places, now shallow and dry drifts. And
the beds of what were, in their recollec-
tion, permanent brooks, now and for years
past as dry as chips. Upon our tablelands
and at the sources of our watercourses,
the swamps are visibly losing their function
as natural reservoirs »
I believe that the silting up of our water-
courses and the drying up of our swamps
is the result of our wholesale destruction of
vegetable life. (These conditions lead to)
a naked, Overheated and hard earth and an
equally overheated and highly electric state
of the atmosphere, which bursts with a clap
of thunder, followed by an angry wind that
sweeps all loose earth and dust into avail-
able depressions. The rain follows under
high pressure Soon all is over The
wafer speedily runs to waste, taking with it
many cubic yards of earth to fill in our
main watercourses.
I would first suggest that every endeavor
be made to induce the people to keep the
earth decently clothed to plant instead
of destroy forest trees.... The Govern-
ment might supply almost free of cost the
trees at the "same time strictly prohibit-
ing the unnecessary destruction of timber.
The longer we delay conserving our
water the greater will be the difficulties to
be overcome and the less our means in
money and men to overcome them. There
can be no possible way of expending our
money more truly national, none with a
greater amount of success and good fore-
sight before us.
The civil engineer embodied all this in
a report he wrote on January 1, 1890.
Since then we have expended “our means
in money and men” on a Harbor Bridge,
suburban electric railways, vast city de-
velopments, the building of Canberra and
a dam or two. And the seven Govern-
ments have all hired planners to plan
more bridges and more suburban rail-
ways. We have, too, spent “jnoney and
men” on two great wars. But the 1944
drought showed how wretchedly in-
adequate was the provision made for
water supplies. The 1944 duststorms
ruined millions of our acres. There is no
forestry scheme of a national scope, and
the nation, living in a continent of
3,000,000 square miles and needing a
quarter of a million houses urgently, is
faced with the necessity for importing
building timber.
Thus, after more than half a century,
what was prophesied by that forgotten
railway surveyor has come to pass. If
we go on as we have been going, heaven
knows what Australia will look like in
another 50 years.
The Ship and the River.
At this season dusk is the time of high
water along the western shores of
Spencer Gulf, and at dusk on August 21
Dame Enid Lyons launched the 9000-ton
steamer River Murray at the B.H.P. ship-
yards at Whyalla (S.A.). It was not the
first ship launched at Whyalla by a long
shot, nor will it be the last—the immedi-
ate programme is for four 12,500 tonners
—but there was something significant for
Australia in the linking of the country s
best-loved and greatest river with its
newest town.
Out of the Murray reaches, its bends
and billabongs, have come stories and
poems and old yarns that may, a century
hence, become our folk-lore. It is doubt-
ful if there were anywhere in the world
human types like the hatters, the fisher-
men, the river steamer crews, the bagmen
of the great valley, for nowhere else in
the world is there ,a river like the Murray.
For those who’ve known it, either native-
born or adopted, it holds a romance and
a fascination they never forget. No
matter how far from the river the Murray
man may go, always there is the nostalgia
for its shadow-dappled afternoons, its
fresh mornings, its nights of beauty and
the sand-bars where the singing waters are.
These are the things of dreams, like the
stories and the poems and the memory
of the curlews crying, but there are more
than dreams in the Murray valley, from
the great Hume Weir all through the
thriving settlements for 1200 miles down
to the sea. North and south of the great
stream its benevolence reaches out for
miles. From the districts it waters come
fruit and grain, meat and butter, wine
and wool and a hundred other products,
while many thousands of Australians live
happily by its bounty.
Whyalla is new. Built on its lonely
spot on the Gulf coast, with only the
saltbush plains north and west and south,
it has come from the dreams of Australian
engineers and the hands of Australian
workers. “There is no better workman
than the Australian anywhere,” remarked
Essington Lewis, chief general manager
of B.H.P. He should know, since his
company and its associates employ great
numbers of them—422l men enlisted
from the steel industry alone—and are
only awaiting the opportunity to employ
thousands more. Whyalla is one of those
towns this country so badly needs, a
centre of heavy industry, with the equip-
ment and the specialists, the men and the
materials to make anything from bolts
to battleships. Anyone who has seen it
must have wondered with some awe what
it cost to establish and what confidence
in the country’s future is displayed by
those who found the money. It is there
—workshops, powerhouse, shipyards, ore
trains, blast furnaces and beyond them
the spreading homes of the workers. And
down from the head of the gulf runs a
grey thread through the saltbush—the
great pipe-line that brings the Murray
water 230 miles from the nearest prac-
ticable spot on the river.
For the Murray is linked with Whyalla
physically as well as spiritually. Both the
river and the town stand for more in our
lives than all the fever of our cities and
the small things that fret the Parliaments
and cloud the people’s vision. The age-
old river flows steadily on, by dam and
bridge and vineyard and town, and
100,000 square miles and more of the
nation’s best land await its magic touch
to blossom into untold riches. Newly-
born Whyalla, the river’s furthermost de-
pendant, lusty and full of visions, is
already grasping the future and bending
it to its youthful will.
Givers and Receivers.
“Galenus,” from a consulting room:
Blood transfusions and their plasma and
serum modifications have saved countless thou-
sands of lives in the 1914-18 and 1939-45 wars,
and during the intervening period. The dis-
coverer was that extraordinary genius Chris-
topher Wren, then a professor of astronomy in
London, who in 1659 conducted successful ex-
periments on dogs. It was soon found, however,
that although blood from one human being
could often be injected into another with good
results, it sometimes acted as a deadly poison
even in the case of near relatives.
Two centuries later this was found to be due
to the fact that in certain blood mixtures
observed under the microscope the corpuscles
of one drop of blood sometimes stuck together
and afterwards broke up when a drop from
a different human source was added.
Patient work on thousands of such mixtures
revealed the fact that, in respect of these
properties, the blood of every human being
belongs to one or other of four groups. Blood
from the fourth group can be transfused safely
to anybody in that or other groups; blood from
the first group is poisonous to all others than
those whose blood belongs to it. Group-two
blood may be used only for those belonging to
groups one and two; group-three for those with
one- and three-group bloods.
The blood-group of any individual remains
fixed from birth to death and is transmitted
to offspring on Mendelian lines akin to its rela-
tive transfusibility. A group-one parent may
thus have children of any group; children from
group-four parents will all belong to that group.
The fact is of value in cases of disputed pater-
nity, but only in the negative sense, of course.
There was never any risk to any healthy adult
in giving his or her blood for our servicemen.
They gave theirs in plenty for us, and at dire
risk, too. Those who have returned or will re-
turn in bad shape will still need the precious
gift, and so will civilians —as was shown in
the harrowing case of the three Sydney Tivoli
showgirls.


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch;
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON. Manager.
ŵ
The Foolish Decade. Romance ' attached to
Soho. By Robert Henrey, author of “A
Village in Piccadilly.” 15/3 (post. 6d.).
New Zealand in the Alp War. By Allan W.
Mitchell. A record of the work of the five
New Zealand Squadrons based in Britain.
7/9 (post. 4d.).
Australian Nature Wonders. By Charles Barrett.
Thirty-two illustrations. 2/6 (post. 2d.).
London’s Glory. Twenty Paintings of the
City’s Ruins, by Wanda Ostrowska, and
text by Viola G. Garvin. 23/9 (post. 6d.).
Music for the Millions. The Encyclopaedia
of Musical Masterpieces. By David Ewen.
A rich store of information, entertaining
and instructive. Large handsome volume.
38/6 (post. 1/2).
Creative Writing in Australia. By J. K.
Ewers. 4/6 (post. 2d.).
Spotlight on Hawaii. The people and customs
of the Pacific Islands of Hawaii and
Hawaiian Music. 12/- (post 4d.).
A Dictionary of Modern American Usage. A
companion to “Fowler’s Modern English
Usage.” By H. W. Horwell. 892 pages.
12/- (post. 6d.).
TVhy We tost Singapore. Revelations without
exaggeration. By D. Crisp. 19/6 (post. 3d.).
The Economics of Advertising. A comprehen-
sive study. By F. P. Bishop. 9/- (post. 5d.).
Keport on Economic Conditions in the United
Kingdom, United States of America and
Canada. By Professor D. B. Copland. Paper
Cover. 1/8 (post. 2d.).
Men of Science in America. The Role of
Science in the growth of our Country. By
B. Jaffe. Illustrated. 30/- (post 1/-).
The Best American Wit and Humor. Three
hundred pages of cartoons, jokes, poems,
stories, etc. Edited by J. B. Mussey. 7/6
(post. 4d.).
The Standard Book of British and American
Verse. A comprehensive anthology of
modern and classical verse. Prefaced by
Christopher Morley. 14/6 (post. 6d.).
Yellow Magic, the Story of Penicillin. First
comprehensive story of the wonder drug, the
greatest medical discovery of the age. By
J. D. Ratcliff. Illustrated. 14/- (post. 3d.).
Australia Comes of Age. A Study of growth to
nationhood and of external relations. By
J. Grenfell Price. 4/6 (post. 2d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereaqh St.. Sydney.
Do you need a
fmonal torn?
Haunting bills and money worries, in-
cluding medical and dental expenses,
can be disposed of through the Per-
sonal Loans Department of the Rural
Bank. Old debts may be merged and
small loans for any approved pur-
poses arc nigade at a discount of, at
present, only 5 per cent.
Repayments from one to three years,
to suit the convenience of the bor-
rower, c.g., 9/Bd. weekly repays £25 in
one year, including discount.
Call in for a personal discussion of your
requirements.
RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
Chifley’s Budget provides for a spot of
income-tax-relief. Reckoned at 12f per
cent, in the blurb which invariably pre-
cedes statements of Labor policy, it is
not to take effect till the first of January.
“That means that the reduction this taxa-
tion-year will be about six per cent.,”
Fadden commented; and Chifley had to
admit it.
Fadden, whose own Budget provided
for post-war credits, the Labor rejection
of which has proved a calamity, was
ready with other pertinent observations
on Chifley’s latest:
What justification can the Government
advance for an estimated war expenditure
of £360,000,000 in 1945-46? The payroll
tax is a barometer of wage expenditure in
industry. According to the estimates, it
yielded £11,088,000 in 1944-45, when man-
power shortages were at the peak, and is ex-
pected to yield £BB,OOO less in 1945-46. If
this isn’t a staggering admission of pessi-
mism, what is it?
Chifley will be hard put to it to reply.
In the debate on ratification of the
United Nations charter Menzies praised
Evatt’s energy at San Francisco, but
criticised him for “carrying into the press
matters of dispute or conflict with
Britain.” Very mild, in the circumstances,
but that started it:
McEwen: The Australian delegation at
San Francisco was a one-man band. Dr.
Evatt worked untiringly but com-
pletely disregarded the existence of the
dozen consultants and advisers. His per-
sonal views were consistently put forward
as the foreign policy of Australia.
Pollard: I suspected that the member for
Indi would deliver this kind of attack.,..
Cowardly... .When he is not on top of the
tree he is like a whipped cur.
Abbott: If Dr. Evatt had been pre-
pared to play as a team man in the British
Empire side, instead of trying to score all
the goals himself, the team would have
got much better results. Every time cer-
tain things happen he blames Britain.
Such twisting of the Lion’s tail is causing
disunity in the Empire.
Anthony: Dr. Evatt did much to divide
Australia from the rest of the Empire. He
is a gentleman with a long record as an
anti-Britisher.
Makin: Dr. Evatt remains not only the
greatest Minister for External Affairs this
country ever possessed, fut one of the
greatest figures in international affairs in
the history of the British Commonwealth.
When last heard of, the subject of all the
praise and dispraise was in London await-
ing a call to join the Council of Foreign
Ministers. The indications were that he
wouldn’t get it and that there would be
another eruption of muddy attacks on
Britain from Sydney daily newspaper
offices.
There seems no particular reason why
sales of goods bought for use in the ser-
vices should not await the return of the
fighting men and prisoners-of-war; but
other views prevail at Canberra. Now
a sale at Alice Springs has been declared
a washout, and Fadden asked for an in-
quiry into allegations that refrigerators
had been sold for £7 and motor-cycles
for £B. There was no foundation for
these charges, Beasley said.
Exit, unregretted, the Advisory War
Council, that pathetic substitute for
a national Government. It was remark-
able less for the work it did than for the
number of Prime Ministers who took part
in its discussions—seven of the 16 who
have held the office since January, 1901:
Menzies, Hughes, Fadden, Page, Curtin,
Forde and Chifley. No one could have
forseen that it would have so many when
it was set up in 1940.
In a dingy way it was fitting that the
N.S.W. Parliament should have been idle
when the German and Japanese wars
ended. No Labor member of military
age saw front-line service in either, and
the “Government” began the Japanese
war period by pensioning olf one-tenth of
the N.S.W. coalminers, many of whom
were younger than General MacArthur
(the pension scheme was soon found to
be hopelessly insolvent), going on to
legislate for setting up a racing club. The
“Parliament” has been idle for six
months, and the Premier has spent most
of the period on an overseas tour which
took him to Brazil as guest of a dictator.
What a howl there would have been if
a Liberal or CP. Premier had done the
like!
“It is poppycock to say that the Aus-
tralian railways did a great job in World
War II; they failed Australia miserably.”
Thus spake Harold Clapp at Perth; and
knowing Americans, as he does, he could
have quoted them as witnesses. The
Americans laughed at our railways and
our other forms of transport and our
arrangements for loading and unloading
ships, all supposed to be under public
ownership or control. What they saw
in this country increased their devotion
to free enterprise.
Clapp found the keen on
his plan for standard-gauge lines,
especially when he told them that if he
had his way the Kalgoorlie-Fremantle
section would be “the first to be com-
pleted.” They are fed up with the slow-
motion trains which crawl along the
3ft. 6in.; those antiquated caravans are
not only hideously uncomfortable but
take 45 minutes longer to do the journey
between coast and goldfields than they
took 35 years ago—Styants, M.L.A. for
Kalgoorlie, said that recently. Another
cause for their favoring the Clapp plan
is that Kalgoorlie-Fremantle will be a
first, and probably last, charge on the
Commonwealth Government. A con-
sideration of the building of Port
Augusta-Kalgoorlie was that the State
would continue the 4ft. B|in. line to Fre-
mantle at its own cost. The Government
of the day and every subsequent Govern-
ment repudiated the undertaking. In the
matter of the north-south railway, for
which South Australia handed over the
Northern Territory, Commonwealth Gov-
ernments did the repudiating.
In 1940 the two Sydney morning papers
ended their ancient war and ran tickets
of “outstanding candidates” against the
Menzies Government (save for certain-
ties prudently picked, the “outstanding
candidates” all flopped, some losing their
deposits). Now their mutual admiration
is such that they have taken to publish-
ing very long and very effusive
biographies of each other’s bosses. From
the “Telegraph” their public learned that
“Warwick Fairfax inherited a million
is what the Communists call a millionaire
Liberal”; from the “Herald,” that Theo-
dore is “reputed to be a millionaire.” As
if anyone but grovellers cared!
The “S, M. Herald” study of Theodore,
spread over eight columns, contradicts
nearly everything that Granny wrote of
the subject when he was in politics. The
old turnskirt now asserts, on the authority
of the exploded Stevens, “Treasury
higher-ups,” a director of the Bank of
England and “even former opponents”
(all unnamed), that Dailey, in heaving
him out, rejected “the finest financial
brain Australia had produced.” She took
care not to mention the circumstances in
which the Brain became member for
Dailey. As Bill Mahony, the previous
member, revealed at a base “Tory” in-
quisition, Bill stood down in a passion of
pure patriotism, having made his pile
by backing the winner of the Melbourne
Cup with bookmakers whose names he
couldn’t remember.
A fire in a Sydney Tivoli dressing-room,
caused by a costume falling foul of a
radiator with “an exposed cone,” cost two
showgirls their lives, and a third was in
agony and peril for days. One of the two
was only 15, which seems very young for
a showgirl. In a characteristic attempt to
answer questions which broke from many
lips, McKell’s clumsy offsider Baddeley
“said that legislation to minimise the
dangers from fire in theatres and cabarets
would be considered soon” ; in fact, his
“Government” had “planned to bring
down that legislation earlier,” but it had
been “delayed because of the war.” This
when Baddeley’s “Parliament” hasn’t
done a tap of legislative work for nearly
six months.
The A.W.U. has members employed at
the Mayfield (N.S.W.) works of two
chemical concerns. So has the N.S.W.
branch of the Federated Ironworkers, the
Communist Thornton’s mob. Because
Justice De Baun entered upon the hear-
ing of an A.W.U. application for an in-
dustrial award, in the process visiting the
works, there was an ironworkers’ strike—
twice threatened by way of trying to in-
timidate the Judge, In the result the
Communist outfit was deregistered by the
Industrial Commission for “a deliberate
and premeditated challenge” to its
“authority,” Kinsella, J., adding that
brother De Baun could, had he chosen,
“have treated the acts of the association
as criminal contempt of court.” Com-
monwealth Arbitration Judge O’Mara
had previously ruled that the Balmain
ironworkers were within their rights in
breaking away from the N.S.W. branch.
So there is a fair chance that when Thorn-
ton returns from his latest trip abroad
—the third in 18 months or so, and most
of the bills charged up to the taxpayers
—he will find the N.S.W. branch in bits
and pieces.
Edmund Burke’s ideas of the duty and
dignity of a member have no supporter
in S. R. Heferen, Labor M.L.A. for Bar-
won (N.S.W.). When some Diggers wanted
to know why a non-Digger had got a
Land Board job in his electorate, though
two Digger settlers had been nominated,
Heferen was explicit in the Heferen (and
Heffron) way:
As a representative of the Labor party
I am the servant of that movement If
the local branch of the Labor party recom-
mends Cunningham, Cunningham it is
For me it would be political suicide if I
did not abide by the recommendations of
the Labor League... .That is how a Gov-
ernment works and that is how appoint-
ments are made.
If all the world were like Heferen what
a world of worms it would be!
The cancellation of lend-lease has
prompted the Canadians to swell their
magnificent gifts to Britain and their other
partners, Australia among them. The
first instalment of another £100,000,000-
odd worth of mutual aid is to be “heavy
shipments of lumber, salmon, wheat,
apples” and presumably for Australia
as well as Britain —“lumber.” Canberra
never has any of these generous impulses.
Returning veterans and p.-0.-w, who
landed in Brisbane last week found that
city tied up by a tram strike, and learned
of a sawmill strike and of hold-ups and
threats at the shearing. Those who landed
in Sydney ran into a power-house strike
that threatened to black out the city. In
the offing the usual coal troubles raged.
Brisbane trams are owned by the city,
whose Mayor Chandler is leader of the
Queensland People’s party. Labor mem-
bers openly supported the strikers, making
it look like a fight between Labor and
Chandler. Sydney’s electricity is owned
by the city, too, but the Labor Govern-
ment there was reported as “alarmed”
by the strike. Meantime the Labor Gov-
ernment in Canberra, which has the
power under Nat. Sec. Regs, to order
work-resumption and punish the offenders,
lay lower than Brer Rabbit, though
appealed to by all hands.
Because it thought its public servants
were exhausted or something by their
war-time work—the battle to get supplies
for moming-tea was pretty grim at times
—the blundering Sydney Government
gave them a week’s holiday, and schools
had to tack it on to their September fort-
night. That will mean cramming in their
most important term. But the Sydney
Government’s whole idea of panaceas and
rewards is “Give ’em a few days off,”
sometimes varied by “Give ’em an extra
lot’ry.”
The tram strike in Brisbane was in
its sixth day when Forde arrived there to
speak in the City Hall on the ’Frisco
conference. He had to be told that be-
cause of the strike nobody could turn up
to hear him. Frankie hastily agreed to
give the lecture at a later date and rushed
back to Canberra, where there are no
trams, though there are plenty of fluid-
drive Chryslers for Fordes and so forth.
Yeates, M.L.A., asked the Queensland
Labor Government to give some atten-
tion to shearing strikes:
A handful of Communists are holding
up the industry and no Government has the
gut's to stop it... .The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment slunk away. Its members know
the Communists are their bosses When
real shearers want to work they are called
“scabs.”
If application of the hateful term to a
worker were made a jailing matter there
would be a lot fewer strikes.
Announced from Canberra that all
States were in “accord” with a Com-
monwealth - wide fodder - conservation
plan, to be “implemented by the
States and financed jointly by Com-
monwealth and States,” which was
“adopted” by the Australian Agricul-
tural Council. There are nine “recom-
mendations,” all very wordy and vague,
under which there are to be tons of “close
co-operation” and “implementation” and
“immediate surveys” and “economic sig-
nificances” and “comprehensive plans”
and “uniformity” and so on; but after
the thing had got as far as “suggesting”
a Government guarantee on hay prices
to “offset the guaranteed price of grain,”
it fizzled out.
A Federal Minister was approached by
the editor of an Australian periodical
with the offer to print 45,000 copies of the
magazine and distribute it to the troops
at cost. No business. few months
later a similar offer from an American
periodical was accepted by the same
gentleman. Yet the Labor party is sup-
posed to stand for the indigenous article.
Strange how many English (or Irish)
names crop up in the tangled politics of
Argentina. A couple of years ago one
Rawson became the boss-cocky. Rawson
had to give way to Farrell. Now Farrell’s
ascendancy as President is threatened by
a “radical” named Cooke. Being “a radi-
cal” Cooke is hailed as a wonder by the
sort of American correspondent who
learns all there is to know about a coun-
try in 24 hours, chiefly at Communist
H.Q.
One Dmitry Z. Manulisky, “chairman
of the Ukranian delegation,” brightened
a dull day at the San Francisco confer-
ence, which settled everything for all
time, by announcing that “Soviet Russia”
would “demand 16 votes in the new
League, one for each republic.” This
disclosure was made to a press confer-
ence “climaxed by a yelling angry tirade
against his questioners.” The questioners
angered Dmitry so much that, “waving
his arms, and his grey moustache quiver-
ing with rage,” he accused them of having
“inherited the propaganda tactics of Herr
Goebels, who has disappeared from the
political arena.” It was thought that
the Manulisky outbreak might jeopardise
the passage of the charter in the U.S.
Senate, but it went through flying. It has
been ratified also by the Presidium at
Moscow, Dmitry’s alleged republic having
no say.


ORIENTAL APOLOGUE.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Dixon”: One of the numerous rejected
men strolled sadly from the factory after
being told “your services are no longer
required.” A friend waiting for him
inquired what the trouble was. “Got the
D.C.M.,” muttered the jobless one —
“Don’t Come Monday.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Lawyers here have been
arguing what is evidently a very fine
point. A city hotel had a permit to sup-
ply liquor with meals, and this meant that
to facilitate police supervision the front
doors, giving access to the dining-room,
must be kept unlocked between 6 p.m.
and 8 p.m. Sometimes last year they were
closed, and, ever since, the hotelkeeper’s
claim that he was not exercising his right
under the permit, and that they needn’t be
open, has been under discussion. An
official contention that the doors must be
open was knocked back by the S.M. The
question was then put to the Supreme
Court, where a judge ruled that the S.M.
was right. Finally, up in the Full Court,
another judge said so, too, but his two
colleagues there overruled him. So the
case goes back to the Licensing Bench.
*,* * $
“Clooter”: Fondle is a relic of the Vic-
torian age in some things, so when he
found Mrs. P., mother of four sons,
sweeping the garden path in full view of
the street, her nightdress peeping through
a dressing-gown, he ordered her inside
and bade her never do such a thing again.
Mrs. P. said nothing, but ten minutes later
she reappeared on the path with her broom
and wearing Pondle’s rubber knee-boots,
his awful yellow oilskin, with gloves on
her hands, smoked glasses on her eyes
and one of the boy’s sou’-westers tied
close to her head with a large scarf.
Fondle, if not convinced, is at least
shaken. He says there should be modera-
tion in all things.
* * sfc ♦
“Pitt St.”: The Sydney crowd on a
busy afternoon noticed a concentration of
their fellows near the King-George
streets corner and pushed forward, won-
dering whether it was a fight, aq accident
or a man at work. Within minutes the
footpath was jammed and the crowd,
spilling on to the roadway, threatened to
hold up the trams. The cause of it all
was a fellow who had seated himself on
the kerb, removed a shoe and sock and
proceeded to pare a corn that was
troubling him. After being warned by the
police not to repeat the offence (is it an
offence?) he stole away.
* * # *
“Gilpipe”; One of those free suburban
newspapers is thrown over our garden
fences once a week. Occasionally,
when there is an inch or two of
space not taken up by ads., the
editor swipes something from the
dailies to fill the gap. Which is why my
neighbor, who toils on the wharves for a
lousy £l2 or £l5 a week and never reads
the capitalist papers as a matter of prin-
ciple, was in transports of delight the
other morning. “Told y’ they’d come
good,” he cried, as I passed his gate.
“Told y’ they’d never let the workers
down. Twelve an’ six in the quid. Ain’t
that sumpin’?” Then he thrust the sub-
urban sheet into my hands, pointing at a
solitary news item on the back page
which read, "“A message from Canberra
broadcast last night said that the Govern-
ment had decided to grant rebates of
taxation at the rate of in the £l.”
Gently I informed him that the cut was
to be 12| p.c. “That’s what your rag
says! ”he challenged. I nodded. “Well,
it just shows y’. Y’ never can believe
them anti-worker papers.” And he
crumpled up the newest enemy and
stalked disgustedly inside.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. is out after the ML.
record of under 29 infantile deaths per
1000 births in a year. Last year the State
got down to 29, and for the first half of
this year it was under 27.
“Ceg”: “C.B’s” Mallee farmer (B,
29/8/’45) was fortunate in getting com-
pensation from the owners of the school
which had been built on his land. Had
he left it a little longer his title might
not have prevailed against the people who
had “jumped” his block ; there is such a
thing in law as “title by adverse pbsses-
sion.” In one of Melbourne’s seaside
suburbs soon after the 1914-18 war I re-
member seeing some men busily engaged
at midnight with horses and tackle mov-
ing a house to an adjoining block of
land. It had been built on the wrong
block, and before the owner of that block
could turn up and claim it the removal
was neatly effected. One of the early
banks had a similar experience. It ad-
vanced the money for erection of a large
brick house. When the last coat of paint
had been put on the front fence the right-
ful owner of the block arrived and put
up a notice “Trespassers Prosecuted.” He
had been watching the building of the
“ Prendergast , I've a good mind to start an s.p. book myself."
house so that when it was finished he
could step in and claim it.
* * * *
“Pawang”; The girl who took poison
in London a few days after she had
turned up a “card of death” at a fortune-
teller’s was as much the victim of sug-
gestion as the abo. who dies after having
a bone pointed at him. The case furnishes
a good reason for putting fortune-tellers
out of business. They do more harm
amongst silly people than is generally
imagined. In Melbourne a young married
woman was told by a sorceress that on a
certain date at a certain time something
dreadful would happen to her. On the
due date and at the due time she was hit
by a car in crossing a street intersection.
In psychological terms, the fear engen-
dered by the prophetess may have lodged
in her unconscious mind and produced at
the time predicted a struggle between
attraction and repulsion. Most alleged
prophecies of clairvoyants, if fulfilled, are
fulfilled in just this way.
* ♦ » ♦
“After” on a £15,000 picture:
A little difficult to understand is the tremen-
dous enthusiasm whooped up in “modernist”
art circles over the Felton Bequest buying a
picture almost certainly painted in the fifteenth
century, and variously ascribed to a number of
Florentine artists. Official theory at the moment
is that it is the work of a painter nicknamed
Ucello or Uccello (“birdie”), whose real
moniker, so experts suppose, was Paolo di
Dono. It represents a serious-looking young
lady with a swept-back hair-do, revealing a
bumpy forehead. It’s a small canvas, too, 16iin.
by so that the price works out at
about £BO a square inch, a reward which would
doubtless have surprised “Birdie” out of his
boots. The painting is acclaimed by a Mel-
bourne lover of “modernism” as “a fine example
of the work of one of the most splendid periods
in human history; it should be a constant de-
light to all who see it.” A Sydney Cezanno-
phile praises at once its “massive stillness and
the mobility of the outline,” whatever he may
mean by that. Yet the portrait is purely repre-
sentative, conventional in conception, and prob-
ably quite a good likeness of the sitter. It is
painted with careful attention to detail, and
is the work of someone who, no matter what
his other qualifications, had never even heard
of Cezanne or Matisse, and therefore, in regard
to modern Art, stood where a pre-Newtonian
savant would be in respect to modern Science.
If it is “Birdie’s” primitive outlook that is
prized—why “modernists”? Shouldn’t the
ga-ga tribe call themselves “ancientists? ”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A new romantic light is
thrown on the Kelly gang by the London
“Britannia and Eve,” whose historian and
artist Matania includes them in a series,
“Old Tales Retold.” Ned’s rough armor,
worn in the siege of the Glenrowan Hotel,
has caught Mr. Matania’s imagination,
and Mr. Matania gives a fine picture
of a gallant company riding through
the sunlit bush, with the caption: “Very
often the Kelly band wore metallic armor,
after the fashion of the twelfth-century
Crusaders, which made them impervious
to bullets.”
*■* * *
“Bumpk”: The wrecked Kakariki, most
persistent obstacle to traffic in Port
Phillip history, has at last ceased to be a
menace to shipping. Sunk in a collision
with the Caradale off Williamstown in
January, 1937, she resisted for eight years
all endeavors to raise her. Two con-
tractors lost money on her. One,
who introduced “camels,” two huge
inflated balloons, had the mortification
of seeing them sail seaward the day be-
fore they were due to raise the hull. A
third firm spent 18 months cutting the
Kakariki into portions and lifting the
sections by pontoons. Now the last frag-
ment of the obstinate hulk has been
towed out to deep water and sunk.
F. W, B. Wood, one of the contractors,
raised a sunken seaplane in the same
waters in 1926 in 24 hours, after the U.S.
Navy had tried for several weeks,
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Probably the strangest
currency the A.I.F. struck in its Pacific
wanderings is the Bornean gusi. It is a
large jar, probably of ancient Chinese
origin, not very beautiful, and intrinsi-
cally worth only a few shillings. A chief,
however, will trade his wives, his crops
or as much as 1000 dollars for a really
reputable gusi. Some, which have
changed hands time out of number, are
semi-sacred and have genealogies longer
than the Duke of Gloucester’s. The very
best gusis are credited with the quality
of filling up with reproductions of any
single object you put into them, from a
cocoanut to a dollar, but I was never
present when one was in working order.
The Muruts have the odd habit of
putting their deceased female relatives .in
a gusi with sundry oils and unguents
and suspending it from the communal
rooftree. When the lady has deliquesced
a hole is knocked in the bottom of the
jar and the liquid runs through into
bowls where it is mixed with arrack and
consumed in a seven-days’ orgy which
reduces the whole tribe to a state of help-
less intoxication. This theoretically en-
ables them to imbibe the spiritual virtues
of their ancestors.
* * * *
“Dicta”: R. G. Menzies said a hard
thing but a very true one when he told
the Victorian Speech Association confer-
ence that Australia is one of the few
countries in which it is hard to determine
by a man’s speech whether he is educated
or not. He had a right to say that, for
he is one of the very tiny minority of
Parliamentarians that is careful about
diction. When I first heard him speak,
being at that time new in Australia, I
concluded that it was his law-court ex-
perience which had formed his manner
of speaking, but since then I have listened
to so many King’s Counsel (and even
Judges) whose English is down at heels
and out at elbows that the hypothesis
won’t serve. The tongue of Shakspeare
and of Milton, used with the respect it
deserves, can be a delight to the ear.
This, I am sure, is one of the reasons
why so many people, every Sunday after-
noon, listen to the radio talks of Dr.
A. E. Floyd,
* * * *
“Loa-dah”: According to Dr, Hsieh
Kwen Sheng, Chungking’s Minister of
Justice, peace has brought matrimonial
problems to China, as to other countries.
He cites the case of a college teacher who
left his wife in Hankow when the great
trek to Chungking began. Tired of
separation the wife made an arduous
journey through the Jap lines, to find her
husband living with another woman, to
whom he® had been married for two
months. This \yas not as serious a matter
as it would be in a Western country, for
in China “old custom” allows a man
more than one wife if all parties are
willing, though bigamy is officially for-
bidden. After the usual prolonged row
that Chinese households must enjoy (or
they wouldn’t have so many of them),
both girls decided that the best solution
was for all to live under the same roof.
Mohammedan custom is equally accom*
modating. My Malay tutor in Penang
informed me one evening that he had
espoused a second wife, a charming girl
of 14. “What does your wife have to
say about it?” I asked. “She insisted on
it,” he replied. “She is getting a bit old
for the housework and we can’t afford
a servant.”
* * * *
“G.T.”: All lovers of Mozart knew
that in 1764 Leopold Mozart, the com-
poser’s father, took his amazing family to
London, and that they lodged at various
places—six are enumerated —during their
15 months in England. But it was not
generally known —till a German bomber
made public the interior of an old house
—that that sojourn had been com-
memorated by a tablet in “the house of
Dr. Randal in Five Fields, now Lower
Ebury-street, Chelsea.” There the family
went when papa was taken ill, and as ths
youngsters could not play any instrument
for fear of disturbing their father, young
Wolfgang (15) solaced himself by scoring
his First Symphony. An uninjured tablet
disclosed by the bombing records this
incident:
WOLFGANG AMADEUS MOZART.
1756—1791.
Composed here his First Symphony
1764.
Ironic, isn’t it? What a repayment for
the cordial, hospitable reception given by
England to young Mozart, the fine flower
of German culture, was the bomb that
laid bare this friendly tribute!
SAUCING BULL.
“Mr. Menzies stigmatised as deplorable Dr.
Evatt’s practice oi carrying into the public press
matters of dispute or conflict with Britain which
should be the subject oi private discussion.”
Go easy, Bert. You shouldn’t need reminding
That there are infinitely better ways
Of getting into front-page news and finding
Yourself a figure in the limelight’s blaze
Than thpse which you’re adopting. Take a pull
And quit your pet diversion, saucing Bull.
If you must trail your coat about, declaring
Vociferously that you’ll have a bit
Of any person insolently daring,
Whoever it may be, to tread on it,
’Twere best such challenges to foes t'o send,
Not to your nearest kin and firmest friend.
Intransigence like this' perhaps will stamp
You in a lot of your adherents’ views
As fair Australia’s first and foremost champ.,
Staunch for her rights and steadfast for her
dues;
But. sounder sense will be inclined to say
It’s not the sort of game you ought to play.
Step gentlier, Bert. Repress your noble rage.
Already it’s extensively allowed
You occupy the centre of the stage,
The real kingpin of the Chifley crowd.
Your hands of weightier problems should be full
Without deliberately baiting Bull.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
BREAKING THE NEWS.
“Emperor Hirohito, clad in ceremonial robes,
personally broke the news of Japan’s defeat to bis
Imperial ancestors.” —Tokyo cable.
You’ve heard about the English supplicator,
The village parson who began a prayer
By cheerfully assuming the Creator
Had read some item in that day’s “Spectator”—
Or “Times” it may have been (I couldn't
swear) —
Some weighty editorial in the press
To show the real point of his address.
They make no claim to such omniscience, clearly,
The gods who cut the mustard in Japan.
In some remote Olympian heights austerely
They sit, oblivious or very nearly
Of all the intricate concerns of man.
Except what comes from one descendant’s lips,
They never know what’s happening to Nips.
They have their being in some shadowy sector,
Like that of the Olympians, I suppose,
Whete Zeus was known as managing director.
And save that sake takes the place of nectar,
They’ve much the same amenities as those,
If we omit the boredom that ensues
From lamentable scarcity of news.
They have no bolts to hurl in sudden fury,
A right the Greeks assigned to those on high;
No chance of weighing, like some patient jury,
The words of “Shimbun” or of “Yomiun,’
Of “Mainichi” or of “Asahi,”
Albeit their humblest worshippers may scan
Those organs of opinion in Japan.
All have the heaven fancy features. Shall a
Caucasian query what the Orient wots?
And yet I’d say that boisterous Valhalla
And the establishment devised by Allah
Would both be more exhilarating spots
Than that dim haunt which houses countless
scores
Of Hirohito’s ghostly ancestors.
He told them that the war was lost, in graphic
Phrases that one imagines set a glare
Of frozen horror on those dials seraphic.
But, seeing that there’s only one-way traffic
In such announcements between here ana
there,
It’s unavoidable that we must lose
The deities’ reaction to the news.
N.S.W*
T. THE R.


“S.T.S.”: Quietly, but thoroughly, we
are getting Americanised. I have just
heard on the air a play the scene of
which is simply “an Australian city,”
with one passing mention of “the harbor,”
The story has for its base the American
convention that a boozing waster makes
the most'fascinating and irresistible hero.
Two of the minor characters have divorced
each other and married each other again.
Dining out, at “Tony’s Place,” (a drink
shop where one can get fatally stabbed),
the choice of dishes for the alleged Aus-
tralians seems to be solely between Ham-
burgers and “a chicken salad,” Nobody
sets foot outside the city, or mentions
anywhere else. And all the non-boozing
characters drink, at any hour of the day
or night, America’s national beverage,
coffee.
* * * • *
“Falcon”: Residents of a road leading
to Fremantle harbor were horrified one
morning to discover that overnight many
of the trees lining their street had been
lopped. When the Japs caved in the story
came out. The. US. aircraft-carrier
Langley was waiting in the harbor to take
on 40 Kittyhawks. Guards were placed
along the blacked-out streets of May-
lands, Perth and Fremantle, and
along this route travelled a procession of
lorries bearing half-assembled ’planes.
Trees had to be lopped and a railway
bridge cut. Early in the morning
the 40 fighters were safely packed in
the Langley’s hangars. Alas! Four days
out from Fremantle Langley was attacked
and sunk, her ’planes not even getting the
chance to leave her flight deck. Most of
the complement was picked up by the
tanker Pekos, but a day or so later the
Pekos, too, fell in with the enemy and
went down with an almost total loss of
life.
* * * *
“Cassandra”: The “Times” needn't
worry so much almut “millions of cars”
(B. 22/8/’45) crowding English roads.
Ihe real trouble will come when hordes
of cheap private aeroplanes infest the
skies. Just imagine them as numerous
as motor-cars were in 1939! How is
authority to deal with the careless driver,
the drunken driver, the mere accident that
comes in course of time to any driver?
When two cars collide they are not
likely to hurt much besides themselves.
Then they can just be pulled into the
kerb. Up above there will be no kerb,
pretty well no rule of the road—unless
planning begins very soon. New York
has just had a spectacular example of the
danger of flying low, and that can be
barred. But when two ’planes collide
half a mile up what will they do? What
can they do? Crash down, probably in
flames, into a crowded street, on a
cathedral or on the roof of your
house or mine. Plenty to worry about,
if one cares to look ahead.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne’s one-day
rail strike brought out a lot of vehicles
that hadn’t been seen for a long time.
Motor-cars with flat tyres and grass
growing on their mudguards stuttered
into the city ; pushbikes became as plenti-
ful as they are in Christchurch, MX.
There were other portents. Tobacconists,
their hearts softened by a common cal-
amity, offered customers more cigarettes
than they asked for. The Yarra rat
emerged from his slime and invaded
Flinders-street station. The pitchers were
the only business that didn’t suffer.
People who couldn’t get into town
to their jobs consoled themselves with
a spot of Greer Garson and Deanna
Durbin. Noel Coward has often
consciously tried to make an audi-
ence respond, but he never got a
heartier result than he did in “This
Happy Breed” at the Athenaeum. A long-
forgotten transport strike in England is
one of the features of the picture and a
flash of a huge acreage of deserted rails
and stationary engines looked so like the
Victorian railway system that the crowd
rocked with laughter.
* * * *
“Kay”: Unusual churches, is it (B.
15/7/45)? In the flourishing sugar town
of Tully (N.Q.) there stands a large two-
storeyed building set around about with
spacious lawns. The ground floor is a
church proper, the upper portion resi-
dential quarters for the clergy. The place
was so designed by an Italian mission,
whose first head was a graduate of Milan
University. It is still used as a church.
* * * ♦
“O’Jones”; If “Old-Timer” hadn’t
been in such a hurry to jump the rattler
when in Melbourne (B. 22/8/’45), among
the serious and not-so-serious work of
writers, artists and etchers on show at the
Bread and Cheese Club he’d have seen a
painting by Deeming (I’ve seen worse
paintings and murders at “Contempor-
ary” shows), Marcus Clarke’s portfolios
and quill, a dado of liquor labels from all
over the world (still incomplete, but
Cheesers are triers), numerous black and
white originals (forfeited by journals
when Jack Moir’s eye has detected char-
acters with two left feet), a case of thirst-
provoking beer mugs (for use), and an
open fireplace complete with billycan and
iron kettle (for use occasionally). The
whole collection—beer mugs, billycan,
Henry Lawson’s shirt, oils, etchings and
poets’ odds and ends —is insured ; which
shows that somebody has accepted Aus-
tralian culture as a fair risk.
* * * *
“X.P.8.1.” with a kind word for mili-
tary bands: —
The A.l.F.’s bands have never been in the
news, yet their job was one of the toughest.
Training as solidly as the rifle companies, they
took on stretcher-bearing when they were not
doing band practice. Duty for them commenced
at Reveille, when they marched through the camp
“ That’s the girl I left home for.”
"Why ?”
rousing sluggards, and ended at Retreat with the
guard changeover. Each outfit was proud of its
band, and Diggers won and lost bets and argu-
ments when the Sixth Div. ran its big band
contest. The last time I saw my crowd’s
musicians as a full band was early in Greece,
when, at the end of a 20-mile march, they
played us through a little village, their lively
lunc making our tired step brisker, and bring-
ing out the villagers to cheer. A month later
half their number had been lost after toiling
heroically in the snow during the heavy fighting
at Monastir Gap. Of those left many were lost
in Crete, where, without transport, ambulances,
and few medical supplies, they carried badly-
wounded men for miles to get medical attention.
It was a long while after that before k there
were enough instruments and players to make
even a brigade band, but when they came we
listened contentedly to heartrending sounds,
knowing that another body of keen amateurs
was learning to be a band. Yes, the bands of
the A.I.F. have a brave history.
* * * *
“Pawang”; There is a link between
Melbourne and a B.M.A. committee
which sought a prophylactic against
scrub typhus in a hush-hush factory in
Kent and found one in time to help
Allied troops in the South Pacific.
In May, 1943, the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute in Melbourne was
urgently pursuing similar investigations,
a fact which came out through one
of the principal bacteriologists en-
gaged, Miss Dora Lush, M.Sc., of
Kew, scratching her finger with a
syringe she was using. Scrub typhus set
in and she died in a few days. The brave
girl asked her colleagues to use her to
observe the progress of the disease while
she was dying. In the Kent experiments
doctors and scientists wore special masks
in an air-conditioned building. The air
leaving the building was heated high
enough to kill the typhus germs before
they reached the surrounding country-
side.
“Nakhoda”: Early in the Bougainville
occupation Australian doctors observed
a prevalence of yaws among the natives.
This is a mild form of v.d. which, unlike
syphilis, can be easily and quickly cured
and leaves no after-effects. Now it has
been discovered that where yaws exists
syphilis never occurs and the conclusion
has been arrived at that the milder infec-
tion gives immunisation against the more
deadly. The possibility of obtaining a
serum from yaws which will give im-
munity to syphilis is being investigated.
This recalls that Cook, accused of having
introduced syphilis to Pacific islands, in-
dignantly repudiated the charge. The
disease, his detractors observed after he
had left, was yaws and it was probably
there ages before any English navigator
entered the Pacific.
♦ * * *
“Jurumudi”: The Melbourne Cup is to
go back to the first Tuesday in November.
Pity the officials didn’t go into confer-
ence with the meteorologists and make a
new date. By some whim of the weather
god two or three weeks of halcyon
weather are usually provided about the
beginning of October. After this inter-
lude the Antarctic moves in again and
November is generally wet and tempestu-
ous. I have proved this by taking my
annual holidays in most months of the
year and then settling on October as
offering the most reliable weather.
* * # *
“F.S.”: During the war nobody outside
official circles knew whether Cocos, the
cable station in the Indian Ocean, was
in British or Jap hands. One of the
dramas of the war was being silently
enacted at that lonely outpost. After
Singapore fell and the Jap armada headed
for Java a conference of Cables and
Wireless chiefs was held in London and
the question of abandoning the isolated
atoll was considered. W. G. R. Jacob,
engineer-in-chief to Cables and Wireless,
argued for retention of the station as a*i
essential link in the chain of imperial
connections, though he had a son
stationed on Pulau Tikus, the cable
island. A day before the fall of Batavia
a Japanese cruiser turned up and blew
everything in sight on Pulau to pieces
with shellfire. When it had departed the
staff crept out of trenches and reported
to London. London still had doubts
about the security of the island and took
measures to protect it. When the Japanese
occupied the cable station at Batavia,
which is connected with Cocos, they found
a message instructing the staff to evacu-
ate the station, as Cocos was completely
demolished and there was no purpose in
Batavia remaining open. The delighted
Japanese broadcast that Cocos had been
eliminated, news which was received with
amusement at Cocos. Japanese recon-
naissance ’planes, which occasionally
visited the island, reported that it was
ruined, deserted and lifeless. Actually,
a good half of the cable- traffic to and
from Australia was passing through the
unrepaired and apparently untenanted
buildings. “Mr. Brown” had become the
name for Cocos in Allied communications.
“ Don't bust yourself , mate — that's where I Work."
“C. 8.” on a prototype of Edgar
Wallace:
This year is the centenary of The Count of
Monte Crisio, the masterpiece of Alexandre
Davy de la Pailleterie Dumas (and no thanks
to “Time” or “Fact”). The illegitimate son of a
soldier and a Haitian negress, Dumas had the
ambition of his father, who rose from private to
general in two years, and the fantastic exuber-
ance of the negro nature. Everything he did was
surrounded with intrigue and grotesqueness. His
first novel was a failure, but he didn’t waste it—
he used the same plot later five times. His first
play was banned for political reasons, but his
second was a triumph. After that he became
famous, signed contracts for yeans ahead,
ran six serials at one time, greeted callers with
one hand while writing with the other and some-
times forgot the beginning of a story before he
had it finished. He got so far behind on his
commitments that something had to be done.
He hired an army of men of talent to write
plays and novels for him, and there is a legend
that he sometimes attached his signature to such
works without bothering to read them. He-
sometimes bought MSS. from unknown authors
and signed his name to them. He was im-
mensely amused when he discovered that one
(which he hadn’t read) contained a fulsome
eulogy of himself. All told, his name was
attached to 1200 volumes. In between these
literary activities and a bewildering succession of
mistresses old Alex, built a gigantic palace, in the
vestibule of which he kept an urn full of
gold coins into which any indigent author
could dip. His servants drank nothing but
champagne. The boom was checked by an
exposure of the Dumaresque methods in
1845, but the amused Parisian public continued
to read everything that bore his name. Nobody
could resist a man who, when Garibaldi asked
him how many children he had, seriously esti-
mated the figure at 500, and who was so un-
predictable that when the French Government
sent him to Algiers to write up the wonders of
its colonial administration he wrote a book
damning the whole system. Of elephantine
size, he died of dropsy and apoplexy in 1870.
Asked how long he thought his work would last,
he said 100 years, “because the rats cannot
eat it up in less.” Our modern best-sellers are
attenuated creatures by comparison.
* * * *
“Quadni”: Fido and Pluto (B. 22 /8 / *45)
have a rival for verbal immortality in
Felo (Far Eastern Liaison Office), born
in the Pacific War zone. Felo prepared
more than 50 million leaflets (mainly at
Brisbane) for the peoples of Jap-occupied
territories, for Jap garrisons and for
p.-0.-w. from the Solomons to Java. It
operated secret radios behind Jap lines ;
dropped all-wave radio sets to guerrilla
bands. Altogether Felo was a very active
anti-Japanese weapon.
* ♦ * *
“Craiser”: During the German occu-
pation of Paris the Haute Couture, a
fashion organisation which numbers
70,000 workers and helps to employ more
than a million others, started' designing
for German women. This “collabora-
tion” took the subtle form of devising
fashions that made the feminine Teutonic
figure look ridiculous, at least in Parisian
eyes. Immediately after the German
exit the organisation showed its vitality
by producing designs more congenial to
the French, made and staged in miniature,
with figures modelled by sculptors. Photo-
graphs of the collection were lately ex-
hibited at Georges Gallery, Melbourne.
“The miracle of designing and making a
beautiful dress out of almost nothing
has been accomplished,” according to the
catalogue foreword, “and new styles,
moving away from war motifs, have in-
troduced a new silhouette, soft and
feminine, with emphasisfd hips.” You
can’t keep Paris down.
* * * #
“Hamfat,” with some vaudeville his-
tory :
The original Pierrots—two ex-Navy officers,
the brothers James—after their start in Eng-
land, where they did well at Henley and at
seaside resorts, came to Australia. They had
taken a liking to this country when on the
Sydney naval station. But their al fresco enter-
tainment wasn’t lucrative here. They struck
that curious characteristic of Australians, other-
wise openhanded, that impels them to accept
without return anything that can be had for
' nothing. In England gold coins are often tossed
into a collection, especially if the showmen are
gentlemanly. But when the Pierrots opened on
Manly sands their recompense was coppers,
with an occasional “silver coin.” The brothers,
disappointed, were facing the idea of a return
to England when they tried an indoors enter-
tainment at St. James’s Hall, Phillip-street, Syd-
ney, and that led to better things. They had a
show of their own on the Tivoli circuit
later, and there is no performer who was
associated with them who does not remember
the Jameses with affection. Broadcaster Charlie
Lawrence was one of the men who came to the
front when he was with “The Original Pierrots”
at their open-air (but enclosed) show at St.
Kilda.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Dadnx”: Was the Jap skill at camou-
flage due to training or a natural tendency
to live like a pig in the undergrowth?
Near positions which he had occupied for
18 months not a twig had been cut. His
camp trails wandered through the dense
secondary growth or followed stream
beds. Where he had used vehicles in
forward areas the tracks followed natural
clearings ; no attempt was made to build
all-weather roads. Allied air superiority
may have discouraged that. Each outpost
had its gardens of corn and Chinese cab-
bage planted around our bomb craters.
Huts were built under coral outcrops
without disturbing the clinging jungle, and
all hands slept huddled on a cane plat-
form. Barge hideouts were. masterpieces
—under overhanging trees a shallow dock
was dug in the bank and lined with poles.
Barges had no top hamper. They slipped
by night under the branches to lie snug
during the day.
* * * *
“Fin”: That the deep waters off the
Australian coast teem with fish Was
proved when the trawler Wcstrutta II
came into Hobart laden down with nearly
ten tons of mackerel. Claimed as a
record by one boat, the catch was made
in three days’ fishing about 60 miles s.-e.
of Tasmania and would have been bigger
but for net damage by„seals. Lack of
ice-box space was another drawback, four
tons of fish having to be carried on the
decks. Wholesale price of the catch was
about £2BO ; the fish went to canneries.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: I reckon a
native bear doesn’t leave a tree when it is
being felled, as some Aboliars declare.
Twenty years ago, near the Bass River
Landing (Vic.), we began scarfing a war-
rior gum up which the largest old-man
koala I’ve ever seen was squatting. The
poor brute insisted on coming down with
the tree, and was so maimed we had to
kill him. After that we boys used to
shake them out of the top branches—if
we could —by a trapeze act, and the Ted-
dies always fell to the ground like cats,
stunned but on their feet. Incidentally, in
those days there were few, if any, manna
gums about the Bass, yet the odd bears
there seemed to thrive without them,
though mannas are now regarded as
essential koala food.
* * * *
“H.1.C.”: At least one working dog
was a member of the A.W.U. During
1910, when Lamond was overseer of Bar-
caldine Downs (C.Q.), he had the daddy
of all sheep-dogs. While some petty
strike was on at the shed Towser was
playing among the rouseabouts. Lamond
called the dog to help him put some
sheep out of the yards and, in a loud
voice, informed the hound that he had no
right to strike. After lunch, when Lamond
called his dog again, it was wearing on
its collar a union ticket made out in the
name of Towser Lamond.
♦ * * *
“Eureka”: Monaro Mick reckoned
that the best battle he ever saw was be-
tween a dingo and his blue cattle-dog.
The two fought like tigers for hours,
every now and then taking a piece out" of
each other. “Who won?” I asked. “I
never decided,” Mick replied. “You see,
when they reckoned they had had enough
there was only the hind legs and tail of
either left.”
* * * *
“Wylie”: Broadaxe was in front, sit-
ting on his moke, dozing, his hands
up to his elbows in his old military over-
coat pockets. I’m trailin’ along behind.
Broadaxe woke up suddenly to see a big
’roo cornered in an angle of the fence.
He came to life with a jerk, ripped
off a stirrup-iron, took a turn round his
wrist and waded in, rousting up old
Trimmer with his heels. He manoeuvred
the moke broadside on and swung the
iron round his head once or twice. The
’roo was sitting back waiting to get in a
bit of work with his toes. Down came
the stirrup-iron, the ’roo ducked smartly,
and Broadaxe fetched himself a corker
on the shinbone, fell off the horse
and hopped round shrieking blue murder.
I could swear that ’roo put his fingers
to his nose as he took off along the fence.
* ♦ ♦ JJS
“Betcha”: Eastern Victoria is having
trouble with kangaroos. In areas where
they haven’t been seen for 30 years mobs
of 50 are common on grazing land adjoin-
ing bush country. Most boundary fences
are old and the ’roos soon learn to smash
a hole in the netting. Sub-division fences
are no bar when looking for the sweetest
picking. So, while town nature lovers
howl about Too destruction, cockies are
tearing their hair or grabbing a gun. The
“I know all about that Androcles story, and one good turn deserves
another."
reason for the invasion is shown by a
trip into the bush, which shows how fires
have ruined the old feeding grounds, and
so driven the ’roos in. Hundreds of
square miles of open bushland that once
produced grasses have been reduced to a
tangle of seedlings and scrub, and in
nearer gullies that have escaped fire are
hordes of rabbits against which the ’roo
cannot compete.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “These sentimental pea-
nuts who call their missuses their long-
haired mates get on my quince,” said Mat.
“You can’t kid me that a woman fcould
ever be a mate like you an’ me know it.
Aw, I admit y’ can have a missus
who’ll do things for y’ an’ put up with
things from y’ no sensible woman would,
I’ve seen ’em like that, but I reckon only
a man can be a real mate.” “How d’ y’
mean?” 1 asked. “Well, t’ be a mate a
man’s got t’ hear himself be called all
sorts o’ a crimson misbegotten an’ come
up f’r more. Mates always know when
y’ don’t want t’ talk. But if y’ go silent
on y’r missus she won’t rest tryin’ t’
find out why, an’ she finishes up be
reckonin’ y’ got somethin’ against her or
y’ve done somethin’ crook, when all the
time y’ might be tryin’ t’ nut out
the price of a contract or the
meanin’ of a foreign word y’ read.
You don’t care whether I’m shaved or
not, an’ I don’t give a continental what
you look like, but a missus is always at
y’ t’ shave an’ get spruced up or some-
thin’, especially if any of her relatives is
about. There’s a lot more to it, too, but
the thing that convinces me is that no
woman could ever know what it feels like
t’ stand up at a bar with a mate an’ play
odds an’ evens for the drinks.”
* * * ♦
“Fancar”: Tell “Zimple Zimon” (B.
22 /8 / ’45) that the Hebrew didn’t hyphen-
ate the word turtle-dove or connect the
bird with the chelonians. Turtle, as ap-
plied to shellbacks, is derived from
tortoise or the Spanish tortuga, while
turtle, meaning pigeon or dove, is an
Anglo-Saxon derivation of the Latin
turtur. The Dutch style the turtle-dove
tortel , the Germans turtel, the Ice-
landers turtil. The English had plain
turtle, turtle-dove being a comparatively
new word when the authorised version
of the Bible was translated. The Danish
have the compound turtledue. The
other kindred tongues are content without
the “dove” suffix, and in none of these
tongues could the bird or reptile be con-
founded. Shakspeare, in his first play,
“Love’s Labor Lost,” celebrates the mat-
ing of turtles and rooks and daws in the
concluding spring song, while in “Winter’s
Tale,” one of his last works, Paulina
says: ,
I, an old turtle,
Will wing me to some wither’d bough, and
there
My mate, that’s never to be found again,
Lament till I am lost.
(Act V. Scene 3.)
* ♦ * *
“Berthul”: Can insects think (B.
15/8/’45)? Well, “John o’ London’s”
published this from Australia:
With reference to the correspondence
on “Instinct and Intelligence” in your
columns, at one time 1 was camped on
the banks of the River Murray, which are
the habitat of innumerable snakes —especi-
ally the “tiger.” Not far from my tent
was a nest of “bull-ants,” very vicious and
easily aroused. However, I took no notice
of them, except to throw them some
crumbs occasionally. And after a while
the ants came to expect this addition to
their larder, in fact, they grew to know me.
One afternoon I went to sleep on a soft
grassy patch. When I awoke I was horri-
fied to see a tiger-snake, thrashing its head
violently from side to side, not more than
six inches from my face. I sprang up and
seized a stick. I then saw that holding the
tiger-snake down by sheer weight of num-
bers were thousands of the bull-ants to
whom I had been offhandedly generous. In
gratitude I slew the snake and carried it
to the ants’ nest, where, presently, a great
feast was held. Since then I have not know-
ingly injured a single ant.
The writer was forgetful. The bull-ants,
with their wives the cow-ants, afterwards
brought him all the manna and wild
honey they had stored up for the winter.
And when he shifted camp they lined up
and, standing on their powerful stings,
waved him farewell with tears streaming
from their eyes.
* * * *
“Propalong”: The bossiest thing in
feathers was Big Bill, the Leghorn
rooster. For two years he had herded
the hens, assaulted the cats, bullied the
dog and tried to intimidate the missus.
But the other day Nature took a hand
The poultry turned out early, despite the
frost, went through their morning exer-
cises and lined up at the netting for their
mash. Breakfast over, the hens went to
their trough, only to find the water imper-
vious. Chook after chook tried to thrust
her beak into the liquid that was solid,
and loud were the indignant protests in
the fowlyard. At last Bill, who allows
no one but himself to ill-treat his harem,
strutted over to investigate the unseemly
disturbance. Deciding that a drink before
business was indicated, he dipped his
beak —and it bounced. Alarmed, Bill
jumped back, his head jerking in bewil-
derment. Then, with his wings lifted,
just in case, he again tackled the treacher-
ous fluid, hitting it so hard that his beak
must have ached for hours. Now he was
sure that this was a plot, probably insti-
gated by some snooping strange rooster
from somewhere, and, with blood in his
eye and hackles raised, he sprang upon
the deceptive water. Whereupon his
spurs shot skyward, he turned toes over
teeth and skated the length of the icy
trough on his tail, falling ignominiously
off at the far end. The pride of the
poultry yard picked himself up, looking
like an ill-used feather-duster, and slunk
off to the shed. That was a week ago,
and now the missus reckons I’ll have to
pot him.
* * * *
“Jerboa”: Willie-willies scurried across
the land, grey columns of dust wander-
ing in vortexes of wind, aimless as drift-
ing birds in the still air. Sheep huddled
in the sparse shade or drifted drearily
over the bare earth. On either side the
plains reached to infinity, Ringbarked
trees lifted gaunt arms to the sky. Rowdy
galahs rose and showed now grey, now
pink, as they wheeled this way or that.
Red hills loomed, sometimes with only
the evergreen of mallee to relieve their
bareness. It was commonplace enough,
but the Digger in the corner was staring
out of the carriage window with rapt
eyes, “Things are pretty dry,” I com-
mented. “Are they?” he answered
dreamily. “I’m just back from two years
in New Guinea.” He gestured to the
landscape. “It’s beautiful, isn’t it?”
* * * *
“Nagheer”: It is just on 339 years
since that dour Frenchman from
Brittany Luis Vaez de Torres made his
involuntary and perilous passage through
the famous strait which now bears his
name. Reaching the mountain island of
Dauan, via Missionary Passage, he
climbed to the summit and saw “forty
and more islands” blocking the western
passage. I, too, have looked at that same
view and marvelled at the consummate
seamanship with which he took his
clumsy, round-bottomed 40-ton San
Pedrico through that maze, with the south-
east trade winds thrusting him all the
time into fresh dangefs. The 30 miles to
Dungeness and Long Island took three
days, but led them to the safe anchorage
under Mt. Ernest Island Montserrate,
he called it, from its high-toothed peak.
That was the nearest they ever got to
Australia. After looting the village and
murdering some natives they squared off
for Badu and. Moa, northward of Thurs-
day Island, and nearly got swamped at
anchor there by heavy tide-races. Work-
ing through Bligh Passage, they reached
Deliverance Island to touch bottom for
the first time —luckily mud, not coral.
Thence they had a clear course to False
Cape, and on October 8, 1606, clear of
all perils of the sea, laid a course for
their original destination, Manila.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: “Golden Mile” is astray on
why schist explodes with heat (B.
22/8/’45). I’m aware of the porosity of
rocks, including primaries, but the schist
I’ve encountered flies to bits equally well
when bone-dry. Anyone who has worked
with plumbago crucibles in a wet climate
knows the action of enclosed steam as
“G.M.” describes it; unless the pot is
dried by slow warmth beforehand sudden
heating causes flakes to split off, the
moisture behind the glazing of clinker
having no ready means of exit for its
expanded form. There are no lines of
cleavage in the crucible as with finely-
laminated slate, which, however, does
not burst open suddenly with heat,
whether wet or dry. My theory is that
the texture is of unequal degrees of ex-
pansion, which would cause it to burst
apart in irregular fashion.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Don’t know anything about
spitting snakes (B. 29/8/’45), but ordi-
nary Australian varieties are rather help-
less creatures, always ready to run when
disturbed. Shifting a Jog in an Army
camp we uncovered a good-sized tiger-
snake. Wishing to get the skin undam-
aged, I trod lightly on its neck, then,
grasping it just behind the head, earned
it to the log, asked for a knife and de-
capitated it. My city-bred cobbers
doubted my sanity, but what was the
danger? American gaiters, trousers and
socks were ample protection in case or
misjudgment, and once gripped by the
neck Joe was helpless.
* * * *
“Dadnx”: Next to betting o:i the date
of return to Aussie, hermit-crab racing
is the current gambling craze m New
Britain. Starters are thoroughly shaken
in a cake-tin and released in the centre
of a chalked circle, first crab over scoop-
ing the pool for his owner. Loops ir
rope are added to the course for hur
races. Shady jockeys tried to-Jfickle up
their mounts with mosquito lotion, but
usually made the crab bail out °t his
shell, resulting in disqualification, un
M.O. spent weeks acquiring a stable o\
catching and testing all crabs in his area.
When clearing his R.A.P. for an inspec-
tion he placed the stable in a weapon
pit; but when he returned the steeds
had proved their hurdling ability an
vanished.
THE OLD GREY DOG.
The old grey dog in sunlight sleeps beside the
stockyard fence;
His coat is thin and jaded now, that once grew
dark and dense;
His hearing’s dim, he knows no more the
stockwhip’s ringing sound;
He's almost blind —he could not see a wild mob
milling round.
And lying there he starts at times with short
and fitful yelps,
As in the darkness of his sleep he dreams again
he helps
To muster on those tussocked plains that stretch
to ranges blue —
A sleek young dog and far the best the station
ever knew.
He wakens from his fitful sleep, and at a loss
he seems
To find the stock he drove along have vanished
with his dreams.
A rider, comes to mount his horse, tied to the
stockyard rail —
The old dog senses who is near, and thumps m3
tattered tail.
He cannot join the other dogs that, frisking
there, await
To see the horseman mount and ride —out
through the stockyard gate;
But when they near those distant hills and wild-
eyed cattle stare
He’ll dream that he has followed on and helps
the stockman there.
He was the dog that led the way till old age
on him came —
The stockman stops and speaks to him and calls
him by his name.
And ere he mounts his waiting horse o’er wind-
swept plains to jog
With lean brown hand he reaches down and
strokes the old grey dog.
VICTORIA.
DOUBLEGEE.


“Just a sandwich!”
“Old-timer”: Undowangie had beaten
Walpeeroosta by four points in the foot-
ball match. The defeated had departed,
the victors had subsided, the Saturday
crowd had retired. The moon looked
incuriously down on the sandy street,
where a stray dog sat on its haunches
and waited for whatever might turn
up, and over by the railway siding
somebody’s cow pondered thoughtfully
on the taste of the dry thistle-stalk she’d
found. Inside the store, screened from
curious eyes, the storekeeper, the garage
man and the agent, slightly fuzzy, finished
off the last of the beer. The agent made
for the door, stepped outside, then hur-
riedly jumped back in again. “Crikey,”
he breathed, his eyes wide in the lamp-
light. Storekeeper and garageman peered
through the door. Down the middle of
the street floated a figure, silent, wraith-
like, unearthly. The trio heard their own
hearts beating like trip-hammers. Then
the storekeeper said “Look.” The stray
dog had left the verandah, gone to the
ghostly figure and was exhibiting signs of
friendliness, jumping about and wagging
its tail. “That’s no spook,” said the
agent, and, with their fear displaced by
curiosity, the three went forth and care-
fully led the sleep-walking postmistress
home.
* * * *
“Wandana”: So “Norther” (B.
22/8/’45) sees something outsize in a 23ft.
crocodile! It must be fifty years since
Archie Meston, in his Geographic His-
tory of Queensland, said that Crocodilus
porosus, ranging from the Boyne Rivei
up to Cape York and along the shores of
the Gulf, grew to a length of 24ft. The
natives called it “Chalgar” on the
Flinders, “Oolgoonya” on the Burke and
“Turrajella” on the Roper. Equally at
home in salt, brackish or fresh water, it
haunts some of the islands of Torres
Strait; and I’ve seen a large specimen at
sea a couple of miles from Long Island
with a big turtle in its jaws. Some years
ago a big one killed on the Mitchell was
taped at 25ft. Sin.
“Saurian”: Years ago a crocodile
shot in the Pioneer River, near Mackay
(N.Q.), measured 32ft. 6in. It was
claimed to be the second-largest ever
found anywhere in the world, the largest
being shot in India and measuring
32ft. 9in.
* * * *
“Naturala” : It is probable that fish are
unable to. see beyond the surface of the
water that forms the ceiling of their
world. So the flying-fish and “Creel’s”
alligator pike (B. 8/ 8 / ’45) almost cer-
tainly escaped their pursuers. But these
surface flyers seem deficient in eyesight
under atmospheric conditions, for I have
often seen flying-fish in the W.A. north-
west crash into boats and even rocks
and cliffs. Underwater fish can, however,
instantly detect a shadow falling on the
ceiling; the smaller kinds at once clear
out. This susceptibility to shadows shows
in the results obtained by the angler who,
standing on shore or boat, thinks it neces-
sary to do the lasso-whirling act when
casting out his line. Excessive arm
waviAg drives the fish far out, whereas
the angler who employs the minimum of
arm action will fetch his school of fish
almost to the water’s edge, with consider-
ably better results in the day’s bag.
* * * *
“Jum”: That hermit jumbuk of
“C.E’s” (B. 15/8/’45) has a kindred spirit
in a sheep raised as a pet on a western
N.S.W. station. This ewe goes like the
dickens the moment she sights one of her
kind, but she’s not a true-blue hermit, as
she has a particular pal in a station hack.
Ewe and gee-gee feed in company in the
horse paddock, and when the horse is
taken away to work the sheep is invari-
ably awaiting her mate’s return at ’ the
boundary. •
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: A finger-length seedling
of red ash {Alphitonia excelsa ) from the
N.S.W. North Coast rain forests, brought
to my open hillside suburban garden,
grew into a dense, spreading tree. But
the beautiful glossy leaves with their sil-
very undersides attracted hordes of hairy
caterpillars. By early spring it was a
sorry sight, its foliage half-eaten. Then
the first pallid cuckoo arrived. Knowing
good meat, he interrupted his continuous
love calls to gorge on the squirming leaf-
eaters. Soon his newly-won spouse
arrived and they completed the banquet,
with a third party as a sort of guest.
I’m not chasing cuckoos any more. No
other birds will tackle those hairy
despoilers.
* * * *
“Physalia”: Mention the Barrier Reef
to any f.a.q. southern-dwelling Australian
and the usual reaction will be something
about having heard it’s a good place for
a winter holiday, but a bit too far away
for him. Such is our majority-outlook
on the greatest of all sea wonders. All
the rest of the world’s live coral forma-
tions could be dumped into the vast maze
of Swain’s Reef alone and remain scarcely
noticeable. Yet Swain’s Reef is merely
the southernmost bastion of the vast ram-
part which runs for 1100 sea-miles north
and west from 10 to 70 miles offshore,
its outermost edge a submarine cliff
averaging 6000 ft. in height. Against that
parapet the greatest and oldest of all the
oceans has, for immemorial years, flung
unceasingly its inexhaustible forces, suck-
ing and drawing in calms, pounding in
the trade winds, when driven by gales
striking with blows of 50,000 tons on
every 20ft. five times in each minute.
Yet all of that vast wall has been built
by tiny soft polyps from the lime they
have secreted from the sea in infinitesimal
amounts. Strangest of all, the crest of
it, the part which takes the real strain of
ocean destructiveness, is a small sea plant.
Within that vast lie thousands of
square miles of sheltered, sun-warmed
waters, a veritable paradise of sea life, an
inexhaustible fishery, and for seven
months of each year, from May to
October, a holidaying place with which
no other country in the world can com-
pare.
* » » *
“Munja”: Remnants of the Larakia
tribe have a modified type of bull-roarer
(churinga) which they call Bidu-Bidu.
Full of magic, it must be rubbed over the
bodies of the old men to reduce its
potency before it can be shown to youths
at initiation ceremonies. It can then be
handled safely, the youths being permitted
to carry it around during initiation. This
is supposed to help them to find “sugar-
bag” and to catch fish and game with
equal ease. After the ceremony the
Bidu-Bidu is destroyed by fire, an
action startlingly different from that of
Centralian tribes. To these the loss or
destruction of a sacred churinga would
be a tribal calamity. On no account
must a Larakia woman see the Bidu-
Bidu when carried by a youth. Should
this catastrophe occur, the old men send
post-haste for a “big-shot” medicine-man
—expense no object. On arrival, the de-
linquent woman and youth are pointed
out to the medicine-man who cuts out
their kidney fat, sews them up again and
lets them go. Death is attributed to
various causes; only the old men know
that the medicine-man has proved his
worth.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: At egg-laying the
wood duck (B. 22/8/’45) has nothing on
the “green” turtle of Barrier Reef waters.
One sprightly young thing that came
ashore near our temporary camp on
Turtle Head Island, in Newcastle Bay, left
231 eggs in her nest, dug alongside the
C.O.’s tent. She took less than an hour
to lay them. Another big turtle dissected
by the M.O. contained well over 1000
eggs in various sizes, from a small bead
to a pingpong ball. When Lieut. Fowler,
one of Flinders’s officers, was marooned
for three months on Wreck Reef in 1802
he counted 1940 eggs in a “green” turtle
he had captured for food. Incidentally,
has any Aboliar ever usdd turtle eggs for
food? I have heard they are excellent,
but our cook refused to have anything to
do with them.
“Nor’-west”; Although the bull tor-
toise may become vocal (B. 8/ 8 / ’45) the
bull turtle is incapable of making a sound.
Nor does he ever leave the water; those
shellbacks which go ashore at certain
seasons are females. The bull may be
identified by his longer tail; and it is a
curious fact that when an egg-laying con-
gress is on the waters around the rim of
the chosen island will be thronged with
long-tails apparently waiting the return
of the ladies. At such times the sea is so
full of turtle that a boat making towards
the beach will meet a constant succes-
sion of collisions with the thronging shell-
backs. But from the multitude never a
sound is heard. Nor does the lady turtle
whimper when turned upon her back,
though it has been said that so great is
her chagrin that she sheds tears. Turning
as a means of capture will not, however,
work with the tortoise. Being equipped
with a more convex shell the landlubber
simply rocks to and fro until finally the
accumulated momentum brings him right
side up again. I never heard the male tor-
toise become vocal, even in the circum-
stances detailed by Darwin.
=N * * *
“Sach”; Don’t talk to me about insect
and animal intelligence. While I was
watching some army caterpillars one got
adrift and, nosing blindly around, found
the rear of the column. Result, they went
around in a circle for hours. A naturalist
once put some head to tail around
the rim of a vase, and food was placed
near, but the caterpillars remained on the
rim for a week, doing over 300 circuits.
Hunting ants go out in a column for
prey. Placed in a glass jar, head of col-
umn to tail, they moved around like that
for two days and nights. A wasp insisted
on building its mud nest in a comer of
my army mossie net. No matter how
many times I took the net out, the wasp
came back and built another. Heard of
“It's telescopic, needs only one light jab, an never goes rusty!"
one that ran short of food for its larvae,
so it bit off one end-of the youngster’s
anatomy and offered it to the other end.
When a cuckoo kicks out the rightful
occupants of the nest, the mother, despite
the fact that her real young are lying
squawking and hungry nearby, continues
to feed the usurper. A tame rat seeking
materials for its nest stumbled over its
own tail, which it seized and carried to
the nest many times. A cow bereft of
her calf was given a dummy covered
with the calf’s skin. The cow licked this
maternally and caused some of the skin
to fall away, revealing the stuffing of
hay, which she immediately ate. And
there is the tale of the flock of sheep, the
leading one of which at a gateway
jumped over a boy’s outstretched foot.
Boy was made to withdraw his foot, but
all the following sheep jumped over the
same place,
4= * * *
“D.R.H.”; “Notaden” (B. l/8/’45) is
right in assuming that the evolution of
neolithic culture after the use of copper
in Egypt was unique. But the adoption?
of bronze in Western Europe was due to
processes other than “elementary applied
metallurgy.” Bronze was apparently used
in Sumeria about 5000 years ago ; it was
certainly known in Crete shortly after
3000 b.c., but was not common in Egypt,
where the local copper was naturally
hard, until almost 1000 years later, and
it came into circulation in Western
Europe somewhere between 1800 and
1200 b.c. In Asia bronze followed copper
quite naturally, but in the west there was
practically no “copper age,” the uses of
bronze being revealed to the neolithic
tribes by traders from the east. Bronze
first appeared in Europe on the route
the eastern seafarers followed along the
coasts of southern France and Spain and
so to Britain. There was another natural
route up the Rhone and Loire valleys,
another from the Bosphorus up the
Danube; this connected with the one
over which Baltic amber travelled
down the Rhine and over the Alps into
Italy. Along all these routes the use of
metal became common, making the
peoples of the regions stronger than
their neighbors, inciting them to conquest
over other tribes and so spreading the use
of bronze. This bronze, by its need for
tin supplies, drove the eastern traders to
explore the wild western lands. These
traders left bronze among the barbaric
tribesmen, and that bronze cut the foun-
dation stone of our civilisation.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Several hours late on the
morning tasks, the old man collected the
milk buckets, discovered Strawb and
Daisy were not waiting in their accus-
tomed places, and went to fetch them.
The usually docile milkers had other
ideas, and after coursing them round the
paddock for half an hour Dad at length
got Strawb into the bail only to find she
had no milk. Greatly puzzled, he
whistled the dog, but for the first time on
record there was no response. Next, he
got the bridle and went for old Jess. The
nag saw him coming, tossed her head
scornfully, and disappeared in haste.
Dad cussed, again' whistled without result,
then made off on foot to visit the lambing
ewes. The season was at its height and
he expected a further 50 to 60 new
arrivals this morning, but on reaching the
paddock was amazed to find no increase.
He walked about for a bit, staring won-
deringly at the grazing animals, then
mooched homeward. At the gate he was
met by his old sheep dog, grinning
widely. The mong offered his paw in a
solemn shake, retired once more to the
shade, then with a deep sigh closed his
eyes in sleep. Dad scowled, rubbed a
hand over his pate, and turned as the
house door banged, and Mum, in her
Sunday frock, came running out. “D-dad,”
she cried, dabbing at her eyes, “it came
over the wireless. It it’s the end of
the war.” Dad’s jaw dropped foolishly,
he glanced back at the mong, then an
enormous grin spread itself slowly over
his dial. “Gripes ” was his sole comment.
HOME OF PIONEERS.
scattere d heaps of bricks, imprinted deep
W 1 brand VlCt widespread arrow
TT?i* e a to dust, this home of pioneers,
ine sea is soft that ripples up the strand;
n< ?' v a gnarled and twisted mulberry
birds. A poplar struggles on,
nait-dead with drought and stringent salty
spray,
And sheep-t'racks wind between the wind-bent
shrubs.
Half-hidden by the whispering sheoak trees
ihe family vault still stands upon the hill,
tie-mossed and broken, greened with years of
salt.
Safe haven for the gulls, a landmark still
ror storm-tossed yachts. Unploughed the land,
the oyster-middens of forgotten blacks
And, here and there, odd scattered heaps of
bricks
Survive the seas that ripple up the strand.
TASMANIA.
JOAN WISE.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN-1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 HUGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE.
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
k*
mm
With I
Gap
Bed
The“ATLAS”
8-iucli Lathe
ŵ
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS, SHAPERS. PLANERS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
Built to
SCHLESINGER
STANDARDS
of
ACCURACY
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of
accuracy are rigidly observed in the
building of all “MAKS” Lathes. In
addition, all necessary revolving parts
are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the
smooth vibrationless running of “MARS”
Lathes,
The Leadscrew in all “Mars” Lathes is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw,
Distrlb. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert
& Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd.,
28 Market St., Melbourne.
STOCKISTS:
Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St„ Sydney
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
iairy Stock
rf, ■ QxJL-O*
j J\JL * Sterilised
__ J BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
In Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum oi
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
, All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
Q.P.O. Boxes —4068 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ẁ
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear-out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogAS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyamfsas blower (Pal’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shortage of Shearers.
“Graz”: Australian sheep numbers
have dropped from 121,000,000 in 1944
to 105,000,000 last March, the lowest
figure since 1929. Notwithstanding this
decrease graziers have found it hard to
find shearers, although the new award —
455. per 100 flock sheep—is the highest
ever made.
In late years would-be learners have
been called to higher services, and there
have been few new shearers to take the
places of old hands pulling out. Many
shearers are still in uniform, but even their
return would not be enough to fill the gap.
Boys who went into uniform and missed
out on learning should be helped finan-
cially for a couple of seasons. If ex-
servicemen learners were subsidised £5
per week for 10 weeks, then tapered off
10s. less per week after each period of
four weeks’ shearing, there would be no
lack of applicants, and with a £lO initial
grant for equipment the scheme would
cost only £l5O per man.
The new award made provision for
every fifth stand to be occupied by a
learner, but owing to war-time scarcity of
shearing labor it was not enforced. Next
season this provision will have to be en-
forced if the industry is to have an ade-
quate number of shearers in future.
Heifer Shortage,
“Myrrhce”: Norman Martin, Vic.
Minister of Agriculture, is urging dairy-
men to rear at least 400,000 heifer calves
a year for five years to make up the
shortage of dairy cattle in his State.
Though 400,000 head of beef and dairy
cattle died in the minor drought of 1938,
the shortage was made good from ad-
joining States. This won’t be possible
this year, as the drought was as severe in
parts of S.A. and N.S.W. adjoining
Victoria. In March there were 200,000
dairy calves in Victoria and a similar
number of heifers between one and two
years of age. Normal numbers are
300,000 of each class.
A. C. T. Hewitt, of the Victorian depart-
ment, estimates the cost of rearing a
heifer from birth to beginning of lacta-
tion at £l2: value of calf at birth, £1 ;
25gal. of skim milk at Is. a gallon, £1 55.;
2001 b. of meal for gruel, £1; cost of
labor during handfeeding period, £1;
overhead costs, £1; grazing, 105 weeks at
Is. a week, £5 55.; hay for supplementary
feeding, £1 ; cost of service at 15 months
old, 10s. Hewitt believes that for the next
five years springing heifers will be worth
considerably more than £l2, and as many
farmers claim that they can rear them for
&S there should be good money in it.
Pink-eye.
“Sheepo”: It has been proved that
once a sheep has been affected with pink-
eye and makes a complete or partial re-
covery it will never again contract the
disease. This strange feature of ophthal-
mia is of value when it is necessary to
draft off affected sheep for isolation pur-
poses ; they can be put in with sheep that
have recovered.
Pink-eye is highly infectious, and un-
less affected sheep are isolated it may go
right through a flock. Zinc and boracic-
acid lotion will cure most cases if applied
for a few days, but in bad cases, where
the eyelids are gummed together and pus
is formed, bathing with warm water and
the separating of the eyelids are necessary
before applying the lotion. Success of
the treatment lies in acting as soon as
an outbreak is noticed. Delay might
"No erosion here , mister. I never cut a tree down on the property .”
mean some sheep becoming permanently
blind.
Bees Swarming.
“Bumble”; It’s the bugbear of com-
mercial apiarists, and in some seasons and
under certain conditions assumes night-
marish proportions. The natural instinct
of bees in spring is to swarm, and no
entirely satisfactory method of control
has yet been evolved. Certain strains of
bees are known to be excessive swarmers,
so the apiarist should endeavor to stock
with the offspring of queens known for
their swarming traits, as well as fecundity,
first assuring himself that the strain is
suitable to the localities he works.
By acquiring several queens of good
strain it is possible to re-queen the entire
apiary in a season. Choose the best-
developed of the prime queen-cells raised
at swarming time. It may be possible
I later to get another and better batch of
queens when supercedure is in progress in
colonies with old and failing queens;
queens reared at this time usually turn
out crackerjacks, with the swarming im-
pulse less pronounced.
Overcrowding of hives should be
stopped by adding supers as they become
necessary ; excessive drone-raising will be
eliminated by using combs of full founda-
tion in all frames. Bees hanging-out at
the entrances in hot weather are an indi-
cation of sultry conditions within, and
this should be remedied as far as possible
by providing ventilation or shade. Old
queens are the main offenders at swarm-
ing. With the right strain of bees and the
incentive to swarm reduced a few swarms
may still issue.
Soya Beans.
“Sarina”: So “P.K.” (B. 18/7/’45) says
that Queensland Department of Agri-
culture has been experimenting with
soya beans “over a period of years with-
out any encouraging result.” Well, this
is what a man from that same depart-
ment told a local paper: “Experiments
over the past 20 years with over 100
varieties (of soya bean) have yielded five
types which are suitable to Queensland,
and have the added advantages of lend-
ing themselves to mechanical harvesting.
Recently the department imported
several hundred pounds of seed of these
varieties from the U.S.A. and placed
them in propagation plots ih Kingaroy
district. Results have been quite satis-
factory, and it is expected that the plots
will supply sufficient seed to plant several
hundred acres next season.”
J. C. McKeon, Queensland Director
of Agriculture, says costs of production
or likely prices would only become avail-
able as the industry expanded. The crop
has become a well-established industry in
other countries, and he can see no
reason why it should not do so here. If
it is to be established there is no more
suitable place than the south Burnett.
Land that will grow good maize is all
right provided the season is dry during
the maturing and harvesting period.
Hints for the Farm. (
“M.”: If good pasture is scarce feed
la good, leafy lucerne or clover or pasture-
hay one truss and 36 trusses equal one
milk. They need this roughage for
growth and to develop the paunch. Maize
or sorghum green fodder or silage can be
used for older calves. Oaten or wheaten
hay is best omitted unless other feeds are
unprocurable.
“KJ.K.”: It’s worth knowing that
361 b. of straw equals one truss, 601 b. of
new hay equals one truss, 561 b. of old
hay one truss and 36 trusses equals one
load. The load of old hay is 18cwt., of
new 19cwt. 321 b., and of straw llcwt.
641 b. Hay is reckoned old after Sep-
tember 29.
“Needle Ned”: S.A. horsemen disagree
with “Farmer Bill” (B. 25/7/’45), who ad-
vocates bran mashes for sand colic—the
coarse mash just passes over the caked
sand, increasing colicky conditions,
whereas a small-grained mixture, e.g.,
coffee grounds or pollard, most easily gets
under and shifts the sand. I had experi-
ence with a blood mare three months off
foaling, badly sanded, writhing and roll-
ing (encourage this) —she wouldn’t look
at bran mash or any food. Diagnosed it
as sand trouble, so drenched with a quart
of strong coffee and 2oz. carb. soda;
further drench three hours later was 2oz.
spirits of nitre in, a bottle of water. The
result inside five days was |-kero. bucket
of hard, caked sand. The foal was a
perfect specimen. Pollard gruel is also
excellent, and may be given as a drench
if the patient refuses it voluntarily.
“N.”; Sows which are given a fair
ration of skim milk are less likely to eat
their young than those which are insuffi-
ciently nourished. Lack of phosphorous
in the diet causes an unusual appetite and
a phosphorous supplement is of value,
bone-meal being best.
“Pat O’Day”: To water-proof a tent
melt of crude vaseline and Hlb.
yellow beeswax and pour into sgal. of
kerosene, stirring all the time. Paint on
to the canvas with a brush. This will
make sufficient to paint 40 square yards
of canvas.
“Myrrhee”: To check breakdown in
concrete troughs and floors caused by
milk acids mix a gallon of water-glass
with four gallons water and spray the
mixture on the concrete as it is beginning
to set. Follow with two more dressings
at intervals of 24 hours.
“Plane Creek”: Turkeys do well on
well-drained grass country, free from
dingoes and foxes, but they should not
be herded with fowls, which carry
diseases that kill turkeys. Turkey hens
will generally stick to a clutch of eggs,
but they should be penned for a fort-
night after the young ones have hatched
out or they will take them to the bush.
.Start chicks on rolled oats 36 hours after
hatching, then change over to a bran and
pollard mash, mixed with warm milk and
seasoned with salt in the proportion of
4oz. salt per bushel of mash. Give
crushed grain and green feed in addition,
until at two months old they should be
living on green feed and grain.
“Myrr”: Salt deficiency in the poultry
diet often results in slow growth of
chickens, low egg production from hens,
cannibalism and feather picking. Supple-
ment rations f p.c. salt in an all-mash
ration or 1 p.c. to lj p.c. in the mash
with a mash-grain ration.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Jews and Germany.
(Condensed from an “Atlantic Monthlyarticle
by Paid W. Massing and Maxwell Miller.)
In the face of the tragic history of the
past 15 years, one might doubt whether
any Jew would want to return to a coun-
try which has treated his people so
cruelly. Why should any German Jew
want to return?
The candid answer is that in no other
country have the German-Jewish refugees
found a home equal to the one they lost
when Nazism came to power. No coun-
try except Palestine has welcomed them
wholeheartedly and made them feel at
home.
Among the older refugees there are
many who refuse to identify Germany
with Nazism. To them the Third Reich
was but a nightmare that would dis-
appear with the fall of Hitler. They are
attached to the Germany of old, to the
land whose language they speak and
whose culture they helped to build.
A pacified Germany, where the rights
of the individual were guaranteed, might
well look attractive to all who have been
unable to take root in their new environ-
ments. They feel the pull of attachment
to the familiar scenes of their past; may
hope to find there some remains of prop-
erty and business that were torn from
them.
Another, and possibly more decisive,
factor in the post-war situation cannot be
ignored. Improbable as it may seem to
the casual observer, exists
that there will be strong pressure exerted
upon the refugee to return to Germany
after the war. Promises of protection by
the Allies, indemnification, outside assist-
ance in re-establishing themselves and
various pledges will be made in an effort
to induce German Jews to return. Sup-
port for such a policy may be expected to
come from Governments as well as from
private organisations, including Jewish.
There are two flagrant errors in the
arguments of those now most vociferous
on this subject. One is the tendency to
regard the period under Hitler as a tem-
porary aberration from which Germany
can recover and be as before, unchanged,
unaffected and unscarred. The second is
the fatal disposition, in planning for the
return of Jews to Germany and the resti-
tution of their property, to base these
plans on the protective force of the Allied
armies of occupation.
It should be apparent by this time that
we cannot turn back the clock of history.
It should be equally obvious from past
experience that we cannot achieve the re-
integration of Jewish life with the future
of Germany by the pressure of outside
force.
Few of those who profess to speak
with authority on this matter demon-
strate that they have grasped the realities
of the post-war world. With regard to
Germany their hopes revolve around the
desire for revenge and return to the
“normalcy” of pre-Hitler days. They
find it hard or impossible to understand
that a social revolution has begun in
Europe, Fascism and Nazism being the
desperate attempts to divert and channel it.
Whether the Jews can and should re-
turn to Germany will depend upon the
outcome of this revolution in Germany
and in Europe as a whole. Hitlerism,
cannot be ‘rooted out by military force
from the outside, nor can a rejuvenation
of Germany be expected from a process
of “re-education” administered during a
long military occupation, Germany must
find within herself the courage and
strength to uproot Nazism by destroying
the old social structure which bred it, or
she will sink into utter demoralisation,
a sick, cynical country which will be a
source of infection for the rest of Europe.
With the downfall of the Third Reich
the nightmare of the last 12 years is not
over. That which has been for the
refugee an interim period of more or less
hopeful waiting has been for Germany
an irrevocable period of fundamental
changes in her social, political, economic
and cultural life. The refugee can never
find again the Germany of pre-Hitler
days. The middle class, to which mos£
of the German Jews belonged, has been
ruined by Nazism and the war.
The “Aryan” beneficiaries of the ex-
propriation or forced sale of small Jewish
businesses have themselves in turn be-
come the victims of State-sponsored
monopolies. Ownership of the larger
Jewish-owned enterprises has been so
merged in the intricate Nazi system of
holding companies that in most cases its
identity will be impossible to trace. In
addition, Berlin, Cologne, Frankfurt,
Hamburg and other cities which formerly
held sizable Jewish populations have been
so devastated that there is little remaining
tangible evidence of property, whether
originally Jewish or not.
On top of all this, Germany will have
to face enormous bills for reparations
due the Allies and countries occupied dur-
ing the war. Even if left intact as a poli-
tical unit, Germany may well suffer the
loss of at least one-third of her territory
in order to satisfy Polish, Russian, French
and other demands,
Germany will be compelled to meet
these penalties at the same time that she
will be required to rebuild her devastated
areas and her broken transportation sys-
tem, to provide housing for millions, and
to deal with reconversion and demobili-
sation problems of unprecedented mag-
nitude, All this she will have to do on
her own at a time when there will be no
strong Government and when the finan-
cial structure of the country will have
collapsed. ,
If current proposals succeed Germany
will be compelled to make restitution to
the Jews for the damage done them. Let
us suppose that, under the watchful eye
of the occupying forces, the German
Government makes such restitution.
Meanwhile the rest of Germany will
be prostrate. Hordes of homeless families.
unemployed and em-
bittered veterans, whole
populations of ruined
cities, will be faced with
the stark realities of
hunger, cold and disease.
They will see payment
made and material aid
rendered the Jews, while
they go cold, sick and
hungry.
Inevitably there would
be one result. Despite
the justice of the Jewish
claims, and despite the
initial sympathy of most
decent Germans for the
returning refugees, re-
sentment would develop
against their preferen-
tial treatment in the face
of the nation’s distress.
The seeds of Nazi
propaganda would come
to life. The Nazis’
“people’s community,”
shattered by military
might, could draw new
hope for support from
a spontaneous, and this
time popular, hatred of
the Jew?.
The Allied armies
themselves might soon
run out of patience and
understanding. The im-
placable hatred of the fighting man
for his unseen foe softens in face-
to-face meeting with the women and
children of the vanquished. The Ameri-
can soldier, eager to go home, the senti-
mental and humane product of our edu-
cation and tradition, is an easy prey to
appeals of distress. Moreover, our forces
are not free from anti-Semitic influences.
We have no guarantee that German anti-
Semitism will not make headway among
the men in our army of occupation.
Preferential treatment of the Jews over
and before other victims of Nazism is
under the present conditions disastrous
for the future of the Jews in any Euro-
pean country. The Nazi policy has had
effects that can be fully eliminated only
in years to come. Countries that rejected
Nazi indoctrination while they fought for
their liberation are now, liberated, show-
ing increased anti-Semitism. Holland
and France are cases in point. The con-
sequences of such a policy forced upon
a mortally sick Germany are only too
obvious.
State as Medicine-man.
(Condensed from a “Nineteenth Century and
After” article by E. La M. Stowell.)
One of the astonishing assumptions of
Britain’s National Health Scheme is that
a system of therapeutics now exists which
is scientifically right, so right that it may
compulsorily be imposed upon the com-
munity. The other assumption is even
further removed from the findings of ex-
perience ; it holds that those services nor-
mally rendered by the private practitioner
and independent hospital can be equally
well dispensed by a Government depart-
ment, through the agency of Government
officials and Government medical officej-s.
Healing is more of an art than most
doctors, encumbered with a vast accu-
mulation of scientific appliances and
scholastic knowledge, are willing to
admit. Some there are of the ultra-
scientific school, more particularly in
America, who will go so far as to argue
that in a well-equipped modern hospital
the doctor no longer needs even to look
at the patient; a study of the relative
charts and laboratory reports provide him
with all the information necessary. The
patient is best treated as a “case,” with
the same objectivity and with the same
detachment as the contents of a test tube.
One of the great advantages, it is claimed,
which the “utility treatment” of a State
service will confer is that the State doctor
will be afforded the opportunity to view-
all his patients in this light. He will be
relieved of any need to cultivate a good
bedside manner; he need no longer care
what his patient thinks of him.
But if the patient is more than a chemi-
cal compound and the physician more
than a mechanic it is difficult to see how
the State can go into “utility production”
as a healer with more success than as a
tailor. For nationalised service must of
its very nature be standardised service,
with servants and their service all inter-
changeable one with another, and if in
the comparatively simple matter of fit-
ting a “utility suit” the personal element
can be so baffling the outlook for stan-
—The “Oregonian” (U.S.A.)
NEW PERCH FOR THE EAGLE.
dardised medical treatment would seem
even less promising.
One man’s doctor may be another
man’s quack, but, quack or doctor, the
patient’s satisfaction is the private prac-
titioner’s first concern. At a Government
counter the customer, as anyone who has
had to buy a stamp must realise, is
simply a necessary evil. .From top to
bottom of the bureaucratic hierarchy his
custom makes not a ha’porth of differ-
ence to anyone’s pay. As the cause of all
the work and trouble, the least that is ex-
pected of him by way of atonement is
a readiness to accept meekly the “service”
dispensed. A Government department is
a community organised ultimately to
suit the convenience of its members.
Both in the services and in parts of the
Colonial Empire it is possible for the
public to obtain a pre-view of a Govern-
ment medical service in action. In a
modern war the military medical machine
is more than “diluted,” it is flooded with
civilian doctors in uniform, and hardly
affords a fair example. Even so, Major
C. S. Jarvis in Heresies and Humours
notes:
The first thing that strikes one in con-
nection with a military hospital is the extra-
ordinary hours it keeps. After a restless
night one has fallen into a deep and re-
freshing sleep at about 4 a.m. to be
awakened almost immediately by a crisp
voice: “Wake up and drink your tea!
Hurry up now!”....The whole ward is a
hum of feverish activity, suggestive, not of
the peace and rest of a hospital, but of the
assembly room of a mass production tank
factory carrying out a rush order for the
Eighth Army. Then comes breakfast, over
which one must hurry, gulping down scald-
ing tea. One realises that it is not the
patients who matter.
Indeed it is not.
The patient is little more than a super
in a play not principally concerned with
his recovery. This is not its theme and
he is not the hero of it. The principal
character is the machine itself. By that
natural law which rules all Government
undertakings a department called into
being for one purpose ends by existing
for itself. Whatever adds to the visible
glorification of the machine and increases
the convenience and importance of its
operators is their first concern.
It is difficult to believe that anyone can
be willing to lay his body in sickness
upon the altar of a State-controlled medi-
cal service for the sake of rendering an
insurance scheme feasible. Yet Sir Wil-
liam Beveridge has admitted that it is for
this reason that the doctors must be
transformed into creatures of the State;
unless they can be so converted the
National Health Insurance Scheme will
not work. They must be warranted to
diagnose their patients according to a
textbook classification of diseases, and
to treat the majority of diseases in a
routine manner according to their names,
as if they corresponded to purely local
and isolated realities, and did not differ
from one individual to another. They
must be ready with an affirmative answer
to the question “Should a doctor tell?”
and willing to approach every patient as
a potential malingerer. In fact, the utility
doctors must be as much servants of the
insurance scheme as James Ts Judges
were “Lions under the throne.”
More to be feared, however, than their
control over the body is the power which
the Medical Service will confer upon the
State to dominate and regulate private
lives. For every citizen, like a dog with
a tin can tied to his tail, will have a medi-
cal dossier attached to him for life. Re-
luctance to produce on all and sundry
occasions the medical history fastened
upon him by the perfunctory priesthood
of State medicine will be as disastrous as
failure to produce a passport or identity
card. One day it may be used to check
and guide him in his matrimonial affairs,
but at first it will, no doubt, be used only
to harass him in his career and choice
of employment.
For the moment, while the doctors are
being persuaded that the game is worth
the candle, the victim enjoys a reprieve.
It is his last chance to protest. When once
the machine has been set in motion there
will be no further opportunity to escape.
A medical service more immune from
interference than that of the army, be-
cause it embraces the whole community,
will certainly in due course reproduce in
other forms the follies of the Crimean
and the horrors of the Mesopotamian
campaigns. But there will be no second
Florence Nightingale ; for there will be
no independent hospitals and no non-
Government patients. There will only
be compulsory victims of a science which
later generations will be almost certain
to describe as mostly wrong.
Europe Now.
( Condensed from a “Fortune” article.)
Last winter Parisians were hungrier
than since they ate the rats of
1870. The rats of 1944 were cats.
Thirty thousand of them disappeared in
Paris. The black market got $6 per cat
—meat, fur and all. Paris, colder than
she had been any other winter of the
war, lacked clothing, drugs and even light
for operations. Infant mortality was the
highest since reliable records had been
kept. “The French nation is imperilled”
a French newspaper tersely summarised.
What happened to France in 1944
happened, or is going to happen, to all of
Europe. When Governments of liberation
step into territory that has for years been
exposed to German social engineering
three gigantic booby-traps are set to ex-
plode under their feet: production col-
lapses, distribution collapses, currency
collapses.
Every country’s production had been
geared to an intricate system of German
demands and supplies. Every country’s
distribution system had become de-
pendent on unified continental transpor-
tation. Allied invasion and German
wreckage decimated the rolling stock.
Currencies collapse because this is all
currencies can do when production and
distribution go to pieces—particularly the
sort of currencies bequeathed by German
occupation forces.
The result of this threefold collapse
is the black market. However, not even
the black market can perform miracles:
it cannot sell goods that have not been
produced, and it cannot sell to people
who lack purchasing power. And in all
liberated Europe industrial production is
paralysed, unemployment at an all-time
high, France may have 3,000,000 people
on the dole—half of her industrial labor
force.
But in the Balkans and in Poland man
has hurt man more cruelly. Here the
Germans just took and took —and libera-
tion misery was equally direct and un-
inhibited. In the west the Allies at least
tried to land civilian supplies with the in-
vading forces, but the liberators of


4
. . . You can be confident that
it won’t be overlong before
Olympic Tyres are available
again.
Meanwhile it is still vital that
you SAVE RUBBER!
* Olympic TYRES
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
| FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRy IN AUSTRALIA
[OLYMPIC
RUBBER
’Sr
INSULATED
(CABLES
BOOKS TECHNICAL.
Consult us for your needs on : —
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Sdeced free on McGILL’S AGENCY
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite. 183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
O'
CALTEX
BRINGS YOU
TOMORROW'S OlL-
“Tomorrow’s Oil” . . . because it is the
forerunner of all post-war motor oils.
The first fruits of the new war-time
technology that means for every motorist
a quieter, more responsive motor . . .
less carbon ... more USABLE power
and unrivalled economy. Try the new
Caltex motor oil in YOUR car or truck.
rijr
MOTOR OIL
CALTEX
0?%
3/12S
Poland and Yugoslavia lived partly on the
land.
Russian soldiers in Poland are allowed
to send home 111 b. packages of food. In
Yugoslavia the campaigns of the Parti-
sans looked to the peasants pretty much
like npvpr pnrlina militarv fnraapc fnr
ike never-ending military torages tor
I T he , , CO a f y f f mer B”S ™ h
utterly depleted livestock, completely
devastated communications, and a dan-
gerous surplus of currencies. The
peasants of the fertile wheat area insist
on barter—and there are no exchange-
able goods. Five hundred thousand desti-
tute children who have survived their
parents are roaming the country half-
naked. The clothing of the whole popu-
lation is hardly better; it has been esti-
mated that 80 per cent, of all Yugoslavs
are in rags.
Relief, if any, arrives in trickles. Poland
remains a Russian responsibility, and the
Russians’ notions of relief are ronHi
Russians n °d°ns . ot reliet are condi-
honed partly by their own country s hard-
ships, partly by their political realism,”
so seldom weakened by humanitarian
sentimentalities. Last March the first
U.N.R.R.A. ship with supplies f6r Poland
sailed after months of humiliating nego-
tiations with the Soviet authorities,
U.N.R.R.A., to obtain the privilege of
getting food into Poland, finally ap-
pointed a Soviet citizen as its representa-
five. The Russians do not share our
ideas of charitable and undiscriminating
r ®bef.
Athens, which for so many years went
through the lowest depths of hell, is today
one of the better-fed continental cities.
Quantitatively, more has been done for
Italy than for any other liberated terri-
tory. From July, 1943, to the end of
1944 more than 2,000,000 tons of civilian
supplies were pumped into Italy (of
which roughly one-third was foodstuff),
But to a nation as stricken as Italy all this
does not even faintly resemble rehabili-
tation.
Europe is not just hungry. The entire
economic system of a great continent has
to be reconstructed during the next year
or two, one way or another.
What might happen to western Europe
has been described by a distinguished
authority—
In the British and American area of
occupation the conditions for the people
will be those of a sweatbox, to say it
politely. Russia will not let any food pass
west from the surplus areas she occupies.
If the social fibre of industrial western
Europe continues to deteriorate paupers
will follow the pull of continental food
and head east. If rehabilitation results
in prosperity western Europe will merge
with what has been called the Atlantic
Community. It is America’s vital interest
to underwrite the latter alternative.
Invitation to Joe,
(George E. Sokoisky, in N.Y. "Sun.")
h wou id do Stalin infinite good to visit
Western World and to see what a job
can b® done by a free people,
He would discover that there is neither
animosity for nor jealousy of Soviet
Russia. He would find that there is
r° j® a | ous about. I should
A e - t & t xj e a tr /? f cross |- h ®
u , nlted States. He would learn that
whereas Soviet R uss j a is nearly th
times the size of the United the
u.S. possesses about 240,000 miles of
railroad against Russia’s 66,000 miles. It
would benefit him to visit Boulder, Grand
Coulee, Norris and other instruments of
water control. It would tell him much
about free peoples to see Pittsburgh
Detroit, Cleveland and Birmingham— to
say nothing of New York, San Francisco
and such a place as Duluth,
If Stalin met the President at Washing-
ton instead of Berlin he would discover
what a free press really is. He would
even find that his “Daily Worker” pub-
fishes in an atmosphere of complete
liberty because Americans are not afraid
of differences, of quarrels, of disputes, of
varieties of opinion. He would find that
when Americans seek justice for such a
country as Poland it represents not a
selfish concern, but a selfless altruism
and no antipathy for anybody. He
would, for instance, be shocked by the
fact that now that Harry Truman is
President the public regards him as
worthy of the office and forgets the last
election as though nothing had been said
about him then. Maybe, it would pro-
vide him with historical perspective when
be noted that Mr. Roosevelt’s name is
hardly mentioned any more,
And so he would not worry so much
about what happens in Poland and more
about how not to irritate and disappoint
Americans, who care little about the rest
of the world but a tremendous lot about
justice, and always get angry over injus-
tice. That does not mean that Americans
always do something about it; it does
mean that American judgment of a big
fellow is based on how he treats little
fellows.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
Before the war Germany had a merchant fleet
of 4,000,000 tons. Japan’s merchant fleet was
5,000,000 tons. There seems to be unanimous
agreement that neither Japan nor Germany must
be allowed to operate merchant tonnage in in-
ternational trade, since such operation consti-
tutes a war potential for the future. Thus,
some millions of tons of shipping formerly
operated by the enemy must be furnished by the
maritime countries of the United Nations. Add
that to the anticipated general increase in the
demand for ships from enlarged post-war com-
merce, and fears for the welfare of the maritime
nations melt away.— President of U.S. State
Lines Basil Harris; “Atlantic Monthly.”
* * ’ * *
It may be assumed that America will never
permit Great Britain to be crushed and deprived
of independent existence by some all-dominating
Continental power. From a security standpoint
the British Isles are more important to the
United States than Argentina or Chile. So
there is a good case for strong American diplo-
matic and political action to prevent any repeti-
tion in Europe of Che condition that existed in
1940, when the Continent was virtually prostrate
under the control of a highly militarised totali-
tarian power. However, to recognise a wide
area of common interests and common action
both in Europe and in the Orient is not to
suggest that America should blindly underwrite
every step of British foreign policy, especially in
Empire matters. What is rather needed is a
clearer advance understanding between the two
Governments, a state of partnership in which
America would have a voice proportionate to
its past and possible future contributions to the
cause of world security.— William Henry Cham-
berlin; " Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Father Dzvonchik, the only Russian Orthodox
priest in America permitted in the Soviet capital
in 27 years, stated on his return “The Church
in Russia is destitute. The Government even
owns church vestments. No parish can be
opened without a Government permit. Some
churches are still boarded up, without crosses,
and religious teaching for youths is banned.
In fact, youths must be 21 to be admitted to
the Moscow seminary.”— N.Y. “World-Tele-
gram.”
* * * *
The fate of Europe is chiefly in the hands of
three Powers, none of which is a European
Power. Hence these Powers may be tempted
to look upon Europe a shade too objectively and
to act a shade too leisurely. The only prospec-
tive European Power is France, and it seems to
be the aim of Britain and the United States to
strengthen this single great nation that is left in
western Europe. In this sense France is the
major element of the Europe which must be re-
vived without delay. Contemporary France
cannot be accurately judged simply on the basis
of the war recently finished; it must be judged
by the two last wars, which together created the
moral and social ills and the national weak-
nesses from which France suffers today. France
bore the brunt of the suffering in the first
World War with nearly 1,500,000 men killed.
In the second war her losses in killed number
somewhere near 300,000. Her loss of popula-
tion through the decline of .births was probably
500,000. France is weakened and weary from
too much suffering and too little food. The
French cannot work harder until they are
better fed and have raw materials and railways
to work with. Allowance should be made for
their foibles and their hyper-sensitivity and their
abnormal state of bod(y and mind. — N.Y.
“Times’ * staff correspondent in Paris.
* * * *
When one considers the part that free enter-
prise has played throughout the history of
Britain and of the Empire one realises that any
policy which did not give free enterprise the
opportunities it deserves would invite a disaster
unparalleled in our history. The good sense ot
the British people, who have been told and who
believe that this terrible war has been fought
to maintain freedom, would not be likely to
tolerate .the complete reversal of the age-long
policy of free enterprise which has established
Britain as a leading Power. — Lord Londonderry,
in “The Fortnightly • v
* * * *
An expeditious and wise handling of the coal
shortage in Europe may save half a dozen
countries from early prostration. Coal is, in-
deed, black gold, and for the next six months
will be so precious that the survival of millions
is directly involved in the disposal of it. France
will have to import at least 30 million tons of
coal to meet minimum needs. Available sup-
plies for Britain and the Netherlands are about
50 per cent, of minimum requirements. Den-
mark and Norway are said to be even worse
off. From Scandinavia to northern Italy the
shortages threaten to paralyse all economic life.
—Washington “Post”
* * * *
More than 3000 important passengers were
flown out of neutral Sweden during the last
year of the European war by the U.S. Army’s
“secret air line,” which operated under the
noses of the Germans. It was one of the
strangest military operations of the war, and
the Germans employed every trick they knew
to stop it, but without avail. The crewmen
changed uniforms for civilian clothing before
leaving their ’planes and carried passports and
civilian flying licences, but it was difficult to
keep their identities from the Germans, to whom
they became known as “ersatz” American
civilians. Among the passengers were hundreds
of interned American airmen, Norwegian
soldiers, diplomats, interned nationals and high
officials of many Governments, including Nor-
wegian, French, Dutch and Russian. On one
occasion the personnel of the Norwegian Gov-
emment-in-exile was flown from London to
Sweden.— “Christian Science Monitor .”


I
wm
r v
vXv
liiii
sssss
■
:
M ''x
as?
m
m
mam
mmmmm
■
li
1®
§
■' *■
m
it not
m*
liii
yet done/
People who think a little about these things arc
realising that, though actual fighting may have
ceased, Australia’s war commitments will not
disappear overnight.
The people o£ Australia carry the tremendous
responsibility of financing the restoration to
their homes and jobs of the great numbers of
fighting men who now have to be repatriated.
What a job! And what a lot of money it’s
going to cost! Meanwhile we have to maintain
our service men and women at their war stations
everywhere, to bring home our prisoners of
war, care for the sick and wounded, and finance
great schemes of rehabilitation.
That is where the Fourth Victory Loan will come in. Lend your
mone y — a ll you can —as a token of gratitude for victory and a
piece of commonsense planning for your own future. You can
make an advance subscription to-day!
The Fourth Victory Loan opens on September 25. Start saving now for
YOUR Bonds. If you have cash saved, subscribe now in amounts of £lO
and upwards. Full loan interest is paid on advance subscriptions from the
day you lodge your money with any bank, savings bank, or stockbroker.
Then start saving more to buy more Victory Bonds by instalments when the
Loan is open. Victory Bonds are issued in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO,
£5OO and £l,OOO. Fill in the name of your district when making your
application and help your local quota.
4PV16.113
ii
m
M APE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
5789
rv A\Truh“
vftnV Bn i%
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Suali
Obtainable 1..10* & 20 s
>m : v
1
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
D.E.8.: Come in, then, comrade, and get it
out of your system: —
HEAVENSKI ABOVA.
(Monotonously Rolls Our Tropic Spell —Translated
from the Russian.)
I
Kurski rimsky, korsakov tchaikoflsky,
Pushkin yaih tolstoi yaih brodka,
Diaghilev petrov massine nijinsky,
Kersch har bortsch har, har vodka.
(Day breaks, or rather bursts, with tropic
splendor.
Draws on until at last the sun will sink
And leave us humid, swelt’ring, thirsty,
Without the ways and means to get a drink.)
II
Borovansky riabouchinska wid baronova,
Markova pavlova sed olga,
Novgorod murmansk Irkutsk Odessa,
Neva dnieper don Volga.
(Dusk falls, the night drags slowly onward.
No song, no sign of women, pearl or plain.
’Tis said the night comes down like thunder,
It does —attended by torrential rain.)
... .P.T.: “Why does a creative writer tear out
his whole heart and soul, wringing precious
words from blood and sweat, for the unheed-
ing herd?” Why, indeed? A.S.; Thin
J.L.McD.: “Tough Luck” has a prophetic ring.
... .8.J.T.5.: Calling harmless escapades “vil-
lainous,” “dastardly” and “terrible” doesn’t
make them terribly funny R.W.: Come
again.... L.: As a character, the Professor has
possibilities; but the story is diffuse where it
should be crisp, and weak-kneed where it
should be virile A.K.: Tearful R.H.K.:
“I wish you could have seen father struggling
with the pig bucket it was the funniest thing
Bongongalonga had seen for years.” As we
can’t, the next best thing is to describe it—or
forget it E.V.: Cut ruthlessly and try a daily.
M.McI.: Sweet and sickly J.N.: There
may be a “soul-deadening monotony” about
teaching school, but it can’t be any worse than
reading about it J.W.0.: Forget that “James
Martin, Infantryman” is a hero and visualise
him as a human being Y.D.1.: Long-winded.
K.J.; “Welcome, Buddy” has been wel-
comed and farewelled E.McG.: Promising.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Rats of Tobruk. —3648.
To buy 1943 and 1944 Sydney University
Calendar. —3649.
To buy Wage Fixation in Australia, by
George Anderson.—3650.
Words of the verses “The Denominational
Garden.” —3651.
Information Sought.
(1) Nature of the administration of the
Northern Territory ? (2) Salaries of Adminis-
trators ?
(1) It is controlled by an Administrator and a
District Officer, residing at Darwin and Alice
Springs respectively. The Governor-General
is empowered to make ordinances having the
force of law in and in relation to the Territory,
subject to disallowance by either House of the
Commonwealth Parliament. The N.T. elects a
member to the House of Reps., who may take
part in debates, but may not vote, except on a
motion for the disallowance of any law of the
N.T. or any amendment of any such motion.
*2) Administrator £1700, Government Secre-
tary £864, District Officer £660, Supreme Court
Judge £1200 a year.
(1) Populations of the 20 largest towns in
N.S.W.? (2) Population of Whyalla, S.A.?
The following estimates refer to December 31,
1942; Sydney and suburbs, 1,377,810; Greater
Newcastle, 127,660; Broken Hill, 26,470; Lith-
gow, 21,390; Wollongong, 18,670; Goulburn,
15,600; Wagga Wagga, 14,160; Cessnock,
13,860; Lismore, 13,300; Albury, 13,080; Mait-
land (East and West), 12,350; Orange, 12,190;
Bathurst, 12,040; Tamworth, 11,670; Grafton
and Grafton South, 10,540; Katoomba, 9190;
Dubbo, 9100; Armidale 7270; Parkes, 6800;
Inverell 6140. (2) 7800.
What is proof spirit, and what is the differ-
ence between American and English proof
spirit ?
It is a mixture of alcohol and water, con-
taining a standard amount of alcohol. In the
United States proof spirit contains 42.49 p.c. of
alcohol by volume. In England proof spirit is
that which weighs 12/13 of an equal measure
of distilled water, containing 49.28 p.c. by
weight or 57.10 p.c. by volume of alcohol.
Some facts about the American Hall of
Fame ?
It is situated in the grounds of New York
University, and is built in the form of a terrace
with superimposed colonnade connecting the
University Hall of Philosophy with the Hall of
Languages. The names to be inscribed in the
hall are chosen every five years by a college
of electors consisting of about 100 American
men and women of distinction, representing
every State of the Union. Only persons who
have been dead 25 years are eligible to be
chosen. Men and women are now admitted
equally to the Hall of Fame.
Brief Answers.
Golfer: There is no rule prohibiting practice
swings. (2) Each course has its own rule
governing procedure on sand greens... .M.T;.
(1) Rates of pay for engineering apprentices
depend on how long the apprentice has been
serving in the trade, whether his term of
apprenticeship is four or five years, and whether
he is an indentured or a trainee apprentice.
Consult Department of Labor and Industry
and Social Welfare, 53_ Martin-place, Sydney.
(2) Employees are entitled to take (without
loss of pay) New Year’s Day, Anniversary Day
(Jan. 26), Good Friday, Easter Saturday, Easter
Monday, King’s Birthday (occurs on December
14 but is observed on second Monday in June),
Six-hours Day (first Monday m o ct°ber), Anzac
Day (April 25), Christmas Day and Boxing Day
as public holidays... -K.W.: The worlds largest
pipeline stretches from Long View, Texas, to
Phoenixville, Pennsylvania, 1388 miles. It took
11 months to build... .C.F.M.: D e _P appe-
tite in horses is not uncommon, causes are
rather obscure. Mineral deficiency, madequa e
rough dry feed and boredom are possible causes.
Possibly your horses find the bark of the an-
goft'a-tree palatable.


ŵ
Have You Made
a Will 9
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a
will because it is regarded as a final and
irrevocable step. But a will may be altered
or changed completely any number of times
during the life of its maker.
In all cases it is advisable to engage the ser-
vices of a solicitor, and, in appointing
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Ltd. as Executor, you avail yourself
of the services of Australia’s oldest trustee
company. It has more than 67 years’
practical experience in estate administration.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd*
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and nncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raw*,C.B.B.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.-
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Rng
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughe*.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRBCTORSi
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R- T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
A
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS':
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager. T. 0. REYNOLDS, Asst. Gen. Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re- He—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 145,675 5 p.c. = 119,682 25,993 1,141,216
1936.. 165.277 6 „ „ 143,618 21,659 1.162,870
Provident and guarantee fund, ]
£lO,OOO f 27,027 1,189,902
1937.. 204,836 7p.c.= 167,809 J
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 1,164,902
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO .. 1,154,902
1938.. 201,836 7p.c.= 168,000 33,836 1,188,738
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,178.738
1939.. 185,500 7 p.c. = 171,500 14,000 1.192,738
From tax reserve, £25,000 .. .. 1,217,738
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,207,738
1940.. 200,154 7 p.c. = 189,000 11,154 1,218,892
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,208,892
1941.. 190,276 64 p.c.= 175,500 14,776 1,223,668
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,213,668
1942.. 186,653 64 p.c.= 175,500 11,153 1,224.821
1943.. 185,739 64 ~,,175,500 10,239 1,235,060
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,225,060
1944.. 185,595 64 p.c.= 175,500 10,095 1.235,156
1945.. 168,180 6 „ „ 162,000 6,180 1,241,835
The unsold portion of Britain’s war-
time wool purchases, some 10,000,000
bales, was a disturbing factor in the post-
war outlook for the industry, threaten-
ing the income of Australian wool-
growers as well as the level of our export
income and domestic prosperity. The
problem was to integrate marketing of
this stockpile with marketing of current
clips without seriously disturbing prices
for the staple.
What looks like a way out has been
found by establishment of a joint
organisation (J. 0.), planned to take effect
from August 1 last. It is to be registered
as a co. in London with eight shares, four
to be held by the British Government,
two by the Australian and one each by
the Maoriland and South African Gov-
ernments. The board is to consist of an
independent chairman, appointed by the
four, Governments in agreement, and
eight directors, four nominated by U.K.,
two by Australia and one each by Maori-
land and South Africa.
In addition a subsidiary organisation is
to be set up in each of the three
Dominions. The chairman of each sub-
sidiary will be ex. officio a director of the
parent co., without giving the country he
represents addition voting power. The
functions of each subsidiary are to (1)
hold wool as agent for the parent co.,
(2) sell wool from stocks and regulate
auctions of current clips, (3) assess re-
serve prices for individual lots, stocks or
current clip, and (4) take up wool for
which reserve price or better has not been
offered by a commercial buyer.
The Australian Government will
assume half-ownership in surplus Aus-
tralian wool now held by Britain or sub-
sequently bought by J. 0., and will share
equally any profit or loss made on realis-
ation. Cost of operating the plan will be
borne half by the industry and half
jointly by the U.K. and Australian Gov-
ernments. Australia’s initial capital in-
vestment will be about £40,000,000 stg.,
payable over the next four years.
The current cjip (1945-46) will be dis-
posed of under the present contract with
Britain at a flat rate of 15.4 d. per pound.
After that auctions are to be resumed,
subject to reserve prices fixed by J.O.
under a modified system of appraisal.
Growers will have the right to place their
own reserve on their wool, and J.O. will
buy all wool not sold to commercial
buyers at its reserve price or higher.
Success of the scheme will depend
largely upon the skill and judgment with
which it is operated. In the past orderly
marketing schemes have failed because
they were used to exact too high a price
for the commodity concerned. Under the
existing British wool contract last
season’s average appraised price was
12.3 p.c. below the flat rate contract
figure.
The slip in Elder Smith’s figures last
term was due to drought and a lighter
clip. The position was aggravated by
shortage of manpower, fodder scarcity,
delays in obtaining rolling stock, cost of
hand-feeding and agistment and shearers’
strikes. The small number of lambs
marked showed poor development, and
the outturn of fats * declined heavily,
owing to inadequate pastures. The only
bright spots in the picture were increased
sales of merchandise and satisfactory
prices for both wool and livestock, thanks
to British purchase contracts and service
demands for forces in the s.-w. Pacific.
Wool handled by the co. at Adelaide,
Perth, Albany and Geelong totalled
261,500 bales, or 48,528 bales fewer than
for the previous season. Number of live-
stock put through the co’s yards isn’t
mentioned, but the figures shrank. After
striking off £30,865 (up £2391) for de-
preciation the contraction in gross earn-
ings from all sources (£827,951) was
£14,828. Exes. (£659,771)' advanced
£2589. So the net result was £17,415
lighter at £168,180, equal to 6.2 p.c. on
the £2,700,000 of capital as against 6.8,
6.8, 6.9, 7, 7.4 and 7.8 p.c. back to 1939.
Half a point was chipped off the div.,
reducing it to 6 p.c. and making the
average over the last decade 6.6 p.c.
Strength is the outstanding feature of
the co’s finances, which means that it is
in an excellent position to further assist
clients:—
1039. 1944. 1945.
Deposits, etc. .. £985,509 £638,413 £655,859
Sundry creditors, etc. 936,501 1,591,396 1,518,662
Provident fund, etc. 392,936 189,200 215,031
Freehold, plant, etc. 750,340 750,126 754,667
Gov. sec. and cash 1,291,455 2,806,621 2,575,991
Advances, etc. .. 3,854,959 2,480,490 2,654,555
Stock .. 245,326 244,657 193,405
Shares other cos... 155,103 166,769 246,768
Last term’s growth of £174,065 in ad-
vances reflects the call from clients,
owing to drought. The increase of
£BO,OOO in shareholdings represents pur-
chase of a like number of pound ords. in
1.C.1., with which the co. has “very close
business relations.” To meet the outlay
and reduce the amount coming to
sundry creditors by £72,734 Government
securities and cash were reduced by
£230,630 and stocks by £51,252. When
the book closed the whole of the outside
debt, and more besides, was represented
by Government securities and cash.
As for the seasonal outlook, recent
rains have relieved the position over most
of the areas where the co. operates. Still,
shortage of breeding ewes will delay the
building up of flocks. The new market-
ing scheme and the world-wide shortage
of clothing, owing to rationing and de-
struction, and the demand that will fol-
low demobilisation of Allied and enemy
forces are strengthening factors in the
outlook for the staple, now faced with
competition from new synthetics.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Off, Etc. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935 .. 25,842 16,000 5000 4,842 248,049
191 p.c.
1936 ~ 29,212 21,000 4000 4,212 252,261
Staff ins. reserve taken in, £10,000.. 262.261
10 p.c.
'* !°> 000 5000 2.021 264,282
1938 .. 28,400 20,000 5000 3,400 267,682
1939 .. 3P,419 20,000 5000 6,419 274,101
29,123 20,000 4000 5,125 279,226
" ? 6,818 20,000 2500 4,318 283,544
20.000 2500 1,641 285,185
•• 25.940 20,000 2500 3,440 288,625
1944 .. 26,612 20,000 2500 4,112 292,737
1945 .. 24,304 20,000 2500 1804 294,541
War-time controls thus far relaxed have
been of little, if any, benefit to the
trustee cos., of which the Perpetual is
Australia’s biggest. The Premiers have
agreed to ask their Parliaments to trans-
fer price-control rights to the Common-
wealth for three years after expiry of
present Federal powers. And declared
policy is to maintain “fundamental con-
trols of the economic system” for six
months after peace is proclaimed, and
thereafter in co-operation with the States
until rehabilitation is complete.
However, since the purpose for which
some of the controls still hampering
trustee business has ceased to exist, early
relaxation of these restrictions is called
for. One is the ceiling on share prices. It is
not bound up with the general control of
commodity prices, and has operated as an
official devaluation of private assets and
imposition of capital lo,ss to beneficiaries
and others in cases of forced realisation.
Similar remarks apply to restrictions
governing the price and sale of real
estate. Properties have been frequently
withdrawn from sale because true market
value has been obviously so much greater
than the arbitary official value as at
February 10, 1942.
Some relief from the heavy burden of
taxation is also urgently needed, because
present excessively high rates encourage
extravagance by taking away the incentive
to work and save. The rate on an addi-
tion to an income is always higher than
the rate on the whole amount to which
the addition raises it. Thus extra effort is
penalised and production deterred. In
some cases as little as Is. 6d. in the pound
of extra income remains for the earners
of it. Again, excessively high taxes re-
sult in an increase in the cost of produc-
tion at home and an inability to meet
competition from those countries that are
hot subject similarly to steep taxes.
Although war-time controls have
thrown into bolder relief the advantages
of the corporate over the private trustee,
they have also repressed capital values
and retarded realisation of estates, thus
affecting corpus and other commission
earnings of the trustee cos. At the same
time interest rates have been forced down
and rents kept low, which has meant
moderate returns for the cos. from in-
vestment of their own funds, represented
mainly by Government securities, rent-
producing freehold and mortgages.
While rigid ceilings have been main-
tained over the factors affecting earnings,
costs, especially taxation, have not been
similarly restrained. Thus exes, have
taken progressively deeper bites out of
earnings, despite steady expansion of the
volume of trusts placed in the expert care
of the cos., as the flowing comparison of
the Perpetual’s figures shows:
Year Exes.
Ended Gross Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1936 .. 49,843,142 150,994 125,983 83.4
1938 .. 54,068,638 168,225 143,019 85.0
1939 .. 57,144,759 178,385 152,299 85.3
1940 .. 67,081,014 188,937 163,500 86.5
1941 .. 59,362,240 186,528 161,917 86.8
1942 .. 60,345,430 182,681 160,013 87.6
1943 .. 61,594,366 173,749 150,769 86.7
1944 ~ 62,803,975 177,749 154,614 86.9
1945 .. 64,698,395 180,039 156,806 87.9
Last term the net growth in the volume
of trusts placed on the books was
£1,894,420. The improvement in gross
earnings was £2290. That was after
setting aside something for “post-war
salary adjustments”— extra cost expected
to arise from reinstatement of staff now
in the services, owing to overlapping of
employment and salary adjustments. Exes,
took all but £9B of the improvement in
earnings. After deducting £2500 sent to
the staff fund (shown as written off in the
table), but including a net addition of
£lO7l to commission-reserved account —
the unearned portion of corpus commis-
sions—net earnings from all sources
(£21,804) were £2308 lighter at 10.9 p.c.
on the £200,000 of capital. On share-
holder’s funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the net result was only 4.4 p.c.,
which suggests that there is very little
profit in the trustee section of the busi-
ness these days. The div. was kept at
10 p.c.
When the books closed freehold, etc.,
figured at £115,161, Government securi-
ties, £258,282, mortgages £108,829, book-
debts £3955, cash £86,829. The amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc,, was
£67,876 —the etcetera is an unspecified
provision for taxation and credit balances.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 22,406 7 p.c. = 20,920 1,486 135,908
Pref. Old.
54 p.c. 7 p.c.
1935.. 30,265 8,613 20,920 732 136.640
1938:. 33,326 10,957 20,920 1,449 138,089
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36.973 487 138,576
1938.. 53,889 10,957 41,309 1,623 140.199
1939.. 69,792 10.957 55,856 2,979 143,178
1940.. 79,500 10.957 67,511 1,032 144,210
1941.. 84,461 10,957 73,321 183 144,398
6 p.c.
1942.. 74,440 10,958 62.846 636 145,029
1943.. 93,897 10,958 62,846 20,093 165,122
7 p.c.
1944. .114,809 10,958 73,320 30,531 195,653
1945. .121,063 10,958 73,320 36,785 232,438
Queensland brewers this one and
Castlemaine Perkins are the two biggest
—gathered more on the war-time swings
than they lost on the taxation and other
roundabouts. Net earnings of the
Queensland, which is well entrenched in
the dairying south and pastoral west,
averaged £97,734 for the five years to the
close of last accounts, compared with an
average of £56,985 for the preceding
quinquennium.
With war came a new and strong de-
mand for beer in the shape of service
requirements for our own and Allied
forces in the s.-w. Pacific. These require-
ments fall outside the public rationing
scheme, under which civilian supplies
have been pegged at two-thirds of the
thirsty January-February, 1942, level.
They are shared with southern breweries,
but the northern cos. got their full share
of the larger trade, and they gained a bit
on the civilian side, too, owing to the
ban on inter-State shipment of ale and
stout. And increased employment, wage
lifts and satisfactory returns for primary


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, SCO Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1 Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
HARTS
Circular Chart* lo* all »yp®» of
Recording Instrument* tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed- Go* our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE. O'tOb
STOPttim Rupture
Worries/
f
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL. APPLIANCE CO.,
{Dent. 27). 9 Martin Place. Svoue.v.
Mark® Location
of YOUR RUPTUHI.
BRAN DALI ERJS
R
r m
K?
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out ol
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course*'
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARK*'
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotioi
to the affected parts. Wadi your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS !'/(■
SKIN LOTION 2/b
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/S
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
w
BARKO
SOLD
Made iy
FORD SHERINGTON ETD.
ŵ
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Cases
Sirs, we crave
your patience
just a little longer
3168
In your eagerness to supply your
staff with Imperial Typewriters,
you have long ago become fully
cognisant of the supply position
as it affects civilians.
We are happy, however, to announce
that supplies now depend only on
transport. The deduction is obvious
but, although very early deliveries are
precluded, we anticipate that the
position will right itself within a few
months. So it should not be long
before you can install the new,
improved Imperial Typewriters . j .
British-made . . . and proud of it.
Imperial
Typewriters
Standard and Portable
Models
DOBELL PTY. LTD.
29 REIBY PLACE, SYDNEY
Tel.: BW 1227
mi
m
m
H
m
m
m
m
-JiM f
K; 5
| < ,
Additional Security
for the future
JACK BARNES is a practical man. He knows that legislation
cannot be expected to do more than provide a minimum for
those in want in their old age. He realises that if men want
added security they must work and save for it.
Mr. Barnes was 17 he invested £B/15/10 a year
(about 3/5 a week) in an A.M.P. policy for £5OO, with bonuses,
to be paid on his death. That policy has helped him several times
to meet emergencies encountered during his life.
Mr. Barnes is now 42, his children are all earning, and he
has decided that he should take out another policy, this time for
£l,OOO, which will cost him £35/12/6 a year (13/9 per week).
In the event of his death his widow would now receive £1,500
and all accumulated bonuses.
Don’t delay if you would provide added security for your
family. Assure while you are in good health. To-morrow may be
too late. Ask for particulars from the nearest A.M.P. office or
representative.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
A. W. Sneddon, FJ.JL, General Manager and Actuary,
S. Osmond, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New couth Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. NS.W.
products under Government contracts
helped to keep civilian sales at ceiling
level. The only recoverable costs have
been lifts in excise, aggregating 2s, lOd.
per gallon since 1939, which were passed
on to hotelkeepers and over the counter
to customers in a combination of price
lifts and adjustment in the size of con-
tainers.
The spring of £6254 in last term’s net
earnings resulted from “abnormal trading
conditions due to the requirements of
various Allied services.” The £121,063
of profit claimed was the best yet, and
was written after providing for con-
tingencies, including £16,332 (down
£1887) for depreciation. It was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 10.5 p.c.
on the £1,047,432 of ord. capital as
against 9.9, 7.9, 6, 7 and 6.5 p.c. back to
1940. The div. was kept at 7 p.c.
Pre-war there was keen competition
between the two cos. for control of hotel
properties, in order to anchor the market
for their products. During the eight years
to the close of accounts in 1940 this co,
added no less than £1,242,078 to the
book value of fixed assets, including
hotels. Over the same period shareholders
put up £947,815 of fresh capital, and the
board went outside for most of the bal-
ance, For the five years to the close of
last accounts the net addition of fixed
assets was £202,435, mainly on account
of additions to plant, etc. Here are bal-
ance-sheet figures:
Paid 1937. 1942. 1944. 1945.
capital £747,700 £1,246,666 £1,246,666 £1,246,666
Liabilities 514,478 540,435 562,728 528,414
Fixed
assets 1,181,013 1,670,789 1,734,286 1,730,947
Stocks . . 104,567 143,960 155,117 159,348
Book debts 127,261 121,452 105,739 83,100
Cash, etc. 12,586 32,831 57,281 76,262
Last term a contraction of £22,639 in
debtors’ balances was accompanied by
a reduction of £34,314 in the outside debt
and addition of £18,981 to cash, etc.
When the books closed liabilities exceeded
more or less liquids by £209,704, an im-
provement of £34,887 over the twelve-
month.
As demobilisation proceeds service re-
quirements will diminish and the civilian
demand strengthen. And when man-
power and materials are available de-
ferred repair and maintenance of hotel
properties, etc., will call for substan-
tial outlay. Subject to relaxation of beer
rationing and other controls, the Govern-
ment programme of post-war spending
and “full” employment should mean
much to the breweries.
Blue Spec Gold Mines, N.L.
Formed in Adelaide at end May, 1941,
to work a rich but complex gold-anti-
mony deposit at Nullagine, on the far-
away Pilbara field (W.A.), the co. now
finds itself overloaded with debt, and
faced with water, production and other
difficulties, including evaporation of the
market for antimony.
In 1942 the Federal Government ad-
vanced the co. £15,000 at 4 p.c. p.a., repay-
able out of profits. Security was assets of
the co., which was to pay call-money,
etc., into the Treasury. The idea was to
step up output of antimony, for which
there was a strong and growing war-time
demand; and the co. was put on the
priority list for labor and materials. Then
the Government appointed Wiluna Gold
Mines as consultant. It was esti-
mated that £45,000 would be needed to
complete development and equipment
at Blue Spec. Actually the Government
had put out £150,000 to the end of June.
Reasons for the original estimate going
awry include advancing costs, delays in
manufacture and delivery of and altera-
tions and additions to equipment, ineffi-
cient labor and lack of key men, housing
and amenities, search for water, and,
finally, conversion of the plant with an
eye primarily to gold bullion production.
For the three years to end June, 1944,
operations resulted in losses of £7218,
£20,160 and £35,476 respectively: total
£62,854. There was then £64,384 coming
to the Government. Cash and debtors’
balances totalled £2989. Paid capital was
£38,674. Accounts to June 30 last are
to be presented before end 1945.
The grinding and flotMion sections are
designed to treat up to 1300 tons ore a
month, while the two crushers can handle
as much as 3000 tons a month. From the
time the mill began (date not stated) to
May 8 last 1250 tons ore, averaging
23.5dwt (total gold content 14500 z.), were
treated with the following results;
* Average Total
value gold
Concentrates— Tons. per ton. content.
Strake .. .. 1.3 lOOoz. ISOoz.
Pyretic .. .. 50.0 10 „ 500 „
Antimonial .. 50.0 8 „ 400 „
Residue .. .. 1,150.0 2.Bdwt. 160 „
Since the concentrates carry antimony as
well as gold, the yellow metal is not in
the form for immediate realisation. In
order to recover the gold thus locked up,
cyapiding plant is now being installed.
A 90 p.c. recovery, or better, is antici-
pated. What the market for antimony
will be after China comes into production
again remains to be seen.
The main shaft, equipped with steel
headframe and electrical winder, has
been sunk and timbered to 300 ft. In the
west lense at this level average of all
driving and borehole samples was 44dwt.
If continuous, the two main lenses ex-
posed at this horizon are expected to
yield 20,000 tons high-grade ore per 100 ft.
of lift. Co.’s consulting engineer (M. R.
McKewon) estimates ore reserves at
33,875 tons of 15dwt. grade. The mine
manager thinks the figure should be lifted
to 78,000 tons, and the average grade to
18dwt. The board reckons there is enough
ore averaging 18dwt., plus 4 p.c. anti-
mony, above 300 ft. to give the mill about
1200 tons a month for the next five years.
Payable limit is put at 9dwt. Further
development may either increase or de-
crease grade or quantity. In addition the
co. holds, or has options over, seven
nearby leases, on four of which shallow
prospecting has shown values from
14dwt. to 42dwt.
Water is the dominating factor in the
position at the moment. Supply from
the two Government bores has dimin-
ished from 25,000 to 11,000 gallons daily,
thereby limiting throughput to approx.
500 tons a month. If the new bore now
being sunk fails to increase the supply
sufficiently to treat 1000 tons a month
operations will have to be suspended until
a new water basin is tapped, or produc-
tion will have to be reduced to the level
already mentioned, with, of course, its
inevitable effect upon costs. Then there
is the question of repayment of the Gov-
ernment debt, from which the board is
seeking some relief. Shareholders are
out of the picture at the moment, and it
is difficult to say when they are likely to
come into it.
“O.B.”: A committee appointed by the
S. African Minister for Mines says the
consensus of opinion is that the maxi-
mum depth at which goldmining can be
carried on profitably is about 9000 ft.
vertical, and that even with further im-
provements in technique and practice it
is not likely to exceed 10,000 ft. Seven
of the deepest mines in the Union go
down between 7600 ft. to 8700 ft., the
deepest being the Crown Mines.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors’. THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairmanj F. W. Dveshury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines); 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bryicreem
by Jove/ some chaps
are lucky/"
Yes, they are . . . but
there’s some Brylcreem
available for civilians
now, so ask your usual
retailer for it. If you’re
lucky, please make your
bottle go as far as
possible.
In wide-neck jars,
1/5 and 1/11
A
"T
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
Interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
P. X. W. Black. Manager—L. g. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
- ——* ' ■ 1
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP4-M.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Budget
The Federal Budget forecasts a war
expenditure of £360 million for 1945-46,
a reduction of £lOO million compared
with the preceding year and a drop of
£202 million by comparison with the
peak year of war spending—l 942-43.
Though there was only about six weeks
of warfare between the end of
1944-45 and VJ-Day, Mr. Chifley says
that there will be no reduction in pay
and allowances to servicemen during the
current year, deferred pay alone being
estimated to cost £54 million, at that
leaving a liability for future years of £3O
million. Payment of war gratuities total-
ling £75 million will not fall due, in the
main, until 5} years after the end of
hostilities.
All aspects considered, in his appro-
priation of £360 million for war this year
it seems that Mr. Chifley is prepared to
pay a heavy insurance premium against
the possibility of industrial warfare on
the home front and against trade-union
embarrassment at the next election. The
cost to the nation may be in vain.
Here is a summary of the Budget
figures, with comparisons of income
and expenditure during the two preced-
ing financial periods:
Expenditure.
Actual. Actual. Estimate.
1943-44. 1944-45. 1945-46.
£mil. £mil. £mil.
War 544 460 360
Civil .. ~142 150 132
686 610 492
Revenue and Loans.
Taxation .. .. 270 \
Business, income, etc. 39 j J J
Loans .. .. 377 267 152
686 610 492
The apparent fall in civil expenditure is
misleading, pensions now being charged
to the National Welfare Fund. (There
is really an estimated growth in civil
outgo of £9 million.) There was a
building up in this fund, during 1943-44
and 1944-45, whereas this year a deficit
is forecast. Commitments for “social
security” are rapidly expanding, and in
the current period are estimated to cost
£65 million, including pensions, child
endowment and “unemployment and
sickness benefits,” an increase of about
£25 million compared with last year.
Revenue of the National Welfare
Fund is estimated at £46 million,
including £ll million of diverted pay-
roll tax. The £l9 million deficit will be
a charge on general revenue. In 1946-47
income of the fund is estimated at £6l
million and expenditure £77 million—
deficit £l6 million. The fund is at
present in credit to the extent of £53
million, and in 1943-44 and 1944-45 these
accumulating credits were treated as
“civil expenditure.”
The “approximate” p.c. cut in
income-tax rates on individuals is costing
the Government about £2O million p.a.
Of £l4O million estimated revenue from
personal income tax in a full year, £5l
million will be earmarked for the
National Welfare Fund. Payroll tax will
be in addition. So buoyant are other
tax revenues that the overall picture is
one of a very small tax cut, even when
the sales tax remission is taken into
account. It should have been possible
to double both concessions.
As estimated in these pages earlier,
war had cost Australia £2lll million up
to June 30, of which 34 p.c. was paid for
out of taxation. Here are details of the
expenditure:
£ mil.
Service pay .. .. .. .. 604
Maintenance of forces, etc 252
Aircraft, war-like stores .. .. 555
Works, buildings .. .. .. 145
Plant and equipment for production 47
Naval and ship construction .. .. 34
Transport of troops by sea .. .. 28
Empire Air Training scheme .. .. 18
Interest and sinking fund on 1939-45
war debt 84
Subsidies to primary production .. 30
Price stabilisation subsidies .. .. 18
Other war and miscellaneous services
(net) 38
Reciprocal lend-lease 258
£2lll
Of the increase in the war debt of £1387
million, public borrowings (including
loans from savings banks and other finan-
cial institutions) totalled £897 million,
war-savings certificates £53 million,
interest-free loans £8 million, Treasury
balances £B6 million and Treasury bills
discounted £343 million.
Subsidy of the prices ceiling is expected
to cost £12.5 million this year, against
£lO.B million last. Subsidies to primary
producers are estimated at £l3 million,
compared with £14.3 million. The season
promises to be better.
Last year the cost of war overseas was
£36 million. During the current year,
apparently because of the Malayan opera-
tions, termination of lend-lease, etc., the
cost is estimated at £62 million. Out-
standing war commitments overseas total
about £5O million. “We again face an
acute shortage of dollars,” says Mr.
Chifley, “and, unless the forthcoming dis-
cussions in Washington can provide a
mutually satisfactory solution, our dollar
imports will have to be severely restricted,
and we shall have to conserve other
foreign exchange.”
The Commonwealth faces the position
now of having to direct its financial and
material resources in the most productive
way in order to restore living standards
and ..hold inflation, of having to reduce
taxation to give the maximum incentive
to employment and production, and at
the same time of having to maintain the
market for Government securities. So
far there has been little time in the peace
to shape plans for any of these objec-
tives. The chief matter for complaint is
that so little was done prior to VJ-Day,
The Government must still face the
charge of having played politics during
war-time to the alarming neglect of mili-
tary and economic realities. Its problems
now are multiplied by this past failure
to face facts squarely and make party
politics a secondary issue.
Promised Tax Relief
The Federal Budget promises a cut in
income-tax rates of up to 12} p.c.; Aus-
tralia is thus the first country in the
Empire to announce such a general re-
duction, and is ahead of the United
States, though rates generally are lower in
that country. It is possible, however, that
other nations will be in front of us with
actual reductions; the new rates will not
operate in the Commonwealth until
January 1:
A matter for commendation is the de-
cision to earmark Is. 6d. in the £ of all
taxable incomes (except those now taxed
at less than Is. 6d., in which case the tax
will be 87} p.c. of present tax) for the
purpose of meeting expenditure from the
National Welfare Fund. This was objected
to by a section of Caucus on the ground
that the contributory principle was being
introduced into “social security” under
another name. So far as it does introduce
the contributory principle—and it only
does so in a restricted way, higher incomes
paying a higher multiplication of Is. 6d.,
apart from the general tax rate —that is
the real virtue of the alteration. In New
Zealand a similar principle operates,
though the social security tax is a shilling
in the pound on all incomes—except
those specially exempt. The normal
statutory exemption of £2OO does not
apply to N.Z. social security tax.
In its taxation “reforms” it is true, as
R. G. Menzies has said, that the Govern-
ment has adopted Opposition recom-
mendations. But the objectionable
“means” test still remains in the “social
security” scheme, and those paying the
highest tax benefit.
The general reduction in Common-
wealth taxation rates as applied to the
maximum rate (18s, 6d, in the £) will
be to 16s. Bd. Even if the Is. 6d. social-
security tax were first of all deducted
from the 18s. 6d., and 12} p.c. taken
from 175., the new combined rate would
be 16s. 5d., so those paying the maximum
rate obviously are getting 3d. short of the
full 12} p.c. cut.
Exemption maximum for the social-
security tax will l?e £lO4 a year for
earners without dependents, £156 with
wife, £175 with wife and one child and
£2ll with wife and two children. Ex-
emption for ordinary income tax will rise
to £2OO for single man, £266 for man and
wife, and £3lB where there is one child.
Lowest rate will be 3d. in the £.
Company tax remains the same under
the new Budget, but private companies
will benefit in regard to undistributed
profits tax. “War-time” company tax still
operates.
Every bit as important as the reduc-
tion in taxation will be whether or not
the Government sets out determinedly to
reduce public expenditure for which there
is no commensurate return in production
available for maintaining or improving
our standard of living or adding to our
national security. The Government has
so many unavoidable commitments aris-
ing out of the war that a continuance of
the waste and misdirected expenditure
that have been a feature of this war would
be a stupid burden on an already strained
economy. It should be possible for the
Government to balance its Budget after
the 12} p.c. tax cut simply by eliminating
waste and excessive costs. The net sav-
ing on war expenditure (allowing for re-
patriation and similar costs) should then
be a further source of taxation-reduction
and lightened borrowing.
The wisdom of Government spending
will, in the ultimate, largely determine
our real taxation burden. Without a
policy of prudent expenditure alleged tax
reductions will be little more than a
fiction.
MaorHand’s War-Peace Budget
Hopes of some relief, however small,
from the taxation incubus which were
nourished by most New Zealanders while
the war was drawing to a close were
rudely shattered by Finance Minister
Walter Nash in his August Budget. This
provided for a war expenditure ‘of no
less than £lO5 million, which showed,
according to the “New Zealand Herald,”
that he was “living in the war past instead
of in the emerging future.” Actually, war
expenses were cut by only 25 p.c., and
taxes remained at the crippling level of
£7O per head.
Then came the capitulation of Japan
and the general expectation, mounting to
a certainty, that Mr. Nash would revise
his estimates. He revised the estimates
all right, but sent the country into a flat
spin by asking for an additional £34 mil-
lion.
There seems to be implied an intention
of the Fraser Government to attempt to
buy its way back to power by a drastic
reduction of taxes next (election) year,
using money it is collecting in advance
this year. Critics are sceptical of the
Government’s explanation that the extra
money is required for gratuities and ex-
servicemen’s pay, in view of the
tremendous savings which the end of the
war must bring. There is also a sugges-
tion that the Government is trying to
manoeuvre the Opposition into opposing
the new estimates so th»t Labor candi-
dates can stump the country denouncing
it for having opposed grants to the
soldiers.
Even some friends of the Government
are known to have voiced the opinion that
it made a psychological and tactical
blunder in not making at least a token
gesture towards lightening the tax burden.
Smouldering resentment among Labor’s
own supporters at a grim, repressive and
grasping policy at a time when the people
have earned some reward from war-time
financial hardship may be found, in elec-
tion year, to have gone too far.
The Commonwealth Disposals Com-
mission hopes to raise £24 million from
the sale of surplus stores and equipment
by June 30, 1946. Assets of the Muni-
tions Department are expected to be the
biggest contributor with £9 million, then
motor transport (£6 million), Army (£3
million), with the Air Force, Department
of Aircraft Production and sundry other
departments contributing the rest. It is
suggested that these realisations will help
in reducing taxation in 1946. They
should really be used in reducing the
national debt, while more economical and
more effective current Government expen-
diture should look after tax reductions.
* * * *
Some relaxation of controls over Stock
Exchange prices is expected soon. The
ceiling may be lifted slightly. This still
would not allow Australian quotes to
reach New Zealand levels for 8.H.P.,
Huddart Parker, Bank of N. S. Wales,
Morris Hedstrom and many other stocks.
* * * *
Canada is expected to come to
Britain’s aid with a further $ 1000-million
(£2BO million Aust.) loan or gift. Dur-
ing the war the Dominion made gifts total-
ling £1528 million, and Australia received
free aid amounting to over £2O million.


Position Vacant.
BUNDABERG CITY COUNCIL
Applications for Civil Engineer
APPLICATIONS closing with the undersigned
*2 noon on Wednesday, 26th September,
1945, are invited for the position of Civil
Engineer to the Bundaberg City Council.
Salary, allowances and conditions will be in
accordance with the provisions of the Muni-
cipal Officers’ Association Award (Q’land).
Council Revenue for 1944-45 was £65,000.
Preference will be given to servicemen having
necessary qualifications, which should in-
clude experience in water, sewerage, roadworks,
etc. Successful applicant will be required, to
commence duties on Ist November, 1945.
Applications should include information re-
garding Certificates held, experience and per-
sonal particulars, and should be accompanied
by copies of testimonials certified to by a Justice
of the Peace.
L. J. LUCAS,
Bundaberg, 31/8/’45. Town Clerk.
MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’s
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
MA
n
..
r%
1
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED.* Unhealthy odors, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies —are
all banished. Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR DIST. CO., N.S.W.,
82 Goulburn St., SYDNEY.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATORS, QLD., Wool-
worth Building, BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCABFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
f/ff. MAIL THIS COUPON.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR. 1
NAME
ADDRESS 8N.5.44
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
w
m.*
mm
m
k
im
<\
akl
H
k m
\J
P ENERAL MacARTHUR, in a message to U.N.R.R.A. Conference,
described Australia’s war effort as “one of the miracles of the war.”
The achievements of Australian War Industry have been no less great
than those of its Armed Forces. From a humble beginning it has grown
to giant stature.
, The Ronaldson-Tippett Organisation proudly associates itself with the
“all out” effort of the production front, and pledges itself to continue its
wholehearted service to the nation in the post-war years to come.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SVDNEV
Q'land Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Par bury House, 12V Eagle Street, BRISBANE
H
old it !
e?.; oib
~y\
These telescoping Tube Steel
camera tripod legs illustrate our point exactly. If
you are planning to refurnish, to refit, to rebuild—hold
it I There are certain to be Steel Tubes that will prove
more attractive, more economical and more durable for
your purpose. We are investigating manufacturers’
problems now, without diminishing
the flow of Breti-gun tripods and other
munitions at present required from
British Tube Mills ( Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Kilburn, South Australia.
PftlCtSlOM]
Alt W*Y%'
R & Ms-
BIOS?
The U.S. and Empire Trade
The ignoramuses of all the earth, in-
cluding some in Australia, are having a
word to say about the end of lend-lease
and Britain’s position as a result. The
nasty portion of the United States press,
as usual, is howling for Britain’s economic
blood, and in the Commonwealth there
is a section that is anti-J.B. even to the
point of lying—from this direction we
are getting stuff to the effect that it is
time John Bull learnt to be a man and
to take his medicine accordingly. As
usual, it is from the better type of Ameri-
can himself that the most rational com-
ment is coming.
As long ago as July the National City
Bank of New York forecast that lend-
lease aid in its war-time form would not
be extended to Britain after VJ-Day. It
was entirely sympathetic to the British
in their difficulty, and freely acknow-
ledged Britain’s greater per-capita war
burden. Said the bank in a circular:
Ber people are facing formidable tasks,
for Britain, to a much larger extent than
we, has diverted her manpower and her
plant and equipment to the war effort. In
contrast with this country the very mate-
rials for reconversion, as well as food, must
come largely from overseas and be paid for
at a time when Britain’s purchasing power
has been drastically curtailed by the loss of
export markets, by the liquidation of foreign
assets, and by reduced income from ship-
ping and commissions....
Counting both the loss of foreign invest-
ments and the growth of sterling indebted-
ness, the net deterioration in Britain’s ex-
ternal financial position has mounted
already to nearly $16,000 million, and may
well exceed $20,000 million before war costs
can be brought under control.
These figures are eloquent testimony to
the unsparing manner in which Britain has
spent her substance in the defence of the
Empire and in furtherance of the common
war effort. They emphasise the magnitude
of Britain’s post-war exchange problem.
Last week there were suggestions from
political quarters in Washington that the
United States, in return for financial aid
to Britain in her present difficulty, would
ask for the abolition of Imperial tariff
preferences, the United States feeling that
it is entitled to equal preference with
Empire countries because of its contribu-
tion to the united war effort. U.S. busi-
ness interests also want some modifica-
tion of the present attitude towards
blocked sterling balances, which repre-
sent debts incurred by Britain during the
war in favor of Empire, Allied and
neutral countries such as India, Egypt,
Argentine, Brazil, Sweden, etc. It is
apparently felt in some U.S. quarters
that these blocked balances stand not
only in the way of American trade with
Britain, but also of American trade with
the creditor countries. The implication
of “blocked” sterling balances is that
the creditor countries will have to take
payment in goods—British goods. In-
deed, it is hard to see how they can be
liquidated any other way. The debt is in
excess of £3500 million sterling.
President Roosevelt stated, in discuss-
ing the Atlantic Charter, that he did not
visualise it as something that would
interfere with Imperial preference. It
was recognised at the Bretton Woods
monetary conference that the agreement
did not restrict Britain in her dealings
with blocked sterling balances. The
United States had a great deal to say in
framing the Bretton Woods monetary
plan—it was regarded at the time as a
triumph of the American idea over the
British scheme. Since then President
Roosevelt has passed on and there is con-
siderable opposition in the United States
to the Bretton Woods plan as it stands
at present, though not necessarily in
regard to the blocked sterling provisions.
Responsible financial quarters in
America recognise the value of a sound
British ecqnomy in bringing about
stability in the post-war world. But only
by having an adequate market for its ex-
ports can Britain restore living standards,
buy from other countries, pay overseas
debts and maintain a stable exchange
rate. No country can sell to the world
more than it buys from it unless it lends
or invests correspondingly in the debit
countries or becomes a magnet for all
the world’s gold production. The United
States is the predominating manufactur-
ing and exporting country of this age. It
cannot flood all the markets of the
world with its exports unless it is pre-
pared to take a similar quantity of im-
ports. Trade must be two-way, and to
visualise the United States as an even
greater exporter than before the war,
entering into protected Empire markets
without buying from them on a corre-
sponding scale, is simply to see eco-
nomic catastrophe, or else lend-lease in
operation for all time.
United States arms production was an
outstanding factor in the winning of the
war. There is not the slightest doubt
about that—the production potential of
the U.S. is one of the wonders of the
present-day world. But, taken per head,
the war-burden on U.S. citizens has fallen
much more lightly than upon those of
any other major Allied country, and that
is so in respect both of taxation and of
material shortages. Whatever thankful-
ness British people may feel towards
America in this war —and with most of
them the feeling is very warm indeed —
gratitude is something that has to be
tempered, in this case, by a sense of eco-
nomic realities. In the peace, as in war,
nations must live and let live. A particu-
larly great responsibility rests with the
United States in this connection.
As the National City Bank of New
York says, “to be successful in develop-
ing harmonious and mutually beneficial
trade relations, the transitional problems
will have to be worked out in an atmo-
sphere of forbearance between all parties.
Potentialities of misunderstanding and
friction are only too apparent in connec-
tion with sterling indebtedness and the
limitations as to trade and exchange
under which Britain will have to operate
in the transition period.” The bank goes
on to say:
As to external sterling indebtedness, a
duty obviously must be to find a solution fair
to the creditor but which at the same time
recognises the realities of the British bal-
ance-of-payments position and the problem
of developing the surpluses necessary for
servicing large international obligations.
We in this country have an obligation for
tempering natural post-war trade rivalry
with appreciation of Britain’s special prob-
lem of exports, as well as her need for
import and exchange controls during her
critical period. Britain, on her
part, must convince America that methods
used to solve the transitional difficulties do
not discriminate against American interests,
and that the processes of unwinding the re-
strictive war-time system are proceeding as
rapidly as possible.
Given a fair chance by her greatest
„ Allxr „ . , , ® „ ,
war-time Ally and by her own people,
Britain is capable of doing things as
astonishing in peace-time as it did in war.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO PAT LYON—TAKE NOTICE that ALBERT
ARTHUR STEVENS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2253 of 1945 on the grounds that you have
committed adultery with his wife MARCIA MAKIr.
STEVENS If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Ist October 1940
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from EDWARD LORENZO EVERETT Bank of New
South Wales Building Bondi Junction the Solicitor
for the Petitioner or from MESSRS. JENNINGS «
JENNINGS Solicitors his City Agents of 129 Pitt
Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar of
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM SYDNEY BRINKWORTH formerly
of Marrickville N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that SARAH
BRINKWORTH has filed a Petition for Divorce ho.
1561/45 on the grounds of your desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Ist October 1945 and obtain a c °Py
the petition without charge from GERALD WILKIN-
SON MITCHELL Solicitor of 33-89 Hunter Street
Sydney— (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Giprious Eighth.
“Ek Dum”; Changes so great have
taken place in the Pacific Ocean with such
startling rapidity that it is almost im-
possible to believe that it is the same
Pacific Ocean as a month ago.
General MacArthur sits in Tokyo—a
Tokyo whose centre was supposed a
little while ago to have been wiped out,
but which is almost intact, ringed by the
pitiful remains of its ruined suburbs.
Singapore is in British hands. The
squashy Japanese accents which used to
wade through the ether gave way last
week to virile Australian voices convey-
ing greetings spoken from the heart. No
more is there a “Little Orphan Annie” to
introduce war prisoners to their relatives.
The name Shonan is forgotten. The
formal surrender to Lord Louis Mount-
batten is due today.
Rabaul surrendered, and with its whole
area from New Hanover to Choiseul goes
a bag of 134,000 Jap prisoners. Some
1 ommies and civilians who had given
themselves, up for lost are safe. But
Rabaul itself is no more. The jungle
and the kunai have swallowed it,
climbing high among the casuarinas
and jacarandas, till all that was left
was the amputated stump of a wharf
and a few decayed fragments of
what once might have been a bank or a
Government office. The Japanese military
and their captives lived like moles far
down in the quivering volcanic earth in
burrows dug all round the uneasy range.
Never again will Blanche Bay see 60
Japanese warships ranged there for the
conquest df North Australia and the
Solomons. And men of the 31/51st
Battalion are on their way to Nauru.
In Hong Kong Harbor Anson and
Swiftsure and their consorts have taken
possession. Penang is garrisoned by the
matelots and jollies of the Royal Navy
and the Marines.
At Morotai General Blarney accepted
the capitulation of all Japanese in the
South-west Pacific east of Ambon. The
rest of the East Indies area south of
Sumatra, now under Admiral Mount-
batten’s supreme command, will be given
up to Australian officers.
It has all been achieved with few
hitches—just a little sniping here, a little
swagger there —and with none of the out-
bursts of Oriental hysteria which those
who knew something of Asia feared. It
has been achieved, too, with wild demon-
strations of joy wherever the Union Jack
has been unfurled.
If the Japanese occupation has done
anything it has shown many an Asiatic
how well off he was under British rule ;
how poorly Asiatic rule compared with
it for comfort, prosperity, humanity and
freedom.
The Prisoners Emerge
Meanwhile, in a hundred camps and
depots, in numbers ranging from the
thousands at Singapore to isolated
dozens in the backblocks of Japan, the
prisoners-of-war have been coming to light.
Though isolated examples of good treat-
ment have been recorded, they were
treated in the main by the mediaeval
standards which prevail almost universally
among native peoples east of Suez, by
the standards which ruled in the western
world itself up to the sixteenth century
and, in parts, even later. At best ill-fed,
at the worst living skeletons, tortured and
diseased, the spirit of our fellows never
failed them. The tales told of that spirit
are glorious, and should stir every Aus-
tralian with pride, but they have been
buried among the miserable shrieks of
the morning and evening press of Sydney.
All that has been heroic, all that the
men themselves would have desired to
be given to their friends and their loved
ones, has been suppressed or hidden at
the bottoms of pages in order that news-
papers might capitalise the fear and
wretchedness of dependents. On every
hand throughout the week it was possible
to hear execration of a press which fell
to its lowest ebb, unchecked by the stern
censorship which should have been im-
posed for the protection of those still in
Japanese hands and of anxious relations.
Through T. W. White, M.H.R., who
has personally experienced the agony of
mind and body incident to being a
prisoner-of-war, Mr. Calwell was asked
by the Eighth Division Supply and Wel-
fare Association to do what he could to
prevent atrocity stories being published
until casualty lists were issued, “thus pre-
venting further suffering by relations.”
He replied that, while opposed to such
publication, he could do nothing.
The time for atrocity stories was not
while the enemy might still put away wit-
nesses and wreak vengeance. And the
tone and atmosphere in which to
set out the facts were not those which
prevailed last week in the parts of Aus-
tralia where the Sydney daily and Sunday
papers circulate.
The story of the prisoners is one to
thrill the blood. The Australians, for-
gotten for most of the past four years by
the same press which now is so eager to
picture their sufferings, but which did not
strongly call for even a division to share
in their rescue, lived up to the best tradi-
tions. Their saga should survive in the
schoolbooks for the ages. It should be
told to every youngster, to every coal
striker and wharf loafer.
The two Eighth Division brigades
never for a moment lost their entity.
When their senior officers were taken
away from them Lieut-Colonel Galleghan,
O.C. of a Battalion, took command in
Singapore. Discipline was maintained.
The flag was flown on State occasions.
, Marches past were held in Changi com-
pound on Anzac and festival days. Here,
as elsewhere, there was resistance to
parole, a never-failing movement of
escape and sabotage, carried on with
ingenuity and thoroughness which ex-
tended so far that nothing was forgotten
—not even plenty of white ants to be laid
in the foundations of the “victory shrine”
soldiers were set to build.
Experts to the Front
In one sense the force was unfortunate
in the number of middle-aged men who
were included in it—men with families
and responsibilities, old Diggers of the
last war who had enlisted, taking many
years off their ages, when recruiting was
at its thinnest and when peahen rags
which are now so much concerned about
their sufferings were interested in the
Eighth Division only as a framework
round which to weave home-breaking
yarns about soldier dalliance with beauti-
ful Chinese girls, and the need for more
picture-shows and for sending troops to
the Cameron Highlands to cure “bloody-
mindedness”—which never affected them
even in their long captivity.
These matured men, however, proved
a great asset to the captivity. Among
them were trained civil engineers, sur-
veyors, chemists, men of the skilled pro-
fessions. With them were medicoes who
stayed behind when they could have got
away—one who held a command gave it
up to tend the sick —nurses, brave in the
highest traditions of Australian nurses,
self-sacrificing beyond any power of
measurement short of the divine.
Brigaded with them were thousands of
youngsters rich in Australian resource
and unlimited in courage.
The whole set out to build their own
civilisation with what ingredients they
could find, filch or cajole from a gener-
ally friendly native population or steal
from their captors.
This condition of affairs applied
wherever there were Australian and
British captives—the same ingenuity, the
same will to survive and power to achieve
a gallant endurance, prevailed from
Tokyo (whence in the worst part of 1942
came brave Geordie voices singing a
ballad with a chorus in barefaced Morse
at a propaganda radio concert) to the lost
men of Borneo who, in the foetid isola-
tion of Sandakan, made their own wire-
less set from parts provided piecemeal
by a loyal Chinese, who paid for his
loyalty with a dreadful death.
“Mod. Cons.”
Their organisation reached its height
in the Siamese camp, where Australians
installed their own water and sewerage
system. At Changi their radio system,
linked to an entertainment service, was a
major industry the scrounging that
made it possible was in itself big busi-
ness—which picked up and relayed world
broadcasts on sets hidden in water jars,
in an accordion, and with aerials integral
with clothes-lines and mosquito-net
hangers and earphones made from
Japanese stethoscopes.
They had a cotton-spinning plant. They
had their own home-made rice mills.
They produced from lailang an artificial
marmite and preventives for tropical
ulcers and other scourges. They made
artificial limbs for their own limbless
soldiers with stolen scraps. They had
yeast, some—it is whispered—even beer.
And they came out of the ordeal still
a formation, with records generally cor-
rect and accurate, pay-books kept, every-
thing quite as reasonably in order as if
they had been involved in heavy front-
line service.
Coming Home
These men of Asia will be home before
long, with many civilians. Apart from
the thousands at Changi, the lost men of
Borneo, the uncounted hundreds who
have been taken out of the Japanese
prison camps or are in process of
rescue in Honshu and the other Japanese
main islands, 4602 have been counted in
Siam —14 R.A.N. officers and 126 ratings,
230 A.I.F. officers and 4134 other ranks,
30 R.A.A.F. officers and 78 other ranks.
From Java 1243 British, 370 Australians
12 Maorilanders, 1449 Dutch, 61 Ameri-
cans and 39 Indians are to be dredged.
The numbers in the camps of Borneo are
still unknown.
The first batches from Singapore will
set out for Australia next Friday, when
the advance guard of the first 6000 physi-
cally fit men will be shipped from Singa-
pore. About 2000 will leave for Sydney
in a large British aircraft-carrier. Names
are not yet available and the general
condition of most of the prisoners is not
known, though it is reported that all
who are not hospital cases are improv-
ing rapidly under the influences of clean-
liness and feeding. And appearances are
that there will be more survivors than
was stated or suggested when the purvey-
ing of atrocity stories was at its height.
Thousands of prisoners, however,
will not benefit by being decanted
into civil life without preliminary recon-
ditioning. The writer is begged every
day by returned men from Germany, who
suffered not nearly so much as the men
of Malaya and Siam, to plead with the
authorities not to allow p.-0.-w. to return
to the cities unprepared, but to ease them
gradually back to unaccustomed free-
dom. Anybody who has been in constant
contact with p.-0.-w. has had the experi-
ence of seeing some of them turn from,
apparently well and normal men into ner-
vous wrecks in a few weeks under the
strain of hospitality and worry from sym-
pathetic friends and relations.
However, if it is politically expedient
for prisoners to be sent back to their
homes without proper preparation, sent
back they will be.
General MacArthur at Work
Meanwhile, as the releases are orga-
nised, the Allied Commands are fasten-
ing their grip upon Japan. The work is
being carried out with skill and with
understanding of the Oriental nature
and explosive possibilities. The Allies
are fortunate in having a politically-
minded commander in Japan with a life-
long experience of Orientals and a skilled
administration in the British zone which
knows the problems from 200 years of
intensive experience.
This, however, does not prevent Sydney
writing boys from instructing them in the
methods of imposing a stern peace.
Rip Yen Winkle Returning.
“Ek Dum”: The redoubtable Mac-
alister Blain ran true to his old form
when a blazer of trails by emerg-
ing from Changi in Singapore just when
all his friends had begun to mourn for
his loss among the men of Sandakan.
Blain is a seventh-generation Austra-
lian, descendant of drovers and bush
pioneers. He enlisted for the last war at
19 and fought through some of its most
desperate battles, coming out wounded
and gassed. He completed his training
as a surveyor, made the Northern Ter-
ritory his venue, mapped tracks through
the lonely river country of Arnhem and
surveyed the Granites. In 1934 a few
friends dragged him almost forcibly to
a poll and he found himself the voteless
member for the Northern Territory,
In 1937, in an election speech, Blain
sketched the course of events for the en-
suing four years ; also the course which
any Pacific war was likely to follow. He
proved remarkably accurate and so im-
pressed his constituents that they in-
creased the margin between him and
Labor opponents who believed that Aus-
tralia could be defended with 300
bombers, and who flatly stated that they
were not in favor of sending Australians
to “die in the quagmires of Europe.”
From then onwards he devoted him-
self largely to advocating a major defence
policy based on the integrity of Malaya,
New Guinea and the Northern Territory.
When war broke out he asserted
his willingness to share in the defence
of Australia or of the British Common-
wealth, “no matter how menial the ser-
vice required, nor how arduous the task.”
The proceedings in Parliament during
the last months of 1939 and of the early
months of 1940 filled him with indigna-
tion, and it is in relation to the attitude
of his colleagues then and now that he
will return to political life something in
the spirit of Rip Van Winkle, rising from
a long unpleasant sleep. The spectacle
of Blain pinching himself should be one
of the tourist attractions of Canberra for
some time to come, for much there has
changed since the day in 1940 when at
47 he wandered from Sydney to Mel-
bourne, lying manfully about his age, until
he found his way into the A.1.F., was
sent to Singapore and captured on Feb-
ruary 15, 1942.
He will find difficulty in recognising in
the Mr. Beasley who is eagerly leaving
to represent Australia in London the same
Mr. Beasley whom he. chided in 1939 for
a speech in which Mr. Bruce’s successor-
elect sneered at the Menzies Government
and its followers for. “wrapping them-
selves in the Union Jack and declaring
their unstinted loyalty to the British Em-
pire,” a speech which the fighting mem-
ber for the N.T. characterised “as delight-
ful propaganda for the German cause”
after Mr. Beasley had shouted:
The Germans have been distributing
leaflets in France to the effect that Britain
is prepared to fight to the last Frenchman.
We should not allow this kind of propa-
ganda to succeed in luring away from the
Dominions the best of their manpower, so
that they may, perhaps, be destroyed on
the high seas by German submarines or
mines, leaving us in a bad way from the
aspect of our own protection.
He will hardly recognise in the gentle-
men who now proclaim themselves
modestly “the saviours of the country”
the miserable lot of pleaders against
whom he raged in 1939—Mr. Ward bel-
lowing his pride in not having enlisted
and shouting that Australia should not be
defended save upon its own soil, and Mr.
Holloway, whom he then beheld with
“tears rolling down his cheeks .ke pebbles
and scoria sliding down the slopes of a
mountain,” in process of begging Parlia-
ment not to force young Australians to
defend Papua, New Guinea and Bougain-
ville.
He will doubtless have to remove large
bits of skin and flesh before he can
convince himself that in 1939 he actually
found it necessary to make speeches
which contained such passages as the fol-
lowing : —:
I have listened with interest to the hon.
member for Melbourne Ports (Mr. Hollo-
way) He has the child mind He
looks upon New Guinea as a foreign land
and declares that to send troops there
would be to send them on foreign service.
Foreign service to defend the Diggers up
there! There are only 500 of them I
protest against the policy of the Labor
Opposition because it does violence to my
sense of reason and geography, and be-
cause it is a policy of cowardice that
claims that we should not be ready to
rush to the aid of 500 Diggers in New
Guinea, which is actually part of Aus-
tralia This country will never be guilty
of the cowardice that is implied in the
Opposition’s Bill. New Guinea is part
of the protective screen of the Pacific
Ocean which extends from the Malay Penin-
sula, through the archipelago, and touch-
ing Darwin as the apex, passes through
Moresby to Caroline Islands and Samoa.
No doubt the returned member will be
moved to blast somebody off the Treasury
Bench, reflecting how many Australian
and other lives might have been saved
had Australia introduced compulsory
training for overseas service at the same
time as Britain and sent to Malaya (in
spite of the mines and submarines which
have now been cleared away, making it
safe for Mr. Beasley to voluntarily travel
on service abroad to the home of the
Union Jack) four or five divisions fully
armed, instead of two brigades, for which
it had to beg weapons from the British.
And no doubt Blain will have some-
thing to say about the failure to rescue
the 1500 Diggers in the camp at
Sandakan at the beginning of 1944 before
many of them died, despite the fact that
there were positive assurances from a
pretty competent source that the place
was only poorly guarded and that the
adjacent regions of the Philippines were
so much in guerilla hands that the
guerrillas were issuing their own money
and postage stamps.


/ NO-NOT
%i lvENWATER
M
5/U
The craziest of all ideas is to deny your
battery a drink. Stupid, isn’t it?
Consult your Exide dealer. Get him to give
your battery a once-over every second week
and add distilled water when necessary.
Water does not weaken the acid. This is the
way to get months of extra service from your
battery.
Extfce
BATTERIES
BTILC KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
When a boy, chaplain Frank Kellow,
who broadcast from Radio Saigon giving
a list of Australian war prisoners there,
spent three years on his back with a
troublesome hip. He recovered so well
that before long he was playing cricket
with the “colts” in Melbourne, and
he became a first-class wicketkeeper.
Ordained in 1934, after studying at St.
Columb’s Hall, Wangaratta, he got his
commission as a chaplain in 1940, went
away with 2/2 Pioneers, served with dis-
tinction in Syria, where he was men-
tioned in dispatches, and was among the
unlucky ones caught in Java in 1942.
Maoriland’s Governor-General:
Every Maorilander addicted to wearing one
would have thrown up his hat at the appoint-
ment of Lieut.-Gen. Freyberg, V.C., as
Governor-General. Well over six feet, Frey-
berg stands as high as they’re built in
the heroic, the picturesque and the popu-
lar. English by birth (Richmond, Surrey;
1890), he was taken to M.L. as a two-
year-old, and subsequently built up his big,
athletic frame swimming in Wellington Harbor
—junior swimming champion of M.L. in 1905
and senior champ, five years later —boxing,
rowing and playing Rugby Union. And then,
grown up, he said “Open wide!” for a while,
till the wide-open World extracted him from
that profession. At 23 he was a Mexican Civil
War general under Pancho Villa, but the 1914
war broke out and struck him as likely to be
bigger and better. So off to England; the
British Army; D.S.O. at Gallip.; Y.C. later at
Beaufort. Before that war was through he held
general’s rank (brigadier-general at 27), had a
couple of bars to his D. 5.0., had been nine
times wounded and six times mentioned in dis-
patches. , That made his record two armies in
two wars, and in the fight just finished he added
yet another, leading the N.Z.E.F. through its
splendid campaigning, in the course of which
his men, among other things, captured the first
German general—Von Ravenstein —to be bagged
by British forces since early in the eighteenth
century. There is plenty more to him, of
course, including two unsuccessful attempts to
swim the Channel and one ditto to get into the
Commons. Between the wars he still soldiered,
and he’s a soldier still, his calibre to be
measured by what he said when, a lot of his
Enzedders surrounded in the desert and out
of ammunition, a journalist asked him how he
was going to break through, as he’d said he
would. Said Freyberg, V.C., grimly: “I have
10,000 perfectly good bayonets.” And break
through they did.
Knight R. W. Cilento, Queensland’s
Director-General of Health and Medical
Services, now on loan to U.N.R.R.A.,
has been appointed in charge of work
for re-establishing displaced persons in
the British occupation zone of Germany.
A difficult and probably a thankless job,
but one to which this Australian
medical administrator will bring wide
organising experience, first-rate ability
and a wide acquaintance with European
languages.
After five years with the R.A.N., E. B.
Scarfe becomes an associate to the Judges
of the Supreme Court in S.A. He served
his articles with W. A. Norman, gained
his LL.B. at Adelaide Uni. and was ad-
mitted to the Bar in 1940.
On this page there was mention of
James Campbell and Son, Brisbane, hav-
ing had nine employees on the payroll
for more than 50 years. Now P. Clifton
Jones, g.m. of John Danks and Son,
of Melbourne and Sydney, lists 10
recently on the John Danks payroll—
L. J. Anderson, J. Reaburn, E. Latimer,
E. Lascelles, C. Atkinson, J. Kennerson,
G. H. Simms, W. C. Foott, A. Lowe and
G. Stender —with service from 50 to 61
years. And, earlier, William Booth’s tally
was 73 years, and his brother, Joseph
Booth, and R. Ferguson were with
the firm for well over the half-century.
Also, H. J. Harman and H. Sutton are
due to complete their 50 next year.
“Now,” concludes the g.m., “are there
any other competitors?”
Resigned under medical advice from
the presidentship of Royal Melbourne
Hospital, Dr. Bernard Traugott Zwar,
C.M.G., had a 50-year connection with
that hospital, from the time he was
senior resident surgeon until he joined
the committee of management, except for
an interim in the last war when he was
an A.I.F. major. One of the founders
of the College of Surgeons of Australasia,
later the Royal Australasian College, he
was born at Stockwell (S.A.) in 1876.
“Ek Bum’s” note on one of the
A. M. Blain, M.P. for the Territory, twice
wounded soldier of Pozieres, must certainly
have been one of the toughest among the tough
A.I.F. lot the Japs have had to handle among
their prisoners; hut even he should now have
had enough of war. He spent his years be-
tween 19 and 23 in the firing line m France,
and between 46 and 51 in the A.1.F., mostly
ih the terrible prison camps at bandakan
(Borneo) and Changi. _ An attempt to escape
seems to have saved his life, since the enemy
took him from his mates at Sandakan, many of
whom, perished of starvation and dl-treatment,
and consigned him to Outram jail. On Febru-
ary 18, 1942, The Bulletin described Siam s de-
parture for Malaya: “The last seen of him was
a gleaming black eye under a fearsome tin hat,
a large rifle with a long bayonet waved in-
dignantly out of the back of a G.S. waggon
wharfward-bound, and a voice as of Boanerges
conveying an assurance that if this paper failed
to give the something Government crimson
Hades about the indescribable shelters it hadn t
built at Darwin there would be another declara-
EX-P.-O-W. A. M. PLAIN.
tion of war on his return.” The day after
that was published, with Blain already a
prisoner-of-war, his worst fears were realised by
the bombing of Darwin. When an escaped
p.-0.-w brought news of him at Sandakan early
last year he was reported well in the Borneo
camp. And there was no difficulty in estab-
lishing that the p.-o.w’s. knowledge of him
was genuine. He answered correctly the first
time when asked for Blain’s favorite phrases:
(1) “Regional development,” (2) “flat out like
a lizard drinking,” which is his invariable super-
lative in describing enthusiastic effort. The
Japs must have been chronically in that con-
dition to keep him captive.
Group-Captain Eric Harrison, who
passed on in Melbourne last week, was
one of Australia’s oldest hands in the air,
his flying dating back to 1911, when he
went to England to learn the art, getting
his pilot’s certificate the same year. One
of the two first senior officers of the
original A.F.C., he had been Director' of
Aeronautical Inspection since 1927.
One of the 500 R.A.A.F. lads, ex-
p.-0.-w. from Germany, who were wel-
comed at Bradfield Park, Sydney, at the
week-end —incidentally, a much better
organised and more generous welcome
than the chaps were getting a few months
back—was Flying-Officer W. J. M.
Baillie, a product of the A.T.C. school
on The Bulletin’s sixth floor. His father
a last-war Digger who was wounded a
couple of times, and his uncle, L. Dono-
van, also a last-war wounded Digger and
on The Bulletin payroll, Baillie was in
the first batch of wireless chaps the up-
stairs school turned out. After thirty-odd
bombing missions over Germany, he was
sole survivor when a Lancaster took a
direct hit and blew up. He’d been away
for three and a half years—about three
months of it p.-0.-w. —and is still on the
right side of 22.
The V.Cs.;
The awards to Lieut. Albert Chowne (pos-
thumous) and to Pte. Edward Kenna, both for
gallantry in the later fighting near Wewak,
brought the total V.Cs. won by Australian
forces in this war to 16, including Fhght-Lieut.
W. E. Newton and Pilot-Officer R. H. Middle-
ton, who won theirs with the R.A.A.F., but
excluding WestraliSn Group-Captain H. I.
Edwards, who won his V.C. (and a splendid lot
of other decorations) with the R.A.F. Six
went from N.S.W., all of them being either
officers or non-coms, when decorated: Cpl.
J. H. Edmondson, Lieut.-Col. C. G. W. Ander-
son, Lieut. A. R. Cutler, Cpl. R. R. Ratter.
Lieut. A. Chowne, Pilot-Officer R. H. Middle-
ton. Apart from Edwards, Westralia produced
three, all privates: J. H. Gordon, P. E. Grat-
»
wick, A. S. Gumey. Victorians have been Ptes.
B. S. Kingsbury and E. Kenna and Flight-
Lieut. W. E. Newton. For Queensland, Pfe.
E. Kelliher (born, Ireland) and Cpl. J. A.
French. For South Australia, Sgt. W. H. Kibby
(born, England) and Sgt. (later Lieut.) T. Der-
rick. With the exception of the airmen and
Lieut. Cutler (artillery), all won their V.Cs.
as infantrymen. No fewer than 10 of the total
—Edmondson, French, Gratwick, Kibby, Gur-
ney, Kingsbury, Derrick, Chowne, Newton and
Middleton —either were awarded their V .Cs. pos-
thumously or subsequently lost their lives.
“Hamer”: Apart from W. M. Hughes,
former N.S.W. politician and Agent-
General, David R. Hall, who passed on
the other day, was the last of the coterie
that used to hold meetings in a room
provided by little Davey’s aunt in her
Hunter-street boarding-house. Others of
the coterie included Holman, George
Black and Con Lindsay, who moved and
seconded the resolution which brought
the Labor party into existence, and
drafted the rules subsequently accepted
(both were journalists by profession).
When Holman and Hughes decided to
qualify for the Bar they shared an office
with Hall, who, more intent then on law
work than on politics, mostly paid the
rent.
When Tasmanian Governor Ernest
Clark was leaving one of the souvenirs
handed to him was a special set of fire-
irons, a replica of which has been pre-
sented to Col. J. E. C. Lord, marking
his half-century on the committee of
Royal Hobart Regatta Association. The
hearth weapons have with them a repro-
duction of the centenary medallion
honoring Tasman as discoverer of the
Isle and Sir John Franklin as founder of
the association.
Here holding the model of an old-
fashioned ship in his hand and a lot of
queer-looking modern ones in his head,
Joseph Leask, M.8.E., M.1.N.A., has
thrown up his job of naval constructor
to the R.A.N., after having been the
Commonwealth Government’s senior per-
manent shipbuilder for 34 years. Leask
is the only holder of the English Junior
Institute of Engineers’ silver medal in
Melbourne. He used to build battleships
at Fairfield’s, and has built sailing boats
for Port Phillip, He’s interested in all
classes, and is probably the finest builder
of ship models in Australia; Norman
Lindsay is an admirer of them. One in
particular, a clipper, has for the ropes,
and in order to retain the true scale,
ladies’ grey hair. Leask, who is also a
good watercolorist, has designed over
JOSEPH LEASK.
100 ships for Government departments
and Australian shipowners and many un-
usual war craft. His brother, Commander
L. W- Leask, R.N.R., was one of the last
people out of Singapore, and acted as
Naval Control Service officer in Brisbane
for two years.
.Major Brooke Moore (A.A.M.C.), who
landed back in Australia some months
ago, stayed on in Gieece in com-
mand of the remnants of the Fifth
A.G.H. to care for wounded expected
from the beaches after the evacuation.
In April, 1941, the Germans took
over the hospital, which then housed
100 wounded, later swelling to 3000
when the Crete show was on. Sub-
sequently Moore was in several Ger-
man p.-0.-w. camps, in one of them
caring for 400 Australians, Maorilanders,
Canadians and South Africans, and earn-
ing a high reputation among them. In
pre-war days he practised at Bathurst
(N.S.W.), as did his father before him.
Rohann Rivett, son of the C.S.I.R.
chief, has turned up in India after a
varied experience of Jap p.-0.-w. camps
in Java and Siam. A Melbourne “Argus”
staff man, he was under contract to the
Malaya Broadcasting Corporation when
Singapore fell, jand, with two others,
elected to keep the station going to the
last. He got to Java via Banka and
Sumatra, but not to liberty. In 1942 he
was permitted to broadcast to his wife
from a Japanese station, and told a hair-
raising story of a 26-day dodging of pur-
suers in the jungle. He is a grandson of
Alfred Deakin,
Leading Queensland Hereford breeders
and judges, the Reynolds brothers and
sons are descendants of Charles Rey-
nolds, who came to Australia in 1840,
after having managed his father’s stud at
Raddon Court, Exeter (Eng.), and
settled at Tocal Estate on the Paterson
River, near West Maitland (N.S.W.). E.
(Roy) Reynolds left the Hunter district in
1911, went to Ennisview, Oakey, on
the western Darling Downs, and did much
to foster the Hereford breed in Queens-
land. R. M. (Max) Reynolds has a model
stud, Naranga, at Norwin, Cecil Plains
district, and has judged in Sydney and
Brisbane. S. B. (Berry) Reynolds, of
Moorlands, who has been in the
Armoured Division, is one of Queens-
land’s best studmasters. The Queensland
Reynolds and Percy Reynolds, of Hobart-
ville (N.S.W.), G.O.M. of the Aus-
tralian Hereford world, were all exhibi-
tors at Queensland’s 1945 stud stock
show.
Most Australian air crew who have to
pass as physically fit for any flying job
are youngish, but the R.A.F. was pre-
pared to give some of the older brigade
a go as gunners, and as a result has some
crusty veterans to prove that you’re never
too old for flying and you can’t keep a
good man down. Squadron-Leader
Charles Sherring, a wireless-air gunner,
won a D.F.C. for “courageously attack-
ing any target” at the age of 41, and at
that he was a comparative youngster.
Squadron-Leader W. S. Fielding Johnson
qualified for the Caterpillar Club at 52
after being shot up over his target, and
Sir Arnold Wilson, M.P., was 56 when
he was killed. The grandaddy of ’em all,
Wing-Commander Lionel Cohen, pre-
ceded aeroplanes by a couple of decades,
saw them develop to what they are to-
day, and, manning the guns in one, won
his D.F.C. at 68.
Into the silence:
In Manly, Sydney, at 83, George James Wil-
kinson, sub-manager Commercial Bank, Bathurst-
street, for some years; also foundation member,
president and patron of Manly Golf Club.
A resident of the marine village for halt a
century.
At Clifton (Q.), at 80, P. G A. Murphy
(born County Cork), a leading figure of the
Darling Downs. He was president of the Clitton
Chamber of Commerce for 21 years.
In London, at 84, Professor J. T. Wilson, who
was Challis Professor' of Anatomy at Sydney
Uni. from 1890 to 1920.
In Adelaide, at 61, Capt. Walter Scott-
Kimball, of the Adelaide Steamship Co. In its
boats he visited every State, ending as master
of the m.v. Moonta.
At Wanganui (MX.), at 66, Arthur Robert
Falconer, who as a boy so impressed Albert
Trott, then cricket coach for Hawkes Bay, that
Trott took him to England. There Falconer
justified Troft’s judgment to some extent by
bowling W. G. Grace. Soon afterwards, how-
ever, he returned to Maoriland and exchanged
cricket ambitions for fruit-growing.
At Hobart, D. R. Davies, M.M., first presi-
dent and one of the founders of the Limbless
Soldiers’ Association of Tasmania and a
member of the Tas. Cricket Association. A
1914 Digger, he lost a leg at Passchendaele.
At Hobart, at 84, Caswell Drew, holder of
the Royal Humane Society’s medal. His grand-
father, Capt. Drew, R.N., was first naval officer
at Port Arthur, and his father was chaplain
there for many years.
At Jersey, Channel Islands, during the Ger-
man occupation, Mrs. E. M. Abbott, widow
of David Abbott, a leading solicitor of Mel-
bourne, and herself a noted charitable worker in
that city.


ŵ
»
MAS/ 31
FOR
OVER 50 YEARS
A AAAR POLISH
E
fl
E
The
Preseivative
FOR
SPORTING NOTIONS
Tattersall’s Club’s Chelmsford Stakes was run
over nine furlongs at Randwick on Saturday,
with the New Zealander, Sleepy Fox, and the
champion youngster, Magnificent, the outstanding
contenders, though the class of other starters —
Craigie, Russia and Mayfowl among them —
promised a solid test for the two carrying the
money, especially as neither of these had pre-
viously won beyond a mile. The Harinero colt
Chaytor, who almost took Magnificent by sur-
prise in the Hobartville, was a well-backed
third favorite at threes; all the rest at double
figures.
They left the barrier in a nice line and over
the first few hundred yards none of them
wanted the job of pacemaker. Then Mayfowl,
one of the few greys in action these days, went
to the front and set a quiet pace, with Russia
and Sleepy Fox at the head of the rest. They
bowled along in that order to the home turn,
where the pace was cracked on, and, going to
the front with Russia behind him, Sleepy Fox
went' on to a comfortable win from that horse,
with Magnificent, who had been given the
longest trip possible in the small field, and had
not appeared comfortable at any stage of the
race, finishing third.
With two decisive wins here in good company
at w.f.a. Sleepy Fox’s credentials for the Epsom
are outstanding, though he has yet to meet
some of the horses fancied for that race, in-
cluding Shannon, who promises to be his chief
obstacle. In the Chelmsford Sleepy Fox car-
ried 9.8, only 31b. less than the steadier he has
in the Epsom, and won fairly easily. Shannon,
with 51b. over his Epsom weight, had a much
harder race in the seven-furlongs Tramway
Handicap, finishing only a neck ahead of Flight.
This very fine mare seems in much better fettle
than she was in the autumn, and may also
enter Epsom calculations, though she will be
meeting Shannon on worse terms than she did
in the Tramway. Sleepy Fox’s starting in the
big mile has been reported as uncertain.
Some disappointment was expressed regard-
ing Magnificent’s “failure” in the Chelmsford,
but with an eye to future races this season
against his own age it would be unwise to
attach too much importance to this run. He is,
after all, barely a three-year-old, and at the
worst merely showed that he is not one of those
rare youngsters who can at that age take on
and stitch a field of older and hardened good
horses. On the other hand, he has proved him-
self clearly the best of his age in Sydney at
the moment, and winners of some good races
finished behind him on Saturday.
The Chelmsford is an old race, dating back to
1895, and a list of its winners reads like a list
of champions of the turf, but very few of them
won it as three-year-olds. Among those that
did was Magnificent’s grandsire, Heroic, and
the last to do so was Gold Rod, nine years ago.
At his second public appearance Young Veil-
mond walked away with a seven-furlongs
Juvenile event, and at his next run over the
same distance gave the Ajax filly Civic Pride
the hardest-fought win she has had, the Veil-
mond colt carrying in that race 161 b. above the
limit. In the Three-and-four-year-old Handicap
on Saturday Strathdarr, who, though a good
colt, is no Civic Pride at seven furlongs, was
top-weight with 9.10, and Young Veilmond,
with only 101 b. above the 7st. limit, seemed one
that bad escaped the handicapper, and so
proved to be. He won if by two lengths from
the ever-game Lakshmi Vallis and Blanmar,
cutting out the seven furlongs in 1.25. By
way of comparison with the older horses,
Shannon, hard pressed at the finish by both
Flight and Silent, did the same journey in only
half a second better time.
The Manitoba four-year-old Eagle Hawk was
weakening at the finish, but lasted out to beat
Waratah and Titled in the first divisjqn of the
Maiden Handicap. The second division went
to Asset, a rank rough ’un, who paid £8 18s. 6d.
on the win tote. Asset beat Dancing and Dis-
card, the three place-getters euphoniously sired
by Wee Warrah, Waikare and Winooka respec-
tively. The Brueghel gelding Silver Link started
favorite for the 11-furlongs Spring Handicap,
and, the third winning favorite of the day, just
beat Allan Veil, with Wellesley third. It was
Wellesley’s third successive placing at the
distance. In the last event, a mile Welter, Puff-
ham, who is a much better animal than his
unattractive name sugests, just failed to beat
Babillard, with Active Service third.
♦ * * *
The most important performance at Men-
tone on Saturday, with the Caulfield Cup in
view, appeared to be Register’s win in the 10-
furlongs Mentone Cup, Chough it was not a par-
ticularly strong field. Bred in Queensland,
by The Buzzard from Strong Girl, Register came
with a splendid finish to beat Evidence a head,
and was going away as they passed the post.
It was his second win within a week, and his
7.10 was 101 b. more than his Caulfield Cup
weight, though he could be rehandicapped.
Bisley, backed like a certainty, finished second-
last.
A win considered by many to be more of a
Caulfield Cup pointer than Register’s was that
of the Dhoti-Jean Hachett colt Leonard in a
division of the mile Yarraman Handicap for
three-year-old colts and geldings. The view may
prove to be right, and the immediate installing
of Leonard as Caulfield Cup favorite may be
justified in the event. Heavily backed for the
Cup during the week, he certainly won nicely,
passing a number of horses in the run home
to beat Viva and the well-bred River Hero
(Hellespont-Rivette) by a length and a half.
Leonard, who brought top price of the sales
as a yearling, carried 7.12, compared to his
6.11 in the Cup. Still, this was his first win,
and River Hero, for one, needed the run. Also,
in defeating Edward John and Liberty Law
in the first division of the race, the Kinder-
scout-Ottermoa colt Kinderson not only won
even more comfortably than Leonard, but ran
faster time.
Another Caulfield Cup candidate to win well
was six-year-old Gala Chief, who finished in
great style from a long way back in the six-
furlongs Stuart Stakes to beat Nestor by over
a length, with Burma next. Amourette, at odds
on, was much too good for Nuralia, Chastity
and the rest in the fillies’ division of the Yarra-
man; and, also heavily backed, Valcurl had a
head win in the Hampton Handicap from
Various, with Medicine third.
* ♦ * ♦
For Rosehill (before acceptances):—
Hill Stakes: Sleepy Fox, 1; Royal Peer, 2;
Craigie, 3. Rosehill Guineas: Magnificent, 1;
Chaytor, 2; Monmouth, 3. Theo Marks
Caraelia Stakes: Cold Shower, 1; Puffham, 2;
Abbeville, 3. Rosehill Cup: Removal, 1;
Russia, 2, Accession, 3.
# * • *
Fair Aim, by Bertram, has reached Schlink’s
Glenross stud in S.A. High Peak, the Hyperion
colt who was fancied for Dante’s recent English
Derby and finished sixth, has been bought for
Nitschke’s Grange Ormsby stud, also in S.A.
• * * *
American Admiral Halsey appeared to be get-
ting a bit reckless —that is, for a sailor —when
he declared his intention to ride Hirohito’s white
horse through Tokyo. Still, he mightn’t have
been taking such a risk. The neddie —called
Shiro No Yuki; said to mean “white snow“ —
is 15 years old. He’s no great shakes on the
genealogical side, either: a product, it is
claimed, of an imported English horse who
was mated with sundry Mongolian ponies, it
this is so he at least has the distinction or
being the only white horse ever known in the
English sire’s strain. In any case, the result
of the breeding is reported to have been a
variety of animals full in the body, spindly in
the legs and long in the neck; and if photos,
of the Son of Heaven astride his steed may
have left another impression of Shiro No Yuki,
it is pointed out that the pictures are always
taken from three-quarter front, permitting a
view of the rider, who would otherwise be
blocked out by Shiro No Yuki’s ears, and also
foreshortening the animal’s neck and otherwise
making him appear almost a possible candidate
for the Rosehill beauty contest.
* * * •
While good greys are a rarity in Australia
at present—when Spectre won the latest Aus-
tralian Cup the records had to be dug for over
half a century for the last grey to win it—one
of America’s best is a rusty grey, First Fiddle.
A bargain horse at $2500, despite his being a
grandson of Regret—not the Regret whose son
“had got away” in Banjo Paterson’s verse, but
the one who’s the only filly ever to have won
the Kentucky Derby—First Fiddle had already
won $lBO,OOO when the ban, which has since
been lifted, was imposed on January 3. His
wins included the $50,000 Massachusetts Handi-
cap last summer, when he beat the best U.S.
handicappers in training, and he has won the
same race again this year, when it was worth
$41,750. He’s a six-year-old ehtire.
* * * *
After being on top of the competition
table most of the season and landing the
minor premiership, Randwick wrote an
inglorious finis to its 1945 career by going
down 26-9 to University in the Rugby
Union final. ’Varsity scored six tries to
one, its forwards overshadowing the
’Wick pack and its backs standing up on
Randwick’s flyers, giving them little room
to move. These tactics quickly snuffed
out any of the fire the ’Wicks had. Uni-
versity now faces up to Parramatta in
the “grand” final, with Travers, the 1940
Rhodes scholar, prevented from going
to Oxford by war service—he will be
there next year—a tower of strength in
the forwards.
The great war record of the Rugby
Union clubs was crowned when a post-
humous V.C. was awarded to Lieut.
Chowne, He played breakaway for
Gordon, from which so many fine fellows
went into the services that it was hard
put to it to field teams during the wars.
* • * *
“Nuffin”: The outstanding Rugby
Union player in Queensland this year has
been Clem Windsor, captain of Uni-
versity, which won the premiership.
Windsor, first-class in defence or attack
and a very good kick, gave a faultless
full-back display against Cremin’s N.S.W.
side, and, despite Sydney sporting writers,
outclassed Schomberg. The Queenslander
is a sixth-year medical student.
♦ * * *
Sydney A. Middleton, who passed on
in England the other day, was a great
Rugby Union forward. Australia’s cap-
tain in all three matches v. M.L. at Syd-
ney in 1910, he had been with the
“Wallabies” to England on the 1908-9
tour. Also in 1908 he played for N.S.W.
v. Great Britain (when N.S.W. won a
grand match at Sydney by 3 to nil), and
he represented against Queensland in
1908, 1909 and 1911 and against M.L.
and Maoris in 1910. Since shifting to
England he’s been a great friend to ser-
vicemen ; and between whiles was repre-
sentative and director of sundry mining
companies.
* * * »
Nearly 55,000 —a record for the ground
—went to the Carlton oval on Saturday
for the first V.F.L. semi-final between
Carlton and North Melbourne, expecting
to see North, which had reached the final
four after many years of endeavor, give
the famous old Blues a go for it. But the
Blues went straight to the heart of the
matter, bombarded the North goal and
broke away to a 5.3-0.4 lead, whereupon
a kind of ennui settled upon ths North
Melbourne men —and the crowd—and
when Carlton had a look round at three-
quarter time to see who else was playing
it had a 13.7-2.13 lead. About half the
team then had a spell and, while the
bored crowd drifted homewards, North
was kindly permitted to kick a half-dozen
goals. The obsequies ended with Carl-
ton 14.10 to 8.20. It’s South Melbourne
and Collingwood next Saturday, Carlton
to play the losers on September 22.
* * * ♦
A great cricketer:
Clem Hill, who passed on in Melbourne at
68—he was in a tram accident a few months
ago—was a stalwart in those early Australian
Xls which included Noble, Trumper, Duff, Arm-
strong, Trumble, Harry Trott, Syd Gregory and
Joe Darling. Hill, a left-hander (like Darling),
was selected when only 19 for the 1896 Aus-
tralian XI, but although he did well in other
matches, he made a poor showing (1 and 5,
9 and 14, and 1 and 0) in the Tests.
Revenge came in the next series in Australia
(1897-98), when his scores included 19, 96,
58, 81 and 188 (in this effort with Trumble
he made a record seventh-wicket partnership of
165). Hill’s luck—never the best —showed up in
the 1902 Tests, with 99, 98 and 97. Towards
the end of his rep. days he struck a lean time
in Tests, and 160 at Adelaide in 1908 (with
Hartigan he made an eighth-wicket record of
232) was his sole notable effort. He declined
the 1909 trip to England, but captained Aus-
tralia v. Douglas’s XI in Australia in 1911.
Then, after a row with the Board of Control
over the management of Australian teams on
tour, he dropped, with others, out of Test
cricket when in the mid-thirties.
Altogether in Tests against England Hill
scored 2660 runs, averaging 35.46; and against
South Africa he made 752, averaging 62.66 (142
at Johannesburg in 1902). Sheffield Shield
figures—l 26 innings; six not outs; 365 not out
highest score ; 6274 runs; average 52.28 —show
his true ability as a batsman. Bradman’s 8634
is the only higher aggregate in Shield matches.
A record which Hill helped (with Walkley) to
put on the Australian book was 232 for the
ninth wicket at Adelaide for S. Aus. v. N.S.W.
in 1901; Hill got 365 not out in that match.
Clem Hill’s latter-day sport was horseracing,
on the heady side —handicapper in his native
Adelaide for the S.A.J.C. and the A.R.C., and
afterwards for the V.A.T.C.
♦ * * *
Among the war prisoners released:
Captain Ben Barnett, the Australian
wicketkeeper with the 1938 team to Eng-
land ; Flying-Officer A. N. (“Huck”)
Finlay, the hefty Australian Rugby
Union forward, and Captain Bernie
Schulte, Queensland’s R.U. half-back, as
game as they make ’em. Barnett’s greatest
efforts behind the stumps were in the first
Test at Trent Bridge, when he allowed
only one bye in 27 sundries in England’s
eight for 658 ; one bye in the first innings
(494) of the second Test at Lords; and
no byes in either innings (223 and 123)
of the fourth Test at Leeds—a perform-
ance never bettered in Test cricket. A
good bat, he scored 120 not out v. Surrey
on that tour. Finlay, one-time A.B.C.
manager in Brisbane, played R.U. in
Sydney for University and Randwick, and
represented for N.S.W. and Australia a
total of 18 times, including a tour of
Britain and France with the Waratahs.
* * * *
An objective judgment on the exhibition
to which Hockey Bennell and Dal Con-
way were parties at Leichhardt was that
there was a —er —gentleman’s agreement
that neither should be hurt. For 10
rounds the young men finessed and
finessed what time cries of “Fish-o! ” and
“Have a go” came from the customers,
together with much vociferous counting
up to ten. The referee issued warning
after warning, without the slightest effect.
In the eleventh round of the infliction he
declared it “no fight.”
Ageing and corpulent, Johnny King
proved no match for Eddie Miller at the
Sydney Stadium. For the first couple of
minutes King showed class, as befits a
bantam champion of the Empire, a title
he still claims. With speedy straight lefts
he earned the points in the first round,
although Miller hurt him with some solid
blows just before the bell. In the second
a Miller left floored King for “six” and
after that the Briton was a cot case,
which should have been recognised by
the referee. Johnny was down five times
before a left rib-bender knocked him out.
Miller came in as featherweight cham-
pion, having on the previous Saturday
stopped Tommy Chapman in ten rounds
at Melbourne. King has formed a high
opinion of him.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Great social event of last week was the
Investiture at Government House. Deco-
rations were presented by the Governor,
Sir Winston Dugan, a great many going
to members of the R.A.A.F. Flight-Lieut.
Peter Isaacson now holds all the three
decorations designed for the Air Force,
for he was awarded the Air Force Cross.
Small son of Major Stan Clarke, who is
still away up North, came with his
mother to receive the M.B.E. awarded to
his father. In a loud, clear voice the
little chap said “Thank you” as the Gov-
ernor pinned the decoration on his blouse
and shook hands with him. A little old
lady in deep mourning walked slowly
towards the Governor and received the
decoration awarded to her son, who will
never return to her.
Latest peace celebration was that of the
Chinese community; it took the form
of a Victory Dance at the Palms, arranged
by the Chinese Youth League of Aus-
tralia. H. H. Poon, president of the
league, received the guests, abetted by
Yoon Man, secretary, and Kum Hoong
Fee, treasurer. Though the night was
cold and stormy, dancers rolled up to the
number of 250, and had a grand time
celebrating the end of China’s eight years
of conflict with Japan. An interlude was
an address by Prof. Barker, president of
the Australia-China Co-operation Society,
on the achievements of China.
A further Chinese celebration was a
ball given by Chinese Consul L. M. Wang
and Mrs. Wang in St. Kilda Town Hall,
their first formal entertainment since the
war with Japan began. Four hundred
guests were invited, including Parliamen-
tarians, representatives of the University,
members of the Consular Corps, mayors
and mayoresses, navy, army and air force
officers and leading citizens. The foyer
was decorated with Chinese flags and
jade urns were filled with spring flowers.
In the ballroom were lounges and tables
centred with cinerarias, and flags of the
Allies hung on the facade. Formal even-
ing gowns and glowing Chinese costumes
made a blaze of color. Men wore formal
evening dress and decorations. Mrs.
Wang was in national dress of palest-
pink satin embroidered with a foliage
pattern in tones of crimson. Her shoes
were made of the same material. Over
this she wore a silver-fox cape in which
she pinned a spray of pink orchids. Mrs.
Bernard Heinze, new mayoress of Mel-
bourne, wore over her bouffant black
taffeta and velvet frock a silver-fox cape
brightened by a spray of orchids. She
was accompanied by Mayor Connelly
and Prof. Bernard Heinze.
An exhibition of pictures to help the
patriotic work of the Women Painters’
Association was held at the Blue Door,
of which Peg Williams is the owner. The
pictures were many and varied. James
Quinn opened the show, which was
attended by many. Mrs. lan Macfarlan
was decorative in a brown ensemble lav-
ishly trimmed with leopard skins. Her
small hat was fashioned of the same fur.
Alannah Col.eman, who was exhibiting,
was glamorous in a black suit and tiny
black hat with lots of veiling. Hostess
Peg also chose black. The show will be
open for some weeks.
Melbourne pianist Vera Bradford gave
her farewell recital before a large audi-
ence that included Lady Dugan, who
came in uniform from a Red Cross con-
ference. The pianist’s white crepe frock
was made with a full flowing skirt.
Diamente sparkled on the cap sleeves.
Programme included works of Brahms,
Chopin and Debussy. Dorothy Stewart,
an Australian who has made her home
in America for some years and who re-
turned with Gracie Fields, was an in-
terested member of the audience. Her
short black dinner frock, cut low at the
back, was of black crepe with a yoke of
black embroidery. These frocks are
popular in America, for they can be worn
to a cocktail party and, by adding long
gloves and small floral* hat, made to serve
for formal dinners. As it was a cold
night, Dorothy wore a full-length brown
fur coat and added a white ermine tippet
and smart matching cap with the black
tails bunched on top, and also carried
an ermine muff. With her was Everett
Ball, the young American actor, who has
come to play in “The Voice of the
Turtle.”
Strella Wilson was in good voice when
she sang to an appreciative audience at
the Village Theatre, Toorak. The occa-
sion was organised by Mrs. Bowen Pain
to establish a library for the Royal
Empire Society, and Strella and pianist
Mabel Nelson were the attractions for
the first half of an enjoyable evening.
Strella’s gown of duck-egg blue was con-
trasted with a corsage of pink carnations.
Mabel shimmered and glittered in a gold
sequin coat worn over a black dinner
gown. Accompanied by Mary Lisle
Johnson, Lady Dugan, in a Parma-violet
wool ensemble, was received by the
Dixon lady, president of the Women’s
Committee of the R.E.S. Also in the
party which greeted Lady Dugan were
knights Nettlefold and Latham and Lord
and Lady Gifford, the last-named wear-
ing a grey Persian-lamb coat over her
black gown.
Seats in the lounge were sold at one
guinea and proceeds totalled £400. With
the Fraser lady, whose black Persian-
lamb coat was highlighted by a small
black sequin cap trimmed with black
ospreys, was daughter Peggy. Girls in
pretty evening gowns, all members of the
staff of the National Bank, sold lucky
programmes and envelopes and in her
speech Mrs. Pain paid tribute to these
helpers. The bouquet of flowers pre-
sented to Mrs. Pain made an excellent
foil for her black dinner suit and the
tricky little red, white and blue ribbon
bows she wore in her hair. Also in the
audience was the Alliance sec-
retary, Madame Cockerton. She is busy
with plans for a concert of which the
entire programme will be the music of
French composers.
Pictured here is Lola Russell, well
known in amateur theatrical circles. She
has given a good account of herself in
University plays. She was in the Uni-
versity Revue and in “A Murder Has
Been Arranged,” made a success of , her
part as the secretary. She is doing an
Arts course and music. Her latest appear-
ance was in the Little Theatre produc-
tion “Angel-street.” Another University
student who hopes to make the theatre
a career when she is through at the Uni-
versity is Robin Mackay, soon to be seen
in the National Theatre presentation of
“French Without Tears.”
A well-dressed audience filled the
Comedy Theatre for the premiere of the
long-awaited “Voice of the Turtle.” Stage
settings are alluring. Every woman in
the audience sighed for a kitchen as well
equipped as the one they saw in this pre-
sentation, and the chintzes and soft lights
of the living-room were -also food for
envy. Among the dresses worn by Ann
Lincoln was a full red dirndl skirt with
white blouse and, for contrast, green belt
and sandals. A cocktail frock of deep
beige satin, the skirt featuring gathers
at the waist, giving it fullness, and
with embroideries of sparkling gold
sequins on the bodice and skirt, was ad-
mirable. The sequins were also seen on
the short cap sleeves.
With Mr. and Mrs. Michael Hall was
the wife of Commodore Miller. Mrs,
W. Kingham, of Sydney, was also in the
party. Her black outfit was topped by
a small boater of royal-blue velvet, tied
up with matching veiling. Nan Summers
featured a large flat hat made of lime-
green tulle and had streamers floating to
the shoulder. With it she wore a smart
black suit. Bunty Govett wrapped her-
self in a long coat of midnight-
blue velvet trimmed with matching
sequins. With Lieut.-Colonel Harold
Myslis away up North, wife Gloria had
to celebrate their first wedding adver-
sary with her parents and friends. Gloria’s
parents, Mr. apd Mrs. W. Horsfall, gave
a small dinner party at Menzies. Mrs.
Horsfall made a foil for the black gown
worn by Gloria with her gay floral frock,
over which she donned an ermine coat.
Merle Thompkins, who was bridesmaid
at the Myslis wedding, was a guest and
wore a long powder-blue wool evening
coat over her white gown.
From Sydney
Before two o’clock last Friday Sydney
streets were lined with women and chil-
dren waiting to give returned prisoners-of-
war a greeting. All through the September
afternoon they waited, but it was not till
dusk that the buses filled with the homing
men drove from the wharf through the
streets. But the waiting throng had lost
none of its warmth and the men received
a welcome so radiant it made up for the
absence of the sun. A small boy was
disappointed as the buses went by. “Oh,
Mother,” he said, “I thought they’d be
marching. I did want to see them march.”
The mother was a diplomat. “They’ll
maybe march some other time. They’ve
had a long day, and I expect they’re very
tired.” Again on Sunday the Orion
brought more of the boys home, and
again there was rapturous greeting as the
buses moved slowly through the streets.
For this first time since October, 1938,
the R.S.Y.S. at Kirribilli is going gala for
the opening of the sailing season. On
Saturday, October 20, sailing and rowing
races Will take place, to start and finish
off the squadron’s club grounds, and the
lawns will be animated with groups of
members and their friends making merry
at a garden party.
Another of the Scottish V.A. detach-
ment girls has announced her engage-
ment. This time it is June Prior, grand-
daughter of The Bulletin’s late chief
and daughter of the Bruce Priors, of
Mosman. June, who has been with
A.A.M.W.S. for three years, and serving
for the past twelve months with 2/7th
A.G.H, at Lae, has sent the news to her
family of her engagement to Sergeant
Jack Smith, of Picton. He, too, is of
2/7th A.G.H., but served in the Middle
East with the 2/31st Battalion and is now
due for discharge under the five-year-
service plan. June, who writes of an
engagement party they had in New
Guinea, is hoping to be home in time to
help Sydney celebrate its first post-Ded-
man Christmas.
Engagement of the week is that of
Brigadier Schreiber, Chief-of-Staff to
the Governor-General —the Duke of
Gloucester —and Viscountess Clive, Lady-
in-Waiting to the Duchess of Gloucester.
Marriage will take place in Australia in
October.
On October 6 Marjorie Dixon will
become the wife of knight Frederick
Stewart, M.H.R., in the Lindfield Method-
ist Church. She will wear the White satin
and billow of tulle of bridal tradition.
Marjorie, who is a nursing sister, had her
training at the War Memorial Hospital.
Her father was the Rev. Frederick Dixon,
of Beecroft. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Best news of the week for women was
that clothes rationing may end in
November. Juggling the coupons has
been a great strain. Every woman longed
for a magician husband or boy-friend
who could transmute 56 into 112 or even
more. One thing seems certain to result
from the announcement and that is a
rush on underwear. Women have spent
hours and hours patching and darning
what went underneath so that they might
have enough coupons to buy a new dress
occasionally. That most hated of apparel
the war-time stocking just devoured
coupons, and never looked worth
them. To go out in the morning
thinking “I’ll buy a new outfit today”
without having to first add un the cloth-
ing ration, and maybe cadge coupons
from other members of the family, will
be the final assurance to every woman
that peace is once again in our midst.
Organist Lilian Frost is celebrating
her musical jubilee. For 50 years this
gifted musician has served her country
with her great talents. In 1895, four
years before the Boer War and five years
before the Count de la Vaux sailed in
his balloon from France to Russia, Lilian
Frost became the girt organist of the
Pitt-street Congregational church. In
this present year of grace she is still play-
ing the organ in that well-loved city
church. The Town Hall organ has pealed
and thundered on innumerable occasions
under her musicianly touch. As a school- •
girl in Launceston she began her career
by becoming organist at the Christchurch
Congregational Church. That and the
Pitt-street church are the only two in
which she has been organist. Friends
made during student days and later on
visits to England and U.S.A. have sent
Miss Frost cables of congratulation.
Last week Sydney musicians arranged
a concert in Lilian’s honor ; on October
11 there will be another in the Macquarie
Auditorium and on October 22 there
will be a grand finale in the Town Hall,
when Lilian will play and the choir of
St. Andrew’s Cathedral and the Hurl-
stone Choral Society will present massed
voice effects. On the 16th of this month
and on October 11 and 14 Miss Frost
will broadcast to Australia. Those will
be occasions when she can make no use
herself of the wireless set given to her
last weeUby pupils, past and present. It
is the first radio Lilian has ever pos-
sessed.
Antonia Dolores, writing tp her friend
Lilian Frost in Sydney says: “Thanks for
The Bulletin ; to be so well remembered
is lovely.” Dolores is a letter-writer of
charm. Her remarks on Miss Frost’s
jubilee as an organist touch just the right
note: “Your organ is a good and faith-
ful friend. You Must have a real affec-
tion for such a good and sincere and
docile friend and auxiliary.” Unlike
many visiting artists this great singer
thinks “the Sydney musical public’s taste
is so true.” She speaks with regret of
the death of Mrs. Benson in Hobart
“whose son, the Tasmanian tenor, is a
good artist, first learning with his mother
and then in London under Marchesi.”
The whole letter is a model of clear,
fine penmanship.
The hall of Christ Church, St. Laur-
ence will resound no more to the song
and dance of its famed Wednesday Night
Entertainments. The W.N.E. group
(Mrs. Ben Edye, Bort Fahy and organist
Lilian Frost) arranged the first organised
entertainment for servicemen in this city.
For five and a half years, moonshine or
rain, the hall gave gay welcome to service
lads, and young girls in attractive frocks
were there to partner them. There were
games and guessing contests, and supper
and small prizes for all. Australians,
Poles, Dutch, French and British, as
they were moved about by the fortunes
of war, were guests at the parties. Annette
Kellerman was early on the scene with
her piano-accordeon. Gladys Moncrieff
paid a visit. Stephame Edye often
danced one of her graceful numbers.
Frocks are again worn ground-length
after six o’clock in the evening, and the
little clutch of debs, being hatched for
the R.S.L. Victory Ball promises to set
a post-war standard in frocking and
beauty. There are 25 of these debs., all
daughters of ex-servicemen. The Troca-
dero will echo with revelry from nine
o’clock on the night of October 9 till
two o’clock on the following morning.
All the*services will be strongly repre-
sented, and many sub-branches plan to
include ex-prisoners-of-war in their
parties as guests of honor.
One just back p.-0.-w., Lieut. Smith,
A.1.F., is captive again. This time it is
to romance and Second-Officer Nell
Pemberton, W.R.N.S. They travelled in
the Orontes to Australia, and they plan to
be married about Christmas-time. Lieut.
Smith, who was taken prisoner in Greece
more than four years ago, is the son of
president of N.S.W. Cricket Association
Sydney Smith, who has also been through
the trying years secretary of the Austra-
lian P.-0.-W. Relatives’ Association.
Second-Officer Pemberton is a Lancashire
girl.
Who remembers the Great Levant? Or
rather who hasn’t thought of him with
longing during the war. Levant is a
magician of many parts, the greatest of
which it has seemed in retrospect was the
pouring of beer, whisky, sherry and other
beverages from one kettle. Well, the
Great Levant has a date with the R.A.S.
Women’s Auxiliary on Saturday, Sep-
tember 22, at the Education Department’s
Galleries. There he will perform his
super magic for the delight of guests at a
sherry party, which will be set in the midst
of the R.A.S. annual show. The party
will benefit the East Sydney Police Citi-
zens Boys’ Club, and The Guardsmen, a
police quartette just now touring with
the A.8.C., will star on the bill. Mrs.
J, B. Evans, Mrs. Hinchin, Mrs. Sam
Goddard and Mrs. Estelle Andrews are
energetic workers. The East Sydney end
is being handled by a social committee,
of which the Henry Braddon lady is con-
venor,


Legal Notice.
Y. FLOOD NAGLE the Executors of the proved Will
of ANNIE ELDRIDGE late of 656 Dean Street
Albury (formerly of the Junction Hotel Wodonga
Victoria) Widow who died on 22nd June 1945
HEREBY REQUESTS any person knowing the
present whereabouts of any relative of the late Mrs.
Annie Eldridge or of her deceased husband WILLIAM
ELDRIDGE to communicate with the undermentioned
Solicitors The late Mrs. Eldridge whose maiden
name was ANNIE FARRELL was at one time em-
ployed at the Railway Refreshment Rooms either at
Benalla or Wangaratta Victoria Before coming to
Australia she resided at Ballymcward County Galway
Ireland where it is believed that she was born and
that she had two sisters MARY ELLEN NEVIN (nee
Farrell) and BRIDGET FARRELL and two brothers
JOHN FARRELL and MICHAEL FARRELL.
V. FLOOD NAGLE & NAGLE, Solicitors for the
Executor, Temple Court, Dean Street, Albury, N.S.W.,
’Phone, 14.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO MURIEL BENSON late of Camden and Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that STANTON BENSON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1829 of 1944 on the grounds
that you have been guilty of desertion without just
cause or excuse during three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 31st day of October 1945 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from MESSRS.
BARKELL & PEACOCK Solicitors 11c Castlereagh
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K, BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME' COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN SINCLAIR.—TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE
MAY SINCLAIR has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1712 of 1945 on the grounds of'desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you want to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry. Supreme Court King Street
Sydney before the First day of October One thousand
nine hundred and forty-five and; obtain .a copy of
the petition without charge from MESSIEURS. A. J.
McLACHLAN HOARE & CO. Solicitors of 0 Wynyard
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF ■ NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD FITZJAMES late of Paddington.—
TAKE NOTICE that STELLA GWENDOLINE FITZ-
JAMES has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1184 of
1945 alleging that you the said HAROLD FITZ-
JAMES have been guilty of adultery' with LILY
ARMITT If you desire to defend the suit you must
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 12th November 1945
and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge from
GEORGE HENRY BESWICK Solicitor of St. James
Buildings 107 Elizabeth Street Sydney New South
WaIes.—DATED this 4th day of September 1945.
(1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN A FULL RANGE OF SIZES FOR ALL REQUIREMENTS
B ridge- Haul hi r v
AUTOMATIC MIXERS
Rubber manufacturers and those engaged in plastics,
linoleum, cable making and allied industries need
look no further than British-designed, Australian-
manufactured Bridge-Banbury automatic mixing
equipment for uniform, controlled materials mixing.
Output for output, Bridge-Banbury automatic mixers
occupy less floor space . . . show savings of 40 %
to 50% in use of power ... up to 50% and 75%
savings in labour . . . and produce a product once
considered the province of two-roll mixing mills
alone.
Manufacturers with an eye toward the competitive
future should investigate Bridge-Banbury features—
now. We shall be happy to send you informative data
on how Bridge-Banbury mixers lower costs, improve
quality of the mix. No obligation.
ŵ
A. Goninan & Co. Limited
NEWCASTLE - - N.S.W.
jf MANUFACTURERS OF RUBBER AND MINING MACHINERY
I ROILING STOCK, SKIPS. BOILERS. DROP FORGINGS
| IRON. BRASS AND MEEHANITE METAL CASTINGS,
SPUR. HELICAL WORM AND BEVEL GEARING
MANUFACTURING «» STRUCTURAL «: AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
SMOKE-OH!
“Hearing him arrive, she came straight from
her bath to meet him. She looked charming.”
— “Sun.”
She would !
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Where are the war restrictions most likely
to go first?” — “Sun.”
To the place where most of us have
been telling them to go.
4* 4- 4* 4*
“Some sailors have a propensity for getting
into fights when they come ashore.”— “Sun.”
“Any storm in a port,” as they say.
ẁ
“I prepare his breakfast in dressing-gown
and slippers.”— Woman’s paper.
But he can’t see them over the morning
paper, anyhow.
4- 4* 4* 4*
“Wallet, folding, containing Manly Ferry.”
“S.M.H.” Lost and Found ad.
Probably mislaid during a fog.
•J*
“Does a woman really need to be told that
her shoes should be shining?”— Woman’s paper.
If so, she is lacking in polish.
4* 4* 4* *b
A social climber can’t get very far with
laddered stockings.
b b b b
Tyke Talk.
“A New Yorker claims that his sheepdog can
talk. ‘I gave Blitz a coin,’ he told a group
of reporters, ‘and he went into a tavern, placed
his paws on the bar and said ‘‘Give me a ham-
burger.” ’ The dog also plays the piano,- howl-
ing to his own accompaniment.”
This howling was broadcast, which ex-
plains the hysterical invasion of down-
town Manhattan by 100,000 bobbysoxers
who thought that Frankie was giving an
unannounced concert.
It is supposed that only in the United
States do such things occur, and other
things as strange—hippopotamuses doing
the Canadian three-step, an otter that
swallows swords, and a waiter who walks
on his hands and serves meals with his
feet. Actually, the great Republic has no
monopoly in this department.
My wife owned a small Pekinese she
called Midgy: a pampered animal—
insect, rather —which always regarded me
with a supercilious sneer.
The Peke. was fed on special breakfast
food, milk and cream cakes. If I made
to take the creamy top off the morning’s
milk for my porridge the ersatz tyke
would emit an asthmatic soprano squeak
which it fatuously thought was a bark.
My chief indoor sport consisted of
surreptitiously booting the thing off the
cushions in the lounge.
One of Suburbia’s most degrading
sights is that of a miniature Pekinese being
played on a leash in public by a so-called
man. Let him, if he be a man, go abroad
with a dog at which he can good-
humoredly swear ; a canine cobber which,
shaken by the snout, rolled on his back
and belly-rubbed with a boot, will get up
and leap on his pal with affectionate
gusto.
But a Peke.! No man with red blood
coursing through his chassis could even
bring himself to take such an excrescence
in daylight for its exercise and appreciate
the task.
However, the most determined of men
will sometimes be caught in the toils of
circumstances.
Euphemia had entered Midgy in a
show. On the appointed day she de-
veloped an outsize gumboil; and, de-
ciding that toting the insect around
while she had a lopsided face might spoil
its chances of landing the blue riband,
she dragooned me into being Midgy’s ex-
hibiter, trainer and sponge-holder. You
know what wives are!
She gave the hound a hair-do and per-
fumed it all over —I had to fight to save
myself from being subjected to the same
treatment. After copious instructions on
the last-minute touches to be made, 1
departed with “Precious.”
As soon as I had got around the first
corner I whipped the cyclamen ribbon
from the object’s neck and shoved the
canine into an air-holed sugarbag I’d
brought for the purpose. After tnat I
felt better.
To prepare myself for the coming
ordeal I dropped in for a moral stiffener
at the Earbiters’ Arms. It was after I
had been there no more than an hour or
two that I noticed a strange thing.
Midgy, which had apparently worked
its way out of the bag, was up at the other
ẃ
Character Study.
“Leonora Thompson, a New York stocking
expert, says women’s legs show the character of
their owners.”— “Daily Telegraph”
From calves of parallel construction
{Authorities on women hold)
A heart of eighteen-carat gold
Is quite a logical deduction ;
And yet, how deeply it must rankle
When, couponless, a lady knows
Through lack of camouflaging hose.
She wears her heart upon her ankle.
Though legs enhanced with silken sheer
Presumably throw out of gear
Attempts to psycho-analyse them,
Some facts, at least, you can infer
About another character —
The one who boldly turns and eyes
them.
P. M. LUSK.
Entreaty.
ẅ
T. W. NATHAN.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
7/I^^tdleiwi-
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
13 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 ' 12 «
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6„w 8 0
3„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£l9O
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
“Oar Way of Life”
I find the idea fairly general among
civilians that this war was fought “to
make a better world.” Why so? We
were forced to fight for our way of life,
and I think I express the views of the
men who volunteered to do the actual
fighting when I say that we expected to
return to the world we left. War simply
interrupted lives. We downed tools, and
now that the cause of this interruption has
been eradicated we will return to take up
those tools. ,
The world we left can do with improve-
ment, but on enlistment the soldier did
not entertain ideas of bargaining for a
better one.
Some men in uniform may disagree.
But I feel my view is that of most fighting
soldiers, who faced facts, —L.J.B. (A.1.F.).
Soldier Settlement in Victoria
I, too, know the district referred to by
“X.E.D.” (B. 8/8/’45), where it is pro-
posed to settle 700 soldiers on 60,000
acres of land in the Murray Valley. It is
undoubtedly some of the finest irrigable
land in the world.
This has been proved by the excellent
results obtained over a number of years
by irrigating large areas of practically
identical land around Cobram, three
miles from the proposed settlement. The
Cobram area, although closer to the
source of water, has been left out of the
scheme, as it is already largely developed.
Minister of Water Supply McDonald has a
peach orchard there. It was mainly be-
cause of the success of this orchard and
other Cobram properties that he recom-
mended the proposed area to his Govern-
ment.
For once the Government is not going
into a soldier-settlement scheme blindly.
The soil was tested by boring before the
war, a thorough job being done. The
topsoil is a pliable red loam and the
Subsoil porous, with no trace of salt.
It is not proposed, as “X.E.D.” says,
to give each settler 90 acres. Fruit-
growers are to have 40 acres, dairymen
90 acres, fat-lamb raisers 200 acres.
The land will be handed over to the re-
turned men cleared, and with all channel-
ling and grading completed. Each man
will be guaranteed an income of £4
a week. Considering that he will have a
house rent free and milk, butter, eggs,
etc., from his own holding, he should do
all right without any of the bullocking
and penny-pinching “X.E.D.” writes
about.
However, there is a nasty angle to
this business. The area has been farmed
for over 60 years, and the present owners
are to be dispossessed under a Land Act
passed some years ago. It is doubtful
if such use of it was ever contemplated.
Many farms have been under the same
ownership for generations, and sentimen-
tal ties are*strong. The owners are to be
paid on 1942 valuations—pegggd price, as
it were. Many think this is not fair for
compulsory sales in 1945. — J. Weiss
(Vic.).
Service-trained Tradesmen
“WJ.S.’s” plea (B. 22/8/’45) that ser-
vice-trained tradesmen should be admitted
by trade-unions and accepted as fully
qualified has its dangers. As “W.J.S.”
says, a lot of these men had no training
before enlistment. Service training does
not profess to encompass all branches of
a trade. A man in uniform is usually
trained only in a branch of the trade or
in certain phases of it. Thus, in effect, he
becomes a specialist, and no matter how
good he is at his specialty his knowledge
is not complete, and his later application
of it in a civil trade capacity would be
faulty.
I was at one stage trade-grouped as a
driver-mechanic. Before the war I had
no mechanical experience, and during
service all my experience was on tanks.
Therefore I do not feel qualified as a
mechanic on general transport.
I understand that the policy of the
unions is to give priority to the replace-
ment of tradesmen who entered the army
as such, which is only fair and a part of
the rehabilitation scheme. If after this
further tradesmen are required, and ser-
vice-trained tradesmen are desirous of
continuing their trade in civilian life,
what is called for is further training to
fill in the gaps.— Sack (A.1.F.).
Australia WAS There
What with Russia winning the
European war and America winning the
Pacific war “almost single-handed,” as
the committee inquiring into post-war
naval bases modestly observed, there does
not seem to be much credit going begging
for the Empire, let alone Australia, but,
nevertheless, there is food fof pride in the
Australian war record.
Australia was the first of the Dominions
to declare herself with the Old Country,
and I like to remember the way that Mr.
Menzies did it and that the whole nation
accepted as right : “Great Britain is at
war... therefore Australia is qt war.”
Australian infantry and British gunners
were the first to defeat German tanks (at
Tobruk).
Australian soldiers inflicted the first
reverse on the advancing Japanese ground
forces at Milne Bay, and thence over the
Owen Stanleys to Kokoda.
Last, and most glorious, alone of all the
United Nations the British Empire (which
includes Australia) came in fighting on
September 3, 1939, and fought to the end!
—Fodgie (S.A.).
Honor to Ma
Talking of Australia’s “Forgotten Men”
(B. 15/8/’45), what of Australia’s forgot-
ten women? Every day one hears eulogies
of the servicewomen, women in in-
dustry, in hospitals, voluntary workers
for aid or comforts, and many others, but
“ You've built it wrong way round, you mugs!”
“Aw, Joes got to Work it, and he's left-handed!”
never does one hear a word of praise for
her upon whom the heaviest burden has
fallen.
Outback women have always been the
emergency squad of farm production, but,
with sons in the services and help unpro-
curable, the war years have brought work
and responsibility that have taxed women’s
strength to the utmost. In the majority
of spheres when a worker has an off-day
there are others to lend a hand, but for
the farm woman there is no let up. Sick
or well, in fine weather or pouring rain,
cows must be milked, stock must be fed,
a dozen such jobs attended to. Whether
hoeing potatoes or working the team, Ma
has cheerfully battled through the labor
shortage, managing the household and
rearing a family almost as a sideline.
Though seldom recognised as authori-
ties on livestock, many outback women
can judge the weight and value of
a beast as accurately as most men,
while at drafting and sorting sheep
they become expert. With a bite of
lunch in her pocket, and coat strapped to
the saddle pommel, Mum-of-the-outback
will spend the entire day mustering in
rough country, and at dark dash home to
hustle up something hot for tea. I have
seen her work eight hours a day in the
shearing shed, and long into the night on
kitchen tasks. I have seen her, elderly
and half-crippled with rheumatics, strug-
gling with work that before the war occu-
pied two women. And I have seen the
smile that tried valiantly to camouflage
her weariness.
“In the country’s direst need,” cried an
enthusiast, recently, “the work done by
our land army girls has been magnificent.”
I agree. The only difference between our
land army and our forgotten women
is that the land army has better con-
ditions, shorter hours and a pay cheque.
—C.E. (Vic.).
For a White Australia
Referring to the White Australia policy
Archbishop Mowll has remarked that our
small numbers make the situation “one
of delicacy and difficulty.” True enough ;
but neither delicacy nor difficulty must be
allowed to weaken the resolution of our
nation on this matter.
We have already enough social prob-
lems without introducing the kind of
cleavage that has plagued America from
the days of the Ku Klux Klan down to
the fearful Detroit riots a couple of years
ago. Such experience as Australia has
had of a color question, as in the gold-
digging days, gives no ground for the
belief that such tragic and discreditable
events could not happen here.
Once settled among us in appreciable
numbers Asiatic groups would almostxer-
tainly begin to outbreed us. The fear
would soon arise that our culture, eco-
nomic standards, way of life or what not
were threatened. There would inevitably
be an ever-increasing clamor for measures
against the “rising tide of color.”
Must Australia travel this road? Can
any reason justify the risk of giving oyer
our nation to chronic civil strife? Dis-
criminatory laws would cause quite justi-
fiable resentment. Soon there would be
outrages, followed by reprisals and
counter-reprisals. Population we must
have ; but we cannot afford the price that
we shall surely have to pay, in the not-
so-long run, if we take what seems to be
the easy way now. —E. D. (N.S.W.).
Australian Tobacco
I was interested in tobacco-growing,
having in mind the setting up of a ser-
viceman, a kinsman, on a tobacco block £
own. Today I am more interested in an
offer for my block made by a naturalised
Italian. The storm of objections to stuff
marketed as tobacco, plus the increasing
difficulties that beset growers, make the
future of tobacco-growing look gloomy.
Six months ago, at Roma, Adermann,
told constituents that manufac-
turers had been granted a subsidy of
£750,000 so that they might buy more
Australian-grown leaf. The only con-
clusion possible from results is that this
subsidy has led to the marketing of trash
which should have been used as fertiliser.
It is as certain as sundown, unless prompt
steps are taken, that the revulsion against
Australian tobacco will soon become so
pronounced that no politician will have
the pluck to resist the demand for im-
ported leaf. That will mean lean days for
Australian growers, Selling Out,
P. D. Q. (Q.).
Papuan Administration
A commissioner appointed by the Aus-
tralian Board of Missions to visit Papua
and obtain reports concerning missionary
rehabilitation and other matters has re-
turned with a bad impression of military
.administration. In a published report he
says that the “Fuzzy Wuzzy angels” have
lost their appeal now that their job is
finished, and that, “whatever may be the
official attitude at headquarters,” the
official attitude in the districts (with some
exceptions) seems untempered by reason,
justice or consideration.
The native is virtually forced to sign
contracts of labor supposed to be volun-
tary ; is sent to jail for the most trivial
offences ; is treated with an entire lack of
sympathy, and as a result regards district
officials with fear. The commissioner dis-
covered that it was almost an offence to
thank a native for a service rendered ;
and to speak to him in ordinary English
instead of in “pidgin” was regarded as
subversive.
One result of the present conditions is
that the Papuan is rapidly losing the con-
fidence in “Guvment” so well built up
and developed by men like William Mac-
Gregor and Hubert Murray. —C. Coral
(Tas.).
Foreign Exchange
I can’t let “A. A. Baker” (B. 15/8/ ’45)
get away with his contention that ex-
change in its present form is a sort of
tax imposed on Australia by London
banking interests. Isn’t it a fact that if
our imports balanced our exports the ex-
change paid by importers would, be just
about equalled by the increased returns
to exporters? So, if the bankers tax im-
porters they also pay a bounty to farmers.
Nor can I agree with “A.A.B’s” state-
ment that the advantage to farmers is but
temporary. In thousands of instances it
has meant the difference between profit
and loss, and the tax extractor considers
it sufficiently permanent to make sure he
gets his cut out of it. And farmers are
not the only members of the community
to benefit. There are many ex-members
of the British fighting forces who are
grateful for the increased pension ex-
change has brought them. — West Riding
(Vic.).
Sex Problems
“H.M.” (B. 29/8/’45) would have
human beings regard sex as a matter-of-
fact relationship. That would be follow-
ing the lead of the Australian rabbit—with
equally pestiferous results.
The sensible woman plans her house-
keeping and keeps within the limits of
the family budget. She likewise plans her
family. That’s commonsense. Only
a person blind to all the known facts
would be bold enough to assert that “sex
was instituted by Nature for the sole pur-
pose of reproduction.” According to
sex can’t be played about with.
The Divorce Courts and current statistics
of v.d., abortion and illegitimacy prove
the contrary —it is being played about
with and that’s the problem “H.M.” re-
fuses to face up to. —F. C. T. (N.S.W.).
Mud Brick Houses
Tell “H.C.8.” (B. 29/8/’45) I did
not say that a person ignorant of con-
struction could build a mudbrick house,
any more than he could any other sort of
house. I said that making a good brick
required so little skill that a boy of 12
could learn it in ten minutes and so little
equipment that the average householder
could make them in his backyard.
“H.C.8.” imputes to me other assertions of
which I am guiltless and has a crack at the
architect of the house —not a cottage—of
pise and mud brick I described. Indeed
we disagree so much on so many points
that it is no use continuing the con-
troversy. — Bumpkin (Vic.). *
For the Narrow Gauge
Has Eddie Ward or Harold Clapp
ever considered the wisdom of making
the 3ft. 6in. standard gauge for Aus-
tralia? It is virtually standard in Queens-
land and Westralia, and nearly half the
S.A. mileage is 3ft. 6in.
The South African railways (3ft. 6in.)
work the most powerful locomotives in
the world, outside America —the “G.L.”-
class Beyer-Garretts of 90,0001 b. tractive
effort. The coaches are wider than stan-
dard-gauge ones in England, and speeds
compare favorably with standard-gauge
speeds in Australia.
Instances innumerable can be cited to
show that the metre (3ft, 3|in.) and
3ft. 6in. gauge are no impediment to
heavy freight traffic and, indeed, that
haulage on these gauges is more efficient
than on the so-called standard gauge be-
cause of the more favorable “load to
tare” ratio.
In South Africa passenger comfort
from Capetown to the Rand is as good
as, if not better than, on any 4ft. Biin.
or sft. 3in. line in Australia. Mainten-
ance of equipment and trades, which
accounts for a greater proportion of the
yearly railway expenditure, is much less
costly.
Further, if a change to narrow gauge
were made none of the present rolling
stock need be scrapped until the expira-
tion of its reasonable life. There are
sft. 3in. freight and livestock trucks doing
heavy duty on 3ft. 6in. chasses in South
Australia. This would take care of the
intermediate 4ft. B|in. stock, too. Coal
consumption comparisons are all in favor
of the 3ft. 6in. locomotive. No sleepers
would have to be thrown out. The cost
of conversion to standard gauge would be
a burden on posterity, and the amount
of waste involved in the total is stagger-
ing. Why should this be foisted oh Aus-
tralians by Ward and Co.? — Jas. Lynch
(S.A.). „


7*
t
%
73
%
O
73
>
©
©
73
%.
til
>
©
o
oo
•N
533
t*3
*9
£3
*3
O
o
*s
3
», ilii
%>
I
3
I
§
I
I
I
§
I
I
I'
£
£
I
/V
m
mashing
anT MMEBICMN BOTTLENECK
|H|ILLiONS of these tiny wafers of quartz were needed
in a hurry— for the transmitters of 'planes, tanks and
ships, for walkie-talkies, for every type of transmitter
used by the Allied nations. Without them, radio waves go
haywire. These little wafers are a "must."
- \ m
They used to be made one at a time by highly-skilled
workers, but wartime urgency called for precision mass
production. America called in Philips' engineers and
resources to help break the bottleneck.
1,,, jjy j,n in wwMpipi 1 "~"‘T ** *" '“*t“
From Philips came developments which contributed to a
solution of the problem ... high-speed precision machines
and X-ray processing devices. Soon, from a Philips factory
came over a million of these vital crystals.
For over half a century Philips have been world-renowned
for their contr|butions to human welfare and progress
for radio and television, for X-ray, for lighting and for
industrial electronics. War found the Philips organisation
Si :ate the whole of its vast industrial and
loi rces in the free World to the cause of the
United Hatioos. This it has done, and this it will continue
to do—in peace as in war ... bringing new discoveries and
new amenities into the lives of free peoples.
ẁ
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA. PTY. LTD.
Sydney .... Melbourne .... Adelaide .... Perth .... Brisbane
LAMPS AND LIGHTING. RADIO APPARATUS, RECEIVING AND TRANSMITTING VALVES, SOUND
SYSTEMS, X-RAY EQUIPMENT, ELECTRONIC DEVICES, ELECTRICAL MEASURING EQUIPMENT
