

w
The House of Seppelts reminds you to
DO YOUR SHARE BUY VICTORY BONDS
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3400
Wednesdajy, April 11, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered aMhe General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CRAIGMILLAR CASTLE, WHERE MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS ONCE LIVED .
(CRAIGMILLAR CASTLE, about two miles south of Edinburgh,
C-' is situated, as its Gaelic name implies, on a rock-crowned
eminence. From structural evidences, some portions of it must
have been built soon after the Conquest, when every landed pro-
prietor had to make his manor capable of standing a siege During
the fourtemlh century the castle was possessed by the Prestons
of Gorton, and remained in their family for about three hundred
years. The fortress was of considerable strength, and it was one
of the places in which the nobles were accustomed to confine the
Scottish kings at such times as they gained ascendency over them.
Craigmillar was a favorite residence of Mary Queen of Scots during
her minority. In 1554 it was sacked and burnt by the English
soldiery, but soon afterwards it was rebuilt upon the ruins of the
former castle ; for in 1561 Mary resided there, and stationed her
guards at a small village close by, which still bears the significant
na me of “Little France.” Five years later Mary was still living
; the cast| and from it aid her visits to Bothwell he had
, ’ , . A _ .
been wounded by Elliot, a moss-trooper, and returned to Craig-
miliar with him and her court. Here her Ministers tried to per-
suade her to divorce Darnley; and, upon her refusal, they planned
his death.


Tioril Writing
L lilt VI At HOfrTF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin, 11
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 AGE
POETRY
MARCH NUMBER contains an essay “WM
Poet,” by Lieut. Eric Irvin, A.LF.; P oe “ , y pi e x-
Barratt, Laurence Oollinson, W. i a n
more Hudson, Rex Ingamells, J° an w wte Judith
Mudie, Roland Robinson, M. G. White,
Wright and Val Vallis. Send manuscripts to
Editor, Poetry, Lucindale, South Australia,
ment on publication.
On Sale at All Leading Bookstores.
The Red Page
DEMENTED GUINEA-PIGS.
Announcer: Folks, are you listening
there, way down in Tennessee? You
darkies on the cottonfields of Alabama,
you cowboys thundering the plains of
Texas. Man, oh, man, crouching with a
white face eating popcorn in the subways
of New York —hello, hello, out there,
you mighty American civilisation, hope of
the world, are you listening?
Man: How do we know they ain’t all
switched off?
Announcer ; I hope they have switched
off. It’s part of the play if they do and
part of the play if they don’t. Folks,
you are listening to a brand-new play by
William Saroyan, composed this very
minute, being composed right now, and
exactly on the lines of all the radio plays,
stage plays, ballets and operas in his new
book published by Faber, Razzle Dazzle.
Man; When does this new play begin?
Announcer: The play has already
begun. This is the play. This uplifting,
surging American voice reaching out over
the ether to the hearts of American men
and women and American children ; in
Tennessee, in Alabama, in Utah, in
Oregon, in Washington, D.C.; to men
who bitterly take aspirin ; to women won-
dering how they are going to pay next
week’s rent; to children suffering from
mumps, measles, whooping-cough apd
adenoids.
Man; What’s the name of this play?
Announcer: “Fourteen Demented
Guinea-pigs.”
Man ; Are thei;e any guinea-pigs in it?
Announcer: No.
Man: Well, in thaF-case, I don’t see
why you can’t call it “Fifty-seven Intoxi-
cated Cockroaches.”
Announcer: We will call it “Fifty-
seven Intoxicated Cockroaches.” It’s a
lovely title. It’s fine. It’s American. It’s
got oomph. It makes me think of steve-
dores laboring with mighty muscles in
the holds of ships from all over the
world, resting like sleeping swans at the
docks of San Francisco. It’s just the title
for this play. Folks, you are listening
to a brand-new play by William Saroyan
entitled “Three Hundred Thousand Blue-
eyed Baboons.”
Man : What is this play about?
Announcer: Nothing. '
Man: You can’t have a play about
nothing.
Announcer : Why has the newsboy on
the corner of West Fifty-seventh-street
got a wart on the end of his nose? Why
has the widow with seventeen children
suddenly decided to run them all through
the mangle? Who started the war? You
don’t know. Nobody knows. Nobody
knows what it’s all about. It’s life. It’s
nothing. It’s everything. That’s what
this play is about.
Man; I’d like to-listen to a play about
a farm.
Announcer: All right. This is a play
about a farm. You be the farmer.
Man: Goody, goody, goody. What
do I say?
Announcer: Say anything.
Man; Them there hogs ain’t as purty
as they was when they was dancing young
baconers.
Announcer: There you are. You can’t
go wrong. Now we’ve got a play about
this American farmer way down in Ten-
nessee who is heart-broken about his
hogs. It’s life. It’s time. It’s tragedy.
It’s comedy.
Man: You can’t have a play about a
farm without a cow in it.
Announcer; O.K. We’ll have a cow.
Hey, bring in a cow.
{Footsteps of approaching cow are heat'd.)
Man: My, that’s a lovely cow.
Announcer: Speak to us, cow.
Cow: Moo!
Announcer; There you are. The little
boy, he says “Mom, why can’t I be Presi-
dent of the United States?” The cow
she say “Moo,” It’s life.
Cow: Moo!
Man: I’m going to milk this cow, and
I’m going to raise chickens and hogs, and
111 grow corn and potatoes and mangel-
wurzels, and I’ll be outdoors in rain,
snow, hail, frost and all the different kinds
of weather, and I’ll get me a good wife
and never be lonely any more.
Cow: Moo!
Announcer ; Marry the cow.
Man; I’d kinda like to talk to my wife
sometimes. Supposing the hogs got fever
and I was worried. This is a fine, hand-
some cow, all right, and she’s an Ameri-
can citizen, but she can’t say anything
except “Moo.”
Cow; What the hell else do you expect
me to say? I’m a cow, aren’t I?
Man : Say, did you hear that? I’ll bet
that gave you a surprise.
Announcer; Nothing ever surprises
me in a Saroyan play.
Cow: If I’m a cow I gotter say “Moo.”
And what’s more I like saying “Moo.”
It might not mean anything to you, but
it means a lot to me.
Man: What’s she lashing her tail for?
Announcer: Rage. The great emo-
tions. American love, American hate.
Passion. And what’s more, she’s quite
right about saying “Moo.” It might
mean anything. Anything might mean
anything. The thing to do is to say it
and see how it goes.
Cow: Moo!
Announcer: There you are. “Moo!”
The whole universe in a syllable. Every-
thing means something. Everything
means everything. You try it yourself
and see.
Man: Moo.
Announcer: Peace, it’s wonderful.
Folks, here’s this fine American farmer
mooing and cooing and wooing the fine
American Friesian he’s going to marry.
Cow: I ain’t gonna marry this bozo.
I’m gonna marry Errol Flynn and Charlie
Chaplin.
Man ( plaintively ): Moo!
Announcer: Ladies and gentlemen, I
thought you were going to listen to a
comedy, but it has turned out to be a
tragedy. I think we had better have
some bright, cheerful, heart-warming
American music. Cow, will you please
sing “The Star-Spangled Banner”?
Cow: I don’t like you.
Man: What’s she got her head down
for?
Announcer : She looks as if she’s
going to charge something. It’s life. It’s
war. It’s American drive and push. She’s
going to charge the universe.
Cow: I’m going to charge you. Both
of you. I don’t like you. I don’t like
Saroyan. I don’t like this play. At first
I thought it might be amusing, but now
I think it is just plain darned madden-
ingly silly. You’ll be sorry you ever
asked me into this studio.
Announcer: Moo, now. Moo, moo.
Please now. Moo, moo, moo.
Cow: Death and damnation!
{Frightful rumpus.)
Voice : Sorry for that interruption,
listeners, to Mr. Saroyan’s beautiful new
play. The announcer and the farmer
have unfortunately been called away, out
the window, on urgent business. You
will now hear Bennie McFinkelbaum and
his Glamor Boys playing a new song-hit
by Bernard Sheridan Shakspeare, “Some-
body’s Got a Screw Loose Somewhere.”
Literature Out of Gold .
ŵ
adventurous Byron, whom one would
naturally expect to see approved, is dis-
missed in an aside with the cliche “He
had at| inferiority complex.” In his
comparisons of McCrae with Brennan
and Baylebridge— to the disadvantage of
the lyrist—Mr. Green seems to have for-
gotten that he has discovered that joy
is a profundity, and that, in the note on
Kendall, he has committed himself to
valuing a joyous poetry, as typically Aus-
tralian, above all other kinds. Despite
the defiant climax to “The Wanderer” it
is hardly possible to. maintain that
Brennan is joyous and Australian in the
way that Paterson certainly is and Mc-
Crae might be claimed to be.
Similarly, it is not easy to discover
on what principles Mr. Green bases his
technical appreciation. He quotes as
having “a rich, sonorous dignity....
something really splendid” a verse by
Baylebridge which seems to the present
commentator a good deal less than “really
splendid,” unless perhaps in the couplet:
And flesh, whose shows were wonders high,
Looks piteous when it puts them by.
There is surely something not “rich and
sonorous” but merely commonplace in:
But blood must wither like the rose;
Tis wasting as the minute goes;
and something perilously close to bathqs
in:
The shape I had so oft embraced
Was sealed up, and in earth was placed.
Other points that might be mentioned
here are the absence of any reference to
the influence of Swinburne on Adam
Lindsay Gordon ; the denial that there
is any self-pity in Lawson’s writings;
the failure to bring the book up to date
—“few” poems, Mr. Green says, have
arisen out of the present war ; and the
occasional faults in the writing—there
are, for instance, two grammatical errors
in the quotation at the beginning of this
article. Mr. Green seems in general more
at ease when dealing with the established
writers: the inclusion of “Ricketty Kate”
among the new writers hardly seems justi-
fiable, and a long poem such as Kenneth
Mackenzie’s “Our Earth” surely deserves
more than a passing mention.
These, however, are small points. Some
of them are merely matters of taste;
nearly all of them can be put down to
the facts that radio talks never print
well, and that in these broadcasts Mr.
Green was skimped for time.
Underlying the apparent inconsisten-
cies, moreover, the preference for a dis-
tinctly Australian poetry, rich in color
and optimistic in spirit, can certainly be
discerned. It shows in the warm apprecia-
tion of the balladists and of Robert Fitz-
Gerald’s “Essay on Memory” and Ken-
neth Slessor’s poems of the Pacific.
There is an obvious connection between
Mr. Green’s liking for such lines as these
of Will Ogilvie’s:
I loved the wide gold glitter of the plains
Spread out before us like a silent sea,
The lazy lapping of the loose-held reins,
The sense of motion and of mystery
As the great beasts slid slowly through the grass,
One passing one, then letting it re-pass....
and his approval of Fitz Gerald’s “im-
mense and youthful energy.” Fitz Gerald,
he says, “is like the early Australian
pioneers, an adventurer, but he is an
adventurer of the spirit.”
Some of Mr. Green’s talks were broad-
casts to schoolchildren, and Fourteen
Minutes would serve admirably as an in-
troduction for children to Australian
poetry. There are profitable “pickings”
for readers of all ages but, critical essays
being alb too rare in this country, one
would like to have from Mr. Green
longer studies on the lines of T. Inglis
Moore’s Six Australian Poets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
An Easter show of paintings, none
over 30 guineas, at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, is contributed to by 28
artists. Roland Wakelin’s “Careening
Coye” and Ronald H. Steuart’s striking
water-color study “Broken Tree” stand
out amid a general body of work uncer-
tain in intention and imitative in execu-
tion. Such a commonplace landscape as
Douglas Dundas’s “Osier Banks” and
such trite flower studies as those sub-
mitted by Alison Rehfisch and Dorothy
Thornhill gain lustre in comparison by
reason of lucidity. A link with the .days
when Australian painters used discrimi-
nation in applying the ideas they picked
up in Europe is the low-toned Tom
Roberts sketch “Sydney Waterfront.”
Inhabiting Lister Lister’s old studio in
Paling’s Buildings, Sydney, is Sydney
Scammell, who has been holding a show
of his Australian landscapes there. His
approach is lucid and straightforward, he
has a pretty touch with skies and water;
rather a heavy hand with trees. He paints
the sea cheerily and with understanding
“Coastal Beauty” (No. 33) and “Surf Tur-
bulence” (No. 26) are among the best
things in the show.
At S.A. Society of Arts Noel Wood
showed some more of the attractive
bright greens and reds from his Barrier
island. Herbert Barringer, whose house
in the Adelaide hills was burnt out, with
everything in it, has made a fresh start,
improved on his old form, and his land-
scapes are selling rapidly.
At the talkies:
“Pin-up Girl” (Sydney Empire) is one of
those talkies m which a plot of ineffable idiocy
is hopefully swathed in technicolor. Miss
Betty Grable’s legs, which are the chief item
of intellectual interest, are, of course, very nice
There is more justification for the use of
technicolor in Universal’s “Gipsy Wildcat”
(Lyceum), a fantasy of bold, bad barons and
hapless wenches set in the middle ages. The
color’s attractive, and if there’s not much
acting there’s at least some action.
“Greenwich Village” (Regent) also in color,
is routine songandance—-backstage stuff, done
in 20th Century Fox’s most polished style, and
chiefly interesting because of the introduction
of a musical-comedy voice of clarity, sweetness
and good, enunciation, rare in film musicals.
It belongs to Vivian Blaine.
“Two Girls and a Sailor” (St. James) doesn’t
need color to prop it up. A musical with a
liberal issue of good turns—Jose Iturbi and
sister in a pianoforte duet of De Falla’s “Fire
Dance” contrast amusingly with Grace Allen
using an index finger to perform the solo part
of a concerto conducted by Albert Coates—
it moves at a good pace throughout and has a
story that can stand on its own feet. Also, in
June Allyson it has a heroine who can act.
The most humorous thing about the comedy
“Abroad with Two Yanks” (Plaza) is the
turned-up hat and uniform worn by an Aussie
sergeant. The interesting discovery is also
made that Cockney-accented butlers are stan-
dard equipment in Australian homes. Comedy
is mostly of the crude slapstick type, with the
old theme of two pals trying to out-manoeuvre
one another for the goil, who eventually slides
into the arms of a third party.
“Lady in the Dark,” which started the
fashion in psychological films, has a follower
in “Now, Voyager,” at Melbourne Plaza.
Though it’s alive at times, it hasn’t the under-
standing of its exemplar and lapses into senti-
mentality at the finish —but no doubt that had
to be so when the problem child needing treat-
ment' is Bette Davis. Miss Davis, the dethroned
child, fights her tyrannical mother by develop-
ing into an unprepossessing old maid and is
cured by falling in love with a young architect
in Brazil, the resultant metamorphosis being
a beautiful woman. Miss Davis makes the
change convincing. Later she devotes herself
to the architect’s daughter, a problem child
after her own type, and produces a similar
metamorphosis, with her hopeless love for the
father as the agent. The psychiatrist repre-
sented by Claude Rains is a fool and his nurse
is a policeman.
At Sydney Capitol the ghosts of the Mad
Doctor, Dracula, Cab Callaway, Frankenstein,
the Mad Scientist, the Cat People and sundry
werewolves fled in frustrated rage as Deanna
Durbin’s liquid notes in “Can’t Help Singing”
spelt finis to the big downtown theatre’s long-
held swing-and-horror policy. Between admira-
tion of the Durbin voice and the neat charac-
terisation by Akim Tamiroff and Olin Howland
one may comfortably wonder if perms, were
au fait in the early Californian gold-coach
days, and how full orchestras happened to be
on hand in the mesquite whenever a soprano felt
a song was about to erupt. Not that it matters.
Quite a bit of time in “Thank Your Lucky
Stars” (Sydney Tatler) is spent by Eddie Cantor
in holding himself up to some first-class ridi-
cule-—and only a comedian of the Cantor status
can afford to do that. The film is top-speed
comedy salted with good vaudeville turns,
lavishly mounted and demonstrating, rather
obviously, the unquestioned versatility of a
host' of top-liners.
Emlyn Williams’s “The Corn Is
Green,” the story of a school-teacher’s
endeavors to bring the light of know-
ledge to an incredibly primitive Welsh
village, was the subject matter of
the latest performance by the National
Theatre in Melbourne. Rev. Caradoc
Evans, a Welsh parson resident in Mel-
bourne, having been requisitioned to ad-
vise on local color, the large amount of
Welsh spoken and the manners and cus-
toms of the natives may be taken as being
factually correct. In addition the play
was well acted, especially by Gloria Mel-
lody, a young actress of great promise.
“J.F.” on reformers:
I liked lan Hay’s “Housemaster” at Kilbra
Hall, Sydney, not only because May Holim-
worth’s Metropolitan Players and the Kurmgai
Chase Theatre Guild staged it well, but be-
cause there’s something to the play. Lv? n '
he did make them talk too cleverly at times,
lan Hay, like Kipling, knew his sc h o 9*“°S
Apart from the fact that it’s a delightful
comedy, “The Housemaster” is a problem play-
the fact that it is not a crude one sometimes
disguises the problem, which J 8"!* 11 " ,
do with the educational reformer? The ten -
five suggestion made in the play, that he sno
be hit on the base of the skull with a pape -
weight, is unfortunately impractical, the u
reformer, like the Head ;n the play, is a W-
midable character, usually “with brains, P
sonality and a certain charm”; he has a pc
chant for being “dead rignt at the w 8
time” and an invincible blindness to
real character of boys—or men. ■ " .
usually endowed with a fund 9! sae■
jargon and is a greater menace ■
than in England, because we are mor ,
pressed by scientific cranks than the fcj
who have a greater respect for of
are more tolerant of the innate conservat u e
the average schoolboy. Perhaps
better for more of lan Hay: the imph
of the play are endless.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
''THE SENIOR STORE'
\:
m
»JS
m
mm
lit
mm*.
C Wi
mm
fm
UK
w
ms f :
...<-■■■
■.
Paris Shade Scrim Net. 36 inches
wide. Suitable for screen curtains.
Price, yard 2/4|
No coupons.
mjsm
if
w ::£M
>32*'" :■
m
A
m
fzmm -
mM
is
Wv-X
p
mm
m
m.
/
»»*
*
mm
Mm
m
m
mm
sm
*:
mm
mm
mm
m
m
is
gm
■m-
mm
m*
mm
?m
mM
mm
■■M£/
km
n
Plain Cotton Repp, suitable for either Curtains
or Loose Covers, Colours are Green, Brown and
Burgundy yard
No coupons.
Tapestry Curtains made up with pleated
beading, having a pocket for rod. Obtainable
in Rust, Green, Fawn or Burgundy. 6 feet
6 inch drop 1057-
No coupons.
pf Alternative Mosquito Net, 90 inches wide.
This net is of the fillet type, which makes
it suitable for any furnishing purpose.
Ivory shade only 4/10 yard
No coupons.
Furnishing Drapery—Third Floor.
*> M ?
i m m
K
m
m
.X
SB
&
I
yy
o
i
y
N-
o
M
74V
Heavy Quality Indian Burlap, an
excellent fabric, especially suitable
for loose or tight Furniture Covers.
In Red, Rust, Brown or Natural.
40 inches wide 6/6 yard
No coupons.
HI
(f lcy'r
»<■
***¥-•?/ <S
»ws3Sfi£v-i x* *
WM
Cretonne Cushions with at-
tractive frilled edges. Filled
with best quality new woollen
flock. One design only, 16/6
No coupons.
Parchment Lampshade, hand
painted with floral sprig
design, finished with contrast-
ing coloured tufting. In
colours of Blue, Rose, Green,
Cream or Rust ........ 7/6
No coupons.
FREIGHT PAID ON THESE GOODS.
Fitted Bedspreads, made of high
quality print in two-colour effects,
attractive design as illustrated,
complete with two pillow covers.
In Burgundy, Rose, Light Tan and
Blue £6/6/-
No coupons.
FREIGHT PAID IN N.S.W. THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
N.S.W. AND INTERSTATE POSTAGE WILL BE CHARGED.
D INTERSTATE POSTAGE WILL BE CHARGED. * m
TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


PICNIC RACES
By J. B. BLAIR.
IT is really not surprising that a dis-
cussion concerned mainly with Roose-
velt’s fourth term should bring forth
a racing story, particularly as in the j
A.I.F. any peg is good enough to hang I
a racing yarn on. Inevitably someone g
had dragged in the bit about changing 1
horses in the middle of the stream, and 1
this was the chance Spoggie Barnes had
been waiting for.
“It pays sometimes,” he claimed. “I
remember at Goolawong once”—
Mention of Goolawong was always
good for a laugh, as according to Spoggie,
its self-appointed publicity agent, every
experience that can fall to the lot of man
had already been tested by one or other
of the inhabitants of that pint-sized town-
ship.
“You’re not going to tell us you’ve got
a President in Goolawong?” said Jazzer
Jones.
“I’m not trying to tell you anything of
the sort,” replied Spoggie. “I’m talking
about changing horses in the middle of
the stream, and I said it pfiys sometimes.
At least, not exactly in the middle of the
stream, but in the middle of the race. It
happened in Goolawong.”
“A six-day bike race?” suggested Jaz-
zer.
“A horse race.”
“Was that the year they ran the Mel-
bourne Cup, at Goolawong?” asked
Jazzer.
Spoggie ignored him and proceeded
with his tale.
“It was before my time,” he told them.
“Back in the days when there was gold
diggings round Goolawong and plenty of
money about. My dad used to tell me.
They had a racecourse there and people
used to come from miles around to the
meetings. Not just one or two picnic
meetings a year, like nowadays, but week
in, week out. Good prize-money and
plenty of willing punters, with bookies
there ready to accommodate ’em.”
“Racing’s a mug’s game,” said Harry,
the commo. “Crook, too.’*
“The track was a dirt one,” went on
Spoggie, “with a bit of nice grass in the
straight, but what made it real interesting
was a little patch of scrub just before the
three-furlong post. For about 50 yards
the field *d be outa sight, and you can
guess the milling and jostling that went
on in that scrub.
“Your horse might be leading when
the bunch disappeared into the scrub and
when they came out on the other side
you’d look for it and find half the field
ahead of it. ’Course, sometimes it was
the other way about, so things evened up.
They reckoned it was all in the game.”
“Racing’s a mug’s game,” said Harry,
“Crook, too.”
“Shut up, mug,” he was told. Nobody
objected much to Harry’s political opin-
ions, but it was a different matter when
he began to criticise racing. He subsided,
and Spoggie took up his story again.
Ii \\I ELL, as I said, there was plenty
«V of money about, and when the
diggers are asked to club in and make the
Miners’ Cup a big event they dives deep
and the prize-money’s well over a thous-
and smackers. That’s not counting the
Gold Cup, made from gold from the dis-
trict and worth two or three hundred of
anyone’s dough. They made it worth
while, all right, and that’s where the
trouble started.
“All the local horses with any show
of speed was entered for the Cup and
some pretty good outside entries came in,
too, and it looked as if it’d be a good race
till just a week before the Cup a bloke
lands in Goolawong with a horse called
Lucky Hit.
“This sort of knocked the bottom out of
the betting, as this Lucky Hit had won a
lot of races on city courses arid looked a
stone moral.
“One bloke’s not worried, though.
Chap by the name of Bill Salter who
owns a little bay filly called Lily May.
Bill’s not put off by being laughed at.
He reckons he’s got a good thing and he’s
willing to back it with real money. Re-
sult is there’s a lot of talk about Lily May
and her price is down to fives by the time
the race starts, with Lucky Hit still odds-
on favorite and the rest any price you
like.
“Well, they run the Cup,
“By the time the half-mile is reached
Lily May is tagging the field. Then
they disappear into the scrub. When
they come out again Lily May begins to
catch up. She sails past Rosabelle and
Uncle Tom and goes after Lucky Hit.
Lucky Hit’s jockey wakes up to himself
and uses the whip, but it’s too late. Lily
May catches him and wins by half a
length.”
“Racing ? s a mug’s game. Crook, too,”
said Harry.
“It’s a three-day meeting,” Spoggie
went on, “and next day Lily May does it
again. She’s last into the scrub, last out
of the scrub, puts in a dazzling burst and
wins on the post.
“Dad always claims he jerried to the
secret then. Whether he did or not I
don’t kpow, but certainly some of the
owners did. Of course, as you’ve guessed,
there were two Lily Mays. One to start
the race and one in the scrub, properly
weighted and saddle-clothed, ready to
take up the running when the field was
tired. All the jockey had to do was tail
the field to the scrub, change mounts and
go on and win. It doesn’t take a world-
beater to win a three-furlong sprint
against a field that’s done five' furlongs
already.
“But those that tumbled didn’t let on,
’cause they reckoned that what Bill Salter
could do they could do, too. There
wasn’t much time for them to make ar-
rangements for the final day and nobody
can really say how many worked the
trick that day. It’s not easy to get match-
ing horses at a moment’s notice.
“Anyway, Lily. May completed her hat-
trick, and Dad always reckons Nugget,
that won the first race at fifty to one, and
Bluebell, that clicked in the last at thirty-
threes, musta doubled, too. They were
both running last at the scrub and won in
a finishing burst like Lily May’s.
i £ M ONE of the owners wasted the
1N next fortnight and the night before
the next meeting there was enough
horses stowed away in that patch of scrub
to make a Melbourne Cup field.
“As there’s so many in the know
there’s no need for a horse to tail the
field any more and Goolawong had never
seen racing like they saw that day. The
pace is a cracker from the start, but
nothing to the speed the jockeys show in
changing mounts in the scrub. In the
confusion one or two gets on the wrong
horses, but these don’t get a place, so no
awkward complications follow.
“It’s more or less fair to everybody, so
nobody worries. One or two owners
whose horses has got such distinctive
markings they can’t match ’em suggest the
scrub ought to be cleared—‘to give the
spectators a full view of the race’ they
say—but the committee won’t hear of it.
“And so it goes on, Goolawong race
meetings become famous, and any old
timer’ll tell you those three-furlong gal-
lops were a joy to watch.
“Old Bill Salter that started the thing
isn’t able to do much with Lily May
once the others get on to the idea. She’s
no world-beater, and with things more or
less evens-Stephens, she’s dropped back
to her proper class again.
“But Bill is a man of ideas,
“He’s missing from Goolawong for a
week and he comes back with a slashing
horse—a big brown gelding called Prince
Albert. It musta cost him nearly all he
won on Lily May, but he’s happy enough.
Prince Albert’s pedigree’s studded with
champion horses and he’s won any
amount of races in Melbourne and Syd-
ney. And, o’ course, Bill hasn’t brought
him back alone. He’s also brought the
living, spitting image of him, and, going
one better than anyone else, he’s brought
the living, spitting image of that, too.
“Y’ see, he’s planning something real
big. In Goolawopg in those days, same
as on some of the country courses today,
it was a common thing for a horse to
start in two races on the same day. When
this idea of changing horses in the middle
of the scrub came in it was quite easy.
The horse that started in the earlier race
and was left behind in the scrub would
have a good rest there and be ready to
put in a smart finish later in the day when
it took up the running from its partner.
“Well, Bill Salter’s plan was this. He’d
enter Prince Albert in three events —the
six furlongs, the seven and the mile.
“The real Prince Albert would start in
the first race and the two substitutes
would be waiting in the scrub. Prince
Albert II would take up the running and
win that race Then he’d start in the
seven furlong, which the genuine Prince
Albert would win. By the time the mile
was due to start the champion would be
rested enough to lead the field into the
scrub, making the race a sitter for Prince
Albert 111, who’d be absolutely fresh.
“To make it more certain still, Bill
had thought up a scheme to save the
jockeys changing mounts. He hired the
Kelly triplets from over at Napunda to
ride his three Prince Alberts. They
weren’t really triplets. Jim and Joe was
twins and Terry was a coupla years
younger, but they all looked the same, so
they was always called the triplets.
Terry was the official jockey and the
other two were planted in the scrub with
their horses.”
“Racing’s a mug’s game. Crook, too.”
“Pull y’f head in, Harry.”
“THE scrub that day,” said Spoggie,
A “musta looked like the Horse Ring
at the Sydney Show. There were seven
events on the card and every owner that
could manage it had a spare horse there
ready and waiting.
“And Bill wasn’t the only one who’d
thought of spare jockeys, either. It isn’t
so easy to match jockeys as it is to match
horses —there weren’t too many twins in
the district —but, all the same, there was
a fair number of jockeys in the scrub.
“The six-furlong was the first race on
the programme. The entry of Prince
Albert had caused a lot of scratchings
and only five horses lined up at the bar-
rier. The other four were Pancake,
Gypsy Lass, Squatter’s Daughter and
Casanova.
“When they get into the scrub —Prince
Albert leading—the fun starts. I told you
the other four horses all had duplicates,
but I didn’t mention they all had duplicate
jockeys, too. That’s why they hadn’t
been scratched, ’cause each owner thought
he was the only one to get that brain-
wave. They didn’t even know Bill Salter
had thought of it.
“O’ course, the jockeys in the scrub
knew by now and they’re all on their
horses at the far edge of the scrub ready
to get a break on each other. Only in-
stead of five there’s six, ’cause Prince
Albert II and Prince Albert 111 are both
there, and Jim and Joe’s, arguing which
is supposed to be on duty for this race.
“They’re still arguing when the field
comes thundering into the scrub. The
other substitute jockeys are off like a
flash and Jim and Joe is off with ’em.
“The original field is pulling up when
Terry Kelly realises both his brothers
have started. He does some quick think-
ing. If they both finish Prince Albert’ll
be disqualified. The only chance he can
see is for him to keep straight on. With
the real Prince Albert under him there’s
still a chance to beat the field and he
reckons they can’t very well disqualify
him, being the original starter.
“So on he goes.
“The rest of the original starters, see-
ing Terry keep on, think there’s some-
thing fishy being cooked up, so they
keep going, too.”
IT was time for Spoggie to do his cele-
A brated imitation of a radio sports an-
nouncer. That there weren’t any an-
nouncers in those days was a detail he
ignored,
“Coming out of the scrub,” he said
dramatically, “Prince Albert is still in the
lead with Prince Albert close behind.
Casanova next, then Gypsy Lass, Pan-
cake and Squatter’s Daughter. Then a
m Sap to —er —yes. Prince Albert, with
H Pancake and Squatter’s Daughter to-
ll gether, then Casanova and Gypsy Lass
m *ast-
f “At the two furlongs it’s Prince Albert,
Casanova, Prince Albert, Pancake, Squat-
ter’s Daughter and Gypsy Lass, with
Prince Albert close behind with Casanova
and Squatter’s Daughter neck and neck;
then Gypsy Lass and Pancake last.
“A furlong from home Casanova’s
gone to the front, but Prince Albert’s
coming again followed by Prince Albert
and Squatter’s Daughter. Pancake falling
back to Gypsy Lass. Then Prince Albert
putting in a remarkable run. Casanova,
Squatter’s Daughter also finishing fast.
Gypsy Lass, Pancake last.
“Into the straight Prince Albert regains
the lead. Casanova’s done his dash.
Squatter’s Daughter and Prince Albert
shoot past him, Prince Albert’s coming
up like a whirlwind. So’s Squatter’s
Daughter Prince Albert leading by a
head from Prince Albert, but both at the
end of their tether and Prince Albert
simply flying over the ground.
“It’s a dead heat, Prince Albert and
Prince Albert.
“No, just as they passed the post to-
gether Prince Albert got his nose in front
of the two of them. A marvellous finish!
“These are my placings, listeners, not
the judge’s. Prince Albert first, by half
a head from Prince Albert and Prince
Albert, dead-heating for second place.
Then two lengths to Squatter’s Daughter,
a length to Squatter’s Daughter, with
Casanova sixth, Casanova seventh, I
didn’t get the others, listeners, but it was
a great race and a grand finish.”
Spoggie paused for breath,
“What were the judge’s placings?”
asked Jazzer Jones.
“He didn’t give any. Y’ see, Terry’s
scheme came unstuck ’cause Jim and Joe
both swore they was Terry and the whole
three claimed they’d ridden from start to
finish. It was no good disqualifying
Prince Albert, because the same trouble
would arise over Squatter’s Daughter
and the others. If there’d been a single
horse in the race that was dinkum he’d
have got the verdict, but they was all
doubles, so the judges had to declare it
no race.
“That was the end of doubling up.
For the rest of the races that day they
put all sorts of secret marks on the
starters and checked ’em at the weighing-
in. And before the next meeting the
scrub was cleared away. But the old-
timers reckon racing’s never been the
same in Goolawong since.”
“Racing’s a mug’s game,” said Harry.
“Crook, too,”
Man with Scythe.
/ saw an old man mowing grass
With slow and solemn sweeps, back bent,
intent
Upon his task. The uncomplaining
sheaves
Fell at his feet, stems dried with age and
heat
Beside those fresh and green after early
rain,
Their seeds of promise unfulfilled. The
sun
Burned on his back. He stopped, took a
new grip,
Turned and spat to the left, then bent
again
To the rhythmic swing, sweep of the
pendulum, lost
Wave-rhythm from when man’s for-
bears grew in sea.
Rooted on rocks. And suddenly I saw
Time in a patched waistcoat and an old
felt hat
In our back paddock cutting down the
past.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.
On a Winter’s Evening.
At dusk the wolves, thwarted by doors,
returned
And howled in the latticed lobby without
end
—lt was the wind ! —though none protec-
tion spurned
Indoors, when outdoors darkness was no
friend :
A hated nigger whom the children
feared;
Who through the windows dragged the
lamp’s blond hair;
A nd, naked behind curtains, boldly leered
At children, when brave parents were
not there,
But in the spare room, struggling on the
wall,
Gigantic figures, hostile, since so tall.
When all shapes, shadows, chimeras
seemed:
A witches’ melee round the, family tub
That like a seething cauldron smoked
and steamed;
Of evil emanations now the hub.
Only the candle on a plinth-like stool,
Snared, like a gold canary, lit the gloom;
Fluttered between us and the gloating
ghoul
Who sucked and puffed for darkness in
the room;
Who rocked each heart whifh like a
treacherous drum
Beat dark tattoos for cannibals to come.
Freda, Alice, Edward, I sat there,
For such ablutions cleanse the very soul
—lf not with water, then with godly fear,
And cleanliness was then the ultimate
goal.
QUEENSLAND,
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3400
Wednesday, April 11, 1945
“REPLY TO EQUIPMENT CRITICS.”
“All I could bring back with me, Minister of Defence, but have you ever seen belter implements in your life? And they're standard equipment."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria:' Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WHAT PEACE AHEAD?
After the past experiment in world
security from war collectively controlled
there is one thing on which a vote of all
nations not blind and deaf to experience
or drunk with power would be unani-
mous: that without United States co-
operation as all-out for ensuring peace as
it has been for winning the war all the
plans and the conferences might as well
never have happened. The picture of
Peace will be a figure of despair de-
pendent for protection on a hedge of bare
bayonets.
Naturally, with this the inevitable situ-
ation developed in the world drama, the
American who has both the position and
the ability to influence, if not control,
the final decision on American participa-
tion takes the spotlight in a leading role.
To the turn of the present year not par
ticularly well known outside his country,
Senator Arthur. Vandenberg on Janu-
ary 10 made a speech in Congress that
was at once recognised, there and else-
where, as one of this war’s most im-
portant utterances bearing on the future
peace. Especially it was enthusiastically
hailed as completing national unity for
continued collaboration in keeping world
security after the winning of the wars.
Calmer appraisal presently recognised
that there were vital reservations in the
Senator’s speech. These were not at first
clearly seen beyond the suggestion for a
lasting alliance to prevent future aggres-
sion by Germany and Japan when those
nations have been defeated. That, coming
from a Republican, formerly an isola-
tionist, appeared to be an outright en-
dorsement of “entangling alliances.” The
calmer appraisal found that in its reser-
vations the speech really amounted to a
warning to others on the Allied side not
to infringe on the Atlantic Charter as
representing the American conception of
a just peace.
Senator Vandenberg recognised that
the separate frontier changes being, or
about to be, made—as in Poland —were
“perfectly understandable” on a future
security basis. He laid down, however,
that a general peace organisation, with
treaties signed, would dispose of the argu-
ment for any such adjustments. He said
flatly that the United States would not if
he could prevent it underwrite a peace
which violated Atlantic Charter principles.
Still, there was nothing but favorable
reaction to the speech. Then, in February,
Senator Vandenberg took the platform
again. He carried his argument and his
plain-spoken warnings further. “If we
first deal with our enemies through un-
equivocal post-war restraints upon them,”
he said, “we have remaining only our
friends to consider in charting the organi-
sation of our post-war peace league.” He
added:
Remember that we are talking about the
future use of force against one of our
present Allies who subsequently becomes
a military aggressor to threaten the peace
of the world. Obviously it can only be one
of our present major Allies. It will have
to be a present major Ally who has broken
a solemn pledge to abandon force as an
instrumentality of foreign policy. It will
have to be a major Ally who has
successively defied all of the inter-
vening machinery for the pacific settle-
ment of disputes, contemplated at
Dumbarton Oaks. This [the proposed
machinery for keeping peace] means full
investigation and report; then conciliation;
then mediation; then arbitration; probably
the intervention of international law through
the medium of a new World Court; per-
haps even economic sanctions. The new
crisis will not be a blitz. It will finally
reach the last recourse—namely, armed
force—only after the other United Nations
(which is to say, the conscience of the
world) have been put upon serial notice
that one of our present major Allies has
turned brute beast and proposes to assault
civilisation.
By going into the world organisation,
the Senator declared, the United States
would have relieved the other major
Allies “of any legitimate need, each on
his unchecked account, to make unilateral
decisions in the name of self-defence.”
Thereby, he insisted, the United States
“shall have earned the right to demand
that all such decisions shall be subject
to review and correction in the post-war
peace by whatever international organi-
sation we shall set up to perpetuate the
solidarity of the United Nations. A
spoilsman’s peace will not survive.” He
said further:
Collective security will be no stronger
than the merits of the cause it implements.
Therefore it is to our own American self-
interest also to keep this objective for ever
at our masthead —peace with justice! Not
because we want to meddle in the problems
• of other continents. But because there can
be no peace without justice. Let me be
specific. I am talking about the basic
aspirations of the Atlantic Charter. It is
not just a nautical collection of fragmen-
tary notes. It is the bone and sinew of
our forward march.
Mr, Roosevelt invited Senator Van den-
berg to go as chief Republican party
representative to the San Francisco con-
ference on world security. A month
passed with nothing but favorable reac-
tion to either of the Senator’s speeches.
Then, in March, a violent counterblast
emanated from Moscow. In the form
of an English language broadcast by
“one of the Kremlin’s chief journalistic
mouthpieces on international affairs,
Andrei Sokolov,” it represented the
Senator’s statements as expressing prefer-
ence for “pro-Fascist and pro-Hitler
regimes in the small European
countries.” “The whole content of the
Vandenberg speech,” the broadcast
alleged, “is further proof that its fine
phrases are merely a screen to cover up
encroachment on the rights not only of
the small but even of the Great Powers,
and to establish a dictatorship of one
Great Power over all the others,” the
Great Power being the Senator’s own
country.
“Senator Vandenberg’s philosophy,”
the broadcast proceeded, “is that of an
avowed Imperialist, because his unbridled
covetousness lays claim to the entire
world. He seems to envisage the whole
world with the knee bent at the entrance
to the shrin.e of the dollar.” The par-
ticular Vandenberg speech attacked with
this unrestrained abuse had been thought
so highly of in Washington that it had
been broadcast to the world in 20
languages. American reaction to the
Moscow abuse was that the cap had evi-
dently found someone it fitted.
Unmoved, standing on solid principles
and with the strength both of powerful
national backing and his own peculiar
position, Senator Vandenberg allowed it
to be a long time between shots. Then,
last week, he came out with proposals
which can be taken as advance notice of
fhe stand he Intends to adopt at San
Francisco and afterwards.
Proposing amendments to the Dum-
barton Oaks plan for a world security
organisation—which will be the basis for
the San Francisco discussions, out of
which it is hoped a new league to ensure
lasting peace will be evolved —Senator
Vandenberg gave first place to : “If the
Security Council [of the proposed new
league] finds that any situation involves
injustice to the t people concerned it
shall recommend appropriate adjust-
ments, which may include revision of
treaties and prior international decisions.”
Another of his proposed amendments
provides for the other executive group in
the new league, the Assembly, being
“obliged specifically to make recommen-
dations for adjusting situations which
violate the principles of the Atlantic
Charter,” Also: “Members of the Coun-
cil shall not be obliged to take action to
perpetuate any situation which the Coun-
cil or the Assembly has decided is un-
just.” And another: “The objects of the
security organisation shall include estab-
lishment of justice, promotion of respect
for human rights and fundamental free-
doms.”
Those, then, are the grounds on which
the Senator will take his stand at the
world security conference whenever it
comes off; the terms on which he will be
prepared to join his influence in the
setting up of the new world security
organisation. And his is not a position
to be obliterated by loud-mouthed abuse.
It has been reckoned up in Washing-
ton that 48 of the Senators—exactly half
the total —are interventionists; all-out,
that is, for continuing U.S. collaboration.
Of the others, 23 are, on their votes on
13 different issues involving co-operation
of one sort and another with friendly
nations, rated as definite isolationists, and
the remainder are considered doubtful.
From these latter two classes are formed
the important “centre bloc,” with Senator
Vandenberg its acknowledged leader.
Whatever scheme emerges from the com-
ing security conference that bloc could
decide the future of the world. When
all the preliminary discussions are over
and the arrangements made the treaties
will still have to be signed, and the U.S.
signature to treaties calls for a two-
thirds Senate majority.
Certainly Senator Vandenberg and his
proposals are most interesting elements
of the dramatic meeting set down for
San Francisco. *
The World's Champion Duds.
“S. M. Herald” must bitterly regret its
State-election blurb for the N.S.W. Labor
Premier:
Mr. McKell can fairly plead that he has
best served the State and the nation by
going along quietly.
In article after article on such themes
ns the newspaper strike (during which
it was refused Government tram and
train carriage for the emergency sheet
issued from its office), the two tram and
bus holdups, the job-control at the Gov-
ernment abattoirs, the unchecked black-
market in booze and the melancholy
farce of Government housing, the “new”
“S. M. Herald” has expressed a multitude
of second thoughts, pointed by cartoons,
on “going along quietly” and its effects.
In one of two housing articles a
“Herald” special recalled that “early in
1944” the Commonwealth government
delegated a construction programme to
the States, the necessary priorities for
labor and building materials being fur-
nished in all cases. The N.S.W. Govern-
ment’s share was 2565 dwellings.
To the end of the first week of March,
1945, 117 houses, seven of which were
emergency homes not envisaged in the
Commonwealth scheme, had been com-
pleted by the N.S.W. Housing Commission
and only 491 were under construction.
Comparative figures for nine months
to December 31 showed 87.3 p.c. of
“quota” houses built and building in
South Australia, 81 p.c. in Victoria, 25
p.c. in N. S. Wales and 21 p.c. in Queens-
land —both, incidentally, Labor and lot-
tery States; South Australia and Vic-
toria are non-Labor and no-lottery
States.
An editorial writer took up the par-
able. He pointed out that with the
monopoly assigned to it the N.S.W. Hous-
ing Commission had “failed to build in 12
months the number of houses which, on
average, should have been built every
three months.” Moreover, though the
Minister, a Mr. McGirr, “refuses to
divulge actual costs,” it was plain that
“average figures for Commission homes
will work out at approximately £l2OO for
a timber-and-fibro cottage and £l5OO
for a brick cottage,” whereas “ceiling
prices fixed by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment were £BOO and £lOOO respec-
tively.” And a McGirr boast was
wrathfully quoted: “This State has done
and is doing a magnificent housing job.”
Perhaps by way of supporting Mr.
McGirr, Senator Keane, the Minister of
Trade and Customs, made some charac-
teristically foolish remarks at the Vic-
torian A.L.P. conference. “It is no good
hoodwinking ourselves about housing,”
Senator Keane said. “We haven’t the
material to build a dog’s house.” By the
multitude of homeless servicemen and
civilians, many of whom must have seen
a current newsreel showing the impres-
sive things little Maoriland is doing in
the housing line, with resources infinitesi-
mal compared with those on which Aus-
tralia can draw, this must have been felt
as an outrage on their intelligence as well
as their wretchedness.
To the visual, evidence of the newsreel
facts taken from the official Monthly
Abstract of Statistics should be added.
The August, 1944, issue gives a condensed
report for the year to March 31, 1944:
The level of building construction in urban”
districts (all cities, boroughs and town dis-
tricts, plus four counties and three road
districts adjacent to main centres) was much
higher than in the preceding year, which,
owing to the large diversion of resources
to defence construction, was the lowest
of the 23 years for which figures are avail-
able. ,
The total number of new dwellings was
3604 (inclusive of 2194 erected by or for
the Government) and their value £4,035,067.
Other new buildings numbered 300; value,
£1,493,516. Alterations and additions to
dwellings (£691,109) and to other buildings
(£2,090,169) brought the total value of
building for the year to £8,309,861.
Obviously applications for “alterations
and additions to dwellings” are dealt
with in a generous spirit. In N. S. Wales
an Old Digger with a Young Digger son
killed in action was fined £2O for adding
two rooms to his cottage for the accom-
modation of another son and the son’s
bride. At the same time a Sydney book-
maker, greatly admired by newspapers
which refer flatteringly to his immense
wagers, and described by one as a “ser-
viceman” (particulars of his service and
number of Randwick meetings thereby
sacrificed were omitted), was permitted
to build a brick house with expensive
modern fittings in the mountains.
The January, 1945, Monthly Abstract
of Statistics carries the story to the end
of 1944; '
The revival of civil building activity
(Governmental and private), which became
apparent about the middle of 1943, was
accelerated in 1944, the value of build-
ing permits issued in the larger centres
during the year amounting to £8,937,416
(new buildings £6,950,293, alterations and
additions £1,987,123) as compared with
£5,136,630 in 1943. The 1939 total was
£10,320,942 (new buildings £8,758,547,
alterations and additions £1,562,395). The
numbers of dwelling units included in the
statistics are shown:
Dwelling Units.
Housing
Construction Other
Branch Government Private
Number. Number. Number.
1939 .. 3220 67 3398
1943 .. 1031 6 972
1944 .. 2669 Nil 2351
And the building permits are not
merely for use in the far distant future.
The “Dominion,” published at Welling-
ton, gives an arresting account of what
is going on in its own urban area, premis-
ing that the population of Lower Hutt,
16.000 in 1936 and 21,000 in 1940, “is
now between 28,000 and 29,000,” and
that “the completion of the current State
housing programme of 5000 houses, esti-
mated to take four or five years more,”
will give it another 20,000:
Up till March 21, 1944, the total of State
housing units in Lower Hutt city was 1700.
From then till December 21, 1944, another
386 were completed. This figure does not
represent the real progress, as there are
many more houses finished except for a
few minor details, held up through lack
of certain materials or services.
In Waddington-Nae Nae the programme is
3000 houses, of which 1300 are under con-
struction, between 800 and 900 in the Wad-
dington area. Two thousand houses are
scheduled for Taita. In the area between
the Taita hotel and the Hutt river between
250 and 300 houses have been started, and
extensive reading and preliminary service-
ing are under way.
The Waddingt'on area will be a modern
township, with recreation grounds for
adults and children, a shopping area, com-
munity centres and room for a theatre and
civic amenities. The largest shopping area
will be at the Nae Nae station; the rail-
road extension from Waterloo to Nae
Nae has made good progress. A small area
has been set aside for light industry at
Nae Nae, but factories will occupy only
50 p.c. to 60 p.c. of their land with build-
ings; the rest must be planted with lawn
or garden and the building set back from
the road.
The area around.* Riverside Drive, the
first built-up with State houses (there are
400 here), continues to present an improv-
ing appearance as the lawn area alongside
the Waiwhetu stream is further grassed
and planted. In all these new areas new
roads have had to be made and other de-
velopments carried out from scratch. Roads
and streets have provision for grass verges
and tree-planting; they vary in width,
according to likely traffic, from 50ft. to 80ft.
Thoughout the Lower Hutt’s City Council
town planner and the Department of
Housing Construction have worked in close
co-operation. The city has had a full-time
town planner for eight years.
N, S. Wales has roughly a million
more people than Maoriland, about
100.000 Maoris included. Taking 1941
estimates, Sydney alone has not far short
of twice as many as the 14 Maoriland
urban areas —Auckland (223,000), Wel-
lington (160,000), Christchurch (135,000),
Dunedin (82,000), Hamilton, Gisborne,
Napier, Hastings, New Plymouth, Wan-
ganui, Palmerston North, Nelson, Timaru
and Invercargill (215,000 altogether). Yet
in the twelvemonth which has seen the
Maoriland Government, chiefly with the
needs of servicemen in mind, tackle hous-
ing so energetically and with such sub-
stantial results “117 houses, seven of
which were emergency homes,” were
built in N. S. Wales, nearly all in old
neighborhoods, and some very ugly fibre
shacks with fuel stoves, town planning
being left out of the picture. And this at
a time when many thousands of worthy
people, honorably discharged servicemen
and civilians, are perforce pigging it with
their families in single rooms, hovels,
garages and tents! And the message to
the houseless from a member of the
Commonwealth Ministry which rejoices
in its grand new Chrysler cars is that “We
haven’t the material to build a dog’s
house! ”
Since Parliamentary government
arrived in Australia there has been noth-
ing ghastlier than the performances of
these Labor Administrations. Consider-
ing their unutterable failures in the hous-
ing field and on the food front —Aus-
tralia, importing foodstuffs, was to have
become “the great supplier to the United
Nations” —their prodigious waste of man-
power and money, their vote-buying
paternalism (it is about to result in any
old beer-hummer who never saved a shil-
ling in his life getting more from the
Treasury tax-free than the taxed income
left to many a retired public servant
and wage-earner who made provision for
old age by self-denial), and the inepti-
tude and pusillanimity exhibited in the
current despotism of bureaucracy tem-
pered by the anarchy of union bosses
and mobs, the vast pretensions of these
Administrations are staggering, frighten-
ing. On their record if they kept
a pub in a mining town on ten-
ounce ore, or had a racebook and
saveloy-and-roll monopoly at Flemington
or Randwick, they would go bung.
Nevertheless, the Commonwealth crowd
is certain that it has nothing to learn
about running the airlines it is “taking
over” in repudiation of the Prime Min-
ister’s election pledge and in contempt
of the powers referendum vote, and that
it is sublimely competent to control the
delicate and intricate mechanism of
banking and credit, with the coalmines
and Broken Hill Prop, thrown in when
Mr. Ward and his gang choose to
“nationalise” them.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Twelve Months' Notice.
With the German war going so well that
its duration is now the only thing in
doubt, and with the war in the Pacific
being carried into the Japanese home-
lands, the Soviet Foreign Minister has
given the Japanese Ambassador at Mos-
cow the requisite twelve months’ notice
of his Government’s intention to end the
Russo-Japanese neutrality agreement.
This strange instrument was signed at
Moscow on April 13, 1941, by Molotov
and Matsuoka. It was the last-named
gentleman’s second call at the Soviet
capital; in between he had visited Hitler
and Mussolini, and had no,doubt apprised
them of his intentions. Stalin had then a
neutrality agreement with Hitler. Thirty-
nine days after the Molotov-Matsubka
ceremony Hitler had double-crossed Stalin
and was inflicting on Russia the horrors
of an undeclared total war.
In the Russo-Japanese arrangement
each party agreed to respect the other’s
territorial integrity and inviolability, and
to be neutral if the other became involved
in war with any other country or countries.
The thing was to run for five years from
the date of ratification (April 24, 1941)
and to go on for another five years unless
one of the parties at the end of the fourth
year gave a year’s notice of termination
—as has now been done.
Since the Yalta declaration three months
ago Russian proceedings in Rumania,
Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and Poland, all now
under communist control with the usual
trimmings, have given Americans and
Britons many a headache. The cool
suggestion came from Moscow that
Poland’s vacant chair at the San
Francisco World Security Conference
should be placed at the disposal
of the communist Lublin Committee,
which London and Washington do not
recognise. It has also been made plain
that Stalin never had any particular use
for that conference. And at Yalta, it
transpires, he suggested that each of the
Soviet Republics—sixteen, it is claimed —
should have a vote in the Assembly of
the World Security organisation, and was
with difficulty persuaded by Mr. Roose-
velt to whittle the number down to three.
The President himself intimated at Yalta
that he should ask for three votes. When
this leaked out there was such an outcry
from champions of the Little Peoples and
of the basis on which the 48 States are
represented in the Senate that it was
hurriedly announced from the White
House that the Government would be
content with one vote. In the mean-
time a notification came from Moscow
that not the Foreign Minister but the
Ambassador at Washington would repre-
sent the U.S.S.R. at ’Frisco.
Many Americans are so worked up
about Russia that it will take more than
a year’s notice to Tokyo to remove sus-
picions and dispel doubts and fears.
Russia has recently denounced its neu-
trality agreement with Turkey, and the
communication to the Japanese Ambassa-
dor may have no greater significance. No
one imagines that the Russians mean to
go to war with the Turks. In a situation
increasingly favorable west and east they
may mean to go to war with the Japs.
Certainly they are at long last taking
themselves out of a situation which for
four years has been mysterious as well as
anomalous. That is something gained, but
in itself it is no cause for exuberance,
even if Mr. Forde pronounced it “won-
derful news.” As always, Russia is con-
sulting its own interests. In view of its
relations with and its dependence on the
western democracies, particularly the
United States, those interests would have
been gravely prejudiced had the neutrality
agreement with Japan been automatically
extended till 1951 for want of “the year’s
prior notice” expressly provided.
Claptrap and Co-operation.
Mr. Forde, a mirthless politician but a
cause of mirth in others,- gave everyone
interested a good laugh by posing in
London as a robust believer in private
enterprise.
Speaking to a party of newspapermen,
he made what he evidently considered
the handsome admission that “the job
of rehabilitating about 1,500,000 men and
women from the fighting services”
(whew!) was “too great for the Austra-
lian Government to accomplish alone” ;
so “the Government should have the
full co-operation of private enterprise.”
And he gave the audience variations on
the unfamiliar theme:
The Government realises that it can achieve
success in rehabilitation only by giving free
encouragement to the expansion of private
enterprise. British investors will be wel-
comed because the Government wants their
assistance for private employment of ex-
servicemen and -women and war-workers.
There is such a lag in housing and great
national works that the Government bd*
lieves that, with the assistance of private
enterprise, it can absorb a flow of migrants,
especially men and women from tip fight-
ing forces, preferably of child-bearmg age.
To an aspiring barrister known to Mr.
Forde’s travelling companion, an old
High Court Justice, after listening to a
long argument, said “Do you think we
came down in the last shower?” The
reactions of Britons for whom the
Fordean tripe was meant must have been
much the same. Many of them neces-
sarily make it their business to learn
what is going on in overseas countries,
particularly the Dominions and colonies,
and these people and their associates
cannot possibly be ignorant of the Curtin-
Forde Government’s record or its
party’s plans for socialising this, that
and the other thing, beginning with air-
lines and banks.
Mr. Forde’s own history as a Labor-
socialist -has no doubt been studied.
When the German war had lasted nearly
two years he came out with an attack
on 8.H.P., leading up to a demand that
it should be “taken” over. As is well
understood in Britain and the United
States, B.H.P, has not only been for
many years Australia’s greatest indus-
trial undertaking but has made the great-
est single contribution to Australia’s war
effort, its manifold production ranging
from steel to ships. All the same, it is
still a target for the abuse and threats of
Labor politicians and union agitators,
and 4 this also must be well-known in the
circles which Mr. Forde thought to im-
press with his new line of talk.
The Deputy Prime Minister was fresh
from a short sojourn in U.S.A. Out of
that country has come “a joint peace
charter” designed “to prevent industrial'
strife when the national economy is con-
verted again from war to peace.” In
drawing it up Eric Johnson, president
of the National Chamber of Commerce,
was associated with the leaders of the
two great associations of trade unions,
William Green (A.F.L.) and Philip
Murray (C. 1.0.). Both sides pledge them-
selves to aim at “increased prosperity
for all; an expanding economy at home,
stimulated by vastly increased foreign
trade,” with help for “devastated and un-
developed nations,” and an “enduring
peace” based on “an international
security organisation.” “The fundamental
right of Labor to organise and to engage
in collective bargaining” is recognised as
implicit in free enterprise. So are these
cardinal principles:
The right of private property and free
choice of action under private competitive
capitalism must continue to be the foun-
dation of the nation’s peaceful, prospering
and expanding economy”.
The inherent right and responsibility of
management to direct operations shall be
preserved so that enterprise may develop
and earn reasonable profits free from un-
necessary Governmental interference or
burdensome restrictions.
The independence and dignity of the indi-
vidual are inherent in our free American
society. Our purpose is to co-operate in
building an economic system to protect the
individual against the hazards of unem-
ployment, old-age and physical impair-
ment beyond his control.
“To promote understanding and sym-
pathetic acceptance of the seven code
principles,” there is to be a national
committee of representatives of business
and labor organisations. All this makes
Mr. Forde’s belated profession of zeal
for free enterprise look very cheap.
When the chosen leaders of wage-
payers and wage-earners come together
in Australia, as they have done in
America, the industrial future of this
country will be assured, and it can
scarcely be assured in any other way.
Not So Sweet.
Cutting of this year’s sugar crop begins
in Queensland early in June— wind,
weather, communists and other circum-
stances permitting—and though for the
most part Nature has been a sight kinder
than to wheat- and sheepmen, the
growers are not happy about a number
of things.
Those concerned with getting in the cane
crop haven’t forgotten the warning of
C. G. Fallon, of the A.W.U., that com-
munists, who were responsible for the
shearing strike in Queensland, have pre-
pared the same tactics for the cane sea-
son. Coles, M.H.R., chairman of
the Rationing Commission, has admitted
that had it not been for a strike in Vic-
toria the rationing of sugar would have
been abandoned, an answer to thousands
of housewives and small shopkeepers
who’ve been mighty curious about the
need for continued rationing. The Aus-
tralian Sugar Producers are specially
concerned about the wharf position,
as witness a paragraph in their annual
report:
There is still considerable delay caused
by waterside workers resorting to a slow
working Tate and complete stoppages be-
cause of petty grievances The authorities
cannot await the pleasure or the leisure of
the waterside workers in keeping ships
moving; consequently many full shipments
of sugar must be lost.
Labor on farm and mill is another
headache. The supply is short, and
unionists “exploit the deficiency” in de-
mands for extra rates and in hold-up tac-
tics, particularly towards the end of the
season.
In effect another land industry is ex-
periencing the blight of mad-dog in-
dustrialism and Labor Government weak-
ness in respect of law enforcement.
TERRIBLE MEMORY.
“Have you ever had the deadly feeling that a bomber from a Jap submarine was flying right over you? WE have.”


/
If IK BED
you lie sick and sad,
Because you’ve influenza bad
00/yOr if a wheezy, chesty cold
Upon your lungs has taken hold.
To keep that cold from getting worse.
You’ll need but little from your purse;
Relief with promptness you’ll assure
By taking Woods’ Groat Peppermint Cure.
m
mm
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Precaution against t. r "fection.
Safe and Profitable —
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY.
® Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but'inatures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (17/3/’43). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen S’treet, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
POLITICAL POINTS
Blarney’s report to Curtin on army
equipment for the campaigns in man-
dated territory began with “the assur-
ance” that “the superiority of our equip-
ment over that of the enemy is so great
that in every encounter he has been
either destroyed or has fled.” But after
going into details, in which admissions
were made, such as that the inland-supply
position “has been at times precarious
owing to limited air transport,” the
general ended on a cautious note:
I am satisfied that adequate army equip-
ment is available for the operations author-
ised, but no operations will be authorised
unless both the local commander and my-
self are satisfied that adequate equipment
is available to ensure'success.
Curtin published part of the report with
characteristic remarks, one being that
shipping and “equipment assigned''from
oversea sources” are “limiting factors for
which it would be absurd to hold the
Australian Government responsible.” He
won’t get away with that should things
go wrong.
Let this warning to the nation be
remembered to Blarney’s credit;
This war is going to be no walk-
over. On the contrary, it will be the most
terrible thing the world has ever seen. I
pray we can stave off the attack till we are
prepared.
He uttered the pregnant words in
January, 1940, when braying optimists
and “phony-war” knowalls were compet-
ing for the loan of the public’s ear.
After saying there was nothing wrong
with army equipment in “operational
areas,” Curtin sent Fraser, Forde’s
deputy, to “operational areas” to ask
Diggers if they think there is anything
wrong. Fraser knows no more about
such matters than Forde. The only
Minister with any experience of modern
war and any insight into the thoughts and
ways of soldiers is Dedman. Dedman
has been kept in Australia for the dura-
tion, and was lately put up to blither
about banking, of which he knows less
than nothing.
To the unconcealed delight of alleged
Opposition papers, Brisbane’s Mayor
Chandler, who runs what he calls the
People’s party, has refused an amalga-
mation offer from the Liberals on the
ground that “it would mean political
suicide.” He protests that his group has
“a robust, vigorous and progressive out-
look, as well as the desire to fight to pre-
serve the rights and interests of Queens-
land.” It could have and do that
much more effectively as part of a nation-
wide party devoted to policies, methods
of government and the rule of law de-
veloping naturally from British tradition
and practice. As a local group it can
never amount to anything.
A hundred stoppages a month and an
estimated production-loss of 700,000 tons,
with “absenteeism” reckoned in, is
N.S.W. coalminers’ record since January
2. It has already affected B.H.P. rolling
mills, coke ovens and a blast furnace,
and a big subsidiary has also had to re-
duce hands. Scanlon, communist boss of
the Northern District; Parkinson, com-
munist boss of the Western District, and
Wells, communist boss of the Federation,
aren’t disturbed. Scanlon said at the coal
inquiry that if the law conflicted with
union policy he would support the union.
Parkinson agreed with the communist
president Sharkey that “strikes, properly
led and conducted, are a revolutionary
instrument.” So it was in Greece;
but perhaps the E.L.A.S. strike wasn’t
“properly led and conducted.”
Dunkirk, seen through the Red spec-
tacles of Comrade Rupe Lockwood, now
under A.B.C. patronage:
Dunkirk was no miracle, but the result
of intelligent and courageous guerrilla action
by British and Spaniards.
Rupe wrote it in a pamphlet issued with
the blessing of the N.S.W. Aid Russia
Committee. In the same literary master-
piece he allowed that this capitalistic
country had produced a great guerrilla
leader—Ned Kelly.
Premier Dunstan announces National
Works Council approval for “a second
Yallourn” at an estimated cost of
£3,000,000. There will be a new open
cut to provide briquettes, and possibly
electrical power, which “will make Vic-
toria more independent of N.S.W. coal.”
Dunstan means N.S.W. coalminers.
A person who wants to buy a house in
Melbourne must first obtain a sworn
valuation costing him a couple of guineas.
It must then go to the department, which
has its own valuation section. It makes
up its mind with true bureaucratic de-
liberation ; weeks or months may elapse
before the home-seeker hears anything
“With the defeat of the German army the war will go underground, resistance movements
like the Werewolves doing the fighting. One of the most important Nazis will sacrifice
himself —most probably Goebbels.” —Speculation on the Great Hun Mystery.
THE ODD WEREWOLF OUT.
more about it. A man who started out to
buy a cottage for his aged parent nine
months ago is still waiting. Anybody
can buy a racehorse in five minutes and
no questions asked.
Archbishops Mannix and Duhig have
joined with the leaders of the Anglican
Church in Australia in signing a petition
for unrestricted admission of Jews to
Palestine. On their side it is returning
good for evil, for Ilya Ehrenberg, nowa-
days the chief Soviet propagandist, is
bitterly attacking Rome, “Rome,” Ilya
asserts, “fears that with the fall of Fas-
cism enlightenment, reason and liberty
will triumph,” an£ aims at “the crea-
tion of a strong German Catholic State”;
hence its efforts to “whitewash crimi-
nals.” Like Losovsky, now rarely heard
of, Ilya is a Jew.
With “output falling and things rapidly
becoming worse” (Justice Davidson),
Ward has naturally approved of plans
for burning more coal by “improvement
in train services, restoration of sleeping-
cars, and easirj of the priority regu-
lations governing inter-State travel,” The
“amended” regulations give “private sec-
retaries, one to each Minister,” pride of
place over “members of Commonwealth
and State Parliaments travelling on
duties,” “Judges and their associates” and
“persons travelling owing to death in the
family or dangerous illness of a close
relative” being well down on the list.
Pugilists are not mentioned. Before and
after the “amended 1 ” regulations were
issued pugs, were, as usual, boxing local
bruisers in States other than their own.
As was the case a year ago, fancy
prices were paid for yearlings at the Syd-
ney Easter sales, though as dry-season pro-
ducts they can scarcely have been up to
the average. For “360 lots,” successful
bidders turned in £208,035, “an Austra-
lian record.” If the 1944 precedent was
followed, boot and clothing manufac-
turers, publicans and proprietors of
dinner-dance joints were well up in
the rush, but this time most of the buying
was done in the names of trainers, princi-
pals being too modest to proclaim their
identity. Dunstan came out with a strong
condemnation of the craze for playing
up fortunes on untried colts and fillies,
most of which will never be worth five
bob a hoof as racehorses (he had a taste
of it in his own city), but Curtin was
silent. Perhaps when the P.M, thought
of his war loan, which could be going
a lot better, his feelings were too deep
for words.
C. G. Fallon, one of the very few
union leaders who have sturdily resisted
communist efforts to capture unionism,
with lawless and wicked strikes as part
of their technique, is ill, and has offered
his resignation as Queensland secretary
of the A.W.U. He has been asked to
remain, but will probably have to take
long leave of absence. This means that
the communists will accelerate and in-
tensify their plans for making hay of the
old union.
As a result of the communists’ shearing
strike, 2,000,000 Queensland sheep may
die, the g.m. of Grazcos says. He calls
upop the “Labor” Government to avert
this horror by supplying shed labor
promptly and in sufficient quantities ; but
in Queensland, as in N. S. Wales and
the Commonwealth, the “Labor” Govern-
ment will do nothing to offend com-
munists. Crawling to communists has be-
come “Labor” policy.
Melbourne “Argus,” as well as the Syd-
ney “Daily Telegraph,” is publishing stuff
perpetrated and syndicated by Drew Pear-
son, whom the President, a man rarely
moved to anger and never without cause,
publicly branded as a liar. According to
Pearson, “the British wanted to send 1200
military officers” to Albania to supervise
U.N.R.R.A. relief. “Knowing all too
vividly what happened when Britain went
into neighboring Greece, the Albanians
refused.” Characteristic of the “Daily
Telegraph” to pitch such offal at its pub-
lic, but a comedown for the “Argus.”
According to Raphael Cilento, presi-
dent of Queensland’s Historical Society-
one of the many duties he imposes on
his active mind —deliberate abortions in
Australia run to at least 26,000 a year
and may reach 45,000. Brisbane Hos-
pital alone treats 700 cases a year, and
one patient in six is a married woman
with two or more children. Thus the
nation is losing the population of a small
city every year through murder of the
unborn. Success in war over a fecund
race with 12 or 13 times Australia’s popu-
lation can have only temporary effects if
national self-slaughter goes on.
After “one of the longest and stormiest
party meetings for many years,” Queens-
land’s “Labor” Government got orders to
“declare war on the black market and
gambling.” It is expected that Cooper
will reply that “war on the black market”
is “a Federal matter” and that “a deci-
sion” on the other proposed war will be
“postponed” till he “returns from over-
seas.” That is the McKell formula, and
so far it has answered.
Fed up with the antics of “workers”
at the N.S.W. Government abattoirs,
Cantor, J., chairman of the Meat Indus-
try Reference Board, has suspended all
board meetings until cold-storage strikers
go back to work, thus depriving the guilty
union of access to arbitration. Mr.
Cantor is the Judge whom “Labor” tried
to “ease off” the Industrial Bench, and
there is a sort of poetic justice in his
showing it how to deal with law-defying
workstoppers.
People in high places are beginning to
take the same notice of S. H. Ebery, the
retired farmer who makes seasonal fore-
casts from his private meteorological
station at Black Rock, near Melbourne,
as has been taken for a long time by
farmers and graziers who claim to have
profited by the accuracy of his predic-
tions. Clive McPherson, chairman of the
Wheat Board, told the Royal Agricultural
Society Council that reports of the ama-
teur weather prophet’s work were so en-
couraging that he should receive a Gov-
ernment subsidy to continue his re-
searches, and a grazier capped this by
saying farmers in his district had found
his information invaluable. Ebery
watches cloud movements for 16 hours a
day and has been doing it more or less
for 30 years. Most unlike a Government
department.
The average Australian looks forward
to peace as a time when he’ll be
free of irksome restrictions and irksome
authorities. He isn’t being heard on all
these proposals for post-war interference
with his life. When he is heard many
interfering politicians will have to betake
themselves to other callings, and there
will be desperate competition among pub-
licans, union organisers and bookmakers.
“Bump”; The first suggestion that an
inland sea should be made by cutting a
canal from Port Augusta to Lake Eyre
arrived in 1883. Professor Gregory
estimated the cost of a modified scheme
at £750,000,000 and said the advantages
would be problematical. Yet this prob-
lematical scheme is obsessing Melbourne
citizens, and even Victorian politicians,
though at their own doors millions of
gallons of water run to waste in Port
Phillip every time an inch of rain falls,
and a fall of four inches causes whole-
sale damage. In the mountains and foot-
hills adjacent to Melbourne there are
streams which could be easily dammed
and the water used to irrigate soil which
is hardly made use of at all at present.
But it is the way with politicians to con-
cern themselves with what is at the end
of the rainbow.


duhoui
m
3/44
Some men are so crazy they keep the motor
running while their cars are parked. They
think this re-charges the battery.
Don’t be fooled with crazy ideas. Take your
battery to your Exide dealer every second
week. He’ll help you get months of extra
service from it by keeping it properly ser-
viced and re-charged when necessary.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Albert Dunstan completed his tenth
year of Premiership at Easter —a Vic-
torian record approached only by Harry
Lawson’s six years. Dunstan’s only
break was when Labor leader Cain occu-
pied his office for five days. As well as
being probably the stolidest Premier the
State has ever had, Dunstan is a pro-
digious worker.
A new form of local government comes
into existence in S.A. with the appoint-
ment of Charles Landers Ryan as chair-
man of the Whyalla Town Commission,
acting also as mayor and chief executive
officer. The commission is composed of
three members elected by the residents
and three appointed by the town’s
originators. Broken Hill Proprietary.
Ryan, former town clerk of Thebarton
(S.A.), spent 15 years in the Adelaide
City Council office, and is an Associate
in Public Administration of Adelaide
Uni. and of the Federal Institute of
Accounts. He’s 38.
In the Sydney Council for a total of
19 years and Lord Mayor for two. Aider-
man P. V. (Paddy) Stokes, who passed
LAUNCHED BUNNERONG.
on last week, left Bunnerong Power
House as his chief monument. He
started Bunnerong when he was Lord
Mayor in 1925-26. Then he went to
the State Assembly for a couple of years,
and was Lang’s Minister for Agriculture
for six months. Born near Braidwood
64 years ago, he started off as estate
agent and auctioneer, going later into
hotelkeeping.
Sir Datar Singh, Adviser to the Indian
Government and leader of the Indian
Industrial Delegation visiting Australia,
is interested in dairying in India. He
told Queensland dairy heads of a breed
of sheep kept by Punjab farmers mainly
for milk producing. He himself ran a
flock of about 400 of these lacteal jum-
bucks, which yielded about 40 gallons
of milk a day, with a butter content of
seven per cent. Not wool-bearers, these
particular sheep grow instead a long,
coarse hair coat.
S.A. branch of the R.S.L. has got its
secretary, J. F. Dowling, back. In Octo-
ber, 1941, he was appointed overseas rep-
resentative of the League, but before he
could get to the Middle East Japan was
on the move. Dowling promptly joined
the A.1.F., but, as its return from the
Middle East disordered R.S.L. plans for
attaching a representative to the force, he
yielded to the Army’s request to join the
Military Secretary’s branch, L.H.Q., as
staff captain. For 30 months he served
there and with the C.-in-C, staff at Ad-
vanced L.H.Q. and in New Guinea.
Medical knight:
One of the distinguishing marks of medical
knight James Barrett, K.8.E., C. 8., C.M.G.,
dead at 83 in Melbourne, was the extraordinary
variety of his interests and the strength with
which he maintained them. One of them was
music, and until a few months before his death
his bulky frame was invariably seen forging
its way to his seat at symphony concerts. As
Vice-Chancellor of Melbourne University he
did more than any other to promote such con-
certs, and with the aid of the Lady Northcote
fund was well on the way to seeing a per-
manent orchestra established when A.B.C.
achieved a virtual monopoly of the business.
James Barrett was one of the first to graduate
in medicine from the University, and almost
every addition made to the curriculum in his
day was due directly or indirectly to his efforts.
He became a member of the Council in 1901,
and resigned the Chancellorship 38 years later.
In between he crowded into a busy life as a
practising oculist one of the biggest organising
billets in the last war (when he superintended
medical services in Palestine arid Egypt), the
presidentship of the Town-planning Associa-
tion and the organising of a host of other
activities, from bush-nursing to tree preserva-
tion. When the annual meeting of the B.M.A.
was held in Australia he was made president,
the highest honor in British medicine. His
wife, who survives him, is a daughter of Ben-
jamin Heinze, the oldest practising watchmaker
in Melbourne, and a sister of Professor Heinze.
There were five children of a first marriage, one
of whom, Keith Barrett, was killed in the last
war. 1
H. E. Winterbottom, who succeeded
C. S. Panton as Federal Viticultural
Council secretary, has been secretary of
the S.A. Chamber of Manufactures and the
S.A. Winemakers’ Association for some
years. The retiring secretary is a leading
authority on the wine industry, to which
he gave 26 years’ service, and his annual
reports are regarded as “gospel” as far
as Australian wine-making is concerned.
A son of Arthur Griffith (for
half a century in N.S.W. politics),
Group-Captain Sturt De B. Griffith,
joined the Citizen Air Force in 1925, one
of the first batch of University engineer-
ing students selected for pilot training at
Point Cook. Eight years with No. 3
(City of Sydney) Squadron at Richmond
and then transferred to reserve, he was
called up at the outbreak, was an instruc-
tor on Wirraways in the early days, and
afterwards commanded a squadron which
did yeoman service on submarine and
convoy work off the N.S.W. coast.
Griffith was in Darwin when the Japs
blitzed the place, held various staff jobs
and collected the Air Force Cross. He
now commands a large depot in Victoria,
where his engineering knowledge, his
ability as a pilot and wide experience in
various branches of the service are all
essential assets.
Retired after 33 years as member of
the Otago University Council, Dunedin
(M.L.), W, J. Morrell, Vice-Chancellor
for eight years and for the last 12 Chan-
cellor. A Devonshire man, he was
rector of the Otago Boys’ School from
1907 till he resigned a few years back,
and he was also for 23 years a member
of the N.Z. Uni. Senate. He’s 77.
N.S.W. Rugby Unionists who lost
their lives on war service in the past year
(as listed in the annual report of the State
Council); Flt.-Sgt. Clive Rye (Northern
Suburbs); F.-O. J. G. Lobban (Sydney
University); Sgt. Jdhn Roper (Rand-
wick) ; Flt.-Lt. J. W. Mortimer (North-
ern Suburbs); Flt.-Sgt. F. H. Stephens
(St. George); Flt.-Sgt. Ken. J. Taubman
(Sydney University); A, Shipway
(Manly); D. McKerras (Gordon); J.
Mullins (Manly); Flt.-Sgt. Geoff. Dunbar
(Referees’ Association); Keith Horan (an
Old Boy of Christian Bros.’ College,
Waverley, who played with army teams).
Also, W. P. J. Ide (former Northern Sub-
urbs, N.S.W., Queensland and Austra-
lian player) and Lieut. A. Burke
(Referees’ Association), reported missing,
believed dead, while prisoners of war in
Thailand. The report also lists just on
50 N.S.W. Rugby Unionists decorated
since the war started.
Had a 95th birthday last month, Lieut.-
Col. G. B. Appleton, of Brighton (Vic.).
A school cadet with Monash, he’s been
in the wool trade all his working life, and
has held an auctioneer’s license for over
50 years.
When Coventry was sketching new
S.A. Governor Sir Willoughby Norrie the
subject suggested that the artist should
draw him to match what people S9me-
times called him: Sir Wallaby. However,
unlike the late Prime Minister Lyons’s
happy resemblance to a koala, there’s
nothing of the Australian animal king-
dom’s looks in the Governor that
Coventry could detect. He reports the
Governor as “not unlike Lord Gowrie
S.A. GOVERNOR.
wben he held the position in South Aus.
— a s | mdar kind of personality, which
should make him a popular figure here.”
sketched here bv Scorfield Athel H.
Le “Sgtag t toCo£
merc | a j Bar jL in London since 1937. He
saw sbare of the blitzing. The bank
buil di ng was twice partly destroyed by
flying bombs, but there were no casualties,
d the stad carne d on in the basement.
A 1 earlv last vear Lewis’s home in
„ ear y tust year t ,
Putney was destroyed, and two other
lac „ be bved ; n were knocked about.
* Victorian born in 1891 Lewis was
j Vict ° r ! an i Dorn h 1 15 J . • .
educated ln Launceston, and got his first
• b „ Tassie tin mine Back in Vic-
1° . m a lassie in •
tona studying law when the last war
started be enlisted in the old 31st
?t a rt ea ’ ne ennsi „„
Battery, was courts-martial officer on
Monash’s staff, and after demobilisation
was adm i t ted to the Bar. His eldest son,
owen> joined the A . LF . after finishing
his engineering course at Cambndge. and
ATHEL LEWIS.
is now a captain. Another son, lan, dis-
charged from the R.A.F., is finishing
medicine at Edinburgh, and a third,
Graeme, who achieved the unusual dis-
tinction for an Australian of becoming
captain of St. Paul’s School, London,
joined the R.A.F. this month. Daughter
Peggie is married to a Scottish lieutenant.
“Lao-dah”; I saw Lloyd George at
San Remo when the garish Italian water-
ing-place was to be the scene of another
of the interminable conferences for the
arranging of Europe. Italy at the time
was in a ferment; Mussolini was in the
offing; there had been strikes and riots;
workers were occupying factories ; San
Remo was packed with gendarmes and
soldiers. The conference was to be held
at the Villa Devarchan, an ornate private
palace flanked by an enormous Australian
bluegum. Nitti and the rest arrived in
motor-cars guarded by armed men and
swept through the gates, which closed
behind them while newspaper corre-
spondents made notes of their arrival.
Suddenly two figures appeared up the
road walking briskly. They were Lloyd
George and his secretary-daughter. With
his big head and broad shoulders, the
ex-shoemaker’s apprentice of Llany-
stymdwy looked like a little white-maned
pantomime lion walking on short legs
and lifting its bowler hat to the crowd
lining the road on both sides, and
Megan Lloyd George looked as cool and
collected as if she were out for a morning
constitutional in Criccieth. The gen-
darmes were so amazed that this arbiter
of Europe’s destiny had got so far from
his hotel without being assassinated that
they forgot to salute him.
“Pat Ater”: Add to the credit of Dr.
William Cotter Williamson (B. 28/3/’45)
the Wistaria “Carnival” in the Parramatta
(N.S.W.) Mental Hospital grounds—an
annual show of over a quarter-acre of
foaming mauve blossoms. Entranced
with what he saw in Japan, Dr. William-
son came back convinced that Sydney
could do even better. He made the
original plantings 30 years ago, and at
each September “carnival” up to 25,000
people have paid to see the display and
buy afternoon tea, outings, picnics,
talkies, sport, etc., for patients being paid
from the takings.
Maoriland’s Director of Broadcasting,
Professor James Shelley, now in England
attending a pow-wow of broadcast heads,
is a native of much-blitzed Coventry,
where he saw the light 60 years ago. He
won his M.A. at Cambridge, and filled
several big educational jobs, including
the Professorship of Education and Philo-
sophy at Manchester Uni. and Lecturer
on Education at Southampton Uni.
Wounded serving as an artilleryman in
1916, Shelley became War Office educa-
tional chief to army men at Cambridge
and Newmarket. Emerged from the
army a major, he went to M.L. to take
over a professorship at Canterbury Uni-
versity College, held from 1920 till 1936,
when he changed to the broadcasting job.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 81, John Waugh, of Clare
station, Balranald and Stockdale, Gobarralong
(N.S.W.). Born at Yanco station, Jerilderie,
and educated at Geelong College, he went to
Clare as a jackeroo, eventually managing the
property for his father. He also took a prac-
tical interest' in other properties owned by his
father, including Golgeldrie, Whitton and snow
leases in the Monaro district, but because of
an accident in 1902 was forced since then to
lead a semi-retired life.
At 74, in Melbourne, Emeritus Professor
Henry Payne, Director of Commonwealth Oil
Refineries since its inception, and a leading
engineer. He was the first' occupant of the Cor-
poration Chair of Engineering at the Sbuth
African College, Capetown, and was later Dean
of the Faculty of Melbourne University. The
son of a missionary, he was born in Cal-
cutta.
At 83, in Scotland, Dr. Richard Glaister,
prominent in Queensland Presbyterian and edu-
cational circles for many years, particularly
1915-22, when he was principal of Emmanuel
College, Brisbane. Moderator of the State
Assembly in 1920-21, he spent his last years m
Biggar (s.-w. Scotland) writing books.
At 93, T. T. Lucas, a long-forgotten cricketer
in Adelaide. He was playing for Norwood,
at that time the premier club, when George
and Walter Giffen were juniors.
At Bacchus Marsh (Vic.), Mrs. Joanna Wil-
liams, an early settler in whose family lon-
gevity is a tradition. Herself close on the cen-
tury, her Irish forebears included a father who
lived to 89, a mother who survived him for 16
years and a great-aunt who attained the age of
110.
At 81, at Lilydale (Vic.), Charles Russell
Goode, a son of one of Victoria’s first printers
and proprietor of the Wedderburn “Express. ’
At Wellington (M.L.), at 76, John Langdon,
1 until 11 years ago one of Bendigo’s leading
mining managers. He managed Bendigo Al,
Lansell’s Needle and Catherine Reef United.


Society “AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Ek Bum”: When I first heard “Lilli
Marlene” over the European wireless
the little song had the lilting quality of
the folk-music of the shepherd pan-pipes
which you can still hear in the Greek
mountains and the foothills of the
Taurus, a primitive purity, universally
appealing. The German tongue, like
Saxon English, is made for the working
of simple lyrics, but they don’t bear trans-
lation very well. However, in an exactly
literal rendering, the first verse of Lilli's
song went:
In front of the Barracks,
In front of the Big Gate,
There stood a lantern.
If it is there yet,
We will see each other there again;
Beside the lantern we will stand,
As once, Lilli Marlene; as once, Lilli
Marlene.
The “lantern,” of course, was not a
“street lamp” as alleged in our versions,
but the large and ornamental bracket*
lantern, as familiar a feature of every
barrack entrance in Germany as the*
“Big Gate.” Lilli, subjected to the in-
fluences of Tin Pan Alley and Radio
Uncles, is no longer the virtuous and
dewy-eyed maiden of 1941. A trollop off
the beat outside.the barracks, subject of
slatternly rhymes and raucous negroid
cadences, she yawps her way through the
recoiling air with the coppers on her
track, doing the boogie-woogie.
* * * *
“Bo”: To the ice-cold, strictly- cor-
rect vocalist a mischance on the plat-
form is as much a danger as a grenade
with the pin out. Peter Dawson demon-
strated how simple it is for the genially-
minded to get out of a jam. The bari-
tone, singing at the farewell concert
of young scholarship-winning violinist
Yvonne Gannoni, was halfway through
“The Kerry Dance,” last of a bracket of
three songs, when he paused. Then he
said “Dear, dear!” turned to his accom-
panist, and, walking around completely
at ease, sang these words: —•
“When the boys begin to gather
In the glen of a something night,
And the something, something, something
Fills my heart with wild delight.”
After he had finished the song Peter made
a suave little speech in which he humor-
ously attributed his lapse of memory to
some arduous whitewashing of ceilings.
It put the audience in capital humor for
a pot-pourri of Mandalay songs sting
word-perfect as only Peter can sing them.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Max Alford’s play “Lady
In Danger” has been given a rather sour
reception by New York critics; possibly
the rewriting for American audiences has
taken out some of the snap that appealed
to Sydney audiences. But the fact is that
foreign theatrical fare is not welcome in
any country save Australia, which, never
having developed a national theatre,
accepts anything that comes its way and
shows no • resentment against alien
touches, though these may be incompre-
hensible. Other countries are not so
humble. Ages ago Arthur Adams’s “Mrs.
Pretty and the Premier” had a frosty
season in London; its political values
were not those understood in Britain.
The experiment discouraged further
essays to export Australian plays.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: It is really astonishing to
find that mention of the picture “Chloe,”
now in Melbourne, can still be relied on
(B. 21 /3 / ’45) to raise a flicker of interest.
If it is the same old “Chloe” that hung
in James Ashton’s studio in Adelaide 60
years back —which is pretty certainly the
case —she did indeed cause mild shocks
then, but at that time Adelaide did not
know much about Art. “Chloe” is a very
conventional studio nude, and she has
been left 'miles behind by dozens of
more modern works. It is odd to think
of her being worth mentioning in 1945,
* * * *
“Schnorrer”; The rationing authorities
cut the supply of motzos to the Chosen
for this year’s Passover. All the un-
leavened bread was baked in Melbourne
and restricted to 31b. a head for the whole
Passover period, during which no bread
but the biscuity stuff is supposed to be
eaten. Yet there was the usual distri-
bution to Gentile friends which Jews
habitually observe'. A curious result
(probably the only example of any
religious organisation benefiting by
"Is it perfectly safe, darling?”
rationing) was the acquisition of new
members by several synagogues. It was
only through synagogues that the rations
were distributed. That there are many
unattached Jews in Australia is shown by
the crowds which pack the synagogues
at the New Year. Like Yom Kippur, the
Passover is dear to the hearts even of
Jews who, save on those two occasions,
pay little attention to the observances of
their creed.
* * * *
“Tiki”: That police surgeon of fiction
who, finding the millionaire prone (or
supine) on the hearthrug in the library,
slips his hand inside the victim’s vest
and immediately announces “He is dead,”
will have to alter his technique, it would
appear. At Dunedin Public Hospital
(M.L.) a man whose heart and lungs
had gone out of business for 12 minutes,
and who by all medical definitions was
dead for that length of time, was revived
by heart massage, and completely re-
covered. Superintendent of Auckland
Public Hospital, told of the occurrence
by a reporter, said he had known several
such cases in recent years, but generally
resuscitation was accomplished within
from three to six minutes.
“F.S.”: I see that N.S.W. Chief Sec-
retary Baddeley is to decide for his State
what books should be banned as indecent
or obscene. I hope he has better luck
than previous Australian censors. Among
the books which have horrified some of
these arbiters have been Richard Alding-
ton s The Colonel’s Daughter, and his
All Men Are Enemies, Lawrence’s Lady
Chatterley’s Lover (since admitted with
objectionable words replaced with aster-
isks), Boccaccio’s Decameron, Defoe’s
Moll Flanders, Balzac’s Droll Stories,
Huneker’s Painted Veils, James Joyce’s
Dubliners (a collection of short stories
which wouldn’t be barred from an Aus-
tralian anthology if they were written
by a native), Radclilfe Hall’s The Well
of Loneliness (a serious study of a per-
version sniggered at by music-hall come-
dians), Aldous Huxley’s Brave New
World (the protest of a Puritan against
the sexual license of his day) and Hem-
ingway’s Farewell to Arms, one of the
few books that came out of World War
I which didn’t incite to more wars.
Most of these books are no longer
banned, so the original opinion of the
censors must have been found to have
been wrongly based.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Now that the phenomenon
of whirling exchanges is beginning to
make its appearance along with the dove
of peace an internationally recognised
currency unit is more urgently needed
than Esperanto. A recent despatch from
Chunking asserts that a bushel of rice,
costing two dollars before the war, now
costs the Chinese coolies 500 dollars, and
a foot of the cloth with which the blue-
coated myriads of the Flowery Kingdom
ordinarily cover their nakedness costs
480 dollars as against twelve cents pre-
war. When the German Government
after World War 1 started to inflate the
currency it cost 4,000,000 marks to ride
four blocks on a tram and the fare had
probably doubled before the journey was
finished. In the meantime State and muni-
cipal authorities were paying off their
debts for next to nothing.
“Publova”: The world lost something
with the standardisation of pub names —
Hotels Wallawalla or Bogaduck, or Great
Northern, Southern, Eastern or Western.
In the old days Sydney had its Jump Jim
Crow, Erin go Bragh, Harp and Crown,
Fox Under the Hill, Hole in the Wall
and Three Legs o’ Man. The legal pro-
fession has never been specially popular,
but an Honest Lawyer Inn once stood
near the north corner of Anthony Hor-
dern’s shop in George-street. A very
original example was the Kerosene, at
Hartley Vale, which did a roaring trade
in a tipple more palatable than its name-
sake in the days when that well-nigh
defunct village was a flourishing shale
producer.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Appearance on the back
cover of The Bulletin (14/3/’45) of a
view of Nestle’s factory at Abbotsford
(Sydney) reminded me of working there
in 1920, and what befell on one never-
to-be-forgotten day. At that time the
huge factory of today was being built,
the administrative offices then (as now,
I believe) occupied the old twin-towered
Grace mansion, and chocolate was
manufactured in adjacent temporary
buildings. Abbotsford was (and is) a
flower-bedecked suburb and one day
some scouting bees found a good thing
and told all their friends. Raiding the
temporary factory in thousands through
fanlights and ventilators (windows were
netted), they hurled themselves into vats
of boiling syrups and creams, doing no
end of damage and causing panic among
the girls,
* * * *
“Hamfat”: No wonder Brough re-
sented the suggestion that a first night’s
performance could be regarded as a final
dress rehearsal (B. 28/2/’45). The first
night is the occasion for which every
professional company is trained. There
have been dress rehearsals at which de-
fects have been remedied: weeks of effort
have been concentrated upon putting the
highest polish on that first public per-
formance which may make or mar the
season. It is on subsequent nights that
thespians are liable to lapse a little,
especially if the season is prolonged!
Exasperated stage managers in the old
days would call rehearsals during the
run to restore the first-night polish. I
remember an actor, known amongst his
colleagues as “Fluffy Jim,” who on the
first night would be letter-perfect. Night
after night thereafter he would “fluff”
some line, and in a few' weeks none of
his fellow-players could expect to get
cues from him as they were written.
* * * *
“Avon”; Maoriland’s strong pro-
hibitionist bias shows signs of mellow-
ing. Prominent among its causes and
buttresses was the position at the head of
the judiciary for three decades of Sir
Robert Stout, who as C.J. lost no oppor-
tunity of linking Crime and Drink. Now
comes the testimony of the M.L. Com-
missioner of Police, Cummings, given
before the Royal Commission on Licens-
ing :
In my opinion, based on over 30 years’
experience, persons who commit serious
crimes, such as murder, manslaughter, pro-
curing abortion, house and shop breaking,
major thefts, false pretences, forgery and
uttering, perjury, etc., are not as a rule
addicted to drink, and in most cases it
could not be said that drink was a con-
tributing cause in the commission of the
crime.
On top of that one of the senior stipen-
diary magistrates told the Commission
bluntly that the present licensing laws
were “the result of a battle between greed
and fanaticism in which the interests of
ordinary sensible citizens have been
ignored.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: An unauthenticated story is
going around Melbourne that a man tried
to sell a house-hungry visitor from Queens-
land Captain Cook’s cottage in the Fitz-
roy Gardens for £250. The prospective
buyer cavilled at the price on the ground
that it was an old house and not in very
good repair. “Maybe,” said the new
version of the Uncle from Fiji, “but
think what the land’s worth!”
* * * *
“W. Lackspear”: Clive Turnbull, the
Melbourne “Herald” art critic, comment-
ing on his paper’s recent “contemporary”
exhibition at the Town Hall, made the
observation “To say T don’t like modern
art’ is akin to saying T don’t like people
alive today.’ ” Mr. Turnbull may know
a lot about art—he certainly writes a lot
about it —but he has made an aesthetic
bloomer. People aren’t works of art;
they are natural facts, like elephants,
horses, trees and mountains. A picture
is a fact, too, but it is also a work of art,
and it may be aesthetically good or bad.
Mr. Turnbull’s comparison has no rele-
vance.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Two minor war “crimes”
here. A man of 35, with degrees from
both Adelaide and Oxford Universities,
was fined £lO for not having an identity
card. He said he had never applied for
one because it might involve war ser-
vice, which would be against his beliefs.
He had been a schoolmaster in N. S.
Wales, but latterly has had no occupa-
tion except writing novels. He had been
found militarily unfit, anyway. An 18-
year-old got 14 days for wearing a ser-
vice ribbon and a returned soldier’s badge
to which he had no claim. He explained
simply that, otherwise, “girls won’t go
out with you.”
* * * *
“Wild Colonial Boy” discusses a monu-
ment ;
The “Sirius gun” in Sydney’s Macquarie-
place is a standing monument to Australian
carelessness in matters of historical fact. One
glance at the date on it, 1788, should be suffi-
cient to prove that it was not a Sirius gun at
all. The brass tablet which has been placed
on it says “This gun, which formed a portion
of the armament of H.M.S. Sirius, the first
man-of-war that entered Port Jackson, was
landed here shortly after the foundation of the
colony for signalling arrivals....” All three
statements in this sentence are wrong. The
Sirius, with the rest of the First Fleet, was
commissioned in October, 1786, and received
her guns on board in December of that year.
She sailed from England oh May, 13, 1787, and
arrived in Botany Bay on January 20, 1788. It
is, therefore, clear that she dropped anchor in
Botany Bay before the gun was made. Secondly,
Governor Phillip sailed the Supply armed
tender into Port Jackson on January 25, and
the Sirius, Captain Hunter in command, entered
the following day. As to using the gun for
signalling, the first signal at South Head was a
flagstaff, put there by Captain Hunter in
January, 1790; the first light was a bonfire ht
for the arrival of a ship on January 15, 1793.
According to a return of ordnance dated
August 21, 1801, all the guns in the colony
were at batteries around Circular Quay, with
two at George’s Head and two at Parramatta
not one at South Head. The first ship to arrne
at Sydney which could have brought a gun
made in England in 1788 was the Lady Juliana,
which brought “226 ladies and news ot the
French Revolution” on June 3, 1790. By this
time the Sirius had laid her bones on a reel
at Norfolk Island.
MR. FACING-BOTH-WAYS.
“Mr. Forde found time during his travels to assure
businessmen in the U.S. and Britain that his Govern-
ment would give every encouragement to private
enterprise after the war.”
Queer how a chap can scan with different eyes
The c f lirns an d rights of private enterprise
When he’s at home, and when he takes his stand
As spokesman for it in a distant land.
How glaringly it shows to what extent
Views may be colored by environment
When you compare th& Forde that you were
wont
To think you knew with this new Forde you
don’t.
Who more insistent on his native heath
The boons of Socialism to bequeath
To ages yet unborn? Who found the sole
Hope for no end of things in State control?
Who helped to lead the wildly whooping ranks
That saw in private airlines, private banks,
Dreadful examples of the ill that lies
In unrestricted private enterprise?
Two voices, it would seem, are yours, my lad,
Two faces, as the Roman Janus had;
One where imperious Caucus runs the show
And points the path whereon you needs must
go,
- The other when you’re half a world away
And soapy platitudes look like to pay,
And unperturbedly you may enact
What’s sometimes listed as the crawfish act.
It’s fine at home to help your crowd devise
New modes of squelching private enterprise.
And hint your hopes of getting most of these
Transformed to Government “utilities.”
But when abroad, and it’s become your biz
Proclaiming what a Promised Land this is,
Then, as our tactful Mr. Forde conceives,
It’s clearly quite another pair of sleeves.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


"Well, Mr. Bug, very soon you'll be hearing the pitter-patter of dozens
of tiny feet."
“A.R.C.S: It was the duty of a
young Red Cross superintendent to take
a lorry load of convalescent patients
from a Brisbane military hospital to a
picnic every Tuesday. Everyone seemed
to enjoy the outing save the superinten-
dent, when it came to roll-call. These
men had served through the ME., N.G.
and other campaigns. They hated roll-
calls, and to have a girl standing them
up added to their resentment. One day,
when her charges had been particularly
lax in their responses, the young Red
Grosser, her dark eyes sparkling, snapped:
“Why don’t you answer? My word, if you
men had been trained in the Wynnum
V.A.Ds. you’d know what discipline is! ”
Sheepish looks followed; then slight
frowns ; then suddenly, simultaneously, a
roar of laughter. But from then on
those veterans sprang to attention,
clicked heels and answered the call in
faultless military style.
**- * *
“Jim P.”: The passing of George
Matoorekos has brought back Melbourne
memories. In his time, also in the
Queen’s Walk, was the Savage Club.
One night Judge Holroyd was in
the chair, and when the party got
well warmed up the vice-president,
Clive Baillieu, took over. “Overseas”
Savages were invited “to come into the
office” —Oscar Asche, from London, and
Hughie Ward, from New York, arrived
at the club within half an hour of one
another. Oscar was invited to tell the
latest story from London, which he did,
and Hughie Ward told exactly the same
one 30 minutes later. Tony Lucas had
two cafes within a stone’s-throw of
Matoorekos. The best-known was the
Vienna, now the Australia Hotel. I
think one graduated, as far as class-
distinction was concerned, among the
caf6s —first Matoorekos, then Lucas,
then the Vienna, and then to the Savoy
(Bob Hossenloff) in Little Collins-street.
Besides these there were Grudern and
his flounders, Fasoli’s and Schwetash’s.
Harking back to the Vienna and the
class-distinction, I TwhSfie’S
one of the fiver 3- Wil3rn
, . b j s ffiend: “I advised im
vUlllnlviH tu , « i i • i
to go Straight; me sister-in-law act Vise
too, but there was no pitting irn.
There ’e was with £75 in the bank and
inere e was wit bar the
the best ’ome in Melbourne oar
Vienna.”
* * .
“Kav” : Sydney’s graving dock shares
name , Captain Cook, with all
the port’s steam pilot vessels s { nce
The first ship so named was retired alter
several years’ service, having become un-
editable—she is now used for other pur-
suita Die sue
poses in the Port of Brisbane. The second
Captain Cook, commissioned in 1893, was
said to be at that time the most up-to-
date pilot steamer in the world. She was
172 ft. long; gross tonnage 396. Her
engines were the first triple-expansion set
made in Australia. In 1940 tenders were
called for her demolition, but she was
bought by the Sea Scouts, and later
was used for mine-sweeping by the Navy.
The present ship measures 165 ft. on the
waterline, has a tonnage of 214 and pos-
sesses what, at the time of construction,
was the largest boiler made in the South-
ern Hemisphere —16ft. 3|in. long by 12ft.
diameter. She was launched in Decem-
ber, 1938, and has excellent accommo-
dation for a crew of 18 men and 12 pilots.
The clipper bow is adorned by a bronze
figurehead of Captain Cook, shown with
his telescope tucked under his left arm
while he gazes seaward, shading his eyes
with his right hand. This figurehead,
originally fitted to Captain Cook No. 2,
cost over £BOO.
♦ * * *
“Hamer”: Tm very sceptical about those
chaps who in times when cigarettes weren’t
rationed boasted of smoking 80 or 100
a day. I remember interviewing a poli-
tician who was supposed to be a record-
breaker. Overlooking a fag, half-finished,
still smouldering in a tray, he lit a smoke,
put it down in an ashtray and then rose
and came to the table corner to offer me
one from his case. Lighting another, he
walked over to the mantelpiece and spoke
a piece with his elbow leaning on the
marble. He left his fag burning there
while he crossed to a bookcase to hunt
up a reference, and, having found it
easily, lit up another smoke. It was left
on an ashtray on the bookcase as he re-
turned to his desk, where he lighted a
new one. My interview lasted ten
minutes; by the time I backed out of
the door nine fags were smouldering in
various parts of the room. You couldn’t
call that smoking ’em.
* * * *
“Spare Corp” remembers a last-war
Digger with a taste for poesy:
Though rough as bags, he liked to listen
to tags of verse and was an Oliver Twist in his
demands for more; yet he never seemed to
be able to memorise lines correctly or to re-
member titles or names. “I like that bit
spoken by that sheilah Portico ‘The charity of
money is distrained,’ ” he would say, and ask
for it to be repeated; and a tag of Byron, also
beloved, would be, in his rendition, “There was
a sound of reveille by night.” Weirdest of all
was his version of Hood; —
One more unfortunate,
Weary of sin,
Rashly unfortunate,
Done herself in.
He couldn’t read poetry (“it doesn’t seem to
mean nothing to me in print”), but he’d walk
five miles to an entertainment that numbered
a reciter among its attractions. Poor chap, his
studies were cut short by a burst of shrapnel.
“Cauboy” on the secret of strength:
Melbourne “Sun-Pix” Iras a picture of Young
Apollo pulling with his teeth a 10-ton fire
wagon loaded with eight entrants for a bathing
beauty competition. It is announced that the
young man intends to attempt to break the
world’s record by pulling the same vehicle
loaded to 15 tons (possibly with some weightier
damsels). Other feats of his include allowing
himself to be a thoroughfare for a two-and-a-
half ton truck driven by a 15-stone driver which
passes over Y.A.’s prone body on a forty-foot
plank; the smashing of bluestone blocks placed
on his chest by men armed with sledge-hammers,
and a strangulation act in which two men do
their best to throttle him with ropes tied around
his throat. Concentration is Young Apollo’s
secret. During the fraction of a second when
the truck is going over his body he summons
to his aid what he calls super-concentration.
When he is doing his strangulation act he
watches the men who are pulling at the ropes,
and when they brace themselves for an extra
effort he seizes the opportunity, which only
presents itself for a fraction of a second, to
relax and let his lungs fill with air.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has had its first case of
“being knowingly concerned in an un-
guarded prisoner’s leaving the place at
which he had been directed to work.”
The accused is wife of an Australian
soldier, and her offence went no further
than allowing an Italian p.o.w. to visit
the home of herself and her daughters
in the evenings. She said she felt she
“couldn’t ignore the poor beggars when
they spoke to her”; but the S.M. called
it “a most serious offence”; and inflicted
a £lOO fine. Later the penalty was re-
duced to £lO.
* * * ♦
“Pawang”: It would seem that there is
hardly any abnormality or disability that
need prevent a student sitting for examin-
ation at the University of Melbourne,
which has just started preparing the
papers for the December ordeal. There
were two extraordinary cases last year.
One was that of a boy who could not
write from left to right, but could answer
his questions only in the Chinese fashion,
from the bottom of the sheet to the top.
The other was that of a youngster who
suffered from an allied psychological
condition. Every now and then he would
I start writing, quite legibly, from right to
left and if given a map to draw would
reverse east and west.
* * * *
“Hist”: The stamps in honor of the
Gloucesters are Australia’s 14th com-
memorative issue. The first, in 1927,
marked the opening of Parliament House,
Canberra, by the King, then Duke of
York. The centenaries of W.A., Vic-
toria and S.A. were celebrated in 1929,
1934 and 1936 respectively; N.S.W.’s
sesquicentenary in 1937. In line with
Britain and every other dominion and
colony, Australia had a Jubilee issue in
1935. Two pioneers have been honored
—Sturt in 1930 and MacArthur, of
merino fame, in 1934. The Kingsford
Smith stamps of 1931 created precedent
by giving recognition to a living com-
“I got a little blonde to sit on my knee one day!”
moner. Stamps depicting the Sydney
cenotaph marked .the 20th anniversary
of the Gallipoli landing in 1935, and m
1940 Australia was 'the first Empire
country to commemorate its participa-
tion in World War 11. This last stamp
was an adaptation of a magazine- cover
design by Virgil O’Reilly, with the head
of a nursp and full-length figures of
men of the three services, drawn from
living models —within 18 months all three
men had been killed on active ser-
vice Sydney’s Harbor Bridge had its
stamp in 1932, and the opening of the
liibmarine telephone between Tasmania
nd the mainland was accorded similar
•ibute in 1936, Australia, comparatively,
oes easy on commemoratives. Some
ountries turn them out every couple of
lonths.
* * * *
“Cassar’s Ghost”: “S.T.S.” (B.
8/2/’45) opens a rich mine of memo-
ies when he recalls the social gatherings
i the dress-circle bar. Every theatre
ad its associated pub in the old days:
ler Majesty’s, Sydney, had two, so
ilanned that the opening of doors let
ito the connecting walls gave admission
d special bars from the dress circle and
tails. The gods had to go outside to
;et to the public bars, risking the loss of
beir seats on crowded nights ; but old-
ters then could remember a time when
ven the gallery was catered for.
Barmen with trays of glasses of beer
ised to pass amongst the audience. The
aw closed down on that, but the privi-
eges of the stalls and d.c. remained for
nany years. World War I and six
j’clock closing didn’t wipe the
heatre bars, blit completed a process
ong in operation. The destroying agent
vas the licensing rule that spared from
3eriodical reductions those hotels that
lad the largest number of rooms avail-
ible for boarders. The rule wiped out
nost of the theatre pubs, which had very
! ew rooms to offer.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Is there any difference now
B. 21/3/’45) between beer and ale? The
atter was English, the other originally
[as its name indicates) German. The
lifference then was, as “Maltcrobe” says,
simply hops, which in England had hardly
been cultivated till the time of Henry
VIII. Even as late as Charles II Evelyn
was complaining that “they turn our
wholesome ale into beer.” Now that
hops are a matter of course, what differ-
ence is there?
sH sJj ❖ ♦
“Pink Tape”: I have seen a type-
written N.S.W. Railways document,
dated November 2, 1887, and have been
assured it is the first bit of typing done
on the first machine imported, Australia
didn’t take wholeheartedly to type-
writers till the ’nineties. Next year,
I am told, will be the jubilee of the
first shorthand and typing college started
in Sydney. Even when the typist was
a well-established member of the office
force, to send a typed letter to a
client or friend was regarded as the
act of a bounder. In 1903 a perfect
avalanche of letters appeared in the
“S. M. Herald” denouncing the action
of one Government office which was
sending out typewritten letters. “We
pay our civil servants well, and surely
any member of the public has the right
to expect the courtesy of a written reply
instead of something that has been die-
tated to a typewriter, possibly a female,”
fulminated one correspondent,
* * * *
“G. 8.”: Lloyd George was always
touchy about his short stature. At a
meeting in Manchester in the early part
of his career the chairman in introducing
L.G. said, rather tactlessly, “We had all
expected a man of greater stature.” Lloyd
George was not the man to pass this by
in silence. He said “I have noted your
chairman’s reference to my height. In
Wales we measure a man from the chin
up.”
TOOTING.
“We miss your laughter and your flute,
But hope to join you later in a little toot.
—From an In Memoriam notice in Brisbane "Courier-
Mail
Most creeds have utterly divergent uptions
About what manner of existence waits
Unfailing piety and deep devotions
Beyond what may be termed the Pearly Gates.
Valhalla to the Vikings stood for oceans
Of any liquor that inebriates
As well as cheers, along with stacks of
victuals —
Theirs was a Paradise of beer and skittles.
The Indian’s vision, less sophisticated,
To hunting-grounds well stocked with game
inclined;
Our abos., I suspect, anticipated
Some Heaven of a very similar kind
Till zealous missionaries inculcated
Things less material in the native mind.
Stressing the impropriety of bestial
Intrusions into any realm celestial.
The Moslem true believer’s destined bower is,
One understands, a place beyond the skies
Amply equipped with fascinating houris
Among its numerous amenities.
Our version far more dignified and dour is,
But vague to boot. However hard one tries
To get some information that’s conclusive
The best authorities are so elusive.
Myself, I take scant stock in necromancy
Or any comfort spiritualism yields.
I’ve always felt a certain hesitancy
In speculating what the curtain shields
Touching the life to come. In fact my fancy
Has never travelled past th’ Elysian fields.
I leave to theologians the disputing
If there are flutes beyond the grave—or tooting.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mrs. Stumpjump”: Going to town in
the old selection days meant a slow ride
in dray or spring cart, but we kiddies
often varied the tedium of the journey
by counting and betting on the many
advertisements blazoned on the post-and-
rail fences. When the race between
Snigg’s Tea and Blobb’s Beer was get-
ting exciting we felt aggrieved that a re-
ligious signwriter was given to strewing
holy texts opposite the liquor ads. he’d
been obliged to execute, I’d forgotten
these long-gone fences till the other day
when we pulled up to help our neigh-
bor, who was wrestling vainly with his
utility. “Eve tried everything,” he
moaned, “but it’s no good. As Voltaire
said when he died ‘I am lost.’” Notic-
ing my surprise, he went on: “Don’t
you remember all the ads. painted along
the road fences when we were kids?
There used to be one opposite the old
Halfway Pub, a text about ‘Beware the
wrath to come. As Voltaire said when
he died “I am lost.” ’ That always stuck
in my brain.” He paused and then went
on “I’ve looked it up dozens of times
in the Bible, but I never did find out
who Voltaire was.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Her excited yapping the
other day drew*attention to my half-bred
dingo mong, who’d collected a fox.
Rounding it up in the sheep-dog’s usual
style, she soon learned the catch wouldn’t
drive back, and the best she could do
was hold him. Presently the fox sat
down, and, well pleased with her prize,
the mong first offered to play, but, finding
her quarry in no playful mood, she sat
alongside and got friendly. Sight of Rey-
nard resting his head appealingly against
the mong’s shoulder so puzzled me that I
investigated, only to find that he was
carrying a bullet hole of recent introduc-
tion. The slug had passed through the
intestines, the wound was blown, and be-
cause of the bad marksmanship of some
hunter the animal was faced with a slow
and painful death. Though able to put up
a fair run when pushed, he was evidently
feeling bad enough to seek sympathy.
I quickly ended his woes,
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Looking at the miles of
roads, airstrips, revetments, dumps and
camp clearings scattered throughout New
Guinea you’d wonder at first sight how
many years must pass before the jungle
smooths out the scars that have been
ripped through it. Not many. I climbed
to a native village which had been occu-
pied six months before but evacuated be-
cause of our arrival. The formerly well-
beaten paths were faint groves in the
smothering kunai, which had taken also
all of the clearings round the huts. Pour-
ing over the slope where terraced banks
had held only taro and cavassa was a
flood of native convolvulus, the humps
in the matted mass indicating where the
shapely shrubs intended to provide
tapioca were now struggling to burst out
to the sun. With all the conditions for
swift growth, and with no dusky
gardeners to trim them back, the creepers
had swept on to the thatch roofs, where
they mingled with marrow vines striving
to outvie the usurpers from outside;
while sprouting coconuts and glossy little
trees knee-high told of the shade that
would soon spread over the lesser things
which had rushed in at the start. Down
on the flat, where bitumen runways looked
capable of resisting local forces indefi-
nitely, much the same story will be told.
The big rains of a year ago ripped away
about a third of one of the most impres-
sive-looking airstrips ; tore new river-beds
across it; and even as the bulldozers
were shoving fresh filling into the gaps
the edges of these were taking on a green
tinge from the myriad seedlings which
had sprouted in three days. No ; it won’t
be long. I suppose in the years ahead
steamers on island cruises will probably
take the curious to the sites of storied
landings; and great aircraft bearing
trippers to dodge the southern winter in
Wau may deviate to follow the Kokoda
trail and skim over the battlefields be-
yond that. But all they will see is kunai
and jungle—which is just as well; they
won’t see the places our chaps made, but
they will see the stubborn stuff from
which our camps and bases were wrested.
* * * He
“Carmi”: My theory of the Kelly
derivation (B. 21/3/ ’45) is that it dates
from Heqry Lawson’s “The Darling
River,” in which Kelly, the lost Murrum-
bidgee hatter, is guided home by a crow.
* H= * *
“W. 0.2”: “Plane Creek’s” mention
(B. 21 /3 / ’45) of his foxy dying within
20 minutes of being bitten by a red-
bellied black snake recalls an experience
"If We had our bathing-costumes We could have a nice swim.”
wk | l the largest and most dangerous of
Australia’s venomous snakes—the little-
known taipan (Oxyuranus scutellatus) of
Cape York Peninsula. Abos. of the
peninsula, who fear it more than any
other reptile, assert that the taipan grows
up to 12ft. in length. Largest we en-
countered was a 6ft. specimen killed
near the Batavia River after it had bitten
a mongrel dog from a natives’ camp,
struck on the neck, the mong was dead
inside 15 minutes before anything could
be done. Little is known of the taipan’s
habits, except that it is oviparous. The
snake has half-inch long fangs, back-
wardly curved like those of a viper. An
aggressive reptile, it has been responsible
f or considerable loss of life among the
Cape York tribes.
......
“Plane Creek”: A. S. Allison (B.
14/3/’45) is the second bard in three
weeks to perpetuate the fallacy that it
is certain death to be stung by a venom-
ous snake. Other chap, versifying anony-
mously in the Mackay (N.Q.) “Mercury,”
called his verse “Taipan.” He let a
taipan leave her eggs and bite him on
the wrist, and then waited “for eternal
night.” I’ve had plenty of snake-bite
cases on my hands, and none has shown
any readiness to die untreated. Many
have come in, after having bled and liga-
tured themselves effectively, and calmly
solicited my aid. The average Australian
doesn’t believe a mere snake can lay
him low. *
* *• * *
“Gumsucker”: Around Ballarat West
in the ’nineties were extensive quarry
holes, containing quite large and deep
pools. Our local angler was one “Click”
Shannon. Click fished every morning in
Lake Wendouree, seldom failing to make
a good catch. The small fry he carried
away in a big billy, dumping them into
the quarryhole pools nearer home. So
for quite a few years we kids had some
excellent fishing. Then came an extra-
dry summer. But long before the pools
dried up most of the perch and tench
had perished; actually just as soon as
the water became shallow and rose above
a certain temperature, continued exposure
to which proved fatal. So the station
waterhole prior to the reception of finny
inhabitants should have one end dug very
deep, preferably with shade around, so
that when the worst arrives the fish may
have a harbor into which to retire until
better times come. In some north Aus-
tralian rivers Nature has, dug just such
refuges, which is how barramundi and
other fish contrive to survive when the
river is reduced to a mere chain of pools.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: For so many years had
Ted talked of visiting his sister “down
Sydney way” that his sudden departure
to carry out the long-deferred intention
caused a local sensation. His return
aroused even more comment, for Ted
bore all the earmarks (literally) of a man
who has had a few brisk rounds with a
threshing machine. In the sunny spot on
the pub verandah the story came out;
“Of course, Sis was glad to see me, but
I had about 20 hours’ sleep overdue.
Half an hour after finding the place I
was asleep. I don’t know whether it
was the cat fight or the drunks’ chorus
that woke me up, but with my head stuck
out of the window I was trying to get a
breath of air that didn’t smell like gas,
when a shadow moved across the yard.
Without a sound it sprang on to the
fence, up on to the washhouse and from
there across towards my window. I
wasn’t feeling exactly heroic, still Sis
was alone and The burglar had one
leg over the sill when I let him have it.
Whack! According to the rules he
ought to have been out. He wasn’t; he
was well and truly in—and had mb in
a grip like a grizzly-bear. My stomach
was being pushed up against my tonsils
when I managed to get in a couple of
haymakers that shook him off. He came
back punching ; and that’s when I dis-
covered *l’d made a mistake—he wasn’t
a grizzly-bear at all, he was an octopus ;
a man couldn’t possibly have had so
many arms! I remember the floor com-
ing up and donging me on the skull and
a sort of pressure settling on my chest
Then the light snapped on; I heard Sis
gasp, then snap; ‘Jimmy, get off your
uncle’s chest! And don’t think you’ve
deceived me by sneaking in that window •
I know what the time is!’ And to think
I had ideas of helping Jimmy play with
his Meccano set! Marvellous how kids
spring up in 12 or 15 years.”
* * * *
“Snobby”: Rams in strong condition
can ea sily'be kidded to exercise their nue
nadt If a man 'iurt after the Im h!,
ri ' hid t |7 , , "
’ , f , , I ”, yard and oa ! lg
t^S er once a f^ w
rai *™j }° ok at each other suspiciously.
e n WI conViac e them other
ra^ s are tIa S near at hand. A third
P r °iupt the desire to piix m the
A , u , and they re into it,
e5l c . own ’ tads eyes glinting, and
soon skm ’ w ° ol and d ust will be flying.
** # * *
“D.R.H.”: I’ve just read of a bold
African explorer who, while visiting a
tribe of noted bowmen, tested the niggers
by giving them a tobacco-tin to shoot at
at close range. The result was a unani-
mous miss and the explorer chappie de-
bunked the tribe’s reputation thoroughly,
If he had been an experienced rifle shqt
his comments might have been very dif-
ferent, because he would have known
that a marksman becomes accustomed to
shooting at a definite sort of target.
Which is why the district’s crack kan-
garoo shot is usually a failure at his first
try at artificial targets, and why a man
who doey a lot of rabbit potting with a
.22 will often miss an easy shot at a hare
a much bigger mark. The practical
shot judges distance and elevation not
by a mental calculation of the yardage
but intuitively, on the appearance ; of his
familiar target. If he is used to shooting
rabbits in open country he’ll do a lot of
under-and-over missing when he visits a
patch of scrub, for just that reason: that
a rabbit at 70 yards looks different in
bush from a bunny at the same distance
on an open flat. If the explorer Johnny
had shown the nigs, a tobacco-tin-sized
area on the hide of a dead buck he’d
have found, say, three arrows out of five
sticking in the target.
* * * *
“Julia Creek”; By the way “The
0.D.,” “Simon the Saddler” and “Sur
Cingle” have been arguing, anyone would
think the greatest factor in rotting the
stitching in girths, etc., is horse sweat.
It isn’t. With the possible exception of
castor oil and bees’ wax, all leather dress-
ings have a detrimental effect on the
stitches. Even prepared preservatives and
some saddle soaps take toll of girth
stitches. I know of nothing worse than
neatsfoot oil and rendered cattle fat, the
two leather dressings mostly used on
stations.
* * * *
“Larry”; Old Cornell had a local repu-
tation as a meteorologist. He had a small
place near the road where he kept his
rain gauge, recording graphs and a large
water tank for measuring evaporation.
The latter he used extensively
to obtain what was called “the
influential rainfall.” Then,
without warning, the rate of
evaporation began to rise, and
Cornell figured it out at 200
inches a year, nearly ten times
the yearly rainfall. The wonder
of his discovery overwhelmed
him, and he evolved several
theories with which he hoped
to stun the world. One morn-
ing, while pondering on the
gigantic problem, he noticed a
horse and dray in his “meteoro-
logical bureau.” He, hurried
over to the bewhiskered owner.
“Whatinthell d’ye think y’re
doing?” he roared, although it
was obvious that the horse was
being given a drink. “That’s
my evaporimeter.” The hirsute
one looked astonished but im-
pressed. “Y’ don’t say!” he
replied, “I bin watering me
horse here fer a few days, and
it don’t seem t’ have hurt him
none.” Thus was the phenome-
non explained,
* * *
“X.E.D.”; Sam and I were
flunkeys to a few thousand
woollies on a fair lump of
a station out from Urana
(N.S.W.). The boss was a testy old chap,
but we managed fairly well by keeping
out of his road as much as possible. One
day we were instructed to put a newly-
acquired mob through the dip, Sam and
I could have shoved them through inside
an hour, but the old bloke came over
bustling us and going crook and making
a nuisance of himself. I couldn’t help
it that he collided with me in his rushing
about and fell in the dip, but I reckon
it was Sam prodding him under that lost
us our jobs.
* * * *
“8.4.”: Before noon in a W.Q. town
the languid denizens drifted bar and beer-
wards in search of coolers. Out of the
dust haze loomed a swaggie and parked
under the pub pepperina. “ ’S’pose yer
waitin’ for someone to buy yer booze?’’
snarled the town bully from his perch
on the steps. “I can do me own buyin’
and drinkin’ without your help,” retorted
the swaggie. “Now, look ’ere, any more
of your cheek and I’ll crack yer.” “I
don’t fight for nuthin’,” from the sun-
downer, was followed by an offer to fight
for a fiver. “Righto,” replied the knot-
owner ; “but I want a spell first, and
there’s to be no hittin’ when a man’s
down.” “Do me,” muttered the bounce,
and off he strolled to hog drinks and an-
nounce his coming contest. Next even-’
ing the bully, stripped to the waist, was
waiting confidently. The lean and sombre
challenger stepped off the pub verandah.
“Now, gents,” he announced, “I’m fight-
in’ this coot for a fiver. The one who
quits first loses, an’ there’s no hittin’ when
a man’s down.” With that he lay down
and stayed down. Failing to get him up,
the perplexed and exasperated nark
finally exclaimed “Oh, blast him, what’s
the use?” and walked away. The swaggie
then stood up, claimed and got the tenner,
and was shouted for and cheered to the
echo. Even the bounce bought him a
beer, as he admitted the swaggie’s style
had him beat.
THE FALLS.
Deep in earth the streams are made
From ice and snow and mist and rain;
They hate and fear their caves of gloom
And long for sun-warmed winds again.
Their sadly bubbling waters well
Up coldly from the mountain spring.
And, freed,from darkness, dazed, begin
To move in light, to dance and sing.
Tossing aloft a sparkling crest,
They dew the ferns in darkness growing,
And even sombre moss and stone
Flicker with joy while they are flowing.
They see, on banks of rock-bound pools,
The limp, diaphanous laced wings
Of new-born dragonflies grow gay.
When dried by warmth the sunshine brings.
They catch their breath, and, tumbling, fall
Fear-ridden, helplessly through space,
Until in swirls of glad relief
Their voice comes back where whirlpools
race.
Now down the rapids in the gorge
They learn to love cascading flight,
And flinging up their hands of spray
They steal the hues from clear sunlight.
They flow on fearless, though the night
Reminds them of dark, earth-bound days;
For they can make the darkness turn ,
To brightness like the lightning’s rays.
In massive might they thunder forth
Bass paeans from the billowed foam,
Where in their last majestic fall
The turbines turn to light your home.
A.I.F.
M. P. TRUDGEON.


“Bo”; He was, so I gathered, a special
correspondent of the district’s bean-and-
butterfat bi-weekly'—a real agricultural
expert. Did a horse roar or get the
bots, did the peas wither prematurely on
the vine, he was there with a sure remedy.
Soil condition was his long suit, and on
the degrees of acidity or alkalinity he
could, he averred confidently, discourse
by the column. And ever he harped on
his favorite theme; the great advantage
of the practical over the theoretical.
Came the day when* Jerry the rabbiter
invited him to do the round of Jerry’s
traps. On the way the expert dis-
cussed animatedly the percentages of
rabbits subject to hydatids, the age and
condition in which they were most likely
to be subject to the malady, the best angle
to set traps in relation to the sun’s posi-
tion, and so on. When Jerry had set his
nrst trap, placed his paper and Was
sprinkling the earth over it a puzzled
look spread over the face of the cham-
pion of practicality. Then he said ;
“Surely you don’t expect to catch them
without cheese or something!”
* * * sf:
“Buzzer”: The greatest massacre of
wallaroos I ever came across occurred in
the caves of the Chaunsit Mountains
W.Q.) after the big wet in ’O6. The
’roos, to retreat from the flies, went into
their caves. Doubtless they carried a
number of sandflies in with them, or those
pests, which get in their hot work best
at breaking dawn and fading daylight,
may have liked the semi-darkness. So
far as we were able to work it out, those
stingers worked their way into the ’roos'
ears ; all had inflammation and other evi-
dence of brain trouble from the ear. Up
to 100 died in each cave. The preceding
drought year never played half the havoc
with them that the flies did in the few
days during which they held command
after the rain.
* * * *
“Propalong”: The dilapidated boun-
dary fence between Dad Matheson’s
place and McGrogan’s runs north and
south. McGrogan’s house is a hundred
yards or so east of the fence, and when-
ever a north wind brought Dad’s sheep
along the boundary fence Mac sat on
his western verandah nursing a pea-rifle.
Presently a ewe would appear on the
wrong side of the fence. Up would go
the rifle and sand would spurt in front
of the jumbuck’s indignant nose. Dad’s
protests were swamped by McGrogan’s
aggressive laughter, and a confident
promise to hand out the corpse’s value,
plus a fiver, if ever he hit a sheep. And
then one day Mac started for town in
full view of Dad, who was mending the
fence. The car disappeared, and Dad
straightened up. Pliers in hand, he walked
across to McGrogan’s house, tapped at
the door and asked Mrs. Mac for the
loan of a wire-strainer. Then, as she left
the door, he picked up the offending rifle
which, as usual, leaned against the wall.
One neat tap with the pliers on the left
side of the fore-sight and the gun was in
place ; and Dad was filling his pipe when
Mrs. Mac returned. On the next north-
wind day Dad rang up Tom Stevens and
Sam Matthews and asked them to come
over and lend a hand on the windmill.
They were working on the head, with a
grandstand view, when the first north-
ward-drifting sheep came within Mac's
range. They saw the rifle go up, and then,
before the report reached them, the sheep
bounded convulsively and fell kicking.
"Give ’er a go in four-wheel drive!"
“C’mon,” yelled Dad, and the three
reached the fence in time to see Mc-
Grogan staring incredulously at an old
ram, dead, with a bullet hole in his neck.
Mac glared at Dad, then saw Sam and
Tom. “Well, how much?” he grumbled.
“Two-ten and five’s seven-pun-ten,”
asserted Dad. If anyone wants a pea-
rifle McGrogan has one he doesn’t use.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: “Ek Dum’s” fine tribute
to Harry Chauvel (B. 14/3/’45) raises the
old question of what is a good seat on
a horse. I remember an admiring crowd
of station hands murmuring “Blanky
wunnerful seat” while watching a 14-sfone
Queensland half-caste who used to do
a lot of contest riding. The yeller-
feller rode d la Hollywood cowboy —
from the seat of his pants and the soles
of his boots. He lounged back confi-
dently in the big saddle, stirrups thrust
far forward, his full weight on the middle
of the prad’s back. He could ride a
rough horse all right, but the backs of
his regular hacks were like a butcher’s
shop. And I’d hate to have seen him on
a smart stock-horse after a fast beast.
I knew another Queenslander who rode
with an absolutely correct cavalry seat,
minus any just-out-of-riding-school stiff-
ness. Nobody took much notice of him ;
he was a quiet chap, unaddicted to silk
neckerchiefs and, although he could
ride his few roots, he never looked for
the tight ones. But he was a horseman,
easy on his mounts, a fine rider on the
face of a drafting camp ; and all his prads
had light mouths.
sfc # sf:
“Will C.”: When the grasshopper
swarm in the hopping stage arrived in
the cane paddocks they soon showed
that, unlike their predecessors which
come on the wing, they weren’t keen on
tough cane leaves. They turned instead
on the fine-stemmed Natal grass amongst
the cane and on the giant couch of the
“ Oh , don't Worry about it—it Was only an OLD one.”
gullies, both of which have very high
food value. When these were eaten
down we expected to see the elephant
grass and paspalum, next on the scale
of nutritive values, disappear. Neither
was as much as nibbled, next choice being
a rank-growing water grass that no stock
here are interested in. When this rubbish
was finally exhausted they crowded on
to the paspalum, common couch, buffalo
couch, star grass and the other fine grasses
of the farm. They tasted, and I’ll swear
they spat the succulent green stuff out.
By afternoon the last stragglers were dis-
appearing into the hillside spear grass
beyond my dividing fence.
* * t *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were clearing by
contract for a Victorian cocky when his
niece, a schoolteacher on holiday, came
to stay with him. She was one of those
nice young women without designs on
anybody, and she frequently came and
watched us at work, full of questions,
but mighty nervous of beetles, centipedes
and other insects, so that we never knew
what moment she might jump and squeal
and back away. This amused Mat.
“You’d think,” he chuckled to me, “that
anybody as educated as she is could sup-
press them there female nerves of hers.
Blime, she ought t’ know most o’ the
things in the bush is harmless.” Then
he stripped a long sheet of loose bark
from a tree and about 3462 triantelopes
of various sizes fell upon him. With a
wild yell he ran round in circles, franti-
cally beating at the scurrying things and
crying for me to help him. “Aw,” I said,
“a bloke like you ought t’ suppress them
female nerves o’ yours. Most o’ the
things is harmless.” He got his breath
back, shuddered, then remarked soberly
“Yair. I reckon it’d be all right if the
damn’ things would keep still ’stead o’
runnin’ about all over a bloke.” Then,
still thoughtful, he picked up his axe.
“B. 4”: Knocking about the bush, I
have been bitten and stung by most darn
things bar a goat. But of them all, for
sheer agony, I lift my lid to the punch
packed by those big red hornets which
lurk under loose bark or in cracks in the
sides of a tree. When a youth I was fol-
lowing the boss through densely-timbered
country when he brushed against a nest
of the winged horrors, which streamed
out of their ruin bayoneting me and my
maddened moke. Ripping in the hooks,
I passed the boss and tore through that
scrub as if the devil was after me, in-
stead of the boss with his issue. Many
stabs even went through my thick felt
hat. For a few days I felt like a mad
hornet, and had two scraps with hilarious
ringers, whose nitwit comments were no
anodyne.
“Blime”: There was no
wood cut, and Ma’s strategy
of grabbing the axe and
slogging into the woodheap
as soon as she saw the parson
approaching didn’t pass un-
noticed. Even when the visi-
tor clucked sympathetically
and remarked that it was
hardly work for a woman
Dad never batted an eyelid.
He bided his time. A fort-
night later, working in a near
paddock, he noted the
reverend gent, again turning
in at the gate, and a few
minutes later Ma’s wood-'
pecker technique with the
axe. Calmly Dad laid down
his hoe, made his way to the
scarecrow in the maize pad-
dock, and there, disrobing,
began swopping garments
with the grinning dummy.
With the seat and both knees
out of his pants, a sleeveless
tattered relic of coat pinned across his
chest, and crowned with a dilapidated
hat brim, he arrived at the house
as Ma was spreading the best china-
ware for tea. “Oh, hello there. Par-
son,” Dad greeted in feigned surprise
as he seated himself and produced some
frayed remnants of ancient footwear.
“Good of y’t’ drop in. Don’t mind if I
do a bit while we’re talkin’, do y’?” he
added, laboriously threading a needle
and dragging at an enormous hole. “Y’
see, I been that flamin’ busy with the
cows lately I ain’t even had time t’ darn
meself a pair o’ socks.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Fox dogs’re pretty hard to
get round our way, so you bet I’m inter-
ested when Sam says he’s got one he’ll
sell me. Gripes, the little yeller mong
didn’t look the part much, but Sam
reckons me an’ that tyke after foxes’d be
a sight worth seein’, so I tell him I’ll
consider it. A few days after that I’m
helpin’ Sam an’ Tommy in the south
paddock when out trots a fox, and Sam
skitches his mong. Ginger looks at the
thing sort o’ surprised; then, when Sam
sools some more, off he goqs. The fox
is travellin’ slow, an’ the mong has just
about caught up when they disappear
over the ridge. Presently there’s some
loud yelps. Tommy grins at Sam, Sam
cusses the fox f’r bein’ in the paddock,
then suddenly back over the rise they
come at a great pace, the mong leadin’
by half a length. “Well, now, look at
that, will y’,” yells Sam, bangin’ his thigh
hard. “Too big for ’im t’ kill on his
own so he’s bringin’ it back to us. Gripes,
Chuck, there’s brains f’r y’.” Tommy
grabs his sides, all tickled pink. “Too
right,” he agrees, “an’ usin’ his lungs
good ’n’ hard, too, Chuck, t’ let’s know
he’s cornin’. Sam, if this comes off y’ll
owe me drinks.” “Come off, y’ dope,” I
tell ’im; “how can it come off when we
got no gun.” Still, that ain’t Ginger’s
fault. I gave the three quid for him.
* * * *
“Fancar”: Re “B. A. Ker’s” egg-laying
finch with male plumage (B. 14/3/’45),
spontaneous sex reversals are not uncom-
mon in the feathered world, but the
change is often superficial, being one of
plumage, not of behaviour. Incidentally,
male plumage is not so much a sign of
masculinity as evidence of a deficiency
or a lack of the female hormone. In con-
trast to the mammal kingdom, where the
imperfect male reverts to the female type,
in the feathered world the imperfect fe-
male assumes the plumage of the male.
Modern writers on sex physiology declare
that in ‘man and all other animals the
female appeared before the more special-
ised male, and that birds reversed the pro-
cedure, the highly specialised female fol-
lowing the male. These writers no
doubt would re-write the Eden story by
presenting Adam as the rib of woman;
be that as it may, it seems that the hoary
old problem “which came first, the hen
or the egg?” is now solved,
* * * *
“Old-timer”; I rolled into Bathurst
(N.S.W.) one bitter autumn night on top
of a load of empty fruit cases, was
dropped on the edge of the town and
sought a refuge for the night. The best
I could do was rake up a great heap
of fallen leaves the English trees
in a park and burrow into ’em. It wasn’t
too bad and I dozed off, but some time
in the early hours awoke frozen to the
marrow. I got out of the heap and
stamped up and down for awhile, then
spotted a larger heap near the one I’d
left and decided to add it to my own.
As I gathered the third armful the heap
heaved, a long face with a grin appeared
and a dry voice demanded, “Hey, do y’
want all the flamin’ blankets as well as
the quilt?” Three hours later and seven
miles away we warmed ourselves at a
log fire and toasted each other in hot tea.
THE CRICKET.
I can’t get over it,
I pipe and I trill, said the cricket;
And if you should ask me why
A full-grown insect should sit
In a tiny tunnel in the ground
And make a piping sound,
I really have no reply;
I can’t get over it.
What is my song about?
I leave it to you, said the cricket.
I know that the elders will die
But many young eggs hatch out;
I know the earth and the grass
And perils that thump as they pass.
I like to announce I am I,
And that’s what my song’s about.
If you come clumping by
I quake and am still, said the cricket.
There are bandicoots, cats and boys
And frightening creatures that fly,
And under my log or my stone
I prefer to be left alone,
Resuming my piping noise
As soon as you’re safely by.
I’d sooner never be heard
On the whole, I think, said the cricket.
My love who has faultless taste
Opines I can pipe like a bird;
And, dank and thorny and brown,
I trill when the sun goes down
And none of it goes to waste
As long as my love has heard.
Say what you darn well like.
It’s not a bad song, said the cricket.
Here while the grassblades glisten
Thrusting each frosty spike
From the earth where we serve our term
With the poor old grub and the worm,
I shrill and the tall stars listen,
Say what you darn well like.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD,
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ŵ
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
E GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
Sterilised
To Remedy
BONE
Phosphorus Deficiency
In Pastures and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K. Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
The MARS High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the "MARS" Planer is of
a proved design and capable
of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED. ALL GEAR TEETH
ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
ẁ
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
Distrib.- Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Street, Sydney. For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., Marses
STOCKISTS; Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Out-breeding Wrinkles
“Sheepo”: It cannot be overstressed
that superficial operations such as the
Mules method will not outbreed
wrinkles; they’re in the blood, and re-
peated culling is necessary to keep flocks
free of wrinkles, which are blowfly lures.
In South Africa many breeders have
proved that “development” can be
attained and maintained by using rams
of the type carrying big folds in front
but which are free of “concertina” bodies.
Ewes of the semi-Vermont type are
culled out and plain-bodied types appear
to be even more popular in S’Africa than
they are in Australia. The weights cut
per head and the average prices per
pound obtained in S’Africa indicate that
development has been successfully main-
tained.
Outbreeding wrinkles can be done with-
out any undue sacrifice of wool qualities.
There are plenty bf plain-bodied, good-
quality rams available. If ewes of the
“concertina” type cannot be fattened and
sold it’d he far better to use them for
dingo baits rather than permit them to
produce more wrinkly types. In all dis-
tricts plain-bodied merinos have proved
themselves.
Stripping After Machines
“Noffin”; H. I. Apps, Senior Dairy
Advisor of the S.A. Department of Agri-
culture, in its journal recommends for
the substitution of hand stripping the
massaging of the udder and manipulating
the teat cups during the last minute of
machine milking. The process consists
of gently pulling down the cups and then
massaging the udder by pressing the base
of it from all sides, done by placing the
hands on each side of the udder and ap-
plying a gentle pressure, taking particular
care to avoid injury to the udder. Ex-
periments have shown that this method
removes the last milk nearly as effectively
as hand stripping.
To get maximum results from hand
stripping, the udder and teats should be
washed just before the teat cups are fitted,
as the cups then grip the teats more
readily. It is unsatisfactory to wash the
udders of all the cows in the stalls before
milking, as by the time the first are
milked the others will have dried. Apps
contends that the best results are got if
the whole job is done within five minutes.
Cows are largely creatures of habit and it
is easy to accustom them to being milked
quickly. Apps says that if these precau-
tions are not taken the lactation period
may be shortened. He might have added
that machine dairymen should constantly
cull their herds, so as to remove refrac-
tory animals, also the naturally hard
milker and animals with ill-shapen udders
and teats. Aptitude for machine milking
is one of the qualities on which breeders
should keep an eye.
Chick Sexing
“Pookie”; An experiment which may
cut out the Japanese method is going on
at Hurlstone (N.S.W.) Agricultural High
School. It is known that a cross between
two separate breeds, such as a Rhode
Island Red cock and a Light Sussex hen,
will give chicks whose sex can be told at
a glance, the males being creamy white,
the females reddish buff. The snag, from
a practical point of view, is that after
first cross a medley of types is produced
and it is expensive to keep two flocks of
birds just to produce first cross pullets
which can’t be bred from.
At Hurlstone the Legbar is being bred.
The progeny of Brown Leghorn hens and
Plymouth cocks are crossed back to the
Brown Leghorn for six generations, then
inbred. The theory behind the experi-
“Mark my Words —We ain't got that Ludendorff bloke beat yet!"
ment is that the factor which produces
barring is present in one dose in the
female but in two doses in the male. This
isn’t apparent at birth, except when it
acts on a brown background ; the double
dose reduces the brown pigment of the
down so the male chicks have easily
recognisable light down. With careful
culling of throwbacks to the parent
breeds, good results have been obtained
in England. The experiment is worth
watching.
Forgotten Country
“Outback”: The attitude of Queens-
land Government to the Gulf country
seems typical of its lack of vision and
business acumen in all matters affecting
the pastoral industries. Since 1927 cattle-
men in the area served by the Etheridge
railway (Almaden to Forsayth) have been
urging the Government to recondition the
line to enable heavy trains to use it, but
apparently the Government thinks that a
rail-motor, hauling two “K” wagons of
cattle in addition to passengers, is suffi-
dent. After flood waters damaged the
line in 1927 it was reconditioned suffi-
ciently to carry this light traffic. The
area served by the railway turns off
roughly 10,000 cattle a year, and they are
estimated to lose condition to the value
of £2 per head on the long droving trip
to Almaden. * This estimated loss of
£20,000 is exactly the amount estimated
as required to recondition the line.
The Labor member for Cook, H. H.
Collins, has urged that the line be recon-
ditioned, but how many State or Federal
politicians ever visit the Gulf country,
although they do at times hold forth on
its “potentialities?” Sixty-seven Gulf
cattlemen recently petitioned Opposition
Leader Nicklin, urging the reopening of
the line to heavy traffic, and Premier
Cooper informed Nicklin that he would
have inquiries made. Georgetown Pro-
gress Association believes reconditioning
of the line is too important to be put off
as a post-war job.
Soil and Sub. Clover
“Myrrhee”: In Victorian sandy soils
clover makes quick germination and
growth after good autumn rains and pro-
vides feed relatively early and well into
the winter. The spring flush is rapid, but
may be cut short by a dry spell when
yield is reduced and seed becomes badly
pinched and less nutritious. In sandy
soils the plant easily buries its burrs,
sometimes to a depth of two inches, and
as rain readily penetrates such soils ger-
mination follows quickly the first autumn
rains.
Loams are the best soils for sub. clover.
The plant buries its burrs freely, and as
rain penetrates quickly into loamy
ground establishment is rapid after
autumn rains and growth sustained well
into winter. The crop is not so sensitive
to temporary dry spells in spring, as on
sandy soil, usually makes heavy growth
and matures fully.
On clay loams the burrs may not
be buried, especially in a dry spring
when the soil is hard, with the
result that germination is slow in the
following autumn and growth is delayed.
When the burrs are lying on the surface
a fairly long period of cool, moist weather
is needed to make the seed germinate.
Usually germination doesn’t occur until
late autumn, the plants remaining close
to the ground during the winter. They
begin rapid growth later in the spring
and often sustain growth longer than on
sandy or loamy soils.
Soils moist in winter and dry in summer
afford the best conditions for growth.
Wet soils of whatever type retard de-
velopment, but if establishment can be
secured in autumn when the soil is moist
but not wet the plant is less affected by
wet in winter. A heavy clover crop
transpires water freely and may dry out
the soil to a marked extent. It is not
uncommon for soils under native pasture
to be wet and soft in winter and when
established with sub. clover to be rela-
tively dry and firm.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Dennis’s stomach is of
limited capacity, so overfeeding is bound
to lead to digestive disorder and loss of
weight. Scours in young pigs is fre-
quently caused by “stuffing.” To elimi-
nate waste and possible loss, give enough
to fill the pig comfortably, and give it
regularly. Don’t feed any particular food
to excess, but aim at a mixed balanced
ration which won’t taint or discolor the
flesh. Dry fibrous material is scarcely
digestible, and few pigs will eat it. If
green grazing cannot be maintained
throughout the year, conserve fodder for
the lean period.
“Ned”; Add another couple of trees to
those listed which make it difficult to
control the fruit fly. Loquat-trees usually
carry heavy crops, much of which ripens
and decays on the trees, providing fine
harbor and breeding places for the fly.
My experience is that a heavy loquat crop
in a neighborhood is followed by severe
fruit fly damage. The quince is another
tree which keeps the fruit fly around. The
surest method of dealing with the pest
is to chop the trees down or to knock
off the green fruit and destroy it.
If there are loquat- or quince-trees in
neighboring properties suspend small
quantities of carbide in tins with a few
small holes in the bottoms. The fly
doesn’t like the carbide fumes.
“Myrrhee”: Ewes will lamb more
easily and lambs will feed more freely
from the clean udder if crutching is done
properly. Remove wool from around
the udder, between the hind legs and well
up over the tail. Slope off the wool from
the closely-shorn parts to the uncut wool.
Handle ewes heavy in lamb carefully.
Walk them from pen to crutching board
and don’t force through gateways. Sit
the ewes down gently and don’t press
too heavily during the operation.
“Discharged Moonya”: Careful poultry
farmers watch the droppings. If they’re
yellow then the liver is affected and a
reasonable dose of Epsom salts will clear
up the trouble in early stages. Green
droppings usually mean intestinal affec-
tion. Salts is also recommended, with a
light diet for a few days. Greenish-yellow
droppings suggest t.b. and the cure is the
axe.
“Exem”; Victorian post-war Forestry
expenditure will be up £4,000,000. Out
of this £1,000,000 will be allocated to soft-
wood plantations to provide for indus-
trial needs. Same amount will be set
aside for fire prevention, establishment of
breaks and dam maintenance. Approxi-
mately £700,000 will be spent on new
roads in forest areas. Balance will be
used for forestry expansion generally.
In 1938-39 the whole of the Common-
wealth spent only £1,800,000 on Forestry.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
French Rhine Aims.
(As reported on by N.Y. “Times” Paris
correspondent.)
The French have no confidence in an
.nternational regime in the Rhineland.
They think the conception of a Germany
kept intact as a single economic unit pro-
ducing for the welfare of Europe under
strict control would be the ideal solu-
tion, but that it is difficult to guarantee
that the Allies would maintain such a
system for any given period.
Since the French and even the Allies’
observers are sceptical on this point, a
less ideal but, they think, more practi-
cal scheme is proposed by the French —
more practical because it would rest ulti-
mately on the power and determination
of the French, who have vital reasons
for ensuring its permanence. They would
separate the Rhineland from Germany,
admitting international control of what
Ruhr industries remained, but placing
the military control of the whole Rhine
Valley in French hands —exclusively
French as regards the territory west of
the Rhine and extensive bridgeheads
cast of the Rhine covering approximately
the same areas that similar bridgeheads
covered during the Allies’ occupation
after the First World War.
Those bridgeheads embraced Cologne,
Coblenz and Mainz. This time General
dc Gaulle desires French occupation
from the Swiss to the Netherlands fron-
tiers. The French say frankly that they
do not expect either the Americans or
the British to take an active interest in
this occupation for long, and lienee the
French must stand guard in this strategic
zone.
The French stand is that the Ruhr
should be organised according to French
economic needs and France’s position in
Europe. They want the Ruhr’s produc-
tion to serve French and European re-
construction. Most of the Saar will be
annexed by France if General de Gaulle
has his way. The Ruhr zone would in-
clude the region around Dortmund,
Bochum and Gelsenkirchen forming the
Westphalian coal basin. Here would be
an international economic regime exclud-
ing all German ownership. The French
would participate to the greatest extent,
but the Belgians and the Netherlanders
would be represented. The French say
that thus there might be different political
regimes in the international and the
French zones.
The French fear British rather than
American opposition to this plan. They
think that the American interest is less
direct and the Americans favor a harder
peace than the British, whom the French
suspect of coolness toward General de
Gaulle’s idea of a predominant role for
France in the Rhineland and hence in
western Europe. Belgian antagonism
toward General de Gaulle is regarded
here in France as a reflection of the
British attitude.
Experts ask whether an international
regime is equally applicable in the indus-
trial region of Upper Silesia, which is in
Russia’s orbit. But they add that all this
separatism and zoning involve breaking
up Germany and creating new frontiers
such as have in the past been barriers to
trade and stimulants to aggressive
nationalism.
Difference in Treaties.
(from an article by N.Y. “Sun” Washington
correspondent .)
In her special treaty with Russia,
signed in June, 1942, which was to last
20 years. Great Britain undertook to
assist Russia in the event of a rebirth
of German aggression, but stated that
the clauses requiring military aid shall
remain in force only “until the high con-
tracting parties by mutual agreement
shall recognise that it is superseded by
the adoption of the proposals contem-
plated in Article 3,” which specifically
provided that both Great Britain and
Russia declared their desire to unite with
other States “in adopting proposals for
common action to preserve peace and re-
sist aggression in the post-war period.”
In other words, pending the establish-
ment of an international organisation.
Great Britain promised Russia assistance
against German aggression, but if an
international organisation were set up
the pledge of military assistance was to
be abrogated by mutual consent of Russia
and Great Britain. Only in event of de-
fault in the adoption of proposals by an
international organisation was the treaty
between Russia and Great Britain prom-
ising mutual military assistance to be
continued for 20 years.
Under Article 5 of the Franco-Russian
alliance, Russia and France “undertake
not to conclude any alliance and not to
take part in any coalition directed against
either of the high contracting parties.”
This means, of course, that if Russia at
any time is accused of aggression and the
security council of Dumbarton Oaks, by
a majority vote, declares that Russia is
an aggressor, both France and Czecho-
slovakia are pledged to assist Russia,
irrespective of the verdict of the security
council of the new League of Nations.
Invading China.
(What the “United States News” expects will
happen.)
The China coast is the next big battle-
field of the Pacific war.
The first round of the battle for the
China coast already has begun. Along
that coast American ’planes from fields
in China, from carriers and from the
Philippines are attacking Japanese ships
and bases. In the interior Americans
under the command of Major-General
Albert C. Wedemeyer are preparing to
drive toward the coast to form a junction
with the forces that are to come by sea.
And over Japan the U.S. Navy’s carrier
strikes at Tokyo aid the China campaign
by hitting Japan’s sea- and air-power at
home.
Although Japan may be crippled by
direct blows, the bulk of her war indus-
tries on the mainland of Asia must be
disposed of to complete her defeat.
The first aim in the invasion of China
will be to win shore bases. Once those
are secure, expansion of the expeditionary
force as needed will be possible. Posses-
sion of the bases will clear the Way for
a series of moves, the time, place and
sequence of which are secret.
Supplies for China can pour in to equip
large numbers of Chinese foot soldiers.
Half a million Chinese are being con-
scripted to support the U.S. invasion.
They can back up a campaign spear-
headed by hard-hitting and fast-moving
armored forces.
Air and sea blockade of Japan can cut
her off from vital outside sources of food,
oii, iron and coal. Her industries will
be blasted, her people starved. Her w ar-
ships and ’planes will be forced to fight
or be destroyed in the harbors or on the
ground. Cutting of Japan’s land route
in China to her outlying empire will be
possible. Already severed is her route
by sea to South-east Asia and the East
Indies,
A drive up the China coast toward
North China, Manchuria and Korea
could strike at Japan’s inner empire in
Asia. If Russia should enter the war
that empire would be caught in a two-
way squeeze.
Sea-borne invasion of Japan would ad-
minister the knockout. American troops
would land on a weakened Japan, under
protection of fleets of U.S. ’planes and
ships having command of the air and sea.
The coast of China looks forbidding
to the invader. Favorable landing places
on the northern part are heavily guarded.
The parts nearer the Philippines are wild
and rugged. Good harbors are few.
Some fastnesses still are lairs of pirates.
Back of the coast the land is broken by
hills and mountains. Roads to the in-
terior are poor and scarce.
The Hong Kong and Canton area
would open a route by railroad and the
West River to the interior of China. It
would give the nearest connection with
the Chinese and American forces based
on Chungking. Any invasion of this area,
however, would have to run the gauntlet
of the formidable defences centred
around Hong Kong. And the Japanese
now have full possession of the railroad
connecting Canton with Hankow.
Swatow, Amoy, Foochow, Wenchow,
farther up the coast, would afford valu-
able airfields for American use. Posses-
sion of any or all of these ports would
outflank Formosa. Drawbacks are the
lack of good harbors and the fact that
connections with the interior are difficult.
No railroads touch any of these ports,
and roads and rivers reach only a limited
distance inland.
Shanghai, still farther north, is the in-
dustrial capital and strategic centre of
China. In peace-time this city had a
population of 3,500,000. It lies on a flat
coastal plain near the mouth of the
Yangtze River. From Shanghai and near-
by Hangchow and Ningpo, railroads lead
inland and connect with both South and
North China. The Yangtze River is navi-
gable by warships for nearly 700 miles,
to Hankow, and by barges for 1600 miles
to Chungking. The terrain around Shang-
hai would afford excellent opportunity
for operations by American tanks and
mobile artillery. These, however, would
have to overcome fixed defences and
opposition from strong Japanese forces.
Regardless of the point or points
selected for the first landings, geographic
and strategic factors will tend to bring
about a campaign that sodner or later
will involve the Shanghai area. The
Japanese themselves recognised the im-
portance of Shanghai when they made
an attack upon that city the starting point
of their war in China in 1937, After
taking Shanghai they went up the
Yangtze River and captured Nanking and
Hankow, but were stopped between Han-
kow and Chungking.
When and if the Americans reach
Shanghai they can, if they choose, follow
the Japanese strategy. That would mean
fighting their way inland along the
Yangtze River, fn any case, however,
their route seems certain to turn north
ultimately, following the railroads toward
North China, Manchuria and Korea.
Somewhere in that northern region they
would hope to link up with the Russians,
driving south.
A land campaign into North China
would bring U.S. forces for the first time
into head-on collision with the full power
of Japan’s land army. From Shanghai
north to Tientsin and Peiping—a distance
of 600 miles —there is a continuous
stretch of level plain, where a war of
manoeuvre could be fought.
“A Dark Chapter.”
(From an “American Mercury” article by Wil-
liam Henry Chamberlin.)
One of the darkest chapters of the
troubled story of Soviet-Polish relations
has been the Soviet attitude toward the
Polish Underground. Russia has made
use of Underground fighters where it
needed them, but has consistently dis-
solved their units, arresting and some-
times killing their leaders. For this
tragedy the Western Powers, especially
Great Britain, cannot escape moral re-
sponsibility.
When the Russian forces moved into
Poland on a large scale in the summer of
1944 the insistent British advice to the
Polish Underground was to co-operate
fully with the Red Army, revealing the
number and location of its units, its hide-
outs in swamps and forests, etc. The
Poles loyally followed this advice. Their
co-operation contributed appreciably to
the rapid sweep of Soviet forces across
Eastern Poland in July.
How this co-operation was repaid--
or, rather, betrayed—by the Russians is
one of the ugliest episodes of this war.
There is a mass of material on this sub-
ject in Polish Underground reports, some
of which were broadcast from Warsaw
when a part of the city was in the hands
of Underground insurgents. When the
story is fully told it will shock the con-
science of the United Nations’ world. A
few typical reports are herewith cited:
July 13. —1 n the Nowogrodek district
the Russians “pacified” seven villages where
Polish units were quartered. Entire families
were murdered, the men were deported,
property destroyed.
July 30. —Reappears, from events up to
this moment, that all leaders of the Under-
ground Army, together with their organisa-
tions, are being arrested by the Soviet
forces after revealing themselves. It should
be expected that a similar fate awaits all
agencies, civilian as well as military. We
must do all we can to protect these men
and prevent their liquidation by the
N.K.V.D. [Soviet Political Police] directly
or through the intermediary of some
Polish agents acting as Soviet tools.
August 1. —By radio from the Lwow Dis-
trict: On July 31 the officers of the Under-
ground Array were called to a meeting.
All who reported were arrested.
August 17. —In Tarnopol [Eastern
Galicia] all men between the ages of 18
and 50 have been deported by the Soviet
authorities.
August 21. —In Baila Podlaska [to the
west of the so-called Curzon Line] the
Soviet authorities have arrested and deported
the Commander of the 34th Infantry Regi-
ment of the Underground Army. The
mayor of the town, Mr. Kowaleski, and
the District Commander of the Underground
Army have been arrested. All the orders
of the “Polish Committee of National
Liberation” are executed by the N.K.V.D.
Shootings and hangings of officers and
soldiers of the Underground Army were
reported from Rozyszcze, in Volhynia;
from Luck, in Eastern Poland; from
many other places. Mass deportations
of Poles from Lwow and Tarnopol took
place. The results of the attempt of the
Polish Underground to co-operate with
the Red Army could be summarised as
follow: At the front there were friendly
conversations, words of praise, promises
of help with arms and "ammunition. But
behind the front lines the regular pro-
cedure included disarmament of the
Polish patriot forces, arrests, deportations,
shootings. The notorious Nazi death-
house at Majdanek, near Lublin, has been
preserved as a concentration camp for
Polish Underground workers.
Such a wide variety of reports, cover-
ing a fairly long period of time, indicates
a settled policy, not individual misunder-
standing. In a Commons debate the
Independent Labor member of Parlia-
ment, McGovern, on September 27,
bluntly asked Foreign Secretary Eden;
Is anything to be gained by covering up
the fact that an ally of ours is both deport-
ing and shooting Nationalists and Socialists
in Poland?
He got no satisfactory answer. Acts
of repression can be committed by a
Government without arousing inter-
national scandal if it is able to throw a
thick blanket of silence over occupied
territory. This is precisely what Russia
has done in Eastern Poland. Freedom
of movement of correspondents has been-
non-existent, except for a few conducted
tours of German horror camps. Diplo-
mats and military observers have been
kept out.
The Great Air Scheme.
(From a report by the ‘‘Christian Science Moni-
tor” Ottawa correspondent.)
In April, 1940, about 170 students
began their training in Canada under the
Empire Air Scheme, but the plan bur-
geoned out so rapidly from this modest
stem that it was soon apparent that the
original aim of the founders to obtain in
time 20,000 air-crew men annually from
tne scheme would be far outstripped.
When the agreement was renewed in
July, 1942, the goal for the scheme was
raised to 50,000 graduates yearly, and this
rate was reached in February, 1944.
By the end of last year 122,000 air-
crew men from Canada, United Kingdom,
Australia and New Zealand had been
The Germans have a genius for
organised passive resistance. It was
German workmen who made the
only general strike that ever suc-
ceeded —the strike against the mili-
tary coup d’etat in March, 1920. It
was German workmen who para-
lysed the French in the Ruhr three
years later. The time will surely come
when the National Socialist party,
the S.S., the S.A. and the Gestapo
will be destroyed, whether by the
Allies or by the Germans themselves.
But one of the creations of the party
will surely remain—the Labor Front.
It is the most powerful union in the
world. Today German industrial
workmen and their families make up
more than half the population. Ger-
man agricultural labor is organised
as never before. What is left of the
middle and upper classes has an un-
precedented solidarity with labor. In
no country in the world has antagon-
ism between class and class been
so reduced as it has in Germany.
That is why, despite immense loss of
life, despite colossal destruction, de-
spite utter weariness, the Germans
may be the best-organised community
in Europe —a land of order in an
anarchic world. — F. A. Voigt; Lon-
don “Nineteenth Century” signed
editorial.
trained in the joint-plan schools and had
received their wings. A further 11,000
now in training will have graduated be-
fore the plan lapses. These numbers
refer only to the fliers, the crews of
fighters and bombing ’planes. Practically
an equivalent number of ground-crew
men were trained in the schools during
the same period.
Of the air-crew men who passed through
the schools, approximately one-half were
Canadiahs, from one-quarter to one-third
British, and the rest Australians and New
Zealanders. The total cost of operating
the training plan, which has been divided
between the partners on an agreed basis,
will reach something over $2,300,000,000.
The plan was launched to help to
mould from the available youth of the
Commonwealth an air-power that would
wrest mastery from the Luftwaffe, stem
the tide of air invasion over Britain and
carry the air war to the heart of the
economy of Germany and its satellites.
This was, of course, before the United
States had marshalled its air might.
At the time of the air battle of Britain,
in the summer and autumn of 1940, the
authors of the plan had to decide whether
the airmen being schooled in Canada
should be sent overseas where their help
would be welcomed, or should remain
there turning out men to operate fighters
and bombers in the months to come.
It was decided that, from a long-range
viewpoint, it was much better not to
cripple the plan at its inception, and this
course was justified by results. It was
better to have 1000 men in the air in a


7.
K \
SCORCH
ED
EARTH
Australia has never known a worse drought . , •
crops have failed at a time when our food resources
are strained to the utmost to meet the war needs
of the United Nations.
/ Our drought losses are all the more grievous
because Australia’s food production is vital to the
successful prosecution of Allied military plans.
Food affects everybody ... and everybody can help
Australia by:
* Growing vegetables at home—if water
is available.
* Conserving and preserving food.
* Refusing to buy on the Black Market.
To DO THESE THINGS IS NOT ONLY PATRIOTIC —IT IS
/ ■ *“
ALSO SENSIBLE AND SELF-PROTECTIVE.
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control.
F 64.82.35
\
FIRST IN EMPIRE KIR
Inspired by the pioneering spirit,
which developed from an out-
back Australian aerial service of
25 years ago, the greatest British
aviation organization in the
Southern Hemisphere today,
Qantas looks ever forward to
new conquests in Tomorrow’s
air realm.
Through tireless research and
knowledge gained in unsurpassed
merchant air service wartime
achievements, this Empire-
minded 4 ‘Front-line Airline” has
become incomparably well-con-
ditioned to play a major role in
Post-war aviation.
Qawfas
EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE TOWNSVILLE PERTH
one else can do YOUR share— Buy Bonds in the Third Victory
Loan.
year’s time than 10 then, however urgently
the 10 men were needed.
Wearing the shoulder badges of the
R.C.A.F., the R.A.F., R.A.A.F. or the
R.N.Z.A.F., these men who have re-
ceived their training in the air fields of
Canadian provinces have been carrying
out their duties in all war theatres, in the
nightly bombing raids over Germany, on
the Western Front, the Mediterranean,
Burma and Pacific war zone, and on
ocean convoy guard. Canada takes a
very reasonable pride in a major contri-
bution to the cause of freedom.
Trade with Britain.
(From the N.Y. “Journal of Commerce.”)
Countries which have hitherto found
Great Britain a major outlet for sur-
pluses of agricultural products or other
raw materials will encounter increased
difficulty after the war in maintaining ex-
ports to the British market. This will
result from the reduced income that the
British will receive from foreign invest-
ments and their merchant marine, and
the consequent necessity for paying for
a considerably larger part of their im-
ports with exports.
Before the war, for example, British
imports from Canada exceeded exports
to the Dominion by some $250,000,000
annually. Interest and dividends on
Canadian securities held by British
nationals and earnings of British ships
serving Canadian ports offset a large
part of this import surplus. During the
war, however, Canadian securities held
in Great Britain have been repatriated in
large part, and the Canadian merchant
marine is doubtless going to carry a
much larger proportion of the
Dominion’s seaborne international trade.
Since Great Britain has adopted a
policy of not incurring debts in “hard”
currencies, notably American and Cana-
dian dollars, Canada can to main-
tain exports to Great Britain at the high
pre-war level only by expanding her own
purchases from the British Isles. This
is the primary reason for the establish-
ment of the new Import Division in the
Canadian Department of Trade and
Commerce.
Latin-American countries are in a
similar position as regards trade with
Britain. Before the war. Argentine ex-
ports to Great Britain normally exceeded
imports from that country by upward
of $100,000,000 annually. Since it is im-
probable that Argentina is going to im-
port much more, particularly after war-
time shortages have been eliminated in
the immediate post-war years, it may be
necessary to look elsewhere for customers
for some of the commodities hitherto
shipped to Britain.
Britain’s need for balancing her im-
ports more closely with exports could
prove an obstacle to further industriali-
sation in countries that are large ex-
porters to the British Isles. By expand-
ing their own manufactures and so re-
ducing import requirements, these coun-
tries are likely to find that British pur-
chases of their foodstuffs and raw ma-
terials will be curtailed.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
In the past year British, American and
Chinese troops have recovered 9000 square
miles, or about one-eighth, of Burma. We have
killed 50,000 Japanese in doing so, but United
Nations casualties through jungle diseases in-
cluded 250,000 cases requiring medical atten-
tion. —John Goette; “Free World.”
* * * ♦
“The whole world, all nations of goodwill,
must be associated in maintaining the peace.
But if a definite threat develops and measures
must be taken to overcome it, how shall the
necessary decisions be made? Evidently by a
vote of all the associated nations. But is it
desirable, is it logical, that in this vote nations
the farthest removed from the danger under
consideration, and those, on the other hand,
whose military and economic contribution is
the least, should have exactly the same voice
in the Council as those nations directly exposed,
and those whose resources make them pre-
eminently responsible for security? I do not
think so.” —French Secretary of State Georges
Bidault.
* * * •
It is impossible to do public opinion surveys
here [U.S.] without being made acutely aware
of the fact that there is a growing tenseness
on the part of our people, perhaps caused by
some form of war nerves; perhaps caused by
frustration at not being able to get at the
enemy directly. Whatever its cause, it is some-
thing which has a very good chance of ex-
ploding into some form of Ku Klux Klanism
soon after the immediate problem of winning
the war is finished. —From an article by Elmo
Roper, who conducts the U.S. “Fortune” mag-
azine’s remarkably successful public opinion
polls.
, * * * *
British beer output reached a new record in
1944 of 31,473,000 bulk barrels, an increase of
5 p.c. over 1943 and nearly six million barrels
more than pre-war. Despite this increase, pubs
often ran out of beer during the summer, due
partly to an increase in exports, which now go
almost entirely to the troops overseas. —London
correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
The Allies are winning the war. But not
Germany alone is losing it. Europe is losing
it. There is no solution to the German nroblem
except as an organic part of the European
problem. If Europe is destroyed as a political
and economic order, the first new order to
emerge will surely be a German order —the
character of the Germans and their central
position (which is central in an economic,
social, and political, as well as in a strategic
sense) makes this seem inevitable. The task of
Allied statesmanship is to conclude a victorious
peace with Germany before Europe has been
destroyed and then to solve the German and
the European problem in the only way it can
be solved —by consolidating a European order
of which Germany will be an organic part. —
London “Nineteenth Century v editorial.
* * * *
At the beginning of the nineteenth century,
when the United States had a population about
equal to that of Australia today (seven millions
more or less), there arose a party which clam-
ored for legislation to close the doors against
further immigration because “the country
already has as many people as there are jobs
for.” The legislation fortunately was never en-
acted, but one wonders what the position of
the United States would be today had those
laws been passed. One may well ponder what
will be the future of an Australia which insists
that its population must not exceed seven
million —although it could obviously support
twenty or thirty million. —Sir Norman Angell;
“Free World.”
* * * *
Whatever arguments of necessity are acN
vanced, whatever the pressures to appease
Stalin, public opinion in the United States can-
not remain unaffected by the martyrdom of
Poland. It is to be hoped that the peoples of
America and Great Britain will consider ser-
iously the moral and political implications of
the policy of throwing Poland to the wolves.
No step could be more isolationist in its effects,
or more likely to chill the new readiness of the
American people to assume international re-
sponsibilities.—William Henry Chamberlin;
“American Mercury.”
* * * *
S. G. Walton, vice-president of the Oceanic
Steamship Co. of San Francisco, announced
that Oceanic is filing an application with the
Civil Aeronautics Board to supply through air
service in co-operation with its regular steamer
services between the Pacific Coast and Australia,
via Honolulu. Oceanic proposes to provide air
service between the co-terminals of Los Angeles
and San Francisco, the intermediate points of
Honolulu, Palmyra, American Samoa, Fiji, and
Auckland, and the terminal point of Sydney.
This is the identical peace-time route of
Oceanic big passenger liners, the Mariposa and
the Monterey, now serving as troop transports.
—N.Y. “Journal of Commerce.”
Russia’s intention to annex eastern Poland
confronts that country with the loss of, roughly,
70 p.c. of its oil production and 55 p.c. of its
refining capacity. In this area is also located
an estimated 70 p.c, of the total investment in
the Polish oil industry, valued at, roughly,
$100,000,000. French, American and other for-
eign capital represents over 90 p.c. of this figure.
Regarded from the standpoint of oil alone,
the loss of the eastern area would be a severe
blow to the country, changing it from one self-
sufficient in oil to one forced to import the
major part of its requirements. Assuming that
Poland is compensated for this territory by
East -Prussia, part of Pomerania and Silesia, it
will then have to import an estimated 70 p.c.
of its consumption. In addition to the loss of
this important mineral wealth, oil men point
out that Russian annexation will dislocate the
Polish economic and financial structure, entail-
ing readjustments in its import-export balance,
employment, distribution, and other industries
allied with oil. — N.Y. “Journal of Commerce"
special writer.
* * * *
For a full decade before Pearl Harbor—that
crowning blow at our face —the Japanese left
nothing undone to humiliate us before the
Asiatics. As a result white prestige sank until
it almost reached the vanishing point. This,
say United Nations officials who know Asia
well, must be borne in mind when we come to
settle Japan’s future status. Once and for all,
they insist, she must be deprived of every atom
of face gained by deliberately treading on our
face. It has nothing to do with revenge. On
the contrary, it is being realistic. It is impera-
tive if we are really to win the war against
Nippon. Washington correspondent N.Y.
“World-Telegram
* * * *
Robert S. Hudson, British Minister of Agri-
culture, said that when, at the time of the dis-
aster at Dunkirk, he was called to direct a
programme for increased food production he
found 54 civil servants attached to the De-
partment of Agriculture. To double food pro-
duction he found it necessary to add only seven
more persons. This was because he decen-
tralised the job, creating county committees
composed of farmers and delegating to them
the powers conferred on him by Parliament.
In practice it resulted in farmers being told by
committees composed of fellow-farmers what
they should do for the war programme. If
changes were in order and a farmer refused to
make them he was fined for the first offence
and dispossessed for the second. Out of 220,000
British farmers 7000 had their farms taken
away and another 7000 had been induced
to turn the management over to other members
of their families or to associates willing to
adopt progressive methods. That such drastic
action has met with little opposition, Mr.
Hudson believes, is because it was taken only
on the judgment of the defendant’s peers—his
fellow-farmers considered his case and decided
that he was not able to manage his farm in
the public interest.— N.Y. “Sun.”


Public Notice-
1, GIUSEPPE MAORI, of Italian nationality, bom at
Martone Reggio, Calabria, Italy, and resident 18 years
in Australia, now residing at Agineourt Road, East-
wood, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, GIORGIO MAORI, of Italian nationality, bom at
Martone Reggio, Calabria, Italy, and resident eight
years in Australia, now residing at Agineourt Road
Eastwood, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
MISSING RELATIVES —GRACE LOVETT.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court of
New Zealand GRACE LOVETT, who was bom in
Tasmania about 1880 and who is a beneficiary in the
Estate of her deceased half brother, William Lovett,
late of Stratford, New Zealand, or any person
claiming through or under her is required to send
in notice of such claim to the District Public-
Trustee, Stratford, New Zealand, on or before the
30th day of June, 1945, otherwise the Estate may
be distributed and their claims disregarded. Grace
Lovett is about 64 years of age and if married her
married surname is not known. She is the daughter
of Charles Lovett and Martha Lovett {nee Hill) and
lived in her childhood at Penguin and Latrobe in
Tasmania. She is believed to have left Tasmania for
New Zealand about 25 years ago, but no information
as to her whereabouts in New Zealand has been
obtained.—YOUNG & CALLAGHAN, Solicitors for
the Estate, Stratford, New Zealand.
IF GEORGE COLLINS, husband of Ada Ann Collins,
late of Parkville, will communicate with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY, of 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, he will hear something to his
advantage.
WILL JAMES DONNELLY and PETER DONNELLY,
formerly of Melbourne, Victoria (sons of the late
Peter and Annie Matilda Donnelly, nee O’Rorke, who
died at 142 Young Street, Fitzroy, in 1923), or
anyone knowing their whereabouts, please communi-
cate with DARBYSHIRE & GILLETT, Solicitors, 42
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Australia.
FACING H PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a parlc . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
, . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WfHTWDRTH
ut c^yAney
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
fit y
pyjy'(Rd
NEW
REDUCED
PRICE
7/6
00'
ft
golden
rktignum
FOUNTAIN PENS
MADE Tn ENG t A N D
... « .
mmmm
I
M m
Here is my Heme...
Here in this valley, part of Australia, here I have
made my stand! Here is my home. I have
breathed the free wind that sweeps across the
plains. Every rock and tree has its memories and
pictures. I am part of this land and it is part
of me.
My sons have long since gone to war and I am
left with my wife to carry on. But we are not
alone. There are thousands of Australians like
us —on farms, in factories, in shops and kitchens
—all willing to give, in work and money, to the
utmost of their means.
We are quiet, unimportant people who seek not
to shape policies. But those who could read our
minds would see there the real Australian ideals —
mateship, decency, pride in our country.
"Ideals” is not a word we use often, but buttoned
under every waistcoat is love of such basic things
as home and kids and gardens, love of peace and
sanity and a "fair go”.
It is to preserve that decent way of life that I
am keeping on doing my best. I believe in
Australia. I believe in its future. And to show
my belief, I’m putting every penny I’ve saved
into the Third Victory Loan.
FACTS ABOUT THE THIRD VICTORY LOAN
1. All you lend will be used only for War.
Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO
may be purchased for cash or by instalments,
through any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
2. Interest is paid each six months, at 2\°/o for
five years or 3?% for sixteen years. Repay-
ment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth. Your Bonds are readily
saleable to meet an emergency.
3. You lend, not give, your money to speed
Victory. On your application form, credit
your subscription to your district to help
its quota.
NO ONE ELSE CAN DO SHARE
Your money is needed in
THE THIRD
IDTORYIOAH
3V17-83
ẃ
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
GRAVEN*
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
mM
■V
im
5786
ẅ
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy score of libretto of G. and S. opera
“Princess Ida.” —3614.
To buy fan-shaped shells, 2in. to 3in.
diameter. —3615.
Information Sought.
Some information about the issuing of free
train, tickets to N.S.W. children attending
school ?
In 1934 an amendment was made to the
Public Instruction Act of 1880 providing that
free train tickets be issued to any child to
attend a public, private or denominational
school, provided the school is the nearest, of
type and standard required, to the home of the
pupil. The only exception to the proviso is
in regard to children who are awarded State
•bursaries, in which case the child nominates the
school he or she desires to attend.
Biographical details of (1) Thomas Insull, (2)
Serge Stavinsky ?
(1) Born London 1859, and migrated to
U.S.A. 1881. He became president of several
big undertakings. In 1932 three of his largest
cos. went into receivership. He was indicted for
fraud in 1932, escaped to Europe, was arrested
in 1934 and acquitted in 1935. He died in 1938.
(2) Born in Kiev, Russia. Settled in Paris in
1900, becoming a French citizen 14 years later.
The discovery in 1933 of his fraud of selling
40,000,000 francs’ worth of worthlesss bonds led
to his fleeing to Charaounix where, in 1934,
he died suddenly (probably suicide).
Record of Larwood’s bowling in all matches
during his best Australian tour?
In the 1932-33 tour Larwood took 64 wickets
for 889 runs, average 13.89. Details: 33
bowled, 26 caught and five l.b.w.
Method of making cement bricks?
The bricks are composed of one part cement,
three parts metal (Jin.) and four parts sharp
sand, with sufficient water to bind the mix-
ture. The composition is rammed into a steel
mould of 10 or 12 partitions and levelled off,
allowing the mould to be removed immediately.
The bricks are then left to dry, after which
they are stacked and kept damp for at least
a week. They are then ready for use. One bag
of cement will produce approximately 100
bricks.
Brief Answers.
A.H.; “Little Grey Home in the West” is
an English ballad composed in 1911 by Herman
Lohr. “Teddy Bears’ Picnic” is of American
origin and was composed by J. Bratton in 1907.
G.F.: (1) 78ft. by 36ft. (2) The bowling
crease shall be in line with the stumps, 8ft.
Sin. in length, with the stumps in the centre.
T.H.B.: (1) September 24, 1931. (2) The
inhalation of carbon monoxide fumes from the
engine exhaust. (3) A description may be
obtained from a supplement to the Sydney
“Sun and Guardian,” published in 1937
Carpet: Such an industry is unknown in Aus-
tralia... .C.E.P.: (1) and (2) No. (3) Popu-
lation 100,000,000; standing army 1,500,000.
F.H.: Cannot trace thb 'origin J.W.:
Contact State Fisheries... .I.M.B.: The values
are: 2d. Bridge, Id. used; 3d. Bridge, Is.
used; 3d. Centenary of Victoria, lOd. used;
3d. Macarthur, Is. used; Australian stamps are
all catalogued higher uncancelled,.. .R.W.:
It is difficult to say; much will depend upon
the assets which the banks hold outside
enemy-occupied territory.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
8.H.; It’s such a long time since anybody
has seen Neptune K.0’8.: Try elsewhere.
R.B.H.: Usual remarks about the desira-
bility of living under a gum-tree U.P. “It
will only need a very small space.” Or a
teeny-weeny bonfire.... J.P.: Bantamweights.
. ...L.S.: “Suburban Studies” ramshackle....
G. 8.: “Gomorrah-horror” rhyme is a horra.
Gympie: Skimpy D.H.E.; Promising if
you’re young. But lines such as “When life was
lit by hope’s elusive glow” were out of date
a hundred years ago... .E. 8.: 5h00....A.C.;
Elementary.... R.H.W.: Nearly.... R.K.W.:
“Take Off Your Coat” is too bare... .M.M.:
Wordy H.E.R.: The stars don’t really look
very much like “tears upon the dusky cheek
of night”; and, anyhow, they aren’t
R.J.N.R.: “Nature Song” pleasant but literary.
. ...R.H.8.: A glimmer in it... .R.E.F.: Not
this time 0.C.M.: Rabaul is hardly a
“proud citadel” surrounded by “city walls”
E.M.H.: You won’t make poetry by chopping
up commonplace prose into stove-lengths.


ŵ
How Will My Estate
be Administered?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an im-
partial Executor with over 66 years’ special-
ised experience in the administration of
estates, and the assurance that the interests
of your legatees will be safeguarded until all
trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sit Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S. Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D, Stewart;
R* T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J, W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
J
STOPvout. Rupture
Worries/
RlfiHT
Mark ® locaHon,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard<
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Syuney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course»• i
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. h ™.
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skm L ith
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always w
BARKO lodine Dog Soap. nnam » H a 1/6
CONDITION POWDERS 1/b
SKIN LOTION
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL OHEMISTS
ẁ
BARKO
The WILD CAT COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
( Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* to Funds.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,607,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,161.
1935.. 5,01.8,290 2,924,349 474,689 1,619,258
Added to Investment Reserve, £8446.
1930.. 5,237,786 2,995,222 520,563 1,722,001
Added to Investment Reserve, £6981.
1937.. 5,605,733 3,126,050 568,675 1,911,008
To staff fund, £15,000 .. 1 r.r.R arm
1938.. 5,7.40,376 3,589,587 567,186 ] °
Written off properties, £lOO,OOO.
1939.. 5,931,144 3,448,244 550,359 1,932.541
1940.. 6,076,026 3,626,703 529,996 1,9X9,328
Unexplained addition Invest. Res., £13,958.
To staff fund, £20,000 .. 1 eisqqq'j
1941.. 6,339,456 3,610,862 523,701 ]
Unexplained reduction Invest. Res., £1419.
1942.. 6,301,785 3,690,127 523,701 2,087,957
Unexplained addition Invest. Res, £18,777
1943.. 6,552,288 3,619,596 528,133]
Written off premises, £lOO,OOO !■ 2,104,559
Written off other assets, £200,000 |
1944.. 6,884,448 3,633,893 568,572
Written off premises, £lO,OOO !■ 2,668,032
To staff fund, £3,950 ..J
* Excluding income tax and rates.
Principal long-term problem of the life
offices —the National is Australia’s
second-biggest—is the effect of the re-
duction in interest rates on earning capa-
city and therefore upon bonus-paying
ability. Of the three chief sources of
surplus in a life office (the margin be-
tween assumed and actual rates of in-
terest, savings on budgeted cost of
handling the business, and lower-than-
allowed-for mortality rates) interest was
the one from which the cos. scored
heaviest in the past. The margin from
this source, and with it bonuses, have
been greatly reduced by a combination
of cheap money and high taxation, both
of which appear to be with us for some
time.
The life offices have faced up to the
problem by adopting more stringent
bases of valuation of their liabilities
under policies. Under the reversionary
bonus system each successive bonus,
when declared, has a higher reserve value
than its predecessors when they were
declared ; hence the necessity for widen-
ing margins in the future. The method
of valuing by a low rate of interest meets
this need by locking up during the early
years of a policy sums which otherwise
would be available as distributable sur-
plus and by releasing them with interest
at a later date.
The National lowered its basis of
valuation for whole-life participating
policies (they account for over 90 p.c.
of total business) from 3 p.c. to 2\ p.c. in
1940, and £515,000 of the surplus for that
period was seftt to actuarial reserves for
the purpose. Average gross rate of in-
terest realised on the co.’s mean assur-
ance fund eased from £4 9s. lid. p.c. in
1938 to £4 Bs. 6d. p.c. in 1943 and to
£4 7s. 7d. p.c. last year. After deducting
taxation the average net return on the
mean assurance fund for corresponding
periods fell sharply from £4 3s. 3d. p.c.
to £3 18s. sd. p.c. and £3 16s. lid. p.c.
respectively.
The other factor, more or less passing
in its incidence, that affected the imme-
diate surplus available for distribution is
death claims on account of war service.
For the three years to end of 1943 these
amounted to £733,000, against which
£210,000 of policy reserves had been ac-
cumulated. The loss was therefore
£523,000, or more than twice the amount
(£250,000) reserved for the purpose in
1940. The effect of all this upon the
surplus available for distribution among
policyholders, and the steps taken by
the management to protect bonus-paying
capacity of the business, are seen in the
following comparison of triennial valua-
tion figures:
r— "-Date of Valuation—
Sept. 30, Sept. 30,
1940. 1943.
Total surplus triennium ..£4,068,428 £3,339,736
Appropriation of surplus:—
Bonuses to policyholders 2,674,205 1,571,052
Reserve for contingencies,
etc 94,222 1,618,684
Staff superannuation fund 20,000 150,000
Actuarial reserve special
addition ... .. 515,001
Excess mortality provision 250,000
Of the £1,618,684 of the 1943 surplus re-
served for contingencies £1,300,000 was
earmarked as actuarial reserve to cover
reduction of the assumed rate of inter-
est to an all-round 2\ p.c. “should present
conditions persist.” All this and the
amount sent to inner reserves (£300,000
was written off the book value of assets
in 1943) were mainly responsible for the°
contraction of £728,692 in the 1943 tri-
ennial surplus. The “Wild Cat” remarked
at the time that “discerning policy-
holders would not quarrel with such a
policy, which greatly enhances both their
prospects and security.”
For the year to Sept. 30 last bonus
additions to whole-life endowments were
at rates approx. 50 p.c. above correspond-
ing annual rates for the three years to
end Sept., 1943. Actual rates aren’t men-
tioned in the director’s report, and no
harm would be done if they were. They
are below pre-war rates, which aren’t
likely to be reached again unless condi-
tions change very greatly.
Consider the following table, which
shows the co.’s investment portfolio in
tabloid form:
r- 1939 ,• 1944
p.c. p.c.
Freeholds ..£1,694,887 3.5 £1,547,222 2.6
Public securities. 24,338,302 50.7 39,070,946 65.4
Mortgages . . 10,641,640 22.2 9,871,405 16.5
Foreclosures . . 316,369 0.7 102,280 0.8
Loans on policies 5.449,406 11.2 4,138,542 7.0
Other assets . . 5,600,307 11.7 4,913,305 8.2
Whereas there was only 50.7 p.c. of total
assets represented by Government securi-
ties at the close of accounts in 1939, the
ratio had advanced to 65.4 p.c. at Sept.
30 last. Opportunities for more re-
munerative employment of funds are not
likely to occur until capital controls are
relaxed. Meanwhile interest returns will
continue to be diluted to the extent that
increases in resources are invested at cur-
rent low rates of interest.
Despite absorption of younger lives in
the services, and its effect upon field
staffs, the co. put an extra £356,124 of
new business (£10,605,924) on the books
last term. Excluding single premiums
and cost thereof, exes, rose from 8.15
p.c. to 8.49 p.c. of net income. Includ-
ing single premiums, net income totalled
£6,884,448 (up £332,161). After paying
all legitimate claims and exes., writing
£lO,OOO off the book value of premises
and sending £3950 to staff fund,
£2,668,032 was added to the assurance
fund, raising it to £55,978,228. It has the
support and assistance of £2,220,686 re-
served for contingencies, returns from
which are available for distribution
among policyholders, there being no
shareholders.
The proposal of the Federal Govern-
ment to bring down legislation for uni-
form control of life assurance through-
> out the Commonwealth will be welcomed
by all sound offices, provided it does not
result in undue interference in domestic
affairs. The main purpose of any such
legislation should be to prevent window-
dressing, so that both policy-holders and
shareholders can see exactly what is there.
This can best be done by establishment
of statutory funds to cover liabilities
under policies,' and by preventing the
assets in which the money is invested
from becoming subject to any prior
charge.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 6 p.c. serves. serves.
1935. . 19,792 9,000 10,000 792 89,934
74 p.c.
1936.. 28,925 9,000 15,000 4,925 94,859
10 p.c.
1937.. 30,044 9,000 20,000 1,044 95,903
1938.. 32,961 9,000 20,000 3,961 99,864
1939.. 29,111 9,000 20,000 111 99,975
1940.. 29,414 9,000 20,000 414 100,389
124 P.c.
1941.. 34,003 9,000 25,000 3 100,392
1942.. 33,998 9,000 25,000 100,390
74 p.c.
1943.. 24,022 9,000 16,000 22 100,412
1944.. 24,365 9,000 15,000 365 100,777
124 p.c.
1945.. 36,689 9,000 25,000 2,689 103,466
The best showing since 1930, despite
the limitations and burdens imposed by
war-time controls, etc. It has been an
interesting development. The policy has
been to buy and sell on a cash basis and
distribute profits as they were earned.
And for many years the co. had nothing
invested in bricks and mortar, and was
able to get along with a handful (£70,000)
of capital and pay handsome divs. —
average 18| p.c. for the five years to the
close of accounts in 1925. Then share-
holders put up £lOO,OOO of 9 p.c. pref.
money and £129,000 was raised on mort-
gage to buy the freehold and erect an
11-storeyed shop thereon. Meanwhile,
£lOO,OOO of bonus scrip had been handed
to the ords., raising paid capital to its
.present figure.
After that satisfactory earnings depen-
ded largely upon lively turnover, which
means shrewd buying, and a tight hold
upon outgoings. The figures suggest that
the management has been successful in
both directions. The div. rose from
p.c. in 1934 to 10 p.c. in 1937. and, under
pressure of early war-time spending, to
124 p.c. for 1941 and 1942. Then clothes
rationing and price-fixing curtailed spend-
ing, slowed up turnover and created new
overhead, which was further swollen by
heavy demands from the taxgatherer. For
the most part the problem was to get
rather than sell goods. Some lines be-
came unprocurable, most others were in
short supply, delivery was irregular,
quality deteriorated and prices rose. At
the same time expenditure on mainten-
ance and improvements, as well as on
advertising and other goodwill items, was *
curbed by regulation. And service re-
quirements led to replacement of much
male labor by female labor. Thus both
competition and outgoings have been
held in check. One result of all this was
a sharp drop in net earnings, as the 1943
and 1944 figures show.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts service and other Govern-
ment demands for clothing began to
taper, and a bit more of this and other
classes of goods became available for
civilian consumption. Thus this co. was
able to report a substantial increase in
turnover, especially during the last half
of the term. At the same time there
was little change in exes. So, although a
lower-than-usual percentage of gross pro-
fits was reported, the board was able to
write the net result £12,324 stronger at
£36,689. That was after allowing £5lO
for depreciation of plant and fittings but
making no provision to meet the next tax
bill when it arrives. The £36,689 covered
the pref. div, and 13.8 p.c. on the £200,000
of ord. capital, compared with 7.6, 7.5,
12.4, 12.5, 10.2 and 10 p.c, back to 1939.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
low :
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £‘300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 100,282 112,204 115,211 115,987
Tax provision 5,000 13,000 22,000 27,000
Property, etc. 414,888 415,838 415,838 438,518
Plant, etc. .. 0,30 0 5,88 0 4,548 4,038
Shares in other
cos 5,804 5,804 5,804 5,804
Stocks . . 88,140 93,413 90,831 91,340
Book debts . . 0,127 4,735 937 1,888
Cash, etc. . . 10,348 24,918 35,529 29,859
Outstanding movement last term was the
addition of £22,680 to the book value of
freehold. It represents the price paid for
the property occupied by the co. at
Chapel-street, Prahran; and the board
didn’t have to go outside for the money
either. Cash, etc., was drawn upon for
only £5670, surplus earnings providing
the balance. When the books closed
outside liabilities, including a mortgage
of £99,000, exceeded more or less liquids
by £4091, which was £520 less than at the
previous balance.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
11935. . 28,954 15 p.c. = 23,255 1 f; iqq Sfi7
Staff fund, £5OO .. ..j 5,199 176,5 '
Inner reserves capitalised, £37,800.. 176,567
1936. 32,865 15 p.c. = 28,986 ) g. 879 179,946
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. j ’
Tax reserve, etc., taken in, £20,000.. 199,946
1937.. 35,765 17J p.c. = 33,886 ) . „ 7q 20 l 325
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. f 1,379 ’
1938.. 34.306 16J p.c. = 31,523 ) 9 ono 608
Staff fund. £5OO .. .. J 2,283 203,6
1939.. 30,768 15 p.c. = 29,100]
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. 1 203,276
Extra tax prov., £l5OO- •• J
1940.. 31,593 15 p.c. = 29,100]
Staff fund. £5OO .. 202,269
Extra tax prov., £3OOO ..j
Inner reserve struck off shares, £5444.
1941.. 31,075 15 p.c. = 29,100]
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. f 200,744
Extra tax prov., £3OOO ..J
1942.. 19,045 10 p.c. = 19,400 200,889
To staff fund, £5OO ■■ •• 199,889
From tax reserve, £3247.. .. 203,136
1943.. 16,410 13jp.c.= 19,400 ) 19 q 6 , 6
To staff fund, £5OO .. j 1 ’
From tax reserve, £1297 .. .. 200,943
1944.. 18,165 13J p.c. t= 19,400) _ 199 208
To staff fund, £5OO ..J
The circumscription of trade activity and
earning-power by Government controls
and restrictions left this prosperous cash-
order, furnishing and furnishing-drapery
business with more money than it knew
what to do with. And nobody knows
exactly what effect political notions of
security in an insecure world will have
on the earnings of this class of business
after the war. So, early in 1943, the
board returned quarter (£48,500) of the
share capital, reducing the figure to
£145,500 in f.p. 15s. shares.
The reduction of capital has had little
effect on earning power. The slip in the


Appointment Books for All Professions.
Covers i-hour periods every day for Over One
Year’s Appointments. Size Min. x 12m.
Strongly Bound. Ledger Paper.
Price 12/6 post and tax free.
Don’t delay, post today and Save Office Worry.
WILLIAMS & WILLIAMS (Dept. B),
147 Liverpool Road, Burwood, N.S.W.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD
OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS;
E R Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland. F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire. Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. G. Dawson,
General Manager.
T. C. Reynolds,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c> Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates install
merits which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months :
LOAN
inc. Disct.
£lO
£2O
£3O
£4O
£5O
£lOO
Weekly
Instal.
3 II
7 9
II 7
IS 5
19 3
I 18 6
Fortnightly Monthly
A longer period to repay may be
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instal ments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting t
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Street*. Sydney*
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patent*.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES k COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Auvt.
“Don’t let your money
bite you, Joe!”
The Gate Keeper’s Sound Advice
WHEN Joe was flashing his money about on pay-
day, old Harry, the gate-keeper, offered a word
of advice: —
“Put some of it into Life Assurance, Joe, or
you’ll be like I am at 65. I flung it around when I
had it, and didn’t hold on to any of it.”
Good advice. Save first, then spend the rest
with safety.
An A.M.P. policy can be designed to give you
as much money as you need, when you will need it
most.
Ask for particulars from any A.M.P. Office or
representative.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
A W. Sneddon, F.1.A,, General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Hoad Office; 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
1942 and 1943 profit figures was the re-
sult of a “a considerable fall in turnover.”
In the cash-order section, the one on
which the business grew up, canvassing
is prohibited, advertising restricted,
advances limited, the Treasury can arbi-
trarily regulate the volume of business,
and “premiums” and discounts on the
orders are fixed at levels lower than used
to be obtained. As for other lines, the
price-ceiling, rationing, restriction of ex-
penditure on replacements and renewals
and tapering of Government outlay on
the setting-up of new departments, etc.,
have affected turnover in furniture, fur-
nishing drapery and household linen.
Similar conditions prevailed during the
12 months covered by the latest accounts,
for which a further recession in turnover
is reported. The growth of £1755 in net
earnings was due almost entirely to a
profit of £1669 on sale of shares in other
cos. The £18,165 of profit claimed,
written after allowing £10,198 (down
£5619) for taxation and £lO7O (up £415)
for depreciation, was equal to 12.4 p.c.
on capital as against 11.2 p.c. for the
previous term. Most of the extra funds
required to pay the 13y p.c. div. and send
£5OO to the staff fund were provided by
transfer of £1297 from previous overpro-
vision for taxation. With reserves still
£53,708 in excess of paid capital, the
two combined need turn in only a shade
over 5.4 p.c. to show 13i p.c. on capital
alone.
When slump reduced capital require-
ments in the early 1930’s £174,833 of
the then £329,667 of share capital was
returned, which was more than share-
holders had put up in cash. From the
beginning (in 1903) to the end of 1930
£222,400 of bonus scrip had been scat-
tered, and another one-for-four gift issue
(£37,800) was handed out in 1935. Divs.
averaged 12.7 p.c. for the 14 years to
the close of last accounts.
The co. is well equipped to take advan-
tage of any improvement in trading con-
ditions as and when it occurs:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £194,000 £194,000 £145,500 £145,000
Sundry cred.* 63,105 87,294 43,642 36,579
Overdraft . . 10,513 • • 2,035
Property sl ii d
plant, etc. 114,247 109,656 106,610 105,539
Stock.. .. 36,074 52,938 21,747 19,479
Hire agreements 119,372 138,432 35,609 A
Book debts . . 74,861 63,806 22,981 19,930
Shares, deben- ~ OA „
tures, etc... 50,935 46,515 46,455 45,300
Mortgages .. 7,986 7,777 5,443 4,508
G securiUe“ e ! l . t 76,817 80,817 88,817 93,997
Cash, etc. .. 13,882 7,571 76,183 96,270
* Including taxation.
It is a snug position. When the books
closed cash. Government securities and
shares in other cos. together exceeded
paid capital by £90,067. The remaining
more or less liquids —stock, hire agree-
ments, debtors’ balances »and mortgages
—totalled £20,973 more than the outside
debt. , . . • ,
As for the outlook, the big home and
other building programme in prospect,
and the deferred renewal and replacement
requirements for home, flat and hotel
furnishings, etc., augur well for a re-
vival of sales when controls are sub-
stantially relaxed. Meanwhile the co.’s
earning power can be expected to remain
restricted.
To keep the big silver-lead-zinc mines
at the Barrier going 81,405,000 gallons
of water were hauled over the 74-mile
single railway from the Darling River at
Minindie during the 28 weeks to mid-
February last. The busiest period was
the first week in December, when approx.
5,000,000 gallons (nearly half normal
draw from the reservoirs) was hauled.
Over the last five years average rainfall
at Broken Hill was less than 5£ inches,
or considerably below the average for
the last 50 years. As a result the reser-
voir at Stephens Creek (constructed in
1891) has been empty for the last two
years, and the other at Umberumberka
(completed in 1916) was down to the 4ft.
level at the end of 1944. Apart from
heavy loss by evaporation and seepage,
siltation has brought about a constant
reduction in capacity of both these stor-
ages, Julian R. Dridan, of the S. Aus,
Engineering and Water Department, who
recently examined the position, considers
that the two reservoirs cannot be relied
upon to provide an adequate supply of
water for the Hill in the future. The
most satisfactory solution is considered
to be construction of a 24ft.-high weir
on the Darling, about two miles upstream
from Menindie. Estimated cost, includ-
ing pumping stations, storage tanks, etc.,
is £897,500. Before this work can be
commenced —it would mean permanently
closing the Darling to through navigation
beyond Menindie —consent of the N. S.
Wales Government would have to be
obtained.
« * * *
During 1944 the five mines still operat-
ing on the Bendigo field (Vic.) recovered
98430 z. gold from 23,204 tons ore. Prin-
cipal producer was North Deborah,
which got 66040 z. gold from 12,243 tons
ore, and paid £38,400 in divs. Two other
mines, Deborah and Monument Hill Con-
solidated, made distributions totalling
£12,200 and £2500 respectively. Central
Deborah and Ironbark South resumed
operations during the year, and when
’labor and materials become available
some of the remaining 20-or-more
equipped mines in the locality can be
expected to start up again. The field-
main gold-bearing section is about five
miles in length—has an unbroken record
as a gold producer since it was discov-
ered in 1851. To the end of 1944 output
totalled 21,276,1250 z. gold. In the days
of its greatest prosperity about 200 mines
were in operation. The most profitable
was Garden Gully United, which recov-
ered 440,9230 z. gold and paid divs. total-
ling £852,963. The deepest was Victoria
Quartz, which went 4593 ft. below the
surface, or 3700 ft. below sea level. The
principal mines were situated where the
auriferous saddles outcropped. These
saddle reefs recur in depth at irregular
intervals.
* * * *
Queensland output of wolfram for 1944
was 122 tons, worth £45,815. For the
previous year the figures were 73 tons and
£27,613 respectively. The lift in produc-
tion followed stronger demand for war
purposes at a high price, 110 s. per unit.
New lodes adjacent to old workings were
opened up in the Wolfram Camp and
Bamford areas, from which about 90 p.c.
of the State’s output has been obtained.
* * * *
London-controlled Paringa (W.A.) has
’reduced the div. from 15 p.c. to 10 p.c.,
less U.K. tax of 10s. in the £, for the
years to the end of August last, payable
April 15. Earnings were affected by
shortage of labor and materials, and by
the firewood-cutters’ strike, which shut
the mine for about five weeks. The co.
controls upward of two miles of selected
areas along the strike of proved ore chan-
nels, and the steady progress made in ex-
ploration of the northern end of the belt
promises to advance the co.’s position
among Kalgoorlie gold-producers post-
war. Ore reserves at close of accounts
were estimated at 227,045 tons, averaging
s.Bdwt, compared with 255,812 tons,
averaging 6.54dwt. a year earlier.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s general man-
ager, J. F. Thorn, has been awarded the
medal of the Australian Institute of Min-
ing and Metallurgy for 1944. The co. is
the largest contributor to Australia’s
gold output.
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Ltd.
THIRTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT.
The Thirty-third Annual Ordinary General Meeting
of the Association was held on the 20th day of
March, 1945.
Mr. Edmund S. Paul, Chairman of the Company,
presided.
The Board regret the delay in the presentation of
the Annual Accounts, which was due to the sudden
illness of our Actuary before finalising his Actuarial
Valuation.
I .will deal shortly with the principal items of
interest in the Balance Sheet.
In this year’s Accounts we have separated from
the totals the individual investments in Government
Securities and Industrials in New Zealand. We pro-
pose to show these separately in future, as all surplus
funds accruing in New Zealand are invested in that
Dominion.
Taking the total of Government Securities together,
they show an increase of £68,115.
Whilst Industrials remain the same, Mortgages
have decreased by £5576, and Loans on Policies
also have decreased by £5952.
In the Appropriation Account, total Claims, &c.,
are £226,699 as against £264,027 for 1943, but
included in these figures Death Claims show an in-
crease for the year.
On the Revenue side we have shown the net amount
received from Rents from Freehold properties, via:
£29,094. We have then deducted from this item
the total Land Tax paid, £15,186, which leaves a net
return of only £13,907.
Shareholders can thus visualise the true incidence
of Land Tax. Since the War Land Tax has been
increased, so that Institutions like our own are
heavily penalised for holding land of an Unimproved
Value aggregating £75,000, to which attaches the
maximum Land Tax on the whole land.
The Land Tax is progressive. Holders up to
£5OOO pay no Tax and the Tax then rises from Id.
in the £ up to Is. in the £ when the aggregate
holding of Unimproved land reaches the aforesaid
amount of £75,000, which rate is Is., or 5 p.c. on
the whole Unimproved Value.
Land Values should be based on what a property
can return—not on a hypothetical value —based on
the assumption that an owner should not only re-
model his building every 25 years to keep pace with
altered and improved conditions, but, further, that if
during the 25 years conditions have so altered that
you could increase the letting area by increas-
ing the number of floors you would then be expected
to demolish the whole building for the purpose of
ascertaining what the return on the improved modern
building would be, which then establishes for Taxa-
tion purposes the Unimproved Value of the land —
hence you see the picture for the A.P.A. Building,
Melbourne, situated and occupying the key position
for offices in Melbourne at the corner of Collins and
Queen Streets, with its eight floors, where the Land
Tax absorbs 41 p.c. of the gross rents.
The “New Business” written amounts to £933,313,
and the average Policy is £223.
The Board consider the results satisfactory, in view
of the absence of Field Staff owing to the War, Man-
power and other restrictions.
We have allotted the same Bonus as last year.
“War Claims” show a slight increase over last year,
and it is quite possible that 1945 will show a still
further increase. .
Whilst the position of War Claims maintains, the
Board regret they are unable to either increase the
Bonus to Policyholders or the dividend to Share-
holders. Several Shareholders at the last Annual
Meeting urged the Directors to consider whether a
dividend higher than 2 i p.c. could be paid. You will
doubtless recollect that I expressed the Board s view
on that occasion that it was only fair and equitable
that Shareholders should receive something more than
ji p.c., which had been maintained for so long.
When “War Claims” cease it will be the Board’s
duty to consider an increase of Dividend to Share-
holders when they are considering an increase of
Bonus to Policyholders.
With Government Stock yielding a net return,
after Taxation, of only between 2$ p.c. and 2f p.c.,
the Board are now looking to the “House Purchase ’
Policy as a means of investment of their funds after
the War. The dangers of Moratorium Legislation
which played such havoc with Mortgage Securities
cinrn 1930 will have to be safeguarded against where
possible, but if Loans are made on the basis of the
Valuer-General’s Valuation and not on those ot
ordinary Valuators, a great deal of the trouble tnat
ensued in 1930 will be obviated. “Valuations of Con-
venience’’ were far too frequent in those days. As
Shareholders will remember, we proceeded at Law
against one firm of Valuators some years ago °n the
grounds that their Valuation had brought them
within the “Classic” Case of the House of Lords
Appeal where a Valuation had been made for the
purpose of being acted on, not caring whether it was
true or false. The Valuators in that case were held
liable for the loss. . ~ +) , p
In our case the Valuators in questionpaid the
Association £lOOO to settle the case, which afforded
some solatium for the losses incurred. ,
Public attention is being directed to the proposed
Socialistic Legislation on Banking Y hlC K^L C Qnare
in the form now proposed, will affect not only share
holders but Policyholders in every Insurance Company,
and may bring about Political management of: cur
rency, leading ultimately to serious inflation, with au
its dire consequences. , , ~
The proposed Legislation on Banking would mean
a continuation of bureaucratic control after National
Security Regulations had been removed. No person,,
or Company, would be allowed to borrow without the
consent of the Government.
It was thought that when the Referendum was so
overwhelmingly defeated the Curtin Government
would accept the verdict of the electors. It miist be
remembered that Mr. Curtin was elected on a Pledge
that if returned he would not socialise any industry
during the War. ,-_ T ,„
As the daily press points out, a pledge at elections
to refrain from a particular course of action stands
in a very different category to promises of legislation
which subsequently go unfulfilled. When a Govern-
ment seeking the people’s suffrages binds itself in such
a manner it cannot honorably vary the undertaking
during the currency of the mandate. Once Bwiks
become subject to Political direction and control the
savings of the people, whether invested in deposits
or Life Policies, become imperilled and the value ot
the people’s savings becomes destroyed by inflation.
Apart from proposed Banking Legislation and the
freedom of individuals to borrow without the consent
of the Government, the Curtin Government are taking
over Australian Airways now controlled by private
6 *! close I would like to refer to ap article
appearing in the Press that we should publish a list
of all our Investments. The details shown in the
Balance Sheet are fuller than those shown by most
Companies., three years ago, asked the question
as to what the shares held by the A.P.A. Fixedln-
vestment Trust Co. Ltd. comprised and I was glad
to be afforded the opportunity of informing Share-
holders very fully thereon. The full particulars of
my reply appeared in the printed report of the
Annual Meeting issued to Shareholders for that year.
The Chairman called upon Mr. L. J. Thompson,
the Deputy Chairman, to second the motion.
In seconding the motion Mr. Thompson said.
“The Chairman has dealt so fully with the figures
that there is very little for me to add, except to
make this comment, namely, that I attend many
annual meetings of companies, either as Director
or Auditor, and I am able to say that Shareholders
of this Company are given a large amount of infor-
mation concerning the progress of the Company, from
which they are enabled to see that the assets are
conservatively stated and their interests carefully
watched.” , ...
There being no questions, the Chairman put tne
motion, which was carried unanimously. .
There being no other nominations, the Chairman
declared himself duly re-elected a Director.
The Chairman stated in doing so he wished to
thank the Shareholders for the support they had
given him during the long period—now 17 years—
he had been Chairman. On this occasion he had
asked the Shareholders for an expression of their
appreciation of the work done by himself and his co-
Directors. .
The Proxies sent in totalled 165,700 out of a
total shareholding of 360,000. ,


BUY
7
75
rd
ICTORY
LOAN
'BONDS*
w
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated In England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
waste* Voice*
R6/45
is
?ss:
f
§
I
m s
■:
#
m
■■■■••■•* w
The name “CAL-TEX” came into
being with the discovery of huge
oil resources in the British Protec-
torate of Bahrein (Persian Gulf) by
the CALifornia-TEXas Oil Company.
Texaco, a world-wide oil Company
which has served Australia for
many years had large marketing
and distributing facilities.
So . . by consolidation of the huge
resources of the two companies, the
name “CAL-TEX” was born and
it became possible to develop the
new and strategic source of supply
WHICH HAS PROVED SO VALU-
ABLE TO AUSTRALIA DURING
THE WAR YEARS.
The management and policies of
the Company remain unaltered.
You get the same friendly service,
unsurpassed quality and nation-
wide distribution you have enjoyed
for many years. From now on ask
for “CAL-TEX.”
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FINEST OIL SUPPLIES
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Man-power Mystery and Muddle
What is happening to Australia’s man-
power is almost as puzzling as the ques-
tion as to what good use is being made
of much of the huge sums now being
spent in the name of defence. We have
achieved a great deal, it is true, but it is
widely believed that, at the cost, we
should have done far more. And there
seems to be every bit as much truth in
that belief as there is in the contention
that, granted freedom from the Labor
party’s vote-chasing, Caucus-ridden poli-
tics, Australian fighting forces as a whole
would have gained more battle honors
and have been the subject of less
discontent and frustration than has actu-
ally been their lot up to the present.
Inside the fighting forces there has been
waste of man-power, money and ma-
terials. A measure of that sort of thing
is unavoidable in war-time. Australia’s
waste has been beyond the unavoidable.
But it is outside the forces that the prin-
cipal grounds for criticism arise. In spite
of releases from the forces the cost of
“defence” remains stubbornly high,
while the expenditure on other Govern-
ment services is growing alarmingly
higher And at the same time the* final
test of war’s economic burden—the re-
duction in our living standards —shows
that, in spite of recent mention of the
possibility of a return to a better grade
of woollen textiles for civil use, living
conditions on the whole in the Common-
wealth are growing poorer. That is not-
withstanding the failure on our part to
supply to Britain and to our Allies as
much food, etc., and services as it was
taken for granted would be easily pos-
sible in a country of Australia’s peace-
time capacity, even allowing for war’s
disturbance of production facilities.
Australia’s industrial output appears
to have fallen seriously in spite of the
big increase in factory activity that has
been a consequence of the demand for
munitions. The food position is especially
unsatisfactory; a drought added the last
straw to an accumulation of difficulties
imposed on the land industries by Gov-
ernment planning in its “war effort.”
Even by comparison with 1943-44 —a
poor season—butter production during
the portion of the current year so far run
is down heavily. The wheat position is
almost incredibly bad in N. S. Wales.
Rigid regulations still prohibit any
freedom of action in the building or
alteration of homes, even where a person
in housing difficulties is in a position to
do the work in his hours of leisure.
Excuse is usually one of lack of man-
power and materials, as well as a hint
that the Government would itself like to
spend the money involved. Red-tape has
run riot in the housing field, and though
there are men in all sorts of jobs to see
that people do not build houses without
a permit, and others who are supposed to
be “planning” housing schemes and
methods of a Government kind, the use
of so much man-power to achieve an
almost negative result in the provision of
sorely-needed housing is baffling to people
who think that the expenditure of money
and labor should ultimately bring them
habitable homes. The idea of housing
control should be to achieve the maxi-
mum construction of homes, consistent
with other war-time demands, for those
really in need of them. Ultimately we
can do without the man-power necessary
for “control” purposes, but we must have
the necessary labor if we really want to
build houses.
“Go-slow” has achieved a vogue among
wage-earners in too many essential in-
dustries. Trade-union control generally,
coupled with an unreasonable, but in
some cases understandable, objection- to
war-time taxation rates, has a tendency',
particularly on the wharves and in the
abattoirs, to reduce the effective result
of each working hour. The Government
as an employer has not been an efficient
user of man-power either. And it has thou-
sands too many departmental employees.
It has become very plain that not
nearly so many hands are needed in
Australia’s munitions factories now as
was the case a couple of years ago. Ac-
cording to E. J. Harrison, Deputy-
Leader of the Federal Opposition,
“already thousands of employees re-
trenched from Government factories are
complaining that they dannot be ab-
sorbed into industry.” Since May, 1943,
no less than 43,400 employees have been
paid-off from Government factories,
annexes and private firms engaged exclu-
sively in aircraft and shipbuilding. That
represents a drop of 33 p.c. Other fac-
tories have been able to absorb only 9600
of the dismissed wage-earners, and there
has been a fall of 18,900 in those em-
ployed in building and construction. In
the same period, however, there has been
a return or addition of 22,400 of staff to
“white-collar” jobs, including the public
service, while the retail trade and other
commercial and financial institutions
have put on 10,900 hands. Retailers and
banks lost a big proportion of their staff
prior to the turn in their employment
figures, whereas the statistician’s classi-
fication of staff that includes Govern-
ment office workers showed only a tem-
porary recession, and is now higher than
it has ever been.
It is perhaps significant that during the
19 months in which 43,400 employees in
Government factories, annexes, etc., were
paid off total Government employees
fell by only 18,500.
Total employment in Australia at May,
1943, and at December, 1944, was prac-
tically the same, with slightly more
females at the latter date than at the
earlier. But war-time employment in
Australia reached its peak in December,
1943, when 1,913,600 people were in
jobs outside the rural industries and
domestic service. At December 31 last
the total had fallen to 1,906,200, in spite
of a substantial reduction in the number
of men in the services.
Figures available do not show how
many men have been returned to land
industries, but other statistics reveal that
food production generally is now lower
than it was during the period of greatest
mobilisation.
The point that can be taken from this
man-power analysis as a whole is that,
in spite of the radical changes which have
occurred in the fundamental character
of our war needs, and the big drop in
the number of men in the munitions in-
dustry and in the fighting forces, there
has been no improvement in the ration
of Australian civilian food and clothing,
and, apparently, there has been a worsen-
ing of our capacity to help our Allies.
The housing position is growing daily
more desperate for young people with
young families. What, then, is wrong
with the administration and use of man-
power?
Whatever is wrong, it is unlikely that
the blame can be all laid at the door
of the officials openly concerned. Our
man-power difficulties are of a similar
order to our economic difficulties —they
can be traced through departments right
back to the Ministry, the Labor Caucus
and the trade-union influence. There is a
lack of control over militant elements in
the unions and over the bureaucracy, a
tolerance of communists, and a jealousy
of private enterprise that almost continu-
ously stands in the light of full pro-
duction.
These factors, directly retarding pro-
duction, also influence the Ministerial
attitude towards the control of man-
power ; and as a result too much politics
and not enough practical economics have
brought confusion, conflict and waste in
the disposition of vital man-power. Con-
cessions made to the unruly, the greedy
and the undeserving make it almost im-
possible to relieve the burdens or
straighten out the problems of real pro-
ducers. It is typical of the governing
capacity of the Federal Ministry that
while we have grave shortages of food
and housing, as well as other serious de-
ficiencies of production, it is dilly-dally-
ing with plans to nationalise the banks
and airlines as a “concession” to the mili-*
tant and the stupid, thus threatening
further disruption to a politically-abused
economy.
The New Zealand Government pro-
poses to introduce legislation to enable it
to acquire control of all the remaining
privately-held shares in the Bank of New
Zealand. It says it will allow the present
board of directors to remain, acting under
the general direction of the Finance
Minister. The move follows a resolution
at a Labor-party conference recommend-
ing compulsory acquisition of the shares.
Shortly before the Government made its
definite announcement the N.Z. Associ-
ated Chambers of Commerce said the
Administration was l “bowing to the
clamor of slogan-singing partisans,” who
were out for “socialisation for the sake
of it.” Insisting that “private enterprise
is being sent to the block piecemeal,” the
Chambers of Commerce statement went
on:
The Prime Minister said the Government
would never nationalise the coalmines
without a mandate from the people, but the
Minister of Mines has blithely gone ahead
turning one privately-owned coalmine after
another into a State-owned concern, with-
out let or hindrance from the Prime
Minister or the Government as a whole.
Now it is the turn of (he Bank of New
Zealand, and after that will it be the other
trading banks, and after that —who knows?
Even a condemned man knows the charge
made against him, but in the present in-
stance the sentence is apparently to be car-
ried out without the charge being made
known.
The Government already holds a con-
trolling interest in the Bank of New Zea-
land, and has the right to appoint four
directors out of six. What more can be
gained by forcing the private shareholders
to sell out, and making the bank a 100 p.c.
State-owned concern? Nothing that has
been demonstrated. Nothing, probably,
but a completely free hand to play ducks
and drakes with the banking system, and
to provide a party political tool whereby
politicians and pressure groups can precipi-
tate a financial bear-garden.
It is rumored that State bank advances
will promptly be made to launch a Labor
daily, thereby loading a financial responsi-
bility on the whole community through a
State bank in respect of a party enterprise.
Is this true? If not, what is the reason for
socialising the Bank of New Zealand?
The agitators for State ownership of
banking are typical of those petty intellec-
tuals who shoot with a lot of prejudice
and little powder. They recognise they must
go to a dentist for an extraction, a doctor
for an appendix, and a lawyer for law, but
on economic subjects—of which banking
is a current instance —they pride themselves
on possessing more knowledge of banking
than a banker, and an unquestioned ability
to perform surgical operations. That the
patient often dies is immaterial to them.
The Labor Governments of Australia
and Maoriland both believe that they are
“keeping their ears to the ground,”
listening to the vibrations given out by
the hearts of the voting majority. The
trouble with keeping your ear to the
ground in matters of public finance is
that, if practised too sedulously, it ulti-
mately prevents you from getting your
head above water.


The future belongs to those
who prepare for it.
During the post-war period when
business will be rushing to get
back on the markets—those men
and women who have trained
and qualified for some specific
business occupation will find it
I comparatively easy to obtain com
genial and well-paid positions.
Whether you are in the armed
forces or in essential service,
NOW is the time to train and
qualify and the H.R.I. with 47
years of business tutorial experi-
ence can advise and help you to
choose the right career training
for you.
Prepare Today for Tomorrow , s
Opportunities
Consultation costs you nothing.
Consult H.R.I. about your future.
Let us help you to choose the voca-
tion for which you are most suited —
seek our advice—start training NOW I
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
(Founded and Owned by Hemingway & Robertson Pty. UdJ*
Professional Tutors
24 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
4 24 Chalf’t Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
and in all Capital Cities. Newcastle
and Launceston.
I Please send me FREE copy of your 1
i 96 p. “Guide to Careers in Business.’’ j
j Name |
| Address j
I Career Interested in 24/668 1
IB BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kftney Tutsi
*•— Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching back
well and strong again—if the trouble is caused by
tired kidneys.
AH the blood in your body circulates through your
kidneys every 15 minutes to he strained of acids and
wastes. Healthy persons pass about three pints a
day and so get rid of three pounds of waste inatter.
When the kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty andi difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, waste and acids get back-washed into
the blood and may become poisonous. This is often
the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you up. Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PIDL6 and get the same quick relief they
have been giving millions for many years. If back-
ache is bothering you due to tired kidneys, try
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS today.
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for every man’s
everyday wear.
l All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
w
CHARTS
Circular Charts io» aU types o*
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTIK BRISBANE, O LD.
wovV
\^ v e oiv^ oV
iAfi.
>
C
r «nett^ Gr
wt«
ttfw
StßVltt
Indus* 1 * 1 )
C^|*V^ 5
t lie Sat»oi»
Serves
- n£/\0 0^ ,cG
FA
B \JRN I£V
telephone •>
iTE AGENTS''
T mISBSTATE " e f S
-■•■ rsr^e-^t
’S- o , r ,r 111)-
CO. p
Perth
U.S.*
,9.w • • -
Clarence
? tan sV
icb
kay
Ips*
-- (VA
BROS. it., Raut
Cr
,TD
a^ S a
Argy
86
TO
W
A^D
IC cBtOU
Reis
Raruv
inA i v '-'
l Toves
ra
George
RU > ”-
koßart
59
AS
St
mz
Small Enterprises Are Vital
Earnest consideration is being de-
voted in Britain and the United States
to problems, particularly the post-
war variety, of small trading enterprises.
Canada also has been making plans for
assisting the setting-up of new small busi-
nesses after the war, more especially
with thoughts directed towards return-
ing servicemen. The small business has
been the foundation of many a large
one, but even where it remains a
modest concern all through its existence
it serves an essential purpose in the com-
munity that cannot be adequately re-
placed by multi-departmental monopolies.
Often it develops new manufactures or
services by reason of the painstaking,
wholehearted attention of a working pro-
prietor. Sometimes it is more economical
from the point of view of production
costs than the large concern, and this can
happen where the small business is no
“backyard factory.” Many employees
prefer to work for an enterprise in which
they can rub shoulders with “the boss”
and can see a product in all stages of
its manufacture. Such conditions help
those engaged in business to keep in
touch with the realities of industrial
society and production.
Large enterprises have their place in
our economic life equally with the
smaller concerns. Within our rural oc-
cupations the larger sheep stations form
the backbone of the wool industry, and
among manufacturing enterprises there
are many examples of the 15ig concern
being an instrument of cheapened and
quickened production of an improved
kind. But the success of enterprises that
of their nature require a large capital
contrast with rather than deny the im-
portance of the small business.
In the past it is quite possible that
banks have not made finance as readily
available to the small concern as they
have to the larger enterprise. There are
a number of reasons why this could
happen. To begin with, banking being
usually a matter of delegated authority,
the bank officer attending to applica-
tions for overdrafts might be tempted to
follow a policy of “safety first,” prefer-
ing to extend credit to a large concern
of solid financial standing rather than
to an enterprise which still had to prove
itself. That attitude is natural enough.
It is an easier matter to investigate one
large enterprise and advance it £lO,OOO
with a feeling of security than it is to
go into the affairs of five smaller con-
cerns and advance each £2OOO with a
feeling of similar security. While the
idea of spreading risks may appeal, the
idea of eliminating risks may appeal
more.
In Britain for over two years the trad-
ing banks have been preparing to attend
to the post-war wants of small concerns
on a more detailed scale than hitherto.
The importance of small businesses in the
vital export trade as well as the home
market has been recognised, and Britain
has to make up its mind to win back
overseas markets after the war with
almost the same grimness that was char-
acteristic of its preparations for the de-
feat of Germany. Taxation concessions
have already been made by the Govern-
ment to smaller business concerns, while
the importance of the planning by the
trading banks cannot be overemphasised.
It remains to be seen whether the banks’
objectives will be best achieved by the
establishment of departments especially to
attend to the wants of small concerns,
or whether more attention will be given
to this class of finance in the general
banking section. In the head office of
each bank it will probably be found best
to deal with it in a special department.
Early this year the Chancellor of the
Exchequer announced plans to form two
companies in Britain with combined re-
sources of £l7O million to help post-war
industry. One co., the Finance Corpora-
tion for Industry, Ltd., was to have a
capital of £25 million and borrowing
powers of four times that amount. It
would help to finance large undertakings.
A second, smaller concern, with a capi-
tal of £l5 million and borrowing powers
of twice that amount, is to help small and
medium-sized businesses with loans of
from £5OOO to £20,000. The two cos.
will augment, not supersede, existing
sources of capital. The smaller concern
will be financed by the “Big Five” and
the Scottish banks, with a token subscrip-
tion from the Bank of England.
In Canada the Government is prepared
to consider a loan to returned soldiers
of a sum equal to their war gratuities
if they intend to buy a business or estab-
lish a new one. As a soldier with a wife
and two children who has had a year’s
service in Canada and three years’ over-
seas is entitled to nearly £3OO Australian
in gratuity and rehabilitation grant, the
additional rehabilitation loan is not to be
despised. Canadian banks themselves
are also studying the possibilities and
problems of lesser enterprises, realising
that in the mass these represent a most
important economic factor in the com-
munity.
In the United States a private body,
the Committee of Economic Develop-
ment, has been urging the claims of the
small man in business. It has pointed out
that of the total business employment in
the U.S.A. 45 p.c. is normally provided
by enterprises having fewer than 100
persons on their payrolls, and it has asked
for the encouragement of risk-taking by
the rising generation—“through risk-tak-
ing new businesses and new men are de-
veloped, and public understanding of
the importance of risk-taking is vital.”
In Australia the Government attitude
towards risk-taking and private enter-
prise, great or small, has been tragically
defined ever since the proposal to limit
the profits of all businesses to 4 p.c. on
capital employed was brought forward
in the early part of 1942. The “plan” was
abandoned only because it came to be re-
garded as “administratively impossible.”
111-considered man-power call-ups drove
many independent businessmen into army
or C.C.C. occupations, where some have
been of little or no use, while their busi-
nesses have often been snapped up by
aliens at break-up value and rapidly
turned into money-spinners.
Socialism favors monopoly. It is
easier for a Government to dictate to a
large enterprise than it is to “discipline”
a multitude of small ones, too many
votes and other political factors being
involved among “small businessmen.” In
view of the Australian Labor Govern-
ment’s past record it is rather a shock to
read in the “Commonwealth Bank Bill,
1945,” . a provision for an “industrial
finance department.” The bill says:
The functions of the Industrial Finance
Department [of the central bank] shall be:
(a) To provide finance for the establish-
ment and development of industrial under-
takings, particularly small undertakings;
(, b ) to assist in the establishment and de-
velopment of industrial undertakings; and
(c) to provide advice on the operations
of industrial undertakings with a view to
promoting the efficient organisation and
conduct thereof-.
This sanctimonious humbug, incidentally,
is part and parcel of a programme to
take away the private initiative of nine
Australian trading banks!
Australia will have to get rid of blather-
skites who talk with one voice about
private enterprise when they go to an
overseas country and with another when
they come back to within earshot of
Labor Caucus. It will need to take an
interest in its post-war economic pros-
pects just as grimly and realistically as
Britain. God knows, we have had enough
economic drivel from Labor Caucus and
from individual Ministers like Forde,
Ward, Lazzarini, Chifley, Dedman,
Senators Cameron and Keane and the
rest. For that matter, we have had
more than enough from the Prime Min-
ister himself. Party politics are not such
an important industry in the Common-
wealth as Mr. Curtin seems to think they
are. He and his Ministers should give
much more of their attention to Aus-
tralia’s productive industries, with a por-
tion specially reserved for small enter-
prises.
Taxation and Waste
The contention made here last week
that, while Government spending con-
tinued to embrace so much that was
wasteful, ill-judged and damaging to our
economic security, present burdensome
taxation rates would remain a serious
bar to enthusiastic production, was fol-
lowed by a statement from E. S. Spooner,
former M.H.R., who claimed that taxa-
tion rates should be reduced now in order
to “restore the incentive to work and
produce that has been seriously impaired
during recent, years by heavy taxation.”
The Prime Minister answered that he was
opposed to both reduction in taxation
and to abandonment of profit limitation.
In the course of a lengthy reply that, as
usual, was not entirely logical, Mr.
Curtin made the point that while war
expenditure continued at a high level a
reduction in present taxation income
would mean that the Government would
have to increase the national debt.
The real crux of the matter is that Gov-
ernment spending should not be wasteful
(as it is now) and that social-security
plans should have a sound economic and
psychological basis instead of a founda-
tion of political opportunism. Also,
taxation scales should give consideration
to incentive and initiative, and should
not be arranged in a spirit of political
partisanship or pure vote-catching. On
the higher incomes and on private enter-
prise and thrift Australian tax rates are
the heaviest in the Empire, while there
is no rebate to shareholders in a business
of the taxation paid by the company in
which they have a shareholding. Though
price control needs to be strictly enforcd,
profits control on a basis other than price
control can rarely be justified when the
yalue of incentive is taken into account.
Australia, on present Budget commit-
ments, requires a high taxation revenue —
borrowing, especially bank-credit bor-
rowing, is very heavy. But the Budget
needs revising (with emphasis on econo-
mies), and so does the incidence of taxa-
tion on industry. Not only is much
Budget expenditure and planning waste-
ful and unsound; many people feel
that the money they are providing in con-
fiscatory taxation is being extensively
used to make jobs for jacks-in-office who
will further harass taxpayers with form-
filling and tie up their enterprise and
initiative with more red-tape.
In 1944 the number of persons work-
ing in Government and in private fac-
tories and annexes engaged solely on
Government work fell from 116,100 to
88,300. Other factories, including part-
time war contractors, put on 7100 wage-
earners, raising their total to 627,100.
Westralia has been the only State to in-
crease its factory employment over the
past 15 months.


THE SERVICE MAN
Across the Weser.
“Ek Dum”: Events on the Western
Front, as reported unofficially, have
been almost as bewildering as the Rus-
sian operations, newspapers being evi-
dently determined to lend a sporting
flavor, combined with the usual modi-
cum of sex interest, to their “stories.”
The one fact that stands out is that
the pace of the armored columns has
been such as to preclude the possibility
of any large-scale defence op most of the
main lines of advance.
There was fairly heavy fighting where
the U.S. Fifteenth Army—with or with-
out part of the First Army—was trying
to break out of the Sieg Line in the
Remagen bridgehead and burst into the
Ruhr enclave, thus destroying the flank
—a nuisance to the armor and mobile
guns and infantry and their supplies
streaming eastward along the roads of
the Lippe to Hamm and destinations
beyond. The Germans themselves several
times reported the capture and recapture
and loss of points and even of Siegen.
On the north side of the Rhine also there
was fierce resistance before Hamm fell.
The Germans were then defending Dort-
mund' strongly.
And there was heavy fighting along
the Dutch border, where the enemy was
doing his best not only to use his strength
on the flank as a brake and a menace,
but also to keep the British from taking
over Holland before the German troops
could be marched out and the usual
scorched earth left in the rear. And
the Guards Armored Division found
itself up against minefields and heavy
and mobile defences on the approaches
to Bremen.
In these grim battles and in some
local ones, where rearguards were hold-
ing out, men were dying bitterly on the
Allied side as on the enemy side.
Swift But No Race
Generally speaking, on the northern
plain and through the Teutoburger Forest
hills, the tanks and mobile guns, with
what attendant infantry and necessary
ancillary troops can keep up with them,
have moved so fast that their machines
have had to be fed from the air. The
distances which they have travelled—the
Desert Rats (Seventh Armored Division),
the Guards Armored Division, the Sixth
Airborne Division among the British and
the host of well-known U.S. divisions —
have not been measured by the actual
forward thrust, since their objectives have
called for diversions and much scuttering
hither and thither to find enemy pockets,
to clean up flanks, to retrace steps over
ground already covered to help some
detachment which has run into some-
thing too hard for it to handle.
Often troops encountered were second-
er third-class —Volksturm, Volksgrena-
diers, scratch units, foreign conscripts,
boys in uniform jackets. Over 600,000
foemen have been taken since Mont-
gomery began the Battle of Kleve. The
bag in the last week to April 8 was
190,000.
There has been a withdrawal by the
enemy from almost the whole of the
area west of the Weser and north of
Karlsruhe of all worth-while fighting
men.
There has been no race between Allied
divisions. The operations have been a
concerted and well-planned and intricate
movement designed to create something
like a regularised line of offence lying
fairly evenly north-south from the North
Sea and the mouth of the Weser to the
headwaters of the Werra, which is an
upper section of the Weser.
This has been achieved in a .manner
which takes the breath away. Mors
bridges have been flung across the Rhine
than existed in time of peace. The roads
and the negotiable countryside have be-
come in a little while a roaring mass of
hurtling transport under a sky roofed
in with wings. The armament of the
enormous masses and the organisa-
tion needed to keep up the communi-
cations and feeding, watering and fuel-
ling are wonderful beyond expression. And
the momentum acquired is such that, with
control of the air apparently absolute, it
will take some stopping, especially since
almost all the way to Berlin the bulk of
the country is good tank and gun country.
The Weser Forced
The line of the Weser already has been
pierced. At the week-end there were
several bridgeheads across it.
The British and Canadians were deep
into Holland, their parachute troops
everywhere, after having taken Arnhem
and Zutphen and broken the Yssel line.
Holland was cut off from Germany*. The
British were on the fringes of Bremen.
They had taken Minden of the Roses —
the Lancashires and some other regiments
which had memories of 1759 were in-
volved—and had pushed across the river
towards the Leine and Hanover, which
seemed doomed on April 9.
The U.S. Ninth Army, running neck
and neck, was over at the Pied Piper’s
town of Hamelin, on the main road to
Hildesheim and Brunswick, which lies
at the north-west end of a sort of second
Ruhr, one of the most bombed parts of
Germany Aschersleben, Halberstadt,
Bernburg, Eisleben and Magdeburg,
mainly on the west bank of the Elbe, in
the background.
From the southern end of this area the
Americans (First and Third Armies ap-
parently), having taken Cassel and Miin-
den, in the junction between the Fulda
and the Werra, which form the Weser,
were only a day’s run.
Forcing the river cliffs and debouching
through the Hessian Gate, they soon
would see the scenic beauty of the region
of the Brocken rise on their left hand
as they threaded themselves along the
Nordhausen road ; perhaps to try to out-
flank Magdeburg from the south after
taking Halle ; perhaps to attempt to rush
op across the more negotiable reaches of
the Elbe through ancient Wittenberg and
Luckenwalde into Potsdam.
Still another powerful Third Army
column had gone by way of Fulda to
Eisenach, whose commander did not
speak quickly enough to prevent its being
torn to pieces by precautionary artillery
fire, and had continued on along the
main southern Autobahn to the other
great industrial group of cities, which
constitute as well the heart of the defence
system of the district above the Erz
Gebirge, whose peaks form the line of
the northern Czech border. ' These are
Gotha, Weimar, Erfurt. The next stop
after that might be Jena, the optical centre
of Reich. After that every town would
mean something vital —Leipzig, Gera,
Gauchau, the great chemical city of
Chemnitz, finally Dresden.
South-west again, the U.S. Seventh
Army, in more difficult country still, was
chopping its way down the Taube towards
Rothenburg and the Hitlerian city of
Nuremburg. But the resistance here and
in the Black Forest, where the forgotten
men of the French First Army seemed
to be making little progress, appeared to
be heavier.
There was, of course, a “security black-
out” which hid all definite facts. But
these advances are authentic. And it
seemed authentic from the air reports
that the greatest movements in unoccu-
pied Germany were in vast columns
travelling towards the area which was the
birthplace of Nazism, and of which
Munich is the capital and Nuremburg the
Delphi.
In all this great area, watered by the
Danube, there is scarcely a spot where
snowcapped mountains cannot be espied
in the distance on every side. From Swit-
zerland to the Fichtelgebirge it is cov-
ered with rolling and sometimes timbered
hills north of the moat of the Danube.
From the Main River the Sudeten Ranges
form a high, largely level, timbered bar-
rier all the way into Silesia, where Mar-
shal Koniev endeavored to break through
on the upper Oder and the Neisse. On
the east the barrier is the Moravian
Heights and the mountains west of
Vienna. On the south, from the Swiss
border to beyond Vienna, are the almost
impenetrable ranges of the Austrian Alps,
with a few passes like the Brenner.
Possible Defences
Onlookers in these matters are apt to be
hypnotised into an acceptance of the
theory that any enemy who has not a
continent to play with is finished. But
with all Norway and Bavaria and nearly
all Czechoslovakia and Austria in hand,
not leaving out the mountain sections
of northern Italy, the enemy would still
have a space as large as New South Wales
and Victoria to manoeuvre in, even if he
lost north Germany. That is if he has
anything to manoeuvre with, a matter yet
to be explored. In any case, his “num-
ber” is up, however long he may stave off
his end.
A much better idea of what is happen-
ing will be obtained when the Elbe comes
to be forced. It is a much more useful
water barrier than the Weser, and to
cross it to the south would be to assure
an almost immediate junction with the
Russians on the Neisse, beyond Dresden.
This would catch the Germans in the
north between the Oder and Hamburg—
catch them in a wedge, with a smashed
flank on the south.
On the Russian Front.
The great puzzle of the Russian front
is why effort was transferred to the south.
One would have imagined that every
possible ounce of pressure would have
been applied in the Kiistrin area, opposite
the main line of the Allied advance in
North Germany, so soon as Field-Mar-
shal Montgomery began his drive across
the Rhine. But the only thing which has
happened has been that the armies of
Marshals Malinovsky and Tolbukhin
have followed the rapidly retreating Ger-
man armies of Hungary, obviously with
little fighting except in odd sectors.
Bratislava fell without resistance, and the
environs of Vienna were entered with as
little, the city being pierced to its heart
in a day or so.
It is obvious that the Russians have
been unable to rush Berlin hitherto, what-
ever the present “security black-out” on
Marshal Zukhov’s fifth attempt may
cover, and whatever the status of the
“great air battles” on the Oder front.
During the week a significant change
took place in commands in the Czech
area. Marshal Yeremenko’s appointment
in place of General Petrov marked a
promotion in status of that front. To
Czechoslovakia President Benes has
returned after apparently presenting
Ruthenia as a sacrifice on the altar of
Russian imperialism.
It was reported on April 9 that the
Russians were storming Koenigsberg and,
breaking through the defences from north
and south, had taken 15,000 prisoners.
In Yugoslavia Tito’s startling divisions
Tito himself being in Moscow —
emerged from the mysterious silence
which fell upon them weeks ago when
they were supposedly pressing the routed
enemy up against the Austrian border.
They turned up at Sarajevo, 250 miles
further away from Austria than when
previously heard of. The capture of
Sarajevo was claimed.
In Japan's Front Garden.
“Ek Dum”: What may be called a
huge general naval dogfight continues
to rage between Formosa and the
Japanese mainland, in Japan’s front
garden.
At the lower end of the line, with
General MacArthur’s aircraft battering
Formosa repeatedly on its southern
flank, the Royal Naval Squadron under
Admiral Sir Bernard Rawlings continued
the bombardment of the Sakishima
group and the neutralisation of Jap air
staging bases on the way from China and
Formosa to Okinawa.
Very little information has come
through from that corner of the battle-
field, but the installations of the two
main islands have been thoroughly ham-
mered. The enemy was well supplied
with aircraft and imbued with offensive
spirit applied by the same methods which
have twice damaged H.M.A.S. Australia
—direct concentrations by machines in
concerted attacks on major British ships.
Damage was inflicted on warships, but
the attackers for the first time had a
taste of the superlative anti-aircraft
defence which makes an experienced
British squadron about the toughest
thing on earth to tackle. A special set
was made at King George V and the
large aircraft carriers; but, though some
carried scars, they were still in opera-
tional condition after three days’ consis-
tent action, and were ready to return to
the fray with renewed zest.
In the three days 31 enemy machines
were shot down.
o*l Okinawa
For the change of Japanese Govern-
ment the enemy had plenty of celebra-
tory fireworks.
On Okinawa, after the comparatively
easy landing, the American troops met
increasing pressure. They succeeded in
crossing the island on the south, but so
soon as they turned toward the twin
towns of Nafa, the main port, on the
west, and Shuri, the old castled capital,
on the east, which sit together like a
stopper in a bottleneck, they found them-
selves in rolling, craggy country, full of
caves, facing a six-mile defence position
stretching clear across the island. The
enemy was throwing in bitter and
desperate counter-attacks and the fight-
ing was described as comparable with
that of Iwo Jima in country just as dif-
ficult. The landing forces of the U.S.
Tenth Army were fortunate to have
strong support by gunfire and bombing
and strafing from battleships and carriers.
Yamato Sunk
Meanwhile the Japanese attempted to
relieve the position from the mainland by
large-scale air and naval operations. On
the afternoon of April 6 large forces of
fighters attacked the supporting Allied
fleet off Okinawa. Fleet fighters shot
down 55 and 61 fell victims to ack-ack
fire, according to the official communique.
The enemy attack was pressed home
viciously, but found it hard to get at
larger units. Three U.S. destroyers, how-
ever, were sunk and several other small
ships damaged.
Next day an enemy surface force was
seen to leave the Inland Sea and pass
south of Japan’s nearest main island,
Kiushiu. This was headed by the new
battleship Yamato, which had been
severely damaged in the Philippines battle
photographs of her under bomb-burst
were published. She was escorted by a
couple of light cruisers and destroyer
screen.
, Admiral Mitscher’s Task Force left to
intercept at high speed, and about noon
attacked from the air.
The attacking aircraft had to face
heavy anti-aircraft fire. They suc-
ceeded, however, in putting eight tor-
pedoes and eight heavy bombs into
Yamato and sank her, together with
the two light cruisers and three
destroyers. Three destroyers got away
intact, or nearly so, but three others
were set on fire. The carriers lost seven
aircraft and their machines shot down 31
enemy fighters, bringing the total enemy
losses for two days to 391.
Tokyo claimed—officially— to have
sunk 249 Allied warships in 17 days!
Tawi Tawi Occupied
In the Philippines fresh landings were
made in the tail of Luzon against light
opposition, and an unopposed landing
was made on the island of Tawi Tawi, at
the base of the Sulu Sea, only 30 miles
from Borneo’s Peninsula, which runs out
from near Sandakhan, the chief town and
main port of British North Borneo. Tawi
Tawi has considerable interest for Aus-
tralians, Somewhere on Borneo there are
-or were—lsoo isolated men of the
Eighth Division who went into the silence
in June, 1942.
Our Islands Campaigns.
Ek Dum”: On September 26 General
Blarney, referring to the New Guinea
territories, averred that “some 90,000
Japanese, bypassed in the advance, still
remain to be dealt with.”
The Americans at that time were still
in control of the New Guinea situation,
though their numbers were not great.
On Bougainville 18,000 Japanese were
apparently being “contained” by a force
which was. sitting on a narrow strip of
coastline around Torokina, at the northern
end of Empress Augusta Bay. In a real
sense the containing was being done by
the overwhelming power of the Allied
navies and air forces, which had closed all
main routes of ingress and egress.
The method of attack on isolated posi-
tions in the Pacific had up to that time,
except for the Buna-Gona campaign, run
to a routine. Powerful naval fleets,
backed by considerable air power, had
appeared off the main enemy concentra-
tion centres. Those centres had been
blasted to pieces with bombing and naval
gunfire. Troops went ashore in a variety
of heavy landing and armed amphibious
craft, their units, if American, specified,
their commanders named. In a few days’
fighting—heavy or light, according to
the quality of the resistance —the main
concentration point was captured and
the remnants of its garrison were put to
flight and pursued to their destruction.
The Americans, however, made no
attempt to recapture Bougainville beyond
the sporadic landing at Empress Augusta
Bay and considerable bombing. Recon-
quest was left to the Australians. It
seemed fairly obvious that the logical
way to go about it would be to do what
had been done in every other reconquest
in the Pacific since adequate equipment
became available. Instead, bodies of Aus-
tralian troops were sneaked into the
Torokina area.
Australians at Torokina
The theory allegedly was that the
change-over must be kept a close secret
from the enemy —as if divisional move-
ments by sea could take place unnoticed
on a coast overlooked by enemy-held
mountains four miles away, Anyway,
the Australians were landed furtively, and
were put down in the former American
area, cut off by swamps in the direction
of the Bui'n-Faisi main port area, and
by razor-back mountains from the direc-
tion of Numa-Numa, 30 miles crowfly
across the island. Two months elapsed
before the presence of the force was
acknowledged. And even when it was
mentioned its proceedings continued to
be secret and anonymous, as if it were
engaged in the s.p. business instead or
the business of war.
It had air support from the R.N.Z.A.r.
while the R.A.A.F, cooled its heels
hundreds of miles further north.
Many of the pilots there, with records
among the world’s best, rarely see a Jap
aircraft except in the pictures. the
R.N.Z.A.F. operating in Bougainville hau
the assistance of R.A.A.F. Boomerang
spotters in finding targets.
The Australians on Bougainville we


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILLIAM BOWMAN, late of Christchurch, New
Zealand, or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with the District Public Trustee,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE JOHN STAINTON.—TAKE NOTICE
that ROMA EILEEN STAINTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 873 of 1945 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Ist June 1945 and obtain
a copy of the said petition without charge front
MESSIEURS H. T. MACREADY & ERIC JONES
Solicitors 133 Pitt Street Sydney*.—(n.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
bound for thfe main concentration areas
of Buin, and the north and west. They
admittedly have equipment for the job
in hand according to the methods em-
ployed, but not the shipping or plant to
assault main bases after the British and
U.S. manner.
Their plan has taken the form of single
drives in three directions out of the 13-
mile-long perimeter of the Empress
Augusta Bay area.
Widening the Perimeter
A few days after landing, early in No-
vember, forces pushed inland against the
saw-backed hills overlooking the beach
and took the Japanese observation post of
Little George Ridge. It was not till De-
cember 18 that the next ridge, Artillery
Ridge, was captured. The period till New
Year was given over to the taking of
Pearl Ridge, in the kind of battle which
the weary troops from the Komiatum
trail and Finisterre would find homely—a
battle against an enemy with all the ad-
vantages of rain-forest cover, the trees
being full of snipers tied to forks and
limbs overlooking the tracks and ap-
proaches. Operations in the air since
have been limited to the hills a mile or
two inland.
A force was sent northward along the
west coast. This country is not as diffi-
cult of passage as that to the south of the
perimeter, but difficult enough in all cons-
cience, with mixed lowland and jungle
ridge and many rivers and creeks across
the path of the expedition.
The enemy kept well out of the way,
however, except at one or two spots, until
there had been reached, the little-known
stretch of country north-east of the cape
opposite Mik Mik island, where the coast
turns north-eastward on its last lead to
reach the northern tip of the island and
Buka Passage.
The expeditionaries occupied Russia,
a coastal village only 15 miles from Buka,
and also from Bonis at the northern tip
of Bougainville. Sixty miles from the
starting point their luck changed. The
countryside here was full of the kind of
defence positions that the Jap affects.
After the Australians had passed Puto,
a mile or so beyond Russia, they began
to encounter serious opposition. The
enemy then fell back on Tsimba Ridge, a
precipitous feature near the mouth of the
Genga River. It was a situation in which
bypassing and naval support from heavy
ships might have worked wonders. But
Australia owns no battleships, and her
own cruisers and other ships were with
the Americans in the Philippines.
It took three weeks to get the Japanese
off Tsimba Ridge. Artillery had to be
brought to the area under the greatest
difficulties' the operations culminating in
a battle in which guns and mortars
poured ammunition into the ridge for 48
hours in preparation for final assault.
In proportion to the smallness of the
objective and the numbers involved, the
Australians suffered considerable casual-
ties, which bought the privilege of fol-
lowing the enemy three or four miles to
Down’s Hill, inland to the north-east
toward Lalum, and just below the base
of Soraken Peninsula and plantation.
Down’s Hill was occupied on February
26, after eight days of bitter fighting.
Lalum, the communication centre of the
northern tip of Bougainville, which is
16-20 miles wide, was available for
attack. On March 6 the first amphibious
landing in the region was made on Sopra
Island, off the Soraken Peninsula. There
was a later landing on the north-west
coast. Towards the end of March, how-
ever, the Japanese held niost of the Sora-
ken Peninsula, though their attempts to
break out had failed.
Two or three days later the enemy’s
positions disintegrated. He retired to a
number of isolated and precarious posts,
having lost “heavily” in a way which
showed the smallness of the operations;
the captured materiel included 17 field
guns and 300 rifles and some mechanical
equipment. Soraken Peninsula, after 18
days of fierce, small fighting, was then
mainly in Australian hands, five months
after the landing on Bougainville.
Through Swamps to Buin
* The third drive on Bougainville was
to the south of Torokina. This was
directed against the Buin area, which
constitutes one of the two more developed
districts on the island, with well-built
Kanaka tracks and vehicular roads. A
direct landing near the port could have
brought tanks and mobile guns into play
at once against main objectives, and with
the superior forces available for front-
line services arid the advantage of con-
trol of the sea and air over an enemy
without naval or air support the place
might have been taken quickly. The
loss of and wear and tear on lives could
scarcely have been much more than the
toll of the jungle fighting.
The method of approach, however, was
to start in the Torokina perimeter, about
60 miles from Buin by crowfly, and walk,
crawl, swim, paddle and climb the dis-
tance. That the detachments used are
reported “well equipped” means that
they were well equipped not for taking
the Buin area in the most expeditious
way, but for the actual job in hand.
Our stout fellows had to skirt Empress
Augusta Bay, floundering on foot through
the swampy river country and engaging
at intervals in sharp fights, cleaning-up
operations and defences against counter-
attacks. They had to do this menaced
day and night by snipers and patrols in
an area where land reconnaissance con-
ditions favored the enemy .in possession
of the terrain. They had to do it some-
times in swamps up to their armpits and
on narrow jungle trails on which each
boot as it fell had to be sucked out of
the “squdge” for the next step.
They did it across the Jaba, the
Tavera and the Adele Rivers. By the
end of January, nearly three months after
the Torokina perimeter had been occu-
pied, they had beached Matupena Point;
the peninsula at the southern end of
Empress Augusta Bay, over 40 miles
from their starting point.
From here onward enemy resistance
became stronger. Our men had to fight
their way in to . Makatowa and still
further inland to the Savele Mission and
to Mosigetta, above the junction of the
Adele River with its tributaries. This is
an important junction of enemy com-
munications, perhaps 30 miles by crow-
fly from Buiq.
From Matupena Peninsula, cleared by
tommy-gun and bayonet, the A.I.F.
fought its way southward and eastward
to Makapeko, on the higher reaches of
the Puriata River, which zigzags three
parts of the distance across the southern
end of Bougainville, reaching the ocean
halfway between Matupena Point and
Buin.
The Battle of Slater’s Hill
This stream, which throws a consider-
able volume of water into the sea, is the
boundary fence of the Buin area. The
crossing was hotly contested, and the
fight for Darara ford was bitter. The
Japs, using a mortar and artillery barrage,
isolated an Australian position and used
the bayonet —a procedure which usually
indicates the presence of troops from
Manchukuo, skilled in rough-and-tumble,
hand-to-hand fighting. Here the country
is more civilised, a land of rich native
gardens. Here also* the Japanese began
to resist in force as they were pushed
across the river, presently essaying a
series of counter-attacks directed at the
flanks of the Australians’ communica-
tions along the Buin road, between Him
Him and Slater’s Hill. The road
was cut at several points. The men on
Slater’s Hill —a mound above the fast-
flowing Puriata —were isolated after
the Japs broke through at night. The
enemy then attacked, yelling, with sabre
and btiyonet, mortar and m.-g. flank
support.
Concentrated fire held till the last
moment dissipated the attack, which was
repeated again and again throughout the
night and next day. The adjacent posi-
tions and lines of approach were over-
run by considerable enemy forces. More
than one A.M.F. detachment was sur-
rounded and brought under heavy enemy
fire. Australian tanks, the presence of
which came as a surprise to the Japs,
were rushed up, and, heavily punishing
the exposed enemy, they saved the day.
But the success was not cheaply bought.
In grimly-defended Australian positions
a third of the men were wounded, others
were dead and the rest were approach-
ing exhaustion. Jap dead covered the
slopes around them. Their losses were
estimated at 500 killed, their greatest
casualties in a single phase of the present
campaign.
The men of Slater’s Hill emerged from
their little fort cheering and singing
“Waltzing Matilda” to greet their
rescuers —the tanks were British Matildas.
They had been engaged in the biggest
battle fought in mandated territory since
“the Finisterres.” It was, however, an
affair of battalions —a couple on each
side —not of divisions or brigades.
There have since been other attacks,
On April 8 the enemy was shelling Aus-
tralian positions.
To March 17 about 2000 Japs on
Bougainville had, it was reckoned, been
killed. That, allowing for hospital cases,
left about 14,000 to be accounted for,
if the most recent estimates are correct.
The enemy still occupies every chief
centre, including the most-developed capi-
tal area of Kieta, all the ports of the
south and most —such as they are —air-
fields and food centres. The Australians
occupy or control a fourth to a third of
the island, most of it west of the Crown
Prince Range, save for the extreme
northern and southern fringes of the
occupation area, swamp and sparsely-
peopled hill tracts. So, after five months,
the main fighting is still to come. Buka
is still in Japanese possession.
Rabaul a Tough Nut
Rabaul was the biggest base established
by the Japanese in the South-west
Pacific. Well defended, it is another
Gibraltar. At times as many as 60 ships
were seen in its harbor. The Americans
made three main landings and some
minor landings on New Britain, all at the
ends where few white men had previously
been ashore —at Arawe and Cape Glou-
cester, and later, unresisted, at Talasea.
They received the most powerful naval
and air support, including that of all the
major Australian ships. They met little
resistance, and reported killing thousands
of Japanese with no great difficulty.
Our allies had every kind of roadmak-
ing and communication equipment;
tanks and guns from 152 mm. down-
ward ; copious supplies of the best the
air had to offer. It could be said that in
each case the situation was completely
in control and the opposition broken.
The island is 370 mijes long. Its
highest mountains are taller than
Kosciusko. Its coasts are in part un-
charted and are guarded most of the way
by coral reefs.
After heavy aerial bombardment of
Gasmata and other staging bases along
the coast, the Americans felt it safe to
beach-hop eastward to the fringes of the
Gazelle Peninsula area. They then
handed over to the Australians, who in
turn advanced their bases to the 20-mile-
wide isthmus which joins Gazelle Penin-
sula, the “head” of New Britain, to the
main, wild body.
This neck is between Wide Bay on the
south and Open Bay on the north.
Parallel with it on the Rabaul side flows
the Powell River, a tributary of the
Mevelo, which snakes down from the
central mountain system of the peninsula
and flows out on into the recess of Wide
Bay, south-west of Waitavalo and Tol
plantations. A twin river on the north-
eastern side, the Henry Seid, flows off
the same watershed. Both streams are
fed by dozens of small tributaries scored
through the wet kunai and jungle in the
rich volcanic earth.
The Gazelle Peninsula at its widest is
65 to 70 miles, making up a total of 3500
square miles. It is mainly tangled moun-
tains and jungle, full of volcanic breaks
and erosions. The centre is almost as
little known as the South Pole.
The normal “civilised” portion of the
Gazelle is in the Rabaul area. Here the
main rhomboidal peninsula pokes out
another peninsula 12 to 15 miles wide,
in the north-easterly direction. This
peninsula is six or seven miles deep and
shaped like a bollard. On its eastern
ear is affixed a narrow strip of land which
looks like the devil’s own private cargo
hook, consisting of a chain of volcanoes,
from the 7500 ft. Father, on the north-
west, to the extinct 1500 ft. high Mother,
which hangs over Rabaul itself, and her
adjacent son and two daughters. All this
area is literally a huge volcanic cauldron,
always boiling in vast caverns, which
spew at intervals areas of seething mud
and pumice and ash.
Rabaul lies in the bight of the hook.
To attack it from the land from any direc-
tions except one means the climbing of
mountains against defence. The one
approach which does not involve this
technique is along the beautiful harbor-
side road from Kokopo. But at the
moment the Australian forces are a long
way from Rabaul.
Only the outer perimeter in the Wide
Bay area has been policed and a few
enemy observation posts taken. There
was not, indeed, a Jap in sight till mid-
February, when the Australians suffered
their first casualty. But there are sup-
posedly 40,000 Japs in the peninsula, and
the N.Z. bomber boys report warm re-
ceptions from a.-a. guns, which are cap-
able of being used point blank against
advancing troops, as at Buna-Gona.
In the Torricellis
Wewak is the centre of the northern
New Guinea fighting area. It was “cut
off” when U.S. troops captured Aitape,
with little or no resistance. The way of
dealing with the area would seem to be,
as elsewhere, to go to Wewak and take
it, thus exploiting the kernel of the de-
fence area, by means of a powerful am-
phibious force landed near the heart of
the defence. General Blarney instances
difficulties of coastal contour and seasonal
surf. The Japs had a “harbor” there. The
landing conditions at any time could not
be as hard as those of Iwo Jima.
However, as elsewhere, comparatively
small forces of Australians have been
pursuing the enemy through the villages
of the nether Torricellis from the extreme
ends of an area about 100 miles long,
from the Damnap River, above Wewak,
to positions east of the Sepik, below it.
In January the R.A.A.F., for the first
time in three years’ fighting in New
Guinea, provided the sole cover for an
Australian ground force. And ever since
Australians have been crawling among
the razorback ranges, dragging mortars up
terrible jungle slopes and mortaring knife-
edge ridges, while the R.A.A.F. bombs
piecemeal targets. After bitter fights on
wet cliff-slopes the gallant patrols send
a few more Japs to Inferno, at the cost
of a few more Australians, in country
which, in peace-time, not half a dozen
Europeans saw in a year.
Late in February the Australians
operating on the north-west side, having
taken the villages of Terewhon and Albo-
mim behind the terrible ranges, were able
to swing their noses eastward to fight the
Battle of the Tracks controlling rear-
ward communications, and to cut all the
Balif stronghold, between the Nabu and
the Amuk Rivers, in a no-man’s-land in
which there is not a single name or mark
in peace-time maps. They pushed for-
ward to Malalum, due south, and at the
end of March were still dealing with the
hundreds of Japanese in laager nearer
the coast at Ilahop, on the inland bank
of the Amuk.
Working into the ranges about 15 miles
from the sea, our lads took Walahuta,
e.-n.-e. of Terewhon, across the Amul and
west of the Ninab River, crossed the
Ninab and cleared the villages rif Waikim
and Milak, on the road to Maprik.
From both the Sepik and from other
directions only the distant perimeters of
Wewak are approached. It is a long,
piecemeal business as carried on.
“Multitude of Difficulties”
It is improbable that the present pro-
cedure, which is costing the enemy in
casualties 700 known dead a month and
the Australians 80 dead and 140 wounded
a month, would appeal to Alexander
and Montgomery. They believe in
doing one job at a time with a maxi-
mum force, with the greatest possible
load on a single communication line. The
present dispersed, piecemeal operations
in New Guinea, hundreds of miles apart
and with all too small resources, call for
three sets of sea communications in use
at the same time, three command areas,
three sets of air defence and cover. The
summary of a London “Times” corre-
spondent puts the position squarely:
The [Australians] have a multitude of
difficulties. A serious shortage of sea
transport, appalling weather, great natural
obstacles, a stubborn foe and almost com-
plete lack of mechanical equipment which
the American Army regards as indispens-
able.
Of the valor of the men, of the great
hearts of the anonymous, slighted, ill-
supported commanders, there can be no
doubt. Of the chances of disaster, if the
enemy proves strong beyond calculation,
every officer is aware. Such fights as
that on the Puriata tell the tale.
And all must be aware where the blame
lies. It lies on the shoulders of the same
gabbling, inept politicians who were in
office at the time of the disaster accom-
panying the occupation of Rabaul by the
Japanese. That story will one day be
told, and then the incident will be re-
vealed as far more shameful, than any
of the happenings in Malaya, which Aus-
tralian newspapers were allowed to dis-
tort and criticise while the shame of the
Rabaul business lay hidden in the
archives.


No one else can do your share
•—Buy Bonds Today in the
Third Victory Loan.
FAMOUS BOOKS IN SETS
AT SPECIAL PRICES
THE HARVARD CLASSICS. The World’s Great Library. A magnificent set of 51
volumes, comprising the famous collection of the world’s greatest literature.
£l2/12/-.
THE NATIONAL ENCYCLOPAEDIA. In ten large handsome volumes. This is an
authoritative work presenting all knowledge through modern eyes. £9.
LIFE AND WORKS OF ROBERT BURNS. Edited by Robert Chambers, in four
volumes. This is an authoritative work, comprising Poems, Songs, Letters and
Biography. £3/10/- for 42/-.
EVERYDAY GUIDE TO HEALTH, in Six Volumes. This is a set of invaluable
information. 27/6.
THE WORLD’S GREAT EVENTS. An indexed history of the world from earlies\
times. By famous historians. Illustrated. Ten volumes. £6/6/-.
NEW CASSON BUSINESS LIBRARY. Ten volumes. 42/-.
JUNIOR CLASSICS. The Young Folks shelf of books. Ten volumes. £6/6/-.
THE INTERNATIONAL CYCLOPAEDIA OF MUSIC AND MUSICIANS. Third
edition revised and enlarged. Editor-in-Chief Oscar Thompson. This is the
most modern and complete volume of its kind obtainable. Large handsome
volume 11J x 8 inches and 3J inches thick. 2390 pages. £4/16/-.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.. 89 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
For its autumn meeting at Randwick the
AJ.C. had every sort of weather that Sydney
runs to —so-so on Doncaster day; bright and
sunny for the Cup; wet, cold and muddy last
Saturday. Total attendance, excluding soldier
guests, was 131,500 —64,000 on Cup day and
on Saturday down to 20,500. Altogether
£405,350 went through the tote, nearly £35,000
less than at last year’s meeting.
Outstanding performances were the Chatham-
Grosvenor Maid four-year-old Craigie’s winning
on each of the three days—City Handicap (10
furlongs), Sydney Cup (two miles) and the
AJ.C. Plate (w.f.a.; mile and threequarters)—
and the Ajax-Complete colt Magnificent’s
Sires’ Produce and Champagne double.
Craigie’s sire, best-remembered as a champion
miler, was no mean middle-distance w.f.a. per-
former; winner of the Craven Plate three years
in succession, 1932-33-34.
Craigie’s AJ.C. Plate win was like a re-run
of the Sydney Cup. In both races he won from
Russia and Flight, though beating them easier
the second time. A sound distance rider, J.
Duncan took Craigie to the front in the first
furlong of the Plate, at once avoiding being
plastered with mud and ensuring that it would
take a genuine stayer to down him. As in the
Cup, Russia ran a fine race, too, but Flight,
ridden by Thompson, did not run up to her
Cup performance, when Munro had the mount.
For the present she seems to have lost her
former finishing dash. It has not been the best
of autumns for the sex all round, only two of
the 19 races going to their credit —the Merry
Matthew-Porcia filly Merry Avon’s defeat of
White Lip and Gay Talk in the Wentworth
Handicap first division on Cup day, and the
six-year-old mare Triad’s defeat of SiSifel and
Cooringwang in the Rous Handicap on Satur-
day. Craigie, Russia and Flight would seem
to have established advance claims on the
spring distance handicap and w.f.a. events, but
such of the three-year-olds as Cold Shower,
Accession and Melhero should make their
opposition stiff.
Magnificent (Delaney) is the first winner of
the Sires’ Produce-Champagne double since his
sire brought it off in 1937. Meanwhile such
good ones as Nuffield, Lucrative and Reading
failed in the Champagne after Sires’ Produce
wins, while such other quality as High Caste,
All Love and Flight won the second race after
failing in the first. Also, of all these High
Caste was the only winner with the 9.6
Champagne limit carried in fetlock-deep mud
by Magnificent last Saturday. Reading failed
under the weight in High Caste’s year. It all
adds up to a high testimonial to Magnificent.
In appearance and galloping style, too, he is
reminiscent of Ajax.
Why it should have been so can remain
among the furf mysteries, but the fillies Court-
ship and Jamelie were again backed (as equal
favorites) to down the big chestnut colt in the
Champagne Stakes. It isn’t that they’re not a
good pair of fillies, and Magnificent certainly
was meeting them a bit worse than at the Sires’
Produce weights, but, against this, the best had
obviously been seen of the fillies when the
autumn meeting opened, while Magnificent had
just as patently been prepared for the two rich
races, with a run a week before the meeting
to wind him up. Jamelie lost her rider at the
start, and Courtship led the Queensland colt
Moongalba to nearing the turn, where she shot
away to what should have been an unbeatable
lead. There Magnificent first began to stretch
out, and, galloping boldly, he went on to win
easily by three lengths. And he’s still running
greenly!
Next to Magnificent’s and Merry Avon’s run-
away wins the best two-year-old performances
of the meeting were the Hua-Billie bay colt
Deed’s defeat of the dead-heaters Chaytor
and The Gaekwar on Cup day and the Em-
borough-Galante chestnut colt Souvenir’s de-
feat of Open Air and Questing on Saturday.
Questing (Hua-Questionnaire) took the eye as
a particularly nice filly; and The Gaekwar (The
Buzzard-Golinda) ran his best race to date
and looks sure to improve on if.
• «... i
The Newcastle-trained Barnsley bettered his
Doncaster third by easily winning the Coogee
Handicap from Britannic and Felberta; and
Prince, finding the 10 furlongs more to his
liking than the Doncaster distance, narrowly de-
feated the noted mudlark Dewar in the Final
Handicap, with Scene leading the distant rest
through the morass. One of the most striking
wins of the meeting for future reference was
Gay King’s defeat of Nobleman and Hedui
in the C. W. Cropper Handicap on Cup day.
Gelded since he previously raced, Gay King
will take beating in any sprint he contests,
and his breeding (Coronation Day-Lothion)
suggests he should now get up to a mile.
♦ * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):—Maiden:
Dinkum Aussie, Lion, Regal Step. Juvenile
(colts and geldings): Tactician, Deliverance,
Warspite. Nursery (fillies): Merry Avon,
Questing, Fragile. Flying: Silverelda, Noble-
man, Cooringwang. Autumn Cup: Castle
Frontenac, Thanks America, Neta Linette.
Welter: Right Royal, Leading Man, Bon Terre.
» * * *
With nearly 2st. the better of the weights and
on a track and in going he’s partial to, the
Hellespont-Val Rose three-year-old Propontis
was too good for Tranquil Star in the mile
Glenara Handicap at Moonee Valley last Satur-
day. A winner there on March 24, when he
beat Bootle a head, Propontis (Purtell) showed
his ability to handle the track by slipping
through when Evidence shifted out at the turn.
Tranquil Star was not well away, was a bit at
sea in the heavy going and at the turn had
to go round a lot of horses. Her second
brought her stake earnings up to £24,990. She
carried 9.7, and, evidently as sound as ever,
is to be given the chance to improve on her
stake-winning record in the spring.
Another excellent performance under a solid
Weight on the holding track was the Dhoti-
French Gem brown colt Royal Gem’s defeat
of the lightly-weighted Leonard (heavily backed
from twenty-fives to eights) and the consistent
Carngham in the Laluma Handicap for two-
year-olds. Despite his 9.4, Royal Gem
(Breasley) was always favorite, and, in the con-
ditions, his time, 1.15|, was a really good run
—better time than Audacity occupied in beating
Florin and Gliding Moth in the Kiata Handicap
first division. A winner at four of his six starts,
Royal Gem looks a probable worthy rival of
Magnificent if the war position permits their
meeting in the spring.
Striking form at last, the ex-Sydney performer
Cacique led practically all the way to win the
Kiata second division easily from Quezon and
Grand Legend, making a double for Breasley
after a long run of outs. Cacique went in such
good style that he may now be shipped to Adel-
aide. Ex-Sydney rider G. Sholl brought Sole-
cism home a nice winner from Paraphrase
and Caragona in the other Moonee Valley event,
the Melrose Steeple. Making it his second suc-
cessive win over the jumps, Solecism jumped
splendidly, though the best run for later on
may have been Paraphrase’s. By the winner’s
sire, imported Parenthesis, Paraphrase was
having his second start. He’s a brother to
Grand National Steeple winner Parentena.
* * * *
Old Winterset (Son o’Mine-Winter’s Dream)
carried 12.10 in Onkaparinga’s Great Eastern
Steeplechase, started at 7 to 2, and, though
rapping the last fence hard, won from the favo-
rite, Lime Rock, who had only 10.5 and was
last year’s winner. The meeting was trans-
ferred to Morphettville on account of traffic
difficulties, and drew an Easter crowd of 50,000.
The rich £lOOO hurdle event named after H. D.
Young, a sportsman who died lately, went to
Malachite (Virgin Gold-Green Muff) owned by
a girl lift-attendant in Adelaide.
Brother Bill (Jurialis-La Joconde) has come
near to being barred in Melbourne because
he would not face the barrier. In Adelaide,
after he had twice been left at the post,
the starter recommended that he should be
banned altogether; but the S.AJ.C. had not
dealt with the matter before the Balhannah
Handicap came on at Morphettville. As the race
started someone unknown landed Brother Bill
one with a whip, to help him on his way, and
he then ran kindly, and won. The clerk of
the course reported the matter, but could not
identify the culprit. Jockey Rolfe (formerly
of Brisbane and Melbourne) knew nothing of
it, having been busy with a whip himself.
Query: Is Brother Bill’s character cleared, and
can he always be allowed a stern helper at the
post?
**. * *
Averaging 557 guineas, the 360 sold at the
Sydney yearling sales brought 200,565 guineas,
54 on the thousand mark and better. Both the
Melbourne and N.Z. top bids of 3000 guineas
(respectively for a Law Maker and a Fox-
bridge colt) were easily beaten by the 5250
guineas for the Ajax-Privet chestnut colt, for
which bidding opened at 1500 guineas. There’s
still a long way to go to reach the 17,000
guineas paid in England for Feridoon as a
yearling, and some distance also to the 6750
guineas paid in Sydney for Dominant at that
age. As a different sort of comparison, Flight
cost 75 and Ribbon 80 guineas.
Australian-bred sires held t'heir own well,
with Ajax going as easily in front as he did in
some of the 18 races he won in a row, second
only in this part of the world to Gloaming’s
and Desert Gold’s 19 successive wins, and
better than Carbine’s 15 and Phar Lap’s 14.
No doubt the Breeders’ Plate and recent Sires’
Produce Stakes wins of his fine son Magnifi-
cent and the great speed of his flying daughter
Civic Pride helped in Ajax’s seven colts and a
filly all bringing upwards of a thousand, but
what a horse he was on his own performance,
too! His 14 wins in one season tied with Phar
Lap’s and Desert Gold’s, and in 1938-’39-’4O
he each year won the Caulfield Futurity Stakes,
the AJ.C. All Aged Plate and the A.J.C.
Cropper Plate—a wonderful treble of trebles.
One of his Futurity wins set a record time for
the race. He won a Newmarket at odds on;
then, racing being as chancy as some of the
buying at the Sydney sales, started at the peak
of his form at 40-to-l on in the Rawson Stakes
at Rosehill and was beaten by Spear Chief.
Talking mainly helped Ajax to keep Austra-
lian breeding in the big money. Two Talking
colts brought 1350 guineas each ancj, a filly
2100. Second top price at the sales was 4000
guineas for the Manitoba-Dark Elegance bay
colt. Another Manitoba colt (from Merry
Chatter) brought 3300, which was also paid for
the Midstream-High Class filly. Others on or
over the 2000-mark included the Midstream-
Nyastra bay colt (2800), the Titan-Idavale chest-
nut colt (2500), the Harinero-Radiosa bay colt
(2400), the Golden Sovereign-Curtail chestnut
colt (2050) the Mr. Standfast-Sere Vale chest-
nut colt (2000).
* * * *
Rain washed out the grade cricket in
Sydney on Saturday, leaving Waverley
premiers and Randwick in second place.
Barnes (North Sydney, third) got away
with the batting aggregate and average,
707 at 117.83, and O’Reilly, (St. George,
fifth) was once more on top among the
bowlers, 51 wickets at 8.37.
* * *
“Rex”: It is a cardinal principle of
the grand old game that teamwork wins
matches (B. 28/3/’45). As in N.S.W.
first-grade, the V.C.A. premiership was
contested between two sides, North and
Carlton, without individual stars. Teams
like Essendon, Richmond, Melbourne,
St. Kilda, Fitzroy, each containing two
or more brilliant performers, failed to
make the grade. Carlton, in defeating
North, won its first premiership for 81
years,
* * * *
“Sturt”: Grimmett has set the statistics-
gatherers busy by announcing his definite
retirement from first-class cricket, which,
however, had been rather taken for
granted. He was not considered equal
to the strain of an English tour in 1938 ;
but till Shield matches stopped after
1939-40 was still taking more wickets' in
them than anyone else except O’Reilly.
What his total bag in his long and varied
career would be is hard to tally, but since
he settled down in S.A. 20 years back
alone he has taken 650 wickets for that
State at an average of under 25. Also, a
much better bat than is generally re-
membered, he has made 2500 runs, at an
average of 20. And if S.A. had to put
an XI into the field tomorrow he would
have to be one of the first two or three
bowlers chosen.
* * * *
“Golesneek”: Wherever Australian
football is talked about the Coventry
brothers are certain of mention, “Snitch”
for his goal-kicking on both the Colling-
wood and State forward lines and Syd.
for his dominance in the rucks—even
when well into his thirties Syd’s bald
dome was rarely more than an inch or
so from the ball. The pair came up from
Diamond Creek to the Magpies, and
were in Melbourne football history for
a decade or more. Now Syd’s son, Hugh,
a flight-lieutenant in the R.A.A.F. (and
shaping well with Collingwood when he
enlisted), has collected a D.F.C. to add
to his father’s Brownlow medal.
* * * *
“Pay Jay”; N.S.W. Rugby Union’s
controllers have wisely decided to main-
tain full interest in all grades and sections
of the code, for “the benefit of hundreds
of members who are away overseas with
the fighting forces.” Chaps with splendid
fighting records, like the highly-decorated
Ron Rankin (R.A.A.F.) and others, have
donned the old jersey when leave per-
mitted. Union has an inspiring record
of war service—front-line version. So
it had in the last war, but then it left
the home front to the professional
League, which grasped the chance with
both hands. It took many years to close
that leeway,
* * * *
“M.” : It sounds incredible, but, with
dogracing in England restricted to
Saturdays only, bettors there are reported
to have poured over £46,000,000 through
the various dog-track totes last year.
Crowds sometimes as high as 50,000 pack
into London’s big White City Stadium,
where the hounds gallop. Farmers in
Ireland are said to be growing rich off
greyhound breeding, with prices ranging
from £BOO to well over £lOOO per dog.
Unless some noughts have slipped in by
mistake, “the poor man’s sport” seems a
funny name for it.
* * * *
Another of the fighting Sands brothers,
Clem (10.8) proved too tough for Roy
Thurgar, though 101 b. lighter, at Leich-
hardt, Like brother Dave the previous
week, Clem tnissed with many swings,
but those which landed were powder-
charged and painful in their effects, and
in the end disastrous. One, a right to
the chin, floored Thurgar for “nine”
early in the 12th round. Another
knocked him down and out. The Sta-
dium medico could not revive him, and
he was taken to Lewisham Hospital,
where the poor devil died after lingering
for 30 hours or so. He was a barman,
trying to make a bit more for his small
family. Under the “Labor” workers’
compensation law, the widow will be un-
able to claim anything for herself and
her fatherless children; “Labor” excluded
boxers. Eric McCready, a featherweight,
outpointed Danny Simmons in the other
12-rounder.
An old Ring saying, “knockout-
punchers never hurt unless they hit you,”
was exemplified when Tommy Chapman
met Bobby Fuller (9.6) at Sydney
Stadium. Chapman had the punch, but
couldn’t land it on the elusive Fuller,
so the 9st. titleholder was beaten on
points. However, Chappie and his con-
queror, whose left was his best weapon,
made it always interesting, and they are
to meet again.


" Public Notices.
I ROSARIO DOMENICO IPPOLITO, of Italian
nationality, born at Poggioreale Trapani, Sicily,
Italy, and resident 11 years in Australia, now re-
siding at Kingsgrove Road, Kmgsgrove, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-36.
I EDITH KINSTON, of Rumanian nationality, bom
at Vienna, Austria, and resident six years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 30 Darlinghurst Road, Kings
Cross, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Women's Letters
From Sydney
Not quite 21,000 punters made their
way to Randwick last Saturday. Even
the A.J.C. autumn meeting failed in
allure, the sky being like some gar-
gantuan sprinkler. The girls have
had no luck this Easter. The weather
has been too dour for a swan song
by summer raiment and too wet and
gusty for the brand-new autumn suit —
that is for a girl who is coupon-conscious.
However, the country needs the rain, and
it is just as patriotic to smile a welcome
to it as to flaunt red, white and blue.
One war-time style should be noted. The
beau of the flat arrives with two tumblers
stuck in his hip pocket. These days each
individual must carry his own containers
to the beer or else suffer the drought.
The Flying Doctor Auxiliary has
looked over its last year’s work and
found it pretty good. Of £213 raised
£l5O went in the erecting of a new wire-
less mast at the Broken Hill station.
Other things bought and paid for were
mirrors for signalling purposes. During
the coming year the auxiliary is out to
raise enough money to put a new engine
in the flying doctor’s ’plane. A step for-
ward in help for the outback dweller
will be the appointment of a nursing
sister to accompany Dr. Woods when
necessary. And if any home can spare
some small toys for the children in iso-
lated homesteads and missions, Dr.
Woods will be very happy to act as all-
the-year-round Santa Claus. The presi-
dent of the auxiliary is Mrs. Malcolm-
son. All office bearers were re-elected.
The sign of the Red Cross was on
Sydney last week. One thousand dele-
gates from all over the State descended
on the city, and made port (not synthetic
fluid of course) in the Assembly Hall in
Margaret-street. One absentee was Mrs.
Penfold Hyland—a fractured wrist the
cause. As well as delegates, enthusiasts
and presswomen crowded into the hall,
because the important matter of the con-
tinuance of Red Cross after the war was
under discussion. The army of delegates
was unanimous in agreeing that the
society should continue to function for
the good of the community—social ser-
vice to the returning soldiers would be an
important part of the work in the post-
war years.
Among things considered during the
three days’ talk was the present abrupt
way of informing a soldier’s family of
his illness, or even death, on active ser-
vice. Every woman will agree that a
telegram handed in, or, worse still, found
waiting, after the day’s work, is
too sharp a blow to a mind and heart
already overcharged with suspense. An-
other matter of interest to the whole of
the community was brought forward in
the suggestion that a full blood-trans-
fusion service should be maintained, even
when the war is ended. Quite a bit of the
second day was given over to the fors and
againsts of changing the date of the end-
of-the-year Red Cross Day in Sydney.
However, this remains as unalterable as
the laws of the Medes and Persians.
Lady Wakehurst, just returned to
Sydney, after the vice-regal tour of north-
ern battle areas, attended the conference
on Thursday afternoon, and had much to
tell of the fine job being done by Red
Cross workers. During her journey Lady
Wakehurst visited hospital units of every
description, even an advanced dressing
station within sound of the Japanese
guns. At the close of the conference, on
Friday, Lady Wakehurst gave an after-
noon tea-party at Government House for
the delegates to the conference. The Red
Cross has now made Lady Wakehurst an
honorary life member —this is the
society’s highest accolade, and is a recog-
nition of the support given by the Gover-
nor’s wife during her eight years’ presi-
dency of the N.S.W, Division.
Dutch dancers Darya Collin and Edmee
Monod, Westralian dancer Alison Lee
(she was a member of the De Basil
Ballet company), Perth pianist Audrey
Barrow and artist Elaine Haxton are
still re-living the memories of their social
and artistic successes in Dutch New
Guinea, where they had a grand time en-
tertaining the troops. The entertain-
ment unit was in Merauke for about a
fortnight giving dance and piano recitals
for the soldiers. Elaine Haxton did the
scenic effects for the outdoor theatre on
the spot. Everywhere the company was
received with wild enthusiasm and
flowers. Jeeps were their means of
transport. A patrol boat was christened
Edmee after Miss Monod. The Dutch
Government arranged the tour.
Killed in action in a northern area just
before Easter, Lieut. Laurie Lee. Friends
in every State are sympathising with his
girl widow and his mother, Mrs. Jessica
Lee. At the beginning of the war Laurie
was agricultural science and sports master
at the Armidale School. He had been
all through the Middle East campaign.
Australian chess has seen another
“mate.” Adelaide’s Miss I. G. Holland,
considered the strongest woman player in
Australia after Mrs. Steiner, has married
the secretary of the Adelaide Chess Club,
D. F. Wilson. Miss Holland taught her
husband-to-be the moves in 1940, and he
is now a front-rank tournament player.
Parties for Mrs. Jessie Street during
the week included one given by members
of the United Associations, This was a
happy affair, and surrounded the gift of
a fitted leather travelling bag. Mrs.
Neville Harding, Sydney’s Mayoress, also
set a farewell tea-drinking in the civic
drawing-room. Here came representa-
tives of almost every women’s organisa-
tion in Sydney. There were no speeches,
and there was a pleasant and informal
atmosphere about the afternoon. Mrs.
Street is going to San Francisco as a
member of the Australian delegation to
the World Security Conference.
Every true Australian must be grate-
ful for the work done by the Legacy
Club. Its unremitting care for the chil-
dren of soldiers of the 1914-18 war and
of this present one is something
this land should be proud of.
Soprano Jill Manners will raise her rich
notes to benefit this work on April 14
in the Macquarie auditorium. This con-
cert will be interesting because Horace
Keats will be the pianist, Victor
McMahon the flautist and Peter Daw-
son the guest of honor. Well-known
vocal coach Roland Foster is putting Jill
through her paces in preparation for the
event. The singer has toured Australia
with the Firm and is often heard over
the A.B.C. network. This is a photo-
graph of Jill,
Prince William has sent his favorite
toy, a black and white panda, and Prince
Richard a blue and pink elephant to add
their attractions to the Victoria League’s
toy show at Ginahgulla, Bellevue Hill,
Already there are between three and four
hundred toys for the exhibition in the
committee’s care. To babes of four and
five, who have known the doll-shortage
years, the display of dolls will prove
irresistible. On the stalls will be
dolls of every nation, glamorous
dolls, baby dolls, funny dolls and tiny
figurines of about an inch in height. On
view, too, will be a ship large enough to
take all the dolls for a cruise. It is a
model of the Queen Mary, and can be
electrically lit. A cosy house for dolls to
visit is the miniature of the Riddell home
ih Alison-road, Randwick. This was built
by Mr. Riddell, and is complete with all
mod. cons. An Oriental tea-girl draped
in chrysanthemum gold silk will be one
of the beauties. A revolving bookcase
packed with the classics about an inch
or so high and a set of animals in Copen-
hagen china, from Copenhagen, are other
treasures.
Talking of toys reminds of a letter
from England telling of Belgium’s gift
to the children of Britain, particularly
those whose homes were in districts which
suffered most from V bombs. R.A.F.
and other servicemen in Belgium had the
good-hearted notion to spread Christmas
parties, complete with Santa, for the
Belgian kiddies. There’s really nothing
wrong with a world where there’s so
much kindness.
Membership of the Rose Bay Music
Club being full up, music-lovers of
Woollahra, Double Bay and Darling
Point have decided to start yet another
of these popular centres. It is called
the Woollahra Music Club, and has
Justice Roper for its president. Over 100
subscribers were booked up one night
recently when the Council Chambers were
crowded for the first meeting. Organis-
ing secretary of the movement Lena
Ward spoke fluently on the work of the
clubs in the encouragement of music,
which is her favorite topic. There was a
general feeling that the meeting could
not have been more successful.
From Melbourne
Melbourne towards the end of last
week became dull, cold and gloomy. But
there are color and warmth in the clothes
the approach of winter brings for women.
Never have such gay bold checks been
made into coats and suits, and these are
made even more attractive by clever cut-
ting which makes pockets and lapels
reverse the pattern of the check. The
most popular coat this winter is broad-
shouldered, of vivid red wool, three-
quarters in length and cut on cardigan
lines. It can be worn over slacks, with
tailored blouse and skirt, and over a plain
black frock for late-afternoon parties
and dining out. It can even be worn
over a long dinner frock. Coats of the
same cut have been seen in canary yellow
worn over a royal-blue frock, and in
royal blue worn over a canary-yellow
frock. Dressmakers’ suits feature the
coat cut on cardigan lines without collar
and lapels. When in grey wool it is
worn with a high-necked black sweater
and black accessories.
For concerts many women will wear
the short black dinner frock, either in
lace or heavy crepe. If the night is wet
and the streets *muddy, a long dinner
frock is a nuisance. Women with pretty
legs and feet will be among the first to
adopt this most sensible war-time fashion.
Melbourne shops are gay with knitted
frocks and suits. The mannequin parade
sponsored by the wool trade showed
what can be done with wool. Jersey is
no longer a dull material when it fashions
a frock which sports a beige blouse and
a dull green skirt cut on full dirndl lines.
Hats, of course, are still crazy. The
latest Parisian trend is towards high
turbans. These are swathed in a most
amazing fashion and are safe wear only
for the woman with the right features.
Then there are the gay little hats which
are a mass of glowing ostrich-feathers.
At a recent luncheon party the wife of
Air-Commodore Walters topped a black,
red and green suit with a smart off-the-
face red felt hat. With her was the wife
of Brigadier Arthur Wilson, whose brown
felt hat went with a suit of brown-and-
green check. The Robinson lady, hat-
less, wore a gay check suit under a grey
polo coat. Home for holidays from
school, Robin, daughter of the Walters
couple, was well in the fashion with a
gay plaid skirt and royal-blue sweater.
The lass pictured here by Broothom is
Marjorie Schilling. She is an old girl of
Merton Hall (C.E.G.G.S.) and did an
arts course at the University. Her en-
gagement to Lieut. Frederick Dorband, of
the U.S. Marines, has been announced.
She met him while she was helping at the
American Red Cross Canteen. Lieut.
Dorband saw action at Gaudalcanal and
elsewhere in the Pacific and is now acting
as an instructor in South Carolina. His
family are in the printing and publishing
business in Chicago. When wedding bells
peal the happy pair propose to settle
down in Melbourne.
Uplifted by the prospect of freedom
for Holland after years of Nazi occupa-
tion, Dutch residents met at a cheery
party at the Netherlands Indies Club.
Two Australian lasses who manage the
club, Mrs. Jotfre Breen and Joy Oliver,
were hostesses. Among the guests were
Commander Kommer and Commander
and Mrs. Blum, she smart in black and
silver foxes. Peter Wessels, Netherlands
Vice-Consul, was accompanied by his
wife, whose black dinner gown went with
an ice-blue crepe jacket. The Co-
Optimists, a group of entertainers
who visit military camps around Mel-
bourne, provided an excellent pro-
gramme, and community singing gave
the guests an opportunity to raise
their voices.
Right through the Easter holidays the
Australian Comforts Hospitality Bureau
worked long hours, helping the many
servicemen who called there to find
hospitality. The bureau opened in
1942, since when over one million
men have passed through its doors. Its
service is not confined to Australians,
but affords hospitality and advice to men
and women of the Allied services. On
Good Friday alone 3000 men and
women called at the bureau seeking for
some form of hospitality and all of them
were helped. Many of the callers ask
to go to homes, for they seem to want a
little family life while away from their
own homes.
Mrs. W. Riddell, at the head of the
bureau, has over 50 women assistants
who voluntarily give their services.
Situated in Collins-street, next door to
The Bulletin office, the bureau opens
at 9 a.m. and closes at 10 p.m. from
Monday to Thursday. On Fridays and
Saturdays the helpers remain on duty
until midnight, and on Sundays until
10 p.m. Men go to the bureau seeking
accommodation when they have to live
in Melbourne, and they are also sent to
parties, dances and to other entertain-
ment. If they are out of the city the
bureau books seats for them at the show
they choose and the men pay for the
tickets when they call for them. Mrs.
Riddell is asked to buy birthday and
wedding presents; gives addresses of
shops and lists of interesting places to visit.
Still enjoying leave, Lieut. John Sey-
mour, R.A.N.V.R., is delighted at the
success of his show of etchings by famous
artists held at the Vertu Gallery. When
he was in England a film of Shaw’s,
“Caesar and Cleopatra,” was in the
making, and the only producer G.B.S.
will permit to film his plays, Gabriel Pas-
cal, was at work on it. Every great dress-
maker in London, it seemed, was busy
making costumes for it, and with Claude
Rains and Vivien Leigh in the main
parts the film should be a memorable one.
Maie Hoban gave another of her
parties at Pilgrim Cottage recently. This
time it was a pre-wedding party for
Kathleen McClelland, who is to marry
Lieut. Lester Treux, of the U.S.
Army. Romance began in 1942 when
Kathleen was in the Borovansky Ballet,
then appearing at the Comedy Theatre.
Couple met at a back-stage party and
when Kathleen went to Brisbane with the
Ballet they met again. The wedding will
take place at St. Stephens, Brisbane. Be-
fore joining the Ballet Kathleen was at
the University, and later she taught at
Firbank Girls School. Mrs. Hoban was
assisted by her daughter Denise. Mrs.
W. E. Orr, wife of Lieut.-Com. Orr, left
baby Michael at home with his grand-
mother while she came to the party. She
wore a musquash coat over a black frock,
and her small hat was enlivened by lime-
green plumage. Another guest was Mrs.
Hoban, widow of Ft.-Lieut. Morris
Hoban. loyce .Hunt, who had a success
with “The Women” some time ago was
also at the party.
Corrie Lodders, another ballerina, came
along to express her good wishes to the
bride. With John Masson was fiancee
Lola Graham, who had twisted a handful
of pink ribbon into a very smart little
hat, which she wore with her black frock.
Reg, Newsom made an amusing speech
when called on to wish the bride-to-be
health, happiness and prosperity. Bunny
Campbell Gray, now with the “Dr.
Clitterhouse” co., was with Aileen Brit-
ton, soon to be seen in Noel Coward’s
“Blithe Spirit.” John Sanger, of “The
Desert Song” co., was there, and he and
Margaret Saker had lots to chat about.
Margaret, if her ambitions are realised,
will soon enter the world of the theatre
as a producer.
Dr. Theo Schlict opened Miss A. M.
Plante’s exhibition of pictures at
George’s Gallery. Mrs. John Heath, who
attends most of the art shows around the
city, was greatly interested. Lieut. Laurie
Thomas viewed the pictures and was in-
cluded in the tea party given to Miss
Plante and her friends by John George.
Lena Bryans, who recently showed her
pictures at the same gallery, was there
with artist Jock Frater. Dick Randolph,
appearing at the Tivoli in ‘ While the
Sun Shines,” spent a few restful moments
among the pictures.


ẁ
(Mwu/ Tieed&M toeca/ct
USE O'
ẃ
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
FREE ADVICE OH
INSURANCE
Although you may not
feel disposed to transfer
your insurances, Edward
Lumley & Sons will gladly
review your policies and
give you unprejudiced
advice. Through historic
Lloyd’s of London, this
firm offers special insur-
ance facilities to the man
on the land.
£
WH
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS (H.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St., and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
AJso at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra and Alice Springs
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ENOCH STAR late of 15 Elizabeth Street Pad-
dington.—TAKE NOTICE that SONIA STAR (also
known as Chaja Sora Star) has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3146 of 1944 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
before the 31st May 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from DENSLEY
& DOWNING Solicitors 39-49 Martin Place Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
c, TM/
A
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong • Joseph Mitchei
Secretary—l. S. Parker
BURNS PHILP TRUST
company limited
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4-44.
Production is restricted so don’t
blame your retailer if you have dif-
ficulty in obtaining Gillette blades.
Into the thick of it! You can’t get the Blue
Gillette Blades for the moment. They’re helping
the guns abroad. But the Standard Gillette—the
blade in battledress —is as tough and keen and on
the job at home. Steeled for the attack, it mows
down all before it —smoothing the way to that
Victory smile!
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
The will to SAVE is the will to WIN. Buy Savings Certificates,
in battledress
SMOKE-OH!
‘ln all the 20 years of my married life I
don’t think I’ve ever been in the wrong in any
argument with my husband.” —“Sunday Sun.”
Conjugal rights.
“A passionate kiss measures 251 b. pressure.”
—“ World’s News.”
According to lip-readings?
Exhaustin’.
“Only once did she look up from her letter-
writing and that was to ask him how many
g’s were in ‘struggle.’ ”
— Story, woman’s paper.
It might be any number, for to her
The word , however written, still looks
wrong ;
She might put, at a wild guess, up to five,
But that would make the strugggggle
far too long .
Looby.
*!• *l* . *l*
furniture wanted, highest prices given, im-
mediate attention by principles only.”
—"Great Northern'’ (Sydney).
Everything above board, obviously.
*l* *!•
‘Hat, blue and brown, in hot bag. Lost
m Park-street.”—“s. M. Herald.”
Evidently a pork-pie type.
•h .£•
Drama in the Home.
“A Hollywood writer obtained material for
his film melodramas in his own home, his
aggrieved wife told the Divorce Court.”
His art would have derived much em-
bellishment from a short stay in our
house at the time when most of my re-
lations and all of my wife’s were billeted
on us by the housing shortage.
My brother-in-law, a man-power
officer, had a habit when enraged . by
anyone female of waving his arms and
bellowing in a Shakspearean manner:
“Get thee to a cannery!”
My youngest great-aunt had a fixed
delusion that she would be murdered by
an unhinged serviceman. She, therefore,
had by her bed a button which when
pressed would turn on in the lounge a
recording of a battalion of military police
being marched into position for a pro-
tective cordon, accompanied by a pipe
band playing “The MacKays Are Com-
ing.” The effect on the eight or nine
people who slept in the lounge was any-
thing but soporific.
The twins, sons of a distant cousin
whom I never quite identified, used to
cause disquiet among my wife’s more
bibulous uncles by welcoming them in
the hall as a duo, dressed alike and
fondling their pet cobras. This actually
had the effect of thinning out the resident
uncles a good deal.
An authentic note of melodrama, how-
ever, was struck by one of my nephews
who used to bring an old-age pensioner
home with him every Saturday night and
do the poor wretch to death in the boot-
cupboard. An interesting variety was
furnished by his use of a different method
each week, giving rise eventually to a
sort of sweepstake. We later discovered
that the lad was a homicidal maniac, but
although we had him locked up at once,
it was, unfortunately, too late to do any-
thing about the old-age pensioners.
Plum.
.J. »T, .r. .r.
There are certain things that will help to
bring out your natural charm.” — “Woman.’'’
Sheer stockings, short skirts and tight-
fitting jumpers, for instance.
•I* v
“She knew that she could not rely on Mr.
Boote to keep her secret. —Short story.
Boote apparently had a long tongue.
Quite Free.
The Deputy Assistant Director of
Post-war Free Enterprise Encourage-
ment put down the papers he had been
conning and looked up at his interviewer.
“This is excellent. Sir Plantagenet! ” he
exclaimed. “In particular we are de-
lighted to welcome a firm which will
start anew industry here. Your proposed
employment of 2000 men and the bring-
ing in of two millions of capital is most
gratifying and, may I say, flattering.
The Government desires to render you
every possible assistance to make your
task of establishing it as smooth as pos-
sible.
“Now, the first requisite under new
regulations before permission can be
given you to build or buy anything con-
nected with your enterprise here is that
into the loan which happens to be
current on the market you shall invest a
sum equal to one-tenth of your nominal
capital—in your case, £200,000.”
“But, my dear sir, there was nothing
mentioned of this by officials I met in
London.”
“An oversight, Sir Plantagenet, an
oversight. Your firm could not expect
a special dispensation in this matter.
Remember, you are merely establishing an
industry. Had you been buying race-
horses with your two millions an exemp-
tion from loan investment would have
naturally been automatic. Excuse me a
moment while I make a note on my pad
about turf priority for incorporation in
my next broadcast announcement of
Government policy,”
“Pardon me, but doesn’t your Prime
Minister or some senior member of
Cabinet do that, as in England?”
“Good heavens, no! He’s only a mem-
ber of the Government. Here we civil
servants feel that the exercise of that
prerogative is exclusively ours by right of
the fact that we don’t represent any
voters. After all, this is a democracy.
Sir Plantagenet.
“Er, yes, quite. Now, my direc-
tors”—
“I was just coming to that,” went on
the D.A.D.0.P.-W.F.E.E. “Restrictions
on any policy pursued by your directorate
in all matters are practically non-existent.
All that we require is that all decisions
your board makes shall be submitted for
approval to a panel of experts appointed
by the Trades and Labor. Council, and
there will be no appeal should they with-
ŵ
Forethought.
“William Ott, of Freeport, Illinois, left a
will asking that he be cremated and his ashes
buried in an old tomato can alongside the graves
of his two pet dogs.” —“Sunday Telegraph.”
Whatever you might understand
By “going to the dogs” I’d say
That when you put off mortal clay
It’s automatically banr\ed;
But here, you’ll note, is one who planned
Companionship to while away
The weary years till Judgment Day
In the condition known as canned.
And this may be an explanation
Of why he chose the vegetable —
If he had prior information
About his next reincarnation.
By this device he should be able
To come up promptly, true to label.
P. M. LUSK.
Persecution Complex
Weeping for little orphans in the night,
I often wish I was extremely dead.
’Tis then I feel an urge to lay my head
Inside an oven till my soul takes flight.
But certain folk I know would take
delight
If I did this, as certain folk have said;
So I will disappoint them all instead:
I will continue living out of spite.
T. W. N.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed lirst is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
The Duke and the A.I.F.
I think it is time somebody placed on
record the gratitude felt by the A.I.F. for
the Duke of Gloucester’s recent visit to
them. This gesture of H.R.H. puts Mr.
Curtin and colleagues in a very poor
light. Not once, to my knowledge, has
the P.M. ever visited the troops reviewed
by the Duke on this occasion. Visits we
have had from Mr. Forde ; visits which
his ignorance of military affairs has turned
into fiascos. But what of Mr. Curtin?
Mr. Churchill (much busier, I would
suggest, than Mr. Curtin) has never at
any time overlooked the job done by the
armies of the Empire, nor has he ever
missed an opportunity to express his
gratitude to them. In fact, he has in many
instances made such an opportunity.
When the A.I.F. returned from the
Middle East I, for one, expected a ges-
ture from the leader of Australia’s Gov-
ernment. There was none. When the
units which had fought over the Owen
Stanleys and at Milne Bay returned to
Australia, fever-ridden and mentally as
well as physically exhausted, I was still
foolish enough to believe that Mr. Curtin
would advance to them some form of
recognition. There was none.
The Australian soldier may be, as our
politicians seem to think, a ninny
over whom elections issues can be fought;
a half-wit who may be dragged in at the
appropriate moment to bolster up loan
and other propaganda; but it will no
doubt surprise Mr. Curtin and co. to know
that he possesses a memory as long as
his patience. The soldier will not forget.
-Neka (A.1.F.).
Preference
A feature of the Re-establishment Bill
likely to cause embarrassment and diffi-
culty to both employer and employee is
the provision placing on the employer or
prospective employer the onus of making
proper allowance for “the length, locality
and nature of the service of the person
entitled to preference,” Particular diffi-
culty may arise when a choice has to be
made from several applicants, each of
whom is entitled to some measure of
preference.
Employers have no access to personal
military records, and the man with a good
line of talk is likely to benefit at the
expense of his more modest —or more
truthful—competitor. To simplify things
for all parties, it should be possible for
the various service authorities to estab-
lish a “points” system, along the lines of
the discharge scheme recently announced
in Britain.
First priority will naturally be granted
to those who have served in overseas
theatres of war. These could be classed
“Group A,” with subdivisions ( Al, A 2,
A 3, etc.), according to the length and
nature of service as determined by the
authorities. “Group B,” with similar
subdivisions, could embrace those whose
service had been confined to Australia.
The appropriate classification could be
noted on each man’s discharge certificate,
and it should be quite possible to make
arrangements for endorsement of dis-
charges already issued.
By the adoption of a system on these
lines every man would know just where
he stood, and employers would have an
authoritative means of guidance for their
own protection. — Traymon (N.S.W.).
Preference has been presented in a
manner unfair to both servicemen and
employers. The effect has been to make
the serviceman feel that it is assumed
he will return to civil life a less com-
petent workman than the man who never
wore uniform. The employer has been
given the impression that preference will
force him to employ an inferior product.
Most servicemen have been subjected
to physical and mental strain; many
have been disabled by wounds and
disease. But this does not warrant our
thinking that the men who as soldiers
were hailed as “the pick of Australia’s
manhood” have been transformed into
inferior citizens.
The average employer is a hard-headed
businessman, not a sentimentalist, and
sales talk directed at him must appeal to
his reason. So we must convince him
that the serviceman is superior, not in-
ferior, to the stay-at-home, because ser-
vice, with its varied conditions, has de-
veloped such qualities as initiative, per-
sistence, versatility, amenity to discipline,
the team spirit, tolerance and breadth of
mind.
Give the serviceman the same outlook
and he will return to civil life equipped
with a further invaluable quality—self-
confidence. —A 1940 VXer (A.1.F.).
Housing in Queensland
Inundated with many thousands of
troops and war workers, Brisbane board-
ing-house and other rent racketeers have
been reaping a rich harvest, unhampered
by restrictions. Living conditions for
non-Brisbane residents are atrocious, for
they are completely at the mercy of these
harpies. One racketeer charges full B.
and B. rates for four shakedowns on a
billiard table, soldiers on leave from the
fighting front generally being the mugs.
Federal and State Governments put up
the excuse that they have no labor or
materials for housing, and that tem-
porary structures would lower the stan-
dard of living. Would it be possible to
lower the present standard of one half
of the Brisbane people?
The U.S. Army has built a fine camp
for its civilian workers, with all modern
amenities and a free bus service to and
from the centre of the city, charging each
worker 3s. 9d. a week. Housing 1000
people, this camp eases the pressure some-
what. Australian Governments could
have erected similar camps if they had
nous, guts and energy.
The Queensland C.C.C. labor pool has
always been overtaxed, but southern
State pools could have supplied ample
labor for establishing such camps. More
materials than were needed have been
wasted. The excuse that camps would
degenerate into shanty-towns is feeble.
When the Americans have finished with
their camps they pull them down and
leave the site as clean as a new pin.—
B. McK. (Q.).
Thai Deep-sea Port
Let me in on this “Words, Words,
Words” argument about a port for the
N.S.W. North Coast (B. 28/3/’45). In
the first place,, there’s no surety that
Grafton —40-odd miles up the Clarence,
from an entrance hampered by a sand
bar —would be the best spot. It might
be cheaper and more practical to build
breakwaters at either Coff’s Harbor or
Byron Bay than to maintain a perma-
nent dredging outfit at Yamba. That, of
course, is a matter for port experts.
What tickles me is that pair of depart-
mental experts suggesting that The Bul-
letin may have its “own statistical ser-
vice” from which it could tell them how
much land produce moves out of the
“regions” each year. The paper doesn’t
need one, since all the information neces-
sary can be had for the asking from such
organisations as Norco, the P.D.S., the
manager of the Government grain eleva-
tors, the Potato Board, Nenco (New-
castle), the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’
Association, the N.S.W. Railways Depart-
ment and the North Coast Steam Naviga-
tion Co., to say nothing of purely local
bodies like butter and bacon factories,
Chambers of Commerce, etc. Personally,
and without being personal, I’d accept
their information in preference to any-
one else’s.
On reading again The Bulletin’s first
article I see nothing in it to suggest that
the paper “would prefer to install a
£3,000,000 port at Grafton” without
knowledge of the potential traffic to and
from such a port. All that was suggested
was that there was no need to waste time
or money on so-called agricultural sur-
veys, nor is there. The “regions” affected
know what they can produce and what
they’re capable of. Give ’em a port and
they’ll do the rest, but for heaven’s sake
don’t snow the thing under with depart-
mental surveys, reports and recommenda-
tions. They are seldom worth the paper
they’re printed on, because nobody ever
reads them.— lluka Ike (N.S.W.).
Taxation on “Super Ann”
Why are people who subscribe to a
superannuation scheme (civil servants and
employees of municipal councils) content
to let' the taxation authorities tax them
on their subscriptions year by year?
This money, counted as income and
taxed as such annually, is compulsorily
deducted from the payee’s salary, and as
far as he is concerned is absolutely
“dead.” It earns interest, which he never
collects, and upon his reaching the retir-
ing age is doled out to him periodically,
thereby coming once more under the
high-sounding title of “income.” If £2
a week or more, it is again subject to
income tax.
Is this fair? Should not all super-
annuation payments, if taxable once as
annual income, be exempt from taxation
when old age is reached and they become
the only means of sustenance for the
recipients?
I can see little advantage to the subscriber
to a pensions scheme over that gained
by any ordinary workman who spends
his weekly wage, be it much or little, as
he gets it. When his working days are
over this man collects the old-age or
invalid pension, as the case may be, tax-
free.
I can see no encouragement to anyone
to be thrifty, independent and self-sup-
porting. Rather is the mismanagement of
pension schemes apt .to encourage
waste, self-indulgence and dependence
upon the Government. Subscriber
(Tas.).
Boning the Healthy
There are serious objections to
“Turana’s” post-war health plan (B.
21 /3 / ’45), under which every man
woman and child will be registered for
an annual compulsory medical exami-
nation and will have their records of diag-
nosis and treatment kept by a depart-
ment, the regimentation only ceasing
when they escape into the grave. A better
recipe for boning human beings a la
Binghi could scarcely be imagined.
My experience suggests that such a pro-
cedure would not decrease sickness, but
multiply it. Thirty years ago I had, or
thought I had, certain symptoms, and I
went to a doctor who had me X-rayed.
He found a condition which in his
opinion needed treatment and he sent
me to an eminent surgeon. The surgeon
shook his head over the plates and said
I needed an operation which would in-
volve six months in hospital and six
months’ convalescence. Not only that,
but for the rest of my life I would be, as
he put it, at half-cock.
I didn’t have the operation and many
years later another doctor, looking at
the same plates, said the condition might
be congenital and certainly wasn’t in-
jurious to health. But the surgeon’s
diagnosis had boned me and for years,
whenever I was upset or discouraged, I
attributed my troubles to my allegedly
defective organ.
The majority of people are reasonably
healthy, but there must be thousands of
persons going round with minor abnor-
malities like mine. They no doubt have
their periods of emotional upsetness and
discouragements, for which they would
like an explanation. A national system
of medical stocktaking would give most
of them a physical explanation which
would turn them into valetudinarians. —
Nakhoda (Vic.).
“Anti-Australian ?”
I was interested in a remark made in
Parliament by Information Minister Cal-
well to the effect that The Bulletin is
“the most violently anti-Australian news-
paper in Australia.”
When I think of the policy of the
“Bushman’s Bible” throughout 60 years,
and of how the paper has ever been abso-
lutely Australian in every conceivable
way, such an accusation makes me gasp.—
Charles V. Eyre (Vic.). [“Hansard”
made it “The Bulletin is undoubtedly
the most anti-Australian of all news-
papers published in Australia.” In the
Senate on the same day (March 7) Mr.
Calwell’s colleague Mr. Keane came in
with his contribution, “The Bulletin is
the foulest journal in Australia” ; so the
attacks were evidently preconcerted. Com-
ing from such politicians they are com-
pliments.]
Must Majorities be Right?
Reading a story about 13 Aussies over-
coming 250 Japs in a New Guinea jungle
set me thinking about the faith most
politicians seem to have in the sanctity
of numbers. We base our theories of
government on the axiom that the
majority must be right, yet carried to a
logical conclusion that faith leads to some
very odd results.
Australia is far outnumbered by Japs and
Germans. Even if we count in the whole
British Commonwealth we are in a mino-
rity against our foes. Of course we have
millions of Russians at present fighting
against the Germans (though not against
the Japs). But if the addition of these
numbers proves the Allie 1 cause to be
righteous, what was it while Stalin and
Hitler were partners? I have no doubt
our cause is righteous, and that it will
prevail—but not because we are in the
majority.—E. & O.E. (Tas.).
“Risk Money”
Wharf-laborers earn up to 9s, 3d. an
hour for handling ammunition under
conditions which make it practically im-
possible for an explosion to occur. Men
in the army have used the stuff for
years and have been on the wrong end of
it when it has been exploding. They.
have faced enemy ammunition (also ex-
ploding), and they have handled every-
thing that can explode (and under con-
ditions when it does not need much en-
couragement to do so). And they have
done this, not for 9s. 3d. an hour, but
for 6s. 6d. a day—and no time off for a
beer at eleven o’clock.
Let’s have a little justice in our risk
estimates. — Jacobite (Q.).
Queensland Shearers’ Strike
This stupid strike, now declared off as
the result of a State-wide secret ballot,
in which a return to work at award rates
was favored by a large majority, held
up shearing and crutching throughout
Queensland for over two months, thereby
adding to the troubles of the sorely-tried
woolgrowers, many of whom have suf-
fered very heavy stock and financial
losses because of drought. In this indus-
trial hold-up, as in so many others, corns.,
of course, have played the major part.
Some graziers, managers and shearing
contractors are partly to blame for the
strike, as they have shown a lack of back-
bone in paying shearers and crutchers
above the award rate, not charging them
for tucker, etc., whenever these conces-
sions (which are contrary to the law)
have been demanded. Even since the
commencement of the strike a small
section of owners and managers has aided
and abetted the strikers as well as defied
National Security Regulations by having
shearing and crutching done at rates in
excess of the award.
The great majority of woolgrowers,
however, have shown their determination
to abide by arbitration and the law of the
land. For their class of work Queensland
shearers are the highest paid in the Com-
monwealth and the world, Russia in-
cluded. Moreover, the majority of
shearers, although of military age, have
been exempted from service in the armed
farces, shearing, being a reserved occu-
pation.—A. J. H. (Q.).
The N.T. and Argentina
Advocates of development of the cattle-
rearing industry in the Northern Terri-
tory have not fully analysed the econo-
mic handicaps under which such an
industry would start, and have not
allowed for the spirited competition of
Argentina.
Australia is much further away from
the world’s large population centres than
Argentina, and proximity of markets
goes a long way in deciding the success
or failure of a primary product venture.
The cost of beef production in Argen-
tina is much lower than it is in Australia.
A gaucho (Argentina cowboy) lives con-
tentedly on the equivalent of 18s. to 20s.
a month and keep. His keep is worth
comparatively little. Much of his time
is spent camping out and his main diet
is the flesh of the animals he tends and
yerba mate (Paraguayan tea).
The rich pampas of Argentina are
already settled, mainly on British capital.
One British co. owns ranches and freezers,
and supplies over a thousand meat shops
in England.
I grant that the N.T. is suitable for
cattle-raising, but unless the land can be
developed cheap the profit margin may
prove insufficient. — Student (S.A.).


- >
/
y:.J
w
'it
R PEACE
TpODAY it is still a race for Victory. In
* 1939, when the clouds broke, Yarra
Falls machinery began humming a night-
and-day War-time song which has never
ceased.
we are still fulfilling service demands. The race has not yet been
* * run and won.
TOUT Yarra Falls peace-time planning has not been neglected. Just as quickly as we
U swing into the race against enemy production so will we enter normal pursuits.
VARRA FALLS is poised for Peace—ready to give immediate effect to the far-
* reaching plans made for the Widest presentation of all those latest weaves and
fabrics now awaiting release.
lii
hhp
*
A
YARRA FALLS
fanamed for tAe excellence Worsted
Manufactures, all made from Australian virgin wool. •
ABBOTSFORD • VICTORIA - AUSTRALIA- f
-4m
