

GRAPE VINEGAR
D
O YOUR
The House of Seppelts reminds you to
SHARE BUY VICTORY
BONDS
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 66—No. 3398
Wednesday, March 28, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE GREAT HALL OF AUDLEY END.
ONE OF THE STATELY HOMES OF ENGLAND.
AUDLEY END, the seat of Lord Braybrooke, was built by
Thomas Howard, the first Earl of Suffolk, at the beginning of
the seventeenth century. The great hall at Audley End is 90ft. long
by 27ft. wide and 29ft. high. The screen at the north end, occupy-
ing the whole side of the room and reaching nearly to the ceiling,
is entirely made of oak carved with a bold relief of various
grotesque figures and curiously ornamented. It is said to have
been procured from Italy. The Hall is lighted by five windows;
that in the centre has a large projecting bow reaching from the
Cornice to the floor, which is paved. The chimney is carved with
the" arms and supporters of the Earl of Suffolk and Ifis wife
Arabella. The ceiling is of plaster, divided into forty square com-
partments, formed by the intersections of massive beams carried
across from wall to wall at equal intervals, and supported by
brackets. The woodwork is of dark oak and the compartments
are filled with the crests and cognisances of the Howard family,
worked in raised stucco, and encircled by a border. Silken banners
have been suspended from the brackets, emblazoned with the
heraldic bearings of the different possessors of the Manor of
Waldon, from Geoffrey dc Mandeville to the present time. The
portraits include two by Holbein —the Lord Chancellor Audley
and his wife. On the west side are portraits of Lady Jane Grey
and John Milton. Other pictures are on the south screen and the
staircase ; and on the north side is a portrait of Charles II in
armour, by Lely.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Addrets
S.B. 245 AGE
The Red Page
SCUM OF THE EARTH.
“Mr, Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “I
am truly sorry to inform you that you
are the scum of the earth.”
“That,” said Mr, Gallagher, “sounds
extremely probable. The phrase is, how-
ever, a cliche, and I should like you to
be more precise. Who says I am the
scum of the earth?”
“The authoress of Backwash of Empire,
published by Georgian House, Mel-
bourne,” said Mr. Shean. “Mrs. M. Kath-
leen Woodburn.”
“Grateful as I am to Mrs. Woodburn
for this favorable analysis of my char-
acter,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I should
still like to know precisely in what way
I have erred.”
“Mrs. Woodburn’s book—and a very
good book it is—concerns the islands of
the New Hebrides, particularly Erro-
manga,” said Mr. Shean. “Mrs. Wood-
burn is interested in the welfare of the
natives ; while you”
“I know,” said Mr. Gallagher. “I gave
them measles.”
“Perhaps it would be more correct to
say that your great-grandfather gave
them measles,” said Mr. Shean. “Mrs.
Woodburn’s cliche, by some merciful
oversight, is not directed at you person-
ally, but at the white race in the Pacific.
Sailing into Erromanga a hundred years
ago, seeking to give the natives measles,
your great-grandfather”——
“Look you,” said Mr, Gallagher. “My
great-grandfather, of sainted memory,
had his thigh-bones gnawed by cannibals
in Fiji. He was never within a hundred
miles of the New Hebrides, and I am
proud to be descended from him. It is
true that, on different islands in the
Pacific, he had 17 wives but”
“But Mrs. Woodburn no buts,” said
Mr. Shean. “Did he not ‘come trickling
in, robbing and murdering the natives for
his own particular ends’?”
“My great-grandfather,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “was never known to trickle. Nor
to truckle, either. He had a red beard
five feet long, six pistols in his belt and
in his right hand he carried a cutlass like
a scythe-blade, which he used for dis-
comforting his enemies and paring his
toenails.”
“I refer you to page 48,” said Mr.
Shean. “Your great-grandfather came to
the Pacific as ‘conqueror, tyrant, slaver,
killer, ruler, missionary and exploiter.’ ”
“He came to the Pacific because he
was a great adventurer,” said Mr, Gal-
lagher. “And he was not a missionary.”
“His brother was,” said Mr. Shean.
“Do you think your great-grandfather’s
brother did well to cover the charming
nakedness of the natives with ugly white
mission garments?”
“If yoh had seen old Horowhenua
Whangamomona, chief of the cannibals
of the Improbable Islands, in all his
charming nakedness,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“you’d have covered him up with con-
crete. I must say I’m sorry about my
great-grandfather’s brother putting calico
on the young females, but perhaps he
didn’t want them to become a peepshow
for my great-grandfather and other
tourists.”
“Your great-grandfather,” said Mr.
Shean, “was such a brute —I refer you to
page 69 —that contact with him was ‘not
calculated to impress the natives with
the advantage of throwing over canni-
balism in favor of civilisation.’ ”
“If Mrs. Woodburn means that he was
worse than a cannibal,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “I really think she exaggerates.
During a short interview I once had with
his ghost—the thighbones, of course, were
missing—he informed me that, speaking
from experience, he found cannibalism
considerably more distressing than the
worst refinements of civilisation.”
“While staying on Erromanga Mrs.
Woodburn met a couple of suspected
murderers who had been released after
an inquiry,” said Mr. Shean. “To quote
her own words, ‘The poor little things
looked like bewildered and hopeless
children.’ ”
“I remember my great-grandfather’s
brother’s ghost telling me that the natives
looked exactly like that after eating my
great-grandfather,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“He gave them indigestion.”
“I begin to suspect,” said Mr. Shean,
“that you resent the fact that the old
boy was eaten.”
“I don’t, but he did,” said Mr. Gal--
lagher. “Possibly he was ungrateful; but
let us look at it from his point of view.
He was an adventurer, embodying the
whole splendor of our race ; the courage,
the restless energy, unshakeable faith in
his country, his religion and his civilisa-
tion. The man who made England great,
he sincerely believed he was bringing
peace, light and prosperity to the be-
nighted tribes of the Pacific who, from
time immemorial, had been killing and
eating each other, massacring the earlier
inhabitants whenever they landed on a
new island, decimating their own tribes
in ceaseless and senseless war. Not the
scum of the earth but the salt of it, he
was eaten by treacherous savages for no
reason except that they regarded friendly
visitors as a superior kind of pork.”
“I think,” said Mr. Shean, “that your
great-grandfather was slightly less virtu-
ous than you paint him. Also, he was
probably an inferior kind of pork.”
“As a matter of fact,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “he was a frightful old scoun-
drel. But I am tired of apologising for
him. He had the heroic virtues.”
“I take it,” said Mr. Shean, “that while
you would like to modify Mrs. Wood-
burn’s opinion—page 94 —that he was
‘the world’s worst exploiter and lowest
type,’ you would not quarrel with the
authoress when, very much in the spirit
of his brother the missionary, she wishes
to help the natives who survived his
exercise of the heroic virtues?”
“No cause,” said Mr. Gallagher, “could
be dearer to my heart. I think that most
of the help must come from the natives
themselves; for seeing that some of the
Pacific peoples have almost died out while
others are flourishing—all having been ex-
posed to the same trial —we are probably
forced to conclude with the psycho-
analysts that those who perished did so
of their own volition: aided, of course,
by my great-grandfather. Those who
chose to live have my most profound
admiration ; and those who could not ad-
just themselves to inevitable change cer-
tainly should have our sympathy, pro-
tection and help. I shall recommend
Backwash of Empire to all my acquain-
tances.”
“Perhaps 'I really shouldn’t have men-
tioned your great-grandfather,” said Mr,
Shean. “Mrs. Woodburn’s book is a
fascinating account of the life of the New
Hebrides today, with much good humor
and many pleasing descriptions of the
scenery. I did not know before that dogs
enjoyed coconuts. Only she does tend to
harp on the wickedness of traders and
missionaries. And whenever she catches
the natives out in any comparable wicked-
ness —as when she records that they used
to roast pigs alive, and kill them to this
day by ‘hammering them on the head
till their thick skulls crack’ —she explains
their conduct away as merely ‘thought-
less.’ ”
“Now I come to think of it,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “there was quite a dint in
great-grandfather’s ghost’s thick skull.
Thoughtless of them, wasn’t it?”
The Feathered Colonel.
The proper defence of fox-hunting, of
course, is not that the fox enjoys it or that
it improves the breed of horses, but that
it improves the breed of fox-hunters.
Colonel J. K. Stanford seems to have been
thinking along these lines, for his delight-
ful satire on grouse-shooting The Twelfth
(Faber) is not so much an attack on all
shootin’, fishin’ and huntin’ as a plea to
the English sportsmen to get out and
trudge the moors after their birds instead
of waylaying them, en masse, from the
butts.
Colonel George Proteron, with whose
adventures the short book is concerned, is
a crack shot —or whatever the correct
term is; an American woman appals him
by describing him as “an ace bird-
shooter.” Colonel Stanford quotes from
Proteron’s diary:
“A red-letter day on the Haricot beat.
Birds came beautifully and on the wind
were worth a lot of money. Four hundred
brace is the previous record for the moor
and there should be a big pick-up.”
And that, thought Charles, means the
poor birds he and his friends tinkered or
nearly missed, probably after luncheon.
Cold-blooded old brute! To Charles a
grouse was a grouse, a glorious quarry to
be dreamed of, to be eagerly sought on
foot over leagues of heather, to be gloated
over if he was lucky enough to bring it
down, to be carried home and eaten in
triumph. To George Proteron it whs just
another dot in his endless bowling analysis,
the nicely calculated less or more.
It’s of some interest that Stanford’s
publishers believe that the big, organised
shoots which the book satirises —it is set
in 1939—are a thing of the past; he
portrays, they say, “a world which prob-
ably the war has taken from us for all
time.” Colonel Stanford seems to record
its passing with a tinge of regret: at least
his satire falls just as stingingly upon the
colonel’s nephew —a pale young man with
long hair, devoted to the Ballet —as it
does upon the fire-eating uncle.
The satire is extremely funny. Pic-
tured first in his club, dreaming of the
Twelfth, Proteron has a stroke and is
changed into a grouse. Saki once re-
marked, Colonel Stanford recalls, how
embarrassed one would feel on meeting in
the next world a shoal of whitebait one
had last known at Prince’s Restaurant;
and Colonel Proteron is equally embar-
rassed on becoming a grouse. His know-
ledge of tactics, recalled from his previous
existence, becomes immensely important
and he organises the flocks of grouse into
“evasive actions” that, on the morning
of the Twelfth, make General Garamie
think his moors are bewitched.
The story comes to a climax when, in
his final appearance as a grouse, Colonel
Proteron flies full tilt into Lord Charles
Casserole just as he is about to fire,
knocks him out and causes him to shoot
his loader and the most ruthless grouse-
slayer of them all, Captain Nigel Blount-
Garamie.
Both the leaders of the grouse with
whom Colonel Proteron becomes friendly
and the assorted colonels, captains and
generals—old acquaintances who are
trying for the greater part of the book
to shoot him out of the air—are ex-
cellently drawn as characters. One of the
book’s brightest moments occurs when
General Garamie, who has always shot
his different beats in a regular order,
feels that he is poaching on his own
preserves when compelled by Colonel
Proteron’s tactics to alter his system. An-
other priceless moment comes when
Colonel Proteron, having his tail feathers
shot out by Crasher Casserole, learns
what it means to be “peppered.”
V. H. Drummond’s illustrations are
the type of deliberately childish draw-
ings becoming fashionable both in Eng-
land and Australia; the publishers
describe them as “brilliant,” but it
is hard to see why what is plainly
and undeniably bad should be re-
garded as good. If Colonel Stanford’s
writing were as elementary as the illus-
trations Faber would never have pub-
lished the book. Against Colonel Stan-
ford, only one strange sentence calls for
criticism: “Was not the recipe for long
life in Australia to drink a bottle of port
every night and ride for two hours every
morning before breakfast?” The De-
partment of Information should explain
to Colonel Stanford that the favorite
Australian tipple—taken by the boundary
riders before they go out to shear the
wallabies—is a liquor brewed from
prickly-pear and goanna oil.
For the 1945 Montague Grover Mem-
orial award Melbourne P.E.N. Club is
offering a 12-guinea prize for the best
satire in any literary medium, preferably
with an Australian background. Entries,
closing May 31, should be sent under a
non-de-plume to John McKellar, hon.
secretary, P.E.N. 6 Ormsby Grove,
Toorak, Melbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Albert Namatjira, who limns Aus-
tralia’s Centre in water-color, has been
holding his first Sydney show in Anthony
Hordern’s ideally-lit gallery. There were
red tabs on most of the 45 pictures before
the opening speeches were concluded, and
before afternoon-tea time the show was
sold out —and more because Namatjira is
a first-class water-colorist than because he
is an aborigine. His progress in his
chosen medium has been marked. He is
now well ahead of the standard set in the
reproductions in The Art of Albert
Namatjira, published about a year ago, as
evidenced in the clever treatment of light-
ing in “Sun-tipped Rocks,” and the skill
with which the nuances in such a subject
as “Porcupine Hills, James Range,” have
been handled. Like Heysen, with whom
this artist’s work is often compared be-
cause he paints very similar country,
Namatjira is impressed with the lonely
majesty of the rumpled, bare mountain
ranges of the Centre. Not quite at ease
yet in his skies, he expresses his love of
the earth—particularly its red rocks and
its blue ranges—with simple sincerity.
Indeed, his truthfulness is so indubitable
that the weirder aspects of the Aus-
tralian landscape, as exhibited in “Quar-
itnama,” “Finke River Gorge,” “Nultil-
ilja” and “Evening Glow, Mt. Giles,”
become acceptable and credible. Nam-
atjira also paints white gums with won-
derful affection. No. 5, “Ghost Gum,”
is more than a picture. It is a poem.
“F.S.”: Vic. Nat. Gallery trustees
have staged an unusual exhibition in bor-
rowing two Dobell portraits—of “Scotty”
Allen and Elaine Haxton—from the
recent Melbourne “Herald” show and
hanging them beside a Lambert, two
Longstaffs and a W. B. Mclnnes. If you
compared Dobell’s portrait of the airman,
which is one of his best, with Lambert’s
Baldwin Spencer you’d say the Dobell
is the more alive ; but then, if the trustees
had hung Dobell’s impression of Lord
Wakehurst beside Lambert’s Howard
Hinton you’d certainly decide the oppo-
site. The exhibition proves that Dobell
can mix in good company ; what remains
to be seen is how his portraits look in
50 years’ time, when the novelty has worn
off.
There is nothing ostentatious about the
water-color show of Mary Mac Queen at
Kozminsky’s Gallery, Melbourne, but it
is nice, clean, simple work which gives
an air of freshness to Fitzroy backyards
and side streets as much as to Gippsland
landscape.
Ethel Garrick (Mrs. E. Phillips Fox),
whose paintings occupy the walls of the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, carries on
the older tradition of Australian painting.
She has studied and lived in France for
many years, and has travelled in Asia.
Her style, impressionistic, but not very
broadly nor wildly so, is rather remini-
scent of that of Conder. She is at her
best in scenes thronged with figures.
“Flower Market, Nice,” is finely con-
ceived and rich in its color harmonies,
“Victorian Women Painters’ N.D.L.
Working,” an interior, exhibits well-
judged contrasts and values. “Breaking
Waves” is a dainty sea-piece. “Wooden
Bridge, Kashmiri,” is the most striking of
a bevy of sketches in gouache. Of interest
are a dozen pictures by E. Phillips Fox,
who died in 1915. He is represented in
Australian galleries by much better work
than has been gathered together in this
small loan collection, but “Evening Land-
scape,” “Rocks and Sea” and “The Kas-
bah, Tangier,” are rather outside this
artist’s usual gfemut. Portraits, nudes and,
above all, still-life, were his main strength,
and in the third of these categories he
has had few equals anywhere.
Terence Rattigan’s “While the Sun
Shines,” brought all the way from Sydney
by the Minerva co., and put on at Mel-
bourne Tivoli at 5.15, is of the mental
age of about eight years. From the point
of view of its intellectual content, it could
just as well be performed by a team of
horses for an audience of horses. The
unusual hour is an innovation in Mel-
bourne, and it is a pity the Minervans
didn’t start another innovation by pro-
viding a more intelligent excuse for the
tired businessman to spend an evening in
the city. If they did they would prob-
ably draw bigger houses.
At the talkies:
“Fanny by Gaslight” (Sydney Embassy) has
all the ingredients of melodrama: a bold, bad
young earl whose “wictims” are women; a
fearless young commoner; and the beautiful
but illegitimate daughter of a Cabinet Minister.
Setting is in the ’seventies, when triumphant
virtue was not only acclaimed but expected;
and as a period-piece the film is acceptable.
The cast includes James Mason, Stewart Grain-
ger and Phyllis Calvert, the trio who made
such a fine job of that other period romance.
“The Man in Grey.” Newcomer Margueretta
Scott turns in a neat portrayal as the vain,
selfish, promiscuous wife of the formerly erring
politician.
Of the making of films dealing with the wild
playboy who becomes a brilliant pilot and has
to kill off some of his mates before becoming
the perfect “team” airman and collecting a
swag of gallantry medals there is yet no end.
The latest opus with the familiar set-up is
“Flying Fortress” (Sydney Civic), Richard
Greene being the clean-limbed young man who
climbs back to regeneration the hard way. BuU
it’s hard on him it’s even harder on audiences.
Fauna in Somerset Maugham’s “Th e
Circle,” exceptionally well staged by Mel-
bourne Little Theatre, include a young
wife bored with her M.P. husband; 3
romantic young planter with whom she
contemplates bolting; and two discon-
certing spectres from the past —her hus-
band’s mother, a one-time London beaut}
who in her youth was the heroine ot a
similar situation, when she went off >°
Florence with the rich Lord Porteous,
now a long-toothed valetudinarian-
grizzling about his lumbago. The spec-
tacle of what sacrificing all for love _n a
made of Lady Katherine Champion'
Cheney would reasonably be expected u
deter the young wife, but Maugham ha-
observed human nature and knows bette •
After an act of indecision and perm ;
bation as bright as any Maugham
written, the young wife goes off and ;
circle is completed, with nobody ben
ing that the results will be any bet -
Edith Bell was particularly good as tec .
frivolous old mistress.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
' m
u
iV
- vs
s'
m
m
v:
S':
-
v:
«
2%
vs
y'X
K*
s'
&
II
m
VS
x>
m
m?
I^irti'-'
r ”*V-Y-
L fi'-
o v
s y 's // '
iliiifeXk
at
***
i*
#>*'•
•Ss*
!>*»e
as ?}.
m
rs
*
*?5
Pii
as
2*CT'
■%
ss?
mm
4
S*r
Hi
.:
WT*
m
z>p
m
m
&
•X
&*lS*
£fe
mv's%
mm.
m
mm
%,
%
m**"m
*?.
*K
N>
*X V
*s
MH
**«*
m*?
m.
S>v
s.
2sN
*
*v
m
'x«
***
s*
n:
SS
«nM>
x xV"~
m
****
%,
*•*»*#
»*»
n;
{..
**4
■***
•K.
}
H 6
yi
PALASOL
AN cpFinewr A*Tt*eptic
A Reli«Mf
GERM I ClOt
X DEOOORISBa
PORIfJES AHO INVENT*
INFECTION
Hon stWtt)<M| - N*n P#!fW)»wj
• >•*•«*«»♦ (•«!«' \ ! | ♦ '
ANTHONY I SOW «
<n<t«Mf( ' v*» ww»
w»IM>
*HONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
fAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 n. OP n RVTfIJEY
ŵ
MEDILAX. A preparation by Savory &
Moore Ltd., London. Laxative Pellets—a
rational specific for the treatment of Con-
stipation and its allied troubles. Two
sizes only 1/3 and 2/-
LANTIGEN-C. For the treatment and im-
munity from Rheumatism, Arthritis, and
other Rheumatic Disorders such as Lum-
bago, Sciatica, Spondylitis, Fibrositis, etc.
Treatment for average case requires four
bottles. Price 21/- each
TANNEX. Manufactured in England by
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Tannex
is a Tannic Acid Jelly, a non-greasy
application for the treatment of burns. It
gives quick relief and prevents infection.
Price 2/9 tube
MOUTH WASH. For the treatment of
Tonsillitis, Sore Throat, Ulcerated Mouth
and Catarrh. Prevents germ infection.
Price 1/6 bottle
CONDY'S FLUID. The efficient germicide.
Made by Condy & Mitchell, London.
Invaluable for personal hygiene, domes-
tic and sanitary use. For household pets,
etc. Will remove completely all trace of
offensive smell. Prices 2/6 and 4/3
PALASOL, The efficient antiseptic. It is
a reliable Germicide and Deodoriser.
Non-staining, non-poisonous. It purifies
and prevents infection. Palasol is speci-
ally prepared for Anthony Horderns'.
Prices 1/3 and 2/-
• Chemistry —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.


SNAGS
By JOHN FOUNTAIN.
• t 02? w/ictf we are about to
receive”
Jf While the familiar grace
proceeded three hundred
backsides of varying ages and sizes were
stealthily lowered towards the hard
wooden seats, landing upon them with a
smack as the schoolmaster reached
“Amen.” Three hundred pairs of hands
clutched and clawed at the bread, the
butter and the milk-jugs ; and the gossip-
ings and grumblings, the shrill complaints
and throaty anecdotes merged and
blended in a hubbub which filled the
dining-room and bounced back again
from the bleak, grey dining-room walls:
it swirled up to the Olympus of the
masters’ table, then eddied back again
and floated out through the broken win-
dow behind Stan’s head into the chilly
corridor and the vast wet dusk surround-
ing the Agricultural High School in its
rural setting.
In the dining-room the race was to the
swift.
“He’s hogging all the butter!” Rusty
shouted, his mouth half-full, pointing at
an unfortunate fifteen-year-old who kept
company with them at the head of the
table. “Grab it, Stan.”
Stan rescued the frozen slab of pallid
butter from the point of the offender’s
knife.
There was no prefect at this table, so
Rusty sat at the head of the oilcloth-
covered table, in the only chair. The
others sat on wooden benches, five on
each side. Being head of the table was
no empty honor, for on the incumbent
fell the task of dishing out the food at
breakfast and midday dinner. When
something good was on the food-distri-
butor usually discovered, after he had
dished it out, that there was a slight sur-
plus, He would comment on it with sur-
prise and divide it with scrupulous fair-
ness among his two nearest neighbors
and himself.
Rusty’s neighbors were Stan and Mac.
They were also his friends, members of
the same “camp”: this, the system being
what it was, was not surprising. After
them came a dwindling hierarchy of age
and influence, down to the two unfortu-
nates who sat at the end of the table, and
who, in addition to being permanently
starved, had to stack the dirty dishes.
Rusty, tall and well built for his six-
teen years, was mainly a grin in a back-
ground of freckles. His plain brown
sports coat and blue shirt gaped open,
revealing three downy hairs on his chest
—decorations of which he was inordi-
nately proud, and had christened Faith,
Hope and Charity. But his mind at this
moment was focused not on his chest but
on the meal before him and the master
who had said grace,
“CNOWY,” he stated positively, “is a
cow.”
“Yair,” Stan agreed. “I know. Kept
us waiting twenty minutes while he said
grace.” Stan had a chubby, ruddy face,
a wide mouth and round china-blue eyes.
“Making us stand up and wait like a
pack of dummies. What’s he care if we’re
starving?” Rusty appealed directly to
Mac.
Mac kept his brown eyes fixed thought-
fully on the plum jam. “Pass that up
here,” he said menacingly. “Oh, Snowy
just likes to show he’s tough.”
“Damn-all he cares if we die on our
feet,” Stan said bitterly.
“He doesn’t even seem to care if he
goes hungry himself,” Rusty said be-
wilderedly, “as long as he knows we’ve
got empty bellies, too.”
“Don’t you believe it,” Mac said ; “little
Snowy’s the ringer of the masters’ table.”
“Personally, I’m sick of the school,”
Rusty said. “My young brother started
at Shore this year, and I’m going to ask
the old man to let me go, too, next term.
Be' better than here.”
“You’ll get better tucker,” Stan said.
“Couldn’t be worse,” Rusty said. “I
wonder what they’re eating?” he added,
his eyes straying in dreadful curiosity
back to the masters’ table.
“Not bread and butter, anyway, or
plum jam either,” Mac said.
“Steak and kidney pie, maybe,” Rusty
hazarded. “Or steak and eggs.”
“With onions and chips and tomatoes,”
Stan supplemented.
“They mightn’t have steak and eggs,”
Mac said seriously, “but it’s meat any-
way,”
“It might be chicken,” Stan said. “Hot,
roast chicken.”
“Not on Saturday nights,” Mac argued.
“Half the teachers are in town.”
“Full as boots, I suppose,” Rusty said
disapprovingly.
“They have sweets!” Mac said, frown-
ing and drumming his long fingers on
the greasy oilskin cloth. “Look at Reid,
will you!. And Snowy—cripes!”
They craned their necks to look at the
phenomenal Snowy. Mr. K. Rogers,
8.A., was eating peach-pie and cream
and his face was scarlet from his exer-
tions. A short man, he was leaning
slightly forward, and the fair thatch of
hair which was responsible for his nick-
name shone palely beneath the globe
hanging over the masters’ table.
The bell tinkled and was unheard in
the hum of conversation, and the clatter
of teapots, jugs and busy knives. Snowy
rapped the bell again and the buzz died
down.
“Castles, Monoghan and Jamieson to
report to the table,” Snowy said with
sinister calm. “Boys may leave the room.”
A general exodus began.
“What have the Castles crowd done?”
Rusty asked. “Snowy sounds pretty
cranky.”
“He caught them smoking out at their
camp today,” Mac informed him gloat-
ingly, “and he fell in the creek coming
back, so he’ll probably half kill them
tonight.”
The luckless smokers had threaded
their way through the crowd and were
now hovering diffidently behind Snowy's
chair, too upset to even notice what the
teachers were eating.
“Poor cows!” Stan was given to senti-
mental musings on the sad lot of man.
One thing,” Rusty said more cheer-
fully, “we’ve got the snags. You did get
them didn’t you, Mac?”
Mac nodded. “Yes, the bloke on the
mail cart got them for me today. They’re
in my locker.”
“Well, listen, Mac,” Stan said urgently,
his chubby face glowing with an idea ;
you go out to camp with the snags and
these” he slipped a dozen slices of bread
into Mac’s hands beneath the table —“and
we’ll stay here.”
“You not going to try and sit Snowy
out, are you?” Mac asked with reluc-
tant admiration.”
“Yes,” Stan said tersely. He waved
Mac’s protests aside. “You go and light
the fire. After all,” he added rather
weakly, “Snowy’s only human.”
The bulk of the boys had gone and
only a few notorious hogs lingered, scat-
tered self-consciously through the almost-
deserted hall, Stan and Rusty harvested
some more bread, culls for the most part,
stale slices and ends, Stan stowed them
away inside his hospitable shirt, and they
settled down to the task of sitting Snowy
out. They munched slowly: Snowy ate
steadily.
The maids came in and began gather-
ing up the last of the dirty plates, rub-
bing wet rags over the tables, sweeping
up the horrid debris of crusts and crumbs,
wiping up pink smears of jam and sop-
ping up brown pools of cold, spilt tea.
The hall was empty now except for the
maids themselves— and Snowy, Rusty
discovered an almost-full jug of milk at
the extreme end of the room and bore
the chipped blue vessel back in triumph,
keeping a watchful eye on Snowy. Snowy
glared balefully back.
Ruby, the maid who waited on their
table, flounced in and began assaulting
the dishes. Stan clung grimly to the
milkjug. Ruby was in a hurry to get
away to the pictures.
Annie, the maid on the masters’ table,
was working more gently, stopping occa-
sionally to speak to Snowy. Annie liked
laughing: when she laughed she threw
her head back and abandoned herself to
it, laughing musically but not loudly. Her
brown eyes darted sideways with sly
merriment and her whole provocative
body, and even her fair, fluffy hair, shook
and quivered with amusement. Snowy
was laughing, too, in the intervals of
eating, showing his excellent white teeth
in a huge grin, but his light-blue eyes
kept wandering down to Rusty’s table,
and when they dwelt on Rusty’s freckles
and Stan’s red, gaping face all the amuse-
ment faded and was replaced by an omi-
nous stony glitter.
A thought struck Rusty. “I wonder if
Snowy is trying to do a line with Annie?”
“Wouldn’t mind doing one myself,”
Stan said. He sighed. “Still, I think
Snowy does stay for the eats,” he added
with scrupulous fairness.
“Come on, let’s hike off to camp.
There’s nothing left to eat, any Way, and
Snowy’ll be here all night by the look
of things.”
“What a hog! ” Rusty said as the door
swung-to behind him,
J T was still drizzly-wet outside and the
1 trip out to camp was hazardous be-
cause they had to cross the swollen creek
just below Murray*s camp, where the
flood waters had washed away the be-
ginnings of a bridge—an ambitious pro-
ject Murray had attempted with slave
labor recruited from the first-year
students.
“It’s going to come down heavy soon,”
Stan said, staring through the darken-
ing mist of rain at a bank of clouds roll-
ing sullenly in from the river above the
ragged line of the sucker forest. “What
a lousy place this is in winter.”
A battered straw hat, one of his few
eccentricities, was pulled well down on
Stan’s head, almost covering his round
eyes. Its brim was ragged and tufts of
loose strands poked up from the crown,
leaving gaping holes through which the
steady rain seeped, trickling down his
smooth red cheeks. Under his faded
yellow raincoat he clutched ten slices of
bread.
“Be careful of that bread, Stan,” Rusty
warned, striding unencumbered in his
floppy grey trousers. “You get that bread
soaked and you don’t get any of the
snags. We’re not going to starve,”
The track was narrow and winding
now. They were proud of its inaccessi-
bility even while they suffered its incon-
veniences. Small chance of Snowy catch-
ing them smoking, they thought.
They stumbled over snaggy little
stumps in the darkness, and the suckers
dripped down on them from either side.
Bushfires had wiped out most of the big
trees, and only a few blackened corpses
remained towering above the spindly
crowd of suckers.
Stan shivered beneath his cloak-like
coat and hugged the bread closer to his
outsized chest till they arrived at their
destination.
The camp, a sprawling, untidy compo-
site of bagging, saplings and corrugated
iion, stood in a little clearing.
“Good old Mac’s got the fire alight,”
Rusty said as he lifted the screen of hes-
sian that served as a door. “Toast anc
snags won’t go too bloomin’ bad after
all this rain.”
T' HE fire threw its glow upon the bag-
A ging and saplings that made the arm-
chairs and bunks.
A pile of bread, hoarded for the past
week and somewhat dried and grubby,
stood near the fireplace beside the fresher
pieces they had brought out. Buttei
seeped through envelopes and toilet paper
in oily smears in the heat. A new tin of
cocoa, two black billies full of milk and
a dented treacle tin used alternatively for
“bardee” grubs, worms and sugar were
drawn up in order, ready for the feast.
“Mac,” Stan said severely, “I’ve told
you before not to use toilet paper for the
butter.”
Mac stretched his lank form in the arm-
chair and raised his thick black eyebrows.
“Why?” he demanded belligerently.
As if for inspiration on a problem too
difficult to be solved, Stan stared at the
magazines on the stolen table which,
warped and blistered, stood unsteadily
by the doorway. Finding no answer in
the gay covers of journals devoted to
health and physical culture—from the
photographs of virile men and scantily-
clad women eating apples or practising
archery—he voiced instead his passionate
longing for hot food.
“Hurry up and get those snags on, Mac.
I’m starving.”
Mac unwound his length and hoisted
himself from the baggy depths of the
chair, crossing a damp patch on the clay
floor on his way to the cupboard. There
he unwound the moist paper wrapping
and unveiled eighteen limp sausages, their
innards winking redly through their trans-
parent, greasy envelopes.
Mac dropped them into the hissing pan
with loving fingers.
Rusty threw himself into the second-
best chair. “You make the toast, Stan.
Gee, those snags smell good.”
They were proud of the little pan with
its invincible coating of soot. Stan had
cut off the handle and pushed a green
stick into the stump, making it easier
to handle in front of a blazing fire.
“Besides,” Stan used fo explain vaguely.
“it’s handy for travelling.” But even Stan
admitted it was too small.
He watched anxiously while Mac
cooked the first batch. “Turn ’em over,”
he advised tensely; “you’ll burn ’em.” ’
“Who’s doing this?” Mac demanded,
turning them over, nevertheless, with the
point of Rusty’s bowie knife. “You get
on with that toast.”
Stan squatted on his heels, raked out
a heap of embers and proceeded to make
toast: but his heart wasn’t in his work;
he fidgeted on his haunches, eyed the
browning snags. Once a piece of bread
caught alight then slipped into the flames
and was irretrievably lost, but even this
tragedy and Rusty’s blasphemous admon-
ishments failed to rouse him,
Mac took the pan off the fire and pre-
pared to spear the largest sausage, but
Stan forestalled him.
“Just to take the edge off my appetite,”
he explained in a muffled voice, ignoring
his burnt fingers. “We’ll have the toast
ready in a jiffy.”
“Might as well, I suppose,” Rusty mur-
mured apologetically to himself, likewise
enfolding a dripping, hot sausage in a
piece of dry bread and shoving it into
his mouth with an alacrity which shamed
even Stan. “H-m-m, that’s better.”
“Well, that’s the first lot anyway,” Mac
said, following suit. “Now get on with
that toast, Stan, will you? What the
hell do you think I pinched the butter
for? And, Rusty, put the milk on ; we’ve
got to have some cocoa.”
“How many pieces have you made,
Stan?” Mac asked, laying the pan aside
for the second time.
“Eight,” Stan said with justifiable pride.
“Two each.”
Rusty looked thoughtfully at the toast,
each piece sodden and sinking in the
centre from butter. “Better make four
more pieces,” he decided, “just to be on
the' safe side,”
WHEN they had eaten the last snag
and had drunk the last sweet drop
of cocoa and crammed the last dripping
piece of toast into their greasy mouths
with buttery fingers they wiped their
hands on their trousers, heaved a sigh
of utter contentment and lay back in the
bag armchairs, blinking happily at the
dwindling fire.
“Give me a smoke, Rusty,” Mac said.
“I’m too bloomin’ full to move
Thanks.”
He blew two recognisable smoke rings
into the smoky air, then, stimulated,
leant forward and poked the fire. A
few sparks flew up the chimney, the back
log shed its charred skin in crumbling
flakes and burst into sudden flame, light-
ing up his long face and throwing a tiny
reflection of itself into his brown eyes.
“Y’ know,” Mac said, “if I could live
out at camp all the time —just go in for
lessons —I wouldn’t care how long I
stayed at school.” A tuft of long black
hair fell forward and he pushed it back
impatiently, leaving a smear of charcoal
on his high forehead. “I wouldn’t like
to go to a school where you couldn’t
have a camp; would you, Stan?”
“No.”
Rusty slewed his chair a little away
from the blaze, spitting with accuracy
into the hot heart of the back-log.
“I don’t think I will go to Shore,” he
announced.
“That’s a filthy blasted habit,” Stan
said disapprovingly.
“You’re only jealous. You’re not a
dead shot like me. Anyway, I wouldn’t
mind sleeping here tonight; it’s pouring
now —listen.”
The wind had dropped, but the rain
was drumming steadily on the roof and
trickling through the leaks near the door.
“Lucky we fixed the roof this end,” Rusty
added.
“Lucky I fixed it, you mean,” Stan
said. “You two sat on your fat behinds
and gave me advice.”
“Well, who pinched the soldering-
iron?” Rusty demanded.
“Going to the football tomorrow?”
Mac asked. “Snowy’ll be playing.”
“Might,” said Rusty. “Pity he’s such
a cow of a bloke —a good footballer like
that.”
“How long has he been playing with
the town team now, Rusty?”
“Let me see. Three seasons, counting
this one.”
“He’s got a lovely swerve hasn’t he'.
Pity he’s such a cow.”
“It’s his lousy temper. Fairly chatters
with rage.” , ,
“Of course they have to do their job,
Mac said smugly. .
“Oh, he’s not too bad,” Rusty admitted.
“It’s only that he’s such a hog.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3398
Wednesday, March 28, 1945
OUTMODED.
“Statue of Liberty, eh? Might be all right for this country, Evatt, but wouldn’t do for ours. Hopelessly out of date.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P< H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
.. Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
JNew Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London. E.C.4.
WHITHER?
Australian policies and trends have
always Come in for animadversions from
travellers and overseas observers, in the
past often ill-informed and intemperate.
In these days there is a mounting barrage
of criticism from quarters which cannot
be dismissed as being without knowledge
or goodwill.
Admiral of the Fleet Lord Keyes is not
a man to be ignored in any country or
company. Closing his long tour of Aus-
tralia, he paid a tribute to the grand old
Australian spirit of hospitality to
strangers which (thank God!) the com-
munist-labor propaganda of hate has not
extinguished; but he added “I should
not be a true friend of the Commonwealth
if I had not said straight out what I
thought.” Then he made some more re-
marks in his Brisbane vein, “speaking as
a private individual”:
It is utterly illogical and unfair that some
young men should be free to decline to
sgrve abroad while others suffer hardships,
wounds, perhaps death, under discipline
which they loyally accept; and that others
again, living at home in safety and com-
fort, should be free to absent themselves,
strike for more pay or fewer hours or for
any trivial reasons and thus hold up pro-
duction —production essential to enable the
fighting men to carry the war to a speedy
conclusion and hasten the release of thou-
sands of prisoners, many forced to work
for the enemy under conditions which
have caused a heavy death-rate.
When one considers the tremendous issues
at stake it seems incredible that any men
of our race anywhere can be so misled by
a few individuals, some of them calling
themselves communists, who in their efforts
to coerce the Government and exercise
political power do not hesitate to hold up
and sabotage war industry and shipping in
a way that would not be tolerated for a
moment in Russia. If the war is not to
be unnecessarily prolonged this evil fifth-
column influence must be eradicated and a
wider national and less selfish outlook main-
tained by everyone on the home front.
A few days later, in an address at New-
castle, an American businessman, L. R.
Coleman, said “You need many millions
of people and many thousands of mil-
lions of pounds. But if you are looking
forward to floods of Americans and tons
of American money coming here you
might as well classify those hopes in the
file of things that won’t happen,” And,
he gave reasons:
I have noticed in the Commonwealth
Statistician’s report that Government is
now employing 525,000 people and private
enterprise 1,277,000. If you were an
American contemplating coming to Aus-
tralia and you knew that 30 p.c. of all em-
ployment here was monopolised by Govern-
ment wouldn’t you think twice about
coming? Government ownership is not the
best way of offering hospitality to for-
eigners.
The shares of your biggest industries are
entirely in Government hands. Hence, if a
foreigner with some money wishes to come
here he is strictly limited in the field of
potential investment. In America he can
send his money ahead of him, or he can
Invest it the day he arrives.
On the executive side the highest salary
paid here is £l5OO net. In America 15 tax re-
turns out of every thousand are equal to this.
And there is this question of control of
insurance companies and banks. You must
take the risk of failure if you want to make
progress. But from what I read of the
desire for security here and of the inter-
vention of Government, in banking, I doubt
if risks will be taken. Civil servants never
take risks. It is not in the system. So
many people want to lean on the Govern-
ment for protection, to have little, but to
make that little certain.
Australia seems to have developed the
mentality of an old and cautious country
which has nothing new to exploit and no-
thing new to hope for.
The Oriental idea of life was to make it
perfectly static. Nothing was to change
from one generation to the next. We in
the Western world feel that this was wrong.
It seems to me that as you turn more and
more things over to your Government you
are developing the Oriental conception of life.
The views of this gentleman would be
arresting if they were peculiar to himself.
It is no mystery that they are shared by
thoughtful Americans in the services.
Coming from a country which has an
ineradicable faith in free enterprise
(true not only of the leaders of industry
and of both great parties but also of the
Federation of Labor, the Railway Brother-
hoods and most of the C. 1.0. unions,
though the C. 1.0. has a communist fringe)
and whose system of government and law
was securely built on English founda-
tions, these Americans could scarcely be
expected to admire the shape of things
in this country—the growing vogue and
ever-swelling arrogance of communism.
the feckless movements of Labor towards
the same objective, “the socialisation of
industry, production, distribution and ex-
change,” the petty tyranny of the swarm-
ing bureaucrat and the unchecked anarchy
of union bosses, strikers and absentees.
It would have done Labor politicians
good to move round among these Ameri-
cans and leam what they were thinking,
if only on the subject of immigration after
the war. There were opportunities
enough, but they were scarcely ever
availed of. The Prime Minister himself
never went to any of Australia’s man-
dated islands when Americans were fight-
ing there and dying in large numbers.
And when he was about to visit Britain
early last year the lieutenant he had taken
from the Ministry of Labor and National
Service (where the gentleman produced a
list of reserved occupations, which ex-
empted all union officials of military age
and reached almost to the crack of doom),
and placed in charge of these very man-
dated islands, came out in Parliament with
a statement of Australia’s duty as one
of the United Nations which must have
been discussed sardonically at many an
American mess.
This statement was a repetition of what
Mr. Ward had said in Parliament at the
outset of the German war, less his pro-
posal that the mandated islands, with
Papua and Norfolk Island, should be
abandoned to such defence as the inhabi-
tants and volunteers from the mainland
might furnish, but plus a venomous attack
on Britain on the score of its having kept
Indians and Malayans “in a state of illi-
teracy and semi-starvation,” and on the
U.S.A., with it—“they tend to try to with-
hold their strength and build it up while
allowing the Soviet to bleed itself white.”
This because Britain and the U.S.A. were
afraid of Russia and jealous of it because
it had “made more progress in 25 years
than has been achieved by any capitalist
country in ten times Jhat period.
Shortly after the outbreak of war hon-
orable members on this side, including the
honorable member for Batman, the ex-
member for Bourke [since dead] and I,
pointed out that it was unwise to denude
this country of its man-power because by
doing so we were actually rendering a dis-
service to the Allied cause. At that time
honorable members opposite were clamor-
ing for the dispatch overseas of a number
of divisions of Australian troops. We
then pointed out that the most effective r6le
Australia could play in the war was that
of the great supplier to the Allied nations,
and that we should devote our efforts to
building up supplies to that end. That
view has been proved to be correct. It was
clear that we could render far more effec-
tive help to our allies as a supplier of food
rather than a supplier of military forces.
Honorable members opposite now charge
the Government with bungling the man-
power problem, whereas had they paid
heed to the views we expressed at the time
to which I refer this country would not
today be denuded of man-power.
“England’s necessity is Ireland’s oppor-
tunity.” An old formula, obviously
adapted by this Sydney Labor politician,
whose mind is cancered with hatred of
England and all that England stands, for,
and who was coming into Labor politics
when the State Labor Caucus and the
City Council were stiff with bhoys who
had got in on the wrongs-of-Ireland ticket.
Yet in the stormy history of the Irish
Nationalists it was never proposed to cash
in on “England’s necessity” and save skins;
and, with Willie Redmond dying in Flan-
ders fields and his brother of a broken
heart, but at peace with the Oppressor,
the swift extinction of their party had
nothing ignoble in it. It was reserved for
Mr. Ward, in the deadliest spirit of Labor
materialism, to suggest making money
out of England’s agony, at the same time
denying it the battle service of Australia’s
strong and loyal sons, comrades, sons and
brothers of Monash’s and Chauvel’s im-
mortais. As shown by his performances
in between and since, particularly in
opposing the sending of called-up men
beyond the Equator, north of which, in
Mr. Curtin’s latest estimate, there are
18,718 Australian soldiers in Japanese
hands, he prefers to fight fellow-country-
men.
Though the veiy admission is humiliat-
ing, this blot on Australia’s name has exer-
cised and is exercising a baleful influence
on policy, having a following in the Labor
party and troops of admirers among its
communist allies. Yet outside these
elements there can be few Australians
who do not realise with pride, however
dimmed in some cases by deficiency in
intelligence or serious purpose, that the
words of the second Pitt and Emerson
have come true once more, that England
has saved itself by its exertions and
Europe by its example, and has proved
itself “the best of actual nations.” Under
an accumulation of trials greater than
any other nation has ever had to endure,
the British nation has shown on the battle-
fields of land, sea and sky, on the green
fields of England, in the laboratories, fac-
tories, workshops, arsenals, shipyards, in
the homes of all classes of the people
(so many wrecked) and even in the
temples of finance, so hated by slippery
agitators and leather-lunged lowbrows, all
the qualities of true greatness.
Not only the noble patriotism and
fortitude that have carried the nation
through all its vicissitudes but its great
financial strength and the wonderful
achievements of its free-enterprise system
are worthy of study and emulation by
Australia, Yet it is precisely these regions
of finance and individual effort that the
present rulers of Australia, with little
knowledge and great capacity for mis-
chief, have selected as points of departure
from British (and American) ways into
the ways of Oriental socialism.
While this Labor Government, violat-
ing its Prime Minister’s election pledge,
is grabbing the airlines built up by the
energy and resourcefulness of Australians,
the British Government is establishing
“three main air-transport corporations,”
in which shipping and railway companies
are to have substantial shareholdings and
representation on boards, with provision
for “subsidiary companies.” And while
this Labor Government, also in violation
of its leader’s election pledge, is socialising
banking and credit, the British Govern-
ment has given its sanction to the forma-
tion, by insurance companies, investment
trust companies, the Bank of England,
clearing banks and Scottish banks, of
“two companies, with combined resources
of £170,000,000, to help meet the needs
of industry and reconstruction.” Said
Sir John Anderson, the Chancellor of the
Exchequer:
These companies will augment, but will
in no way supersede, existing sources of
capital. They will be ordinary commercial
undertakings, promoted on the assumption
that there will be the largest field for
private enterprise after the war. They will
be managed as units, independent of the
banks, with their own boards of directors
and staffs of men experienced in finance,
commerce and industry. The Government
will not be represented on the boards.
In these fields and other fields the
Labor party is making a wild break with
British tradition and practice. It has
accepted alien doctrines and is resorting
to alien methods; to an alien contempt
for the pledged word and an alien subjec-
tion to mobs who flout the rule of law.
And this is matter for profound thought
by every Australian who loves his coun-
try and thinks nobly of his British heri-
tage of honesty, self-reliance and free-
dom, and has no use for the Oriental,
Polynesian or aboriginal way of life.
Jap War Warnings.
It is now six months since the mothballs
were being shaken out of the bunting,
the bellropes mended, the traffic arrange-
ments altered in preparation for a Peace
Day orgy. All a little premature, even
regarding the German end of the war.
This other end, the Jap end, was com-
pletely overlooked.
Inexplicably—unless the inability or
disinclination to face realities which kept
the country disarmed, militarily unpre-
pared, open to invasion, is again the
reason—this part of the war is still widely
regarded as of minor importance. On
present indications there is nothing surer
than an outburst of celebrating whenever
the German war ends. It will be little
affected by consideration for the 19,000
or so Australians held as Jap prisoners,
the much larger number engaged in the
grim, little-understood struggle to root
the Japs out of Australian - controlled
island territories, or all those other men
from here who, going by fluctuating offi-
cial announcements, may by then be lead-
ing attacks under General MacArthur
elsewhere.
Mr. Curtin was last week reported as
“maintaining his previously expressed
view that the end of the war in Europe
should not be a signal for an outburst
of carnival celebration in Australia.” His
attitude, the P.M. added, was that “we
should say ‘Thank God, the war in
Europe is over; now let us complete the
Pacific war.’ ” On the same day Mr.
Forde, in a broadcast talk recorded be-
fore he left for San Francisco, did a shade
better:
The operations in which the Australians
are now engaged have been referred to as
“mopping up,” but this is an understate-
ment. The Australians are fighting well-
organised and strongly-entrenched units of
the Japanese Army, estimated at a total of
100,000 men. The Japanese are in no
mood to surrender. They will fight to the
last, and the task of the Australians will be
to exterminate them. It is arduous and
difficult campaigning in some of the worst
areas of the world.
The trouble with both statements —
apart from their dullness —is the certainty
of their being discounted as merely cur-
rent loan propaganda. Like many other
similar official pronouncements, they re-
veal the identical aloof lack of real appre-
ciation of what might be ahead in fight-
ing the Japs to a standstill that’s reflected
in the celebration preparations. Such a
bit of grim actuality as the fighting for
Iwo Jima, as reported in America, would
serve as a much more effective steadier if
properly grasped.
In capturing that eight square miles of
boulders and volcanic ash—“that ugly bit
of land for which so many Marines
fought and died” —about 100,000 Ameri-
cans, by land, sea and air, took part.
The attack was preceded by 70 consecu-
tive days of preliminary bombing, hun-
dreds more ’planes joining in the final
assault. There were 800 ships in the
invasion fleet; more than 20,000 tons of
high explosives were poured on to the
scrap of island ; and then four divisions
of Marines—the largest force of those
picked troops ever to fight for a single ob-
jective—had to be thrown into the battle.
The two Marine divisions at first put
ashore “were decimated by a hail of fire
from the mortars, cannon, rockets and
machine-guns of 20,000 Japanese who
had been hiding safely in underground
forts.” In the first 58 hours “one Ameri-
can fell dead or wounded every 40
seconds.” Total casualties, just on 20,000,
dwarfed those of Tarawa, Kwajalein'
Saipan or Guam, That was only part
of the price. “There were also losses of
’planes and damage to American war-
ships. Beaches were covered by wreck-
age of land craft, derricks, trucks, tanks
and guns.” ’ It was stated to have been
“the toughest job handed to the Marines
in 168 years^’
With that as a brief summary of the
fighting for a mere scrap of land de-
scribed as “looking from the air like a
skinned mutton leg,” it is no wonder that
men able to speak from first-hand experi-
ence in fighting the Japs have since been
more emphatic than ever that the Pacific
war is still very far from over. “In the
Pacific,” the Marine Corps Commandant,
General Vandegrift, warns his country-
men, “we face an enemy still brawny,
still defiant. Out there, among those
defences, the great battles of decision are
yet to be fought.”
General Stilwell, discounting airy
notions that Japan might seek a face-
saving way to get out of the war after
Germany’s collapse—“ That is the last
thing in the world I expect to happen”—
holds that “with the infinite capacity of
the Japanese for continuing the war,” it
“will drag on for a long time,” even after
the Allies are able to concentrate their
full strength in the Pacific. As an infan-
tryman, General Stilwell also discounts
notions of navy and air attacks defeating
the Japs: “We started destroying Ger-
man industry, too. I’m not building any
great hopes on it.” As for the probable
land fighting, he points out that the Jap
birthrate is about 1,000,000 a year in
excess of the deathrate. “That makes
about 10,000 Japs we have to kill
each week to keep the population
stationary.”
Other American military expectation of
a long and hard war still to be fought in
the Pacific is based largely on Japan’s
still scarcely-touched army strength, the
distances still to go, Jap character and
past experience against both this and the
German enemy. The Jap army still num-
bers at least 4,000,000 men, with at least
a million of them ready for home de-
fence, and a population of nearly
75,000,000 to draw on for reinforcements.
Enough Jap industry is believed to have
been moved underground and elsewhere
to keep defence forces fighting indefi-
nitely, whatever air attacks may be made.
The German demonstration of how a
lost war can be prolonged by apparently
hopeless resistance is expected to be at
least equalled by the Japs, who have
shown a willingness to fight to the last
in distant places which is considered likely
to intensify rather than diminish as the
fighting gets closer to, and eventually
reaches, the Jap mainland.
The only noticeable offset to these mili-
tary views in America is the very widely
held belief there that eventually Russia
will join in. This conviction is reported
as so widespread, from official Washing-
ton throughout the country, that the con-
trary could possibly lead to an over-
whelming flare-up of isolationism. Wish-
fully or otherwise, it is believed that the
last day for Russia to call off its pact
with Japan does not coincide with the
eve of the San Francisco Conference by
accident. The pact would still have a year
to run. It is even more widely accepted
that Russia’s entry into the Pacific war
was bargained for and the contract made
at Yalta. More cynically, it is pointed
out that the existence of a similar pact
with Poland did not prevent the tearing
up of that agreement when it appeared
to suit Russia’s book. If not by any ot
these routes, Russia is still expected to
come in, anyway, to help liquidate a tra-
ditional enemy and to ensure a right to
a say and a stake in the future of Asia.
American military arrangements, how-
ever, are still going forward on the as-
sumption that, with or without Russian
or any other assistance that may be forth-
coming, beating the Japs is going to be
a long and bitter business. Probably it
will be, though actually it is unpredict-
able. No war like it has ever been fought
before. The effect on the Jap people ot
presently standing alone is impossible to
estimate. All that seems safe to conclude
on experience is that, the Jap fighters
being so fanatical and the people asi -
whole so incalculable, the only sensibl
way of regarding this war is that ot t
American military leaders a confide
but still grimly realistic outlook that c£ j '
tainly is no warrant for premature be -
ringing and dancing in the streets or o
failure to fill war loans.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dock "Personalities."
Ix goes without saying that the opening
of Sydney’s great graving dock, of which
as a finished work Australians have
reason to be proud, whatever they may
think of things that happened during the
construction period and on Dock Day
itself, with its Government transport
strike and union boycott, had to be cele-
brated in official print. There was issued
besides the invitation tickets which dis-
criminated between the privileged and the
not-so-privileged a luxurious production
printed on the best art paper and illus-
trated with the best “blocks.”
The second page is devoted to large
photographs of “Personalities of the
Graving Dock, Sydney.” At the bottom
are pictures of Sir Savile, who
merely designed the gigantic work, and
of Mr, Maurice Mehaffey, who built it.
Across the top are Hollywood versions
of the countenances of the Honor-
able Norman Makin, the Honor-
able John Curtin and the Honorable
Joseph Silver Collings, with a note under-
neath setting forth that the dock was
conceived “as a Commonwealth Govern-
ment project,” the inference being that
the three Honorables were the sturdy
genii of its materialisation.
There is no mention of what happened
in 1940. In that year the Menzies Gov-
ernment put forward the estimate for the
first million pounds to do the work,
which was born of the insistence of Aus-
tralian naval officers, the Admiralty and
Archie Galbraith Cameron, M.H.R. for
Barker (S.A.), and then Minister for the
Navy.
The 1940 “Hansard” gives no hint that
Pcrsonality-of-the-Dock Makin knew or
cared at that time that there was to be a
dock at all. There is no record of any
wisdom from him on the subject. But
Personality Curtin’s contribution will be
found on page 1366, May 28, 1940:
I have yet to discover in what way the
dock can be related to Australia’s war
effort at the present juncture. Its construc-
tion will take three years. True, the work
will employ a vast army of men, but the
great proportion of them will be unskilled.
Unless the war lasts for more than
three or four years what earthly use will
that dock be in relation to Australia’s war
effort? I know that the newspapers of
Australia will swallow the proposal as a
demonstration of the acceleration of Aus-
tralia’s war effort. So long as something
new is being done they seem to think that
is evidence of additional vigor. I do not.
Unless the dock would definitely contribute
within the next year or two to the maxi-
misation of the forces that we can employ
against those that are likely to be opposed
to us there are other needs to which
we might apply ourselves with greater ad-
vantage.
“Personality” Joseph Silver Collings also
had his say—May 30, 1940; page 1545:
The Leader of the Opposition, Mr.
Curtin, has expressed exactly the opinion
voiced by Senator Fraser [now one of the
Ministers]. We do not deny the need
in Australia for a graving dock capable
of accommodating capital ships; but we
do say that there is no evidence that
we can afford to spend £1,000,000 as a
first instalment on what will be a costly
undertaking which cannot possibly be
of immediate value, in our war effort.
It is related at Canberra that when
Cameron urged the speeding of the
proposal for the dock on reluctant
colleagues it was suggested that the
work should be “large enough to
hold our largest cruiser.” Cameron,
in characteristic terms, blunt and pic-
turesque, insisted that it should hold
two of our largest cruisers, and gained
his point. Thus Sydney becomes more
important as a base than Singapore was
at the height of its glory.
Cameron was not at the opening of
the dock. He received an invitation as
a member, but the condition of his wife’s
health would have prevented his being
present, even if the Government tram
and bus men, who have decided that the
trams and buses belong to them and
shall be run only when and where they
please, had not chosen the day for
another strike.
Personality Curtin, “detained” at Can-
berra by “business,” was represented by
colleague Beasley. Colleague Ward,
though member for the district, and Min-
ister of Labor and National Service dur-
ing most of the construction period, was
another absentee, associating himself
characteristically with the union boy-
cotters, He did not mention the trans-
port strikers, but he wouldn’t have dared
to offend them or any other section of
his supporters by making his appearance
in one of the Government’s grand 1942-
model Chrysler cars. Nor was Person-
ality Makin in attendance, having been
thrown into hospital when one of the
Chryslers committed hari kiri. It was left
to Personality Ceilings to do the honors
with substitute -Personality Beasley. He
seemed to be uneasy about something.
"Greatly Disturbed."
An Australian medico who has been
exiled on war service for five years has
been “greatly disturbed” by articles on
soil erosion, and asks, somewhat desper-
ately, for a brief account of what is
being done to “combat this menace to
our existence.”
Erosion is Commonwealth-wide, and
next to nothing is being done that will
have any permanent effect. There are in-
dividual landholders who have stopped
erosion and regained lost soil, but they
are very few. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has contented itself with talking
and making vague promises of includ-
ing soil conservation in its post-war re-
construction programme, whatever that
may be. State Governments have estab-
lished possibly a half-dozen “experiment
stations” which in the general problem
aren’t worth a rush, and the trained
men engaged on soil-conservation work
could be numbered on the fingers of two
hands.
This may be held, by State “conserva-
tors” and others, to be drastic criticism
rather than information. But, measured
against the truth of soil losses and against
the mounting tragedy of it, any informa-
tion containing available statistics and/or
claims would make that distant Australian
shed tears of blood.
Nothing from Australia?
Not only “the British people” but mil-
lions in the Dominions and the U.S.A.
itself have been wondering, with the
“Daily Mail,” why 325,000,000 pounds
of American meat is going to Russia
during the April-June quarter and only
25,000,000 pounds to Britain. After all,
the Socialist Sixth of the World has little
more than four times the population of
the tight little island, and has not had
to contend with a U-boat war which
began in September, 1939.
At the end of 1944 the New York “Post”
claimed that U.S. food production that
year would be “40 p.c. above the pre-
war level,” mentioning “241 billion
pounds of milk products, 8,000,000
pounds of fats and oils, six billion pounds
of canned vegetables, over a billion
bushels of wheat and three billion bushels
of corn.” Nothing there to warrant re-
duction of supplies to the major ally
that has fought longest and suffered most.
Always to the fore in these matters,
Canada has undertaken to increase its
meat exports to Britain, but when the
Parliament at Canberra adjourned for
“the Easter recess” —which means till the
third week in April—no offer had come
from Australia. Can’t this Government
do anything that smacks of generosity?
How Like a Board !
“C. 8.”: S. H. Ebery, the retired Vic-
torian farmer who has established his
own meteorological station at Black
Rock, on the shores of Port Phillip, and
whose seasonal forecasts are held by
many farmers to be uncannily accurate,
has subscribers now amongst the Black
Rock fishermen who profit by predictions
of storm conditions. They and his
farmer-subscribers are so convinced of
the national value of his forecasts that
they have asked the Dunstan Govern
ment to give him a grant of £250 for a
{Continued on page 8.)
GREAT EXPECTATIONS.
“Sorry to have to cut the ration, old dog, but Mackenzie King has promised to increase supplies. And we’re sure to get a lot more from my
‘without any inhibitions’ friend Curtin,”


ŵ
IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS
The Boob of Old Silver. English, American,
Foreign, with all available Hallmarks, in-
cluding Sheffield Plate marks. By S. B.
Wyler. Profusely illustrated, large hand-
some volume. 27/6 (post 1/-).
The Best Plays 1943-1944.~And the Year Book
of the Drama in America. Edited by Burns
Mantle. 22/6 (post 9d.).
Digest of Ten Famous French Novels.
Camille, Thais, Pere Goriot, Madame Bovary,
De Mauphin, Nana, Les Miserables, Un Vie,
Monte Cristo, Sappho. 678 pages. 17/6
(post 10d.).
Between Heaven and Earth, By Franz Werfel.
Author of “The Song of Bernadette.’ An
inspiring and helpful book. 22/6 (post 6d.).
The Joke Tellers’ Joke Book. 7/6 (post 4d.).
2500 Jokes for All Occasions, 7/6 (post 6d.).
We Must Go On. A study of Planned Recon-
struction and Housing. By Barnett, Burt
and Heath. Profusely illustrated. «/-
(post 3d.).
Potch and Colour. Stories by Katherine
Susannah Prichard. 7/6 (post 3d.).
More Nice Types. By Raff and Armstrong.
Humor of the R.A.F. 7/9 ((post 3d.).
Japan's Military Masters. The Army to
Japanese Life. By mills Lory. 8/6 (post
4d.). T,_ T
Freud, His Dream and Sex Theories. By
Jastrow. 7/6 (post 6d.).
Britain Opens a Gateway. The Jewish Pro g -
lem. Numerous illustrations. By G.
Perry. 6/6 (post 3d.). ,
Education Through Art. By Herbert e
40/- (post »d.). t
Herbert Bead. An introduction
by various hands. Edited by Henry
16/9 (post 4d,). ,
The Old Burma Road. A on oot
muleback. By Doctor Neville Bradley.
(post 5d.). . ,
Dutch Administration in the Nether a
Indies. By W. Preger. 7/6 (post 3d.).
Ten Years in Japan. A contemp^ ry at £ e ' flD d
drawn from the Diaries d G rew U nlted
Official Papers of Joseph G. Grew, o
Ambassador to Japan 1932-1942.
(post 9d.). _ gj r
Full Employment in a Free Society F J mouS
William Beveridge. Author oi
Beveridge Report. 19/6 (post 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
12-months’ investigation of the upper-air
movements on which he bases his predic-
tions.
Boards are funny things, however.
They will do, as boards, things that
individually no member would do. An
important board was asked to recommend
Ebery’s system. The reply was that as
individuals the board was thoroughly im-
pressed by his merits as a weather pro-
phet, but as a board they could have no
opinion.
POLITICAL POINTS
Churchill went to the Rhineland to be
with his troops and their general when
they entered what looks like being the
last stage of the tremendous struggle, and
he came under fire for the thousandth
time. If at any period since May, 1940,
it had been asserted that British troops in
any European or African battle area were
short of equipment he would have been
there by the first ’plane. This assertion
has been made in press and Parliament
concerning Australian troops fighting on
Australian territory, but neither Curtin
nor any of his Ministers has undertaken
to go there and see things for himself.
What a mob! Good God, what a mob!
There are four savings banks other
than the Commonwealth institution ; one
at Hobart, one at Launceston and the
State Savings Banks in Victoria and
South Australia. The Hobart bank has
been celebrating its centenary, having
been founded in March, 1945, by a
Quaker, George Washington Walker. In
a hundred years deposits have grown
from £5OOO to £6,500,000, and from the
accumulated shillings and pounds there
have been solid investments in homes,
businesses and public works. Says the
“Mercury”:
The bank has been conducted by busi-
nessmen who, not content with setting an
example in the operation of private enter-
prise in their own concerns, have given their
time gratuitously to furthering the inter-
ests of a great community facility. It has
never bee» subjected to Government inter-
ference in any form.
The wonderful Labor fellows at Can-
berra, a lot of whom attended the funeral
obsequies of the N.S.W. Labor Govern-
ment Savings Bank, are taking power to
alter all that.
Before the Canadian Defence Minis-
ter, General McNaughton, was beaten
in an Ontario by-election, Mackenzie-
King announced that he would cause
Parliament to be dissolved before April
17, and this he has now done. On March
26, 1940, his Liberal party was returned
with 174 seats in a House of 245. Its
difficulty next time will be to get a
majority at all. Not that this is likely
to worry the P.M. and his principal
advisers, all elderly philosophers who
have had a gruelling time during the
war. Mackenzie King himself has turned
70 and has had 17 years as P.M.
With Cleary going, it looks as if
A.B.C. will inflict Communist Weeks on
its public. One night last week 2FC
had Comrade Rupe Lockwood blithering
about unionists being wickedly blamed
for wharf looting, the real culprits being
capitalists with big bank balances and
sub-machine guns. True, an occasional
unionist might be corrupted by these
mysterious villains, but in such cases the
union could deal with him. By expel-
ling the thief from its ranks? No; by
fining him, if a fine were thought ex-
pedient. Shipping men, wharf police and
watchmen had scarcely done laughing
when Comrade Georgy Farwell was put on
as an Eminent Australian Author, inter-
viewed by a Mr. Ingram Smith. Nobody
outside 2FC and communist offices had
ever heard of this Eminent Australian
Author.
“Edward VIII, by the grace of God, of
Great Britain, Ireland and the British
Dominions beyond the Seas King, De-
fender of the Faith, Emperor of India,
has abdicated and will be succeeded by
Murphy.” Put that way on December 10,
1936, it would have been a world’s
wonder. On March 15, 1945, the man
who was Edward VIII resigned as Gov-
ernor of the Bahamas and Murphy will
take his place. Murphy is from the
Colonial Office, at present Colonial Sec-
retary in Bermuda.
As it appeared in the Sydney “Daily
Mirror,” which has twisted suddenly to
Laborism:
LEAVE FOR FIGHTING M.Ps.
The House granted further leave of
absence to Gunner Blain, who is a prisoner
of war in Japanese hands, and Mr. Fal-
stein, who is on service with the R.A.A.F.
Surely a little premature in one case.
A palpable liar and instrument of
communist ruffianism, Mountjoy, M.H.R.,
could not be shamed by Harrison
or Menzies into withdrawing and apolo-
gising for his foul attack on Barclay,
of the Sane Democracy League, and a
married lady, launched from behind the
cowardly hedge of privilege without a
particle of evidence. Instead, he blustered
that he had had “a genuine desire for
information,” and when informed that
Barclay’s son —the old man’s only son —
when found on the field of honor had
five dead Japanese about him, the fellow
hissed that “Mister de Barclay, junior,
died fighting our Fascist enemies while
ANALOGOUS CASE.
“The forms of the House are being abused by questions such as those asked by Mr. Mountjoy,
which involved a most serious and scurrilous allegation against a man unable to speak in the
House in reply. There should be a Committee of Privileges to protect people in such cases.”
“You see what I was driving at, ladies and gentlemen. Though this creature has
the protection and privilege of decent quarters he remains offensive. You can
remove the smell only by removing the animal.”
his father helps them at home.” Captain
Barclay’s memory is honored in the Sixth
Division, and it would be dangerous for
the political tough from Swan to repeat
his charges in the hearing of any Sixth
Division Digger. He is safe in any com-
pany where Rafferty rules.
“I wouldn’t give a if you didn’t
run the trams and trains on any Saturday
or Sunday.” That, according to a Sydney
transport strike boss, was Curtin’s answer
when the union called on him with de-
mands and threats. He must have been
in the same mood when “between 40 and
50 wheatgrowers’ representatives” arrived
at Canberra to press for ss. 2d. a bushel
for 1945-46 wheat. He testily replied that
if they couldn’t make a do of it on 4s. 3d.
then their industry was “doomed.” So,
doomed to disappointment, the cockies
withdrew. But they and their fellow-
wheatgrowers have memories and votes,
as the unspeakable Mountjoy, for one,
will discover when he goes up for Swan
again.
Doubtless because it was discovered
that wheatgrowers were saying nasty
things about Curtin’s reply to their depu-
tation, it was announced on Monday that
they are to get another shilling a bushel
on wheat sold as stock feed from the No.
6 and No. 7 pools. The cost is casually
reckoned at “several millions.” The elec-
tions? Only 16 or 17 months off.
It looks as if inter-State travel may
be reserved for persons enjoying Labor
protection, particularly union bosses and
pugilists. Conelan, from Brisbane, de-
manded to know how Melbourne people
had managed to hear Menzies speak on
the Banking Bill, and Ward replied that
if Conelan gave him the names he would
“start an investigation.” Conelan could
give him the name of a Brisbane pug,
young and single, who figured in a murder
trial as the boy friend of the deceased
wife of a soldier with, as the Crown
Prosecutor admitted, a good record in
the military and previously in private
life. The pug admitted that “he knew
from the beginning she was married,”
and had been with her in a car the
day before the soldier shot her, but
asserted that “it came as a terrific sur-
prise” when the post-mortem revealed
that she had had relations with a man
24 hours before her death. The soldier
got ten years. The pug got a priority to
come to Sydney and box —which he did
12 hours or so after the Conelan-Ward
nastiness was reported.
With the Graziers, as well as the
Farmers and Settlers, withdrawn from the
N.S.W. Country party, though friendly-
like, there seems little use or hope for
that group in N. S. Wales, or in West-
ralia, for that matter. In that State the
Primary Producers quitted the Country
party, hoping that this would pave the
way for an amalgamation with the Wheat-
growers’ Union which has not been
brought off. Ross McDonald, leader of
the State Liberals, wants an alliance with
the C.P. and has sportingly offered to
serve under Watts, whom the Primary
Producers left high and dry. South Aus-
tralia has the best arrangement, a Liberal
party with city and country wings. A
Government thus supported beat the
Labor party hollow.
In Athens on Independence Day
General Scobie was greeted as a saviour
of the Greek nation, and the Regent,
Archbishop Damoskinos, decorated him
with the Grand Cross, its highest award.
A facer for the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
and its Sunday issue, which blackguarded
the general and Leeper, the Australian-
born British Minister, for having stood
by the Government and the people when
E.L.A.S. betrayed and attacked both.
On paper, E.L.A.S. had “a people’s army”
of the kind the “Daily Telegraph” “de-
manded” for Australia in 1942, but the
“people’s army” turned out to ’be a set
of armed mobs composed of murderous
savages, described by the Tommies
(many of them members of the Postal
Workers’ Union) as “dirtier fighters
than the Germans.” Disappointed in
Greece, and swinging wildly at other
heads, the “Sunday Telegraph” has “dis-
covered” that “the Catholic Church
robbed France of the Saar,” and that
“Kesselring’s canny defence” of Italy,
“aided by Allied political mistakes, which
alienated the sympathy of partisans” (com-
munists) “in the north, frustrated the
British attempt to break through from
southern Europe.” A collection of nasty
lies, but characteristic of the journalism
which crawls to Moscow and in which
the nose of the leftist Jew can often be
descried.
On Friday the Prime Minister spoke
on “post-war defence,” There are to be
a council, four main committees, liaison
officers, defence of the island screen north
of Australia and New Zealand and col-
lective security. The debate was adjourned
before anything could be said as to who
is to do the defending, and whether train-
ing of ground troops will be compulsory
or voluntary.
As Minister for Post-war Reconstruc-
tion, it fell to Dedman’s lot to introduce
the bill for the rehabilitation or re-estab-
lishment of service personnel and people
whose civilian employment has brought
them into “physical contact or proximity
with the enemy.” The bill has 12 parts:
General preference in employment, rein-
statement in previous employment, resump-
* tion of apprenticeship, a Commonwealth
f employment service, waiving of certain
qualifications for special types of employ-
ment, vocational training, war gratuities,
housing and land settlement, legal aid for
service personnel, a moratorium, allowances
for trainees and those awaiting employ-
ment.
The seven-year limit has been clamped
on the preference clauses and more is
certain to be heard about that; for the
rest there is the analogy of the curate’s
egg. The thing, particularly the land-
settlement part, should be debated to the
last word before being handed to the
nation as the last word.
Sydney Labor Government’s “Trans-
port Advisory Committee” has recom-
mended an Eastern Suburbs railway, sub-
stitution of diesel buses for footboard
trams and “improved road facilities.” It
has not recommended any method of
dealing with conductors and drivers who
won’t take vehicles to their appointed des-
tinations.
James Turner, leader of the British
farmers’ delegation, back in Sydney after
a 5000-mile tour, said his party was con-
vinced that water conservation, contour
cultivation and other anti-erosion meas-
ures would bulk large in future Austra-
lian land methods. And now, perhaps,
one or other of the State Premiers will
rush out and appoint another youth as
a Conservation Service cadet.
Sydney’s Transport Minister, one
O’Sullivan, announces “a system of fast
motor roads, controlled by the Govern-
ment,” as part of the new order after
the war. How could anything be “fast”
when “controlled” by O’Sullivan’s “Gov-
ernment?”


NO - MOT 4 I
iVEN WATER! ) ' /
&
5/44
The craziest of all ideas is to deny your
battery a drink. Stupid, isn’t it?
Consult your Exide dealer. Get him to give
your battery a once-over every second week
and add distilled water when necessary.
Water does not weaken the acid. This is the
way to get months of extra service from your
battery.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Along with Bob Menzies, then Prime
Minister; Archie Cameron, his Minister
for the Navy, and their Government
backing in forcing insistence on setting
up a graving dock, a 74-year-old Scot and
a 60-year-old Maorilander take outstand-
ing place in the finje achievement the Duke
of Gloucester put the final official touch
to in Sydney last Saturday.
The Scot, Sir Leopold H. Savile, was
invited in 1938 by the Government to
report on the best site in Australia for
a dock to accommodate the big ships.
He gave the possibilities a close look-over,
and plumped for the Sydney Harbor spot.
For 13 years Civil Engineer-in-Chief to
the Admiralty, Sir Leopold was a
senior member of the Gibb consulting
engineers concern in London when asked
to make his pick here. He looked into
16 ports before deciding. A son of an
army officer of Ballendrick (Scotland), he
learned his job with such great authori-
ties as Sir John Wolfe Barry and H. M.
Brunei.
The Maorilander, Maurice W. Mehaf-
fey, has had the top job on the construc-
tion of the dock since its inception. Born
at Invercargill and educated at Southland
Boys’ High and the N.Z. Uni., he was in
turn assistant engineer to the Auckland
Harbor Board, the Queensland Harbors
and Rivers Department and the Com-
monwealth Lighthouse Service. In the
past quarter of a century he has done the
constructional engineer’s job on so many
other big maritime works round about
Australia that he was practically an auto-
matic graving-dock choice.
Melbourne Greeks, celebrating their
National Day, still have the services of
their veteran Consul, Antony John Jereos
Lucas. The octogenarian landed in Mel-
bourne in 1886 without a penny in his
pocket, and started a since celebrated
cafe —the Australia. Then he went into
business, made a fortune and retired. He
has spent the rest of his 82 years in fos-
tering Greco-Australian relations, and,
like Voltaire, cultivating his garden, a
beautiful one at Frankston. Director of
Motor Spares, Prestige, the Maison de
Luxe and several picture theatres, he was
born in Ithaca, the legendary home of
Ulysses, who also wandered far in search
of fortune but didn’t find it.
Having now held the job for a bit over
Jack Lang’s 46 months nine days, N. S.
Wales Premier W. J. McKell now has
the Labor Premiership long-distance
record for his State. He beats Lang
hollow in consecutive running, the Big
Fellow having done his terms in broken
stretches. McKell has been member for
Redfern since 1917.
Winner last year of the Wilsmore
Prize in chemistry, J. P. E. Human, of
the Westralian Uni., has been awarded
the Masson Memorial Scholarship for
1945 by the Australian Chemical Insti-
tute. It’s the first time a Westralian has
collected this scholarship, which was es-
tablished in honor of the Institute’s
founder, David Orme Masson. It should
now be Tassie’s turn, every other State
having produced a winner—Queensland,
Miss B. J. Money; South Aus., H. J.
Rodda ; Victoria, K. H. Pausacker; N. S.
Wales, J. B. Willis. The scholarship is
for students proposing to do a further
year’s study, and'the Westralian winner
proposes doing his with Professor A. K.
Macbeth at Adelaide Uni.
A Middle East and New Guinea
Digger, Edward T. S. Pearce, is the new
general secretary of the Australian Sugar
Producers’ Association. In his early
thirties, and a 8.A., B.Ec., Pearce is at
present with the Ninth Div., but it’s
expected that he’ll be released. He was
formerly the association’s Industrial
Court advocate.
That wonderful old man Dr. Thomas
Cherry, head of cancer research in Mel-
bourne, remains at 87 as obsessed with
his researches as he was when he started
40 years or so ago. Lately he issued
another elaborate brochure. Cancer and
the Tubercle Bacillus, in which he de-
develops the thesis that there is a mys-
terious relationship between the mortality
rates of the two scourges. As one falls
the other rises. Dr. Cherry draws the
conclusion that if, by hygiene and educa-
tion, we could make our surroundings
with a complete absence of the t.-b.
bacillus both diseases would vanish. Dr.
Cherry works so unambitiously in his
laboratory at Melbourne University that
he hasn’t a mention in the new Austra-
lian Who’s Who, though his mathemati-
cal son has.
Lieut.-Commander J. M.. Ramsay,
R.A.N., a Hobart man, is credited with
the single-handed capture of Akyab
(Burma rice port; pre-war population
30,000). Put ashore with instructions
to survey the harbor, Ramsay carried a
revolver in one hand and a Union Jack
in the other. He nailed the flag to a
telegraph pole at the end of the main
pier, and thus put Akyab back in British
hands. He beat the army into the town
by several hours.
Smith, J., of the M.L. Supreme Court
Bench, succeeds J. A. Hanan as Chancellor
of the N.Z. Uni. Born in Dunedin in
1888, the new Chancellor finished his
education at Wellington College and Wel-
lington Uni., graduating LL.M. in 1913.
In World War No. I he served with the
Wellington Infantry, and afterwards took
an active part in R.S.A. doings. In 1933
the U.S. Government asked him to accept
appointment as non-national member of
'the Permanent Commission under the
Treaty of Conciliation between the U.S.A.
and Peru.
First glance at the accompanying
Mcßeath drawing registers “Footballer,”
and first glance is right. Group-Captain
Bert Chadwick led Melbourne to victory
in Australian Rules League grand finals
and for a number of years captained
Victoria against other States. That was
after the last big scrap, in which Chad-
wick served with the old original No. 1
Squadron, A.F.C., returning with a Meri-
torious Service Medal and a “mention.”
GROUP-CAPTAIN CHADWICK.
These days he’s responsible, as Director
of Manning, for organising and direct-
ing not only R.A.A.F. recruiting but all
R.A.A.F. occupational releases. His job
in civvy life was Metropolitan Gas Co.
sales director, and, as well as his foot-
ball he was a good enough cricketer
to piay m Melbourne firsts (he s a mem-
t> e yof the M-C-C. committee), and as a
golfer he captained Riversdale.
Alec Chisholm, topnotch writer on
Australian birds, has been given a Scot-
tish send-off by Melbourne’s Caledonian
Society. He’s been appointed publicity
oll.icei to the Duke of Gloucester at Can-
,l ' erra -
Sir Frank Boileau, Bart, who lately
passed on at 74 in Melbourne, inherited
an ancient title from a Norfolk cousin
in 1940. He was a stock and station
agent and a member of an old pioneer-
ing Gippsland family. The Boileau family
bulked large in British political and
French art history. It was a Boileau
who obtained the Rock of Gibraltar for
Britain. The new baronet is Major Gil-
bert Boileau, A.A.M.C., a Mornington
(Vic.) doctor.
Justice Roslyn Philp, of the Supreme
Court Bench in Queensland since 1939,
is a son of old-time Bulletin sub-editor
and writer of rollicking and racy verse
James Philp, who ended his cheery span
as commercial editor of the Brisbane
QUEENSLAND JUSTICE.
“Courier,” enjoying life to the last. The
Justice, now 50, was late entering prac-
tice at the Bar, through having a party’s
interest in a cause celebre, Rex et al v.
Kaiser et al, in which he served as a
gunner of the 12th F.A.B. He returned
gassed, but in cheerful shape, joined the
Queensland Justice Department, worked
hard for the Bar to which he was called
at 28, and less than 16 years later forsook
practice for the Bench. In the present war
he’s been chairman of the Internment
Tribunal in Queensland, and Scorfield
sketched him on his way to the south,
where he is to preside over the inquiry
into the Stinson aircraft crash near Mil-
dura. There are those who tip him as a
strong possibility for one of the next
vacancies on the High Court Bench.
Alf Peacock, generally to be found
about Claremont baths (W.A.) when life-
saving tests are on, probably holds a
W.A. record for life-saving work, and
could contest a world championship for
continued efficiency. He got his bronze
medallion in 1917, and has since added
11 bars to it in various tests; the silver
medallion in 1920 (200yds. breast stroke,
200yds. free style and 200yds. on the back
without using arms, all in street clothes)
and 10 times since. As well as being
chief instructor for the Royal Life-Saving
Society in W.A., he’s an examiner in surf
life-saving, foundation member of City
of Perth L.S. Club, association boat-buoy
judge, qualified St. John Ambulance
member, holder of the Recognition Badge
(Lond.) and 48 years old.
This year’s Crouch Memorial Art Prize
of £lOO at Ballarat Art Gallery goes to
Sgt. Charles Bush, a war artist in the
Military Historical Section. “Deserted
Mallee Homestead” was the subject.
Bush is a frequent exhibitor at Melbourne
art shows.
Lord Alfred Douglas, author and
poet, who has passed on at 75
in England, suffered in literary repu-
tation, as well as in other ways,
because of his association with Oscar
Wilde. Shaw blames his father, the
Marquis of Queensberry, a terrible old
tyrant, whose jealousy of his offspring is
said to have gone over the borderline
into insanity. Wilde died in Paris in
1900, but his friend continued to live on,
to the consternation of a London daily,
which accepted a rumor of his death and
wrote up the whole case, incurring a libel
action which landed it with substantial
damages. A few years ago a play on
Wilde was produced by amateurs in Mel-
bourne, in which Lord Alfred figured.
The playwright had taken the, precaution
to get Lord Alfred’s o.k. to it. One of
Lord Alfred’s own plays was recently
performed at Melbourne University, The
universities of his day wouldn’t have
touched it with a 40-foot girder.
“Sixenate”: Squadron-Leader Geo.
Vernon Dudley, D. 5.0., M.C., has worn
more uniforms than most men. He has
been in the 17th Lancers, the Rhodesian
police, Royal Canadian Mounted, Royal
Irish Constabulary, N.T. police, N.S.W.
sheriff’s office, the A.I.F. (two wars) and
R.
Retired at 70 from the Education
Office in Hobart, P. H. Mitchell was one
of a batch of teachers imported from
S. 40 years back and became head of
Beaconsfield, head of Hobart High and
finally education officer. He’s carrying
on as chairman of the Umpire and Permit
Committee of Football (Australian Code)
in Hobart.
Here as chief delegate for the U.K.
to U.N.R.R.A., Sir Paul Butler has had
a long acquaintance with the Near North
and speaks Chinese and Japanese fluently.
He just missed internment in Singapore,
and has been conducting the Far-Eastern
Bureau, a political welfare organisation,
in New Delhi. He has a high regard for
Australian diplomats who have made
their mark in the British service, like
Leeper, Officer and Casey, and wants to
see more of them in the Foreign Office.
Robert Cecil Silver, M.A., senior lec-
turer in French and Literature at Glas-
gow Uni., has been appointed to the chair
of Modern Languages at Otago Uni.
(M.L.). Born in Glasca’ 44 years ago,
he was an artillery lieut. in 1918, after-
wards going to Paris Uni. to study
French, German and Italian.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at' 93, J. A. V. Brown, who
lived in the Northern Territory for the last
quarter of last century, when it belonged to
S.A. He was clerk of the Darwin Council, and
became M.L.A. for the N.T. in the S.A. Parlia-
ment.
In Adelaide, at 75, Ben Gillman, for close on
half a century in the S.A. Railways, rising to
general traffic manager. He was offered a simi-
lar post in the Federal Malay States, but de-
clined to leave Australia. Gillman did good
work also as chairman of the Unemployment
Relief Council, and president of the Common-
wealth Club.
At 86, at Geelong, John Charles Kenyon,
who fought in the Zulu, Boer and 1914 wars.
He was also an R.N. man.
At Dunedin (M.L.), at, 92, John A. Cook,
the Dominion’s oldest practising lawyer. Known
on the Turf as “J. Brett,” he raced Red Gaunt-
let, Crichton, Blackstone and others.
In New York, Miss Ethel Lissack, known
to the stage as Ethel Raye. Born in Melbourne
and taken to M.L. as a child, she toured M.L.
with Norman Aitken’s “Charlie’s Aunt” co.
and Australia with Emilie Polini. Twenty years
ago she went to America, joined George White’s
Scandals and in addition did much broadcast-
ing there and in Canada. Latterly she was em-
ployed by the U.S. Government, and ((helped
entertain Australian and M.L. servicemen
at New York’s Anzac Club.
At 90, at Leura (N.S.W.), Dr. William
Cotter Williamson, who, securing his degree at
23, joined the Royal Navy as a surgeon in
1879, arrived in Sydney that year in H.M.S.
Shamrock and a little later, after discharge, re-
turned to Australia, practised at Yass (N.S.W.),
then joined the Government service. He was
superintendent at Parramatta in 1882, then at
Newcastle, Rydalmere and Gladesville, eventu-
ally becoming Deputy-Inspector General.
In Perth, at 77, A. Colenso Kessell, secretary
to six Premiers. He caused much debate in
the Assembly about a pension which he even-
tually secured. Afterwards he joined Westra-
lian Farmers and latterly conducted their trade
journal. “Dryblower” Murphy dubbed him
“the Facilitator,” from his habit of saying to
would-be interviewers that he’d see if he could
facilitate matters. In his early years Kessell
ran a shorthand academy at Ballarat.
At 100, in Invercargill (M.L.), Mortimer
Hishon, a native of Limerick (Ireland), whose
father built one of the first houses in Madeleine-
street, Melbourne.
Recently, in the Riverina, Henry P. Gaze (55),
for many years physical training instructor at
leading N.S.W. public schools and for over
quarter of a century physical director of the
Sydney Y.M.C.A.
In Adelaide, at 61, Eric H. McMichael, lead-
ing architect of S.A. Articled with the old
firm of Garlick and Jackman, he later joined the
Architect-in-Chief’s Department before starting
his own business in 1910, and since then de-
signed many of Adelaide's finest buildings.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Tuart”: Over the sundering of
our new aristocracy by the arrange-
ments for “opening” the Sydney dock
with nice degrees of social distinc-
tion and the maximum of elegance and
eclat the shade of Lord Beauchamp must
be frequently shaking with mirth. As a
young Governor he was involved in two
dreadful indiscretions. One was the
“birthstains” message, telegraphed from
Albany (W.A.) to Sydney when the lord-
ling was on his way to what was to be-
come, in old age, his chosen home or
place of exile:
Your birthstains you have turned to good,
Forcing strong wills perverse to steadfastness.
The message was actually the work of
a reporter to whom the Governor-elect
had sportingly left the whole thing—
“ Send ’em something you think appro-
priate ; anything you like.” When he
arrived in Sydney there was a fearful row,
which closed in universal laughter when
Jimmy Edmond, of The Bulletin, hit it
off with the line “For birthstains, take
Beauchamp’s pills.” The other contre-
temps occurred when the Governor gave
his first dance, also arranged in the “I
leave it to you” fashion of the careless
hedonist. Two sets of invitation cards
were printed, one colored blue and the
other white ; hence, as Edmond expressed
it (Jimmy was then at the top of his
form), “the Seidlitz Powder ball.” I sup-
pose the genius responsible for the sepa-
ration of the sheep from the goats is
long dead, but his spirit evidently domi-
nated the proceedings when the Dock
Day programme was being hammered
out. For members of the unions con-
cerned there was an issue of “invitations
on thin paper, bearing each man’s work
number,” and they and their womenfolk,
reckoned at 16,000, were bidden to crowd,
“roped off like sheep,” on one side of
the dock. The other side, where the Duke
and Duchess were to speak their parts, was
reserved also for “union officials, mem-
bers of Parliament and men and women
prominent in society,” all with “gilt-edged
invitations on stiff paper”; reserved
also, of course, for Labor Ministers, to be
delivered by their drivers in their beauti-
ful 1942 Chrysler cars, for which, and
for the cars of meaner folk, “a special
parking enclosure” was “provided.” And
“special bus services” were to “run to the
dockyard gates from 1 p.m. to 2.30 p.m.”
They didn’t. No buses or trams ran any-
where ; there was a Government trans-
port strike. And there was a union boy-
cott of the ceremony itself. No one
asked the Duke and Duchess, not even
the sauciest girl-reporter or the most im-
pish boy-reporter, what they thought of
the business, though they must have had
long, long thoughts. But then, you see,
this is a Labor country.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Maoriland’s price-fixing
tribunal is a whale on definitions. Poul-
terers have been scratching their heads
over a ukase about chickens, which are
described as “Domestic fowls with the
distinguishing characteristics that (1) they
are under five months old, (2) breast
bones terminate in pliable gristle and
not in completely hardened bone, (3) in
the case of cockerels, spurs are not hard-
ened or fully developed. Further, that
they are well fleshed on the breast, have
unbroken straight breast bones, carry no
tears on the skin on the breast, and are
shaped by means of skewers or string
ready for cooking purposes.” In order
to make it perfectly clear the order adds,
“The birds must be dead,”
tt . * „ _ * ~ * * , .
Avon : That old Army jest about
Tasmanians always looking behind when
?. rd f r ® d n take .u° ne P ace Jf, the , rear
(lest they fall in the sea) might have been
applied with even more point to t e
Maonlanders, from whose narrow islands
arise many eminences from which a good
ha!f of the Dominion may be surveyed.
The Southern Alps, of course, are only
one mountain chain among many Alpm-
ists nowadays find more detectable rock-
climbing on some of fire lesser ranges.
Thisyearthe highest peakm the Kaikouras
whose precipitous saw-tooth summits
can be seen ghostlike from the beaches
of Canterbury in the South and Welling-
toi in the North-has been conquered.
This is Tapuaenuku (9465 ft.) The name
means footsteps of the rainbow and
is an improvement on the moniker be-
stowed by the first settlers—Mount Odin.
From the summit, so the climbers re-
ported, they saw all Marlborough
stretched beneath them like a map; to
the west the Tasman Sea, visible over a
shoulder of the Lyell range ; to the south
the Canterbury Plains; to the north the
graceful cones of Ruapeku (now showing
signs of volcanic activity) and Egmont.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”; A Melbourne ama-
teur theatre is responsible for an inno-
vation, no doubt determined by the cur-
rent shortage. A notice in the foyer states
“The tapestry suite in this play is For
Sale. Apply at desk.” It won’t be long
before the professional stage appropriates
the notion.
"I'll lay seven to four I don't go over a hundred and two”
“Bo”: Australian Harry Bridges, un-
crowned king of the ’Frisco longshore-
men (wharfies to you), has proved that
the gift of aggressive gab is a golden one.
His wife, separated from him, is claiming
£l4O a month alimony out of his esti-
mated income of £3lO a month (how envi-
ous that must make some of our local
Trotskys!). Longshoremen pride them-
selves on being tough guys, and how
they’ll react to the claim by their leader
that his wife treated him “with extreme
cruelty” is an interesting speculation. If
it comes out in evidence that the fiery
Harry was given the rounds of the kitchen
every night by an 8-stone wife (and he
wouldn’t be the first allegedly hard-boiled
egg to be so treated) the rows that will
go up on the ’Frisco waterfront will do
Harry more harm than a barrow-load of
deportation writs.
* * * *
“Aroha”: Nothing in their history
seems to have given Maorilanders a
warmer feeling round the heart than the
guardianship the Dominion has under-
taken of some hundreds of Polish chil-
dren. Till she died Priminister Fraser’s
wife was head of the Polish Children’s
Hospitality Committee; Governor-Gen-
eral Newall and his lady have shown
keen and practical interest, and the N.Z.
Red Cross, Girl Guides, Lady Galway
Guild and other organisations have been
vieing with each other in making the
youngsters welcome and comfortable. In
a letter of thanks Maria Wodzica (wife
of the Polish Consul-General) says:
The care, accommodation, food, medical
help and incredible kindness with which
these children have been surrounded have
already worked miracles. There are
moments, such as when mail is distributed
to the lucky ones who have fathers and
brothers fighting in Italy, when one sees
the tragedy of their grief and loneliness
in the eyes of the many who have nobody
left to them, or whose parents are still de-
tained in concentration camps on far-away
steppes; but, except for these interludes,
one is confronted with a normal, healthy,
eager crowd of happy children.
A kindly action has brought its own rich
reward.
* * * ♦
“Skipper”: Infantrymen dislike mortar
fire (B. 14/3/’45) far worse than shelling
or small-arms fire. There is no cover
from mortar fire except in an under-
ground dugout. A low bank or ridge
between oneself and a field gun or
machine-gun is ample protection against
their missiles, which travel on a compara-
tively fiat trajectory. These weapons
shoot at the target. A mortar is aimed
at a point about 2000 ft. above the target,
and when the initial velocity is expended
the bomb descends almost vertically. As
it falls it makes a hissing, sizzling noise
and, lying in a slit trench anywhere within
a couple of hundred yards of its prob-
able point of impact, you get an uncom-
fortable feeling that the bomb is going
to land plumb in your own little possy.
Troops advancing across open country
can be greatly hampered by bursting
mortar bombs, which have a lateral
danger area of up to a hundred yards.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Prospect, an Adelaide
suburb, has acquired for its C. of E. St.
Cuthbert’s church a stone from the tomb
of that saint (died reputedly a.d. 687).
Durham Cathedral has sent it to Adel-
aide at the request of Padre Thrush
of the R.A.A.F., and it was un-
veiled by Bishop Robin in the presence of
members of the Royal Geographical
Society and the Corporation of Prospect.
* * * *
“Balander”: Mackay (N.Q.) has a
fellow-feeling with Sydney over the de-
parture of the Americans, their going
having deprived the little town of a use-
ful income. It is reckoned that in their
last year 40,000 of Uncle Sam’s boys
passed through Mackay or hung around
in it for an average of ten days’ leave,
and their accumulated spending must
have run into a million quid. Now
novelty and curio shops have folded up,
the hiring of bikes and nags has slumped
and an ordinary citizen can sight a pub
without having to use a periscope. But
the most breathtaking sight of all is to
walk along a street and see hung outside
sundry buildings the legend “Room to
Let.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The N.S.W. Railway
Commissioner has, perhaps unknowingly,
an artist on the payroll. His gallery is a
drab shunting yard at Flemington
(N.S.W.) and the medium is not canvas
or stone, but privet shrubs. Among the
most outstanding examples of this chap’s
topiary art are the Australian coat of
arms, an abo. throwing a boomerang, and
a lyrebird. There are several kangaroos
(one with a joey peeping from the pouch)
some emus, a greyhound and a koala
climbing a tree. In quite another vein
are a Spitfire, banking gracefully, and
the inevitable Harbor Bridge.
* * * *
“Craiser”: An Australian university
recently got an insight into the intensity
of the Oriental passion for learning. An
Indian student who was taking a course
in political science and economics an-
nounced that he tied his hair up to the
ceiling of his attic before he started
burning the midnight oil over his text-
books. When he nodded over his book
the pain woke him up. He passed with
honors.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Reported from Stockholm
that Nijinsky, the dancer who once cap-
tivated all balletomanes, was executed by
the Nazis before the Russians entered
Budapest because, being insane, he came
under an edict which condemned all in-
sane persons to death to conserve food.
Possibly the report will turn out to be
imaginative, like many others. In her
diary his wife has described the dancer’s
conduct before his brain became com-
pletely clouded during World War I. He
stared at a fashionable audience without
speaking for some time, and then leapt
up shouting “Now I will dance you the
war, with its suffering, its destruction, its
death —the war which you did not pre-
vent and for which you are responsible i ”
He then proceeded to fill the stage with
choreographic visions of horror-stricken,
suffering humanity. A few days later his
disease was diagnosed as schizophrenia
and he was removed to an asylum. Years
later Freud, asked for an opinion on the
case, said “Let him dream his dreams.”
A Viennese specialist then took the case
up and was nearing success when World
War II broke out. The treatment had to
be suspended and Nijinsky lapsed into
melancholia.
* * * *
“J.A.W,”: Despite Mahan’s august
authority, I can’t swallow “Julia C.’s”
theory (B. 21/2/’45) that Nelson wore a
shade over his good eye. The truth of
the matter is that the artists of Nelson’s
day mistakenly depicted the hero with
the shade over his left (uninjured) eye,
though it was very obvious that the
blind right eye was intended. The error
has stuck and has persisted down the
years, on the principle, as Dryden says,
that “an inaccuracy from the brush or
pen of a famed artist or writer becomes
traditional to posterity.”
- * * * *
“Wig”: The law’s little joke. Act I:
A wealthy Maorilander, unwilling that
his daughters’ husbands should share in
his fortune, left all to the girls for life;
then the capital to their respective child-
ren. Act II: One of the daughters died,
childless. Act III: The Courts decide
that, in spite of her own will, leaving all
she had to her own husband, her big
share of the original estate goes to her
sisters, and so, in effect to their husbands.
* * ifc *
“Ear Punisher”: All these reminis-
cences of the days of 50 years ago in
Melbourne, when there were picturesque
old joints where the great men of the
time foregathered in an atmosphere of
good wine and food, intellectual discus-
sion and romantic Bohemianism (B.
14/3/’45), make me wonder whether our
descendants will have kindly memories
of these days we live in. They certainly
won’t have the same sort of memories
to enthuse over. There is scarcely a cafe
in Melbourne at the moment where you
can get an evening meal without queuing
for your table, being told that it
is beerless and wineless, and being
acidly regarded by the waiter if
you outstay your “welcome.” Most
of the diners are the new-rich, who
are typists or temporary clerks in some
war department, drawing twice as much
money in a week as the Old Bohemians
saw in a month, and with no higher intel-
lectual aspiration than to survey the latest
talkie. If any Bohemian joint survives in
Melbourne it must be tucked away some-
where in Carlton or Fitzroy.
BLANKETED.
Oh, no! We seldom mention them,
You’ll never see in print reviewed
Our soldiers’ deeds. Though you condemn
The Ministerial attitude,
Curtin and Forde ordain it thus,
As being best for them —and us.
For those to reticence inclined,
Whate’er the reason, of a surety
The safest plea to hide behind
Is that of “milit’ry security,”
Though one may feel a genuine
Doubt just how often that comes in.
Silence has point's, but is it any
Wonder it sometimes starts a throng
Of cynics asking why so many
Have done so little for so long,
When all for them that might be said
Is rigorously blanketed?
Just how they fought and whither fared,
And what the date and where the clime
Will be, one’s lately heard declared,
Disclosed at the “appropriate time”;
Till then, whenever that may be,
They can’t expect publicity.
When other nations paeans raise,
And ever find occasions new
For giving honest merit praise
And stubborn fortitude its due,
Why are we so ungenerous
Towards the men who fight’ for us?
N.s.w.
MIDEORD.
A MODERN TANTALUS.
You’ve read of Tantalus, the king who spilt
Some secrets of the gods, and hence was sent
To Tartarus, to expiate his guilt
By a supremely dreadful punishment.
Poor wretch, he stood in water to his chin,
And though a drink was ne’er so sorely
needed,
Whene’er he sought to slake his parch therein
The stuff receded.
Above his head a fruit-tree, rich and rare,
His pangs of hunger regularly stirred,
But when he tried to pluck a peach or pear
The same exasperating thing occurred.
Evading all the clutches he might make
It edged away from him, a grim tormentor,
Fair type of what some people call a fake,
And some a schlenter.
Unhappy Tantalus! What fearsome fate
Forever and forever to be cursed
With fierce voracity he couldn’t abate
And all the woes that go with raging thirst!
And when it seemed so near, the blest relief
For which his frame so longingly entreated,
To find himself deep-plunged anew in grief,
Duped, baffled, cheated!
Well, anyway, he coined the world a phrase.
My thoughts ran back to him when I espied
A citizen who bent a rapturous gaze
Upon a wealth of bottles ranged inside^
A vintner’s window, bearing various brands
Of stimulants in which no headache-nsk is,
Products of this and eke more favored lands
From wines to whiskies.
His face lit up, as one may see the sun
Shine forth, the mists of autumn to dispel.
He peered a trifle closer then, and none
Could fail to mark how suddenly it ten.
For there was plainly writ the harrowmg tele.
Below where what you d take for gm an
“The bottles s 'here displayed are not for sale,
They’re merely dummies.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Reo Gunner”; A veteran A.I.F. regi-
ment, after campaigning in M.E. and
N.G., endured the boredom of waiting at
an N.G. base for action. To the gunners
minds, the position was aggravated by
harassing attention to kit layout, webbing
cleaning and such activities. Came the
weekly lecturer from A.E.S., his subject
“Russo - Japanese Relations.” Every
gunner’s heart rejoiced when the lecturer
put the question “What do you think
would be the consequences if Russia
“If's quite all right-I got permission from the admiral to grow it.
declared war on Japan?” and old “Pappy”
came back with “This (beautiful) regi-
ment would order a new kit lay-out!”
* * * *
“Jasby”; Nick the Greek, like his for-
bears in features but in all else typical
z\ussie Digger, was relating an experience
on leave. “So I goes into a Greek joint
for a steak, and when the bloke comes
up to my table I says ‘Good-day’ in
Greek. He looks -at me and asks am I
E.D.E.S. or E.L.A.S. I tells him E.D.E.S.
He says he’s E.L.A.S., so I gets up and
walks out.” “Wanted to dodge an argu-
ment, I suppose?” I asked. “No, it
wasn’t that,” said Nick, “but he wasn’t
likely to pick me a decent steak, was he?”
* * 3ft sis
“Coll”; I have lived in a prefabricated
building that was brought out from Eng-
land in sections over 60 years ago—the
E., S. and A. Bank at Darwin, nicknamed
the “tin bank.” It weathered three
cyclones and many bombings from the
Japs. When it was being assembled in
the ’seventies of last century the builders
had to do the work at night, as the sun’s
heat expanded the iron sheets and pre-
vented them from fitting. Set in concrete
and with the sheet-iron walls and roof
braced together with iron rods, it has
proved itself cool and airy, as well as
being the only cyclone-proof building in
the town. The townspeople have taken
refuge there after each blow when other
buildings were damaged. Thieves have
accomplished what storms and bombs
failed to do. The building still stands, but
has its doors and shutters blown out,
and there is a gaping hole in the side of
the concrete-sided strong-room. The
thieves got naught for their trouble, the
cash having been transferred to Alice
Springs a few days after the first bomb-
ing. v
* w * * *
“D.B.K. on steam road transport: —*
Steam-powered road vehicles (B. 14/3 / ’45)
have been, and probably still are, in use
on some Australian highways. Around 1927
a number of Foden and Sentinel steam
lorries were hauling loads along Sydney’s
Pyrmont Bridge-road, and in the pioneering
days of petrol-driven cars a few White and
Stanley steamers were in evidence. Old-time
devotees speak glowingly of steam performance.
In 1941 1 heard of a partially constructed
steam car taking shape in Sydney around a
rebuilt Stanley power unit. Just prior to Sept.
’39, a British newsreel, shown in a Sydney
theatre, depicted an ingenious steam cycle,
evolved by a Tynesider. The job looked no
bulkier than its LC. counterpart. But the
snag with steam generators is oil fuel. Flash-
steam is generated instantaneously in coiled
steel tubing, around which roars high tempera-
ture flame, produced by a kerosene or Diesel
oil-blower. Such fuel is rationed. Coal or log-
fired boilers are weighty items for inclusion in
car chasses —reason enough why steam-powered
road vehicles are restricted to the heavy-tonnage
lorry variety.
* * * *
“Aichess”: “To ‘Blue’ McLean, a mem-
ber of a fine nation. Sincerely yours,
Edwin Hughes.” So runs an inscription
around the edge of a Bank of England
one-pound note which forms a link in
the chain of comradeship forged in a
German prison camp between a member
of the R.A.F. and the R.A.A.F. “Blue,”
an Air Force lad from Goulburn
(N.S.W.), baled out of his Lancaster over
Germany on January 27, 1944, and
smashed his leg. Some six months later
he dreamt that some of his prisoner cob-
bers* including Hughes, were to be repat-
riated and would land in England on Sep-
tember 15. So vivid was “Blue’s” dream
that he bet Hughes a quid that it would
materialise. Sure enough, Hughes found
himself back in Great Yarmouth, Nor-
folk, on the date mentioned, pinching
himself hard to make sure it wasn’t him-
self and not “Blue” that had been dream-
ing. He handed the wagered quid to
another cobber named Brown, who was
being repatriated back to Ivanhoe (Vic.).
Brown sent it on to “Blue’s” mother at
Goulburn, telling her the story, with the
addition of a little cheer-up message
assuring her that “Blue” is quite recov-
ered from his broken pin, is in good
spirits and is being reasonably well treated
by the Nazis.
# * * *
“X.S.”: One of the most sensational
escapes in Victorian penal history oc-
curred when seven inmates of Beech-
worth Reformatory made a burst for
freedom. Six were recaptured after
three days, three having to be fired on.
The hero of the affair was a boy of 12
at Howqua, who asked for permission
to accompany the police in a bush
search for a fugitive. His request was
refused, so he mounted his father’s tele-
scope on a tree stump and patiently
scanned the surrounding hills daily. One
morning his diligence was rewarded by
the spectacle of a man miles distant,
sleeping in a clearing.
* * * *
“Deekay’s” good word for radio ama-
teurs ;
When the Japs struck at Pearl Harbor
U.S.A.’s radio amateurs, totalling 60,000 licensed
operators of privately-owned stations, micro-
phones and Morse keys, signed off until the
argument should be settled. Australia’s 2000
experimental radiomen had gone off the air
twelve months previously. Now that the world
conflict shows signs of ending radio amateurs
are discussing post-war activity. U.S.A.’s
Communications Commission announces pro-
posed frequency allocations for all services.
These restore amateur frequencies vacated in
war-time, and grant new channels. There is
good warrant for generous consideration. The
amateur service is a huge training ground and
provides a reservoir of skilled Morse-code
operators. These are not the class-room variety,
but people with wide experience in handling
“Nick over an get the sultanas , Joe!”
tricky communications through barrages of
interference. Their ranks are augmented by
technicians with first-hand knowledge of build-
ing, operating and maintaining complicated
radio gear. Their ability and training went to
military occupations at a time when the need
was desperate. Australia’s R.A.A.F. in 1940
depended upon it's Wireless Reserve, staffed
voluntarily by a number of Air-Force-pro-
cedure-#ained amateurs. In the fifth year of
conflict, the “hams” are outstanding among
signals and radio personnel of the three fight-
ing services. The post-war Australian amateur
radio population will be enlarged considerably
by an influx of ex-service operators of both
sexes. Running parallel with industrial radio
art, amateur requirements in components and
special equipment for communication and tele-
vision will have to be catered for by radio
manufacturers. Authorities responsible should
see that when conditions permit there is no
undue delay in restoring Australian radio ex-
perimenters to full activity.
*** i *
“Cine Ma”: That the Australian
Customs may one day refuse admission
to Pope’s Rape of the Lock on the score
of its title (B. 14/3/’45) is not an un-
reasonable supposition. The department
held up Miss Sackville West’s All Pas-
sion Spent, the title having appeared in
the invoice as All Passion. Officers re-
vised their decision when they discovered,
upon reading the book, that it was the
story of a woman of over 80.
« * * *
“King’s Pawn”: That chess is educa-
tional was denied in Britain by the taxa-
tion authorities, who wanted to collect
on a bequest providing £lOO p.a. for a
prize for boy chess-players in Ports-
mouth. The High Court held that the
bequest constituted a valid educational
trust. Kipping, headmaster of Wednes-
bury High School (a noted problemist),
gave evidence that chess had been in-
cluded in his school’s curriculum since
1927 with beneficial results. Other
teachers supported him. The N.S.W.
Chess Association, which has long argued
for a place for the game in the schools,
will now be armed for another go. Syd-
ney High, Scots’ College, Shore arid
Knox Grammar (the first to enter a team
in an adult competition) all have chess
clubs, but the game is not part of their
curricula,
* * * *
“Pip” on army shavers:
One of the items in the soldier’s routine is
the morning shave. He may grow a beard
during jungle operations, but it must come oft
at the first opportunity. The army allows a
moustache (proportions unspecified), but the
rest of the face must be fuzz-free. No two
soldiers seem to shave themselves the same way.
Some sit down with a towel over their legs,
others stand against the tent post. The tent
table has a following; others use the wash
basins. Mirrors are always getting broken,
so often one small specimen must serve six or
eight fellows, all wanting to use if at the same
time. Abuse is directed especially at the slow,
deliberate shaver and at the man with the neat
little toothbrush mo. that must not be disturbed.
There are men who do not use a mirror, saying
'they’ve had the face a long time and know their
way about it. The safety is the most popular
type of razor, but operators of an older school
brandish “cut-throats,” otherwise known as
“battleaxes.” They fill the youngsters with awe.
Some of the youths manage without soap, and
some without either soap or mirror. Strata-
gems for disguising an unshaven face on morn-
ing parade are many. A liberal sprinkling of
talcum powder and the plea of prickly heat is
reckoned most effective. Another old ruse is
the daubing of a little spot of soap behind each
ear and blaming the issue razor blade for the
bad result. Unfortunately, too many officers
have risen from the ranks nowadays and such
schemes run on rocks.
* * * *
“Odd Spot”: The press informs me
that an article in the “Lancet” explodes
the popular theory that gout is caused
by hard liquor and plenty of it. A couple
of specialists gave alcohol in vain at-
tempts to induce gout and found gout
recurring in patients to whom alcohol
was banned. It is now recommended
that food containing large amounts of
purines, such as sweetbreads, anchovies,
sardines, liver, kidney, brains and meat
extracts, should be avoided by gout suf-
ferers. It’s cheered me up immensely,
for in this country, under the Common-
wealth Food Control and the meat-ration-
ing system in general, there isn’t the
slightest chance of anyone developing
gout. When the missus arrived back from
the butcher’s one day during the current
strike at Sydney abattoirs I told her
about the “Lancet” article, and was set-
ting out to show how out of evil cometh
good when, for some reason, she shrieked
and made a violent attack upon me with
the wine bottle she uses for a rolling-pin
—or it would have been violent had not
her sudden leap caused her to go through
the knees of both stockings. Whereupon
she burst into merriment, confessed that
her last corset had that morning col-
lapsed, that our sheets wouldn’t stand an-
other laundering, that she had been in
35 food queues that week, that there was
no fruit in the house, and the best thing
we could do was mow the lawn and she'd
make a stew from the cuttings.
* * * *
“Simon”: Benbow’s theory (B. 28/2/ 45)
that there is no greater variation than two
degrees Fahr. in in N.S.W. lati-
tudes, winter and summer, is as incorrect
as it is startling. Officer-in-charge Collins
at Bondi dressing-sheds takes daily 7 a.m.
testings all year round, which show sea
temperatures to range between 56 and 72
degrees. A lesting later in the day than
7 o’clock will reveal no variation on the
earlier reading. On these figures the
wonder is that there is not more winter
surfing.
* * * *
“Nakh”: An experiment which will
interest drinkers and liquor reformers
alike is in progress at Invercargill (M.L.).
Until the 1943 election the most-southern
city had been dry for 38 years. It voted
itself wet again, and the Government
decided to move in. A licensing trust
consisting of three members appointed
by councils and three by the Minister for
Justice got going and bought temporary
buildings—a restaurant called the Brown
Owl, a luxurious semi-suburban estab-
lishment where weddings are celebrated,
a railway store, a property near a foot-
ball oval and four leading hotels. Also
land has been acquired for the erection
of really modern hostelries. Trade in
the temporary bars is enormous, and the
Brown Owl, where food can be obtained
with liquor, is crowded by all classes.
A religious denomination created a sensa-
tion by staging a tea party in its precincts.
Criticism has been profuse and bitter,
but up to date the Government hasn’t
faltered.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Two men in a mid-western
(U.S.) State revived an ancient racket.
They advertised a puzzle contest, the
puzzle being so ridiculously easy that they
got 600,000 answers, all correct. They
then wrote to the 600,000 telling each
entrant that he or she had “tied for first
place” and a ruff-off was necessary, cost
of entry one dollar. The promoters dis-
appeared after 58,000 innocents had paid
a dollar. In my childhood I solved a
similarly simple riddle and send it off to
the advertisers, a firm in England. A
couple of months later I was the proud
recipient of a handsome certificate an-
nouncing that I was the winner, but that
the promoters of the contest felt that
the first prize, a gold watch, was such a
magnificent timepiece that a chain should
go with it. If I sent a guinea they would
forward the complete outfit. An untrust-
ing parent refused to stump up the 21s.
“Spasebo”: According to a
London cable the Yalta Big
Three conference has resulted
in such a rush by civil ser-
vants to learn Russian that
Whitehall officials are asking
one another to have a drink
in that difficult language, I’m
glad I don’t have to do it. My
one and only experience of the
language came when I was
crossing Siberia in a train on
which nobody spoke a word
of English. It was an abso-
lute necessity for me to be
able to read the timetable to
get a meal, because stops were
infrequent and stations few
and there was much steppe in
between. So I took the first
word in the timetable, which
I inferred would be Vladi-
vostok, and the last, which
ought to have been Moscow,
and applied the methods of
solving cryptograms beloved
of writers of detective novels.
I succeeded in working out an
alphabet of 52 letters, which I
subsequently learned was a bit
excessive, so I must have got
some capital letters muddled
up with the plain ones. However, I got
a sufficient knowledge of the written
tongue to know when I was at Chelya-
binsk or Irkutsk. But I never discovered
why Chekhov is sometimes Tchehov and
why Tschaikowsky spelt his name that
way and pronounced it “Chykovski,
unless it was to give A.B.C. announcers
an opportunity of showing their
superiority over uninstructed people.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Bo”: “I’m firin’ the boiler at the
pumpin’ station,” said Jerilderie Joe,
“when the big grasshopper plague hits
Dingbat Downs. They come in millions,
an et everything down to ground Iqvel.
It’s hot weather, and good bumin’ wobd’s
gettin’ a bit too fur out for my likin’, so
I gets an idea that’ll save me some yakka.
Knowin’ how the ’hoppers are attracted
to anything green, I throws open the
furnace door, an’ blime! if them insecks
didn’t neally knock me over in the hurry
to get in. Well, all I had to do then was
lay back and watch me self-stokin’
arrangement burn. If there hadn’t been
a safety valve on I’d ’ave got blown sky-
high with the pressure. Not only was
it a big savin’ on fuel, but it didn’t leave
no ash or clinkers an’ they even sorta
trimmed themselves. The boss is dead
pleased an” “Eh,” broke in The
Nark, “you reckoned them ’hoppers
rushed the fire because they’re attracted
to anything green. A fire burns red.”
“Not mine didn’t,” drawled Joe. “Y’ see,
we was burnin’ box we’d cut on the flats,
an’ the stuff’s so green the sap’s runnin’
out of it!”
• • • • •
“Eureka”: Let me tell that persistent
doubter “The 0.D.” (B. 14/3/’45) that
the grasshopper plague I mentioned hit
the N.S.W. South Coast during the sum-
mer just drawing to a close, arriving in
the Bega district in December. About
Bega the ’hoppers ate potato and maize
crops and vegetable gardens and even at-
tacked the ripening fruit. Anyone who
has seen these hordes travelling across
the countryside knows a creek is no bar-
rier to them ; they just eat and hop ahead.
Millions are eaten by eels, millions drown,
millions more manage to float across the
streams and continue their journey of
destruction. Rain seems to be the only
thing that will wipe them out.
“Lub”: “Eureka” (B. 7/3/’45) should
have seen the ’hopper curse we had at
Doilypot Creek. They came in a cloud
from the west, chewed up every crop an’
pulled all the kangaroo grass out by the
roots. Then they hit the creek. We
thought the eels would have the feed of
their lives, but the ’hoppers knew their
toil. They simply drank all the water
an’ then tore in and ate the eels.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Can’t agree with “M.U.R.’s”
idea (B. 25/2/’45) that a free bird may
wish to destroy a captive one because the
captive is setting a bad example. Though
I’ve more than once come across in-
stances of freed pets being viciously set
upon by wild members of their species,
my opinion is that the taming had nothing
to do with the scrap,/the cause being
simply that they were strangers. Most
birds rmd animals will attack a stranger—
the more civilised such as horses, dogs
and cats being among the worst offenders
—but the object is merely to drive the
interloper away. The theory regarding
the desire to destroy would be more
understandable were the caged or tamed
bird weak or disabled; mob instinct
then, with many species, being complete
annihilation. This attention, in view of
the concentrated fury of the murderers, is
hardly due to any consideration for the
afflicted. Nor is it due to the reasoning
which in other days prompted the Spar-
tans to fling their weaklings from the cliffs
and so breed a race of giants. I would
say, rather, the blood lust is a natural
urge which, on finding a victim already
helpless, can be wantonly indulged with-
out risk to the attackers.
#
“D.R.H.”: Don’t see why “Hanko” (B.
7/3/’45) should condemn the blue crane
as a “grotesque flier.” To see him wing-
ing up a Murray reach against a back-
ground of apricot cliffs is to realise why
Oriental artists were so fond of the flying
heron as a motif in their designs. As
for the assertion that “the white-fronted
heron parades only in artistic settings”—
well, I saw one at the tank the other day.
He was “parading” all right, along the
edge of thick, mud-colored water. His
background was an amorphous mass of
dirty-blue clay from a recent clean-out.
There was not one intersecting line or
patch of interesting color contrast, just
a hump-shouldered bird against drabness.
But if “H.’s” daubers go to the Murray
and watch Bluey fish along the edge of the
quiet water, against a bank on which
branches have fallen, gracefully curving
reeds and sparkling patches of white
sand, they may learn to forget the blue-
sky-and-gum-trees recipe and tackle the
more arduous and exacting simplicity of
painting the miniature scene in the Chinese
tradition.
* * *
“Traymon”: The “trapdoor” is a
maligned spider, being commonly identi-
fied with his near and much nastier rela-
tive the funnel-web. More numerous at
present than for many years, particularly
on Sydney’s North Shore, the funnel-
web seldom makes a shaft in the ground.
He prefers to set up a home, lined with
silken thread radiating at the opening
into the shape of a funnel, in decaying
timber or in garden refuse handy to fenc-
ing-posts. Funnel-web, whose bite is
occasionally fatal, moves about chiefly at
night, and has a habit of entering houses
and secreting himself in clothing. Very
"I could have done something with 'em, sir, if I'd got 'em before they
Were eight years old."
s j[ mdar the trapdoor in appearance,
the male funnel-web has clearly-discern-
iWe on the inside of its second pair
i
* * *
“Lyndon”: Mention of the W.A.
“waler” trade with the East Indies (B.
14/2/’45), recalls that it suffered many
equine tragedies ; for, although they
could build their own stout wooden
ships, the Gropers couldn’t provide them
w |th anything other than sail. Which did
W ell enough so long as the wind blew,
f or horses, stalled along both sides
G f the lower deck, soon became accus-
tomed to the rolling of the vessel. Ven-
tilation, too, was provided by means of
windsails. But if such a ship happened
t o get caught in the doldrums trouble
began. Have heard old-timers speak of
20 days’ calm off Java. For perhaps ten
days mos t of the horses would stand the
dea dly heat and the deadlier stench of
an unventilated stable. But after that
even the strong beasts would commence
to go. Every day from then on car-
casses would be hoisted from below
and dropped over the side. The sea
would become literally stiff with sharks,
It was seldom that all the cargo per-
ished, for as numbers thinned conditions
improved a little for the survivors. Still,
50 p.c. was a not unusual loss. But horse-
flesh was so cheap in those days that if
only half the cargo eventually reached
the market the trip showed a profit,
* * * *
“B 4”: Can’t make out why Carnie’s
moke (B. 7/3/’45) waited to be. stung
to death when attacked by bees. Dawd-
ling mokes passing the super-hive at my
paddock corner sometimes suddenly snort
and bound like blazes for a few hundred
yards before turning round to wonder
what hit them. From the pub verandah
in a C. Q. town we watched the stock
inspector’s horse galloping up l and down
the night paddock, after being let go
about 3 p.m. Wondering, we staggered
down, to find the prad being savaged by
swarming bees incensed by the odor of the
sweating body. On our opening the gate
the maddened moke dashed to the Dawson
and jumped in. As the bees were forced
away by his pawing and splashing, the
poor brute climbed out and stood tremb-
ling, while we extracted dozens of stings
as indicated by little tufts of lifted hair.
We administered a bottle of rum, but he
died during the night.
* * * *
“Hist”: City professions may be
abandoning the guinea standard, but out-
back no self-respecting stud-stock breeder
would think of quoting his prices in any-
thing but guineas. If you have the
effrontery to bid in mere pounds at a
stud-stock sale the beast in the ring will
give you an injured look, while the
iauctioneer incontinently snaps “Guineas!”
The latter’s reaction is from the heart,
because the odd shillings represent his
commission—s p.c. instead of the cus-
tomary 2i p.c. ordinary stock.
s|c * *
“Propalong”: Young Bill was in the
mustering camp all through lamb-mark-
ing and shearing. Together with half a
dozen other big-hatted irresponsibles he
took his turn on the outside position
when mustering paddocks that # varied
from 40 to 70 square miles. He* played
his share of practical jokes and took his
part in the 50- and 60-mile day’s straggler-
hunting towards the end of shearing. He
was one of the crowd that, after a long
day in the marking yard, cleaned up and
rode 16 miles to a dance in the Siding—
and rode back to breakfast at daylight
and to catch fresh horses for a big day’s
mustering. But after shearing the boss
put young Bill on boundary-riding on
his pat at Deadfinish Well. It was a
lonely camp and the boss called infre-
quently. He came out one evening in
the car as Bill was making a damper, sat
down and asked the usual questions,
Presently: “How long since you been
right round the gibber paddock?” “ ’Bout
three weeks,” grunted Bill, shovelling
coals on to the camp-oven. “Well, y’
want t’ get round that fence more often,”
said the cove. “It’s not too good on the
south side.” “Aw, hell,” said young Bill,
“it’s too flamin’ far t’ ride often. It’s
twenny-eight mile round that fence an’
me horses won’t stand big days like that.”
* * * *
“Anthropo”: One of the results of a
glacial period overwhelming the earth
would be a reduced level of the ocean,
owing to the piling up of immense masses
of water on the land in the form of ice
and snow. This again would result in
many shallow straits between the land
masses being left high and dry so that
communication by foot might take place,
So in the prolonged Ice Age which ended
perhaps as recently as 10,000 years ago
both the Torres and Bass Straits may
have been traversable. So the Tasmanian,
who knew nothing of watercraft, may
have got to his island. The Australian
likewise may have trudged across from
New Guinea, bringing his dog with him ;
or perhaps the dog was merely a fellow
fugitive. During a glacial period Aus-
tralia would suffer less than any other
continent, just as the southern hemisphere
as a whole would suffer less than the
northern, there being a preponderance of
ocean in the southern, as against a pre-
ponderance of land in the north—land
masses accumulate cold, oceans dispel it.
So when the great hordes of Stone Age
men were slowly driven down from what
had been the genial north they invaded
the Equatorial Zone, driving out the
slacker races that had long inhabited
that region. So the Australian aboriginal
was driven out of India, forced down
the long land bridge of what is now a
chain of islands, finally finding refuge on
the untouched continent of the south.
Possibly the Tasmanian represented the
very first wave, displaced from Asia dur-
ing one of the earlier glacial periods.
He had no dog. The dingo’s nearest
relative is the Dhole, the wild dog of
India, still to be found in remote parts
of the Himalayas. Like the dingo, it
does not bark.
* * * *
“D. Moonya”: The best fox-catcher
I ever saw was a cross between a cattle-
dog and a greyhound. When he came to
the farm where I was working he was
barely a pup ; at six # years he had ac-
counted for 211 foxes. A friend of the
owner offered him £4O for the wonder,
but he wouldn’t sell at any price.
* * r *
“W. 0.2”: Mention by “Naturala” (B.
21/2/’45) of over-size mussels recalls a
colony of the queer date mussels we
encountered at low tide on a reef
south of Lizard Island (N.G.). A huge
coral boulder was riddled with the bur-
rows of scores of the odd molluscs, which
have the shape and brown color of large
dates. They are well equipped for boring
into the coral boulders, where they make
their homes; special glands pour out a
strong acid which rapidly dissolves the
calcium carbonate composing the boul-
ders. Although the mussel’s own shell is
also composed of calcium carbonate, a
horny layer, immune to the acid, sur-
rounds the glands and protects the shell
while the shellfish is boring its burrow.
Hacking off a piece of the boulder, we
found the burrows to be of an average
depth of six inches. As the tide
came in a pair of long, thin,
fleshy tubes protruded from
each burrow: through these
tubes the mussels obtain food
and oxygen from the water.
* * *
“S.G.”: One of the queerest
bets I ever saw was a fiver on
whether a fox-terrier or a mon-
key was the faster rat-killer.
The contest took place in
North Queensland, each animal
being put in a pit with 20 rats.
The foxy went in first and
settled the rats in just under
five minutes, whereupon more
bets were laid and taken about
the monkey. When its turn
came its owner handed it a
small hammer, and that monk.,
dropped into the pit, grabbed
each rat by the scruff of the
neck, gave it one tap with the
hammer and wiped the lot in
twenty-nine seconds.
“Patrol Leader”: The first fresh fruit
and vegetables we had tasted for weeks
were presented to us when we landed at
Cullen Point, overlooking beautiful Mus-
grave Harbor, a mighty funnel-shaped
gap in the western coast of Cape York
Peninsula, about 100 miles south of Cape
York. The gifts came from the pic-
turesque little farms run by the 400-odd
abos, settled at Mapoon, one of Aus-
tralia’s oldest abo. missions, and were
delivered to us in large split-cane baskets
expertly woven by the abo. children.
Established 55 years ago by the Rev. Hey,
Mapoon has some good grazing and
farming country, where the abos. grow
all kinds of crops and run a herd of 1000
cattle. They also raise horses and are
keen fishermen. Musgrave Harbor is an
anglers’ paradise, and is fed by three wide
and deep rivers—Dulhunty, Ducie and
Batavia, also well supplied with fish.
Crocodiles from these rivers occasionally
give the abos. trouble. The day before
our arrival a 15-footer was detected be-
neath the steps of one of the native bun-
galows, its attention riveted on a three-
year-old toddler playing on the ground
near by. The mother’s yells brought
assistance, and before that croc, could
regain the river a volley of spears finished
it off. The natives relish crocodile meat
(many of them prefer it to beef), and
offered us the choicest-looking steaks
from the 15-footer. Our answer was in
the negative.
* * * *
“Naturala”: To explain why “B.4’s
dragon flies disappeared under water (B.
14/2/’45) would require the entering into
intimate biological details. But the male
of that occasion was probably an un-
wanted lover, and the lady took the
readiest means at her command to get
rid of him. She certainly wouldn’t have
been cementing her eggs to the weed
stem, since Nature has omitted to pro-
vide her with such cement. Nor would she
need to go to the bottom to deposit her
eggs, since they sink by their own weighs
SHIPWRIGHT.
He is a builder of ships. I watched him at
work
In the late afternoon, fashioning each plank
With a sculptor’s care —this flare, that sweep
of frame
And gunwale line. A jeweller’s eye he has,
Matching the perfection of one beech plank to
another,
Judging the sea-width of his sun-dried pine.
And he has scanned the flight of gulls to
learn
New grace of curve, some secret of wind-power
That opening sails might sing on sunlit flight.
He has honored the pines and beeches of the
forest
As Phidias honored some white quarried stone;
By transmutation reassuring Time
That men still live who toil for labor’s beauty.
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS.


“Old-timer”: Big George, who’d been
tramping all day over a long, dry, hungry
and stony track, came towards sundown
to the crest of a little hill and saw below
him a comfortable farmstead with blue
smoke rising from the chimney. Worn
almost to a frazzle, George sank on to his
swag for a short blow, then got himself
upright and wavered down to the house,
his nostrils titillated by promising smells
and his stomach juices rattling in antici-
pation. A pleasant-faced woman answered
his knock and listened with deep concern
to George’s tale. “You just wait there
a little,” she said, “and I’ll make you
up a good hot meal.” George waited.
Presently she appeared with a steaming
dish tied in a clean napkin. “You take
that to your camp and eat it,” she said.
“Then have a good sleep. You can bring
the plate and cloth back in the morning.”
Hardly able to restrain himself from
biting holes in the cloth, George made
for his camp and prepared for the feast.
Shortly there arose the cry of a strong
man in agony, and George rushed back
to that house and shoved the plate under
the assembled family gaze and roared
“Hey, whadda yer mean, feedin’ a man
bran-mash? I might be on me uppers,
Missus, but I ain’t come down to horse-
feed yet. Ain’t y’ got any meat?”
“Meat! ” she cried in horror. “My good
man, we are Adventists, and that is a
delicious nut-meat pie.” George with-
drew, being unsure of his ground. Two
hours later he joined us at our camp, and
we fed him corned beef and pickles and
listened to his story. “And first chance
I ,get,” he finished, “I’m askin’ the
A.W.U. to bar these here Adventurers.
Gripes, a man could take a job at a place
like that an’ never know what he was
in for,”
* * * *
“Cypress”: That 112 ft. telegraph pole,
half ironbark and half Oregon, mentioned
by “Zake” (B. 7/3 / ’45) recalls Australiate
tallest single-stick pole—an electricity
transmission line pole standing 110 ft.
above ground on the south side of the
Tweed River (N.S.W.), near Barney’s
Point Bridge. Erected a few years back
by the City Electric Light Co. (Q.), the
pole weighed eight tons without fittings.
It came from the Samford district (Q.),
and six men took two days to fell and
dress the tree from which it was cut.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Like “Old Camp,” I have
never seen one of those 20-minute fist-
fights (B. 7/3/’45), nor wanted to, since
I always regarded the sight of two erst-
while enemies shaking hands as a more
attractive spectacle. But I don’t think
fear of the consequences enters into the
matter when two game men have their
blood up. My observation has been that
the gamest man is only as good as his
wind, and most fights are won and lost
in the first two minutes. One fast, hard
three-minute round is an eternity to an
untrained man. The longest fight without
a break I’ve witnessed went 12 minutes;
but both men had previously fought pro-
fessionally with the gloves. The slower
and gamer —man was steadily winning
when the other quit. In regard to those
old 50-round bouts fought under London
Prize Ring rules, it must be remembered
that pugilists in those days pickled face
and torso with brine to counteract cuts
and bruises. A round, too, ended when
a man was knocked down or thrown.
Thus a round might last an hour or a
second. But what dull endurance-con-
tests they must have been! Jem Mace,
so an old-time champion informed me,
“fought” an opponent (whose name
escapes me) for an hour before a blow
was struck, each man trying to tempt the
other into leading, thereby creating an
opening for the king-punch of that period
—the outside-right cross-counter. Modern
boxing being limited to 15-round bouts,
speed has been developed above stolid,
patient stamina, and the outside-right
cross-counter has little chance of success
competing against fast footwork.
“Get an eyeful of the erosion .”
„,. „ c
. Laetitia : In his Torre. St ‘
!?f dt&acv .^ ld ado f ea , e ■
c l earn „ an^ ir !s w-Imtionnllv
with the Silver d T ] i
Fes lull fathom five oft Mur ay •
According to Binghi legend a mysterious
race of white men sojourned at Murray
Island, and whilst there refitted one of
their craft with a silver keel before leav-
mg. The argosy reputedly went to Davy
locker in the
£|, ndl l ust a f te! leaving y. ■ Y
Torres treasure a e had its genesis m the
old Federal Hole bar at T.I under the
imaginative stimulus of the old Span sh
helmets and delicate Toledo b ad es wh ch
were the admiration of tourists making
landfall there. Idness, 800 Y>
Gnmshaw, McLaren an
Maugham drewnon the homely'oldpub for
original inspiration, as e y x T Y
signatures in the visitors bo.
fact - the °f.the stone fish-Jraps
off Darniey Island, which , on
the pa tern andtue engineering
l eat probably beyond t P V
the progenitors of the present Binghi
populace, argues hat Torres and Ins lieu-
tenants sojourned ng f the
Strait to perimthe
ship with the si r > P
the precious met , .
present in abundance in their cargoes.
* _. * ,* ~ * Ur
S.G. : It was back in the early th
ties, when getting a job was something
like winning a lottery. In our Queens-
land town there was a blacksmith with
a heart as big as his body, and when a
chap turned up asking with great sin-
“If’s a hiccupping cow. Churns its own butter."
centy for work the smith set
turning a grindstone. A bit puzzled t a
nobody came to sharpen anythm & , t
cove kept on turning tor about 20
minutes, then he stoppe jd J
“Hey, what s tiie joke. I don t t
flamm job out o charity. I hke to _
some results for me toil The smith
found him some real work. When I
saw them they were paitners and doing
well.
“Bad Australian”: “When I wus a
nipper,” said the man with the wall-eyed
dog, “we lived on a 60-acre selection in
a pocket in the ranges back o’ Tumbleup.
We had a few cows, an’, havin’ no sepa-
rator in them days, we useter set the milk
in big, shaller dishes. The pocket was
fair lousy with snakes, an’ they was
always gettin’ inta our dugout dairy an’
wolfin’ the milk an’ cream. We kills
dozens of ’em, an’ the pigs et a lot more,
an’ that sets them reptiles thinkin’, so
next thing they starts pinchin’ our cows.
One of ’em coils himself around the cow’s
horns, an’ two or three more hitches on
to him an’ each other an’ leads her orf
to a hidin’ place further back in the
ranges. From then on they has milk
on tap. We had a fine mob of geese, too,
an’ them flamin’ snakes useter get more
of their eggs than we did ; but, growin’
tired o’ bein’ killed w’en they came after
’em, they grabs one o’ the flock an’ hauls
it orf to their hang-out. They don’t get
no eggs, an’ after keepin’ her for about
a month they jerries to her bein’ a gander.
Squirmin’ with rage an’ disappointment,
they makes straight fer the selection an
bites me stepmother t’ death. An’ I often
wonders why we kept findin’ dead snakes
about the pocket for a coupla weeks
after!”
« * * *
“Sur Cingle”: Don’t know exactly what
“Roley Poley” (B. 7/3/’45) means when
he says that the fat of the oont’s hump
is “of the same class as the fat of a
bullock’s brisket.” But I do know that,
when it comes to cooking, the white fat
of the old humpy has it all over that of
the bovine. For pastry-making the
women class it as “better than butter.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: There are harder things
to sleep on than the unpadded bosom of
Mother Earth (B. 14/2/’45). Round
much of Westralia’s northern cattle coun-
try beds in the travellers’ bunkhouse will
be constructed of four posts, with four
saplings for sides and ends, the whole
being covered with cowhide nailed on
when green. In course of time such a bed
acquires the give and elasticity of sheet
iron of similar thickness ; becomes so taut
and drummy that I have known the musi-
cally-inclined to play a tune on one, using
a couple of beef bones as drumsticks.
None but the very fat can find even a
hint of comfort on such a couch, since
it denies even the poor consolation of
digging a hole to accommodate a knobby
bone. But there is always the remedy.
The same country provided the spinifex.
The experienced traveller gathers a suffi-
ciency of tussocks, distributes them all
over the hide, points downwards, spreads
a ground sheet, rug or even bags over
all —and, lo! one reposes on a mattress
as soft and springy as the
unpadded cowhide is hard.
* * *
“Prop”; I’ve heard the
admirable abo. system of
eugenics (B. 7/ 3 /’45) ad-
vanced as evidence that
Binghi is further up the
evolutionary tree than his
Palaeolithic equipment in-
dicates. But is this system
of “blood dispersion” any
proof that the abo. is
above caveman level?
Everyone knows that the
domestic cat normally
hunts her kittens away as
soon as she considers them
able to fend for them-
selves. And I’ve seen her
turn with tooth and claw
on a grown-up son so
often that I doubt if cats
inter-breed closely except
under abnormal condi-
tions. If this is so —and
perhaps the Council can
supply evidence —it seems that the higher
animals have the beginnings of that
eugenic knowledge which primitive man,
with his greater ability for preserving and
passing on racial experience, systematised.
* * * *
In Tasmania, at least, the
evidence is overwhelming that hybridisa-
tion of eucalypts (B. 28/2/’45) has oc-
curred over wide areas and for a long
time. In virgin forests this has been very
slight or lacking ; but where the axe and
the fire have been through millions of
seed are given an opportunity to germi-
nate. Seed that has been cross-fertilised
has an equal chance with the pure-breds,
and the establishment of hybrid forms is
widespread.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Five men marooned on
Sisters’ Island, Furneaux Group, Bass
Strait, by raging westerlies survived on
an unusual diet until the arrival of a
relief vessel three weeks later. They
eked out their meagre rations of meat,
bread and flour with mutton birds, Cape
Barren geese and wallaby, plus haricot
beans found in a tin that had lain un-
opened on the island for two decades.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We finished a gravel-
loading contract just out of Ballarat,
got our cheques and headed for the city,
but hardly had we got settled in a pub
when both of us developed strong symp-
toms of ’flu. “I ain’t havin’ me break
spoiled,” said Mat, so we bought a large
bottle of rum, got some hot water and
lemons and retired to our room, where
we imbibed the rum, sucked the lemons,
threw the hot water out the window,
wrapped ourselves in our blankets and
lost further interest in life. It seems that
when we didn’t appear for breakfast in-
vestigations were made and our condition
caused some alarm, so a doctor was
fetched. He diagnosed us as alcoholic
poisoning, emptied us with a stomach
pump and took us to the general hospital,
where we spent a day under observation.
That night as, shaky and irritable, we
returned to the pub, I said “Gosh, you
ought t’ have your brains brushed, pour-
in’ rum inter a man like that.” Mat
mustered a faint grin. “Well, y’ might’ve
lost a lot of sweat and most of your
stomach,” he said, “but y’ lost the ’flu
' with ’em.” He was right, but I don’t
advise anybody else to try the remedy.
* * * *
“Billy See”: One thing about the primi-
tive abo. was his impartiality in the
matter of diet, though he did have some
slight preference, snake being one. Per-
haps this was because it was so easy to
cook a snake, right to the turn. The
bigger the better being his philosophy,
the carpet-snake was the most wel-
come, though there were black snakes
that often measured six feet. A hole
scraped among the coals and white ashes
formed the oven ; the serpent body then
being coiled neatly round and round.
Ashes and then coals were heaped on
top. Being not very thick, and of a
practically uniform size from end to end,
the carcass cooked through both quickly
and evenly. Lifted out by means of an
old woomera or a shield, the dish showed
a shrivelled skin, easily removed. The
meat would be white as the breast of a
young chicken, though much firmer. To
the white man’s palate it tasted rather
dry and insipid, but Binghi found no such
fault; every joint of the vertebrae would
be picked clean. And even of these
nothing remained, for being compara-
tively soft they were snapped up and
bolted by the tribal dogs.
FOR SOLDIER-POETS.
Listen to them, the soldiers;
Hear in their songs the exulting heart of youth
Splendid as sunlit bayonets.
And not for them the peace of book-lined
rooms; ...
Long evenings by the fire; the friendliness
Of things familiar; or the balm of love
To quench their agonies of loneliness —
These are but dreams. The> thresholds where
they enter,
The bloodstained battlefields of all the world
A world of weary treks and grim campaigns.
Their philosophies, carved from rude experi-
ence.
Concerned with immediate issues: life and
death;
Love; hate; home-leave. Their libraries
The scraps of Shakspeare treasured in the
brain;
The tattered Shelley in the haversack.
Their songs are scrawled in gunpits and
bivouacs
Lit by a flickering lantern, or the moon;
Wearily scribbled across a hundred deserts;
Wrung out of agony and sweat and fear
Deep in hope-dimming jungles—
Their vision steadier than the lantern’s flame,
Never extinguished, though the blasts of fear
Should savagely assail them on all sides.
No; always the flame, the burning in the blood,
The ceaseless wonder of the spirit of man
Undimmed by battle’s ardor.
Yes, listen to them, the soldiers;
Their singing is the signet of their manhood —
Badge of the God that dwells in every man.
A.I.F.
G. S. WADDELL.


Irap er
British Right Through
Imperial
Typewriters
Standard and Portable Models
DOBELL PTY. LIMITED, 29 Reiby Place, Sydney
Interstate Agents:
GEO. RAITT 8i CO. PTY. LTD.
467 Collins Street, Melbourne
HOLDSWORTH & CO. LTD.
51 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
BURRIDGE SC WARREN LTD.
69 King Street, Perth
L. DOBELL 8C CO. PTY. LTD.
47 Creek Street, Brisbane
J. C. McPHEE PTY. LTD.
99 Collins Street, Hobart
JOHNSON & HEY
37 Hunter Street, Newcastle
2988
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, OHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
C
g£.
„ , BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone P roduct n^ J is°^ in a i^m U 5
of anv other substance. It contains a guaranteed
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent, lira .
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adela ,
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ẃ
dose of 3oz. Epsom salts dissolved in
water to her slops. Anaemic pigs often
scour. They need iron in the system,
Mix 3 drams sulphide of iron and 1 dram
bluestone in a pint of water and dose
with one teaspoon per day for five days.
Sudden changes in the diet or feeding one
food -to excess affects both rflilk and pigs,
Swelling or puffiness in a joint, hock,
stifle or knee in baby pigs is mostly a
sign of arthritis. The animal goes lame,
lies about and appears para iy se d. Dirty
conditions induce the disease and a germ
attacks the pig at birth or shortly * fter
J
“Ma never bothers ’er ’ ead about slimmin, but look at the Way she keeps
’er figure !”
via the navel. There’s no cure. Give the
animal a warm, well-bedded house and
it may recover. Young pigs attacked
by trembles twitch and jerk in the
muscles. In bad cases they’re unable
to suckle. Symptoms mostly disappear
in three months. Cause is unknown.
Molybdenum.
“Moly.” : The Waite Research Insti-
tute discovered at Meadows (S.A.), that
loz. molybdenum oxide per acre would
increase the productivity of certain soils
by 400 p.c. By top-dressing with super,
and the use of sub. clover the land in
high rainfall areas of S.A., practically
all poor in phosphates and nitrates, has
been built up to a carrying capacity of
four to six sheep to the acre. But there
was one class of land that would not
respond to this treatment at Meadows
and the clover failed to make healthy
growth.
The Waite people got busy on field
experiments and A. J. Anderson, B.Ag.Sc.,
first discovered a definite response in the
molybdenum plots ; an extensive series of
experiments subsequently demonstrated
that loz. of molybdenum oxide per acre
was to be the means of bringing into pro-
duction a very large area of land which
had failed to respond to all other treat-
ments except ashes. Confirmation this
season has come from many sources, and
molybdenum has been described by one
farmer as nothing short of magic. The
affinity of clover for molybdenum had
been known to science, but this is the
first time molybdenum has been used
in the field in any part of the world.
Since molybdenum was found to be so
efficacious on ironstone soils it has been
applied to a wide range of soils and par-
ticularly where the clover was lacking in
color, and results have generally been
good. Within a few weeks of the appli-
cation the clover assumes a deep green
color, indicating the regular flow of
nitrogen to the plant. There is one catch,
however: molybdenum is not a substitute
for super, and results have only been
obtained on land which has received,
over the years, about 6cwt. of super, an
acre. Fertiliser companies in S.A. have
made up a super, containing 2oz. of
molybdenum to the sack at an added
cost of approx. £1 per ton.
A farmer, by a series of small plots,
can find out the deficiencies of any par-
ticular part of his property. One experi-
ment is to spread evenly a kero, bucket
of sifted ashes on an area of 20 square
yards on land that has previously been
supered. If in a few weeks the clover
assumes a deep-green color be pretty sure
that it is molybdenum that is doing tHe
job. Should the clover prior to this
application have had* small leaves and
after treatment with wood-ash the leaves
become large and healthy, then zinc may
be the answer.
If a farmer had to make up a pre-
scription for his land with lewt. of super,,
loz. of molybdenum, 31b. copper sul-
phate, 121 b. of zinc calcinate the cost
per acre added to the purchase of the
super, would be only a few shillings and
the result might mean more than double
the production.
Modem Clearing.
“Ah Gee”: What, in sou’-west W.A.,
was formerly regarded as second- and
third-generation country now promises,
under new methods to become first-
generation, enabling the original selector
to derive at least some return from it in
his lifetime.
A bulldozer operating on a heavily-
timbered block about 20 miles north of
Albany bowled over dry trees with girths
up to 3ft. 6in., and green timber up to
2ft. The owner, who had settled there
12 years earlier, said it took him nearly
two years to clear 50 acres with the axe.
The machine cleaned up, ready for the
subsequent burn, 26/1 acres in four work-
ing days of 8/1 hours each, at 275. 6d. per
acre. The owner estimated he would
burn for under £3 per acre, with another
15s. for fertiliser and seed sown on the
burn. Pasture would be available to his
stock in a short time at a cost of
not more than £5 ss. per acre, as against
£l6 under the old method.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”; Straw, hay, etc., will be taken
better by sheep if mixed with molasses
broken down with five or six parts of
hot water. If the fodder is broadcast
feed the sheep in small mobs, when the
weaker animals can be fed separately.
A well-balanced mixture is made from
four parts of grain, four parts of lucerne
hay and two parts molasses. Plenty of
drinking water is essential when dry foods
are being fed.
“L.C.”: Don’t waste old sump oil. Use
it as anti-rust protection for metal, for
oiling hardwood buildings or as a dust-
layer or ground-hardener. Dipping the
ends of logs into it or painting them with
it prevents splitting when drying ; same
process safeguards fence posts and poles
from rot and white ants. Spraying pig-
pens, cow bails or stables with it destroys
vermin. When it’s too thick for this pur-
pose break down with kerosene.
“Sariua”: That advice about keeping
Phalaris low (B. 21/2/’45) is worth re-
peating with regard to all forage plants.
If stock are to benefit to the full from
green feed, fence off small portions of
the paddock and graze them down in
turn. If animals are confined to a limited
area, they can’t pick and choose, and
must clean up all the feed. Don’t leave
them in long enough to injure the stand,
however.
“Sailor Bill”: Noogoora burr eaten in
any quantity causes as much chaos iq a
ruminant’s inside as a dose of arsenic.
The poison works so quickly that Straw-
berry is apparently well one minute and
dead the next. A port-mortem will show
the digestive organs to be red and in-
flamed. Cattle take to the quick-growing
burr when grass is scarce; it comes away
fhst after the first summer rain, and the
younger the plants the more toxic they
are. Large, old plants are not dangerous.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
China Trades with Japan.
(From a “Collier’s” article by Mark Gayn.)
The most malodorous scandal of war-
time China concerns her trading with the
enemy. This trade, computed in billions
of Chinese dollars, flows freely across the
front lines. It benefits the Japanese,
causes famine in key areas, saps Free
China’s industrial strength, demoralises
her armies.
Chungking informally divides the trade
with the enemy into “legitimate” and
“illegitimate.” The former includes the
imports of essential items: Nippon-made
cloth, thread, medicines. Some of these
imports are handled by huge semi-official
trading and shipping firms, and by smaller
merchants asked to do so by the Govern-
ment.
“Legitimate” imports go through
Chinese customs stations and pay duty to
China. Frequently the “legitimate” im-
porters are organised in smugglers’ guilds,
and they do not hesitate to bring their
grievances to official attention.
Most of the imports, however, filter
through the Chinese lines. This, of neces-
sity, required the connivance of the mili-
tary, from the lowly lao ping to his
general. Each collects his cut, each in
the process violates army regulations.
A good case, certainly, could be built
for the “legitimate” smuggling —if it could
be funneled through a few rigidly-con-
trolled points; if it included only the
items which Free China really needs ; if
nothing important were given to the
enemy in return. But, unfortunately, an
alarming ratio of the smuggled goods in-
cludes luxury items; lipsticks and cigar-
ettes, talcum powder and table delicacies,
gadgets for the home and exquisite silks.
In return, China pays Japan with things
she cannot afford to give up: rice, tin and
wolfram, cotton and tung oil, timber,
paper and alum, tobacco and wheat,
quicksilver and copper. (A single port
in Indo-China handles 100 tons of Chinese
copper a month. Raw cotton exported to
Japanese-held China is spun into cloth
and thread by Japanese mills, and then
smuggled back into Free China, with the
enemy collecting on both transactions.
In some areas in southern China tobacco
and opium are being grown specially for
export into the Japanese-held territory.)
Even worse is the traffic in rice. Free
China goes hungry while rice by the thou-
sands of tons flows into Japanese hands.
The trade flourishes wherever rice is
grown, and it fills the enemy bins in Han-
kow, Shanghai and Canton. This rice
is not surplus. Every grain of it is needed
to feed Free China. Yet little is done
to check the traffic, and great fortunes
are piled up by the traders.
The result is inevitable. Famine stalks
vast areas, people eat clay and grass,
and die, and those who survive would
be better off dead. In such areas rice is
sold by the grain: 250 grains for $l,
Chinese. In other areas men unable to
feed their families sell them into slavery
by the catty (1| pounds),: $B, Chinese a
catty for boys, $6 a catty for girls, $4
a catty for infants. Pork is quoted at
$l4 a catty. Recent reports show women
and children are being shipped inland
from the coast for sale.
Last summer an American observer
estimated that a third of Kwangtung’s
36,000,000 population were facing famine.
Later, a missionary who had travelled
across south China predicted widespread
hunger this winter. He listed three main
causes: drought, destruction by the Japa-
nese, sale of rice to the enemy.
Generals to Rule Germany.
[ln the article here condensed a Washington
“Post” writer reports further on the possibility
of post-war Germany being ruled by the very
people it was supposed to be a war aim to get
rid of. Comment by the authoritative U.S.
“Army and Navy Journal” was published in
“Uncabled Additions” 21 /3/’45.]
According to a report that apparently
originated in Sofia and was published in
Ankara 50 German generals, prisoners of
the Russians, met recently under the
leadership of Field Marshal Gen. Fried-
rich von Paulus with the purpose of
forming a “provisional German military
Government.”
The possibility of Russians employing
German officers in the future government
of the Reich has existed ever since the
formation on Russian soil in August,
1943, of the Free Germany Committee
under the chairmanship of Duke Hein-
rich von Einsiedel, a descendant of
Prince Bismarck. The vice-chairman of
this organisation is Maj.-Gen. Walther
von Seidlitz, who commanded the Fifty-
first German Army Corps at Stalingrad
and who today also heads the Union of
German Officers formed in Moscow on
September 11, 1943.
According to Stockholm reports, Seid-
litz is more and more coming to be re-
garded in Germany as the prospective
head of the future German State.
Allied occupation of Germany will not
preclude the necessity of keeping a Ger-
man-operated apparatus of government
functioning in the Reich. The Allies will
not want to take over and operate fully
such functions as policing, public health,
education, taxation, etc. To do so would
involve keeping in Germany an army of
occupation of staggering dimensions.
One possibility is that under Russian
pressure the post-Hitlerian Government
of Germany will be communist. This is
very much to be doubted, however, if
only because a communist Germany
might soon become the ideological com-
petitor of communist Russia. On the other
hand, German government by demo-
crats — i.e., a second Weimar-Republic
(assuming there are any real democrats
left in the Reich) —would be under com-
pulsion, by its very nature, to complain
constantly of its treatment by the Allies
and to insist that it should not be made
to pay for the crimes perpetrated by the
Nazi Third Reich. Such complaints
might receive a sympathetic hearing in the
West, as did the complaints of the Wei-
mar regime.
The Russians may argue that only
under the carefully supervised rule of
old-line reactionary (but antuNazi) Ger-
man militarists could the transition from
the Third Reich to a truly anti-Nazi
Germany be bridged. Under Seidlitz and
his colleagues of the Union of German
Officers, possibly with a liberal infiltration
of communists, democrats and other anti-
Nazi elements, it will be possible to pre-
vent Germany from relapsing into com-
plete chaos following the collapse of the
Nazi regime.
In other words, the plan of action the
Russians may favor for a defeated Ger-
many may be broadly similar to the pro-
gramme they approved for Italy. Von
Seidlitz may thus be permitted to play in
post-war Germany the role that Badoglio,
for a brief period, was allowed to play in
post-armistice Italy or that Admiral Dar-
lan played in N;orth Africa between the
time of the Allied landings and his assas-
sination late in December, 1942.
Possibly the Russians are also reckon-
ing that in the long run it would be better
to have unpopular measures carried out
in Germany by conservative army officers
than by liberal or radical politicians, as
was the case in 1918, with results that,
from the long-range point of view, were
unhappy both from the viewpoint of Ger-
man democracy and world peace.
In the Free Germany Committee and
the Union of German Officers the Rus-
sians have a card they can play immedi-
ately after German resistance ends.
Neither the U.S. nor the British appear
to be anywhere nearly as well prepared.
U.S. Aid to Russia.
(from U.S. Foreign Economic Administrator
Leo T. Crowley's report.)
Contributions to the Russian war effort
from the beginning of the lend-lease pro-
gramme to December 1, 1944, included:
Motor Transport. —More than 331,000
vehicles, including 45,000 jeeps and 29,000
motor-cycles. More than half of the
Soviet Army’s supplies on some fronts
are being carried in American trucks.
Railroad Equipment. —One thousand
and forty-five locomotives, 7164 flat
cars, 1000 dump cars, 100 tank cars,
480.000 tons of railroad rails and 110,000
tons of wheels.
War Production Materials. —One mil-
lion five hundred and thirty-two thousand
tons of steel, in addition to the railroad
rails and wheels, 16,600 tons of ferro
alloys to be used in the manufacture of
steel in Soviet mills, 733,000 tons of non-
ferrous metals, including 253,000 tons of
aluminium, 314,000 tons of brass and
65.000 tons of copper.
Finished Munitions. —Twelve thousand
two hundred airplanes, 135,000 machine-
guns, 294,000 tons of explosives, 6000
tanks, 1800 self-propelled guns, 1200 half-
tracks, 13,000 pistols, 3300 armored scout
cars, 8200 assorted guns, including anti-
aircraft, 55,000 artillery prime movers and
1700 ordnance vehicles.
Other Supplies. —One million three hun-
dred thousand tons of petroleum, 638,000
tons of chemicals, 11,000,000 pairs of
army boots, 97,000,000 yards of cotton
cloth, 50,000,000 yards of woollen cloth,
58.000 yards of webbing, 24,000 tons of
abrasive products.
In addition, Crowley said, the United
States has sent to Russia 60 power trains
to help replace sources of power, such as
the ruined $110,000,000 Dneprostroy dam,
destroyed in August, 1941, to prevent it *
from falling into German hands.
The trains consist of complete steam-
generating units mounted on railroad flat
cars, and are moved on railroad tracks
from city to city or industry to industry
as the need demands.
British in Burma.
(From an article by N.Y. “Times” military
commentator Hanson W. Baldwin .)
What is clearly being done in Burma
and China is the accomplishment of the
impossible—or at least, what was said
two years ago to be impossible.
Burma is being reconquered by over-
land invasion. And roads and oil-pipe
lines—both great engineering feats—have
been, and are being, driven across the
jungled, saw-toothed ranges of some of
the world’s worst terrain to link Ledo
with Kunming.
Both of these concepts were the favored
projects of General Joseph W. Stilwell,
the hard-bitten, frank old campaigner,
who is no diplomat but a tough soldier.
The victories in Burma-Yannan, there-
fore, are vindications of “Uncle Joe.” But
they are vindications, too, of the British,
who are bearing the main burden of the
Burma campaign. Lieut.-General William
J. Slim’s Fourteenth Army, composed
chiefly of British and Indian troops, has
been the principal instrument of these
victories.
As the Fourteenth Army is reinforced
and its operations are complemented by
another army or independent corps, fight-
ing along the Arakan coast, and
as Admiral Lord Louis Mountbatten
manages with the aid of more amphibious
equipment to get more of his forces in
action, we can expect to see in the months
between now and June even more
dramatic and perhaps more rapid pro-
gress than the cheering victories already
achieved.
The campaign in Burma, a black spot
on the map of global war a year ago, is
now fast becoming an Allied conquest,
in which the fortitude of the soldiers of
all armies and the teamwork and vision
and energy of staffs and commands are
now playing major roles.
Exit a Soviet Agent.
(From a N.Y. “Journal-American” article by
Upton Close. )
Sometimes the removal of an actor
from the scene changes the whole drama.
The place in the world drama of the
sudden death of Constantin Oumanski,
in an aeroplane crash in Mexico City, has
been largely overlooked.
Oumanski, a self-confident, attractive,
artistic young businessman type—not at
all the conventional long-whiskered Bol-
shevik —was chief over all Stalin’s inter-
ests in the two American continents, and
that is saying quite a lot. In addition,
he was, one might say, the high priest
of the communist cult on the American
side of the Atlantic.
When I first knew Oumanski he was
Soviet Consul General in New York and
belonged to the school of young Soviet
officials who thought Russia should
modify her extreme peculiarities and be-
come, so to speak, a Lady of the World
on the world’s best streets.
But about that time Secretary of State
Hull accused Moscow of having failed
to live up to its agreement, both on the
matter of debt paying and on the matter
of propagandising inside the U.S. and in
neighboring countries which Americans
regard as their interests. Mr. Roosevelt
saw fit to back up Mr. Hull with strong
words.
Under the cold blast from White House
and State Departments, the Russian Em-
bassy in Washington withered away to a
mere skeleton of junior clerks and jani-
tors.
Oumanski went to Mexico City, where
he forthwith took up Spanish and began
to look like a Spanish-American gentle-
man.
The Russian Embassy in Mexico City
grew into an organisation with more than
300 staff members. It was noted that
Vincento Lombard Toledano, president of
the radical Conference of Latin American
Workers, practically made his home in
Oumanski’s Embassy. It became easily
the most important place in Mexico City
next to the President’s palace.
Revolutionary upsets began to happen
in Latin American countries neighboring
Mexico and further south, and they usu-
ally ended with a re-establishment of
diplomatic relations with Moscow. And
in every case Mr. Oumanski was appoin-
ted Minister to the new Government of
the smaller country as well as Ambas-
sador to Mexico.
It began to look as if young Mr.
Oumanski was destined to be Soviet Am-
bassador to all the Americas, It was well
known that the still younger man in the
Washington Soviet Embassy, Andrei
Gromyko, had to clear everything with
Oumanski in Mexico City. This, diplo-
matically, adds up to Washington being
made secondary to Mexico City so far as
Moscow is concerned.
Down south of the Rio Grande Mr.
Oumanski was doing very well indeed.
One of the latest little countries to estab-
lish a regime with the support of com-
munist propaganda forces was little
Costa Rica.
Mr. Oumanski and wife and party
were taking off in a ’plane from Mexico
City to do the honors when something
happened.
Danes v. Germans.
(Condensed from an “American Mercury”
article by Gunnar Leistikow.)
The first shooting of hostages to occur
in Denmark aroused the entire nation.
Out of nowhere the Danes started to dis-
play British and American flags. Pic-
tures of Hitler and other Nazi leaders
were burned in the streets. Barricades
were erected. All this happened in Copen-
hagen, where no large-scale mass demon-
stration had occurred for some 50 years.
Two days after the outburst of Nazi
terrorism, the workers of Burmeister and
Wain, Denmark’s largest shipyard, sent
a provocative letter to Dr. Best, Hitler’s
representative, telling him of their inten-
tions to take a day off to work in their
victory gardens. Then they nonchalantly
walked out. Other plants followed their
example; within a few days strikes were
"prevalent throughout the city, proclaimed
by nobody, yet adhered to by everybody.
Eight more hostages were shot. The
Trade Union Council replied by a general
strike, called under the nose of the Ges-
tapo. The Germans arrested many union
leaders and threatened to liquidate them
if the strike was not called off. Neverthe-
less, it continued. In the evenings the
masses disregarded curfew and were shot
at —even strafed by Nazi ’planes. Then
the Germans cut off Copenhagen’s water,
gas, electricity and food. Even the sick
and dying in hospitals were deprived of
water, and Danish babies had to go with-
out milk.
Despite these efforts, the Nazis were
unable to subdue the rebellious nation.
Copenhageners took water from the lakes
inside the city. Many grocers stripped
their shelves of food, which they distri-
buted free. The strike spread throughout
the country, and all radio appeals to con-
trol or end the trouble were ignored.
The Germans threatened to bomb
Copenhagen, but to no effect, as the
strike spread to more than 20 cities. The
Germans threw in the sponge. They
accepted in full the terms submitted to
them by the underground. At first they
withheld wages for the strike period, but
when threatened by a renewal of hostili-
ties they agreed to pay at once!
How did an occupied country win such
an astounding victory? For Denmark is
not a place where one can hide, as in
Yugoslavia’s mountains, or in Poland’s
inaccessible forests. It is flat and so
populated that one can scarcely find a
single plot of ground without a house in
it. Yet no underground council could
have functioned before the very eyes of
the Gestapo, dictating terms to the con-
queror, but for the unique situation which
existed.
In a word, the underground is so num-
erous that a fugitive feels safe in prac-
tically any building he chooses to enter.
The entire Danish nation is at one with
the underground, whose leaders estimate
that out of the country’s 4,000,000 popu-
lation there are 3,998,000 enthusiastic
supporters of the United Nations, and
only 2000 active quislings.
Slowly, as more and more plants were
commandeered by the Nazis, Danish sabo-
tage became a major problem. The
saboteurs found that sugar was a fine in-
gredient to mix with gasoline and cement.
By this sweetening process Wehrmacht
cars could be made to stop running and
pillboxes would not harden.
Sabotage took a steep upcurve. All
over the country barracks were fired,
troop trains derailed, plants and ship-
yards blasted ; power stations blown up
and German ships mysteriously sunk. Not
less than 15,000 anti-sabotage guards had
to be posted in Danish plants and power
stations, along railroads and piers. Not
that this helped much. You just can’t


Have a “Coke”
Aloha No
m
$
'll 1 \
m
C '*
I
m
U
z^>
m
... or how to be at home in
Hawaii—or Hobart
There are two ways to greet
a friend in Hawaii. Aloha
No, says the native, and
Have a “Coke,” says the
sailor ... Both expressions
carry the same note of
welcome and affection . . .
From Honolulu to Hobart
Coca-Cola has become the
symbol of the pause that
refreshes —the gracious in-
troduction between kindly-
minded strangers.
y>
—the global
high-sign
“Coke”=Coca-Cola. It’s natural
for popular names to acquire
friendly abbreviations. That’s why
you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, U.S.A.
(Liability Limit ed)
SYDNEY
KM
v: !**■' v-i.';V/ ':•:££'s:■
m
*1 vlai*»V
:;v :• *
a
»«s
outstanding “ private venture ” production of the British aircraft industry—The
Havilland Mosquito ( Rolls-Royce Merlin engines). Most versatile high-speed
aircraft in service, equipped for duties ranging from night fighting to long-range heavy
bombing, the Mosquito is in quantity manufacture in Britain, Canada and Australia
BOLD ENTERPRISE
The battle honours achieved by British warplanes in every
zone of the global war testify to the great and virile industry
that stands as a background to the fighting air forces.
Right up to the present day British official policy has
entrusted the design of all aircraft and engines to the
individual companies of the aircraft industry—a system
which has produced, among other rich dividends, bomber
fleets carrying bigger unit war loads than any other Service
in the world, fighters whose supremacy has remained
unchallenged for five years and flying boats which range
the oceans.
Most of the more successful warplanes and engines which
equip the Empire Air Forces owe even more than their
design to private enterprise. The genius of the industry’s
designers frequently enables them to foresee, more clearly
than the official technicians, the future operational require-
ments of the fighting Services. Thus are created the “private
ventures” —aircraft and engines of which both specification
and design have been evolved by the manufacturer and
developed through his initiative.
When its war task is completed, the British aircraft industry
will direct to the pursuit of peaceful objectives the inventive
genius, technical skill and adaptability through which air
mastery in war has been achieved.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
select 15,000 reliable anti-sabotage guards
out of 2000 Danish Nazis. Consequently,
in many instances, the guards actually
showed the saboteurs where to place their
bombs.
The Germans imposed nation-wide
martial and curfew law;, arrested the
Danish Government, confined the King
to his palace and announced death penal-
ties for saboteurs and strikers. Severe
fighting broke out in many localities,
when Danish Army units resisted disarm-
ing by the Germans. In the navy yard
Danish bluejackets fought off the enemy
while their comrades blew up ammuni-
tion dumps and fortifications. The navy
scuttled the small Danish fleet, a total of
45 vessels, 11 escaping to neutral Sweden.
It is estimated that 2000 Danes were
wounded or lost their lives that day.
When the Germans realised that their
new methods were working no better than
the old they communicated with the King
and the former Ministers and leaders of
Parliament, imploring them to return and
form a new Government. The answer
was No\ The King refused to appoint
a new Premier without Parliament’s con-
sent ; the party leaders said the old Gov-
ernment still had Parliament’s confidence;
the Cabinet Ministers refused either to
function or to resign so long as the Ger-
mans maintained their extraordinary
measures. The nation preferred to stay
underground.
Thus, Denmark had no Government.
The underground nation, however, soon
gave birth to a new group to voice its
thoughts and to lead the resistance. Re-
presentatives of the various secret organ-
isations, who planned and executed sabo-
tage and kept the illegal press active, met
and founded a central organ of the
Danish underground, the so-called Danish
Freedom Council. Under its leadership,
warmly acknowledged by British authori-
ties, Denmark was recognised as the
number one saboteur nation in Europe.
Dragnet Digest.
o Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Disposition of League of Nations buildings
and money will be settled finally by all its
members. The palace at Geneva probably
will be sold. It seems certain the new peace
organisation will not be established at Geneva.
Russia is supporting Vienna as the site, Wash-
ington diplomats say, while Brussels and Luxem-
bourg have been suggested.— U.S. Associated
Press.
* * * *
The U.S. Army’s 100th Infantry Battalion
which is composed of 1300 Hawaiian-born
Japanese, has been awarded so far nearly 1100
unit and individual decorations and citations,
including at least 1000 Purple Hearts. —
“Collier’s.’’
f * * * *
One of France’s most eminent medical men,
Professor Pasteur Vallery-Radot, states that
54 p.c. of Parisian children under two suffer
from rickets. Infant mortality has risen from
2.46 p.c. in 1939 to 4.68 p.c. in 1941. The
consequences of an unbalanced as well as de-
ficient diet suffered by Parisian children during
the last four years shows in the marked decline
not only in average height but in average
weight. Moreover, children are suffering from
all sorts of ailments directly traceable to mal-
nutrition. Another grave danger is tuberculosis,
which has shown a marked ascendancy during
the last four years in adolescents betwen the
ages of 15 and 19 and in adults between 20
and 24. During 1941—the hardest of the four
years of German occupation from a nutritional
point of view—the rise was something like 25
p.c. and there were innumerable cases of in-
curable acute tuberculosis. Most men return-
ing from forced labor in Germany, from prison
and concentration camps, were found upon ex-
amination to be suffering from the dread dis-
ease. — Paris correspondent N.Y. “World-Tele-
gram.”
* * * *
Finland’s loss of Petsamo is of great im-
portance on account of its nickel mines and its
port, the only one on the Polar Sea. The
strategically vital air and sea bases of this
greatly reduced country are under Soviet con-
trol. The 50 years’ lease of Porkala fo the
Russians must not be taken lightly. The Soviets
have demanded 10,000 Finnish workers to be
employed on building fortifications on this
peninsula, which lies south-east of Helsinki.
Whoever possesses it controls Finland’s capital
and Hangoe. Apart from a national debt of
over £2OOO million, Finland’s reparation pay-
ments to Russia amount to £75 million. Be-
fore the war her average State expenditure was
£lO5 million. Her industry will now be put
under State supervision in order that this obli-
gation may be settled in goods within five
years.— Alfred Joachim Fischer; London “Con-
temporary Review . v
* * * *
The future settlement on Germany is consid-
ered in many quarters in London as the core of
the future settlement on Europe, so that a
right decision on Germany means a tremendous
lot. London “Times” has discussed this issue
in two articles which support the contention that
, any real permanent settlement of Germany
depends upon these realisations: —(1). That
it would be unfortunate to produce terms which
the United Nations couldn’t apply. (2). That
the policy must be such as to prevent the re-
emergence of Germany as a war-making power.
(3). The policy must also provide a basis for
the economic recovery of Europe.— London
correspondent “Christian Science Monitor.”
In dealing with the four surrendered coun-
tries —Finland, Rumania, Bulgaria and Hungary
—the Soviets imposed not a temporary armis-
tice, but a substantial peace treaty. Territorial,
financial and other economic issues were settled
as far as Russia is concerned. Reparations
were fixed, and already Russia is conscripting
Germans in Hungary for labor in Russia. Rus-
sia will insist upon terms of peace with Ger-
many which include none of the idea of elevat-
ing labor everywhere entertained by the Ameri-
cans Messrs. Hillman and Wallace, but which
satisfy the conditions necessary to Russia’s
welfare. This may well be a great shock to
American radicals. That is not to say that
Russia is wrong in her demands. She has
seen Nazi armies devastate her country. A
growing industry was wantonly destroyed, cities
were burned, agriculture was trampled under
foot and Russians were taken to Germany as
slave labor. This is the debt that Russia
intends to make Germany pay in kind. It
is hard to believe that Russian Labor people
who are, in fact, Government representatives,
will be concerned about the objectives of British
and American Labor representatives. Russia
entered this war because the Nazis attacked her,
not to promote labor standards everywhere.
And she will end it without great regard for
international labor matters. — Raymond Moley;
“Wall-street Journal.”
Sfc * * *
Living conditions within liberated Italy have
reached the point where they barely touch sub-
sistence level. People are actually starving in
some regions. Everywhere they are hungry.
Infant mortality is mounting. Tuberculosis is
rampant. — Former U.S. Under Secretary of
State Sumner Welles.
* * * *
At a recent press conference Gen. de Gaulle
stated that while the independence of Syria and
Lebanon had been recognised by the French
Government, France, nevertheless, had in those
countries a preponderant position which if was
determined to retain. He went on to complain
that the problem of giving independence to
these two Levant States had been more difficult
as a result of “external interference” —a refer-
ence to the fact that the British Government in
1941 guaranteed France’s promise to give com-
plete independence and full sovereignty to
Syria and Lebanon. General de Gaulle left the
impression on his audience at the press con-
ference that negotiations for a Franco-British
alliance must await satisfactory solution of this
alleged “external interference” in Syria by the
British.” — London correspondent “Christian
Science Monitor.”
* * * *
If the British Commonwealth is to maintain
itself the establishment of an international
organisation strong enough to preserve world
peace is an indispensable requisite. The suc-
cessful reorganisation of the British social
structure after the war depends upon the ability
of the British people once more to buy and sell
abroad. No Beveridge plan, nor any compar-
able plan, can be carried out unless Great Britain
can once more develop her export trade to a
volume proportionate to that which she en-
joyed at the turn of the century. The only way
in which that can be accomplished, and the
British people thereby achieve the assurance
of economic security, is the creation of a world
organisation and the agreement thereunder by
the United States and British Governments
upon liberal economic and financial policies
which will make for the development of a
sound and expanding international trade of
equal benefit to both countries. — Former U.S.
Under Secretary of State Sumner Welles.
* * * *
If the White Paper on Palestine remains in
force or an alternative settlement is not made,
the Jews are fated to remain as a permanent
minority; as a dwindling minority, in fact, for
the Arab birth rate is twice as high as the
Jewish, and one of the most striking facts of
the many-faceted problem is that Arab immi-
gration into Palestine in the past decade has
actually been higher than Jewish immigration.—
Jerusalem correspondent N.Y. ‘‘Times.'”
* * * *
No amount of propaganda can hide the fact
that the Lublin regime in Poland is commun-
ist in character or that' it is directed from
Moscow. The name Boleslaw Beirut, acting
president of the “Provisional Government” at
Lublin, is assumed. London Poles say his real
name is Krasnodebski. The name, Beirut, was
was made up of the two first syllables of two
other aliases—Bienkowski and Rutkowski —
used during previous political activities. Beirut
was born in 1891, near Lublin. In 1921 he was
accorded Soviet citizenship and admitted to the
Comintern. Since then, say the Poles, he has
worked in varying capacities, including a tour
of duty in the Ogpu (Soviet secret police).—
William Philip Simms; N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
The feeling prevails in England that Ameri-
cans do not duly value the contribution which
the British people have made to the common
war effort. That feeling is justified. We are
too prone here in America to believe that the
military and material help which the United
States has rendered Britain cancels out the fact
that from the fall of France to Hitler’s attack
on Russia Great Britain stood out practically
alone against the Axis powers. In modern
times no people have shown greater courage,
and none have done more to save our civili-
sation. This was done by a people with one-
third of the U.S. population, still suffering
from their losses in the World War, with none
of the U.S. geographical advantages, and with
only a fraction of the U.S. resources. Had they
not done so the United States would have been
forced to face a hostile world by itself. We do
not visualise very clearly what the average
citizen of England has suffered during these
five and a half years of war. It is not only the
slaughter of civilians and the destruction of
homes, but the ever continuing shortages of
food and of clothing, nightly blackouts, inter-
minable months without heating, and, above all
else, the lack of the assurance of any future
individual security, which wear down men’s
hearts. And British men and women have
borne all this without complaint and with un-
flinching fortitude. — Former U.S. Under Secre-
tary of State Sumner Welles.


Butterflies Wanted.
BUTTERFLIES.—A research scientist requires
quotations per hundred, unset, in papers with locali-
ties, etc., on each, from New Guinea, including
islands, Philippines and Formosa; also Australian
Lycaenidae (small blues). Must be in good condition
and not more than four pairs of each species. Grist,
98 Sharmans Cross Road, SOLIHULL, WARWICK-
SHIRE, ENGLAND.
Public Notice.
I, PETER ERIK SIBONI, of Danish nationality,
born at Copenhagen, Denmark, and resident twenty-
eight years in Australia, now residing at Jumble
Plains, Tullanaore, intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, VICTOR DOMENIC MERZI, of Italian nationality,
born at Verona, Italy, and resident now and for the
past twenty-one years in Australia, now residing at
59 Waterloo Street, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes.; Remember
the name DOAN’S,
ẅ
The MARS”
Plain MILLER
A Sturdy Machine of Great Accuracy,
Maximum Output and High Quality
Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
Manufactured by
w
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Bistrib. Agents for N.S.W.; Thomas Herbert & Co. pty., Ltd., 139 .Clarence Street, Sydney.
For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne.
STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
ŵ
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
Interest - - Power
The Pelman Course increases interest-power. It is Shis quality of the
Pelman Course which makes it of peculiar usefulness to members of
the Services.
Interest makes duty purposeful, helps to quick apprehension of the
subject matter of training and educational courses, adds to the
pleasure and profit of free time and keeps the mind in trim for re-
entry to civil life. Interest discovers the real meaning, the energy and
movement of what engages our minds and so keeps us alert and
responsive in any circumstances and in any company.
Interest-power is sometimes the cause and sometimes the effect of
other qualities which Pelmanism sets out to develop in the individual
pupil. These qualities are:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Initiative
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Judgment
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Alongside we publish extracts from a few hundreds of letters received
during 1944 from members of the Services referring to the qualities
developed by Pelmanism,
The same full service is given to civilians with similar results.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of person-
ality in “The Efficient Mind,” sent post free. Inquiries are
confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Note; Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers,
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT MIND.”
Name.
Address
171
The Headquarters of the Pelman Institute are in London. The Institute has been established in Melbourne under
the same direction for over 36 years, and has enrolled more than 50,000 of the half-million world Pelmanists.
*
nii ivh Y A
PREVENT SORE THR
ls:?r<v
■yS:v
■m
m
4
5767
CRAVENA
tk&foe always,,
smolb * ffiult!
Obtainable In 10 9 s & 20’s
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Three Comrades by Eric Remarque.
—3607.
To buy issues of The Bulletin for 1934 to
1944 (inch).—36oB.
To exchange issues of “Fortune” magazine
for issues of another American publication. —
3609.
To buy Jane Eyre (Bronte).—3610.
Information Sought.
Some information about Orient Steam Navi-
Sation Co.’s old flagship Austral ?
The Royal Australian Historical Society
states that on November, 1882, while coaling
in Neutral Bay, she assumed a list and sank,
causing the loss of five lives. She was refloated
on February 23, 1883, and returned to England,
at a cost of £50,000. The Austral then made
a record trip to New York, after which she was
returned to her old Australian run till in 1903
she was sold for breaking-up.
To be entitled to an old age pension, how
long must a foreigner live in Australia, and how
long must he be naturalised?
He must have had 20 years’ continuous resi-
dence. (Continuous residence is deemed not to
have been interrupted by occasional absences
not exceeding in the aggregate one-tenth of the
total period of residence.) He may apply im-
mediately after naturalisation, provided he has
had 20 years’ continuous residence.
(1) Will a seedling orange tree bear fruit. (2)
If not, can it be treated to make it do so?
G) Tes, but usually only after attaining an
age of from seven to twelve years. (2) If it is
desired to avoid this long period of waiting,
the tree can be brought into production in about
three years by budding or grafting to a desirable
variety.
Some information about wood borers and a
method to combat them ?
The insects may be the pine beetle, found
only m Queensland pine, or the powder-post
beetle, which does not attack pine but infests
almost all other timbers. A method to prevent
ent ry i s to paint both sides of wood. Infested
timber may be treated twice a year with a solu-
tion of 11b. paradichloro-benzine in Igal. kero-
sene, until signs of borer disappear.
Recipe for mushroom ketchup?
Mix mushrooms with salt, and stand in a
stone jar for three days, stirring occasionally,
® en press out juice. To each gallon of juice
add two tablespoons each of mustard-seed and
bruised ginger, one teaspoon black pepper, one
tablespoon allspice. Boil for an hour, stand for
two weeks, then strain and bottle.
Formula for a cream distemper?
Take a bag of lime (1121 b.), slake with water
and whilst hot add 71b. of coarse butcher’s
salt and then 71b. tallow. Yellow ochre should
be mixed in, the amount depending on depth
of color required. Strain all through a fine
sieve.
How to soften shoe leather?
Rub warm neatsfoot oil well in with a cloth.
Two good rubbings should be enough.
Brief Answers.
E.C.A.: A widow should be addressed by
her husband’s initials unless she uses her own
initials when signing her letters K.V.S.:
Information can be obtained from Dunlop
Perdriau, 27 Wentworth-avenue, Sydney....
R.F.K.: The film is unprocurable in Australia.
W.V.H.: The forms be obtained from
Copyright Dept., 3 Martin-place... .V.A.W.:
Can’t say without seeing book M.R.: Pit-
man & Sons, Melbourne, might be able to help
y0u.... Murray: (1) Three blade, 12in. dia-
hieter, 12in. pitch for the 30ft. boat. (2) Three
blade, 9in. by 9in., for the 20ft. boat. (3) Get
in touch with H. I. Clemens, 79 MacLachlan-
avenue, Rushcutter Bay D.H.F.: Queens-
land Peanut Board, Kingaroy, and Queensland
Ginger Board, Buderin Mountain, will be able
to help y0u....8.J.: A pensioner’s home, no
matter what the value, is disregarded for pen-
sion purposes... .M.M.: The South-west Pacific
Office of U.N.R.R.A. is in the A.C.I. Building,
William-street, Sydney... .F.O’M.: (1) Sydney
Observatory (2) None... .M.R.8.: Send name
and address.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and. address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
W.H.S.: Confused S.H.: Too personal.
A.C.: Henry Lawson beat you to it....
E. 8.: Howling doggerel G.W.: “Enclosed
is a spasm.” It is leaping convulsively
in the w.p.b E.J.W.: Frozen; and there’s
no such word as “unrelent.” F. 8.:
Usual remarks about the breeze and the
trees T.R.P.: Matters of great interest
to the author are not necessarily enter-
taining to anyone else A.E.C.: Feather-
weight R.A.8.: “As I had a couple of hours
to spare I put my thoughts on paper.” You
need, unfortunately, a couple of centuries
T.E.: Not a hope... .H.M.K.: Attempt to
criticise banking legislation in verse courageous
but unprofitable S.R.T.: Diffuse M.H.C.:
An elegant rumbling C.A.P.: About as solid
a meal as an egg-shell J.A.W.: Heavy going.
C.F.R.: Amusing when not incoherent.
7/6 IS PAID FOR ORIGINAL
JOKE IDEAS.


Over 66 years oj
service, iSyS-ig^g
On the 14th of June, 1878, The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Limited was established as
the first Corporate Trustee Company in Australia,
its purpose being to provide a more efficient means
of meeting the needs of the community in Estate
Administration.
Since then, the Company has provided the im-
partial advice and assistance of a Permanent Cor-
poration as Executor, Trustee, Attorney, Agent,
and in other business of a fiduciary nature, to which
activities it is solely devoted.
By making a Will, appointing as Executor or Co-
Executor this old-established Company, you ensure
the careful and efficient administration of your
Estate and obtain the benefit of over 66 years’
specialised experience at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your solicitors, or write or call for
a free explanatory booklet.
■
___
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Managers W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart:
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
J
—ln a cIaSS of. iii own
LEA & PERRINS
invite you to listen to a
session of fun and fancy at
12.30 p.m. every Sunday from
2GB.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
, Dividends ,
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 12 p.c. serves, serves.
1934.. 223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,776
8 p.c.
1935.. 66,751 24,000 60,000 237,527
4 p.c.
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30,000 136,421 373,948
1937.. 157.543 24,000 120,000 13,543 387,491
26 p.c.
1938.. 243,251 24,000 195,000 24,251 411,742
Additional taxation, £31,000 .. 380,742
16 p.c.
1939.. 146,303 24,000 120,000 2,303 383,045
Tax reserve brought back, £13,150.. 396,195
24 p.c.
1940.. 114,082 24,000 180,000 306,277
12 p.c.
1941.. 134,112 24,000 90,000 20,112 326,389
14.6 p.c.
1942.. 134,702 24,000 110,000 702 827,091
Tax and insurance reserve brought
back, £37,000 .. .. .. 364,091
10 p.c.
1943.. 145,469 24,000 120,000 1,469 365,560
Excess tax provision written back
£109,696 475,256
17.4 p.c.
1944.. 155,796 24,000 131,000 796 476,052
There was little change in basic con-
ditions for rubber manufacturers last
year. Federal control of production, dis-
tribution and consumption of rubber
goods continued. And so did transport
rationalisation measures, under which
Goodyear was granted an increased share
of the trade in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land, but prohibited from shipping tyres
and tubes to Victoria, South Australia,
West Australia and Tasmania. The co.’s
plant, including the two sections added
during -the previous term —one to turn
out tyres, tubes and self-sealing tanks for
airplanes, and another for production of
reclaimed rubber —was engaged mainly
on defence contracts. Civilian trade
continued a comparative trickle of what
it used to be, the margin on defence con-
tracts remained narrow, and the trend of
costs continued upward, despite Govern-
ment attempts at stabilisation.
Big changes are taking place in manu-
facture of rubber goods. To conserve
diminishing stocks of crude—about 90
p.c. of the world’s rubber-producing areas
was lost following the Jap invasion of
Malaya and the nearby Indies—more
synthetic rubber is to be used. Estimated
world rubber requirements for the
first post-war year have been put at
1,850,000 tons. Production of synthetic
in U.S.A. is expected to reach not much
more than 850,000 tons, leaving a gap of
about a million tons to be filled by pro-
duction of crude.
According to the New York “Herald-
Tribune,” plans for reclamation of
rubber lands as they are liberated
are being prepared by an informal
committee representing the U.S. State
Department, U.S. War Production Board,
U.S. Rubber Development Corp., and
a London committee representing both
the British and Dutch Governments.
Still, shipments are not expected to ex-
ceed 350,000 tons for the first post-war
year, rising to around 1,100,000 tons two
years after that. In other words, not
until the fourth post-war year need any
real relief be looked for so far as supplies
of crude rubber are concerned. Mean-
while a mixture of synthetic and crude
is inevitable, if demand is to be met.
Production of synthetic calls for special
plant, and, compared with natural rub-
ber, the stuff is harder to work, slower
in processing, and involves the use of
more man-hours. For some special pur-
poses it is said to be superior to crude,
but for general use, including tyres, it is
not as suitable. Producers of synthetic
claim that within a year after the war
prices of their products will approach
those of natural rubber. This claim is
based upon cheap supplies of butadiene
becoming available.
For the twelve months covered by the
latest accounts Goodyear’s net earnings
sprang £10,327, reaching £155,796. That
was after reducing provision for the tax-
gatherer (£98,300) by £57,400, and setting
aside £9858 less for depreciation (£85,195).
In addition it leaves out of the reckoning
£109,696 overprovided for taxation in
previous years. That is to say, profits
were previously understated by that
amount. Last year’s £155,796 covered
the pref. div. and a shade over 17.5 p.c.
on the £750,000 of ord. capital (all
owned by the parent co. in U.S.A.), com-
pared with 16.2, 14.7, 14.6, 12 and 16.3
p.c. back to 1939. The div. was lifted
from 16 p.c. to 17.4 p.c.
The co.’s rapid progress in face of
keen competition—it set up here in 1926
to get behind the tariff —partly reflects
the effects of a liberal depreciation
policy upon plant efficiency and costs.
Plant, etc., on which £3586 more was
spent than was written off last term, now
stands in the books at only 19.4 p.c. of
cost. Here are balance-sheet figures:
1938. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Pref. capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital.. 750,000 750,000 750,000 750,000
Goodyear (U.S.) 54,800
Creditors . . 146,583* 558,756 77,258 79,651
Tax reserve .. 245,867 166,727 144,100
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 407,068 347,667 296,453 300,021
Stock.. .. 683,857 1,313,522 729,503 783,458
Book debts .. 298,008 474,643 449,885 435,117
Cash, etc. .. 80,501 51,151 183,705 231,208
Java subsid... 197,800 —•—
* Including taxation, etc.
The year’s improvement of £106,924 in
the more or less liquid surplus (£1,226,032)
mainly reflects the writing back of over-
provision for taxation in the past, already
referred to.
Huddart Parker, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 85,740 30,000 7 p.c. <= 52,500 3,240 771,092
1935.. 78,059 30,000 7 „ „ 52,500 706,652
1936.. 91,108 30,000 7\ „ „ 56,250 4,858 771,510
1937. .116,468 30,000 11 „ „ 82,500 3,968 775,478
1938. .132,164 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 772,642
1939’. .139,216 30,000 14 „ ~105,000 4,216 776,858
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.!
Surplus sale investment, £6450 .. 2,028,157
1940. 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 8,634 2,036,791
Adjustment outside interests, £9986.. 2,046,777
1941. .140,213 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 20,213 2,066 i 9#0
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..2,056,990
Adjustment outside interests, £4892 .. 2,061,882
Surplus sale assets, £5457 .. ..2,067,339
19'42. .125,416 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 5,416 2,072,755
Profit liq. subsidiary, £75,376 . . 2,148,131
Adjustm’t outside infests, etc., £7214.. 2,155,375
1943. .107,906 30,000 12 p.o.= 90,000 2,148,331
Surplus sale assets, £3148 .. .. 2,146,479
Unexplained addition, £13,651 .. 2,160,130
1944. .103,911 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 - 2,144,041
* Excluding specific reserves until 1940* f Eliminat-
ing outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
Australian coastal shipping, including
this co.’s fleet, remains in the hands of
the Government. Vessels not required
by the Navy come under the Shipping
Control Board, the owners continuing to
act as managers. Thus earnings of H.P.
and its subsidiaries are now derived from
charter and management fees, pickings
from tugs and returns from a fine wad
of investments outside the shipping busi-
ness. According to the published accounts,
returns from investments now account
for practically the whole of net earnings.
These investments include £1,542,630 of
Government securities. This is nearly
twice the value at which ships, plant, etc.,
appeared at the end of 1944, and places
the organisation in a very strong position
when replacements and renewals, or per-
haps other investments, have to be made
after the war.
The co.’s other outside interests include
holdings in Hebburn, Metropolitan and J.
and A. Brown and Abermain-Seaham —all
in the coal trade —and in A.W.A., Mel-
bourne Steam, Aust. National Airways
and Tasmanian Steamers. The last-
named has lately been a bit of a drag.
Bay Steamers, a subsidiary, went into
voluntary liquidation a couple of years
ago, the Government having bought its
only remaining vessel. There was a profit
of £75,376 on the clean-up. The fate of
A.N.A. awaits the pleasure of the Gov-
ernment, which has announced its inten-
tion of taking over operation of all inter-
state air routes but has not yet brought
down the necessary legislation. Share-
holders in Guinea Airways recently
turned down A.N.A.’s offer of £275,000
in 6 p.c. cum. prefs. for the former co.’s
business.
Financial terms of the chartering aren’t
broadcast, but it is reasonable to assume
that they are in keeping with the Gov-
ernment policy on profits. Chief com-
plaint of owners is that the rates do not
enable adequate provision to be made
for replacement of old tonnage, or ton-
nage that might be lost through accident
or war operations. Moreover, recovery
from underwriters in respect of loss is
taxed as profit. No such tax is levied
in U.K., where the whole of insurance
money is available for replacement, which
will have to be made at greatly increased
cost compared with pre-war prices.
A feature of the present position that
contains the seeds of future trouble is
the high level of costs. This is due to
lifts in wage rates and prices for fuel,
stores, etc., and to strikes on the water-
front and coalfields, with consequent
delays in sailing schedules. At sea work-
ing hours have been reduced from 56 to
44, and a war-risk bonus has been added
to wages. The initial rate of bonus is
33| p.c., increasing to a retrospective 50
p.c. after six months’ service, and payable
whether at sea or in port. Although war-
risk from enemy action on the Australian
coast has greatly diminished —on the east
and south coasts it has largely disappeared
—a suggested revision of bonus rates on
a graduated scale recently met with a
threat of direct action, and the question
of revision was shelved.
After providing for depreciation
(£93,455, down £16,685), taxation
(£15,621), down £25,294) and contin-
gencies (£3148, down £72,228), H.P.'s
equity in group net earnings was £4045
lighter at £103,911. But that leaves out
of the reckoning unexplained additions
of £13,651 to reserves and a surplus of
£3148 on sale of assets. So maintenance
of the ord. div. at 12 p.c. didn’t involve
a reduction of reserves, as p. and 1. figures
alone suggest.
And payment of the div. won’t involve
any strain on the financial position either:
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital . . £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside shares* . . 418,529 412,530 408,288
Sundry creditors!. . 278,029 416,633 446,880
Inter-co. balances): 13,161 18,215 16,710
Freehold & leasehold 521,250 528,587 528,560
Ships, plant, etc.. . 1,156,457 860,651 784,758
Government sec. .. 1,281,985 1,445,630 1,542,630
Shares, etc. .. 764,975 877,534 900,529
, Stores . . . . 77,223 93,698 81,842
Sundry debtors . . 200,485 366,938 865,340
Cash . . . . 56,001 135,17 C 129,758
* Includes proportion undivided profits, t Including
taxation. + Due to variation in balancing dates.
Last year’s net reduction in the book
value of ships, plant, etc., was £75,893,
approx. 10 p.c. of the net figure at which
the item stood at the end of 1944. Gov-
ernment securities were strengthened by
£97,000, and shares, etc., in other cos.
by £22,995. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£2,556,509)
was £72,386.
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards De-
Dec., Loss. Dividends. Reserves, licit.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 37,602 Nil 112,062
1935.. 8,451 Nil 121,113
1936.. 4,556 Nil 125,669
Surplus sale properties, £5222 .. 120,44 i
1937.. 1,172 Nil 121,619
1938.. 2,232 Nil —123,50 l
Profit.
1939.. 219 Nil 219 120,C32
1940.. 3,988 Nil 3988 119,644
Stock adjustment, £ll7l •• 120,816
Loss. ,
1941.. 247 Nil 121,062
Profit.
1942.. 3,025 Nil 3025 118,03*
Capital written off, £118,125 \
Reserve adjustment, £BB i
Reserves.
1943.. 6,802 5.2 p.c. = 5625 1177 1177
1944.. 7,871 6.5 „ „ 7031 840 2017
Outlook for shareholders in this old*
established dry-goods business —it was
set on its feet by David Mitchell in the
1860’s with money he had made shop-
keeping at Ipswich (Q.)—is more encour-
aging than at any time since the boom of
the 1920’s burst. Though the trade
generally holds well, dry-goods carry


STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® location
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dent. 27), 9 MnrOn Flare Sy..i ev
fJfSY)
tjkP^
NEW
REDUCED
PRICE
7/6
0
GOLDEN
Pmtignum
FOUNTAIN PENS
MAD E Tn ENGLAND
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt,
SLIDE RULES
“Cal” 10-inch Slide Rules carry the
following scales: A, B, C, D, Recip-
rocal of C, Sine. Tangent and Log.
Log. These rules are useful
for a wide variety of
calculations.
CAL RULE CO.,
Dept. 4.
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Made from selected
wood faced with
celluloid. Price, complete in case, post
paid, 25/-. Send remittance by Postal
Note, Money Order or
Cheque. Money re-
funded if not satisfied.
Book of Instructions, including fifty
practical examples. Price, 1/6.
ŵ
WAR SAWINGS CERT I FI CATE S
%
ft
.V*
£
IB*’
£)
m
4^S9ltes
THOM
tffibw
S*
IP
g
%
%
't&NSbi
R & MC 534
WAR S A WINGS CERT IFI CA TE S
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
do the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
narrow profit margins in good as well as
bad times. Among the co.’s troubles
was the fact that much of the business
was done in the country, and the board
had borrowed to finance clients, who,
owing to the plight of wheat and other
farmers during the early 1930’5, found it
difficult to meet the wholesaler’s bill in
full. Thus slump brought a heavy crop
of bad debts, while competition, includ-
ing growth of the cash-and-carry and
chain methods of retailing, kept margins
too narrow to support the co.’s level of
costs. In this respect sale of the Sydney
Kent- and Clarence-street properties in
1937 for £50,000 (profit on the deal was
£5222) helped to ease the strain.
War and dry conditions in rural centres
reduced country turnover, but the gap
was more than filled by steadily expand-
ing city and suburban sales. Still, it was
not until 1942 that the drift was, defi-
nitely arrested and the board was able
to see clearly where the business stood.
So in June, 1943, the deadwood was
pruned out of the accounts by lopping
£118,125 (10s. 6d. per share) off paid capi-
tal, reducing it to £106,875 in 225,000
shares of 9s. 6d. each. Turnover has
since continued to expand, and a tight
hold has been kept upon outgoings, to
the benefit of net earnings.
Last term the improvement in gross
earnings (£73,889) was £2142. Exes.
(£66,018, including an extra £lOOO for
the taxgatherer) took £1073 of the in-
crease. That left the net figure £1069
better at £7871, equal to 7.3 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 6.3 p.c. in 1943, when, after
a 13-year drought, shareholders got back
into the picture with a 5.2 p.c. div., fol-
lowed by 6.3 p.c. last term. When the
books closed those on the register could
see all that remained of their capital
intact, and £2017 besides.
Here are balance-sheet figures ;
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £225,000 £225,000 £106,875 £106,875
Overdraft . . 53,931 12,445 34,802 50,785
Sundry creditors 45,195 75,539 52,196 35,897
Freeholds .. 5,488 ' 5,476 5,476 5,530
Plant.. .. 7,719 7,520 8,375 9,208
Stocks .. 46,073 41,492 44,966 50,312
Shares sub. .. 9,167 9,167 9,167 9,167
Advances sub. 18,578 19,193 19,667 20,401
Book debts.. 114,453 109,337 111,906 107,102
Gash.. .. 3,003 2,764 2,305 4,200
Last term the co. borrowed from Peter
to pay Paul; £15,983 was added to the
overdraft and £16,299 was lopped off the
amount coming to trade creditors. Book
debts (down (£4804) have been “carefully
reviewed, and the provision against
doubtful debts is considered adequate.”
Excluding shares in the subsidiary, more
or less liquids exceeded liabilities by
£95,333, when the books closed, an im-
provement of £3487 over the twelve-
month.
The main orebody at Cockatoo Island,
Yampi Sound, over which Australian
Iron and Steel holds a lease, is being pre-
pared for open-cut mining. It is a single
bed of hard high-grade hematite, which
outcrops for a length of about 7000 ft.,
varying in width from 15ft. to 100 ft., and
forming a sea cliff reaching a maximum
height of 400 ft., averaging 260 ft. Crush-
ing and loading plant are being so placed
as to deliver direct to ships moored be-
low the storage bins, A Diesel-electric
power plant is fading installed. A. Mont-
gomery, Westralian State mining • engin-
eer, estimated iron-ore reserves in 1919
at 20,750,000 tons, and analysis of the
stuff shows 69.4 p.c, iron. The ore
will be shipped to Port Kembla, on the
N. S. Wales South Coast, for use by Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel.
* * * *
For the year to Sept. 30 last Tongkah
Compound received £2757 in interest and
paid out £1569 in exes., including taxa-
tion (£749), leaving a surplus of £lBBB.
Australian assets amount to £128,409, of
which £47,160 is in Government securi-
ties and £77,532 is in the bank, on fixed
deposit. The amount coming to out-
siders in Australia is only £876. The co.’s
own property at Mantin-Setul (F.M.S.)
and those of the four subsidiaries —Tong-
kah Compound No. 2, No. 3, No. 4 and
No. s—remain5 —remain in enemy hands. The
exact nature and extent of the problems
resulting from damage to dredges, etc.,
that lie ahead of this group and other
tin concerns operating in Malaya, south-
ern Burma and Thailand will not be
known until the Jap has been driven from
the peninsula. Then it will be necessary
to decide whether rehabilitation is justi-
fied when its cost is weighed against the
profit to be expected from remaining ore
reserves. A substantial amount of pay-
able ground remains to be worked in the
Tongkah Compound group.
* * * #
A small deposit of manganese ore,
psilomelane and pyrolusite, at Mt. Allen,
about 6\ miles south-west of Kenilworth
(Q.), has attracted attention. Samples of
the stuff assay approx. 55 p.c. manganese
and 0.5 p.c. silica. Over the last couple
of years 400-odd tons ore have been sold
to southern dry-cell manufacturers, and
a few months ago a further 150 tons
awaited dispatch. Exposures in the shal-
low workings are insufficient to form any
reliable opinion of ore reserves. After
a brief examination, chief Government
Geologist L. C. Ball recommended
further exploration. The deposit is one
of the small productive points in the
manganiferous area of the Upper Mary
River catchment.
* * * *
Difficult conditions experienced by
Wiluna Gold Mines (W.A.) were
stressed by chairman Ellerton Binns at
Wiluna Gold Corp.’s annual roll-up in
London recently. He said enforced cessa-
tion of development and exploratory
work defeated all efforts Jto arrest fall in
output. Probing and opening up of ex-
tensions of known ore bodies was de-
layed, and so was exploration of certain
favorable zones, thus making effective
and efficient salvage operations difficult.
So attention was turned to the outlying
Bulletin and Happy Jack blocks, with a
view to exhausting their possibilities, salv-
ing the ore and closing down the areas in
the hope of reducing overhead. The
Bulletin has been closed down since the
end of March, 1944, and, although sal-
vage still continued on a small scale,
operations at the Happy Jack are largely
confined to a lenticular deposit which
gave indications of extension north be-
tween the 800 ft. and 1000 ft. levels. Clos-
ing down of the Bulletin made available
plant and equipment essential for develop-
ment of the Mt. Charlotte option at Kal-
goorlie, and arrangements for its trans-
port and erection are in hand. War re-
strictions stand in the way of an immediate
start at Mt. Charlotte. Referring to
Wiluna G.M.’s milling, extraction and
costs experience last term, chairman Binns
said 456,000 tons, averaging 2788dwt.,
were treated ; a reduction of 17 p.c. in
tonnage and 8 p.c. in grade compared
with the previous term. Although over-
all recovery (76.15 p.c.) was a fraction
higher, gold production (48,377 fine oz.)
was only about 77 p.c. of the previous
year’s figure, and working costs rose 2s.
10.2 d., reaching 21s. B.Bd. a ton. The
result was a heavy fall in earnings.
He added that liquid assets of Wiluna
G.M. at the end of Sept, last totalled
£A914,973.
* * * *
Westralian Government has guaranteed
a bank overdraft up to £25,000 for Blue
Asbestos, Ltd., a De Bernales private co.
operating extensive asbestos deposits in
Hamersley Ranges, east of Roebourne.
The co. has already expended £BO,OOO on
the project, which is now producing 40
tons of fibre a month. An output of 100
tons a month is aimed at. Plant and
buildings already erected are valued at
£50,000.


... and I
call myself
an Australian
- WHAT A NERVE!
"I’ve always thought of myself as a pretty good
Australian—but lately I’ve started to wonder ...
’'Whilst other Australians have fought and died
to defend Australia, I’ve never seen a bomb or
a bullet. I’ve never seen an enemy soldier, never
gazed heart-broken at the bomb-strewn wreckage
of my home ...
"I’m afraid the war hasn’t been very real to me
. . * and I’m wondering have I been doing my
share?
"War Loans, for instance. I’ve always said that
the small amount I could put in wouldn’t make
any difference. But what if everyone said thelt!
What a mess this country would be in then! ...
"Everyone must sacrifice as much as possible to
find money for the Third Victory Loan . . . and
’everyone’ includes me.
"No one else can do my share . . .**
FACTS ABOUT THE
THIRD VICTORY LOAN
1. All you lend will be used only for War.
Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO
may be purchased for cash or by instalments
through any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
2. Interest is paid each six months, at I\% for
five years, or for 16 years. Repayment
in full at maturity is guaranteed by the Com-
monwealth. Your Bonds are readily saleable
to meet an emergency.
3. You lend, not give, your money to speed
Victory. On your application form, credit
your subscription to your district to help its
quota.
NO ONE ELSE CAN DO SHARE
YOUR MONEY IS NEEDED IN
THE THIRD WICTOHY LOAN
ŵ
Appointment Books for All Professions.
Covers i-hour periods every day for. Over One
Year’s Appointments. Size 14m. x um.
Strongly Bound. Ledger Paper.
Price 12/6 post and tax free.
Don’t delay, post today and Save Office Worry.
WILLIAMS & WILLIAMS (Dept. B),
147 Liverpool Road, Burwood, N.S.W*
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Drift to the Dole
The Labor party has often held the
dole of the depression years to be sym-
bolic of the “capitalist” system of eco-
nomics. It has held the recurrence of
dole years to be an inevitability where
“orthodox” financial methods are em-
ployed. Yet deliberately the Labor party
in Australia seems to be working toward
an objective where the population will be
on the dole—or on a variety of doles—
year in and year out.
The dole is the unavoidable result of
the destruction of initiative and thrift.
Where you have “cradle-to-the-grave”
Government coddling of the people you
have increasing interference with the am-
bitions and initiative of the same people,
because the cost of the coddling becomes
such that, eventually, it taxes incomes to
the point where it frustrates the economic
and social self-expression of the indi-
vidual. As R. G. Menzies once put it,
we are in danger of ceasing to be red-
blooded people and becoming, instead,
tame mice, feeding on the communal
grain.
In die depression it was noticed that
many%nen, once on the dole, lost most of
their desire to be off it, as well as losing
the desire to work. Initiative and respon-
sibility for their own existence vanished.
Not all dole-recipients had the same out-
look, but there were too many men,
young and old, who became willing de-
pendents of the State in this country,
Britain and elsewhere.
While the dole has this tendency to kill
initiative and thrift, so the destruction of
initiative and thrift by excessive peace-
time taxation, inflation and over-regula-
tion has its tendency to put the nation
on a dole. There is decidedly a vicious
relationship between doles and the loss of
initiative and desire for individual inde-
pendence. The relationship moves both
backwards and forwards.
In putting Australians on an in-
creased old-age dole, a maternity-benefit
dole, an increased child-endowment dole,
a free-medicine dole, a funeral dole, a
sickness dole, a hospital dole, an unem-
ployment dole and a rent-subsidy dole
the Federal Government is taking money
out of one pocket of the people in order
to put a somewhat lesser sum in another.
It isn’t asking for the money on a specific
contributory basis ; it is taking it in a
general way by a variety of taxes. Present
crushing taxes, according to Caucus
reports, are unlikely to be reduced much
even when expenditure on the current
war ceases. The reduced cost of the war
is then to be offset by the cost of miscel-
laneous doles, and high taxation in
peace-time will have an even greater
retarding effect on the will of the
population to work hard and im-
prove the national living standard.
Those who save their money to start
new industries will be hit particularly.
While there has been a war on a fair pro-
portion of the population has understood
the need for taxation and has been deter-
mined tp pull its weight; but, with the
war over, there will be a changed atti-
tude on the part of many.
Where a Government sets out to pro-
vide “social security” for all at a general
cost to the taxpayer rather than at a
contributory cost to the receiver of the
“security,” and where it falls in with a
trade-union policy of discouraging pay-
ment of wage-earners by results, there is
a very strong tendency for wage-earners
to lose incentive in their work and for
the national production to fall.
It is psychologically as well as finan-
cially unsound for taxation to be levied
on a major scale to pay for pensions,
etc., for all. It is the practice for
general revenue to subsidise contri-
butions to national pension or super-
annuation funds, but it is best that
the wage-earner make some substantial
direct contribution as well, in keeping
with his pay and his future pension, and
that the whole cost should not be an in-
direct levy by way of general taxation.
It is too easy for the majority of people
to forget (a) why they are paying taxes,
and (b) why they are receiving “social
security payments from the Govern-
ment. They come eventually to regard
the taxation as an onerous burden and
the “security” as a natural right. It is
true also that they may be politically ex-
ploited where taxation is levied in a gen-
eral way for a variety of purposes. “Un-
employed-relief tax in N. S. Wales should
be wu^ em - bere ?,
Whilst invalids and the aged must in
many cases become a charge on the State,
it is best, in the interests of incentive and
production, that the people should be en-
couraged to earn more money and to
save more money for the time when they
will cease to be productive. Heavy taxa-
tion discourages them from earning,
while the promise of social security
in all shapes and at all ages re-
moves much of the incentive to provide
for themselves now and for later years.
The net result is likely to be a fall in the
national production, a decline in living
standards, a loss of savings and ultimately
the defeat of the security aims through
falling output, rising living costs and in-
fliition of the currency.
Where a Government takes upon itself
the responsibility for providing a great
variety of social benefits for the people
it should consider fully the natural eco-
nomic reactions that are likely to follow,
Great injustice between people can arise
where the Government takes a large pro-
portion of private incomes for the pur-
pose of re-distributing it on a common
basis among all, according to their age
or economic circumstances rather than to
their contribution to the national pro-
duction poo . The great danger is that
pollers will leave the willing ones to do
tb f hu l k the work, pollers being looked
after by the Government just as well as
hard-workers We have a concrete ex-
ample behind us m the case of the dole
ot depression times. We also have rele-
vant examples during this war of what
can happen to production where taxation
removes the incentive to do a full day’s
work from minds that are not saturated
with patriotism or other stimulating mo-
tives of an unselfish kind.
A nigh rate of production per person
is not inconsistent with a healthy life in
these days of automatic factory mach-
mery. And saving by the people is the
key both to better housing and greater
investment in the means of nroduc-
tmn In order to reap the benefits
which private enterprise has brought
to us we must play fair with privlte
enterprise We must avoid Vlifi.
cally-loaded financial schemes and
choose those which have a sound econo-
mic and psychological basis-we must
base our national planning on lines which
support financial stability and confidence
and which promise rewards to enterprise
and privileges to thrift.
Towards the end of last year an Inter-
national Business Conference was held in
New York. A section of the conference
devoted to the consideration of private
enterprise resolved that Governments
should be urged to adhere to the prin-
ciples of private enterprise, which were
defined as:
(1) Equality of opportunity.
(2) Equality under law.
(3) Reward for initiative.
(4) Privilege for thrift,
, (5). A tax structure which encourages
incentive and risk.
(6) Restriction of'monopoly.
(7) Abstinence of Governments from
competition with private business,
(8) Freedom of production and sale.
(9) Equitable distribution of profits,
with consumers’ and labor’s interests
safeguarded, to the end that more and
more things may be supplied to more and
more people, thereby producing maxi-
mum employment at the highest possible
level of wages.
(10) Government under law —that
will provide encouragement to business
through provision of an economic atmo-
sphere in accord with the foregoing prin-
ciples.
The conference added that it believed
that the putting into effect of its resolu-
tions would “increase international trade
and bring about closer international re-
lationships.” It mentioned that where
State enterprises had been in existence
for a number of years it might not be
advisable to make a change now, but
“extension of such control into new fields
is neither desirable nor necessary.”
The machine politics of the Australian
Labor party are threatening the very basis
of our financial stability. It is clear to
all capable of a little investigation that
the economics of our war effort have not
been indicative of a financially confident
or financially enlightened people—that we
do not make a good showing in matters
of war loans with any other Allied
country, and that the use of bank credit
has been unduly large. Legislative “con-
trols” have been a failure where eco-
nomic controls have not been effective,
and many of our statistics and standards
become a fiction when closely analysed.
Though the Labor party received great
■support at the last election, it has re-
ceived very poor support in the way of
war-loan assistance from its followers.
And that in itself is a very bad sign—a
people growing more and more ready to
take from the State, but not to give to it,
even on loan. Possibly their confidence
in the Government is not equal to their
willingness to take from it what they can
get. The banking legislation has not
helped, and it threatens vastly greater
economic disunity when in full swing.
The Labor machine is becoming a
major menace to private enterprise and
individual initiative. The worker in par-
ticular is steadily being deprived of free-
dom of enterprise and often of public
speech. He is told what he can do by
unions, how much he can do and how
he can do it. Mob leaders more and
more, through their control of the unions,
really dictate the production attitude of
the nation. The people more and more
are becoming mere units controlled by a
political machine.
Threatening Australia particularly at the
moment are the political control of
banking and Government proposals
to maintain crushing taxation rates—
particularly on the incomes of the
investor class —after the war in order
to curb private initiative and to
give the Government the right to dole
out “benefits” to the people regardless of
individual merits. Thrift is already
menaced both by attacks on risk-taking
business enterprises and by the ever-
increasing danger of inflation. It is most
discouraging to the thrifty to find their
savings-bank deposits, life policies and war
bonds losing value each year through
inflation. Australians must awake to
their dangers, otherwise they will find
themselves, their property and then
ployment all in the melting-pot with the
heat turned on.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN ALEXANDER PAGETT late of Newcastle
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that ELSIE MELBA PAGETT has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3462 of 1943 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 30th day of April 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition free of charge from A. ALISTER JOHN-
SON & MCDONALD Solicitors 17 Bolton Street New-
castle or JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors As-
sembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NR*v SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ANDREW LYALL LANE late of 7 Perry Avenue
North Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA GLADYS
MAY LANE has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 803
of 1945 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
before the 28th day of May 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from MESSRS. BRAYE
& MALCOMSON Solicitors 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY. Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO SAMUEL ALLAN SHAW late of Granville.—
TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH SHAW has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 409 of 1945 alleging that
you the said SAMUEL ALLAN SHAW have been
guilty of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you desire to defend the
suit you must enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 7th
May 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition free of
charge from JOHN CHARLES PAYNTER Solicitor
of St. James Buildings 109 Elizabeth Street Sydney
New South Wales DATED this 20th day of March
1945.— (1.5.) C. K. BODY. Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — - T Jf Divorce.
TO HERBERT PIERCY BURGESS late of Murwil-
lumbah.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY BURGESS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 394 of 1945
alleging that you the said HERBERT PIERCY BUR-
GESS have been guilty of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards It you wish to
defend the suit you must enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Bth June 1945 and obtain a copy of the
petition free of charge from JOHN CHARLES
PAYNTER Solicitor of St. James Buildings 109
Elizabeth Street Sydney New South Wales DATED
this 20th day of March 1045. —(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’i
everyday wear.
l All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
HAIMS
Circular Charts Jor all types of
Recording Instruments lor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed Gel our quota
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTY. LTD. BRISBANE. O’ID.
If. your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course"
of BARKO Conuiuon rowaers. uonstani scratcn-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
ẁ
ẃ
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. ~/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
CERTAIN DEATH
ẅ
w
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application. 1
CSANpGAS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
I CUT MY BUILDING COSTS WITH
this mm
SHEET M
~
H
a*
>!■
BUILDING in Galvanized Iron
saves money both in first cost
and upkeep because its rigidity,
ease of handling, and great ten*
sile strength, mean faster con-
struction and longer serviceable
life. But for ADDED economy,
reduced labour costs, remember
to specify the *lO Corrugations' sheet in
till your post-war building contracts. 2'1%"
wide instead of 2‘12" yet same price per
ton as '8 Corrugations' it cuts costs at
least 4% in materials alone. Ample sup-
plies for civilian needs with Victory.
GUT*
B
lv s A
PT
2.7 s
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SVD N E y - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE • PERTH
LI2M-3988
B
The Note Issue
Prior to 1910 Australian currency notes
consisted of paper issued by the trading
banks in all States except Queensland.
In Queensland the Treasury had charge
of all note issues from 1893 until 1910.
With the passing of the Bank Notes Act
and the Australian Notes Act in 1910
an end was put to the circulation of notes
other than by the Commonwealth
Treasury. A penalty of 10 p.c. p.a. in
respect of their own notes coming back
to the trading banks and re-issued by them
quickly brought about a shrinkage in
this form of circulation.
The Australian Notes Act of 1910, as
amended next year, provided that the
Treasurer had to hold in gold coin 25
p.c. of the amount of the note issue,
and the notes should be “payable in gold
coin on demand at the Commonwealth
Treasury at the seat of Government.” In
1920 control of the note issue was taken
from the Treasurer and placed with the
Note Issue Department of the Common-
wealth Bank, which had separate man-
agement. The notes were made re-
deemable in gold at the head office of
the Commonwealth Bank. In 1924 con-
trol of the issue was brought under the
general authority of the board of the
Commonwealth Bank.
The export of gold was prohibited,
except with the consent of the Treasurer,
in July, 1915, and a return to the gold
standard was not made until April, 1925,
when a free market for gold reigned
once more. The legal requirement to
hold a gold reserve was faithfully met
even during the war period—the gold
reserve never dropped below 30 p.c. of
the total issue.
During the depression of the early
1930’s changes were made in the law gov-
erning the note reserve. Australia went
off the gold standard again, and has
never returned to it. Our gold reserves
were assailed to meet overseas commit-
ments. In 1931 the minimum reserve was
temporarily dropped to 15 p.c., with a
return to 25 p.c. required after June, 1935.
In 1932 an amendment of the law
allowed the backing for the issue to be
held either “in gold or in English sterl-
ing.” The promise to repay the notes in
gold was at this time abolished.
An obligation to keep 25 p.c. of the
note issue in gold or sterling, but no
obligation to repay the notes, is the
chief condition of the issue at present.
Partly by reason of our departure from
the gold standard, our currency is at a
20 p.c. discount in relation to that of
Britain, which is also off gold.
The Commonwealth Bank Bill of
1945, now before Parliament, makes no
provision for a note-issue reserve in any
special form. It is simply laid down that
the assets of the Note Issue Department
shall, apart from fixed and working
assets, etc., be held or invested in gold,
bank deposits, or “securities of the Gov-
ernment of the United Kingdom or of the
Commonwealth or of a State.” No pro-
portions are specified, and no limit is
placed on the amount of the issue. Con-
trol of the note issue rests with the gov-
ernor of the bank, who is answerable to
the Treasurer, who acts for the Govern-
ment, which at present takes orders from
the Labor Caucus.
In March, 1931, a Fiduciary Notes
Bill was introduced into the House of
Representatives by the Labor Treasurer,
E. G. Theodore, of Mungana (Q.)
fame. The bill was to give the Govern-
ment power to demand from the Com-
monwealth Bank (then, as at the moment,
under the control of a board, the chair-
man of which was knight Robert Gibson,
sometimes disparagingly referred to as a
bedstead manufacturer) an issue of addi-
tional currency up to the amount of £lB
million. The issue was to be in the
form of Treasury notes, which were to be
regarded as legal tender up to any
amount. Not more than £6 million was
to be used for relief of wheatgrowers and
not more than £l2 million for “repro-
ductive public works.”
Though it passed the Reps., the Senate
threw the bill out in April. At this
period the “bedstead manufacturer” did
noble service in preventing political
interference with the national credit. The
Theodore proposal had a basis of poli-
tical expediency at best, and the “fiduciary
issue” would, in truth, have had a back-
ing of very little more than the same
thing, bad and doubtful debts in the
wheat industry and depression-time
public works being anything but gilt-
edged securities. The Bulletin pointed
out at the time that there was no more
real likeness between the Theodore fidu-
ciary issue and the fiduciary issue of the
Bank of England than there was
“between Mr. Theodore and St. Paul’s
Cathedral.”
A Very Fair Car Offer
General Motors-Holdens, Ltd., has
offered to proceed immediately with
plans for production in Australia of
motor-cars, utility trucks, etc., includ-
ing engines and chassis. The co. visual-
ises in the first instance a five-seater
sedan car and related utility, selling two
years from date of agreement, specially
designed for Australian circumstances.
It says its objective is to manufacture
low-priced vehicles to sell competitively
with imported cars without subsidy and
without increase in the 1939 tariff.
G.M.-H. asks for free competitive con-
ditions (stressing “free enterprise and
private initiative”); first refusal of any
Government munitions plant in G.M.-H.
factories; equality of treatment with
other purchasers of Government equip-
ment ; tariff and exchange assistance in
the importation of necessary overseas
plant; and for relief from the 2s. in the
£ undistributed profits tax, since it is
proposed to finance part of the new ven-
ture out of reserved profits. Capital in-
vestment required is put at £2,500,000.
G.M.-H. also asks for an absence of
Government competition, but says it
looks for “no special advantages, but re-
quests that any or all advantages ex-
tended to others shall be equally applic-
able to it.” Certain accessories and com-
ponents, not exceeding 5 p.c. by weight
or 10 p.c. of the list price of the com-
pleted car, will not be available from
Australian industry at satisfactory cost,
quality or volume. G.M.-H. asks for
duty-free importation of such items and
the provision of adequate exchange.
Mr. Curtin has notified general accept-
ance of the proposal, but says the Gov-
ernment cannot guarantee notice or warn-
ing as to changes in .the tariff. Special
tariff and exchange privileges in connec-
tion with the 5-10 p.c. imported com-
ponents will depend upon the progress
being made towards complete manufac-
ture in the Commonwealth,
At December 31, 1944, London debt
of the Commonwealth and States stood
at £535 million. Some £94 million of
this total is involved in the impending
redemption of old 5 per cents., and, with
the Commonwealth Bank’s holding of
London funds now around £lB4 mil-
lion (including the note-issue reserve),
the repatriation of £34 million of the
stock should not be hard. An amount
of £6O million is to be offered in a con-
version operation, interest 3i p.c., term
24 years. So far Australia has lagged
behind some of the other British
Dominions in -the matter of debt re-
patriation, which consists in repaying
holders of overseas loans from sterling
funds and then issuing new securities in
Australia. Details of transactions on
behalf of the States since October, ’4l, are:
Amount New Debt
Place of Repatriated. Raised.
On Behalf of Issue. £ooostg. £AOOO.
Queensland .. New York 1,069 1,614
Tasmania .. London 4,491 5,631
N. S. Wales .. London 5,896 7,392
Victoria London 235 295
Queensland .. London 3,959 4,963
£15,650 £19,895
A Commonwealth war loan of
£l2 million stg. was also repatriated in
1943.44, Treasury bills to the extent of
£l5 million being taken up by the Com-
monwealth Bank, For the most part the
increase in the amount of debt shown
is purely nominal, arising from the de-
pression depreciation of the Australian
pound in terms of sterling.


THE SEVICE MAN
Forcing the Rhine.
“Ek Dum”: There has been no more
exciting week in the German war than
the last week of March. V-bombs were
still falling on London, but the great
organisation of fire watchers and civil
defence which absorbed the permanent
services of 225,000 men and women held
its last stand-to, and Sir Frederick Pyle,
who has carried the air defence com-
mand since the Battle of Britain, was
seconded to a job which has to do with
peace instead of war.
Meanwhile, in western Europe great
events were happening as one battle
ended and a new one began. In the south
General Patton and General Devers were
tearing to pieces the shirt-tail of Von
Rundstedt’s scattering legions in the
Palatinate. The Saar defences were being
battered as the squeeze along a line
from the Rhine to the Saar River, south
of Merzig, came down against the live
anvil of the Seventh U.S. Army, ranged
along the German border in the forests
below the Tauter River, between Saar-
briicken and Lauterberg, south-west of
Karlsruhe, near the Rhine’s left bank.
Though there was no evidence as to
how strong the pressure was, there was
no doubt about the effect of it. The
armor of General Patton went diagon-
ally across and into the Kaiserslauten
Gap, apparently little molested on its
way, but grabbing the usual large bag o£
left-over labor troops and rearguards.
The gobbling up of Coblenz had almost
finished. The gorge where Bingen nestles
at the cliff-foot on the surging river, and
the Nahe joins the Rhine between two
great mountain shoulders—much as the
Grose joins the Castlereagh—had been
passed. The Nahe, a substantial tributary
of the Rhine which might have proved
a barrier to the district of Hessen and
to Mainz, proved no barrier worth speak-
ing of. Before the end of the week Lud-
wigshafen, a great industrial city on the
west side of the Rhine, opposite Mann-
heim, that perfect bombing target be-
tween the arms of the Rhine and Neckar,
was in U.S. hands. Mannheim was in ruins.
And between Ludwigshafen and
Coblenz, where the Main flows in from
Frankfort, 20 miles upstream, the Third
Army’s armor and mechanised infantry
had outflanked Mainz, the historic spot
from which the great roads of the Rhine
Rift start into Germany proper; the
point where the Romans bridged the
river and whence Roman influence spread
through the central Germanic tribes. On
March 25 the Germans admitted the
evacuation of Mainz.
Across in Siegfried’s Land
The Rhine Valley is very broad to the
south of Mainz. Many a time the
sanded- or earthed-up bed has shifted.
The population, save in the industrial
centres, is set well* back to the foothills.
Twenty miles south of Mainz is the
ancient city of Worms, scene of the
treachery of Hagen, the heroism of Sieg-
fried and all the curious doings of the
Nibelungen mythology. And if Kriem-
hilde had been there she would have had
greater cause than ever to mourn, as
Patton struck across the river in the
stamping ground of the Teutonic gods,
aiming at the road-knot of Frankfort —
in peace-time XII Corps H.Q. —which
can be counted first stop for anywhere
along main roads in Germany: for the
Danube at Ulm, 130 miles by crowfly;
for Nuremburg, about the same; for
Leipzig, 170 miles ; for Kassel, 150 miles.
The bridgehead spread rapidly across the
'Rhine’s east-bank flats.
On March 25 it was reported that
Gross Gerau, 10 miles from Oppenheim,
the focal point of the bridgehead, had
been reached, and late that night it was
said that Darmstadt was in American
hands, though there was no official con-
firmation. At Gross Gerau General
Patton’s troops were only 18 miles from
Frankfort. The Germans admitted
further crossings slightly to the north.
By March 26 it was said that Frank-
fort had been outflanked. This could
only mean that General Patton’s armor
was merely a few miles from the main
military road to the Danube and Munich,
and on the lower end of the great system
of rail and road, which would take his
mechanised transport to Bremen in
about 250 miles far behind the Ruhr. He
was only about 50 miles from the great
Australian prison camps near Fulda.
There was an unconfirmed report
that the French armies of the south were
over the river near the Swiss border.
The Saar was virtually cut off. Ger-
man dominion west of the Rhine seemed
to be over for many a day. The enemy
on the night of March 25 said that two
German divisions in the Palatinate were
fighting their way out.
Finally came intelligence of a new
crossing of the Rhine in a river loop at
Boppard, just south of Coblenz. The
troops crossed just north of the favorite
tourist town of St. Goar and only a few
miles north of the rock of the Lorelei.
This crossing gives access to the Lahn
Valley, and with its achievement the Allies
had passed through every historic mili-
tary gateway to Europe east of the
Rhine. The Lahn Valley also leads up
to the rear of the Ruhr.
At Remagen
Further north, in the meantime, heavy
fighting had continued in the Remagen
bridgehead. It had been extended on
both sides. The new 15th U.S. Army
had been blooded and thrown across the
river. A desperate drive had begun to
push northwards towards the Ruhr.
There are stiff mountain barriers, though
along the Rhine, after Bonn is passed
and the Seven Mountains and the
Drachenfels are left behind, the terrain is
easier, but narrowly gated in between
the Rothaar ranges, which go north-
west into the 3000-feet-high Sauerland
plateau between the Ruhr and the Sieg.
The vanguards of the advancing Ameri-
cans were across the Sieg, as they were
across the Wied, east of Linz. It was
stated on March 24 that the bridgehead
was now 31 miles long and 10 miles deep
and that 17 miles of the Cologne-Frank-
fort road was in American hands.
The weight of the push seemed east-
ward rather than northward. Though
the Germans reported violent battles in
the north and asserted that U.S. troops
had been flung out of Hennef, slightly to
the south of the Sieg, an American divi-
sion reported an advance of three miles
in a day in another area. And remark-
ably slight resistance was said to have
been met when a large-scale offensive was
launched on March 26.
Certainly if the invaders can advance
at their present rate resistance must be
light. This area is like a bit of reclaimed
landscape out of the Inferno itself with
its black basalt quarry cliffs, from which
the material has been rafted down the
Rhine to build Holland’s dykes, and the
gloomy heights of Rolandseck, up past
the Apollinaris springs, gazing gloomily
from the west bank across Hildegard’s
cloistered Nonenwerth island to the
castled Drachenfels, whence the spires
of Cologne cathedral, whose stone is
native to these parts, can be seen against
the wall of Montgomery’s smoke-curtain.
Whatever disadvantages the Germans
have, they have fine outlooks on the
battle. From the top of the Taunus
above Wiesbaden, across the stream from
Mainz, the German staff can gaze north
and see the shellbursts of the battle of
the Wied and the Sieg and the columns
of smoke and flames lighting the next
great ranges of the Sauerland, which
shut off the direct sight of the Ruhr.
And they can turn south and view
the advance of the Third Army opposite
Darmstadt, and see the U.S. columns
moving west from the direction of the
heart of Germany upon the rear of the
Saar area. Nothing could be more cal-
culated to depress the most optimistic
group of Generalobersten in all Hitler’s
Armeeoberkommandos, who can have no
doubt but that the Rhine has been crossed
at every valuable strategic gateway.
The Germans’ own view of the situa-
tion seemed to be one of moody expec-
tation rather than of confusion.
There was thjs last week a bustling air
of apprehension about their reporting of
the war, which paid little attention to
what was happening in the south or on
the East Front. The operations west of
the Rhine, was only the pursuit and tail
of the battle which had brought General
Montgomery’s Twenty-First Army Group
opposite the Ruhr and General Bradley’s
First Army into the very heart of the
Rhineland at Cologne.
With the enemy the thesis seemed to
be that the south did not matter. There
was no angry challenge to “come and
try”—as there would have been a few
weeks ago—to General Bradley’s assur-
ance that “there is nothing to keep us
from crossing the Rhine almost any-
where at any time.”
No German reporter or interpreter,
official or otherwise, seemed to be able
to withdraw his eyes from the flatlands
of Westphalia, where from across the
river was heard the incessant shriek and
rumble of Montgomery’s miles of serried
artillery.
Little was said by either side in this
area until the end of the week. Both
seemed intent on the job in hand. It was
quite clear that the greatest battle of the
war was about to begin, a battle which
the Germans could not afford to lose but
which already they were losing before
more than patrols had crossed the Rhine.
Von Kesselring Commands
Early in the week it was announced
that Von Kesselring had been brought
from Italy to command on the west.
Press assumption that this meant the dis-
grace of Von Rundstedt was a hasty con-
clusion. Kesselring, now Rommel has
gone, has seen more of Montgomery than
any other general at first hand, and Rund-
stedt’s laurels have all been won in the
East. He might merely have been trans-
ferred to a centralised field command.
Or age may have got him at last, for he
is an old man who has fought long and
intensively and carried heavy responsibili-
ties. Or, again, Kesselring’s transfer may
have been dictated by his special experi-
ence of air command or by the fact that
the bulk of his accustomed divisions may
have been transferred from Italy on re-
placement. At any rate, it was quite cer-
tain that whoever fought the battle of the
Rhine and the Ruhr would have to be
godlike in resistance to stem the tide.
Monty’s Patent Hurricane!
The blow which was working up was
a typical Montgomery storm. It had
been conceived with the experience of
many sea landings behind it, and in the
acceptance of General Eisenhower’s speci-
fication that the crossing of the Rhine
would be a major naval operation.
The ingredients were Montgomery’s,
and easily recognisable by any experi-
enced German, if he could see them,
which most Germans could not, since the
C.-in-C. of the 21st Group let down over
his assembly area the thickest and greatest
smokescreen ever seen. For 30 miles or
more it blanketed the goings on of the
armies of the group, of which the Second
British and Canadians seemed to be on
the north and the U.S. Ninth, which in-
cludes the armored Royal West Kents, on
the south to and beyond Diisseldorf.
Over this smokescreen for days clouds
of bombers and fighters, heavy and light,
soared into the remaining flak of the
Ruhr and its communication lines, while
the artillery seemed intent on beating the
eastern Rhine bank into a froth as the
sad, discolored river flowed by, carrying
down the debris of the battles higher up
and of the smashed barges and wharves
of Duisburg.
Every man was deaf for miles with the
incessant roar of guns and engines and
the detonations of the bombs. The great
industrial area of the Ruhr, its fires
mostly out, its buildings skeletons, lay
outwardly like a dead thing awaiting
burial. It was not dead in reality, for thd
enemy was turning it as best he could
into a huge fort. Civilians, urged on by
the ominous warnings of General Eisen-
hower of what was to be done to their
cities, and especially to Duisburg, made
hurriedly for the safety of the mountains
and the gorges, since communications
eastward were shattered by bombing.
A Tremendous Prize
The area in which General Mont-
gomery was gathering his strength for
the blow, between the Dutch border and
Diisseldorf, forms a great spread of plain.
On the right hand, across the Rhine, the
last of the ranges which comprise Ger-
many all the way thence to the Danube
rise for 3000 feet out of a flurry of foot-
hills.
Through and just out of the foothills
two tributaries flow to the Rhine —the
Ruhr, which is in the hills; the Lippe,
a few miles to the north, which is out of
them. The flurry of the hills forms the
Ruhr industrial district. Its cornerposts
are Dinslaken and Hamm, Ratingen and
Schwerte. It forms a rectangle of about
1760 square miles —a bit more than the
County of Cumberland round Sydney—
and Germans have been mining coal in it
since 1302. Seen from the Rhine, it
reaches into a double file of blackened
industrial cities, west to east, each as the
traveller proceeds grimier than the former
one, and more terrible with, its belching
furnaces, spinning wheels, giant hammers
and trains roaring along busy railways
snaked across by endless electric tramways.
The land is pitted with endless
shafts and arteried and veined by busy
canals. Here is equipment which can
run the whole gamut of the industrial
production of the steel age from pen-
nibs and pins and needles to type-
writers ; from razor blades to giant
bombs and railway engines; from sew-
ing-machines to giant hammers; from
tin teapots to 16-inch naval guns; along
with the machinery to fashion them all.
To travel through the Ruhr eastward is
a bewildering experience, as one city
links into the next. The great port of
Duisburg-Ruhrort-Meiderich, with the
vast docks, mines, ironworks and barge-
building plants of the greatest inland port
of Europe, gives way to Mulheim; to
Essen, which sheltered a million people
once ;to Gelsenkirchen-Wattenscheid; to
Herne-Bochum and to Dortmund.
The Ems Canal fences most of it off
on the north, and the mazy railways
come to a rendezvous eastward in the
vast acre upon acre of bomb-pitted mar-
shalling yards at Hamm.
All this area has been under a long-
drawn deadly rain of rocket and shell
and bomb, and the bombers have paid
special attention to the two great road
and rail routes—the one, which is also the
main route from Paris, as from the Ruhr,
to Hamm, Hanover, Berlin and Stettin;
the other, from where the main express
line from Flushing crosses the river at
Wesel and goes up the Lippe across the
plain, 70 miles to Munster, to Osna-
briick, Bremen, Hamburg, Kiel,
All the Ruhr and it's communications,
the primary objective of F.-M. Mont-
gomery’s attack, is the greatest industrial
prize in battle of all time.
The bank of the Rhine to the north-
ward along the plain is industrialised to
a less extent than in the Ruhr hills.
Wesel, to which some Protestant refugees
of Bloody Mary’s time and their descen-
dants owe thanks for sanctuary, is a con-
siderable junction. It owns a Gothic
church, which reminds the visitor of Bris-
bane’s Spring Hill Presbyterian Church,
and from its spire one can look eastward
and see no hill north of the Ruhr edges
save the mounds of Die Haard and Hohe
Mark on either side of the Bremen rail-
way at Haltern.
There are, indeed, no hills to bar an
army towards the east till the Teuto-
berger Wald, the high tail which the
Sauerland wags at Osnabriick. And there
is no really big town on the plain till
Munster, 100 miles from Wesel, which
in peace-time is H.Q. of the VI Corps.
Behind it, on the wide Weser, is Minden ;
behind Minden the peace-time XI Corps
H.Q. of Hanover.
The Eve of Battle
That Mr. Churchill was at 21st Group
H.Q. on March 22 showed the import-
ance of the battle about to begin, as
Berlin announced that a million men
were facing each other across the Rhine
in a rain of shell, and that the first move
of the Ninth Army to cross had been
“thwarted.”
This attempt seemed to have been only
one of the many patrols across the river
under smoke cover while the British sat
on their dumps and waited for the
weather. Montgomery’s bad luck with
rain had been notorious. But this time
he was lucky.
On March 23 Sir Arthur Coningham,
son of the cricketer who played for
Queensland, N.S.W. and Australia, and
commander of the Allied Air Forces in
the battle, was able to tell his C.-in-C.
“Everything is set here. Let’s go.” It
was a brilliant spring day; the smoke
had cleared.
Monty issued a typical battle cry: “We
have the enemy in a corner. He cannot
escape. Complete, decisive victory is cer-
tain. There is no possibility of doubt
about the outcome. We are going into
the final round.”
Then he added: “The 21st Army
Group will now cross the Rhine.”
After that the Montgomery formula
was mixed with all the ingredients well
known to officers to whom he has lec-
tured on battle:
Officers and other ranks must be imbued
with infectious optimism they must be
full of offensive eagerness and have the
light of battle in their eyes They must
have good training instruction which will
teach them how the battle must be fought.
The men had been trained to the last
moment, even to the point of endless
naval rehearsals for the river crossing on
British estuaries.
Whatever the battle plan, it is necessary
that the air should be a factor at the very
start.
So it had been. Reconnaissance had been
absolute, and now following the strategi-
cal bombing the flying artillery went in
to support the ground artillery concentra-
tions and extend cover to airborne troops
of the gliders, which filled the skies as
they landed the armies of the air behind
the river. The artillery immobilised and
froze the enemy defence just across the
stream, new smokescreens played their
part and the hard point of the land spear-
head, the sth Royal Tank Regiment, led
the way across the 300-yard-wide river as
their C.-in-C. began to implement his
other axiom that “a good kick-off” is as
essential in battle as in a Rugby match,
and that all operations must be carried
out with “co-operation, concentration
and speed upon a simple plan” whicn
every junior officer understands.
His first moves he produced out of his
knowledge and understanding of the fact
that “you can work the British soldier
up to a great pitch of enthusiasm, and
the easiest one to work up to the greatesi
pitch is the Scottish soldier of the High-
land Division.”
Scotties Over the River
Over the river, accordingly, went me
51st Highland Division, deputies for
thousands of men of the Black Watch,
Camerons and Gordons, Argylls, th


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL anyone having information of MARY DAWSON,
formerly of Melbourne, who is believed to have
become MRS. STEAD, please communicate with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY, LIMITED, 472
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MISSING RELATIVES—GRACE LOVETT.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court of
New Zealand GRACE LOVETT, who was born in
Tasmania about 1880 and who is a beneficiary in the
Estate of her deceased half brother, William Lovett,
late of Stratford, New Zealand, or any person
claiming through or under her is required to send
in notice of such claim to the District Public
Trustee, Stratford, New Zealand, on or before the
30th day of June, 1945, otherwise the Estate may
be distributed and their claims disregarded. Grace
Lovett is about 64 years of age and if married her
married surname is not known. She is the daughter
of Charles Lovett and Martha Lovett (nee Hill) and
lived in her childhood at Penguin and Latrobe in
Tasmania. She is believed to have left Tasmania for
New Zealand about 25 years ago, but no information
as to her whereabouts in New Zealand has been
obtained.—YOUNG & CALLAGHAN, Solicitors for
the Estate. Str'vf*"’’d. "New Zealand.
to bruce Christopher judd late of so st.
Georges Road Toorak Victoria formerly a Soldier. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife SADIE ISOBEL
JUDD has instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of Desertion. A sealed copy
of the petition and Copy Citation been posted
to your mother MRS. JUDD care of ROSTRON ROY
& PITT Solicitors 100 Queen Street Melbourne
Unless you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the 24th day of April and unless you file an
Answer in the said office within ten days after enter-
ing an appearance, the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs. —H. G.
LANDER, LL.B., 31 Queen Street Melbourne, Soli-
citor. for the Petitioner.
Sfaimltd Sht/al ffiirnie ffhm
Seaforth, the Lothians, who, in the sad
days of the 1940 retreat, left a trail of
blood behind them all the way from the
Saar to St. Valery-on-Caux by Le Havre,
where their remnants went bravely into
captivity to the skirl of the pipes, while
Scotland rebuilt their division.
This new formation, with the Ninth
Division opened the flank at Ala-
mein. Its soldiers piped their way .first
into Tripoli. They pursued Von Arnim
to his doom, chased Kesselring far into
Italy and stood on the hallowed ground
of St. Valery among the German dead
after Falaise. With the Highlanders went
the 15th Lowland Division. No doubt
the old tunes of “The Barren Rocks of
Aden” and “Miss Drummond of Perth”
were heard as the Scotties fought their
way to Westphalian soil.
They pushed inland while the motor-
boats of the R.N., the ducks and other
amphibians raced over reinforcements
and stores.
The tanks followed to form the con-
centrations which would constitute the
firm bases and springboards from which
further advances would be made. The
air-borne troops pushed towards the ad-
vancing Highlanders till they met, voting
the going easier than at Arnhem, owing
to the manner in which the Luftwaffe
had been wiped out of the sky.
By the night of March 25 the Ger-
mans admitted that there were bridge-
heads from above Emmerich near
the Dutch border to Dinslaken. Emme-
rich seemed in danger of being out-
flanked and put in a pocket by an ad-
vance towards Bucholt along the Zut-
phen-Amsterdam line, which threatened
all the flank of the German posi-
tions on the Lys from Arnhem north-
eastward covering Netherland holdings.
Wesel and Rees, mere heaps of rubble,
had been captured. The British and
Canadians were well to the north of the
Lippe along the east Rhine bank.
South of the Lippe mouth, of which
Wesel is on the north side, the bridge-
heads stretched halfway to Duisburg, and
the Ninth Army on March 26 was re-
ported to have taken Dinslaken, the
north-western comerpost of the actual
Ruhr area just on the edges of the first
ripple of the hills. Airborne forces held
pockets and corridors to the east. Twenty
thousand prisoners had been brought in
since the fight began in the bright moon-
light of March 23-24. But while the
battlefield was in its formative stage
among the bridgeheads, with Allied
troops flowing into pools which would
presently burst banks and join others to
form a great lake of invasion, the aerial
attack was all of a piece. Having flown
55,000 sorties in five days and 10,000
on March 24 and dropped 50,000 tons
of bombs, the Allied air forces were
complete masters of the sky, though suf-
fering not-negligible losses from flak fire,
especially among their glider squadrons.
Battles to Come
There has been little ground resistance,
but at the time of writing it was early
for that. Local counter-attacks were all
that could be expected. The broken 84th
Division, the unfortunate formation
which has been a chopping-block for the
Allies all the way from Cherbourg
Peninsula, put up some sort of show in
restricted areas. German parachute
troops were beginning to come in. But
unless the Germans are utterly defeated
it will be no long time before the
prize combat teams of either side are at
each other’s throats.
The Allies will have to build com-
munications across the river greater than
those represented by boats and barges,
though no doubt everything is ready to
go forward at speed. Tremendous sup-
plies will have to be carried across the
stream. In the meantime Marshal Mont-
gomery will build solid bases from which
to strike.
On March 24 he was able to issue a
communique which read:
Allied troops of the 21st Army Group,
with the assistance of the Royal Navy
and the U.S. Navy, after an intensive
preparation by Allied Air Forces, resumed
the offensive today, and crossed the Rhine
north of the Ruhr on a broad front.
And the gallant old Prime Minister
was able to smoke a cigar east of the
river and issue a message in which he de-
clared that it would long be told how
British troops, with their Canadian
brothers and their valiant United States
Allies, accomplished the superb task of
forcing the Rhine.
The battle of the crossing had been
won at the crucial point.
The War Against Japan.
“Ek Dum”: The only really first-class
land fighting in the Japanese war; zone in
the last few days was done by Indian
divisions moving swiftly down from cap-
tured Mandalay to shatter the Japanese
below the city against the anvil of the
British-Indian forces already around
Meiktila.
Much of the Japanese 15th Army was
in the 60 miles between Mandalay and
Meiktila. Many of the enemy got away
through the Shan Hills. The remaining
forces are considerable, but the type of
resistance below the city is recognised as
hopeless in the face of the 14th Army’s
complete domination of the air and mag-
nificent armored and road organisation.
The escape roads still available to the
enemy are narrow and rough. At the
week-end they were being heavily
bombed and strafed.
The Japanese lease of life in Central
Burma has almost run out. With two
months to go before the rains, the British
Command is using its mobility brilliantly
to finish at least the conquest of the Irra-,
waddy Valley in the interval.
So far, having regard to the conditions,
the season’s fighting has been a flashing
performance, unexcelled on any front. In
the wildest type of country, almost
devoid of roads, the columns from Assam
and from the Myitkyina region have
moved further than any Russian army
has moved in a fighting season, and that
against greater difficulties of terrain and
resistance.
In the Pacific
Fighting in the Philippines continues
on a bitter local scale. All the shores
of Batangas Bay are now in General
MacArthur’s possession, but progress be-
comes slower as the mountain regions are
penetrated in the north. The difficulties
of the countryside and the advantages of
the defenders are now being emphasised
by correspondents.
Admiral Mitscher’s carrier squadrons
changed their venue from the Japanese
coast to the Ryuku Islands, the chain of
bases which link Japan to Forniosa.
Battleships on March 24 shelled island
bases, and carriers sent off ’planes against
a number of others with good effect.
Tokyo claimed the destruction of the
usual astronomical number of naval ves-
sels, of 170 aircraft and of 17,000 U.S.
personnel, but appeared to become
muddled and to confuse the battle with
the previous attack on shipping in the
Inland Sea. While the attack was on
bombers from the Marianas continued
their attacks on Nagoya and other Japa-
nese industrial centres, and General Mac-
Arthur’s bombers plastered Formosan
ports, airfields and shipping.
Results of 829 attacks, as reported,
are astonishing—3ooo Tokyo factories, in-
cluding 45 large plants, destroyed in a
single raid on March 9 ; 556 Jap ’planes
(281 in combat) during the carrier attack
on the Inland Sea on March 19, 20 and
21 ; a further 175 probables; 250,000
buildings wrecked in 13i square miles of
Tokyo ; 1,200,000 workers—a sixth of the
total population —left homeless. How-
ever it has been admitted that since June
5 last year 170 Superfortresses have been
lost, 84 in combat.
The general trend of the campaign in
the Pacific is heartening, and there is
every day more reason to hope that the
Japanese preparations to turn the war
into a continental war in Asia will be
dashed this summer by a landing on
Japan proper. This has certainly become
feasible for the near future, even though
it might be followed by bloody fighting
of the nature of that on Iwo Jima, but
on a far larger scale. Still, it would
greatly shorten the war and there are tre-
mendous political arguments in its favor.
Australia’s Battles
General Blarney, flying down from the
Philippines, pronounced the Aitape fight-
ing “a brilliant little campaign, one of
the best I have seen.” Australians, un-
fortunately, do not know the name of
the field commander fighting it, though
it may have been mentioned unobtru-
sively. It is certainly arduous and diffi-
cult, a job for first-class men and first-
class equipment. The men are there.
If accounts of the supply position have
any foundation they are enough to make
any Australian blush. In a country which
possessed a real public opinion, unless
immediately demolished by first-hand evi-
dence presented by a responsible Minister,
they would be enough to wreck the Gov-
ernment. That lives may be lost for lack
of materiel while the Government fiddles
with socialism is a bitter thought to most
Australians, though not apparently to
some politicians.
In New Britain good progress is being
made at the neck of the Gazelle Penin-
sula, where some dominating heights
overlooking Jap-held coastal areas have
been occupied.
In Bougainville the devoted forces
north and south continue to carve their
way through the jungle, in the hope that
they will some time reach the core of
Japanese resistance.
Over Rabaul and New Ireland the air
activity has been more considerable than
for some time past.
Koniev and Malinovsky.
“Ek Dum”: As is always the case
when exuberant press prophecies fail of
fulfilment, the position on the Eastern
Front has been obscured in a maze of
words. At the week-end it seemed that
Stettin had not been taken or even
reached, though the Russians were sup-
posedly breaking into it weeks ago ; that
Gdynia, Konigsberg, Breslau, Danzig
and Courland were still holding out, and
that Marshal Zhukov’s nineteenth in-
cipient drive to Berlin had not material-
ised after the capture of Kiistrin —that is
if Kiistrin has been captured. The Ger-
mans declared at the week-end that ‘’this
fortress is still firmly in our hands,” and
Russian operations to capture it from the
west certainly seemed to be taking place.
But it was obvious that Marshal Koniev
had begun another offensive on the Sude-
ten flank, south of Breslau.
The Breslau battle itself had sunk into
the limbo of almost forgotten things,
though the Russians were earlier supposed
to be surging into parts of the city,
slaughtering the defenders like sheep.
There had, it was said, been consider-
able fighting in the sector in which Mar-
shal Koniev has launched his attack —
across the headwaters of the Neisse and
the Oder, somewhere over 200 miles
from Berlin and 120 miles south-east-
ward of Marshal Koniev’s flank junction
with Marshal Zhukov.
The Koniev drive has, of course, been
hailed by Moscow correspondents as the
greatest in history. On a 75-mile front
there are said to be 56 generals operating.
Marshal Koniev’s troops advanced 25
miles with a bang on parts of the line,
where only screens were to be expected.
They crossed the upper reaches of the
Neisse and at the week-end were re-
ported to be fighting in the outskirts of
Neisse itself, an old German Corps H.Q.
This Neisse must not be confused with
the other Neisse River system, which
runs out of the Iser Mountains, 100
miles further west, and on which Mar-
shal Koniev already has a front within
60-70 miles of Berlin.
On the Upper Oder sector, 60 miles
to the south-east, Ratibor, it was re-
ported, was being menaced. Violent Rus-
sian attacks in this sector had been in
progress for weeks.
It was announced from Moscow that
the drives had led to the routing and
encirclement of German groups south-
west of Oppeln and “the annihilation of
six German army groups, the taking of
60,000 prisoners and the capture of 400
places.”
However, over the week-end excite-
ment over Koniev had given place to
excitement over Malinovsky, another
Zhukov drive towards Berlin having
intervened. Marshal Malinovsky was
reported to have captured Estergom, 20
miles north-west of Budapest, and Tata,
40 miles north-west of Buda, broken
through the German lines and advanced
to within gunfire of Gyor, “only 27 miles
from the Austrian frontier.”
The Russians were supposed to have
overrun much of this country in Decem-
ber, cutting off large German forces. It
is claimed that 96,000 Germans have been
killed or captured in three weeks on the
Austro-Hungarian front.
The whole position, as reported, is so
amazingly confused that it is difficult to
understand it. However, Moscow de-
clared that Marshal Koniev was' bent
upon joining his offensive to that of
Marshals Petrov and Malinovsky
in Czechoslovakia and Hungary, to
“threaten the Hitlerites’ largest munition
works,, the Herman Goring plants in
Austria and Czechoslovakia, without
which they could not carry on the war.”
Actually, the Russians on the front
south of the Carpathians are at least 100
miles from any crucial munition plant.
And the Koniev groups of armies are not
only nearly as distant but have the sheer
Sudeten Ranges and their passes to pene-
trate. It is one of the war’s great mys-
teries why they should concentrate on
this area when they are said to be only
30-odd miles from Berlin by crowfly.
One explanation might be that there is
great concern with Balkan politics. An-
other might be that Koniev’s drive
is designed to break a German flank —
surprise has been here expressed more
than once at the Red Army’s failure to
attempt flanking tactics, such as F.-M.
Montgomery has used in the west with
notable success. Again, the attacks might
be diversionary, to pave the way for a
frontal attack in the central Oder sector.
Whatever the reason, with the Rus-
sians still outside Stettin, Frankfort, Bres-
lau, Giiben, Forst and Lauben, it is clear
that all the talk about the complete de-
moralisation of the Germans in the “vast,
decisive battles” of the retreat from the
Vistula was just nonsense.
Zhukov and Koniev are no doubt
modest and capable men who make no
pretensions to the miraculous qualities
attributed to them by writers who are
communists or fellow-travellers. The
marshals have not gone to Berlin be-
cause they could not even attempt to go
there without further major preparations.
Sydney's Graving Dock.
With the opening of the Graving Dock
by the Duke of Gloucester and the
naming of it by the Duchess after Cap-
tain Cook (described by A.B.C. as “the
discoverer of Australia”), Sydney ac-
quires a new importance as a front-rank
naval base. In equipment for the
handling of large vessels, it now far out-
ranks Singapore, and it can dock a ship
of any size yet built or likely to be built.
The task of building it, approved by
Mr. Menzies’s War Cabinet on May 1,
1940, despite Mr. Curtin’s pessimistic and
provincial protests, began early in 1941
under control of Mr. M. W. Mehaffey,
It involved reclamation of 30 acres of the
harbor; joining of the mainland and
Garden Island ; excavation and construc-
tion of a basin 1177 feet long with pro-
vision for its extension, and depths vary-
ing from 41.5 ft. over the sill at L.W.S.T.
to 55 feet from cope to floor at the centre.
Two floating caissons make it possible
to use the dock in two separate compart-
ments —one 700 ft. long, the other 380 ft.
—and two cruisers abreast can be taken
in the inner compartment. The whole
equipment is electrically self-supporting
in emergency and normally is fitted with
two bomb-resisting transformer stations.
There are a reinforced-concrete fitting-
out wharf 1000 ft. long; cranes, moving
and stationary, capable of lifting from 40
to 250 tons —the largest has a radius of
125 ft.—six miles of 4ft. Biin. gauge rail-
way in the dockyard area ; three and a
half miles of roads and 55 miles of elec-
tric cables. To which must be added the
completion of sewerage, gas, water and
electricity services for the whole huge
plant and accessory workshops, which
are enormous.
In building the embankments alone
800,000 cubic yards of ballast core and
filling were deposited and 170,000 feet
of steel sheet piling driven. In the dock
itself 330,000 yards of concrete was used.
The caissons, designed by Vickers
Armstrong, of Barrow-on-Furness, were
erected by the Sydney Steel Co. They
are welded throughout, save for armor
plate and fittings-attachment rivets. There
is as much steel in each as in a 10,000-
ton cargo ship. The main pumps, which
are in a bomb-proof underground cham-
ber, have a 54in, delivery. The three
are capable of removing 57,000,000
gallons of water from the basin in under
four hours.


CILIEX
KEROSENE
CAiIEX
chishe
c
IiTiEX
MOTOR & AVIATION SPIRIT
The long history of
pioneering, embrac-
ing every major de-
velopment in the
Petroleum Industry
is climaxed by the
high-grade Caltex
products available to
every user of Mech-
anical Transport.
IF YOU WOULD MAKE SURE
INSIST ON
CALTEX PRODUCTS
CALTEX LIMITED
ADVISORS ON ALL IMPORTANT PROBLEMS
OF PETROLEUM USAGE AND LUBRICATION
IN ALL ITS PHASES
Please use less
BRYLCREEM
The Services want it!
As all the Brylcreem at present being made
is going to the Services, you may find diffi-
culty in buying it. So use as little as you
can each time and massage every drop well
into your scalp. And here is a useful hint.
When the |ar is nearly empty add a teaspoon-
ful of clean, cold water, shake vigorously and
note how clean the cream comes from the
|ar. Yes! you can use the last drop.
ẅ
SPORTING NOTIONS
As a strike-enforced change from standing
or being stood on in trams, thousands on Satur-
day proved their quality as stayers by tramping
the couple of miles out to the A.J.C. meeting
at Randwick. Adding those who got there in
cars, taxis and horsefloats, the crowd totalled
24,500, excluding a solid contingent of soldier-
guests. After witnessing the best aggregate
of good horses and the best racing so far
this year, and putting £122,571 10s. through
the tote, the biped stayers mostly must have
weighed in a few pounds light.
• * - • • •
They started well enough, hot favorites win-
ning both divisions of the Fairfield Handicap
(two-year-olds; six furlongs). In the first divi-
sion the lengthy Double Remove-Leila Vale
black filly Jamelie (Maxwell) beat the Hua
colt D-Day and the Ajax colt Magnificent by
two lengths, running in front most of the way.
The Genefout colt Columnist was a close
fourth. In the second division the Agin court-
Happy Returns brown filly Courtship (Thomp-
son) made her record five starts for five wins
by splendidly defeating the New Zealand-bred
Coronach-Canvasser colt Balmore and the Hua
filly Questing, with the Midstream filly Lucky
Stream next.
Various views will be held on both divisions
as bearing on next Saturday’s Sires’ Produce
Stakes. Jamelie won very easily indeed. Court-
ship was actually passed by Balmore in the
run home, but came again like the sterling
filly she is to beat him half a length. Rattling
good performances. However, Jamelie was re-
ceiving a stone from Magnificent, who was
having his only run since winning the Breeders’
Plate at his first start last October. He was
bulky, and must be greatly improved by the
run, whereas Jamelie—and this goes for Court-
ship—looked at peak fitness. Courtship
(9.5) gave Balmore half a stone and was drawn
wide; but again, Balmore, having his first run
since getting off the boat less than three weeks
before, looked the one that would be improved,
though less so than Magnificent.
• • • • • •
The doubt in Jamelie’s case is how she’ll run
against an improved Magnificent at set weights;
and this observer’s vote goes to the colt. As for
Courtship, how can you question a filly that
wins at every asking, and this time carried
top weight from very wide out? Well, this
was the first time she’d ever appeared to be
seriously taken on, and, unless Thompson was
foxing when the less experienced lad got Bal-
more in front, coming again like that under
her huge burden may have knocked a lot out
of her. However, she’ll meet Balmore on
vastly better terms. Hence present onlooker
fancies for the Sires’ Produce: Magnificent,
1; Courtship, 2; Balmore, 3.
• ' • * *
In the Liverpool Handicap (with a Doncaster
bearing) the bottom-weight, War Effort (Weate),
beat Victory Lad and Felbeam a head and
half a head, with improving Abbeville fourth.
All ran sound trials. Abbeville and Felbeam
are Randwick mile winners; Victory Lad won
a recent Quality Handicap over slightly more
than seven furlongs on this track, and was third,
a length from the winner, in the Villiers mile.
Doncaster absentees on Saturday included Rep-
shot, Melhero and Prince. Repshot, the freak
galloper from Queensland, has not won at a
mile, but seems a very game customer, and that,
with D. Munro up, is a-strong credential. Mel-
hero, also, has yet to win at a mile, but is a
topnotch three-year-old in form. Prince—a six-
year-old, not at all badly weighted for the Don-
caster at B.l—is a Randwick specialist and a
good mile winner there, and last start (March 9)
was an extremely fast-finishing second in Vic-
tory Lad’s Quality Handicap. So for the Don-
caster: Prince, 1; Abbeville, 2; Victory Lad, 3.
Saturday’s Chipping Norton Stakes (w.f.a.)
and Autumn Cup (mile and a half) respectively
resulted in old Katanga (Munro) just heading
Flight, with Accession third; and Royal Peer
(Coutts) not only making all the running but
finishing very soundly to beat Neta Linette by
two lengths, with Russia third. Only a perfect
bit of Munro timing beat Flight, whose prepa-
ration seems admirably judged for the Sydney
Cup. Probably no notice should be taken of
Castle Frontenac’s last in the Chipping Norton;
neither w.f.a. nor the way the race was run
suited him. Royal Peer ran a sterling Cup trial.
Cup (Monday) selections: Flight, 1;
Castle Frontenac, 2; Royal Peer, 3.
......
Accession (Coronation Day-Silver Scorn) is
a somewhat lumpy-lodking colt, but, with Tea
Rose so completely off form, should go close to
a St. Leger win. So should Good Idea, who,
with Thompson up, beat Lunar and Prince
Verity with a late run in last Saturday’s Cob-
bitty Handicap. In this race Ribbon petered
out, but was evidently bothered by her 9.5 St.
Leger selections: Accession, 1; Good Idea, 2;
Prince Verity, 3.
* * * '
For other events at Randwick on Saturday
(before acceptances) :—Vaucluse: Cooringwang,
Enthuse, Cragsman. Autumn Stakes: Flight,
Katanga, Veiled Threat. City Handicap: Neta
Linette, Active Service, Craigie.
* * * *
Ridden by the former Sydney hurdle jockey
G. Sholl, Not Guilty made his record four wins
over the jumps in succession by easily beating
Intermission and Hearsay in the Laverton
Hurdle at Moonee Valley last Saturday. This
season his hurdling has earned £2015 in stakes,
* * * *
The Altona and Weeroona Handicaps proved
consolation events respectively for Liberal
Knight and Mysticus, the former winning
easily from Philander and Precept, and Mysticus
just as easily from Busybody and Lunar Lynx,
The running of the Altona (one mile five fur-
longs) was practically a repetition of the C. M.
Lloyd Stakes at Flemington—a very slow pace
early, with Sanderson taking Liberal Knight
to the front six furlongs from home, and the
time 10 seconds outside the record. The slow
pace was all against Precept,
* ♦ * *
Only weight (9.8) beat Bootle in the mile
Loddon Handicap for three-year-olds. He went
down by a head after making a game bid to
overhaul the winner, Propontis. Three O Three
was a couple of lengths back third. Both the
Brian-Manja filly Irish Gem and the Gay
Lothario-Miss Devlin colt Don Pedro ran
attractive races in winning their respective divi-
sions of the six-furlongs Verdon Handicap for
two-year-olds. Don Pedro had only half a
length to spare from Carngham, but was going
very comfortably. With this win on top of his
good Sires’ Produce Stakes second, he looks a
likely colt for the later classics.
♦ * * *
War and attendant transport disabilities have
benefited Westralian breeders, who expect their
best market for years at the Easter sales,
Imports from the East have practically stopped,
Meanwhile locally-bred horses have done well
in the bigger races—tne Perth Cup, Karrakatta
Plate, the Railway and the Derby having gone
to Gay Parade, Beauperian, Bobby Breen and
Lord Treat respectively. By report, some
good horses are being bred in the south-west,
once considered “sour” country, since a little
mineral top-dressing has brought the pastures
on, with notable improvement to bone and
general substance.
* * * *
A Newmarket “official race card” (war-time
issue in lieu of race book) brought back by an
R.A.A.F. chap interested in horses itself throws
a lot of light on aspects of English racing. For
one thing, the racing is kept going mostly by
an exclusive group of moneyed—frequently
titled—owners who run their horses for the
pleasure of winning not money but races. First
four owners as listed in one race on the pro-
gramme are His Majesty, Sir Alfred Butt, Lord
Fitzwilliam and Lord Harewood. Other owners
in the same race are the Aga Khan, Lord Mil-
ford, Sir Victor Sassoon, Lord Rosebery and
Major, Lord Stanley. Two of the English
racings biggest supporters, Lord Derby and
Miss Dorothy Paget, appear freely elsewhere in
the programme, which includes also as owners
H. H. Maharaja of Kasmir and H. H. Maharani
Chinnabai Gaekwar of Baroda, whose Maharaja
is known in Australian racing as owner of
Baroda and, his latest, the good-looking son
of The Buzzard, The Gaekwar.
From the foregoing, and also the rest of the
programme, one thing stands out—that the
battler-owner has no place in English racing.
It is said that Miss Paget puts anything up to
£lOO,OOO into racing every year and gets about
fcalf that sum back. Incidentally, His Majesty’s
two starters on that day—Esperance and
Alencon—both ran second. The part these big
owners really play is indicated by the Aga
Khan saddling up 12 starters in eight of the
nine races, for one placing—a third for his Star-
dust colt Prawn Curry.
-p. '. j , * " ~ ‘ ,
The souvenir card shows other things that
may be news to some. The weighing-in flag
over there is blue; the red flag, used here for
“weight,” over there indicates a protest, or, as
“ Wouldn't it?"
they call it, an “objection.” There is a red-and-
white flag for “an objection to any other placed
horse. A white flag indicates the objection
overruled; a green flag, objection sustained,
Allowances taken by apprentices are indicated
by a red number on a white board (71b.),
black on green (51b.), black on blue (31b.). Not
only are the races known by their particular
names but the distances have special names
I 1 «■ „ T o! ls . : Chesterfield Course (five furlongs),
Suffolk Stakes Course (mile and a half) and the
Bunbury Mile. Sixpence in every shilling paid
for the “race cards” went to the Duke of
Gloucester’s Red Cross and St. John Fund,
not a bad idea to repeat here, if only at the
meeting at which the Duke has his first starter.
In the English programme referred to here
there does not appear to be the same effort to
indicate breeding in names which gave Aus-
fralian racing the apt naming of, say, Magpie
stock as Bicolor and Talking (with Talking’s
dam. Society, perhaps indicated also), the long
list of humorous names derived from Tippler,
and such current ones as Swan River (Mid-
stream-Blackbird). It would, for instance, take
a fair chef to make a Prawn Curry out of
Stardust-Becti or a Star of Africa out of Fox-
hunter-Staylace. Those two, however, are
owned by the Aga Khan, who seems rather
deliberately to avoid breed-names. Sun Stream
for Lord Derby’s fine Hyperion filly is apt
enough, as are Pack Drill (from Light Sen-
tence) and Winter’s Tale (from Mistress Ford).
* * * *
r ^oVer^ r ; Gene^ 1 orrie kas leased a
Duke John colt from the Angas stud at Lind-
say Park, and two Shakuni fillies from the
Haigh stud at Balhannah. Reid, who trained
Waxwings for Lady Barclay-Harvey, will have
steepTecha™%fder r "”dTa4 t ™' oS
the National Hunt committee, and a steward
at military meetings.
*_* * *
Arnold Treloar, racecourse broadcaster of
Adelaide “Advertiser’s” station, has retired
from this stunt on doctor’s orders. He was
one of the first to take it up, 20 years ago,
and thinks he was the very first to switch from
doing just “the big race” to describing for a
distant public the whole programme.
* * * *
In Mexico City they run two-furlongs races.
If this should tempt owners of the sort of
horses that regard travelling further than that
an insult to their intelligence they’ll find the
opposition pretty Stiff. In February a four-
year-old named Big Racket covered the distance
there in the world record time of 0.20 f. The
former record—o.2l? had stood since 1890.
* * * *
“S.” : Hayden Bunton, the footballer
with the extraordinary record of three
p> rnwn i nw nnrl medak in
fJ°^ nIOW best and tairest medals in
Melbourne, and then three similar band-
over medals in Perth, has been discharged
after 3L years in the A.I.F. He is to
h Aflfdaidp nlawrc in the “more
c °acn Adelaide players in me more
robust methods necessary, he says,
against Victoria Or Westralia.
* * * *
“Blackbird”: Dograces are run at the
T r A „ rnilnf a nn rj n u„ rt Domain on
i.G.A. s ground on Hobart uomam on
Saturday afternoons—and the cricketers
have to stop for each race. There are ten
races. The Greyhound Club contends that
th „ distract nr ininre the dnv?
Ef g l m ® f“„ y attract or injure me dogs.
The Football Assoc. IS trying to obtain
permission to use the ground when cricket
ceases, but has a poor chance of SUC-
fh Tr A doesn’t want to lose
, s » as me 7. , , . nt 5, 10 lose
the income which keeps it off the rocks,
• * * *
“Visitor”; Adelaide City Council has
caused a stir by going back to a policy
Cll _t, „„ uft
SUC T as * aat . which the town last
century the title of City of Churches.”
It has barred the proposed holding on
Sundav nf thf» A Hmnit
diving. champion-
Snips in the big Olympic Pool just oppo-
site Government House.
* * * *
“Snow” * Few of the nresent dav rrnn
nP present-day crop
bowlers (medium and supposed fast)
ever deliver a yorker. It seems to be
as extinct as the dodo : yet to an incom-
inf, hafemnn it’c a | m r,ct oe
u &n u S alm ° st as dangerous as
a Mills bomb. Bowlers say it requires
too much energy to toss the ball up the
few extra feet to land it in the block-
hclCj tho U gh they seem to waste plenty
fruitlessly in absurdly long runs to the
wicket. Charlie Turner, in his book on
cricket oave the sound ndviee • “Row! nt
u / ,
wicket ctnd make the batsmen play
you,” and he knew a bit about it.
* * * *
Herbert Sutcliffe, in Perth and in
fi ne “ con ditinn ” will fake bark to RW
, e , Conaitlon > Will take hack to tng-
land a g°°d report of Australian catering.
He calls Australia “the land of attractive
menus,” and says he gained 181 b. in
J °
w ° ni * re ’
. ~ * , *
Pat Ater : In my judgment, either
Waverley or Randwick will win Sydney’s
cricket premiership (present round is lie
I oA T ' u • , . .
m either case it Will be a triumph
for teamwork against individual bril-
liance. There’s hardly an outstanding
P layer ta eith f team „ With Alec Marks,
Chegwyn and co., Randwick has nine
batsmen and a balanced round of
bowlers. Waverley, which includes Wen-
djii anf j vir Jackson has hronoht to
aeli Hill anOVic Jackson, has brought to
hght fresh talent as required ; its - fast
bowler Butler has taken over 50 wickets,
Down the scale. North and West, run-
• 1 1 t workers with
C OS -5 T ’ , so ■ ea l?. wor^ers ’ u t
Barnes (North) the brilliant exception.
O’Reilly, Alley, Livingstone, Saggers,
Grieves, Dwyer and other rep. men haven’t
. . . u f „- f L- . -i • „ j-
brought their teams Within Striking dis-
tance.


Woman's Letters
From Sydney
Victory can only be gained by all the
nation keeping in step. If every Austra-
lian keeps in step and marches forward,
chin up, as the servicemen and -women
stepped out last Friday, then Peace will
soon spread her wings over this land.
The Third Victory Loan march
through Sydney was something that
would have made the old Bayeux tapestry
workers wax their threads and chant as
they wove the pattern. First of all it
was a grand autumn day with a fresh
wind blowing. It blew out the flags of
the dais at the Town Hall steps, and
streamed past the bombers outspread
against it. Then there was a Duke to take
the salute, while his Duchess stood at
gaze. There were great-throated bands
to play “God Save the King,” and after
that the marching tunes to which British
and Australian soldiers have stepped
down the fighting roads the world over.
The horses of the mounted police led
the march, stepping daintily with a lady
of France: “Mademoiselle from Armen-
tieres.” Then swung past the red-car-
peted dais and the upright Governor-
General returning the salute in smart
soldierly style long lines of Navy and
Air Force and khaki-clad servicemen, to
the strains of “Waltzing Matilda,”
.“Lilli Marlene” and our own “The A.I.F.
is Marching.” It’s up to Sydney to help
it march on to victory, as the song says.
In St. James’s, Burwood, Beryl, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. D. Haig, of that suburb,
became the bride of Sergeant Phil
Thompson, younger son of Mr. and Mrs.
A. M. Thompson, of Mosman, She wore
a long-waisted, old-world cloque frock
with a white angel-skin lace yoke
and a finger-tip veil. Burwood and Mos-
man are fine loyal places with sterling
war records, and there was no lack of
khaki and air-force blue in the church.
Sydney has added to her glories. She
has the largest graving dock in the
Southern Hemisphere. There it lies, link-
ing Garden Island and Potts Point, and
on Saturday the great afternoon of its
naming, it was full up to the brim with
its 57,000,000 gallons of Port Jackson.
The orchestra of industry that had
swelled fortissimo since 1940 had died
down. Workshops lay in silence and
great cranes relaxed and stretched empty
arms. As in the years past, there were
humans thick on the scene —not the over-
ailed, working-clothed humans the dock
knows so well. These humans, whether
on the east or the west —the gilt-lettered
card-holders, or the workers who com-
plained of not receiving like invitations
—were all as smart as paint to greet the
Governor-General who, in company
with his Duchess, was arriving in an
Australian warship to declare the dock
open.
As neatly as could be the warship slit
the red, white and blue ribbon span-
ning the entrance. The harbor beyond
was bright with a confetti of small craft.
The afternoon was one of autumn’s per-
fect, and to loud cheers the ship came
slowly to position, the Duke and Duchess
and Vice-President of the Executive
Council Beasley and his wife standing in
full view of all.
Like other members of his family
whom Australia has heard over the radio
or in the flesh, the Duke has a pleasant,
clear-cut speaking voice. After his
speech the Duchess named the dock.
This was a tense moment, for everybody
had been trying to guess the name for
weeks. The secret had been so well
kept that it was not until the Duchess
read the slip of paper from the presenta-
tion casket that the dock’s title was re-
vealed. Its name, “The Captain Cook,”
brought a roar of applause. The end of
the Duchess’s speech was touching: “We
pray that Divine Providence may watch
over the ships, the gallant ships’ com-
panies and all who may be employed in
connection with this dock’s use.
Other highlights of the afternoon were
the presentation by Elizabeth Rhodes of
a posy of red roses and gardenias to the
Duchess (Elizabeth is the small daughter
of Captain E. C. Rhodes, chief staff
officer to Rear-Admiral Moore); and the
complete tour of the dock by the Duke
and Duchess, standing up in the Admiral’s
pinnace. This visit of inspection enabled
the workmen who had built the dock and
their wives to get a longed-for close-up
of the royalties. The Duchess’s blue
dress and veil-swathed hat of deeper
toning were greatly approved; so was
the act of courtesy. Thousands of
workers had boycotted the ceremony
because their invitations entitled them to
seats in a roped-off enclosure on the west
side of the dock, whereas the east side
had the better view.
Women who drank sherry in honor
of Agnes Doyle at the party staged at the
Minerva are still talking about her hat —
charm and nonsense in white Valen-
ciennes lace. It came out of the U.S.A.,
where hats are still uncouponed. A woman
nibbling a savory was suddenly struck
with a shattering thought: “four coupons
and one shower of rain,” she muttered,
shaking her head in resignation. The
party was smart, and layers of Darling
Point were sandwiched between people of
the theatre and people of the press.
Everybody spoke highly of the savories
and sampled all the varieties;
The slim little actress, who will appear
very soon as lead in the next Minerva
production, “The Voice of the Turtle, ’
remains quite untinged with any of the
airs of the “local girl who made good.”
Yet for ten years she has made herself
heard in the theatre world of America,
has played leads on Broadway, and has
for friends the importants of stage and
radio. Her sleek little frock was black,
her shoes slip-on black suede, Kathleen
Robinson, who hostessed the party, which
moved about from downstairs to upstairs
in the front of the house, was graceful
in black. The Mayoral Neville Hardings
were there, so were the Charlie Lloyd
Jones couple, the Doveys K.C. and the
equally legal Cassidys. Shipping man H.
J. Brady and his wife smiled a short fare-
well to Sydney. They are off to Mel-
bourne for a few weeks—his first holiday
in six years.
Well-known stage and radio actress
Muriel Steinbeck has signed up to play
leading woman (Mary Kingsford Smith)
in the film “Smithy.” This is Columbia’s
first Australian production. Muriel
(pictured here) was born in Broken Hill,
and is a former pupil of Sydney Girls’
High.
When the president of the Lyceum
Club holds her first reception of the year
the members come running. Last week
Mrs. John Metcalfe, surrounded by vice-
presidents and committee women, greeted
a long procession of guests. Lioness of
the afternoon was Mrs. Neville Harding,
who has never had more glamorous flow-
ers arranged in her honor. The Lyceum
which is, as it were, a garden of the intel-
lect, has members who tend their North
Shore Line and other suburban gardens
with care. They brought in the blooms
for the decorations —great golden-eyed
zinnias, tawny, yellow and red dahlias,
the red flower of the wheel tree. Dame
Mary Gilmore, her first public appear-
ance since her bereavement, was greeted
by vice-president Mrs. A. G. Thomas,
who pinned a spray of autumn oa the
lapel of the Dame’s coat.
Lady Wakehurst will officially open
the 23rd annual meeting of the C.W.A.
of N.S.W. The conference will be held
in the Assembly Hall hpilding in Mar-
garet-street, and will commence on Wed-
nesday, April 11, at 10 a.m. Other ses-
sions will commence on April 12 and
13 at 9.30 a.m.
One of the great attractions of tbs
newsreels this week is Sister Muriel
Stanley, the first qualified aboriginal ob-
stetric nurse. In the newsreel, too, is soft
voiced and smiling Matron Keable, of
South Sydney Women s Hospital, New-
town, who is very proud of her trainee.
It was at South Sydney Women’s that
Nurse Stanley did her 18 months' train-
ing in midwifery, and from there she will
go back to work among her own people.
Before taking on her new duties she will
visit her mother at Yarrabah Mission,
outside of Cairns. It was with real
regret that Matron Keable and the nurses
farewelled their comrade last week. To
make sure of getting letters from her
they presented her with a writing-case.
From Melbourne
Studies were forgotten as pretty uni-
versity students, gaily frocked, stepped
with their, partners at the Commencement
Ball, held at St. Kilda Town Hall. Seated
at the official table were Vice-Chancellor
Medley and Prof. McCallum. Many
dancers broke from the throng to chat
for a few moments with these two sym-
bols of learning. Also at the official
table was Meg Smith, becomingly attired
in pale pink. She is vice-president of the
Student Rep. Council. David Bottomley,
president of the S.R.C. was with her.
Desmond Connor, who has done good
work in directing the Union Theatre, was
also in the official party, accompanied by
wife Joy, who garbed her decorative
self in off-white embroidered in steel
beads.
To complete Commencement festivities
came the Conferring of Degrees. Warm
sunshine filtered through the windows of
Wilson Hall and the colorful hoods of the
various faculties added brightness to the
scene. Seated on the dais, the Chancellor,
Mr. Justice Lowe, presented the parch-
ments. He announced a scheme of recip-
rocal scholarships with Britain and the
U.S.A., to supplement Rhodes Scholar-
ships. It is intended, he said, to offer in
Britain and America 30 scholarships
yearly, allowing five English or Ameri-
can students to attend the University in
each of the Australian States each year.
Among the graduates who received de-
grees were two Chinese: L. M. Wang,
Consul for China in Victoria, and Y. C.
Hsueh, Vice-Consul in the same office.
They are graduates of the University of
Nanking. Mr. Wang has represented
China in Tibet, India, the N.E.I. and
South Africa. He has a wife whose
national costumes are so beautiful that
she is the envy of the women guests at
any functions she attends.
The Angliss lady lends her services to
one war appeal after another. Her office
in the Town Hall is a hive of industry,
with helpers and typists busy opening and
answering letters and extracting the
cheques which continue to pour in even
after each appeal has closed. Though
the office is considered a part of Red
Cross, it is a clearing house for the many
collecting campaigns launched in the city.
To this busy woman falls the task of
arranging the button days—ll of them
last year. The allotting of stalls and
their erection in the streets is the busi-
ness of this office, and all day long women
who want to raise money for various
war charities are interviewed. In addi-
tion to this work, the Angliss lady is
president of the Tweddle Hospital, where
girls are trained in nursing and infant
welfare.
In the early days of the Japanese
menace the Tweddle Hospital at Foot-
scray was taken over by the Govern-
ment as a hostel for women munition
workers, and the children and nurses
were transferred to the Riversdale Golf
Club. Auxiliaries were formed by
women to help the hospital. Latest of
these is the southern auxiliary. All the
members are young and energetic, and
Mrs. Garnet Curwen is president. Mar-
garet, daughter of the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, is an active
member of the committee. Margaret
(pictured here by Mendelssohn) is an old
Merton Hall (C.E.G.G.S.) girl and has been
of great assistance to her mother during
the latter’s term of office. Margaret acted
as hostess to the Duke and Duchess of
Gloucester when her mother and Lud
Mayor Nettlefold entertained the royal
couple at the civic reception. In the six
months it has been in existence the
southern auxiliary has raised £2OO. This
money has been earmarked to make re-
pairs to the hospital when it is given
back by the Government. Margaret
hopes to bring on to the committee many
of her young friends.
War has banished the hilarious doings
of University Commencement. In place
of gay processions and fun and frolic in
University grounds the undergrads of
the M.U.D.C. produce a play. This year
“See Naples and Die,” by Elmer Rice,
was chosen. It’s an amusing comedy, and
in spite of the shortcomings of youth the
cast got through it very creditably. Doro-
thea Dixon was happily cast as the inn-
keeper’s wife and Robin Mackay, who
made a hit as Liza Dolittle in the
National Theatre production of “Pyg-
malion,” had also a congenial role. In the
audience were Mr. and Mrs. Mackay, lend-
ing support to daughter Robin, and (with
the Mackays) Mrs. James McDougall,
who wore a stunning mink cape over a
well-cut black frock. Don Hamley, re-
cently released from the R.A.A.F., and
Frank Sullivan, formerly an officer in
the A.1.F., enjoyed the show and their
newly-acquired civilian attire.
“No 9” was the scene of a party given
by officers of the W.R.A.N.S. as a ges-
ture of friendliness to the newly-arrived
officers of the English W.R.N.S. The
large reception-rooms were filled with
bowls of glorious flowers. First Officer
Mary Howard and Second Officer Curtis-
Otter received the guests, who were
many, backed up by Third Officer Jack-
son and Third Officer Alice Gould. First
Officer Sheila McClements, the first to
hold this office (in civil life a barrister),
also assisted in caring for the wants of
the guests. Captain L. A. W. Spooner,
R.N., was accompanied by his wife, who
wore a floral frock under her smart navy
blue coat. Lieut.-Commander F. Green
and Mrs. Green were also among those
present. The W.R.N.S. officers say they
are enjoying their stay in this country.
One of them, Second Officer Margot
Harris, has a husband in the Royal
Marines. She had been married only
three days when instructions arrived for
her to begin her travels. She went first
to the U.S.A. and then to the M.E.,
where she remained long enough to be-
come eligible to wear the Africa Star.
Another W.R.N, had been married only
five weeks when she left England for this
country. Colonel Sybil Irving, Controller
of the A.W.A.S., represented that part
of the women’s services, and busy chat-
ting with W.R.N.S. members was Miss
Lang, Chief Matron of the R.A.A.F.
Nursing Service.
The Royle lady made a very good job
of opening the collection of engravings
at Vertu recently, Lieut. John Seymour
obtained the prints on his recent trip to
England—they included work by Rem-
brandt, Dlirer and others, Vertu, which
housed the collection, is a small but
attractive cottage in one of the tiny lanes
off Collins-street. It is a full-time job
for Mrs. Maclellan, who manages it and
owns the tiny gallery. With her children
at school, Mrs. Maclellan wanted an out-
let for her energies, and so Vertu was
acquired and furnished and now is be-
coming quite useful for intimate show-
ings. Proceeds from catalogues and por-
tion of the money from the prints were
handed over to R.A.N. Relief Funds,
Among those who attended the first
day was Mrs. Wallace Mitchell. Robert
and Malcolm, her two elder boys, are in
the army and very soon another of the
Mitchell boys will be leaving home —
Hugh, who will enter the navy. Jean,
the elder daughter, is in the W.A.A.A.F.,
and Betty is in the A.W.A.S., so many
services are represented in the Mitchell
household. Betty, a lieutenant in the
A.W.A.S., was home recently on leave
from up north, and sister Jean gave her
a birthday party. The many friends of
both sisters danced and had fun at the
Embassy. Prior to arriving at the show-
ing at Vertu Mrs. Wallace Mitchell gave
a small luncheon party at Menzies, where
the guests of honor were Captain Alice
Adcock and Lieut. Grace Brown, of the
A.A.N.S. Both have served in the M-E.
and in New Guinea.
Latest production at the National
Theatre was “The Corn Is Green,” a
play by Emlyn Williams. On the first
night many of the cast of the new show
at the Tivoli were present. Melbourne
now has the same privilege Sydney folk
have enjoyed for some time, a five o’clock
show. First presentation at this hour
was “While the Sun Shines.” Charles
Norman, in the audience for once,
brought his wife. Pat MacDonald, lead-
ing lady of “While the Sun Shines,”
wore the cutest little hat this city has
seen for many moons. Joanna Wills, also
in the cast, made a delightful impression.
Roger Barry, who has been greatly missed
by his friends, spent most of the inter-
vals acknowledging greetings. Eve
Wynne wears many charming gowns in
this show; one, in the style of the late
’nineties, of heavy grey faille, full in the
skirt, with a tight bodice and high-boned
collar. The skirt, of course, has a
bustle —a modified one.


<Jn,ote iltan
B FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
In
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
ij
• K
L'JU-
m
m
4 ¥
■i
ANNIVERSARY
of the
VACUUM OIL COMPANY ES
This year Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
1895 - 1945 celebrates its Golden Jubilee. Established in
Melbourne, 1895, in a small office with a
staff of 3, Vacuum has grown to a Nation-
wide Organisation with a staff of over 3,000
—serving Australia in Peace and in War, in
good times and bad, in city, town and
country, with Petroleum Products of the
Highest Quality.
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
{INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA) . :
PLUME MOTOR SPIRIT LAUREL KEROSENE
VOCO POWER KEROSENE MOBILOIL
and ether High Quality Petroleum Products 4Se<A>
SMOKE-OH!
“Arthur A. Dupont, a Reno (Nevada) barber,
recently celebrated his eleventh marriage!”
—Weekly paper.
But he’s still a shingle short of the
dozen.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The well-proportioned woman wears a shoe
one-half the size of her glove.”— Weekly paper.
Hence it’s usually too small for her.
4* 4* # 4*
Contradiction.
“The quarrel began when the landlord asked
10 guineas for a small bachelor flat, claiming
that this was the frozen rent.”— Court item.
The landlord said “It’s the frozen rent.”
But the tenant answered, “Rot!
Now how in hell could frozen rent
Be so confounded hot ?”
Nat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
_ “Will person who found Chatswood-River-
view bus, Tries., 13th, return Lee, c/o Trevanes,
Chatswood.” — “Clarion,” (Willoughby, N.S.W).
Passengers fretting.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lost, lunch case, contains trousers.”
—S. M. “Herald.”
Duck, undoubtedly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hospital to surf.” — Heading in “Sun.’ 1 ’
In the Sick Bay?
Hotting It Up.
“Japanese scientists have succeeded in raising
the alcoholic content of cider to the point where
it can take the place of petrol.”— Tokyo Radio.
They are only plagiarising the work
of my eldest grandfather, a man of
scientific and experimental outlook.
Refusing to be defeated by the war-
time shortage of internal lubricants,
Grandpa perfected his own process for
increasing the alcoholic content of every
beverage known to man, and about eight
others. After weeks of capricious experi-
ments which wrecked our laundry, garage
and air-raid shelter, he finally reduced
his discovery to a pinkish, tasteless
powder.
He then extended his experiments to
most of the household, with startling
results. We first realised some influence
was at work when Plum, Junior, aged
five, after drinking his bed-time milk,
chanted , raucously a somewhat purple
version of “Jack and Jill,” took a swing
at his nurse and threatened to spank her
over his knee.
One of my wife’s afternoon-tea par-
ties turned out an unprecedented success
after Grandpa had made a few passes
over the teapot. There followed 27 ap-
peals for the address of our grocer.
The local clergyman was forced to
resign after several of the kirk elders
wrote to the papers about bacchanalian
orgies at the Sunday-school picnic. It
later turned out that Grandpa had armed
little Mary with some of his invention
before she went.
His final and most impressive effort
was to add a pinch of the stuff to a bottle
he brought home from his weekly trip to
the black market. The liquid sizzled,
gave off some greasy black smoke,
turned a nasty phosphorescent green and
then cleared. Playing safe, we tried the
cat with a drop first, and after it had
shrivelled suddenly into a sort of mum-
mified relic we decided to use it as fuel
for the Rolls.
We are still trying to trace the Rolls
and Grandpa.
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Doctors and Private Cars washed and
polished by expert.”
—“Great Northern” (Sydney).
So that’s how some medicoes get their
immaculate look!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An army fights on its stomach,” said
Napoleon, and we can well say that the citizens
work on their stomachs, especially those who
do manual work.” — Suburban paper.
Thus they can keep their tails up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Reporter served by Hitler’s cook.”
—“Daily Telegraph” heading.
Tough, even on a reporter!
Biographical
He fondly Ignore
Then mlrried he‘ with passiln flaring.
And — well, the poor cow still is swearing !
’ F jq AT
*
Coming to Grips.
“There has been talk of war between Spain
an d j a e pan »
Diplomatic relations had at last broken
under the terrific strain imposed upon
t j iem
El * Caudillo had sent a telegram to
Emperor Hirohito congratulating him on
having written a poem: “Thoughts Are
Lovely When Seen on a Misty Octember
Morning Yes,” which neither rhymed nor
scanned nor made sense. This, El Cau-
dillo said, made the Mikado comparable
with the best of modernist poets. He
thought, too, that his I. J. Majesty had
made use of a most ingenious metre.
The interpreter in the Imperial house-
hold, who had been educated at Spokane
(Wa.), gave the American spelling of the
last word. The Son of Heaven tartly
replied that he hadn’t used a meter to
write the poem; he hadn’t even used a
comptometer, a stomach pump or a
theodolite to get his beautiful effect. And
he thought that El Caudillo had aptly
named the Blue Division that he had
sent to fight his (Hirohito’s) friends with
whom he had a sacred pact, though Blue
Ducks would be better.
El Caudillo got hopping mad at that,
He sent for the Nip. Ambassador, Wocha-
kove Sokkasiksa, and told him that the
Mikado, and his son Nanki Poo if he
liked, could go and jump off Fujipyjama
in his bedsocks. ’
To this the Ambassador bowed low
and said: “Excuse, pliz. Hon. Franco
can bandy words well, yes? Suggest
Hon. Dictator has put in good practice
with his legs first.”
At this crack El Caudillo’s eyes had
stuck out another two inches further
than they normally did, and he imme-
diately called the Falange together and
demanded war. He reminded them that
their neighbors and fellow-dwellers on
the Iberian Peninsula had in the first
World War covered themselves with mar-
tial glory. None who had seen them in
action would ever forget their dash.
The preparations for hostilities were
fierce indeed. All guitars were rapidly re-
strung, and to make battle manoeuvres
more realistic castanets were freely used.
Moreover, in order to intensify and speed
up training the siesta time was reduced
to three hours a day. Despite this sacri-
ficial loss of midday slumber, so pro-
ficient did the commandos become on
the rifle range that after a month’s prac-
tice only 95 p.c. of the instructors were
being accidentally shot each day.
Army transport, too, was quickly
streamlined to meet the needs of modern
war. The old mule-drawn, wooden-
wheeled carts were scrapped, and bul-
lock-drawn, iron-wheeled wagons were
soon rolling off the assembly lines.
When all was ready the great avenging
armada set out to the stirring strains of
the overture to “Carmen.” For three
days Admiral Don Bob Y Dazzla in his
flagship La Estudiantina (2) guns, five
knots, four captains) sailed furiously up
and down between Minorca and the
mainland looking for the Japanese Army.
Some time after midday Sunday an
officer reported to him that the transport
they were convoying had disappeared. The
admiral was shocked at the news. “Per-
haps the Jap tanks infiltrated and sank
it!” he exclaimed. The officer smiled.
“Remember, there is a bullfight in Barce-
lona at three o’clock this afternoon, sir.
I should venture a guess that the trans-
port will be found tied up at the wharf
there.”
The admiral started. “A bullfight, eh?”
he exclaimed, and there was a gleam in
his eye. “Well” —here he glanced at his
watch —“there’s Barcelona, I hope, on the
starport horizon. We should make it by
about two hours. Well, what are we
waiting for?”
BO.
Cleaning Up.
“Penicillin lipsticks, to kill germs in kisses,
are predicted after the war.”
They say the human lip abounds
In wogs of every noxious kind,
So when you find your kiss declined
On what seems insufficient grounds,
Here is the cause explanatory —
Without implying any slur
On your technique, it seems to her
The custom’s too insanitary.
But now, among the teeming store
Of eagerly awaited blisses
Designed by post-war planners for
Their own particular utopias.
They will perhaps include a copious
Supply of antiseptic kisses.
P. M. LUSK.
Futility.
“ ‘Only the dead have complete security,’
says a writer.”
In view of all the care I take
To guard my health; my pains to make
The rule of “Safety First” my guide
To keep intact my neck and hide;
In view, I say, of the concern
I bear for me, it galls to learn
(Since death’s the state all sane men
dread)
I won’t be safe until I’m dead!
P.O.M.C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
“Super Ann.” and Old-age Pensions
Commonwealth public servants retired
or to retire in the not distant future
are feeling that they have been mugs.
They have been paying at a stiff rate
into the superannuation fund, affection-
ately known as “Super Ann.” What was
left after deduction of their contribu-
tions was and is, in numbers of cases,
actually below the basic wage. What is
to be the result in such cases? A man
paying £1 a week is to draw on retire-
ment a pension of £3 a week for his wife
and himself.
Now that the old-age pension rate is
to be raised to 325. 6d. a couple, with-
out paying any contributions to any
fund, will receive £3 5s. —five shillings
a week more than the people who (under
partial compulsion) have been forced to
scrimp and screw to provide for old age.
The root of the trouble is, of course,
the patchwork design of all our social
legislation. Instead of a wide general
view being taken, benefits are handed out
to sections with vast voting power, re-
gardless of cost. — Pink Tape (N.S.W.).
A.D.C.S.
In 1941 I was secretary of the ser-
geants’ mess of a unit camped near Bris-
bane, preparatory to embarking for the
North. We had a little canteen of our
own, well stocked with liquor, smokes
and other necessities. Service was pro-
vided by a roster of n.c.o.s who freely
gave their spare time to the job. Goods
were bought at wholesale prices from
warehouses, and sold over the counter at
a fraction over cost; e.g., cigarettes pur-
chased for 4id. per packet sold again at
sd. Our profits were considerable and
were used directly to provide amenities
for members. All ranks benefited.
Then the A.D.C.S. stepped in. First
indication of what was in store was when
we were advised by the wholesalers that
they had been instructed to cease supply-
ing us. One firm attempted to disregard
the order, but soon had to fall into line.
Our contact with these firms had been
most happy, we having received regular
visits from their travellers and their
delivery wagons, and whenever we hap-
pened to be in town we were treated as
privileged guests.
What a difference when the official
monopoly took over! Now we had to go
and collect our supplies from the nearest
camp canteen (not very near at that).
And even when we bought £lOO worth
of tobacco we paid full retail price as for
a single item. Cigarettes were on
the civilian market then, and this was the
the price we now had to pay for bulk
supplies. Cash on the knocker, too. This
left no margin for profit from the work
of re-selling the goods in our rest periods
over our mess bar. The only considera-
tion was a monthly 5 p.c. rebate.
Fed up, we asked the Canteens Board
to provide the full service. It refused to
do so as our unit consisted of less than
500 men. I was commissioned by the
C.O. to put our case to officials of the
board in Brisbane. Civilians, they re-
fused even to listen to my story. From
C.O. to private, we were every one of us
furious. But there was not a thing we
could do about it.—T. R. Ellis (N.S.W.).
War Apathy
Complaints that civilians are apathetic
about the war may be well enough
founded, but is that attitude of mind con-
fined to civilians?
My experience in base units and train-
ing camps has convinced me that service-
men in those establishments are even
more apathetic, both to the progress of the
war and the issues arising from it. The
preoccupation of the home front with
sport and amusement is also evinced by
service units not directly in contact with
the realities of war. There’s more in-
terest taken in what won the ’urdles than
in how a brother-in-arms won a decora-
tion. Most servicemen know more about
Cup winners than they do about V.C.
winners.
There is no value in the excuse that
the soldier must seek what escape he can
from stresses of his tasks. It is ridicu-
lous to argue that the soldier, being
directly interested in the doings of his
comrades, must on that account exclude
from his thoughts any topic bearing on
the war (except recriminations as to the
existence of the same outlook among
civilians).
It is a fact that those who face the
dangers, who experience the genuine
stresses of combat, are earnestly con-
cerned with the war’s progress. But the
back-line soldier, like the civilian, finds
the war too remote to greatly disturb him.
—ln the Back Line (R.A.A.F.).
“Reported Missing”
Civilians constantly deplore the Army
system of advice of casualties. They con-
tend the information is too slow, in so much
that men are posted “missing in action”
when they are almost certainly killed.
It should be explained that the Army
exercises extreme caution in these mat-
ters. If a man is reported missing state-
ments are taken as to his whereabouts
when last seen, whether wounded, extent
and nature of enemy activity in that area
and many other circumstances. Until it
is positive the man is dead he is not
reported as such. Surely in these circum-
stances “missing in action” is preferable
to “killed in action.” — Lieutenant
(A.1.F.).
Canned Rabbit
Forty years ago the Borer Preserving
Works at Mount Gambier (S.A.) was can-
ning millions of rabbits in 21b. tins and
building up a splendid export trade. The
British Navy was one of the biggest
buyers, and the product also found its
way to the London civilian market,
where it was called “Australian tinned
duck.” About 30 years ago a rabbit-
canning factory was operating at Wynd-
ham on the South Coast of N.S.W., and
there was a ready sale for all that could
be turned out.
Today rabbits are over-running the
‘To remind you of home, eh?”
‘No, our cemetery — it's so damn dead in this camp!”
country, and little or nothing is being
done to check them. It certainly seems
time to kill them in millions and put the
carcasses in tins for consumption by the
thousands of extra people Australia is
expected to feed and by the much-endur-
ing British.
It is ridiculous that we should suffer
a meat shortage when there are millions
of rabbits about, and it is just as ridicu-
lous to serve bully beef and M. and V.
to the troops until they are sick of it
when they could be given a welcome
change in canned rabbit. —W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
Post-war Defence
“Ex 2 Wars” (B. 14/2/’45) considers
only a minor factor of our post-war de-
fence when he suggests forming a partly-
trained citizen force similar to the pre-
war militia. Foot soldiers are useless
without adequate sea and air sup-
port. The weapons of the future will
decide the outcome of wars by merit of
scientific ingenuity, and the victor will
be the nation whose instruments of war
are most highly developed.
A last-minute effort in Britain brought
forth the Spitfire. Even later came the
variable-pitch air-screw, without which
British ’planes would have been out-
classed by the German air fleets. The
Battle for Britain could easily have had
a very different denouement without this
hastily-produced modern equipment.
In Australia we have had cause to
regret our unreadiness—how bitter must
have been the blow to the parents of those
gallant lads who sacrificed their lives
hurling themselves against Zero fighter,
’planes in Wirraways!
If the units of the British Empire want
to be respected among the nations of
the world as a powerful adversary they
should set up councils of war on the prin-
ciple of “Be Prepared,” not “It can’t
happen here.” The duty of these coun-
cils should be to encourage inventive
geniuses and reformists so that we may
keep abreast of technical developments.
—Mentor (R.A.A.F.).
Sex Instruction
The notion of giving sex instruction
over the radio is absurd. But it can be
imparted quite efficiently in schools pro-
vided we abandon the “co-ed” idea and
return to the system of having separate
finishing schools for adolescent boys and
girls,
Perth already has such a system work-
ing. There, housed in a magnificent build-
ing, is a school entirely for girls, every
member of the teaching staff being of the
same sex. Under the heading of Physi-
ology, the functions and structure of
the human body are explained, the ex-
position being carried far beyond the
point where my schoolmaster of 50 years
ago had to knock off, our school being
mixed.
The same can be done with boys. With
no females anywhere in the offing it is
easy for a male teacher to impart sex
knowledge to his own sex. But you just
can’t impart sex knowledge to a class
composed of both sexes. — Petronius
(W.A.).
Review Rationing
The inescapable fact that huge quan-
tities of most rationed goods are to be
bought in black markets indicates that
there is little need for rationing in its
present form.
The spur of greed was the incentive
for black marketeers, both large and
small, to raise their ugly heads. Cease
or sensibly modify rationing, and they
would soon be forced to lower them
into the slime whence they emerged.
But, of course, if this were attempted
bureaucrats would raise such a squeal that
the politicians would shudder in fear of
the political consequences.—R. E. W. (Q.).
Farmers and Subsidies
“Townie” (B. 28/2/’45) has much to
learn. The farmer does not set up a
periodical howl for a subsidy to keep
him on the land; he strives for justice.
The worker gets the basic wage (irrespec-
tive of his ability), the manufacturer a
tariff, the middleman his profit, the re-
tailer his. But prices of foodstuffs pro-
duced by tbe squealing farmer are fixed,
and that at a rate that makes it hard for
him to break even.
Producing and selling are certainly two
halves of profit-making, but wheat-
farmers (for example) are not allowed to
produce as much as they like. They
have even been forced to plough-in some
of their sowings. Farmers frequently
find that after obeying the Federal Gov-
ernment’s urgent pleas for production of
foodstuffs their very efforts intensify their
own troubles by producing so-called
gluts, which are really caused by bad
planning by Government boards. While
this is happening city-dwelling middle-
men make profits of up to 400 p.c., as
was shown by an official investigation in
Queensland.
We don’t provide better accommoda-
tion for our employees or ourselves be-
cause a house costing £IOOO in Sydney
would cost outback double, treble or
possibly quadruple that. Terrific freights
are charged people in Central and
Western Queensland.
Wages in this part of the world are
fixed by award. Most awards provide
for an additional allowance in the West,
where living costs are high. This makes
housing as well as other things dear, and
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ


STEEL-
Conquest and
STEEL is the currency which buys victory on every
front. Germany’s prepared power for war—based
on steel—proved irresistible until it was matched by
the Allied munition strength.
In the urgent effort to build up the Allies’ ability
to answer back, the onus was placed on the steel
industry.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd., as Aus-
tralia’s major steel producer did its bit towards meet-
ing the call. Quantity, quality and variety had to be
stepped up; but when the strain went on the B.H.P.
Newcastle Steel Works was found equal to the task.
Largely as a result of the B.H.P. steel made available
our industries were enabled to manufacture practically
every major defensive and offensive weapon.
With the attainment of victory B.H.P. steel will
revert to its happier role as the currency of progress.
Our soundly based steel industry provides an economic
foundation for Australia’s post-war rehabilitation, for
low-priced steel is the prime factor in every worth-
while plan for employment, housing, and better living.
m
■
f
t
•?v
31
'Wm
IPi
mgmsimm mss® ,
Ij^MiPglSP
m
' ; v-
- V. ■
■
f i
........
m aft
. |
dm
; . :
JMI
• s
... Mmi
'
m %
: ■ ■
Operator at Newcastle Steel Works apply-
ing oxy-acetylene torch flame to B.H.P.
steel blooms in preparation for rolling-
wm
■ %•;
i
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD
' Iron and Steel Masters : Colliery Proprietors Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Ship Builders Offices also at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane
k Mine and Ship Owners
STEEL WORKS, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
SHIPYARD. WHYALLA, S.A
